 

Contents

 

March 1949

The Church and Recreation (Editorial),

by Howard Braucller . . . . . . . . . . . . . 529
Recreation Comments . . . Letters to and

from the Editorial Department. . . . . 530
Public Relations in the Recreation Pro-

gram, by Richard G. Mitchell . . . . . . . 531
Modern Dance in Education,

by Sidi Hessel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534
Sing With DIeI, by Ann 111. Lingg . . . . . . 536
Music by the People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539

Easter Parade, by Gertrude Flippen. . . 540

A Kindergarten Party,
by Mary Lamia Quici . . . . . . . . . . . . . 542

Play Begins at Home,
by Alice Van Landingbam . . . . . . . . . 543

Paid Leadership for Club Work,
by Doris R. Worrell. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 545

Promotion Tips from “Take It Easy,”
by Frank E. Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 546

What Other Cities Are Doing for Service-

men—Tacoma, Washington,

by Thomas W. Laniz . . . . . . . . . . . . . 548
Personalities in the Recreation News . . .

Home from Japan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 549
It’s Recreation Time with the S.S.F.E.C.,

by Erna Carson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
Two Bills Introduced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 554

Recreation in Conferences,

by Harry D. Edgren and Ned Linegar 555

Hobbies—Churchill Paints . . . . . . . . . . 558

Dr. J. Horace McFarland . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

State News Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

Theodore Wirth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Committee Appointed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

H. H. Jacobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 567

Index to Volume XLII, RECREATION
Magazine, April l948-March 1949. . . 571

Regular Features

W’orld at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557

Recreation Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . .. 563

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . .. 569

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 569

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570

Recreation Training
Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted to: U. 5. Air Forces.
U. S. Army Signal Corps, PFC Sal Palma—24th Corps Special
Serviccs Photographer, for official photographs, pages 549-554;
John L. Moore, Beniiston, Talladega, Alabama, for photograph,
page 557; The Evening News, Harrisburg, Penneylvania, page

Spring—1949. “Generally children
dance about the things they love.”
See article, page 534-. Photograph
by R. Dimaggio, Trenton, New Jersey.

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readerr’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,

1929, at the Post OfHCC in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in Secrion 1103, ACt of Ocrober 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1949. by the National Recreation Association, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME Foam-Two, NUMBER TWELVE PRICE 35 CENTS

 

Recreation

March 1949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

The Church and Recreation

N ANCIENT DAYS much of music, dancing, drama,
Ipainting, art was unto the Lord, carried on
within religious groups. Very many schools were
under religious auspices.

At the present time a very large part of our pop-
ulation, about fifty-three per cent, has membership
in a religious group _or at least has some relation
to one. There are church buildings everywhere wait-
ing to be used for recreation if they are not already
so used. There are in every community highly

trained, cultured men who have studied the history -

of the race, the nature of man, the laws of growth,
who are concerned for the upward progress of man-
kind, who care not only for the religious but for all
that is spiritual. Perhaps no single group has a bet-
ter understanding of the importance of leisure-time
activities, of recreation in building men’s lives, in
building families, in making more of man, in mak-
ing man more alive. Recreation can give the church
more on which to build. The church has tremendous
potential if not actual leadership for recreation.

The church has buildings, a trained and cultured
and understanding leadership, millions of children,
youth, people of all ages spending time in its build-
ings, under its leadership. Wherever man is, there
is need for recreation. There is and always will he
need for recreation within the church.

Recreation leaders do well to recognize that there
has always been recreation within the church, al-
ways will be, always should be. Wise recreation
executives have helped church leaders plan their

buildings to be better adapted to
recreation, helped the church
leaders to plan their within-the-
church recreation program for
their own people, encouraged the
church leaders to work for better
tax-supported recreation in the
schools, in the parks, on the municipal playgrounds,
in recreation centers.

In certain communities the church and the mu-
nicipal recreation system have worked in close co-
operation in training parents for wise home leader-
ship in play.

The church stands for rightness in the individual,
in the family, in the neighborhood, in the whole
community.

 

No group has a greater stake in the effectiveness
of the whole city, town, village, rural recreation
program in building abundant living for all.

Recreation leaders do well to recognize the power
of churches united for wise recreation for their own
membership, united to place power behind the entire
tax-supported municipal recreation program.

Neither parks, nor schools, nor churches can do
the whole job alone. Each has its place, as do the
homes and the parents, also. Unitedly, coopera-
tively, all the institutions where men and children
are can give opportunity for the joyous, strong,
abundant living that is America.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

529

RECREATION

ammo/Lia

LETTERS TO AND FROM THE EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT

To RECREATION :

“I have read with interest the December issue
of RECREATION, and the two articles on football.
On page 415, ‘Football Standing-Up’ describes the
organization of ‘touch’ football leagues in the Los
Angeles Municipal playgrounds. On page 420,
‘A Junior Football Program’ tells of Scarsdale,
New York’s Junior Football League where the
youngsters are supplied with all necessary equip—
ment. On this same page you ask for comments
on advantages or disadvantages of this activity.
My observations are as follows:

“It is unfair to the youth of today to eliminate
football from our recreation program. The young-
sters expect and get other team Sports—baseball,
basketball, and the like. The question of whether
they should be allowed to play football seems to
hinge on the roughness of the game and possible
injury to the players. I believe it is up to the rec-
creation personnel to deveIOp the game so that the

youngsters can get enjoyment, and still minimize

the danger of injury.

“I also believe that if supervised recreation pro-
grams do not include football, the boys will form
their own teams without benefit of proper equip-
ment or proper SUPERVISION, and play on some
vacant lot. There is more danger to the partici-
pant here than in a semi—rough game under super-
vision.

“Our answer to this problem in our community
was the development of ‘Flag Football’ last season.
Each youngster has a two-to-three-inch wide, three
foot long, piece of canvas looped under his belt at
each hip. No other playing equipment is supplied.
No shoulder guards, helmets or other protective
devices are used. Basketball shoes are recom-
mended but street shoes are approved.

“The teams are composed of eleven men each
and they play by regular football rules. No tackling
is allowed, and blocking may only be done by using

530

the body. To ‘tackle’ the ball carrier, the opponent
must grab one of the flags hanging at his hips.
When this is done, the man grasping the ‘Hag’ must
raise it over his head, signifying that the runner is
down at that point. In some instances, the runner
has ambled along for a touchdown before realiz-
ing he was ‘down’ twenty-five or thirty yards from
the goal line.

“This type of game offers all the thrills and
running ability needed in regular football without
simplifying to the ‘touch-tackle’ style which stOps
the ball carrier by merely touching him. It also
eliminates the cry of ‘you’re down, I touched you’
of ‘touch’ football.

“Our teams are all rated on the exponent sys-
tem of age, height and weight.

“I repeat—do not discontinue football—but
adapt it to the boys’ playing, to eliminate the dan-
ger of injuries.”

L. L. SEIFERT, Director of
Recreation, Chico, California.

To SUBSCRIBERS :

For further information regarding Flag Foot-
ball, see Suggestion B ox, January and March 1948
issues of RECREATION.-—Ed.

To RECREATION:

“Removable tennis court posts, mentioned in the
January Suggestion Box of RECREATION, as well
as permitting use of an area for Hooding and skat-
ing, will also allow use for emergency overflow
parking. It is necessary that the courts be sanded
to absorb oil drippings and to prevent the staining
of the court surface. A five court battery will
accommodate approximately a hundred cars. Exits
and entrances should be carefully planned and con-
trolled for the best results.”

JOHN CONRON, Cohasset,
Massachusetts.

RECREATION

Publio Relations in the Recreation Program

 

HIS ARTICLE WOULD have a far more dramatic

flavor. and would probably be easier to write,
if it were true to say that recreation, as a move—
ment, is at the crossroads, and that it is the solemn
obligation of every recreation executive to give his
all to make certain that the idea of community rec-
reation shall not slide back into the thinking of
the 1850’s.

Such an introduction would be patently untrue,
of course. Recreation as a community reSponsi-
bility is here to stay, and what we must be con—
cerned with is not perpetuation of the movement
but enhancement of values.

However, there is some reason to believe that it
would be true to report that recreation is at the
crossroads in terms of its integration with modern
concepts of public administration. Recreation ex-
ecutives may well be at the threshold of an era
during which they will need to become as aware
of the techniques of public administration as they
now are of officiating at a basketball game.

A city manager told me. not long ago, that his
complaint against recreation executives was that
they did not seem to comprehend the place of rec—
reation within the public administration frame-
work which is adding dignity to our local govern-
mental administration. To quote him: “They (the
recreation executives) want increased appropria-
tions and passage of bond issues, yet expect the
city manager or someone else to do the job of sell-
ing their idea for them."

Because I’ve had some experience knocking
around in newspaper offices, and because I wanted
to probe further into the remarks of the afore—
mentioned city manager, I visited the local news-
paper and discussed the recreation program with

MARCH 1949

Richard C. Mitchell

that paper’s sports’ editor. His remarks added
further illumination. His candid observation was
that the local recreation executive wouldn’t know
a news story if it climbed up on his desk and made
sheep—eyes at him. What the editor was interested
in was news—and he properly gauged that the
local recreation department could be an exciting
and steady source of that commodity if the respon—
sible personnel would only grasp the possibilities
inherent in the program and understand the simple
mechanics required to translate that potential into
a favorable press.

Not so long ago there appeared in a newspaper
an account of the budget session of a city council,
in which one councilman was reported as having
violently denounCed a proposal to increase the
recreation department appropriation “when the
police and fire departments need more manpower.”

The councilman’s attack on the recreation bud—
get, as reported, was neither logical nor fair. But
he had the headlines and seemed, to the casual
reader, to be a loyal friend of the taxpayer. Behind
the scene, and unrecognized in this denunciation,
was the fact that the recreation department in
question is doing an exciting rebuilding job, both in
facilities and personnel, and its budgetary pro-
posals could only be considered modest and reason—
able, to say the least.

It seems self-evident that the recreation execu-
tive did not include in his planning the considera-
tion of methods to use in soliciting preliminary
support for his plan. It seems he failed to con—
template the need, and make provision, for inter-
pretation of the department’s budgetary problems,
both to the council members and to the taxpayers.
If he had done so, it is reasonable to conclude that,

$31

when budget hearings were held, the process
would consist of the deliberations of an informed
body rather than the criticisms of an uninformed
member.

This process of interpretation is just as proper,
an administrative activity for a community recre-
ation department, and just as important, as is the
same kind of activity by any other community
agency or private business. We, the people, sub-
scribe to the proposition that the people must be
informed. In the accomplishment of this inform—
ing we use the media most suited to our purpose,

W

“Does your organization have someone, either a staff
member or a volunteer, who really knows how to prepare

and place press material?
“Are you on cordial terms with your local news-

papers?
“Do you make full use of all the departments of the

papers?
“Do the editors use a fair average of what you sub-

mit?”—From The ABC's of Public Relations For Recre-
ation, National Recreation Association.

plan the approach in tune with tested concepts of
public relations, and seek, as the product of this
effort, a favorable attitude toward our work.

Simply stated, public relations is the technique
of interpreting to the public the work the agency
is doing in such a manner that this work will be
understood and will earn for the agency public
respect, interest and support. The techniques for
obtaining and maintaining good public relations,
at least insofar as a recreation department is con-
cerned. are relatively simple.

It is axiomatic, however, that before you can
embark on a program to gain public confidence and
support, you must have something worthy to re-
port. Public relations activities are not substitutes
for performance. They are only useful as they are
intelligently used to report what the department
is doing for the people who are, or might become,
interested in such information.

The prime reasons for reporting to the public
are: I) to interest people to the point of program
participation; 2) to present facts about the depart-
ment’s hopes and ambitions; 3) to keep the tax-
paying citizen aware of the role the department is
playing in the community.

The media available to the recreation depart-
ment for a public relations program include:
printed matter (newspaper articles, annual reports,
letters, posters, billboards, and so forth); radio
broadcasts; personal appearances by spokesmen
for the department; exhibits and other miscellane-
ous dramatizations of specific program highlights.

532

There are other media, of course, but the ones
listed above are likely to prove of greatest useful-
ness in such a program.

The newspaper is the most generally known
means, available to the recreation department, of
disseminating information. Newspaper editors are
in the business of finding and printing news, and
many of the department programs, actions of rec-
reation commissioners, and activities of department
personnel constitute a commodity the editor is
seeking if he can get it while it is still fresh.

If the chairman of the recreation commission
makes a statement before a local lodge on the need
for more playgrounds; if the superintendent of the
department attends a conference of recreation ex-
ecutives; if a playground leader has an especially
interesting program to offer youngsters at a certain
hour—these are all news items.

Athletic contests for both youngsters and adults
are rich in news value for the program. Editors
want to print stories about local people. You’ll
find how magnificent the editors’ cooperation can
be if you’ll do the following: I) see that they re-
ceive, at the earliest possible date, copies of league
schedules; 2) invite them to attend league meet-
ings; 3) see that box scores are delivered to them
immediately after games; 4) help them prepare
league standings, batting averages, lists of high
scorers; 5) make suitable reserved facilities avail-
able for their use if they desire personally to
“cover” a contest.

I have frequently found that the recreation exec-
utive thinks of his newspaper publicity largely in
terms of the so-called “human interest” story.
Such stories are fine material when pr0perly han;
dled, but their value lies in the uniqueness of the
situation and the manner in which it is treated.
Such stories should be taken in stride—was part of
the whole business of reporting what the depart—
ment is doing. They are as satisfying and delight-
ful as mince pic at Thanksgiving, but no substitute
for the whole meal.

It appears that most local recreation depart-
ments are lagging behind in the use of posters,
especially when many other city departments use
this media. The poster doesn’t come into the home
as the newspaper, radio message or letter does, but
if it is attractively prepared and intelligently dis-
played, it will capture its share of interest. Prin-
cipal utility of the poster is in conjunction with
other media as a means of announcing depart-
mental activities, such as the formation of a crafts
class, a folk dance festival, summer camp plans,
or athletic events. Poorly printed posters will have
a reverse result to the effect intended, by creating

RECREATION

an impression in the viewers’ minds that the de—
partment executive doesn’t know how to spend
money intelligently.

The annual report, once a stodgy recital of facts
and figures, has been revolutionized in recent
years. However, increased printing. costs have, to
a large measure, reduced the possibility of wide-
spread distribution of the report. Today’s annual
report should be distributed with discrimination to
those persons whose activities and interests align
them with the goals of the department or whose
support the department requires.

The content of the annual report should be such
as to give it a year-round usefulness as a source
book. It can be generally said that recreation de-
partments, while modernizing their annual reports,
have not produced the well-conceived type of re-
port which other social agencies have evolved.

 

Since it is not reasonable or practical to attempt
to put a copy of a printed annual report into the
hands of every citizen of the community, it is sug-
gested that consideration be given to a second type
of report—a pageant or exhibit—where all activ-
ities of the department can be reviewed for public
display, featuring selected groups of performers
from each of the activities so reviewed.

in the use of radio, there is only occasional va-
lidity in having a department spokesman read a
prepared speech into a microphone. Even the more
dramatic forum has its limitations. It is poor judg-
ment to believe that a public relations program is
operating successfully merely by obtaining inches
of newspaper space or minutes of radio time. It’s
the use made of that opportunity—the interpreta-
tion which is done—that provides the yardstick.
A series of spot announcements, a broadcast of the
final games in the department softball tournament,
a children’s dramatic programe—these are the kind
of things to which people will listen while they are
waiting for something else or because they are
genuinely interested.

And now, how about speeches before special
groups? A good speaker can vastly enhance the
department’s prestige. The department executive

MARCH 1949

should be able to do a good speaking job himself,
and should also know whom he can depend upon
for an articulate and interesting presentation of his
department’s program and needs.

Preparation is needed in planning a speaking
program. Some realistic goals must be set up,
careful thought given to their attainment, and nec-
essary data accumulated so that the speakers have
facts from which to talk. Unless this planning is
done, the result is not likely to be as profitable for
the department’s welfare, and the time spent may
actually represent an unproductive expenditure of
energy and funds. It is possible to remove the act
of public speaking from the sporadic, poorly de-
fined, unintegrated type of activity it is frequently
allowed to become, and to fashion it into a wisely
calculated endeavor.

Once the ingredients of the speaking program
are prepared so that the speakers know what
should be brought to public attention, then the
securing of speaking engagements must be organ—
ized, rather than left to chance. Whether the speak-
ing program is to consist of playground leaders
speaking on the tOpic of the after-School play—
ground at school assemblies, or a committee of
distinguished citizens campaigning in favor of a
bond issue for additional recreation facilities, there
must be organization. This is done by cataloging
every group the department is interested in reach-
ing (lodges, clubs, churches, and the like) ; learn~
ing who are the leaders of each group; knowing
something of the group’s program so that the su-
perintendent can intelligently‘determine what it
will be interested in hearing about; and then mak-
ing known to those responsible that the depart-
ment is prepared to provide a suitably prepared
speaker.

Some executives feel that soliciting favorable
publicity is unethical. Others seek publicity but
do not apply suitable measurements to determine
whether the product is worth the effort. To each
can be given the same admonition—tax-supported
agencies have a responsibility to report frequently
on their activities and efforts. The people who
make the program possible by their dollars are
entitled to such an accounting. There is nothing
unethical about submitting records for public
“audit,” and everyone will be gratified when the
department head takes the time to translate his
statistics into an interesting form. The alert exec-
utive will find that a realistic allocation of time
and attention to securing good public relations is
an administrative responsibility that will steadily
pay dividends and will make the recreation move-
ment in his community prosper.

533

 

Anyone who has observed children at play
knows that dancing is a natural activity.

vcn HAS BEEN said, and a great deal has been
M written, about modern dance—#with particu-
lar emphasis on the “modern.” Yet, in an effort to
determine its values as an educational factor, an
investigation proves that the only thing modern
about it is the name.

The history of dance tells the story of mankind
in a panorama of motion from the cave to the
skyscraper. Like a tree, it has deve10ped many
branches and weathered many storms in an evolu-
tion from the ritualistic to the spectacular, from
the primitive to the stylized. For a period of time
it abandoned its native intensities to become a
source of amusement for the brocaded nobility of
EurOpean courts. It made the long journey from
the minuet to the jitterbug, and from the singular
delicacy of early Italian ballet to the abstract im-
agery of an American, Martha Graham. But no
matter how complex its development, or how in—
tricate its relation to the cultural landmarks of
civilization, it has travelled far and long only to
return to its very beginnings, basic dance. For
that which we call modern dance today is, in real-
ity, basic dance—the physical expression of an
emotional state.

Since the aims and purposes of education con-
verge around the desire to offer our children every
possibility for the development of the personality
as a whole, it has been found profitable to examine
dance as an educational factor and to use it as such.
There exists in every human being an innate need
for a creative art activity. In order to direct this
creative energy, so strongly evident in children, a
medium of expression had to be found in which
original talent played a minor part. Not every
child is artistically gifted; yet every child deserves

534

Modern Dam

"A dancing child is a happy child.”

a chance for better development through creative
art. In modern dance, we find a medium of ex-
pression ideally suited to our aims. Few children
are potential dancers in a professional sense, yet
all children can dance. It is a perfectly natural
thing to do, and anyone who has observed children
at their play will support this fact.

As an art form, modern dance uses the body as
an instrument. A closer relationship between art
and artist cannot be imagined. Dancers perform
what they create without the aid of any other me—
dium. Sufficient unto itself, the self becomes art.
One of the outstanding facts about modern dance
is that the study of natural body movement serves
as the basis for the various techniques employed.
Through this, an added emphasis is placed on its
educational value, because this type of training
permits individual expression with the least
amount of strain. It makes obsolete, except for
professional purposes, years of tedious drilling
with feet in unnatural positions, as in traditional
ballet, and rejects any suggestion of forcing the
body beyond its natural resistance point, as in
acrobatics. The main object is to train the body
to obey the mind, according to natural laws. It
seeks to establish muscle control and coordination
in preference to spectacular tricks and attitudes.
Although modern dance offers the individual an
opportunity for self expression, it does not foster
the projection of personality, but directs the activ-
ity to become a sharing of an artistic experience.

All over the country an appalling number of
children enter dancing classes with the idea firme
fixed in their minds that they are being sent be—
cause they are awkward and clumsy. Whoever
may be responsible for suggesting such a thought
to a child has committed an error of great magni-

RECREATION

r1 Education

Sidi Hesse]

tude. There is no such thing as a' clumsy child.
Only the children who have not as-alyet acquired
control over their bodies may appear to be awk-
ward. These small people have not had enough
° time to think about such problems. They were, no
doubt, busy learning to walk, and to talk, and to
mind their manners at the table. At any rate, it is
impossible to expect good coordination in children
when we have convinced them of their inade-
quacies.

Modern dance offers invaluable opportunities
for the development of the qualities which are so
desirable—poise and self-confidence- Again and
again mothers have come to me with despair in
their eyes, urging me “to do something about
Sally,” only to sit in silent awe during her third
or fourth dancing lesson, watching her excel] in
grace of motion and complete freedom from self-
consciousness. The stock phrase usually is: “I had
no idea Sally could do it.” My stock reply is: “Did
you ever suggest to her that she was capable?”

The children in greatest need of modern dance
training are not the talented, or natural dancers,
but those who appear to be all arms and legs ; those
in constant conflict with a world made up of pro-
truding corners, and endless lamp-tables perpet-
ually in the way; the shy, the slow, the hard to
understand. Even the so-called problem child will
derive specific benefits through participation in a
program where the release of excess energy is
desirable and encouraged. A congenial group, en-
gaged in a non-competitive pursuit, offers ideal
conditions for good social adjustment. If difficult
children are allowed to run as fast as they wish,
and to leap as high as they like, they are apt to
comply cheerfully with the demand made upon
them to follow the rules for good conduct.

MARCH 1949

A dancing child is a happy child, and a happy
child, as a rule, is. good. Education has realized
the necessity for providing an adequate outlet for
the child’s imagination. Modern dance would be
difficult to surpass, functioning as a stimulating
element and as a safety valve for pent-up emotions.

Most instructors include improvisation in their
program, and make it a point to devote consider-
able time to it. It is very remarkable how even the
most retiring children learn to enjoy, and to profit,
by this activity. A great deal can be learned about
a child’s character and state of mind through spon-
taneous dance. The imagination is given free reign
during improvisation, and the child may follow his
impulses .witliout restraint. It is interesting to see
the usually shy child suddenly charge through the
room as if electrified, or the generally aggressive
youngster make slow and appealing motions. A
teacher trained to observe analytically, as well as
critically, may often diagnose some emotional
stumbling block and find the means of helping.

Generally, children dance abstractly, without a
definite portrayal. At times they dance about the
things which they understand and love. The little
children may dance about kittens, the more mature
about trees; whatever it may be, an outlet is found
for their innermost feelings. It would be impos-
sible to overestimate the importance of this par-
ticular phase in dance education. Without fail, the
children who are allowed to improvise leave their
lesson with a glow of happiness and a deep feeling
of satisfaction.

In contrast to modern dance, most other forms
of dance are restricted to a stereotyped pattern
which is taught to the student as a skill. Children
learn steps and attitudes, the results depending
upon the individual capacity for learning. In es-
sence, however, every child is taught to do the
same things the same way. Modern dance func-
tions differently—it does not consider the child as
merely a student of the dance, but primarily as a
student of life. Teaching material selected with
this point of view creates a sound basis upon which
qualities of discipline of body and mind are devel-
oped. If we consider the fact that modern dance
in education does not concern itself with the train-
ing of professional dancers, but with the inculca-
tion of all qualities, physical and mental, desirable
in a good citizen, we realize how potent a factor
it can be and its great merit in regard to the gen—
eral development of our children.

The inclusion of modern dance training in the
general elementary school program would prove of
immeasurable benefit——opening new horizons for
the many, instead of for the privileged few.

535

SING WITH ME!

I

Ann M. Lingg

@

Showing that community singing is popular, and conducting

can lead to most anything—even a fourteen-room mansion . . .

LAPPING HIS HANDS in Basin Street rhythm
C and shouting with the fervor of a revivalist,
“And-a-one, and-a-two, and-a-three!” he launches
189 singing New Yorkers into an ancient psalm.
He wears baggy slacks and a disreputable polo
shirt. His blue eyes, half-hidden under a tousle of
blond hair, give him a college boy look, but his
square jaw reveals authority. “Turn it on, kids l”
he cries as he stamps the podium with his bed-
room slipper. And they turn it on.

He is Bob Shaw, the man who makes people
sing. 7

A genius for. getting music out of people is
responsible for the meteoric career of this young
Californian who, at thirty—two, heads the choral
departments of RCA Victor Records, of New
York’s Juilliard School of Music, and of Kousse-
vitzky’s Berkshire Music Center at Tanglewood,
Massachusetts. In addition, he takes his thirty-
one voice Robert Shaw Chorale on the road and
on the air; and continues in full charge of the Col-
legiate Chorale, his seven—year-old amateur organi-
zation whose professional standards impress the
critics anew at every hearing. “You don’t need to
be a great singer to do great singing,” he insists.
“Give me a bunch of people who are sensitive to
one another and to music, and you’ll get some-
thing better than any one artist.”

Robert Lawson Shaw initiated a choral renais—
sance in America by rediscovering community
singing as a social and popular art. He has been
active in all parts of the country, working with
over 200 choruses. Within ten years he has con-
ducted his way from the dormitories of Pomona
College to a fourteen-room mansion in Westches-
ter County, in which he lives with his attractive
wife, Maxine, and their two small children. He
could afford to turn down a convenient $100,000,
recently offered him for the endorsement of some

536

popular song arrangements. “If my name is worth
that much I’d better hang on to it,” he commented.

It all started in 1937, when Warner Brothers
chose the Pomona campus as a backdrOp for Fred
Waring’s Varsity Show. The college arranged an
ofiicial dinner for the actors, and its glee club pro-
vided part of the entertainment. Bob Shaw, then '
a junior, had just been made student conductor.
His intelligent handling of the music, his passion-
ate enthusiasm, impressed Waring. The radio star
had no chorus at the time and recruited the col-
lege boys to reinforce his singing jazzband. When
he watched Shaw prepare the musical sound track
for a Dick Powell solo, he promised Shaw a radio
job whenever he wanted it. In the following year
Bob wrote him for a summer job. Waring had
just signed his contract for a new show, and had
him come east to form the chorus.

When Shaw prepared to return to Pomona to
finish his education, Waring offered him a perma-
nent contract. Bob accepted, and celebrated by
taking the Waring warblers to Dr. Harry Emer-
son F osdick’s Riverside Church to perform at a
Sunday vesper. This was well in line with the
family tradition from which he was about to break
away.

For Bob had planned to be a clergyman like his
father and grandfather. He was born in the small
mining town of Red Bluff, California, the second
of five children of the late Reverend Shirley R.
Shaw, a minister of the Disciples of Christ, and
Nelle Lawson Shaw, a church singer. The family
used to sing hymns and folk songs around the din-
ner table and as they did the dishes ; the neighbors
called them the “musical Shaws.” Later at college,
the children, one after another, directed the small
church choir which father Shaw had founded in his
own day at nearby Glendora. With this, and other
jobs, they earned their way through Pomona. Bob

RECREATION

corrected papers in the theological department,
washed dishes, wrapped bread in a bakery at night
—for ten cents an hour.

Here and there he picked up a little musical
theory and piano which he thought would enable
him to dispense with a choirmaster in the small
churches where he expeCted to preach. But then
the Fred Waring opportunity came.

The Waring show was on the air twice a day,
five days a week. Its spectacular success brought
Bob extra jobs with CBS, Olsen and Johnson,
The Lambs, and Billy Rose. During the first sum-
mer of the New York \Norld’s Fair the Waring
people were in the Aquacade, and a year later Rose
offered Shaw a permanent job to supervise its
production. But this was not what Shaw wanted.

What he did want was a renaissance of congre-
gational singing, according to the best traditions
of the Protestant church. At Christmas time 1941
he heard a young people’s choir at New York’s
Marble Collegiate Church, and offered to form a
community chorus around this nucleus. A two—
line ad brought hundreds of applicants, most of
them amateurs who loved to sing.

The infant chorale, without a place to rehearse,
gathered in studios, hotels, private apartments,
and clubs until they finally settled in City Center.
They had no money; the singers each pledged a
ten-dollar—a-year contribution (recently raised to
fifteen dollars), and Shaw promised to cover the
deficit out of his radio salary. Waring allowed
them to use his music, and he also provided office
space, a secretary and a telephone. Billy Rose lent
them a spare piano from his Diamond Horseshoe,
a huge red and gold affair which looked somewhat
flamboyant in the small church where they hap-
pened to be meeting at that time.

W ith the war getting underway, there was in-
creasing demand for volunteer entertainers. The
Collegiate Chorale would sing anywhere. Soon
peOple began to talk about them. Only a few
months old, they sang at Town Hall. The follow-
ing summer they appeared at New York’s famous
Lewisohn Stadium and stole the show from Paul
Robeson. Then Stokowski hired them for an
Easter performance at the Metropolitan Opera
House and for Christmas music at the City Center.
Later Toscanini came along and claimed them for
NBC. After the first rehearsal Toscanini stated
effusiver that at last he had found “the maestro
I have been looking for” in the younger generation.

The Collegiate Chorale is open to anyone
“whose singing is any good outside the bathtub.”
Beauticians and morticians, steamiitters and fur-
cutters, firemen and policemen, doctors, lawyers,

MARCH 1949

librarians, salesclerks, teachers, and students be-
long. With them, the Chorale is very nearly a
religion. Two girls gave up their jobs because
overtime work interfered with the sing sessions.
A Marine sergeant went AWOL because he didn’t
want to leave before a rehearsal was over—and
lost his stripes.

The Collegiate Chorale and its conductor grew
up together. Their schedule is terrific, and Shaw
had to learn how to get results in a hurry. Unin-
hibited by formal training, he developed his trial
and error methods by “working with sound.”
When the chorus studies a new work, he may
group the singers into circles of eight or ten, so
that they can hear each other better. For better
tonal balance, Shaw insists on having more men
than women, more basses and altos than tenors
and sopranos, highly unorthodox practice. So is
his principle of grouping the singers differently at
each concert, and even switching them between
numbers, according to the music. When he first
did this, indignant articles appeared in the musi-
cal press. “Nonsense,” snapped Shaw. “What’s
wrong with it if it sounds right?”

 

The family enjoyed folk songs in the evening.

Shaw’s enthusiasm is highly contagious. “Let’s
go, pe0ple,” he will shout. “Give it swing and_
drive! You’ve gotta feel it emotionally. You can’t
get it except out of yourselves!” Sometimes he
will burst into magnificent metaphor: “Come on!
This music explodes. It MUST explode—high
up in Heaven somewhere!”

For Shaw, any group of people is a potential
singing society. At college, when the theological
students attended a religious conference at Asilo-
mar, he became notorious for accosting delegates
and urging them to sing with him. Years later,
when he was already well—established, he was sup-
posed to lecture on his methods to a National Edu-
cators Conference at St. Louis. Bob marched onto
the platform, picked sixty among 1,200 music

537

teachers, and announced that he’d rather make
them sing, as a demonstration. After two days of
practice. the chorus of sedate professors was na-
tionally broadcast from the convention Floor.

The event unleashed a torrent of letters from
participants and from radio listeners. Calls from”
other choirmasters “to come and show us how,”
poured in. Shaw traveled thousands of miles to
train choruses- Out of a war bond rally held by
industrial workers in Bound Brook, New Jersey,
grew a permanent community choir. The Minne—
apolis Chorolaires. the Houston Chorale, and, a
brand new one in St. Louis, as well as the Skyline
Club of Pan American Airways employees, were
fashioned after his pattern, and sometimes with his
assistance.

Draft boards and war work claimed Chorale
members at the rate of one a day. New voices had
to be rushed in. And then one day in 1945 the
U. S. Naval Training Center at Sampson, New
York, received inductee Robert Shaw, after a fare-
well party given him by Fred Waring. It had been
farewell forever to Waring; for when Shaw re-
turned after V-] Day, he decided that show busi-
ness was no longer for him. “In all those seven
years,” Shaw explained, “we didn’t do any music
I could cry over!”

As he expanded his teaching activities, Shaw
became a student himself. He still takes music
lessons from Julius Herford, a colleague of his at
Juilliard, who was formerly one of Berlin’s most
distinguished teachers. When he performed
Brahms’ “Requiem” for the first time, he con-
ducted a large part of it with clenched fists be-
cause his hands trembled so!

But he’ll never even try to learn the formalities
of his profession. “It would be awful,” he wrote
in one of his weekly heart-to-heart letters to the
“Dear People” of his chorus, “if the Chorale ever
became a respectable institution!” Likewise, be-
fore his first radio broadcast, he turned to the
studio audience: “Instead of shedding ’em one by
one, I might as well get rid of ’em right now.”
And took off his coat and tie, Opened his collar,
stepped out of his shoes, grinned, and started.

Sometimes Shaw’s informality pays big divi-
dends. He was at his wife’s bedside after the birth
of their son when a deSperate call reached him at
the hOSpital. Jan Peerce had cancelled his appear-
ance at a Town Hall subscription concert that very
night and Shaw was asked to substitute with his
chorus. A few hours later he herded thirty singers
onto the stage and blithely announced to the audi-
ence that they would have to do a little practicing
beforehand. He gave a full rehearsal, complete

538

with calisthenics and vocalizing exercises, before
the thrilled listeners, and then had the program
sung through, concert style.

Conducting five different choruses, Shaw is now,
in his own words, competing with himself. But he
conceives of them all as part of one central idea—
to spread the love of singing. He has a solid nu—
cleus of music students whom he uses in all of
them. Also, when he performs with the Juilliard
students in Carnegie Hall, he places the Collegiate
Chorale in boxes in the auditorium, from which
vantage points they join in the singing. Last sum-
mer a carload of Tanglewood students went with
him to New York each week end, to sit in on his
replacement Show on the Charlie McCarthy hour.

Shaw can keep going until five or six in the
morning and be back at his desk at ten. Before
concerts, he may ponder over details of the music
through a long night and collapse on the couch
in his office after lunch, for a brief nap. Breakfast
is a rarity, luncheon sketchy, dinner anywhere be-
tween three p.m. and three a.m. Three quarts of
milk a day keep him going, he says, and a full
night’s sleep once in a while will straighten him

out.

Shaw seems to thrive on a high pressure sched-
ule. And because he’s never really satisfied, he
keeps his singers going, too. When they rehearse
under. an orchestra conductor, he will u'se the inter-
mission to work them a little more for precision
and discipline, to the bewilderment of the paid
instrumentalists who wouldn’t dream of lifting a‘
finger during recess.

But, come the breathing spells, the taskmaster
is always eager to share a new musical experience
with his fellow enthusiasts. During a strenuous
session before the Collegiate Chorale’s 1948
Christmas concert, Shaw suddenly called a brief
rest, sat down among his singers and began to
talk, his voice occasionally faltering with emotion,
about an exciting piece of music he had heard
recently for the first time. Then all of a sudden he
jumped to his feet, and with a roaring “Let’s go!”
continued to rehearse.

At the other extreme, he smashes chairs, hurl-
ing them methodically from the auditorium onto
the rehearsal stage. His powerful voice can be a
terror to his singers. But they dread it even more
when he talks very slowly and calmly. “What you
sing is absolutely obscene,” I heard him say. “You
can take anybody off the street and they sing more
beautifully than you do.”

After such outbursts he can feel very low. “I
know I was rude,” he will admit. “But some—

RECREATION

times I’m so lonely up there. All those nice people

against one man l”
Bob's tour last fall took him and his Robert

Shaw Chorale through forty cities in six weeks.
His programs covered a wide repertory, from
ancient church music to tough modernistic works
and his own arrangements of folk songs. They
sang in churches, schools and music halls, travel-
ing by special bus—Shaw sometimes flying ahead
to lecture or demonstrate. On arrival, his singers
were prepared to find him on the stage high up on
a ladder, dirty, sweaty, and cursing, as he ripped
off or rearranged curtains to improve the acous-

Music by

OMMUNITY MUSIC IS not a kind of music, but,
C rather, includes all types of music used for
the benefit of all the people. Some have classified
it as music “for, by and of the people.” Music for
them may be furnished through professional
groups, but music by the people furnishes the vital
phase of a community music program. The ama-
teur spirit of singing and playing for the enjoy-
ment of participation and the joy to listeners is its
real mission. This amateur spirit does not refer to
the caliber of performances, however, for superior
artistic goals may certainly be attained.

But what is important to the promotion of ama-
teur participation in all phases of such activity is
an over-all coordinating agency—not merely con-
centrating on the organization of one community
orchestra or one community band, but on a really
comprehensive musical program. This involves
cooperation with and service to all churches,
lodges, service clubs, women’s clubs, hospitals, in-
dustries, mercantile establishments, schools and
homes.

Flint, Michigan, has one type of coordinating
agency in the Flint Community Music Associa-
tion. With certain adaptations, a similar set-up
has been organized in Independence, Missouri. In
some other cities, the coordinating agency is found
in the Public Adult Education Program. In Los
Angeles, the City Commission of the Arts has its
music coordinator to develop its musical programs.
Some universities are offering to organize services
through their extension divisions. A few cities in
North Dakota combine the financial resources of
their City Council, Chamber of Commerce and
Board of Education to secure a competent musi-
cian to handle the “Town Band,” and to take
charge of instrumental work in the schools.

The Flint Community Music Association, con-
ceived by J. Dallas Dort and other Michigan

MARCH 1949

tics. At Kansas City, 1,700 high school and college
students from all over the state joined in one huge
chorus for the program.

Shaw loves nothing better than to encourage
music-making among the young. And he wants
you, and me, and our families and friends to join
in, too. “Music is a community enterprise,” he
says, “an effort to unite the minds of men.” Some
time ago at a rehearsal he stared at two girls way
back in the room and asked why they weren’t sing-
ing. “W e’re visitors,” they breathed shyly.

“Why don’t you sing anyway? And-a—one, and-
a-two. and-a-threel” '

the People

founders in 1917, has proved very successful.
High among its achievements is the Flint Civic
Opera, an eighteen-year—old civic institution. Here,
popular operas are produced in the English lan-
guage by the city’s own citizens, adhering strictly
to all tradition—including the full opera orchestra,
adequate scenery and costumes. The entire adult
Community Music Association personnel is com-
bined for this opera, including the staff, the Flint
Symphony Orchestra, the Choral Union and lead—
ing vocalists originally banded together in the
Flint Opera Society.

The Association is a member of the Council of
Social Agencies and is particularly active in the
recreation division. The slogan “Unity Through
Music” stresses its social attitude, for it believes
that music as a recreation minimizes all differences
between ages—in that youngsters and adults can
sing or play together; between sexes—since musi—
cal participation is suited to both sexes, although
it can be confined to boys or men, women or girls,
or in any combination; between religious creeds;
political faiths, and so on.

Then, too, the rules of the musical game are
varied. Singing groups may range from 50,000
down to the small church choir, sextet, duet or
solo. Musical activities may be suitable for the
open air stadium, the large or small concert hall,
the church, the lodge hall, department store, the
smallest home. And the music “game” is not
called off “because of rain.” It can provide an
activity for the entire family and be available for
every phase of life—front babyhood, through ado-
lescence, marriage, all rites and ceremonies. In
fact, what individual is not benefited directly or
indirectly? What activity is more enjoyable and,
at the same time, more “practical”?

Reprinted from the thirty-first Annual Report
of Flint Conmmnity M mic Association, 1947-48.

539

Easter-April 17, 1949.
Pa” celebrations carry
suggestion: for program

plannmg. . .

EASTER PARADE

 

Gertrude Flippen

T STARTED OUT as a community center program
for the East End. It ended with the appear—
ance of seven of the models in a local department
store’s fashionette tea. That, in a nutshell, is the
story of the Richmond, Virginia, Division of Rec—
reation’s first style show for teen-agers. But a
book could be written to mark the events between,
before, and after.

Always in search of something new and differ-
ent, the program committee of the Division of
Recreation hatched an Easter idea for teen-agers
—a fashion show in the school community centers.
They broached the idea to the superintendent of
recreation and to the coordinator of youth activ—
ities for the division, and the suggestion was re-
ceived enthusiastically.

It wasn’t difiicult to obtain a sponsor for this
event for, when the subject was presented to Mrs.
Margaret Crutchfield, youth coordinator for Miller
and Rhoads, one of Richmond’s larger department

stores, she readily consented to carry the sugges-
tion to the sales promotion division of the store.
A few hours later, Miller and Rhoads was the
sponsor of the Division of Recreation’s “Easter
Parade,” a show for and by Richmond’s teen-agers.

Then the job really started. It was decided that
not only would there be four shows in four sec-
tional community centers, but also that two girls
and one boy from each section would be selected
as models. (Boy models were almost unheard of
in Richmond and, indeed, girl teen-age models
were very scarce.) Accordingly, while the store
worried about such things as the set, screens,
lights, music and transportation of the clothing,

540

center directors faced the problem of selecting and,
yes, even of convincing the models.

In some centers, modelling clubs were quickly
formed and girls paraded about school stages while
the staff considered posture, walk and appearance.
In other centers, time did not permit the forma—
tion of clubs, and directors were forced to select
their models from observing boys and girls who
participated in center activities. In some cases,
both boys and girls were very willing to model,
while it was necessary to convince others that it
was “the thing to do” and that they would not be
ridiculed as they appeared before their friends.

An additional boy was selected in each center to
serve as a master of ceremonies, and his duties
included introducing the musicians, the center

staff and the fashion commentator. At the same
time, ten to twelve girls were asked to serve as
hostesses to welcome the guests, assist in seating
the audience and in distributing programs.

Came the days for selection of clothing—in the
latest styles, to be sure—but clothes that would
suit the models as well as satisfy the store repre-
sentatives. Then there followed fittings, altera—
tions, picture taking, rehearsals, until the date for
the first show rolled around.

This was given on an improvised stage in the
school cafeteria with 350 persons, nearly 300 of
whom were between the ages of fourteen and
twenty, enthusiastically receiving it. As the models
nervously stepped through the giant Easter egg
onto the stage and runway, the audience took ad-
vantage of the commentator’s invitation to “ap-
plaud if you like the outfit, applaud if you like the

RECREATION

model, applaud loudly if both the model and the
outfit please you.” Thirty minutes later, twelve
models breathed sighs of relief as they stood for
the finale while Irving Berlin’s “Easter Parade”
was sung. They were a success! When, dressed in
their own clothes, they joined the members of the
center in their regular program of table games and
dancing, they were received as royally as Holly—
wood stars. The center director, responsible for
all shows, also breathed a sigh of relief and was
pleased when three boys, who had refused her in-
vitation to model, asked if it was too late for them
to become a part of the show.

Twice more that week the twelve models ap—
peared in “Easter Parade” in different sections of
town, and, each time, all the thrills of an opening
night were experienced. Then came show number
four and excitement ran high. Not only would
there be a party afterwards, but store representa—
tives would announce the names of the models who
would be invited to appear in the fashionette tea
the following W'ednesday in the store’s tea room.

The announcement came—the judges had se-
lected three girls to appear: Ann, the only blonde;
Jean, the brunette who walked with such a swish;
and Ray, who, as she appeared on the stage at her
own center, had created quite a sensation among
the boys in the back row who were heard to ex-
claim, “Well, what do you know! Look at ‘Slug—
ger’ Marlow up there. She was the only person
on either team to hit a home run this afternoon.”
As applause broke forth, the judges added that all
four boys were invited to participate in the tea,
and that only the lack of time for alterations of
summer outfits prevented Miller and Rhoads from
asking most of the other girls to be a part of the
Show.

 

Needless to say, members of the recreation staff
and proud mothers were among the early arrivals
at the fashionette tea, and it was over the tea table

that the program committee discussed the values

of such a show and decided to make “Easter Pa-
rade” an annual affair. The thrill which the teen-
agers received from merely dressing up in new
clothes for their friends was enough to warrant
saying, “Let’s do it again.” But the poise, self-
assurance and style which they acquired greatly
overshadowed the thrill. No one could have been

MARCH 1949

more at ease than the six-foot high school senior
football player, in his dark green sweater with
jacquard design, who stood on center stage and
nonchalantly glanced at his wristwatch while
shouts, whistles and applause echoed through the
auditorium. (He later said that he did not know
what to do with his hands, and that he couldn’t
just let them hang!)

The boys and girls learned that in order to be
well-dressed one may be simply dressed; that style,
color combinations, shoes and carriage are of ut-
most importance. Some of the girl‘s wore colors
they had never worn before because they had felt
that they were unbecoming. Yet, they discovered
how “smart” they could be when correctly using
these colors. The boys learned that neckties make
a difference—that they should blend—and that
saddle shoes can be extremely stylish when clean!
One sixteen-year-old girl discovered, to the delight
of her mother, that she could walk in shoes with
heels and that the right shoes can oftentimes make
the outfit.

Miller and Rhoads itself was pleased with the
participation of the teen-agers and their willing—
ness to model in the store in the future; with the
large audience viewing the costumes; and with
the cash returns to the store as evidenced by cus—
tomers asking for “a suit like the one Sonny wore
in the fashion shows.” In fact, the fashion co-
ordinator, who was skeptical of the whole project,
asked, “Vt’hat can we do to cooperate with the
Division of Recreation in the summer?”

But even this does not mark finis to the fashion
show. Pride again neared the bursting point when
a newspaper reviewer stated: “. . . and a slick job
they did showing off the clothes. The four boys
did their strolling and ‘turns’ with as much poise
as the girls. . . . They modeled the sort of clothes
that most of the mothers seemed to admire, and
the result looked not like fashion plates, but the
clothes teen-agers want to wear. Even the dressier
outfits for the boys had an ease about them that
gave the models a ‘young Walter Pidgeon air’.”

(The Division of Recreation in Richmond has
since become the Department of Parks and Rec—

reation.—Ed.)

 

“Have you ever wondered why you felt you had
to wear a new costume on Easter? You can trace
the idea back to an old superstition which still per-
sists about its being unlucky not to put on a gar-
ment never before worn when you rise on Easter
Day." Olive 5. Barton in The Woman.

541

A KINDERGARTEN PARTY

 

T AN EASTER party held for kindergarten chil-
A (lren in Copiague, Long Island, the mothers
cooperated in making it a success. There were
more than the twenty-five class members at the
party since some of the mothers who attended
brought along their younger, pre-school age chil-
dren to join the fun.

The party was held in the kindergarten class-
room and, as the children were well-behaved, the
afternoon school session passed very quickly. The
following schedule for the party worked out well:

I. Roll call.

2. Flag salute.

3. Grab-bag. Four or five jelly beans were
wrapped in each package. The package containing
all red jelly beans won the prize-—a comic book.
One of the mothers made the grab-bag.

4. Bunny game. This is similar to the tail-pin-
ning donkey game. One of the children in the
upper grades drew a large bunny, which was
pinned against the door, low enough for the young-
sters to reach. We made the tails out of gaily-
colored paper, cut in the shape of an enlarged egg,
with some absorbent cotton pasted on the large,

 

5W {M 764“; 7m

Mary Lamia Quici

rounded end. The name of each child was written
on each tail for identification purposes in deter-
mining the winner. Later on, the children were
given these tails to take home as souvenirs. The
winner received a coloring book, together with a
box of crayons; and the person farthest away re-
ceived a whistle as the “booby” prize.

5. Refreshments. Baskets were set on doilies,
both of which were made by the children, under
the teacher’s guidance. The baskets were filled
with grass, jelly beans, candy corn and some choc—
olate. Cookies, baked and donated by the mothers,
were set at each place. A small bottle of milk and
a “Dixie” ice cream cup were also served to each
child. Each mother contributed articles needed for
the occasion, such as paper napkins, paper dishes,
paper cups, and the like.

6. Musical chairs. The mothers in charge of
the party cleaned the tables which had been set up
for refreshments, and cleared the floor so that
chairs could be placed for this game.

7. Lollipops for each child were put into the
grab-bag and the children picked their choice,
since the lollipOps were of different shapes.

 

Not Material Things

THE FOUNDATION 0F our strength and amazing vitality is not in mate-
rial things at all but, rather, in the spirit of this nation and in the

faiths we cherish.

The well springs of our vitality are not economic. They go deeper
still. They are ethical and spiritual. Our society in America is founded
upon a faith in man as an end in himself. We believe in man. We be-
lieve in man not merely as production units or statistics but as the child

of God.

We believe that the purpose of our society is not primarily to assure
the safety of the state but to safeguard human dignity and the freedom
of the individual. We conceive the development and happiness of the
individual as the purpose and the goal of American life—David E. Lilien-
thal, Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, in address delivered
at Rochester, N ew York, January I6, 1949.

542

RECREATION

Play Begins at Home

While written with rural homes in mind,
this article applies to home folks everywhere.

Alice Van Landingham

OME IS THE basis for a sound national life.

It is the place where individuals should first

learn joy, love, fairness, respect, loyalty and lead-

ership—the place where the true art of living

should be taught. Outside programs, sponsored

by schools, churches and clubs, should be built on

this foundation, even though these groups do not

have the close, day by day contact with individuals

which is necessary, and thus cannot begin early
enough to be efi‘ective.

The above values should be developed while the
family is alone, as well as while guests are present
—the deep roots being planted while members
work and play together. Parents should under—
stand the needs of children during all kinds of
experiences—failures as well as successes. Games
in which a child may win sometimes and lose at
others, thus learning to face the results, should be
played. When unthinking parents always let the
children win, the game ceases to be fun. Attitudes
are caught by the little things parents do—how
they react to everyday situations, not only when a
game is being played, but when problems of living
arise. This learning is a constant process and can
be as much, or more, fun than any game.

.lecause there are many interests and activities
other than in the home, and because some mem-
bers of a family often work away from the home,
it is necessary that many activities be arranged in
advance, to avoid conflicting plans. It is best if
parents start while children are very young to
prepare for these definite times together. For in-
stance, a family had Sunday evening snacks on
trays in the living room, while they listened to
the radio. These occasions were later referred to
by the twelve-year-old daughter as “those good
old days.”

Some suggestions for having fun are:

1. Dinner table conversation.
2. Family discussions where certain decisions are

MARCH 1949

 

made, such as the Choice of painting the house
or taking a trip. Whatever is decided will have
more meaning and enjoyment because of the pre-
vious discussions.

3. Table and card games—dominoes, checkers,
chess, rook, authors, concentration, donkey, hearts
and quiz games.

4. Many homes have space for ping pong, shufHe—
board, croquet, badminton, archery and horseshoe
facilities.

5. A place for dancing, with a record player, is
helpful to teen—agers.

6. Movie camera and projector, or a camera from
which colored slides may be developed and shown
on a small screen, may add much to family en joy-
ment.

7. Taking of strolls together in the evening to see
the sunset, to smell the fresh fragrance after rain,
to share the first snow storm, the first flowers in
Spring.

8. Making of Christmas cards together, or Christ—
mas tree ornaments; trying to cut silhouettes of
other members of the family, or to sketch or paint
them; making of block prints of the home, the
garden.

9. Making family ceremonies of little things, such
as the first tulip in the garden, the first robin,
trimming the Christmas tree.

10. Sharing of good music on the radio or record
player.

11. Reading aloud.

Many parents say that they cannot afford equip-
ment for home play, but most of these pastimes
need no equipment ; furthermore, it must be re-
membered that the true value does not lie in the
supplying of equipment, but mainly in intelligent
leadership on the part of parents. Parents with
a little initiative can spontaneously introduce a
game and create fun for all out of the simplest
activity. Eating in the backyard is a treat even

543

though food is prepared inside. A “one dish” meal
with salad and dessert can be put into the car with
not too much extra preparation and taken to a
nearby park or picnic grounds, adding variety to

family living. Of course, cooking out is even more,

fun, but sometimes this takes too much time. Cele-
bration of holidays and birthdays of various mem-
bers of the family adds much fun in the home.
There are also many family cooperative projects
for both in and out of doors, such as painting the
living room, fixing any part of the house, planting
a garden, canning 0r preserving.

Peach canning is a real event for one family. An
agreeable day and time is chosen in order that
there will be no conflicting appointments. The
mother and three children take a bushel of peaches,
cold pack fourteen jars, and grind the rest for
peach jam. This is a most interesting time because
of the spontaneous talk that takes place while
hands are busy. W hen these peaches are eaten the
following winter they bring memories of a happy
time spent together.

Creative projects are fun. One family worked
all winter in Spare time planning and making
equipment for their back yard. They made picnic
tables, benches, trellises ; planned the flower beds
and the vegetable garden. Many pleasures are
available for just two members of the family,
father and daughter, mother and son. They may
enjoy fishing, boating or working out a craft proj-
ect. It is good for father and son, or mother and
daughter, to create some article to wear or use in
the home. However, the greatest value comes from
the companionship ' developed while working
quietly together.

Sharing the home with friends is also a joyful
experience; good food, a few planned activities
where each, in turn, participates, add much to the
fun. But even more important is the opportunity
of extending a sincere welcome, which can be felt.
A woman once asked why it was that after attend-
ing a party in one home you were inspired to be
more friendly while at another party, in a home
with perhaps more material beauty, you were left
cold. This is a stimulating comparison; and by
Observing the value of warm friendliness, and by
using a program of games and other activities, we
learn how to express this sincere welcome. A
county agent once said that in homes where the
family lived a full life he always felt free to drop
in because he knew he was welcome. In such
homes there is no time wasted on lengthy apolo-
gies. Too many apologies assure the visitor that
he is not welcome. Good homes are an influence
on other homes in our communities.

544

Some of the stabilizing forces in the home are:

1. Love and understanding.

2. Facilities that help, such as radio and record player,
good [books and magazines, indoor and outdoor games.

3. Planned times together.
4. A home open to friends.

Community leaders should do all that is possi-
ble to encourage the strengthening of the rural
home by stimulating and informing parents of
these basic values which may be acquired by rec-
reational techniques. Some of these techniques are :

1. Planning projects to do together. a
2. Making sure that they are fun and satisfying.

3. Sharing in planning as well as doing. Members of the
family are never too young or too old to have a part in

these family projects.
4. Observing holidays and special occasions.

5. Making the most of little things.

Fun cannot be handed out to members of the
family———it comes only through sharing. Many cur-
rent magazines suggest projects for family fun.

(For further suggestions see the booklet, Home
Play, National Recreation Association, seventy-
Eve cents—Ed.)

New Home Life Pattern

ANEW HOME life pattern is deve10ping among
families who have television sets, according
to the business administration department at Far-
leigh Dickinson junior College, Rutherford, New
Jersey, which has just completed a survey of the
effects of television on the American home. The
average televiewer, according to the survey, spends
three-and-a-half hours a day at his set when he is
at home, which means giving up certain other
activities, particularly reading. Magazines and
books—even comic books—stand high on the list
of video casualties. It is reported that television
has brought many families closer together, al-
though forty—six per cent of the persons inter-
viewed admitted that television kills conversation.
The longer the family has a set, the more time
various members of the family spend with it. The
survey shows that homework is being interfered
with, eSpecially among younger children. Tele-
viewers have cut their radio-listening time by sev-
enty-seven per cent and their attendance at sports
events by forty-four per cent. ,

RECREATION

Continuity of service is important . . .

Paid Leadership for Club Work '

Doris R. Worrell

RADITIONALLY, CLUB WORK has been in the

hands of volunteer leaders under the general
direction of a small staff of organizers who help pre-
pare materials and suggestions for the volunteer
and who conduct community in-service training
classes. This plan works reasonably well in groups
having average or above average incomes and who
have had average or above average educational op-
portunities.

However, in low income areas having large fam-
ilies, and where it is necessary for both parents to
seek employment to support their families, or where
the average educational level is low, stable compe-
tent volunteer leaders are very difficult to find. Oc-
casionally, an adult from the “west” side of the
tracks will volunteer service in underprivileged
areas but, generally speaking, the contact is not long

lived.
Because of unstable home conditions and fre-

quently bad neighborhood environment, children -in
underprivileged areas are in need of stable, con-
tinuing influences over a period of time.

To meet this need, the Youth Services Super-
visor, Elementary Education Division of the Los
Angeles City Schools, revived the playground club
for boys, the “Thunderbirds,” and started the “Girls
of the Crossed Arrows” for girls. University stu-
dents were recruited on the basis of their previous
training, background, personality and volunteer
service, with the understanding that they would
serve a minimum of one year. They were placed
on the payroll at a playground director’s hourly rate
of pay. This gave the dual control of continuity of
service and immediate dismissal if service was not
satisfactory.

Clubs were organized through the schools and
playgrounds. A remarkably fine staff was recruited.
The young men were ex-GI’s with a maturity not
found in most younger college students. The young

MARCH 1849

women leaders were majoring in recreation, teach—
er—training or social work.

These clubs were not started in competition with
nationally organized groups. Where it seemed ap-
parent that nationally organized clubs could meet
the need, students were referred to such organiza-
tions as Camp Fire Girls, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts,
and the like. Although a manual was drawn up, the
program was purposefully flexible in order to meet
the needs of each group, particularly minority
groups.

Coming from underprivileged homes, many chil—
dren had to learn the most elementary principles of
socially acceptable attitudes and behavior. The
growth and responsiveness has been amazing. In
one club, the girls were told that they would not be
permitted to come to club meetings unless they had
taken a bath. The director, who is a fastidious per-
son, said she couldn’t stand the odor. Now the girls
come clean and dressed in their best—the club is a
privilege. One girl who had been particularly anti-
social finally came to the director and announced,
“I am now open for criticism.” From that time on
she became a most cooperative club member.

Other groups, who were bad behavior problems
at first, have learned the rules of good conduct and
courtesy to the extent that the director feels free to
take them anywhere by public transportation, and
has confidence that her girls will be outstanding in
courtesy. Other patrons on street cars have re-
marked how well-behaved the groups are. Such
behavior was not achieved without many hours of
discouragement for the directors. The children had
much to overcome, and volunteers probably would
have given. up.

(National organizations are often too expensive
for low income groups. Children cannot afford
uniforms, or other required items.)

By being organized under the recreational bud-

545

get, dues are very nominal and most SUpplies are
furnished. These are kept of a simple nature. As
may be suspected from the names, the clubs use In-
dian symbolism.

The girls make their own stoles upon which they
place the honor symbols which they have earned
and, incidentally, made themselves. The boys like-
wise make their symbols out of leather and have
earned money for “T” shirts on which to place
their symbols.

No two clubs and their programs are alike—yet
there is a general pattern of activity. One director
had to spend several meetings working on minority

tensions between Negroes and Mexicans—mem-
bers of two of his clubs whom he had taken on an
excursion together.

Every effort is made by the director to recruit
volunteer helpers from the neighborhood, but the
paid director is held responsible for seeing that
there is a leader at ’every scheduled meeting.

Because of the continuity of service, principals
have been most enthusiastic over the program. De-
mands for this type of leadership are far greater
than can be met under the present budget, but it
does seem to show that, in some situations, there is
a place for paid leadership clubs.

K€=9J

pwm 7%

W

"Take ll: Easy"

Frank E. Smith

ANY ARTICLES ARE published annually de-
M scribing the colorful shows put on by em-
ployee organizations and other groups. Few, if any,
attempt to include the many phases of promotional
build-up so important to the success of a show.
At General Electric in Erie, Pennsylvania, we be—
lieve that the promotion of our recent production
—“Take It Easy”—reached an all-time high in
pre—show promotion.

The General Electric Athletic Association was
fortunate, indeed, in having as a GE employee

546

George Fleugel, one time advertising manager for
several nationally known organizations. Fleugel,
working with the association director, deve10ped
an outstanding piece of promotion which may con-
vey a few good ideas to others who are planning
a production of some sort and wondering what can
be done to bring it to the public eye.

The publicity was planned several months in
advance and was gradually launched three weeks
ahead of time so that it would hit its peak when
the show opened.

It was a bright, sunny morning when GE em-
ployees ran into the first evidences of a smashing
program. Detours on local streets limited incom—
ing plant traflic to three roads. As the thousands
heading for GE came to within one mile of the
plant, a twenty foot streamer sign across the streets
met their eye, with twenty-four inch letters scream-
ing—“Take It Easy.” After parking their cars in
the company lots, the workers heading for each
of the three gates were met with three other bill-
boards telling them that “Take It Easy” was but
three weeks away. Company restaurants were
bannered with similar signs. Napkins used in
these same restaurants were stamped with infor-
mation about the show—so that dates, admission
charges, location and other pertinent data were in
front of each employee’s eyes when he raised his
napkin to his lips.

Routine ads in all local and plant papers were
used but, to further attract attention, ads were
placed in the columns listing “lost and found” arti-
cles and “business opportunities.” The “lost and

RECREATION

found" column ad announced a reward for five
tickets which were said to have been lost—and
weren’t, of course. But we did receive several calls
about them!

A downtown ticket office was opened a week
before the show to serve the non-employee public.
Its opening was emphasized by having an airplane
drop 10,000 leaflets over the downtown area, and
by means of a sound truck, which traveled around
the town, telling everyone all about the big show.
Coupled with the above, the local papers used
plenty of pictures, including a Sunday feature
devoted to 'the event. The store manager, who
cooperated in allowing the use of his store for a
ticket office, also allowed a display of pictures in
his window.

Several hundred posters were placed in stores,
garages, waiting rooms and other strategic loca—
tions. Complimentary tickets were given to each
cooperating merchant —one for each sign, the
thought being that no one would come alone. Pic—
tures of employees appeared in the GE newspaper,
and anyone identifying them was given a single
“comp.” Other “comps” were thrown from the
airplane.

The cast and a corps of plant salesmen sold tick-
ets in advance at the Athletic Association office.
This, of course, is a routine procedure. Employees
were sold reserved seats for the opening night for
a dollar; for the other two nights, members of the

association could purchase reserved seats at the
same price, but all others had to pay one dollar
and a half. Thus GEAA members, whose organi-
zation put on the show, were given the best possi-
ble deal. GE employees who were not members
were given special prices for one night, and the
general public paid a slightly higher fee. General
admission and children’s tickets were one dollar
and twenty-five cents and seventy-five cents re—
spectively.

On the day following the first night’s perform-
ance, telegrams were sent to the editors of all local
papers and to managers of the three Erie radio
stations, telling them all about the opening. The
response was more news comments over the radio,
and the appearance of two more newspaper pho-
tographers on the second night—and many of the
pictures taken were used. Every day, at noon, the
GE public address system urged employees to get
their seats soon or sit in the next county to see
“the gala, glamorous, glorious ‘Take It Easy’.”

One more angle which helped in getting more
publicity, and which served the community as well,

, was an open invitation to the local children’s

homes to send their charges to the show, free.
They did, and over a hundred children laughed
and had an evening of fun. The looks on the faces
of those youngsters repayed every bit of effort put

into what, we at GE think, was a real promotion
job. Did it sell tickets? What do you think?

An athletic association built an employee revue up to a “smash hit” and a community turned out to see the show.

 

MARCH 1949

S47

Tacoma, Washington

Mr. Thomas IV. Lante, who is Superintendent
of Public Recreation in Tacoma, writes to the
National Recreation Association as follows:

N SEPTEMBER 2, 1948, Fort Lewis authorities
0 informed the Council of Churches of Ta-
coma, Washington, that there were I,800 young
men, eighteen years of age, and 2,300 volunteers
at the nearby Fort (twelve miles from the city).
I was called into a meeting to discuss plans to do
something for them when they were off duty.
Several of the people present knew that I was with
the Federal Security Agency for a short time dur-
ing W'orld War II and felt that I might contrib-
ute, on the basis of experience. One of the first
things -I recommended was a Mayor’s Citizens
Armed Forces Committee which would be more
widely representative of the people than the Coun—
cil of Churches. This suggestion was followed.

The Mayor appointed a committee with Colonel
James Stack, USA retired (formerly on Eisen-
hower’s staff), as the chairman. Reverend Loyal
Vickers, executive secretary of the Council of
Churches, and I were appointed vice chairmen.
Each vice chairman has a number of committees
under his jurisdiction. .

One of the first projects of the Citizens Armed
Forces Committee was to provide a reception for

548

the young enlistees who had time off in Tacoma,
Saturdays and Sundays. The young soldiers came
in batches of 500 and were welcomed by the
Mayor. A member of the Chamber of Commerce
staff told the boys what they could see and do in
Tacoma. The three religious faiths had booths in
the Armory to provide home hospitality for the
boys over the week-end. The Musician’s Union
provided an orchestra for the music. This little
welcome ceremony lasted about forty-five minutes,
and took place over a period of several months.

The general meetings of the Committee attract
approximately fifty to seventy-live citizens, and
some of the operating committees are:

Recreation—provides free tickets for basketball
and ice hockey games; Dance—conducts dances
every two weeks at the Armory; Health—reports
on the venereal disease situation; Welfare—not
too active; Housing—has obtained permission
from the local Housing Authority and the U. S.
Government to use a housing project built during
the war for a Negro dormitory, and is looking for
more space for sleeping quarters for servicemen
over the week-ends; Negro—entertains small
groups of Negroes over the week-ends in homes
and at churches; Churches—promotes home hos-
pitality and takes boys to church; Home Hospi-
tality—acts as a clearing house for boys wanting
to be in a home over week-ends; Hospital—acts
as a clearing house for all recreation and entertain-
ment programs at Fort Lewis Madigan Hospital
and all other veterans hospitals in the area, having
done an outstanding job at Christmas time; Pub-
lic Relations—keeps the newspapers and radio
informed of the activities of the Committee and
publishes a weekly booklet of events for distribu-
tion among servicemen, called the “Totem Pole”;
Finance—raises money for the Committee.

As of January thirteenth, we have been in-
formed that there are 30,000 servicemen in the
area surrounding Tacoma.

“The welfare of young men in service is
of vital importance to the nation, and recre-
ation will play an essential part in the pro—
gram. \Nhen periods of freedom come after
the hard, routine hours of soldier—making,

wholesome recreation under trained leader-
ship must be easily available. This is essen-
tial both for making good soldiers and good
citizens.”--—Sf)ringjield College.

 

RECREATION

Personalities in

the Recreation News . . .

Home from Japan

188 KATHARINE MONTGOMERY DONALDSON has devoted nearly twenty-flve
M years of her life to recreation; and was a member of the first Recreation
School conducted by the National Recreation Association in 1925.

This February she reported for duty to the Department of the Army in Wash-
ington, D. C., to establish and direct a recreation training center at each U. S. Army
Headquarters, and to instruct newly recruited Army hostesses. The years in be—
tween had brought the technique and knowledge—through study and experience—-
that make her the invaluable person she is today.

To supplement her regular education through the years, she has taken courses
in child training, psychology, public administration, and mental hygiene at Rutgers
University; courses in recreation at New York University; courses in athletics,
information and education at the *Army Special Services School.

At the age of twenty-two, Miss Donaldson became Director of Neighborhood
House, New Brunswick, New Jersey, working with Italian, Lithuanian, Syrian and
Polish immigrants. At twenty-eight she was Supervisor, Professional Division
W.P.A., for northern New Jersey. Since then, her career has included further wide
experience in settlement work. In Washington, Pennsylvania, where she was Direc-
tor of the W eirlich Avenue Settlement House, she cooperated with city playgrounds
on a project for providing additional recreation facilities for area youngsters at
other settlement houses.

During the early stages of World War II, trained recreation workers were
wanted by the War Department to plan and execute a well-rounded recreation pro-
gram for enlisted personnel on the military bases. Miss Donaldson was a member
of one of the small original groups of Army hostesses assigned to Camp Lee, Vir-
ginia. After one year there she was made chief hostess of the
three service clubs at Camp Pickett, Virginia.

During wartime and the early occupation, she was with
the Red Cross in a supervisory capacity—in New Guinea,
the Philippines, and Japan. She also served for a time with
the United States Navy at Samar and Cavite. She was the
first woman Supervisor of Recreation for the American Red
Cross, Far Eastern Theatre of Operations, procuring and
organizing the establishments used as Red Cross Clubs.
Since July 1947, when Special Services took over operation
of Service Clubs from the Red Cross, she has assisted in the
administration of sixty-two installations on the three main
Japanese islands.

Miss Donaldson has the intangible qualities of a success-
ful recreation worker—she faces facts but still maintains a
friendly outlook on life; she has a delightful sense of humor;
she practices what she preaches: “Tonight? I’d love to!
That will be fun.” Indeed she is a worthy member of the
recreation tribe!

 

MARCH 1949

 

THESE FIVE LETTERS stand for the important
words SPECIAL SERVICES FAR EAST COM-
MAND—-—that branch of the United States Army
whose mission it is to provide an interesting, off-
duty program for enlisted men in Japan, Oki-
nawa, Guam, Korea and the Philippines.

It is a tremendous job.

The soldiers are young, with diversified back-
grounds, training, education, interests and desires.
Among them are those who are immature, home-
sick, shy, resentful; those who do not know what
to do with their free time; those who are deeply
concerned with their future and home responsi-
bilities.

“Well, enjoy yourselves boys!” is obviously not
the answer- So—————

In I946, Special Services was started as a War
Department Administrative Service, and about a
year later it became a postwar military establish-
ment with responsibility for recreation service.
There are three main branches of Special Services
-—the Exchange Service, Motion Picture Service,
Recreation Service. Prior to the last war, no
agency in the War Department was specifically
concerned with this matter. Every recreation
worker is familiar with the argument, “taxpayer’s
money.” As a matter of fact, barring a small
amount of appropriated funds for the payment of a
few key personnel, the Far East Command sup-
ports its own recreation program through divi-
dends from the Army-Air Force Exchange and
motion picture activities. Except for motion pic-
tures, there is no direct charge for equipment,
service, supplies, or at any box office. Whatever
dollars are used by the United States Government
on soldier welfare-—of which recreation is a part——

are definitely well spent.

550

 

It ’3

Recreation Tim

“we know,” said one Colonel, “that enlisted
men who find off-duty activities to their liking at
their home units and stations are less likely to be
found on the AWOL, venereal, disciplinary lists.”

What facilities and what activities are presented !
Those that make possible a wide range, leisure-
time program in which soldiers participate volun-
tarily, under the leadership of trained men and
women.

The Army-Air Force Exchange

This functions somewhat as a general store, fur-
nishing essentials and some luxuries to the soldier
away from home. Prohts derived from all sales
are combined with the profits of motion picture
admissions and provide a fund which supports a

Women 70W!

LL CLUB RECREATION is under the guidance
A of women staff members. At present
there are 405 workers. Their jobs are so
thoroughly satisfying that no one minds the
hard work involved. Standards are high.
Such adjectives as vivacious, well-bred, in—
telligent, neat, attractive, imaginative are ap-
plied to the recreation personnel. A college
background is essential. In addition, the
Club Director must have five years recrea-
tion experience; the Assistant Director, three
years; the Social Hostess, one year. Are
YOU interested in a recreation job overseas?
If you are, write to Special Services, Depart-
ment of the Army, Washington, D. C. It is
an honor to wear the rainbow patch!

RECREATION

vith the S. S.F.E. C.

Erna Carson

welfare and recreation program for United States
enlisted men on duty in the Far East Command.

Because of the great difference in size and type
of post or station, Exchange Services are based
upon local conditions. Some provide basic neces-
sities for men; others supply numerous additional
items for feminine workers and dependents, includ-
ing arts and crafts from the Orient. The Exchange
is the one place to shop for American things.

Drugs? Cigarettes? Soap? “Yes, sir.”

Shoe laces? Movie camera? Thermos jug?

“Have got.”

Some items are rationed, and others disappear
the day the ship docks. No more sweaters?

“Sorry.”

One of the most fascinating features of this
service is the PX Train which goes to isolated
regions in Japan and Korea, equipped with just
about everything carried by metropolitan units.
These goods are displayed right on the train, and
it doesn’t take much imagination to visualize the
eager reception with which each “PX Special” is
greeted.

Tokyo has the largest PX ever established. Just
before opening time the waiting line extends
around a street corner. At rumors or information
about a new shipment, the line extends around two
corners. You may buy writing paper, golf equip-
ment, clothing, hamburgers; have your watch,
shoes or radio repaired. You may have a steak
dinner in the restaurant or an ice cream soda in
the snack bar. You may take home doughnuts,
popcorn, a three layer birthday cake. All this,
8,000 miles from the base of supply. Shall we
drop in for a cup of coffee?

Motion Pictures
On the basis of attendance figures, it is evident

MARCH 1949

 

Women staff members in charge of recreation bring
color, cheer and a feeling of home to service clubs.

that motion pictures are the favorite entertain—
ment of the American soldier. Every effort is
made to provide the very best in film fare. Prints
of American and British films are flown to over-
seas theatres as soon as they are released. The
soldier sees the pictures as soon or sooner than
the people at home. No installation is too remote
or too small to receive films. Sixteen millimeter
projectors are supplied where thirty—five milli-
meters are impractical. Films are shown in out-
door theatres, hospital wards, converted barracks,
and in local theatres. Profits pay for films and
film rights, and support other forms of recreation.

551

Wherever there are American soldiers, there are
motion pictures.

Recreation

Under this heading there are six divisions:

M mic—Throughout all Japan soldiers have
been singing to the tune of “London Bridge”—

“M ushi, mushi, mm 116, mm ne, 0110 me

“M its/2i, mushi, ano ne, ah so desu lea?”—
meaning, more or less, “Hello, hello, see here, is
that so F” Recently, at a song fest, someone gave
the second verse, names of persons and places—

“M itsukoshi, N ilzonbashi, K amakura, K aruizawa

'“M‘ifSilbiShi, Akakura, Hi H 0, Texas!”

That’s one phase of the music program—infor-
mal singing—with or without great harmony, but
always with great enthusiasm. The national an-
them is a part of most such gatherings, and those
persons who have never heard it sung by a group
of young American soldiers away frdm their home
country have missed a stirring experience. The
boys are urged to sing special Army songs for
esprit de corps, state songs for local pride, folk
songs as a reminder of their heritage, popular
songs just for fun. Not many song fests go by
without cowboy songs, and it’s mighty hard, pard-
ner, to be homesick while harmonizing “Get Along,
Little Dogies, Get Along.” This informal singing
frequently leads to the organization of outstanding
quartets and choral groups.

Record rooms are available where jazz and clas-
sics may be played. There is every opportunity to
hear violin, harp, voice, or symphony concerts by
leading Oriental or European artists.

Musical instruments may be borrowed, and
music lessons are popular. Here’s an interesting
point—one boy borrows a clarinet; his pal says,
“I guess I’ll play something, too.” He does, and
before long, there’s a band. Not only do the boys
play for their own amusement, but they play at
military functions, Sports rallies, entertainments.
Two bands met a shipload of dependents at Yoko-
hama. As the ship came near, the rail lined with
wives and children of military personnel, one band
played, “Happy Days Are Here Again.” On the
last note the other band started, “I Can’t Give
You Anything but Love, Baby.” A small touch
of humor, but it brought shouts of laughter and
created an atmosphere of welcome.

Athletics and Sports—Maximum participation
is the aim of this group—plus a wide choice of
sports. In Japan, there’s a baseball game at State-
side Park; a field day at Penicillen Field; a foot-
ball game in the Nile Kinnick Stadium. In the
Philippines, there is boxing, wrestling, fencing; at

552

Guam, archery and tennis; in Korea, all day fish-
ing trips; on Okinawa, badminton and boat trips.
These activities, and many others, do much to
eliminate aimless, lonely hours for young soldiers
in the Far East.

There is no charge for spectators, and they in-
ject a bit of home into each affair. As the an-
nouncer states, “At bat, Bill Hansen of Fairfield,
Nebraska,” the band plays, “There Is No Place
Like Nebraska,” and, in between popcorn and
cokes, the crowd cheers lustily.

A certain amount of competition among the var-
ious organizations is inevitable, and sports are fur-
ther stimulated by Sports rallies and banquets for
the winning team. Complete equipment for all
sports is provided. High on the list of popular
sports events are the tournaments. These start at
the lowest echelon and end with the Far East
Command. Champions then have an opportunity
to compete in world-wide events.

Drama—Stage productions, advertised usually
as Soldier Shows, comprise everything from ama-
teur talent nights to “colossal, stupendous, mam-
moth” productions. Civilian Actress Technicians
(affectionately known as Cats) are employed to

portray feminine roles and to assist in producing
the shows. Musicals such as the “Mikado,” “An

ABC to the USA,” “Tico-Tico,” “Showtime” and
“On the Midway” have been produced and have
toured throughout the Far East Command. You
should have seen the beautiful productions of “A
Christmas Carol,” “Easter Show” and “Home
Country” which have been shown on the giant
stage of Tokyo’s Ernie Pyle Theatre. By arrange-
ment with dramatics agents in the United States,
permission is given to present copyrighted material
by paying a token royalty fee. Currently in pro-
duction are “State of the Union,” “John Loves
Mary,” “Born Yesterday,” “Joan of Lorraine,”
and others. This live entertainment program is
designed to provide both participation and specta-
tor interest—with emphasis on participation—as ,
an element of the well-rounded cultural program
being offered the soldier by the new Army.
Libraries—Libraries in the Far East Command

are as modern and efficient as those back in the I
United States. A soldier has access to a well-
balanced selection of reading material, including
magazines, newspapers, reference books, maps,
pamphlets. He may sit in a comfortable library
chair or take the material home.

All libraries are operated or supervised by
trained Army-Air Force librarians. Units too
small for a full library receive small collections of
books for short periods of time. Attendance at the

RECREATION

Pfc Thomas Hanratty, l’asco, \Vashington, Philippine
Iron Man pitcher, led team to softball championship.

Live entertainment programs, as above, are designed
to provide both participation and spectator interest.

 a -- '-.--'“m;;m mm

Staff Hostess Katharine Donaldson greets new arriv— The recreation Program for Off-duty hours is Widely
315. Major Ernest Layman Jr., Service Clubs officer. diVePSified and typical 0f the America" W3? 0f life-

MARCH 1949 553

 

Ernie Pyle Library in Tokyo, during one month,
was 16,834. That includes those who went there
to read, to use the music room, to take out books.
Of the books taken out during that time, 2,956
were fiction; 5,627 were non-fiction.

Arts and Crafts—“What’s your hobby ?” “Mi-
croscopy.”

The director blinks, but adds it to the list. It is,
of course, impractical to have a class in every
hobby, but even those interested in collecting “girls
who answer when I say ‘hello’ ” will find inspira-
tion and information in the Hobby Group.

Map making, collecting things related to the
military, Oriental woodcarving—the list of hobbies
is as limitless as the educational possibilities. Left
alone, these interests may be lost. Properly organ-
ized and stimulated, they will provide challenging
fun now and in later years—and maybe a little
money, too.

There’s nothing like friendly rivalry. The an-
nouncement of a contest always brings increased
activity. Supervised by skilled personnel (many
of them enlisted men), the service men produce
sketches, model airplanes, photographs. They also
repair toys for neglected children, and make fur-
niture for the club room, original Christmas cards,
stage equipment, landscape designs for the camp.
The Hobby Group’s plan is to develop progres-
sively in knowledge, technique, and skill.

Service C labs—A new soldier has just arrived.
His first day’s work has ended. What shall he do?
One hundred and twenty-two Service Clubs
throughout the Far East Command give the an-
swer, and when about 400,000 Weekly visits are
made to these clubs, that answer must be satis-
factory.

The millionaire has his Town and Country Club.
The enlisted man goes to the Alligator Rendezvous
in Guam, the Rumor Roost in Korea, the ’57 Club
in the Philippines, Club Ichiban in Japan, the
Orient in Okinawa. And why does he go? For a
program that encompasses all phases of Special
Services, and a few silver patches thrown in.

The general plan of the club is to serve as a
community center, to provide relaxation, enter-
tainment, instruction for all enlisted personnel in
all branches of the United States Army. In 1946,
the American Red Cross Club in Korea became
a Service Club operated by the Army. This repre-
sented a return to peacetime living and, since then,
all clubs have been taken over by the Army, and
new ones added, in rapid succession. Do the sol-
diers want them? They certainly do! In Yoko-
hama 5,000 enlisted men crowded into the lounge

554

at a formal club opening.

Very few buildings have been constructed espe-
cially for Service Clubs. The Sugamo Prison Club
in Tokyo is in a quonset but; the Hour Glass Club
in Korea is a large Japanese building; other clubs
use barracks, mess halls, and parts of existing
buildings. Wherever they are, the feminine touch
has been introduced and there is color, cheer, and
a feeling of home. The men in isolated spots are
remembered, too. Hostesses of mobile clubs drive
to outlying areas over 150 to 200 miles of rough
roads—through rain, dust, snow—to bring their
program of games, handcraft, dances and fun.

The club program is diversified. In addition to
such routine things as table games, reading, letter
writing, quiz parties, Sunday morning breakfasts,
and Sunday night salad suppers, there are the
more special events, such as hunting, skating, ski—
ing, horseback riding, fishing, sailing, boat and
train trips. There are also the larger social affairs
—dances, dramatic productions, photography con—
tests, hill billy bands—good enough to play any-
where—picnics, Dagwood nights which include
icebox raids, and baby shows.

Service Clubs provide foreign culture through
such events as Okinawan dances, Korean tum-
bling, Philippine Flower Festival, Japanese Tea
Ceremony. They give parties for orphans, blind
and crippled children. They cooperate with chap-
lains, radio stations, the Red Cross, the Informa-
tion and Education Section of CINCF E.

And so, SPECIAL SERVICES FAR EAST COM-
MAND progresses. New bowling alleys, new books,
a new stadium, fifty-five rest hotels which offer
hot springs, shrines, Japanese Alps, the Japan Sea
-—all these offer a remarkably worthwhile pro-
gram for the enlisted man.

Lest there be any misunderstanding, the men are
not here for recreation. An adequate recreation
program for off-duty hours is conducted because
the men are here. It is the good American way

of life.
0

Two Bills Introduced

Identical bills have been introduced into
the Senate and the House of Representa-

tives of the Congress of the United States
embodying proposals for the establish-
ment of federal recreation services in the’-
Federal Security Agency.

 

RECREATION

Recreation in Conferences

Professional recreation workers discuss the impor-
tance of carefully planned recreation as an inte-.
gral part of any and every conference or convention.

‘6 ES, WE'LL HAVE conference recreation again

this year. ‘We might even hire or secure
a specialist in recreation, or maybe, on second
thought, that athlete we know would do the job,
or that ‘peppy’ girl from the next town would be
a good person to head up that phase of the con-
ference program.”

For years, recreation in a conference has been an
afterthought. After the conference planning com-
mittee has selected the headline speakers, chosen
the theme, selected the worship committee, devel—
oped discussion groups, and maybe even worked
out a cooperative work program, the members of
the planning committee stop short. They have for-
gotten recreation. Then some members of the
committee may say, “There ought to be some time
to relax but, of course, we won’t have much time
for that; but maybe we should give an afternoon
during the conference, or a small period every day,
for individuals to do just whatever they want to
do.” For the typical kind of conference program
the authors have observed throughout the country,
almost any person could give leadership. The rec-
reation program has consisted, usually, of a ball
game, a few athletic tournaments, and an arrange-
ment for lifeguards for the swimming areas.

Now some conferences have wanted to move a
little beyond this, and they’re convinced that they
ought to hire a recreation specialis't. He is usually
told to report the day the conference opens and to
bring with him his bag of tricks, which might in-
clude some song leading and a few country dances
“if we have time.” He comes “cold” to the confer-
ence, makes his plans, sets up his recreation room,
and is neither integrated into the flow of the con-
ference program nor recognized for his distinctive
function as a guide to group life.

It used to be that worship was a professiona1°

function, that meditation had to be directed by the
highly-schooled divine. Recently it has been recog-

MARCH 1949

Harry D. Edgren and Ned Linegar

nized that all can help in the process of group wor-
ship in a conference or meeting. A committee now
plans the worship. However, in conference recre-
ation, many are still in the stage of the “profes-
sional.” Only he can direct recreation. It is our
conviction, however, that recreation can be planned
similar to worship, to the discussion, or to the town
meeting. The conference recreation leader should '
be a guide and counsellor to the conference com-
mittee concerned with this matter. The chairman
of this committee should be on the steering group
of the conference. The delegates should express
their own creative concerns in this area, too.

The kind of recreation we are talking about is
essential to a good conference. Conference objec-
tives are more likely to be realized when there is
relaxation rather than tension in the conference at-
tendance, when a real group feeling is developed,
when those who have come early develop an “at-
homeness” and a sense of belonging. Where can a
finer group spirit be developed than in the singing
of American and other-land folk songs; or. morale
better developed than in a folk and country dance
period with all participating, regardless of age or
color? Where can a feeling of friendliness be bet-
ter developed than in laughing together at dra—
matic skits developed by and for the conference
delegates themselves? All these recreation activi-
ties bring much to a conference if leaders are will-
ing to give time, attention and energy to the de-
velopment of fme programs.

Unfortunately, even though some leaders say.
“Yes, these things are all important,” time and
again they will permit a discussion group or a
speech to move over into the time allocated for rec-
reation without any feeling of intrusion. They say,
“Isn’t the essential of recreation ‘free choice’ P”
Yes, it is, but if recreation really matches its op-
portunity, then it makes a contribution to the whole
conference only if the entire conference of dele—

555

gates, as well as speakers and leaders, are in at-
tendance at these events.

Therefore, we feel that conference leaders should
consider two kinds of recreation in the conference.
First, the free choice recreation period, where
many opportunities are provided for individuals to
participate or just do nothing, if they prefer the
latter. These should include opportunities for some
crafts experience, folk and country dances, some
chance to swim, fish, play tennis, horseshoes, or
just to sit and converse with friends. This period
should be guarded and prevented from interruption
by called meetings of committees, and the like.

However, the real values of good recreation for
the total conference can only be achieved if time
is given, during the session, for experiences in
mass participation in singing, dancing, dramatics,
grand marches and the like. These should be given
a name other than recreation. Call one “Program
on the Hill,” or “Program in the Auditorium or
Assembly Hall” or “On the Lawn”——the suggestion
being that this is not free choice, but part of the
conference program, just as is the discussion or
lecture. Natural periods for this creative recreation
are the usual evening hours after the platform
period, mealtimes, and between hour—after-hour
long lectures and discussions. Thus recreation be-
comes integrated into the program and conferees
can be prepared for the next serious hour.

Conference leaders need to recognize those spots
during the entire day when some things, which ap-
pear spontaneous to the crowd, happen only be—
cause an alert recreation committee and an effec—
tive professional leader may have said, “Let’s in-
sert something of a recreational nature here with
the objective of relaxation, variety, or stimulation,
or anything that we think could and should happen

5

through activities." All of these activities con-
tribute to a more balanced conference program,
and delegates are more prepared, both physically
and psychologically, to go into the next meeting.

Conference leaders need to be convinced that
such recreation really demands professional leader-
ship for, if well done, it means the growth of in-
dividuals, the social adjustment and acquaintance
ofpersons, and a development of a group “we”
feeling. This kind of a program needs the thought
and the participation of many of the conference
leaders to make sure that individual delegates are
not only accepted, but that certain groups are made
to feel that they are wanted. This is “recreation.
at its best.”

Let’s not make the mistake of thinking of this
type of recreation as planned, as against the free
choice recreation. Planned recreation suggests for-
mality and being pushed into doing something that
nobody wants to do. Our idea of an ideal confer-
ence recrtion program would include the follow—
ing: A free choice recreation opportunity period
for individuals daily; opportunity for small groups
to develop programs of their own choosing. With
good leadership available, these might include the
country dance groups, conversational groups, mu-
sic appreciation groups, or small parties developed
by small groups, where individual recognition and
friendships can be made; presentation of the recre-
ation activities which will call forth sociability,
world brotherhood, conference morale and group
sp1r1t.

These kinds of extras form the embroidery, the
atmosphere, the setting in which many fine things
will happen to those in attendance. This addition
augments and supplements the conference program.
Why not give it a try this year?

 

Simplified SCORE GUIDES

For the Best Records in Sports
Large Scoring Area — IO" x M" ' Best Construction

     

Stuff Back I “ ~ ' aggjmln ‘  M .
Spiral Bound
* Baseball. 75c: 8: $l .50 A . 
* 5°”b"”' 75° 3‘ “'50 more am} mummy
* Basketball. $|.50 mum...

BOX SCORE BOOK

WIN MOM ID“!
am m H” a In: snu-

* Bowling. $I.00

Send Money Order
Dept. R-3 “"‘m -

WELLS PUBLISHING CO.

A coma! “(on Q! an.“ anal nu out!

“,4... .«wa—‘n

 

M

Gnu; In arullrm ' ma sue

.--..;..s

* LEONIA. N. J.

-.a-»- I
II“! IHHSMH StQIOIII

556

“Tops” in
Good Sport
LEARN ABOUT

TRAMPOLI NING
Founded by NISSEN—

Creator of America's First

Standard TRAM POLI NE

A lively playground attraction for all ages.
Write for FREE LITERATURE.

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

200 A AVENUE NW CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

 
 
 

RECREATION

 

When Fish Are Biting—“Say, pop, howsa
about takin’ me fishin’?” will soon be forgotten
words in Chicago. With the cooperation of the
state conservation department, 15,000 bass, blue-
gills, crappies and bull heads have been delivered,
so far, to six Park District lagoons so that the
small fry of the city may go fishing practically in
their own backyards.

Formerly, Chicago Park District ordinances
prohibited fishing by minors, but now, recognizing
their need to be able to enjoy the sport in safety,
clearly marked fishing areas have been established
in each of the parks for boys and girls under
eighteen years of age. All of these activities are
to be 'guided through the Chicago Park District
Junior Fishing Clubs—with the over-all idea of
providing recreation and teaching conservation.

0

Busy Season—“Play-at-home New Yorkers
and out~of—t0wn tourists”—IOI,804,000 of them—
visited the city’s parks and playgrounds in 1948.
Almost half of the recreation seekers———48,572,000
-—were attracted to the department—operated
beaches and pools, and 5,000 youngsters were
taught in the learn—to-swim campaign. The n05-
talgic appeal of concerts in parks drew 500,000
listeners, while outdoor dancing afforded recrea-
tion for 1,165,000 persons. Other highlights of
the summer season were marbles, golf and tennis
tournaments in which 13,000 competitors partici-
pated before 93,000 spectators, and the children’s
dance festivals in which 2,600 young girls per—
formed folk and novelty dances in colorful cos-
tumes they made themselves.

Outdoor park facilities for winter sports at—
tracted I,26I,000 persons, while indoors, 4,803,000
youngsters played basketball in swimming pool
buildings converted temporarily into recreation

MARCH 1949

at
Play

centers. More than 1,000,000 persons used the ten
municipal golf courses and the 508 tennis courts, I
and 4,726,000 youngsters played at the 151 base-
ball and 309 softball diamonds maintained by the
Park Department in the five boroughs. Another
750,000 persons found recreation pitching horse-
shoes, at archery, lawn bowling or on bicycle paths.
. .

Salutel—During March, the birthday month
of the Camp Fire Girls, inore than 360,000 girls
between the ages of seven and eighteen will “see,
do and tell” democracy. They have chosen the
theme “Make Mine Democracy” for their 1949
national project and plan to carry out this idea
through many channels. The girls will share
democracy by helping new citizens to feel at home
in their community; by bringing gifts of cheer to
hospitalized persons; by sending letters and gifts
to pen pals overseas.

0

Art Salute to the Navy—A vivid chronicle
of naval men of action and their heroic deeds, as
recorded in art from the days of the Revolution to
the present, was exhibited October 22 to Decem-
ber 5 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New
York City. The historic events and personalities

.included were illustrated by prints, paintings or

models and, in some instances, by both prints and
paintings. Among the many reminders of the
American heritage of courage and spirit were por-
traits of Commodores John Paul Jones, Oliver
Hazard Perry and Admiral Marc A. Mitcher;
paintings of the battles of “Old Ironsides” and
the combat between the Bonhomme Richard and
the Serapis in 1779; and the complicated aspects
of the sea warfare of World War II, illustrated
in detail by official naval combat artists who, in
most cases, were actually at the scenes depicted.

557

Churchill Paints

INSTON CHURCHILL TOOK up painting as an
outlet for worry, he says in a new book,

"Painting as a Pastime,” published recently.
Critics have hailed the thin volume of two essays
as an example of Mr. Churchill’s writing at its
best, and have reported that it contains much
worthy advice on the use of leisure time.

Mr. Churchill did not begin painting until he
was forty, but became expert enough to have some
of his work hung in the Royal Academy’s annual
exhibition of outstanding new work.

Relief from Anxiety

In 1915, when he was relieved of day—to-day
duties as head of the Admiralty, but continued as
a member of the war cabinet, he says that he had
“long hours of utterly unwonted leisure in which
to contemplate the frightful unfolding of the war.

“I had great anxiety and no means of relieving
it. Then it was that the muse of painting came to
my rescue . . .”

After a day’s experiments with a child’s paint
box, he bought a full outfit for oil painting. The
Stretch of canvas daunted him. “My hand seemed
arrested by a silent veto,” he states.

But the sky was pale blue, “a starting point
open to all. So very gingerly I mixed a little blue
paint on the palette with a very small brush and
then, with infinite precaution, made a mark about
as big as a bean upon the afironted snow white
shield.” This timidity was far from the usual

Churchillian attack.
Conquest of the Canvas

A woman friend, Lady John Lavery, gifted as
an artist, drove up and seized a big brush from
the affrighted beginner. She proceeded, Mr.
Churchill recalls, “to splash into the turpentine,
wallop into the blue and the white, put frantic
flourishes on the palette—clean no longer—and
then paint several large, fierce strokes and slashes
of blue on the absolutely cowering canvas.

“The spell was broken . . . I seized the largest
brush and fell upon my victim with beserk fury.
I have never felt any awe of a canvas since. . . .”

Reprinted by permission of the Associated Press.

558

WANTED:

Graduate Registered Occupational Ther-
apists and trained Recreation Workers
for assignment in Illinois State psychia-
tric hospitals, schools for mental defect-
ives, children’s and correctional institu-
tions. Civil Service positions, career
service with opportunity for advance-
ment—good salaries, excellent retirement

and insurance plan. Maintenance avail-

able if desired.

Applicants may contact

MISS BERTHA E. SCHLO’ITER

Room 1500, 160 North LaSalle Street
Chicago 1, Illinois

  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  

o Bathers naturally prefer a pool that is always sparkling
clean. That's why it pays you to paint with RAMUC. RAMUC is a
specral waterproof enamel that gives a gleaming tile-like finish
to concrete surfaces—a finish that is easy to clean and to keep
clean_—a finish that dejinitely discourages algae growth. No need
to. paint every year, either! RAMUC lasts season after season
Without blistering, peeling or fading—even under the strongest.
sun. Available in 12 attractive colors.

Keep water sparkling, too!

Eliminate unsightly algae and slime with EXALGAE, a marvelous
new liquid by the makers of RAMUC. EXALGAE not only destroys
algae but prevents further growth! It’s colorless, odorless, will
not stain pool finishes nor irritate the skin or eyes.

For complete information about these profit-building prod-
ucts — plus helpful hints on pool maintenance — Write for
“Swimming Pool Handbook.” It’s free!

Ramuc—Exalgae, Registered Trademarks

INERTOL CO., INC.

480 Frolinghuysen Avenue l9 South Park
Newark 5, N. J. San Francisco 7, Calif.

    

RECREATION

llr. J. Horace McFarland

R. J. HORACE MCFARLAND, leading citizen of

Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, died on October
2, 1948, in his ninetieth year. In him the recrea-
tion movement lost one of its staunchest and most
devoted friends. Even before the
founding of the Playground Asso-
ciation of America—now the Na-
tional Recreation Association—as
far back as 1902, Dr. McFarland
was working for the playground
movement.

In 1904 he founded the Ameri-
can Civic Association, later known
as the American Planning and
Civic Association, and for twenty
years served as its president. He
continued active on its board until
his death. From 1905 to 1913 he served as a mem-
ber of the Harrisburg Park Commission. under
which the local playground program operated.

For seventy years Dr. McFarland earned his
living as a printer. He was a connoisseur of the
art of fine printing, his interests and activity ex-
tending far beyond his profession.

His interests in beauty, art, music, civic im-
provement, horticulture, good printing were intere
twined through all his life. His top hobby was
flowers. Anyone who has planned a planting of
roses during the past few decades has come to
know Dr. McFarland’s position of leadership in
the world of roses. He had 800 varieties of them
in his own garden. He edited the American Rose
Annual for twenty-seven years, and .the American
Rose Magazine for nine years. The wall panels on
his printing establishment portrayed the beauty of
many flowers in natural color. He enjoyed pho-
tography as a means of sharing horticultural
beauty, and used it in his travels over the country
to Show to civic improvement audiences.

Dr. McFarland was a keen promoter in the field
of conservation of natural scenery. He was the
leading spirit in the fight which brought about the
internationalization of authority over Niagara
Falls and measurable control of the diversion of
its waters, thus conserving for posterity its scenic

MARCH 1949

 

splendor. He was the persistent crusader who,
with others, took the lead in promoting the idea
that culminated, in 1916, in the formation of the
NationaluPark Service in our federal government.
Another great nation-wide move-
ment in which he took the lead
was roadside development, through
which the appearance of countless
highways over the country was en-
hanced by the removal of unsightly
billboards and other advertising
matter.

Loving beauty as he did, it is not
surprising that Dr. McFarland was
active in the fields of music and art.
He was a talented musician and
his ever-present desire to share all
good things with many people found expression in
his heading up of the Harrisburg Music Founda-
tion and of the Pennsylvania State Art Commis-
sion.

He found time, too, to serve the National Rec-
reation Association as a volunteer for nearly a
quarter of a century, gladly helping each year to
secure contributions from friends of the movement
in Harrisburg and Pennsylvania. Though not a
man of great wealth, he and the late Mrs. McFar-
land sent personal gifts for the Association’s work
for many years. One time, in writing about his
volunteer service, he said: “When the organiza-
tion is as clear and clean and capable as yours, it
is a double pleasure to do my double best. Then
there is another advantage. I enjoy making people
give. Most of them don’t do enough of it, and it is
for their eternal benefit to give them national con-
tact and to take them out of themselves and into
the great field of human betterment.”

\Vhenever a representative of the National Rec-
reation Association called at his office, Dr. McFar-
land would always relax and give unhurriedly of
his time. His humble attitude always fitted the
words he used after the honorary degree of Doctor
of Humane Letters had been conferred upon him

by Dickinson College: “I wish I could have really
done more that was worthwhile.”

559

THE TENNESSEE Inter—Departmental Committee
on Recreation has completed arrangements for
sponsoring a series of nine one-day conferences,
in as many cities, to enable city officials and com-

munity leaders to discuss ways and means of de- _

veloping and improving local recreation programs.
These conferences, between March 7 and 22, are
not conferences for recreation workers but rather
for those, particularly board members, who are
responsible for formulating policies, securing funds
and planning for the development of recreation
programs. Training institutes for workers are
being planned by the Committee, but will be an-
nounced later. The following member agencies of
the Committee will play major roles in the confer-
ences: Division of State Parks, Department of
Education, University of Tennessee. The Tennes-
see Valley Authority and the National Recreation
Association will also cooperate. Further informa—
tion can be secured from B. R. Allison, Chairman
of the Committee, 303 State Office Building,

Nashville, Tennessee.
:1: =4: :1:

THE MASSACHUSETTS LEGISLATURE, in 1948,

created a Youth Service Board. In addition to
serving as the correctional agency of the Common-
wealth in handling all wayward and delinquent
children, the board will have the responsibility of
developing constructive programs to reduce and
prevent delinquency and crime among youth. The
board is directed “to assist local authorities of any
county or municipality, when so requested by the
governing body thereof, in strengthening and co-
ordinating its educational, welfare, health and rec—
reational programs which have as their object

service to youth.”
a: as: *

ACCORDING TO THE latest report seen, fifty-three
of the Sixty-one cities in New York State are
now receiving state aid from the New York State
Youth Commission in financing their local recrea—
tion programs. Altogether 603 approved projects

560

were in operation January I, 1949, in counties,
towns, villages and cities. Since January I, 1946,
New York State has reimbursed these municipal-
ities with more than two million dollars in state
aid for recreation services.
a: >1: *
T111; BOARD or CONTROL of the University of
Florida has approved the sponsorship by the
University extension division, of which Dr. B. C.
Riley is Dean, of a series of thirteen one-week
recreation leadership training courses throughout
the state. Arrangements are now underway to
work out final details for the courses, which are
being conducted by National Recreation Associa-
tion training specialists. Under Dean Riley’s di-
rection, a similar program was developed last year,
through which fourteen three-day training pro-
grams were conducted, in as many cities, by Mrs.
Anne Livingston of the Association staff. I
Other state agencies which sponsored training
programs during 1948, that members of the Asso-
ciation staff conducted, were the Alabama, Mary—
land and Virginia Departments of Education, Ver-
mont Recreation Board, Florida State University,
Washington State College and Florida A. and M.

College.

In every field of sport in Profes
sional. Semi-Pro and Amefeur Base-
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools, in Mu-
nicipal and industriai Recreation.
MaeGregnr-Goldsmifh Sports
Equipment is recognized as a he"-
morl of quality and unvarying
performance.

(‘PNCINNAFI Id” OH’O. U. S. A.

 

RECREATION

Theodore Wirth

THEODORE WIRTH died
at La Jolla, California,
on January 29, 1949, at
the age of eighty-five.

For years Mr. \Virth
had 'been an outstanding
leader in park and recrea-
tion circles. He thought in
terms of peoplew—of what
parks can do for people.
Ten years he served in
charge of the parks in
Hartford, Connecticut; thirty years as head of the
Minneapolis parks. He started his service in Min-
neapolis by tearing down the fences that sur-
rounded the park turf areas. He put. up signs
reading: “Please Walk on the Grass,” to empha-
size his conviction that parks are to be used.

Mr. Wirth saw clearly the place of beauty in
human life, and he maintained places of great
beauty as public parks, but he left a place for active
recreation, and he was a leader in recreation as
well as parks.

The country greatly needed the kind of out-
standing statesmanship he brought to parks and
totrecreation in general. All of us who knew him
not only held him in high esteem but had deep
affection for him.

Not only did Theodore Wirth contribute to
parks directly, but also through two of his sons,
who have continued active in the park movement.
\Valter L. Wirth is Assistant Director of the
Pennsylvania State Park system, and Conrad L.
\Virth is well-known for his leadership as Chief
of Lands, National Park Service.

 

 

MARCH 1949

 

   
    
   
        

DIAMOND

SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
.
Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits

Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Ofiicial Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official
Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

 

 

 

 First Clinic-e
for

ivory Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

fill 19/”le I” I'll! F1510 .’
V MANUFACIUIING COMPANY 0 SI. ours a no.

561

 

r22
5 , . z ’ , r "'

gracéwzediy
“Tit m. "g
‘ Hqu U" "3- 9

 

NEW... A COMPLETE LINE OF “.LONG-UFE” ATHLEth BALLS

This SEAMLESS Basket Ball is one of 5 new “OFFICIAL” athletic balls.

. . .With 70 years’ experience in the manufacture of technical rubber products
—including the world-famous. “KANTLEEK” Bladders—we can guarantee

these balls for both precision and quality! . . . Thoroughly tested by coaches
and players, after meeting the most rigid scientific standards!

The only basket ball with all 7 SEAMLESS quality features! QM” 57/40,
And it’s priced right! Order through your sporting goods dealer. E E

FINEST QUALITY SINCE 1877 "I "I 

“hunt”

 

Recreation

“Building for Citizenship”

NATIONAL BOYS AND GIRLS WEEK marks its

twenty-ninth annual observance from April
30 to May 7 this year. Once again plans should
be made so that the celebration draws the atten-
tion of the public to the potentialities and prob-
lems of youth, emphasizing the importance of the
home, church, and school in the proper develop-
ment of boys and girls. At the same time, it should
give impetus to year-round programs of character-
building and citizenship, and acquaint the public
with the youth organizations of the community
which are serving these purposes.

Copies of the 1949 Boys and Girls Week poster.
which outlines plans for the observance, and of
the Manual of Suggestions, which gives in greater
detail, suggestions for carrying out the program,
may be obtained free upon request. Write to the

National Boys and Girls Week Committee, 35
East Wacker Drive, Chicago I, Illinois.

Paeif y Parkers

PERHAPS AUTOMOBILE OWNERS in your town

wouldn’t object so strenuously to parking
charges if the idea started in Bellows Falls, Ver-
mont, could be put into effect. There it was sug-
gested that the net profit from parking meters
should be directed towards the development of
community recreation facilities.

Everyone Plays!

ARECENT ADDITION to playtime activity is the

new Batting Tee, conceived and designed to
pack several hours of fun into a normal forty-five
minute play period. Youngsters simply set a soft-
ball atop the soft rubber tip Of the tee, take aim,
swing with all their might, and the ball is in play,
allowing more hitting, fielding and base running,
and eliminating the great waste of play time usu-

MARCH 1949

Suggestion

Box

 

ally lost~in trying to get the ball over the plate.
If the boys miss, the flexible rubber neck absorbs
the shock. Sturdin constructed, adjustable from
twenty-one to thirty-nine inch heights, and fun to
use. the Batting Tee—produced by the Voit Rub-
ber Corporation—makes it possible for four or
five times more youngsters to bat each play period.

Films with Ideas

Two MORE FILMS on recreation have been pro-
duced by the National Film Board of Canada,
in cooperation with the Division of Physical Fit-
ness. “When All the People Play” tells the story
of a rural district that “came alive,” under the
stimulus of a community recreation program. An-
napolis Royal, Nova Scotia, is the center of a proj-
ect in planned recreation embracing a district of
200 square miles. The film shows the scheme
gathering speed and scope, from the formation of
the first committee, through the acquisition and
renovation of property, and the training of dis-
trict young people as leaders, to a variety of activ-
ities extending from a woman’s softball team tO
the formation of a regional library.

The other new release, also a black and white
sound film, is called “Fitness Is a Family Affair.”
lt pictures two contrasting families in the same
neighborhood—one which has no sense of unity;
the other which works together, sharing the busi-
ness and pleasure of living. The COOperative ideas
Of the latter prove infectious and spread through
the district until the first family is persuaded to
try them also. Together. people of the neighbor-
hood discover new kinds of fun and recreation,
beginning with a game—room, a workshop, a hand-
craft group. A community spirit spontaneously
comes to life.

Prints of these films may be Obtained from the
National Film Board of Canada, 620 Fifth Ave-
nue, New York City.

563

 

least .. at 3.4. .. g .1

into a new camping season
with these new books

THE BOOK
of

CAMPING

ROBERT RUBIN

  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 

Every important

malor league bat-
ting record has been
made with Louisville

Slugger bats. Be

An experienced camper

sure to look for the and camp director pro-

 

  ‘ vides a practical, usable,

signature of a charm ..:$W,MM¥W, : encyclopedia of camping
essentials for all leaders.

. He shows you how to run
P'on on “19 bail yo." the camp, how to develop programs, how to use
crafts, nature. music, dramatics, etc. $2.00

buy . . . and you'll
be sure to get 6 FUN IN THE WATER

genuine  THOMAS K. CURETON, JR.

A picture and text book with more than 250
active water games. stunts, contests, exhibitions.
pageants, and dramatic stunts for individual and
group fun in camp, outdoor or indoor pool. 01’
swimming hole, and every waterfront. Fully
illustrated and arranged in progressive order of
skills required. $4.00

Slugger..

 

HANDBOOK OF
DAY-CAMPING

MABEL J OBE

Complete guide for parents, teachers, school and
recreation boards. service clubs, and social agen-
cies interested in operating day-camps for chil-
dren. Includes detailed plans for projects that
lack funds and those having adequate support.
The author shows from her own and others'
varied experience how to get started, select a
site, choose and train a staff, counsel children,
plan programs, etc. Ready April 1 ’ $3.00

0'; THE '   .. ADMINISTRATION OF
 l A THE MODERN CAMP
 a ‘ f‘ ' HEDLEY S. DIMOCK, Editor

. “The camp executive will find in this book a
A R E F o u N D o N  welcome synthesis of the best modern thinking
i  about what a camp can do to develop and social-
” ize the camper, and how to do it. Addressed
o N T H E T o  primarily to the camp administrator . . . it offers
. ' . . . a blueprint for optimum organization of the

' ' o __  camp community. . . ."-—Sur1:ey Midmonthly.

"Hedley Dimock has gathered together up-to-
the-minute material written by authorities in
this important field and presented it in a book
of wide scope and practical topics.”--’Recreation.

$4.00
. . ', You may order these by mailing
' “ “ h' d d 't z
 &  00. t 13 a on your rem: lance o
LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY m jddodah-on pm.“ My
347 MADISON AVENUE NEW YORK l7. N. Y.

 

564 RECREATION

VCommittee Appointed

N ACCORDANCE WITH a request of local recreation

executives and others present at the special
meeting on Recreation and Infantile Paralysis held
at the Omaha Recreation Congress, the National
Recreation Association has appointed a committee
to study this problem and to prepare a report for
the use of local recreation executives in cities
where the recreation program has had the inci—
dence of infantile paralysis. The members of the
committee are:

Chairman, C. R. Wood, Director, Department
of Public Recreation, City Hall, Durham, North
Carolina; Sam Bason, Director of Recreation,
Milwaukee County Park Department, Room 308,
Court House, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Charles T.
Byrnes, Superintendent of Recreation, 1601 West
Main Street, Evanston, Illinois; Lee Calland, Di—
rector of Recreation, Balboa Park, San Diego,
California; A. E. Center, Director of Recreation,
32 5 Locust Street, Akron, Ohio; Arthur H. Jones,
Director of Recreation, Park and Recreation Com-
mission, City Hall, Charlotte, North Carolina;
\Villiam Keeling, Superintendent of Recreation,
City Hall, Dallas, Texas; K. B. Raymond, Direc—
tor of Recreation, Board of Parks Commissioners,
325 City Hall, Minneapolis, Minnesota; George
T. Sargisson, Executive Director, Recreation Pro—
motion and Service, Incorporated, 101 West Four—
teenth Street, Wilmington 41, Delaware.

The committee is fortunate in having Dr. Haven
Emerson, representing the American Public
Health Association, and Dr. Hart E. Van Riper,
Medical Director, the National Foundation for In-
fantile Paralysis, as consultants.

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.
aes MAFCUETTE c FOND Du lAC, wus.

 

MARCH 1949

 

 

“Ask for a copy

wherever books or
bikes are sold!”

BICYCLE

By STEVE KRAYNICK

He says, "Every boy is a born tinkerer. Curiosity,
rather than necessity, often prompts him to dis-
mantle a bicycle . . . almost every bicycle owner
will operate on his vehicle.

"InFthis book, I am giving general advice on
bicycle care, cautions for avoiding trouble . . .
directions for adjustments, replacements . . . il-
lustrations Show the correct order of parts for
reassembling . . . a practical guide on bicycles
and their care."

The author is the proprietor of
Steven's Bicycle Shop
Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania

Published by

THE MANUAL ARTS PRESS

28A Duroc Building Peoria 3. Illinois

 

THE FLEXI SWING SEAT

“A Safe Swing Seat”

The FLEXI is evidence that the administration is doing
its utmost to protect children from bodily iniury
FLEXI does not allow user to stand up

No high flying by single or double occupants

FLEXI gently squeezes user—No tilting

Malleable cadmium plated fittings

Four ply rubberized fabric

Will outwear wood seats

$3.85 F.O.B.

FACTORY

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT

P. O. 474 - HIGHLAND PARK, ILL.

565

THE NEW VOIT TETHERBALLS

C1850 The only new. improved. tetherball available . . .
built so the rOpe just can not be pulled out. The secret is
in the counter sunk molded hitch—prevents hand bruises
—yet is instantly accessible for rope replacement. The
CT850 is built for mass punishment—strong fabric car-
cass. soft white rubber cover. Write Voit for free tether-
ball rules.

P1851 Same molded countersunk hitch as CT850. all
rubber construction throughout. Red only.

THE NEW VOIT BATTING TEE

B" Set the softball atop the soft rubber tip of the tee . . .
take aim . . . swing—the ball is in play—ten times more
hitting. fielding. running bases during a play period.
If you miss. the flexible rubber neck absorbs the shock.
Excellent for training young batters to place their hits.

Quickly adjustable to each batter's height. Rules in-
cluded.

B'l'2 Batting Tee for professional. collegiate and high
school use. Adjustable to height and to all corners of
the plate. A proven aid in correcting faulty swings and
batting weaknesses.

FAMOUS VOIT SOFTBALLS

Year after year used by tens of thousands U. S. schools
and playgrounds for games and physical education.
New tight. soft-texture rubber cover. All weather—all
playing surface. Washable. Available now in 9. 10. 12.
and l4 inch sizes.

W , (I 
- NEW YORK 10, CHICAGO 6, LOS ANGELES ll

r/Z/W (722%! a%%é?¢'c gywibm/M

RECREATION

 

ll. ll. Jacobs

Worm HAS COME of the death of eighty—four—
year-old H. H. Jacobs of Milwaukee, Wis-
consin. An outstanding early pioneer in the rec-
reation movement, he had played a very real part
in the establishment of his city’s'recreation sys-
tem, and stood loyally behind the program as it
developed.

Mr. Jacobs had also been an honorary member
of the National Recreation Association, and gave
many years of service to the national recreation
movement. As far back as November 1926, How—
ard Braucher acknowledged his contributions in a
letter stating: “. . . After all, the recreation move-
ment is a great team undertaking, and you are one
of the team. \Ve have a little more courage for
all our tasks because of the extremely loyal sup
port you have always given. A great many more
constructive things for good would be done in this
world if there were more men like yourself.”

  
     
   
 
       
       
       
         
 

  

UNIVERSAL’S
HANDICBAFT
CATALoG

ISO-PAGE NEW EDITION

  

*Animaljigs
Art Metalry
Art Supplies
Basketry
Books
Carving
Block Printing
Braiding
Ceramics
Knotting
Leathercraft
Looms
Plastics
Plastic Relievo

To Teachers and Rama
1500 Items

I'Pat. Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

 

FREE

Group Leaders

  
     
     

50 cents to individuals

UNIVERSAL’

HANDICRAFTS SERVICE

Department R

1267 Sixth Ave., New York 19, N. Y.

MARCH 1949

THE BEST IN RECREATION
AT 600. A COPY

Sentinel Books offer intelligentguidance

to help you plan more varied and inter-
esting programs throughout the year.

Written by recognized authorities, they are in-
tended to help people get started on a new hobby
or renew their interest in an old one, and often
require little or no supervision. These books are
fully illustrated with explanatory drawings and
photographs and emphasize easy-to-follow, step-by-

step instructions for beginning and completing
projects.

Chicago Recreation News says: “For basic infor-
mation on a wide variety of recreational activities,
one does not have to go beyond the publications
inexpensively published by Sentinel Books.”

Creative Handicratts . . . . . . . . . .Mabel R. Hutchins
The American Square Dance . . . . . . . .Margot Mayo
Discover the Stars . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gaylord Johnson
An Introduction to Magic. . . . . . . .Sherman Ripley
The Care and Feeding ot‘Hobby Horses.

E. R. Calkins.
Music For Everybody. . . .. . . . . . . . .Sigmund Spaeth

How to "Take'. Fresh Water Fish.
Maurice H. Decker

How to Sail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Samuel Carter III
How to Make Music on the Harmonica. .P. V. Planta
Hiker's Guide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ben Solomon
You Can Write . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .F. Fraser Bond

How to Sell What You Write. . . .Myron M. Stearns
Photography For Fun. .Wm. Strong & Jack Gerber

How Smart Are You?. . . . . . . . . . . .Fred Menacker
American Combat Judo . . . . . . .Bernard J. Cosneck
Quilting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ; . . . . Elizabeth King

Reading Character From Handwriting.
Dorothy Sara

Tropical Fish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lucile Quarry Mann

Your Dog From Puppyhood to Old Age.
Josephine Z. Rine

What to Do About Your Invention. .Edward Thomas
Motor Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Porter Varney

Special Offer to Recreation Groups—
Your Choice of 10 Books For $5.00

Send your remittance to:

Sentinel Books Publishers Inc., Dept. R3
112 East 19th Street, New York 3, N. Y.

For single orders, please add 10¢
for handling and mailing.

567

nu playground is complete without a

 

Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

climbing structure

Safety, no maintenance, biggest play capacity per
square foot of ground area and per dollar of
cost—these are iust a few of the reasons why
JUNGLEGYM is admittedly the world’s most famous
playground device. Thousands are in daily use
from coast to coast. Why not give the children of
your playground the advantages of a JUNGLEGYM

. . . now?

Write for illustrated Bulletin On Porter’s
I949 Streamlined Line That Will Save

You Money . . . Time.

PORTER can supply you with these fundamental playground units, tuu!

   

 

No. 240 Merry-Go-Round

Will safely accommodate 30 children at
one time. Naiseless, no-wabble, na-
sway operation. An engineering mor-
vel, and precision-made. Guaranteed.

 

No. 136 Stratosphere See—Saw

Sensotionolly new. Gives "ups-a—doisy"
ride 33-i/3°/° higher than conventional
see-sow, yet safer because of hoop

handles, saddle seats and level-seat
feature.

   

No. 58-F Playground

 

Basketball Backstop No. 38 Combination Set
All-Steel fan-shaped bank Offers six different kinds of funful, No' ‘09 S'x‘swmg set
rigidly mounted on steel healthful playground activity. A cam- Built for safe, permanent service. Sturdy
mast and braced for permo. pact, economical unit that's ideal for lO-ft. frame held riaidly together by
nent service. Finishedta with- limited ground oreos. Ruggedly con- Tested Malleable lrar: fitting of excl”-
stand the weather. Official. structed.

sive Porter "bolt-through" design.

THEJ.E.P  CORPORATION
I _ OTTAWAQILIINOISI

unnurncruares or einreaounn,.-cvuun5qu nun SWIMMING Pom EQUIPMENT,

 

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CLIMBING
Reg.U.S.Pot.Olf. STRUCTURE

(
5 ’8 RECREATION

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Recreation Administration in New Mexico, Dorothy
I. Cline and K. Peterson Rose. Division of Research
of the Department of Government, University of
New Mexico, Albuquerque. $.50.

Public Recreation in Alabama. Alabama State Plan-
ning Board, Montgomery.

Scholastic Coach, November 1948
Gymnasium Lighting, C. J. Allen and R. E. Holmes.

Camping Magazine, November 1948
Special Theme—Books: A Major Tool of Camp
Direction.

Safety Education, December 1948
Regulations of Motor Scooters, Ross G. Wilcox.
Stumbling and Tumbling, Hartley D. Price.
Kindergarten Through Third Grade—~Annua1 Ac-
cident Summary, Jennie Spadafora.

Parks and Recreation, November 1948
Progress in Park Design During the Last Fifty
Years, Sidney N. Shurcliff.
State Parks As Community Resources for Educa-
tion and Recreation, Ernest V. Blohm.
Municipal and State Parks of Connecticut.
Maintenance Mart.

American City, November 1948
Practical Christmas Lighting, Harry K. Trend
and Paul Hildebrand.
Private Corporation Serves as Community’s Gov-

ernment, Ralph Crossman. .
As Was—And As Is—(Ocean Beach Park, New
London, Connecticut).

 

Authors in This Issue . . .

SIDI HESSEL—Director of her own dance stu-
dio, she also teaches modern dance in the Ringoes,
Pennington, Princeton and Trenton, New Jersey
schools; is a volunteer children’s worker. Article
—Page 534-

GERTRUDE FLIPPEN—Coordinator of Youth Ac—
tivities, Department of Recreation and Parks,
Richmond, Virginia. Article—page 54o.

ALICE VAN LANDINGHAM—Graduate of Na-
tional Recreation School, training specialist in
playground and rural recreation, she works with
the NRA upon occasion. Article—page 543.

DORIS R. WORRELL—Supervisor, Youth Serv-
ices Section, Elementary Education Division, Los
Angeles City School District. Article—page 545.

FRANK E. SMITH—Director of Recreation,
General Electric, Erie, Pennsylvania. Article—-
page 546-

ERNA CARSON—NOW living in Japan, former
NRA staff member. Article—page 550.

HARRY D. EDGREN—Professor of Recreation,
George Williams College, Chicago. NED LINEGAR
——YMCA Secretary, Lawrence, Kansas. Article—

Page 555-
MARCH 1949

just pm

a new book of timely importance

FIELDBOOK OF
NATURAL HISTORY

By E. LAURENCE PALMER

Professor of Nature and Science Education

Cornell University

682 pages, 6 x 9, fully illustrated. $7.00

(Textbook edition available)

Here, in one convenient volume, is an extra-
ordinarily comprehensive guide to natural
history. Professor Palmer’s fieldbook em-
braces birds, lish, plants, rocks and minerals,
the stars, mollusks, reptiles, and animals——
more than 2,000 items and hundreds of
pictures arranged and tabulated for easy ref-
erence. Each item has its descriptive identi-
fication, followed by data on range and loca—
tion, life history, ecology, and economic
importance. Furthermore, each item is illus-
trated with a detailed drawing or-photograph
for quick and correct identification. Common
names are given in every case, and for the
advanced student of natural science technical
classifications of divisions, order, and family
are provided.

The student will find not only all the plants
and animals ordinarily associated with nature
study, but also many domesticated and eco-
nomically important varieties not usually
included in books of this kind. He will gain
a better understanding of the economic sig-
nincance of certain plants and animals as
they affect his own life, as well as a greater
awareness of the multitude of wildlife and
natural resources.

Send for a Cdpy on Approval

McGRAW-HILL
BOOK COMPANY, Inc.

330 WEST 42nd STREET
NEW YORK 18, N. Y.

 

569

 

Community Organization for Recreation

Gerald B. Fitzgerald. A. S. Barnes and Company,

New York. $4.00.

HE AUTHOR BASES his treatment of community

organization and coordination of recreation on
the three basic assumptions that the acceptance of
public responsibility for a recreation service is
fundamental to good community organization for
recreation; that private agencies and voluntary
groups are 'essential community recreation re—
sources; and that laymen must have a place in
recreation planning in the community. In addi—
tion to discussing the principles of community
organization, the volume reviews various methods
used, covers the part which moneys play, includes
the local organization of public recreation author-
ities, and discusses leadership in public and pri-
vate programs.

Professor Fitzgerald emphasizes the importance
of recreation as one Of the basic human needs and
the part which many agencies must play if ade-
quacy of service is to be achieved, pointing out the
necessity of community-wide coordination and co—
operation. He also places stress on local respon-
sibility for local organization and points out that
organizational forms must vary with local condi-
tions. Community Organization for Recreation

can be of real value to training institutions and to
practitioners in the field.

Tracks and_ Trailcraf t

Ellsworth Jaeger. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $3.95.
\MPERS, NATURALISTS, recreation leaders will
find that Mr. Jaeger, Curator of Education at
the Buffalo Museum of Science, has made his new
book an exciting adventure. There is a fascination
about outdoor sleuthing which he somehow has
managed to convey to the reader, while‘presenting

570

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

a wealth of track and trailcraft lore. He writes,
“Tracks may take us back to the earth’s begin-
nings, or give us a complete autobiography of a
living animal from day to day”; and in the open-
ing chapter he delves into the fossil remains of
remote ages to uncover the petrified tracks of
many extinct forms of life. Hundreds of tracks—
from back-yard to forest and jungle—are illus-
trated with clear pen and ink sketches. A whole
chapter is devoted to various methods of repro-
ducing tracks and keeping a track notebook, while
another presents a variety of tracking games won-
derful for camp, or for a day’s outing. Anyone

interested in tracking cannot afford to miss this
one!

Officers and Directors of the

' National Recreation Association

OFFICERS
ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS
F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y. '
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CIIARLEs V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Bellport, L. I., N. Y.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

