 

Contents

 

January 1949

Parks and Recreation (Editorial),

by Howard Braucher . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
The Spirit of Skiing,

by Ornulf Poulsen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
Enriching the Recreation Program,

by Walter L. Scott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
A Bookwagon Serves Many,

by Betty McWhorter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439
Fun in February . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 442

Making Puppets Caught on
Like Wildfire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444

Simple Puppets,
by Catherine Mackenzie . . . . . . . . . . . 445

School Grounds Designed for
Community Use, by George D. Butler 446

Delinquency—Many Sided Failure,
by Arthur M. Williams . . . . . . . . . . . . 454

About Boys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 455

A Happy New Year from
Howard Braucher and Staff . . . . . . . . 456

How Do Young People Use Their
Leisure Time? by Edward B. Olds. . . 453

Federal Recreation Services . . . . . . . . . . 463
Substitute Mothers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
A Try on the Ski Trail,

by Frank Elkins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

A Community Builds for Fun,
by Walt Dawson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463

A Settlement Award Certificate,
by Monte Melamed . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 469

He Was Bitten by a Purple Finch,
by Vernon Sechriest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

 

To A Small Boy, by John W. Faust. . . . 473
Plan for Brotherhood Week . . . . . . . . . 476
“The Recreation Dollar” . . . . . . . . . . . . 476

Parks

Back to Earth, by Will O. Doolittle. . . . 441

South Africa’s Garden of Eden,
by Frederic Sondern, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . 452

Park Executives’ Golden Anniversary. . 470

Park Service Publications . . . . . . . . . .. 476

Regular Features

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 466

Recreation News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470

Recreation Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . .. 475

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . 477

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 477

Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 478

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 479

Recreation Institutes . . . .Inside Back Cover

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted to: National Park Service
for photograph, page 434; Aldo Merusi, Rutland, Vermont, Daily
Herald, pages 439-441; Carol Pulsifer, Hayward, California, Park
District, page 455; Dos Pierson, New York, pages 464-465; John
L. Moore. Talladega, Alabama, page 466.

BRIGHT BE THY TOMORROW

I cannot take you all the way,

But I can put you on the road,
and I can pray

That with my heart I’ve made you
strong

So that, perhaps, the road won’t
seem so long.

Sadie Hurwitz.
Photograph by Marvin Wernick, Venice, California

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readerr’ Gm'de. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the Post Office in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1949, by the National Recreation Association, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-TWO, NUMBER TEN

PRICE 35 CENTS

 

Recreation

January 1949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

Parks and Recreation

MERICANS very early began setting aside land-
scaped parks.

Settlers could wander off frOm the settlements
into the primeval woods—ostensibly to hunt and
fish, to secure food. Undoubtedly many men ex-
cused themselves to go for food when they really
wanted to enjoy the beauty and the wildness of
the trees and the streams and the hills.

As more and more land came under cultivation,
still each farm kept its wood lot. And more of
value than firewood and lumber came from the
woods.

Men began to live more in cities, in towns, in
villages, but for most there remained sentimental
attachment to the good earth, the old homestead.
A limited number of men were ready to give of
their land that it might belong permanently to all
the people, that it might be a public park. One man
had himself enjoyed sitting under the trees on a
high hill in his native city and watching the fishing
boats sail out of the harbor after a storm. He
donated the land for all the people. For a thousand
years others will sit in the same park and in his
name enjoy the same kind of scenes that gave
him pleasure. The park has given him immortality.
He has a memorial not in the cemetery but among
living men and women and boys and girls. Twice
blessed, yes, many times blessed, is the man who

gives a public park.

Many different currents of thought and' action
united to form the recreation movement, but a
vital and fundamental part was the public park
movement with its emphasis on beauty, on the out-
of-doors, on nature. The recreation movement would
not have the standing it has today but for the
extent to which the American people early accepted
the idea of establishing for all the people attractive
open spaces to be known as parks.

Recreation leaders have not always recognized
publicly how much the recreation movement owes to
parks. Today, throughout America, the parks carry
on a tremendous recreation program. In truth,
what is there being done by the park boards of the
country that is not a form of recreation for the
delight of the people? Nowadays many areas in
the parks are devoted to creative recreation and
sports. At the same time, all recreation people
now recognize the value of keeping certain areas
that are particularly dedicated to beauty and are
not turned over for sports.

Parks are recreation, and no one can conceive
of recreation without parks. Sunday in the park
has become a by-word. Parks are taken for granted,
as are roads, as are drinking water, air, sunshine.
Living without public parks is unthinkable.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

JANUARY 1949

433

 

0 BOYS ALL over the world, or at least the

lucky part of the world which has a winter,
the first snowfall is a joyous thing. But to us in
Kristiania the first fiakes meant the beginning of
months of absolute pleasure only reasonably inter—
fered with by school; months of afternoons when a
pack of us would go running on skis from two
until seven—for they were considerate enough to
close school at two—months of ski-jumping and
moonlight parties. It was only a short journey
from the heart of the capital of Norway to the
woods, in those days, and on Saturdays and Sun—
days everybody, who possibly could, made that
journey. The nation strapped itself to wooden
runners and went Skylarking, forgetting its wor-
ries, strengthening itself with exercise and ozone
—as it still does. I do not think it is saying too
much to attribute our high average of national
health and national serenity of disposition to the
ski. But, best of all, the use of skis increases.
You will see the tiniest youngsters toddling around
on small skis on vacant lots and in the parks in
the heart of the city, and gray-haired gentlemen
are encountered on every forest trail. Most sig-
nificant is the fact of the Sunday outing for those
whom factory and office have claimed during the
week. Suppose you are a salesman in some stuffy
shop; you can remake yourself at least once a
week, from November until April, in the follow-
ing fashion:

You get out of bed before the sun has risen, and
cheerfully for once, because you know what is
ahead. A tram, with a carrier on the outside for
your skis, could bring you beyond the outskirts

 

“Re tinted from Skiing, With a Cha ter on Snowshoeing, by

Ornul Poulsen. Copyright 1924 by he Macmillan Company,
publishers.

434

THE SPIRIT
OF SKIING"

Ornulf Poulsen

(of the city in less than an hour, and you might

alight anywhere, buckle on your skis, and strike
out into the open woods. But this Sunday you are
more ambitious. You know of a mountain that
rises somewhat beyond the timberline, and you
want a taste of that exhilaration which comes only
from swooping down great snowy slopes——-and so
you take the train.

The sun has begun to temper the cold by the
time you have reached the starting place. There
stands the mountain before you, rising bald and
glistening from a zone of snowy spruce. It feels
good to be on skis again, feels good even to have
the pack on your back. It will be lighter after
lunch, too, you think complacently.

The road tapers into a trail, the trail begins
to Wind up the mountainside. The sunlight seeps
into your blood and the cool air, which searches
out the farthest corners of your lungs, seems al-
most to lift you off the ground. The sun plays on
the snow-covered trees, between which the sky
shows intensely azure. The temperature is still be-
low zero, but you begin to shed your windproof
jacket and sweater, and it feels as hot as May un-

less you are in the shade.

The trees commence to get smaller. Now even
the tall firs are heavily draped with icy snow and
the smaller trees resemble an~army of the queer-
est shaped dwarfs, which have suddenly been
frozen stiff in the very act of attacking an enemy.

At last you leave the thin line of evergreen
shrubs behind and emerge on the open slopes
of snow. The sun has turned them into a field of
brightness, and this light, oined with the fresh air,
altitude and stimulating cold, contrives to rid you
of any fatigue you think you should feel. Instead

RECREATION

of being the least bit weary, to your amazement
you feel like a child. You have a great desire to
turn a somersault, or do some other stunt which
would hardly occur to you to perform in your
shop. The snowfield rises sharply into the sky, so
blue against the whiteness, and so near that you
think you could reach it by stretching out an arm.

It occurs to you to turn around and see the
valley from which you have come. It seems far
now. The river is a dark winding line, and the
railroad is a mere hair. The village with its church
looks like a collection of toy houses, each distinctly
visible because the air is so clear.

It is pleasant to go in any direction you desire,
unencumbered by obstacles; it is pleasant to look
so far on every hand. It is very pleasant, too, en-
thusiastic skier that you are, to reach the top, and,
sheltering yourself behind some out-cropping rock,
to plunge into that luncheon which seemed so
unnecessarily large on the way up, and now is so
ill-matched against your appetite. You find the
noon sun surprisingly warm, and its rays redected
from the snow, in addition to your spare clothing,
keep you comfortable during the hour’s rest; al-
though it is doubtful if the mercury, in the wind,
would register much above zero.

The best is yet to come. Your anticipation has
really been focused on the descent, and the climb
has merely worked you up into the necessary phys-
ical condition to enjoy it. You know that you are
master of your skis, that you can turn right or left
as occasion demands, or come to a standstill if
that be best. It was good to reach the top, good
to see county after county spread before you in
blue and green and white. But to don your wind-
proof jacket, put on the empty knapsack and push
down the inviting slope—that is the great moment.

The air is now a cold stream on your face, nip~
ping at your nose and chin. But you are too busy,
too keen to notice such small matters. You indulge
yourself in speed, feeling the joy of mastery, the
elemental delight of going fast; but the best thrills
still lie ahead. In a regrettably short while you
have finished what took you that hour to climb and
are passing into the forest. Here you have the
added pleasure of exercising your skill. The trail
winds. You must now stem, now brake with your
poles, ever watching each turn and twist of the
way, wondering, with the excitement of a child
in the dark, what terrible things may lie around
the comer, and yet knowing that you are master
the while. Perhaps you get reckless for a moment
and let your craving for speed get the better of
your wisdom; you reach a slope whose steepness
you had forgotten. This is really alarming, you

JANUARY 1949

think, and begin to lose confidence in yourself.
Next moment you realize that you have tumbled
in four feet of snow. What painless perils!

Midwinter days are short and the sun has turned
the mountain top to fiame and plunged the valley
into purple by the time you reach the railroad
station. Perhaps you are astounded to arrive at
the place intact. Yet it is always so. That is one
marvellous fact about this greatest sport. If you
have learned the art correctly, and take only the
chances that are not positively foolhardy, the num—
ber of injuries is incredibly small, and, of that
number, the really serious ones miraculously few.
Perhaps on the train you will meet fellow-adven-
turers who have taken other trails, and you sleep-
ily (and hungrily) compare notes on the way back
to the city. The city it must be, but only for six
days, and then new pleasures in fresh fICIdS.

The above account is not an imaginary descrip-
tion, but was my almost weekly fortune for years,
and could stand for the diary of thousands. It
never ceases to amaze me what pleasure the elon-
gation of one’s feet—which is really what the ski
is—can give. It also never ceases to amaze those
who try it for the first time, no matter what their
age. In America, where learning to ski has not
been done simultaneously with learning to walk,
it does not occur to the elderly that here is a gentle
pastime for which they are not unfitted. At least
anybody under eighty is not. The beginner can
get real enjoyment from the slightest slope. The
expert, on- the other hand, need never run out of
ticklish places to try his skill. Skiing is adaptable
to everybody.

After this fact of universality, I think the most
valuable aspect of the sport is in the realization
that it gives you a freedom hitherto undreamt.- On
foot you were limited to shovelled walks; on
skates, to cleared lakes or covered rinks. But with
skis on your feet the ‘whole, wide, snow-covered
world becomes your playground. Swamplands and
bunns which were monotonous in summer, if not
impassable, become highways to desirable places.
The untrailed ranges of mountains are made
accessible, and new beauties opened up which
might never be seen, except by this medium.

There are still other arguments, if one were
looking for arguments in a debate which has only
one side, for a wider adoption of skiing in Amer—
ica. Next to walking, it is the cheapest of all
sports. For the mileage enjoyed, it is even cheaper
than walking, since skis do not need to be half-
soled every hundred miles, nor every thousand.
And it offers more relief than walking, since the
t0p of every hill means a slide. Further, skiing is

435

the least monotonous of the universal sports. No
two hills are alike, no two trails offer the same
curves, runs and surprises, and even if you are
limited to an after-supper radius of miles, no two
days are alike as to speed and other conditions.
Let those lithe and friendly runners speak for
themselves, as they are doing. In this country,
on snowy Saturdays and Sundays, out of every
great city in the northern states, healthy looking
youngsters can be observed traveling with their
skis. For it is quite possible to find good skiing

 

Good program must be cultivated

F I WERE to advise a man new to the field of
I recreation administration with reference to en-
riching his program, I would want to postpone
that consideration and check first the diversity and
balance of the activities already being promoted
within his area. I would first check and gauge his
program against such basic statements as those
contained in “Fundamentals in Community Rec—
reation” and “Nineteen Recreation Principles,”
published many years ago by the National Recrea-
tion Association—but still good. I might even
wish to weigh and evaluate”the results of his
activities in terms of the commonly accepted aims
and objectives of recreation programs.

Assuming our new administrator did find a
fairly well-balanced program in his locality, but
was somewhat dissatisfied with the scope and
number of activities being carried on, and grant-
ing he was disappointed in the number of acres
devoted to parks and recreation, the development
of recreation buildings and facilities thereon—-
what practical suggestions can we offer for the en-
richment of that program?

In an effort to keep these suggestions on a prac-
tical, usable basis, and without too much presump-

436

within an hour of most of our metropolitan ,pave-
ments. And even when the thaws come, you find
fair skiing in the woods.

I would speak now only of the spirit of the Sport,
and try to suggest to those who have not ventured

out of the highway and the beaten track what they

are passing up. For on the ski trail lies tingling
health; on it lies beauty and, at the end, a self-
satisfaction which is the basis of content. It is this
inner joy which accounts for the sentimental en-
thusiasm that all skiers have for their sport.

Enriching th

Walter L. Scott

tion on my part, I have attempted to list herewith
seventeen simple suggestions which I trust are
sufficiently down-to-earth to be practical—espe-
cially to those who are relatively new to admin-
istrative responsibilities in the field of recreation.
As P. T. Barnum once said, “If I shoot at the sun,
I' may hit a star.” And I might add that “low aim,
not failure, is crime.” '

Seventeen Suggestions

I. No doubt most of the longer established
recreation departments drag along, year after year,
with activities or programs that have long since
ceased to pay in terms of participation and unit
cost. Let’s not allow our staff members to change
merely the dates on old bulletins outlining such
programs and re-issue them, year after year, in a
blind routine fashion; let’s not be afraid to chal-
lenge the effectiveness of even our own pet activi-
ties; let’s keep out of that rut and substitute new
and better activities for old and worn out ideas.
We admit that buildings and farms run down and
wear out, need maintenance and rejuvenation;
let’s not falsely aSSume that activity programs can
run forever on their own momentum.

2. Television is something new; it is an ex—

RECREATION

panding field; it may become as common and, pos—
sibly, almost as inexpensive to enjoy as radio.
Right now television sets are expensive and be-
yond the reach of most children and families.
Many adults enjoy television in their clubs; why
can’t we bring this new thrill to thousands through
our social recreation centers, including youth
clubs, as we have, in the past decade, provided
phonographs and juke boxes?

3. Reasonably priced radio-phonograph com-
bination sets now come equipped with wire record—

Lecreation Program

In this, the New Year, it might be well

to take stock of our over—all program.

Does it measure up in terms of our

aims and objectives? The Director of

Recreation, Long Beach, ’California,
makes some suggestions.

ing equipment. A wire costing $4.90, that will
take' twenty records and play one hour without
“commercials” or other annoyances, can be pur-
chased. Imagine the thrills this equipment would
bring to drama and music groups, or to youth
clubs, to mention only a few groups.

4. In some sections, camping programs are
on the march. Several cities in Michigan have
pioneered a new type of camping for elementary
school pupils, with the children going to camp on
school time, with school credit and A.D.A revenue
allowed. San Diego has a similar camp and Long
Beach is now attempting to complete arrangements
for such operation in its new $30,000 municipal
camp in the Sierra Madre Mountains.

5. Why couldn’t Boards of Education provide
a “camping corner” on many school playgrounds
—a ground plot, a few trees, shrubs of various
species, a multiple purpose oven, a fire ring, pic-
nic tables and, possibly, a pet pen? This type of
development could also be incorporated in park
planning, perhaps on a more expanded basis.
School children, family groups, Scout troops,
Camp Fire Girls and similar organized groups could
find rich and joyful living experiences, for the fa-

IANUARY 1949

cilities could be used evenings and for overnight
camping.

6. Day camping, well-developed in a growing
number of cities, has great potential possibilities
for program enrichment. This fine outdoor activ—
ity should be better developed; camping is one of
the finest programs from the viewpoint of carry-
over values. In Long Beach we have only one
such camp; we could use three.

7. Several tine activities, such as sailing, can—

, not be enjoyed by the average boy and girl because

they cannot afford the rigs and gear. Why
shouldn’t a recreation department maintain a small
fleet of sailboats? The children might even be
asked to help build and maintain them for the
thrill of sailing. Adult groups or aquatic clubs
might be induced to help acquire such a fleet.

8. Public librarians are often willing to place
one or more bookmobiles on a city-wide play—
ground run. These specially constructed, light
motor trucks bring library services to each neigh-
borhood on a regularly scheduled basis. (See page
439.) In Long Beach, phonograph records, as well
as books, are made available in this way. This pro-
gram has been quite successful and is recommended
to others.

9. Fishing is one of the most popular sports
in the country. The Fly and Bait Casting Club in
my own city ~operates a complete program of fly
tying, bait casting and related activities, including
an outstanding social program, in cooperation with
the Recreation Commission. Plans now are being
made to sponsor youth clubs whose members will
be taught by adult club members. Here is program
enrichment without extra cost to the recreation
department.

IO. Recently I witnessed a newsreel picture
showing a Santa Monica woman gathering the
palm tree fronds that fell to the streets in her
neighborhood. By stripping the fibres, a large
quantity of strong weaving material was secured
for making numerous baskets and several other
useful things, which she painted in beautiful colors.
As recreation people, we should be more resource-
ful, creative and have the determination to activate
some of our big dreams—to do more original
thinking and acting and not recoil from the hu-
man resistance we are apt to encounter when
something new or different is suggested.

II. Too many of our recreation clubhouses,
youth clubs and other social centers have the
drab atmosPhere of sheds, barns or garages. I
should think a constructive step would be taken
if we, as a professional group, would set, as a
goal for ourselves, the construction and finishing

437

of such centers in a way that the net results would
show facilities at least thirty per cent as attractive
as the average hotel cocktail bar.

12. In New York City, children’s playgrounds
have been equipped with miniature playhouses,
beautifully designed and constructed to scale, and
brightly painted. Inside is one room, large enough
to accommodate three or four at a time. I don’t
know why most departments have been so slow in
following such a lead.

I 3. In many a city recreation department only
one tiny nature museum can be found when thirty
would not be too many; the same could be said,
for instance, of hobby centers, day camp sites or
night—lighted tennis courts. We often boast of such
programs in our annual reports but, honestly,
aren’t we spread critically thin in some strategic
areas?

I4. I can recommend our department’s type of
family night programs to others who are looking
for enrichment in this direction. Here is appeal,
participation, and from it comes joyous comrade—
ship in a program easy to promote and not costly
to finance. In a typical program, parents come
to the playground with their children and bring
their box dinners. For an hour the playground
buzzes with games and activities of all kinds; both
parents and children participating. Dinner is an
enjoyable social experience when new acquaint-
ances are formed. The. typical evening program
includes singing, and possibly a playground drama
or a home talent show; often a. movie tops off the
evening’s entertainment. This program is grow—
ing rapidly in popularity in our city.

15. Professional recreation books and maga—
zines are made available to our school and munici-
pal recreation staff members through the Board of
Education’s professional library for teachers. This
arrangement has brought enrichment to our pro-
gram; many workers unable to purchase these aids
as individuals enjoy reading up-to—date profes-
sional literature.

16. Recreation surveys often point out to the
public weaknesses in local programs, which the
recreation administrator already has recognized.
Often such studies list needs in which the public
has tremendous interest. Such surveys often lead
to bond issues for acquiring recreation areas and
improvements and, therefore, must be listed as
one of the finest devices for bringing about pro-
gram growth and enrichment.

17. Public hearings are sometimes used as a
means of securing suggestions for program growth.
This type of meeting often results in rallying senti-
ment and action favorable to program expansion.

438

It has been my experience that our city’s pro—
gram has been enriched many times as the direct
result of youth participation at the planning level.
Let’s not overlook this advantage.

How good or weak a program will be depends
so much upon the character, training, experience,
creativeness, interest, vitality, philosophy and good
common sense of the individuals directing the ac—
tivities that full advantage of training classes, con-
ferences and exchange visitations should be en-
couraged at all times. In the end, the program
will rise no higher than its leadership.

As you now look back over your own individual
life, try to recall the circumstances which sur-
rounded you when you realized your most enjoy-
able recreation experience. Do you remember the
tremendous satisfaction and the zest with which
you took part in the thing? Do you ever try to
put yourself in the place of your own recreation
patrons today and make an effort to determine
and measure their satisfactions, their zest and
their; mental attitudes towards the things you think
are best for them to have? It seems to me that,
as we take steps to enrich our respective programs
in recreation, we should, to a greater extent than
ever before, acquire an appreciation of the desires
of those we aim to serve, and not simply rely
upon those activities we ourselves tend to pre-
scribe. A survey of the recreation interests of
3,000 junior and senior high school students made
in Long Beach a few years ago revealed many un-
expected likes and dislikes. I often wonder if we.
as administrators, keep close enough to our pa-
trons to know really what they want.

When we are successful in giving people of all
ages a diversified, appealing and balanced list of
activities from which individuals may pick and
choose, then life’s flame will certainly burn more
brightly for those multitudes we humbly strive to
serve. Our programs will then not only have a
“new look,” they will have compelling appeal; and
our patrons will have more than interest—they
will have enthusiasm and zest! _ ‘

 

An address given at a National Recreation Assmiation Pacific
Southwest District Conference.

 

RECREATION

A BOOKWAGON
SERVES MANY

Betty McWhorter

it

e
%

lr“
.c

-.
.x.
{or
3,.
§~

{-

w‘?

>5

4

v» '

   

,~_.: ..... .I .

“Recreation workers have not hesitated to stimulate interest in
arts and crafts, music, organized games, and so on, but I still fail
to and emphasis upon one remaining activity-—reading for pleasure.
Recreation departments and public libraries should be working to-
gether so that reading programs may become an integral part of every‘
well-rounded community recreation program.”—Clarence S. Paine,
Director of Oklahoma City Libraries, RECREATION, September 1948.

wo OF THE prime requisites for her job, ac—
cording to Miss Doris Bates, regional librarian
of Rutland, Vermont, for the past five years, are
that one be a good mechanic and a lover of dogs.

The mechanical ability comes in handy, she
has found, when it is necessary to start the Ver-
mont Bookwagon in twenty—below zero weather,
or to put on chains or make minor repairs on some
of the state’s back roads.

Rutland is the only one of the state’s four re-
gions which employs no men; but having “women
drivers” did not prevent the arrival of the Book-
wagon in Poultney in sub-zero weather one Fri-
day morning last year. Another trip Miss Bates
recalls was during a previous winter, when she
and another traveler reached Grafton at eight-
thirty in the morning to find the thermometer hit-
ting twenty—below. Until they saw the mercury,
she said, they hadn’t realized it was so cold.
Though library trips are scheduled about two
weeks ahead, only one trip has been cancelled in
the past five years because of the weather.

The love of dogs is essential in greeting the
friendly canines who meet the Bookwagon at farm-

house or school stops. The dogs remember the
librarians from visit to visit, and welcome them
with wagging tails. At Whitingham School, the

JANUARY 1949

teacher’s Scottie attends school regularly and sits
beside those children whose behavior is above re-
proach. At another school, a little black and white
dog has done the same for the past live years.
When the dog’s master was in the second grade,
his mother became ill. Since there was no one to
care for the dog, the boy asked if he might bring
his pet to school. The matter was taken up with
the district superintendent and the necessary per-
mission obtained. The boy is now in the seventh
grade, and the little dog is still attending classes
regularly.

Examples such as these illustrate how inti—
mately Vermont’s regional librarians know the peo—
ple they serve in their Bookwagon trips.

The Rutland region, which extends from Bran-—
don south to the Massachusetts line, contains about
260 schools, fifty libraries and forty stations in
small communities, where individuals borrow
books for distribution in their neighborhoods. Oc-
casionally the Bookwagon stops at the home of an
invalid or shut-in, but because of the crowded
schedule, individual calls are not encouraged.

In addition, service by mail from the regional
headquarters in Rutland amounts to between sixty
and seventy packages of books a month. Some

—-..—._4_._.

Reprinted from the Rutland Daily Herald, Rutland, Vermont.

439

borrowers receive, by mail, as many as ten books
every two weeks.

The Bookwagons go “right to the end of the
road,” where the mail and milk routes go and, in
some instances, beyond even the mailman’s most
distant stop.

One time a fellow passenger on a bus, discuss-
ing Bookwagon travels with Miss Bates, asked,
“Do you ever go on back roads?” Miss Bates
replied, “Occasionally we hit the road surface when
we are going from one back road to another.”

One of the back road experiences which stands
out most vividly in the minds of Miss Bates and
her assistant happened in Winhall Hollow. A tele-
phone call to the station at the end of the road had
assured the two women that the roads were pass-
able and that borrowers would meet them along
the way with books to be returned. All went well
until the Bookwagon came upon a trailer truck
loaded with telegraph poles, unable to make a
sharp turn. The truck was wedged so tightly
against the snowbanks that even Miss Bates. who
is of slight build, could not get past the vehicle.

Never daunted, the women put their books in a
box, and Miss Bates crawled under the truck,
pushing the box ahead of her. On the other side,
she met the borrowers—a man and his wife on
a pung sled, with the books they were returning.
They swapped collections and Miss Bates returned
to the Bookwagon the same way she had come.

The road was so narrow that it was necessary
for the man to unhitch his team, turn the sled
around by hand, and re-hitch the horses before he
could head for home. As for the Bookwagon, Miss
Bates and her assistant backed it down the road
a mile, found a place to turn around, and continued
on their route.

Residents of the more remote sections of 'the
state borrow from stations instead of libraries. At
North Rupert, Miss Bates discovered a former
teacher who filled the rack on her bicycle with
books and delivered them to persons for several
miles around. At another station, located at the
end of a road, with no other houses in sight, the
family habitually borrowed about eighty books.
Miss Bates discovered that the farmer took books
along the route in the milk truck and when he
peddled eggs, and when the family went to Grange
meeting or to church, a supply of books went
along to be distributed to the neighbors.

Rural people are discriminating readers with
well—defined preferences, especially in non—fiction.
“Cook books don’t go well; they’ll take the ‘Story
of the Opera’ more quickly,” according to Miss

Bates. “But people must spend an awful lot of I

440

time fixing old furniture, because there is a great
demand for books on fixing up the home and on
antiques.”

She has discovered that there is no longer any
interest in war literature, but that there is a de-
mand for books on religion and philosophy, such
as “Peace of Mind.” Books on Vermont and New
England are always welcomed, while party books
go well with schools and organizations. Music
books, also, are in constant circulation. The clas-
sics are usually snapped up early in the trip, with
exclamations such as: “Oh, I’ve always wanted
to read that,” or, “I read that when I was a child
and I’d like to read it again.” Essays and poetry
are not popular, and political science is “dead
wood,” but biography and travel are widely read.
The fiction interest of summer residents runs to
mysteries and the latest books, while the natives
prefer pioneer stories, novels of the North, and
“the tried and true.”

The Bookwagon also carries a large number of
professional books, many of them for teachers.
On the trips to schools, the book supply is about
half for pleasure and half for supplementary read-
ing. Books for schools are selected carefully, but
the libraries “read at their own risks.” Library
policies differ—some build up their own supply
of non-fiction and borrow fiction from the Book-
wagon, while others reverse the process.

“There are never enough dog or horse stories,”
and Miss Bates believes the children would take
out Christmas stories the year around. Rural chil-
dren are very appreciative; in fact, throughout
the area people “feel that the Bookwagon is their
property.”

It is in the mail requests that the librarians find
the most variety. They range from that of the

 

A visit from Miss Bates means recreation and fun
for young readers in many an isolated school room.

RECREATION

retired college professor who wanted the “Memoirs
of Metternich” in the original French edition, to
that of the woman who asked for the song of a
crow set to music.

The first request was filled through‘ the arrange—
ment of borrowing from other libraries, among
them the University of Vermont, ‘Middlebury Col—
lege libraries, and the Boston Public Library. For
the second, Miss Bates wrote to library headquar—
ters at Montpelier, from where they replied that
“the woman is caw—rect” and sent a copy of “Fa-
miliar Birds and Their Songs.”

Another reader wrote, “Please mail me some
pepper-uppers—and not fuddy-duddies.” Among
the most frequent mail requests are those from
women preparing papers to present at club meet-
ings. Books for special holidays are also often
loaned by mail.

The Bookwagon carries 500 books—300 on re-
volving racks and 200 on shelves. A visit is made
to each school every two months. and to each
library every three months. The wagon is out
three or four days a week, with the longest trip a

three—day southern jaunt into Bennington and
Windham counties. There is also a two—day trip,
with an overnight stop in Bellows Falls.

Miss Bates has two assistants, and the three
women take turns driving, with two going on each
trip, while the third remains at the regional head-

quarters——two rooms in the Rutland Free Library

furnished, with heat and light, by the city. Work
at regional headquarters includes cataloging,
mending, ordering and looking up references.

When the Bookwagon makes a stop, one person
goes inside and checks off the books being returned
while the other stays outside where the local librar-
ian is making new selections.

Separate trips are made with children’s and.
adult books, the former going to schools and the
latter to libraries and stations. There are only five
combined trips and the wagon is changed over
between trips.

Vermont is the first state to be completely cov-
ered by regional libraries, and is a pioneer in the

use of Bookwagons.

BACK TO EARTH

'IE PARK MAN’S SERVICE ties him to Mother Earth. The wise park man will know
Tand act upon the premise that you can create good citizenship only by keeping
man in close touch with the earth and that the children of man must learn' from the
earth all the lessons of actual life, which involves all our relationships and moral
responsibilities . . . Both children and adults are hungering for such knowledge. Our
youth want to express themselves and to learn the true meaning of life. If they are
not intelligently given these opportunities, there lies the danger.

There should be a study of existing programs of this character which, increasingly,
are being conducted in parks, zoos and botanical gardens. There is no reason why
these programs should not be expanding into the smaller parks and into towns

and villages.

These programs lead back to the good earth. I believe these programs may at least
restore that former faith in one’s duty to work out his own salvation and accept
individual reSponsibility. Because I so believe, is why I feel that this back to
earth program so earnestly carried on by our own park men takes precedence over
many other of our activities and furnishes conclusive evidence that we park men
do love people. This program should be suHicient to cry shame upon those who
would say that we are not interested in human lives or dedicated to their service.
And thrice shame upon that park executive who does not recognize that such is his
mission or fails to accept its responsibilities.

“W ill 0. Doolittle, formerly Executive Secretary,
American Institute of Park Executives; Managing

Editor, PARKS AND RECREATION, 1921 —-.

JANUARY 1949

441

 

EBRUARY MAY BE the shortest month, but it cer—
Ftainly furnishes its share of ideas and themes for
party fun. In addition to celebrating February
in memory of St. Valentine, and the birthdays of
\Vashington and Lincoln, there are the anniver-
saries of many other notables. Among them are
Horace Greeley, February 3; Charles Dickens,
February 7; Thomas A. Edison, February II;
Susan B. Anthony, February 15; James Russell
Lowell, February 22; Henry Wadsworth Long—
fellow, February 27. (Don’t forget, too, that you
will want to plan something special for the ob—
servance of Brotherhood ‘Week, February 20—27.)

The following party games, highlighting the
various important events of the month, should add
zest to your celebrations:

Heart Clap—This is a jolly way for starting the
fun at a Valentine party. Preparatory to playing
the game, fasten about the room as many hearts,
less one, as there are players to take part. These
can be fastened on the walls, drapes, and so on with
pins, or laid in conspicuous places. They should
be well scattered around the room. All the players
join hands and march around in a circle to the
strains of lively music. When the music suddenly
ceases, each player runs for a heart, clapping his
hand over it. Of course, one player will be left
heartless. He must drop out of the game, which
is again resumed, the hostess removing one of the
hearts from the wall each time the music begins.
The one who finally claps his hand over the last
remaining heart wins the game.

442

Valentine Greetings—In this game, players
try to secure as many hearts as they can. They
greet each other with any two letters in this man—
ner—“Hello, C. U.” The one addressed must
respond immediately with two letters that will
finish a word such as “Hello, T. E.” If he cannot
finish the word with two letters he must give one
of his hearts to the person who addressed him. If
he doubts that there is a word of four letters be-
ginning with the two letters with which the person
greeted him, he may challenge the originator of
the word. If he is correct in believing that the
other person is “faking” he collects a heart; if he
is not correct, he surrenders two instead of one.
The man and girl collecting the most hearts are
given a prize.

Wedding Attire Exchange—Give to each player
ten slips‘ of paper on which is written any part of
the wedding attire. Such objects as a dress, shoe,
stocking, handbag, coat, belt, glove and hat may
be used. However, only one hat is prepared for the
entire group. The players are instructed to get a
complete attire by exchanging slips for the articles
they need, but not more than three slips may be
exchanged at one time. They do not, however, need
to be exchanged for the same articles. The person
with the most complete wardrobe at the end of the
game is the winner. The catch, of course, is that
there is only one hat. However, don’t tell the
players, since this is where the fun comes in.

Hidden Valentine—Prepare as many sets of cards

RECREATION

as there are pe0ple expected, each set to have nine
cards, each with a letter on it, which altogether
spell “Valentine.” Hide these cards about the
house. Instruct your guests to hunt for the letters,
but to pick them up only in turn, that is, a “V”
must be found first, then an “A,” then “L,” and
so on. The one completing the word first wins
the prize.

Patriotic Song Introductions (a lively mixer)-
Each person has pinned on him, in plain sight, the
name of a well—known patriotic air, such as “The
Star-Spangled Banner,” “America,” “God Bless
America,” “Let’s Get Together,” or “Yankee
Doodle.” Each person also receives ten red, white,
and blue disks (poker chips are excellent to
handle). The players immediately greet each other,
not with names or “hello” but by singing the open—
ing bars of the other person’s song. The same
people may greet each other any number of times
until the game is over. The one who starts the song
first gets a disk from the other person, and the
player with the most disks at the end of the game
wins. The one with the fewest must sing his song
all the way through.

Passing Washington’s Coat—Divide your guests
into teams of six to eight players. Give the first
person in each line an old coat. On the word to
begin, the first person puts on the coat, buttons
it, unbuttons it, takes it off, buttons it up and
hands it to the second person in the line. This
continues down the line, and the first line to
complete the action is the winner.

Lincoln Hunt-The leader says that there is a
Lincoln penny dated 19.. hidden in the room.
Everyone is to sing, hum or whistle “America” as
he walks about looking for the penny. Nothing
needs to be moved or touched to find the penny;
it is in plain sight. As soon as anyone finds it, he
stands as close to it as he can and changes his tune

to “Yankee Doodle.” Needless to say, there is a
ru'sh for the spot.

Nothing But the Truth-Thus thunders George,
gathering his guests around him in a circle, men
and women alternating. He points an accusing fin-
ger at someone, at the same time demanding stern—
ly, “Who did this?” The player must notice with
which hand George is pointing. If with his right
hand the player says, “I cannot tell a lie, so and so
did it,” mentioning the player on his left, and vice
versa if George uses his left hand. He must do
this before George counts to ten. Those who fail

JANUARY 1949

to answer, or answer incorrectly, are called into
the ring to help George.

Penny Race—You can have a good penny race by
placing ten pennies in a circle two feet in diameter,
marked on the floor at one end of the room. (Use
circular cardboard disks if you can’t mark up the
fioor.) There should also be a circle fifteen or
twenty feet in front of each team. Wearing cotton
gloves, the first player of each team runs from
the starting line to the distant circle, picks up five
pennies one by one, and brings them back to his
team’s circle, putting them down one at a time. He
passes the gloves to the second player who picks
up the pennies from his team’s circle and returns
them to the other circle. After he has placed the
pennies on the floor, one at a time, he runs back
and gives the gloves to the third player. The game
continues in this manner until one team wins by
being the first to have all its players run with the
pennies.

Crossing the Delaware—Even George himself
would have laughed at the soldiers playing this
game and going through the ridiculous posturings
it requires. Divide the players into two groups.
The teams sit opposite each other, about fifteen
feet apart. The space between is the Delaware. Ap-
point a leader for each team and assign each of
the players a letter of the alphabet. If the group is
small two or more letters may be given to each
player, but no two players on the same team should
have identical letters. The leaders take turns call-
ing out a letter of the alphabet.“ As soon as one
is called out, the player who has been assigned that
particular letter crosses to the opposite side, and
while he is walking toward the other team he acts
out an adverb which starts with the letter given
him. If his letter is B he might cross the Delaware
bashfully, or belligerently, or boyishly. The oppo—
site team tries to guess the adverb before he can
reach the shore on which they are stationed.

If they guess correctly, the player remains on
their side. He may help in the guessing, but is no
longer permitted to cross the water. The other
leader then calls out a letter and his team tries to
guess the adverb being pantomimed by the soldier
crossing the river from the enemy camp. Play for
five or ten minutes and start the next game while
this is still going strong. Don’t let the players get
tired of it. The team which ends the game with
most players on its side is the winner. If you like

the idea, the losers might be made to pay the pen—
alty of performing humorous tricks, stunts or acts
for the others in the next game.

443

M ahz’n g Puppets
Caught on Like W/ildjire

The old lady who lived in the shoe and had so
many children she didn’t know what to do has a
forty-nine per cent modern counterpart in the City
of Somerville, Massachusetts. But the fifty-one
per cent difference lies in the all-important fact that
the Recreation Commission does know what to do
with the children. A quick recapitulation of the
Saturday morning indoor play centers clinches
that statement.

HERE IS A year-round program here, in one
Tof the most densely populated cities of its
size in the nation, and the play menu reaches out
to attract every one of the hundred thousand
people who dwell within the city.

But the thing which has had the whole town
talking is the Saturday morning indoor play pro-
gram for children between the ages of nine and
eleven. Youngsters within this age group have
always had their Saturday morning play in the
out-of-doors, but 1947 marked the first year in
which they moved indoors with the first fall of
snow in New England.

The Recreation Commission, through its super-
intendent, Francis J. Mahoney, went to work long
before the Christmas rush and drew up an appe-
tizing program of recreation for the projected in—
door sessions, garnishing the menu with appetiz-
ing portions of puppet making, storytelling, Punch
and Judy shows, and community singing.

Then, on the Saturday after Christmas, the ex-
periment became an actuality. Seven centers were
opened, and more than 200 children crammed
every available inch of space in each center, mak-
ing puppets, creating Punch and Judy characters,
and singing together while they played and
worked on their projects.

444

(£5; . 'I
' i I
o  . .
n im at .. V

/ rig-1|” \ '
x ' ~ 1

This activity is inexpensive. The puppets are
built on the ends of broomsticks and mop handles,
or over the t0ps of tonic bottles. The faces of the
puppets are formed by wrapping layers of old
newspapers to form the basic face, and then past-
ing the folds of the paper with a flour and water
paste. The faces are painted by the boys and girls
and \the puppets dressed in homemade costumes
typical of the characters which have been planned.

This novel form of recreation, catching on like
wildfire throughout the town, had its start in the
Boy-Art Club which toured the city, putting on
Punch and Judy shows with characters made in
the club. So contagious was the fever for puppets,
that hundreds of children who viewed them clam-
ored for a chance to make them for their own en-
joyment. Thus, the idea for the Saturday morn-
ing activity was born.

It’s interesting to walk into any one of these play
centers on any Saturday morning and see a group
enjoying their own rendition of Snow White and
the Seven Dwarfs, with all the puppets made by
enthusiastic youngsters; or to ride to the West
Side and see another group watching a simple
melodrama, with the villain made of old news-
papers and draped over a soda pop bottle, and the
heroine cavorting, in all her waste paper hnery,
from the end of an old kitchen mop handle.

As a recess from the day’s work on puppets and
productions, the young folks indulge in some pas-
sive activity, with a skilled storyteller making the
rounds of each center weekly to recount many of
the best-loved American and foreign tales.

This Saturday morning activity is but one in
the diverse program which has made Somerville
one of the models among recreation-minded cities.

 

Reprinted from the Somerville, Massachusetts, Journal. and Press.

RECREATION

Simple Puppets

Catherine Mackenzie

SIMPLE PUPPETS, masks, shadow figures, offer
endless fascination to young children. A potato,
a yam, an apple, may form heads of these puppets.
(An apple-corer will scoop out a hole deep enough
for an index finger.) Try cloves for eyes. For the
simplest design of all, stuff crumpled newspaper in
the bottom of a white paper bag, fasten with a
rubber band, and add crayon features. When the
bags open end is slipped over the child’s hand, the
puppet is ready for make-believe play, songs and.
stories.

Here are some simple designs from an unusually

rich collection compiled in “Puppetry in the Cur-
riculum,” a bulletin issued by New York City’s
Board of Education. (Bureau of Publications, thirty
cents.) This is a manual for teachers; text and
working drawings are keyed to classroom learning
through junior high school years. But Miss Truda
T. Wei], who assembled the material with the help
of professional experts, assures us that any imagina—

twe leader WI“ find wonderfd Ideas m It' Here we have a tube inside this intriguing double paper bag

—-—--- puppet. This enables it to wave its hands and say “hello.”

' ' L ' t " 2' Y 1!: T' d . .
,Ia‘éggiig‘“§ec3’on_pe“"“s‘m‘ 0f he A“ or mm sun ay Youngsters love to play with things they create themselves.

A potato becomes an “old An elephant is made froma School play’s Santa wears Figures are cut from card-
lady” puppet held on hand. yam; tusks are toothpicks. a simple paper bag mask. board,movedbehind screen.

 

Hand shadows on a wall are traditional delight of the young. A “fierce jungle tiger” marionette made from bag, wrapping
Here are a rabbit and butterfly, behind light window shade. paper and cardboard. Children cut out, color fur with crayon.

George D. Butler

“An adequate, well-designed and at-
tractive school site becomes at Once a
source of pride and a center for joy-
ous neighborhood or community life.”

School Grounds Designed

For Community Use

THE COMMUNITY USE of school buildings and
grounds for recreation and other leisure-time
activities has been widely accepted by leaders in
the field of education as normal and desirable. In
modern theory and practice; community use is a
major function of school buildings and grounds,
and this fact therefore requires careful considera-
tion in their design and development.

School Property, a Recreation Resource

Present-day conditions and needs make it im—
perative that school properties be recognized as
community recreation resources. Both a school
and a playground are required in every residen—
tial neighborhood, and every elementary school
likewise requires outdoor recreation space for its
pupils. Location of neighborhood playgrounds at
elementary school sites or adjoining them is there-
fore desirable, especially if the schools are in a
central location. Similarly, the high school site is
increasingly developed to provide a playlield for
the surrounding community. Planning for dual
use is advantageous to both school and commu-
nity because the school grounds thus not only
serve the needs of the school, but if designed and
operated for community recreation outside of
school hours, they make it unnecessary for the
city to acquire and develop municipal recreation
areas in the same neighborhood.

School grounds therefore are being designed
more and more to provide for the varied recrea-
tion needs of children, young people and adults
throughout the entire year. This means that some
facilities are installed that would not be included if
these areas were restricted to school use alone.
Fortunately, however, much the same areas and
facilities are required for both school and commu-
nity programs and, in general, the same funda-

446

mental principles of design apply to both types of
use. The purpose of this article and the accom—
panying plans is to suggest a few practical consid-
erations in the design of school grounds in order
that they may effectiver serve both school and
community recreation use.

All aspects of the problem of planning school
grounds for community use cannot be considered
in a brief article, but attention will be focused on
the development of elementary school and high
school sites. The accompanying plans are intended
merely to illustrate general principles in the design
of school grounds and, for this reason, they con-
tain few details. Obviously, no standardized plan
is possible or desirable. In both plans, the location
of the school building on the site is indicated, but
the building lines are intended merely to suggest
the approximate location and dimensions of the '
area occupied, rather than to indicate the specihc
size and shape of the building.

Development of Elementary School Grounds

Leading school authorities have long advocated
five acres as a minimum site for elementary
schools and, increasingly, sites of this size have
been acquired. More recently, still larger sites
have been advocated; for example, the National
Council on Schoolhouse Construction in 1946 rec-
ommended that for elementary schools there be
provided a minimum site of five acres plus an ad-
ditional acre for each 100 pupils of ultimate enroll-
ment. Thus a school of 500 pupils would have a
site of ten acres. Obviously such a site is ample
to serve both school and community needs; its
acquisition could not be justified if it were to be
unused during non-school hours.

A large portion of the elementary school site is
commonly developed as a playground, designed to

RECREATION

serve primarily the varied play needs of children
between the ages of five and fifteen. This play-
ground should afford the diversified types of play
opportunities essential to the children’s growth
and development, whether such opportunities are
provided as a part of the regular school program
or outside of school hours. A small section may
need to be set aside for the play of children of
pre-school age, and limited opportunities for use
of the playground by young people and adults liv-
ing in the neighborhood may also be desirable.
The accompanying plan for the development of an
elementary school ground is intended to suggest
how a six and a half acre site may be designed for
both school and community use.

.It will be noted that one corner of the property,
comprising about one acre, is devoted to the site
of the school building. The various sections of the
grounds are arranged so as to afford maximum
ease of circulation, to facilitate supervision, and to
make possible a wide variety of diversified uses.
Much of the area is fenced for greater safety and

a- ——-—.-——n—.———— —- _-_—--—-—_. —_ —_

more effective leadership. When the fence is set
in a few feet from the property line, a border plant-
ing strip can be provided which adds to the attrac-
tiveness of the playground and tends to shield the
neighborhood from the playground noise. Because
of the grades of the site shown in the plan, this
location of the fence was not practicable, but the
plan provides for trees to be planted along the
boundaries of the site and at other appropriate
locations on the area.

Serving the Small Children

The small children’s area is placed where it can
be reached easily from either street bordering the
school building, without crossing sections used by
the older children. This area is also close to the
building—an advantage, from the standpoint of
supervision, while the area is being used by the
kindergarten children, and also because it affords
easy access to toilets in the building. Among the
features commonly included, in the tots’ area are
sandboxes, low swings, slide, and junior jungle-

.—-—.——-p—-—-——_———_

"H w"_ im- "
:- __ —
'.:;-'

l ,
I 

l ,—

' “L. OFTDALL

 l (6' L5) /
1| /
l

4 OVtKLAPPI/llQ/FIEL? FOIL.
l
i F

L5)

5

. "

Momma? I L? Hoe..th

(/6

pH ---1 r- '-
.H I Jami?”
ml L  IT

L_J 1.-.] '-

National Recmm'on Auocian'on

. _......-.____.-_-.... i..._._... h...“

  

-___._..._.._...._.— .....— —.—.....—._-

, - , man's“!

'5

on

\

\\\
\\ {I
___~ oveNAPPIEE
M 09 then You“ lFolo

\ wohal)

It.va FOIL.

5¢ALL nu FILL?

Study for Development of Elementary School Grounds for School and Community.

IANUARY 1949

447

 

This large elementary school playground was designed primarily to meet the varied play needs of children.
Such play areas can be planned for both school and community use, and as centers of neighborhood activities.

gym, all of which are exceedingly popular with
young children and afford essential developmental
opportunities. Playhouses make possible. many
forms of make-believe and social play, which have
a strong appeal. Benches are appreciated by the
mothers who bring their young children to the
playground.

A wading pool, which is primarily used by the
young children, is commonly provided near this
section of the playground. When not used for
wading, it becomes a pool for sailing miniature
boats. The paved area surrounding the pool can
be used for hopscotch or other games, and during
certain periods it may serve the small children as
a track for their velocipedes and other vehicles.

Facilities for Older Children

Apparatus merits a place on the playground be-
cause it has a strong appeal to children and also
because it contributes to the school physical edu-
cation program. In order to facilitate supervision
and to economize in space, a segregated area,
easily reached from the school building, is sug-

gested for the older children’s apparatus. The.

number and variety of types of equipment to be
provided will vary, but among those most highly
recommended are swings, junglegym, slide, hori-
zontal ladder, giant stride or circular traveling
rings and horizontal bar. A log guard surround-
ing this area is indicated on the plan.

A quiet corner devoted to crafts and quiet games
has limitless possibilities for varied use, both dur-
ing the school term and in vacation periods. If it
is removed from the areas used for strenuous and
noisy play, activities such as storytelling, crafts,
dramatics, and other group activities can be car-

448

ried on without interruption or disturbance.
When it is placed near the school building, tables,
benches, craft materials and other equipment
needed in this section may be stored in the school
and transferred readily to it. A council ring for
school and Scout groups, feeding stations for birds,
a miniature outdoor theater, a nature museum and
an alpine garden are a few of the possible features
that can be introduced into a school playground
and that will appeal particularly to the boys and
girls who have no special interest in sports.

Areas for Games and Sports

Adjoining the section containing the apparatus
is the multiple-use area designed for a variety of
court games, such as shufHeboard, volleyball, pad-
dle tennis, badminton and table tennis. This area
requires an all-weather surface in order that it
may be available for use throughout the year. Its
size will vary according to the number and types
of game courts to be laid out on it, and the other
activities which it is intended to make possible.
This section is used for physical education class
activities, informal individual and group play, danc-
ing and roller skating. In northern cities, if a curb
is placed around this area, it can be used also for
ice skating. Few sections of the playground re-
ceive more intensive use.

A large percentage of the total playground area,
level and free from obstructions, is usually set
aside for field games and other activities for the
older age group. This provision is of the utmost
importance because many of the activities appeal-
ing to the boys and girls in the upper grades re-
quire considerable space. A portion of this area
has been designated on the accompanying plan for

RECREATION

use by the older girls; unless this is done, there is
a tendency for older boys to monOpolize the facil-
ities for field sports. The field area can be used
for group or team games such as touch football,
field hockey, softball or soccer, which will vary
from one season to another. It also serves as a
field for the Hying of kites, for play days, informal
meets, and other activities involving large numbers
of children. It is large enough to permit several
games or other activities to be carried on simul-
taneously and to enable adults to play softball on
the area. A protected corner affords a suitable
location for the horseshoe courts.

The plan suggested here makes possible a diver—
sified program appealing to a wide range of inter-
ests and ages, but it by no means includes all the
features that merit a place on the elementary
school grounds. Many additional features could
well be provided, depending upon local interests
and the unusual possibilities afforded by the indi-
vidual site. I n some communities a basketball
court may be desirable, either on the multiple-use

area or nearby, and equipment for such games as,

goal-hi and tether ball can readily be provided in
small spaces. A section of the grounds, possibly
near the school building; may be developed for
children’s gardens. Tennis courts are commonly
provided.

Development of High School Grounds

The design of the high school site gives rise to
many different problems from those encountered
in developing a plan for the elementary school
grounds, because the two types of areas differ
markedly in size, in the ages of the individuals
served, and in the type of service to be provided.
Twenty acres are considered a minimum for a
modern high school site, and the same amount of
space is essential for a community playfield. The
grounds provide a variety of features necessary for
a well-balanced school physical education program
for the entire student body, as well as opportu-
nities for cultural and scientific activities connected
with the school program. In addition, they afford
facilities serving the leisure-time activities of non-
school youth and adults, some of which have little
relation to the school curriculum. They serve as
the major outdoor recreation center for young
people and adults in the section of the city in which
the high school is located. The accompanying plan
is intended to illustrate the possible development
of this type of high school grounds.

The site in question comprises twenty-five acres,
of which some four acres are set aside for the
school building and approaches. The remainder

JANUARY 1949

of the site is devoted to recreation, parking or
landscape areas. Most of the features suggested
in the plan are used in connection with the high
school program, although a few of them, such as
the outdoor theater, swimming pool and certain
of the game courts, are likely to be used primarily
by community groups.

Relating Indoor and Outdoor Facilities

On this plan, the development of the school
grounds is definitely related to the location of the
school building units. The gymnasium, for exam-
ple, affords ready access to both the girls’ playfield
and the major sports areas serving primarily the
men and boys. This arrangement permits coordi-
nation between the indoor and outdoor physical
education programs and facilitates the use of the
locker and shower facilities in connection with
outdoor activities.

The area adjoining the auditorium has likewise
been developed in relation to this part of the school
plant. A distinctive feature is the bandshell, which
has been incorporated in the building and which
serves as a background for the large outdoor thea-
ter. These features can be used for musical, dance
and dramatic presentations by school and commu-
nity groups, and they are easily accessible to dress-
ing rooms and other indoor facilities provided in
connection with the auditorium. Nearby is a sec-
tion devoted to outdoor arts and crafts groups, at
some distance from the areas devoted to the major
active games and sports. The garden in a court of
the school building affords an opportunity for
observation, rest and study.

Sports Areas

A major part of the grounds is devoted to
sports. Features include the section set aside ex-
clusively for field sports for girls and the nearby
multiple-use area, also intended for their Special
use. The needs of older girls and women are often
neglected in school and community recreation
areas, but on this plan their interests are well
served. The number and types of courts to be
developed in the girls’ area depend upon local
interests, needs and traditions and, as far as pos*
sible, the field and all-weather area should be uti-
lized for diversified activities. Sports suggested for
the area include field hockey, softball, badminton,
basketball, volleyball, shuffleboard, paddle tennis
and horseshoes.

Other sections of the field are intended for use
jointly by both sexes. A battery of tennis courts,
for example, serves as a transition area between
the girls’ section and the major sports area for

449

men and boys. Girls will also make use of the
archery range that is suggested for one corner of
the site. The border of plantings, incidentally,
contributes to safety and also affords a desirable
windbreak.

Court games for men and boys are made possi-
ble at the all-weather multiple-use area near the
gymnasium. It is quite similar to such an area for
girls, but it also includes several handball courts.

Separate areas are provided for football and
track on the one hand, and baseball on the other-—
a desirable arrangement whenever space permits.
The baseball diamond is often laid out within the
running track, but this is not a satisfactory ar-
rangement because the seating facilities are not
ideal for both sports, the skinned diamond extends
over the area used for football, the track interferes
with baseball play, and while baseball is being

('0 mu- 3

f”.- .-..-.'--.-...."...I C IOCOOOIII
i so" LL
792 - sou.“

//

T‘Hult

played it cannot be safely used. This is a serious
disadvantage since the baseball and track seasons
overlap. The suggested plan provides for a quar-
ter-mile track with 220—yard straightaway. The
area within the track enclosure can be used for
football in the fall and for softball and other field
games during other seasons. Bleachers are ar-
ranged so that the sun is at the back of the spec-
tators.

The layout for baseball furnishes an ideal dia-
mond with adequate seating facilities for specta-
tors. During other seasons the field may be used
for other sports without encroachment on the
skinned diamond. A variety of team games may
be carried on simultaneously on the field, owing
to its size and freedom from obstructions. A bowl-
ing or putting green, primarily for the benefit of
adults, is located in a secluded corner of the field.

 

N axional Recreation Anoa’ak’on

Study for Development of High School Grounds for School and Community.

450

RECREATION

Other Features

An outdoor swimming pool, a feature not com-
monly found on high school sites, is also suggested.
Even though it receives little use while school is
in session, a playfield swimming pool is needed in
communities where suitable outdoor swimming
areas are not readily available elsewhere. It is a
most popular feature during the summer months
and enables the area to provide a well-balanced
recreation service. The location in the corner of
the site makes the pool easy to reach, segregates
the swimmers from others using the field, helps
advertise the pool, and occupies space least desir-
able for school activities. Noise from the pool will
not interfere with programs in the outdoor theater.

The wooded area near the outdoor theater af-
fords opportunities for varied development. In this
corner of the site a miniature nature trail might
be established, or the area might be developed as
a bird sanctuary. In some communities, a play-
ground for young children in this corner might be
desirable so as to afford a place where parents
could leave their children while they engage in
recreation activities on other parts of the site. The
area suggested for lawn games can be used for
many forms of activity such as croquet, deck ten-
nis, and badminton.

Provision for parking is generally essential on
areas that attract large numbers of individuals,
many of whom come in their automobiles. The
parking area should lead as directly as possible to
sections of the playfield serving large numbers of
people. Along the upper side of the high school
site, adjoining the football bleachers, is a parking
area of approximately two acres. This is readily
accessible, not only to the bleachers, but to the out-
door theater, baseball grandstand, swimming pool.

A school and community playfield of this type,
developed along the lines suggested in the plan,
provides facilities that appeal to young people and
adults, and affords opportunities for a well—bal-
anced outdoor recreation program.

A Few Planning Suggestions

A few of the major principles underlying the
preparation of a design for a school site to be
developed for community use are:

Give adequate consideration to each of the age
groups to be served by the area.

Provide facilities that will appeal to people with
widely different interests and make possible a
diversified program.

Utilize fully the natural resources afforded by
the site, such as irregular topography, trees or a
brook.

Divide the area for various uses in such a way
as to facilitate circulation and avoid interference
with activities.

Assure safety by careful selection and placement
of suitable apparatus, border and interior fences,
location of entrances, and arrangement of features
on the site.

Provide for multiple use of areas whenever prac-
ticable.

Seek to develop an area that will be attractive
and can easily be maintained in good condition.

In Conclusion

The preparation of a satisfactory plan for an
area to serve both school and community recrea-
tion needs requires the cooperation and collabora-
tion of school and recreation authorities. Only as
the requirements of school and community groups
are ointly considered can a plan be developed that
will afford the maximum service to both. The
services of a competent recreation planner or land-
scape architect, experienced in the design of recre-
ation areas, should be secured in the preparation
of the site plan.

Teachers cannot be expected to instill in chil-
dren an appreciation of beauty, a sense of order-
liness and a respect for school p‘rOperty if the
school grounds are unattractive, badly planned and
improperly maintained.

MN

(RECREATION magazine needs good photographs of playground areas, either showing specific
sections in use or over—all layout—Ed.)

* =|= * *

“We are told that the educated person is both a participant and a spectator in recreation.
Just what does the school, what does the home do to encourage participating recreation? How
many schools establish such recreations as swimming, Flshing, skiing, skating, golfing and nature
walks? These are definitely participating activities of maximum utility in developing individual
skills and pleasures. Is it not more common for a school to mobilize all its resources for the
football team or the basketball team, sports which for the vast majority of children are definitely
of the spectator type ?”—George D. Stoddard. ‘

IANUARY 1949 ' 451

The other side of the usual picture .
In the strangest park in the world,
wild animals run loose and man is confined.

South Africa’s Garden of Edelf

Frederic Sondern, Jr.

      
 
   

/ IiRUGER NATIONAL PARK,

| / in the northeastern cor-
4: j  ~.11er of the Union of South
ii\"// Africa, is the world’s largest
 zoo. In its 8,000 square miles

\\ —roughly the size of Massa—
' . if , chusetts m elephants, lions,
 15— buffalo, antelope and scores of

other animals, from the in-
credible giraffe to the monstrous hippopotamus,
roam as freely as they did centuries ago.

While the beasts are at large, man is carefully
confined. The visitor must stay in his car while
motoring through the Park; he must be in one of
its fifteen camps, behind wire fences and a pad—
locked gate, within half an hour after sundown.

Despite the stringent rules, this unique wild-
life refuge is an adventure. The Park’s roads, a
1,200-mile network, intersect the animals’ favorite
feeding grounds and water holes; camps are lo-
cated in the heart of areas where game congre-
gates. With this arrangement, the visitor sees
many animals despite the vastness of the reserve.

One morning, about an hour after daybreak——
the best time for “stalking”——we were cruising
along slowly when our driver—guide, a gimlet-eyed,
imperturbable Englishman, pointed to huge foot—
prints in the fine red dust of the road. “Elephant
spoor,” he said. Nearby were two freshly up-
rooted trees; elephants often pull trees out of the
ground, apparently out of sheer exuberance. As
we rounded the next bend my wife gave a muffled
shout. Hardly fifty feet away two big tuskers
were cropping some high branches. We pulled
up, and the animals, as startled as we, glanced at
us for a moment, then, with a deceptive amble
that actually covers ground rapidly, disappeared
into the thick bush before I could raise my camera.

“Did you see what I saw ?” I asked.

“Quite,” the calm Mr. Millet replied. He stiff-

h.

452

ened. “But just look at that."

On the other side of the road, and much nearer.
stood a third elephant, unnoticed in ourhexcite-
ment. He had broken off the t0p of a small tree
and was chewing the stump like a licorice stick.
An African elephant looks big enough in a zoo;
in the open he looks a lot bigger. This time I
managed to focus the camera. On the third click
of my noisy shutter he looked up balefully. The
immense body swiveled around, the great ears
fiapped out, and the trunk went up as he took one
and then another purposeful step in our direction.
Mr. Millet let in his ‘clutch. “We’d best be off
now,” he said.

A few months ago, an executive of one of the
international travel agencies, skeptical about the
really modest publicity which the Park authorities
put out, came to see for himself. One of the Ward-
en’s staff took him for a drive. Rounding a bend
he trod on his brake—uhard. On the road in front
of them were seven lions sunning themselves.
They turned their heads lazily, and looked. The
travel director hastily cranked up the window on
his side. After a while a lioness rose to her feet
and walked slowly toward the car, She sniffed at
the bumper, licked the headlights, made a few
passes at her reflection in the glossy paint of a
door, then hoisted herself up to peer in at a win-
dow, pressing her nose against the pane. Satisfied
with her inspection, she ambled back to her babies.
The Park thcer honked his horn; the lions, one
after the other, moved grudgingly aside and waited
for the automobile to go by. “We had no more
trouble convincing that travel director,” one of the
Rangers told me.

Remarkably enough, there have been no serious
accidents in the Park since its opening in 1926.
A few close calls, however, have demonstrated the
wisdom of such regulations as, “Motorists are
warned not to approach within fifty yards of ele-

RECREATION

phants.” Several years ago an elephant, irritated
by an automobile following him, simply sat down
on its hood. Having crushed the front wheels and
engine into the ground, the tusker got up and
walked off without so much as a glance at the car’s
occupants. They were terrified but unhurt. Re-
cently a big lion, discovering his reflection in the
back of a stalled car, roared his disapproval and
charged at it. By the time he limped off into the
bush, the rear of the car was battered in and the
people in it were nervous wrecks.

A friend of mine, cruising in search of lions,
was flagged by another automobile. “Lion! Down
on the riverbank!” the occupants shouted at him.
He parked, couldn’t see clearly enough, and got
out to watch. A few minutes later he heard a
scream from his car. His wife was frantically
pointing at a black-maned giant which had ap-
peared out of the bush and was strolling toward
him. The man estimated the distance, ran, jumped
in the car, cranked up the window. “I’ll never do
that again,” he comments with conviction.

The animals do not seem to associate automo-
biles with their arch enemy, gun-carrying man.
There are various theories about this. Some Park
veterans claim that the strong smell of gasoline
gives the wheeled monster a different identity from
man. Other authorities believe that the beasts
know that cars contain human beings, but have
learned that as long as man stays inside he is not
dangerous.

Kruger Park dates back to before the Boer War.
As Dutch and British settlements reached farther
into the interior, the indigenous wildlife of the
country was threatened with extinction. Farmers
were shooting the carnivora to protect their cattle,
and slaughtering the antelope, giraffe and other
wild game for food and skins. Finally, in 1898,
President “Oom Paul” Kruger proclaimed the
area around the Sabi River in the Transvaal Re-
public—a rich game district—as an animal pre—
serve.

The real father of the Park, however, is an Eng-
lishman, Colonel I. Stevenson—Hamilton, who
came to South Africa during the Boer War. After
the war, in 1902, he was offered the job of Warden
of the Sabi Reserve for six months. He stayed for
forty—two years.

Stevenson-Hamilton wanted to make the re—
serve a Garden of Eden, untouched by civilization,
yet accessible to a public which would appreciate
nature and learn from it. More and more terri-
tory was acquired, roads and camps were built.
Finally, in 1926, the Sabi Reserve became the
Kruger National Park and the Union of South

JANUARY 1949

Africa’s number one tourist attraction.

From June to September—the South African
winter——the entire Park is free of malarial mosqui-
toes—and open to the public. During the rest of
the year all but the southern section has to be
closed. A thousand cars have gone through its
gates on a single Sunday. People from Johannes—
burg drive 270 miles to the reserve for a week—
end of “hunting.”

One of Colonel Stevenson-Hamilton’s ideas was
to keep the rest camps in harmony with the sur—
rounding veld. The curious rondavels, (adapta-
tions of the one—room circular native huts of the
district) in which visitors spend the night, are
equipped with only the barest necessities—kero—
sene storm lanterns, army cots, a chair or two.
Most people cook their own meals on open-air
hearths.

When one passes through the Park’s gates for
the first time, one feels as though the clock had
been suddenly put back hundreds of years. Within
an hour on my first trip we saw the wildebeest—
which looks like a cross between a buffalo, a pony
and a moose—the equally prehistoric-looking wart
hog, the pompous secretary bird, quarrelsome fam—
ilies of baboons, and vultures sitting moodily on
treetops. Then, in the road ahead, giraffes ap-
peared. At sight of the car, they loped off into the
bush—but not far. They are incurably inquisitive.
You park and wait. Soon, over the top of a tree.
a mottled head pokes out, fixes you with an un-
blinking stare. “Seems as though something a
thousand years old was looking at you,” our driver
commented.

The coming of darkness in the Park is an ex:
perience. As the shadows of the tortured trees
with their crazy trunks and gnarled branches
lengthen, the animals become noticeably more nerv-
ous and careful of their movements. A percepti—
ble hush, which everyone who knows the veld has
noticed, settles over the country. Even the birds
are quiet. There is tension in the air.

Late one afternoon we were driving back to
camp when two impala—uthe small, exquisitely
graceful antelopes that outrun and outjump almost
everything in the animal kingdom—~crossed the
road in front of us and ambled into a small clear-
ing, grazing peacefully. Suddenly from a thicket
at the edge of the clearing came that unforgettable
sound—the deep, coughing growl of a lion about
to kill. One buck streaked back across the road,
not ten feet from the car. The other made for the
bush, but a tawny shape was at his heels and then,
with a tremendous bound, on his back—just as
the long grass hid them from view. There was a

453

thud as the lion pinned his victim down, a quick
flurry in the grass, and it was over. Nearby, some
hyenas, sensing a kill, yelped. Then all was silent.
Drama in the Park is violent and quick.

After many years of experience and study,
Stevenson-Hamilton came to the conclusion that
the Park runs most smoothly when the animals
are left alone. Very little correction of nature’s
system of checks and balances is necessary. How-
ever, rogue elephants, always dangerous, are shot,
and lions injured in lights with their fellows are
tracked down and killed, since, incapable of hunt—
ing fast game, they go for easier prey and may

become man-killers.

The various species of beasts in the Park remain
in almost unchanging proportion to each other.
And, though none of the Park is fenced in, very
few animals wander out. All through the reserve
they look sleek and well fed, quite different from
creatures in the average 200.

“It’s extraordinary what nature will do,” a vet-
eran Ranger said, “if left alone.”

Kruger Park proved that. It affords enjoy-
ment to thousands of people every year: It is a
monument to a man of imagination.

 

*Reprinted from Maclean’: as condensed in the Reader's Digest.

 w Many Sided Failure

RE THERE THREE principal causes of juvenile
delinquency? The recreation worker empha-
sizes the recreation factors in delinquency preven-
tion; the housing worker, bad housing conditions;
others, the home and family situation, the influence
of the school, the church. Available evidence sup-
ports the position that all these, and others, do
enter the total picture.

For example, figures have been presented show-
ing that the growth of delinquency follows the
growth of national prosperity—that youth delin—
quency increases when youths have more spending
money in their pockets. «Many feel that the na-
tionwide publicity given to delinquency in the
press, in the movies, and on the radio has, in itself,
glamorized delinquency. How can one say which
are the three most important of all the many fac—
tors present?

The family and the home are being blamed in-
creasingly. The “delinquent parent” has replaced
the “delinquent youth” in lay and professional pro-
nouncements on delinquency. It is clear that the
center of the life of the child is, and must always
be, the home. Parents must meet adequately the
child’s need for security and affection which only
they can provide. But are parents always to blame
when this is not done? Can all parents do this
when they must live on substandard incomes, and
bring up their children in neighborhoods and com-
munities with poor schools and inadequate recrea-
tion opportunities? The school, the community,
and the church must supplement the home and

454

Arthur M. Williams

work with it, and the family must have an oppor-
tunity to maintain a decent standard of living.

The school and the community receive their
share of the blame. It is obvious that the essentials
of full living, which the family cannot provide
under modern home life limitations, must be pro-
vided by the community. Good housing, education,
and recreation are the modern social necessities.
Society can neglect them only at the greater ex-
pense of poor health, anti—social behavior and other
costly outcomes.

The church is not without its responsibilities. A
child or youth who not only attends church and
religious education centers but who has a positive
religious way of life, a dynamic spiritual guide, is
not the potentially delinquent child or youth. But
the church cannot successfully meet its responsi-
bilities single handed. It cannot isolate itself from
the influence of the home and community. Destruc-
tive community forces and the absence of a spir-
itual atmosphere in the home can well undo the
best efforts of the church itself. It must support
the community in its efforts to correct unwhole-
some environmental conditions. It must draw upon
community resources to strengthen its own efforts.

Is not delinquency, after all, aggressive conduct
on the part of youth against parents, community,
church, and school because of the many ways all
of us have failed them? The causes of delinquency
are many. Are they not all important?

Reprinted from Institute of Social Order Bulletin.

RECREATION

 

About Boys

After a male baby has grown out of long clothes and triangles and has
acquired pants, freckles, and so much dirt that relatives do not dare to
kiss it between meals, it becomes a boy. A boy is nature’s answer to that
false belief that there is no such thing as perpetual motion. A boy can
swim like a fish, run like a deer, climb like a squirrel, balk like a mule,
bellow like a bull, eat like a pig, or act like a jackass, according to
climatic conditions.

He is a piece of skin stretched over an appetite; a noise covered with
smudges. He is called a tornado because he comes at the most unexpected
times, hits the most unexpected places, and leaves everything a wreck

behind him.

He is a growing animal of superlative promise, to be fed, watered, and
kept warm, a joy forever, a periodic nuisance, the problem of our times,
the hope of a nation. '

Every. boy born is evidence that God is not yet discouraged of man.

Were it not for boys, neWSpapers would go unread and a thousand
picture shows would go bankrupt. Boys are useful in running errands. A
boy can easily do the family errands with the aid of five or six adults. The
zest with which a boy does an errand is equalled only by the speed of a turtle

on a July day.

The boy is a natural spectator. He watches parades, fires, fights, ball games,
automobiles, boats, and airplanes with equal fervor, but will not watch the

clock.

The man who invents a clock that will stand on
its head and sing a song when it strikes will win
the undying gratitude of millions of families whose
boys are forever coming to dinner about supper
time.

Boys faithfully imitate their dads in spite of all
efforts to teach them good manners. A boy, if not
washed too often, and if kept in a cool, quiet
place after each accident, will survive broken bones,
hornets, swimming holes, lights, and nine helpings
of pie.

This description of the male adolescent is modern folklore. Reprinted by permission of The Rotarian.

IANU ARY 1949

455

 

. Helen Anderson
. E. T. Attwell

. Esther Berman
Mae Blaesser
Foster Blaisdell
Jane Bloomfleld
Gertrude Borchard
. Jonnie Brainnard
C. E. Brewer
.Rmdmewn

. Ben Burk

. Alan Burritt

. Eddie Burstein
George Butler

. "CliHie" Clifton

. Jean Creedon

. Peg Dankworth

. Helen Dauncey

. Frannie DiBella
Miriam Dochterman
. "Donnie" Donaldson
. Cathy Durham

. Muriel Edgerton
. Ruth Ehlers

. Dodd Ezzard
.'Turk Faust

. Dottie Forgang

. Mario Gallozzi
Bob Gamble
Cynthia Gibson

. Marie Grossman
. Mary B. Gubernat
. Waldo Hainsworth
. Sylvia Hamburger
Rita Hansson
Rita Hawkins
.HHHM

. Ginny Horton
Mabel Hunter

. Clif Hutchins

. Ruth Krew
Harold Lathrop

. Susan Lee

. Grace Liebich

. Anne Livingston
. Marcella Lovie

. Lulu Lydell

. Jimmy Madison

. Fay Maltese

50. Gloria Marks

51. Andy McKeon
52. Gloria McKetney
53. Ginny Musselman
54. George Nesbitt
55. Marion Preece
56. Rita Puchall

57. Mary Quirk

58. Sonny Rachlin
59. Charlie Reed

60. Tom Rivers

61. Lynn Rodney

62. J. E. Rogers

63. Shuby Robinson
64. Marie Romanoski
65. Joe Rubinfeld
66. R. J. Schwartz
67. Arlene Scott

68. Bill Shumard

69. Frank Staples

70. "Starkie" Stark
71. Bea Stearns

72. Woody Sutherland
73. Donald Thelwell
74Ande

75. Margy Toth

76. C. M. Tremaine
77. Shirley Upham
78. “Van” Van Arsdale
79. "Van" Van Fleet
80. Grace Walker
81. Jim Ward

82. L. H. Weir

83. Art Williams

84. Loraine Williams
85. Chubby Winch
86. Judy Wyler

87 VVHHe'Young

r—u—I
Hopmygpgwww

i—n—r—u—Ar—Ir—r—r—I

\JNNIQ

wNNwNNNI
ppmuamnw

www
vamp-i

WUJUJUJ
wggg

S—\J—\4.\..'.\\NW
wan-«95000

A
..L\


\DOOMQUI

 

Study of [Jig/9 56/9001 yaw/J reveal: mrpriring fact: . . .

How 110 Young People Use Their Leisure Time?

Edward B. Olds

N ANSWER TO this question is of considerable
A significance for a variety of purposes. Edu—
cators know all about what is done by youth dur-
ing school hours, but have little information as to
what activities occupy their time during the sixty
some leisure hours of each week. If learning comes
largely through doing, the activities of youths dur-
ing out-of-school hours may have a profound
effect, much greater than formal classroom activ—
ities. Recreation leaders and agencies planning
recreation programs for youths need to know how
completely their time is now occupied with con-
structive activities. If young people are already
well—occupied during after-school hours, there is
little need for developing further leisure-time ac—
tivities. Parents also need to know how, on the
average, the time of young people is utilized, so as
to know in what way their own children are un-
usual. Promoters of specific activities utilized by
youth need facts on how much use is actually made
of these activities. For example, data on the rela-
tive amount of time spent by youth in reading.
listening to the radio, and going to movies indi-
cates the quantitative importance of these media
in attracting their interest.

What the British or French youth does with
his time is likely to be quite different from what
the American middle class youth does in a partic-
ular community. There are undoubtedly large dif-
ferences between income groups, between sections
of the United States, between age groups, sexes,
and so forth. The study reported here was limited
to youth in a white, middle class suburb of St.
Louis-in the last three years of high school. The
time period covered was the week ending Febru-
ary 16, 1947. The findings may be indicative of
approximately how young people use their time
in other localities, as well as suggestive of one
method for economically undertaking similar

458

studies at other times and in other communities.

University City, whose high school youth were
included in this study, had a population of 34,010
in 1940. It is located immediately west of St.
Louis at a distance of six and a half miles from
the business center. The average years of school-
ing achieved by the adult population were reported
by the 1940 census as 10.7 years. In contrast, the
corresponding figure for St. Louis was 8.2 years.
The average monthly contract or estimated rent
of all homes was reported as $55.90 in University
City as compared to $23.40 in St. Louis. Occu-
pationally, a high proportion of- the employed per-
sons in University City were engaged in profes-
sional, semi-professional, or managerial capacities
(36.6 per cent) as compared to 14.6 per cent in
St. Louis. University City has family incomes,
residential facilities, and educational and cultural
backgrounds considerably higher than the average
American city.

In order to obtain a large enough number of
returns in this survey to make possible the deter-
mination of differences between age and sex
groups, and still stay within the available financial

resources, it was decided to administer question-

naires, through home-room sessions, to all young
people attending the high school on a given day.
Since the University City Board of Education was
one of the sponsors of the survey, no difficulty was
met in obtaining the cooperation of school author—
ities in this project. The survey was looked upon
as an aid in determining what recreation programs
or facilities should be planned for by schools, or
other groups, to counteract the development of
secret sorority and fraternity organizations. The
cooperation of the boys and girls was obtained by
having officers of the student body represented on
the committee which planned the survey. They
helped pre—test the questionnaire by trying out

RECREATION

first drafts on their friends. In giving out the
questionnaires, it was explained that the informa-
tion supplied would be helpful in obtaining more
recreation opportunities for local youth.

The editing and coding of the questionnaires was
facilitated by the assistance of volunteers from
the Mothers’ Club. Representatives of the club
participated in the planning of the survey, along
with the student and faculty representatives. The
editing and coding work was done on bridge tables
in the home of one of the mothers during a period
of one week. Supervision of this work, as well as

the recruiting of volunteers, was done by the chair-
man of the Mothers’ Club.

Analysis of the questionnaires was directed by
the Research Bureau of the Social Planning Coun—
cil of St. Louis and St. Louis County, which con—
ceived the original plan for the survey. This or-
ganization, financed by the Community Chest,
functions as the local planning and coordinating
body for the public and private health, welfare, and
recreation agencies of greater St. Louis. It was
interested in the survey as an experiment in meas-
uring the utilization of recreation services and in
the compilation of basic data for recreation plan-
ning. A committee with representatives of several
recreation agencies had tested experimental drafts
of the questionnaire. The funds for the key punch-
ing, tabulation, and publication of the final report
were supplied by the Council, as well as the over—
all direction of the survey. The direct costs, exclu-
sive of staff service, amounted to approximately
five hundred dollars.

On the day the questionnaires were administered,
February 18, 1947, there were 883 students in at—
tendance at University City High School. Ques—
tionnaires were filled out by 854 students. Only
fourteen questionnaires had to be discarded be—
cause of obvious imperfections. This left 840 ques—
tionnaires on which the analysis was based, broken
down by sex and year in school as follows:

TABLE 1

Number of Youth Participating in Survey
According to Sex and School Year

Boys Girls Total

Sophomores . . . . . . . . . .. 151 131 282

JuniOrs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 151 153 304

Seniors . . . . . . . ... . . . .. 130 115 245

Year not reported . . . . .. 5 4 9

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 437 403 840

The students were first asked to think back over
what they had done during the preceding week
and estimate-how much time they had devoted to
each of the following twelve activities:

JANUARY 1949

1. Classes outside of school in dancing, art, dramatics,
and so on (except music or Sunday school classes).

2. Meetings after school hours of organizations spon-
sored by the school.

3. Meetings of organizations not sponsored by the
school (include sorority or fraternity meetings, but ex—
clude Scout or church meetings.)

4. Scout meetings or activities.

5. Meetings of church or other religious groups (in—
clude Sunday school classes, but exclude choir).

6. Engaging in supervised sports and athletics after

school hours (school teams, church teams, leagues, and
the like).

7. Engaging in unsupervised sports and athletics after
school hours (sand lot, back yard, and so forth).
8. Watching sports and athletic contests.

9. Attending concerts, plays or lectures (exclude church
events).

10. Movies.

11. Dancing or parties—~supervised or chaperoned (ex—
clude dancing classes).

12. Dancing or parties—unsupervised or unchaperoned.
OTHERS: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

For another group of nine activities, the stu-
dents were asked to indicate separately the time
spent on each activity “at home” and “elsewhere.”

13. Music (lessons outside of school, practicing, band,
choir, and so on).

14. Playing games (checkers, cards, ping pong, and so
forth).

15. Making things (hobbies, crafts, and the like). List
each hobby or craft 'below.

16. Radio listening (count only time not elsewhere
classified).

17. Reading (other than studying for school).
18. Studying outside of school. i

19. Regular or odd jobs to earn money, or helping with
housework.

20. “Loafing” or “messing around” with friends (visit-
ing, “killing time,” “passing the time of day”).

21. “Loafing” or “messing around” alone.
OTHERS:

They were then asked to add up the figures, and
if they totalled more than sixty hours (the esti-
mated time available after deducting sleep, school,
eating, walking to and from school) to revise the
figures. They were also asked to indicate with a
“one,” “two,” or “three” those activities in which
they would like to engage more (a) if they had
more time (on the left side of the sheet) ; (b) if
there were more or better facilities (on the right
side of the sheet).

Other questions followed concerning summer
camp experience, relative interest in different types
of specific recreation facilities, and suggestions for
making the city a better place in which to live.
Names and addresses of organizations to which
they belonged were called for on the last page, as
well as classifying information such as age, sex,

year in school, and religion. The approximate

459

house number and street name of the youth’s home
address were also requested so that responses
could be spotted on a map. The neighborhood
allocation made possible the comparison of diifer-
ences between youth in contrasting socio-economic
strata. The accompanying map shows the distri;
bution of youth according to residence.

The following table shows the per cent of youth
who reported spending half an hour or more on
each specified activity, as well as the average num—
ber of hours spent per youth reporting:

TABLE 2

Per Cent of Youth Engaging in Each Activity
and Average Number of Hours per Week, per
Youth Engaging in Each Activity, by Sex

Average number
of hours per
youth engaging
in each activity

Per cent
engaging in
each activity

Activity Boys Girls Boys Girls
Studying . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 87 94 8.4 8.4

Radio listening . . . . . . . . .. 92 93 7.1 8.2

Loafing with friends . . . . . . 85 90 7.2 6.2

Jobs and housework . . . . .. 73 86 8.2 6.5

Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 82 91 3.9 3.9

Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 67 72 4.1 4.2

Musical activities . . . . . . .. 23 43 6.5 5.5

Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 66 60 3.3 2.3

Watching sports . . . . . . . . . 68 47 3.3 2.6

Hobbies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 33 42 4.9 4.1

Loafing alone . . . . . . . . . .. 43 61 2.8 3.3
Unsupervised sports  57 27 4.1 2.6
Religious activities . . . . . .. 43 58 2.6 3.0
Chaperoned parties . . . . .. 24 42 3.9 4.4
Parties, unchaperoned . . . . 29 37 4.0 4.3
Club activities . . . . . . . . . .. 40 52 2.7 2.6
Supervised sports . . . . . . .. 40 27 3.9 2.4
Concerts, plays and

lectures . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 27 38 2.0 2.2
School activities . . . . . . . .. 29 32 2.0 1.9
Scout activities . . . . . . . . .. 15 5 3.5 3.0
Classes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 14 2.0 2.2

(Note: The activities in the above table are ranked
according to the total time spent on them by both
boys and girls.)

A higher proportion of boys than girls reported
spending time on the following activities: watch-
ing sports, supervised and unsupervised sports,
and games. The average amount of time per youth
reporting was forty-eight per cent greater for boys
than girls for these four activities.

A higher proportion of girls than boys reported
spending time on the following activities: studying,
reading, movies, religious activities, unchaperoned
parties, club activities, school activities, and con-

460

certs, plays and lectures. On these activities boys
and girls averaged about the same amount of time.

On the following activities a larger proportion
of girls than boys participated, but the average
time spent per activity was greater on the part of
boys than of girls: loaf-ing with friends, jobs and
housework, hobbies, and musical activities. Girls
exceeded boys in the proportion reporting, and
the average time spent, on loaiing alone and on
Chaperoned parties.

Without more information about the specific
activities engaged in, it is difficult to generalize
about the relative “worthwh11eness” of activities.
However, questions might be raised about the
three hours spent per week, reported by about
half of the young people, on loaiing alone. Loaf-
ing with friends, on which about eighty—seven per
cent spent 6.7 hours each, might be construed to
have certain social values. However, organized
clubs, classes, or hobbies might be considered a
better use of time. Approximately 610 hours per
hundred boys were spent loating with friends, and
I 50 hours loahng alone. Radio listening consumed
another 652 hours. In comparison, Scouting in-
volved only fifty-three hours per hundred boys;
musical activities, 150 hours; concerts and the
like, fifty—four hours; school activities, fifty-eight
hours; hobbies, 159 hours; club activities, 108
hours; religious activities, 112 hours. All of the
above activities combined accounted for only 694
hours for the hundred boys, as compared to the
760 hours spent loafing, and the 652 hours spent
radio listening.

Some indication of the much greater time spent
on “loafing” in areas with poorer home environ-
ments is provided by data tabulated separately for
the working class section of University City. The
boys from this section reported spending 956
hours per hundred boys on loating with friends,
as compared with the average of 610 hours for the
city as a whole. Club activities, on the other hand,
accounted for only thirty-one hours as compared
to 108 hours for the city as a whole. Less than
half as much time was spent on hobbies in this
section than in the city as a whole, and more time
was spent on jobs or housework (1,038 hours per
hundred boys as compared to 600 hours for the
entire city). Movies accounted for twice as much
time in this section as in the city as a whole (525'
hours as compared to 275 hours).

Space was provided on the questionnaire for
writing in the names of other activities which
could not be included under the twenty—one listed
categories. The following appeared among the
added items:

RECREATION

Number Reporting

Name of Activity Boys Girls
Listening to records or selecting and

arranging phonograph records..... 3 18
Talking on telephone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 17

Driving motor vehicles . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 14 6

Shopping, house hunting . . . . . . . . .  5 17

Skating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 9

Social gatherings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Horseback riding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l 4

Pool, billiards, bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 19 2

Outside work for fraternity . . . . . . . . . . l 3

Dates with opposite sex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 5

Letter writing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 13

Swimming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 4

Hiking or picnicking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 10
Trips to zoo, art museum, or historical

points of interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3
Hunting, ushing, shooting . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 1
Visiting with relatives, friends of fam-

ily, and so forth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 3
Riding around in street cars or buses
(other than going to school) . . . . . . . . . 3 2

Participating in dramatics . . . . . . . . . .. 3 1

Soliciting money for charity . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Ads for Dials... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1

' Library . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Volunteer clerical work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 127

One of the most interesting aspects of this
study was the preference registered by the youth
for activities.\ They were asked to write their
first, second or third choice to the left of those
activities in which they would engage more if there
were more time. On the right side of the question-
naire they were asked to write their first, second
or third choice next to the activities in which they
would participate more if there were more facili—
ties. The following table shows their choices:

TABLE 3

Comparative Preferences for Engaging More
in Each Activity

Engage in activit more if there were more:

nne Facilities
Activity Boys Girls Boys Girls
Supervised sports . . . . . . . . . 66 45 40 31
Unsupervised sports . . . . . . 60 17 47 33
Concerts, plays and lectures 24 50 32 51
Watching sports . . . . . . . . . . 39 21 31 30

Hobbies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 37 24 15

Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 65 3 6

Chaperoned parties . . . . . .. 15 26 25 25

Musical activities . . . . . . . .. 19 43 7 8
Unchaperoned parties . . . . . 26 31 8 12
Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 31 8 12

Games  . . . . . . . . . .  17 15 26 15

Classes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 27 8 31

Loafing with friends . . . . . . . 20 23 8 9

School activities . . . . . . . . .. 17 18 8 10

Jobs or housework . . . . . . .. 18 7 17 11

Club activities . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 16 11 13

Radio listening . . . . . . . . . .. 15 12 5 5
Religious activities . .-. . . . . . 7 10 4 9

JANUARY 1949

Scout activities . . . . . . . . . . . 11 3 3 5
Studying . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 9 2 2
Loafing alone . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 2 1 1

The activities in the above table have been placed
in order according to the total of the four columns,
a rough composite of preferences eXpressed by
boys and girls. It can be seen that there is a gen—
eral relationship between the ratings given by the

youth in terms of “if there were more time” and

5

“if there were more facilities.’ An exceptional
activity was “reading,” which received a higher
score than any other activity from the girls. Both
boys and girls indicated a low preference for more
reading if there were more facilities. In view of
the adequate home, school and public library facil-
ities in University City this score seems quite
plausible. Musical activities seemed to be another
activity for which the youth felt there were suf—
ficient facilities, but they would like to engage
in them more if they had more time. Girls indica-
ted a need for more facilities for unsupervised
sports while boys indicated a need for more facil-
ities for chaperoned parties. Evidently, the youth
thought more facilities for movies were not needed
so much as more time to devote to movies.

There are a number of significant differences
between boys and girls and their preferences for
activities, which show up in the above table. Sports
are preferred more by boys, while concerts, plays
and lectures are preferred more by girls. Reading
is preferred much more strongly by girls than
boys. Girls prefer chaperoned to unchaperoned
parties, while the reverse is true for boys. Strange—
ly enough, boys feel that more facilities for chap—
eroned parties are more important than more
facilities for unchaperoned parties, even though
they prefer engaging in the unchaperoned parties
on the basis of “if there were more time.” Musical
activities, movies and classes are preferred more
by girls than by boys.

One of the astounding observations to be drawn
from the above table is that more radio listening
ranks close to the bottom of the list in popularity,
although it occupied the time of a higher propor-
tion of the youth than any other activity except
study. Apparently, the radio is used as a leisure—
time occupation for the lack of anything better to
do. It is not surprising that studying and loafing
alone fall at the bottom of the list.

Evidently more religious, Scout, club, or school
activities are not high in the importance attached
to them by youth. However, it is possible that the
low standing of these activities results from the
votes being scattered among separate activities.
If several sports had been listed, the standing of

461

 

any single sport would probably be lower than the
standing of sports not differentiated by type.

A surprising fact, discernible from the above
table, is that playing games is nearly as important
in the eyes of youth as going to movies. Interest
is expressed by the boys in more facilities for
playing games. Both chaperoned and unchaperoned
parties surpass movies in interest-gathering power.

Both boys and girls show a great deal of interest
in spending more time on hobbies, this ranking
next to sports among the boys, and next to musical
activities among the girls. There is not as much
interest in more facilities for hobbies as in more
time for hobbies. Since most homes in University
City have facilities for engaging in hobbies, this
reaction seems understandable.

Girls showed a great deal of interest in classes
outside of school in dancing, art, dramatics, and
so forth, while boys showed comparatively little
interest in classes. The girls wanted to spend time
on concerts, plays and lectures, only next after
their interest in reading. Their responses showed
that they wanted more facilities as well as more
time. The high cultural standards in University
City can easily explain the interest in concerts
and the lack of interest in radio. A similar survey
in a more culturally handicapped community
would undoubtedly show a greater interest in
radio and movies, and less interest in concerts,
plays and lectures.

Qualitatively, some highly useful material was
received in response to the following question:
“What concrete suggestions have you for making
University City a better place in which to live?”
More than a third of the youths contributed a
suggestion covering the following topics with
amazing thoroughness: parks, playgrounds, swim-
ming pools, recreation centers, teen towns, cultural
activities, transportation and streets, sanitation,
police and laws. The original suggestions were
classified and listed in their entirety in the survey
report. The discussion of the specific suggestions

462

helped to arouse interest in a way that could not
have been done by a mere statistical summarization.

Each person was asked to list the name and
address of each youth organization to which he
belonged, such as Scouts, Y’s, clubs, sororities,
fraternities, church, library or the like. The chief
types of organizational affiliations which were re-
ported were religious groups and sororities, or
fraternities. Forty per cent reported membership
in one, or more, religious group. Thirty per cent
reported membership in a sorority or fraternity.
No organizational affiliations were reported by
twenty-two per cent. The following table shows
the types of organizational affiliations:

TABLE 4

Type of Organizational Affiliations of
University City High School Students

Type of Organization Total Boys Girls
Libraries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126 47 79
School clubs and councils . . . . .. 65 21 44
Jewish national program groups 22 2 20
YMCA and YWCA . . . . . . . . . .. 93 45 48
YMHA and YVVHA . . . . . . . . .. 33 20 13
Boy and Girl Scouts . . . . . . . . . .. 73 62 11
Other Community Chest

agencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 4 4
Music organizations . . . . . . .  5 3 2

Religious bodies (choirs, Sun-

day schools, youth associa-
tions, churches, and so forth) 360 158 202

Masonic junior organizations. . . 35 19 16
Hobby clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 19 18 1
Game clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 20 11 9
Skating and riding clubs . . . . . .. 6 2 4
Sports groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8 3 5
Country clubs and Missouri

Athletic Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 4 0
Social groups other than soror-

ities and fraternities . . . . . . . .. 23 3 20
Sororities and fraternities . . . . .. 279 114 165
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 5 0

(Note: These figures do not add up to the total of
young people included in this survey because some
youths reported several organizational affiliations.)

This survey suggests the need for more investi-
gations to determine differences in the way youth
use their leisure time, on the basis of such factors
as: proximity to recreation facilities, economic
and cultural level, season of the year, size of
community, region of the country, and age of
youth. There also needs to be an investigation of
the validity of estimates made by the youth at the
close of the week for which the estimate is sought.
More detailed studies, based upon depth interviews
with samples of youth, are needed to determine
more specific information regarding the types of
activities wanted. An evaluation of the different
types of activities, from the standpoint of the
constructive, neutral, or destructive elements
which are judged to be present, is also needed.

RECREATION

Parents, teachers, club leaders and the like could
well be asked to rate the different activity choices
of youth to determine the consensus of opinion
as to their relative value. Such research should
provide a helpful guide to planning extra-curric-
ular activities for youth based upon what they
want. as well as what adults consider they want
or think is good for them.

An interesting by—product of the survey was a
page of pictures in the rotogravure section Of the
Saint Louis Post—Dispatch, published on the anni-
versary of the survey. Considerable interest in pro—
Viding more recreation facilities was stimulated
through the survey. During the summer of 1947,

free swimming and tennis lessons were offered,
and two arts and crafts shops opened. Later, three
school gymnasiums were opened for use on Satur—
day mornings. A snack bar was installed in the
high school cafeteria and six all-weather tennis
courts have been included in plans for an athletic
field, which will be constructed soon. A full-time
director of recreation has been appointed recently
by the University City Board of Park Commis—
sioners. While these results are not great, and can—
not be attributed solely to the survey, they do indi—
cate how a significant piece of research in the lei-
sure-time activity of youth can be of assistance to an
active program.

 

Federal Recreation Services

Where to address inquiries for specific information

IIE FEDERAL Inter—Agency Committee on Rec—
Treation is organized for the purpose of coordi-
nating activities in the field of recreation Of the
Federal Agencies belonging to the Committee. The
Committee announces that inquiries for specific
information regarding the recreation facilities and
services of the Federal Government should be
addressed directly to the agencies concerned at
W'ashington, D. C., or to any of their field
offices. The following is a list of the member—
agencies, together with a brief statement of the
type Of recreation facilities or services with which
each agency is concerned:

CORPS OF ENGINEERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE
ARMY—Recreation in Navigation and Flood Con-
trol Project Areas under jurisdiction of Corps of
Engineers.

NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE
INTERIOR—Administration of national parks, mon-
uments, historic sites and other areas which com~
prise the National Park System, and reservoir
recreation areas Of national significance; develop—
ment Of recreation facilities at Bureau of Reclama—
tion reservoir sites of less than national significance
and their interim management pending transfer to
state or local agencies ; cooperation with other F ed—
eral and state agencies in planning for park, park—
way and recreational—areas programs.

FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
THE INTERIOR—Recreation in National Wildlife
Refuges and Federal Fish Culture Stations.

JANUARY 1949

EXTENSION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRI—
CULTURE—Inquiries on rural community recrea—
tion should be addressed to the State Agriculture
College Of one’s own state, or to the Extension
Service of the United States Department Of Agri-
culture.

FOREST SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICUL-
TURE—Recreation in the natiOnal forests.

OFFICE OF EDUCATION, FEDERAL SECURITY
AGENCY—School and community recreation; out
door recreation and camping.

CHILDREN’S BUREAU, FEDERAL SECURITY
AGENCY—The Children’s Bureau is concerned
with the provision of adequate leisure-time services
to families and neighborhoods in both rural and
urban areas. This includes standards Of group
work, recreation and organized camping, which
will insure community programs to meet the needs
of all groups.

PUBLIC HOUSING ADMINISTRATION, HOUSING
AND HOME FINANCE AGENCY———Recreation, in
connection with public housing projects, for adults
and children.

General inquiries concerning recreation matters
not believed to fall within the field Of responsi-
bility of any agency or agencies may be addressed
directly to the Federal Inter—Agency Committee
on Recreation, Room 5138, Interior Building,
\Vashington .25, D. C. The committee Office will
refer the inquiry to the proper sources when
known, or see to it that the information is Ob—
tained and sent forward.

463

Substitute Mothers

sir

LC IS THE painless wonder drug prescribed for
Tall young patients of Bellevue Hospital, regard.-
less of their ailments. Although not a new discov-
ery, it was on February I7, 1947 that TLC-H
Tender, Loving Care in any man’s language—was
formally introduced as an integral part of a New
York hospital’s medical program. ‘ Since then,
women have been coming in droves to Bellevue to
volunteer their services as “substitute mothers,”
offering the children the affection and companion-
ship ordinarily deprived them when they have to
become hospital patients.

Prospective “mothers” are not arbitrarily se-
lected; they must first take a two—week course
consisting of six lectures, three practical observa—
tion periods and an orientation period. These are
designed to help the hospital, and themselves, find
out if they are really qualified and sincerely in—
terested in their undertaking, and not merely
motivated by the glamor of the idea or some per—
sonal frustration. In addition, the volunteers meet
once a week for discussion and are taught to read
medical charts so that they are capable of deciding
upon the activities best suited to the physical and
mental condition of their children. After they
have been accepted by their leader, Mrs. Henry
Alexander, who also is a volunteer, and the hOSpi-
tal staff, their service schedule is arranged to suit
their convenience. Volunteers may elect to be
present at the children’s ten to twelve a.m., two
to four pm. or five to seven p.m. play periods and
also spend. some extra time in helping to create a
puppet for a special show, add some curls to a bald-
headed doll, and to contribute in other ways to
maintaining play equipment in good condition.

The mothers not only love the children with
whom they work, but also learn to understand the
interests of all age groups. They work with doc-
tors, nurses, psychiatrists, social workers. A
trained recreation director formerly paid by the
Social Service Auxiliary of Bellevue Hospital is

464

now dependent on voluntary contributions to the
Children’s Committee of Bellevue. Volunteers come
from all walks of life—some are college students
majoring in recreational therapy; some are house—
wives ; others are socialites or business women. They
differ in age, too, but never in their prime goal—
caring for the unfortunate youngsters whose lives
have been disrupted by some disease or affliction.

In one Bellevue ward, you’ll find youngsters
suffering from Pott’s disease, forced to lie out-
stretched in bed in one position. Some of the chil-
dren will be listening to the story of Peter Rabbit,
told by one of the substitute mothers. A few little
girls will be playing with their dolls, sharing their
enthusiasm with a volunteer.

In another ward, there’s the buzz of activity
as youngsters who are able to leave their beds for
a while gather about a table to play a game, draw
or paint, build a house of blocks. Some prefer
group activity; others like to “seesaw” or play
house with a special friend; still others choose
to pull a walking du‘ck back and forth across the
room, pausing only to have their substitute mother
flatter their toy or to “look how my duck waddles.”

N 0 one in any ward is neglected. Substitute
mothers comfort and play with all of Bellevue’s
children between infancy and twelve years of age.
They are not permitted to visit quarantined cases,
but make certain that games and other amusements
are also provided for these boys and girls.

Requests of hospitalized youngsters for play-
things vary greatly, a familiar situation wherever
there are large groups of children. One child may
ask for a weaving set, another for a microsc0pe.

 

One little girl has never smiled. She has learned to
play with others occasionally, and listens to stories.

RECREATION

One girl, upon admittance, wanted a Bible more
than anything else—a wish that was granted as
quickly as possible.-

But most of the children do enjoy the books,
puzzles, cards, jewelry sets, radios, phonographs,
records and candy which thoughtful people send
them from time to time. One ward even boasts its
own organ. Arnold Constable’s, one of the Fifth
Avenue department stores, each month sends a
carload of toys to Bellevue, and the Madison
Square Boys’ Club makes major repairs on all
broken tricycles, scooters, baby carriages and the
like. The New York Plant and Flower Guild
sends flowers. A few Hollywood celebrities have
sent huge decorative cakes which they, in turn,
have received in honor of their visits to New York.

Not so long ago, a native of India weekly
visited the various wards bringing, each time, large
baskets of fruit and entertaining everyone with
amazing stories. Last Easter, someone sent a
giant-sized chocolate bunny, and smaller baskets
filled with good things to eat. Of course, Christ-
mas also means some extra special surprises along
with a party and all the trimmings. Exciting pro-
grams are planned for almost every holiday, and
unexpected visits from stage, screen and radio
stars help, too. There is soon to be an outdoor
garden where many of the children will be allotted
small plots of ground for planting trees and vege-
tables, to remain under their personal supervision.

Emphasis at Bellevue is always upon making the
wards as homelike as possible. Even the furnish-
ings are conditioned by this desire. Tables and
chairs are gaily decorated and scaled to little folk
size. Drawings, pictures, plants and flowers placed
about lend a more cheerful atmosphere. Hospital-
like tin cups and plates are being put away in
favor of colorful plastic dishes and miniature,
easier-to-handle utensils. Gone, too, are the un-
attractive white hospital gowns. Now the children
are clothed in gay dresses and bright suits they
would wear for going to school. These outfits
are supplied by the city and are washed and
pressed in an unusual laundry especially built for
children only. Substitute mothers wear comforts
able rust-colored smocks, not unlike the housecoats
that may be worn by mothers at home.

Children who must return to needy homes after
dismissal from Bellevue are given clothing to take
with them—a donation of the Heckscher Founda-
tion for Children. To add further to their feeling
of security, and to minimize the sudden change in
conditions, children may also take home the toy
to which they have become most attached during
their hospitalization.

JANUARY 1949

 

Children live and play in surroundings as homelike
as possible. Gay dresses replace white hospital gowns.

The problems of each child here are different,
and it is up to the substitute mother to treat each
as an individual, catering to his smallest needs
and emotions. Where one child may have an ex-
tremely happy nature, another’s need for attention
and care may seem insatiable. There’s a little
blonde girl, about three years old, in one of the
wards, who has never smiled. She plays with her
toys, joins the other children on a few occasions,
listens to the music and stories, but nothing and
no one can ever bring a hint of a smile to her lips.

Substitute mothers have a very grave reSponsi-
bility indeed, for not only do they plan the chil-
dren’s recreation program, but, in many cases,
their future lives as well. There are a number of.
boys and girls who must spend a great part of their
lives in the hospital. Therefore, it is the volunteers,
in constant association with them, who help, to
some degree, in molding their development into
teen-agers, in teaching them skills and interests
to be used later on, in showing them their way in
life.

The “mothers” are doing wonderful work, as is
evident in the happy faces of playful children who
know that the arms of these women are always
outstretched to cradle and comfort them.

Bellevue Hospital is showing much concern for
the normal recreation development of these young-
sters. The program, although still in the experi-
mental stage, has accomplished much medically,
spiritually and emotionally. It is to be hoped that
city subsidization, which now is under considera—
tion, will make it possible for this wonderful pro-
gram to continue.

465

 

Center for Displaced Teen-Agers—A pioneer—
ing project, first of its kind in Germany, was
inaugurated recently when an adolescent center in
the British Zone was opened for sixteen to eight-
een-year-old displaced youths. The forty-room
center, located in an old German cavalry school
in the town of Verden, has long been a plan of
the Unitarian Service Committee .in cooperation
with the Universalist Committee. Eventually the
center will become the home of ninety displaced
boys and forty girls. The boys will attend a trade
school in the town, Operated by the British Con—
trol Commission of Germany, which provides
courses in tailoring, radio, carpentry, general me—
chanics, electrical work, cobbling, masonry and
bricklaying. Facilities of a nearby agricultural
school will be available to boys who are interested
in farming. Since, however, no comparable train-
ing is provided for the DP girls, the center will
develop and operate, within itself, its own pro—
gram of sewing, care of babies, cooking and
housework, in general.

School hours over, the center will provide a
modern health program. Recreation and sports
will be supervised by a trained worker and, in
addition, there will be English instruction and dis-
cussions designed to orientate the boys and girls
toward life in America or parts of the British
Commonwealth to which they may. emigrate.

'83

More Books for More Children—Observance
of the 1948 Children’s Book Week was climaxed
by the Boys’ and Girls’ Book Fair, November
19-22, at the American Museum of Natural His—
tory in New York City. Sponsored by the N em

4436

York Times, the Children’s Book Council and the'
Museum, this second annual Fair was a colorful
and popular event attended by young people of
all ages, their parents, teachers and librarians.
The continuous entertainment included dancing
and dramatic groups, puppet shows, community
singing and folk dancing, and personal appear—
ances of favorite authors and artists. Thousands
of books were on display, including foreign lan-
guage editions, with the original illustrations and
photographs.
'9?

Guide for Leaders—The Department of Rec-
reation of Martinsville, Virginia, was anxious to
have a very successful summer program this year.
Therefore, it compiled a guide for play leaders
which offers suggestions for varied and entertain-
ing programs; qualifications of a good leader;
recommendations on the care and equipment of
buildings and grounds, registration, general'con—
duct on the playgrounds, public relations, public—
ity and the like. Stressed throughout the guide is
the underlying theme that a leader must not only
be responsible, friendly, creative, imaginative and
capable, but that a good leader must also have a
firm conviction as to the importance of his job, a
desire and capacity for work, definite goals and
plans, kindness, a keen sense of justice, and a
ready smile.

‘8?

Festival Time Soon—~It’s almost time to
start planning for the National Folk Festival. The
fifteenth annual singing and dancing frolic will
again be held April 6, 7, 8, 9 in St. Louis, under
the sponsorship of the Associated Retailers.

RECREATION

A Try
On The Ski Trail’

Frank Elkins

UR DESK IS “snowed” under with correspond-
O ence describing the vast program of improve-
ments and expansion in the Northlands and a load
of inquiries from beginners, especially, who want
to know “everything that should be known in the
sport of skiing.” Many thousands will be taking
to this health-building activity for the first time

this winter.
Basically, all skiing techniques—those which

have proved their value over the years and those
new on the market—have one idea: to show you
how to control your skis and thus to enjoy the

sport at its maximum.
Remember, though, beginners should obtain

good instruction. The comparatively small cost of
such lessons will repay you a thousand times in the

long run.
A Few Tips

The first thing a beginner should know is how
to walk on skis. When walking, you are actually
gliding, for at no time will you lift the ski from
the snow. Take longer steps or glides than you
ordinarily do, and use your poles. Here’s how.
Take a long step forward with your left ski, plac—
ing the right pole in the snow opposite the left
boot and use it to push yourself forward as you
advance the right ski. Reverse the procedure, but
always remember to keep the skis parallel and as
close together as possible. That’s all there is to it.

For directly reversing while standing still, either
on the level or on a hillside, the kick turn is con-
sidered the best method. With skis together, place
the left pole at the tip of the left ski and the right
pole at the rear of the right ski. Then, using the
poles to balance yourself, raise your right ski into
the air so that the rear end of the ski rests in the
snow alongside the front of the left ski. Quickly
turn your right foot outward and bring the ski
down so that it' is parallel with the left ski, the
point facing to the rear. At the same time, bring
the left ski around to complete the turn. Reverse
the procedure to turn to the left.

Four Ways of Climbing

To come down.a hill, we must learn first to go

JANUARY 1949

up. There are four common methods of climbing:

I. Straight climbing in the direction desired.
By using the poles, you can climb gradual slopes;
with proper wax or with climbing devices, some-
what steeper slopes.

2. Switch—back or zig-zagging (traversing) up
a steeper slope. Climb as steeply as possible across
the face of the hill, execute a kick turn and zag
back.

3. Use herringbone for fairly steep slopes. Place
each ski at an angle in the snow (turned out)
and, as you ascend, you’ll leave a herringbone pat—
tern behind you. This is quick and efficient, but
quite tiring.

4. Sidestepping is used for the steepest slopes,
or for short, steep or obstructed bits of terrain.
Standing with skis parallel and at right angles
to the slope, take a side step upward with the up-
hill ski, using the downhill pole for support. Then,
shifting your weight to the uphill ski, bring the
downhill ski alongside and repeat the process.

,After mastering these fundamentals. and having
the “feel” of your skis, you are now ready for the
fun of skiing—downhill running. Remember this
cardinal principle: the whole science of skiing
begins and ends with the knees and the ankles.
Your knees act as a spring to absorb terrain shocks
under the skis. They should always be relaxed and
springy. Also, stand straight on the slope; do not
lean into it as is the natural tendency.

From here on, into the snowplow, the stem turn,
jump turn, and the like, your best guide will be
instruction and. of course, experience.

Learn the Fundamentals

The importance of learning to ski through the
proper channels cannot be stressed too much.
Don’t try to be a champion overnight. Start on
practice slopes. Then, when you have improved
sufficiently, attempt the steeper hills. But be sure
that you have learned the fundamentals before try-
ing advanced trails. Emphasis should be placed on
the importance of being relaxed at all times. Never
overdo your skiing. Stop when it becomes hard,
tiresome work. N 0 good ski instructor will try to
make the sport a drudgery for his pupils. Never
ski unless snow conditions are suitable. Remember
--—“ski safely.”

For those who will take to the woods and hills
to enjoy their snow—clad beauty during the winter,
we remind you of the words of the late Fridtjof
Nansen, great Norwegian diplomat and humani—
tarian : “He who wishes to become acquainted with
Nature in her noblest form should learn to ski!”

*Reprinted by permission of The New York Times.

467

7W 7am

Walt Dawson

9 Community Builds for Fun

This article is based on an interview with Mr. Kenneth
Norrie, in charge of planning with the Country Homes
Estate Community C inic Group, S pohane, Washington.

ESIDENTS OF THE Country Homes Estate, a
wartime housing project, were not content
with the little their community had to offer in the
way of outdoor recreation, and began to demand
that something be done about the problem. Lo—
cated nine miles from Spokane, the community was
somewhat isolated from the numerous city facil-
ities; the people desired some of their own.

It was in the fall of 1947 that the men of the
community banded together to solve the recreation
problem. They organized the Community Civic
Group, elected ofi’icers, and acquired a membership
numbering 600——nearly one-half the total popula-
tion of the two-square-mile area.

The group wasted little time in viewing its new—
1y adopted plan, that of undertaking a project for
the recreational benefit of the entire community.
One member mentioned building a picnic ground,
another a park, but each of these suggestions was
voted out. The children’s welfare was foremost in
the thoughts of the members. This community
was, for the most part, made up of young families
with grade school children. Juvenile delinquency
was not yet a problem, but why not build some-
thing to keep the children busy so as not to give
delinquency a start? Besides—three main high-
ways enclosed the community in a triangle; the
speeding cars were a constant worry to the moth—
ers of small children.

A motion to build a recreation playground, one
which could be used by both children and adults,
was carried by an overwhelming majority, and a
committee was immediately selected to carry out
the project.

Kenneth Norrie, a local college professor and
an engineer by trade, was placed in charge of
building, and was asked to draw up plans. A local
chicken rancher made the first move when he do-
nated a huge piece of land which was centrally
located. As long as the land was used for a play—

468

ground, the community could have it rent free.

Realizing that funds would be needed to start
building, Mr. Norrie organized a group to do
house-to-house soliciting for donations. The re-
sults of this were encouraging. Over half of the
people gave to the plan, and ninety-five per cent
of the donations were of five dollars or more.

Mr. Norrie then set to work with his planning
committee in putting ideas down on paper. The
final draft called for a softball field, a tennis court,
and a basketball court, to be used jointly by adults
and children; and for the youngsters alone, it was
proposed to construct a slide, five swings, a hori-
zontal ladder, three teeter-totters, a sandbox, a
merry-go-round, and a wading pool. Also included
in the plans were drinking fountains, lavatories,
and an equipment room.

W ith this goal in mind, the planning committee
enlisted the help of other members of the commu—
nity, and all who could lend a hand joined in to
begin construction. The first project was the build-
ing of an elongated picket fence, ten feet in height,
to enclose the spacious field.

There was a shortage of experienced carpenters
and plumbers in the area, but this did not worry
the enthusiastic group. Members pooled their
knowledge and each did what he could. Insisting
that anyone could drive a nail, they went ahead
to build forms for the wading pool with the deter-
mination of professional carpenters. Others joined
in digging a 400-foot ditch for water pipes and
sewage drains. Even with the generous contribu-
tions of many interested people, there was no
money to spare for the hiring of professionals ; and,
for that reason, everything was constructed on a
cooperative plan, pooling time, ideas and labor.

At the end of the field marked for the softball
diamond, one group removed a rise in the ground
near the middle of the proposed playing space,
while another group cleared excess clumps of grass

RECREATION .

which were prevalent in most of the area.

Even with the free labor and tools, however,
financial difficulties were inevitable. The cost of
materials for the water facilities and teeter-totters,
metal supports for the swings and ladders, and
backboards for the basketball hoops totalled above
the granted sum. But the Spokane Athletic
Round Table, a city sports organization, came to
the rescue with a $250 donation to help defray the
rising expenses. The Washington State College
Agriculture Extension Department offered the
Civic Group sufficient numbers of assorted trees
to beautify the recreation grounds and to give it
wind support, the trees having been added this
summer.

The outstanding problems of the project have
now been met, and the facilities for baseball, bas-
ketball and tennis are in use by the adults and the
children; swings, slide, teeter-totters, and sandbox
are available for the children. After working out
on the diamond, local men entered a softball team

HE GRAND STREET Settlement Award Certifi-

cate, designed by the arts and crafts depart—
ment of this New York settlement house, was
adopted with the hope of eventually standardizing
all departmental awards within the Settlement, and
for the purpose of eliminating the costly and ineffec-
tive medals, plaques and pins awarded heretofore.
Several hundred certificates can very readily be
printed at an approximate cost of thirty-five dollars,
which normally should be adequate for several
seasons. '

In addition to the great difference in cost, the
Award Certificates provide the outstanding boys,
girls, clubs or groups with an everlasting, memo-
rable and tangible tie with the Grand Street Settle-
ment—similar in principle to the honor rolls which
are permanently displayed in the vestibules of high
schools and colleges, or the Hall of Fame picture
galleries of outstanding athletes of physical educa—
tion departments.

Medals, plaques, pins and insignias, on the other
hand, tarnish quickly, are frequently lost or mis-
placed, or very often do not lend themselves readily
for display; while the Award Certificates, when
properly framed or laminated, may be appropriately
hung in the individual’s home or room along with
school diplomas or college sheepskins. I might add
here that organizations wishing to spend a little

JANUARY 1949

71?
a Settlement Award Certificate

in the country league and are using the playground
as their home field. With this number of recrea-
tion facilities, a hundred people can be accommo-
dated actively at any one time at the center. Six—
teen hundred residents of the community are plan-
ning to make use of this completed project.

Even now the Civic Group has the maintenance
problem of trying to provide management and care
for the playground. Facilities were given over to
the Y.M.C.A. for management last summer, since
a full-time director was needed to keep the recrea—
tion plant in full swing.

To many of its donors the project already has
meant financial returns. Real estate men have
praised the community center and have estimated
that, because of its existence, the price of each
house in the area should bring in an additional
two hundred fifty dollars. Members of the Civic
Group are justly proud of their undertaking, and
the rest of the community share with them in the
fun provided for all.

Monte Melamed

more money would do well in laminating the cer—
tificates onto especially constructed plywood instead
of using the ordinary framing process. Laminating
not only enhances the appearance and richness of
the certificate, but preserves it permanently and, at
the same time, eliminates the danger of broken glass
or frames when displayed in corridors or club rooms
throughout the building.

At Grand Street we have adopted the policy of
laminating the certificates and displaying them per-
manently throughout the corridors of the building,
since clubs or groups receiving them are inevitably
faced with the problem of “Who is going to hold
the certificate?” This, however, is done with the
understanding that clubs or groups leaving the Set-
tlement, or disbanding or moving out of the neigh—
borhood may, at any time, call for their Award Cer-
tificates. To date, however, all clubs and groups
have unanimously voted for the request “to leave
their certificates in the Grand Street Settlement
forever.”

(Mr. Melamed, who is Director of Activities at Grand
Street Settlement, 283 Rivington Street, New York 2,
writes us:

“I shall be happy to assist interested organizations
in designing and setting up of similar certificates, giving
them full particulars as regards printing costs, cuts,
paper stock, laminating procedure and sources of sup-

ply.”—Ed.)

469

Recreation News

Declaration of Rights

ASPECIAL CABLE recently sent to the N ew York
Times from Paris, France, reports that the uni-
versal right to rest, leisure, reasonably limited work-
ing hours, and paid holidays was adopted as a part
of the draft of the international declaration of hu-
man rights by the Social Committee of the United
Nations General Assembly.

The text of the article, as adopted by a vote of
twenty-five to four, is as follows: “Everyone has
the right to rest and leisure, to reasonable limita-
tions of working hours and to periodic holidays with

3,

PW-

A number of recreation executives throughout
the United States had sent letters to the National
Recreation Association commenting on recreation
and leisure as a right, and giving suggestions as to
the inclusion of some statement with reference to
this subject in the UN’s international declaration.
The NRA forwarded a statement on this entire sub-
ject to the United Nations.

Park Executives’ Golden Anniversary

T HE FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY convention of the
American Institute of Park Executives at Bos-
ton, October 3-6, provided a happy occasion for a
review of the growth of the park movement in
America during the past fifty years, and “a look
at the twenty-five years ahead.” Theodore VVirth,
‘a charter member of the Institute, and one of the
outstanding park leaders of the country, gave an
unusually interesting and informative historical
review, and Will 0. Doolittle, managing editor of
Parks and Recreation, gave an eloquent interpreta-
tion of the human values in park service.

Many outstanding local, state and national park
leaders gave their forecast of the problems and
developments of the next quarter of a century.
Charles E. Doell, President of the Institute for

470

the past year, reviewed developments in the park
field and the activities of the Institute during
the year.

Meeting with the Institute were the American
Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums
and the American Association of Botanical Gar-
dens and Arboretums.

The following officers and new directors were
elected for the current year: Robert E. Everly,
Superintendent of Parks and Recreation in Glen-
coe, Illinois, President; James J. Curtain, Superin-
tendent of Parks, Waterbury, Connecticut, Vice-
President; Earl F. Elliot, Superintendent of Parks
in Rockford, Illinois, Treasurer; P. B. Stroyan,
Superintendent and Engineer, Park Department,
a director; Raymond E. Hoyt, Regional Chief of
Lands of the National Park Service, a director.

ac * >1:

Statement from two of the convention addresses:

Theodore W irth—“The Playground Associa-
tion, later and currently the National Recreation
Association, met first at the White House in 1906
at the invitation of that champion of the outdoors
and the underprivileged life, President Theodore
Roosevelt. Joseph Lee, Jane Addams, Jacob Riis,
Dr. Luther Gulick, Sadie American and others were
the national leaders in child welfare who attended
this timely and effective meeting. In the forty-two
years of its aggressive work, this Association,
founded and supported by a philanthropic member-
ship, has been largely responsible for the rapid de-
velopment of parks and playgrounds in all parts of
the country and for the acquisition of lands for
those purposes.”

President Charles E. Doell—“It is well for the
Institute to bear in mind that the National Recrea-
tion Association has rendered valuable service to
the recreation movement over a period of more than
forty years. It is possible that a closer and more
effective coordination of activities may be had with
the NRA as well as with other organizations."

RECREATION

Ski School Caravan

AUNIQUE “neighborhood-to-mountain” program
———the Ski School Caravans—has been recently
introduced to the thousands of young ski enthusiasts
in Seattle, Washington. Inaugurated by the Post-
I ntelligencer neWSpaper, the plan provides for the
direct transportation of boys and girls from their
own schools, to Stevens Pass and back again, at

nominal cost. In addition, youngsters are being

taught the fundamentals of skiing from experts,
learning how to guard against accidents. Thus Se-
attle’s winter playground is offering healthful out-
ings for many who might ordinarily be denied the
opportunity for such because of financial reasons.

A Last [Vish

MRS. LARZ ANDERSON of Brookline, Massachu-

setts, has left her loo-acre estate in Brookline
to the town for a public park for recreation pur-
poses. She has also left funds amounting to nearly
$7,000,000 to Brookline, one of the wealthiest resi-
dential cities in the United States, to be used for
recreation.

Mrs. Anderson, who had direct knowledge of the
National Recreation Association from Joseph Lee.
had been an exceedingly active volunteer worker
at the time of the First World War, keeping very
close to the NRA staff person who was assigned
to work in the clubhouse to which she particularly
devoted herself. She was eager to be of every pos—
sible help and no task was too menial.

Election of Officers

T THE American Recre-
A ation Society’s tenth
annual meeting, held dur-
ing the thirtieth National
Recreation Congress in
Omaha, the following offi-
cers were elected:

President, V. K. Brown,
Chicago, Illinois, formerly
Superintendent of Chicago
Park District; First Vice President, Harry Stoops.
Sacramento, California, Associate Director, Cali-
fornia Recreation Commission ; Second Vice Presi-
dent, Charles K. Brightbill, Washington, D. C.,
Director of Recreation Service, Veterans Adminis-
tration; Secretary, Wayne C. Sommer, Washing-
ton, D. C., Director of Camping, Y.M.C.A. ; Treas-
urer, Charles Graves, Atlanta, Georgia, Recreation
Planner.

Retiring president Harold D. Meyer presided
over the meeting and, together with George H jelte,
was a principal speaker.

V.  Brown

JANUARY 1949

    

RECEIVES MERIT AWARD

Mrs. Martha Maitre, City Playgrounds Super»
visor in Mobile, Alabama, has received a civic
merit award for excellent work on the city play-
grounds. The following presentation appeared in
the Mobile Press:

Dear Mrs. Maitre:

I want to call the attention of Mobilians to the
importance of the work you are doing as play-
grounds supervisor. Your hard and devoted work
in behalf of youth recreation is bringing joy to
hundreds of our children.

This has been a busy and happy summer for the
many Mobile children who have participated in
your varied and interesting playground program.
Through your efforts in planning and directing
the playground program, Mobile children have
been provided with interesting, entertaining and
wholesome recreation.

The program has turned what might have been
idle and monotonous summer days into full and
busy days of both educational and recreational
value.

Outstanding childrens’ events in your program
were the pet and doll shows. There have been
other special events, in addition to the regular
program of games and handcrafts.

I know that the mothers of Mobile appreciate
the playground program. While the program pro-
vides their children so much enjoyment, it also
helps give the mothers a little spare time.

I want to commend you for the success of the
playground program. As supervisor, you have
given far more of your time and energy to this
important work than would be required. Your
great interest, enthusiasm, and tireless efforts have
“put across” the playground program.

You certainly deserve the M. O. Beale Scroll of
Merit which I am presenting you.

Civically yours,
M. O. BEALE

Mrs. Maitre writes :' “Of course, I was very
pleased and proud to receive the award. However,
a great deal of credit for the success of our play-
ground program goes to the staff of our splendid
playground directors. Also, to the cooperation of
Mr. Ernest Megginson, our Commissioner of Rec-
reation, and to our Superintendent, Mr. Warren
Carpenter. '

“It has certainly been an inspiration to me to
work even more to make our City Recreation De—
partment and program the best possible.”

471

He Was Bitten by :1 Purple Fineh

Vernon Sechriest

HE VISITOR RUBBED his finger thoughtfully and
Texclaimed, “I’ll bet I’m the only man in North
Carolina today who was bitten by a purple finch l”

The scene was the kitchen of the Joyner’s sub-
urban home near Rocky Mount, North Carolina.
The exclamation came from a fellow who had ob-
ligingly grasped, ever so tenderly, the pretty bird
caught in the Joyner traps, while the host was at—
taching a tiny legband before releasing the little
creature to continue its flight among the pine trees.
The bite had come as a minor protest against
becoming one of the birds officially welcomed to
the Joyner household.

Banding birds, however, is just-one of the many
contacts that the Rocky Mount sporting goods
dealer and wild life expert has with bird life every
day. His chief diversion is the taking of motion
pictures, most of them in color, of birds as they go
about their daily business. .

Bill Joyner will admit that he knew little about
birds, and hardly anything about photography,
when he started his unique hobby a few years ago.
Yet, recently, when he had finished. showing his
latest collection of bird pictures at a civic club ses-
sion, the club members stood up, cheered and de-
clared that it was the finest program of the year.

One of the remarkable things about Bill Jo'y-
ner’s brand of photography is the fact that he
appears to be almost within reaching distance of
his prey. Sometimes he is. Often, however, he re-
sorts to various tricks, such as using a telescopic
lens, mounting a camera on the ground, atop a
pole beside the nest, or in a tree, and operating it
by remote control. Frequently, though, he does so
ingratiate himself with his feathery friends that he
is able to touch the bird he is photographing.

\Vhile Joyner has spent thousands of dollars on
his interesting hobby, he probably wouldn’t take
a million for the pleasure it has brought him. In
fact, he wouldn’t think of turning one of the guns
he sells against one of the members of the feath-
ered kingdom because he wants “to see him again
tomorrow.”

A story of Joyner’s quest for the real-life pres-
ervation of a quail family is a typical example of

472

his perserverance. First he found a nest, and then
went into action with his camera. Not only do his
films show the nest, filled to overflowing with fif—
teen eggs, but there is a closeup of the wife of
Mr. Bob White stealing through the grass and
slipping into the nest. Later there are scenes of
the young quail dodging about in the underbrush.

Bill has a cardinal, a catbird and a brown
thrasher who come to his home regularly and fight
their reflections in the window of his den. An arti-
ficial gloved hand protrudes from his window. A
visitor can put the glove on his own hand, substi-
tuting it for the artificial one, and then experience
the thrill of having birds settle on his fingers and
make a meal from the crumbs spread out in his
palm. Joyner said that the finest Christmas gift
he ever received was the bird “cafeteria,” consist-
ing of a sawed-off pine trunk with scooped out
holes in the limbs for holding bird food. Bill
promptly planted this in his backyard and filled the
cavities with seed, peanut butter, suet and other
bird delicacies.

The sad case of the bluebird family in a cow pas-
ture has also been put on celluloid. These blue-
birds chose a neat cavity in a stump for their
home. There the mother bird deposited four tiny
greenish eggs and watched nervously over them
during the period of incubation. Probably, because
of the heat, only two of the eggs hatched. It was
so hot, however, that one day when the parent
birds stayed away too long in quest of food, the
two youngsters literally baked. Bill recorded the
frantic efforts of the elder birds as they fiew to
the stump, time and again, bearing worms in their
beaks and vainly trying to get the silent young
ones to eat.

When Bill went out to photograph a meadow-
lark family, he found the mother bird firmly in-
tent upon protecting her young from the eye of
the camera. The movies, by a “reverse remote
control,” show the photographer reaching into the
nest and raising the mother a few inches from her
seat while the wide-mouthed babies have their pic—
tures taken.

 

Reprinted from the Raleigh, North Carolina, News and Observer.

RECREATION

7a a SW 30¢;

John W. Faust

HILADEI.PHIA, WITH characteristic grace and
Pcharm, on November twelfth honored one of its
great civic servants—a small boy. About 250 of its
most socially useful and distinguished citizens;
the Mayor and other officials; leaders in the fields
of education, social welfare, recreation, business
and the professions, attended a reception and ban—
quet, sponsored by the Philadelphia Recreation
Association, in his honor.

Speeches were made presenting his intrinsic
worth and stature, and his long list of contribu-
tions to the field 'of recreation and to the field of
economics. Framed resolutions, engraved and let-
tered after the manner of ancient ecclesiastical man-
uscripts, were presented to him. A three-fold
cowhide briefcase, hand carved and tooled with
recreation scenes, came next. The crowning “chap-
let of laurel” was the announcement by the city’s
Bureau of Recreation that one of its finest planned
playgrounds, for his home area of Chestnut Hill,
would be named for him.

Who is this small boy? Why, Otto Todd Mal-
lery, of course. The years of his service challenge
the “small boy” characterization, but nothing so
well fits his sparkling inner spirit. If you could
have seen him that night, you would agree—tall,
with an easy grace and dignity, making everyone
acquainted and feeling at home. At the same time,
the obvious pleasure and merriment in his eyes
made one suspect that thoughts such as these were
running through his mind—“Oh, well! I’ve got to
look dignified, at least.” “Hope this doesn’t turn
into a wake.” “They’re good to show their love
and respect like this.” “I wonder if they realize
to what extent they are also honoring Mrs. Mal—
lery ?”

While his contributions of the mind were listed
and honored, what enhanced the effectiveness of
those contributions, and drew the affection of these
leaders, were his unquenchable interest in all about
him; his “living for the fun of it”; and his capacity
for that old fashioned virtue of simple “loving
kindness.”

JANUARY 1949

505509. iP‘ruus

735m 54 372w

.. .VJ .9
Hi ’ I .  .
a  5*. I 

 

When but“ “'07 1337'??? ‘

 

  
    
 
    

 ‘ kw
.  Wary-«é»? r 'n“w‘¢.~,m,_ M, i. 7
no ' --

,—» -'

 First Choice
for

fuery Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

r”: Fltvisr IN flit Filip I
unnuncwnmo connmv o n. IOUIS 3, MO.

 

\"5  "
gun-Q55;

473

 

Porter Basketball Bctop are

   

 

 

- 332mm”

w“

 

PORTER NO. 2i2-WS window span type of backstop is an
ingenious adaptation used where building truss construction
will not permit installation of a suspended-and-braced type
of backstop.

To be completely satisfactory and safe, basket-
ball backstops must be planned and designed
by people with specialized engineering know-
how. Building conditions vary widely, and every
backstOp installation varies 'accordingly.

“0- 237-3 BANK With Porter engineers are equal to any backstoP
No' 2104399“ ""d "‘3' problem, no matter how specialized. They can
'  draw upon a vast storehouse of knowledge
gained through several generations of serving
the nation’s leading schools, universities, clubs
and stadiums.

Why don't you let Porter engineers advise and
help you, without cost or obligation, of course?
Usually, stock models from Porter’s complete line
can meet your exact requirements, and save you
place worn, out-dated rectangular banks with the new money:  yo.ur bu'ld'ng Is In the draw'ng board
all-steel official Porter fan-shaped bank. Formed from stage' n '5 W'se to talk abOUt bOCkSIOPS now' and
a single sheet of steel to a flawlessly smooth face with GVOId problems and disappointments Idler.

a deep-rolled periphery, and scientifically braced for     

permanent, rigid service.

PORTER CAN SUPPLY YOUR EVERY BACKSTOP AND GYM EQUIPMENT NEED ‘EARS OLD. I

THE 1. E. CORPORATION
 OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

 

FREE CATALOG GLADLY SENT. Now is the time to re-

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

 

Reg. U. 5. Put. on. STRUCTURE

 

47 4 RECREATION

Recreation

\

Tools for Tomorrow

Do YOU NEED new material for your town recrea—
tion program, or new ideas for group activities,
or articles for your club paper or newssheet? If so,
you can turn to the Division of Youth Services of
the American Jewish Committee for free assistance.
This service agency, which cooperates with organi—
zations working with children and young people in
order to better human relations, will supply you
with tools which can enrich your program. Further-
more, it can be extremely helpful in planning your
special observances of Brotherhood Week, Febru-
ary 20-27.

Here are some of the program tools which you
can obtain by writing to the Division of Youth Serv—
ices at 386 Fourth Avenue, New York 16:

Stories for different age groups—can be used in club
magazines and the like.

Youth Feature Service—providing regular releases
on events and personalities of interest to youth.

Kits and handbooks—for program directors and
youth leaders.

Film strips, together with discussion guides—for
schools, settlement houses, churches, community cen—
ters and the like.

Exhibit materials—displays, posters, photographs to
promote inter-group understanding. The D.Y.S. will
also cooperate with you in the preparation of special
exhibits for particular occasions and on specilic sub-
jects. '

Radio material—to be used in programming.

Recordings—for leaders’ training institutes and other
local groups.

Play scripts—for presentation by church, school or
community groups.

For further details about these program aids you
may write to the D.Y.S. for their booklet, “Tools
for Tomorrow.”

Removable Posts on Tennis Courts

NIER MUCH STUDY on the problem of arranging
removable posts for skating on tennis courts

IANUARY 1949

Suggestion

Box

 

in Great Falls, Montana, the following method was
decided upon. Good posts of four-inch steel were
sunk deep in concrete. While the concrete job was
being done, the posts were greased well and
wrapped in heavy paper. After the concrete was
hard, the posts could then be slipped out of the
concrete hole. In wintertime, before flooding for
ice skating, the holes are stuffed with burlap and
the cemetery-type tin cans are used to cap the hole.

An Idea

THE MAYOR 0F Union, New Jersey, writes a “wel-
come” letter to all newcomers to the community,
telling them about local playgrbunds, churches,
civic centers, schools, recreation programs, Special
community Observances and so on.

Crafts Groups

NEW CATALOGUE and instruction manual—Jinn
with Felt—contains reduced size patterns for
many attractive projects that can be made from
felt. It is available from the Fun with Felt Cor-

poration, 390 Fourth Avenue, New York 16, New
York.

For Inexperienced Leaders

THE RAFTER CRAFTERS, Box 97, Pleasantville,
New York, are putting out a series of excellent
pictorial program aids for the inexperienced recre—
ation leader. Two, Outdoor Activities for I n-Town
Groups and Program H elps for C amp Leaders, are
packets of twenty sheets of pictorial suggestions,
and sell for fifty cents each; one, C amperaft ABC’s,
by Catherine T. Hammett, is a book with many
clear illustrations, which sells for one dollar per
copy. In each case, a ten per cent reduction is of-
fered on orders of ten or more.

475

PLAN FOR BROTHERHOOD WEEK
February 20-27, 1949

(Sponsored by the National Conference of
Christians and Jews)

“I am more than glad to join in urging an effec-
tive participation by all Americans in Brotherhood
Week.

“Religion is the basis for understanding and good
will, and it is perverted when it is permitted to con-
tribute to prejudice. The National Conference of
Christians and Jews gives a sound community basis
for attacking racial and religious prejudices at their
foundations, and promoting the essential basis of
religion in love and justice.” -—Charles P. Taft,
President of The Federal Council of the Churches
of Christ in America.

PARK SERVICE PUBLICATIONS

HE GOVERNMENT Printing Office has 'recently
issued reprints of additional sections of the Na-
tional Park Service 1938 publication, Park and
Recreation Structures. The following sections are
now available from the Superintendent of Docu-
ments, Government Printing Office, Washington

25, D. C.
Title Price
Barriers, Walls, and Fences . . . . . . . . . . .$ .05

Bathhouses and Dependencies . . . . . . . . . .15

Boathouses and Dependencies . . . . . . . . .1‘0

Cabins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20

Camp Furniture and Furnishings . . . . . . .10

Comfort Stations and Privies . . . . . . . . . . .15

Concessions and Refectories . . . . . . . . . . .10
Drinking Fountains and Water Supply. .15
Lodges, Inns and Hotels . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15

Miscellaneous Sports Structures . . . . . . . .10

Organized Camp Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . .40

Picnic Fireplaces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .10

Tent and Trailer Campsites . . . . . . . . . . . .10

“THE RECREATION DOLLAR”

HAT MAKES A good time? Who starts a com-

munity program? How much money do you
spend on recreation? These and many other ques-
tions concerning good living are discussed in an
attractive forty-seven page booklet, “The Recrea-
tion Dollar,” recently published by thexDepartment
of Research, Household Finance Corporation. The
bulletin has been carefully compiled so that a well-
balanced point of view is presented, numerous out-
standing individuals in the recreation field having
been consulted in the course of its preparation. Rec-
reation executives may secure a copy free by writ-
ing the Household Finance Corporation, 919 North

476

 

Michigan Avenue, Chicago I 1, Illinois, mentioning
that the National Recreation Association suggested
their doing so.

————O——.

“The greatest tragedy about human nature is that
we put off real living. Real living is often postponed
indefinitely. Life, we learn too late, is in the living
of it. I plead with you to learn to live.”

-—Dale Carnegie.

“Tops” in
Good Sport
LEARN ABOUT

TRAMPOLI NlNG
Founded by NISSEN—

Creator of America's First

Standard TRAMPOLINE

A lively playground attraction for all ages.
Write for FREE LITERATURE.

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

200 A AVENUE NW CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-

treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a
good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and Official
Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA LK
HORSESHOE' COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

 

RECREATION

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Canadian Nature, September-October 1948
Your Nature Hobby, Donald Culross Peattie.

Parks and Recreation, September 1948
Golden Anniversary.
The Second Fifty Years, P. B. Stroyan.
Organizing a Comprehensive State Park System,
Arthur C. Elmer.
The Maintenance Mart.

Scholastic Coach, September 1948
Athletic Awards, Kenneth G. Sullivan.

The Industrial Recreation Building, A planning guide
by F. Ellwood Allen and Weaver W. Pangburn.
F. Ellwood Allen Organization, 101 Park Avenue,
New York 17.

Parents Magazine, October 1948
Common Sense About Comics, Katherine Clifford.

Beach and Pool, September 1948
Good Operational Practice.

Journal of Health and Physical Education, September
1948
The Old Hemenway Gymnasium, Carl L.
Schrader. .
Community COOperation for Community Recrea-
tion, Harold D. Bacon.

Parks and Recreation, July 1948
Developing and Maintenance of Grass Areas,
Joseph A. Dietrich.
Fifty Years Ago.

Parks and Recreation, August 1948
A Philosophy for Park Structures, J. R. Lawwill.
Recreational Developments in Ohio’s State For-
ests, Carroll E. Bazler.
Miami Beach’s Pre-Schools, Ruth Geller.
The Maintenance Mart.

American City, August 1948

Technique for Neighborhood Planning, K. Wil-
liam Sasagawa.

Parents’ Magazine, August 1948
Hands Across the Color Line, A. Ritchie Low.

School and Society, August 21, 1948

Organizing Community Forums, George E.
Schlesser.

Safety Education, September 1948
Small Craft Safety Education.
Data Sheet.

Survey Graphic, September 1948
Garment Workers’ Country Club. Victor Riesel.

Beach and Pool, August 1948
Clear, Sparkling Water: Modern Methods of Pool
Chlorination, A. E. Grifhn.

Public Management, August 1948

Long-term Capital Improvement Budgeting, S.
M. Roberts.

Golf Events. The National Golf Foundation, 407

gagth Dearborn Street, Chicago 5, “Illinois. Price

Trampolining, Newton C. Loken. The Overbeck
Company, 1216 University Avenue, Ann Arbor,

Michigan. Price $.75. .

Highlights of the National Conference on Family Life
——Washington, D. C., May 5-8, 1948. Published by
the National Conference on Family Life, 10 East
40 Street, New York 16.

Understand Your Child—From 6 to 12, Clara Lambert.
Public Affairs Pamphlet Number 144. Public Af-
fairs Committee, 22 East 38 Street, New York 16.
Price $.20.

JANUARY 1949

Authors in This Issue

WALTER L. SCOTT—Director of Municipal and
School Recreation, Long Beach, California. Article
on page 436.

GEORGE D. BUTLER—Research specialist and au-
thor, National Recreation Association staff. His
book, “Introduction tO Community Recreation,"
has just been published in a new, second edition.
Article on page 446.

ARTHUR M. WILLIAMS—"Long a staff member
Of the National Recreation Association, Mr. Wil-
liams often serves as the Association’s representa-
tive in Washington. Article on page 454.

EDWARD B. OLDs—Research director of Social
Planning Council Of St. Louis and St. Louis
County, Missouri. Article on page 458.

MONTE MELAMED -— Director of Activities,
Grand Street Settlement, New York City. Article
on page 469.

VERNON F. SECHRIEST — Managing Editor,
Rocky Mount, North Carolina, Evening Telegram.
Article on page 472.

JOHN W. FAUST—District representative, Na-
tional Recreation Association staff. Article on page

473-

In every field of sport in Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball, in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools, in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation,
MacGregor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall-
marl: of quality and unvarying
performance.

m

Ccnctuunll l4.'DHlO ll .

 

Books Received

 

Electrical Projects for School and Home Workshop,
by Walter B. Ford. Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. $3.00.

Everybody’s Party Book, by Harry Githens. Eldridge
Entertainment House, Denver, Colorado and
Franklin, Ohio. $1.00.

Health Program for Colleges, A. National Tuberculo-
sis Association, 1790 Broadway, New York 19.

Hundred Games for Rural Communities, A, by Ralph
A. Felton. Drew Theological Seminary, Madison,
New Jersey. $.30.

Leader’s Nature Guide, by Marie E. Gaudette. Girl
Scouts National Organization, New York. $.35.
Little Golden Book Series—Five Little Firemen, by

Margaret Wise Brown and Edith Thacher Hurd;
Tommy’s Wonderful Rides, by Helen Palmer; Lit-
tle Black Sambo, by Helen Bannerman; The Little
G‘olden Book of Words, by Selma Chambers. Simon

and Schuster, New York. $.25 each.

Local Government Finances in Pennsylvania. Depart—
glenst of Internal Affairs, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

1.2 .

Playing and Coaching Water Polo, by James R. Smith.
Warren F. Lewis, Los Angeles. $3.50.

Popular Mechanics Photo Handbook. Pepular Me-
chanics Press, Chicago, Illinois. $2.00.

Rupp’s Championship Basketball, by Adolph Rupp.
Prentice-Hall, New York. $3.00.

Story of the Olympic Games, The, by R. D. Binlield.
Oxford University Press, New York. $3.00.

Teaching Swimming, by Paul W. Lukens. Burgess
Publishing Company, Minneapolis. $1.50.

Theatre Handbook and Digest of Plays, The, edited
gyolgernard Sobel. Crown Publishers, New York.

The Happy Home: A Guide to Family Living, by
Agnes Benedict and Adele Franklin. Appleton-
Century—Crofts, New York. $2.75.

Toymaker’s Book, by C. J. Maginley. Harcourt, Brace
and Company, New York. $2.50.

Tracks and Trailcraft, by Ellsworth Jaeger. The Mac~
millan Company, New York. $3.95.

Treasury of Parties for Boys and Girls, A, by Judith
and Caroline Horowitz. Hart Publishing Com-
pany, New York. $1.50.

Treasury of Parties for Little Children, A, by Judith
and Caroline Horowitz. Hart Publishing Com-
pany, New York. $1.50.

Weaving You Can Do, by Edith Louise Allen. The
Manual Arts Press, Peoria, Illinois. $2.50.

Youth Fellowship Kit, edited by Clyde Allison. The
Westminster Press, Philadelphia. $3.00.

MULT I -LAMINATED

DIVING BOARDS

Ask for

Free Trial Offer

N. B. MADSEN

2019 No. Keystone Avenue
CHICAGO 39, ILL.

478

 

Ready this month . . .

   

     

NEW
SECOND
EDITION

INTRODUCT10N
o

T
COMMUNITY
RECREATIHN

 
  

By GEORGE D. BUTLER
National Recreation Association

ANEW edition of a popular book dealing
with methods and problems of organiz-
ing and administering a community recrea-
tion program.

This revision will give the reader a compre-
hensive picture of community recreation in
the United States. It includes sections cov-
ering the nature, extent, significance, and
history of community recreation; recreation
leadership personnel—its functions, training
and seleCtion; the planning of recreation
areas and facilities; recreation activities and
program planning.

Features of the new edition include develop-
ments in community recreation during and
after the second World War, recent changes
in emphasis in community recreation pro-
grams, and up-to-date tables relating to
local recreation developments.

    
    

Send for a copy on approval

MGGMW-IIILL BO0K 00., INC.

330 West 42d Street, New York 18, N. Y.

RECREATION

 

Handicrafts and Hobbies for
Pleasure and Profit

Edited by Marguerite Ickis. Greystone Press, New
York.  '*

ONE OF THE most exciting leisure—time books
that has appeared in a long while, this presents
a rich store of suggestions and instructions for the
experienced or beginner in crafts, young or old, for
the would-be hobbyist. Miss Ickis advocates real
recreation, whether these engrossing projects are
engaged in for pleasure or profit, and makes each
activity seem a challenge to adventure. The book
takes nothing for granted; instructions and illustra-
tions are clear throughout; low-cost tools and mate-
rials are recommended. Among these exceedingly
varie—d recreations there will be more than a few
that you will like. Some of them are: paper pulp
modeling and crayon craft; book binding made
easy; model railroading; making model autos;
model boats ; metal craft ; fun with felt ; plastic craft ;
block printing; woodworking, and others—more
than thirty creative crafts and hobbies with step-by-
step directions, diagrams, photographs for making
over five hundred articles. Don’t miss it!

Short Cuts to Finding and Organizing

Research Problems in Health, Physical

Education and Recreation Through the
Use of Library Materials

By Dr. George M. Gloss. Published by the author,
E$121 Virginia Avenue, N.W., Washington, D. C.
1.00.

DR. GLOSS HAS prepared this guide for students

and teachers as a result of his eleven years of
activity as student and teacher in research in rec-
reation, physical education and health education.
He includes detailed suggestions on how to elim—

lANUARY 1949

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

inate waste time in the use of library materials, in
finding source material and references, and in or—
ganizing research problems.

The Folk Dance Library

By Anne Schley Duggan, Jeanette Schlottmann and

Abbie Rutledge. A. S. Barnes, New York.
$15.00.

HIS PRESENTATION OF folk dance material is a
truly noteworthy achievement. In the preface,
the authors have stated their purposes in compiling
this work and, to their everlasting credit, let it be
said that they have achieved every one of their aims.
Brieiiy, these aims were: to present a collection of
folk dances representative of as many nations as
possible, with clear directions and musical accom-
paniments for each of the dances analyzed; to ar—
range the folk dances in units of organization ac—
cording to specific geographical regions, with repre-
sentative dances of varying degrees of difficulty
within each unit; to present background materials
so that the folk dance may be correlated with the
program to the end that participants may gain a
better understanding of their neighbors in the world
at large; to foster a feeling of nationalism in every
country and to demonstrate the closer cultural ties
shared by the peoples of all nations, thereby pro—
moting a broader concept of internationalism; to
indoctrinate boys and girls and men and women
everywhere with the idea that participation in folk
dances is an indispensable phase of their education.
The live volumes which comprise the library are:
The Teaching of Folk Dance, Folk Dances of the
United States and Mexico, Folk Dances of Euro—
pean Countries, Folk Dances of Scandinavia, Folk
Dances of the British Isles.
The dances are well—chosen, beautifully de-
scribed, explained and illustrated; the music ar-

479

rangements are excellent. Eighty-three dances are
presented. Suggestive outlines for the production
of two illustrative folk festivals, and a typical folk
dance party, are given.

For all of you who are interested in using folk
dancing as a rich educational experience (instead
of a mathematical exercise) it is a “must” for your
library. Both school people and recreation leaders
will be delighted with the wealth of material covered
and the way in which it has been handled. At the
present time, the books are not available as separate
units. Helen Dauncey.

Report of The National Conference on

Undergraduate Professional Preparation

in Health Education, Physical Education
and Recreation

Athletic Institute, 209 South State Street, Chicago
4, Illinois. $1.00.

IT IS HELPFUL to have the suggested principles
and standards, which will serve as guides for
institutions interested in training personnel for the
community recreation field as set forth in the R eport
of the National Conference on Undergraduate Pro-
fessional Preparation in Health Education, Physical
Education, and Recreation.

The subjects included are, for the most part,
practical ones with consideration given to: staff fa-
cilities; resource materials; recruiting and guid-
ance; curriculum. Due allowance for institutional
autonomy has been made by refraining from spe-
cific reference to course titles and credits.

The report should be useful to schools as a guide
in setting up new programs. as well as helpful to
those interested in evaluating existing programs.

American Planning and Civic Aqual

Edited by Harlean James. American Planning and
Civic Association, Washington, D, C. $3.00.

THE 1948 EDITION of this annual, just published,

is the collective proceedings of the annual Citi-
zens Conference on Planning. As have its pred—
ecessors, it presents the records of recent civic ad-
vance in the fields of planning, parks, housing,
neighborhood improvement and conservation of
national resources. The subjects chosen represent
vital parts of the year-round educational program
conducted by the American Planning and Civic As-
sociation. These cover planning for national parks,
state, county and metropolitan planning, and the
citizen’s part in planning. A complete set of the
American Planning and Civic Annuals (13 vol-

480

umes, 1935-1948) may be purchased for twenty
dollars.

Rhythm Time

By Carle Oltz. Clayton F. Summy Company, New
York and Chicago. $1.25.

THIS IS AN interesting collection of music for the

rhythmic development Of children in the kinder-
garten and primary school age. It is arranged for
piano and includes twenty-one pieces of original
music by Mr. Oltz Of the State Teachers College,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In addition to skipping,
running, marching, umping, swaying and other fre-
quently used rhythms, there are rhythms character-
istic of large animals, animals that hop, trains, skat—
ing, Halloween, dwarfs, and interpretive dance
movements. Each piece is headed by a few lines of
description and suggested activity.

Gertrude B orchard.

Sports and Recreation Facilities

Extension Service, Colorado A. & M. College, Fort
Collins, Colorado. $.25.

THIS BOOKLET 0F suggested plans, designed to
help enterprising communities and schools to
obtain facilities adequate to their needs, also carries
helpful information on selection Of sites and surfac-
ing of play areas.

 

Oflicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCH ER, President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Thrird Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash. ‘
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Bellport, L. I., N. Y.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

 

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

January 1949

Andalusia, Alabama
January 10-14

Jacksonville, Alabama
January 17-21

Anniston. Alabama
January 24-28

Brewton, Alabama
January 31—February 4

Lynn, Massachusetts
January 10-14

Baltimore County, Maryland
January 24-28

Charlotte, North Carolina
January 10—14

Statesville, North Carolina
January 17-21

Warren, Ohio
January 31-February 25

H. L. Taylor, County Superintendent of Schools,

Houston Cole, County Superintendent of Schools.

R. J. Fisher, County Superintendent of Schools.

0. C. Weaver, County Superintendent of Schools.

James Hurst, Secretary, Greater Lynn Church Athletic
Association, YMCA, 85 Market Street.

Herbert R. Steiner, Board of Education, Baltimore, Mary-
land.

Miss Alice Suiter, Assistant Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, City Hall.

Woodrow W. Dukes, Director of Recreation.

W. Robert Smalls, Executive Secretary, Warren Urban
League, 727 Park Avenue.

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually
open to all who Wish to attend. For details as to the location of the institute, contents of courses.
registration procedure. and the like, communicate with the sponsors of the institutes as listed above.

Congratulations, sir! Your bandaged beak
is a badge of honor!

It’s a sure sign that you, like most of us
these days, have been keeping your nose
to the grindstone—working your hardest
just to keep your family living the way
you want them to live.

But what of the future? Your nose can’t
take it forever. Someday you’ll want to
retire, to follow the hobbies and take the
trips and do the things that you’ve always
dreamed of doing.

That’s going to take just one thing—-
MONEY! And will you have it when you
want it?

 

You will if you’re buying U. S. Savings
Bonds automatically—on the Payroll Sav-
ings Plan where you work, or on the Bond-

A-Month Plan at your bank.

It’s just about the easiest, surest, fastest
way of building financial security that
anyone ever dreamed  And with U. S.
Savings Bonds, you make money while you
save it. Every $75 Bond you buy today
will be worth $100 in just 10 years!

Start buying your bonds automatically
now! Keep on doing it! And in no time
fiat, you’ll find that you’re well on your
way to a permanent separation of nose
and grindstone!

AUTOMATIC SAVING l5 suns SAVING- u.s. SAVINGS BONDS

 

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation with
the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

