 

Contents

 

May 1949

The Home and Recreation (Editorial),

by Howard Braucller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Recreation Comments—Letters to and

from the Editorial Department . . . . . . 50
The NRA Adds Another Year . . . . . . . . . . 66

Pet Birds Are Funl, by Mildred Stevenson 68

People in Recreation . . . Meet Gramps

Mathias of West End . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Parks and People, by Victor H. Cahalane 72
For 100 Years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Problems of Parks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Patterns for Programs in Honor of

Joseph Lee

San Francisco, by Gertrude S. Freese . . 76

Baltimore, by Edyth G. Onion . . . . . . . 77
Park and Recreation Week . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Hiking—As a Sport, by Roland C. Geist. . 79

James Edward Rogers Retires . . . . . . . . . 81
National Music Week . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
“The Pcckham Experiment” . . . . . . . . . . 85
Comic Books . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91

Older Adults

Your Play . . . Planning for the Oldsters
of Today . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51

A Few References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

Again in the Center of Things,

by Andrew A. Sargis . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

1..

Neighborhood Responsibility for the
Older Person, by Ollie Randall . . . . . . . 54

County Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

Conference on Recreation for Older Folks 56

In the ‘Vind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

A Bird’s-Eye View of Recreation Program
for Older Folks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Paradise Center, by Ruth E. Swezey. . . . . 62

A Place in the Sun, by Frances Joyner. . . 63
Canadian Oldsters Like to Play, Too

Teen-Agers Start Something,
by Sid Kirk and Trudy Nicholls . . . . 64

The Seniors’ Club, by Alice Robertson 65

Regular Features

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95

Recreation Training
Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

 

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted to: Terry and Amos
Photographers for picture on page 51 and two of Santa Bar-
bara on page 58; Bella Heyman, New York, for that on page
54; Don Craven: and Nashville Tennessean Illagazine for one
on page 58; George A. Grant and National Park Service, page
72; Devercux Butcher and National Parks Magazine, page 74;
United States Forest Service, page 79.

LET’S GO!
This is her day for fun and saciability.
Many like her attend recreation clubs
with a twinkle in their eyes and a happy

greeting on their lips. Usually they like
everything, and are ready to try anything
once.

Photograph by Ewing Galloway, New
York City.

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Reader:’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the Post Ofiice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in Section 1103, Act of Orztober 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyfigbt 1949, by the National Recreation Auociation, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-THREE, NUMBER TWO

PRICE 35 CENTS

"3%

 

Recreation
MAY 1949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

The Home and Recreation

MAY 1949

HE HOME AND the family are the fouindations'of life in America.

Nothing good outside the home can fully compensate for lack of abun-
dant living in the home.

Wisely, community recreation leaders work to help fathers and mothers
acquire skills and learn wisdom as to home recreation. One of the greatest
contributions of recreation leaders is to home living.

Much free time is in the home. There are many rainy days. There are days
of children’s diseases. There are hours too dark for play outside.

Happy are the fathers and mothers who can tell bedtime stories, participate
in charades, help the children to think of joyous activities, really enjoy playing
games with the children.

Happy are the homes that have indoor and outdoor fireplaces, a piano to
gather around for family singing, a dining—room table as a center for a jolly
good time while the family eats, an attic with trunks full of costumes for little
girls, a play room that belongs to the children, a workshop tool room where
father and son can make things together, a garden where growing things can be
watched and helped to grow, a sandbox on the porch or in the shade, trees
that can be climbed, a sunny backyard with play materials where absorbing
play is more important than perfect order. Of course, there ought to be a dog—
at least if there is a boy.

A very little hill or incline that a child can roll down is very welcome and
never tired of. A place to cook out-of-doors is tops. Of course, always there
must be books—at least a few—within easy reach of the children.

It goes without saying that mothers and fathers should seek training to make
themselves play leaders recOgnized as competent by the children.

Of course, the family automobile must be a family recreation center, it must
know the way to family picnic grounds, to bathing beaches, to ice skating ponds,
to the zoo, to neighborhood recreation centers where whole families may go
together.

The family that plays together and prays together stays together.

That family really lives. That family has memories.

There is no substitute for family recreation and family living.

Upon such family life America is built.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

49

RECREATION

ammo/1,254

LETTERS TO AND FROM THE EDITORIAL .DEPARTMENT

To RECREATION:

“May I make one suggestion for your consid-
eration? It has occurred to me that you might
like to develop a series of verbal visits to the homes

Of recreation personnel here and there throughout

the country. I am sure among both volunteers and
professional workers you would find not only some
very interesting ideas for recreation programming,
but also you would capture some very interesting
moments in the lives of peOple who dedicate their
services to the recreation movement.”

CHARLES F. WECKWERTH, Director

of Recreation and Camping, Spring-

field College, Alassachusetts.

TO SUBSCRIBERS:

Following up this suggestion, do you know Of
any colleague in recreation work who follows an
outstanding or unique hobby? Have you one Of
your Own? What is it? Why is it unique? Would
you like to tell us about it? What is the pattern
Of recreation as it involves your own home? What
does each member of the family do tO achieve per-
sonal satisfaction, recreation? Separately? Col-
lectively?

If you would be interested in reading a series
of articles such as suggested by Mr. Weckwerth,

the first step will be to share such experiences
with us.—Ed.

TO RECREATION:

“I would like to see a short description of the
author’s background right beneath his name—on
the same page as his article in RECREATION maga-
zine. To thumb back through the rear pages to
find out his authority is a waste of time and paper.
I associate articles with the people who write them;
many times I want to know who the person is
before I begin to read his story. . . .”

THOMAS S. YUKIE, Director of
Recreation, Cortland, New York.

50

TO SUBSCRIBERS:

\Ve welcome practical suggestions and coopera-
tion from our readers, such as the above, and in
answer would like to say that, whenever possible,
we shall present any available information about
the author on the first page of a given article.
This practice was first tried in the April RECREA-
TION, and is used throughout this issue. We hope
it will prove satisfactory.—Ed.

TO RECREATION:

“We like RECREATION magazine and in it find
many very valuable articles and suggestions. There
is one very serious drawback, however. I refer to
the date on which these magazines arrive. If it
were possible for you to let us have suggested
seasonal programs a little earlier, it would be ap-
preciated. It is true that we can keep them for
the next year and that many Of the ideas are ap-
plicable to more than the current month. . . .”

LIONEL SCOTT, Executive Director,
City of St. Ca-tharines’ Recreation
Commission, Ontario, Canada.

TO SUBSCRIBERS:

Mr. Scott’s point is well taken, and one with
which we heartily agree. This matter has been of
concern to RECREATION staff for some time and
everything possible is being done tO adjust time
schedules for preparation and printing, so that the
magazine will be reaching you at an earlier date.
\Ve ask readers to bear with us until this can be
accomplished; and we take this opportunity to
caution everyone who is contemplating submitting
seasonal material for publication to have it in our
hands at least three months in advance. For exam-
ple, if we are to keep to an advance schedule, a
Halloween article sent to us in September—or
even in August—would be too late for use during
the current year.

DOROTHY DONALDSON,
Managing Editor, RECREATION.

RECREATION

YOUR PLAY

Planning for the
Oldsters of Today

ODAY THE ATTENTION of recreation, church,

welfare and numerous other agencies, both pub-
lic and private, is—of necessity—turning more and
more toward helping older people to secure a happy
and full life in their later years. As a result of the
industrial age, with shorter working hours and
retirement automatically attained at sixty-live,
there are now large numbers of unhappy, older
people who feel insecure, or unwanted, because
they do not seem to fit into the scheme of today’s
living. Physiological and psychological facts re—
garding the elderly are being subjected to closer
study by the medical profession, and by sociolo-
gists, with surprising results. It is now recog-
nized that our life—span has increased, that in the
years to come there will be relatively more older
people than younger, that chronological age and
psychological age do not tally—that being “old”
has less to do with years than had been supposed,
and that recreation is extremely important to the
mental and physical health of the elderly as well
as of the young.

In planning community organization for social
welfare, therefore, the needs of this large group
must be considered and met in a variety of ways;
and responsibility for the interpretation of these
new needs to citizens at large must fall, in great
part, upon service organizations.

According to Dr. Hertha Kraus,1 in her article,
C ommunity Planning for the Aged,2 “Making our
communities better living places for aging and
aged people will require attention to many phases.-
. . . A check list of tentative suggestions may be

2Dr. Kraus, of the De artment of Social Economy and Social
Research, _Bryn Mawr Cpl ege, has served as consultant to federal,
5001a], relief, rehabilitation and research organizations.

lJounzal of Gerontology, Vol. 3, No. 3, April 1948. Reprints
available, Bryn Mawr.

MAY 1949

 

grouped around five major areas in which more
organized resources will be needed:

I. Employment security.

2. Income security.

3. Home security.

4. Health security.

5. Greater security in education and use of lei—

_ sure time.”

In one of these major areas—u—the field of leisure—
time interestsu—much already is being done by
wide-awake recreation departments in local com-
munities, welfare departments, settlements, and
by scattered private agencies. Recreation workers,
by and large, are only too cognizant of the needs
of this group of people and have been doing much
to meet them as they arise. They have found that
older people are lonely; that they need responsi-
bility, affection, and attention; that they are espe-
cially interested in service projects, in doing things
that are “purposeful.”

At the last National Recreation Congress, Dr.
W illiam Menninger,3 in his address to recreation
workers, stated, “Recreation is an extremely im—
portant aid to growing older gracefully. People
who stay young, deSpite their years, do so because
of an active interest that provides satisfaction
through participation. The elderly person with a
hobby is almost always an alert, interesting per—
son. . . . By contrast, there is no more pathetic
sight than the older person who has no interest in
life and only sits and waits—vivid evidence of the
value of recreation to mental health.” (See Rec—

 

3Of the Menninger Psychiatric. Clinic, Topeka, Kansas; Presi-
dent of the American Psychiatric Assocmtion; Chief of Army
Neuropsychiatric Services during the last war.

51

reation and Mental Health by Dr. Menninger, in
RECREATION, November 1948.)

\Vhile many years ago, Joseph Lee—father of
the playground movement in this country—said,
“W e do not cease playing because we are old; we
grow old because we cease playing.”

Articles on the subject of recreation for the
elderly, which have been published in RECREATION
since 1940, are:

Recreation for Older People—October 1940

Softball for Oldsters—March 1941

Playgrounds for Old People—December 1941

Hobbies and Happiness in Old Age—January 1942
Treasures Everywhere—January 1942

Fun Begins at 70—February 1942

I Love the City—March 1942

As Young as They Feel—November 1943

Old Timers Chiba-December 1943

Hobbies as Recreation for Older People—August 1944

A Few References on

Not Too Old to Enjoy Life—September 1944

No Hits, No Runs, Plenty Errors—October 1944

Richer Lives for the Elderly—August 1945

Recreation for Older People—September 1945

Human Problems of Old Age—October 1945

Full Lives for the A geduDecember 1945

Life Begins at Forty Plus—August 1946

Antidote to Loneliness—September 1946

Recreation on Welfare Island—September 1946
Recreation for Older People in Rural Communities——

November 1946
A Recreation Club for the Aged—January 1947

The Other Half of the Playground Movement—August
1947

No One Under Sixty Need 'Apply—Novemlber 1948
Recreation and Older Folks—February 1949

A few samples of the many recreation programs
for the elderly, initiated by various community
services, will be found throughout the following
pages of this issue of the magazine.

Recreation and the Older Adult

Books

Aging Successfully, by George Lawton. Columbia
University Press, 2960 Broadway, New York 27.
1946. 266 pages. $2.75.

Best Years: How to Enjoy Retirement, The, by \Val-
ter B. Pitkin. Current Books, 23 West 47 Street,
New York 20. 1946. 194 pages. $2.00.

Creative Old Age, by Clare de Gruchy. Old Age
Counselling Center, San Francisco, California. 1946.
143 pages. $2.75.

How to Retire and Like It, by Raymond P. Kaighn.
Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York
17. 1942. 170 pages. $1.75.

New Goals for Old Age, edited by George Lawton.
Columbia University Press, 2960 Broadway, New
York 27. 1944. 210 pages. $2.75.

Pamphlets and Magazine Articles

Age Will Be Served. Brooklyn Council for Social
Planning, 72 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn 2. 1948.
32 pages. $.50.

Creative Energy Is Ageless, by Harry A. Levine.
Better Times, 44 East 23 Street, New York 10.
May 10, 1946.

11% Plus—Recreation for Older People. National Rec-
reation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. 1947. 29 pages. $.25.

Life for Later Years, A. Junior League Magazine,
Association of Junior Leagues, Waldorf-Astoria
{10:51, 50 Street and Park Avenue, New York. May

94 .

Live Long and Like It—Cleveland’s Exhibition for
the Aged, by Mrs. Lucia J. Bing. Public Welfare,
American Public \Velfare Association, 1313 East
60 Street, Chicago 37, Illinois. March 1946.

Making the Most of Maturity. John Hancock Mutual

52

Life Insurance Company, Life Conservation Serv-
ice, Boston, Massachusetts. 1946. 32 pages. Free.

Never Too Old to Work or Play, by Grace C. Hilden-
brand. New York City Home for Dependents, Wel-
fare Island, New York. 1946. 16 pages. Free.

Old Age in New York City, by Helen Hardy Brunot.
Welfare Council of New York City, 44 East 23
Street, New York 10. 1943. 128 pages.

Our Older Citizens; Meet Yourself at 65; Life Begins
at Forty Plus; You Cannot Demobilize Old People,
Survey Midmonthly, 112 East 19 Street, New York 3.
April 1946.

Panel Discussions on Programs for the Elderly—Pro-
ceedings of the National Recreation Congress. Na-
tional Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10. 1948, $2.25; 1947, $2.25; 1946, $1.75.

Protestant Churches and the Aged in New York City,
The. The Pathfinding Service for the Churches, 105
East 22 Street. New York 10. 1948. 22 pages. $.25.

Recreation for the Aged, by John J. Grifhn. Public
Welfare, American Public Welfare Association, 1313
East 60 Street, Chicago 37, Illinois. December 1944.

Salient Points on Organization of Clubs for Older
People, by Georgene E. Bowen. Philadelphia Rec-
reation Association, 1427 Spruce Street, Philadel-
phia 2, Pennsylvania. 6 pages. $.10.

Social Adjustment in Old Age, by Dr. Otto Pollak.
Social Science Research Council, 230 Park Avenue,
New York 17. 1948. 199 pages. $1.75.

Something to Live For—and Sing About, by Joseph
Deitch. Philadelphia Recreation Association, 1427
Spruce Street, Philadelphia 2, Pennsylvania. 1947.
17 pages.

What Is New for the Old? by Ollie A. Randall. Bet-
ter Times, 44 East 23 Street, New York 10. Janu-
ary 28, 1949.

When You Grow Older, by George Lawton and Max-
well S. Stewart. Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 131.
Public Affairs Committee, 22 East 38 Street, New
York 16. 1947. 31 pages. $.20.

' RECREATION

Again in the Center of Things

NE RAINY AUTUMN day, a disconsolate group
O of men sat on the steps of a parish house in
Ossining, New York. Here they daily gathered
for companionship, and now they stayed on in the
rain. Ossining’s recreation director saw them as
he hurried past.

“Come on down to'the recreation center,” he
invited.

“Are we allowed to?” came the reply. “We
thought that was only for children.”*

That was in 1946. IN ow, the Golden Age Club,
for older, retired men, meets daily at the recrea—
tion center, and is composed of members all over
sixty years of age. Special rooms are provided for
club use, where they play checkers, chess, pool,
cards and dominoes, and where movies are shown
once a week—although one of the things that the
men enjoy most is just to sit around and talk.
Each Tuesday a party is given for the club with
tea and coffee, cakes and cookies, served to them
by a member of the Ossining Woman’s Club.

Club Repairs Over. 2,000 Toys Annually

Each year the Ossining Recreation Commis—
sion collects, repairs, and distributes Christmas
toys to the needy children of the community. Two
years ago the Golden Age Club became interested
in this work, and repaired over 2,000 toys that
first year. They did such a swell job, and had so
much fun, members decided to take over the proj-
ect every year. It gives them great pride and joy
to be able to do something for the community.
The club has also repaired, painted and decorated
toys and equipment for the Ossining Child Care
Center.

Club members take weekly trips to local points
of interest, local factories, dairy farms, and so on.
Each Tuesday a local minister is invited to speak
before the group. Twice a month the club, as a
body, attends services at a local church. The
minister is notified beforehand, and a section is
reserved for members.

Andrew Sargis is Director of Recreation
of the Ossining Recreation Commission.

MAY 1949

Andrew A. Sargis

At present the club is working on scrapbooks
of jokes and greeting cards to be given to area
hospitals. When these are finished, the men will
weave woolen squares to be made into an afghan
for a hospitalized veteran. Later in the Spring,
members are planning to make a table and chairs
for the lawn in front of the center.

This program so impressed C. E. Brewer, field
representative of the National Recreation Associa—
tion, when- he visited the Ossining Recreation
Center this winter, that he wrote an article on it
for the National Recreation bulletin, urging other
recreation centers to do likewise.

Recently, at one of the club get-togethers, a
member who is now eighty—six years of age, and
able to enjoy many activities that are offered by
the recreation department, addressed the group in
a speech of thanks:

“Boys, I want to thank the Recreation Commis-
sion and the directors for their programs, not only
for us, but also for the youngsters of Ossining.
We are now one big and happy family. I remem-
ber when I was only twelve years of age. I went
to work, for I had to, and'in those days we worked
long hours. It was from sunrise to sunset and
then some more after that. Of course,'we did not
have, at that time, all these opportunities that the
boys and girls, men and women, have today; but
I am making up for it now and I do enjoy it very"
much. I look forward each day to coming to the
recreation center, meeting my old friends and mak-
ing new ones. We are having swell times together
. . . and I think it was very nice of Mr. Sargis to
invite us to come to the Recreation Center and
join in these activities. Now we need not sit
around at home and be in someone’s way or won-
der What is going to become of us. . . . We should
consider ourselves very lucky to be able to come to
this center and enjoy these opportunities that are
afforded to us. Each day I look forward to our
work project, because we are not only enjoying
doing all these things, but we are also bringing
happiness to many needy children and wounded
veterans in the local hospitals.”

 

*Quotcd from Ossining Citizen-Register.

53

 

l'R RAPIDLY AGING population is bringing with
0 it serious socio-economic problems. There
has been no adequate preparation for this phe-
nomenon in our country, either by the elderly
themselves, their families, or society as a whole.
The family, in all cultures the traditional unit for
the young and old. now finds itself with three gen-
erations the rule, and four generations less and
less unusual.

The major needs of the elderly, both today and
tomorrow, whether dependent or independent,
whether living alone or in a family group, are:

1. Inclusion as members of the family or the
community on terms which recognize their dignity
as human beings and as persons entitled to con-
sideration, whether or not they remain in the ac-
tual family circle.

2. An optimistic attitude toward them and
toward old age, based on a sympathetic under-
standing of what old age means to them as indi-
viduals, with a corresponding personalization of
plans and services for them.

3. Opportunities for gainful employment on the
basis of physical and mental competence without
regard to chronological age, in order to extend the
period of self-support, thus relieving younger gen-
erations of an economic burden otherwise imposed
upon them either directly in the family or indi-

Autbor is Consultant on Services for the
Aged , C 0112 m unityServiceSocie ty, N ewYo rla.

-
‘
Q

.1,

Neighborhood
Responsibility

for the older Person

Ollie Randall

rectly through taxation and failing ability or op-
portunity to work.

4. Assurance of adequate financial support, met
at present to a limited degree by old age assistance
and old age and survivors’ insurance. Social se-
curity provisions are necessary as community sub-
stitutes for self and family support no longer pos-
sible in an increasingly complex industrialized
society.

5. Provisions for health'and medical care (a
number one community priority throughout the
country) particularly for the chronically ill and
infirm aged, as well as for the mentally infirm.

6. Housing adapted to the changing require-
ments of the elderly and available within their
limited income range—now practically non-exist-
ent.

7. Recreational or leisure-time opportunities
and facilities suitable for older adults, including
adult education, useful occupation even though not
gainful employment, play for play’s sake, hobbies,
group activities which offer both participation with
selected age groups and normal association with
all age groups.

8. Opportunities for greatly expanded partici-
pation in church and religious activities, for the
satisfaction of the intensified spiritual needs of
later life.

The further trend of the twentieth century

. toward the urbanization of population has con-

tributed to the critical situation of older persons
and to the attitudes of their families. Even though

RECREATION

this has resulted in the provision of more services
for older persons in cities, it is undoubtedly true
that the most acute needs still exist in urban areas,
with perhaps the exception of the crying need for
adequate health services and medical care in rural
areas. Urban studies also point up the fact that
the Negro aged are just beginning to present'un—
met needs which portend an aggravation of the
need from this group in rural districts in the not
too distant future. The needs of the Jewish aged
have been sharpened by immigration and refugee
situations, but the Jewish community is sensitive
and responsive to the demands of its own group
as individuals and as families.

Probably the one single, most important need in
the community, with regard to old age, is a change
in attitude toward old age as well as toward older
people. If aging and aged people are to have sym—
pathetic understanding, there must be a more op—
timistic attitude toward the later years of life and
what can be accomplished by individuals in those
years. At the present time, the attitude of people
reflects the attitude of individuals fluctuating all
the way from a fairly sentimental, over-protective
feeling for the elderly to one of disregard, neglect
and indifference. Somewhere between these two
poles lies what we should strive for in our under—
standing-wan intelligent and open—minded ap-
proach to the problems which are created by age.

There should always be recognition that, at this
time, when the numbers of older peOple in the
community have increased at an alarming rate in
view of the lack of provision for them, there are
two equally urgent tasks to undertake. The first
is the alleviation of the situation of people who are
already old; the other, which should be tackled
simultaneously, is that of preventing the people
who are growing older from reaching old age with
as little understanding and as little provision for
their old age as is now available.

It is essential to keep in mind that, while old
age is a universal problem, in that practically all
of us can now look forward to it, services to old
people must be personalized. We must discover
the individual old person and help him and our—

selves to deveIOp our programs so as to take into r

account his individual personality. Practically all
of us, as we grow older, sustain certain similar
losses—loss of family, loss of friends, loss of job
and of income, but it must be kept in mind that
each person reacts very differently to such losses.
Therefore, what is done to compensate for these
losses is quite different in each situation. In the
process of developing this understanding, there
must be a knowledge of the person and what has

MAY 1949

happened to him throughout his past.

One of the critical questions which is facing us
all today is this matter of family relationships be-
tween generations, and what appears to be the
growing reluctance of younger people to care for
their parents and grandparents. If our commu—
nity attitude is to be sound, there must be a care-
ful analysis of the factors which are bringing about
this change in relationship and a recognition that
under the complex and complicated conditions of
living, particularly in urban areas today, there may
need to be a re—interpretation of responsibility.
\Vith the reduction of opportunity for building up
savings or resources sufficient to provide for one’s
own old age or to care satisfactorily for one’s im-
mediate family, there appears to be less and less
the possibility of any one generation providing for
another. _

We, in our communities, must be ready to sub—
stitute for the care which formerly was available
in family groups, and to recognize that in this as—
sumption there needs to be no lessening of the
really important family ties of affection and
warmth. We, as neighbors in our communities,
must begin to provide different activities which
will substitute for the other losses, such as loss of
job and of occupation. We must realize that many
older people today, with their new-found leisure,
have to be taught to use leisure, which is a very
unfamiliar commodity in their lives. For this
reason, our recreation and group activities for this
portion of our population have a very new and
peculiar significance for all of us.

 

*Condensed from Age Will Be Served, a digest of papers given
at their 1948 annual meeting, by permisston of the Brooklyn
Council for Social Planning afiiliated with the Welfare Councrl of
New York City.

 

@amfg PW

N APRIL Westchester County conference on
recreation for older people, attended by rep-
resentatives of communities that are providing or
planning for such services, resulted in a proposal
for a county—wide meeting to which the clergy and
all organizations having facilities for serving older
pe0ple would be invited. As another result, Dana
CaulI-Lins, superintendent of the Westchester
County Recreation Commission, plans to set up a
recreation training course for volunteers working
with the elderly—thus meeting one of the impor—
tant needs discussed at this session. Problems of
increasing membership of older groups, finding
space for meeting places, public relations, improv—
ing programs, and promoting participation were
also reported and discussed.

55

Conference on Recreation
fer Hider Folks

HE IDEA FOR a Conference on Recreation for

Older People, held last November, originated
in the Recreation Committee of the Community
Project for the Aged, Chicago Council of Social
Agencies. Its purpose was to get a representative
group of older pe0ple to meet together to exchange
ideas on recreation, to give agency and club leaders
ideas on what older people want in their recreation
programs, and to stimulate the organization, by
older people, of more organizations and clubs for
their own benefit.

The Chicago Recreation Commission sponsored
the conference, and its staff carried out the neces-
sary clerical work and the publicity, and arranged
for the use of Garfield Park Recreation Center.
It received great cooperation from the staff of the
Community Project for the Aged, the Volunteer
Bureau of the Council of Social Agencies, and
from many staff members of the Chicago Park
District.

Attendance ran. over 200 persons—164 regis-
tered and many did not. One hundred and twenty-
one people indicated affiliation with a club, a home
for the aged, or a social agency. The number of
professional workers probably exceeded ten per
cent of those in attendance.

Among the clubs, homes and social agencies rep-
resented were: Association House, Benton House,
Chicago Commons, Chitter-Chatter Club, Ethical
Society, Forget-Me-Not, Friendly Visitors, Gads
Hill Center, Gay Sixties, Godair Home, Golden
Age Club, Good Neighbor Society, Hamilton Park
Club, Happy Hour Club, Jewish Peoples Institute
—Home for Aged Jews, Marillac Social Center,
Old Peoples Home for the City of Chicago, South
Chicago Community Center, Woodlawn Live
Wires, Sunset Club—University of Chicago Set-
tlement, Bensenville—Illinois—Home, Borrowed
Time Club of Evanston, Illinois.

Some of the conference topics included:

“Getting People to Participate in Club or Home
Activities”—a panel discussion, emphasizing the

56

factors which make for good participation and
lively groups. Some of these are: fellowship,
friendship, a sense of belonging, variety in pro—
grams, sharing of responsibilities among members,
interest in the individual, assistance from trained
leaders, and publicity for the program.

ENTERTAINMENT—a session covering sources of
entertainment, use of prizes, program ideas, and
popularity of games, stressing the fact that vari-
ety, friendliness and active participation should be
the aims in all types of group entertainment.

ARTS AND CRAFTS—a demonstration and dis-
cussion of whittling, chip carving, game boards,
leathercraft, scroll saw work, basketry and other
handcrafts. Crafts requiring no high degree of
skill, and a minimum of tools and space, were pre-—
sented.

DRAMATICS—a talk explaining how dramatics
became part of the program at the Marillac House,
where an amateur hour led to skits and then plays;
and good voices, dramatic ability, and dancing
ability were discovered among the ladies of the
Chess and Chatter Club.

MUSIC—including a demonstration of a recorded
concert which could be arranged by an organiza-
tion wishing to devote a session to listening to
good music, a demonstration of the use of rhythm
instruments in helping people appreciate the vari-
ous musical tempos, and a song fest.

PUPPETRY—a presentation of how one elderly
person created an entertaining hobby for herself,
giving pleasure to others. Mrs. Helen Moschel,
of the Society of Puppetry and Allied Arts, gave
a variety show with the puppets which she con-
structed herself. She creates the characters, writes
their parts, costumes the puppets, and manipulates
them.

DISCUSSION METHODS—a session led by A. A.
Liveright, Director of the University of Chicago
Leadership Training Project. Major problems
confronting older persons in homes, family life and
community life was the topic of discussion.

 

Club members provide own music in Flint, Michigan.

RECREATION

In the Wind*

HESE EARLY DAYS of Spring find the Commu—
Tnity Service Society in the midst of plans—
plans that, like daffodils, “come before the swal—
lows dare, and take the winds of March with
beauty.” Spring may drive a young man’s fancy
to single-track thinking, but she turns our thoughts
to heliotropes, aprons, canvases, carved Indians.

To be specific, take the planning and ploughing
begun last month at the T. Sq. H. T. Club by its
-'wo presidents, twelve vice—presidents, Bird Bath
Warden, and forty—six members. We refer to the
Terrace Club at our Tompkins Square House for
old folks, New York City, where every resident is
a member—«either active or honorary. They repre—
sent sixty—one different schools of thought in gar—
dening techniques, but all agree on “ploughing be—
fore planting.” So, in the flower boxes and tubs
that border the Club’s roof—top terraces, the soil
is being turned, aired and fertilized.

As the vice—presidents and their assistants——
ranging in age from sixty—six to eighty—one—
plough in the spring sunshine, they cogitate on
what flowers to choose for this summer’s bloom—
ing. There’s the heliotrope lady, who’s picked a
sunny location for her favorite, and the marigold
man who says, “They grow easy and look bright—
‘merry golds’ I call ’em.” With final choices made,
the Club sends a representative to the Flower
Show to buy a supply of seeds and bring back
gardening tips.

Blossom Time

The Club was started a year ago with many
reservations: “I don’t know a thing about garden—
ing.” “I never did it.” “Maybe they won’t grow.”

However, as one proposer of the plan put it,
“There’s no harm in failure. And God’s sun, rain
and earth do most of the work.” Residents began
to volunteer and the number of “gardeners” grew
who turned the earth faithfully, passed out dubious
garden instructions to each other, and set up a
friendly rivalry. A ninety-six—year—old man ex-
plained that he had not volunteered because he

MAY 1949

left gardening to the “young folks.”

Requests for information stumped the House’s
director, neighbors, and local tradesmen: “How
can we keep the birds from eating our plants?”
“What do you do about too much rain?”

An album of clippings on the subject was
started. And finally, Johnny—jump—ups, “merry
golds,” morning glories, asters, actually bloomed
u—not just in dreams—to reward the old hands
and hearts that tended them.

One of the Terrace Club’s unique appointments
is the Bird Bath Warden. It came about when a
gentle old lady, not strong enough for gardening,
yet wanting to help, suggested she could keep the
bird bath clean and freshly filled each day. Her
importance to the garden is demonstrated by star-
ling and sparrow patrons who wait for her atten—

tions before beginning their gay “ritual of the
bath.”

Hobby Show

Other plans and work in progress among the
old folks concern the Community Service Society
exhibit in the Annual Hobby Show at the Museum
of Natural History, May II to 22.

This is the third annual showing of various
hobbies that have captured the interest of old peo—
ple. The Welfare Council of New York, spon-
soring the show, invites entries from its member
agencies with programs for the aged. ‘Thanks to
the enthusiasm and skills of the elderly residents '
at the Society’s Ward Manor in Dutchess County,
as well as at Tompkins Square House, the CSS
has exhibited each year.

This year’s exhibit williinclude beautiful entries
of hand—made articles such as infants’ wear, aprons,
and the like, handwoven materials, paintings and
wood carvings. Broncho Charlie Miller, former
pony express rider, will be on hand with his carved
Indians and horses, and several other residents
from Tompkins Square House will take turns dur-
ing the week serving as hosts and hostesses.

 

*Reprinted from the Community Service Society Bulletin.

57°

r ,7 .’- ‘ y: ‘
'-.;- fa.» V _ ‘ - 7 A a.

SEMI-FORMAL DANCES give the ladies chance to HORSESHOES are a favorite with oldsters. These

wear best bib and tucker in Santa Barbara, California. need a referee to measure, in Tacoma, Washington.

A BIRD’S EYE VIEW OF

RECREATIIIN PRIIGRA-

Samples of the Man
GIANT CHECKERS, as well as regular checkers, are

popular in Tacoma. These players are aged 87, 39.

I

PLAYING CARDS is included in most social gather- GAY NINETIES party brings out costumes and talent

ings for older adults, as at the Santa Barbara club. in Nashville, Tennessee. Club member sings old song.

58 ' RECREATION

 

 

City-Wide

EFERENCE TO THE many good programs for

the elderly, throughout the country, should
include mention of the now well—known city-wide
experiment launched in Philadelphia by the Coun-
cil of Social Agencies in 1946. This called for the
creation of Golden Age Clubs for men and women
of sixty-five and over. The clubs, now going
strong, are patterned after those developed by the
William Rose Institute in Cleveland, Ohio. They
are of every variety—church clubs, garden clubs,

neighborhood clubs, hobby or other specialized in- I

terest clubs, study or music clubs, clubs for men
or women or for both. The program, when intro—
duced, represented one of the first large-scale ef-
forts by any large city to face a social problem

‘0ll 0LDER FHLKS

ommunity Activities

which had grown out of changed living conditions.
At the time, George T. Adams, executive secre-
tary of the Philadelphia Recreation Association,
said: “We are living now in an industrial age,
when the working age is limited, the working day
has been shortened. . . . It is a situation peculiar
to our times. When our country was more largely
agricultural, older persons could continue to do
light work on the farm or take part in village life,
or to develop hobbies.”

In laying the foundations for such an under-
taking, it was necessary to enlist the cooperation
of as many public and private organizations as pos-
sible. Thirty-three organizations, in addition to
sponsoring groups of churches, enthusiastically
agreed with the plan, and have since given it
wholehearted help and support. The sponsoring
groups were to be entirely responsible for their
clubs—facilities, leadership, membership, contacts,
finances, continuity. The recreation department’s
role has been advisory, informational, promotional.
The existence of the clubs early led to the appoint-
ment of a director of recreation for older people—
Miss Georgene E. Bowen, well-known worker in

MAY 1949

this field. Under her leadership, the program has
grown and flourished. She is the author of the
bulletin, “Salient Points on Organization of Clubs

for Older People,” issued by the Philadelphia
Recreation Association.

“The Individual Social Club”

In Santa Barbara, California, the idea of per-
sonalized services is indicated in the name of the
club, chosen by club members. Here the age range
for members runs from about forty-five to eighty-
Iive, and averages in the sixties and seventies. It
is felt that this mixture of ages is a tonic for the
older folks, and that the younger ones can assume
some of the leadership, encouraging the others to
participate. r,

In regard toiprogram, Louise E. Lowry, who is
managing supervisor of the recreation center and
advisor to the club, recommends that—in addition
to a regular weekly schedule of business meetings,
pot-luck luncheons, table games and birthday par-
ties—special activities should be featured periodi-
cally, to add variety, new interest and participa-
tion. She mentions several examples from Santa
Barbara experience. One was a carefully planned
and highly successful trip to Hollywood to attend
a “Breakfast in Hollywood” broadcast, using a
chartered bus- and the recreation department sta-
tion wagon to take care of the overfiow. Eight of
the members were on the air, two received orchids,
all received a thrill. The visit was topped off with
dancing at the Hollywood recreation center. Other
special activities are dramatics, if the right leader
can be found, and semi-formal evening dances.
These latter give the ladies a chance to dress up
in their best bib and tucker, and men who have
daytime employment an opportunity to attend.

Two rooms in the recreation center have been
made available to the 300 members for their use.

and Miss Lowry advises ground floor facilities
wherever possible.

Middle Age Social Club

The following ad appeared in one of the news-
papers in Tacoma, Washington:
Persons over 45 and single, of good char-
acter, interested in forming a club to
scotch loneliness and cultivate fun and
friends come to (street address given).
According to Margery S. Davisson, a commu-
nity center director in Tacoma, this was the seed
from which sprang a club unique in that section
of the northwest. The group turned to the com-
munity center for help, and there received a warm
welcome, a place to meet, and assistance with

59

matters pertaining to organization, program and
personalities. Ofiicers were elected ;_ committees
were formed—including publicity, telephone, flow-
ers, visiting, membership, and program. Chairmen
of the above, plus the oflicers, made up an execu-
tive board. A constitution and by-laws were
adopted immediately, thus avoiding many pitfalls.
Membership dues were placed at fifty cents a year,
election of ofiicers every six months, and a small
charge was determined for weekly meetings—the
aim being to cover expenses and place a small net
profit in the treasury, to be used for special events.
Politics, race and religion have caused no prob—
lems, and membership has now reached 105, with
an average attendance of eighty-two.

The name “Middle Age Social Club” has be-
come known as an open door to those desiring a
pleasant place to meet and enjoyment in the com-
pany of others of their years, in an inexpensive
manner.

A typical evening finds members arriving at
seven o’clock, even though seven-thirty is the
advertised time. The secretary checks membership
cards, as members sign the register and decide
whether it is to be thirty cents for an evening of
cards, conversation and food, or forty cents to in-
clude dancing. (This is old-time style, to a four
piece orchestra, and while especially for adults, it
is open to married and single persons, young or
old.) Strangers are welcome, but it is desired
that they become members after several visits.

Inquiries by telephone, letter and in person have
come from the entire city and a radius of fifty miles
in the county. Many are the letters from more
distant points in the state, requesting members to
correSpond, all with the same pleas of empty hours,
and a desire for companionship to combat the self-
centeredness they find creeping upon them.

Spicing the regular club program are specialties,
such as entertainment numbers, picnics, birthday
parties, anniversary dinners, receptions honoring
the newly married. Small groups have formed
within the larger for those wishing to meet more
than once a week. The men and women of the
club have found companionship, importance
through responsibility, health—both mental and
physical, new interests, and the satisfaction of
service to their center and their city.

“Youngest Club”

The name of the “youngest recreation club” in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, now in its second year,
has been changed from the original Golden Age
Club to Happy Hours Club because members ob-
ject to including the word age. According to G. D.
Brandon, director of recreation, the Lancaster

60

 

Recreation Association had long wished to offer
some form of recreation for the older, retired mem-
bers of its population. In order to get things
started, therefore, ministers in the central part of
the city were asked to send at least two representa-
tives from their churches, in the age bracket of
sixty-live and over, to a preliminary meeting at
which the formation of a club would be discussed.
These prospective charter members then received
a personal letter of invitation.

At this meeting, it was agreed that everyone
present should invite four other possible members
to a sample gathering, to be held in the social
rooms of one of the centrally located churches.
Since that time, regular monthly meetings, includ-
ing picnics during the summer months, have been.
held. The monthly programs vary, but a standard
pattern includes singing, group games, Special cele-
brations on Christmas, Valentine’s Day and other
holidays, the making of simple crafts, demonstra-
tions of hobbies by members, and movies. The
program always concludes with simple refresh-
ments, prepared and served by members, followed
by a social hour.

Some of the by-products of these meetings have
been: interests developed outside the narrowing
Sphere which accompanies retirement; that feeling
of being wanted and invited to a meeting of kin-
dred spirits; the opportunity to develop some dor-
mant skill that can continue in its expression be-
yond the actual meeting time; the reliving of past
accomplishments with others having similar prob—
lems and interests; the feeling that peOple are_ al-

‘ L,»

 J

., “ 3‘;

Good exercise and lawn bowling, using Tacoma park
facilities, appeal to this “young” lady during summer.

RECREATION

ways people regardless of their position and place
in society. Nothing is more important to an indi—
vidual at any age than to know he is wanted.

None of the facilities for this group have re-
quired anything new that could not be borrowed
from established agencies available in any commu-
nity. The planning of parties is always done by
the officers of the club in c00peration with the
recreation director.

The zest displayed by this group, and the keen
interest shown in attending meetings, is amazing.
Group unity is very pronounced. If unable to be
present, a phone call or letter of apology usually
is received. The majority of members are anxious
to diSplay talents, show their collections and hob-
bies. Two of the members, whose partial blindness
prevents their playing games, have not missed a
single meeting. They enjoy the sociability of the
group, even though unable to participate actively.

Latent Talents Discovered

In Flint, Michigan—an industrial community of
approximately 165,000 people—there are, as in
many other cities, retired men and women who
live on pensions or very limited incomes and who
have a great deal of leisure time on their hands.

In 1947, a group of older pe0ple approached the
Council of Social Agencies to investigate the pos-
sibilities of starting some kind of program. Here
they were referred to the recreation division of
the Council, which called in resource people from
the Bureau of Social Aid, YWCA, Mott Founda-
tion, Community Music Association and City Rec—
reation Department, and it was determined that
the recreation department had the buildings and
personnel for such an undertaking. Two recrea—
tion centers launched the program on the same
night so that people living at either end of town
could attend simultaneously. Each center is now
open every Tuesday afternoon from one to four,
and each Thursday evening from seven to ten-
thirty. So far as is possible, the department has
developed its program around the Philadelphia
plan.

Lina W. Tyler, recreation supervisor in Flint,
writes that attendance bears out the success of
the program. An average of twenty-five people
appear at each center for afternoon meetings, and
from sixty to seventy in the evenings. Refresh-
ments are served without charge. As much as pos-
sible, the older people are urged to plan their own
entertainment. A new chairman is elected each
month. Programs include cards, cribbage, song
fests, Tom Brennaman shows, hard-time and birth—
day parties, speakers, visits to places of public in-

MAY 1949

terest, movies. Members provide their own music
for square dancing, one man being adept with the
violin, another with the guitar and a woman with
the drums. Many latent talents have been dis-
covered, dramatic ability among them. One couple
had traveled with a circus for many years and
have proved to be good masters of ceremonies,
helping others to become better acquainted.

Miss Tyler states: “Leaders in charge must be
sympathetic, act as counselors and also have the
ability just to listen. So many of these older peo-
ple enjoy good conversation. Many are tempera-
mental and must be treated with a great deal of
patience.

“Our department is proud that we are able to
offer this service to the community. There is no
fee attached to‘becoming a participant. At first,
interested organizations and individuals contrib—
uted money, but the program is now supported
from revenues received from Coca Cola machines
in the community houses.

“As one man stated, ‘I have paid taxes in Flint
for fifty years but never once thought that there
would be a program for people of my age to par-

'3’!

ticipate in .

Shut-ins Included

Membership of the Golden Age Society in
Jamestown, New York—population around 42,638
—-—includes about thirty shut—ins unable to attend
meetings. They receive news of the club, cards
and gifts during different seasons of the year. The
total number of members has increased from sixty—
five in May, 1947, to the present enrollment of
300. Under leadership of the recreation depart-
ment, the program features theatre parties, group

singing, exhibits, automobile trips, boat rides and
the like.

Calendar

The Council of Social Agencies in Rochester,
New York, has put out a “Senior Citizens Cal-
endar of Things of Interest in Rochester,” planned
“for the person who now has time on his hands
and wants to really live his life rather_than just
sit it out.” Leisure-time activities have been listed
under the headings: Things to See, Things to
Hear, Things to Do, Things to Read, Things to
Learn. All neighborhood clubs are listed under
Things to Do; and among them are a number of
clubs which welcome oldsters, also clubs planned
especially for older adults, offering a gay, social
afternoon just visiting, playing cards“ enjoying
musical entertainment, community singing, movies,
speakers and refreshments. The Rochester pro-
gram for the elderly was initiated in May, 1946.

61

ARADISE CENTER IS as good as its name—~ask
Pany of the oldsters who drOp in each Tuesday
afternoon for their weekly round of fun and socia-
bility. “I never miss,” said one little old lady who
is close to the ninety-year mark, “and when it’s
over I start counting the days until next time.”

Sixty-five members, ages sixty-five to ninety
plus, are registered in the club, and the average
weekly attendance is about fifty. Illness is just
about the only reason for anyone’s absence. The
weather makes little difference. Heat of sun, cold
of winter, rain or shine finds members trudging
up the steps of the YWCA in Wilkes-Barre, Penn-
sylvania, with a twinkle in their eyes and a happy
greeting on their lips—for this is their day out,
their own club day for fun.

When asked one day what these retired citizens
like best in the way of activities, we couldn’t think
of anything they don’t like to do. They like every-
thing and they are always willing to try anything
once. They come to have a good time and they
have it! At five o’clock, the end of the three-hour
gathering, we have to sing “Good Night Ladies”
with zest, and virtually “merrily roll” members out
the door to get them on their way.

Our program includes birthday celebrations
once a month—complete with cakes, candles and
ice cream. One lady stood up for her birthday
twice in the year, and was caught by some know-
ing friend. “Well,” said she. “I guess at my age
I ought to be allowed to have as many birthdays
as I want.” She was eighty-eight. On Christmas
eve, many of the oldsters were on hand in the
public square to join in the municipal celebration.
At our own Christmas party, one of our Little
Theatre members added to the occasion by telling
Christmas stories.

Weaving is a popular group activity, and there
are simple crafts projects that are possible for
those with poor eyesight. Many members play
dominoes and pinochle, and the showing of movies
and community singing vary the programs. Each
week, one set of elderly men and women square
dance. The oldsters were guests of the “Y” at one
of the weekly farmer dances, and the forty who at-
tended didn’t just watch——they also participated.
Refreshments are part of each week’s program,
and members enjoy the companionship possible
while sitting at the table, eating their pie or cake
and coffee, and getting together to sing.r

One day one of the women was asked if she had
time to stay and do something after the meeting.

Rut/a Swezey is the director of recreation, Playground
and Recreation Auociation of Wyoming Valley.

62

Paradise

Center

Ruth E. Swezey

She replied, “Time—why I have all the time there
is until I die.” This expresses the plight of older
people—having too much leisure time on their
hands. Those in Wilkes-Barre and Wyoming Val-
ley are all happy that more is being done for them
recreationally, and they are grateful that some
organization has found time to develop such a
program.

Several agencies have assisted in making Para-
dise Center possible. The Department of Public
Assistance permitted us to send out a questionnaire
to survey the interests among this group. Five
hundred cards, with a list of ten activities, were
sent out in the payroll envelopes, asking the re-
cipients to return the checked cards if they were
interested in a recreation center. One hundred.
cards were returned, and the most popular item
checked was—“a social meeting where I may make
new friends.” Many also checked games, some
movies, a few crafts, dancing. and other activities.

The YWCA furnishes free a delightful meeting
place with use of the kitchen. Mrs. Paul Bedford,
well-known in the area for her active interest in
the welfare of the aged and shut-ins, and president
of “Wheel Chairs, Incorporated,” is chairman of
the center. She is also a member of the board
and did much to find the funds to start this pro-
gram.

How did we decide on Paradise Center as the
name? The group held a contest, and out of the
eighteen names submitted, this one was almost
unanimously selected. Mrs. Mary Caffery, seventy
years old, who submitted it, wrote:

“I suggest that we call the recreation center
‘Paradise Center’ because of the wonderful times
we have there and the enjoyment we get from it.
I am sure that every one of the elderly people who
come to this center are very happy here, and the
hours spent here make life worth while for us.
Thanks for making this wonderful thing possible.”

\

RECREATION

A Place in
The Sun

Frances Joyner

0 ONE IS old in the Sunshine City, more for—
N mally known as St. Petersburg, Florida.
Maybe it’s the Fountain of Youth, maybe it’s the
sunshine—whatever it is, the spirit of play and
recreation is strong.

There are clubs for every age. Let’s start with
one of the most famous—not just three score and
ten, that’s too young—~but the Three—Quarter Cen-
tury Club. Not only is it a social club—it has two
famous branches: the Three-Quarter Century
Softball Club, and the Three-Quarter Century
Chorus. Two teams, the Kids and the Kubs, play
five innings of softball twice a week, from Decem-
ber to May, on the shores of Tampa Bay. The
recreation department can’t keep up with the de-
mand for bleachers to seat the crowds—and woe
_betide the newspapers when the box score is
wrong! The Chorus is led by John Shirley, eighty-
eight years young. This isn’t just a “sing-song"—
this is real music. Their theme song is sung to
Sibelius’ music; there are quartets, octets, mixed
quartets, all singing with the proper phrasing and
spirit. They average a concert a week during the
winter months.

To take care of those not yet old enough to join
these well-known groups, .there is the Half—Cen-
tury Club, with its own softball organization. The
Pelicans and Gulls play three times a week, wait-
ing their chance to graduate into the Three-Quar-
ter Century teams.

The mOst popular sport of all is shuffleboard,
and St. Petersburg has three thriving clubs, one
with over 7,000 members. Ranging from forty to
eighty years of age, members keep the courts busy
day and night. For those less actively inclined,
there are the card rooms and dancing. Shuffle-
board is a unique game—it is easy to learn and
play so that the beginner is not frightened off, and
yet it can be developed into a game of great skill
and competitiveness to hold the interest of all.

MAY 1949

 

No one is old in St. Petersburg, and shufHeboard clubs
thrive. Above, national champions play friendly game.

Another popular sport is lawn bowling. There
is a men’s club' and a women’s club, with devotees
playing the year ’round. A well-known physical
educator has found this the ideal sport for the
older man and woman, and it keeps them supple

.and in good condition without undue physical

strain. Roque and horseshoes also have their ad—
herents, all organized into clubs. For those want-
ing less strenuous activity, there is a checker club
and a chess club, where silence is the rule while
the opponents face each other in deadly battle.

Practically every state in the Union has its state
society in St..Petersburg, meeting formally twice
a month, and. holding picnics and dances in-between
times. Then, there are the clubs for those. who
have retired—“teachers, firemen, policemen, rail-
road men, and others.

All this costs the taxpayers practically nothing.
For, many years ago, the recreation department
expounded the thesis that people like best that
which is their own. So each of these clubs has
dues, which they collect themselves and use to
promote their own activities. The sports clubs are
located on city property, the social clubs meet in
a city-owned building; but when improvements
are needed or wanted, the clubs save and pay for
these themselves. They elect their officers from
among their own ranks, and the city gets the high—
est caliber of volunteer leaders who have no inten-
tion of being put on the shelf or relegated to the
rocking chair.

Frances joyner is a member 0f the St. Pe-
tersburg, Florida, Recreation Department.

63

 

 

HE RECREATION DEPARTMENT of York Town-
Tship, Toronto, aided by its youth, has for the
past two years sponsored one of the most signifi—
cant movements in the Province of Ontario to date.

In the summer of 1947, six teen-age clubs
banded together and raised $300 to take senior
citizens, over seventy years of age, on a bus trip to
Niagara Falls. Seventy-four elderly people made
the trip in two busses, with two registered nurses
and two or three teen-agers in each bus to take
charge. Lunch was arranged at St. Catharines’
YMCA and YWCA, and dinner at Niagara Falls.
The participants were brought together through
the Old Age Pensions Branch of the Ontario Pro-
vincial Government. '

This affair gave ofiicials of the York Township
Recreation Department the opportunity of finding
out these pe0ple’s feelings in regard to forming a
club. They were delighted with the idea, and it
was decided to hold a monthly social meeting. To
raise funds, amounting to $130, a triple dance for
teen-agers was held in the three Township Colle—
giates on the occasion of Princess Elizabeth's wed-
ding.

F ifty-three elderly perSons, ranging from sev-
enty to ninety years of age, attended the first social
gathering in November; and they voted to call
their club “The Friendship Club.” Later they
elected their own executive committee, which
meets about two weeks prior to each monthly
meeting of the club. The recreation department
picks up executive members one afternoon and
takes them to a member’s home where they discuss
program for the next social, and finish with a cup
of tea and sometimes a game of cards.

The program, with suggestions coming from
members, has resolved into sing-songs, music and
recitations by members themselves, movies (most
pOpular of the activities), bingo, euchre, checkers,

 

Mr. Kirk is director of recreation; Mrr. Nickoll: i: a:-
Jirtnnt program director, York Towns/sip, Toronto.

64

CANADIAN OLDSTER

Teen-Agérs Start Something

F Sid Kirk and Trudy Nicholle

cribbage, chess, dominoes, or just sitting around to
chat. The evening winds up with tea, sandwiches,
and cookies. Average attendance is eighty-five for
each social, with costs approximately twenty dol-
lars per evening.

Representatives of the teen-agers continue to
participate by attending each monthly meeting,
checking coats, serving refreshments and generally
trying to make the members feel at home.

From the beginning, the York Township Rec-
reation Department has felt that the needs of, and
services for, our older citizens should be made
known. Therefore, each meeting of the Friendship
Club is held at a different place, and in different
sections of the wide-spread municipality—at the
YMCA, Community House, and sometimes at the
Canadian Legion Hall. Many folks of this age
cannot be eXpected to make long streetcar trips.
So, for each party, our three YMCA’s young men's
service clubs, and business men’s associations un-
dertake the transportation of club members.

One day the members, themselves. decided that
they would feel better if they were on a regular
contributing membership basis, and that, for those
who could pay, the dues could be anything from
twenty-five cents to a dollar per year. Ninety per—
cent of them have paid one dollar.

Operation of a club of this kind calls for a spe-
cial kind of feeling and sympathy. Such small but
important matters as get well cards, sympathetic
talks on the telephone, and small personal services
can bring great satisfaction and happiness.

Recently, the department was approached by a

. volunteer who was willing to donate his time for

the showing of movies to shut-ins, in their own
homes. Immediately the Friendship Shut-In Club
was formed and all were told to get in touch with
the department if they knew of anyone who could
benefit. It is our sincere hope that the Friendship
Club is firmly established for the future.

RECREATION

IKE TO PLAY, T00

The Seniors’ Club

Alice Robertson

HE LACK OF recreation facilities for the. older
Tage group in Hamilton, Ontario, was im—
pressed upon the chairman of the Family Service
Bureau, Dean Stewart, and it was he who sug-
gested work in this field as a new project for the
Junior League of Hamilton in 1946.

After investigating the resources of the city and
finding that, aside from an occasional tea in the
East End, there was, indeed, nothing provided for
older people, the project committee of the Junior
League started collecting information on such
clubs through the facilities of the Association of
Junior Leagues of America. They provided mate-
rial on the organization of the Hodson Memorial
Center in New York City, the Golden Age Clubs
in Cleveland, and other groups in the
United States; and we visited the Second
Mile Club in Toronto. Most of these
had had small beginnings, such as we
contemplated, and after we had made
our plans and estimated the costs, we
voted to start a Seniors’ Club as our
next project.

The housing , shortage in Hamilton
was our greatest obstacle and, after cut-
ting down our hopes from a cottage to
an apartment, we finally had to settle on
a recently vacated store. This gave us
a room about twenty-five by thirty feet
and a tiny ofhce. By. adding a wash-
room at the back, and putting a kitchen—
ette in one corner, it didn’t seem too bad
' and the main point, after all, was to open
with any facilities rather than put off the
project indefinitely. We obtained com-
fortable chairs, a piano, card tables and
books and, by using lots of bright paint,
made the place seem airy and attractive.
We were fortunate in finding a director
who was genuinely enthusiastic about

MAY 1949

the idea, understanding and businesslike. On F eb-
ruary 5, 1948, we opened the doors to the new
members.

In order to find prospective members we ob-
tained lists from all the social agencies who have
contact with older age groups, and sent out invi-
tations to an opening tea. We also sent invitations
to the Homes for the Aged in the city. The only
requirement for membership for men and women
was that they be sixty years of age or over. They
do not, however, get their full membership card
until six weeks after their first visit to the club.
Our project committee to run the club consisted
of a chairman, assistant chairman, the chairman
of the house committee, the entertainment chair-
man, chairman of the volunteers, the placement
chairman, director, and president of the League.
We also organized an advisory committee of rep-
resentatives from various community social agen-
cies, who meet three or four times a year to help
with special problems.

It was decided that the club would remain open
every afternoon, Monday through Friday, from
two to five-thirty o’clock, and two evenings a week
from seven-thirty to ten. On Friday evenings we
provide some form of entertainment such as music,
movies, or a magic act, and tea is served at each

Mrs. Hugh Robertson is the president of
the junior League of Hamilton, Ontario.

 

[atmwgtamcttaame

Sfaving had my share of misfortunes and being left all alone for years,
I was very lonesome and unhappy. A friend of mine advised me to join
the Seniors’ Club. So about three weeks ago, I went to the club room,
more to look the place over than anything else. Now I am a member of
what I believe is the best club in town. I was welcomed by the supervisor
without any palaver . . . introduced to a couple of the members and told
to make myself at home. Some were playing cards, dominoes, checkers,
etc. not being able to play any of those games . . . not knowing anyone
there, I thought I would feel a wee bit out of place, but as I looked
around and saw the layout of the place, it was so clean and comfortable,
everyone looked so nice and respectable, I said to myself, this is the spot
for me. My out of place feeling vanished I was amongst a bunch of the
most friendly people one could find anywhere. Presently a gentleman
came in, all seemed glad to see him he just smiled, walked to the piano
and struck up some of the old lively tunes the members sang and every-
one was so cheery. . . . After a while the young Ladies came around with
tea and cake, by the smile on their faces they enjoyed their job. . . . This
was my brightest afternoon in a long time. Since joining the Seniors’
Club there has been a change in me. . . . I have some place to go where
I can meet friends and pass a happy time, instead of hanging around not
knowing what to do with myself. There should be more of these clubs
a place like this makes you forget about growing old, and I believe it
keeps you from getting cranky. The Seniors’ Club is run by the Junior
League—all Ladies I understand. I dont know who they are but I do
know they have done a wonderful job. I would like to thank all those
of the Junior League for giving us this swell club. it took courage and

someone with a good heart and a good head at the helm. Ladies, we
salute you.

session. The members pay a fee of twenty-five
cents a year to give them a proprietary feeling and
they also, on their own initiative, started a cookie
fund. The rest of the expenses, including the sal-
ary of the director, are paid by the Junior League
of Hamilton from moneys raised by them in the
community. The League also provides a volunteer
to be on duty with the director.

\Ve now have over one hundred members
(which is the most we can accommodate), and
they come from all parts of the city. The average
attendance is about twenty-five, and the average
age is around seventy—with the range from sixty
to ninety-four. The members take care of their
own entertainment—playing cards, checkers, dom-
inoes; reading magazines or books; singing and
playing the piano; dancing or reciting. The direc-
tors main work is personal contact and encourage—
ment of members. The volunteer’s job is to keep
the place neat and serve the tea. This is unre—
warding work, with the result that volunteers are
hard to place and many lose interest.

Members are most enthusiastic and scarcely a
month goes by without an appreciative letter ap-
pearing in one of the community papers. When
we asked for criticisms or ideas for improving the
running of the club, we received seventy letters
of appreciation and not one of criticism. The older
people do not respond to the idea of hobbies or
handcrafts because they are so glad simply to
relax and chat; but since the club is only a little
over a year old there is yet time to develop this.
Members have elected a spokesman and treasurer,
but as yet have no working committee.

Our main goal at the moment is more space and
a larger budget to add to the facilities of the club.
Also, we are considering reorganization with an
independent community board so that it may form
the nucleus for other services to the older age
group. .

\Ve believe that, if the Seniors’ Club were closed
now, the members would march in a body to City
Hall and demand that it be reopened——-it has meant
such a difference in their lives.

 

THE NRA ADDS ANIJTHER YEAR

x APRIL 12, 1949, the headquarters family of
0 the National Recreation Association cele-
brated the organization’s forty—third birthday. One
of the highlights of a simple ceremony was the in-
formal talk given by Jimmy Rogers, staff member
for many a year. In a sense, it was a farewell
speech, too. for his resignation had just been an-
nounced. (See page 81.)

Reminiscing about the first meeting at the \Vhite
House in 1906, he grew increasingly enthusiastic
as he unfolded the story of the AssOciation and its
contributions to the growth of the recreation move—
ment. He said, in part:

“. . . \V e have been a service organization. serv—
ing others . . . and so many times have we sub-
merged our identity, that few people realize the
extent of our services. \Ve have multiplied our—
selves through others. The NRA, over a period
of twenty years, spent a quarter of a million dol-
lars on the National Physical Education Service,
which was responsible for establishing state laws
and departments of health and physical education.
. . . Today, few pe0ple appreciate the fact that the

66

\Var Camp Community Service was really the
National Recreation Association.

“The complete story of the Association is almost
impossible to tell because of the wide areas of serv-
ice. . . . Once I tabulated fifty different areas of
service, but today I want to condense these fifty
and briefiy discuss eleven big, major fields in our
program.

“ lut, first, I want to stress two qualities of atti-
tudes which have dominated the spirit of our work.
First, we have been a ‘missionary' organization.
\Vay back in the early days, the NRA carried to
the crossroads of America the message as to why
play, why playgrounds were as essential to schools.
. . . Second, . . . we have been pioneers—pioneers
in state legislation, in enabling acts, in creating
model ordinances, in setting up organizations and
programs. . . .

“Now for the brief statements about the eleven
great areas of service by the N RA:

“Field Service to Communities—This is the
heart of our program, because it is right in the
communities where America lives and works.

RECREATION

When the NRA started, there were probably thirty
cities which had public recreation. Today, there
are approximately 3,000. I wish a careful record
-could be shown of all the many visits by the many
individuals and the many services that we have
made to a single community. Services to a Broad
Program—we have people working in the music
department, in arts, crafts, nature, drama, garden-
ing . . . the NRA, in its forty-three years, through
its literature and personnel, has done much to in-
crease, expand and enrich the conception that the
program of recreation is broad in many fields of
activities, from the cradle to the grave

. and it is constantly facing the new
needs and challenges. Special Services
—There’s our work for the past thirty
years with minority groups. . . . Our
' contribution to Negro life . . . our work
with institutions for the orphaned, han-
dicapped and aged; our industrial
work; the survey and planning work.
Services to Rural America—Over the years, we
have . . . served the Department of Agriculture.
The NRA assigned specialists to assist the De-
partment and the State Colleges of Agriculture in
the training of 78,628 volunteer leaders over a
fourteen-year period from 1927 to 1941. There
were 1385 training institutes held at 701 centers
located in all forty-eight states. And this work
still goes on. Services to All Levels of Govern-
ment—Our records will show the many things we
have done—for the armed forces, the national
parks, the Inter-Agency, the work with state gov-
ernments, with county groups. Correspondence
and C ons-ultation—~—That big department—25,000
letters from 6,000 communities! Yes, the title of
the article in RECREATION, ‘A Business Without a
Balance Sheet,’ (April issue) is true. Literature
and Publications—This is one field we ought to be
greatly proud of. . . . Our books are text books,
the recognized bibles and encyclopedias. Leader-
ship and Training—. . . what a glorious, continu-
ous outpouring of services have been rendered
through our schools and institutes of all kinds:
fifty—four War Camp Community Service Insti-
tutes; ten national one-year graduate recreation

schools; social and creative recreation institutes,
conducted by our specialists; our work in stand—
ards for leadership. . . . Recreation, A Profession
—VVe are a profession. . . . Recreation has a his-
tory, vast library, literature, fundamental philoso-
phy, a definite program. . . . Community Recrea-
tion—To me, perhaps, the greatest contribution
that the NRA has made is that it has always talked

in terms of the total program. . . . It has always

MAY 1949

 

seen the value of not only public recreation but
private recreation, the contributions made by the
church, the home, the group work organizations.
The C ongress—At great cost and much effort this
Congress, for years, has brought together lay and
professional leaders and workers from all the fields
of recreation. It has given them information and
inspiration . . . has stimulated the whole movement
on national, state and community levels of govern-
ment.

“In the broad, varied, multifarious NRA pro-
gram, and throughout these years, two names
stand supreme—Joseph Lee and How—
ard Braucher.

“My story of the recreation move-
ment must be very brief. First, I like
the-"word movement because it means
that recreation is going forward. It
is not standing still. It’s moving, im-
proving. More and more people and
groups are recognizing that recreation
is a fundamental in American life.

“Secondly, the same missionary and pioneer
spirit of old must be maintained in the develop-
ment of new areas in the field of recreation which
is ever growing and expanding. There is an in-
crease in children’s museums, camping of all kinds,
the work with oldsters, home and neighborhood
play——-—new areas on the horizon.

“Third, there is always the need for the up-
grading of standards—for reorganization and ad-
ministration, facilities, budgets, programs and
leadership.

“Recreation is on the march. . . . So we here
dedicate ourselves today, first, to the vision and
faith of the missionaries and pioneers of the NRA
and the recreation movement, and second, to the
challenge of the future, that we shall ever be
ready.”

 

Today few people remember that the War Camp Com-
munity Service of World War I was in reality the NBA.

67

PET BIRDS ARE FUN!

HEN COLONEL AND Mrs. Leon L. Gardner
Wgrew bored with Army life in the prewar
Philippines they bought a pet bird for “new inter-
est.” Before long they had fifty. Too numerous
for cages, the birds theoretically were confined to
a screen porch; actually they took over the house.
They slept in shoes, swooped into the shower after
Colonel Gardner, flicking water in his eyes. They
grabbed absorbent cotton from the bathroom, stole
tape measures from the sewing basket and picked
a quilt apart for their nests.

Nearly everyone at some time has considered
acquiring a pet bird, usually with the casual idea
of lending color and song to the home. Later the
owner may learn, as did the Gardners, that he has
stumbled on a multi-faceted hobby which often be-
comes a consuming passion and a money-making
venture.

Birds are absorbing company, and are easin
taught tricks. While in a hospital with his back
broken, George Burton, a Wild West show rider,
was given a parakeet. The bird, he found, liked to
ride an outstretched pencil. Eight years later he
put 273 lovebirds through a feature-length movie
complete with hero, villain and love interest. They
operated taxis, rode horseback, performed on
trapezes, and did other tricks.

Robert Stroud, a Leavenworth prisoner, spent
twenty years in solitary confinement. By raising
canaries in his cell he not only preserved his sanity,
but supported his mother through sales of the
birds. When birds died he dissected them, later
studied biology, and became a writer and world
authority on their diseases—despite the fact that
he had not gone beyond the third grade in school.

Many hospitals keep birds for their therapeutic

 

Mrs. Stevenson, wife of a Washington, D. C.
news pa perman, worked as librarian with the
Camp and Hospital Service of the Red Cross

during World War II, and knew of the use
of birds in hospital rehabilitation programs.

68

Mildred Stevenson

\

value. During the war they were introduced at
St. Elizabeth’s, the government mental hospital
in Washington, to divert shell-shocked veterans.
One Negro sailor, who seemed otherwise recov-
ered, became upset whenever it was suggested that
he might go home. The psychiatrists were baffled
until he was observed strutting through the wards,
laughing joyously as the parakeet which rode his
shoulder flew off, then returned at his whistled
command. Asked if he would like to take the pet
home, he immediately began packing. “Me and
my little bird are gettin’ out of here,” he said.

It is the fanciers, though, who derive the most
enjoyment from birds. Their gratification is that
of the artist and champion. Before the war we
imported most of our birds from Germany. Now
Helen Kneller, editor of Canary World, estimates
that American breeders are producing more than
a million birds a year. Countless varieties and
strains have been developed.

In a former hosiery mill at Denville, New Jer-
sey, the Odenwald Bird Company turns out three
broods a year for upwards of 65,000 sales. The
R. T. French Company, with plants at Rochester

 

William S. Hinman has found that young birds are
as playful as kittens and equally as affectionate.

RECREATION

and Philadelphia and aviaries in England, is chiefly
concerned with manufacturing better bird foods,
but sells birds too. The business grew from one
man’s hobby. The quality market, however, is
controlled by fanciers—enthusiasts who, through
more than 200 local clubs and national associa—
tions, are continually striving for prize-winning
birds.

Some fanciers are children, who have their own
.recognized organizations, or housewives with a
couple of cages, or busy executives like John A.
Yeager of Baltimore who eight years ago adopted
birds as his safety-valve hobby and since has
owned eighty-five. “Wonderful recreation,” he
told me. “And so much can be learned from birds.”

At De Paul Sanitarium in New Orleans, Sister
Mary Rose breeds and sells birds to help the poor.
Clovis Russell and his family, in thirteen years,
turned twenty dollars worth of birds into a $50,-
OOO-a-year enterprise at West, Texas, after they

.
'H.

v. u. .4 “L.

 

Mr. Bruce W’hite proudly shows the blue jay that
talks, whistles “Yankee Doodle,” and tap dances.

discovered that birds brought big profits. Margaret
K. Hines, who twelve years ago bought a bird for
her daughter, now owns a thriving pet shop in
Washington.

Bruce White, of Frederick, Maryland, who as
a‘child had owned birds, nine years ago sought to
buy one for his granddaughter. A pet store clerk,
finding him hard to please, sarcastically suggested
that he breed his own. White accepted the chal-
lenge, won every canary prize offered in Maryland,
became president of the Maryland Canary Breed-
ers Association and, as his collection increased,
retired from his traveling salesman’s job. In his
basement he has more than 400 birds, including a
parakeet which has learned to unlatch its cage, and
trots around letting the others out, too. There is

MAY 1949

also a bluejay which says, “Hi, Lydia,” and tap
dances.

Your first bird should be a male for, unlike their
counterparts in the human race, the females are
quiet. Your bird should. live eight to twelve years.
It is cheap to feed, and usually is clean. However,
Canary World tells of Gertie, so dirty and bellig-
erent that other canaries shunned her. It seems
that she had developed a fear of water while still
a nestling. The cure was to put her alone with
a mirror. Immediately she fell in love with the
reflected image which did not snub her. Then she
accidentally fell into a strategically placed bath
and, seeing the mirrored friend bathing too, she
decided it was the social thing to do. She readily
found a mate .on being returned to the big cage,
and lived happily ever after.

Canaries are just the starting point for many
fanciers. Importers send collectors to South and
Central America, Australia, China, India and the
Philippines every year to satisfy the increasing
demand for more exotic birds. The Louis Ruhe
Company has been in this business since 1869. At
its three-story wholesale warehouse in New York
are Argentine toucans with eight-inch bills, which
retail for $150 apiece; but ten dollars will buy a
pair of sweet-singing strawberry finches from In-
dia, or two multi-colored European goldfinches, or
a pair of Java rice birds complete with blue-gray
coats, pink bills and white ear muffs.

One of the most interesting talking birds is the
Oriental mynah. In 1900 some were released near
Vancouver, British Columbia, and the-story is told
that when a local farmer started to shoot what he
thought was a crow the bird shrieked: “Hey, look
out where you point that gun.” The supposition
is that the mynah, as curious as the crow which
it resembles, had followed hunters and heard these
same angry words from them.

The Washington Zoo once possessed an even
more gifted mynah. When visitors inquired why
its mate had disappeared, it spoke up solemnly
before the keeper had a chance: “The other one
died.” This bird also was loved by the curators
for its efforts to increase their funds. When a
visiting legislator appeared, the bird demanded
loudly: “How about the apprOpriations, Senator?”
Furthermore, it collected on the spot. Hold up a
coin and it would 'grab and bury it. Keepers al-
ways found several dollars when they cleaned its
cage.

You can buy an untrained mynah for twenty—
five dollars, a trained one for seventy-five dollars
to $I,500.

The talkers which have quadrupled in price are

69

those of the parrot family.

Despite restrictions, the popularity of parrots
is undimmed, for they are loyal, long-lived, and
entertaining. One which “Colonel Jack” Larson
of Seattle bought when it was twenty years old
traveled with him in show business for the next
forty. \Vhen the Colonel came down with asthma
it barged into the sickroom and took up sympa—
thetic vigil on the edge of his bed.

Canaries are generally conceded to be the best
songsters. They come both in tenors and bassos,
and may be tutored in a repertoire which theoreti-
cally includes up to ten bars sung at certain pitch
and key. Once in a blue moon a bird even learns
a tune written by a human being.

Lately, a parakeet——the Australian budgerigar
or “budgie” bird—has begun to challenge the ca-
nary’s popularity. It comes in assorted colors
from apple green to mauve. You can get them,
untrained, for as little as fourteen dollars a pair.
If tutored when young, they learn to whistle melo-
dies, even turn somersaults. A woman with a high-
pitched voice can teach them to talk in three
months and to acquire a hundred-word vocabulary
in a year. There are phonograph records to help,
tOO.

The true bird addict resembles the philatelist
who, having found one stamp, must complete his
series at all cost. Mrs. Milton Erlanger started
with the usual lone canary. “7 hen the companions
she provided for it overwhelmed her New York
house, she added a ninety-foot aviary to a garage
on her farm at Elberon, New Jersey, then Hanked
this outside with flight enclosures planted in shrubs
and berry bushes.

Here you find the irridescent .green, gold and
red Quetzal with thirty-inch tail. It is the national
bird of Guatemala and was worshipped by the
Mayas and Aztecs. There are clarino thrushes
from India, singing accompaniments to bubbuls,
which back in Africa are captured when they be-
come drunk from eating fermenting fruits. There
is also a drongo from Africa which imitates every-
thing it hears—even barks like a dog.

The more than 200 rare birds gathered by Mrs.
Erlanger from throughout the world require exact-
ing care. Some are so little known that no text
exists on their care and feeding. Mrs. Erlanger
actually has a gardener cultivating such pests as
dandelions and thistles in winter hotbeds. Some
birds require oranges, bananas, alligator pears,
hard-boiled eggs, boiled sweet potatoes, big black
cherries, a mash of zwiebach and meal. Mrs. Er-
langer also runs a mealworm factory a large box
filled with bran, soft bananas and apples in which

 

70

beetles from South America produce larvae.

Confined birds are not unhappy. \Vild birds
soon learn that food and protection offset the
pleasures of a freedom beset with enemies. Ca-
naries actually have lived behind bars so many
generations that they are incapable of fending for
themselves. Rather than frame their own nests
they prefer that you give them a tea strainer.

Many of Mrs. Erlanger’s rare birds refuse to
escape. Pancho, a Mexican troupial in a Hallow-
een suit of black and yellow, insists on riding the
shoulder of Dick Belhnmeur, the farm superin-
tendent, when he goes outside. Then the bird flies
off to hide while Dick pretends to search for him.
But just let Dick get out of sight and the bird
screams for him and safety.

Recently I drove to Virginia to see \Villiam S.

Hinman. a retired government worker who started

raising birds after his wife died because “they gave
me something else to think about.” He found that
the young birds were as playful as kittens and
equally affectionate. One parakeet went around,
wings outstretched in angel fashion, begging to be
petted. .

Mr. Hinman gave all of his trained parakeets
to St. Elizabeth’s Hospital during the war. And
he feels bountifully repaid when he remembers the
story of Jim, a twenty-year-old sailor, dazed and
mute after two years of hell in the Pacific. For
five months the doctors had tried in vain to rouse
his stunned mind and silent tongue.

Then a Red Cross worker brought one of Mr.
Hinman’s parakeets into the ward. The bird
hopped on the shoulder of a patient, then onto the
head of another. Then it sat on a chair and jab-
bered at them. The patients roared. Slowly Jim
turned, looked at them vacantly.

The parakeet fiew to the shoulder of the patient
in the next bed. He held it for a few seconds, then
an idea came to him. He placed the bird in Jim’s
limp hand.

The ward was instantly tense and still. Jim
jerked his head, stared at the parakeet. His eyes
narrowed. Suddenly he closed his big fist on the
bird, stuffed it into his pocket.

A groan went through the ward. The doctor,
horrified, hurried forward. Then he drew up. The
bird was peeking out of the pocket with Jim’s
hand curled around it.

“He’s cold,” said Jim, smiling up at the doctor.
“I’ll keep him warm.”

Soon, of his own volition, Jim went to the hobby
shop to model the parakeet in clay. Eight weeks
from the day he first saw the parakeet he was dis-
charged from the hOSpital. The bird went with him.

RECREATION

People in Recreation . . .

Meet Gramps Mathias of West End

E 15 A little man with silver hair and a big
H silver mustache. If he had a beard he would
look exactly like Santa Claus—'and it would be
‘ perfectly proper.

He is William Mathias, seventy-four, caretaker
at the West End Recreation Center. He plays
Santa Claus, father and counselor to hundreds of
W inona, Minnesota, children 365 days in the year.
Say the boys and girls of the West side: “Gramps’
hair is silver but his heart is gold!”

When we went out to get acquainted, “Gramps”
was at the far end of the ice rink where he watches
over the safety and comfort of the younger children
gvith fierce blue eyes and the vigilance of a newly
appointed lifeguard. A volunteer call to bring him
back to the recreation hall sent a score of young—
sters racing across the snow to the rink. They
brought him back. They hung on his arm and said
gleefully, as if they were showing off a proud par—
ent, “Here he is, here is good ole Gramps. Take
his picture with us, we want his picture with us.”

“Gramps” is a polite, well-poised Scot of the old
school of manners. He bows a little and he says,
in his rich Scotch brogue, “How are ye ?”

“Why do the children make such a fuss
about you, Gramps ?” we asked. “Weel,
now, I’ll be tellin’ ye,” mused the old care-
taker, stroking his mustache. “Dinna ye
think it’s because I like them?” With that
he winked as if it were a secret between us.

What does “Gramps” do to make chil-
dren laugh and say he has a “heart of gold”?
\Vell, he comes to work with candy in his
pocket or maybe a story book he has bought
with his own meager funds. He bundles
the small children up when they go on the
ice, mends broken shoe laces, and helps
'them in their first struggles on the ice, al—
though- he doesn’t skate. If a child’s coat

Reprinted from the M’inona Republican-Herald.

MAY 1949

comes open, or a muffler 'is loose, or a nose shows
signs of a cold, “Gramps” wraps, tucks, buttons
and wipes.

These are not necessarily the duties of William
Mathias, listed in the city recreation records as a
maintenance man. They are the self-imposed tasks
of a ruddy, rugged fellow whose heart is filled with
the love of children and who eXpresses his feelings
by a lovable watchfulness that endears him even
to the older girls and boys. He has been with the
Winona park system for fifteen years and with the
recreation department for the past two years. In
the summer he cares for the park and the ball dia-
mond, and in the winter he maintains the ice rink
and watches over his hordes of skaters daily.

But, in the odd hours when there is no planned
recreation, you can find “the old man teaching some
of the W’ est Enders how to be canny at a game of
checkers or giving them advice on how to get along

' with their kid brothers or sisters. And although

“Gramps” has no Official standing in the recrea—
tion hall, he is always a welcome figure.

 

71-

 

Gray Wolf Ridge from Deer Park, Olympic. Some foresters consider park forests are wasted because they are not
harvested, and commercial interests threaten, but park forests pay high dividends in enjoyment and inspiration.

Parks and People

.\' AUTOMOBILE ONCE broke all speed records

dashing up to the doorsof a museum in one

of the national parks. \Yith screeching of brakes

and tires, it stopped. The door opened and a man

leaped out. The family huddled within, their faces

streaked with fear. “Hey, Mister! Mister! Your
bears are loose!” shouted the man.

Most of the approximately 30,000,000 peOple
who visit the national parks in the United States
and Canada every year are prepared to find the
wild animals “loose”—at large. This is one of the
parks’ most p0pular features.

National parks mean many things to many peo-
ple. Just what,nand how much, depends on cultural
backgrounds and interests. Thousands of ques-
tions are asked every day. “"hen columns of steam
rise from the fumaroles of Lassen Volcanic Na—
tional Park, visitors demand excitedly: “Is it
going off no'zt'?” Others inquire: “Do you have

Mr. Cabalane i: Cbief Biologin‘, National Park Serv-
ice; article reprinted from National Park: [Magazine

72

“fictor H. Cahalane
rattlesnakes P" "\V here are the wolves P" "\Vhat
is a virgin forest 3’” “Are Indians dangerous?”
“How did scientists count the 4.000,000 bats in
Carlsbad Caverns P” “\\"ill a coyote bite ?" "\V here
can I camp for two weeks without seeing any
humans .7”

Even an average family in the United States or
Canada is sure to find different tields of interest
for each member. Father, the mechanical genius,
is engrossed in the method by which the geysers
go into action, or how a beaver-family builds its
dams, canals and lodges. He may be impressed by
the seemingly limitless forests of lodgepole pine.
or balsam fir, or maple, and perhaps he sees in
them sawlogs or chair spindles. Mother appre-
ciates most the play of light on the spray of geyser
or the mountainous waterfall, the pattern of color
in the forest carpet, and the Opportunity to relax
in the quiet campground while the crowds are en-
gaged in sightseeing.

Depending on their age, the boys play Indians,
hunting beasts in the pre-Columbian forest, or

RECREATION

catch a black—spotted trout or two from the river.
Older boys may go hunting with binoculars or
camera, becoming absorbed in a study of the aloof
moose or the too—familiar black bear. The daugh-
ter of this family may prefer the evening campfire
programs with a combination of natural history
education and social opportunities. All family
members join forces in enjoying the museums and
the most spectacular scenic offerings. '

This family probably perceives only the most
superficial meanings of the institution of national
parks, and the relationship of the parks to every-
day life of the people of our two countries.

The greatest aggregation of wildlife ever seen
was found by the early settlers of temperate North
America. Wasteful exploitation wiped out hun—
dreds of thousands of bison, anteIOpe, elk, deer
and many other species. Some of the travelers who
beheld the vast herds had wished that the specta-
cle might be preserved for posterity. About 1834,
the historian, George Catlin, proposed that a pub—
lic park be set aside, in which the wildlife and even
the Indian might‘continue in the wild state. Al-
though the proposal was later buried in Catlin’s
monumental description of the “North American
Indians,” it is possible that the seed was not
planted too deep to germinate in another time and
place. More than thirty years later, on September
23, 1870, a Montana lawyer named Cornelius
Hedges suggested that the Yellowstone region be
reserved as a national park. By the Act of Con-
gress of March 1, 1872, an area of over 3,000
square miles of this fabulous country was “dedi-
cated and set apart as a public park or pleasuring
ground for the benefit and enjoyment of people.”

The first national park, and the act establishing
it, set a pattern that has been repeated many times
throughout the world. A Special and distinct form

of land use has evolved by which the ground and“

everything that depends on it must, by law, be
protected from despoliation. Yellowstone Park
was followed, in the United States, by twenty-
seven additional parks and more than one hundred
scenic and scientific national monuments. The
people of Canada liked the idea, and have set aside

twenty-five areas. Also, the national park idea has.

spread far beyond this continent.

Canada and the United States are new coun-
tries. A greater proportion of Canada’s lands has
been free from exploitation. But, even in the
United States, it is difficult to realize the impact
that a dense human population can have on the
land. Although our statisticians may be correct in
saying that our population will not expand many-
fold, other factors may effect far-reaching changes.

MAY 1949

It is entirely possible that, unless we are able to
assure the peaceful settlement of international
problems, a_ dispersal of people will take place
away from the present major concentrations.

W e see the problem affecting us more and more

70*: 700 @ea/w

HE DEPARTMENT of the Interior launched
Ta year-long celebration of its 100th birth-
day on March 3 by holding “open house” at
Interior projects and installations throughout
the United States.

In summarizing 100 years of achievement,
Secretary J. A. Krug pointed out that the In—
terior’s National Park Service has acquired
and developed twenty-eight national parks,
with 11,347,269 acres, which are being pre-
served for their beauty, public interest and
recreation facilities; has acquired and is oper-
ating, for public benefit, 146 national monu-
ments, historic sites and recreation areas; has
increased the number of visitors to National
Park Service areas from 120,000 in 1904 to
over 30,000,000 last year.

The Fish and Wildlife Service of the De-
partment has acquired and developed 282
wildlife refuges of 18,000,000 acres for the
protection of wildlife and birds which were
in danger of extinction. The number of li-
censed duck hunters has increased rapidly in
recent years—it was 1,722,677 last year. Yet,
with the refuge system, the duck population
decline has been stemmed and is now held at
an estimated 54,000,000. Also, this service
has built and operates twenty-live field labora-
tories and ninety-seven fish hatcheries; has
administered the $100,000,000 Alaskan sal-
mon industry research, so that future salmon
runs would not be damaged; has so managed
the fur seal herd on Pribilof Islands, from
1910 to date, as to increase it from 132,000
animals to more than 3,380,000.

Secretary Krug announced that every op-
portunity will be taken throughout the year to
increase public understanding of the nation’s
resources problem and the Interior Depart-
ment’s programs for conserving and develop-
ing them. “The Department will celebrate its
centennial,” he said, “by dedicating its facili-
ties to vigorous attainment of the resource
goals necessary to keep this a land of free-
dom, prosperity and expanding opportunity.”

73

 

Lassen Peak in Lassen Volcanic National Park. If
left to the interests of mining companies, this vol-
cano would become a mine for insulating material.

as our own hinterland is being developed at a
rapid rate. The automobile has brought far-
reaching changes in our road systems. Under the
duress of war, the Alaska Highway was driven
through the wildest region in North America—a
region where road construction had been consid—
ered all but impossible. This road has brought
important changes to Alaska and northwestern
Canada, and the end has not been reached. Even
now, by use of the airplane, great numbers of peo-
ple can reach the very heart of wilderness areas
with the expenditure of a little money, a few hours
of time, and practically no effort. To provide for
the kind of recreation that these pe0p1e want, pro—
moters are rushing to set up resorts that are as
destructive of the wilderness as farms or towns.
Most of the states, and probably the Canadian
provinces, are not equipped to protect these wilder-
ness areas or to regulate their use in the face of
this new menace.

Another disquieting development in the United
States, from the point of view of wilderness and
nature preservation, is the program for develop-
ment of river basins. The plans of the U. S. Army
Engineers encompass works which, if only a part
of them are built, will alter the aspect of all of
the major river systems of the country and many
of the minor ones. These changes will have the
greatest effect on our fishery and other aquatic
resources, on migratory waterfowl, and on the use
of the lands affected. They will alter not only the
aspect of the country, but the distribution and

74

habits of the human population.

Are the preservationists alarmists? In spite of
their many agencies and their organized efforts
throughout the world, the rate of extinction of
wildlife species is accelerating. During the past
2,000 years. about 106 species and subspecies of
mammals have become extinct in the world. Only
thirty-three of these perished during the first 1,800
years; two were lost between 1801 and 1850;
thirty-one vanished between 1850 and 1900. From
1901 to 1945, forty were wiped out. Several more
are now threatened with extinction.

To save a part of the original animals, we must
save their habitat. This is the objective of the
national parks. They are the only areas in the
world where disturbance of all of nature’s inter-
relationships is prevented by law. As far as is
humanly possible, the original fauna, flora, and soil
are kept intact. Unfortunately, even these com—
paratively small areas are threatened by constant
pressure of commercial interests. “This is sheer
waste!” cry the men who know no values that
cannot be measured in dollars and cents.

A rancher friend of mine once summed up the
attitude of many stockmen: "All that grazing go-
ing to waste in the national parks. \Vhy feed grass
to critters that you can’t skin or eat P” Some
gunners want parks opened to hunting. Get-rich-
quick promoters frequently urge that Yellowstone
Lake be turned into the valleys of Idaho to raise
sugar beets. Again we hear the cry: “Millions of
dollars going to waste!”

Mining companies seek minerals or sulphur
from hot springs, or even cinder insulating mate-
rial from the volcanic cones in Lassen Volcanic Na-
tional Park. Others are trying periodically to get
permission to build roads and set up equipment in
the parks. Right now the search for oil and gas is

"getting underway in Jackson Hole, \Vyoming. The

roads and test wells for this purpose will be built
across the elk migration routes and on some of
their winter and spring range. If the test wells
strike oil in quantity, the consequences may be
catastrophic. The herd may be wiped out, and
even the lodgepole pine forests of Jackson Hole
National Monument may become forests of oil
derricks.

It’s a difficult choice sometimes, and sometimes
there is no choice. It is a question of more oil
wells or the last great herd of elk; stockyards or
alpine meadows; lumber yards or magnificent for-
ests; mining towns or wilderness; sugar beets or
clean, shining lakes with primeval shores. Many
of the vast and unique values of the national parks
cannot be measured in dollars and cents. They are

RECREATION

 

beyond price.

National parks are essential to the economic life
of many communities. For example, a study was
made recently of the economic value of Yellow-
stone Park to the surrounding counties and states.
Here are a few conclusions: Public utilities in this
park are valued at more than $24,000,000. This
plant employs about 4,200 persons annually, the
majority of them for periods of three to five
months. They earn between $1,250,000 and
$1,500,000 each year. At least a quarter of these
wage—earners are residents of the three states in
which the park is located. In 1941, last year of
normal tourist travel before the war, almost 600,—
000 people visited this park. They spent here, in
one year, nearly $3,000,000. The State of Wyo—
ming has estimated that they spent more than
$6,500,000 in the state outside the park, and tour-
ists who came to the park through Montana were

estimated to have left almost $3,000,000 there.

II.

EWTON B. DRURY, Director of the National
Park Service, recently declared in his annual
report that the past year had brought increasing
pressure to break down park service policies and
standards. “Economic need in some cases, and
sheer promotion in others,” he said, “have led to
greater and greater demands for the cutting of
forests, the grazing of meadows, the damming of
streams and lakes, and other destructive uses of
the national parks.

“Although no action was taken by the Eightieth
Congress on proposals to abolish Jackson Hole
(Wyoming) National Monument or to shrink the
boundaries of Olympic National Park (Washing—
ton), legislation on both seems certain to be intro-
duced by the Eighty-first Congress. Related in
character to these threats are several proposals to
invade park areas with water impoundments,
either by the Bureau of Reclamation or the Corps
of Engineers.

“No less serious are alien developments being
imposed on such areas as Gettysburg National
Military Park, Pennsylvania, and Colonial Na-
tional Historical Park, Virginia, because of the
fact that lands of historical importance inside these
are still in private ownership and open to ex-
ploitation.

“In connection with many flood control pro-
posals, the service shares with numerous conserva-
tion organizations serious doubts as to the per-
manent efficacy of such dam construction and

MAY 1949

Yellowstone is a famous park, where visitors
may spend more per capita than in some other
areas where they do not stay as long. Several
other parks, however, attract more people. These
areas have become a multimillion dollar industry.
It is an expanding industry. Last year, more than
930,000 people visited Yellowstone—a sixty per—
cent increase over the biggest pre-war year. The
number of park visitors will increase. Year after
year it will grow as our children and their chil—
dren’s children return.

A commercial forester once said to me: “We
harvest our crops. The national parks let theirs
rot.” This is not true. Every day, every month,
every year, they are harvesting enormous, incal-
culable crops of enjoyment, recreation, inspiration,
scientific research. They are wresting from the
grasp of a greedy, exploiting civilization some of
the last primitive areas of natural beauty—a price-
less and irreplaceable heritage.

PM of gpméf

feels that more attention needs to be directed to
remedying primary causes of floods, the destruc-
tive denudation of forested watersheds, unsound
agricultural practices, conditions at headwaters of
streams.”

Mr. Drury objected, in particular, to the follow-
ing projects: .

I. The Bureau of Reclamation’s Bridge Canyon
Dam on the Colorado River above Lake Mead in
Arizona and Nevada. He said that it would greatly
reduce the inner canyon of Grand Canyon Na-
tional Monument, the monument’s outstanding
feature, and would flood eighteen miles of the
Grand Canyon on the border of Grand Canyon
National Park.

2. A “still more dangerous proposal,” construc-
tion of a lifty-four—mile tunnel to divert much of
the Colorado River’s water under the Kaibab
Plateau to a power plant near the mouth of Kanab
Creek, just above the headwaters of the proposed
Bridge Canyon Dam. This, it is stated, would
reduce the river’s flow through the park to a small
fraction of normal volume.

3. The Army Engineers’ proposed Glacier View
Dam on the north fork of Montana’s Flathead
River, which would Hood more than 19,000 acres
of wilderness in Glacier National Park.

4. The Army’s proposed Green River Dam at
Mining City, Kentucky, which would flood a part
of Mammoth Cave. '

 

*Reprinted from the New York Times, March 28, 1949.

75

HE 1948 JOSEPH LEE \Veek Observance in

San Francisco, sponsored by the recreation
department (July 25—31), gave tribute to the
“Father of American Recreation” and testimony
to the growing community understanding of the
principles of recreation.

Mayor Elmer E. Robinson proclaimed the week,
and named an Honorary Citizens Committee to
serve with the recreation department in furthering
the program. Through the office of Miss Josephine
D. Randall, superintendent of the department, ar-
rangements were made for conduct of the city’s
program. The message was spread through the
community by cooperation Of:

CHURCHES OF SAN FRANCISCO—in church publi-
cations and public addresses. The program, “Rec-
reation in the Good Life,” was nationally broad-
cast over the radio on July 31, with local min-
isters as speakers.

SECOND DISTRICT PARENT-TEACHERS ASSOCIA-
TION—devoted time to study of the philosophy of
Joseph Lee, as set forth in his book, “Play in Edu-

cation.”

GROUP W’ORK AND RECREATION COUNCIL OF THE'

COMMUNITY CHEST—made suggestions to dele-
gates from thirty member agencies for carrying
out plans.

CENTRAL COUNCIL OF IMPROVEMENT CLUBS—
gave notice to unit member clubs.

SAN FRANCISCO CHAMBER. OF COMMERCE—
printed announcements in its paper, “Bay Region
Business.”

SAN FRANCISCO COUNCIL AF OF L—published the
biography of Joseph Lee. Its council of delegates,
addressed by the supervising director of the rec—
reation department, carried the word to each union.

SAN FRANCISCO CIO—clarilied' the meaning of
the observance to its members. A radio program,
“Recreation in the Life of Industry,” presented a
variety of speakers.

SAN FRANCISCO LIBRARY DEPARTMENT—dis-
played the Mayor’s Proclamation, a statement
from the superintendent of recreation inviting
community participation, and a picture of Joseph
Lee in the main library and twenty-three branches.

RETAIL DRY GOODS ASSOCIATION OF SAN FRAN-
CISCO—featured in the window display of its thir-
teen member stores, the Mayor’s proclamation,
Miss Randall’s statement, and Mr. Lee’s picture.

NEWSPAPERS AND SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS—gave
generous space to editorials and news articles.

RADIO STATIONS— as mentioned, granted pro-

Miss Freese was the director of the 1948 Jo-
sep/a Lee Week observance in San Francisco.

76

PATTERNS FIJR PRBGRA

San Francisco

Nationaljosep/J Lee Day

Gertrude S. Freese

grams and spot announcements throughout the
entire period.

Mrs. Henry Dippel, recreation commissioner, as
president of the SAN FRANCISCO FEDERATION OF
WOMEN’S CLUBS and state chairman of the NATIVE
DAUGHTERS OF THE GOLDEN WEST, extended plans
of participation to these organizations.

Some Program Highlights

Open house in all units on July 30 coordinated
neighborhood interest and welcomed visitors to
special programs of recreation activities.

Central Play Day on July 29, at North Beach
Playground, attracted 1,700 junior boys and girls.
Games, hikes, a bay cruise and swimming were
enjoyed.

Orchestral Concert on July 25, at Sigmund
Stern Grove, by members of San Francisco Sym-
phony Orchestra, was dedicated to the memory of
Joseph Lee.

Golden Gate Story League Play Picnic on July
26 honored Mr. Lee in storytelling program.

Swimming pool celebrations included an aqua—
cade, water ballet, demonstrations of swimming,
diving and life-saving techniques, dashes and nov-
elty races.

Silt/er Tree Day C amp conducted a special cere-
mony at flag raising each morning, a special games
and campfire program.

Radio programs were broadcast by department
oflicials, covering music, drama, dance, women’s
and girls’ activities, swimming, and the like. The
regular Saturday storytelling broadcast was de-
voted to a short biography of Joseph Lee and the
telling of his story, “The Sunshine Fairy.”

‘. 0

RECREATION

HONOR 0F JOSEPH LEE

Baltimore

july 28, 1949

Edyth G. Onion

HE BALTIMORE B‘UREAU of Recreation has al-
Tways observed Joseph Lee Day, honoring the
memory of a great leader. However, last summer,
Mayor Thomas D’Alesandro proclaimed the week
of July 25th as Joseph Lee Week. Therefore,
many additional features were planned—among
them, a Joseph Lee Concert.

A chorus of one hundred and sixty boys and
girls, between the ages of eight and twelve, re-
hearsed in seventeen community centers and play-
grounds under two specially trained leaders. Each
rehearsal became of utmost importance since there
was only a scant six weeks for preparation and no
group had more than two weekly rehearsals. Sev-
eral groups rehearsed—without a piano or other
instrument—mu the open playground.

It was decided that each group would sing a
song or two by themselves; that “Brahms’ Lul-
laby,” “When Johnny Comes \Marching Home”
and “Lovely Evening,” would be sung by the en-
tire chorus; and that “Baltimore, Our Baltimore”
(first stanza), “Maryland, My Maryland” (first
stanza), and “America the Beautiful” (first and
last stanzas), would be the selections for the audi-
ence and children, accompanied by one of our rec-
reation orchestras.

Since Baltimore weather was so fickle last
season, we abandoned our original idea of an out-
of-doors setting in Patterson Park. Instead, we
chose the Pavilion, a few hundred feet away,

where the stage would hold the city-wide Joseph

Mrs. Onion is Supervisor of Music and Dra-
matics, Bureau of Recreation in Baltimore.

MAY 1949

Lee Chorus, provided that bleachers and risers
were put to maximum use. The few interstices
were filled with palms and orchid-colored phlox.
Risers were placed in “the pit,” which enabled us
to seat one of our symphonic orchestras to advan-
tage.

Our first Joseph Lee Concert was a high spot,
not only in the week’s celebration, but in the sum-
mer’s program. The boys and girls experienced
hitherto unknown joy—the joy that comes from
creating and hearing good music; the joy of doing
something worthwhile with other “very young
people” whom you had never seen before; the
joy that comes from seeing parents, friends and
strangers in the audience, intent on every word
and tone, and of hearing that audience join with
you in community singing; the joy of seeing and
of hearing (for the first time for the majority) a
symphonic orchestra playing classics and semi-
classics not too hard to understand, and of being
able to look at them while they play the violins,
trombone, French horn or tympani. I

The evening of Thursday, July 29th, will long
be remembered—the picnic on the spacious lawns
in the late afternoon ; the fun of being assigned a
special place on the bleachers or risers; the novelty
of that one and only massed rehearsal; then a brief
intermission and returning to those allotted seats;
and, finally, our Joseph Lee Concert. In the early
part of the program a thirteen-year-old boy from
the “home” playground spoke briefly on the life
and accomplishments of Joseph Lee.

The highlight of the program was caught by the
press and reviewed in the next morning’s paper:

“Audience appreciation was especially keen in
the rendition of ‘The Animal Fair’ by Group A of
the 'chorus, which managed to give a booming ac«
cent to the refrain. The rhythmic swinging move—
ments of the singers of the folk song ‘Rosie Nell’
may have lacked the precision of the Rockettes,
but the Spirit was there, even when one half of the
performers seemed not to know what the other
half were doing.”

Enthusiasm ran so high among the children and
parents that plans for our Second Annual Joseph
Lee Concert were started this past winter.

“Music is dancing freed from the limitations of
anatomy. It is the reminiscence of motion in
poetry, and partly even in architecture, that carries
its appeal. All that touches us . . . is motion or
some translation of it. . . . Art, in whatever body
it appears, has always a dancing fairy at its heart."

——Joseph Lee in Play in Education.

77

PARK AND RECREATIIIN WEEK~

ANY NATIONAL organizations, including the
National Recreation Association, the Amer-
ican Recreation Society, the National Conference
on State Parks, the National Park Service and
other private and public agencies, are cooperating
with this observance, which was originally con-
ceived by the American Institute of Park Execu-
tives. These organizations will be supplying sug-
gestions and materials for use in Park and Recre—
ation \Veek. However, local initiative must follow
through on the community level. It is with the
intent of contributing to such follow-up that the
following ideas are presented. (See also February
1949 issue of RECREATION.)

Within the Community

The recreation agencies of the community could
most effectively prepare for observance by appoint-
ing a special committee. The membership of such
a committee need not be limited to public agen—
cies; private and commercial agencies and inter-
ested laymen or volunteers should be invited to
participate. The committee could organize to hold
a community-wide meeting or exposition to pre-
sent a review of the community’s recreation re-
sources. This would provide an opportunity to
explore little known resources, or to study and
review needs or plans for future growth of recrea-
tion leadership and facilities.

Efforts should be made to capitalize on events
scheduled for this week. A Blossom Festival, an
athletic field day, a folk dance festival or any other
such event may be dedicated to Park and Recrea-
tion \Veek. During this week, also, attractive pub-
lications on recreation should be released. Such
releases could include announcements of the com-
ing summer program, the opening of the camp
season, and other future events. Training meet-
ings could also be held during this week to impress
staff and volunteers.

Hobby groups may aid in presenting exhibits in
local community centers, in store windows, li—
braries, or other places. Hobby supply stores may
become interested in highlighting Park and Rec-
reation \Veek with either window displays, show
cards, or special demonstrations.

Within the Center

Certainly the local recreation center will coordi-
nate its efforts with the conmiunity-wide program.
However, over and beyond such participation,

78

MAY 21-30, 1949

there are many things the staff could do to help

make this week outstanding. Some events which

could be held in a local center and dedicated to

the week might be :

Play days (See NRA Bulletins—July 1947).

Marble tournaments.

Motion pictures of recreation activities, national parks,
travelogues, and the like.

Hikes, outings and tours to parks or recreation areas.

Father and Son, Mother and Daughter Nights.

Award or Recognition Nights.

HOp scotch. roller skating, stilt walking contests.

Open House Night.

Folk and social dances.

Arts and crafts exhibits.

In addition to these prOgram suggestions, the
local recreation director has many opportunities
for highlighting the observance through such media
as the bulletin board, newspaper releases, reports
and other written materials. Here are some sug-

gestions :

l. Imprint your literature from now until May 20 with
a comment on Park and Recreation \Veek.

2. Put forth a special effort to use photographs. news-
paper clippings and other interesting material on rec-
reation. “~

3. Permit the clubs in your agency to use the bulletin
board for a week at a time to Set up an exhibit on
their particular interest. Make capital of these displays
to attract new interest and new members.

4. Have a poster contest and a slogan contest in connec-
tion with the bulletin Iboard campaign. Your schools
and other community recreation agencies could com—
bine their efforts in such a project. Makes a good
subject for newspaper c0py, tool

. Ask your librarian to loan you a book display for
Park and Recreation \Veek. Books selected might be
on athletics, hunting, fishing and outings: arts and
crafts or other hobbies.

6. Present a display of interesting charts and statistics
on recreation in your community. The display might
include a map of your community and its recreation
resources, photographs of recreation activities. graphs
showing attendance, and so forth.

U1

The director of the local center may also ar-
range to address the Rotary, PTA, or other serv—
ice clubs during the week. If he has a staff mem-
ber capable of making an interesting talk on a
craft, art or musical activity, such a person should
be engaged to speak or give a working demonstra—
tion. Even a good song leader can serve as a
“demonstrator” of community center activities.

Time is running very sh0rt———and your planning
must be fast if you have not already started to
think of this observance.

RECREATION

HIKING—
As A Sport

Roland C. Geist

IKING IS ONE of man’s oldest pastimes. For
H centuries it was the only method of travel.
Today it is still a major sport for several million
Americans who enjoy vacation tramps or moun-
taineering outings.

Many groups have been formed to promote this
recreation activity. The Municipal Recreation De—
partment of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, has organized
and operated the famous “Muni—Hikers-Bikers
Club” with great success. The late J. Otis Swift
of the New Y ark W odd-Telegram built up a
world—wide, 500,000 member nature hiking group
known as the Yosian Brotherhood of NaturePhi-
losophers. Unfortunately, it is not generally con-
sidered a major Sport in our schools and colleges
——-few such institutions having hiking clubs—al-
though it is fostered by some, such as the College
of the City of New York, Dartmouth College,
State University of Iowa, Harvard University,
New York University and Wagner College.

Army statistics show that there are a great num-
ber of physically unfit youths in America. It ap-
pears, therefore, that sports training of the masses
has been somewhat neglected in favor of a few
highly trained competing athletes. The United
States does win Olympic Games—but too often the
average citizen is in difficulty when he has to walk
a few miles because of a bus or trolley car strike.
Jim Hocking, ninety-four years young, America’s
leading pedestrian, says to the youth of the world:
“Get out into the open spaces and walk, walk,
walk.” He still hikes some forty-five miles from
his home in Teaneck, New Jersey, to Bear MOun-
tain each birthday.

For many years the College of the City of New
York conducted an annual Finley Hike in honor
of the late President John H. Finley, in which

Mr. Geist, mi mat/cor, is the faculty advisor
of the Julia Ric/omen High School Hiking
Club, and member of several biking clubs.

MAY 1949

 

Hiking party on the Sauk River, Mt. Baker National
Forest. Wilderness walking trip makes ideal vacation.

several thousand students participated. A bronze
medal was awarded to all completing the ten mile
walk in two hours. ‘

Hiking is an ideal sport for recreation depart-
ments, clubs, schools and colleges because:

1. It is an outdoor sport, except for a few speed walk-
ing events on indoor tracks.

2. It requires no expensive clothing, equipment, stadia,
tracks, or the like.

3. It is enjoyed by both sexes, people of all ages, dur-
ing all seasons. Dr. Finley used to enjoy hiking dur-
ing the night, and even in stormy weather.

4. There are no difficult techniques to be learned—only

rhythm is required.

. It may be enjoyed strenuously or moderately.

. It may 'be enjoyed individually or in groups or teams.

. It is a safe pastime if enjoyed on t'rails, away from

congested motor highways.

8. Each hiking trip is an adventure in itself. Points of
natural and historic interest may be enjoyed.

9. It has branches to suit all tastes. For the speedy
youth there is the “heel and toe” walking race; for
the nature friend there is the long trail through the
woods; and for the daring there are the thrills of
mountaineering with the goal of a first ascent.

10. A walking race is thrilling to observe. Each year
thousands turn out to watch the Annual City Hall to
Coney Island Walk sponsored by the Walkers Club
of America in New York City.

\JONUI

Outside of the schools and colleges there are
public and private hiking and mountaineering
clubs. Some groups, such as the Yosians, are Open
to everyone regardless of ability, education or
creed.

In schools and colleges, one or more enthusi-
astic student or faculty member may organize hik-

79

ing and climbing clubs. At the State University
of Iowa, Professor Arthur Wendler and student
president Sylvanus J. Ebert organized the active
Iowa Mountaineers. Professor Stull of the Geog-
raphy Department at Columbia University was in-
strumental in forming the hiking and climbing sec-
tion of the Metropolitan Council of Geography
Teachers. The Dartmouth Outing Club and the
Harvard Mountaineering Club have both spon-
sored mountaineering expeditions of note.

After the group has been organized, many ac-
tivities may be planned. Public high school hiking
clubs usually confine themselves to less expensive
one-day local walks and climbs. The New York
High School of Commerce Outing Club enjoyed a
week—end climbing trip to Lake Placid when the
New York Central Lines offered a seven-dollar
round trip on a special train. Newton High School
Hikers have enjoyed one-day boat trips up the
Hudson River via the Day Line, with excursion
fares priced from one to two dollars. The Rich-
man High School Hiking Club is planning one-day
trips to nearby park areas—all accessible for a
twenty-cent fare.

New York City school clubs also conduct hikes
to historical spots such as the Sunnyside Restora-
tion at Irvington; Phillipse Castle at Tarrytown;
Billop Mansion at Tottenville, Staten Island;
Brown_House in Flushing; Washington’s head-
quarters at Morristown, New Jersey; La Guardia
Airport, and others. For nature students, there
are seashore walks, a bird sanctuary on Staten
Island; and for observing deer and animal life the
Bear Mountain area is an open zoological labora-
tory. The Hudson Highlands, the Catskills and
the Adirondacks provide the places for the novice
mountaineers.

College hiking and climbing clubs, having an
older membership and often more funds, provide
tours of the United States, Mexico and Canada.
In 1948 the Iowa Mountaineers conducted a sum-
mer outing to the Wind River Range in \Vyoming.
They are now planning trips to Mexico and Mount
McKinley in Alaska. Members of the Dartmouth
Outing Club from Hanover, New Hampshire,
have spent summers scrambling among the Alps
of America in Grand Teton National Park. The
College Outing Club of New York, composed of
students from New York University and Colum-
bia University, has purchased an auto trailer and
members plan to enjoy an outing to Mexico, visit-
ing Mexico City, Acapulco and Guadalajara, this
summer. Summer college outings can be conducted
in the most economical manner, utilizing group
railroad tickets, station wagons, buses or trucks.

80

In rugged country, pack animals carry the food,
portable stoves and provisions.

European tours have always been popular, espe-
cially with members of the American Youth Hos-
tels. Each summer the AYH, of Northiield,
Massachusetts, plans student tours at low rates.
Groups of ten travel afoot and by bicycle under
the direction of a college graduate. Trips last from
six to ten weeks and include all expenses. Some
interesting 1949 summer trips are:

AMERICAS—Rolling Youth Hostel (special
train), $315 ; Alaska, $32 5 ; Mexico, $205; Central
America, $400. -

EUROPE—British Isles, $565; Scandinavia,
$620; Western Europe, $590; Mediterranean,
$650-

ASIA—Far East, Japan, $1,365.

For graduate students, the New School in New
York is offering European hiking tours for $900
a round trip, going and returning by plane. The
International \Valkers Association of America of-
fers students a two-week hiking vacation to scenic
spots in the Eastern United States at a low rate of
$20 to $35 a week.

A wonderful wilderness vacation walking trip
may be enjoyed on either of America’s two great
hiking trail systems. Each summer, for instance,
fifteen students enjoy a seven-day High Sierra
trail trip led by a ranger naturalist from the Yo-
semite National Park in California. Overnight
stops are made at tent camps where meals are
served. Thus, the hiker is not burdened with a
heavy tent, sleeping bag and provisions. (How-
ever, a veteran cross country hiker does not seem
to mind carrying a fifty or sixty pound pack.)
This Sierra Trail is part of the 2,245 mile Pacific
Crest Trailway conceived by Clinton C. Clarke of
Pasadena, California. In the Eastern United
States, the 2,046 mile Appalachian Trail invites
the trail hiker. Starting at Mount Katahdin in
Maine, it crosses the Hudson River at Bear Moun-
tain, and ends at Mount Oglethorpe in Georgia.
For the novice mountaineer, 5,267 foot Mount
Katahdin offers a first challenge, and each summer
thousands of campers make this ascent.

Further information on hiking and mountaineer-
ing can be gained from the following books: Rock
Climbing and M omztaineering by C. Bruning ; The
Pacific Crest Trailway, Clinton C. Clarke; The
Tetons, F. Fryxell; Hiking, Camping and Mom:-
taineering, Roland C. Geist; A Manual of Walk—
ing, Elon Jessup ; The Hikers Handbook, Douglas
Leechman; Mountain Series, edited by Roderick
Peattie; New York IValkbook, Torrey, Place and

Dickinson.

RECREATION

James Edward Rogers Retires

T IS IMPOSSIBLE to put on paper adequately the
history of James Edward Rogers and his con—
tribution to the national recreation movement. A
mere recital of his responsibilities during his more
than forty years of service would be only a skele—
ton outline. The fiesh and blood of his service are
in his rare enthusiasm for recreation, his untiring
energy, and his unique flavor of interpretation.
One cannot think of Jimmy Rogers in terms of
statistics and biographical data.

He brought to his national service a broad back-
ground of experience in recreation and social work
as a staff member in, and director of, local boys
clubs and settlements in California during the first
fifteen years of the century. His early experience
in the field of education also proved to be a valu-
able asset. From 1911 to I915 he served part—time
as a field representative of the National Recrea—
tion Association in California, working with Le-
bert Weir in the early pioneer work of the Associ-
ation, helping local communities to secure the es-
tablishment of year—round recreation programs.

Mr. Rogers’ service in California for the Asso—
ciation revealed to him the challenge and Oppor-
tunity for nation—wide service in the recreation
movement in the years ahead. He came with the
Association as a full-time district representative
in 1915, serving cities in the middlewestern states.

During World War I he served with War Camp
Community Service of the NRA, first helping lo—
calities to adjust and expand their resources to
meet the off—duty recreation needs of the men in
the armed forces, and later in training, through
fifty-four institutes, the workers of the War Camp
Community Service staff. His unusual success in
this training program made it inevitable that he
should be chosen to conduct twenty-five six—week
postwar training courses to prepare workers to
fill the postwar demand for local recreation leader—
ship.

One of the outstanding landmarks in Mr.
Rogers’ career is his service, from 1926 to 1939, as
director of the National Physical Education Serv-
ice of the Association, during which time he helped
many states to secure legislation, budgets and

MAY 1949

 

trained personnel for the direction of state—wide
physical education programs in the public schools.
He was instrumental in organizing the Society of
State Directors of Health and Physical Educa-
tion, and state physical education leaders today all
testify to his outstanding contribution to the state
physical educatfon program.

When the Selective Service Act was passed in
1940, it was natural that Mr. Rogers should be one
of the staff of the NRA to be assigned immediately
to help local communities first hit by the impact of
defense programs to mobilize their resources to
meet the recreation needs of the armed forces and
the defense production workers, and later to serve
with the recreation division of the Federal Security
Agency in the same capacity.

Following the war, Mr. Rogers did double duty
as district field representative for the New York
and Florida areas and in providing on-thedjob
training for new members of the NRA district
representative staff. At the time of his retirement,
he is completing his active field work with the
Association as its representative in developing
interest in the promotion of adequate recreation
services by state agencies and in helping state

81

agencies to increase the amount and effectiveness
of their recreation programs. He has been work-
ing with thirteen states in the New England and
the North Central regions.

Busy as he has been through the years in his
primary work with the Association, he has found
time to conduct summer courses in recreation in
eight colleges and universities. For ten years he
served as secretary of the Commission on the En-
richment of Adult Life of the National Education
Association. and for twelve years as president and
secretary of the Department of Health and Physi—
cal Education of the NEA.

Among other responsibilities. he was held sec-
retary, American Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation; secretary, Society of
State Directors of Health and Physical Education :
member of editorial board, SCHOLASTIC COACH:
member—at-large, U. S. Volley Ball Association.
He is the author of “The Child at Play" and nu-
merous articles on recreation subjects.

No history of Mr. Rogers would be complete
without mention of his invaluable work in inter-
preting recreation to the American people through
his hundreds of stimulating addresses to national,
regional and state public gatherings of all kinds.
He has been recognized for his outstanding serv-

   
  
  

First Choice
for

£very Sport!

r Available

 Thru Leading
Athletic Goods

Distributors

I”! FINIST' In!“ 7.”! Fill!) .’
MANUFACIUIING couvnuv «u st. [OBIS a. no.

 

     

    
     

ice by the American Association for Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation, the Society of State
Directors of Physical Education, Phi Epsilon
Kappa, Delta Psi Kappa and the American Recre—
ation Society.

He has served his country well through his con-
tribution to recreation, education, physical educa—
tion, health education and social work. As he re-
tires to enjoy the “recreational use of leisure,” for
which he has so long crusaded, he takes with him
the heartfelt good wishes of the host of friends he
has made since the turn of the century. However,
Jimmy Rogers is so much a part of the “mosaic”
of the recreation movement, and the recreation
movement is so much a part of him, that we know
he will not, cannot but keep his hand in during
his many years ahead.

A thirty-acre point of land, granted to the Town
of Barnstable, Massachusetts, by Herbert T. Kal—
mus. with the stipulation that it improve the prop-
erty, is being developed as a beach and recreation
area under the supervision of the Playground and
Recreation Commission. Following plans drawn up
by the National Recreation Association, the work
of clearing the property has already begun.

M] EWKYFIELD 0F57°og£ .

r r a-v 1:“: ill 1;. '- ' “at;
r: -:l' 5!."- 913's"; fir-aw.- Ecu-
lh- 2-1: 58*"172 " -alu-i‘iu
CI. tgu-rtl *‘ 5- 3:“,7. r '3-
'51:: .51. "an": =«rzvru
mus-cg—uau d.~ *-- E.- "'s
5:-3'1-5 I may“: :I. . r:

"re‘l. :.-' 3.: 'i. m .ruo'. '5

:2" .w- r-u.

 

RECREATION

VVorld
at

lPlay

First Step—A children’s summer playground
program is considered of prime necessity by Iowa
recreation administrators. New programs—which
sometimes can’t offer year-round activities for per—
sons of all ages—begin with this feature. Then, as
more funds and facilities are made available, the
program is extended to include indoor and outdoor
athletic activities, swimming pools and community
center recreation for all ages. Plans for family
recreation are very popular, and a selection of
sports and games, arts and crafts, music, dancing,
and social recreation are considered important for
the well-balanced program.

Eh

Program with Objectives—The Educational
Committee of the Crispus Attucks Association in
York, Pennsylvania, is keenly interested in the
encouragement of youths and adults in undertak—
ings of an educational nature and in bringing to
the general public greater awareness of the contri-
butions of the Negro race to society. These objec-
tives are pursued through the sponsorship of lit-
erary clubs. vocational and educational guidance,
classes in adult education and the presentation of
distinguished lecturers and recitalists. The per-
sonnel of the committee is made up of citizens of
the commmunity who volunteer their services in
the interest of the Association.

£12

Welcome to the Group—\Nith the February
publication of its Bulletin Service, the Recreation
Bureau of Easton, Pennsylvania, became a mem-
ber of the Fourth Estate. “Play Times” will be a
chatty and informative newssheet, with suggestions
and contributions welcomed from the readers. The
first issue contained news of various community
center activities and coming events, as well as facts
and figures on the total recreation program.

MAY 1949

 

For the Toddlers—San Francisco’s Depart-
ment of Recreation doesn’t overlook its small fry,
either. For children twelve years old and under,
its playground program offers a wide range of in-
terest. Facilities include the ubiquitous sand boxes,
which are kept carefully screened of all foreign
matter. These are put to good use by small young-
sters whose mothers are usually seated on benches
close by.

As the child grows older, he finds the swings,
slides, teeter boards and traveling apparatus great
attractions. At this stage of his development, he
begins to take an interest in group activities, from
which he learns good sportsmanship and how to
get along with others.

Small children also take readily to finger paint-
ing, clay modelling, paper work, and other simple
crafts, such as the making of pyro-chord chains
and bracelets. Later they become adept at making
more Finished articles. Folk dancing, singing, mak-
ing puppets and presenting puppet plays, story-
telling and story plays, and singing games form a
large part of the playground program for juniors,
too. In addition, such various special events are
offered during the year as play day relays, doll
shows, kite contests,.]oseph Lee Week, and so on.

n

Letters to the Folks—The story of a land
filled with strange culture, customs, mystery and
intrigue is reaching into the homes of thousands of
Americans with renewed enthusiasm. And this
time it’s being accomplished via weekly letters
from convalescent G.I.’s in Army and Navy hos-
pitals in Japan. The letters, in the form of mimeo-
graphed sheets illustrated with water color scenes
of Japanese feudal castles, pagodas, omokoshis
(portable shrines that the young men carry
through the streets during the fall festival season),

83

contain detailed information on but one phase of
Japanese culture, customs, industry and the like.
They are prepared by either American Red Cross
volunteer workers or professional staff members
attached to military hospitals and, as a part of the
ARC recreation program, are distributed to each
patient once a week.

“It’s sort of a two-birds-with-one-stone-affair,”
reports an ARC hospital recreation worker in
Southern Japan. “The parents not only learn
something of their son’s whereabouts but, in addi-
tion, they are assured of a letter from ‘Dick,’ for
he seldom fails to write his own note on the reverse
side of the prepared copy.” The boys are also
making a collection of these-letters for their “Life
in Japan” scrapbooks, or their little sisters each
want a letter to take to school.

£12

India’s Blue-Print—In an effort “to make
education truly national so that it will develop the
personality and culture of the people,” the Govern-
ment of India has launched a program of social
education. Because of financial and other diflicul-
ties which made the execution of such a plan on
an all-India basis extremely difficult, it was de-
cided to start it in Delhi as an experimental
measure.

Under the scheme, every village school will be
the center of instruction as well as of sport and
recreation for the entire village. Separate time will
be allotted for children, adolescents and grown-
ups, and on certain days in the week, the school
will be reserved exclusively for girls and women.
Motor vans fitted with film projectors and loud
speakers will be sent to village schools at least
once a week. Films will be shown to give lessons
in citizenship, social reSponsibility, personal health,
public hygiene and physical drill. The schools will
be provided with radio sets and arrangements

GRANTLAND RICE’S
Simplified  

For the Best Records in Sports

Large Scoring Area— IO' 1: I4' '

Stiff Back
Spiral Bound

* Baseball. 75c 8: $|.50 ‘
* Softball. 75c 8: $|.50
* Basketball. $I.50

‘k Bawling. $1.00

Sold by Leading
Sporting Goods Stores
or

Send [Money Order
Dept. R4

WELLS PUBLISHING CO. 0

Best Construction

LEONIA, N. J.

84

     

made for broadcasting special programs to all age
groups. Popular dramas will be organized and the
singing of national and community songs will be
encouraged. Instruction in handcrafts suited to
the locality, lectures on social hygiene and cottage
industries, group games, competitions between
schools from different villages, exhibitions, fairs
and excursions will also form part of the program.

a

School Spirit—Pick and shovel have been
supplementing textbook and pencil for teen-age
pupils of Cranford, New Jersey. Students have
been working on topsoil supplied by local towns-
people in a community-sponsored effort to build a
recreation field for Cranford High School. Boys
and girls in mathematics classes did the prelimi-
nary surveys on the block-long lawn behind the
school, set aside as the play area. Industrial art
students are benefiting from some practical train-
ing in~hoeing and grading the land.

Activities really started last fall when a faculty
report urged the establishment of nearby play fa-
cilities because the school’s athletic field is half
a mile from the building. Everyone thought the
suggestion a good one; students volunteered to do
most of the manual labor; the Board of Education
donated picks and shovels; local residents agreed
to supply topsoil, trucks, engineering assistance—-
and the project was underway. Plans call for fa-
cilities for tennis, shufiieboard, track, softball, and
field and ice hockey. The area will be set OH with
flower gardens and shrubbery.

NATIONAL MUSIC WEEK
May 1-8, 1949

N A LETTER to Thomas E. Rivers, Secretary of

the National and Inter-American Music Week
Committee, President Harry S. Truman has en-
dorsed this year’s observance with the following
words:

“For the individual, music brings refreshment of
spirit; for groups it is another expression of the
values in a democracy of sharing experiences.

“I hope that the celebration of National Music
\Veek, May 1—8, will provide opportunity for such
experiences for many persons throughout the
length and breadth of the land. Let us know our
own music, enjoy it, and add to our heritage. Let
us know, too, the music of other nations, so that
the sharing of our cultural resources will lead
naturally to a greater measure of understanding
and of world cooperation.”

RECREATION

"THE PEEKHAM
EXPERIMENT”

A shift from social loneliness

WENTY YEARS AGO, in England, two biologists

—Dr. Scott Williamson and Dr. Innes Pearse
——became interested in making a study of health,
having come to the conclusion that no headway
would be made in the cultivation of health by
further research into the nature of sickness. They
sensed that health has its own pattern of behavior
—a pattern quite different from that of disease.
Therefore, they became the moving spirits in the
establishment of what has now become known as
the Peckham Experiment. The results of this
should be of great interest to those who believe,
with these physicians, that “health is an active
thing, something as infectious as disease,” and to
anyone who is aware of the close relationship be—
tween recreation and health.

The Pioneer Health Centre—now famous as the
first laboratory of its kind for the study of human
health—was therefore started through private ini—
tiative and private funds. The center was designed
and equipped as a family club, where a whole fam-
ily might go to enjoy their leisure after a day’s
work.

After careful search for a suitable location, the
biologists started their work in a small house in
Peckham. This community was chosen because of
its mixed population. It provided a cross section
of low, middle, and upper income groups. Small
income people lived next door to the relatively
rich; families were sturdy, making their own way
through life.

The opening of the centre not only gave the doc-
tors an opportunity for their study, but offered
member-families a chance of gaining for them—
selves modern knowledge to help them maintain
such health as they had. In its modest beginnings
it included a consulting room, an afternoon nurs-
ery and a small club room. Here mothers met
over a cup of tea and, in the evenings, parents
gathered for cards, concerts and refreshments.

Today the Peckham Experiment is housed in a
beautiful, large building which was built to Dr.
Williamson’s design, to serve this special purpose,

MAY 1949

 

. and to accommodate the total of 2,000 families, for

which the experiment was planned. It provides a
swimming pool, gymnasium, cafeteria, theatre, li-
brary, game rooms and nurseries. It was designed
to supply members with a special kind of environ-
ment, one in which, moving freely, they could find
wide and varied opportunities for active enjoy—
ment. The doctors were to be there to study and
observe, not to mould people. It was a condition
of membership that the member should be not an
individual but a family unit, each family paying a
small weekly subscription.

The extremely interesting operation of the
Peckham Pioneer Health Centre has been recorded
by British Information Services on a 16 mm.
twenty—two minute film which is now available to
groups in this country. It is fascinating because
the experiment is so well presented. In the film
we meet the Jones family, and from the moment
they consider joining the club until they are well
established members, we experience with them all
the decisions to be made, steps to be taken, and
observe the affect of such a venture upon their
small family unit.’

We highly recommend this sound film for all
groups interested in recreation, and as an educa~
tional experience. It is available from British In—
formation Services, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York 20, at a rental fee of $3.75 ; sale price $56.25.
People who book the film will receive a copy of a
booklet about the centre, describing the experi-
ment and its findings, the new facilities and their
financing, the problems involved, the people who
have taken advantage of this opportunity for rec-
reation under such excellent circumstances.

 

Have you counted the playground pranks on the
April cover of RECREATION magazine? What’s

your score? W e’ve counted twenty—two. Let us
know, and a brown derby to the winner!

85

for play capacity and SAFETY . . . nose
"I ' K ..

33W at M” '

Reg. U. 5. Pat. OH.

Climbing structure

0 No Other playground device provides so

      

much play capacity per square foot of ground

area and per dollar of cost as JUNGLEGYLI!
That plus JUNGLEGYM’S safety record

of more than one hundred million child-play-
hours without one single serious accident
are two reasons why you should give

the children of your playground the advantage

of JUNGLEGYM.

lllrite fer Illustrated Bulletin on PORTER’S Streamlined line that will Save You Honey . . . Time

You can rely on PORTER for the basic units you need
for your playground . . .

   

No. 38 Combination Set

Compact, economical unit that's ideal
for limited ground areas. Six varieties
of funful, healthful activity.

No. 136 Stratosphere See-Saw

Sensationally new. Gives "ups-a-daisy"
ride 331/596 higher than conventional
see-saw, but with greater safety.

 

No. 58-F Playground Basketball Backstop
All-steel fan-shaped bank rigidly mount-

   

ed on steel mast and braced for per- No. 240 Mer_G°_R°und
N0- ‘05 SIX-SWINE 59' manem m'ce‘ Will safer accommodate 30 children at
Sturdy IZ-ft. frame held rigidly togeth- one time. Naiseless, no-wobble, na-
er with exclusive Parter fittings make sway operation. An en-
this a permanent, safe unit. gineering marvel. “ ‘

CORPORATION

OTTAWA; ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS OF PianROUND- GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

 

Reg.U.S.Pat.OH, STRUCTURE

 

86 RECREATION

££WWSW

OLORFUL SLIPS, distributed by the Montclair
C Library in New Jersey, not only remind read-
ers that their books are due on certain dates, but
also stress recreation in its many aspects. For ex—
ample, one slip may offer the suggestion: “The
small Library garden is a good spot for reading
and talking while the baby plays on the grass”;
and another, “We have hot-weather cook books”;
or, “Do you know that the Library has books on
sailing, swimming, dancing and tennis?”

Francis J. Maheney

FRANCIS J. MAHONEY,
pioneer recreation
leader of Somerville,
Massachusetts, died on
March 30, at the age of
lifty-siqc.

A Boston newspaper 
reporter and teacher in 
the years following his ‘
college work, he early be-
came interested in public recreation in his home
city. While still engaged in school studies, he car-
ried part—time responsibility in the recreation de-
partment. A man of highest personal integrity,
he successfully lead and inspired those with whom
he worked. For the 'past nineteen years, he served
as full-time superintendent of recreation in Som-
erville, devoting his life to his city’s children.

Dr. Frank Albert Fetter

ON MARCH 21, after a long illness, Dr. Frank
Albert Fetter died in Princeton, New Jer-
sey, at the age of eighty-six.

During the hrst \Norld War, he had served in
War Camp Community Service and carried a very
heavy responsibility in attempting to make condi-
tions in the communities near the military and na—
val training camps and stations as satisfactory as
possible for the men in the armed forces.

Dr. Fetter has been called one of the greatest
theorists in the development of modern economics.
He taught at Cornell University and at the Uni-
versity of Indiana, and was chairman of the de-
partment of economics and social institutions at
Princeton from 1911 through 1922. Dr. Fetter

always took a deep interest in the work of the
National Recreation Association.

 

MAY 1949

 

THE FLEXI SWING SEAT

“A Safe Swing Seat”

The FLEXI is evidence that the administration is doing
its utmost to protect children from bodily iniury
FLEXI does not allow user to stand up

No high flying by single or double occupants
FLEXI gently squeezes user—No tilting
Malleable cadmium plated fittings

Four ply rubberized fabric

Will outwear wood seats

$3.85 F.O.B.

FACTO RY

 

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT

P. O. 474 ° HIGHLAND PARK. ILL.

We Blushed . . . . .

Handbook and
BuyingGuide

 

Compiled a d edited by the publishers of

CAMPING MAGAZINE '

. . . this book is a "must." It contains
a vast amount of specific information
that is needed in the successful opera-
tion of a camp.

Reynold E. Carlson. presidentI ACA.
Order Now—$1.50 each, 2 for $2.00

If payment accompanies order, we pay postage

HOWARD P.. GALLOWAY, Publisher
181 Chestnut Avenue Metuchen, N. J.

87

 

with Gulf Suni-Soil-Set

 

GULF SAN I-SOIL-SET is the practical answer to
your dUSt annoyance problems. Here are a few of

the many good reasons why it will pay you to in-
veStlgate this efficient dust-control'medium now:

HIGHLY EFFECTIVE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust
annoyance completely immediately after application.
No long waiting periods are necessary before the ground
is ready for use. The duSt allaying effect is accomplished
by the action of the compound in adhering to and weigh-
ing down dust particles.

lONG LASTING—Because of its extremely low volatility
and insolubility in Water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains
effective for long periods. One applimtion per season or
year is usually sufiicient.

 

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company

 

Division Sales Offices: Boston

EASILY APPLIED—Gulf Sani-Soil—Set is free-flowing,
easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-
sprinkling or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly

SAVES MAINTENANCE EXPENSE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set
prevents the growth of grass on areas treated, and mini-
mizes dust annoyance and expense in near-by houses,
stores, and laundries.

Write, wire or phone your nearest Gulf oflice
today and ask for a demonStration of the advan-
tages of this modern proven duSt allayer. If you
have met yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
product, mail the coupon below.

New York o Philadelphia 0 Pittsburgh
~ Toledo

l.._..___._. _______ _.______.______..

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf ReHning Company R
3300 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the booklet, “Golf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern, proven agent for controlling dnst."

Atlanta - New Orleans Houston'- Louisville

Title . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...

l

l

l

l .

I ham: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
l

l

g

Alfred MacDonald

PARK AND RECREATION workers will be sorry to
learn of the death, on February 10, of Alfred
MacDonald, for many years director of parks in
Wichita, Kansas. Mr. MacDonald also served for
a term as city manager continuing, however, to
hold his post in the park system. ‘

From the time he arrived in Wichita, in 1920,
he never stopped planning for the parks of his city.
He had charge not only of the public parks and
playgrounds, but also of the municipal airport and
the art museum. He was responsible forthe care
and upkeep of trees along the city streets and su-
pervised the landscaping and maintenance of land-
scaped school grounds.

For a time Mr. McDonald served as president of
the American Institute of Park Executives and
was active in a great many local organizations—
the Chamber of Commerce, Rotary Club, Wichita
Art Association, Wichita Historical Museum and
the Garden Club.

Edward M. Bassett

HE DEATH OF Edward M. Bassett of New York

City, at the age of eighty-five, marks the pass-
ing of one of the pioneers in city planning in Amer-
ica. For years he was recognized as a leading
authority on city planning and zoning, especially
in their legal aspects, and his writings were out-
standing contributions to these iields.

He gave much study to the problem of securing
public parks and recreation spaces, especially in
undeveloped areas, and was among the first per-
sons to stress the legal status of parks as perma-
nent recreation areas in contrast to other play—
grounds and school sites which can be disposed of
at the will of local authorities. Mr. Bassett also
urged city authorities to designate their recreation
areas as parks, in order to assure them as perma-
nent open spaces.

 

“Our reward is in the race we run, not in the
prize.”——Sanmel Rogers.

r-I-I-I-I-I-I- .
TYPICAL HUSSEY
I Permanent I INSTALLATIONS

 

as needed and they are low in cost.

486 RAILROAD 51'.

MAY 1949

Need Safe Seating QUICK?

-‘ Then investigate Hussey (patented) Portable Bleachers.
I Six, ten and fifteen tier stands are carried in stock for
quick delivery. Because of their exclusive, patented
construction, Hussey steel portable bleachers are safe,
quick and easy to erect and take down and take up
less storage-space. Additional sections can be added

Hussey also specializes in portable and permanent
grandstands to meet all Of your seating requirements. 

The knowledge and experience of our trained seating 
engineers is available to you without cost or Obligation.

Write today for FR E E literature and
name of nearest Hussey representative.

HUSSEY MFG. CO., INC.
o N. BERWICK. MAINE

Also ask for catalog of “Laughing Loon" diving boards, swimming iloats, etc.

 

I PORTABLE BLEACHERS
Norwood Arena - Norwood, Mass.

A Hussey Portable Bleacher in-
stallation with a seating capacity
of 13,080.

  

I PORTABLE GRANDSTAND

Another Hussey installation at
Danvors, Mass. Aiiords perma-
nent stand advantages, yet may
be moved quickly, easily and
economically.

89

don’t be ‘

   

T he Price of a Rubber-Covered Ball

 

is no proof of its Valueéé

-x- here are the FACTS!

You are not buying a sphere called a boll—you’re
buying performance—ployobility—weor—service.

ec— this is PROVED:

100,000 U. S. Schools, Camps and Playgrounds
continue to specify Voit because no other Rubber-

Covered ball has ever proved itself equal to Voit’s
150-600% longer wear.

 Voit would still be by for the best buy in the Rubber-

Covered field at half again the price.

Don’t be fooled by a Bid Price
There is no "or equal"to u 0’7

VOIT - 1600 EAST 25th STREET - lOS ANGElES 1], CALIFORNIA

90 , RECREATION

W gaoéa

NEARLY FIFTY CITIES have taken action banning
the sale of comic books that feature mayhem,
murder, or lust, reports the American Municipal
Association. Although the validity of several of
these measures is being challenged in court, PTA’s
of Los Angeles County, California, have been in-
strumental in obtaining the enactment of a care-
fully framed county ordinance. An informal check
shows that it is being effectively enforced. Comic
book dealers in Racine, \Visconsin, have won ap-
probation for censoring their own wares, in co—
operation with civic groups and city officials.—
National Parent-Teacher, December 1948.
- w

A resolution has been adopted by the Armed
Forces Central Control Board, under which the
sale of comics magazines on any military or naval
base, station or ship, under the jurisdiction of the
United States, is limited to those bearing the seal
of approval of the Association of Comics Maga-
zine Publishers. One of the paragraphs states:
“The repetitious portrayal in ‘Comic Books’ of acts
of sadism, torture and killing has become a matter
of concern to educators and youth leaders of the

country.”

 

 

-—‘—‘
_.¢

   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
       

_ e Bathers naturally prefer a pool that is always sparkling
clean. That's why it pays you to paint with RAMUC. RAMUC is a
special waterproof enamel that gives a gleaming tile-like finish
to concrete surfaces—a finish that is easy to clean and to keep
clean—a finish that definitely discourages algae growth. No need
to paint every. year, eitherl RAMUC lasts season after season

sun. Available in 12 attractive colors.

Keep water sparkling, too!

Eliminate unsightly algae and slime with EXALGAE, a marvelous
new liquid by the makers of RAMUC. EXALGAE not only destroys
algae but prevents further growth! It’s colorless, odorless, will
not stain pool finishes nor irritate the skin or eyes.

For complete information about these profit-building prod-
ucts — plus helpful hints on pool maintenance -— write for
“Swimming Pool Handbook.” It’s free!

Ramuc—Exalgae, Registered Trademarks

INERTOL CO” INC.

480 Frelinghuysen Avenue l9 South Park
Newark 5, N. J. San Francisco 7, Calif.

   

MAY 1949

without blistering, peeling or fading—even under the strongest

WANTED:

Graduate Registered Occupational Ther-
apists and trained Recreation Workers
for assignment in Illinois State psychia-
tric hospitals, schools for mental defect-
ives, children’s and correctional institu-
tions. Civil Service positions, career
service with opportunity for advance-
ment—good salaries, excellent retirement

and insurance plan. Maintenance avail-

able if desired.

Applicants may contact

MISS BERTHA E. SCHLOTTER

Room 1500, 160 North LaSalle Street
Chicago 1, Illinois

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop

forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
0
Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits

Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official
Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

 

 

91

3.45 muUODAm

.3. 5:33.34

630345 00.. 3
..=_._ 2:2,... .232
men “Carla of
.1523: .._o 3.6.3
£033 32 of .8
«1.600.. 1:0 22¢ mi
.3225 its 132$

 

v.08 Hammad 8.02.3.

«200m mum—t. :0"— nZuw )5\/\I.\

Bra—n 30> h<n 5.1”)” IO

.00 >n—m1num av salsa—=1 

 

m .33

                 
       

#
.39 :83 {2.23
.mcoEo_1 +30 >3 0+ _.
39. “:2. 6E0}. at: .r
.comaEE—u ".3132
we 3.5.63 was oz:
.3 33. 23:3...

o+o_anu «52:00

 .

.7

 

200m 53¢ ._._<m.EOm M

€388.40 a U8
5:. :9. :00.—

\ \Q.

RECREATION

Books Received

 

American School Buildings—27th Yearbook. Ameri-
can Association of School Administrators, 1201
Sixteenth Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. $4.00.

Book of Camping, The, by Robert Rubin. Association
Press, New York. $2.00. .

Dancing Kettle, The, by Joshiko Uchida. Harcourt,
Brace and Company, New York. $2.25.

History of the Woman’s International Bowling Con-
gress. Woman’s International Bowling Congress,
Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio.

Homing Pigeons, by Herbert S. Zim. William Mor-
row and Company, New York. $2.00.

Individual Sports for Women, by Dorothy S. Ains-
worth, Marion R. Broer, Alice Goheen Goss, Ger-
trude Goss, Evelyn Jennings, Bertha Armitage
Pitkin, Florence Ryder, of‘ Smith College Depart-
ment of Physical Education. W. B. Saunders
Company, Philadelphia. $4.25.

Klenke’s Furniture Book, by William W. Klenke. The
Manual Arts Press, Peoria, Illinois. $3.25.

Leisure and Recreation—Revised Edition, by Martin
H. and Esther S. Neume er. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $4. 0.

National Education Association Proceedings—1948.
National Education Association of the United
States, Washington, D. C.

Partners All—Places All, by Miriam H. Kirkell and
Irma K. Schaftnit. E. P. Dutton and Company,
New York. $3.95.

Social Work Year Book—1949, edited by Margaret B.
gosdfes. Russell Sage Foundation, New York.
4. .

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Comics, Radio, Movies—and Children, by Josette
Frank. Public Affairs Pamphlet 148. Public Affairs
Committee, 22 East 38 Street, New York 16. $.20.

Journal of Health, Physical Education and Recreation,
March 1949

Health, Physical Education and Recreation in
Lebanon and the Near East, Tedford P. Lewis.

Twenty Years with Women’s National Officials
Rating Committee, Josephine Fiske.

The All-Weather Playground, Stanley W. McKee.

“How We Do It.”

The American City, April 1949

America's Parks and Playgrounds on Parade.

Now and Then in Our Park. Systems, V. K.
Brown.

A Glass-Walled Community Center.

The Zoo—A Valuable Civic Asset, Roger Conant.

A Community Recreation Building for $40,000,
Karl J. Fairbanks.

A Park Program Is a County’s Insurance Policy,
A. Thornton Bishop.

The Planning and Uses of Municipal Park and

1‘ Playground Areas, Robert E. Everly.

* Practical Pointers on Swimming Pool Filtration,

Chauncey A. Hyatt.

Recent Recreation Books Reviewed, A. Dana
Caulkins.

Lighting for Multi-Use Sports Areas, Francis
D. Wyatt.

Municipal Recreation Advanced by Municipal
Public Relations, Henry Davis Nadig.

MAY 1949

For the Hostess ——

A book full of ideas

SIIIIWER PARTIES

F OR ALL OCCASIONS

By Helen Emily Webster

What to do about games, refreshments,
gifts, prizes, decorations, invitations—hun-
dreds of ideas for all kinds of showers:
baby, kitcherf, engagement, matchmaking,
Easter, 4th of July, harvest, school days,
Bon Voyage, anniversary, Valentine, etc.

Price $3.00. At your bookstore

or direct from

THE WOMAN’S PRESS

Department R

600 Lexington Avenue ° New York

MOVIES

Just What You Need for Your
Recreational and Educational

Programs . . .

Carefully Selected
FEATURES 0 CARTOONS o COMEDIES

 

Only the Best in

SPORTS o CAMPING o NATURE STUDY
ARTS and CRAFTS

Widest Selection of FREE FILMS

TRAVEL 0 SCIENCE O VOCATIONS
' Many in Color

Write Today for the I948-I949 Catalog of

SELECTED MOTION PICTURES
to Dept. "R"

ASSOCIATION FILMS, Inc.

NEW YORK I9 SAN FRANCISCO 2
35 West 45th Street 35I TurIt Street
CHICAGO 3 DALLAS 4

L 206 50. Michigan Avenue 30I2 Maple Avenue

 

93

. . for a Bigger, More
Successful Summer Program

For summer programs, Aerial Tennis-Dart
is ideal, because it is adapted to outdoor con-
ditions. Modifications of play are readily
arranged to provide stimulating varietyw—and
also to adapt to varying physical facilities and
types of players.

Top interest centers in Aerial Tennis-Dart
wherever it is played! That's because it’s
Fast, Exciting, and Exhilarating to novice
or expert.

Inexpensive to Equip and Maintain

A minimum budget will easily equip and maintain
AERIAL TENNIS-DART.

PADDLES are ‘73:; inches long, sturdily made, with built—
up leather—tipped handles. The head is selected 35—inch
fir plywood, oval shaped, 63/4 x714; inches.

BIRDIES are exceptionally well-made, with one—inch solid
live—rubber, round—cupped base, slightly pointed—tipped
with six strong matched white feathers. Feathers are se—
curely anchored but are readily replaceable with refills.

Lowe & Campbell, Horace Partridge, and
other leading dealers can supply you.

W rite today for free illustrated folder and
catalogue price list.

SELLS AERIAL TENNIS 00.

exclusive manufacturers

4838 Belinder Road Kansas City 3, Kansas

 

* Patent Pending u.s.

SAV-A-PITCH
, ,, PITCHER'S

 

SAV—A-PITCH PITCHER'S PLATE. New, ofdcial-
sized, four-sided plate. Reinforced. Stays

new longer . . . and therefore saves money!

SAV-A-lEG HOME PLATE. The of‘ncial home
plate in both Major Leagues! Bevels into
the ground. Prevents accidents in sliding.

SEAH'LESS PRU-BAP ATHLETIC TAPE.
Little or no itching—and
Little or no skin irritation!

 
  
    

IEO.

PAT.

 

FINEST QUALITY SINCE 1377 W-

  
  

 
 
 

B‘

ATHLETIC GOODS ownsnoonl'vw

'l'I-IE SEAMIEES RUBBER IBMFAHV

NEW HAVEN 3, CONN., U. S.A.

RECREATION

      
  
  

 

The 'Happy Home:
A Guide to Family Living

By Agnes E. Benedict and Adele Franklin. Ap-
pleton-Century~Crofts, Incorporated, New York.

$2.75.

HE CONTRIBUTION WHICH family recreation ac-

tivities can make to family solidarity and to
happy family living dominates this very valuable
guide for parents. Concrete suggestions are given
for planning creative activities, as well as sports,
trips, vacations and parties. The book is recom—
mended not only to parents, but to all who are in-

terested in the part which recreation can play in
strengthening American home life.

The Handbook of Day Camping

By Mabel Jobe. Association Press, New York.
$350-
THIS HANDBOOK CONTAINS a wealth of material
for those wishing to establish day camps in
their communities, and for those who want to
enrich and extend their present programs. The
book covers the advantages and disadvantages of
day camping, how to start, site problems, person-
nel, health and safety and the activities program.
The appendix gives an inventory of equipment
and supplies, and bibliography on day camping.
All interested in day camping will find this a
worthwhile addition to their libraries.

The Straw Ox

By Fan Kissen. Houghton Miffiin Company,'Bos-
ton. $1.72.

FAN KIsSEN, WHO is script writer and program

consultant for the elementary school division of
VVNYE, the Board of Education radio station in
New York, has done an excellent job of adapting
stories from all over the world for radio presenta-
tion. Clear and simple suggestions as to cast, how

MAY 1949

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

to produce necessary sound effects, what you do
in a radio play anyway, reveal that these scripts
are easy to do and must, indeed, be a lot of fun to
put on.

The adaptations are skillfully done, and are ex-
cellent for use in playground dramatics, recreation
center programs, by play leaders of children’s
groups everywhere, as well as for real or “play—
like” radio programs. Actually, The Straw 0.1:,
first of a series of three books, beautifully pro-
duced with delightful illustrations for each story,
is just what many of you have been looking for,
and we are delighted to be able to call it to your
attention.

Comics, Radio, Movies—and Children

By Josette Frank. Public Affairs Committee, 22
East 38 Street, New York 16. $.20.

IN THIS NEW and thought-provoking Public
Affairs pamphlet, parents are urged to study
comic books and not to ban them sight unseen.
Miss Frank, who is educational associate in charge
of children’s books and radio on the staff of the
Child Study Association of America, advises par-
ents to respect their children’s rights and feelings,
and suggests that they watch their children’s reac-
tions to exciting programs, determining whether
they become upset, or too preoccupied with crime
and horror.

Miss Frank further advises parents to see that
their children have plenty of other enjoyable things
to do, places to go, real adventures, so that radio
listening or movie going does not absorb them to
the exclusion of other interests and activities. She
feels that there is “no basis in fact for current
news headlines which blame comics for children’s
delinquent acts.” Ways are suggested in which
communities may help solve the problems raised
by comics, radio, movies. (See “Comic Books,”

page 91-)

95

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

Roan-r Guam-r, Chairman of the Board of Directors

Hon-m Bnaucnzn, President

Mas. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice~President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vioe'Prcsident and Secretary of the Hi aril
ADRIAN M. Massrz, Treasurer

Gus-raves T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W'. H. Aunts, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG B21115, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

Mas. Roan-r \Voons Buss, \Vashington, D. C.
HOWARD Buucnn, New York, N . Y.

Mas. Annex G. Canaan, Jacksonville, Fla.
\Vrtuan H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

Hana? P. Dawsox, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT Guam-r, Baltimore, Md.

Roan-r Guxr, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.

Mes. NORMAN Hannowu, F itchburg, Mass.
Mas. CHARLES V. chxox, Michigan City, Ind.
M25. 1013:: D. JAMESON, Bellport, L. L, N. Y.
Susan M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

0110 T. Amman Philadelphia, Pa.

Cam. E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

3125. 06132:: L. MILLS, \Voodbury, -'. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. Y.

Mas. Slcnuxn STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
Gus-r Tr‘rswon'rn, Norotcn, Conn.

J. C. \VALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. \VARBURG, N ew York, N. Y.

 

 

W
Readers Say . . . . . -

 

DI " ECTOR'S

‘ Handbook and
BuyingGuide

\
.6‘

- ediled by use publishers ol
CAMPING MAGAZINE

. . . the new I949 Handbook is a
wonder. Last year's book was good,

but this is “30% better. Every camp
director should have one.

—P. S.. Illinois
Order Now—$1.50 each, 2 for $2.00

If payment accompanies order, we pay postage

HOWARD P. GALLOWAY. Publisher
181 Chestnut Avenue Metuchen, N. J.

WWW/V
96

3lst Edition

HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS

1024 pp., red silk cloth, $8.00

“An indispensable part of our professional
library,” Hans Froelicher, In, The Park SchooL
“The most useful reference book in our office,”

J. F. Gummere, Penn Charter School.

DANGEROUS TRENDS

How Undercurrents Economic and
Political‘ Affect Education

196 pp., red silk cloth, $2.00
“Exactly what educators need right now. Your

book sharply reminds us to watch where we are
going,” W. Norwood Brigance. “My congratula-
tions on ‘Dangerous Trends,’ and your endless per-
spicacity and energy," Thomas G. Corcoran.
“Deeply grateful for your arresting work from one
who displays as much acumen and courage,”

Robert R. Young.

Still Available

“MAD on MUDDLED,” 196 pp., $2.50; “THE Cox-
TINL‘ING Barns: FOR THE Coxrnor. OF THE MIND 0F
YOUTH,” 168 pp., $2.00; “THE FUTURE OF EDUCA-
rrox,” 256 1313-. $3.00; “Was: nan EDUCATION,” 512

PP” $5.00; “BETWEEN TWO WARS—The Failure of
Education 1920-1940,” 616 pp., $6.00.

PORTER SARGENT

11 Beacon Street Boston 8, Mass.

 

CRAFT

   
    

SUPPLIES

Cleveland Crafts offers a large selection of handi-
craft supplies for children and adults. Prices are
reasonably low and each order is given prompt
attention. Among the various craftwork supplies are:

    
   
   
      
    

O Flexcrait

   

O Lacing

    
     
     
     
     
 

0 Leather 0 Pipe-Cleaner Craft
0 Metals 0 Indian Beads

0 Cori: O Pyrography

O Felt O Etching on Glass
0 Tools 0 Handcraft Books

0 Shellcratt 0 Rubber Molds

      

o Textile Painting
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY

  
   
  
 

 
 

CATALOG OF

Handicraft Supplies

Sent fre- upon request

    
 
 

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.

DEPT. R-l

770-74 CARNEGIE AVE. CLEVELAND l5, OHIO
330! MILAN HOUSTON 6. TEXAS

    
        
     

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

May and June, 1949

HELEN DAUNCEY Hannibal, Missouri
May 2-6
Omaha, Nebraska
May 9-13
Alliance, Nebraska
May 23-24
Scottsbluff, Nebraska
I May 
Newton, Kansas
May 30-June 3
Sioux City, Iowa
JUne 
Dubuque, Iowa
June 9-10
Decatur, Illinois
June 13-17

Social Re creation

Cumberland, Maryland
May 2-6

Akron, Ohio

May 9-11

Lexington, Kentucky
June 6-10

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

Shepherdstown, West Virginia

June 20-24

Westchester County, New York

June 29, 30 and July 1

ANNE LIVINGSTON King County, Washington

LIay 2-6
Vancouver, ‘ Washington
May 9-13

Social Recreation

Springfield, Oregon
May 23-27

Klamath Falls, Oregon
May 30-June 3
Toledo, Ohio

June 13—17

Rochester, New York
June 19-24

GRACE WALKER Lancaster, Pennsylvania
May 2-13

rea i Recr a i n ' ° '
C tve e to St_ LOUIS, Missouri

May 23—27
Montana
June 6-24

St. Louis, Missouri
May 2-13

Elkhart, Indiana

May 16-20

Omaha, Nebraska

May 23-27

Jefferson City. Missouri
May 31-June 3

Toledo, Ohio

June 13-17

Waukegan, Illinois
June 20-24

Schenectady, New York
June 27-29

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Miss Carolyn \Villiams, Box 103.

William Meyers, Superintendent of Recreation, Park and
Recreation Commission.

A. M. Merrill, City Recreation Director, Office of City
Manager.

Fred L. Johnston, Secretary, Y.M.C.A.

W. M. Okerberg, Recreation Commission, Y.M.C.A.
Building. f‘

Miss Cora Thayer, Acting Director, Recreation Depart—
ment, Board of Education Building.

Mrs. Hylda N. Luke, Superintendent of Recreation.

Russell J. Foval, Superintendent of Recreation, Play-
ground and Recreation Board, 243 S. Water Street.

J. D. Lonnholm, Supervisor of Vocational and Adult
Education, Board of Education.

A. E. Center, Superintendent of Recreation, Department
of Recreation, 325 Locust Street.

Miss Anna S. Pherigo, Executive Director, Board of
Park Commissioners, Gratz Park.

Oliver S. Ikenberry, President, Shepherd College.

Miss Vivian 0. Wills, Westchester County Recreation

Commission, County Ofiice Building, White Plains, New
YOrk.

David DuBois, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation,
608A County City Building, Seattle.

Carl Gustafson, Superintendent of Recreation and Edu-
cation, Memorial Building, or

Walter Pollock, Project Service Director, Vancouver
Housing Authority.

Mrs. Irene Squires, Superintendent of Willeamalane Park
and Recreation District.

Samuel H. Smith, Superintendent of Recreation, Park
and Recreation Department.

Arthur O. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, Department
of Public Welfare, 214—18 Safety Building.

O. W. Kuolt, General Secretary, Council of Social Agen-
cies, Incorporated, 70 North Water Street.

Mrs. Harland D. Fague, Lancaster Council of Church
Women, 443 S. Queen Street.

Branch Russell, Department of Public Welfare, Parks
and Recreation, 330 Municipal Courts Building.

Mrs. Mildred K. Stoltz, Director of Education, Montana
Farmers Union, Box 2089, Great Falls.

A. H. Wyman, Executive Director, Park and Playground
Association of St. Louis, 1003 Equitable Building, 613
Locust Street.

K. Mark Cowen. Superintendent, Board of Parks and
Recreation, Municipal Building.

William J. Meyers, Superintendent of Recreation, Park
and Recreation Commission.

Ben C. Porter, Director, Parks and Recreation, Jefferson
City Park Board, 403 Monroe Street.

Arthur O. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, Depart-
ment of Public Welfare, 214-18 Safety Building.

Bevier Butts, Recreation Director. Playground and Rec-
reation Board, 103 S. Sheridan Road.

William F. Eddy, Superintendent of Parks and Recrea-
tlon.

* “Buy U. S. Savings Bonds *
during the Opportunity Drive,”

SAY THESE LEADING AMERICANS '

PHILIP MURRAYIr President,
Congress of Industrial
Organizations

WINTHROP W. ALDRICH, WILLIAM GREEN, President,
Chairman, Chase National Bank American Federation of labor

 

i‘The C-I-O- has endorsed every “I believe that every individual “For the working man, an in-
eflort 10 encourage the worker to who can possibly do so should buy creased investment in U. S. Sav-
put more of his earnings into U. S. more U. S. Savings Bonds. These ings Bonds can mean not only
Savmgs Bends- They represent bonds represent one of the best in- increased security but increased
ball security and independence-” vestments of our time.” ability to take advantage of the

opportunities in America today.

CHARLES F. BRANNAN, .
seam” of Agricuhm DURIM; MAY AM) JUAE, the U. S. Sanngs Bond Oppor-

tunity Drive is on!
It is called the Opportunity Drive—because it is truly an oppor-
tunity for you to get ahead by increasing your own personal
measure of financial security and independence.
If you haven’t been buying Savings Bonds regularly, start
now.
If you have been buying them: add an extra Bond or two to

your purchases this month and next. Remember—you’ll get
back 34 for every $3 in a short ten years’ time!

 

“I am heartily in favor of the'

Opportunity Drive to buy more   

U. S. Savings Bonds. Everyone en-
gaged in farming should recognize in] Your Filture . . .

the importance of a backlog of in-
vested savings as a means of realiz-

ing the agricultural opportunities I N   I N U”. s I  N G s B o N D s

of the future.”

Contributed by this magazine in c00perati0n with the
Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

