 

Contents

 

February 1950

The Fullness Thereof, Howard Braueher 509

Certain Basic Assumptions Underlying
the Work of the National Recreation
Association . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 510

Joseph Prendergast-——New Executive

Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 511
The Oldest Form of Drama Renewed,

Adele Gutman Nathan . . . . . . . . . . . . 512
H. R. 2026 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 513
Valley Cotton Festival, Edwin O’Neal

Timmons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 514
“Day Camp,” Chase Hammond . . . . . . . 516
Edison Anniversary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 518

A City with Three Vacation Camps,

Charles W. Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519

“Tunamints” Survive, Coolie Verner. . 520

The Norway Program, Florence E.

Gantncr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 522

Liability Insurance in Public Recreation 525

They’re Never Too Young or Too Old. . 528

A Comprehensive Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . 529
Recreation in Industry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 530
My Mother Read to Me, Elisabeth H.
Friermood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 532
Easter Headlines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533

Talent Unlimited, Mary Brinkerhoff. . . 534

Creative Leisure Time Through Drama,
Junius Eddy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 535

Leadership in Philadelphia,
Clarence G. Shenton . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537

Our Aging Population, Louis J.

Dublin, Ph.D. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538

Recreation Opportunities for Oldsters. 540

 

A New Kind of Pottery,
Katherine Saunders . . . . . . . . . . . .. 541

Open House for Handcrafts,

Eleanor S. Josephson . . . . . . . . . . . . . 542
Unique Snowball Contest, A. J. Schara. 545
“Home for the B‘Ionth” . . . . . . . . . . . . . 546
The Latest Word (Canasta) . . . . . . . . . 547
Square Dancing in the Village School,

Frances D. Kiely . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 549
Flashes fI'Olll the Forty-eight (States) . . 551
Olympics Football Style . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1' 53

Regular Features

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . 554
Recreation News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 555
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 556

Recreation Training
Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

PHOTO CREDITS——-“'e are indebted for photographs to: Valley
Studio. page 514', Bill )lauldin and the New York Herald Tribune
for cartoon on page 526; Junior League Magazine, page 534;
Radio Station WOMT, Manitowoc, Wisconsin, page 545; Shore-
liner magazine. page 546.

TI l E VALENTINE

Remember the excitement of that Valen-
tine Box in school? The beautiful or comic
valentines? The thrilling parties with red
and white decorations and candy hearts
that told your fortune? As recreation
leaders let us keep ever before us the
days when “our hearts were young and
gain"

Photo courtesy of Harold M. Lambert
Studios, Philadelphia.

NEXT MONTH

our Illareh issue will carry the yearly index for
Volume Forty-three of RECREATION. Among
others, don’t miss the good articles: Recreation
for Teen-age Serricemen; Functions and Duties
of Boards; Camping for Oldsters.

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readerr’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the P05: Ofiice in New York, New York, under Acr of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in SeCtion 1103, Act of OCtober 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Cap; rig/J! 1950. by the National Recreation Anoriation. Incorporated
PRINTED Il‘i THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-THREE, NUMBER ELEVEN PRICE 55 CENTS

 

Recreation
FEBR UAR Y 1 950

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

3715 37111114655 (hereof

Howard Braucher’s
editorials will, be
used through Vol-

ume Forty-three.
This one has never
before appeared in
print.

 

FEBRUARY 1950

‘6 HE EARTH IS the Lord’s and the fullness thereof.” Strong, joyous, light-

hearted daily living belongs to those who believe in a living God. Abun-
dant living belongs to all men, but there is something the matter with men and
women who follow the living God and who do not have good fun every day—-
even if there be clouds and rain and thunder on the right and thunder on the
left.

These days of heavy international clouds are days of testing. They are days
of special testing for those who believe in a living Cod.‘

It is true that America is the home of many who do not believe in God, as
well as those who do, but there is a special charge on those who do believe, who
see God undefeated, who see man undefeated even if thousands of men are
defeated, even if whole centuries are defeated.

Those who do believe in a living universe.

a living God

man who in the long run is undefeated

an eternal quality in the best of life itself know that honor must be kept
that a spirit of good cheer and good fun must be kept

that just going on breathing is not at all essential.

It is hard to see how those who do believe in a living God, those who do
have faith that the world can progressively be made God’s world, can keep
from giving their full strength to making daily life for all abundant and per-
manently satisfying.

The songs, the dancing, the music, the sports, the good cheer belong to a
living God and to all his children.

Those who see no living God also have reason to support richness of living
here and now, in the daily present, for they, too, whether they know it or not,
are so built that they can know fullness of joy only in a joyous World.

True, this is a serious world with serious problems, but real joy and really
satisfying activity with one’s fellows in no way lessen seriousness and depth.
In fact, is it not true that those who have the greatest capacity for joyous living
and for making the world about them joyous have the capacity for most of
depth and seriousness? It is not our Abraham Lincolns and our Will Rogers9

who live shallow lives.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

509

Certain Basic Assumptions

‘f

UNDERLYING THE WORK

OF THE

NATIONAL RE CREATION

ASSOCIATION

1. Life grows by action. It is through expression,
through wholehearted investment of their energies
and talents that people become and continue to be
buoyantly alive. The law of life is that it shall
be saved by expenditure.

2. Since workers are less and less finding an outlet
in industry for the adventurous and creative spirit,
they must increasingly learn to find that outlet in
leisure time.

3. Particularly in our complex and changing age,
mental health and integration of personality de-
mand participation and a pouring out of creative
energy.

4. Play is that activity which is interesting and
satisfying in itself. It is under the motivation of
play impulses that the highest creative skills are
born. These skills not only have a value in the
play life but they carry over into what we cus-
tomarily consider the more serious and difficult
aspects of life—home life, civic enterprise and in—
dustrial activities.

510

5. Morality involves, among other things, purpose,
choice, planning. These are characteristic of the
freedom of leisure. Thus leisure affords tremen-
dous character opportunity. The good life is char-
acterized by rich and growing interests and satis-
factions. Freedom, too, is associated with growing
powers. Increased skill brings new powers, new
controls, and leads to greater freedom.

6. Participation, rather than vicarious experience,
is important in the realization of these values.

7. Participation in group activities trains in citi-
zenship. The development of enjoyed play and
recreational opportunities and activities can con-
tribute to the development of community loyalty.

8. Appreciations are closely associated with partici-
pation. Those who are skilled in activities are more
likely to appreciate real values, standards, skills
and beauty.

9. Leadership is of primary importance. The leader
must understand people, their desires, needs, and
possibilities. He must himself possess skills or
know how to secure the services of leaders repre-
senting a great variety of skills for teaching, guid-
ing, directing. He also must be an individual of
well-rounded personality and upright character,
with power to influence character and personality

in both children and adults.

10. A community program for recreation must in-
clude the discovery of potential interests, talents
and skills, training and education in the creative
use of leisure, and a wide variety of opportunities
to serve the multitudinous interests—physical, so-
cial, musical, dramatic, nature, and so forth—of
different individuals.

11. Local government, the collective agency of the
people, is responsible for fostering and administer—
ing such a rich program of leisure-time opportunity.
With the expenses borne by the taxpayer, there can
be developed democratic opportunity for all to par-
ticipate in a variety of desirable and rewarding
activities. Such democratic provision of enriching
experience to all of its citizens will help to develop
loyalty toward the democratic community.

RECREATION

JIISEPII PRENDERGAST

NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

8 WE GO to press, we are happy to announce
A the appointment of Joseph Prendergast, New
York lawyer and official of the State Charities Aid
Association of New York, as executive director of
the National Recreation Association. Mr. Prender-
gast will shortly take over his new post, a leading
position in the national recreation movement. He
assumes the executive responsibilities formerly held
by the late Howard Braucher.

A former assistant to the United States Attorney
General and, before that, associated with the New
York law firm of Sullivan and Cromwell, Mr.
Prendergast entered social work in 1946, following
his discharge from the Army as Major. He studied
at Columbia University’s New York School of Social
Work where he majored in community organization,
receiving a Master of Science degree in 1947. Mr.
Prendergast has been with the State Charities Aid
since then—first as assistant and later as executive
secretary of its Welfare Legislation Information
Bureau. During the same period he has been a
member of the faculty of Columbia University where
he gave a course in social legislation.

As executive director of the National Recreation
Association, Mr. Prendergast will head an organiza-
tion which, for more than forty years, has played a
leading role in the development of community and
municipal recreation. The Association, through its
headquarters and field staffs, each year serves sev-
eral thousand communities throughout the country,
government units as well as many individuals, indus-
trial firms, churches and other groups interested in
recreation. The Association is supported by volun-
tary contributions.

Mr. Prendergast, a native of Chicago, attended
the Evanston, Illinois, public high school, Phillips
Exeter Academy and graduated from Princeton Uni-
versity, class of 1927. While at Princeton he was
star halfback and the only student in its history to
have been elected president of his class in each of
his four undergraduate years. He studied law at

Balliol College, Oxford, and as a member of the

FEBRUARY 1950

 

Inner Temple qualified for admission as barrister-
at-law.

Associated first with Sullivan and Cromwell, and
later with the legal firm of Osborn, Fleming and
Whittlesey, also of New York, Mr. Prendergast was
with the United States Department of Justice during
the years between 1934 and 1942. He filled a vari-
ety of posts in the department, as assistant to United
States Attorney in the Southern District of New
York, as special assistant to the Attorney General,
as assistant to Mr. Justice Stanley Reed, chairman
at the time of the President’s Committee on Civil
Service Improvement, and as assistant chief of the
special War Policies Unit of the War Division,
Department of Justice.

He enlisted in the Army in 1942, serving overseas
with the 12th Armored Division, was wounded, cap-
tured and escaped in Germany in 1945. He is now
a Major in the Armored Reserve Corps.

Joseph Prendergast is a man of vision and great
sincerity of purpose. He brings to the National
Recreation Association those qualities of mind and
spirit, and of leadership, so essential in furthering
the growth and development of its vital work in the
field of human service.

511

512

The Oldest
Form of

Drama

Renewed

ADELE GUTMAN NATHAN

THERE IS A new off-Broadway activity-—
* the historical spectacle—breaking out like

if?
if a rash on the face of the U. S. Although it has

not yet reached epidemic proportions, there are
signs that after another year of incubation it may
sweep the country. To speak more plainly, we
seem to be on the verge of a renaissance of that
oldest form of theatrical entertainment—the very
exciting pageant. h

Since, at the moment, there is no central clear—
ing house, it is impossible to estimate the number
of pageants being presented this year, but I have
personal evidence of the fact that at least 2,000,—
000 Americans are sitting outdoors on warm sum-
mer evenings, watching hundreds of their fellow
citizens re—enact scenes from local and national
history.

Let us take a look around. I have recently
staged an historic spectacle at \Vinston-Salem,
North Carolina, a feature of the Piedmont Festi—
val. We called it the Forsythorama, and it is the
story of 100 years of Forsyth County history.
Seven hundred people enacted the scenes in the
big football stadium. Many of them brought
horses, mules and oxen, old vehicles and old auto—
mobiles, at their own expense, to ride or drive in
the show. In addition to the actual participants,
business houses, organizations, and churches do-
nated services as different as the installation of a
complete sound system and the erection of the
great 200-by-60-foot stage.

Before the performance began, the big parking
lot behind the stadium resembled a picture by
Renoir, for the pageant participants in their cos-
tumes—many of which they had made themselves
-——tethered their animals in the surrounding pine
woods, spread their tablecloths on the grass, and
gave themselves and their families a hundred gay
communal, old-fashioned picnics. \Vhen the time
came for the performance itself, 11,000 paid spec-
tators gathered in the stadium—more than had
ever been there before, except for two occasions—
one a gala football game and the other for the
appearance of Bob Hope in person.

Two weeks later, a different kind of historic
spectacle opened for its second year in Chicago.
Here the zoo—odd actors were all professionals,
but the audience was much the same. In its first
year, “Wheels A-Rolling,” for which I was asked
to “dramatize” the script, played to 1,800,000 peo-
ple and, according to early reports, it seems that
this total may now be surpassed in the first three
months of its next run!

Down the line at \Villiamsburg. Virginia, Paul
Green’s “Common Glory," in its third season,

RECREATION

totaled up an attendance of 75,000 between May
and September. Professor Green calls his produc-
tions “music dramas” but, essentially, they are
pageants. The one at Roanoke Island, “The Lost
Colony,” is a smaller operation. The delightful out-
door theater seats fewer people but there, too, the
yearly attendance runs well into the thousands.

To mention only a few more historic spectacles,
some have recently taken place in spots as diver-
gent as Malden, Massachusetts; Salt Lake City,
Utah; Cherokee, Tennessee; Fort Houston,
Texas; and Columbia, California. Add to even
these few the regular yearly festivals all up and
down the Pacific Coast—in Santa Barbara, Palo
Alto, Pasadena, the centennial in Wisconsin and
the yearly festival in Interlaken, and it is easy to
see that America is fast becoming pageant—con-
scious.

There are many reasons for this. First and
foremost, the audience need not be theater-wise.
The stories are simple and, in most cases, familiar.
The entertainment is appropriate for children and
adults alike, and families may attend en masse.
The price range is right, too-—in most cases about
that of a motion picture show.

Secondly, on the practical side, pageants are
popular with chambers of commerce, business and
industry because they stimulate the tourist trade
and serve as a means of promotion for those com—
munities in which they are held. In recent years,
when the playgrounds of Europe were inaccessi-
ble, the tourist trade boomed in this country and
now every community in America wants to pre-
serve that happy situation. Also, it has long been
realized that nothing catches the public as much
as a living show. Actually, the pageant is the old-
est form of dramatics in Western culture. The
medieval church used it to sell the idea of heaven;
today, it sells America to an enthusiastic audience.

On the less material side, pageants are popular
because they solidify the community. They in-
volve everybody. A woman who can sew a seam,
a man who can hammer a nail, a group that can
do a square dance, or an industry that has a pic-
turesque background—all these can contribute
equally to the success of the undertaking. The
pageant involves the arts—music, drama, the
dance—and crafts. It utilizes the radio. In a word,
the pageant emphasizes the folk element inherent
in the American culture—that great, elusive form
that we are endeavoring so desperately to reduce

At present, Mrs. Nathan is teaching indnstrial dra-
matics and pageant-directin g at the American Thea-
ter Wing Professional School, New York City.

FEBRUARY 1950

to understandable terms in these troubled times.

‘More than this, there is a resurgent interest
in patriotism. America is reliving its past and
looking toward its future, and the historic spec—
tacle is an ideal vehicle for dramatizing the ex-
ploits of democracy. Then, too, in the American
scene, we are just entering a period of centennials
-——centennials of cities, states; centennials of in-
dustries—all excuses for pageantry.

Strangely enough, there was a revival of pag—
eantry immediately following World War I, but
it killed itself off through its very vitality. Every
school, every group at every crossroads commu-
nity “pageantized” something. Because the pag-
eant went abstract, became difficult to follow and
unreal, it finally languished and died. But today a
new kind of pageant—the historic spectacle or
music drama or whatever you wish to call it—
is adhering strictly to realism. Those of us em-
broiled in it realize that the American audience
has been educated by the motion picture to expect
certain standards of production, certain neatness
of presentation, certain real theatrical values.

Men like Kurt Weill, Charles Vardell, Tom
Scott, Ferde Grofe and Sigmund Spaeth search
through our folk music to create the accompany-
ing scores. Actors like Claude Rains, Charles
Coburn, Henry Hull, and actresses like Florence
Reed, Katherine Grayson and Branche Yurka are
willing to appear. Except for Professor Green
and Arnold Songaard, very few really line writers
have worked in this iield, but this apparently is
because a pageant is a thing to see rather than to
hear. Among the designers .who have lent their
talents are Henry Dreyfuss, Raymond Sovey, A1-
bert Johnson and Alfred Stern.

During this next year, in the full flood of pag-
eantry which is approaching, we will be able to
evaluate its impact on the American scene. So
important has this activity become that the Ameri-
can Heritage Foundation which, because of its
experience with the tour of the Freedom Train
should certainly know what the American people
are thinking, has just sent out a kit for the cele-
bration of holidays, an important part of which is
a pamphlet on how to produce pageants.

 

H. R. 2026

At a meeting of the full Committee on Educa-
tion and Labor of the United States House of Rep—
resentatives on January 23, it was voted to “table
indefinitely” H. R. 2026, the proposal to establish
federal recreation services in the Federal Security

Agency.
513

 

A pageant showed industrial growth of valley from
time of £rs~t white man to present day prosperity.

 

1'

The whiskers champion. Below:
community folks did their own
float building and decorating.

 

514

 

Put on by a department
of community recreation

THIS IS A tale of how s'm southern textile
communities recently pooled their resources
and effort in a community-civic project during
National Cotton \Veek.

King Cotton still reigns in the Chattahoochee
Valley. “The Valley”—as it is familiarly called——
consists of six small towns, five of them—Lanett,
Shawmut, Langdale, Fairfax and Riverview—in
central eastern Alabama and the other, \Vest
Point, across the line in Georgia.

These six towns, because of their close prox-
imity and common interests, function as one com-
munity and have their individual recreation de-
partments coordinated under one director, Rob-
ert A. Turner of \Vest Point. The cotton mills
are the chief livelihood of the valley. Under these
conditions, National Cotton \Veek offered an ideal
opportunity for the staging of a community-wide
festival.

The program, headed by Mr. Turner, involved
a five-day festival in which all the phases of his
well-organized recreation department would work
hand in hand with the mill company, the civic
clubs, the merchants and the schools. The idea
of a festival evolved from a succession of employee
performances — musicals, minstrels and variety
shows—which formerly had been staged to cele-
brate National Cotton \Veek. There had been one
major drawback to these celebrations—the neces-
sity of limited participation.

This year, the entire festival was based on the
assumption that participation is indispensable to
interest. The jobs of planning, nuance, publicity

RECREATION

 

and pageantry were delegated to a steering com-
mittee headed by a group of prominent, repre-
sentative men from the six towns. Subcommittees
utilized the talents of an additional sixty promi-
nent men and women.

The skeleton framework of the festival was an
historical pageant entitled “Echoes of the Valley,”
depicting the history and development of the val—
ley towns and their textile industry. A local news-
paperman and historian gathered the data for the
pageant, which was presented on a 300-foot stage
in Jennings Field, the valley’s baseball park. It
was a magnificent and dramatic spectacle, with a
cast of 600 performing in period costumes.

Histories are, as a rule, notoriously dull and
dry, but everybody loves a show. I daresay the
people of the valley learned more about the his-
tory of their community in that one evening than
they would in their entire lives.

The program lasted most of the week—from
Tuesday to Sunday. All the valley cotton mills
were open to home folks and visitors, and local
school children devoted a whole day to the study
of cotton and the textile industry. The pageant
was given for four nights, with a grand parade—
which turned out to be miles long—on Saturday.
Valley merchants featured window displays of
cotton or of historical interest; style shows of cot-
ton were given before the presentation of the pag-
eant ; band concerts, a community-family picnic,
valley-wide vesper service, flower show, talent
show, baby show, .tournaments, contests and
square dances were held.

Participating organizations cooperated wonder-
fully by building floats for the parade——which were
required to be homemade, setting up concessions,

Edwin Timmon: i: journalixm student at Auburn.

FEBRUARY 1950

EDWIN O’NEAL TIMMON S

preparing window displays, and taking active part
in the program. Civic clubs and the schools joined
in wholeheartedly when asked.

The parade was a tremendous success and, as
the Atlanta Journal stated, “the handsome floats
in this amazing spectacle repeated parts of the
valley story told in the pageant . . . Automobiles
and spectators—thousands of each—lined the
streets and highways . . . More than 1,000 people
from clubs, churches, civic groups, stores and fac-
tories had worked to build and decorate the floats
. . . many of which were decorated not with crepe
paper but with valley products . . . The parade
ended when the floats came back to Shawmut,
Alabama, where a family picnic for the whole
community was held on the Shawmut Circle, 3.
tree-covered park in the center of town. Floats
lined up end to end about the circle like colorful
vans at a carnival. Inside the ring, all three bands
took turns giving a concert.”

The problem of paying the costs of professional
advisors and the like was taken care of through
the sale of pageant tickets. The prices were set at
a reasonable rate so as not to be prohibitive—
seventy-five cents for adults and twenty-five cents
for children.

Advanced sale tickets were utilized as thé meth-
od of electing the Valley Cotton Queen, whose
role it was to reign majestically over the pageants,
parades and the Queen’s Ball. Each ticket pur-
chased allowed one vote for a candidate. Candi-
dates were sponsored and nominated by civic clubs,
schools and other organizations.

The festival evoked so much enthusiasm, and
was so well received, that the people of the valley
have decided that National Cotton Week will con-
tinue to be celebrated with the Valley Cotton
Festival. Yes, in the deep South, cotton is king!

515

Address presented at annual district recreation conference, Battle Creek, Michigan

CHASE HAMMOND

“DAY CAMP”

I CAN THINK of no one who is in a position to
get a kick out of and enjoy a job as much as those
of us who are in recreation promotion. There'are
but few occupations where a person can dream up
big ideas, put them to work, and watch from the
background while hundreds of youths and adults
have the time of their lives. Of course, there is a
lot of hard work between the original idea and the
happy expressions and joyful laughter. It seems
to me, however, that when our programs get to
the point where the same things happen year after
year—and we too often are satisfied with the
“status quo”— ve not only lose support for our
programs, but we lose the thrill of seeing new
activitiés really “pan out.”

Such a thrill as I have tried to explain can
reach its highest peak in building a good day
camp program. True, it does take some nerve and
a lot of good planning, but it is well worth it in
terms of happy youngsters and enthusiastic par-
ents. Our day camp idea began to formulate in
Muskegon, :Michigan, three years ago this spring.
It was obvious that iinding a site would not be
diflicult, for there is an abundance of lakes, woods,
and hills in our area. The main drawback was
the lack of finances for such a venture. A unique
sponsorship developed after discussing the project
with several folks. Some good promoters became
interested and finally approached the right group
—the A. F. of L. and C. I. O. labor unions com-
bined forces to take on the day camp project.

They appointed a committee composed of equal
representation from each union, began a money-
raising campaign, and got themselves all excited
about the possibilities of such a program. All
agreed that here was a project for all the commu—
nity, something that they had been seeking. Here

516

was a project to provide a camping experience for
their own children as well as for the children of
others who were interested. They agreed that,
except for age limitations, there would be no re-
strictions and no cost to the child.

Now we had what we wanted—only more of it
—for we had been thinking in terms of fifty boys
and girls, and this program was being proposed
to take care of 100 to 150 every week! We had
thought in terms of $2,000 for the program, and
$10,000 was raised for it. All that remained to be
done was to plan the program, employ and train
the staff, make arrangements for tranSportation,
insurance, food, get the camp site and a few other
details. All of which made us wonder if we hadn’t
taken a pretty big bite of something.

These needs got us- involved in reading about
other camps from magazines and booklets on day
camping. It soon was evident that the term “day
camp” had come to be applied to a variety of out-
door experiences, and in many cases there was
little that had any connection with camping. What
a day camp is supposed to be is boiled down by
Reynold Carlson, whom we all know as an author-
ity in nature and camping. He says: “Day camp-
ing is an organized outdoor experience in group
living conducted on a daytime basis. It is gen-
erally carried on in a close—to-home situation so
that the camper may sleep and eat his morning
and evening meals at home and, yet, during the
day, participate in a program related to living in
and enjoying the out—of-doors. An emphasis upon
nature must be the core of the day camp program.”

With help such as this, and material prepared

Mr. Hammond, Mméegon’: recreation director, led
day camp dirmm'om during the 1949 NRA C ongreu.

RECREATION

by other specialists, we began to work out details.
Let’s begin with the site, for much of the pro-
gram depends on the kind of site available. It is
interesting to note that many recreation depart-
ments have been able to conduct a good day camp
in a remote section of a city park or on a private
estate. Others have chosen a site on the outskirts
of the city in a county or state park or in a country
school yard. Some travel forty miles or more to
the camp. We have been extremely fortunate in
our site, since the Muskegon State Park, which
has ideal facilities for every kind of camping and
outdoor life, is only eight miles from downtown
Muskegon. Located on the area are four Adiron—
dack-type shelter buildings, tire squares, water
pumps, and adequate toilet facilities. A barracks
building has been brought in and installed for
headquarters, first-aid station, and food storage.
A half-mile hike brings campers to the Lake
Michigan beach f0r swimming and beach play.
Nature and hiking trails are numerous and inter-
esting sights include a hidden lake and an historic
blockhouse. It is one of those dreamed about
places where one walks on a thick carpet of pine
needles. The facilities are excellent and State
Park officials cooperate in line fashion.

The second item of concern to us was the mat-
ter of transportation. As we read about various
day camp programs, we noticed that all means of
transportation are used. In some cases the site is
close enough so that the'group walks, while others
use streetcars, public buses and trucks. I would
question any means of transportation which does
not give the leaders adequate control over the
youngsters. We have been fortunate in having
the use of school buses. From thirty to fifty chil-
dren and at least two adult- leaders ride in each
bus. The buses are driven by the men leaders and
left at camp for the day. This method of transpor-
tation appears to me to be the most desirable, not
only from the safety standpoint, but from the sheer
fun of riding together, singing and playing games
to and from the camp. The total cost of the use
of the three buses for eight weeks is about $300,
plus insurance. By this method, there is no danger
of losing any campers en route, and the danger
from accidents is reduced to a minimum. Buses
leave from a different school every week, and one
bus leaves from the central bus station every day.
The children are picked up at nine—fifteen a.m. and
returned to the same spot at four forty-live p.m.

Important items in any camping program are
the costs of various items and the fees to be
charged. After two years of operation We have a
very good picture of probable cost for a situation

FEBRUARY 1950

similar to ours. I should mention first that our
camp Operates eight weeks, five days a week.
Children sign up for one-week periods. During
the 1947 season, 710 campers were accommodated;
1,188 registered for the 1948 season. The follow-
ing are costs per child per day:

Cost of leadership 55 .44

Cost of food .31

Cost of maintenance and operation .23

 

Total cost per child per day $ .98

The question of fees to be charged depends
upon the local situation. In going over fees
charged at various camps, I find a charge any-
where from none to three dollars per week. It has
been my feeling that all campers should pay at
least a small registration fee; in our case, however,
the union group had plenty of money for the pro j-
ect, and did not want to make any charges.

Food for the noon meal is taken out in the
morning. The rural milk and bakery trucks leave
fresh milk and bread each day. Every child is
given a pint of milk, meat to be cooked over the
fire at noon, fresh vegetables, potato chips, cookies,
oranges, and the like. There is plenty to eat for
all, and the biggest thrill of the camp comes in
the cooking experience. A large refrigerator was
donated to the camp by a local industry, and this
is used to keep leftovers. There is no place to
spend any money and no provision is made to buy
candy or pop. ‘

The need for capable and adequate leadership
is of primary importance. Recreation directors
realize this fundamental fact and apply it as best
they can with the finances available. It is espe-
cially true in a camping situation, where only the
best leaders should be in charge of the away—from-
home youngsters. Some authorities recommend
one leader for every six campers. It varies from

 

517

this figure to one leader for every twenty-five or
thirty cammrs. In our case, we try to have one
adult and one junior leader for every twenty—five
campers, which makes a ratio of one leader to
twelve and one-half children. The director is not
included in these figures. “7 e have felt, for our
situation, that we have adequate leadership cover-
age. This summer, with an expanded camp in
prospect, we anticipate keeping the same propor-
tion for the campers, whom, we expect, will num—
ber from 1,600 to 2,000. n

Programs should be built basically on nature
and out—of—door living themes. It is generally
agreed that the day camp should provide experi-
ence in outdoor living, which cannot be done so
well on the playground or in the back yard. Con-
sequently, we have tried to make the program as
informal as possible, but at the same time, present-
ing opportunities for the youngsters to learn how
to cook and make fires, to use an axe, to take care
of themselves in the woods, to prepare a camp
site, to dispose of refuse; to enjoy nature .crafts
and games, hiking, informal games, swimming,
and just playing on the beach.

“7 e divide our camp into units of twenty-ave
or less campers. Divisions include boys eight
through ten years of age, girls eight through ten,
boys eleven through thirteen. These units are
spread out over the camp site so that no two units
can see or hear the other. These groups plan
their own activities, but all units come togetherq for
the opening ceremony, for swim periods, and be-
fore leaving for home. This gives the small units

plenty of chances to function as they like.

In this particular camp, the sponsorship is
unique. The A. F. of L. and the C. I. 0. have
appointed a Day Camp Committee, which raises
the money and sees that everything that is needed
is obtained. The recreation department employs

'the leadership, plans the programs, and takes care

of details of operation. This year, each union
member is being assessed fifty cents, which will
provide a budget of $0,000 to $10,000. Everyone
is so completely sold on the project that it looks
like a permanent thing.

In addition, one of the most important results
is the fine relationship that has been created be-
tween the recreation department and the labor
groups. Until the camp was established, not many
union members knew much about the department;
now they know that it has been the means of help—
ing them to do a job that is being recognized by
the whole community as a real contribution to
community life.

Most recreation departments that have con-
ducted day camps are enthusiastic about the re-
sults. It should stimulate others to start such a
program. To those considering it, I would say:
look around for a good site, look for some organi-
zation that is willing to put a little time and money
into a good thing; start planning, get it rolling,
and you will be in for one of those thrills that
comes to a recreation director in seeing a new
activity really go. The shouts and laughter of
youngsters on the trail will be the reward for the
extra time and trouble it will take.

 

Edison Anniversary

HEN THE twentieth century dawned, incan-

descent light had just begun to blaze the way
to ready, low-cost power; the phonograph was but
a parlor novelty. There was some talk of a wonder
called “motion pictures.”

As we enter the second half of this century, we
take these things for granted; they have become
such integral parts of our daily lives. These and
other Thomas A. Edison inventions and discover-
ies, such as the electronic tube, are the foundation
of our scientific and industrial might.

A record total of 1,097 patents was granted Edi-
son by the United States Patent Ofiice. From these
seeds grew enterprises which are conservatively
estimated to have a value of several billions of dol-i
lars. Through these inventions, too, Mr. Edison
contributed greatly to the present-day increase of

518

leisure time, and to recreation.

February I Ith is his Io3rd birthday anniversary
and should be observed by all recreation depart-
ments. One of the few times he ever allowed a
public celebration of his birthday was on a play-
ground. On the day that he was eightyutwo, he
was guest of the children of Fort Myers, Florida.

Mr. Edison was especially interested in the rec-
reation movement in this country through the work
of his wife, who for thirty-three years served 'as a
member of the Board of Directors of the National
Recreation Association. For a period, Mrs. Edison
paid the salary and entire expenses for an outstand-
ing rural recreation worker to conduct the training
of volunteer rural recreation leaders. Much that ex-
ists in recreation today has been achieved with the
help of Mr. and Mrs. Edison and their family.

.EECREATION

 

CHARLES W. DAVIS

1‘ IS NO longer unusual to find cities throughout
Ithe United States operating public vacation
camps for their citizens. It is not unusual to find
large cities operating more than one camp. It
is perhaps, however, a bit unusual to find a city
of approximately 110,000 population, such as
Berkeley, California, operating three vacation
camps. Between twenty-live and thirty years ago,
several West Coast cities developed the idea of
family vacation camps for their citizens. The plan
was to provide for the average family an oppor-
tunity to secure a vacation at a cost that would be
within reach of their pocketbooks. Berkeley is
also unique in that, aside from a small capital
investment to get the camps underway, their costs
have been met by receipts paid by the campers.

One of the chief reasons why the city developed
three camps can be attributed to the policy origi-
nally established by the recreation commission to
keep camp attendance at 125 to I 50 people.- It was
felt that when a camp got beyond this number it
lost many of its liner values of friendliness, neigh-
borliness, and recognition of the individuals as
members of the group. Consequently, when it
became evident that there were more people in the
city interested in vacation camping services than
one camp would hold, the commission and the city
fathers promptly looked around for another site.

Two of these camps are on federal land made
available by the Federal Forest Department,
thrOugh permit and at no “cost to the city. The
third camp—x—a beautiful Redwood grove in So-.-

 

Mr. Davis 1': Berkeley’: mperintendent of recreation.“

FEBRUARY .1950

noma County—was purchased by the city. The
first of these three camps—Tuolumne—was started
in the summer of 1922. Interest was so great that
the following summer a second camp was devel-
oped at Echo Lake. By 1927 it became necessary
to secure a third camp site. This was the Caza-
dero Redwood Camp, which the city purchased.
Last year over 2,400 different people yisited the
camps, and the average daily attendance at the
three camps was 397. i

The rates for Berkeley resident adults are $3.00
per day; for children ten to sixteen, $2.50 per
day;'children six to nine, $2.00 per day; and
youngsters one to live, $1.75 per day. For this
fee the city provides floored tents, many with
wood sidewalls, cots, mattresses, and washbasins
as standard equipment. Campers also get three
meals, Which are served family style.

All three camps have laundry facilities, includ—
ing washing machines, irons and clotheslines. Hot
and cold showers are available at all camps; all
have flush toilets. Gas plates for use of mothers
with small children are available; high chairs for
small children are found in the dining rooms. Al-
though buses sérvice all three camps, most pe0ple
reach them by their own automobiles.

. The tremendous increase in the popularity of
winter Sports activity on the West Coast has
aroused suflicient interest in the Berkeley Recrea-
tion Commission to investigate the possibilities of
using its High Sierra Echo Lake Camp for winter
fun on a family basis similar to the summer camp
idea. This would providean additional recreation
service to meet a popular need at the present time.

5.19

‘Q
4:

LL OVER the south, rural communities are re-
A viving one of their oldest forms of recrea-
tion. This is properly known as the tournament,
and is a direct descendant of the days when knight-
hood'was in flower and riders jousted for their
ladies’ favor.

The tournament came to Virginia with the Cav—
aliers and has undergone but little change through
intervening years. Competitors are still called
knights ; horses are still the main item of equip-
ment; and milady’s favor is, as then, the reward.
Where once the knights rode many weary miles
to participate in the day’s activities, trucks now
carry their mounts to the jousting field. The name,
too, has undergone change———now it is “tunamint.”

Tournaments are, apparently, distinctly south-
ern in tradition and are held in many parts of the
south. In Virginia they are found at Amherst or
Farmville, at Clifford and Natural Chimneys—
usually several times during the year. At these
meets, and at many others, the form may vary but.
the details remain generally common to them all.

The modern knights of the tOurnament compete
for rings rather than for superiority in physical
combat. Each knight appears astride his own
mount, whether it be plow horse or thoroughbred.
He wears boots and breeches or blue jeans, and
emblazoned across his shoulder is a sash of his
chosen color. The knight registers his entry under
a farm or plantation name or, barring that, under
some title of his own selection. At Clifford will
be found the Knight of Robin Crest of Altholane,
or the Knight of Thunder dressed all in black and
riding a sleek black Percheron. Even Lady Ken-
more may enter the competition, for the fair sex
has invaded this sport too and not infrequently

520

nafmin’rs

is among the winners.

On the jousting field will be found a marked
course or “tunamint track,” worn through the
sod by unnumbered thundering hooves. Beside
this track, and some twenty feet apart, are three
gibbets from which are suspended metal rings
loosely hung on a wire. These rings are usually
bull, hog, or pig nose rings around which the
ladies have crocheted a tight red cover. In size,
they begin at two inches, reducing to one and one—
half inches, one inch, or one-half-inch rings as the
competition becomes keener. The knight gallops
down the track and endeavors to spear one ring
after another on the point of his long, homemade
steel-tipped lance. Etiquette requires that the cap—
tured rings be surrendered to the judge from the
point of the lance, just as the knights of ancient
times brought their trophies to their liege lord.
Should a knight find his aim too poor, or his horse
unruly, he may lower the point of his lance before
reaching a ring to signify his request for a new
trial.

Before beginning the recorded competition, the
knights, out of courtesy to visitors who may be
unfamiliar with the home track, are given two or
three trial runs at the two-inch rings to sharpen
their skill and familiarize their horses with the
course. The “tunamint” itself must always begin

a

I

with a “Charge to the Knights” delivered in the -

best oratorical tradition by some selected digni—
tary. This address is usually humorous in vein
and cautions the knights to keep before them the
traditions of chivalry as practiced at King Arthur’s
Court, and to defend and protect the fair name of
southern womanhood. Many of these charges are
literary masterpieces, and it is no mean compli-

RECREATION

Survive

COOLIE VERNER

ment to be invited to deliver one.

The competition requires that each knight make
three runs at the rings. Total scores are figured
from the nine rings it is possible to spear. Knights
make each run in order of their entry so that
winners don’t begin to appear until the third run.
Ties are settled on the smaller rings in the same
manner. Expert riders compete through the one.—
half—inch rings where only the very skilled are
successful. Riding off the list usually requires all
day, and both excitement and tension mount as
the competition grows sharper. Spectators line
the course, encouraging their favorites to victory,
and are not above placing a few side bets on them.
Much often depends on the skill of a single knight.

After the tournament is finished, the victorious
knight is declared King of the Tournament and
the next seven highest honors follow in order of
skill. These eight make up the Royal Set and, as
their reward, are entitled to' select the lady of
their choice to be crowned later in the evening.
Knights and their ladies are entertained by a
“dining” at some neighboring farm, and a “Tuna—-
mint Ball” climaxes the evening.

This ball begins with a grand march and the
coronation address by a prominent citizen, follow—
ing the pattern of the charge. The King of the
Tournament crowns his lady as Queen of the Ball,
and the other winners crown their chosen ones
with tiaras of appropriate fiowers in keeping with
the degree of honors attained on the field. Accord-
ing to tradition, the first dance of the evening is
always led off by the Royal Set performing the.
Virginia Reel. The second set is composed of all
the knights and their ladies, and the balance of
the evening is given over to gay and rollicking

FEBRUARY 1950

 

square dances, with waltzes between sets.

For variety, a tournament may include a form
of tilting commonly called Quintain or Fan. This
is noted in Chaucer and, in Ivanhoe, it is described
as a training device for fledgling knights. In
Quintain, the rider charges a pivoted plank which
has on its opposing end a wet sack of rags that
the knight must dodgefas he passes. This sport
ispotentially fatal to those riders less agile, and
so has lost favor in recent years. ’

The Appalachian Mountains have substituted
“Turkey Shoots” for the tournament as the yeo-
men in medieval days used the cross bow as their
favorite form of competition. This was carried
over into the colonial shooting matches where
marksmanship often meant life or death. These
events feature a fat gobbler as the main prize. In
its more native form, this gobbler’s head was the
target, btit it has been supplanted by a fixed target
as the rifle has supplanted the bow. Shooting
meets are most often held just before Thanksgiv-
ing or Christmas but, for color and tradition, they
cannot match the “tunamint”.

The revival of the tournament is providing rural
areas with an incomparable form of community
recreation, as well as serving to keep alive those
native traditions that so enrich our culture. It
enhances farm living by tying farm work and play
closer together, and the many hours of practice
on the home track—preparing for the great event
-—spread its pleasures over a long period. These
activities in rural areas are certainly to be encour-
aged, for it’s “tunamint time again.”

Mr. Verne-r i5 emaciate in community Jere/ice; in the

Extemion Divirion of the Univerrity of Virginia.

521

 

A community takes specific action to cooperate with
the principles and program of UNESCO

'1

THE NURWAY PRDGRAM

UBSCRIBING to the principles and program of

UNESCO is a relatively easy thing, particu-
larly for those who, either by temperament or
training, have a humanitarian point of view. But
to bring those principles out of the stratosphere,
where they are inclined to hover, and anchor
them firmly in the solid earth, is quite another
task. It seems to be generally agreed that peace
and the encouragement of international under-
standing are good things. However, without con-
crete action to construct the defenses of peace in
the minds of men, the UNESCO program is
likely to remain only a collection of high sound-
ing phrases buttressed by mountains of paper
work. The great problem is to escape the trap of
words into the world of specific action with a
limited, clearly defined, attainable end.

After the Pacific Regional Conference of May
1948, Miss Josephine Randall, superintendent of
the San Francisco Recreation Department, ap-
proached Dr. Eugene Staley of the \Vorld Affairs
Council with a plan of action. She hoped to be
able to bring to the‘children of San Francisco
some understanding of other nations through
knowledge of their customs, games, crafts, dances.
songs, folklore and even their cooking.

Many of the playgrounds of San Francisco have
Clubhouses in which programs are carried 011
throughout the )‘ear. The facilities, therefore, al-
ready existed for the development of her plan.
Miss Randall discussed all this with the super-
visors and directors of the playgrounds. They
agreed that it was both promising and possible.
Norway was chosen as the first country, to be
dramatized and the Cabrillo Playground as the

522

FLORENCE E. GANTNER

locale. Mrs. Jeannette Primm did the necessary
research work.

Program and Activities——-The Norwegian pro-
gram was deve10ped over a period of two and a
half months. It came to a grand cIimax on Jan-
uary 12, 1949, in a Mid-\V inter Festival in which
about forty children took part before an audience
of 150 interested people. That the children en-
joyed the entire program was quite clear to any—
one who watched them during the preparations for
the final performance.

Every week the children had one day of folk
dancing and one day in which they learned Nor-
wegian folk songs. These activities were under
the supervision of the folk dance director of the
recreation department. One afternoon each week
a member of the Golden Gate Storytellers League
came to tell folk tales, Norse myths, or a little
of the history and life in Norway. Children seem
to enjoy having stories told them more than hav-
ing the same stories read to them.

In wood-burning craft the children made and
painted Norwegian flags and Viking ships. De-
lightful stencils of boys and girls in peasant cos-
tume were made and painted by the smaller chil—
dren. \Vhen these were finished,“ they were put
on the walls of the clubhouse as decorations. Pic-
tures of Norway, the people, their work, amuse-
ments and costumes were mounted attractively
and hung on the walls. A large Norwegian flag
was painted and added color to the scene.

Such a variety of activities was offered that
children of all ages and interests took part. For
instance, a youngster who might be totally unin-
terested in folk dancing might enjoy making a

RECREATION .

What is your department doing?

1

Viking ship and painting it. The children ranged
in age from six to fourteen, while those who did
the puppet show were slightly older.

Mid-Winter Festival—The fmal program be-
gan with an introduction by one of the older girls
explaining that January twelfth was the day of the
Mid-Winter Festival in N orway—a day sacred to
Thor, the God of Thunder, who used his hammer
to wage endless war against the Frost Giants so
that his people might live. She explained that
Thor’s sacred tree was the oak and his color red;
that from him comes the custom of burning the
yule log and the use of the color red in Christmas
decorations. Similar programs might be held on
other days important to the Norwegians—for in-
stance, May seventeenth, their great national holi-
day, or Midsummer Eve.

Next, two excellent color movies of the Scan—
dinavian countries were shown. These were con-
tributed by the American Overseas Airlines.
However, the Department of Visual Education of
the Extension Division of the University of Cali-
fornia has two 16mm. sound films on Norway.
The first, “N orway—Land of the Midnight Sun,”
runs for ten minutes" and shows the coast line,
mountains, farming, fjords and so on. A large part
of this film is concerned with the Lapps, their primi-
tive life and customs, and their reindeer-based
economy. This rents for $1.50 and is available
both in the San Francisco and Los Angeles areas.
The second, “The Viking Trail,” runs for twelve
minutes and rents for $1.00. In this film there are
sequences of a rural wedding, with the guests
dancing on the green; the port of Bergen with its
old Hanseatic houses and famous fish market;
harvest time; and young Norwegians learning sea-
manship aboard a square-rigger. Neither of these
is in color.

Norway House, at 250I Vallejo Street, San
Francisco, has two movies available—one of \a
national ski meet, the other, “Let Us Look at
Norway,” in tech'nicolor, of mountain scenes.

After the showing of the films, children in cos-
tume sang two Norwegian folk songs, “Paul on
the Hillside,” and “Song of Dawn.” Then twenty

FEBRUARY 1950

 

Singing and dancing in costume were part of final
program ending project after two and a half months.

, r
I

folk dancers did two dance's, the “Norwegian Ma—
zurka" and “Norwegian Mountain March.” Both
of these can be found in Polk Dances Near and
Far, Volume II, published by the Folk Dance
Federation of California. (The Ed Kremer Folk
Shop, at 262 O’Farrell Street, San Francisco, is
a great source of information on folk dances,
games, music and songs.) Then a member of the
Golden Gate Storytellers League told a Norse
saga. Next a singing game, “Cut the Oats,” was
played. This is from C hildrijljS Games from M any
Lands, by Nina Milliéii?if“ii~

The grand finale was a puppet show, given with
puppets provided and costumed by the Drama
Center, which operates under the recreation com-
mission.- The children dramatized a Norwegian
£01k tale, “The Squire’s Bride,” by" R. c. Asb-
jor’nsen. .Several youngsters, who have long been
interested in puppets, put on a delightful per—
formance. -

As their contribution to greater international
understanding, the Mothers’ Club of the Cabrillo
Playground baked excellent Norwegian cookies
which were a great success. They were served
with punch as a fitting conclusion to the festival.
For any group interested in the food angle, good
recipes can be found in Scandinavian C oakery for
Aizrericans, byiF. R. Bobeck. Also, Recipes of-All
Nations, by Morphy, has a few pages on Norwe-
gian food.

523

Possibilities—In all communities there are rec—
reation programs for children. Most provide fa-
cilities for crafts, singing, dancing or dramatics.
To center the recreation programs on a specific
country helps to unify the activities, to give them
point. In addition, of course, it widens the hori-
zons of the children who take part, increases their
friendly feeling for lands other than their own.
Norway becomes not a mere word, but an actual
country in which they are genuinely interested,
and about which they have ideas and associations.

It should not be too difi‘icult to put on such a
unified program in other cities or towns. San
Francisco is, of course, particularly lucky in hav-
ing its Drama Center, which provided not only the
costumed puppets, but peasant dress for the folk
dancers as well. Also, to have the storytellers
available to bring the myths, folk tales and vivid
incidents of the national history of Norway to the
children in such a stimulating way is of the
greatest help in such an undertaking. But there
are many books on Norse myths, the Viking,
Norwegian life and customs. The tales of Asgard,
the lives and adventures of the great Norse gods,
their battles with the Frost Giants, are intensely
dramatic. It shouldn't be hard for any interested
adult to tell a group of children these stories. The
brave voyages of the Norsemen in their tiny ships
are also naturally interesting material, particularly
since you can tie in the early discovery of America
by Leif the Lucky.

Sources—In the process of getting material for

Children used puppets for delightful dramatization of
Norwegian tale, “The Squire’s Bride,” by Asbjornsen.

 

524

the program, Mrs. Primrii wrote to the Norwegian
Library of Information. In Norway, by Gudrun
Thorne-Thomsen, (New York, 1948), gives excel-
lent information on national celebrations. It is
a book written for children of the grammar school
age and covers Norwegian history, life, and cus-
toms clearly and yividly. It is illustrated with de—
lightful and accurate black and white drawings.

Naturally, the National Geographic has pro—
duced many different articles with pictures from
Norway, in both black and white and color, over
the years. Here in San Francisco, Mrs. Raymond
Attridge painted pictures of Norwegian wedding
and peasant costumes to be hung on the walls of
the clubhouse. The details of the costumes were
c0pied from pictures in the Geographic. For deco-
rations, travel bureaus can be asked .for travel
posters which are usually quite dramatic and help
to engrave on the memory some famous scene or
building.

Among additional general references:
Asbjornsen, P. C., East of the Sun and West of

the illoon. New York, 1917.

Asbjornsen, P. C., Norwegian Fairy Tales. New

York, 1924.

Baker, E. K., Stories from Northern 1U yths. New

York, 1914.

_Colum, Padraic, The Children of Odin. New York,

1920..

Hough, C. S., Leif, the Lucky. Boston, 1930.
Keary, A., The Horses of Asgard. New York, 1909.
Mabie, H. “7., Folk Tales Every Child Should

Know. New York, 1910.

Munch, P. A., Norse ilIythology, Legends of Gods

and Heroes. London, 1936.

Smith, C. M., Northmen of Adventure, New York,

1932.

The Norwegian program has now moved to the
playground at Candlestick Cove, while a program
on Italy has been started at the Cabrillo Play-
ground. The word has spread in the area, and the
attendance at the beginning of the Italian project
has been much greater than it was at the opening
of the Norwegian program. In other words, the
children liked it———which is, of course, the final
proof of its worth. No program, however worth—
while theoretically, is of any use unless it can catch
and hold the interest of the group at which it is
aimed, whether its members are sixteen or sixty.
Perhaps its obvious success will encourage leaders
in other communities to attempt similar efforts at
building defenses of-peace even on playgrounds.

 

Reprinted from UNESCO on the Playground: of San Frencisco.
‘w’orld Affairs Council of Northern California. Available from Council’s
Pamphlet and Document Shop, 623 Sutter Street. San Francisco—10c.

RECREATION

Liability insurance in Public Recreation“

SIDNEY G. LUTZIN

THE problem of properly protecting municipali—
ties and other agencies providing public rec-

reation services against liability actions, arising
from injuries incurred in connection with the rec-
reation program, is one which has been a matter of
concern to many operating agencies which have
this responsibility. The unprecedented growth in
the number of municipal recreation programs has
opened a new area of insurance problems. 'T his is
a field which is as new to insurance underwriters
as it is to the various committees and boards which
are charged with the provision of recreation serv-
ices in the various communities.

In the past, there has been comparatively little
uniformity in the type of liability policy offered.
Nor has there been a great deal of uniformity in
the basis for establishing premium rates on these
policies. Insuring recreation facilities and pro-
grams has often been a matter of trial and error
on the part of the local community and on the part
of the insurance agencies as well.

The development in the number of public rec-
reation programs in many states—such as in New
York, where approximately 700 municipalities are
sponsoring recreation projects under the New
York State Youth Commission program-—-has
made possible the determination of "fundamental
factors which, to a certain extent, may be used as
guides'in working out liability insurance programs
for community recreation.

The following questions appear to be representa-
tive of the types of problems in most communities,
and are answered on the basis of current develop-
ments, both in the field of recreation as a muni-
cipal function, and in the field of insurance under—
writing, where an effort is being made to service
successfully the requirements of this new area:

I. “Should a liability insurance policy be taken
out for the recreation project ?”

Recreation in New York State, as in a number

 

Author Sidney G. Lntzin is the assistant recreation sn—
pervisor of the N ew York State Youth Commission.

FEBRUARY 1950

of other states, has been considered by the courts
as a proprietary function. Therefore, municipali-
ties and their agents may be liable for negligence
in the conduct of recreation facilities and services.
For this reason, it is essentially important that all
phases of the recreation program be adequately
covered by- liability insurance. A substantial judg-
ment against a municipality because of an accident
may do irreparable harm to the development of the
recreation program, as well as to the programs in
communities in the surrounding area.

2. “Does our present insurance policy give an
adequate coverage?”

Many municipalities have limited the activities
of their recreation programs to premises listed on
their insurance policies because they believe that
activities conducted away from these premises
would not be covered by the liability policy. For
that reason, inter-playground activities requiring
youngsters to go from'one playground to another
are not permitted for fear of an injury to a young-
ster while enroute. Desirable activities such as
hikes, day camps, campfire programs, tours, and
the like are also omitted from the program for fear
that, in the event of accident and injury to a par-
ticipant, the municipality would not be insured for
activities conducted away from the playground or
recreation center.

The standard liability policy used today to cover
recreation activities is the “Owners’, Landlords’
and Tenants’ Liability Policy.” This policy speci-
fically provides insurance coverage for the “owner—
ship, maintenance or use for the purposes stated in
the declaration of the premises, and all operations
during the policy period which are necessary or
incidental to such purposes.” Accordingly, if the
policy is written in connection with a certain play—
ground or recreation center, this policy will also
cover operations away from the premises and inci-
dental to the principal purposes for which the
facility is used. Therefore, the standard liability
policy, while specifying a recreation area or fa-
cility, will also provide coverage for any of the

525

By Bill Mauldin
WA n‘ that would YOU suggest are do with our spare time, 10d) 2‘”

 

activities operated by the recreation agency which
controls such premises.

Another source of concern is the question of the
insurance coverage to the individual members of
the boards. In this respect, the standard policy
provides for coverage of the elective or appointive
oHicers or members of Boards or commissions of
private and municipal corporations or agencies on
all policies covering such corporations or agencies.
Nevertheless, in the case of a municipal recreation
program it is advisable, in order to give the
broadest possible coverage, to have the policy writ-

ten in the name of the municipality and the specific _

agency to which operation of the program has been
delegated.

3. “Is an employee of a recreation agency
covered by the agency’s liability policy?”

Ordinarily, an employee cannot be included in
the liability policy of a municipality, or the recrea-
tion board or committee. Yet, it is very possible
that he could be held liable for negligence in con-
nection with the execution of his duties as a mem-
ber of a recreation staff. It is, therefore, sug-
gested that recreation personnel consider the ad-
visability of protecting themselves against liability
by securing adequate insurance coverage. Such
coverage 15 inexpenswe.

Public school personnel in New York State are
protected against negligence action in connection
with their duties as school employees by the Gar-
rity Law. However, this protection does not cover
them when they are employed by a municipality or
its agency to provide recreation services.

526

4. “\V e use school facilities which are insured
by the school board; should the municipality also
be insured?”

A large portion of the recreation program is
conducted on facilities which are under the juris-
diction of school boards. In most instances, activi-
ties conducted on these facilities are covered by
insurance which protects the school board in the
event of accident. However, the recreation pro-
gram is considered in 'the relationship of a tenant
on school board property and cannot be included
in the coverage afforded by the board’s insurance.
The recreation agency and its employees should
then be prepared to assume liability for accidents
where negligence is involved and no contributory
negligence exists. For this reason, it is important
that a recreation agency utilizing school facilities
for its activities protect itself with adequate lia—
bility insurance regardless of the insurance cover-
age carried by the school board.

In many programs, swimming activities are con—
ducted at facilities several miles from the com-
munity, and school buses are utilized for transport-
ing youngsters to these facilities. \Vhile these
buses may be covered by insurance protecting the
school board, the question of adequate protection
for the recreation agency again develops. There—
fore, the problem of coverage of school buses when
used by a recreation agency for its own purposes
should be carefully considered in the over-all plan-
ning of a municipal liability insurance program for
recreation.

5. “\V hat are the minimum limits we should be
carrying for adequate protection?”

The problem of establishing minimum limits of
insurance, which would give adequate protection
at minimum dost, is one which varies with the area
in which the municipality is located. A 1510.000
limit for a singlet injury may give sufficient pro-
tection in one area, but might not provide sufficient
protection in another. An examination of judg-
ments rendered against school boards, against in-
dividuals in connection with automobile accidents,
and in other cases, discloses that there is consider-
able variance. A serious injury may present a
$10,000 verdict in one area, but judgments as high
as $50,000 for a comparable injury are not un-
heard of in other sections. The problem of insur-
ance limits is one which should be carefully de-
termined on the basis of local conditions; and
municipal attorneys, as well as other local individ-
uals familiar with this type of problem, should, in
every case, be consulted for advice. No general
rule can be applied in order to cover each individ-
ual municipality.

RECREATION

6. “Should we carry a medical payment type of
insurance?”

Some insurance companies have been selling a
medical payment type of insurance which helps to
defray some of the medical expenses of the individ-
ual participant in the event of injury. This type of
insurance has been used for the protection of mem-
bers of high school and college athletic teams and
for semi-pro and professional athletes. Questions
are now being raised as to whether or not this type
of insurance is advisable in connection with munic-
ipal recreation programs.

It is generally assumed that an individual par-
ticipating in a recreation activity of an athletic
nature does so for his own personal enjoyment and
that he assumes the risk of any possible injury,
aside from that attributed to the negligence of the
recreation agency sponsoring the program. Where
there is no negligence on the part 'of the recreation
agency, no liability need be assumed. Therefore,
the municipality is not liable ordinarily if, for in-
stance, the batter in a baseball game is hit by a
pitched ball, and no negligence is involved.

To carry the type of insurance which would take
care of medical expenses for such an injury places
an additional burden on the recreation budget
which it need not necessarily assume. Where adult
leagues are involved, and such coverage is desired,
a group insurance policy could be written. with
each of the individual participants responsible for
his own payments. This would take the burden off
the recreation budget and give the individual the
protection he desires at nominal cost.

When a participant in a recreation program is
injured and emergency medical treatment is re—
quired, such medical treatment will be paid for
ordinarily by the insurance company with which
the liability insurance for the program is carried,
regardless of any consideration of the liability in-
volved. In other words, any municipal recreation

program which is covered by liability insurance,

can provide immediate emergency medical care
under its standard policy for any person injured in
connection with a recreation activity under the
jurisdiction of the agency carrying the insurance.
There has been some misunderstanding about this
feature of standard liability coverage since the
ordinary.school liability policy does not include
this provision for individuals participating in or-
ganized sports or athletic programs conducted
under the jurisdiction of the school unless an addi-
tional premium is paid. ‘

However, individuals injured during participa-
tion in sports and athletic activities under the

jurisdiction ,of the recreation agency are not _

FEBRUARY 1950

excluded from the benefits of the immediate
emergency medical treatment'available under the
standard liability policy. It is suggested that any-
one interested in insurance plans for participants
in organized sports familiarize himself with the
state-wide plan administered by the Wisconsin
State Recreation Commission.

7 “What type of insurance coverage is recom-
mended P”

The type of recreation liability insurance that is
recommended is one which gives comprehensive
coverage to the total recreation program regard-
less of where the individual activities are con-
ducted. Under such a policy, the total recreation
program is insured and activities can be planned
away from the playground or recreation building
without fear of not being covered in event of
accident. This is a comparatively new type of
approach to recreation liability coverage which
provides broad protection and yet, in many in-
stances, can be written at comparatively low
premium rates.

However, this type of liability insurance is not
so easily secured since some insurance companies
are reluctant to write it because of lack of pre-
mium volume at the present time. Other companies
have not been anxious for this type of business
because of their previous experience with special
risks, such as portable and wooden bleachers on
playground areas and in recreation buildings.
However, there are a number of national under-
writers who are willing to write the comprehen-
sive type of recreation liability insurance which
gives the desired broad coverage. In securing
liability insurance for "a municipality’s recreation
program, every effort should be made to get this
type of insurance.

8. “Are our liability insurance premiums too
high ?”

Because. in many instances, the insurance of
recreation activities has been a new venture for
insurance companies, there has been considerable
variance in the premiums charged for comparable
risks. Under some conditions, premium rates have
been established on the basis of experience in
other risk fields. Often inadequate explanation of
the program and other factors involved has re
sulted in establishing higher premiums. Unneces-
sary additional coverage, such as for “an exist-
ence hazard” in the case of playground apparatus
left standing throughout the year, has been writ-
ten into policies where such coverage is not essen-
tial and results in higher premium rates. The pyra-
miding of “minimum premiums” for a number of
individual hazards causes higher premiums than

527

those which would have been levied had the in-
formation submitted to the underwriter been com-
plete and adequate

However. with the increase in the number of
municipal recreation liability insurance policies,
companies have become aware of the need for a
standard rating scale for this type of insurance
coverage. As a result, a guide scale has been es-
tablished by the .National Bureau of Liability
Insurance Underwriters, which services all stock
liability insurance companies. Under this guide
scale, the bureau is now rating recreation liability
risks in accordance with a more or less fixed pro-
cedure. This provides for overall fiat premium
charges based on a number of factors, including
the activities planned for the recreation program
and the approximate number of participants, re-
gardless of where the activities ‘Ei‘ill be conducted
or the number of areas or facilities involved. The
premium rates established on this basis have been
found to be most advantageous to the local com-
munity. It would, therefore, appear to be desirable
to check on the basis used for the premium rating
to determine whether or not the lowest possible
premiums are being paid.

In purchasing protection against liability for
community recreation programs, the following fac—
tors should be given consideration:

I. All of the legal implications should be dis-
cussed thoroughly with the legal representatives of
the municipality.

2. Complete underwriting information should.
in every instance, be provided for the insurance
agent in order that the bureau will have the full
story when the policy is submitted to it for rating.

This information should include a listing of
all activities anticipated during the period to be
covered by the insurance policy, together with the
names of playgrounds and indoor facilities to be
utilized for the purposes of the program. It is also
essential to provide an estimate of the number of
participants involved in the program. In giving
this estimate, do not submit attendance figures.
The number of participants for this purpose is the
largest number who will participate in any single
activity session.

3. Insurance in New York State is regulated by
the New York State Insurance Department and,
for that reason, rating procedures permitted to the
National Bureau for Liability Insurance Under-
writers are ordinarily followed by the Mutual Rat-
ing Bureau which services many Mutual Insurance
Companies. Therefore, any insurance company
which will undertake to provide the required lia-
bility insurance for recreation can write it for
premiums based on the same premium scale.

4. Liability insurance policies for recreation pro-
grams are now "A" rated. In other words, each
policy is submitted by the underwriter to either
the National Bureau or to the Mutual Rating Bu-
reau, to be individually rated for the purpose of
establishing premium. The experience that these
agencies will have with the number of claims
against member companies in the near future will
detemiine the fixed annual rates which will be
undoubtedly established. Therefore, it is ex-
tremely important that recreation executives ex-
amine their safety precautions carefully and keep
claims at a minimum, if they desire to keep their
insurance costs low.

m...—

7éet/w 7€eam 700 Quay; a}: 7cm 0%

as HEY’RE EITHER too young or too old” is the

Trefrain of a popular song of several seasons
ago, but the way they sing it around the Burbank,
California, Recreation Department, it’s “They’re
NEVER too young or too old.”

Pre-school and rhythm exercises offer social ac-
tivities for tiny tots, almost from the time they
can toddle. Next step is the Six-to-Twelve—Year-
Old Club, which engages in handcrafts and is
treated to special movies once a week. ' i

In the teen-age department, there is a Junior
Teen-Age Club, engaging in sports and social ac-
tivities, as well as a teen-age square dance group
known as the “Sagebrush Swingers.”

A Young Adults Club—favoring 'dances, hay-

528

rides, beach parties, barbecues and similar activi-
ties— is the most recent addition to the recreation
department’s program. \Vhile the “Fun-After-
Forty Club,” which meets once a week at Glenoaks
Park for pot-luck suppers, dancing, cards and
games, fills a definite need for this frequently for
gotten age group.

For oldsters, there is the Auld Lang Syne Club,
which gathers at the Olive Recreation Center. De-
spite a generous sprinkling of octogenarians among
its membership, this group recently staged an all-
day outing at Catalina Island. They have also par-
ticipated in the “Breakfast in Hollywood” and
“.Bride and Groom” radio broadcasts, and their
luncheons and parties are events well-remembered.

RECREATION

A description of insurance coverage which should
he suggestive for other recreation departments

\

  

AMMPHEHENSIVEMLICY

HE FOLLOWING LETTER from Don Norak, vice-
president of the Hartford Accident and In-
demnity Company, to the, recreation director of
Hudson Falls,:New York, is a description of his

department’s 'comprehensive liability insurance

policy :
August 5, 1949

The Comprehensive Liability Policy, issued to
the Recreational Commission of the Village of
Hudson Falls, ,New York, covers all liability of
the commission with the exception of the auto-
mobile non-ownership and hired automobile lia-
bility which, in their case, is covered under a sepa-
rate policy. This is necessary because the Village
of Hudson Falls and the Town of Kingsbury are
named as additional insured under the Compre-
hensive Liability Policy, and it is not the intent
of the policy to provide them with non-ownership
automobile liability. The best type of policy would
embody all this coverage if possible.

The commission hasa blanket policy which cov-
ers such activities as: hay rides, picnics, outdoor
parties, and all ,other activities which are unusual.
Since the policy is audited at the end of its term,
all such activities must be recorded and the com-
pany will make whatever charge it finds necessary
for the exposure.

The locations are numerous and are rated sepa-
rately, the rates being determined by the National
Bureau of Casualty Underwriters upon submis-
sion of all the available information as to their use.
The skating pond and the teen-canteen have been
rated at $25.00 bodily injury and $5.00 and $10.00
consecutive property damage, basic limits, while
the summer and winter playground, which in-

FEBRUARY 1950

cludes a skating pond, basketball facilities, ski tow,
picnic tables, and is open for general public use at
all times, has been given a rateiof $100.00 bodily
injury and $25.00 property damage, basic limits.
Without the ski tow, the cost should be about
$60.00, basic limits.

The commission’s activities on the school dis-
trict’s property are almost continuous and, to pro-
vide the proper coverage, the school’s liability pol-
icy has been extended to cover its interest so
far as. the locations it uses are concerned. This
results in considerable saving to the commission,
for the additional charge is twenty-five percent of
the premium charged for the location used. In use
here are four locations—two playground areas
with swings and slides and a baseball diamond,
a large playground and the high school building.
The entire cost is about $45.00 whereas, if in-
sured under their own Comprehensive Policy, the
cost would be close to $200.00, basic limits.

As to the automobile non-ownership liability
coverage, we believe it very necessary that this
coverage be carried, although some might over-
look it as an unnecessary expense. If a few chil-
dren are injured in an- accident while being trans-
ported by a private passenger vehicle which has
been either donated or hired, the commission will
be protected against any action brought against
them by the parents. Bodily injury limits of at
least $20,000 each person and $200,000 each acci-
dent are recommended.

This policy is issued by the Hartford Accident
and Idemnity Company of Hartford, Connecticut,
and, if you wish further information, it may be ob-

itained from its Agent’s Service Department, at-
tention of Frank Hills.

529

 

Over 3,000 children of employees used summer day camps in 19-19.

Timken Roller Bearing
Company of Canton, Ohio,
has gained recognition as
a leader in this field.

 

RECREATION ,IN INDUSTRY

ELIEVING THAT THE hundreds who participate
B in its recreation program each year are hap-
pier and healthier as a result, top management at
the Timken Roller Bearing Company has given
the “go ahead” signal to its recreation committee
in building bigger and better all-around athletic
facilities for its employees and their families. In
each of its Ohio plants—Canton, Columbus, Mount
Vernon, Zanesville, \Vooster and Bucyrus—the
company has a recreation advisory and planning
committee which helps select, plan and conduct
recreation activities.

In Canton, where, the bulk of the company's
10,000 employees work, a fifty-acre recreation
park is continuously being developed and im-
proved. Located adjacent to the company’s Gam-
brinus plant six miles from the heart of Canton-—
on U. S. Route 62—the employees’ park now has
live softball diamonds, three baseball diamonds,
two volleyball courts, two outdoor basketball
courts, eight black—topped tennis courts, four
badminton courts, twelve oflicial horseshoe
courts, four women’s and children’s horseshoe
courts, four shufHeboard courts, a one-acre 1a—
goon for casting and ice skating and a children’s
play area. The play area consists of swings,
sliding boards, a junglegym, wading pool, par-
allel and horizoan bars and a sandbox. Each'
activity is separately “fenced to avoid injury.

530

In addition, a model automobile race track—
complete with electrical timing device—permits
the racing of small scale model autos. The
track record now stands at 127 miles per hour.
Locker rooms, rest rooms and showers are also
available. Large parking areas for automobiles
are adjacent to the park. Picnic tables and out
door ovens are provided.-

The three baseball diamonds consist of one reg-
ulation diamond for adults and representative
teams, one field with sixty-foot bases for the com-
pany’s Little Leaguers, ages nine to twelve, and
one Junior League field with eighty-four—foot bases
for youngsters thirteen to fifteen. The baseball
areas have been landscaped and tiled for draining,
and a complete underground Sprinkling system
has been installed. .

The company’s Columbus plant enjoys the priv-
ileges of a ten-acre park which offers ball fields,
picnic areas, kiddies’ playground, shelter house
and rest rooms. A five—acre park at the Wooster
plant has one ball field and four horseshoe courts.
To assist the recreation committees in planning
a completed program for employees, a postal card
survey was made in 1949. The survey listed
thirty-nine Sports, hobbies and interests which
each employee and his family were asked to check.
in addition to those listed, thirty~one others were
submitted by workers and their families. In time,

RECREATION

 

 

 

oe Gordon, Cleveland Indians,

isits

it is the wish of the company to include all of the
activities suggested by employees in the company
program.

During the 1949 seasons, the company had rep-
resentative teams and athletes in baseball, softball,
basketball, bowling, rifle and pistol meets, horse-
shoe pitching, skeet and trap shooting, table ten-
nis, and Golden Gloves competition. In addition
to its representative teams, interdepartmental

' teams in all of the above activities are sponsored

during the year. An annual interplant golf tour-
nament was launched last year. Pre-tournament
competition was carried on in each of the plant
cities to determine the champions. They were
then invited to ,the tournament in Canton.

In Ohio plants alone, 192 bowling teams were
rolling in nineteen leagues. Over 1,000 men and
women employees participated in bowling, the
most popular sport in the Timken program. The
company also sponsors a five-man bowling team
of its own blinded employees.

The first company-sponsored hobby show was
held in Canton’s recreation park under a 250-foot
tent. One hundred twenty-seven employees en-
tered approximately 150 exhibits, collections and
handcrafts in the show. Camera clubs are also or-

junior baseball clinic.

ganized in each plant and, in Canton, the stamp
club and choral groups are popular activities.
Outdoor square dances are held on the company’s
tennis courts. I

Most of these activities are more or less stand-
ard in any good. industrial program, but the Tim-
ken Roller Bearing Company is particularly proud

FEBRUARY 1950

 

What camping experience is com-
plete without a chance for fishing?

of its Summer Day Camps and its Little Base-
ball League. -* ~

Day Camps

More than 3,000-50ns and daughters of Timken
employees, between the ages of nine and fourteen,
attended summer day camps in Canton and C0-
lumbus during 1949. These young people were
transported- to the recreation park area in com-
pany buses. Their play was supervised by compe-
tent, trained recreation leaders. They were ‘in-
structed in the use of park facilities, served a pic-
nic lunch and presented with a Timken T-shirt.
They were then given an opportunity to visit their
parent at the plant and become acquainted with
his supervisor and friends.

With the cooperation of various departmental
personnel, hospitalization and company insurance
lists were carefully studied and names and ages
of all employees’ children were assembled. A list
of the names was sent to foremen in the various
departments. The departmental foreman then
spoke with the parent of each child and notified
him what day his boy or girl would be invited to
summer day camp.

When the child visited the plant, the foreman
met him at the department entrance,
took him to view his parent at work
and conducted him on a tour of the
particular department. Each day,
for ten weeks—four days a week——
groups of eighty children were taken
to the plant following a company-
sponsored picnic lunch. If a child
was unable to attend the day camp
on his designated day, every possi-
ble adjustment was made to include
him on a future date. ‘

A visit by Emma Miller, National
Girls’ Marble Champion, also
sparked last year’s day camp. Em—
ma, an Amish lass from nearby
Hartville, Ohio, gave a demonstra-
tion of her marble-shooting skill at
the Timken Park before four thou-
sand people. A special clay marble
ring was built for her visit to the
camp.

Other Activities

Timken also sponsors a Little Baseball League
comprised of four teams of boys, ages nine to
twelve, all sons of Timken employees. These boys
play a sixteen-game schedule on a specially con-
structed field, the exact miniature of a big league

531

layout—grass infield and all. Games are scheduled
every night in the week, and a baseball school is
conducted every Saturday morning. These boys
are equipped with complete uniforms and each
team is managed and coached by Timken em-
ployees who have had previous baseball experi-
ence. Last year, the company sponsored the first
Ohio Little League Baseball Tournament. Ap-
proximately ten thousand Canton residents came
to the recreation field to watch this three-day
tourney.

Timken Little League baseball players are se-
lected in a spring try-out camp. A record is made
of each boy’s ability to throw from deep short in
the outfield, his judgment of ground and fly balls,
and his ability to hit.

Last year, one hundred. eighty—five boys tried
for four sixteen-man teams. At the conclusion of
the spring try-out camp, each manager was given
a bank account of 10,000 make-believe dollars.
The sixty-four most promising players were then
auctioned and each boy was given a contract.
Players could be traded and sold from one team
to the other, as in the professional major and

minor leagues. It was compulsory that each team
be comprised of six twelve-year-olds, four eleven-
year-olds, four ten-year-olds, and two nine-year—
olds. This arrangement of ages enables team mem-
bers to build up experience through years of play.

Each spring and fall, the company holds cham-
pion night dinners for the victorious players and
teams. ‘Some outstanding athletic personalities—
along with Timken top management—attend the
functions and participate in the presentation of
tr0phies and awards.

Five of the leading baseball players of the Amer-
ican league—Tommy Henrich, Joe Gordon, George
Stirnweiss, Phil Rizzuto and Bob Lemon—#visited
the “Little Leaguers” in the spring of I949. They
gave them a demonstration of proper baseball
technique and attended the champions’ dinner to-
gether with Mel Allen, nationally-known sports-
caster. Bo McMillan, coach of the Detroit Lions
professional football team, was guest speaker at
the fall banquet.

It is the hope of the company that hundreds of
additional Timken employees will take advantage
of the recreation facilities during 1950.

\G.=9/

MY MOTHER READ TO ME

Long ago, on winter evenings,

I recall, my Mother read;

There beside our old base-burner,
Just before my prayers were said.

Here she gave me friends aplenty,
Friends to fill my life for years;
Meg and Jo and Sister Amy,

For little Beth I shed my tears.

Scrooge and Tim and Mrs. VViggs,
Robin Hood and Heidi too,

Young Jim Hawkins and his treasure
Saved from Silver’s pirate crew. '

532

Can it be that one small lady

Could, just by her magic voice,
Change a room so, in a twinkling
To the scenes from books so choice?

Poor we were, as some might count us,
No Fine house, our clothes threadbare
But my Mother read me riches

From the books she chose with care.

Now in times of fear and struggle
When woe and want about me crowd,
I can use reserves of courage

From the books she read aloud.

ELISABETH H. FRIERMOOD

RECREATION

 

FEBRUARY 1950

Easter falls on April 9, 1950. Plan-

ning for special celebrations should,
by now,‘ be well underway.

T HE EASTER BUNNY made front page headlines in Butler, Pennsylvania,
last year, when he arrived one day earlygduring a rain and snow
storm. He established his headquarters on a hillside in J. V. Ritts Park,
near the amphitheatre where sunrise services are held. No doubt he planned
this so that he would be on hand to greet local folks early on Easter morn-
ing. He brought with him a giant—sized Easter basket, too; in fact, it was
big enough to hold three of the largest Easter eggs ever seen in those parts.
They were ten feet by eight feet in circumference, but apparently were
easily handled by the bunny, who knows how to take care of Butler’s needs.
It seems that he had a busy. time that evening hiding sixty dozen eggs, with
twenty of them carrying prize—winning numbers.

Imagine the surprise and attention that he attracted when discovered——
first by citizens attending the service and then by the hundreds of children
who came to see him and to scramble through the woods on an Easter egg
hunt in the afternoon. In fact, so popular was he, it was estimated that
10,000 people came to call on him and to inspect his basket during the three
days and nights of his visit. The entire board and department of recreation
were greatly concerned over his welfare, and even rigged up a lighting sys-
tem so that he could be seen by night as well as by day.

Board members worked hard on this project, contributing ideas, sup—
plies and facilities. The huge eggs, by the way, were made of plaster of
Paris, constructed around a frame, and each weighed 125 pounds.

Bob Kresge, Director of Recreation in Butler, writes that ninety—eight
percent of the credit for this novel stunt belongs to a member of the recrea-
tion board—Mr. C. C. Miller. He also says that assisting the board mem—
bers were a group of volunteer citizens whose donated services could be
estimated at one hundred fifty dollars.

533

UNLIMITEIV ;

 

NE NIGHT, last spring, in Baylor University’s

multiple-stage theater, a cast of local chil-
dren gave a performance as original and amusing
as anything ever seen there. The freshness of
their acting was enough to single the play out for
special attention. “7 hat made it even more special
was the fact that Tom Sawyer and his friends
were members of the nation’s only all-colored chil-
dren’s theater.

It is this project which you will likely hear of
first if you ever visit \Vaco, Texas, and ask a
Junior League member what her organization
does. The League has sponsored the work for
two years. During the past year, it has also sup-
plied volunteers to help train the children.

The colored children’s theater Opened in the fall
of I947, with the League furnishing the financial
backing and transportation for the actors between
the theater and their schools. Baylor University
permitted the use of its theater building with six
stage areas, revolving chairs and an overhead
lighting platform. The two young instructors,
members of the Baylor faculty, were outstanding
both for their all—around dramatic talent and for
their special interest in children.

The cast of twenty-five or so youngsters, all be~
tween the ages of seven and fourteen, had been
picked by their school principals. Two yardsticks
were used to select them—talent and willingness
of parents to cooperate. Teachers also gave the
children the push needed to launch them into what
must have been, for some at least, a strange under-
taking, Near the end of the school year, a com-
paratively polished group gave two performances
of a program comprising three one-act plays.

Last fall the work began again on a pattern al-
most, but not quite, the same because three Junior

 

’chrintcd from Junior League Magazine. October 1949.

534

Q
‘.

MARY BRINKERHOF F

League members had been added as teaching as-
sistants. They held individual “ground-work” ses-
sions with the principal characters; they called for
pantomime exercises, private rehearsals—anything
to help round out the main characterizations until
they fitted smoothly into the. fabric of the play.

There was a reason for this new complexity.
The 1949 play was considerably more of an under-
taking than the previous program. It was “Tom
Sawyer,” a three-act drama, full of Mark Twain’s
wise humor. The young actors were prepared in
ways which had little outward connection with act-
ing. They did finger painting; they listened to re-
corded music and wrote down what it meant to
them. Later, of course, they moved on to the play
itself, learning lines and movement, building sets
and pr0ps. Meanwhile, the director—with sharp
understanding of her pupils—adapted the script to
suit them.

After a great deal of work the show went on.

Five stages were used, and sometimes the action
took place on a continuous “apron,” or before-the-
curtain area, stretching three-fourths of the way
around the audience. Tom, Huck and the rest
filled their roles so convincingly that they seemed
to convince themselves. But the happiest people
there were the parents of the cast with good rea-
son.
"‘The work,” said director Jeanne McRae, “was
a general education in brief, something to build
personality and cooperation, to let them know
what they have to contribute. These children have
beautiful rhythm of body, vivid imaginations and
great creative ability.”

“And they weren’t learning by imitation,” added
Mrs. Billie Lawrence, chairman. “They were
learning creative expression, designed to touch off
any spark of talent that they might possess.”

 

RECREATION

A PIONEERING PROJECT

Creative Leisure Time Through DRAMA

o “I'M NOT nearly so interested in what people do
to the drama as I am in what drama does to peo—
ple,” a national authority on adult education re-
marked several years ago. Without implying that
increasingly higher standards of play production
should be sacrificed to strictly sociological aims,
this statement reflects the spirit behind a broad,
new project in theater upon which the Baylor
University Theater in Waco, Texas, has recently
embarked.

To its already prodigious drama program, Bay-«m

lor has now added a special research project in the
field of recreation and leisure-time needs. Financed
jointly by Baylor and the General Education
Board of the Rockefeller Foundation, the project
was formally initiated last fall. It has been set up
as a two-year study to inquire into the leisure-

time rieeds of communities in the Southwest. In /

conjunction with the necessary basic research into
regional needs, the project plans to assist commu—
nities in setting up worthwhile recreation pro—
grams and to train the university’s drama majors
to become more effective leaders in the field of
community drama and recreation.

This new project did not just come into being

overnight. It is the logical outgrowth of a philoso-‘o

phy of service to the region which Baylor’s De—
partment of Drama has been developing for a num-
ber of years. Inspired and directed by chairman
Paul Baker, it has been attempting to do more
than prepare its students for work in the profes-
sional theater field. Nor has it been content to
fulfill its educational obligations merely by train-
ing its students to become teachers themselves. As
Norris Houghton suggests in “Advance From

 

Junie: Eddy, Arroclate Prbferror of Drama at Baylor,
i: rupervlilng current two-year Rockefeller rtudy.

FEBRUARY 1950

JUNIUS EDDY

Broadway,” this latter practice ultimately leads
down a dead-end street. Under present conditions,
with nearly eighty-five percent of the members
of Actor’s Equity currently unemployed, it is in-
cumbent upon the drama departments of our na-
tion’s educational institutions to do more. Broader
and more profound purposes are needed.

Such purposes have been gradually emerging at
the Baylor. Beginning in the early thirties, when
he first took over the fledgling drama department,
Mr. Baker has attempted to make this theater a
vital creative and recreation force throughout the

entire region. He has felt that the drama department ""

should be developed to emphasize the values of
community living by teaching its students how to
apply their knowledge of the theater arts to the
leisure—time problems of the schools, churches and
communities of the region.

The influence of 'this program now is being felt
“in countless numbers of ways. Touring schedules
are organized for many productions. A number
of small communities and hamlets in the central
Texas area had their first acquaintance with the
living theater when Baylor road-shows set up
their stages and performed their plays in village
squares, town halls or high school auditoriums.

An emphasis on the value of drama in the "

church led to courses in religious drama. Students
were taught how to organize church dramatic
programs, and gained practical experience by ex-
tending the touring program to include religious
plays. Today, churches of all denominations
through central Texas look forward to produc-
tions of these plays each year, and some churches
ask assistance from Baylor students and faculty in
deve10ping programs of their own.

As early as 1940, special courses in the organi-
zation of summer theaters were instituted, in con-

535

junction with an active summer company. Since
then, Baylor’s Southwest Summer Theater has
presented at least five productions during each
summer (with the exception of the war years),
and has made the theater a year-round activity for
drama students and \Vaco audiences alike.

At the same time, two additional phases of thea-
ter experience were made a fundamental part of
the program. Training in children’s theater and
civic theater work was integrated with existing
activities. An opportunity for providing students.
with practical experience in this work was devel-
oped with the reorganization of the \Vaco Civic
Theater following the end of the war. The Baylor
Children’s Playhouse, sponsored by the university
in conjunction with the Junior League, was organ-
ized and now conducts a full-time program for both
white and colored children who live in the City
of “'aco.

In the television field, as well as in the sound
Film field, the drama department is presently at-
tempting to offer its students the best possible
training available. Some half-dozen original one—
act plays, written in the department’s playwriting

course, were adapted for television last year and

presented over a Fort \Vorth station. Two sound
filtns have been made already, and several more
are currently in the shooting stage.

Staff members in charge of each of the above
activities have been added to the drama faculty
each year, as the need for more adequate super-
vision has developed. All aspects of the program
are housed in Baylor’s unique new theater build-
ing, designed by Mr. Baker and built during the
early years of the war. Seating some 175 persons
in swivel chairs, the new theater has six practical
playing areas and a light booth suspended from
the center of the auditorium—making it one of
the most flexible plants in the country.

In the current two-year study, sponsored by
the General Education Board to investigate ways
and means for integrating more thoroughly the
many phases of this program with the actual needs
of the communities in the area, typical communi-
ties of varying population levels will be studied
at close range. Surveys will be conducted to deter-
mine the extent to which leisure-time activities are
available to different interest groups; the manner
in which these groups make use of their leisure
time; the facilities, both existing and potential,
which can be utilized to increase the creative use
of leisure. ,

It is anticipated that the results of this study
will be used as the basis for courses designed to
train students to become more effective leaders in

536

community recreation. \Vherever possible, the stu-
dents themselves will assist with the study, and it
is expected that advanced students may obtain
actual experience in the field. Using their knowl-
edge of the theater arts as a springboard, and
moving steadily into related aspects of recreation
activity, these students will be assigned to specific
community projects under the supervision of
theater faculty members. In this way, two equally
important objectives will be served simultaneously
—more effective leadership training, and the de-
velopment of an assistance program to meet com—
munity needs. '

All phases of the Baylor Theater program will
probably become involved in the project ulti-

_ mately. Students engaged in religious drama work

will assist community churches with a drama pro-
gram; children’s theater students will help com—
munities to organize their own dramatic groups
on the child’s level; students studying community
theater problems will attempt to organize civic
drama groups throughout the area; touring sched-
ules will be set up to bring the living theater to
countless small communities. Documentary films
on typical leisure problems are also being planned
in connection with film courses. Ultimately, other
departments in the fine arts curriculum, together
with the sociology and physical education depart—
ments, may be drawn into the picture.

Although most of this work is still in the blue-
print and planning stage, a major experimental
project has been set up in the rural area of Tin
Top, Texas, forty miles southwest of Fort \Vorth.
Cecil Massey, a graduate student in drama, has
been living in Tin Top since October, assisting
the people there in developing a recreation pro-
gram. At the same time, he has been gathering
material for his master’s thesis on “An Analysis
and Study of the Leisure-time Problem in Tin
Top, Texas.”

Tin TOp is an isolated, typically rural section
which spreads over some twenty-five square miles
of tableland. Its 105 residents are primarily en-
gaged in farming and ranching. There are no
phones in the area, roads are in need of repair,
and—until recently—~very little that could be
termed “community life” existed there. Countless
barriers, both real and imaginary, had been built
up over the years, tending to keep the people
apart from one another.

About two years ago, prompted by one of the
more community-conscious families, Tin Top en—
tered a rural neighborhood improvement contest
sponsored by Texas A&M and a local farmers’
magazine: The people began to come together

RECREATION

occasionally to accomplish the many tasks con-
cerned with improving their roads, homes and
farmlands. By the end of the contest in March,
1949, Tin Top won a prize of $100 for sixth place
in the finals. With this incentive, they determined
to build a community center as the main project
in this year’s contest.

With the center in view—a place to gather, to 

play, to get to know each other, and to have leisure-
time fun—the community decided it needed help
in planning a recreation program. Thus the spe—
cialists from Baylor were called upon. Mr. Mas-
sey’s particular assignment was to make Tin Top
his temporary home, get to know the people and
their needs, and to develop their interest in cre-
ative leisure activities. His objective is to aid the
people of Tin. Top to develop their own recreation
leaders so that the community center program will
grow after assistance is withdrawn.

By November, almost all of the Baylor Theatei
program had become partially involved in the work
at Tin Top. Children’s Theater workers had or—
ganized community children in an activity group;
religious drama students had presented a play in
the Tin Top tabernacle; and a documentary film
on the sociological aspects of the new-found com- 
munity spirit had been started.

It is too early to make any positive statements
regarding the ultimate success of the work at Tin
Top. Whether the project will provide any lasting
contributions toward better living in this isolated
rural area is still anybody’s guess. But, for the
moment, the effect of Baylor’s new leisure—time
leadership prOgram on the population of Tin Top
is, without doubt, tremendous. At the same time,
Baylor’s drama students are learning firsthand
about the many problems involved in bringing
-their skills to bear on a specific community situation.

 

Leadership in Philadelphia

“THE pREATEST YEAR of expansion of public rec-

reation in the city’s history” was the term
applied to 1948 by the Philadelphia Bureau of Rec—
reation in its annual report. The city had em-
barked two years before on a recreation program
in which about $12,000,000 was earmarked for re-
habilitating existing recreation centers, building
facilities on city—owned land and acquiring new
sites. However, the Philadelphia Recreation As-
sociation felt that something else was very much
needed-——better qualified workers.

The association found the 'chief of the city’s
Bureau of Recreation, the director of public welfare
and representatives of the Civil Service Commis-
sion entirely sympathetic with 'its point of view
and, after it obtained information from the Na-
tional Recreation Association and a National Com-
mittee on Recreation Personnel Standards, City
Hall promptly adopted new specifications for rec-
reation workers.

The contrast between these requirements, which
became effective in 1949, and those of 1947, is
striking. Both naturally emphasize such qualities
as good moral character, good health, pleasing per-
sonality and reliability, but when it comes to the
training and experience that must be offered be-
fore the applicant can even take the examination,
1949 stepped out far ahead.

FEBRUARY 1950

CLARENCE G. SHENTON

In 1947, a candidate for “Recreation Leader,
Grade 4” had to have the equivalent of graduation
from a high school and some special training or
experience in recreation, physical education and
playground wOrk. If the equivalent of high school
graduation could not be offered, two years in high
school and a year of experience would suffice.

But, in 1949, the candidate had to have the equiv-
alent of high school graduation, completion of two
years in a university, and at least a year of success—
ful experience in recreation activities——six mOnths
of which must have been as a leader. In lieu of
two years of university work, three years of ex-
perience would be accepted, with one year of uni-
versity counting as a year of experience.

There is also a noticeable difference in the de—
scription of duties of the position. The 1947 speci-
fications emphasized physical education, athletics,
and gymnastics. Those of 1949 included all this,
plus such things as teaching arts and crafts, folk
dancing, group discussion, music, dramatics, pet
shows and the training of junior leaders.

(New leadership standards can be found in Per-
sonnel Standards in Recreation Leadership, re-
cently published by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation ; fifty cents—Ed.) '

Reprinted from the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.

537

OUR-AGING POPULATION

I

HAT do we mean .when we speak of the
Waged? I shall follow what has been sanc-
tioned by usage, namely, to identify the aged with
those who have attained their sixty-fifth birthday.
This is, of course, an arbitrary division, but it is a
convenient one. Yet it is necessary at the very
outset to point out that this does not carry with it
any connotation of physical infirmity or of econom-
ic dependency. The so-called aged—that is, those
who are sixty—five and over—are a diverse group.
Some at sixty-five, and even at younger ages, are
clearly old by any standard; others at eighty are
still fresh and spry and are doing a creative job.

In other words, we must distinguish between
chronologic and physiologic old age. They may be
very different. \V e all know of many extraordi-
narily able men in our own business and in other
pursuits who, at seventy-five and eighty, continue
to carry large responsibility and do it well. They
are anything but old men, either physically or men-
tally. It will help us in our later considerations to
keep in mind this important distinction between
chronologic age and physiologic age.

There is another basic fact that I must develop
somewhat fully in order to lay the foundation for
what I shall say further on. and that is the rapidly
increasing proportion of those in the later age
brackets. Until fairly recent decades, our country
was characterized by the youth of its people. \Ve
had grown rapidly through the heavy immigration
of relatively young men and women, and this, to-
gether with high birth rates, swelled the propor-
tions at the younger ages. The effect, of course,

 

Mr. Dublin, .recond w'ce-pren'dent and :tatittt'cian of
the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, gave ad—
dreu excerpted here at Annual Forum of New York
Chapter of Chartered Life Underwriter; April 1949.

538

a»

LOUIS I. DUBLIN, Ph.D.

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

~ was to diminish the relative importance of those

sixtyef'ive years of age and over.

Thus, in 1900, in a total population of seventy-
six millions, only 4.1 percent were in the sixty-
f'ive and over age bracket; less than in the more
stabilized countries of Europe. The old among us
were then relatively few in number, and they were
readily absorbed into the normal family life of our
people. No wonder they attracted relatively little
attention. Certainly there was little awareness of a
serious economic or social problem arising from
our old people. No special facilities were thought
necessary for them outside of the poorhouse for
those who could not provide for themselves, or had
no children or other relatives who could take care
of them.

But conditions have changed materially in the
last fifty years. Immigration was virtually cut off
in the early twenties. Our birth rates have de-
clined rapidly and, despite the wartime resurgence,
the outlook is for further decreases. Then, to
round out the picture, the advances of medicine
and of public health work have saved more and
more young lives. You know how infant mortality
has been sharply reduced. The children’s diseases,
which in the earlier years were devastating, have
been virtually eliminated as factors in mortality.
Typhoid fever has been practically wiped out.
Even tuberculosis and pneumonia and influenza
have been reduced over eighty percent since the
beginning of the century. The effect of all this life-
saving at the earlier ages has, of course, been to
bring more and more of the population into the
older age brackets.

The accompanying‘chart illustrates in a drama-
tic fashion the changes in survivorship during the
last fifty years, as a result of the improvements
which I have enumerated. These are survivorship
curves which show what happens to two popula-

RECREATION

tions, each of 100,000 traced from birth to the end
of life, one under conditions of mortality prevailing
at the beginning of the century and the other under
current mortality conditions. I have also projec—
ted the survivorship curve for another 100,000 on
the basis of mortality conditions which will prob-
ably prevail about 1975.

Observe how marked the shift has been in the
age at which survivors are reduced by one quar-
ter. At the beginning of the century, one-fourth of
those born failed to live beyond twenty-four years;
but, currently, the same proportion survives to
sixty years, and according to the forecast for 197 5,
it will be sixty—seven years. At the halfway sur-
vivorship mark, the figure advances from fifty—
eight years at the beginning of the century to
seventy—two years currently, and the indications
are that it will be about seventy-six years in 1975.
Let us look at this in still another way. Mortality
conditions in 1900 were such that a young man
eighteen years of age starting out on his produc-
tive career had one chance in two of reaching his

sixty-fifth birthday. Today, his chances of survival.

are two in three.

Taken together, the three factors I have men-
tioned—cessation of immigration, reduction in the
birth rate, and improved survival—have radically
changed the pattern of our age distribution in the
past fifty years. The census of 1950 will, accord—
ing to latest estimates, show more than eleven
million peOple over sixty-five years of age, or 7.7
percent of our total population. In other words,
the proportion of older persons has about doubled
in the last half-century, and the absolute numbers
have almost quadrupled.

Not only are more people entering the thresh—
old of old age, but the outlook for living beyond
that age has also improved. For the average per-
son now at sixty-five, the expectation of life is
thirteen and two-third years, about two years
greater than in 1900. I hope you can n0w see
more clearly how we have arrived at our
present situation, in which peOple beyond

the importance of the challenge which they ,5
present to us for their welfare. Old age is a
significant period of life and will be increas—
ingly so in the future.

There are other considerations which bear
on our problem. Since the turn of the cen—
tury, our population has become increasingly
urbanized and industrialized. In 1900, our
cities and towns included only forty percent
of our people; in 1940 the figure was fifty—
seven percent, and by 1950 it undoubtedly

FEBRUARY 1950

will be considerably higher. Now it makes a lot
of difference whether old people live on farms or
in cities. In the good old days, when we were
predominantly a rural and agricultural people, the
old were still useful in the home and on the farm.
They then found a ready acceptance in the large
houses of their children and grandchildren. How
different the situation is today, when so many of
them are concentrated in the cities and dependent
for a living on a job in industry or trade! And
with the housing problem acute as it is, the small
flat is certainly no place where the aged parent can
be absorbed by children raising their own family.
Nor is it to be overlooked that the dependent aged
parents of today have fewer children to share the
burden of their support than was the case half a
century ago.

This, then, is the picture that confronts us. ‘
What are its social and economic implications, not
only for the aged themselves. but also for the
nation? Why all this discussion and concern about
our aging population?

=1: :1: * an:

The well-being of the aged among us involves
much more than the correction of their economic
difhculties. . . . Those who minister to them have
observed the boredom and sense of frustration from
which so many of them suffer. . . . The great desid—
eratum is a community organization of public—
spirited citizens which will be concerned with meet-
ing the needs of the aged. It will inquire into the
adequacy of the local facilities—facilities for,rec-
reation, for the deve10pment of hobbies or for the
utilization of the talents of older people. Such an
organization will see that old people are visited by
kindly neighbors; that they are made much of on
public occasions and given places of honor. All
of this will help to encourage the feeling among
oldsters that they are still useful and wanted.

SURVIVORS FROM BIRTH TO SUCCESSIVE AGES

According to Life Tables For United States, IQOI, l946 and Forecast For l975

   
 
     

50_._______.__.___..__._____1__.__. . . 1‘ ._..

l0

ruousmos or suavwoas
'00 as! ._.= m- -
 ._ Forecast for I975
I$.~'
'x, .

sixty-five loom large, both in numbers and in _ \

 

Age at which survivors

are reduced bq
. V40 0 V2.3 63 V4

20 30 40 so so 70 so so" 100

RECREATION OPPORTUNITIES
for» OKWM

FOR MEN and women in a late period of life,
the problem of “what to do” with one’s self is
of acute importance. Frequently the daily routine
of work at one’s job or profession has been ter-
minated by this time. A man may now find that
retirement sans responsibility has lost its desira—
bility; and a grandmother who suddenly finds her-
self with no family to care for, no house to keep
up, will be at loose ends for something to keep her
busy.

In large cities the problem of recreation for old—
sters is even more serious than in small towns and
rural areas. Recognizing this, the \Velfare Coun—
cil of New York City and several other local
organizations have set up special plans of interest
for older people.

The New York Adult Education Council at 2 54
Fourth Avenue, for example, offers person-to-
person consultation with any man or woman who
would like information on local recreation and edu—
cation opportunities.‘ The New York Public
Library, with its several branches. has readers’
advisors who are glad to suggest books on hobbies
and other interests. Some libraries have music-
listening groups for opera broadcasts and for re—
corded music. The Ottendorfer Branch at I 35
Second Avenue is one of these. Discussion groups
and reading clubs are held in a number of branches
and the City College of New York offers courses
in art, languages, and so forth, in several neighbor-
hood libraries. Only a moderate fee is charged,
and there are no academic requirements. '

In many different city neighborhoods—Mam i’

hattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx, Queens, Richmond—
recreation centers for folks of fifty, sixty and over
have been established. Some, such as the \Villiam
Hudson Community Center at Tremont and Third
Avenues in the Bronx, are sponsored by the city
Department of \Velfare. Some are sponsored by
organizations such as the Salvation Army; the
Senior People’s Community Club at 224 \Vest
124th Street being such a group. The Council Club
for Older People at 2828 Broadway, sponsored by
the National Council of Jewish \Vomen, like many

540

groups with religious affiliations, has a non-sec-
tarian membership.

Two typical older adult centers are the Elliott
Neighbors’ Club of Hudson Guild, located at 441
West 28th Street, and the Happy Meeting Club,
at 237 East 104th Street, Manhattan. Both are
non-racial, non-sectarian, and charge no fees. The
former is for men and women, sixty and over,
mainly from the Chelsea district. It has two rooms
and a kitchen in the Hudson Guild Annex, with a
radio, a piano, magazines, and craft equipment.
One paid staff member is in attendance, as well as
a part—time Department of \Velfare worker and
volunteers. The club is open Mondays through
Fridays during the day, and has an average at-
tendance of thirty-five, although the capacity is a
hundred persons.

The Happy Meeting Club has a very similar-
framework. The types of recreation offered by
these clubs include dramatics, concerts, cultural
meetings and discussion groups, pottery and paint-
ing, community singing, a rhythm band, motion
pictures, sight-seeing trips and so on. They also
hold open house, social teas and lunches there.
Officers usually are elected within the club mem-
bership to take an active part in its management.

Some groups offer mental and dental attention
for members. Others provide opportunities to do
typing and mending for financial remuneration.
These recreation centers offer new friends, new
things to do, new interests in life to men and
women who seem to be “out of things” because of
their years.

There is room for improvement in New York
and in many other cities. But “old folks” need not
be “forgotten folks,” and these recreation centers
show what can be done for them—to help them
“do” for themselves. Life can be full and fun, at
sixty and beyond.

FOr further information, send for “Recreation
Facilities for Older PeOple,” prepared by the W el—
fare Council of New York, .14 East 23rd Street.
Single copies ten cents, fifteen copies one dollar,
nfty copies three dollars.

RECREATION

 

Mrs. Zoboli showing pottery made with new process.

OSE ZOi30LI of Norwood, Massachusetts,
R makes her recreation time pay by teaching
people to make Town Line Pottery, an unfired
ceramic ware which dries to a permanent gloss-
finish within twenty-four hours. After a special
varnish has been applied and smoothed, some
beautiful pieces result—including everything from
small ash trays and lovely fiower bowls to com-
plicated lamp bases and boxes with covers.

Mrs. Zoboli learned the craft from its inventor,
Maxwell H. Fellows of Boston,‘and now gives
lessons to a few Norwood women, two nights a
week. Pupils are told to bring an old pan and
mixing spoon, and to wear their old clothes. An
old kitchen knife and a towel added to the picture-—
and everything is ready. Beginners turn out two ash
trays in the first evening, and do they feel proud!

T0wn Line Pottery is made exactly in reverse
of the usual pottery process. Generally a plate
would be formed from soft clay, the glaze sprayed
on, and the whole thing fired under very high
temperature. Town Line begins with the glaze
which is the most beautiful part of the process.
These glazes are made in thin sheets, held to-
gether with fiber, and crackled before applying so

FEBRUARY 1950 '

Pottery

KATHERINE SAUNDERS

that the finished pieces sparkle like diamonds.

A cement mold is placed on the table, greased
with something that resembles petroleum jelly,
and the magic glaze—crackled and dipped in cold
water—is applied, pressed down firmly, and a
thin clay mixture brushed on to hold it from
slipping. After that. the clay—having the consis-
tency of ordinary modeling clay—is spread on
with a knife and cut off around the edges. The '
top is made as smooth as possible and, in twenty-
four hours, the complete product is dry.

The finished work of art has the appearance of
antique crackle ware and the unusual colors of the
glaze—bright as the sunset, gay as fiowers, warm
as a painting—make the pieces striking and mag-
nificent. Enthusiasm for Town Line has spread
from Boston to New York and along the coast to
the south. It is also taught in the midwestern
states, and has been accepted by the Association
of Handicraft Groups of Massachusetts.

Mrs. Zoboli has made many good friends through
her hobby and, although she does not have as much
time as she would like to devote to it, she and her
class members are deriving a great deal of pleasure
from creating this new kind of pottery.

541

 

Tray painted with aSphaltum.

UR community center in Bloomington, Illi-
O nois—population 40,000—tried a week-long
open house for arts and crafts recently. During
afternoon and evening classes,.and a morning free-
time workshop period, all the major handcrafts
were taught. These included hobby interests such
as wood carving. clay modeling, leather work:
money-making crafts such as textile painting, plas-
tics. ceramics; and simple projects suitable for
children—glass etching, linoleum block cutting,
and working with papier-mache.

Groups were in charge of competent, but not
always professional instructors. The registration
fee was nominal—$1.75 for the complete course or
fifty cents per two-hour session. This covered the
cost of materials used, as everyone attending
worked on a simple project at each lesson.

It can readily be seen that this was a non-profit
venture. Its purpose was to encourage organiza-
tion leaders, local and out-of-town, to come and
learn. and to spread their knowledge in their own
groups. Many school teachers were in attendance,
sent by their principals, as well as church workers,
scout leaders, camp leaders, therapists and just
interested individuals.

Out-of-town people were induced to attend by
the distribution of circulars quoting rates in pri-
vate homes and hotels. Inexpensive lunches were
served at the center by church women.

542

OPEN HOUSE

The publicity was effectively handled. Fifteen
thousand circulars were mailed to city teachers,
county teachers, 4-H leaders, scout leaders, Home
Bureau chairmen', doctors, dentists, ministers,
those on the extensive mailing list of a local,
church-sponsored summer camp, and to 200 peo-
ple who had been at the center previously for
some type of craftswork. One hundred posters
were made up and distributed by art students;
window displays were featured in local stores and
in the public library.

Announcement of the event was made on the
radio a week previous to the open house, and local
firms paid for newspaper advertising listing the'
following day’s schedule. The staff consisted of
sixteen instructors gathered from college and high
school art departments, expert hobbyists, and
fourteen helpers———all volunteers. '

On Monday afternoon, about fifty people reg-
istered and paid the fee, or indicated that they
had paid in advance through the mail. In the
latter case, their name was on file and they were
admitted. To facilitate matters for evening classes,
which were twice as well attended, two desk clerks
and two desks were kept busy. All in all, 204 per-
sons registered.

Classes were held in the large gymnasium in the

-Bloomington Community Center. (The “Y”

building or church basement might be used.) Lo-
cal and out-of-town dealers in art supplies sent
displays, which were set up around the unused
portions of the gym, and we sat at banquet tables.

Everyone kept busy. In metal etching, for in-
stance, after a hfteen-minute summary of the proc-
ess by the instructor, each member began to find
out for himself how simple and attractive the work

RECREATION

ELEANOR S. J OSEPHSON

for HANDCRAFTS

A Community Center Experiment

could be. Mimeographed sheets were handed
around to aid in following instructions. On a table
at one side of the room were laid out the materials
to be used that afternoon—aluminum circles, pen—
cils, tracing paper, carbon paper, pads of steel
wool, paint brushes, black asphaltum, turpentine,
a handy jig for Huting edges, and even paper
towels for cleaning up. Each person always
cleaned up his own place, and all tables were
clear when the class left.

Shiny black on gleaming silver—why those six-
inch trays looked beautiful even before they were
finished! Asphaltum has to be allowed to dry
completely before being subjected to muriatic
acid. That was why the morning workshop was
so necessary. Peeking into the kitchen at any
time that morning you could find several people
stirring a liquid with a feather and anxiously
peering through fumes into their mixture. They
needn’t have worried, for every finished piece was
practically an. object of art.

The Monday 'evening class almost became a
candlelight party. The clay modeling“ instructor
had demonstrated how to make pottery through
various methods—turning, coil, rolling pin and
so on. She repeatedly stated that the beginner
must get the “feel” of the clay in order to under-
stand .its handling. Each person had been given
a generous lump of clay to “throw” (to remove
air bubbles) on masonite boards laid on the tables.
After giving the clay a good trouncing, the class
settled down to creative work, using their hands
as tools. That was when the electricity short-cir-
cuited. It was pitch black, but undismayed by the
unusual experience, students kept right on squeez-
ing and pushing and shaping their clay. Someone

FEBRUARY 1950

remarked. “Mine looks much better this way,”
and the .general laughter which followed showed
that everyone had entered the spirit of the occa—

sion. By the time candles were located, electric
service was resumed. Then the pitchers, mugs
and ash trays were lovingly patted into finished
products and left to dry for future firing.

The Tuesday afternoon metal modelers were

Enthusiastic amateurs purchased leather for tooling,
made beautiful articles. Below: Tracing the design.

J

 

amazed to discover that, merely by pressing a thin
sheet of metal with an orangewood stick, a three—
dimensional picture could be deveIOped in a jiffy.
Of course, beginners traced the pictures to be
modeled, but for raising the pattern, they were
strictly on their own. Folded newspapers were
used as a pliable work surface for the copper,
aluminum or peacock alloy metal sheeting. Many
rolls were bought for home use—a testimony to
the effectiveness of the course.

The large evening class in textile painting was
divided into two groups. Basic instructions were
presented to the entire enrollment. Then those
interested in experimental work went onto the
large stage where tables had been set to accom—
modate them, and where textile paints, brushes
and stencils were within reach. Those who hadn’t
brought their own material brought white hankies.
An instructor showed how to cut a stencil and
answered questions.

Simultaneously, down on the gym floor on the
other side of a drawn curtain, an instructor was
demonstrating the art of necktie painting with
oils. He traced a painting of a horse’s head, cut
his stencil, and completed the project in an hour.
His audience watched, hopeful that they might
go home and do likewise.

Another session covered linoleum block print-
ing. Class members worked on four-by-five-inch
pieces of linoleum——one later won a prize at the
Bloomington Amateur Art Exhibit when used as
a pattern on a boy’s shirt. Some made designs for
greeting cards.

\Vood carving, both simple and intricate, and
glass etching and plaster craft were demonstrated
in another’ lecture period. Plaster craft proved
so absorbing that the class wouldn’t leave until
eleven p.m., record for the evening sessions during
the week. The following morning many were
back, working with the rubber molds, pouring in
wet plaster and letting it harden into figurines,
or learning to make rubber molds with liquid
rubber. '

That afternoon, working in plastics was dis-
cussed by the professional advisor who was pres-
ent at the open house the entire week. “'hat
promised to be a fascinating demonstration on
carving plastics with an electric drill, however.
was a casualty when the electricity failed again.

At the evening class on leather work, a general
talk was followed by a division into two groups.
On the stage, scrap leather was converted into
neatly laced change purses and key holders. On
the gym floor, the more experienced purchased
leather for tooling or carving fine articles. and

544

took turns working with electric tools.

The intricacies of swirls and whirligigs fasci—
nated enthusiastic amateurs during the afternoon
finger-painting session. \Vhen the demonstration .
was over, they took sheets of shelf paper from the
Speaker’s table, spooned blobs of color on them,
and returned to their places to experiment and
see if it could really be done. It could! Each
person hastened back for more paper, another
color and, made bolder by quick success, pro—
ceeded to combine colors.

Designs for waste baskets, gift wrapping paper,
place mats and the like were laid out to dry while
the artists enjoyed a sound color film. The sub-
ject of the movie was textile painting, water—
color stenciling and show card color work for
children. (Sound movies on various phases of
arts and crafts instruction may be borrowed free
of charge, except for mailing expense, from the
American Crayon Company, Sandusky, Ohio.)

The Friday evening class, the last of the series,
was devoted to the teaching of inexpensive crafts.
\Vith tinsnips and old cans, a deft instructor prac-
tically conjured up' reindeer and sleigh, a horse
and other articles for table decorations. She also
covered the more prosaic forms of tin craft and
showed how to make cooking utensils for camp-
fires. There was no group participation at this
session. A dramatic presentation by a Girl Scout
troop followed. This was an effective introduction
to papier-mache work. The scouts wore clever
masks made at troop meetings, and brought small
articles for display.

One thing learned from this experiment is that
audience participation is a necessity for success-
ful classes. \Vood carving and plastics did not
offer this and were not as well received as other
sessions. Future wood carving classes can sup-
ply bits of soft wood for penknife whittling. Plas—
tics, though, are too expensive forI the amateur,
and such a class is not likely to 'be repeated.

Leaders of the workshop hopecto interest mem-
bers in forming various guilds for the coming year,
the plan being to give those interested in more
intensive study of any one subject an opportunity
to spend an entire week on such work. This group
could then form a guild to produce high quality
merchandise for sale at a mart set up at the center,
or through other outlets. Thus, people with abil-
ity could obtain some remuneration for their ef-
forts, and people with fine taste and gift problems
could purchase these objects.

Meanwhile, we have found the mass education
technique to be an effective basis for further de-
veloping crafts interest and skill.

RECREATION

' - A. J. SCHARA

Unique Snowball Contest

A. local industrial plant brings magic in midsummer

IAST YEAR, the City Recreation Department of
Manitowoc, Wisconsin, conducted a snowball

contest in midsummer. This was made possible.

through the excellent cooperation of the Sorge Ice
Cream and Dairy Company, which generously
furnished the snow and prizes for the youngsters,
plus a visit through their plant—for both young-
sters and parents—where plant snow is manufac—
tured daily.

The program started when the Sorge Company
had an oversupply and approached the recreation
department, asking what to do with the surplus.

It was a great day for over a thousand young—

sters who gathered for the big event. The arts .

division of the recreation department -made
large targets; six feet by nine feet, of heavy card—
board, on which were painted full-size snowmen
and women and large snowflakes. In the winter,
real snowmen could be used.

The youngsters were separated according to
age groups so as to give each child an even break:

Six to seven year olds—twenty feet away from
the target.

Eight to nine year olds—thirty feet away.

Ten, eleven and twelve year olds—forty feet.

The targets were set up in lanes, one judge.

taking charge of each lane. The youngsters regis-
tered at a long table, each group keeping in its
own lane. With the help of a public address sys-
tem, we were able to keep them fairly well under
control. Three youngsters of each group then
were permitted to make their snowballs and go to
the line to throw three snowballs each.

The scoring was as follows: hitting the snow~
man—five points; hitting any one of the snow-
flakes—fifteen points; hitting the bell which was
hung on the hat of the snowman—twenty-five
points. Each judge took down the name of the
youngster and the number of points he or she
scored. Boys and girls threw the same distance
but their scores were kept separately because the
awards were duplicated, one set for each.

The scores were all kept on official score sheets

 

Author 1': director, Manitowoc Recreation Department.

FEBRUARY 1950

for the semi-finals which were held the next day.
The reason for this was that by the end of the
morning, with 500 youngsters competing, we
found we were going to have a number of ties.
This was handled very nicely by a full write-up

' of‘ the'contest inthe local paper, the names of the

winners included in the article. In addition, we
were given good radio publicity and the recrea-
tion office also called the homes of the youngsters
to notify them that they were among the finalists.

 

Snow in August is exciting. Ova-1,000 youngsters came.

In the final event, five snowballs were thrown
by each contestant in an attempt to make future
ties almost impossible. This method proved very
satisfactory. This could have finished the contest,
but a grand prize was to be offered to the city
champion, boy and girl, so our contest continued
another evening at the county fairgrounds. The
three youngsters with the highest scores in each
age group threw in the grand finals, which were
held in front of the grandstand, packed with
3,000 or more spectators. Here the eighteen
youngsters threw at a single target, the distance
being different for each age group, with scoring
the same as in the finals. The grand champions
were a little girl seven years old, and a boy twelve.

54S

 

Camp buildings were dedicated and used immediately.

Notables before the mike; on the left, Senator Foley.

“Home for the Month”

HE occason for these photographs was the

dedication this summer of several new build-
ings at Camp Holley Ridge in the Leete’s Island
section of Guilford, Connecticut—the vacation
home of children in the Dixwell Community
House section of New Haven. The buildings and
other facilities are the results of contributions, and
the construction of the camp the result of the
handiwork of others—all thinking in a common
vein that “young children deserve and should have
vacation spots other than city streets.” Behind it

all is the aim to provide youngsters with the means'

of spiritual growth so necessary for a full life, and
to help them acquire an appreciation of nature.

Let \V. Norman \Vatts, one of the guiding
lights of the Dixwell Community and Holley
Ridge tell you a little of the history of the camp.

“Early in our camping experience at Dixwell
Community, we used the New Haven Park De-
partment and Inter-Service Club location, Cedar-
crest, but by 1943 the demand for camping space
was so heavy, we concluded that we could no
longer overtax Cedarcrest for long-term stays. It
was about this time that we heard of a man in
our community who might help us. He was Dr.
\Villiam A. Holley, and we went to see him at
his country place in Leete’s Island. \Ve walked
through the lovely wooded acreage, overlooking
Long Island Sound, and suddenly Dr. Holley
asked: ‘How do you like it here?’

“ ‘Splendid,’ I exclaimed, ‘and it is so wonder-
ful, I’d like to start a camp here for the children
of our community.’ ‘It’s yours,’ Dr. Holley said.
‘It’s yours for the children,’

 

Reprinted from 1313': Connecticu; Sboreliner, magazine of the river-
shore area. midsummer, 1949.

546

“And that did it. Camp Holley Ridge was born
in July of 1943. The work was not easy, but so
many willing hands turned to the job that we
were ready for the first girls’ group in August.
Today, six years later, and with the help of so
many volunteer workers, contributors and service
clubs, Camp Holley Ridge’s physical plant in-
cludes three cabins, the Kiwanian Hall (dining
room and kitchen), Rotary Club (housing show-
ers, laundry, and library when fully equipped),
an administration cabin, several tents, and a large
cleared play area.”

Mr. \Vatts added that the physical plant, while
absolutely necessary, was secondary to the intangi-
ble moral plant—the great good accomplished in
that half dozen years in providing so many young-
sters with a slice of country and shore life. It is,
to be sure, only “a home for a month,” but one
which will dwell within them for much longer than
that.

Camp Holley Ridge, by the way, is interracial,
and inter-community, too, inasmuch as it is a New
Haven-Guilford project. It is international also.
During the seasons of 1946 and 1947, through the
courtesy of the American Friends Service Com-
mittee of Philadelphia, there were work camps at
Holley Ridge. The campers were high school
youths from throughout the United States, Eng-
land, France, Switzerland and Finland. These
young pe0ple were of considerable aid in road
building, clearing the play area, construction work,
and in conducting camp activities.

But, in addition to being interracial, inter—com-
munity and international, there is something else
to be said of Camp Holley Ridge. It is truly
inspirational.  ?

RECREATION

The Latest Word . . .

0 THE GAME of bridge is taking a back seat
while the latest word in fashion is Canasta—that
fascinating new Rummy variant from Argentina.
This is a livelier game by far, and just the ticket
for those who prefer gaiety in their social gather-
ings. Teen-age groups, young adults, the elderly

—all are taking it up, and if you are a recreation'

leader you’d better know how to play. I

The only equipment you need is two standard
decks of playing cards, including the four jokers.
In Canasta, unlike other forms of Rummy, se;
quences are not allowed—you’re always trying for
that seven-of—a-kind. Two people can play, each
receiving a hand of thirteen cards. With four
playing, there are two partnerships, and eleven
cards are dealt each player. The rest of the deck
is Placed face down to make the stock pile. The
card on top is turned face up and becomes the
“up-card.”

A Canasta (meaning basket in Spanish) con-
sists of seven cards of a kind; or—for less value
—a mixed Canasta consists of a basic collection
of four or more of a kind plus one to three wild
cards. Suits don’t matter. All deuces and jokers
are wild—in other words, when you play them
you may give them any value you choose.

It’s fun to work out ways of running up your

BONUS

"STOP"
CARD CARD

 

score, for the game offers plenty of latitude and
can really become cutthroat upon occasion. The
winning person must total 5,000 points. A nice
part about the game, too, is that although it is not
complicated, it offers enough variation to be in-
teresting at all times.

Extra points can be picked up along the way, if
you are lucky, such as the extra hundred points
awarded for every red three drawn. (Four red
threes will count 800 in your favor; but try to get
them!)

The order of play goes on as in other Rummy
games, each player drawing a card in turn and
ending each play .with a discard on the up pile.
Of course, there are other features to the game
that you must know about; so if you really want
to_try it, or to introduce it to some of your groups,
why not write the Association of American Play-
ing Card Manufacturers, 420 Lexington Avenue,
New York I7, for a free copy of the rules?

THE SUPERVISOR OF MUSIC for the Milwaukee Department of Municipal Recreation started his rehears-
als for a children’s chorus at one of the social centers where most of the boys and girls were Negroes. He
asked them what spirituals they would like to sing. One child raised his hand‘and said, “Silent Night,”
and another, “Little .Star of Bethlehem.” The supervisor said that these were not spirituals. Finally one
little boy said he knew of one. The supervisor asked, “Have you a song?” The boy shouted out, “Yes.
my- favorite is ‘All I Want for. Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth’ !” ' '

FEBRUARY ._ 1950

547

 

With the Stars . . .

With the stars of sports, modern fea-
tures of construction in the equip-
ment they use are of the utmost im-
portance. That’s why so many of
them use and recommend Wilson.

The famous Wilson Advisory Staff,
whose members help design, test'
and use Wilson equipment is another
reason why so many outstanding
sports stars prefer Wilson. Golf
champions Sam Snead, Cary Mid-
dlecoff, Lloyd LIangrum, Gene Sara-
zen, Patty Berg and Babe Didrikson
-—tennis champions jack Kramer,
Don Budge, Bobby Riggs and Alice
Marble—diamond stars Ted Wil-
liams and Bob Feller— gridiron head-
liners johnny Lujack, Charlie Trippi
and Paul Christman are among the
stars who make up this great staff of
experts. Play the eqmlbment of c/aam-
pions—Wilson—and you can be sure
you’re playing equipment that can-
not be surpassed.

\NILSON SPORT‘NG GOODS CO.. INC.

Branch offices in New York, San Francisco
and other principal cities
(A subsidiary of Wilson 5. Co., Inc.)

 [Um

TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

 

 

Does This Include You, Too?

\V hat makes a “tired business man” tired? Per-
haps, says the Benjamin Franklin Clinic of the
Pennsyli'ania Hospital, because he:

I. Stuffs his business troubles in his briefcase
and carries them home at night.

2. Goes out to lunch and does more business
talking than eating.

3. Cannot take a real vacation because he thinks
that he is too indispensable.

4. Does not have a hobby but goes out once a
week for a strenuous physical workout to
cure all ills.

5. Does not know—or practice—moderation in
either work or play.

That’s the short sketch painted by the clinic
from its treatment of some 2,000 "tired business
men” since February 1948. One Philadelphia in-
dustrialist sent all sixty-three of his executives for

'a checkup. Of this number, only twenty percent

did not need either a doctor or a psychiatrist. the
clinic reported. The psychiatrist was needed, in
most cases, to convince the executives that they
must slow down and stop worrying.

The “Big Jump” in

Recreation Appeal

Learn About

TRAMPOLINING

Intense Participant-Spectator Interest . . .
Founded by NISSEN, Creator and Pio-
neer of America’s First Standard
TRAMPOLINE“

Write for FREE UTERATURE
*Reg. U. 5. Pat. Office

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

200 A AVENUE NW CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

CUSTOM BUILT

PLAYGme
EQUIPMENT

   
   

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT

George Ekda'hl and Associates
P. o. 474 HIGHLAND PARK, ILL.

 

RECREATION

A letter from the principal of 3 Vermont school

l

SQUARE DANCING

in the Village School

THREE YEARS AGO I started teaching a few sim—
lple square dances to the children in the sixth,
seventh, and eighth grades of the Fairlee School.
The enrollment was under twenty, so\I was able
to have a planned recreation program with consid-
erable individual follow-up analysis. From the
first, the children “took to” square dancing. Here
was plenty of action to furnish an outlet for their
exuberance—and such fun! The action gradually
developed into physical coordination which, under
careful instruction and close supervisionfresulted
in pleasure and satisfaction realized as new changes
were conquered and ability to follow directions
rapidly and accurately improved.

We used records with combined music and calls;
records furnishing only the music, the calls being
deciphered from an accompanying handbook; and
instructional records, from which the children
first heard the explanation of the dance, timed so
that they might walk out the changes——=-—with suffi-
cient time to think them out—and then swing into
the dance with the same instructor calling the
changes.

Following exposure to the three types of rec-
ords, I turned my English classes loose on record-
analysis and preparation of comment cards. We
had done much work along this line on books, so
this opened a new phase of analysis. I was inter-
ested in some of the comments, and forwarded
those concerning the Durlacher‘records to Eddie
Durlacher, who very generously wrote to the
members of the upper grades, expressing his inter-
est and encouraging further correspondence. This
gave me a tool to motivate a real live project in
letter writing. We have enjoyed a constructive,
pleasant correspondence with Mr. Durlacher,
which has more than superficial value since he
personally conducted an afternoon square dance
party for these same children in our own small
town. The letter writing is still fresh!

As the children evaluated their own accomplish-

FEBRUARY 1950

 

FRANCES D. KIELY

ments, they became aware of new needs, and new
phases of pride were evidenced. Here, I observed
a boy, slow to work his way into school society,
already in; and there, a self-conscious girl showed
more general confidence. Through square dancing
we were able to share experience outside the ex-
pected realm. The children put on a program at
an out-of—town veterans’ hospital, and last sum-
mer we served as “ice-breakers” for a recreation
program at Lake Fairlee Club.

For two winters, we have participated in
the Old-Fashioned Community Dancing School,
where the children have had a related outside-
school experience. As a result, age barriers have
been removed, and interested parents and friends
have become more interested.

Oh, no, our course of study has not been neg-
lected! The quotient of accomplishment has been
raised and we have learned much of value con-
cerning etiquette. These boys do not leave their
girls in the middle of the floor at the end of the
dance! We have no gangling adolescents. We
hear very little silly chatter having to do with
“boy loves girl.” Through very pleasant channels
we have learned to listen well and follow instruc-
tions accurately. This certainly carries over into
all courses.

Am I the only one conscious of the values?
No, the children help me evaluate returns, and I
rather have a hunch that the parents and friends
are in on it, too!

Square dancing lends itself easily to the promo-
tion of a better understanding of social and demo-
cratic skills and, at the same time, provides the
right kind-of occasion for their exercise through
pleasure. It offers teachers an effective means of
deveIOping in our boys and girls during their
formative years the personal qualities that will
enable them to stand on sound footing with their
fellow beings throughout life.

549

Porter Basketball Backstops are

k ,e... R I

 

PORTER NO. 2i2-WS window span type of backstop is an
ingenious adaptation used where building truss construction
will not permit installation of a suspended-and-braced type

of backstop.

To be completely satisfactory and safe, basket-
ball backst0ps must be planned and designed
by people with specialized engineering know-
how. Building conditions vary widely, and every
backstop installation varies accordingly.
"0- 2374 BANK with ’ _ Porter engineers are equal to any backstop
“7  problem, no matter how specialized. They can
draw upon a vast storehouse of knowledge
gained through 'several generations of serving
the nation’s leading schools, universities, clubs
and stadiums.

Why don’t you let Porter engineers advise and
help you, without cost or obligation, of course?
Usually, stock models from Porter's complete line

can meet your exact requirements, and save you
FREE CATALOG GLADlY SENT. Now is the time to re-

place warn, out-dated rectangular banks with the new money: If yo_ur bUIldllcggs In the drOWIng board
all-steel official Porter fan-shaped bank. Formed from Stagel 't '5 W'se ’0 to 0 out bOCkSlops now! and

a single sheet of steel to a flawlessly smooth face with avoid problems and disappointments IOTel'.

a deep-rolled periphery, and scientifically braced for     

permanent, rigid service.

PORTER CAN SUPPLY YOUR EVERY BACKSTOP AND GYM EQUIPMENT NEED kgs M.“ I

THE 1. E. CORPORATION
OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

NO. 210-3 GOAL and Net

 

    

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

R.g.u_s_pa,_o,_ STRUCTURE

 

 

550 -- RECREATION

  

STATE NEWS NOTES

7mm from the FORTY-EIGHT

.Kansas: A recreation specialist has been ap-
pointed by the Agricultural Extension Service
within the Home Demonstration Division. Em-
phasis of this new service will be on training rec-
reation leaders for various extension activities . . .
A recreation minor has been established at the
University of Kansas . . . In c00peration with the
Army Corps of Engineers, the Forestry, Fish and
Game Commission has established a Teen-Agers
Fishing Hole at Kanapolis Reservoir . . . Visitors
from thirty-seven states registered at Kansas state
parks during the last year. Latest addition to the
park system, a 3,000-acre lake, has been leased.

Mississippi: The Mississippi Inter-Agency
Committee on Recreation has completed plans for
three one-day recreation conferences in early Feb-
ruary for mayors, civic leaders, city officials and

school board members in Hattiesburg, Jackson
and Oxford.

Georgia: The Department of Commerce has
inaugurated a campaign for Wayside Parks, and
has met with excellent c00peration from a great
number of civic groups in many communities who
want to sponsor parks. Posts of Veterans of For-
eign Wars are sponsoring fifteen.

New York: Governor Dewey has decided to_

recommend to the legislature continuance of the
State Youth Commission beyond June 30, 1950.

Michigan: The W. K. Kellogg Foundation has
made a special grant to provide a full-time secre-
tary for the State Inter-Agency Council on Rec-
reation for two years . . . A national conference
on Community School Camping was held in Mich-
igan in the fall.

1949 Summary: Some type of state inter-
agency cooperation was in effect in twenty-one
states in 1949 . . . Florida, Louisiana, Michigan,
Ohio and Tennessee inter-agency groups were
making studies of state agency recreation pro-
grams. A study was completed in Minnesota. Simi-

FEBRUARY 1950

lar studies were. being made in Colorado, New
Jersey and Pennsylvania . . . California, North
Carolina and Pennsylvania conducted studies of
local recreation programs . . . The Florida Board
of Parks and Historical Monuments was estab-
lished during the year; also the Ohio Department
of Natural Resources, with a new Division of
State Parks . . . State Youth Councils were or-
ganized in Texas and Wyoming . . . The Idaho
State Land Department succeeded the Department
of Public Works as state park authority in that
state . . . Exclusive' of Agriculture Extension
Service, thirty-seven states provided services on
community recreation problems; eleven states had
at least one full-time recreation worker—California,
Colorado, Georgia, Michigan, Missouri, New
York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Tennessee,
Vermont and Washington; thirty-one had at least
one part-time worker . . . In the rural field, forty-
two states gave recreation service through the
Agriculture Extension Service; fourteen states had
at least one full-time recreation worker—Arkan-
sas, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Kansas, Louisiana, Massachusetts, New Hamp-
shire, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas and West
Virginia; thirty-nine had at least one part-time
worker.

RYAN’S PLAYGROUND
DRY LINE MARKERS

BASEBALL . . . SOFTBALL
TRACK-PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES

ACCLAIMED AT THE C. R_ 5.
AT SANTA BARBARA

* Force Feed—Instant Shutoff

* Easy to operate and fill
Holds one 5011- Sack—No muss

* No Brushes or Screens

H Cr R if'l $54.75
Delivered

Slightly Less in
the West

Three other models

Send to Dept. G
for booklet

H. & R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIFORNIA

 

551

 

l PROMPT SHIPMENTS of

LARSON i
i LEATHER |
I

For EVERYTHING in leather—write
Larson leathercraft Headquarters.

Experienced leather workers will be interested
in our prompt delivery and Wide variety. com- .
prising the largest complete stock of leather

and leathercraft supplies in America. We I

offer moderate-priced tooling leathers as well

as t0p quality calfskins. 

For beginners we have ready—cut projects with Complete horseshoe pitching outfits
free instructions for assembly. No tools and I and accessories, ofhcial and junior sizes

no experience necessary. in 6 different styles. Shoes are drop—
forged, beautifullv balanced, with un-

excelled dead-falling qualities. Oth-

Tools, materials and tree instructions for making:

' GL°VES ' KEY CASES cialiv recognized throughout America.
0 LINK BELTS 0 '00 OTHER POPULAR ITEMS '

' ;YROST‘:'P ' B'LLFOLDS Write for information on our complete

0 OCCAS NS 0 WOOLSKIN MITTENS and . . . .

. COIN PURSES TOY Am” ELS [me of pitching shoes and accessories.

' COMB CASES

5..., to, rm “Mag DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE
J. c. LARSON co., Inc. COMPANY

Dept. AR, 820 S. Tripp Ave. Chicago 24, Ill. 4614 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

 

- MANUFACTURING
; EXPERIENCE

3‘: . . Your assurance
that you are getting
., - the best when you

I - i- speafy . . . WINTARK

You can't begin to appreciate the superior performance and greater
economy at rubber-covered athletic balls until you have compared the
rugged. long-lasting qualities of Weaver Wintarh balls with other brands.
Specify the best. Specify all-weather. rubber-covered, tabric-iined. card-
wound basketballs . . . footballs . . . volleyballs . . . soccer balls . , . sait-
balk . - water polo and play balls by Weaver Wintarh.

Write today for catalog and prices
WEAVER WINTARK SALES CO. P. 0. BOX 7| SOUTH FIFTH 51:. SHAMOKIN. PA. 

 

552 RECREATION

OLYMPICS 7W 5%

HE BOARD of Recreation of Summit, New

Jersey, conducted its first Football Olympics
on November 19, 1949. The Olympics were
planned on an experimental basis, with the desire
to help the boys have a good time, partially to ful-
fill the need for boys’ fall activities, and to stimu-
late interest in skills related to football.

A group of ten men, representing the various
areas of Summit and all fathers except one, were
presented with the idea of an Olympics. Everyone
was very interested, and thus the Football Olym-
pics’ Committee was established. The committee
then planned and set up thé program.

It was decided that any boy whose home was in
Summit, and who was under nineteen years of
age, and not on the high school varsity, would
be eligible to enter. There were five age group—
ings: ten and under, eleven to twelve, thirteen to
fourteen, fifteen to sixteen, and seventeen to
eighteen.

The events decided upon were: Forward Pass-
ing for Distance, Forward Passing for Accuracy,
Punting for Distance, Drop Kicking or Place
Kicking over the goal posts—except the ten and
under group which kicked for distance, High Step-
ping Against Time (tires placed in two lines;
boys were to run over course, stepping in center
of each tire).

Awards for first, second, and third places were
given in each group in each event. A record of
the first ten places was kept for each classification
in each event. These were then totaled, and the
four boys in each age group who received the
most points on an all-events basis received addi-

ANewBookforGroup Fun!

~  rm;
plasma

by Helen and Larry Eisenberg

This 154-page collection is a
treasure of pleasure for teens
and elders . . . in club groups,
picnics, hikes, parties. Full of
active and quiet games, skits,
equipment games.

FUN BOOKS

2403 Branch St., Nashville, Tenn.

a mum? airman:
may 3. 1m; m Imam murm-

$1.25 in boards.
Quantity discounts.

HAVE YOU USED “THE END OF YOUR STUNT HUNT" or
“AND PROMENADE All" at 50 cents each?

FEBRUARY 1950

 

tional awards.

Through the cooperation of the schools, entry
blanks and instructions were distributed to all
the boys from the fourth through the twelfth
grades. The local parent-teacher associations, the
service clubs, and many other interested individ-
uals lent their support. The Smmnit H erald was
cooperative with newspaper coverage.

Each event was conducted by two men, and
each age group had at least two adult supervisors.
The point recording was done by these men.

Despite snow on Friday and a Saturday morn-
ing which was cool and muddy, approximately
100 boys turned out to do their best. Not many
of the older boys came out, but this was not wholly
uneXpected since the committee could not be
certain of the appeal to the older boys.

The Board of Recreation and the Football
Olympics’ Committee were more than pleased
with the results. Last year the date for the Olym-
pics already was set when we discovered that
National Kids’ Day falls on the same date. This
year the board hopes to make the Olympics bigger
and better, in special celebration of that day.

LEADERSHIP

In an evaluation of recreation leadership, is a
check made as to whether the recreation worker
subscribes to his professional magazine? If not,
how does he propose to keep in touch with new
trends, new methods of work, advances in recrea-
tion procedures? Where does he get new program
ideas; how does he know what is being done inr’the
field? Such information is found in RECREATION.

REMINDER
MW gazed!

Wk 63!me

is built by
9k

for catalog, address:
Dept. R, W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.

1600 E. 25th St.
Los Angeles 11, Calif.

*Reg. U. 5. Pat. 05.‘

553

Magazines and Pamphlets

 

Jewish Center Program Aids, November 1949
Film Strips—How to Make Them, Samuel D. Free-
, man.
Day Camping in the County Setting. .
Improvisation in Creating Dramatics, Harry MmkoE.

Junior League Magazine, November 1949
Of the Children, by the Children, for the Children.

National Education Association Journal, November
1949
Year—Rou nd Public School Camping, Lotene \Villard.

Camping Magazine, November 1949

Program Planning Fundamentals, John A. Ledlie
and Ralph D. Roehm.

Rock Collecting, Vinson Brown.

Basket Making, Osma G. Gallinger and Oscar H.
Benson.

A Bibliography of Recent Books on Camping and
Related Subjects.

American City, November 1949
A New Boat—House for Kansas City, J. V. Lewis.
Laguna’s Art Colony Helps Make Municipal Bowl
a Success, James Stewart.

Parks and Recreation, November 1949

An Outsider Looks at Parks and Recreation, Mon-
signor Carroll F. Deady.

Build It Permanently, Jarvin E. Badgley.

Swimming Pool Design and Operation, Chauncey
A. Hyatt.

The Maintenance Mart.

National Park Director Tells of Future Planning
Program.

Beach and Pool, November 1949
Control of Corrosion, H. L. Rice.
The Swimming Pool: A \Vater “Gymnasium,” Part
I, Jackson M. Anderson.

Park Maintenance, November 1949
Court Says No, So North Carolina Has a Problem,
Oka T. Hester.

Birthplace of Nation Rescued from Decay, Norman
Shigon.

Journal of Physical Education, November-December
1949
“Command Performance," The New London Y.M.
C. A. Circus, Kenneth R. Dykes.

Community Service News, November-December 19-19
The Community Council and the Community.

Parents’ Magazine, December 19-19
Raising Good Sports, Edith G. Neisser and Maria
\V. Piers.

Nation’s Schools, December 1949
How to Build Your Own Striplights for Lighting
the School Stage, Leland H. \Vatson.

Safety Education, December 1949
School Parties.

Girl Scout Leader, December 1949
Camping in Snow Time, Julian H. Saloman.

Beach and Pool, December 1949
Planning and Constructing an All—Steel Pool,
Andrew Jensen, Jr.
The Swimming Pool: A \Vater “Gymnasium,” con-
clusion, Jackson M. Anderson.
National Aquatic Conference, Lynn R. Russell.

Journal of the American Association for Health,
Physxcal Education and Recreation, December 1949

\Vinter Sports in the Elementary School, Robert C.
Hawkes.

The National Conference on Graduate Study in
Health, Education, Physical Education and Rec-—
reation, Ruth Abernathy.

So This Is Education (editorial). \Villiam P.
\Viler, Jr.

554

 

l
v

THE NATIONAL SECTION
OF WOMEN’S ATHLETICS

of the

American Association for Health,

Physical Education, and Recreation

\

_/4nnoiunced 

Beginning August 1, 1949 the Ofiicial
publisher for all the publications and
OHicial Sport Guides Of the National
Section on Women’s Athletics will be the
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION
of the NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIA-
TION instead of A. S. Barnes & CO.

All orders should be addressed to:

National Section on Women’s Athletics

1201 Sixteenth Street, Northwest
Washington 6, D. C.

    
  

First Choice
for

Every Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

" c a D

It»: 
» I”! ,tr‘riflfr y“; r»! tslta‘ '

' ' MAHUFAC‘IUIING courAnv 0 SI. IOIIS : no

" /

  

:1

RECREATION

Recreation News

For Achievement in Sports

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Di-

rectors of the National Recreation Association,
has received an award for achievement in Ameri-
can sports from radio station WBAL. In its pres—
entation, announced on December 5, 1949, men-
tion was made of Mr. Garrett’s interest in recrea-
tion and physical education in Baltimore, and of
his long association with the Public Athletic League
and the Department of Recreation and Parks.

Progress Report

THE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS of the City of New
York, in its report to the mayor, summarizes
the progress made during the sixteen years which
have elapsed since the park service of the city was
reorganized into one city-wide park department.
The report records the tremendous increase in the
number of playgrounds; the increase in total park
acreage; the growth in professional recreation
leadership; the broadening of the activities pro-
gram and the increased participation in it; the con-
struction and development of new beaches, swim-
ming pools, golf courses, tennis courts and facilities.
Park Commissioner Robert Moses is placing
added emphasis on the provision of additional fa-
cilties in neglected neighborhoods and in- the new
neighborhoods being developed in the outer sec-
tions of the city.

Recreation Broadcast in Mexico

IN A RECENT nationwide broadcast from Mexico

City, Sidney A. Teller of Chicago spoke on
“Preparing Youth for Citizenship,” offering ma-
terial and suggestions from the National Recrea-
tion Association. His speech was presented over
Official Radio Mexico in an effort to help Mexico
in its development of recreation facilities and nec-
essary leadership.

Senorita Elena Ramirez, Mayor of Xochimilco,
translated the talk and then acknowledged the ma—
terial and the assistance given by Mr. Teller to
recreation and allied fields affecting the youth of
her country.

Mr. Teller also acted as observer for the Na-
tional Recreation Association at the UNESCO
Conference, which was held in 1947 in Mexico
City, and is special representative to Latin Amer-
ica for World Fellowship, Incorporated.

FEBRUARY 1950

 

  

JONES, MORGAN, AND STEVENS

Methods and Materials
in Elementary

Physical Education

Complete, workable, and effective program of physi-
cal education for the elementary grades by experts
who devised and have used successfully the well-
known Cleveland Course of Study. Considers physi-
cal, mental, and social growth as well as personality
development. Based on the abilities, interests, and
broad educational needs of five to eleven year olds,
it gives:

1. Useful suggestions for the development of

basic muscular coordination and game skills.

2. Explicit directions and clear diagrams of

stunts, tumbling, and rhythmic activities.

3. Complete eXplanation of how to organize

and plan the program, and the equipment needed.

World Book Company

YONKERs—ON-HUDSON 5, NEw YORK
2126 PRAIRIE AVENUE, CHICAGO 16

WP. leery-cation $irecfor:

o Are you satisfied that your community
is getting the most out of its recreation
dollar? If not, why not consider

  

 
 
     
 

Municipal Recreation Administration

    
    

This practical correspondence course is
especially designed for recreation administra-
tors and leaders who are responsible for the
planning and direction of municipal recreation

programs.

Available through either individual or group
enrollments, this course includes a 516-page
textbook, individualized lesson instruction, and
certificate upon satisfactory completion. Entire
cost $35.

(Approved under G. I. Bill)

    
     
   
   
   
   
   
     
    

For details write
THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING

IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION

Conducted since 1934 by

THE INTERNATIONAL CITY MANAGERS' ASSOCIATION
1313 East 60th Street Chicago 37

 
    
    
     
    

555

 

The Art of Board Membership

Roy Sorenson. Association Press, New York.
$2.00.

ROY SORENSON has written a compact, interest-

ing and valuable manual for board members,
committeemen, and directors. It is designed pri-
marily for non-governmental agencies, but can be
effectively used by public agencies with official or
advisory boards or commissions.

It describes the differences in types of boards,
their functions, duties and meetings. Some chap-
ters are devoted to the chairman and the execu-
tive, board members outside of meetings, commit-
tees, policies of boards and the spirit of boards.
Public recreation ofiicials may well question the
relative freedom of action of private and public
boards as defined by Mr. Sorenson, but this should
in no way detract from the many valuable sugges—
tions the book contains for them.

Play Party Games

M. Katherine Price. Burgess Publishing Com-
pany, Minneapolis. $3.50.
THIS COLLECTION of musical play party games,
although presenting few games that actually are
new, does, gather a good selection of those calling
for mass participation—including many old favor-
ites—between the covers of one book. Loosely
bound, with spiral binding, it is easy to keep open
on the piano. The music for each game is pre-
sented on the page opposite directions. Contents
are divided into circle games, longways games and
miscellaneous games.

The School Game Book

Margaret E. Mulac and Marion S. Holmes. Har—
per Brothers, New York. $2. 50.

I IERE IS AN excellent collection of many types of
games that can be used in a classroom———or, for

U!
U!
0\

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

that matter, in a clubroom or on a playground!
Each game is described just as a teacher or leader
would read it to the group, so that everybody
learns to play it together. The book includes sim—
ple dramatic games; arithmetic and number games;
magic, relay, word and spelling games; drawing,
singing and action games. They are all well—or—
ganized by type, kind and grade.

The book is a convenient size; the material is
well-chosen and well-written. A good addition for
your program shelf.

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

REV. PAUL Moons, 12., First Vice-President

Mas. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
AmuAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GusrAvtIs T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG Bmus, Boston, Mass. ’

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

Mas. ROBERT \Vooos BLISS, W'ashington, D. C.
Mas. ARTHUR G. Conner, Jacksonville, Fla.
\VILLIAH H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

Roman GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.

MRS. NORMAN HAnaown, Fitchburg, Mass.
Mas. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
Mas. JOHN D. JAHESON, Bellport, L. L, N. Y.
SUSAN M. Lee, New York, N. Y.

0110 T. MALLIRY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. M mum-2N, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

Rev. PAUL MOORE, 11., Jersey City, N. J.
Mas. SIGHUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.

' GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. \VALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. \VAnnUnc, New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

February, March, April

Burbank, California
February 20-24

Santa Monica, California
February 27—Mareh 3

Long Beach, California
March 6-10

Ogden, Utah
March 13—17

Salt Lake City, Utah
March 20—24

Jefferson County, Kentucky
April 3—7

\Vest Central States
April 10-May 12

Memphis, Tennessee
March 27-31

J0plin, Missouri
February 7—10

Topeka, Kansas
February 14—15

Portland, Oregon
February 27-Mareh 3

King County, Washington
March 6-17

Yakima, Washington
March 20—24

Pennsylvania

March 13-17

Bartow, Florida
March 20—23

Kingsport, Tennessee
April 3—7

Pawtucket, Rhode Island
April 17—21

Newport News, Virginia
February 6—17

Raleigh, North Carolina
February 20—Mareh 3

Roanoke, Virginia
March 6- 17

Greensboro,North Carolina
March 20-31

Augusta, 'Georgia
March 8-11

\Villiam F. Keller, Superintendent of Recreation,
1111 West Olive Avenue

Leonard Bright, Director of Recreation,
1119 Santa Monica Boulevard

Walter Scott, Director of School and Municipal Recre—
ation, 715 Locust Avenue

Robert D. Tucker, iSecretary, Weber County Recreation
Board, 709 City-County Building

L. C. Romney, Commissioner of Parks, City-County
Building

Charlie Vettiner, Director, Jefferson County Playground
and Recreation Board, Armory Building, Louisville

Schedule being developed

Marion Hale, Assistant Superintendent of Recreation,
Memphis Park Commission, Fair Grounds

Reverend Edwin C. Michael, South Joplin Christian
Church, 19th and Pearl Streets

Miss Louise A. Scott, Executive Director, Topeka Girl
Scout Council, 213 Stormont Building

Miss Dorothea Lenseh, Director of Recreation,
115 City Hall

David J. Dubois, Superintendent of King County Parks
and Recreation, 608-A County City Building, Seattle

Ed. Putnam, Metropolitan Park District

Dr. J. M. Fry, Director, Agricultural Extension Service,
Pennsylvania State College, State College, Pennsylvania

W. F. Patterson, Supervisor, Health and Physical Edu—
cation, Board of Public Instruction, P. O. Box 391

W. C. McHorris, Director of Recreation

Miss Marie R. Smith, Chairman,_ Recreation Institute
Committee, Council of Social AgchIes, 139 Barton Street

C.  Nixon, Director of Recreation, Department of
Public Welfare, Division of Recreation

Ralph J. Andrews, Director, Parks and Recreation De
partment

Robert P. Hunter, Director of Parks and Recreation,
Municipal Building, Room 4

Oka T. Hester, Director, Office of Parks and Recreation,
316 City Hall

\V._T: Johnson, President, Georgia State Recreation As—
soc1at10n, 121 Ninth Street .

 

   

Better start

doing this to part of

your money

YOU KNOW how money is!

Today it’s in your hand, and the
next day it isn’t!

A lot of people, however, have
found an excellent way to make cer-
tain they will have money when they
need it most.

They salt away part of their pay each

week in U. S. Savings Bonds through
the Payroll Savings Plan where they
work.

They know that saving this way
assures them of the moneyfora down
payment on a new home. . .a new
car. . . or retirement when the time
comes.

Furthermore, in ten years they get
back $4 for every $3 invested in
U. S. Savings Bonds.

Why don’t YOU start saving money

regularly and automatically where
you work, or at'your bank through

the Bond-A-Lionth Plan?

Automatic saving is
sure saving— ‘

U.S. Savings Bonds

\

Contributed by this magazine in oo-operation with the hfagazine Publishers of America as a public service.

