 

Summer Is Coming

That means no school for the youngsters; vacation time for the hard workers; and the sudden

desire on the part of everyone to stir out of hibernation and get set to PLAY.

Are you all set to meet the recreation challenge of your community? Fortunately, there

are available from the National Recreation Association several excellent publications which

will help pave your way. The following may be obtained by writing to the Association, 315

Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York:

Playground Summer Notebook—Have you subscribed
to this bulletin service for all your playgrounds or for all
your playground leaders? Twelve looseleat bulletins,
issued at weekly intervals, beginning April 28. $1.50.

Conduct of Playgrounds—Leadership, activities, plan-
ning the program, administration, equipment and sup-
plies are included in this guide. $.50.

Survey of Playground Practices (MP 403)—Based
on reports from nineteen cities and covering informa-
tion concerning the number of playgrounds per city,
hours, personnel, salaries, education, length of season,
leadership training, budget, and activities conducted.

$.15.

Play and Playgrounds by Joseph (Ege—lnlerprela-
tion of play in terms of children's play needs and inter-

ests at various age levels. $.20.

ABC’s of Public Relations for Recreation, The—
A sixty-four page booklet on techniques for creating
public interest in community recreation. Discusses news-
paper and radio publicity, displays, publicity through
printed matter, advertising, films and exhibits. $.10.

Annual Report, The (MP 419)—How to plan, com-
pile and use it. $.10.

Publicity for Recreation (MP 424)—A fourteen

page bulletin on its importance and specific sugges-
tions. $.25.

Recreation Activities for Adults—A fun book for
mixed groups. $3.00.

Youth Out-of-Doors (MP 387)—Suggestions for
various kinds of outdoor outings, sports, social activ-
ities and service proiects. $.15.

Arts and Crafts for the Recreation Leader—Com-
prehensive book with illustrations, general information,
a proiect outline and a section giving directions for
making various articles. $1.50.

Supplies and Equipment (MP 238)——Sources of sup-
plies listed by proiects and materials. $.10.

Outline Guides in Arts and Crafts Activities at Dif-
ferent Age Levels (MP 258) $.10.

Plastics for the Beginner—A twenty-four page book
with concise directions and drawings for making twenty-

three articles. Also list of tools, materials and sources.

$1.50.

Adventuring in Nature—A ninety-six page booklet
full of ideas and suggestions for nature activities of
all kinds for all seasons. $.60. V

Day Camping—Organization, administration and pro-
gram for camping fun. $.50.

Nature in Recreation by Marguerite lckis—Unusual
nature proiects in camping, handcrafts, games, dra-
matics, music, dancing and aquatics. $1.00.

Eighty-eight Successful Play Activities—Rules for
many special events, including kite contests, doll shows,
pushmobile contests, marble tournaments and many

others. $.60.

Hiking (MP 85)—Suggestions for many new and in-
teresting types of hikes and outings. $.35.

Picnic Programs (MP 251)—Organization, planning
and activities. $.15.

Suggestions for an Amateur Circus (MP 26) $.35.

Treasure Hunts (MP 2i2)—Excitement, adventure
and loads of fun in these hints for hunts. $.20.

Action Songs (MP 325)—Songs which provide fun

and exercise for large groups where space is limited.
$.25.

Dances and Their Management (MP 313)—Sugges-
tions for conducting community or public dances or

small group dances. Includes dance games and stunts.
$.15.

RECREATION Magazine (Published ten times a year.)
Per year $3.00. Foreign $3.50.

 
   

Editor, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ
Vol. XLIV Price 35 Cents No. 2

On the Cover

May is the month of flowers, and of wonder
at the newness of things. Young men—and
young ladies—turn to the out-of-doors. An
ideal month for nature lore, hikes, garden-
ing, as well as for hopscotch and roller

skates. Photo by H. Lou Gibson.

Photo Credits

Page 55, Tennis Courts, Incorporated; page
59, Bureau of Identification Photographic
Laboratory, Austin, Texas; page 63, all,
Chicago Recreation Commission; page 69,
Dearborn Recreation Department; page 75,
The Nashville Tennessean; page 84, all,
The Commercial Appeal, Memphis.

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association
of America, a service organization supported by
voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, New York; is on file in public
libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide.
Subscriptions $3.00 a year. Canadian agency,
G. R. Welch Company, Ltd., 1149 King Street
West, Toronto 1, Ontario; Canadian subscription
rate 33.85. Entered as second-class matter June
12, 1929, at the Post Oihce in New York, New
York, under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of posrage provided far
in Section 1103, ACt of OCtober 3, 1917, author-
ized May 1. 1924.

Advertising Representative, H. Thayer Heaton. 415
Lexington Avenue, New York.

Copyright, 1950. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated
Printed in the U.S.A.

 

NEXT MONTH

June 1950 brings a special issue of RECRE-
ATION which will be devoted to develop-
ments in state, federal and international
recreation. The sources of life and happi-
ness are international and recreation knOWS
no national boundaries.

--MAY 1950

’

/ //

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

MAY 1950

So Goes the Summer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Take My Case, F’rinstance (editorial), Frank L. Weil. . . 51
An English May Morning, Ruth D. Lippitt . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Welcome Member of the Tennis Family, Howard Cohn. . 54
Chicago at Play, James W. Gilman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62

Partners on the Job . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Playground Treasure Hunt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66

Camping for the Community, Barbra Holland . . . . . . . . . 68

Woods Courtesy, Fay Welch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Walk Into the World, Donald Culross Peattie . . . . . . . . . . 72

A Volunteer Success Story . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76

Joseph Lee Day—July 28, 1950 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Train Leaving for New York, Via Alaska, Ellis Moore. . 84-
The Whole Family Can Go Camping, Edwin L. Brock. . . 86

Play Yard Contests for Safe Recreation, Paul Olsen. . . . . 91
Playground All Over the Neighborhood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92

Games for Handicapped Children, Sam S. Fox . . . . . . . . . 93

About PeOple and Activities . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . 98

Music As a Hobby, Edward Podolsky, M.D . . . . . . . . . . . .100

People in Recreation . . . Mary H. Farnsworth . . . . . . . . .102

Flashes from the Forty-Eight (States) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .106

Inexpensive Publicity Media, Harold Hainfeld . . . . . . . . .108
Swimming

Swimming Pools—Athens Style . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 57
Swimming Pool Chemicals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 61
Swimming and Water Safety in Canada, Glenna Lowes . 87
We Do It Together, Virginia G. Kirby . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89

Water Stunts and Games for Beginners, Russell Coffey. . 96

Recreation for Oldsters

Community Center Services for the Elderly . . . . . . . . . . . 6?
Accent on Youth, Helen P. Abernathy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Ideas for Activities with the Elderly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Regular Features
Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .110
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Recreation Training Institutes . . . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover
49

SO GOES
THE SUMMER . . .

ET ME sing a song of praise for the playground

supervisors. They are the uncles and aunts

with thousands of nieces and nephews from this
little old height to way up here, and they see that
everybody is playing nicely, that no little boy is
breaking other people’s arms, and that the games
that are played are healthy, and . . . Well, and
lots more.

The play supervisors are youngsters themselves,
actually, being Out of childhood no longer than it
takes to begin solemnly eyeing adulthood, but there
is nothing so aging as the supervising of a parkful
of little citizens who have nothing to do from
dawn to dusk except find new things to play.

So the supervisors have their problems. And
they pick up tips on psychiatry; to say nothing, ab-
solutely nothing, about the game of Battle.

Battle is a game with cards, an innocent little
game to be played on a long picnic table beneath
the park trees, in a shady place where small dyna-
mos can be interested in the pursuit of fun less
strenuous than baseball at noon.

Observing the mid-morning antics at our neigh-
borhood park, Midwood, I was able to pick up
some of the Battle tactics, to observe a game of
checkers and some ping-pong under a shelter, the
building of toad houses in sandboxes, the whirling
of a ring-around-the rosy contraption and the com-
ings and goings of a couple of supervisors named
Virginia and Roy.

Virginia and Roy are typical of the young super-
visors at all the parks, but when you watch them
operate for a while you begin to wonder whether
they are typical of anything that ever was.

“Ginny,” one little girl says, “let’s play check-

,3

ers.

'50 Virginia, out from college for the summer
vacation, diplomatically says line, she will be glad
to play checkers.

And while she is playing, and hoping that she
won’t be too ridiculously bad in the game, she

50

keeps an eye out toward the ping-pong table to
make certain that one little fellow doesn’t try to
serve the other little fellow’s head instead of the
ball.

Virginia, somehow, wins the checkers game.

She takes time to glance at the ball field to see
Roy putting some tiny DiMaggios and squealing
Fellers through their sandlot routine.

But one pint-size demands, Ginny, let’s play
some checkers, and Ginny gets him an opponent
and starts them off to a wild game so that she can
get four other people underway in a game of
Battle.

She says you’ve got to deal the cards, one to
each, around the table, and then you put down one
card, everybody, and the high card gets them all,
and you go on like that. . .

Yeah, like that. Somebody has just demolished
a line toad house in a nearby sandbox, and has
scattered the sand of the toad house into the hair,
eyes, noses and mouths of two teensy-weensy peo—
ple, who proceed to shake the trees, with their yelps,

So Ginny, up from the game of Battle, marches
off in pursuit of the culprit, who now conceals him—
self in the underbrush, and she yells that he must
never throw sand again.

Two volunteer cowboys come galloping up and
go off to round up the outlaw, and he is brought
forth for the issuing’ of an apology, which he
doesn’t intend to give, although the two gallant
captors insist that he’s sorry all right.

The smallest of the small toddle over to the
whirling contraption, climb up, take seats, and
cling to the bar, while somebody whirls them.
Ginny makes certain that no toes are in a position
to be'flattened, and then she turns down a couple
of offers of ping-pong because an emergency has
arisen over the checker board.

The reason for the'emergency is a set of rules
devised by one of the players just two plays earlier,
and Ginny must explain simply that such rules
were never written down, and that checkers is.
really played. . .

An extra skirmish is going on over Battle.
Somebody took a card off the bottom of the
'stack . . .

And the smallest of the small would like a dwink
of waw-waw, pwease. . .

And would Roy, fresh off the ball field and look-
ing for a breather in the shade, please play volley-
ball. . .

So goes the summer, you see, 'playful, calm,
lazy—daisy summer for play supervisors.

 

From the column of Tom Fesperman in the Charlotte Newx, Char-
louc, North Carolina, Augusr l, 1949.

RECREATION-

The President’s Committee on Religion and Welfare in the
Armed Forces has been created to encourage and promote the
Spiritual, moral aml recreational“welfare of military groups.

I Editorial 

Here, the chairman of the committee, Frank L. lVeil, makes an
appeal to community recreation leaders for cooperation.

Take My Case, {F ’rinstance

'M A living statistic in uniform.

I’m the one guy out of every six American
males between the ages of nineteen and twenty
now in the armed services. I’m the 1,000,000 uni-
formed guys under twenty—five wrapped into one.
You see, I’m really Mr. In-Between.

I was just about finishing high school, going on to
college, when I joined the colors ; too young for the
last war and, I hope, too old for the next, which
God forbid.
I’m standing guard in the cold war.
And, Baby, it’s cold outside:
“especially since the USO club lights went out
last winter—and when I asked ‘why ?’ they told
me that there wasn’t enough fuel oil from the
hearts and pocketbooks of my elders to keep
them burning.
I dunno.
I’m proud to be an American in uniform, but if
you don’t mind my saying so, I’d’like somebody to
be mindful of my existence, too.
After all, I’m here to protect theirs, as well as my
own.
Take my case, f’rinstance.
I’m doing pretty good on the military post where
I am stationed. I’m beginning to learn that phys—
ical wars are won or lost at the point of a gun; my
education is being extended and I’ve picked up'a
trade or two with which I can earn a living when
I get out of uniform; the church and synagogues
to which I go regularly are open ; I’m beginning to
be_ a pretty good citizen-soldier, deSpite my age.

MAY 1950

On the post, that is.

01? the post—that’s another question.

Some of my buddies think it’s almost unfashion—
able to appear on civilian streets in uniform.
Don’t get me wrong.

I’m not stage-struck for a stage-door canteen.

But I do think that if I want to take a crack at a
brace of billiards for a little recreation, I ought to
be able to do it unmolested by people except those
who have my welfare at heart and not just my
last pay check.

Sometimes I envy the older guys who fought in
the last war and caught a load of lead and came
back with a row of spinach across their chests that

lit up like neon signs.

They were heroes.

They knew they were welcome.

They knew they were wanted.

They fought a hot war and won it, and God bless
them for that.

But I’m fighting a cold war.

As far as I can figure, cold wars produce no heroes.
I did read once, though, that they also serve who
only stand and wait.

That’s me, brother.

Standing and waiting.

I don’t mind the waiting. . .

If I know yOu’ll make me feel at home.

And I know you will!

Frank L. W'eil

.51

 

AY MORNING in England—in Oxford! Even
m inveterate late sleepers have no unkind words
for the alarm, sounding at five this morning. The
hush of the hour of dawn fills the air with an other-
worldly expectancy which the sight of the medieval
spires of Oxford through the morning mist dOes
little to dispel. The very names of the streets past
which we cycle carry us into a land of fancy: Ban-
bury Road, Norham Gardens, Jowett Walk, Long-
wal Street, Bath Place, and “The High”.

The nearer we approach “The High” (High
Street is the main street of many an English town),
the thicker becomes the cycle and pedestrian traf-
fic, neither greatly disturbing the early morning
quiet. An occasional university man passes, wear-
ing a battered old hat decorated with leaves. and
flowers or ribbons. We park our cycles in Magpie
Lane.

Even in picturesque Oxford there are few places
equal to Magdalen (pronounced “maudlin”) Col-
lege. The stone buildings rise sheerly from one of
the two strands of the River Cherwell, which pass
below Magdalen Bridge. Above the willows and
p0plars the square tower with its eight small

 

Author Mug/at American party game: and square
dance: to Oxford University folk dance group.

52

Dancing Takes Over on May Day . . .

An Englizh
may warning

RUTH D. LIPPITT

l

spires is silhouetted against the sky.
It is nearly a quarter of an hour until sunrise.
Yet there are hundreds of pe0p1e in punts—odd,

flat—bottomed boats pr0pelled by poles and packed
together at all angles on the streams below; and

more hundreds are crowded on the sidewalk the
full length of the bridge, which must be fifty yards.
Pedestrians h0ping for vantage points at the far
end of the bridge vie with cyclists and early morn-
ing buses for the roadway. Pe0ple are gay in an-
ticipation; yet greetings are muffled almost rever-
ently. Now and then, a beribboned hat causes a
ruffle of laughter. Then, suddenly, there comes the
hobby horse! Our friend, Peter, is astride with the
lower portion of his body covered by a great oval
hoop skirt simulating a horse garbed for a tourna-
ment. He gallops from one side of the street to the
other, bobbing his head and shying at the crowds.

The Oxford University Musical Society is play-
ing Handel’s “Water Music” from the center of the
bridge. As six o’clock chimes, the more alert
notice the robed choir boys coming atop the tower.
The Latin words of the hymn to the sun sound like
crystal bells from the boys’ voices.

It is a few moments before anyone can move.
Then we turn our backs to the tower and face
toward the rising sun to move on into Cowley

RECREATION

Place for the Morris dancing. It is natural to find
Morris dancers in Oxford, which is adjacent to
Headington where Cecil Sharp* found William
Kimber. Mr. Kimber, one of the greatest Morris
dancers of all time, helped pick Up the tunes on
his concertina in order that they and the descrip-
tions might be written down and preserved.

PeOple are jockeying for positions on the fences,
lawns and steps from which they can see the danc-
ers in white shirts and trousers, colored ribbons
across their chests and brightly-colored gaiters
with bells on their legs. I hear that William Kim-
her is playing for Bean Setting.

Six men are required for most Morris dances;
Oxford must boast nearly twelve. The action is
great and the movements exacting. The legs are
in almost constant motion so that the bells may
contribute a particular sound; the arms are con-
stantly performing with the handkerchief or stick
which the dance requires. In addition, there is the
movement of the dancers in relation to one another.
Occasionally, it is difficult for one of the older men
to perform three dances in a row; more often, one
of the younger university students, in his first year
of dancing, with less developed stamina, gives up
after a dance or two.

For another dance, the sound of a small drum is
added; for still another, the twelve-year-old son of

one of the dancers plays a primitive pipe. After-s

half an hour, in spite of the applause, the dancers
smilineg and exhaustedly refuse the invitation to
perform any longer.

Except for the fancy hats'and hobby horse, this
much has been traditional. Now there follows more
that is new. Members of the university folk dance
group—the Cecil Sharp Club, composed of more
than one hundred men and women, together with
the local group of the English Folk Dance and
Song Society—line up by two’s behind the band.
Performing a Cornish dance, the Helston Furry
Processional, they lead us aboutrhalf a mile back
to “The Plain,” Magdalen Bridge and on down
“The High” to Radcliffe Square. In and out among
the dancers frisks the hobby horse.

Enclosed by buildings built three to five cen—
’ turies ago when such dances were common, the
Morris dancers again perform. Then, accompanied
by a jester flourishing an iniiated bladder, the Hel—
ston Furry is continued to Broad Street where the
group disbands for breakfast. Many people go to
a large restaurant where the Morris dancers will
perform; all places are “booked” far in advance.
A smaller group of us gather in the apartment

 

‘Cecil Sharp spent a good portion of his life toward the end of the
last century and the be inning of this collecring traditional dances
which he then publish . He is outStanding among sucn rollecmrs.

MAY 1950

of one of our friends.

At ten o’clock two busloads leave for West Ox-
fordshire, our first stop being Eynsham. A crowd
of women with market baskets, men carrying
bundles and children playing in and out gathers
before the buses have reached a full stop. Led by
an accordionist and a drummer, we dance the
Helston Furry around an irregular triangle in the
center of the market area. One of our dancers,
finding himself without a partner, easily tempts one
from among the onlookers. After the Steamboat
and the Headington Double Lead Through come
the colorful Morris dancers. Mr. Kimber is play-
ing, undaunted by early rising or a day on the
road. Charlie performs a jig. A flurry of excite-
ment passes through the dancing group who have
known for several days that they would have a
surprise, too. Six people in white shirts and trou-
sers, without colored ribbons, draw off to the side,
then spring into places, swords in hands. A north
country sword dance! This is the first I have seen
though I have read of them and seen pictures of

“The Lock” often.

There are many possible steps and variations of
this, all performed in time to music. Sometimes
the dancers form a closed circle, each grasping the
hilt of his sword in the right hand and the tip of his
neighbor’s in the left. They may then turn the
circle inside out and back by stepping over the
swords or going under them, and proceed into
other variations.

Whatever the procedure of the dance, the cli-
max is the formation of “The Lock” when, in the
course of the dance, all the swords are forced to-
gether into a six-pointed star held aloft by dancer
number one. The applause from the rest of the
dancers is so thunderous that we do not hear the
inhabitants of Eynsham. Then the hobby horse,
the jester and one or two collectors receive contri-
butions, and we climb into the buses to continue

on our way to other stops.

By nine o’clock in the evening we have eaten
and are ready for more folk dancing. As I enter
the hall where we have planned to meet, a clear
voice sounds: “Single file, Indian style, turn and
swing her once in a while.” It might be a barn
dance in Iowa or Connecticut, except for the Eng-
lish “r” in “turn” and “her”. Only the hardier,
more skilled dancers have survived this long day,
so we enjoy some of the more complicated English
longways, American square and continental couple
dances. By eleven o’clock I am ready to say,
“Cheerio!” We begin to make plans for dancing
on May twenty-ninth, Oak Apple Day.

53

 

AWN TENNIS has more than its share of rela-
L tives—table tennis, badminton and others—
but a widely-played, little-publicized game that
originated more than fifty years ago in an Albion,
Michigan, backyard, potentially has the closest re-
lationship of all.

The game of paddle tennis was born in 1898
when Frank Peer Beal, then fourteen years old,
and now a New York minister, adapted his love of
lawn tennis to the space limitations of the family
homestead. He laid out an area one-quarter (the
size of a regulation court, stretched a chicken-wire
net across the center and substituted home—made
wooden paddles and old tennis balls for strung
rackets and new balls.

In the years since, paddle tennis has been
adopted by recreation leaders in nearly 700 cities
and towns throughout the country. The game is
also played in (more than 300 schools and colleges.
It is popular abroad, in Central and South Amer-
ica, the Philippines, Hawaii and China. American
soldiers introduced it overseas. It is now estimated
that over 6,000,000 persons have played paddle
tennis at one time or another.

The reasons for its popularity are not hard to
find. A court can be marked off on any piece of
flat land. No special surface is needed. Regulation
paddles and balls are inexpensive. Upkeep costs
are negligible. Most important of all, anyone can
hit the ball over the net the first time he steps on
a court. The value of the game to lawn tennis can-
not be overestimated.

“Paddle tennis,” says Dr. Beal, “serves lawn ten-
nis in two ways: it introduces youngsters to the
joys of tennis competition, and it gives lawn tennis
players an outdoor racket game to play during the
winter months.

54

Welcome Member of the
TENNIS FAMILY

HOWARD COHN

“The strokes are essentially the same in both
sports. A paddle tennis player almost invariably
will turn eventually to the other game. It is the
logical extension of paddle tennis.

“Take Bobby Riggs. He was the Los Angeles
boys’ champion in paddle tennis before he ever
made a dent in the lawn tennis world. And there
are dozens of other examples. Len Steiner won
paddle tennis honors as a youngster, and then be-
came a good enough lawn tennis player to gain the
National Junior Indoor Championship in 1946.
Althea Gibson, the current Negro women’s ten-
nis champion, got her start on the asphalt paddle
tennis courts of New York City.”

Paddle tennis is also popular among adults.
“I’m a lawn tennis player,” says Murray Geller,
Chairman of the- Rules Committee of the United
States Paddle Tennis Association and Playground
Director of the Department of Parks in Brooklyn,
“but during the winter I turn to paddle tennis. It’s
a lot of fun, it keeps me in good physical shape,
and actually helps me to get ready for the next
lawn tennis season.”

In line with this desire for winter-time recrea-
tion, a variation of the original game of paddle
tennis was developed, called platform paddle ten-
nis, which is particularly well-suited to club and
resort use. James K. Cogswell and Fessenden S.
Blanchard, two tennis-minded residents of Scars-
dale, New York,:originated the new version en-
tirely by chance. '

In the fall of 1928 they decided to build a wooden
platform large enough to enable them to play deck
tennis or badminton through the winter. They soon
discovered that badminton was out of the question
because of the wind, and were resigned to a win-
ter of deck tennis interspersed with a few games of

RECREATION

volleyball. Then Cogswell turned up one day with
some paddles and balls he had discovered in a
sporting goods store. The deck tennis net was
lowered and the two men started batting away at
the ball with paddles.

It soon was evident that a backstop was needed,
so a wire screen went up all around the platform.
But since the two men agreed that the ideal court
measured forty-four-feet-by-twenty-feet, and that
the platform they had built was a bit bigger, there
was only a two-foot space between the back lines
of the court and the wire screen. It was then de—
cided to incorporate some elements of squash into
the game. Rules were formulated whereby a player
could take the ball off the back and side wiring and
return it over the net, if it had first bounced inside
the court and was hit before it bounced a second
time.

The appeal of this version of the game to tennis
players soon became the talk of Scarsdale. The
platform “became the week-end and holiday Mecca
of a group of enthusiastic suburbanite husbands,
wives and children,” wrote Blanchard in his book,
Paddle Tennis. “Temperatures far below freezing
and snow to be shoveled off the platform only
served to stimulate the appetites of this group, for
most of whom week-end life was just beginning.
The recreation problem from October to April had
been solved. Now the problem shifted to one of
getting the homework done, of knowing how to
stop before we were completely exhausted.

“It was the members of this group of twenty-
Five to “thirty families who were the pioneers in
putting platform paddle tennis on the map in ever
widening communities. Some of them erected
platforms at their own homes or summer places.
Visitors from other towns came, saw and were
conquered.”

Blanchard also pointed out that platform paddle
tennis saved at least one tennis club. By 1934, the
membership of the Fox Meadow Tennis Club in
Scarsdale had drOpped from more than one hundred

Tennis with a paddle not only
teaches youngsters the funda-
mentals of lawn tennis, but it
also provides off-season fun
for devotees of the older sport.

families to less than seventy-seven. One platform
for paddle tennis already had been erected. The
club decided to put up another platform. A special
winter membership was offered and, within a year,
most of the paddle tennis players became regular
members. By 1936, there were I 12 family member-
ships in the club, and soon the maximum of I 30
was reached.

The paddle tennis season begins at Fox Meadow
in October, just when the lawn tennis season ends.
A club which was closed half the year, and strug-
gling during the other half, is now a thriving year-
round oi'ganization, thanks to platform paddle ten-
nis. Lawn tennis players find their game improved
considerably, and lawn tennis also has been helped
financially, for a tennis club has been made to
prosper by the addition of platform courts.

Both the original game and the platform version
have their own governing bodies. The United
States Paddle Tennis Association, of which Dr.
Beal is president, administers the' older sport,
which, to prevent confusion, may be called play-
ground paddle tennis. There have been several
changes in the rules through the years, but the
character of the game remains unchanged.

Playground paddle tennis players soon discov-
ered that the original court dimensions, thirty-nine-
feet—by-eighteen-feet, (one quarter the size of a
lawn tennis court), were too confining for adult
play. The official court now measures forty-four-
by-sixteen-feet for singles, and forty-four—by-
twenty-feet for doubles. There should be atleast
thirteen feet of space behind each baseline, and six
feet of space on the sides. The net is three feet,
one inch high at the posts, and two feet, ten inches
high in the center. The laminated wood paddles
cannot measure more than Fifteen inches in over-all
length for juniors; seventeen inches for seniors.
The official ball is sponge rubber, two-and-live-
eighth-inches in diameter, with a flocked surface.

The playing rules are the same as for lawn ten-
nis, with two exceptions: only one serve is allowed

 

and, after the service, the entire doubles court is
used for singles play. The service can, of course,
be overhand, and the scoring is the same as in
lawn tennis.

The Association has conducted a national cham»
pionship tournament every year since 1940. Last
year’s tourney was played on the courts at Stuyve—
sant Town, the Metropolitan Life Insurance Com-
pany’s huge housing development in New York
City. Tournament directors for the championships
were Harland Sickman, Director of Recreation of
the Company’s Housing Project, New York
Region, and Peter Sheridan, Director of Recrea—
tion for Stuyvesant Town.

But, of even more importance than the national
championships to paddle tennis and to lawn tennis
are the hundreds of local tourneys conducted each
year in different parts of the country. New York
City alone has over 500 courts in its parks, and an
equal number on the streets. Some years ago, a
city-wide paddle tennis tournament drew more
than 60,000 entrants.

“If nothing else,” says Dr. Beal, “paddle tennis
teaches thousands how to score tennis. Youngsters
accustomed to counting 'one, two, three, now count
love, fifteen, thirty, forty.”

Some of the biggest names in lawn tennis give
their enthusiastic approval to the paddle game.
Vincent Richards is Honorary President of the
United States Paddle Tennis Association; Molla
Mallory, Mary K. Browne, Helen Jacobs, J. Gil—
bert Hall, Bobby Riggs, Frank Shields and Sidney
Wood are among the directors.

The American Paddle Tennis Association, or-
ganized in 1934, governs platform paddle tennis.
The organization has standardized the rules, estab-
lished national championships, and acts as a clear-
ing house for inquiries concerning the game. The
big championship of the year, the men’s doubles,
was held this past March 4 and 5 at the Fox
Meadow Club.

The regulation platform measures sixty—feet-by-
thirty, and is enclosed by a wire mesh screen usu-
ally twelve feet high. The game received great
impetus when Donald K. Evans of Scarsdale de-
veloped a screen which insured accurate bounces
off the back and side stops. Court dimensions,
rackets and rules are the same as in regular paddle
tennis, with the exception of the use of the back
and side “walls” in play, and the use of the sixteen-
foot width at all times for singles competition.

A doubles game is far more popular than singles
in platform tennis, partly because a net and back—
stop sport is particularly well-suited to team play.
There are other reasons, too, for the predominance

56

of doubles. Platform paddle tennis originated and
developed as a family activity and, generally speak-
ing, doubles is a more sociable game than singles.
Playing doubles also gives twice as many people a
chance to get on the court. '

There is no friction at all between the two pad-
dle tennis organizations. Both are working con-
tinuously to popularize paddle tennis—whether it
is played on a platform or on a playground is almost
incidental to lovers of the game. The platform
game seems more suitable for clubs, resorts and
for individuals who have room for a platform on
their land. The original game seems better adapted
to municipal playgrounds and recreation areas,
where many courts are needed to handle the multi-
tude of players.

Platform paddle tennis has been handicapped
recently by”the high cost of construction. The
leading company in the field used to set up a com—
plete court before the war for about $700. Today,
this company charges about $2,000 to erect the
platform.

“Labor and lumber costs have gone up tremen—
dously,” says F. B. Roundey, speaking for the com-
pany. “The amount needed for the initial invest-
ment undoubtedly has caused many people to hesi-
tate about platforms. On the other hand, once a
court is up, the owner has no worries about future
drains on his pocketbook.”

This particular court is prefabricated and port-
able and can even be set up on non-level land.
Company workmen can put up a platform, com-
plete with screening, in-two or three days. It IS
painted with a green, non-skid paint, and the lower
panels of the wire screening can be raised so that
snow can be shoveled off the platform. Mainte—
nance consists only of a paint job every year or
two, and a new net every few seasons.

The number of clubs going in for the platform
game is steadily increasing. Fox Meadow pio—
neered, but the list has grown to include such or-
ganizations as the Berkeley Tennis Club, Berkeley,
California; the Saddle and Cycle Club in Chicago; .
and the Orange Lawn Tennis Club of South Orange,
New Jersey, among others. With paddle tennis
introducing thousands of youngsters yearly to the
older sport; and providing other individuals in
every age group with an outdoor sport to play in
the winter, few will dispute the fact that lawn ten-
nis, in turn, has a debt of its own to the younger
game.

From all indications, the game is here to stay.
It’s a line activity and fun to play.

 

Reprinted from American Lawn Tennir, New York.

RECREATION

’ SWIMMING POOLS

—— — ATHENS STYLE

HE. TWO SWIMMING POOLS operated by the

Athens, Georgia, Recreation Department may
incorporate an operational wrinkle or two that will
save others money and improve their efhciency of
operation. Actually, we are not experts, but write
this article in self-defense. Ralph Van Fleet, Na-
tional Recreation Association Field Representative
for Florida and Georgia, has been referring com-
munity recreation departments with swimming
pool woes to the Athens department to find out
“how they do it”. We are always willing to answer,
but these requests are snowballing with the ap-
proach of swimming season; therefore we here sum
up our methods and devices for everyone.

We are convinced that swimming pools can be
made self-supporting—in fact, can turn a reasona-
ble profit at nominal admission prices. If you think
your community presents unusual circumstances
which prevent modest returns, check over the fol-
lowing negative factors in Athens.

It is a community of 32,000. Five thousand of
the population attend the University of Georgia
and have access to two excellent university pools,
free. We are fortunate to have both a YMCA and
YWCA, each with a pool, and each with a second
pool within two miles of town. The Country Club
has a pool in the city limits. Adding the two city-
operated pools, there are nine modern, filtered
swimming pools serving Athens with none charg-
ing admission except the municipal pools. To clinch
my point, the largest university pool is within one—
half block of our largest municipal pool, is open on

Tbi: article i: .rabmitted by Wayne Shield; taper-
intendent of tbe Atbem Recreation Department.

MAY 1950

the identical swimming hours each day all summer,
and is only technically limited to students, faculty
families, and friends! In a town of this size, who
hasn’t a friend on the faculty?

Last year there were fewer than average good
swimming days during the summer season; yet we
realized a ten per cent profit on a gross income of
$8,000, while charging twenty-five cents for adults
and fourteen cents for children. If your commu-
nity operated under as many handicaps, it should
have done this well; and many communities could
improve substantially on this record.

Part of the key to success, as usual, lies in per-
sonnel—the rest in program and public relations,
which is another way of saying personnel. We pay
good salaries because only good people can do the
job we demand. This assures us of our pick of
desirable, qualified applicants.

The pool manager is charged completely with
every phase of the operations of both pools. He is
accountable directly to the superintendent, is given
wide latitude because he is chosen for judgment,
and is never embarrassed by having a higher au-
thority borrow or issue orders to his swimming
pool personnel. The swimming pool staff is respon-
sible only to him. They understand this and so
does the manager.

He is responsible for all pool publicity and pub-
lic relations. Publicity is an almost daily chore
with newspapers and radio stations. Public rela-
tions involves selling-talks to PTA’s, service clubs,
and, in fact, any group who will listen. It involves
patiently conducted tours “behind the scenes” for
mothers, fathers, city officials or small groups. Any
unwary person who asks a leading question of a

57

swimming pool staff member is later puzzled about
what brought on a thirty-minute tour of the filtra-
tion plant, sanitation procedures, and safety pre-
cautions. The mother thus educated not only trusts
her children to your staff, but also spreads the in-
formation to others at the next bridge club meeting.

The manager has the responsibility for handling
all of the money, for keeping daily books which
will satisfy an auditor later; he checks water con-
dition reports for possible trouble in chemical bal-
ance, urges the health department to submit bi-
weekly reports on the entire operation, and, this is
important, devises and conducts a pre-opening
training institute for all employees, continuing this
training throughout the season. It is not incidental
that we further require this person to be qualified
in Red Cross first-aid and, where possible, to hold
a Red Cross Instructor’s Certificate.

He is required to have sufficient charts and
graphs immediately available so that on a few min-
utes notice he can furnish the superintendent with
statistics on every department and. compare the
record with that of the same period the previous
year.

Supervision of opening and closing the pool and
purchasing all non-concession supplies is also the
manager’s responsibility. He is an important, in
fact, the key employee. He should be a member of
the department’s permanent staff, and therefore
qualified to use other facilities and conduct other
activities during the non-swimming season.

We combine the ticket-selling and concession
operations under one head since nearly all incom—
ing revenue is from these two sources. Experience
shows that each swimmer will spend eleven cents
at the snack bar. We strongly advocate retaining
concession rights in place of leasing them to a con—
cessionaire who is not a member of your team and
has not the same interests at heart. The head of
this department sells tickets, checks valuables, su-
pervises concession help at one pool and super-
vises an assistant who is responsible for tickets and
concessions at the other pool. It is important that
he understand the internal revenue regulations re-
garding ticket registration, detached tickets, tax,

stolen tickets, and so on. He will purchase several
thousand dollars’ worth of concession supplies;
therefore he must know buying and merchandising.

The margin of profit on five-cent items is very
close. The loss of one box of candy bars by means
of ants, sun, or carelessness, or improper handling
of ice cream, can wipe out several days’ profit
quickly. Popular-priced merchandise attracts swim-
mers and builds up volume. Over-pricing sends
business to the store at the bus stop and sends

58

potential swimmers to other pools or to the movies.
Constantly seek volume at the concession stand——
it is good business.

We reduced concession stand help fifty per cent
by installing coin drink machines, and thus having
customers serve themselves reduced jamming at
the counter. The slight charge per case for the use
of these machines is worthwhile. Aside from sav-
ing the initial cost and depreciation on your own
refrigeration equipment, it saves the always pres-
ent repair bills which must be paid out of profits.

Concession sales shot up appreciably when we
added tables and chairs, attractive beach umbrellas
and a. sun area outside of the pool proper. Pool
admissions also rose through provision of this
special, comfortable area where bridge could be
played, portable radios enjoyed, and suntans ac-
quired away from the splashing.

The concession manager and the pool manager
are the employees concerned with pool income and
expenditures. They are the key to profit and loss.

\Ve select and treat our lifeguards with great
respect. We offer the young men who qualify a
very profitable summer’s employment in terms of
income, work experience, and satisfaction. The job
qualifications as outlined in personal interviews
weed the men from the boys. Needless to say, to
qualify for such' an interview the applicant must
not only have evidence of an instructor’s rating
from the American Red Cross, but must show that
he was outstanding in this instruction work. To be
successful in such an interview, he must convince
us that he can and will fulfill the obligations we

now mention.

All permanent lifeguards turn out at eight a. m.
for two hours of intensive pool cleaning. There is
no glamour in this work. Decks must be washed,
disinfectant changed in footbaths, diving boards
alternated, the pool vacuumed both with tow and
diving equipment, and all manner of small yet
vitally important maintenance work meticulously
completed by ten a. m. During this time, they are
under the supervision of the pool maintenance en-
gineer. This is a rain or shine proposition, with
one full day off each week——never Saturday or

Sunday. Night swim 'duty is alternated. One of:
the secrets of super pool maintenance is to utilize
and look forward to rainy days when all manner
of painting and touching up can be done.

From ten-thirty until twelve noon each morning
the permanent lifeguards, supplemented by twelve
or fourteen volunteers, offer Red Cross swimming
instruction for all—from beginners to senior life-
savers. Unless guards are unusually efiicient at—
teaching swimming and handling children, chaos

RECREATION

results. This ability becomes an important qualifi-
cation. We have no time to pamper individualists.
This job is strictly business and involves human
lives. Neither are we impressed by the number of
swimming championships an applicant has gath—
ered.

\Ve furnish the guards with identical uniforms,
good equipment, locker space, and every conve-
nience. We want them to look efficient and be
easily distinguishable. The public, especially moth-
ers and fathers, can only judge adequate protection
by what they see.

There are rules to be enforced. A guard who
can tactfully send people back to take a shower.
tactfully protect innocent bystanders from uncalled
for horseplay, and convince suntan worshippers
that glass bottles are dangerous in concrete areas
is worth two guards who offend the public with
authoritativeness. You can understand why we
pay good salaries for such people.

In addition to the base salary, comparable to
that of the highest paid guards at other pools in
this section, there is a second incentive which
places a guard in a position to earn enough to “pay
income tax I” Our pool is closed to the public from
twelve until two o’clock. The parents of many
children request individual lessons for them, and
many adults, having neglected to learn to swim,
appreciate an opportunity for private lessons when
the pool is empty. \Ve register these people, as-
sign them to guards who are interested in devoting
part of their lunch' period to this work and, on pay-
day, issue‘ a separate check amounting to seventy-
five per cent of the income from these lessons.

There is still a third arrangement which pro-
vides our guards with extra income. This is a co-
operative Red Cross-Recreation Department pro-
gram. Each year before the closing of school, every
school child is given a circular, amply illustrated,
stating that, as school children, they may purchase
a swim. ticket for one dollar entitling the owner to
swim instruction every week-day morning during
vacation. There is no fine print in this agreement.
These are sold in the schools by the hundreds.
Even children going to camp for the summer know
that they will more than get their money’s worth
during the days they are in town. Service clubs
buy blocks of these tickets for distribution at the
discretion of the school principals. Therefore, every
child who has any desire to join the program has
the opportunity. ,The V'Vater Safety Committee of
the local Red Cross Chapter compensates three
Red Cross instructors for the time spent on this
program. In addition, we offer this privilege to
our regular guards. The Red Cross further helps

MAY 1950

us secure sufficient volunteer senior and junior Red
Cross lifesavers to staff the program adequately.
All of these volunteers are issued a complimentary
season pass which is revoked if they become un-
dependable.

We are often asked if this morning swim pro-
gram for children does not keep them from return-
ing during regular swimming hours. The answer is
no! Since instituting this program, children’s paid
admissions during regular swim hours has doubled.

Our pools are at least average in size, perhaps a
little above average. W e consider adequate guard
coverage to mean two guards at all times, one addi-
tional guard when the pool load reaches 300, and
still another when the pool load reaches 400 or
above. The two guards on duty split their time
between the tower and deck duty, with each get-
ting a few minutes’ break periodically.

A reserve list of qualified guards is maintained
by the pool manager. These men are paid by the
hour. When it becomes obvious that the pool load
is building up and will exceed 200, the necessary
additional guards are called to report immediately.
In this manner, we are always generously staffed

 

Boys of Austin, Texas, also enjoy swimming lessons.

and yet do not have the day-to-day salary expense
of more guards than are needed to accomplish the
job on hand.

\Vhether you are responsible for operating one
pool or several, we think it is important to employ
a maintenance engineer responsible for sanitation
and water treatment. In most instances, the au-
thorities responsible for constructing a filtered,
municipal pool select and install correctly a filtra-
tion plant adequate for the needs of the pool. Un-

59

fortunately, we all too often assign a lifeguard or
janitor to the job of operating the filter plants.
Following this same logic, we should appoint life-
guards and janitors to the maintenance of the de-
partment’s rolling stock and mechanized equipment.
Sounds silly, doesn’t it? Actually these filter sys—
tems represent the most expensive single pieces of
equipment owned by most recreation departments.
In the hands of a trained man your plant will run
like a fine watch, your filter room can be a show-
place, and the revitalized water being constantly
pumped into your pool can be crystal clear and in
perfect chemical balance. In clumsy hands you will
soon be paying expensive repair bills, be ashamed
of the dark, damp, rusty, filter room, and lose
swimmers by the dozen who are unwilling to pay
admission for the privilege of acquiring bloodshot
eyes.

Needless to say, an engineer skilled in this work °

is seldom available for the short swimming season
only. We maintain that a person with these skills,
or who can learn these skills, can also be a top-
flight, all-around maintenance man. Therefore,
this person is always a full-time person with us
who is assigned exclusively to swimming pools
during the swimming season. He is sent to all
public health department meetings that deal with
swimming pool sanitation. He is provided with
the best technical information, makes a series of
daily water tests, and records the results on a form
which is carefully watched by the pool manager
and local health department officers. As an addi-
tional service, the public health department runs
bi-weekly cultures, and in this as in every way, is
a partner in the business of municipal pool sanita-
tion. Your city water works will always have a
technician who is daily involved in water condi-
tioning problems. Here is a skilled resource per—
son who is an admirable mechanic and helpful in
repairing and operating filtration equipment. He
should be a friend of your engineer.

Our pool manager assigns all responsibility for
water treatment, pool sanitation, and maintenance
to this engineer. In order to provide for time off
the ob—sickness and emergency—we require that
-two other persons at each pool know, in general,
the necessary processes and satisfactorily look after
these duties for a short period of time. One of
these persons should be the pool manager and the
other the lifeguard who shows the most aptitude.
With this coverage, no circumstance can arise in
which you cannot safeguard the public.

The last full—time pool staff member has such

varied responsibilities that a descriptive title is im—
possible. We always manage to find a congenial,

60

hustling, popular, high school boy with a Senior
Red Cross Certificate, who is trustworthy, needs a
summer job, and enjoys working at a pool. He
helps clean in the morning, teaches children to
swim, opens the concession stand following the
morning swim, handles the concession Stand in the
afternoon, fills in at checking valuables during rush
periods, and is, in general, available for the pool
manager to assign as he sees fit for best efficiency.

Unless you use baskets (then add necessary
checkers), the only time additional help is needed
is on holidays, week-ends, and other periods of
extra load. We pay this part-time help on an
hourly basis and seldom need more than one as-
sistant to check valuables and one counter hand at
the concession stand. Preference for these jobs is
given to recreation department employees who ap—
preciate additional work and income in their free
time. Our ,pool manager never becomes so strictly
an executive that he is above stepping into any
spot that needs temporary assistance.

We have dwelt in detail on personnel because we
are told that herein lies the fundamental strength
of our operation. From here on we can only single
out a few things which we either do differently or
which have been devised as a result of experience
and are known to be profitable financially or from
a public relations or safety standpoint. I

Originally, our pools were designed for swim—
ming only and neglected comfort and sociability.
Now the turf area with tables, chairs, beach um—
brellas, fiowers and sunshine, after an initial swim,
is more popular than the pool area. Furthermore,
it gives swimmers a chance to patronize the con-
cession stand without running afoul of health de-
partment regulations which prevent eating in the
pool area. It took some time, effort, and money to
move fences and properly locate such an area—-
more in our case than it will probably cost you. It
must be so located that a shower and footbath are
unavoidable before re-entering the pool area. The
returns will be many times the investment.

Another area not quite so important, but very
desirable, is a shady area outside of the pool with

a snack bar for spectators. Many parents will bring
a carload of neighborhood children to swim on
Sunday afternoon if they have a comfortable place
to sit, watch, and wait. We have gone one step
further and, in one case, located a lighted ball-
ground adjacent to the pool and, in the other in—

stance, added picnic tables and fireplaces.

Our staff training program and safety program
are closely allied. This training is compulsory and
is on our time. Every aspect of safety from a
skinned knee to a rescue is covered by drills. The

RECREATION

staff soon learns that every first—aid room treat-
ment is reported in a log and lists the person’s
name, address, treatment given, cause of accident,
and staff member’s name. This involves several
entries each day, and assists in eliminating hazards
and formulating rules of conduct. In more serious
accidents, a form is filled out giving similar, but
more detailed information and is signed by wit-
nesses. In the case of extreme emergency necessi-
tating rescue, the staff .is trained to react as a team.
A complete emergency package, containing all rec-
ommended Red Cross equipment, is available in the
first-aid room. Telephone numbers of all inhala-
tors are memorized by all staff members; an emer-
gency gate to accommodate this equipment is un-
locked; the crowd is controlled; and every detail
analyzed and visualized in advance so that such an
emergency can be handled with dispatch and order.
In this training session all the “whys” of pool
operation and individual responsibilities are ex-
plained for everyone’s benefit.

We subdivide our income to a rather fine point

in order to check each department closely. The-

pool manager must be able to show weekly com-
posites on suit and towel rentals, minus laundry
charges, and compare them to that same period of
the year before. The relocation of the juke box can

make or lose several dollars. We experiment and
analyze! Adult and children’s admissions must be
compared with that of the same week the year
before, considering the weather factor. Hence a
weather form is kept daily by the engineer when
making water tests. Snack bar sales are analyzed
by gross and average spending per admission com-
pared with last year’s figures.

Your final figures'should be placed on the graph
beside last year’s figures; then you can show ac-
curately and concisely where you saved money,
where you spent more money, and so on. This
material can be analyzed during the winter months
and your next season’s operation planned exactly.

There is one cloud that hangs over the head of
every swimming pool operator constantly. “What
about polio?” As a result of research on the rela-
tionship of polio and swimming pools, some en-
couraging technical information has been emerg-
ing to which we can refer. This information is
contained in two bulletins available from the N a-
tional Foundation for Infantile Paralysis Incor-
porated, 120 Broadway, New York 5, New York.
Their titles are: “Questions and Answers About
Poliomyelitis” and “Recommended Practices for
the Control of Poliomyelitis.” We should all be
familiar with this helpful information.

Swimming P001 Chemicals

ADISCUSSION of chemicals used in swim-

ming pools was presented by A. E. Stein,
consulting engineer, during a recent beach
and pool meeting in San Antonio, Texas.
Among the chemicals particularly stressed
were the following:

Chlorine—This should be present in any
swimming pool all the time, and as a free
available, not a combined, chlorine. . . . A
residual of 0.15 ppm free chlorine will dis-
infect a certain volume of water in approxi-
mately two minutes’ contact time at a pH
(hydrogen ion concentration) value of 7.5.
A combined chlorine residual of twice that
amount, or 0.3 ppm, requires over two hours
to disinfect completely an equal volume of
water at the same pH. The moral is—don’t
use ammonia or ammonia alum.

Copper Sulphate—There is no question
but that bluestone will kill algae after it has
formed; that in proper concentrations it is
an ideal cleansing agent when the pool has
been drained—if it does not cause an un-

MAY 1950

sightly stain where applied. But, out of the
300 some pools I visit here in Texas, I find -
that quite a number of bluestone users still
have algae trouble and, therefore, my only
conclusion can be that bluestone is worth-
less for the control or prevention of algae.
Non-chemicals——Diatamaceous earth is
a fossilized marine growth, the porosity of
which is so fine that even some of the larger
bacteria cannot pass through. Here is the
ideal filtering media, but it remains to be
seen if the average pool operator can success-
fully handle this modern type of equipment.
We now have a product known as acti-
vated aluminum which is supposed to have
all the virtues, and then some, of diatama-
ceous earth. If it works, fine; if it can be
used in sand filters (assuming that diatama-
ceous earth cannot), wonderful. Let’s wait
and see. (More details on this subject are
available in the May edition of the Play-

ground and Recreation Bulletin Service.—
Ed.)

 

61

JAMES W. GILMAN

Chicago at Play

For’over forty years, the National Recreation Association has kept in very close touch with the
magnificent develoPment of the park and recreation service of Chicago. Leaders in the Asso-
ciation and in the recreation agencies of Chicago have worked together during this steady
expansion. The Association has been exceedingly happy, through the years. to have some of
Chicago's outstanding citizens believing in its work. Gaylord Donnelley, executive vice-
president of R. R. Donnelley and Sons Company, is the Association's sponsor in that city.

HOSE WHO saw “Chicago at Play” last Spring

were left a little breathless. Here was recrea-
tion at its best Spread before them on an acre of
gymnasium fioor. Each type of recreation shown
was part of a great panorama offered as a public
service by the City of Chicago through its many
tax-supported, privately-supported and commer—
cial recreation organizations.

Sponsored by the Chicago Recreation Commis-
sion, with the assistance of nearly 300 other. par-
ticipating groups, the show was presented in the
gymnasium of the University of Illinois’ Chicago
Navy Pier Campus. For three days in June, this
floor, 500 feet long and 100 feet wide, was covered
from end to end with exhibits and demonstration
areas where fun, entertainment, leisure-time skills,
sports, outdoor living, dancing, singing and the
fine arts were offered so that everyone might have
the opportunity to observe and to try his hand
at any particular skill. The number of participants
alone totalled more than 2,500.

MayOr Martin H. Kennelly was surrounded on
the fully-eiluipped playground by hundreds of boys
and girls when he arrived on the first night to wel-
come those "who‘were there. Irv Kupcinet, nation-
ally-known for his “Kup’s Column” in the Chicago
Sun-Times, was master of ceremonies, introducing
celebrities and champions from the world of sports.

On the second day, two hours were devoted to
social recreation in the arena where, surrounded
by spectators in bleacher seats, high school stu-
dents and recreation leaders presented mixers,
party games, folk dancing and other stunts. Any-
one who wished to do so was welcome to take part.

Around the walls of the huge gymnasium were
exhibits set up and manned by such groups as the
Municipal Bureau of Parks and Recreation, the

Amt/901' is former director iof the Chicago Commission.

62

Safety Division of the Chicago Park District, the
YMCA, the YWCA, the Fun-After-Sixty Hobby
Show, the League of American Wheelmen, Better
Fishing Incorporated, the Salvation Army, the
Catholic Youth Organization, the Chicago Sun-
Times Athletic Association and many others.

A functioning playground, popular at all times,
was equipped with slides, swings, a merry-go—
round, picnic tables and benches by Game-time and
supervised by playground leaders from the Munici—
pal Bureau of Parks and Recreation and from the
Board of Education. Next door to this was
the camping area organized and presented by the

. Public Relations Committee of the Chicago Camp-

ing Association. Here, in a setting of greenery,
pup tents, council circles, outdoor cooking facili-
ties, a Boy Scout signal tower and other such at-
mosphere, camping activities were demonstrated
by boys and girls, men and women from private
camps, and from the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts,
Campfire Girls, Chicago Boys Clubs and the 4-H
Clubs.

At regular intervals, the Art Institute of Chi-
cago and the Art Department of the Chicago Board
of Education presented outstanding artists—sculp-
tors, painters, and so on—who demonstrated their
art before admiring groups. Between these demon-
strations, anyone who wanted to try his hand at
oil painting, water color or drawing might sit down
with an instructor and get free advice.

The Chicago Public Library presented a diSplay
of recent publications covering all the fields in—
cluded in the exposition, as well as printed bibli-
ographies of each field. A trained librarian was
present at all times to give information about
printed resources.

A continuous performance kept the audiences in
the small theater entertained with showings of
films, amateur magicians, radio quiz programs and

RECREATION

dramatic offerings, such as the production of
“Racketty-Packetty” by the children from the dra-
matics department of the Oak Park Playgrounds.

Boats galore were displayed—canoes, kyacks,
four-oar shells, a clinker-built outboard, a twenty-
six-foot single gig, and several hundred model
yachts and power boats—with plenty of fresh-water
sailors on hand to describe them.

On two puppet stages, the"Society of Puppetry
and Allied Crafts, with its member clubs, presented
continuous performances, punctuated by demon-
strations of stringing a marionette, coordination of
voice and action, puppet manipulation and con-
struction.

\Veaving, as a leisure-time interest, was pre-
sented against a background of beautiful handmade
fabrics by the Hull House Weavers, the Chicago
Weavers Guild and the School of the Art Institute
of Chicago Weaving Department. Weaving, as a
craft, was demonstrated by the Chicago Park Dis-
trict in an exhibit also embracing ceramics and
lapidary work. A woodworking shop, complete
with power tools, was operated by the Park Dis-
trict’s crafts department.

Photography provided one of the most fascinat-
ing exhibits. The Chicago Area Camera Clubs As-
sociation designed their exhibit to give an insight
into the how of amateur photography. Prints—
both black and white and in color, color slides,

movies, photographic equipment, various types of‘

cameras and lighting equipment for indoor por-
traits, plus a portable darkroom in which contact
prints and enlargements were made while inter—
ested persons watched through transparent yellow
windows, made this an exciting place to visit. A
staff of qualified photographers was always present
to discuss any phase of photography as well as to
give helpful criticisms of any prints or color slides
brought to them for that purpose.

In the sports arena where bleachers seated a
thousand persons at a time, demonstrations by golf
champions, mass gymnastics by the Illinois Turn-
ers, a fashion show of sports clothes for women
presented with professional models by Marshall
Field and Company, a tennis exhibition of mid-
western champions and a tennis clinic in which
fifty youngsters were instructed in the elementary
strokes—all these were presented in turn to- en-
thusiastic spectators.

Tony Zale, former world’s middleweight boxing
champion, gave professional instruction to a group
of boys from the Catholic Youth Organization; fly-
casters exhibited their skill and accuracy with rod
and reel; a group of dog-training clubs showed
how all breeds of dogs respond to group training;
George Halas, owner and coach of the famous Chi-
cago Bears professional football team, illustrated
football formations from a spectator’s point of view
by drilling junior teams in uniform. This was fol-
lowed by a volleyball game between two girls’
state championship teams.

Even Shakespeare had a part in the show when
a group of students from the Actors’ Company pre-
sented an act from “Taming of the Shrew”. A
variety show made up of night club entertainers
kept one audience happy for more than an hour.

Winding up the three-day exposition was a
square dance festival that brought onto the floor
more than a thousand dancers and twenty-one
callers for three hours of continuous dancing. This
feature was not easily forgotten either by partici-
pating groups or Spectators.

Chicago. was given a real concentrated glimpse
of recreation through “Chicago at Play”. Everyone
who saw it is still talking about the various pres-
entations. Yet'its pattern is one that can be used
in any community so that its citizens might better
understand the community’s recreation role.

 

Left: square dancing was climax of program. Callers
kept over 1,000 dancers busy for three solid hours.

‘MAY 1950

Center: Boy Scouts signal tower was part of camping
exhibit; right: instructions were given in puppetry.

(o3

PARTNERS ON

N EXAMINATION of any flourishing and well-
A rounded community recreation program in-
variably will show a successful working relation-
ship between the professional recreation leadership
and a group of active and interested volunteers.
The wider the program, the more this fact will be
found to be true. Actually, the basic concept of a
good program must, among other things, include
this c00perative working relationship in high de-
gree if it is adequately to fill community recreation
needs and include ideas which come from the peo-
ple themselves. We all know that it does not limit
itself through the use of ready—made superimposed
activities. The more a program calls upon its par—
ticipants for ideas, planning, leadership, the more
satisfactory and effective it becomes. Practical ex-
perience has shown that enthusiastic citizens, with
or without special skills, can and do make valuable
contributions.

The actual use of volunteer help occurs with
varying degrees of success in community recrea-
tion departments. What then are the ways of
work which bring about and are involved 'in the
ideal cooperative relationship between profession—
als and volunteers? How does one get volunteers
and keep them? These questions are brought up
again and again at national recreation congresses.
Why? Because many departments are still in the
experimental stages of this aspect of strengthen-
ing their work; some have tried and failed.

During wartime, agencies both public and private
had little trouble in holding the interest of citizen
volunteers because everyone was concerned with
winning the war and doing everything possible to

64

THE JOB

0r working with today’s volunteers

help. Today is there not a similar, though perhaps
not so vocal a concern about the strengthening of
community life in order to maintain the hard-won
peace? In recruiting for volunteers, should we not
appeal to such concern, interpreting to citizens the
strengthening values of working and playing to-
gether, calling upon them to cooperate in putting
this concern into positive, constructiver action?
Should we not stress the fact that recreation at its

' best is democracy in action, and therefore its im-

portance to the community as well as to individuals
in developing more effective citizens and building
a richer community life?

Recruiting

Volunteers should be enlisted from all commu-
nity groups, so that they will be representative of
the entire community to be served. All possible
local sources of volunteers should be explored,
such as PTA’s, churches, cultural groups, Junior _
Leagues, labor groups, civic groups, women’s clubs,
and so on. Be sure to include the women’s groups.
As Margaret Hickey of the Ladies’ Home Journal
says: “Women want a larger share in community
housekeeping. This is a logical extension of wom—
an’s concern for home and family life.”1 It is
important, too, that enough volunteers should be
recruited for all the jobs to be done, so that a
few experienced volunteers will not be overworked.

Some of the tools used in reaching volunteers
are: local newspapers—both editorials and feature
stories; the radio; printed 'materials that can be

1. See "Help Wanted: Women Partners for Recreation Leader-
ship." by Margaret Hickey, RECREATION, December 1948.

RECREATION

distributed to group or club meetings, churches
and so on, or mailed to a chosen mailing list;
talks given before community groups; posters and
various recreation displays in local store windows
and other strategic spots; special appeals and face—
to-face invitations following or during fairs, festi-
vals, pageants, hobby shows and other special
events ; and through the personal contacts and word-
of—mouth promotion and enthusiasm of staff and
of other volunteers who are en-
joying a satisfying and rewarding
experience through their own
interesting service.

\

Learning from Others
. . . we:
bome pr1vate agencies have a

long history of working with vol—
unteers, and a fund of practical
experience based upon careful ex-
perimentation in this Geld. Should
we not examine and make use of
some of the things which they
have learned? Among such agen-
cies, the YWCA has worked out
a democratic philosophy for working with vol-
unteers which is enlightening in view of its suc-
cess. It maintains that attitude and purpose are of
primary importance. To do the YWCA job well
in any given community, volunteers as well as
professional workers are asked to subscribe to the

following basic concepts as drawn up by the Na-
tional Board :2

I. A real conviction about the value and im-
portance of the work done by the agency.

2. A fundamental respect for each person as an
individual.

3. A recognition of the opportunity that can be
.given to each person to grow to the limits of his
capacity.

4. A recognition of, and belief in the democratic
method of working “with” people on a partnership
basis.

5. A conviction that something can be done
about almost everything if enough people under-
stand, care and work for a solution.

It follows, then, that in putting the above phi—
losophy into practice, the professional worker is
expected to:

- Accept wholeheartedly the fact that the volun-
teer can be of great help in determining the type
and scope of program. 

- Recognize the real contribution in services, ideas
and vision which volunteers can and do make.

 

2. Working witb Volumes”, USO Division, National Board, YWCA.

MAY 1950

GIVE RECOGNITION
TO VO LU NTEERS.

o A word of thanks;

0 Inclusion in planning:

0 Special recognition events.

 

- Recognize and respect the volunteer’s own needs
as well as his abilities and contribution.

o Be willing to take time to orient the volunteer
to phiIOSOphy, aims of work and to help him de-
velop democratic ways of working with people,
skills.

- Clearly define for the volunteer that particular
part his services play in the over-all program, the
over-all job to be done. Help him to have pride
in his job, no matter" how small.
- Be sure that the volunteer is
having a satisfying and enrich-
ing experience.

- work with the volunteers on a
partnership basis throughout
planning conferences.

- Be willing and eager to give
recognition and added responsi-
bility to volunteers as they are
ready for new tasks.

- Remember that activities
planned by volunteers, for them-
selves, are also part of the total
pr0gram.

The above working relationship obviously is a
two-way process, demanding honesty, sincere in-
terest and respect on the part of all persons in-
volved.

Selection of Volunteers

In the selection of volunteers, the YWCA
stresses the importance of choosing the right per-
son for the right job, and of selection according
to a previously determined list of basic qualifica-
tions such as : a genuine liking for people regard-
less of race or creed; a sincere interest in the serv-
ice for which he or she is volunteering—in terms
of the needs of the group; a sincere respect for
the individual—his ideas, activities, beliefs; some
understanding of human behaviour; a willingness
to turn to other people for suggestions and assis—
tance; a sense of responsibility toward the job; the
ability to be objective about himself or his job, and
to take praise or blame in his stride without being
unduly impressed with either; a willingness to
meet the standard for training, conduct and so
forth. Additional qualifications suggested for a
program volunteer are: ability to ,work with a
group of pe0ple as a group, as well as with indi-
viduals within the group; special skills and experi-
ence and the ability to adapt them to the activity
to which he is assigned. Additional qualifications
for service volunteers include ability to give service
in a personalized way — to sense the needs of
people and meet them with warmth and friendli-

65

ness; a pride in any small task as a part of the
whole.

Marion Preece, a district representative on the
staff of the National Recreation Association, says:
“The leader should definitely know the qualities
for which he is searching. In fact, the same stand-
ard should be used for paid workers as well. Be
sure to give volunteers and subordinate workers
recognition and the opportunity for personal satis-
faction.”

Training

The purpose behind the training of a volunteer
should be: to acquaint him with the over-all phi-
1050phy of recreation, and with the work done by
the recreation department, its aims and purposes;
to acquaint him with community needs and to
stimulate his enthusiasm; to relate his interests
and skills to the recreation program and to further
develop these skills. Methods of training include
formal training, institutes, workshops, and in-ser-
vice training (or training on the job). The last
includes supervision, during which the volunteer
works with an experienced person, and an evalua—
tion or talking things over, which will help the
volunteer to find ways of improving his services
and of realizing personal satisfactions on the job,
and will aid in forming new plans and goals.

Regular conference periods should be planned
by the volunteer and professional worker together.
Group meetings of volunteers doing the same type
of job—program or service—to discuss problems
or activities, or such things as public relations and

so on, are extremely helpful. Such groups, too, can
enjoy their own social recreation and often grow
into special interest groups.

Recognition

In order to be happy on the job, the volunteer
must have the satisfactions growing out of the
feeling of achievement, of contributing something
of value, of being a part of something distinctly
worthwhile, a part of the total job; and he must
enjoy doing it. Any volunteer genuinely experienc-
ing these satisfactions will not be hard to hold. The
professional leader and supervisor plays an im—
portant part in helping him reach these satisfac—
tions. The ways and means of working this out call
upon the imagination of the leader. A well-placed
“thank you” or word of praise can do wonders, as
can a genuine respect for the volunteer as an indi—
vidual—one with a valuable contribution to make
—and an enjoyable working partnership between
professional and volunteer. In addition, the careful
inclusion of the names of volunteers in all public-
ity, occasional public recognition affairs, letters of
appreciation from staff all help tremendously. A
“Volunteer Newsletter” or newspaper will keep
everyone informed of the local recreation picture,
changes that are taking place, news about volun-
teers. It is an excellent way of giving recognition.

On the cooperative efforts of both professional
and volunteer staff, therefore, is the work of the
recreation department based. May it be a success—
ful and lasting partnership.

Playground Treasure Hunt

THE BASIC formula for planning a treasure hunt
—no matter what novel ideas are later intro-
duced—involves laying your trail backwards. Go
to the place where you plan to hide your treasure,
pick out a spot and write a clue to place nearby,
giving instructions for finding the treasure. For
example, suppose that this is clue number ten.
Now walk to a likely spot and write clue number
nine telling how to get to clue number ten. It will
be easy for you to do so, for you have just been
over the ground the hunters will cover. Proceed
in this fashion, gradually moving to the spot where
you plan to start clue number one. The age and
background of your hunters will determine what
kind of clues to use. The younger the group, the
more simple the clues.
Plan your hunt to fit the group. Use inexpen-
sive prizes and have something for everyone
(candy or fruit), especially when children are the

66

treasure-seekers. If the treasure is concealed near
the start of the hunt, hunters feel let down and
disappointed. Be sure all clues are read, espe—
cially by the winners.

To make your treasure hunt fun for all, make
duplicates of all clues so that each person or group
may take one. Draw a different symbol, a simple
one, on the corner of each. Slips of a particular
color, or pebbles dipped in showcard paint, may
be left at every clue. Each hunter takes one so
that at the end he may show a full series. How-
ever, when only one copy of a clue is used,
hunters must put it back as they found it.

Go along to interpret clues. What may seem.

clear to you may stump the group, but only give
help as a last resort. Near the middle of the hunt,
use harder clues to slow the group down so that
stragglers may catch up.—Memphis, Tennessee,
Park Commission.

RECREATION §

COMMUNITY CENTER SERVICES

FOR THE ELDERLY

ORT WAYNE, Indiana, had been experimenting

with a recreation program for the elderly for
sometime when, hoping to improve this program,
it hit upon the idea of sending a questionnaire to
superintendents and directors of recreation and to
directors of agencies in cities whose populations
exceed 100,000. Its purpose would be to learn how
other communities meet the needs of their older
citizens. Thus, in December 1948, Martin Nading,
In, Secretary and Recreation Director of the
Board of Park Commissioners of Fort Wayne,
compiled a data sheet which was addressed to II 3
such recreation leaders. In February 1949, thirty-
eight additional questionnaires were sent to those
who had not replied to the first. A total of ninety-
eight questionnaires were finally returned with
thirty-one completely answered, thirty-one par-
tially answered, and with thirty-six replies sent by
letter, pamphlet, report or such form other than
the questionnaire.

Results showed that sixty-one of the ninety—
eight cities cooperating have a recreation program
which includes older people, but only thirty-eight
of this number plan a special program just for
these oldsters. To the question what is the average
daily attendance, twenty—seven replied with an—
swers that ranged from fifteen to 750; twenty—live
replies averaged I70. However, twenty recreation
departments reported that they reach approxi-
mately from fifty to 6,000 different elderly people
each month and eighteen average about 810 people.

While lifteen departments reported an advisory
committee for their oldster program, twenty ad-
mitted no such provision. As far as actual super-
vised leadership is concerned, indications were that
twenty-five cities have full—time directors for this
program, ten have part-time and four depend on
volunteers.

Of the facilities used for a program with older
adults, parks seemed to be most popular, accord-
ing to a check from nineteen recreation depart-
ments. School buildings were second with sixteen

MAY 1950

What would your answers have been
if this survey had been sent to you?
Do your program plans really provide
for the elderly in your community?

checks and then followed private facilities with
nine, public buildings—eight, centers—seven,
playgrounds—four, city buildings—three, city
auditorium—one, old lire house——one, field house
——one. This use varied from one hour monthly to
twelve hours every day during the year.

The cost of leadership, maintenance and supplies
was reported from eleven cities as “not separated”
from the budget. Nine others replied that their
costs totalled from $200 to $22 5,000, the average be-
ing $7,017. In twenty-four cases, there were no
financial requirements for membership; two re-
ported that it was determined by group; two, by
contributions; three replies said ten cents per
meeting; one, fifty cents per month; another forty
cents per meeting, and one, two dollars per year.
Tax or recreation departments helped finance the
program in twelve cities.

Mr. Nading discovered, in answer to another of
his questions, that Hartford, Connecticut, was the
first city in the group reporting to have a program:
for the elderly, inaugurating this in 1914. The
majority of other cities seemed to have begun
theirs since 1944.

There wasn’t too much element of surprise in
the answers to: What are the most popular recre-
ation activities for your oldsters? As expected,
handcrafts, music, dancing—with emphasis on
square dancing—hobbies, nature study, drama, so-
cial parties, clubs, classes and those sports of a
more quiet nature such as horseshoes, croquet,
shufHeboard and the like, and quiet games won the
most approval.

Many of the recreation departments summed up
their part in the survey with the assertion that
there is much room for improvement in their plan-
ning for the elderly. Predominant among their
recommendations was that there should be more
centers for this age group under the direction of
capable leaders and with more adequate linancing.
Said one city: “The program for elderly people
must receive major attention in the near future.”

67

 

Damping for the Community

HIS Is the simple story of how the citizens of

Dearborn, Michigan, a midwestern city of
90,000, provided a year—round camping program
for all its people, both young and old. Camp Dear-
born is the answer—a municipal camp of beauti-
fully wooded acres of rolling land just forty miles
from the City Hall.

First, Mayor Orville L. Hubbard, with the
authorization of the city council, appointed a camp
commission for the purpose of recommending the
purchase of a year-round camp. The commission
wasmade up of representatives of clubs, churches,
fraternal, youth and civic organizations.

Then, on January I, 1948, the city purchased
240 acres of property developed twelve years
earlier as a model farm on which prize Percheron
draft horses were bred. Its wealthy owner had
lived only a few years after establishing it but, in
that time, had constructed two modern homes for
caretakers and several steel farm buildings. These
houses are a mile apart.

The first summer under new ownership saw
Camp Dearborn develop as a municipal campsite.
Buses picked up forty boys and girls each day at
the city playgrounds for a period of eight weeks,
five days a week. The 1,600 youngsters who left
their homes early in the morning during the sum-
mer of 1948 were returned about five—thirty the
same day after an exhilarating and educational
drive from the city to the country and back.

This outdoor eXperience became so popular that
the entire day camp program was doubled in 1949,
our second season, both in personnel and in the
number of campers, under the administration of
the city recreation department.

Mayor Hubbard also invited adults to visit the
new campsite and, in response, the 1948 Memorial
Day week-end brought an influx of 2,500 citizens,
and the long Fourth of July week-end approxi—

 

Barbm Holland 1'; director of camping, Dearborn.

68

Barbra Holland

mater twice as many.

The Dearborn camp idea covers four phases—-
day camping, organized overnight camping, family
camping and picnic camping. The last two grew to
such proportions that year-round camping was
certain to become a reality.

Lyle Hotchkiss, chairman of the camp commis—
sion, reported that several luncheon clubs had re-
quested permission to construct cabins for the
young people. This presented an opportunity for
all groups of the city to cooperate in the program,
instead of going on with separate projects.

Dr. L. B. Sharp, executive director of Life
Camps, was brought from New York to.make a
study of Camp Dearborn. He urged that its opera-
tion and development have a year-round tie-in with
the total community recreation program, and his
plan was adopted by the city council at the recom-
mendation of the commission. ‘

Our second year witnessed continuous develop-
ment through the contagious enthusiasm of the
mayor and other citizens. Eighty additional acres
of land were purchased in order that we might
control the entire camp lake and to provide more
territory. A modern home and farm buildings
were included in this second purchase; and, before
the close of the season, the city was given thirty-
six acres of heavily wooded camp property in
exchange for ten acres in one corner of the newly—
acquired section of eighty acres.

This arrangement was made with the Huron-
Clinton MetrOpolitan Authority, a public agency
which owns 4,000 acres adjoining Camp Dearborn
and invites our children to extend their camping
program to its areas.

Prior to Dearborn’s purchase of this property,
the lake was not used for bathing; but, today,
thousands of tons of Lake Michigan sand have
been spread on its shores to create a beautiful bath-
ing beach. The many wells and springs, rustic
tables and benches, stoves, boats, nature trails and

RECREATION

wooded areas have attracted thousands to the
family camping area. The Huron River winds its
way for three-fourths of a mile through our camp
property, with canoe trips starting and ending at
this point.

When Camp Dearborn goes into its complete
building program of main lodge, sleeping cabins,
and other camp buildings, the recreation depart-
ment will be ready because of a successful experi-
mental overnight program for boys and girls con-
ducted last summer. Plans for 1950 call for ten
weeks of overnight camping, with separate periods
assigned to boys and girls. However, until the build-
ing program gets underway, tents will be used to
house the campers, with a specially constructed
building lodge for the serving of meals and for
rainy day programs, similar to that of last summer.
In fact, many of the overnight campers still talk
about those evening campfires and cook-outs.
Others remember the hikes in the woods, hunting
for raspberries and swimming twice a day. Evi—
dence of campcraft activities during these sessions
are still present. ‘The newly—peeled and varnished
flagpole and lodge water-color pictures are projects
left by the first organized camp groups. Leaders
have had words of praise from mothers for the
dining room procedure and etiquette which were
encouraged in camp.

Staffing our camp with qualified counselors
comes as a result of certification, following tests by
the civil service commission. Teachers with a camp
background, trained counselors and college stu-
dents are employed. One intensive camp counseling
training period prepares them for our particular
camp. This provides Dearborn children with lead—
ers trained in child guidance, group work and
democratic camp leadership.

The camp offers a varied program of activities
throughout the year. Children have an opportunity
to become acquainted with farm life, learn about
farm animals and pets. The former owner of the
property left an ideal farm where an agricultural
program can be developed by the campers. During
the past two seasons of winter camping, youngsters
have camped under canvas, and enjoyed skating,
tobogganing, skiing and hiking. Another interest-
ing feature of the program includes teaching young
boys and girl to fish.

An average camping day finds boys and girls
hiking to the day camp area for the Hag-raising
ceremony, after which campers and counselors
- plan for the day. The eight—year—olds, after select-
ing their group name, usually explore the woods
just over the hill. The nine-year-olds, who some—
times call themselves the “trailblazers,” often pre—

MAY 1950

 

Fire building lessons are part of Dearborn program.

fer to go to the docks to practice rowing. Older
campers between the ages of eleven and twelve
select their group names and go fishing, trailblaz-
ing or devote time to campcrafts and nature hikes.

Some campers, after a good morning of fishing,
clean and cook their catch in aluminum foil for
lunch. Others bring their lunches from home but
also cook their hamburgers and vegetables over the
fire. The popularity of the day camp program has
prompted several luncheon and civic organizations
to create a milk fund which provides milk daily.

After a rest and relaxation period under the
large maple trees, the groups are off again to carry
out the plans decided upon during the morning.
Campcrafts, bird study, treasure hunts and map-
ping are very popular in the afternoon. Later, all
groups return for the hag-lowering ceremony, after
which the youngsters go to the beach for a swim
before returning home.

The most significant part of this program is the
planning done on the playground before the chil-
dren leave for camp. Discussion sessions are held,
during which leaders distribute permission slips
to prospective campers for their parents.’ signa—
tures. Advice is given on necessary clothing and
cooking utensils. Safety precautions for the bus
trip are explained, advice given to swimmers.
Parents from the neighborhood often accompany
their children for the pre-planning session.

Among our plans for the future, we hope to im-
prove our day camp service, enlarge our overnight
camp program and winterize buildings in the fam—
ily camp area so that these groups may visit the
camp all year round. In the past, it has not been
unusual to see thirty families camping there.

Certainly this idea of a municipal campsite for
year-round outdoor living has a place among the
new trends of services to be provided by tax funds.
Character—building for its youth. citizenship and
civic consciousness in an outdoor pattern“ for its
adults are certain to bring more happiness to the
people of any community.

09

WOODS COURTESY

N YOUR OWN HOME, or in the homes of friends,
I you follow certain commonly accepted rules of
good manners. In the woods there are different,
but no less definite codes of etiquette. When these
are violated, it is usually through carelessness or
ignorance rather than by deliberate intent. It is
the privilege and duty of those who respect and
know how to use the out-of-doors to help others
who are just getting acquainted with the forest
environment. Most of the following rules relating
to wilderness manners are probably familiar to
you. In fact, you may think of some that have
been omitted, but these suggestions are made in
order that you may feel more “at home” and avoid
danger or criticism when you are in the woods.

I. Treat your parks and forests as thoughtfully
as you would want others to treat your own gar—
den or home.

2. Though in the wilderness, remember that
others have preceded and many will follow you.

3. Ask permission before going on private land
and be particularly careful of fences, crops, and
domestic animals.

4. Be careful about destroying vegetation. Do
not needlessly mutilate flowers, ferns or trees, nor
harm wildlife.

5. Play fair. Observe the fish and game laws.
These are designed to regulate hunting and fishing
so as to assure a permanent breeding stock and
reserve a fair share for each hunter or fisherman.

_6. Do not touch or disturb the children of the
forest. The baby bird, fawn or rabbit that you
think is “lost” probably has parents who only
await your departure before taking over.

7. Be very careful with fire. Remove all infiam—
mable materials to a safe distance before lighting

 

From "When You Are in the Woods." published by the New
York State College of Forestry, Syracuse, New York, in April. 1950.

Available from oom 120, Bray Hall, College of Forestry, Syracuse
10. New York. '-

70

FAY WELCH

your fire; and be sure it is out before you leave it.
8. Bury or burn filth and rubbish. Avoid pol—
luting springs, streams, or lakes.

9. Leave your picnic ground, campsite, or cabin
in as good a condition as you found it—or better,
if possible. Assume that the next camper may be
drenched or freezing, and leave a supply of dry
wood and kindling in a protected place.

IO. Help keep trails open and in good condition.
Do not drop papers or other rubbish along trails
or roads.

II. The true woodsman is always friendly, hos—
pitable, ready and willing to help anyone in need.

Fire Building and Fire Prevention

In the woods, a fire can be your best friend. It
can cook your food, sterilize your drinking water,
dry your clothes, consume camp rubbish, warm
your tent or cabin, bring cheer and contentment,
and even save your life in bitter winter weather.

But misused or uncontrolled fire can become
your worst enemy, destroying your tent, your be-
longings, the forest, the soil, the wildlife, even
your own life. So fire building and fire prevention
merit your careful study and attention.

Fire Building—In choosing wood for fuel, re-
member that:

Dead branches on trees are usually drier than
those on the ground. Limbs without bark are usu-
ally drier than those
with bark. A split
stick with sharp or
splintered edges
takes fire more
rapidly than an un-
split, round stick.
Lightweight woods
(white cedar, white

 

RECREATION

pine, spruces, willows) ignite more quickly and
burn more rapidly than heavy woods (sugar maple,
beech, hickories, oaks). The fuel value of a stick
of dry wood is roughly proportional to its dry
weight. Exceptions are woods with a good deal of
resin. These have greater fuel value.

When you lay a lire:

Select a spot where the fire can be built on min—
eral soil (sand, clay, or loam) or on rock. Then
clear away all inflammable material for several feet
around your fireplace.

“Gather enough tinder, kindling and other dry
wood of various sizes so that you will not need to
desert your fire and go looking for more wood dur-
ing the first ten minutes. Good tinder is birch bark,
small dry twigs of hemlock, spruce or balsam, and
shavings of dry cedar or pine. Yellow birch bark
is excellent. White (canoe or paper) birch bark
is equally good, but should not be stripped from
living trees.

Have tinder at the bottom so that flame from a
match will easily ignite it. Leave a space on the
side toward the wind where you can reach and
light this tinder. Add slender; dry twigs or splin-
ters above the tinder. The smallest twigs or splin-
ters should be added first; the larger pieces placed
above them. Let your fire “breathe”—air is as
necessary as fuel. Crisscross the sticks to leave air
spaces.

Feed the fire constantly and rapidly, letting each-

flame ignite or dry another piece of wood, until it
is well-established with good-sized sticks burning.
Gauge yo‘ur fire’s size to its purpose, 'being careful
not to build it any larger than necessary. Usually
a small fire is best for cooking.

Keep your fire going with the heavier woods.
They give a good bed of coals for cooking.

Fires for warmth and reflector baking are best
built in front of a large rock.

If you’re building a fire in the snow, you must
first clear away the snow. Or, if the snow is deep,
pack it down and build a platform of green or rot-
ten logs sufficiently thick that the fire will not burn
through this base until you have no more need
for it.

It is well to remember that:

It takes at least three times as much fuel to keep
your fire going all night as you would expect (be-
fore you try it). It is a slow and cold process
gathering more firewood at three a. m. !

When gathering a Wood supply, work it up into
proper lengths and pile it conveniently, but not
dangerously, near the fireplace. The cook will be

pleased if it is sorted according to size, and cov-
ered whenever rain threatens.

MAY 1950

 

F ire Prevention—Every year, thousands of acres
of forests are seared by fire. Most fires are caused
by carelessness. A smoker drops a burning match
or lighted cigarette, or someone fails to put out his
campfire. If most fires are caused by human care-
lessness, then most can be eliminated. Hence it is
your and everyone’s duty not only to be very care-
ful with fire when in the woods, but also to educate
campmates and friends to be careful. It is very
important that fires be detected early. A small fire
is easily quenched; a large one is very hard to con-
trol. So, if you spot the beginnings of a forest fire,
report it (by telephone, if possible) to the nearest
ranger immediately.

New York State has an elaborate system for fire
protection with forest rangers, observation towers
on mountain tops, hundreds of miles of telephone
lines, lire-lighting trucks equipped with two-way
radios, and even observation planes. This system
has resulted in a great decrease of serious forest
fires in recent years.

To prevent forest fires, remember to:

Put out every match. If you break them between
your thumb and fingers before throwing them
away, you will be certain that they are out.

Crush out every cigarette. Tear the butt apart
and dump the tobacco to be doubly sure it is out.
Be equally careful with cigars and pipes. Do not
smoke at all in the woods when they are very dry.
Smokers cause four out of ten fires in some states.

Build campfires only in safe places, on sand or
other mineral soil, or on rocks. A nearly-dry
stream bed or a beach is a safe place for your fire.
Above all, do not build a fire on duff (dry, decay-
ing leaves, wood, and other vegetable matter).
Duff will harbor a spark for hours or days, and fire
will travel through it underground for several feet.

Clean away all inflammable material to a safe
distance. Do not leave your campfire unattended.

On forest preserve lands no fires are permitted
except for cooking, warmth, or smudge purposes.

Drown every fire. Do not merely pour water on
it. \Vet ashes will form a “roof” that keeps the
water from reaching the coals below. Take a stick,
stir and dig while splashing on more water until
every coal is dead.

71

 

ILLIONS OF PEOPLE have never learned to walk.

True, they can put one foot before another
to get from car to desk, to the bridge table or to a
seat at the movies. But if there were a moving
platform to relieve them ofieven this footwork,
many would take it. For they have never learned
to walk, and love it.

Too many think of walking as nature’s clumsy
substitute for easier ways of going places. Yet
Thoreau argues that “the swiftest traveler is he
who goes afoot.” You smile at his whimsy; can
you refute his logic? If you take the train from
Concord to Fitchburg, he argues, and I walk, I
shall get there before you, for first you must stop
and earn the carfare, whereas I can start walking
from my front door right now. “And, if the railroad
reached around the world,” concludes the sage of
Walden with a twinkle, “I think that I should keep
ahead of you.”

For the tortoise pedestrian in many ways beats
the hare-brained motorist at the game. He misses
nothing by the way and arrives at his destination
in one piece, both body and soul, the better for his
journey. “Walking,” says Lawson Robertson,
coach of many American Olympic teams, “is the
most natural form of exercise. It puts the least

Mr. Peattz'e, author and botanirt, 2': widely known
for 191': numerom published article: and stories.

72

Walk Into
the World '

Donald Culross Peattie

burden upon the system and is the easiest to take.”
More, it is one of the supreme privileges of man-
kind. For only Man, out of all creation, can truly
be said to walk—wholly erect, that is, with straight
back, shoulders wide, head up to scan the beckon-
ing horizon or plumb the sky for weather. The
victims of polio or war—they could tell us what it
means to have that swift human impulse, in vain.
Yet there is another crippling disease that has
killed in millions of people not the power but the
will to walk. Its name is “automobile legs”—a weak-
kneed dependence on wheels. A typical victim is
the sixteen-year-old son of a friend of mine whom
I heard demanding the family car to take his girl
to the movies, a mile from her house. Neither was
handicapped—in fact he aSpired to be a track star
and she could dance till two a. m. and call the night
yet young. But if he made her walk to the movies,
what would she think of him? What would people
say?

The young and old who like to walk are richer
than many a car owner. On their walks they are
free of worldly encumbrances. No more is needed
for their pleasure, says Emerson, than “endurance,

.plain clothes, old shoes, an eye for nature, good

humor, vast curiosity, good speech, good silence,
and nothing too much.” He called walking a fine
art; yet it takes neither training nor talent. It is
also a sport, and the only one I know that has

RECREATION

absolutely no rules. For myself, I think it is also
a faith ; just as he puts his-trust in the solid ground
he steps on, so the walker feels rising in him re-
newed belief in some goodness abroad which,
though he may never reach it, is yet his goal. This
air which he takes to the bottom of his lungs is
heaven’s; this motion, foot after happy foot, is free
will; and when he is back at his own door, with
keener blood and clearer eyes, he feels that some
inner grace has been granted unto him.

Yet he has no creed; there are many roads to
salvation by walking. One man takes in hand a
well-loved blackthorn stick; another thrusts empty
fists deep in his pockets. One fellow, like Sir
Walter Scott, won’t go without his dogs. Some like
to take the same walk every day, agreeing with
Richard Jefferies, the English naturalist: “I want
the same old road and loved things; the same wild
flowers, the same trees, the same turtle doves,“ the
same blackbird, and I want them in the same
place.” A brother naturalist, W. H. Hudson, hated
to retrace his steps, but lived like a tramp for
months at a time, feeding on blackberries and
sleeping under hedges.

Walking is for all seasons, all weathers, all ages.
Only the man afoot really knows the time of year.
Only he can read the tracks on the new fallen snow
or catch the drifting flakes upon his sleeve, to study
before they melt. You’ll know October best when
you scuff through the leaves on a high blue day,
hearing the ragged crow-call as you couldn’t in a
car, discovering gentians like matched sapphires,
rifling a Blue Permaine from somebody’s orchard
to eat as you climb the windy ridge. On foot you
can see spring conquer the world , valley and farm-
yard whelmed with bridal fruit blossom, and follow
the way of the unbottledI brook. In summer you
can ramble till you are tired and fall asleep under
a tree.

\Vhat if it does rain? A walk in the rain re—
freshes man as well as grass. And never does the
whitethroat sparrow sing his piercing notes so
sweetly as when he matches their silver against the
silver of the rain. What if a fog rolls in? The
most magical hours of all my walking days have
been in fog—whether on the rocks at Marblehead
or in San Francisco’s streets. For then familiar
landmarks take on mysterious significance, sounds
of buoys tolling come eerily through like the bells
of some false faith; peach trees in bloom stand sud-
denly forth, like the first assault of love upon the
heart.

In addition to being clothed for any weather and
shod for comfort, you needto know just a little
more than how to put one foot in front of another.

MAY 1950

I’m no coach, but I have found that it helps, when
you first step out, to pull yourself out of your hips
and take a deep breath. Roll your shoulders back
once to free them of all your worries; don’t keep
them locked thereafter. Set your gait to please
your mood, but not too fast in spite of eagerness.
Those who start out in a burst with long strides
will presently lag; the man who saves his strength
comes in first at the end. In climbing a slope, lean
well forward; gravity will thus help to pull you up,
strange as it sounds. Don’t take the climb in great
strides, for that will pull the calf muscles. Remem-
ber that every step up may equal ten on the level
and pushes the heart accordingly. So rest one
breath on each upward step if the going is steep.

And if you take a companion, be sure he is one
who wears well; if you go alone, you may still
travel in the company of great pilgrims of the spirit.
The first man to walk for the joy of it, so far as I
have ever read, was none less than Saint Paul. 16
Arts, Chapter XX, you can read how he sent the
other disciples around by sea, while he went across
the Troad Peninsula by land, “minding himself to
go afoot.” Francis of Assisi delighted to tramp
the Umbrian hills with his brethren, singing praises
to God for the beauty of hills and trees, wild
flowers and birds. The first great American
walker was William Bartram, the Philadelphia
naturalist, who tramped the wilds of the Carolinas,
Georgia, and Florida in the days when our nation
was coming to birth; his Travels record the dewy
freshness of that morningtide. A prince of walkers

, was Robert Louis Stevenson, who footed it across

France and told his adventures in Travels with a
Donkey. Of Wordsworth as a great pedestrian, his
friend De Quincey wrote: “I calculate that with
these identical legs Wordsworth must have tra-
versed a distance of 180,000 English miles, a mode
of exertion to which he was indebted for a life of
unclouded happiness, and we for much of what is
excellent in his writings.” \Valt \Vhitman too was
a tireless pedestrian; he roamed Virginia’s battle-
grounds, California’s redwood groves, and, best of
all, “my own Manhattan,” where in all seasons he
haunted the streets and docks.

For to walk in a city is to enter the human ad-
venture at a new point. You pass freely among
strangers, as a brother-"for as soon as they be-
come pedestrians are not the owner of a limousine
and the man who has only a jalopy on an equal
footing? Yet all have their own stories and you

feel this subtly as you pass among them, noting
not only face but gait. It has been said that a work-
man and a spy cannot walk in the same way, and
neither will a sailor and a stockbroker, a girl

73

shOpping for a hat and another going to meet her
sweetheart. What birdsong and wild flowers are
to the country walker, so must be the glimpses into
the human heart which walking in the city affords
the observant.

He will have an eye, too, for city beauty. It is
harsh, angular, full of changing light and brutal
planes, yet softened by the very smokes and clamps
of crowded living. Washed clean each morning
when empty towers rise like new into the dawn, by
night it is enchanted as spattered office window
lights fling unknown constellations on the throbbing
dark. Here, too, are flashes of nature—uthe strut of
pigeons, the harbor gull over canyons seething with
the human flood; even the children at play in
crowded streets, their cries and minnow swarming,
belong as much to city nature as to human life.

A familiar city changes endlessly; a strange one
challenges the walker. When I was fifteen I used
to plunge into London and promptly and excitingly
lose myself. Yet, wherever I got lost, I immedi-
ately found myself before the, door of some famous
house, some fascinating shop, museum, or monu-
ment. I would walk till I was hungry, dive into
the nearest restaurant, and walk on again, whether
in a circle, a figure-eight, or straight toward Scot-
land I never knew. I brought home with me, cus-
tom-free, unlimited impressions of ancient churches,
squares, parks, palaces, bobbies, beggars, and bar-
rel-organs.

W’ith my brother I walked in the English coun-
tryside—through Shakespeare’s Avon Valley, the
Lake District, on the Devonshire coast, and along
the road to Canterbury, taken by Chaucer’s Pil-
grims and Caesar’s legions. Always we chose the
byways, avoided the highways. We talked with
farmers and shepherds, with carters and soldiers
tramping home on leave. In no other way could we
have come to know the English as on that golden
holiday. Along the pOplar-bordered roads of
France, too, we took our way into the heart of a
nation new to us, for all the world is friendly to
the newcomer on foot.

The young-——light of foot and brave of heart—
know better than the rest of us that the way to
understand another country is to walk in it. Some
of us believe that here is one of the paths to peace.
We make much, and rightly, of exchanging stu-
dents with foreign countries. Why not also an
exchange of walkers? It might counteract false
Hollywood-born impressions if we guided foreign
youth groups to the real heart of America, afoot—
up the Great Smokies’ miles of trails, to the porch
where a mountain woman sits weaving, to the cider
presses of Vermont, the fishing villages of Maine,

74

the friendly farmyards of rolling Ohio. You do
not know a country till you have drunk from its

springs, and touched the hands of its simple folk,
and sat at their tables.

But the newcomer to America is impressed in-
stead with the flood of our trach and the maze of
our highways. Lanes that I used to tramp in Con-
necticut, under the shade of elms, listening to the
song of the veery, breathing the odor of lichen and
fern, are now six-lane highways. The elms are
gone; the smell is of gasoline fumes and, if a veery
sings, how shall anyone hear it? Our tremendous
highway improvement has all been at the expense
of the walker, whose life is not safe there, whose
very rights are ignored.

What trails we have in America are, most of
them, superb. The national parks, of course, are
the hiker’s paradise. The Green Mountains of Ver-
mont have, through the wisdom of rugged natives,
sternly kept an automobile highway away from
their crests. The Appalachian Trail is a thousand-
mile hiking path from Maine to Georgia, with
shelters and hostels all along the way. There I
slept on beds of balsam branches for a mattress
and never slept deeper; never did I see so much of
sunrise and northern lights, sunset and moonlight.
Members of the Sierra Club in California maintain
hundreds of miles of trails, dozens of shelters and
camping sites.

What we. need is the preservation of good walk-
ing around our crowded cities. An impractical
idea? Not at all. Cook County, Illinois, with a
tremendous industrial growth pressing upon it, has
encircled Chicago with a chain of forest preserves.
One can tramp the trails there for hours without
crossing a pavement or hearing trafhc. Giant burr
oaks spread their sinewy boughs over you; spring
beauties unroll a carpet before your feet; an egret
in bridal beauty stands motionless in the shimmer-
ing slough. You would hardly know that these
woods had been explored since Father Marquette
passed through them.

But whether in country or city, a world lies
waiting to be rediscovered. Open your door and
walk into it! No man is so free as he who strides
forth where he pleases. Tomorrow you will be
astonished at how much longer you can walk; the
next day you will want to walk farther. Where you
will go and what you will see is for you to find
out. But I promise you that you will return with
more than fresh air in your lungs. “The world of
our better selves,” says Dr. John Finley, famous
for footing it around New York, “is most surely
reached by walking.”

RECREATION

 

Costumes worn to gay nineties party add to the fun.

HE PAST-SIXTY lady in the striped bolero, the
. Napoleonic hat and the severe black gown
swung her arms in a series of dramatic gestures
and delivered an oration that would have wrung
the hearts of any ordinary audience. Her audience
was not ordinary and so it laughed.

A few minutes later, another past-sixty lady
spread her mouth in a wide smile and waited im-
patiently while a companion measured it. The
spread was exactly three and one-half inches. So
she was awarded first prize.

Such antics are not uncommon during meetings
of Pulaski’s Gay Nineties Club, a’ joyous little
organization of women who have, to a great de-
gree, succeeded in turning time backward in its
flight. As a matter of fact, old Father Time prob-
ably is glad to take a brief vacation when the girls
get together. Their sessions are not open to the
aged, and their imaginative minds can cook up
more deviltry than most naive teen-agers.

Sessions of the Gay Nineties Club began back
in 1947 when a group of Pulaski, Tennessee’s
more matronly (NOT elderly, please) ladies decided
that something should be done about Father Time.
Not content with growing old gracefully, "the

MAY 1950

Helen P.
Abernathy

Accent on Youth

“girls” believe that it is just as well, perhaps bet-
ter, to mix a little fun into the process. The mem-
bers readily admit that they have celebrated their
sixtieth birthday—but that’s all, sister. Anybody
who mentions age pays a comparatively stiE tine
into the club’s none-too-full treasury. There even
is a penalty for having birthdays, such unfor-
tunate persons being required to become hostess
for the meeting that month.

For a while the girls rotated their monthly meet—
ings among their homes, but the preparation of
hot dishes (they don’t get enthusiastic over dainty
sandwiches) proved too great a strain and so the
sessions now are held in a Pulaski coffee shop.

Costumes worn to the meetings are the epitome
of The New Look—but in reverse. At a recent
session, planned as a repetition of Friday after-
noon in a school of the gay nineties period, the
girls hit an all-time high in the matter of dress.
Cameos appeared on stately silk neckbands ; bro-
cades, bustles, lace mitts and towering hair-do’s
vied for attention. The climax of the day’s enter-
tainment was a spelling match, with’ a string of
ears of corn awarded as the prize.

 

'Reprinted from the Nashville Tennustan.

75

N EXAMINING an
I existing commu-
nity recreation set-up
which is distinguished
by outstanding profes-
sional-volunteer co-
operation, it might be
interesting to see how
nearly it follows the

‘5 basic patterns recom-
Mrs. Ruby Payne mended in the article
“Partners on the Job,”

page sixty-four in this issue of RECREATION.

There is a community center in Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania, which one might very possibly wander
into and find everything going very smoothly in-
deed—with no director in sight. Here volunteers
seriously accept their responsibilities for program
activities, and the absence of a professional leader
in no way interferes with the functioning of the
day’s schedule.

Over twenty years ago the Crispus Attucks Cen-
ter was opened, ostensibly to serve the needs of
the local Negro population. At that time it con—
sisted of two rooms in a residence, in charge of a
full-time professional worker. After some experi—
mentation, G. D. Brandon, superintendent of rec-
reation then, as now, was fortunate in finding,
through Mr. Attwell of the National Recreation
Association, just the right person for this job of
leadership—Mrs. Ruby Payne, a trained young
Negro woman from Ohio.

When Mrs. Payne arrived on the scene, the
church women of the community, being aware of
local needs, already were showing some interest in
the new community center; and the new director
was asked to meet with their missionary associa—
tions and speak to them about the work and needs.
At that time they were pursuing a study of Africa,
which opened the way for her approach to them.
Mrs. Payne met with them many times. They
were pleased with her interest and sincerity, and
wanted to know how they could tie in with what
was being done at the center; how they could be
helpful in promoting better community under-

standing of good interracial relationships and of
the need for the new center. (At that time, the

community knew little about the local Negroes.)

As an initial step, plans for a community con-
cert were- worked out by the professional worker
in cooperation with this willing and civic-minded
group. Florence Cole Talbert, who had sung the
title role of Aida in Italy, was obtained. Commu-
nity interest became enthusiastic and the affair was
a great success.

 

76

All projects since then have been interracial.
Volunteers have been drawn together in a common
concern regardless of color or creed. The hot lunch
project for neighborhood primary and elementary

.school children was started by the church women

and is now in its tenth year of operation. An inter-
faith committee of volunteers—all of them busy
community women —— assumes all responsibility,
planning and work. The venture, conducted daily
in the basement play room of the community cen-
ter, is supported by‘ contributions of food and

A VOL UN TEE

money periodically collected in churches through-
out the city, and by government subsidy—nine
cents per meal per month plus government surplus
food. Each meal consists of a substantial hot dish,
sandwiches, milk and dessert. n

A small charge of about fifteen cents per meal is
made to families where the family situation war-
rants it. Careful investigation is made in each in-
stance. All other meals are free. In December, for
instance, a total of 1,163 meals were served—or an
average of seventy per day. Of these, 825 were
free meals, 3 38. were paid meals. During that same
month, over one hundred women volunteers con-
tributed 555 hours of service.

They make sandwiches, set tables, serve and
play hostess—six church women being present to
conduct each meal. Their schedule is set up by the
committee, which meets monthly at the home of
one of its members. It is impossible to talk with
these faithful women and their able chairman, Mrs.
Emory \Vitwer, and with Mrs. Harland Fague,
president of the Lancaster Council of Church—
women, without realization of the genuine satis-
faction and enjoyment which they achieve through
giving their services. Being thoroughly convinced
that they are needed, and completely understand-
ing of the aims of Mrs. Payne’s work, wild horses
could not drag them away from doing their part.

They get a great deal of pleasure, too, out of
planning special lunch room parties on holidays.
Last Christmas they served a turkey dinner with
all the trimmin’s—the turkeys being donated by a

RECREATION

local business woman. On the following week they
held a Christmas party for the tots, with a Christ-
mas tree, Santa, decorated tables and placegifts—
also made by volunteers.

The original establishment of this project was
the beginning of the successful working relation-
ships between community volunteers, Mrs. Payne
and the professional workers who have been added
to her staff during the growth of the work.

Today, the center, lodged in a building of its
own, is a beehive of stimulating activity with white

7UCCESS STORY

and Negro volunteers cooperating with each other
and with staff in the planning and carrying out of
the program. This program has grown, quite
simply and naturally, into one for all local folks who
need recreation services. Mrs. Payne herself is the
first to admit that she would be lost without her
volunteers. Their continued enthusiasm has made
possible great strides in service to the community
and is definitely making its mark upon it.

There has grown out of it, for instance, the city-
wide Lancaster Interracial Council, made up of a
representative group of citizens—individual minis-
ters, church women, professional pe0ple, social
workers, and representatives of groups such as the
YWCA, YMCA, Seventh Day Adventists, Jewish
organizations, Unitarian Service Committee and
so on. Mrs. Payne, of course, is a charter member.
This council, interestingly enough, was born at a
corn roast in 1943 in a small interracial group who
were enjoying, in an informal way, the fellowship
which grows between persons interested in promot-
ing better living standards for community pe0ple.

Subsidiary committees of the council have un-
dertaken really thrilling projects. The Youth
Placement Committee, for instance, under the able
leadership of Dr. Henry N. Williams, a busy physi-
cian and A. William Hill, a local undertaker, com-
bats a rather subtle local discrimination in employ-
ment, guides local youth in vocational matters,
provides a listing of local job opportunities, and
has established successful week-end work camps.
The committee has been active for three years.

MAY 1950

Mrs. Payne, in the community center, helps greatly
in the job of keeping in close contact with the
young people served by the committee, talking
with them about their personal problems, studies
and so on. Much of this individual sort of thing
goes on daily at the center. Leading business and
professional people have been called in to address
the young people and to tell of qualifications neces-
‘sary to the various fields of work. The committee
also has been successful in getting the services of
several nationally outstanding minority peoples to
speak to the groups, and in arranging interviews
for the young people with those local industries
which have agreed to base their employment upon
merit.

In this, the third year, the week-end work camps,
patterned after those in Philadelphia, are being
conducted at the Crispus Attucks Community Cen-
ter. These, too, are interracial and are an experi-
ment in “joyously shared c00perative living—-—de-
voted to the welfare of others”. Essentially, the
project is looked upon as a training ground for
peace-makers. The~campers gather at the center
on Friday evenings, and on Saturday go forth in
pairs to help improve living conditions in the com-
munity, to work in homes in the poorer sections of
town, doing the painting and patching and car-
pentry work necessary, and generally improving
the premises where the owner cannot afford to have
it done. “And,” says Dr. Williams enthusiasti-
cally, “the youngsters are glad to pay for the privi-
lege of doing it.” _A complete week-end usually
costs them around three dollars each.

On Friday evening the group plays games and
rounds out the evening discussing what members
are to do next day and the phiIOSOphy of it. On
Saturday, the actual work is done under the super-
vision of a trained workman. In the evening they
return to the center for supper, discussion of the
day’s experience and recreation. On Sunday morn-
ing, all go to church together—tying in with the
interracial service at different churches in the com-
munity.

Groups in the work camps have to be small, the
ideal number being around fifteen to twenty, but
actually running about forty. In Lancaster they
are made up of high school boys and girls, students
from Franklin and Marshall College, Millersville
State Teachers College and Penn State College,
Youth Fellowship groups, and young married folks.

The city-wide series of interracial church ser-
vices, mentioned above, is another example of the
far-reaching influence of the center’s successful re-
lationships with volunteers. They are arranged and
conducted by the interracial council in cooperation

77

with the ministerial association. Community
churches take turns in presenting these services.

Another subsidiary committee of the council,
under the able leadership of the Rev. Robert
Roschy of the Evangelical and Reform Church, is
that which investigates and tries to promote com-
munity concern for bettering the living and work-
ing conditions of migrant workers who are trans-
ported like cattle across state lines.

Crispus Attucks Community Center activities
have grown in corresponding measure and in a way
which would have been impossible without the help
of interested citizen volunteers. While the board,
under present chairmanship of Mrs. Carrie Foster,
who has been a member from the beginning, does
all it can to increase and improve facilities at the
center, other volunteers, such as those on the bi—
racial board headed by 1Martin M. Harniston, pres-
ident of the recreation association, help with the
planning and conducting of program activities.

Mrs. Payne has long since recognized the real
contribution in ideas and vision, as well as in ser-
vice, that volunteers can make. She so wholeheart—
edly accepts this fact that she draws from them the
very best they have to offer. Perhaps that is why
she faces no problem in holding them. In being
not only willing, but eager, to give them a'dded
responsibility, she makes them feel necessary to the
success of the over-all program in which she, long
since, “has stimulated their interest. She feels that
this, more than any other type of recognition, is
the secret of having volunteers serve loyally over a
period of years. Says one volunteer, “Mrs. Payne
inspires all of us, keeps us coming. I have been
here for eleven years.” ’

Among community center projects there is, for
instance, the day nursery for tiny tots, under the
leadership of Mrs. B. F. Snavely who is chairman
of the Day Nursery Auxiliary and a member of
the recreation board, and Mrs. C. C. Vogt of the
Unitarian Service Committee. A volunteer advi—
sory group to the staff is headed by Mrs. Elizabeth
Carter. A newspaper, put out by teen-agers, in
mimeographed form, has been started by a young
volunteer, wife of Rupert Tarver, the center ath-
letic director. Mrs. Tarver had been in newspaper
work before she married, and when she first came
to the center, Mrs. Payne casually mentioned hav-
ing long felt that getting out a newspaper might be
an enjoyable and rewarding activity for the young
folks.

“I don’t know how it happened, really,” laughs
Mrs. Tarver, “but the next thing I knew, I had
gathered a group of teen-agers together to talk it
over. Since then I’ve just been dropping hints and

l

78

they’ve gone on from there.” Regarding her vol—
unteer job she adds: “I find that it holds me more
than a paid job, for there is so much freedom in it.
I’m not being told to keep a time schedule; there—
fore I take a great deal of pride in doing so; and I
work twice as hard as I ordinarily would.” ,

The library of the center has been completely
taken over by the Pilot Club, a volunteer organiza-
tion. Members collect books and catalogue them,

furnish leadership for storytelling, library services. ’

A student from the Lancaster Bible School leads a
bible storytelling group each week, which is
crowded with from thirty to forty children ranging
from four to twelve years of age.

Two new projects, started and led by volunteers,
are a glee club for youngsters, twelve to fourteen
years old, which already is arranging public ap-
pearances, and a young adults group. The latter
is for those from eighteen to thirty-five years of
age. An okay was first obtained from Mrs. Payne
and the recreation board by the volunteer leader—
Mrs. Donald Englest; then boys and girls were
called together to talk it over. Charges for the
group were established. All members were to be
requested to pay the fee of one dollar per year for
joining the center, and twenty-five cents at each
meeting for refreshments. They decided to hold
some special event one evening per month provid-
ing nothing else which might include them was
being held at the center during that time. The
group does its own planning; committees for re-
freshments, music, decorations, registration have
been set up. Each committee is assigned two vol-
unteer advisors—a husband and wife—to' help
them with problems and decisions.

In athletics, services of volunteers, eighteen
years old and over, are used at games for ticket—
taking, score—keeping, coaching, serving refresh-
ments. Mr. Tarver works closely with these vol-
unteers and is proud that many of them benefit and
grow through their volunteer experience.

In addition to volunteers who actively take part
in daily programs at the center, Mrs. Payne has
a list of “specialists” upon whom she can call to
perform at any moment—such as a trained ballet
dancer, trained musicians, arts and crafts people,
and so on.

In explaining her success with volunteers she
lines up her methods of getting and holding them
as follows:

“I give a great many talks about our recreation
program before local groups, and I never pass up
an opportunity to tell of a new activity that we
would like to take on if leadership were available.
We plan to keep the program in a state of growth,

RECREATION

with the result that there is always a need of, and
room for, new leaders -—because of additional
groups served.

“I try to make clear, too, the very real satisfac-
tion, enjoyment and personal growth that comes
to the volunteer and outweighs the time and effort
involved in the actual service. Self-fulfillment and
richness of living come only as we use our talents.

“Because our program is always open for obser-
vation, and volunteers already working verify this
statement, its presentation carries appeal and con-
viction. Volunteers bring in other volunteers; they
are good sales people because they enjoy them—
selves at the center, where they form new and
interesting friendships.

“When approached by someone who shows in-
terest in doing volunteer work, I ask, ‘What do
you like to do that you would enjoy sharing with
someone else?’ I chat with them a bit and say,
‘Why don’t you call me ?’ When they come in for
an interview, we talk over the work. I explain our
objectives and make it clear that our approach is
different from that of the school——that people come
to us only because they want to come.

“We never refuse any volunteer who wishes to
help, but start with his or her latent abilities. Most
persons are surprised and delighted to find that
they can do more to enrich the prOgram than they
might suspect. They often discover that they pos—
sess skills of which they have been unaware. As
yet, we have never found a volunteer who proved
to be of absolutely no service to program. Through
personal conferences, cooperation of all staff per—
sons and careful planning, we have been able to
help the new person overcome insecurity or weak-
ness.

“One must, of course, look for certain qualities
in a volunteer leader such as a real interest in and
a liking for people, sincerity, sense of responsibil-
ity, friendliness, reliability and a sense of humor.
A particular ability, skill or interest is particularly
important for program volunteers.

“Appreciation, recognition, publicity and cooper-
ation on the part of regular staff people toward the
volunteer over a period of time must be shown.
Praise should not be withheld when merited; like—
wise, encouragement and constructive suggestions

should be offered in a helpful rather than critical
manner.

“My calendar of speaking engagements for Jan-
uary and February may give some idea as to how
wide a group of people may be reached about a
program of recreation : apanel discussion of county
and city schools, which marked the closing of a
seminar for teachers at Franklin and Marshall Col—

MAY 1950

 

Left: volunteers help with community center games;
right: hot lunch project was begun by church women.

lege; First Baptist Missionary Society; Mothers’
Club, Grace Lutheran Church; Mothers’ Club,
New Danville School (County) ; panel discussion
on emotional health, Jewish Community Center;
radio program of Lancaster Council of Church
Women; PTA of Nathan C. Schaffer School; a
meeting to promote joint talent show between stu—
dents 0f Elizabethtown College and our center.
This last grew out of a visit of the students to the
center one evening. They were primarily inter-
ested in volunteer leadership for teen-age groups.
After we talked together, it occurred to the boys
and girls that they could offer leadership in music,
debating, drama or play producing and game su-
pervision. As a start toward getting acquainted,
they decided that we have a talent show.”

Note how Mrs. Payne leaves the planning to
them, but is present to give guidance and sugges-
tions. Without question that will be a contagiously
enthusiastic group.

She goes on, “Through affiliations, such as the
following, I find splendid opportunities to make
new contacts and recruit new volunteers: Board of
Directors, YWCA; Board of Directors, Lancaster
County Mental Hygiene Association; Social W ork-
ers Club; Interracial Council; Lancaster Council
of Church W'omen ; Y-Teen Committee of YVVC:-\.”

Mrs. Ruby Payne’s good leadership and her
techniques of work with friendly helpers should
carry many a pertinent suggestion for those recre-
ation leaders who are looking for better ways of
drawing local citizens, their good will, skills and
services into community recreation prOgrams.

The volunteer worker and the paid worker be-
come an effective team when each recognizes and
respects the defined responsibilities and the particu-
lar capabilities of the other.—Advisory Committee
on Volunteer Service of Community Chests and
Councils, Incorporated.

79

 

IBEAS for Activities with the Elderly

///

IN THE LAST SURVEY of public recrea-
tion, the two activities that showed the
greatest relative gain since 1946 were
square dancing and activities for older
people. The latter shows the growth of many
special programs and clubs for the more—than-
seventies.

Every now and then a special type of program
catches the imagination of recreation leaders and
the general public—witness the teen-age centers of
the war years. The only danger in such concentra-
tion of interest and energy is the possible neglect
of other closely allied programs that are taken for
granted, and therefore seem colorless beside the
drama of the new program.

 

Not all of the older people can take advantage ‘

of our new Golden-Age Clubs. Some are home-
bound. Some are hOSpitalized. Some are not in-
terested in this kind of program. Many are in
homes for the aged. However, they all should have
a fair part in this new interest of ours.

The following suggestions were compiled with
institutions for the aged primarily in mind, but you
can easily apply some of them to such groups in
your own community or organization. Many of
the ideas will fit into the family and into the local
Golden-Age Club. Try them out!

o A greeting card with a brand new dollar bill
(or a new handkerchief or homemade calendar) is
a line individual birthday surprise to be found by
the older person at his place at the table, or on his
tray if he is bedridden.

0 Checkers, dominoes, lotto, parchesi, monopoly,
cribbage, chess, peggity, rook, bingo and anagrams
can be added to the card games usually played.

80

Also pick—up sticks, lexicon, contract bridge, gin
rummy and canasta might be introduced. Many old
folks have not played some of these games for
years so may have forgotten them or would never
think to ask for them voluntarily. If they are
brought to their attention, however, there might be
quite a revival of interest.

0 Horseshoes, using the lighter rubber ones
rather than the heavier regulation shoes, as well as
quoits, bowling-on-the-green and croquet particu-
larly appeal to the men; special traditional games
taken from the old countries, such as bocci or curl-
ing might also be introduced, as well as shuffle-
board.

0 A half—hour of music in the evening-“some
group singing of favorite hymns, or victrola rec-
ords, or rolls on a player piano—might bring many
listeners even though not all would care to join in
the singing.

o A television set helps-ma really good one!
If you can’t afford it, try to get a local church,
civic or social group to contribute it. Arrange pro-
grams to suit all tastes. '

o A movie screen and projector to show movies
once a week, if possible, also contributes much.
Again, if you can’t afford it, perhaps some local
group would be willing to bring in the film and
equipment.

0 Reading aloud for a short while directly after
dinner, selections to be taken from the fiction li-
brary, magazines, the daily neWSpaper, or other
sources, would be of common interest to many.

0 A book cart on which are books and maga-
zines, as well as supplies for quiet games and per-
haps for simple craft projects, might be a very ser-

RECREATION

viceable piece of equipment. Perhaps many more
folks would take advantage of reading supplies and
game materials if these were brought to them and
they could take their choice.

0 An exhibit of handwork by the older folks
might well be displayed in a convenient place. A
china closet, bookcase, or discarded candy show-
case would serve the purpose and the contents
might be offered for sale or just used to demon-
strate ways in which the people use their leisure
time. Most of us really like to “show off,” and
such a display might do much to encourage partici—
pation in some activity.

0 Speaking of diSplays: there are many interest-
ing ones in downtown stores, public libraries, mu-
seums and clubs which can be borrowed by an
institution for its residents to enjoy. A display of
antiques, dolls from various countries, historic
relics, quilts, and other fancy work would provide
“something to see” and “something to talk about”.

0 A “tinker” sh0p, where those interested in
making things with their hands can “putter
around” with a few tools and

q materials, is often the answer to
(g)   )D a real need for interests and ac-

é tivity. In a few institutions, the

\ services of an occupational ther-
apist have been secured and a real program of
handcrafts is planned according to individual in-
terests and ability. This, of course, is most de-
sirable. '

0 Individual hobbies often include collections of
shells,'fans, stamps, coins, miniature animals, pitch-
ers, postcards, match folders, play programs, clip-
pings, etchings, souvenir spoons, autographs, but-
tons and tea cups. Besides collections, hobbies may
include model building, the many contests spon-
sored by radio and magazines, writing, tracing
genealogies, photography and crafts work of all
sorts. ‘

o Surprises are appreciated in any institution,
whether it is for young or old. Perhaps a surprise
of some sort every two weeks might be arranged—
not too upsetting a one! Tea and cookies in the
middle of the afternoon, an auto ride, some
“wandering musicians” to go through the wards,
attractive favors for the trays (of course, these
should appear every holiday) are a few things
which might help inject a little excitement‘and ad-
venture into the placid routine of the life of these
older folks. \Vhile they do not appreciate too much
excitement and departure from the usual routine
of living, an occasional surprise will add something
to their day.

0 A few really “big” days can be added to the
MAY 1950

program and made as full and as special as pos-
sible. The selection of these will depend somewhat
upon the predominant religion of the group, but
Thanksgiving, the Fourth of July and Halloween
are common to all. An outdoor picnic will make

July Fourth a day to remember. A Thanksgiving
dinner and a Halloween party are hne for the

other two events. Have a costume party! Christ-
mas, New Year’s Eve, Valentine’s Day, Easter,
May Day, St. Patrick’s Day are all full of possi-
bilities. But don’t celebrate halfway; do it well or
not at all. Keep it personal and individual—no
“wholesale” pattern as the same gift for everyone
or the same gift wrappings at Christmas!

0 One institution has a
“pass around supper” every
Thursday and Sunday eve-
nings when the maids and
cooks are off duty. The food
is done up in box lunch style and taken around to
the rooms, with coffee served from a moving cart.
Residents enjoy this still further by being per-
mitted to invite a friend. This meal is particularly
popular; often several combine to have a party. At
another institution, the plan is similar but the food
is set up and served buffet style on each floor.

0 The elderly ladies at one institution have great
fun preparing an annual entertainment to present
to their board of directors.

0 An occasional tea, to which residents may in-
vite their friends from the outside, offers them the
opportunity of dressing up in their good clothes
and playing hostess.

o It is often possible to have the local public
library establish a station in the institution whereby
new books can constantly be brought in for the use
of the residents. The librarian or a volunteer
might be willing to give book reviews as well.

0 It might be possible to work out ways to get
contributions of yarn, cloth, thread, needles of all
sorts, scrap leather, felt and other crafts material.
Finished articles can be sold at an annual bazaar.

0 Service for other people is always to be en-
couraged and might be carried on through cooper-
ation with a needlework guild, Goodwill Industries
and so on. In some homes, the ladies make button
holes and sew on buttons to help these other
agencies. ,

0 Local civic and social groups and the local
recreation department might be encouraged to visit
your “home” with dramatic skits, dances, songs,
and other forms of entertainment. Also encourage
them to invite the older people to their special
functions, providing transportation.

0 Programs brought in for the entertainment of

81

 

the elderly are particularly enjoyed if children are
among the participants. Also, those programs in
which the folks themselves can take part—-—such as
group singing or in the reciting of the scripture-—
are very popular.

0 Often, there are tr00ps of Girl Scouts or simi-
lar groups which might help by reading aloud to
those folks who cannot see or by writing letters
for them.

0 A “community project” can give the folks
something to do and also foster a community spirit
and morale. This might include making a quilt for
the Red Cross, mending toys, making doll clothes
for poor children, helping a children’s group make
costumes, compiling a scrapbook for use in other
institutions.

0 Auto rides, donated by members of societies
or other friends, especially for those folks who
have few visitors and few opportunities to get away
from the home, are very appreciated—particularly
when the fall foliage is at its height, at spring blos-
som time and at Christmas, when outdoor decora-
tions in business and residential sections are so
pretty.

0 Shopping trips are another possibility, par-
ticularly if the home is in the country or a distance
from stores. Set a regular time for them'and a
meeting place where folks can assemble for the re-
turn trip. Many will wish to go “just for the ride”
or for a soda at the drugstore.

o Bowls of goldfish or tr0pical fish are interest-
ing to watch. Such pets as a canary, parrot, para—
keet, cat or dog provide outlets for affection and
conversation. If space is available and zoning laws
permit, a few chickens or rabbits in the backyard
would interest some of the men or women, par-
ticularly those from small or rural communities.

0 If possible, an outlet could be provided for

CUSTOM BUILT

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

     

Flexi Swing Seat—Price $3.85
CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT

I P. O. 474 HIGHLAND PARK, ILL.

82

growing things, with certain
outdoor space or flower beds
given to specific individuals to
cultivate. They could be made
responsible for cut flowers for
the table or lounge. If outdoor
space is not available, window
boxes, herbariums, potted
plants and bulbs could be provided, not to be just
looked at, but to be cultivated.

0 Many of the older people will be glad to have
a “quiet room” for prayer and meditation. This
could be equipped solely with a few chairs, or an
old pew from some church, a really good print of a
religious painting and soft lighting.

0 Friendliness and happiness could be en—
couraged by providing a real “home” setting—
warmth, comfortable chairs, good reading lamps,
pretty curtains, good pictures, furniture grouped
for congenial conversation.

These are only a few suggestions. The following
principles are important in any type of program for
this age group:

I. Keep older adults from becoming “isolated”

from the community.

II. Provide them with interesting and useful
things to do. .

III. Provide them with social opportunities, both
in and outside of the home.

IV. Provide them with “breaks” in routine and
with activities that have traditions and are
within their own childhood and adult experi-
ences.

V. Provide an “atmosphere” conducive to friend-
liness and emotional well-being.

Imagination, enthusiasm and patience are the
chief ingredients which make a recreation program

successful.

 

ATTENTION CAMP DIRECTORS

Link Belts made from hy-grade
LEATHER

Doz. $5.40 Gr. $58.40

Drop us a card requesting our latest booklet
illustrating our leather projects.

AUBURN LEATHER PRODUCTS

25 Paul Street, Auburn, N. Y.

RECREATION

 

O

Joseph Lee Day —— —- JULY 23, 1950

0 When considering your plans for a very special celebration to do
honor to Joseph Lee this year, cast your eyes over the pageant out-
lined below.* This was effectively given on a hillside in Rutland,
Vermont, last year, in the twilight of a summer evening. It was a
community-wide project, in which city departments cooperated. Neigh-
borhood groups helped; the fire chief was in charge of the lighting.
During your observance make sure that everyone becomes acquainted
with Joseph Lee———father of recreation in America—as a warm, fun-
loving person. Refresh memories as to his contribution to our age.

JOSEPH LEE MEMORIAL PAGEANT

Part I

I. Flag Raising . . . . . . . . . . ..You’re a Grand Old Flag
Sung by the Pageant Chorus
II. Narrative
III. Musical Interlude . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..I Want a Girl
Little Annie Rooney
Sung by the Pageant Chorus

IV. Episode One . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..The Need

Scene: An alley in the heart of one of the slum areas of
Boston. It is dirty and shabby, littered with trash, but a
place to play undisturbed by the local police officer—or so
it’s thought.

Time :‘ Summer, 1894.

Characters: Group of youngsters who live in the neigh-
borhood; police officer; Joseph Lee.

V. Musical Interlude. . .Down By the Old Mill Stream

VI. Narrative

VII. Musical Interlude. .Take Me Out to the Ball Game
He’s a Jolly Good Fellow
Sung by the Pageant Chorus

VIII. Episode Two . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .The Beginning

Scene: A vacant lot in the same slum area we visited
before—Joseph Lee’s first playground. There is no real
playground equipment—merely barrels, planks, rough see-
saws, and the outline of a baseball diamond.

Time: Summer of 189-1—several weeks later.

Characters: Neighborhood youngsters; same police of-
ficer; Joseph Lee.

Music: Auld Lang Syne; Homeward Trail

IX. Narrative

X. Episode Three . . . . . . . . . . . . .A National Movement

Scene: A room in the White House.
Time: Fall, 1906.

Characters: A group of prominent social workers;
President Theodore Roosevelt; Joseph Lee.
XI. Narrative

XII. Bicycle Parade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Music: Daisy Daisy
Sung by the Pageant Chorus

INTERMISSION

MAY 1950

Part II
I. Narrative

II. Episode One . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .The Organization
Scene: City Hall. ' '

Time: The present.
Characters: The local citizens behind the recreation

system.
III. Musical Interlude . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Funiculi Funicula
Sung by the Pageant Chorus
IV. Episode Two . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..A Staff Meeting

Scene: Rotary Field House.

Time: Any Thursday morning at eight o’clock.

(Note: The staff of the Rutland Playgrounds meets
every Thursday morning throughout the playground sea-
son. It is a breakfast meeting.)

Characters: Staff of the playgrounds.

Music: Here Comes the Sun.

V. Episode Three . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Typical Day

Scene: Representation of any one of the playgrounds.

Time: The present.

Music: Auld Lang Syne; Homeward Trail

VI. Narrative

VII. Episode Four . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Special Events

Rotary and Park Street Playgrounds. . .Doll Show

Dana Playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Bat Show

Main Street Park Playground. . . . .Costume Party

St. Peter’s Playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bocci

School Street Playground. .Horseshoe Tournament

Watkins Playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Farnily Picnic
VIII. Narrative

IX. Episode Five . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Banners and Songs

X. Finale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Campfire

Music: In the Evening by the Moonlight
Keep the Home Fires Burning
When You Wore a Tulip
Let the Rest of the \Vorld Go By
Taps -
Homeward Trail
The audience is invited to participate in all singing.

'Full script is available from the National Recreation Association
It twenty-live cents per copy.

83

 

Clickety-clack—steady click of
wheels fascinated youngsters.

Tickets, please—the conductor
even punched all their tickcts.

 

All-aboard—the trip was thrill-
ing from its start to finish.

Journey’s end—tired but happy
they disembarked for trip home.

84 RECREATION

FOR NEW YORK, VIA ALASKA

FORTY-SIX YOUNGSTERS recently had the time of
their lives on their first train ride. It all started
in the baby dancing class conducted by Eunice
Ware for the recreation department in Memphis,
Tennessee. Says Miss \Vare, “While dancing Choo
Choo one day, the youngsters began talking about
trains. One had been on a train, and all the others
wanted to go. So, after many conversations, we set
the date, weeks in‘advance. We continued to talk
about it, enjoying the pleasure of anticipation. The
L & N Railroad was very cooperative, and the
ride was arranged in a special car. The conductor
even punched all of their tickets, which of course
we had made, as all the babies rode free.”

They were a s0phisticated lot of travelers—at
first. Oh, so grown up! Almost all swung their
little overnight bags with the air of veterans. And
one little redhead nonchalantly eXplained that he
had even packed his pajamas, “because I might
get tired.” He failed to mention that the bag had
been packed for a week.

It was a good try, but when forty-six youngsters
———ages two, three, four and five—are about to take
their first train ride, no amount of feigned indif-
ference is going to cover up the excitement.

Herded by twenty-four mothers, they gathered
at eleven-thirty a. m. in the waiting room at Union
Station. It was when Miss \Vare passed out the
long white “tickets” that the last thin veneer of
worldliness was shattered.

These were the tickets to faraway, mysterious
places. Maybe it would be New York, maybe
Alaska. Maybe there’d be Indians there, maybe
Eskimos. Actually, these were the tickets to Bart-
lett, thirty-nine minutes away.

MAY 1950

ELLIS MOORE

The trip was one series of thrills piled onto an-
other. The first came even before the young travel-
ers boarded the train, when Engineer Vergil Baker
came down to the platform for a visit.

Al Selph, two-and-one-half years old, was the
lucky one. Mr. Baker took him right up into the
cab for a close-up inspection.

“Make the train go 100 miles an hour,” shouted
Ronnie Summars. Mr. Baker promised he’d try.

The first sudden lurch of the train brought a
strange reaction. The gay, piercing chattering be-
came subdued. Then, suddenly, everyone thought
of food. Out of the brown paper bags came the
peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, the oranges,
apples and bananas.

With the food disposed of, it was time to explore.
And what glorious discoveries! Things like the
water coolers at each end of the car; the whistle
that Conductor Walter Herndon explained how to
use; the fun of skipping down and getting jounced
by the motion of the train.

The train was in high now, and so were the
spirits of its small occupants. They were all having
fun. But then—hours, even days, too soon—it all
stopped at Bartlett, and there were the autos at the
siding, ready for the trip home.

As the youngsters piled into the cars, train Num-
ber 102 chugged away from Bartlett Station on its
journey north to Bowling Green, Kentucky. If one
empty car was slightly dirtied up by sticky little
fingers, perhaps the L & N will forgive and forget
in the knowledge that it has forty-six young, en-
thusiastic converts to travel rail. '

Reprinted from The Commercial Appeal, Memphis, Tennessee.

‘7.»
'1‘

The Whole Family
0311100 CAMPING

Edwin L. Brock

IKE MANY another American family, we have
L 'often dreamed of making a trip to other sec-
tions of the country to view some of the splendor
and beauty of America. But, like other middleclass
families, we have hesitated because of the cost.
How can one go on an extended trip with four
children? Just the fares of bus and train travel
make the trip prohibitive. Lodging and food costs
in eating places along the way certainly make it
impossible.

Yet there was still the persistent desire to take
a trip and, last summer, the desire became a reality.
All six of us—our four youngsters range from one-
and-a-half to seven years of age—made a six-
thousand mile trip into the western part of the
country. We visited Rocky Mountain National
Park, Yosemite, Grand Canyon, Carlsbad Caverns
and other equally fascinating sights.

Our first purchases were an army officer’s tent,
a ground cloth of canvas, three large air mattresses,
a gasoline stove, and some mosquito netting. This
equipment cost less than one hundred dollars and
is still in excellent order for future trips. With this,
we solved both the lodging and the food problems.
We would drive each day until five or six o’clock
and then stOp for camp to pitch tent and cook
dinner. Later on, the ground cloth was spread in
the tent, the air mattresses inflated, and the chil-
dren tucked in under the blankets.

Between three and four hundred miles was our
usual day’s travel, because we made a policy of

E. L. Brock, a staunch supporter of family camping, is
minister of the Methodist Church, Angie, Louisiana.

86

stopping about every two hours to give the chil-
dren a chance to get out of the car and move about
a little. The back part of the car had also been
made into a large bed by building up Space between
the seats with suitcases and covering the whole area
with deflated mattresses and some of the blankets.

_ This gave the children ample room for both play-

ing and sleeping while we were traveling. Some
thoughtful friends had provided them with a box
to be Opened on each day of the first week of the
trip. These were a source of great excitement for
each box contained small toys to use in the car—
crayons, story books, balloons, and numerous other
items gathered from the dime stores.

Wherever it was possible, we planned to spend
the night in a state or national park. These usually
have special areas for the camper, equipped with I
running water and outdoor tables. Our first night,
for example, was spent in Texas’ Daingerville
State Park; our second, in Oklahoma’s Roman
Nose State Park. Other nights were spent in the
Rocky Mountain, Yosemite and Grand Canyon
National Parks. To help us in locating these, we
secured a large map of “Recreation Areas of the
United States” from the National Parks Service.
Two nights were spent on the desert, with the
open sky as the only covering overhead.

Our gasoline bill totalled $98.29, plus $16.95 for
oil and greasing. Food costs were no higher than
they would have been at home, and there was no
lodging bill except the cost of the equipment. But
the lure of camping is not simply in its economy.
It offers rare and interesting experiences that can-
not be found in the tourist camp or hotel. There
was that night in Yosemite, for example, when we
were camping alongside Lake Tanaya. We were
seated about our campfire eating our supper when
a deer came down right to the edge of our en-
campment and ate bread from the hands of the
children. .

And there is little trouble involved. Any couple
can master the few details of pitching a tent and
soon perform the task like experts. Cooking over
a gasoline stove can be just as simple as it is at '
home. You can even eliminate most of the dish-
washing, as we did, by using paper plates and cups
and wooden forks and spoons. Besides, food in the
open air and about a blazing campfire is always
better than any meal at home.

Of course, the presence of small children will
raise some problems for the camper. But children
usually adapt themselves to a rugged camp life.
Yes, our experience has convinced us—vacation-
ing is possible and reasonable even for the whole
family. Camping is fun and the Whole family can go l

RECREATION

SWIMMING

 

Glenna Lowes

AND WATER SAFETY

IN CANADA

cc HERE WILL be one drowning

T every sixteen hours in Sas-

katchewan during this summer vacation period,”

stated Bevan Lawson, Red Cross swimming and

water safety director in the provincial capital, Re-
gina, last May first.

Civic officials, alarmed at this startling predic-
tion, discovered that it was based on statistical
records from previous years, and decided to do
something about it.

A survey showed that out of approximately
6,000 Regina school children, only fourteen per
cent could swim a distance of ninety feet. Every-
one agreed that a precautionary measure was a
must, so a swimming and water safety campaign,
one of the largest of its kind in Canada, was the
result. The drive was sponsored by the Saskatche-
wan Red Cross, the city recreation division and
The Regina Leader-Post, in a wholehearted effort
to prevent children from falling prey to water ac-
cidents. .

A campaign of this scope needs a lot of fore-
thought, preparation and hard work, but after only
two months of planning and two months of execu-
tion, almost I, 500 enthusiastic boys and girls could
swim 120 feet and were well-versed in the do’s and
don’t’s of water safety.

Representatives of the three sponsoring organi-
zations met two months before the beginning of
classes on July 4 to plan publicity, qualifications
for entrance, application forms, swimming pool fa-
cilities and instruction. They decided to have two
complete courses during the summer months—one

MAY 1950

from July 4 to 23 and the second from August 2
to 23. Classes were to be held in half-hour periods
from ten to eleven-thirty daily, except Sundays.
Instruction was to be free—and requirements, lim-
ited. Applicants had to be at least four feet four
inches tall, have a desire to learn to swim and be
able to put their faces into the water.

Daily feature stories in the newspaper urged
parents to encourage, but not force their children
to participate in the learn-to-swim campaign. They

. were assured that every possible safety precaution

would be taken. Pictures appeared showing young
water-hopefuls practicing putting their faces into a
basin of water at home, to prove that officials were
quite serious about the “face in water” qualifica-
tion. Youngsters were warned, “If you want to
splash and swim with your friends, you must learn
to submerge now!” Therefore, when the drive be-
gan, instructors did not have any difficulty coaxing
the applicants to dunk their heads.

Three brand new community swimming pools,
equipped with the most modern water-filtering ma-
chinery available, were ready in time for the first
lesson. A number of qualified Red Cross swim—
ming instructors were assisted by volunteer swim-
mers whose job it was to aid any young boy or girl
in difficulty.

Then began the task of registration. One week
before the pools opened, application forms appeared
four times in The Leader-Post. Hundreds of
school children clipped them, got their parent’s
signature and, one week later, lined up at their
community centers to register and have their

87

height checked. The four-o’clock bell was still
sounding in the distance when in they thronged!
\ few applicants looked dubiously at the four feet
four inches requirement, arched an eyebrow and
stretched with all their might. Some young lads
managed to scrape through by virtue of a haircut.
Applications were numbered as they were received
and the next day each successful applicant received
a card allocating him to a particular pool and class.
\Vhen lessons began, a public address system was
used to broadcast the methodical procession of
water skills. Two lifeguards were always on duty
and four kept track of the bobbing heads during
the busy periods. The “buddy” system was en-
forced and all learn-to-swim members were urged

to work in pairs. A rigid instruction schedule of
nfteen lessons was followed closely.

     

   
 

M ff???

,.
" '- 1 _ r
" . r -.-
' . . g 5 .
' .-' a:
x
l

E .a " -
_ _ _ - -:- ’3.) (m
. E; I a. V a; - q.‘ -:- ” t:- KIA-t” -
' ‘AI HLE l IC EQUIPME
‘ J: ' :-- I. :F:

.3 i . . h ' . “- .r g _
, I w.- m a. I_ .ms-t- ’V‘iA-o't-P-Né >. 
.- _ ' : -= .. I .1," ’ i I

.4! .

    
   
     
    

I   First Choice
 p  . for
 6ver Sport!

Available
Thru fLeading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

The last half-hour of every morning was re-
served for the improvers class, which consisted of
those who could swim thirty feet but who wanted
to improve their skill. .

Toward the end of the first month, when water
skills were more perfected, tests were conducted,
and successful applicants received the Red Cross
Junior Swimming Award. However, to win this,
swimmers had to do more than swim the length of
the pool. The committee stood by its slogan:
“Learn a sport that may someday save a life,” and
tests in water safety were also included.

By the time summer was almost over, “jelly fish
float,” “steam boat legs,” “hungry duck,” and
“sleigh ride” were familiar terms to nearly I,500
boys and girls. They had discovered that two parts

hydrogen and one part oxygen add up to more
than a scientific formula; such a combination

means a lot of fun. .I  " m”  

nv runner I» ray: FIILD .I
MINUFAC'UIING COMPANY 0 5'. LOUIS 3 MO.

Going to Japan?

RECENTLY, the Honorable Hiroshi Takada,

member of the House of Councillors in Japan
(corresponding to our Senate), visited America
with a delegation from the Japanese Diet to study
democracy in this country. Mr. Takada, also a
member of the Board of Directors of the Na-
tional Recreation Association of Japan and Presi-
dent of the Japanese Basketball Federation,

In every field of sport in Profeso

 

brought a letter of introduction from Soichi Saito, ssdif'ggfrgz‘e‘:
President of the Japan National Recreation Asso- qoficsmnd Hish§chools.in {wu-
ciation, to T. E. Rivers, Secretary of the National 32:2:1;:iéuiiiiilmifii'EEZiii
' - Equipment is recognlud as a hall.
Recreation Congress, and a special message for m, of mm, "a was“,
the National Recreation Association. P‘“°'"”"°°"
The National Recreation Association will be - —
glad to have word of any recreation friends who ‘   I“ rig:
may be planning to visit Japan during the smnmer. "3’79: “Ht-“H” w (mo- u- t A‘

88 ' RECREATION

How to occupy anxious mothers whose children are learning to swim.

We 30 ‘75 70%

IT WAS one day in early summer of 1949 that
the safety director of the Richland County
Chapter of the Red Cross came to the office of the
director of the City Recreation Department in
Mansfield, Ohio. He had a problem. Every week—
day morning during the summer months of 'July
and August, the water safety director and his staff
of volunteers conducted swimming classes for hun-
dreds of children at the local outdoor pools. The
mothers, whose children were too young to come
alone, congregated outside the fence surrounding
the pool and interfered with group instruction.
Johnny would get cold, and Mother would call him
to come and get a towel. Jane would be sitting on
the edge of the pool, and Mother would call to her
to get into the water, or to pay attention to the in-
structor. In any case, Mother took the child’s at-
tention away from the group. The water safety
director requested that the recreation department
conduct a program to occupy these parents while
their children participated in the water safety
classes. Here is the program that evolved.

The first morning that the swimming classes
were held, mothers and children all gathered in
one central place. Each child was assigned to his
instructor, and then the mothers were introduced
to the leader from the recreation department of
the city. It was a very hot day, and the mothers
had been in the hot sun for some time. so they
were amenable to the leader's suggestion to fol-
low her to the shade and comparative coolness of
a nearby park pavilion. From this location Mother

 

Mrr. Kirby i; the Director of Girlr’ and lVomen’r
Activitier, Deparpnem of Recreation, Mamfield.

MAY 1950

Virginia G. Kirby

could still see the pool, although she was not within
shouting distance of her child. -

Immediately, the leader informed the mothers
that the city recreation department had been re-
quested by the Red Cross to conduct a prOgram for
them, and they were assured of the safety of their
children. There were Girl Scouts to assist the
children in dressing and undressing, and there
were lifeguards in addition to group instructors.
Once each mother’s mind was set at ease, it was
time to let her know that it was to the best inter-
est of the child that she stay away from the side
of the swimming pool. The explanation given was:

“We mothers (the leader was a mother) seem
to be always in the way. We are all interested in
our children, and we want to be sure that they
are warm enough, and that they will learn to swim.
We want to prod them to go ahead and follow in-
structions. Meanwhile, we are interfering with the
child’s group instruction.

“Do not expect too much from your child right
away. Some will learn quickly, and some will ap—
pear to accomplish nothing for the first few weeks.
The latter will be very discouraging when your
morning hours are so valuable. But, consider
that some of you are more afraid of the water than
others, and remember that children are the same.
Even though your child does not appear to be
learning, he is. All of a sudden, one day, he will
float, and after that he will learn quickly the coor-
dinations of the various strokes. You cannot get
your child over the fear of water by coaxing, brib-
ing, or threatening, but you can help him this one
way. Let him practice his breathing in a bowl or
bucket of water at home."

89

At this point, the mothers were taught how to
breathe in the water. As they practiced inhaling
through the mouth and exhaling through the nose,
the entire group began to mix, finding old friends,
mutual friends, or making new ones. At the same
time, the natural leaders of the group became
identified.

Then check lists of program suggestions were
distributed, with instructions for each person to
check the subjects that she would like to hear
someone discuss or the things that she would like
to do. While considering the check lists, the super-
visor of arts and crafts on the playgrounds demon-
strated what the mothers could do in her field. It
was finally decided that, in order to satisfy all, the
program should include a great many of the pro-
gram suggestions.

Decorating wooden boxes and wooden bowls of
various shapes seemed to be the unanimous first
choice, with a talk or two a week as second choice.
The problems which had to be faced in planning
the program'were: .

I. A great number of the mothers, who were
there the first day, would not return as their chil-
dren were of an age that they could come alone on
the bus. However, these mothers did take part in
planning the program the first morning.

2. The mothers had arranged car pools so that
we had a partially different group of women each
morning. The first day it was simple to gather all
of the mothers together. After that, as each took
her turn driving, she had to be invited individually
to join the group, and she did not receive the full
explanation of the program.

3. There were four different swimming periods
a morning. It was difficult to find Speakers who
had the time and voice to give the same talk four
separate times. This made it necessary to use sales
representatives for some of our programs. They
were asked not to push the sale of their products,
but to talk generally concerning the subject. How-
ever, the groups always requested that their orders
be taken.

4. It was impossible for the playground super-
visor to be with the groups every morning for the
entire time and there was no other experienced or
trained group work leader on the staff to conduct
the program. A member of the playground staff, a
college girl, had to receive her training and ex-
perience at the same time as she worked with the
group.

The program was planned for the first week
from the check lists. The“ next three weeks the
groups planned their own activities. The program
for July included:

90

First Week:

Tuesday Explaining the purpose of the program
and getting acquainted
Wednesday Mending day
Thursday Cards
Friday Cosmetic demonstration
Second W'eek:
Monday Arts and crafts—woodwork
Tuesday Arts and crafts—woodwork
Wednesday An analysis of women’s magazines
Thursday Recipe exchange—bring your favorite
Friday Hair care and styling
Third Week:
Monday Arts and crafts
Tuesday Arts and crafts
Wednesday Stanley Brush Party
Thursday Cards
Friday Arts and crafts
Fourth Week:
Monday Arts and crafts
Tuesday Arts and crafts
Wednesday Swimming party
Thursday Letter-writing day
Friday Swimming and pot-luck noon picnic

When the program of the first month was eval-
uated in order to plan for new groups the month
of August, it was agreed that the mothers had en-
joyed the activities and their new friends. But
they‘ also felt that they would like to have swim-
ming lessons for themselves at the same time as
their children’s classes. This problem was pre-
sented to.the Red Cross. Fortunately, during the
month of August, the children’s classes were not as
crowded as in July, so the Red Cross director was
able to assign a section of the pool to be used by
the mothers for the purpose of instruction. This
program was the most satisfactory of all. The
complaint now was not that the mothers were an-
noying their children, but that the children were
annoying the mothers. The mothers learned to
swim exceptionally fast. At the end of the period
each day, the children would rush up to them and
ask, “What did you learn today?” Mother could
not admit her fear of the water to her child, so
she had to learn something! She put her face into
the water and started to fioat. The attendance of
the swimming classes during August was practi-
cally steady for the entire month.

It is not feasible to assume that the groups filled
a need for every mother. There are always a few
individualists who never participate in any group,
and there were usually two or three such mothers
in every class. However, the general problem of
mothers interfering with group instruction was
solved, and the program also served as a means
of recruiting women for the adult program offered
by the city recreation department during the fol-
lowing winter.

RECREATION

According to the Travelers In-

surance Company. 690 children

were killed and 44.650 were

lniurad while playing in the

streets during I949.

 

AY DAY in Moscow means noisy labor demon-
M strations ; but May Day in Chicago marks the
quiet opening of its annual play yard contest spon-
sored by the Chicago Motor Club. Its sole aim is
the establishment of new havens of recreation
which will mean freedom from traffic hazards for
youngsters on vacation.

The contest continues through August fifteenth
and is open to everyone except Chicago Motor
Club employees and their families. The judging is
based on fifty per cent for utility for
children, twenty-five per cent for con—
tributing to the appearance of the neigh-
borhood, and twenty-five per cent for
originality in design or equipment. Cash
prizes are divided among sixteen win—
ners in the north, northwest, west,
south and southwest sections of Cook

County, with a $250 grand prize for the  ._

best play yard in the entire area.

In announcing the opening of the
sixth play yard contest, Charles M.
Hayes, president of the Chicago Motor
Club, said:

“Recreation authorities and traffic
oHicials agree that the most ample pub-
lic recreation facilities alone cannot pro-
vide Cook County’s 700,000 children of
elementary and pre-school age with ade-
quate trafi’ic protection. This is princi-
pally because of the impossibility of distributing
locations so that youngsters unaccompanied by par-
ents will escape summer’s heavy traffic hazards.”

W' hen I read Mr. Hayes’ estimate of the proba-
ble death and accident toll occasioned by the yearly
school vacation, it sounded like a war casualty list.

q.

 

Mr. leen imtmct: at Radio Imtitute of Chicago.

MAY 1950

 

Play Yard Contests
for Safe Recreation

Paul Olsen

I was just back from three years in the ETC as a
recreation technician with the Ninth Air Force,
and I wondered how many neighborhood boys and
girls would be included in the list because of the
new crosstown speedway now running through our
formerly quiet southwest section of the city.
Lafayette Avenue’s residents are highly land-
scape-conscious, most of them afflicted with that
widespread keep-off-the-grass phobia. Before the
war- I had also nursed a garden club complex

 

\ “I '
. , "M 9  .L‘ - ‘9’“ ' ‘
'  ‘_.‘. H ‘c I. $3.3. .. "

Barbecue pit, formerly for adults, is now open to pigtail set.

and, because there wasn’t a park playground within
a mile, had done my share towards endangering
the children’s lives by shooing them into the streets
for their games.

But, after living among the bombed-out homes
of England, France, Belgium, Holland and Ger-
many, and watching shabby, half—starved children
playing among the rubble, I realized that worse

0]

things than an invasion of boys and bicycles could
happen to a lawn.

So, I entered the contest and started a rumor
along the neighborhood grapevine that Olsen’s fish-
pond, barbecue pit, badminton court, archery range
and umbrella-tabled patio—-—all formerly restricted
to sedate adult use—were now available to the
pigtail-and-pablum set.

It was a big summer. “7 hen it ended, the neigh-
bors weren’t talking to me and the backyard was
beaten to a frazzle. But the youngsters all thought
I was big stuff. Where I’d been a total stranger to
those who had been babies when I went into ser-
vice, I was now greeted warmly from all sides
whenever I walked up the block.

As for the contest—~the judges came around at
the end of the summer and congratulated me on
the popularity of my project—and gave it honor—
able mention. First, second and third prizes all
went to remodeled vacant lots with swings, slides
and exercise bars.

\Vell, the neighbors sighed in relief, that’s that!

It wasn’t. The lollipop brigade showed up in
even greater numbers the following summer. I
talked the Pipes family, who live in the corner
bungalow, into taking care of the overflow by
building a sandbox, a teeter-totter and an outdoor
hobby lobby, complete with benches and materials
for small artists and carpenters.

As I hauled out game equipment from my own
garage, I thought of my overseas recreation work
which included the conversion of Nissen huts and
abandoned Nazi barracks into theatres for the GI’s
favorite recreation—movies. I was still thinking of
all that garage Space going to waste—when it was
at such a premium—as I walked over to see Frank
Swanberg. Frank was an old buddy who had solved
his own juvenile recreation problems with a pro-
jector and a large library of sixteen millimeter
westerns and cartoons. ‘

The Patio Theatre Opened at dusk the following
evening, after sufficient p0pcorn had been manu-
factured on the barbecue pit outside. It was
munched and scattered by a large and apprecia-
tive audience while they watched the bandits going
thataway.

Shortly after the play yard contest closed, I re—
ceived a letter from Charles M. Hayes, in which
he enclosed a hundred dollar check and said :

“It is my pleasure to inform you that the judges
have selected your play yard for the first prize in
the southwest section. We appreciate your contri-
bution to the safety of the children in your neigh-
borhood, and h0pe your example will inspire others
to do a similar service next year.”

92

As a matter of fact, the boys and girls in our
block, the Pipes family on the corner, Frank Swan-
berg and his youngsters, and the neighbors (who
are speaking to me again) are taking over that
empty lot across the alley. The owner says it’s all
right with him, and we’re using the hundred dollar
prize money to buy equipment for the biggest and
best play yard in Cook County.

I bet we win that two hundred and fifty dollar
grand prize next year.

Playground All Wear the Neighborhood

GLENCARLYN is the oldest subdivision of Arling-

ton, Virginia, and its I 50 families, living in
detached homes, are proud of their village. There-
fore, it was natural that, when W. A. Richardson,
Arlington’s superintendent of recreation, set up a
summer playground there, everyone turned out to
help. What Ann Hoffman, the director, would
have done without them is problematical, for it’s
not easy to supervise fifty children at one time for
all the long, hot summer days. So the playground
decentralized of its own accord. Potential leaders
were found among the adolescent boys and girls
of the neighborhood. And, at long last, busy
mothers came forward with individual proposals
for activities in their own homes.

Outstanding among these during the summer of
1949 was an interesting doll project. For years
the family of Jack and Dorothy Ingram and their
three small sons have been making dolls of felt
and cotton, small enough for tiny fingers to cut
out, sew and finally use. So the children at the
playground were invited to join them. Thirty-two
children signed up for the activity—both boys and
girls, under twelve years of age. Each Thursday
afternoon. an average of twenty-five presented
themselves for work. A cutting table in an inside
room was well-lighted and unscratchable. Chairs
were scattered about the Ingram’s big porch, in-
formally, and for two hours, even on the hottest
days, small heads were bowed over their play-
work while marvelous figures evolved from very
simple and inexpensive materials. Each child cov-
ered the cost by bringing twenty-five cents.

When the dolls were finished, what was more
natural than a playground exhibit of the finished
project, of finger painting from another group, of
handwork and other activities carried on by all
the children? Some also entered the all-Arlington
doll show, but the value was in the fun of doing,
the freedom of the project and the completed dolls,
which were given to the children as gifts.

RECREATION

- GAMES F0ll HANDICA'PPED CHILDREN

ARECREATION PROGRAM for handicapped children
should include not only games, but all the
following types of group activities: crafts, music
and dramatics, swimming, gardening, care of pets,
picnics, trips, parties, movies.

The handicapped child needs group experience
to give him adequate incentive for entering an ac-
tivity and for continued participation in it. He
needs the group situation also because it offers an
opportunity for him to change from introspection
—all attention on himself and his handicap—to
forgetfulness of self and concern for the needs of
others and for what the group is accomplishing as
a whole. Only with such incentive is the child go—
ing to be able to adjust to his difficulty more con-

structively and happily, and develop from there to '

the best of his physical, mental and social abilities.

Games in a recreatiOn program, led by an en-
thusiastic leader who knows his individual chil-
dren, are a great help in bringing about their ad-
justment and development. They are a media
through which a leader may meet the needs of the
child and, at the same time, lead him into better
habits, attitudes and physical development.

It is most important that a leader know the gen-
eral and individual needs of the children and how
these needs can be met through games. This
knowledge will determine what games should be
chosen, how they should be presented and what
should be accomplished through them.

The leader should keep in mind these needs of
the handicapped child:

I. He needs to gain courage, the will to get
well, and the Spirit to try. He needs to get more
fun out of life, to gain a joy and enthusiasm for
living. He needs to get pleasure from activities
of various kinds, from accomplishments of many

Author 1': recreation director, Greenbelt, Maryland.

MAY 1950

SAM S. FOX

things, and to develop appreciation.

2. The child is in great need of security and re-
assurance. Leaders and all those dealing with the
handicapped child must let him know that they are
back of him and give him proper'love, comrade—
ship and care.

3. He needs to feel accepted by the immediate
group and all others with whom he will come in
contact. This necessitates personality growth and
improvement, and resocialization.

4. The handicapped child needs to adjust to his
disability without bitterness or moroseness.

5. He needs to have normal experiences or as
near normal as possible to those enjoyed by other
children of his own age group. The child four to
six years of age needs equipment for imaginative
play. The six—to-ten-year-old likes games in which
he can prove his individual strength and abilities.
The child ten to fourteen years of age prefers club
activities and team games. These general activities
are necessary because they are outcomes of natural
needs of children at these ages; the specific games
are needed psychologically by the handicapped
child because he knows other children play them.
He needs to gain independence in locomotion and
self-care as well as to play baseball. -There is a
satisfaction and sense of adequacy which come
from doing these things himself.

6. The handicapped child especially needs di—
rected exercise for his mind and body. Play over-
comes inhibitions, promotes self-expression and
makes learning more rapid and more easily retain-
able. It helps to restore use, to develop the mus-
cles or joints at fault and to coordinate the whole
body.

7. He needs to gain a sense of adequacy and
self-confidence. This he will obtain if his other
needs are fulfilled and the corresponding develop—
ment has taken place.

The following are important objectives, princi-
ples and attitudes for the leader:

Plan your program for the individual child in
cooperation with others who are in charge of him,
including the doctor, nurses, physiotherapist, psy-
chiatrist, parents, teacher,,and the like. Adjust
your program to the time, space and facilities avail-
able.

Aim to lead the child as near to normal experi—
ences as you can.

Accept his handicap. Do not avoid considering
it or talking about it in figuring out his difficulties
of locomotion or manipulation.

Put emphasis on trying, and not on competition
or on whether the child is entirely successful or
not. Praise effort; condemn disinterest and inac-
tivity. Take the attitude that the child can do it
if he so desires.

In presenting the game, supply him with plenty
of motivation and reason for participating by using
an enthusiastic explanation and challenge, by using
subjects or objects of interest from his immediate
surroundings or those which are sure-fire to a
child of his age or those suggested by the season
or holiday. Enjoy the activity yourself.

Focus attention not on the child and not on the
teacher but on some object to be played with or
on an objective to be attained.

At first, make activities fairly easy to assure
success. Then adapt them so that a reasonable
amount of effort will bring success. Finally, add
the element of failure or greater success gradually.

Provide a wide variety of social situations which
will stimulate self-expression, self-direction and re—
sponsibility. Work toward adequacy and against
timidity, fear, shrinking away from the group and
activities. See that the child experiences pride in
group accomplishment.

Provide activity which will develop the disabled
part as well as coordination of the whole body.
Know what the child can do and then try to make
him do just a little bit more (with approval of the
medical staff).

Provide ample opportunities for correction of
mistakes and trying again. If the child fails in his
efforts, teach him to face reality and to be a good
sport.

‘Emphasize courtesy, good manners, fair play,
friendliness, helpfulness, expression of all desir—
able, resocializing traits and elimination of unde—
sirable behavior.

Discuss him frequently with other members of
the recreation staff and those from other depart-
ments who are working with the child. Determine
his progress, development and new needs.

94

A Few Suggested Games

BASEBALL—Teams are divided evenly. The rules
are the same as those for normal children, but the
game is slower as it takes longer for handicapped
children to retrieve the ball and to get to bases.
.T hose who cannot run bat the ball and have.a sub-
stitute runner. Those who cannot bat have a sub—
stitute batter. This game has proved most success-
ful with groups of handicapped children and adults.

GREEK BALL GAME—Teams, equally divided, stand
in two lines, eight feet apart. Players have one
foot in back of lines marked on the floor, and face
each other. The children are numbered off, corres—
ponding numbers having the same method of loco-
motion. A volleyball is placed in the middle of the
space between them. The two whose number is
called go to the ball and attempt to get it over the
line in front of the opposing team. Those on the
team may kick, push, or hit it to keep it from com—
ing across their line. The two in the middle then
try to gain possession of the ball again. They may
fight over the ball but not fight each other. When
the ball goes over the line, two more players get
a turn.

1

FOLLOWING DIRECTIONshHere, again, teams are
divided evenly and are numbered off. The leader
calls a number and gives a direction.. The two
players with the same number follow the direction
simultaneously and as quickly as possible. This
gives the leader a chance to fit the action to the
possible limitations of the child by giving a variety
of directions, such as run to the door, touch your
nose, add two and two, stand up, sing a song. The

leader may call on the whole team to follow a di—a

rection, such as to form the letter “O”.

COME WITH ME—Players stand in a circle about
three feet apart, their places marked by an X on
the floor. One player, who has no place, walks
around the outside of the circle and holds a stick.
He taps players on the shoulder and says, “Come
with me.” The players leave their places and fol-
low him. Suddenly, when he drops the stick, each
follower must hnd a place in the circle. The one
who is unable to do so, then walks around the
circle saying, “Come with me.”

TOUCH AND FOLLOW—The children sit in a line.
The first child goes to something in the room,
touches it and comes back to place. The next child
touches that object and something else, returning
to his place. Each child touches the Objects which
the children ahead of him have touched and in the
correct order, and then touches an additional ob-
ject. Players are eliminated as they forget or miss
the order of objects touched.

RECREATION

 

quickly and effectively
with Gulf Sani-SoiI-Set

 

\

GULF SANI-SOIL-SET is the practical answer to
your dust annoyance problems. Here are a few of

the many good reasons why it will pay you to in-
vestigate this efficient dust-control medium now:

HIGHLY EFFECTIVE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust
annoyance completely immediately after application.
No long waiting periods are necessary before the ground
is ready for use. The dust allaying effect is accomplished
by the action of the compound in adhering to and weigh-
ing down dust particles.

 

LONG LASTING—Because of its extremely low volatility
and insolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains
effective for long periods. One application per season or
year is usually sufficient.

Gulf Oil Corporation ° Gulf Refining Company

GULF BUILDING, PITTSBURGH, PA.

Sales Offices - Warehouses
Located in principal cities
and towns throughout
Gulf’s marketing territory

V

EASILY APPLIED—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing,

easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-
sprinkling or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly.

SAVES MAINTENANCE EXPENSE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set
prevents the growth of grass on areas treated, and mini-
mizes dust annoyance and expense in ne‘ar-by houses,
stores, and laundries.

Write, wire or phone your nearest Gulf office
today and ask for a demonstration of the advan-
tages of this modern proven dust allayer. If you
have not yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
product, mail the coupon below.

Gulf Oil Corporation Gulf Refining Company R
3702 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the booklet, "Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern, proven agent for controlling dust."

L‘l nme ....................................................................................................... .-

Title..-....--.........  ..

 

Russell Coffey

WA TER S T UN T S AND GAMES

HERE SEEMS to be a natural inclination for

boys and girls to be afraid of the water. Per-
haps they are not exactly afraid, but they have great
respect for water and have been warned by older
people of the dangers to anyone who cannot swim.
Along with instinctive fears, which may be present
from infancy, go those acquired by sensations
brought about by stepping on stones, the chill! of
water on sensitive body parts, and the struggle for
breath when water gets into the nose. All these
factors contribute to predetermined resistance on
the part of the beginner when he reports for his
first swimming lesson.

There are various ways to dispel this fear of the
water. One of these is to keep the child from
having further disagreeable experiences. To do
this, the teacher must have a well—planned pro-
gram of stunts and games as well as a technique
which will eventually serve to produce a swimmer.
First lessons should be play periods and, as the
child progresses, good instruction should continue
for weeks and even months. Parents must be edu-
cated to the important fact that competent teaching
is as essential in swimming as in music, dancing or
painting. In fact, swimming may be the most val—
uable of all activities learned because, in addition
to being healthful and enjoyable, it may be the
means of saving a life or lives.

In summer camp aquatic instruction, we some-
times take short cuts because we know that we will

These game: are med under  C ogey’: direction at
Camp Micéonda for Toledo Area Boy Scouts. About
500 non-swimmer: are Mug/9t each camping ream”.

96

FOR BE GINNERS

have the campers for only short periods of time. In
seven day camp periods, we average about nine
swim instruction periods and, for the amount of
time spent, we get good results ; however, there are
some who have such fear of water that they do not
learn to swim. These include youngsters who are
non-buoyant, thin, lacking coordination and with
faulty body mechanics.

But, even with our short camp periods, we real-
ize our objective of showing the group a good time,
of enabling each individual to have fun and, at the
same time, preparing the way for real pleasure
when swimming has been learned. The following
stunts and games are part of the teaching program

"of our lifeguards and water instructors. All are

original except “Fish Net” and “White Sails”.
Games and instruction are given in a pool averag-
ing thirty-eight inches in depth.

Tarzan ..

Most beginners have seen Tarzan pictures and
know about his water proficiency. We teach each
boy to place the side of his head into the water and
to give the “Tarzan yell” at water level. Next we
have them all give the Tarzan yell at once. This
is repeated with the opposite ear in the water.
Then, as they hold one ear in the water, a lifeguard
submerges and gives a “Cheetah” response by
screeching or squealing.

I’m a Duck

One line joins hands and, on a signal from the
teacher, yells, “I’m a duck”. Then each member
of the line places his face into the water and comes

RECREATION

right up. The opposite line then repeats the stunt.
Finally, when most of the youngsters have acquired
confidence, they may all submerge on signal and
come right up. Soon, we have them drop hands

and duck individually.

Geronimo

The campers are very familiar with this word.
We form a follow-the-leader chain and jump from
a dock which is about one meter from the water.
Of course, each yells “Geronimo” as he jumps.

Shipwreck

I

A war surplus life raft is used for this stunt. A
lifeguard and the most timid beginners are per-
mitted to ride on the raft. One more venturesome
player is delegated to pull the others around_the
pool with a short rope. When the lifeguard yells
“Shipwreck!” all must go over-side. When he yells
“Board ship!” all get back on the raft. The last
one up must pull the others around the pool.

Fish Net

The players hold hands, with some of their
buddies inside the circle. These are the fish. The
ones on the outside lower their arms to water level,
thus forming a net, and advance toward the center.
The fish escape by going under or over the net and,
if they are caught, become a part of the net. When
all are caught, the players change places. While
this game seems relatively simple, it has helped us
to get our,pupils into a prone position in the water.

Donald Duck

The boys stand facing their “buddies”. There
should be an equal division of two teams. We
mark our teams for various games by pasting a bit
of green on the forehead, usually a small green
leaf. Players are then told to scatter all over the
pool. They are given four water balls, two to a
team, and try to hit each other by using a two-
hand pass. Boys are permitted to duck but not to
run after the shooter cries “Duckl” They may
plunge to retrieve a ball but, after securing it, must”
shoot from that place. If opponents rush to get a
ball, the one who retrieves it first must give the

others three counts to get away before crying
“Duck!”

Scoring is difficult in this game because we have
Greens shooting at \Vhites, and Whites at Greens;
consequently, we ask each player to count his hits
and, after playing a few minutes, we stop, line up
and call off the count. To keep boys from retain-
ing a ball too long, we require them to throw it

MAY 1950

at someone within two seconds after the cry of
“Duck!”

White Sails

Part of each instruction period should be a play
period in which small groups participate in various
activities. Sailing of small boats which may have
been hastily constructed in camp is encouraged. A
few boys try to whittle dories out of balsam blocks;
some make sailing crafts out of fiat boards, a mast,
and a bit of cloth for a sail. A few have experi-
mented with aluminum foil, using candy sticks for
masts. In our play periods, we avoid competition,
although we sometimes give small rewards for the
best looking boat constructed from improvised ma-
terials. Sailing boats serves to make the boys
forget that they are in water. They get their heads
down to the water’s edge to blow in the sails in
order to make them go faster.

Dive or Jump

After boys learn to swim, they often want to
learn to dive. Actually, most of the dives per-
formed at camps are really not dives at all—they
are better classified as jumps, head or feet first.
Of course, deep water is a must for diving.

The game we play is designed to encourage boys
to do something when they get out on a diving
board. They line up on the dock and the leader
takes the first turn. As he springs from a one-
meter board, the next boy in line or another leader
calls dive or jump. If he calls dive, the leader must

 

W». vet-v ‘-"

enter the water head first. If he calls jump, he
must enter feet first. There. are no penalties, and
the fun of the game is derived from watching the
peculiar turns and twists as well as fiat entries into
the pool. This game may be used for good swim-
mers as well as for beginners. There is some doubt
whether it originated in any one camp, but it has
been used in various forms for many years.

97

About People and Activities

Mark Your Calendar!
MIDCENTURY RECREATION CONGRESS

Cleveland, Ohio

October 2 - 6, 1950

Headquarters—Hotel Statler

l’lan now to attend. An outstanding program is being prepared for the enjoyment of everyone—profes-
sionals and volunteers, public and private agency representatives. For further information, write to the
Recreation Congress Committee, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

Corinne Fonde

Corinne Fonde, modern crusader for recreation
for all the people, died on April 8 in Houston,
Texas. She had been assistant director of the Parks
and Recreation Department of Houston until her
resignation in July 1946.

Miss Fonde began her career as a kindergarten
teacher, first in the public schools of her home city,
Mobile, Alabama, and later as an instructor in the
Sophie Newcomb College kindergarten training
school in New Orleans.
Eleanor McMain of Kingsley‘House Social Settle-
ment, New Orleans, where she was a resident and
volunteer worker for eight years.

She came to Houston in June 1916 to supervise
the work of the Houston Settlement Association of
the Houston Social Service Bureau and the activi—
ties carried on there under her leadership paved
the way for the formation, in 1919, of the Recrea—
tion Bureau of the Houston Foundation.

Through twenty-four years as superintendent,
Corinne Fonde guided the grdwth of the recrea-
tion department of the city. The story of her many
achievements in this capacity, as well as of her
constant fight for the principle that municipal rec-
reation should not be limited by age, sex, race,
creed, locality, condition or special interests, ap-
peared in the April 1947 issue of RECREATION.

REMINDER
MW. ) 9W
We (gag/rm

is built by
at:

for catalog, address:

Dept. R, W. J. VOI'I‘ RUBBER CORP.
1600 E. 25th St.

Los Angeles 11, Calif.

:lzReg. U. 5. Pat. 

98

She was a disciple of i

In Memory of Lebert Weir

The M id-Continent Regional Parks and Recrea-
tion Conference, held in Huron, South Dakota,
during March, was dedicated to the memory of
Lebert H. Weir, who for nearly forty years was
District Field Representative for the National Rec-
reation Association in the midwest states. In a
memorial address, Charles E. Doell, Superintend—
ent of Parks of Minneapolis, and his long-time
friend and associate, traced Mr. Weir’s career from
the beginning of his interest in social problems as
head of the Juvenile Court of Cincinnati, Ohio, in

.1905 through his employment as the first field rep—

resentative of the Association, down to recent years
when he was acknowledged as one of the nation’s
leading authorities on the theories and problems of
public recreation. A resolution memorializing his
contributions was adopted by the conference.

Reading Club

Every two weeks, the Elizabethan Reading Club,
directed by P. W. T. Ross, meets to familiarize
members with the literature of the Elizabethan
period. Various plays scheduled in the season’s
syllabus are read aloud by members themselves.
Admission is fifty cents for each meeting, held in

Mr. Ross’ apartment at 175 Claremont Avenue,
New York City.

SPRINGFIELD COLLEGE
Springfield, Massachusetts

0 The graduate of Springfield College who majors
in Recreation and Camping is proficient in (l) ath-
letics and sports (2) camping (3) arts and crafts
(4) music, drama, nature lore—a person educated
and trained to lead a community toward better use
of its leisure time.

1 9 5 0
Summer Session, July 6 _- Aug. 11
Fall Term Opens Sept. 25

 

RECREATION

[OUISVILLE SLUGGEH BATS

(FIRST lN SOFTBALL AS IN BASEBALL

The 1950 Louisville Slugger line of
nineteen softball bat models meets

the requirements of every softball
player.

Full color catalogs of 1950 Louisville Slugger
Bats for Softball and Baseball, and the 1950
Louisville Grand Slam Golf catalog will be
sent free on request. Address Dept. R.

     

0 II A L | T l o I E __ \
 I ~ -  ' - W —— - _ « M I 101/," 1}
l * /  Sm“

Edward Podolsky, M.D.

Music

asa

Hobby

ERELY LISTENING to music is a joyful and
healthful pastime, but making music gives
even greater pleasure. It is not necessary to be an
accomplished musician to get the most from it. There
are a great many amateurs who derive just as
much happiness and benefit from a musical get-
together as do the experts and the professionals.
A few years ago, a group of well-known men or-
ganized a band to play music simply for their own
amusement and delight. There was not a profes—
sional musician among them. The group of jurists,
doctors, theologians, jewelers, college professors
and others gave concerts at regular intervals, and
obtained a great deal of healthful exercise. The
regular rehearsals served as a very satisfactory
vent to pent-up emotions and tensions incident to
their daily work-a-day existence. Music made
them forget the petty annoyances that went with
their regular occupations.

Hendrick Van Loon, the late writer and critic,
gave an occasional violin recital on the radio. He
insisted that creative work, however elementary, is
far more important than passive appreciation. Pro-
fessor Vladimir Karapetoff, one of the world’s
greatest electrical experts, plays the piano and
cello. He values music-because playing helps him
to cultivate those mental processes necessary to
successful living. It sharpens the sense of hearing,

100

sight and touch; it requires quick thinking and
quick action.

Quite often, music as a hobby leads to something
which affords both the amateur musicians and the
public great pleasure. Judge Leopold Prince of
New York was a violin enthusiast all his life. His
son was an apt pupil and together they played many
a duet at home. Soon they were joined by the
janitor of their apartment house with his big bass
violin. A little later the butcher joined, and then
the grocer. Soon the judge had a well-propor-
tioned orchestra and hired a hall. In the summer,
the band gave concerts in the parks to audiences
of twenty thousand or more.

What if you are not talented enough to play on
conventional musical instruments? Then use out-
of-the-ordinary ones! You can learn to play
through a comb by covering it with tissue paper
and humming through it. At first it may seem
silly to you, but this is quite an acceptable way of
making music. Franz Schubert enjoyed it and Paul
Whiteman has featured it in his radio broadcasts.
With a little practice, you can learn to make sur-
prisingly agreeable sounds. ,

Somewhat more complicated, but still requiring
no great technical skill, are the kazoos, bazookas,
Jewsharps and jugs. With just a little ingenuity
you can learn to play any of these instruments.

Even if you are one who cannot carry a tune,
you can always learn to make rhythm. There are
various simple rhythmic instruments for sale, such
as cymbals, drums, triangles, sand-blocks, rhythm
sticks and so forth. You will not get much music
from them, but just try accompanying a band on
the radio and you will be astonished at how much
they will contribute to emphasis and adornment.

The harmonica is another favorite of many who
have neither the money nor the time to learn to
play the more difficult instruments. Among a few
of the noted men who enoyed playing the harmon-
ica were presidents Lincoln and Coolidge. Irving
Berlin is also very fond of this simple instrument.
With a little practice, almost anyone can acquire
a knack of getting good tunes from the mouth—
organ.

Music is an expression of one’s inner feelings.
If you can give vent to these feelings by actively
making music, you can get a load off your mind
and feel much better. You can extemporize as you
go along. You don’t have to be able to read a note
to do it. Just let yourself go!

RECREATION

 

American Approved Combination Unit

 

All-American

Picnic Grill I ’

DOING BUSINESS WITH 

Because safety and long service are prime factors in your
choice of Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment, you
naturally want the finest that money can buy. Since 1911,
the best Approved Equipment has been built by American
in Anderson, employing superior materials and craftsman-
ship. You’ll like American’s low, nationally advertised prices
also, which today average but 17% above prewar, just as you
will appreciate our friendly, equitable adjustments and Amer-
ican’s Lifetime Guarantee against defective construction.

Uncompromising high quality, together

 

with a determination to deserve your con-
tinued goodwill, form our basic policy
and make AMERICAN the kind of com-
pany with which you’ll like to do business.

 

‘ AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA

American OHIciaI Regulation One-NIeterUnit

l ‘ World’s Largest Alanufacturers of Fine

I Playground & Swimming Pool Equipment

W . 7 FoR CATALoas AND SPECIAL LITERATURE
lute Gm FEATURING AMERICAN APPROVED

.PEAYGROUND EQUIPMENT I o - SWIMRIING POOL EQUIPMENT 0 o - ALL-AMERICAN PICNIC GRILLS

ALL-AMERICAN UNIFORM HANGERS - - - ABIERICAN HEAVY DUTY CHECKING AND GYMNASIUM BASKETS
STEEL BASKET'RAGKS o 0 0 AMERICAN REPAIR EQUIPMENT L0 - AMERICAN HOME PLAY EQUIPMENT

9mm SW, .' . .' . . '.__ i. .   (4W

 

MAY 1950

  

lUl

102

Mary 1!. Farnsworth

P901119 in Recreation

 

A PERSON who has known how to hoodwink the years, Mary H. Farns-
worth is near her eightieth birthday. She started the first playground in South
Orange, New Jersey, in 1906.

In those early days—in 1900, in fact—she was a nurse. and her warm
personality and interest drew neighborhood children into her home. She
played with them and taught them games; and as more and more were drawn
to her, it became apparent that another place would have to be found for
these gatherings.

After careful looking about, she at last found a house and. in addition.
received a check for $5,000 from ‘its owner, Miss Redmond, for continuance
of her work with the young people. Miss Farnsworth. with friends to help
her, then set up a recreation program of indoor and outdoor fun. This became
the hrst local community center. The first playground was soon opened on
the outskirts of town and was very successful.

Although she has never received any ot'Hcial recognition, Miss F arns—
worth is often called the “mother” of that playground. She recalls many
amusing stories about the children and about the caretaker. She was, of
course, well-acquainted with all of them and can still remember many by name.

Mary H. Farnsworth was born in India. In 19l2—during a trip to
Europe—she helped nurse a typhus epidemic in Russia. Like all recreation
workers, she has carried with her always her very real interest in people.

She was educated in England, and took her nurse's training in Hart—
ford, Connecticut. She has lived many years in South Orange and no one can
gainsay the fact that the community is a much better place because of her
interest and helpful citizenship.

RECREATION

PORTER "0.33

COMBINATION

   

It’s a space saver! It’s a money-saver,too!

Yes, here’s a Playground Combination Set that has been care-
fully planned to solve the problem of limited space. Small
playgrounds can install the Porter No. 38, and still provide
a wide variety of healthful exercise and fun for the children.
Look at all the apparatus this one unit affords! Two Stand-
ard See-Saws, one Horizontal Bar, two Swings, a Pair of
Flying Rings, one Trapeze, and one 16-ft. Porter Safety Slide
-—plus the sturdy 10-ft.- steel frame that’s galvanized inside WRITE FOR THE NEWEST
and Out and held rigidly together for years and years with CATALOG OF PORTER
Tested Malleable Iron fittings of exclusive Porter design.
The No. 3E3 Combination Set has price appeal,.too..Write for [El-megs” NND EEQEU EMEENDT
the attracuvely low figure, and complete spec1fications. Im-
mediate delivery!

 

THE J. E. .’ CORPORATION
OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOl EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

 

Rea.U.S.PcIt.ON‘. STRUCTURE

 

MAY 1950 103

BAT BAK

PATENTED
OTHER PATENTS PENDING

it’d New ./ - It’d 4nd! - 9m 4m ./

Table Bat Bak can be played in the smallestL room: packed in Jrhe smalleer space: carried like a
valise when visiting. it is faster and more continuous than table Jtennis: exciting for both dubs
and experts: adapted to both solo play and tough competition. In public recreation halls
Jtwenty can play Bat Bak in space required for one Jtable Jtennis game.

Ba1L Bak has been Jthoroughly Jrested in homes. schools' campsl recreation centers and Jthe
Armed Services. Here is the story of BatL Bak reported in typical comments of men who
know action games:

FROM CAMPS

“Following the use of Bat Bak for our Boys’ Camp and Conference groups at Camp Wawayanda
during the 1949 season we are glad to report that the game was a splendid addition to the equip-
ment. The game is equally attractive to the beginners and good players and to young and old. The
small amount of space and ease with which the equipment can be moved adds to the attractiveness
where indoor space is at a premium.”-—Alden Eberly, Director Y.M.C.A. Camp Wawayanda for Boys.

FROM THE Y.M.C.A.

“Bat Bak is the finest new game in the market in the past 25 years. It is great for the home, the ‘Y’

in fact anywhere where youngsters and adults like to play.”——W. H. Baumgarten, New York State
Executive.

“Your Bat Bak Game, Model B—20, arrived this morning and we are already fascinated with its play-
ing possibilities.”———Very truly yours, J. C. Van Zandt, Boys Director, Westport Y.M.C.A.

FROM THE ARMY

“The conferees from First Army and from the Air Forces alike expressed enthusiasm for your new
game. Because of its compactness, speed, and ease in playing, ‘Bat Bak’ should go far both in in-
dividual and team enjoyment for our soldiers.”—-—F. W. Kendall, Lt. Col., SpS,
Acting Army Special Service Officer.

FROM THE NAVY

“The game has been demonstrated here in the District and at Servlant in
Norfolk, and has met an enthusiastic acceptance by all concerned. The game
is especially recommended for use aboard ships where space is at a premium.”—
Alvin Robinson, Commander, U. S. Navy, District Welfare—Recreation 0135cer.

FROM THE VETERANS ADMINISTRATION

“Please be advised we have found after testing your new game that it is a very
desirable addition to our sports equipment. . . . Interest is sustained due to the
variation in the types of shots made possible and the fact that it embodies the
challenges of both handball and table tennis.”—N. J. Pierce, Chief Special

Services, Northport, L. I.

 

RECREATION "x‘

MR. B. B. GIRDEN
Box ||33 G.P.O.
New York I. N. Y.

We have had Jrhe game of Ba’r-Bak under study and research ai' the Army and
Air Forces Special Services School for ’rhe pas’r nine months. and I am happy to re-
pomL if was in cons’ran’r use. I can foresee a very extensive future of +he game of
Ba’r Bak in Jrhe ArmyI because of i’rs highly compe’ri’rive na’rure and' its easily learned
Jtechniques and skills. Another a’r’rribu’re which makes Jrhis game of excep’rional value
is +ha+ i+ requires limi’red playing area.

Affer seeing the en’rhusiasm and spirit displayed by the participants. bo’rh the
beginner and the expert alike in ’rhe game, I recommend it wi’rhou’r hesi’ra’rion.

F. DON MILLER
Cap’rain. Army Sporfs Officer

TABLE MODEL WITH FOLDING LEGS

' Designed especially for recreation centers, camps,
schools, hospitals, game rooms and for out-of-doors
play, with convenient carrying handle. Remove
backboard and you have a sturdy, attractive table
for general use.

No. B-20 packed 1 set per carton. $35.00

BRIDGE TABLE MODEL

Built to be set on any table. Portable. Folds into two
carrying sections with handles.

No. B-10 packed 1 set per carton. $22.50
Because it stores easily this model is excellent for
home use but is not recommended for the rougher
usage of public centers. For homes with space for
a permanent set-up Model B-20 is also preferable.

DELUXEMODEL

Smartly finished table, folds into compact, lightweight
valise containing folding legs, backboard, bats and
balls. Excellent for trips as a game and portable
picnic table.

No. B-40 packed 1 set per carton. $45.00

TABLE TENNIS BACKBOARD

To be set up over the middle of a Table-Tennis
regulation table. Two backboards can be set back
to back providing two games for each table.

No. T—5 packed 2 sets per carton. $30.00
Halex (oliicial) Balls, 6 to a carton. . . $1.20 per carton.
Bats (odicial) 5-ply rubber-faced . . . . . . .$2.00 per bat.

F.O.B. Factory

 

TO ORDER
Specify model and quantity and also ihe number of cartons of balls and bats.

SEND WITH MONEY ORDER OR CHECK TO:

BAT BAK 

BOX 1133
G.P.O. N. Y. 'I, N. Y.

MAY 1950 105

 

STATE NEWS NOTES

7% from the FORTY-EIGHT

Minnesota—A state recreation specialist has
just been added to the staff of the State Director
of Mental Hygiene. Provision has also been made
for adding recreation leaders to
the staffs of state hospitals.

California—An Inter—Agen—
cy Committee of State Depart-
ments was established recently
at a conference called by Gov-
ernor Earl Warren to increase
coordination of official activities
in the field of recreation. The
committee will seek maximum
utilization of the recreation resources of California.
One of its first actions will be to determine what
recreation problems involve such state agencies as
the State Recreation Commission, Department of
Education, Department of Natural Resources, De—
partment of Public Health and others. Sterling
S. \Vinans, State Director of Recreation, was
named executive secretary of the committee.

Participating in the conference were the Cali-
fornia Recreation Commission, Departments of
Public Health, Natural Resources, Education,'So—
cial Welfare, Finance, Youth Authority, Adjutant
General, Fish and Game Commission, Water Pol-
lution Board. and the governor’s office. The Uni—
versity of California was also represented. Acting
chairman of the committee was M. F. Small, sec—
retary to the governor.

Indiana—Staff members of the Indiana Uni-
versity Department of Recreation are planning to
conduct three two—day recreation leadership train—

106

The June issue of
RECREATION magazine

will devote a complete

section to news of state
recreation developments
throughout the country.

 

ing institutes in different sections of the state.

Washington—The Inter—Agency Committee on
Recreation meets monthly under the active chair-
manship of Governor Arthur B.
Langlie. It is the objective of
the committee to utilize the fa-
cilities and the knowledge of the
various departments in an effort
to improve facilities for out-of—
state guests and also to assist
local communities in developing
their own community recreation
programs. Printed material is
being prepared for circulation among local officials
telling them what the state has in the way of per-
sonnel, equipment and facilities to aid them in
their program promotion.

Juvenile fishing areas, open only to young peo—
ple under sixteen, have been opened at thirty—four
lakes and streams by the Department of Game . . .
Some type of camping was carried on in sixty—nine
school districts in 1949 . . . Through the Division
of Adult Education and Extension Services of the
University of Washington, creative dramatic
groups were organized in Seattle and four other
communities, with approximately 1,040 children
participating . . . At this year’s state fair, the
Agricultural Extension Services is trying some-
thing new with a contest in recreation leadership.
Different county groups will compete in organizing
and directing mixers . . . Out of a 4—H club mem—
bership of about 12,000 in the state, 3,415 mem-
bers attended the twenty—five 4—H club camps.

RECREATION

PITCHING HORSESHUES

Diamond Horseshoe Pitching outfits are packed in

stained wooden boxes for attractive window or
counter display.

 

DIAMOND SUPER RINGER

The finest pitching horseshoes made. Perfectly bal-
anced, with dead-falling qualities unexcelled. Will
never chip or break. Write for information on our
complete pitching horseshoe line and accessories.

DIAMOND BALK HORSESHUE Bil.

4616 Grand Avenue ° Duluth, Minnesota

n
——.—_—-————u—_——___.

An action-tested. IMPROVED softball
by America's leading manufacturer of
rubber-covered athletic balls. offering
outstanding value. longer playing life
and better performance.

I'IEIIIIER "XXIZII
OFFICIAL I2" SOFTBALL

.Top-grade center of long-fibre. se-
lected-estates Itapol: wound with long-

staple Egyptian cotton. (Product of J. deBeer I
8: Son.) .

.Specially compounded rubber cover . . .

tough . . . abrasion-resistant . . . Ieatherlilte in
feel and appearance.

Specify famed Weaver softball equipment . . . Weaver
XXIZA IMPROVED official I2” softballs . . . Weaver Xl2

exfra-soft-center I2” softbaIIs for restricted areas . . .. and
popular Weaver XI4A I4" softbaIIs. Write for prices.

WEAVER WINTARK SALES (0

MAY 1950

Triple “C” Lace

Sometimes called Hat. gimp. 5. "12 my“! a “it s t .' ran
coated laclnx uf nuporiur numbillu Nun. winning

material. Colors" rmehltr ruym blur. izh‘ Iauv unm-
black. medium screen. list}. zrmn drama ‘1) u ,{r in
ten. maroon, pint. light :vIluw. ‘I'I'It n'll'.‘ v. n h

yd. .02
100 yd. roll $1.50

10—100 yd. rolls $12.50
5000 yds. or over per yd. .01

was”... GAY BIRDS!

Finger Fun for Classrooms!

Enjoyable "all-ages" {ingenmqf
Birds woven in minutes fry- 2 —

orful METALLOIL Str-os. l-w
lovely harmonizing ornaments for apels. nats. 15 use
etc. Make attractive earrings and scatter o'r-.

JR. GAY BIRD KIT

Makes I3 GAY BIRDS! Kit contains 4 METAL 00
LOID sheets (3" x 8") in various colors. 2 ready 

cut strips for weaving. and instructions. Pe— Ki‘

I950 Complete Handicraft
Supplies Catalog
Handling Charge

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.
770-4 Carnegie Cleveland 15, Ohio

 

AMERICA'S FOREMOST AIHLEHC EOUIPMENI

o P.O. BOX 71 -$OU'|’H FIFTH SIREET-SHAMOKIN. PA

 

Harold Hainfeld

INEXPENSIVE
PUBLHHTY

MEDIA

ow CAN the superintendent of recreation or
H superintendent of schools best show the com-
munity what is going on in the recreation pro-
gram? Publicity and public relations are among
his important responsibilities. Local newspapers
can give excellent space to activities; a collection
of. photographs displayed in some strategic place in
the community can be used. A movie is an ex-
pensive means of showing the program, and pre-
sents all the problems related to the taking of
movies indoors.

To proect pictures to group audiences by means
of two-by-two-inch slides, however, with a running
explanation of events, can be an effective means of
promotion and interpretation and is, as yet, an
untried method in many communities. These slides
are frames of thirty-five millimeter film, either
colored or positive black-and—white, bound in card-
board. A good thing about them is that it is pos—
sible to hold a picture on the screen as long as
desirable. A set of such slides of the recreation
program sponsored by the Union City, New Jer-
sey, Board of Education is being prepared for
superintendent of schools, Albert C. Parker.

The slides, often referred to as Kodachromes
when taken with colored film and readymounts, are
easily made with a thirty-five millimeter camera.
There are many on the market ranging in price

from a few dollars to several hundred. The colored
film (Ansco or Eastman Kodak) is bound at the

Harold Hainfeld i: now with the recreation de-
partment, Board of Education, Union City, N. ].

108

 

laboratory and returned ready for projection. Cost
of colored film for slide-making is twenty-five cents
per slide. The black-and-white slides, at a cost of
twelve cents a slide, are also taken on thirty-five
millimeter positive film and bound in the same
manner. A list of equipment and film costs is
shown below. F

The slides of the Union City program are being
made on black-and-white film and the series, start-
ing'with the summer program, will include forty-
eight slides showing year-round activities. The
camera, contact printer, developing trays, chemi-
cals and projector are part of the visual aids equip-
ment of one of the schools and are being loaned to
the recreation department for its public relations,
slide—making project. A recreation program in-
cluding photography as one of its activities might
already own such equipment.

Equipment Costs

Black-and- Colored
Equipment W kite Film Film
Camera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $48.00 $48.00

Floodlights (indoors) . . . . . . . .. 7.20 7.20

Film . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.28 12.00

Two-by-two-inch projector . . . . .. 28.00 28.00

*Developing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60

*Positive iilm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

*C-hemicals- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .90

*Box printer and trays . . . . . . . . .. 7.49

The Union City slides, when completed, will be
shown to various community and civic groups,
as a part of the new public relations program.

 

'Included in price of film.

RECREATION

PROMPT SHIPMENTS of

LARSON
LEATHER

For EVERYTHING in leather—write
Larson Leathercraft Headquarters.

EXperienced leather workers will be interested
in our prompt delivery and wide variety, com-
prising the largest complete stock of leather
and leathercraft supplies in America. We
otter moderate-priced tooling leathers as well
as t0p quality calfskins.

For beginners we have ready-cut projects with
free instructions for assembly. No tools and

no experience necessary.

Tools, materials and free Instructions for making:

0 GLOVES 0 KEY CASES

0 LINK BELTS 0 ‘IOO OTHER POPULAR ITEMS
0 PYROSTRIP o BILLFOLDS

0 MOCCASINS 0 WOOLSKIN MITTENS and

o COIN PURSES TOY ANIMALS

0 COMB CASES

Send for FREE catalog

J. C. LARSON CO" Inc.

Dept. AR, 820 S. Tripp Ave. Chicago 24, Ill.

ESTER

Leathercraft Supplies

01” new

I950

CATALOG ~

Includes Leather, Lacing, Fully Illustrated
"Simple to Complete” Projects for children
and adults, Designs, Patterns, Accessories,
Tools, Belt Blanks, Scrap Leather, etc.

YOURS FREE
FOR THE ASKING

ESTER LEATHER CO., Dept. R
145 St. Paul Street, Rochester 4, N. Y.

Name .............................................. ..‘. ......................... ..

Address ........................................................................ ..

City .................................................. .. State ................ ..

 

MAY 1950

 

With the Stars . . .

With the stars of sports, modern fea-
tures of construction in the equip-
ment they use are of the utmost im-
portance. That’s why so many of
them use and recommend Wilson.

The famous Wilson Advisory Staff,
whose members help design, test
and use Wilson equipment is another
reason why so many outstanding
sports stars prefer Wilson. Golf
champions Sam Snead, Cary Mid-
dlecolf, Lloyd Mangrum, Gene Sara-
zen, Patty Berg and Babe Didrikson
—tennis champions Jack Kramer,
Don Budge, Bobby Riggs and Alice
Marble—diamond stars Ted Wil-
liams and Bob Feller— gridiron head-
linersjohnny Lujack, Charlie Trippi
and Paul Christman are among the
stars who make up this great staff of
experts. Play the equipment of cham-

pions—Wilson—and you can be sure

you’re playing equipment that can-
not be surpassed.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO., INC.

Branch offices in New YOrk, San Francisco
and other principal cities

(A subsidiary of Wilson & Co., Inc.)

 

Books Received

Hoyle’s Rules Of Games, edited by Albert H. More-
head and Geoffrey Mott-Smith. The New American
Library, New York. $.25.

Legends Children Love, Joanna Strong. Hart Pub-
lishing Company, New York. $1.25.

Make It Yourself, Bernice \Vells Carlson. Abingdon-
Cokgzsbury Press, New York. Cloth, $2.00; paper,
$1.3 .

Methods and Materials in Elementary Physical Edu-
cation, Edwina Jones, Edna Morgan and Gladys

Stevens. \Vorld Book Company, Yonkers-on-Hud-
son, New York. $3.00.

Music As a Hobby, Fred B. Barton. Harper and
Brothers, New York. $2.50.

Nature Crafts, Ellsworth Jaeger. The Macmillan
Company, New York. $2.49.

Organization and Administration of Physical Educa-
tion, The, Edward F. Voltmer and Arthur A. Es-
slinger. Appleton-Century-Crofts, Incorporated, New

York. $3.50.

Play Alone Fun, Caroline Horowitz. Hart Publish-
ing Company, New York. $1.25.

Report of the United States Olympic Committee,
edited by Asa S. Bushnell. United States Olympic
Association, New York. $3.50.

Social Welfare Forum, The, Columbia University
Press, New York. (Published for National Confer-
ence of Social Work.)

Supervision of Group Work and Recreation, Hedley
S. Dimock and Harleigh B. Trecker. Association

Press, New York. $4.50.

RECREATION LEADERS!

Are you familiar with the

services and publications
of the

American Association for Health,
Physical Education, & Recreation?

JOIN 18,090 PROFESSIONAL

RECREATION ,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION
HEALTH

COLLEAGUES

Write for

’-

Brochure describing association and
Order blank of special publications

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION

120] 16th Street, N.W. Washington 6, D. C.

 

110

Magazines and Pamphlets

Beach and Pool, January 1950
New School Pool Features Two-in-One Construction.

Swimming Pool Sanitation, M. Starr Nichols, Ph.D.\
\Vinterize Your Pool, William Berens-

Camping Magazine, January 1950
Making Belts and Necklaces From Twigs, Ellsworth
Jaegen
\Ve’re Recapturing Our Older Boys. \Villiam
Vannais.

\Vil/{l II)’olio Hit Your Camp? A. Daniel Rubenstein,

Improving Camp Mental Hygiene, Robert Jesness.

Parents Magazine, February 1950
A Fathei's’ Club in Action, Mary Tinley Daly.

Girl Scout Leader, February 1950
My Town and Your Town, Julian Harris Salomon.

Journal of the American Association for Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation, February 1950
Costuming the Folk Dances, Julia H. Post.
Multi-Basketball, Vera T. Bartlett.

Camping Magazine, February 1950
Special Leadership Training Issue.

School Executive, February 1950
Planning Kindergartens in San Francisco, N. L.

Engelhardt.

ERRATA

William P. Uhler, not W. P. Wiler, is the author
of the "So This Is Education,” editorial which ap-

peared in the December 1949 Journal of the American
Association for Health, Physical Education and Rec-
reation, and was listed in the February 1950 “Maga-
zines and Pamphlets” column Of RECREATION.

 

HONOR YOUR PARTNER

Ed Duriacher’s AMAZINGLY SIMPLE
Method of Teaching Square Dancing

UNBREAKABLE VINYLITE
records for high fidelity

Clear, concise, easily understood instructions
in progressive steps. Good music.

Used by recreation directors in schools, col-
leges, camps, teen-age clubs, 4-H clubs, Veter—
ans Administration hospitals and U. S. O.’s
around the world.

Healthful fun and recreation for all ages and
groups, large or small.

OM

Write today for descriptive brochure

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

Dept. R
FREEPORT, N. Y.

RECREATION

 

The Craft of Ceramics

Geza de Vegh and Alber Mandi. D. Van N ostrand
Company, Incorporated, New York. $4.75.

THE CREATIVE craft of ceramics, though one of
the most ancient of the arts, is enjoying wide
p0pularity today. People in all walks of life have
taken to it. Perhaps this is because so many indi-
viduals are trying it in recreation groups through-
out the country, and because of the interest brought
back by the many servicemen who became ac-
quainted with it during the war years. In any event,
here is a new guide in elementary ceramics which
brings within the scope of the beginner the funda-
mental skills required for practice and enjoyment.
A series of lessons, in logical sequence, covers the
simple but fundamental techniques of the art——
clay working, mold making and decoration. A list
of the materials needed is provided and each step
is explained. The methods presented here have
been used in teaching large groups, and practically
all were able to master the subject quickly. A list
of dealers in ceramics supplies is included as an
appendix. Illustrations make the reader want to
pick up the nearest piece of clay and begin at once.

Recreation for the Blind at
The Lighthouse

The New York Association for the Blind, New
York.

HIS ATTRACTIVE PAMPHLET describes an ex-

tremely interesting and stimulating program of
recreation for the blind of all ages and both sexes.
Recreation facilities at The Lighthouse include an
auditorium, social hall, bowling alleys, swimming
pool, club rooms and summer camp. The offerings
are broad, including crafts, music and dramatic ac-
tivities, discussion groups, social and square danc—
ing, parties, entertainment, gymnastics, swimming,
hiking and camping. The program is a revelation

MAY 1950

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

of the extent to which recreation can successfully

add to the enjoyment and enrichment of living for
the blind person.

Camp Counseling

A. Viola Mitchell and Ida B. Crawford. W. B.
Saunders Company, Philadelphia and London.

HERE IS A long-needed manual for the working

kit of both experienced and prospective camp
counselors as well as for directors. The counselor
must have, as a working background, some knowl—
edge of the history, phi1050phy and objectives of
camping. He must understand people and be able
to appreciate their varying personalities and char-
acteristics—-—both the older ones who will be his
staff associates and the youngsters who will be his
campers. He needs to have personal skill in one
or more camp activities and must have the “know
how” of teaching others. Above all, since camping
is carried on mainly in an outdoor environment,
he must have the camping and woodcraft knowl-
edge and skills necessary to live comfortably, hap-
pily and safely in the out—of—doors.

All of these subjects are covered in this book.
The sections on program planning and activities
are excellent and inclusive; and such subjects as
duffel for camping trips, camp cooking, sleeping
in the Open, axemanship and lirecraft are not over-
looked.

Decorative Design

Fritzi Brod. Pitman Publishing Corporation, New
York. $1.00.

NEED IDEAS FOR designs for leathercraft, clay
work, posters, papercraft or any other craft?

. Here’s your book! No text—just sixty pages of

various types of design taken from plant, animal
and marine life, abstract, Pennsylvania Dutch, al—
phabet, and dozens of other sources. It is an at-

111

tractive booklet and one to stimulate imagination.

Elementary Hand Craft Projects

D. C. Blide. Pitman Publishing Corporation, New
York. $1.75. ‘
CRAFTS LEADERS, here’s a simple book of simple
crafts, lots of illustrations, lots of easy, attrac-
tive projects for linoleum blocks, wood, leather,
plastics, metal and Keene cement.

Hand Weaving with Reeds and Fibers

Osma Couch Gallinger and Oscar H. Benson. Pit-
man Publishing Corporation, New York. $3.00.
MRS. OSMA GALLINGER Operates a crafts indus-
try. Mr. Oscar Benson has been active in
4-H club work and with the Boy Scouts. To-
gether, they have prepared this book covering the
principles of weaving with cane, reed, corn husks,
straw, grasses and various other fibers. Instruc-
tions are clear, projects are interesting and illus-
trations profuse. A good book for your crafts
leaders.

Dances of Early California Days

Lucile K. Czarnowski. Pacific Books, Palo Alto,
California. $5.00.

THIS BOOK WAS compiled by going directly to the

old-timers who still remembered the original
dances and music of early California days. It in-
cludes dance games, couple dances, dances for sets
of two couples, and group dances. Miss Czar-
nowski is associate supervisor of physical educa-
tion at the University of California, and well-
known for her work and research in the field of
the dance. She has divided her book into two ma-
jor sections: “Dances Before 1849” and “Dances
After 1849,” the former concentrating on dances
of Spanish and Mexican origin; the latter contain-
ing Californian variations of the polka, schottische,
mazurka and waltz. Complete directions, music
and step patterns are given, along with clear and
attractive illustrations. An excellent book for the
dance library.

Creative Play Acting

Isabel B. Burger. A. S. Barnes and Company, In-
corporated, New York. $3.00.

Mas. ISABEL BURGER is the director of the famous
Children’s Experimental Theatre in Balti-

more. This book is the result of the outstanding

work she has done in this field, expressed by the

credo of that theatre—“Play acting is the child’s

rehearsal for his role as a grown-up.”

112

The book contains chapters on various types of
pantomime, with many suggestions as to subjects.
It also has excellent chapters on long and short
plays, a bibliography of stories for dramatization,
and three complete plays, short, short-long and
long. It is a “must” for the drama leader.

The Crowded House

Fan Kissen. Houghton Mifflin Company, New
York. $1.88.
HERE IS THE third and final book in the series
that included The Straw Or, and The Bag
of Fire. It contains twelve stories, including “The
Ugly Duckling,” “The Christmas Angel,” “The
Pied Piper,” and “The Young Paul Bunyan,” all
cleverly dramatized so that youngsters can “act
them out” for storytelling hour or mock radio pro-
grams, or even for real radio programs. Like the
others in the series, each story has a page showing
how to make the sound effects.

This series is one of the nicest collections pub-
lished in a long time, and should be very useful to
storytellers, drama and playground leaders.

I

 

 

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

REV. PAUL MOORE. J R., First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE. Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE. Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive DireCtor

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York. N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS. Boston. Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT. Baltimore. Md.

ROBERT GRANT. 3rd. Jericho. L. 1.. N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City. Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Bellport, L. 1., N. Y.
SUSAN M. LEE. New York. N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN I. MILLS. Woodbury. N. Y.
REV. PAUL MOORE, JR., Jersey City. N. J.
SIGMUND STERN. San Francisco. Calif.

GRANT TITSWORTH, Nor0ton. Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New York. N. Y.

FREDERch M. WARBURG, New York. N. Y.

RECREATION

-—.-——...l-/“-l_

i

Recreation Training Institutes

(Conducted by National lit-creation Association Staff)

May, , une and July, 1950

HELEN DAUNCEY Syracuse. New York

Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANN LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

May 24 and 25

Syracuse, New York
May 26

Albany, New York
June 1 and 2

*Lexington, Kentucky
June 5-9

*Greenville, South Carolina

June 12-16

*Po-ttstown, Pennsylvania
June 19-21

*Brandon, Vermont
June 26 and 27

*Jamestown, New York
June 28-30

Shepherdstown, West Virginia

July 18-21

*Colum-bus, Ohio
June 5—9

*Toledo. Ohio
June 12-16

*Dunkirk, New York
June 19—23

*Westchester County, New York

June 28-30

MILDRED SCANLON State of Florida

Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

May 1-26

*Dubuque, Iowa
June 5-9

*Sheboygan, Wisconsin
June 12-16

*Salina, Kansas
June 19-23

State College, Mississippi
June 25-July 1

*Toledo, Ohio
June 12-16

*Worcester, Massachusetts
June 26 and 27

*Stamford, Connecticut
July 6 and 7

Bolder, Colorado
July 25—August 8

*Morristown, New Jersey

June 5-9

*Elmira. New York
June 15 and 16

*Lansing, Michigan
June 19 and 20

*Pittsfield, Massachusetts
June 21-23

Miss Grace A. Reeder, Director, Bureau of Child Wel-

fare, State Department of Social Welfare, 112 State
Street, Albany, New York.

Mrs. Helena G. Hoyt, Director, Municipal Recreation
Commission, City Hall.

Miss Grace A. Reeder, Director, Bureau of Child Wel-

fare, State Department of Social Welfare, 112 State
Street, Albany, New York.

Miss Anna S, Pherigo, Superintendent of Parks and Rec-
reation, Gratz Park.

H. F. A. Lange, Director, Parks and Playgrounds, 100
East Park Avenue.

Francis Donnon, Director, Pottstown, Recreation Com-
missron, King and Penn Streets.

Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, State Recreation Board, State
Capitol, Montpelier.

James A. Sharp, City Recreation Director, City Recrea-
tron Department, 200 East 4th Street.

Dr. Oliver S. Ikenberry, President, Shepherd College.

N. J. Barack, Superintendent of Recreation, Department
of Public Recreation, Room 124, City Hall.

Arthur C. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, Department
of Public Welfare, 214 Safety Building.

K. Hoeppner, Director of Recreation, High School.

Miss Vivian 0. Wills, Assistant Superintendent, West-
chester County Recreation Commission, County Office

Building, White Plains, New York.

Dr. R. L. Fairing, Acting Head, Department of Citizen-
ship Training, General Extension Division, University of
Florida, Gainesville. Florida.

Nicholas J. Sutton, Director of Recreation, Department
of Recreation.

Howard R. Rich, Director of Public Recreation, 817
Jefferson Avenue.

Dave A. Zook, Superintendent of Recreation, 302 City
Hall Building.

R. O. Monosmith, State 4-H Club Leader, Extension
Service.

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, Department
of Public \Velfare, 214 Safety Building.

Herman S. Adams, Parks and Recreation Commission.

Edward J. Hunt, Superintendent, Board of Public Recre-
ation, Haig Avenue.

Director of Summer Quarter, Macky 116, University of
Colorado.

Gerald R. Grifhn, Recreation Supervisor, Recreation De-
partment.

Edgar W. Austin, Executive Secretary. Council of Social
Agencies, Federation Building.

Henbert E. Kipke, Director, Board of Park Commission-
CI'S.

Jackson J. Perry, Superintendent, Park and Recreation
Department, 52 School Street.

* Special recreation leadership training courses for summer playground workers.

W15 to 31413.4, 16150

The next few weeks
may be Jthe most important
in your life

Between May 15th and July 4th, you
can make a move that may change your
life, regardless of your age. During these
seven weeks of the U.S. Treasury’s Inde-
pendence Drive, you can lay the ground-
work for making your fondest dreams
come true.

The next decade will be one of the
greatest America has ever seen. The op-
portunity of a lifetime will come to mil-
lions of Americans—it can come to you.

The opportunity to start your own busi-

 

ness. To buy a share in the business you’re
now in. Even to take a job that pays less at
the start—but has a tremendous future.

Don’t let your opportunity pass because
you were linancially unable to grab it!

If you are not now buying U.S. Savings
Bonds automatically, this is the time to
begin. If you are, sign up for extra

" bonds. Sign Up and buy up all you can.

That golden opportunity in the 50’s may
be the “one in a lifetime” for you—be
ready for it! '

Contributed by this magazine in co-bberation with the Magazinq
Publishers ofAmerica as a public service. 

 :1

 

 

