 

   

RECREATION

is one of the fields in which
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this
monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS —Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS — Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES — Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATHLETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the currcnt high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS —— Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS — Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscrzptz'on Price  Subscribe Now

School Activities Publishing Co.

151% LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

 

 

               
   
 

Six Porter 2178 Forword-Fold "Hoistawoy"

Basketball Backstops eoch equipped with
Porter 2378 Steel Fon-Shoped Backboords give

Western Illinois' modern gym the best in
equipment.

—- II '- I 'l

at leading gyms from tomato-mast
t/ae r/aoz'ce zlr Porter

at Western Illinois State Teachers College

   (“WWW-"53”c apparatus at Western Illinois is Por-
a ler‘made l0'3. preserves the finest tradition in

physical education. Authentically correct opparo-
tus is important part of pragram.

Wherever you find the most thoughtfully-plan-
ned, efficient, attraccive gymnasiums, you will
probably find Porter-made equipment. Porter
Basketball Backstops and Porter Gymnasium Ap-
paratus are in the finest tradition, refleccing Por-
ter’s quality manufaccuring skill that dates back
almost a century. Leading schools, universities,
clubs and communities all over America rely on
Porter. You can, too.

 

. . . __  
   Western IIlinais gym has full complement of
You can entrust your planning problems to Porter's engineering aqulpmfnll 'Bnd‘Jd'snglngrsesiCBhUClis.quc;1lilel RBOFS:
staff, and be confident of satisfactory, econOmical solutions. Jam-3" a, W?" :0 do”, 95. 9'9 5; OW-
Years of experience qualify them to render you a real set-Vice. "‘9 °¢ mes! ‘3 5 °" accessm'es'

Write today. No obligation.

THE J. E.   R CORPORATION Ottawa, Illinois

Manufacturers of Gymnasium, Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment

 

CllltAGlJ OFFICE: 664 N. Hichigan Ave. Chicago It. Phone: Sllperior 1-1262 NEW YORK OFFICE: 11 W. 42nd St. New York 18, Phonc: lungacrc 3-1342

JUNE 1951 121

 

AMERICAN APPRWED

Playground & Swimming
Pool Equipment

% ’Z/ou and other experienced

buyers know the wisdom of demanding abundant re-
serve strength, proven performance and absolute safety
in your Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment.
You know, too, that only highest quality equipment
will assure you these vitally essential features. Perhaps
that’s why so many of you today are placing your
confidence in American Approved Equipment. Like
thousands of satisfied American clients, you’ve found
that unexcelled workmanship, greater strength, rugged
durability and complete safety are but a few of the
manysuperiorfeaturcsyougetwhenyoul)uyAMERICAN.

 

122

 

It takes longer to build ADIEIUCAN

AMERICAN Approved Equipment is constructed exclusively
of top quality Steels, Certified Malleables and finest, care—
fully seasoned Hardwoods, all Of which continue to be in
critically short supply. Thus, although there are many
short-cuts to quicker deliveries, American A pproved Equip-
ment just naturally can’t be built and shipped as promptly
today as in normal times, if we are to maintain American’s
rigid pre—war quality standards. You’ll benefit in the long
run, however; for superior American Approved Equip-
ment will be serving you well many years after inferior,
substitute-built apparatus has had to be discarded.

*  today for Catalogs and descriptive Literature.

Learn why it’s worth waiting a bit longer for American!

     
   
 
 

II —-"

i ARIEBICAN

I’LAYGIIOUNID DEVICE C0.
ANIDEIISON, INDIANA

W'orid’s Largest Exclusive Alanufacturers of Fine
I Playground and Swimnu’ng Pool Equipment

RECREATION

 

JUNE 1951

Editor, JOSEPH Pasnoaacasr
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, SONIA RACHLIN
Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLV Price 35 Cents No. 3

 

On the Cover

DESERT SAILING—Desert winds mean full-bellied
sails on Lake Mead, the 115-mile artificial lake
above Boulder Dam. The Bureau of Reclamation,
United States Department of the Interior, is pre-
pared to take care of throngs of summer vacation-
ists who are expected in record-breaking numbers.

Photo Credits

Pages 129, tOp, 131, Don Berg Photography, Minne-
apolis, Minnesota; pages 129, bottom, 130, Walter
Dahlburg, Minneapolis, Minnesota; pages 132, 133,
New York City Park Department; page 135, Joe A.
Hernandez, Jacksonville, Florida; page 140, Timken
Roller Bearing Company. Canton, Ohio; page 141,
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn, Michigan; page
150. Tom O’Reilly, Toledo, Ohio; pages 152, 153.
154, top, New England Council, Boston, Massachu-
setts; page 160, Ross. Edmonton Bulletin, Canada;
page 162, News Alliance, New York; page 169, Gary
Wagner, New York, New York; page 175, Camp
Classen, Oklahoma; page 176, Belleville News Demo-
crat, Illinois.

Next Issue

September is the month when plans for fall recrea-
tion programs are afoot and peOple are lining up
the things they’d like to do “this winter.” About
this time, too, the annual Halloween problem is
looming upon the horizon. Therefore, materials de-
signed to help staff and participants to get under
way in plenty of time, and to set a good com-
inunity center program a-humming, will be included
in this first fall issue. Last minute Recreation
Congress announcements will also be included.

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Associa-
tion, a service organization supported by voluntary
contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $3.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. R. Welch Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $3.85. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Oflice in New York, New York, under Act of
March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special
rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act
of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Office: Jones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota.

Space Representatives: Robert Edgell, 104 East
Fortieth Street, New York 16, New York; Mark
Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 8757 Wilshire Boulevard,
Los Angeles 5, California.

Copyright, 1951, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated
Printed in the U.S.A. 3%?

 

JUNE 1951

MAGAZINE OF

 
 
      
 

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT
CONTENTS

General Features

Recreation in a National Emergency (editorial),

David W. Armstrong ................................................... .. 125
Recreation Comments ...................................................... .. 127
A Summer Festival, Jerry Vessels .................................... .. 129
Further Expansion Of NRA Services ............................... .. 134
The Industrial Recreation Program in the Atomic

Age, C. E. Brewer .......................................................... .. 140
The Magazine Goes to a District Conference .............. .. 142
TV Programs and Youth .............................................. .. . 148
New Recreation Library and OHice ............................. .. . 150
Hitting the High Spots, Janet Archibald ..................... .. . 151
This Is Boston, Blanche C. McGowan ........................ .. . 152
Josephine Randall Retires ........................................  161
Robert Montgomery Heads New Drama Committee. .. 169
The President Receives a Piano .................................... .. . 170
Have You a Vacation Story? ............................................ .. 171
In Memoriam ................................................................... .. 178
White Water .............................................................. .. 181

Administration
Reclamation of Park Areas in New York City, Robert

Moses .............................................................................. .. 132
Neighborhood Swimming Pools ........................................ .. 139
Recreation Leadership Training Programs—1951 .......... .. 144
More Attractive Playgrounds, William F rederickson,

Ir. .................................................................................. .. 145
Does Your Stock Room Pay Dividends? Lerton

S. Krushas ..................................................................... .. 147
Recreation Personnel Service for You, W. C. Suther-

land ................................................................................ .. 155
Catnping——Its Part in National Defense, Catherine T.

Hammett .................................................  ..................... .. 158
Day Camping, Lawrence Heeb and Florence Kiefer ..... .. 167
We Made a Deal, Forest Gustafson ................................. .. 176

Program Activities

Paddle Your Own Canoe, Nathan L. Mallison and

Waldemar Van B. Claussen ............................................ .. 135
Nature Hints for Counselors, Charles Belous ................ .. 149
Ship Ahoy! Frank A. Staples .......................................... .. 157
Indian Pow-Wow .............................................................. .. 160
A Guide tO Teaching Tennis, S. C. Summerfield ............ .. 162
Why More Canoeing? Lillian Riddell and L. E.

Fancher  .......................................................... ..  165
Rhymes with a Reason, Taylor Dodson ............... .. .. 172
More Fun in the Water, EidOla Jean Bourgaize  . 174
Recipes for Fun—A Garden Party ........................... .. . 179
How TO Do It! Frank A Staples ........................... .. 182

Regular Features
Things You Should Know ......................................... .. 126
BOOks Received ........................................................... .. . 183
Magazines and Pamphlets .......................................... .. 183
New Publications ........................................................... .. 184
Recreation Leadership Courses ................ .. Inside Back Cover
123

 

124

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions
Executive Director, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

 

   

Gaoace E. Dtcnre

GEORGE T. ADAMS

WILLARD C. SOTHELLAND Aano B. jausau

OFFICERS
One ‘1‘. MALLaar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Chairman of the Board
PAUL Home. In. . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . ..First Vice-President
Matt. OCOEN L. MILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sccood Vice-President
SUAAN M. Lee. .Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
AORtAtt M. MAast: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurcr
GusrAvua T. Ktnar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Treasurer Emeritus
Joszpn Pneunzeusr  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .. . . . Secretary
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
F. W. H. AoAMa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Ncw York, N. Y. Matt. CRAALes V. Htcxox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..l\lichigan City. Ind.

F. Gaacc Btha . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Boston. Mass. hlns. Juan D. JAMEson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Bellport. N. Y.

Man. Ronear Wooos BLtss . . . . . .  . . . . .  .thshington. D. C. SUSAN M. Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .New York. N. Y.

Mas. Altmua G. Commas. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Jacksonville. Fla. Ono T. MALuar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Philadelpbin. Pa.

WtLLtAM H. DAns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......Ncw York. N. Y. CAAL E. MILLIKEN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Augusta. Me.

HAaar P. DAnsott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Ncw York. N. Y. Mas. OcosN L. MILLs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . “Woodbury. N. Y-

Mtta. PAUL GALLAcmm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Omaha. Nebr. PAUL Mooar. JR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Jersey City. N. J.

Rosan- GAanarr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Baltimorc. Md. loses-n PneuozaCAsr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York. N. Y.

Runner GRANT. 3rd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Oyster Bay. N. Y. Mas. SICMUND Stem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. San Francisco. Calif.

Alums: E. Getrrtrns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..SeattIe. Wash. GRANT Tirawotrrtt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Noroton. Conn.

Mas. NoAMAtt HAaaowtza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fitchburg. Mass. I. C. WALsu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Yonkcrs. N. Y.

Fazozatcx M . WAaaURc . . . . . . ..

. . . . . . . . . . . . .. New York. N. Y.

 

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Executive Director’s OHice

THOMAs E. Ravens

Ros: JAr ScuwAArz Aaruua WILLIAMs
WALoo R. HArNswoarn

Co rrespondenee and ConsultatiOn

Service Work with Volunteers

VntctNtA MussaLMAu
Cnnune BORCHAm Loumn WILLtAMs

Defense-Related Activities
HELENA G. Hon

Editorial Department
Donor!" DONALDSON SONIA RACHLIN

Personnel Service

MART Qutan

MART GU nuuA'r

Research Department

DArtn ]. DuBons
ELIZARBTH CLtrrON

Gnome D. BUTLER
MURIEI. MCGANN

E. BzAratcs S'rzARNs
MAACAu'r DAanonH
FRANCE: Wane. Lea

Field Department

CHAauts E. Reno

Dom-rm- FoacANc jAMtts A. MAotsou

Service to States. . . . .Ronaar R. GAMALz

Arear and Funnier—Planning and Survey:
H. C. Hus-cums ALAN B. Beast-rt

Katherine P. Barker Memorial
Secretary for Women and Girls

Hunt M. DAUNCET
Imitutrisl Recreation. . . . . . C. E. Baevn

Recreation Leadership Training Course:

Runs EHLER! ANNE Lmucs-rou
MtLoluzo SCANLON FRAN: A. STAPLES
GRACE WALKER

 

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

New England District
RICHARD S. Warran . . . .Portlmd, Mc.

Middle Atlantic District

JOHN W. FAus'r. . . . .East Orange, N. ].
Gnome A. starrr. . . .Ncw York, N .Y.

Great Lakes District

JOHN ]. COLLIER. . . . . . . . .Toledo. Ohio
Rosnr L. Hoaunr. . . . . .Madison. Wis.

Southern District

Miss MARION PREBCE. . . .Alcxsndris. Va.H“‘°L° V3" A“°“£° ' ' ' ' 'D‘ll”' Tex'
RALPH VAN Fue'r. . . . . .Clcarwstcr. Fls.
WILLIAM M. HAT. . . . . .Nsshville, Tenn.

Alt-mus. TODD. . . . . . . .Ksnsss City. Mo.

HAROLD LATHROP. . . . . . . . Denver, Colo.1.rm~t S. Rooster. . . . . Los Angclcs. Calif.

Southwest District

Pacific Northwest District

WILLA“) H. SHUMAao. . . .Scattle, Wash.
Midwest District

Pacific Southwest District

 

Affiliate Membership

Aiiiliatc memhership in the National

'RccreRtion Association ls open to all non-

proiit private and puhlic organizations
whose function ia wholly or primarily the
provision or promotion of recreation aerv-
iccs or which include recreation as an im-
portant part of their total program Rnd
whose cooperation in the work of tlte asso-
ciation would. in the opinion of the associa-
tion‘s Board of Directors. further the ends

Active Associate Membership

Active associate membcrship in the
National Rccreation Association is opcn to
all individuals who are actively engaged
on a full-time or part-time employed basis
or as volunteers in a nonprofit private or
public recreation organization and whose
cooperation In the work of the association
would. in the opinion of the association's
Board of Directors, further the ends of the

Contributors

The continuation of the work of the
National Recreation Association from year
to year is made possible by the splendid
cooperation of several hundred voluntcer
sponsors throughout the country. and the
generous contributions of thousands ol
supporters of this movement to bring health.
happiness and creatlve living to the boys
and girls and the men and women of
America. If you would like to join in the

ol the national recrcation movement.

national recrcation movcment.

support of this movement, you may send
your contribution direct to the association.

 

The National Recreation Association is a nation-
wide, nonprofit, nonpolitical and nonsectarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the service
of all recreation executives, leaders and agencies,

public and private. to the end that every child in
America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America, young and old, shall

have an opportunity for the best and most satisfy.
mg use of his expanding leisure time.

F or further information regarding the association’s services and membership, please write to the
Executive Director, Nationai Recreation Association, 3I5 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

RECREATION

1 N INEVITABLE ACCOMPANIMENT Of

a national emergency is the con-
sideration of the essentials and non-
essentials of living. The things by
which men live are divided sharply
and, frequently, arbitrarily into the
necessary and the not-necessary.

Food, clothing and shelter fall un-
questionany into the necessary class.
About these three things, there is gen~
eral agreement. But, beyond the major
three, there is more disagreement than
agreement about the essentials for liv-
ing during a national crisis.

Recreation, which is a general con-
cern of everyone and a special con-
cern of many national agencies, is
often considered rather unimportant
in time of national emergencies. Rec-
reation as a human resource is sud-
denly greatly devalued. The importance
of recreation becomes a paradox—
the less the people need it, the greater
value it has; the more the people need
it, the less value it has. For, surely, it
is precisely during the periods of great
tension that people need recreation
more than during any other periods.
It is not then that recreation is less
valuable—if recreation be treated as
a commodity whose value rises and
falls. 0n the contrary, it is then that
recreation can reveal its true worth.

Despite all the many ills of one kind
or another that have beset humanity
from time to time, man has progressed
slowly in his understanding of man.
His needs as a human being have been
more clearly recognized and, as a re-
sult, ways have been sought to meet
those needs. That people have a deep
need for recreation, as it affects their
mental, emotional and even physical
health, has been established. Methods
and means of meeting that need have
been worked out and put into opera-
tion. That the health of the people and
the work of years should be abandoned
at a time of national emergency strikes
the intelligent and thoughtful person
as not only tragically wasteful, but
also as showing an almost complete
lack of perspective. It makes him won-
der if the national emergency as such
is being best served or can be best
served by a people existing under con-
stantly increasing pressures without
some provision for alleviating tensions.

Recreation in some form or other

JUNE 1951

Recreation
in a

National Emergency

an editorial by David W. Armstrong

offers the healthy outlet to people from
the unusual strains and stresses to
which they are being submitted. A
national emergency changes the struc-
ture of the very foundation of our so-
ciety—the family. Men are taken for
training in the armed forces; the em-
ployment of women increases quickly
and vastly; the home place itself shifts
with the growth of big industries in
one locality and then in another. Great
numbers of children are burdened with
the insecurities of a nation in the midst
of an emergency.

The therapeutic quality of recrea-
tion, afforded by public and private
agencies to adults and to children, is
something to be considered seriously
and to be used in the cause of the
common good. Accepted as a part of
living, it can do much to inject bal-
ance into the human picture—always
so sadly distorted in stormy times. The
armed forces have incorporated recre-
ation into their program, fully under-
standing that the health of the military
demands this release. The civilian
should not be disregarded in this re-
spect because he does not happen to
shoulder the gun. He, too, is affected
by the atmosphere of strain and un-
rest which surrounds and tends to
overwhelm him. Recreation is an im-
portant factor in the lives of all peo-
ple, and especially important in the
lives of children and .youth.

Wherever children and youth live,
they should have recreational oppor-
tunities. Since the latest Midcentury
White House Conference statistics have
pointed out to us that one out of every
five mothers is now working outside
the home, it readily can be seen that
these opportunities not only should
not be curtailed, but, rather, that they
should be increased when the nation,
as it is now doing, draws more and

more mothers into offices and factories.
Facilities, both public and private, for
the play and recreation of children and
youth, where they can enjoy construc-
tive activities under the skilled guid-
ance of leaders, should be maintained
and, in many instances, increased with
rising needs.

All children and young people must
have opportunities for an individual
choice of interests and hobbies if they
are to grow personally and to develop
socially. To deprive them of a chance
to become mature, self-reliant, socially
responsible citizens by curtailing rec-
reational and guidance facilities and
leadership is to court the possibility
of an ever-larger number of children
and, later, of adults, who are malad-
justed and unready to take their right
and proper places in the affairs of this
democracy.

Although recreation for young peo-
ple has been emphasized here, it is
not to be assumed that adults should
be ignored. They, too, are of concern.
However, adults, realizing their need
and having the will to do something
about it, by their own efforts can do
much toward creating their own op-
portunities for necessary and construc-
tive recreation. It is the youth of the
nation who must be safeguarded by
the wisdom and farsightedness of par-
ents, teachers, leaders and others who
refuse to take the attitude that food,
clothing and shelter satisfy all basic
needs. As responsible, thinking people,
they know that these three, though
vital, are not all the basic needs that
there are at any time and, most par-
ticularly, that they are not all there are
when a nation is confronted by a seri-
ous emergency.

DAVID W. ARMSTRONG is executive di-
rector of the Boys’ Club of America.

125

   

' A COMMITTEE has been appointed,
with F. S. Mathewson, Superintendent
Of Recreation, Union County, New J er-
sey, as chairman, to recommend stand-
ards for sports and athletics for boys
of twelve years of age and under. It is
anticipated that its recommendations
will be available in time for the Na-
tional Recreation Congress in Boston
in October.

0 A LIST OF SELECTED OCCUPATIONS
FOR WOMEN in the national emergency
has been prepared by the Stephens Col-
lege Board on Occupations and is now
being distributed, in chart form, to
all students and faculty. The selection
has been made at the direction of
President Homer P. Rainey as one
phase of the college’s program to serve
its students and the nation during the
present crisis. The chart may be ob-
tained by writing to the Director of
Publications, Stephens Collcge, Colum-
bia, Missouri.

0 THE STATE RECREATION SERVICES
To COMMUNITIES panel at the annual
convention of the AAHPER in Detroit
in April was chaired by Joseph Pren-
dergast, executive director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. Panel
members were Edwin Rice, Extension
Secretary, Inter-Agency Council for
Recreation, Lansing, Michigan; The-
resa Brungardt, Vermont Director of
Recreation, Montpelier; Harley Robert-
son, State Director of Health, Physical
Education and Recreation, Olympia,
Washington; Julian Smith, State De-
partment of Public Instruction, Lan-
sing, Michigan; and Sterling S. Wi-
nans, Director, California Recreation
Commission.

126

74%  .350de Km ,

. A BRIEF SUMMARY of the recreation
personnel training field indicates that
there are forty-nine colleges and uni-
versities reporting major curriculums
in recreation; twenty-six offering grad-
uate work leading to masters’, direc-
tors’ and doctors’ degrees. These
schools further report a total of 665
receiving degrees in 1951—513 bach-
elor, 152 graduate. These centers of

learning are pretty well distributed
geographically, two or more being lo-
cated in each of the eight field dis-
tricts of the NRA. See September 1951
RECREATION for detailed distribution
of schools and number of graduates.

0 THE NATIONAL DEFENSE FUND has
approved the 1952 budgets for the spe-
cial defense-related services of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. The
budgets provide for some increases.

' “HOW To DETERMINE THE RECREA-
TION NEEDS of Communities in Con-
nection with Water Basin Studies,”
was the subject of an address given by
Art Todd, representative of the NRA
in its Inidwest district, to field staff
'of the National Park Service at a
recent meeting in St. Louis. These
studies are being conducted by the Na-
tional Park Service.

9 THE YEAR OF 1951 seems to be the
year of many training opportunities
by means of institutes and workshops
throughout the country. Sixty-eight
have been reported, including thirty-
three institutes primarily in social
recreation and games sponsored by
churches, rural and c o o p e r a t i v 6
groups; seventeen, primarily folk and
square dance institutes; fiftcen, recrea-

tion workshops; and three, combina-
tion park and recreation conferences.

' BETWEEN THE FIRST OF JANUARY
AND TIIE FIRST OF JUNE, NRA training
specialists h a ve conducted training
courses in seventy-two citics through-
out the country. These were distrib-
uted between Miami and King County,
Washington, and between Long Beach,
California, and Vcrmont. Seventeen
more are scheduled for June (see in-
side back cover, this issue). Last year
155 training courses were conducted in

thirty-five states, reaching approxi-

mately thirteen thousand paid and
volunteer leaders.

0 THE FEDERAL INTER-AGENCY COM-
MITTEE on Recreation has drawn up a
“Recommended General Policy.of the
Federal Government Relative to Puh-
lic Recreation” which it has sent to
other federal departments, to the gov-
ernors of states and to certain private
recreation agencies for their reviews
and comments. In addition, and for
the same purpose, the statement has
been sent by the NRA to all affiliate
and active associate members and to
recreation and park chairmen and ex-
ecutives. Following this, and in the
light of comments made, the commit-
tee will make a further study of the
policy with the thought that, after
wide consultation, the subject of a fed-
eral policy for recreation might be pre-
sented to apprOpriate committees of
the Congress for their consideration.

0 THE ORANGE STATE RECREATION
ASSOCIATION was organized in Tampa,
Florida, early in March, at a confer-
ence sponsored jointly by the NRA,
the Advisory Committee 011 Recreation
for Ncgroes Of the Florida Recreation
Association and the Tampa Recreation
Department. First president of the ncw

group is Dr. R. R. Williams, Jr., 504-
Scott Street, Tampa.

0 IN CONNECTION WITH the NRA Rec-
reation Leadership Training Coursc
which is scheduled for supervisors in
communities near Tolch the week of
June fourth, plans also have been made
for a special course for military per-
sonnel having responsibility for recre-
ation in nearby posts.

RECREATION

RECREATION

Sirs:
It is my personal Opinion that every

person engaged in recreation work
should read “Preventive Recreation”
by Ben Solomon, in the March 1951
issue of RECREATION. Mr. Solomon has
made an effective presentation of lead-
ership techniques for attaining certain
objectives. He states that the recreation
leader should first of all be concerned
with the individual—that he should at-
tempt to understand the individual.
This is no new principle. It is pertinent
to many, if not all, of the professions.
Perhaps the recreation leader has more
opportunities to apply it. We, at Indi-
ana University, made that assumption
when we placed in our undergraduate
recreation curriculum three courses in
psychology—one more than is required
of persons preparing for the teaching
profession.

Another principle set forth by Mr.
Solomon is that of taking recreation to
the people—to the immediate neighbor-
hood and the home. Too often we at-
tempt to popularize the playground or
community center instead of trying to
serve the individual or family.

I did not notice any mention of
camping in “Preventive Recreation.”
This is surprising as camping is one
of Mr. Solomon’s 1najor interests. I be-
lieve that the city of Detroit can show
that its camp program has accom-
plished much in changing the attitudes
of children taken from the blighted
areas of the city. Camp life breaks

JUNE 1951

“Preventive Recreation”

down social barriers. Association with
the out-of-doors tends to clean the
mind and to open new fields of inter-

est. Under capable leadership, one can
be instilled with an interest in nature
——whether it be along the street, the
waterfront or the forest.

In reading the article, I get the im-
pression, maybe wrongly, that our
problem children exist only in slum
areas. There are many problem chil-
dren in the well-to-do sections of a
city, who need individual attention and
a program designed to satisfy their
needs.

I believe that Mr. Solomon has pre-
sented a challenge to the recreation
profession. May I commend RECREA-
TION for publishing this article.

GARRETT G. EPPLEY, Chairman, De-

partment of Recreation, Indiana

University, Bloomington, Indiana.

Sirs:

Ben Solomon’s article is a frank and
appr0priate discussion on certain illu-
sions and impressions which charac-
terizc some public and voluntary
agency leaders. Too long have many
public and voluntary agency programs
been cruising under a sail of a cure-
all for the ills of the community. It
is time that a correct perspective and
evaluation be made of the true values
of recreation as a normal factor in
living.

I dislike the title “Preventive Recre-
ation,” but as the subject for this

 

It _7.

utetic bulls

You can depend upon famous
Wilson INDESTRUCTO
Rubber Covered Athletic Balls
to give the acme in performance
and the maximum in long life.
No rubber covered balls

made can outwear them-

or give more satisfactory
service in any way. Sold by
leading sporting goods

dealers everywhere.

 

 [Dibon

TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

Wilson Sporting Goods Co.. Chicago
Bronch offices in New York, San Francisco
and 26 other principol. cities
[A subsidiary of Wilson & Co., Inc!

127

article it is fitting. It is understood,
however, that this title is applied to
a course in a college curriculum. This
application seems to discolor the true
meaning of the word, unless one is
more intimately familiar with the in-
terpretation of the subject matter.
MILO F. CHRISTIANSEN, Recreation
Superintendent, Washington, D.C.

GYM EQUIPMENT

0 Gymnasium Equlpment
o Telescopic Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards
0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

7am gap 64%;
FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,INc.

3566 DE KALB ST. ST. lOUlS l8, M0.

_ For 78 Years
" The Standard Of Quality

Cultural—Carefree—C’reati’ve

NATIONAL FOLK
CAMP

Cuivre River State Park
Troy, Mo.

3 Sessions—July 30-1109. 19

Folk Dancing, Games,
Ballads, Crafts

Write: Box C, 608 Grotiot, St. Levis, Mo.

 

128

Sirs:

Tips taken from our summer play-
ground manual and published in the
April issue of RECREATION have at-
tracted wide interest. Letters request-
ing additional information have been
received, each mcntioning the article.

BURBANK RECREATION DEPARTMENT,

California.

“Wading Pools”
Sirs:

Would you please send copies of
the April and the forthcoming May
issue to five of the playground com-
missioners here in Aurora? We are
faced with the problem of either con-
verting our deep wading pools (three
feet to four feet deep) into shallow
wading pools or into spray pools. The
discussions and opinions of the various
recreation superintendents which ap-
peared in your survey will be of
great value to our board in determin-
ing whether spray or wading pools
will be used on the playgrounds.

JOHN A. LIPPOLD, Director, Play-
ground and Recreation Department,
Aurora, Illinois.

Reprints

Subscribers:

Reprints of Dr. Grace Coyle’s “The
Group Worker in the Recreation Cen-
ter,” in the March 1951 issue of REC-
REATION, have been ordered by several
universities. If any others desire to
use such reprints, please let us have
your orders as quickly as possible."
RECREATION.

“I Am a Child”
Sirs:

The poem, “I Am a Child,” which
appeared on page nine of the April is-
sue of your magazine, is one of the
most memorable things I have read
in months, and the layout—the photo-
graph, format, and type of title used——
was wonderful!

CHARLES H. ROW, JR., Educational
and Information Assistant, State
Youth Development Council, Austin,
Texas.

“Whither ‘Westem’ Square Dance?”
Sirs:

“Whither ‘Western’ Square Dance?”
in the November issue was wonderful.

I thoroughly agreed with evcrything
in the article, and so did most of the
nIembcrs of our'Lexington Country
Dance Society.

We were wondering if you would
give us permission to reprint it, to
send to other peoplc, or if you have
made up copies of your own that you
could send to us to distribute not only
to our members but to send to other
dancc groups?

We especially agree that the twirls
and whirls, the elaborate costumes and
commercial side of the western square
dancing are a detriment to the wholc
dance movement.

JAMES PIIEANE Ross, Field Agent in

Club Work, Cooperative Extension

Work Division, Lexington, Kentucky.

“Administrative Planning — Its
EfTective Use”

Sirs:

This article, which appeared in your
January and February issues of REC-
REATION, is very constructive. It should
encourage the development of im-
proved methods of organizing, pro-
moting and conducting community
recreation programs and evaluating re-
sults. The recreation movement is pass-
ing out of the “trial and error” stage
and it is now timely that more exact
methods be developed and objective
standards formulated.

Regarding the article, “This Busi-
ness of Counting Attendance,” by
Lloyd A. Rochford, in the January is-
sue of RECREATION, the separation of
organized (planned) activities from
general activities in the recording of
attendance is particularly noteworthy
in thc method of attendance account-
ing devised by the author. General at-
tendance is of comparatively little
value, but a record of attendance at
planned activities is a most important
instrument for evaluating the work of
recreation directors. The form of re-
porting attendance I likc very much,
partly because it aids in imprcssing
those who must fill it out with the im-
portance of exact reporting and of
planning programs in advance.

Let us have nlorc articles like these
in the magazinc.

GEORGE HJELTE, General Manager,
Departmcnt of Recreation and Parks,
Los Angcles, California.

RECREATION

II

Jerry Vessels

A SUMMER

FESTIVAL

RANSITION IN THE recreation program of the Min-
T neapolis Board of Park Commissioners from play-
grounds for small children to a recreation program for
the entire family is exemplified in the Minneapolis Aqua-
tennial, an annual civic festival.

During this ten-day celebration, built around Minne-
sota’s ten thousand lakes vacation area, the entire staff
of twenty-three full-time members, plus a seasonal staff
numbering 220, cooperate with an army of Aquatennial
volunteers. This event calls for community-wide partici-
pation—from the youngest child to grandma herself.

It is estimated that more than a million persons, from
five to ninety years of age, again will enjoy themselves
this year at the 147 parks and forty playgrounds, from
July 20 through 29, dates of the 1951 Aquatennial.

0f the 162 events presented last year to show the ad-
vantages of Minnesota’s great outdoor resources and
amateur sports facilities, seventy-seven were held on
park property. These were, for the most part, organized
by park recreation division personnel. They included
major athletic tournaments for boys and girls, men and
women. Morc than ten thousand persons participated.

The first unit of a modern city-wide sports center
officially will be opened this summer when the Aqua-
tennial parade moves through the new park stadium,
with its seating capacity of twenty-one thousand. Pre-
viously, temporary bleachers had been set up at the
parade'grounds to accommodate twelve thousand spec-
tators—augmented by more than a half million parade
lovers crowding the avenues as the bands, floats, clowns,
queens and marchers swing along the chosen route.

The fathers of the Aquatennial turned to the park board
the first year of the festival in 1940 and found enthusi-
astic supporters in Charles E. Doell, superintendent of
parks and an Aquatennial board member, and Karl B.
Raymond, director of recreation.

Mr. Raymond, looking back over thirty-two years of
recreation work in Minneapolis, recalls with pride the
contributions which have been made to the health and
happiness of the community.

“The measure of acceptance of the necessity for pub-
lic recreation activities and programs may be seen in

 

MRS. JERRY VESSELS serves as the publicity director for
the Minneapolis Aquatennial Association, Minnesota.

JUNE 1951

I.

l
1.
t3

 
 
 

f

0"

Q.
h'

A half million persons enjoy seeing the daylight Aquatennial
parade or the Spectacular night illumination staged annually.

the increasing demands being made each year for more
facilities and more service,” he says.

The general feeling of Minneapolis recreation workers
is that the Aquatennial offers an opportunity to drama-
tize their own year-round program.

 

A regatta as viewed on the wide expanse of Lake Calhoun.

How is this accomplished? First, participation in the
festival came about when Girl Scouts, Campfire Girls and
the YWCA made the rounds of playgrounds with a pup-
pet show. These organizations also helped playground
instructors to teach folk dancing for the Aquatennial
Folk Dance Festival. At the same time, a detailed sum-
mer sports program was worked out by recreation
supervisors. A Boy Scout encampment also was an im-
portant feature. Then, six years ago, the Aquatennial
Board of Directors proposed that the first Tuesday in
the ten-day civic program be set aside as Children’s
Day. Immediately, instructors at each of the forty play-
grounds got busy with plans for their special contribu-
tion. Mothers and neighborhood friends worked with

129

 

Two fairies light in a tree to watch the sights of \Vonderland.

them on the various projects. All converged on an Aqua-
tennial Trip through Wonderland. The setting was beau-
tiful Powderhorn Park, where a natural amphitheatre is
formed by gently sloping wooded hillsides with the lake
as the backdrop. Eight stages are now constructed at
the base of the slopes for this event.

More than five thousand youngsters wander from one
“little show” to the next, squealing with delight at the
marionettes, applauding the trained dog and pony acts,
the musicians, magicians, clowns and other attractions
dear to a child’s heart. No admission is charged. Bal-
loons released by the children, containing Aquatennial
invitations, have been found as far away as California.

“In this particular instance, it must have been carried
there by automobile,” declared Alice Dietz, assistant
director of recreation. “For the most part, our balloons
get no farther than the cornfields of Iowa or the wheat-

fields of North Dakota.”

The children come from their various neighborhood
playgrounds wearing identifying headgear or arm bands.

“Because of this, we have never lost a child nor have
had an accident,” Miss Dietz explains. “Each playground

keeps together with little difficulty despite the thousands
of children who attend Wonderland.”

The event has become a playday for parents as well
as for children, and also for the increasing number of
Aquatennial ofiicials no matter how busy they may be
with regattas, swimming championships, visiting queens
and parades. All city youth agencies cooperate by bring-
ing their own children and making suggestions for a
better program each year.

For the past five years, the Minnesota Junior Chamber

130

 

of Commerce, together with an Aquatcnnial committec
headed by Russell H. Johnson, assistant director of rec-
reation for Minneapolis parks and playgrounds, pre-
sented the statewide Aqua-Jaycee midget and junior
baseball championships as a stellar event. The finals
werc played in the big league ball park of the Minneapolis
Millers—~in itself a thrilling expcrience for the youngsters.

Four hundred fourteen teams from 178 different Min-
nesota communities joined in this program, a record

that tops the nation in total participation per capita,
according to Mr. Johnson’s report.

This same committee sponsored a junior golf tourna-
ment which attracted three hundred young golfers from
thirty different cities. Altogether, 6,512 teen-age boys
have been active in 208 communities during the summer
Sports program which ends at Aquatennial time.

An example of the active cooperation between the
Park Board Recreation Division and thc Minneapolis
Aquatennial, for instance, is the preparation of the Music
Festival. Beginning about January of each year, the
Aquatennial Music Festival Committee begins its monthly
meetings at which programs for the forthcoming Aqua-
tennial are proposed and discussed. The park board rep-
resentative on the committee attends all of these meet-
ings and, because of his knowledge of park board policy
and the facilities and equipment which are available, he
is able to render valuable assistance. By virtue of thesc
meetings, he also is aware of what demands may be
made upon the park board and the music projects during
Aquatennial Week and he is able to keep the director

Dorothy Kielty, ranking United States woman amateur golf-
er began her eareer in an Aquatennial women’s tournament.

 

Co-cds from the University of Minnesota train year-round for
the prccision routine of the Aqua Follies Water Ballet pre-
sented 'at Wirth Pool every evening during the Aquatennial.

of recreation and the superintendent of parks informed
as to progress and probable requests. About one month
before the festival takes place, the various requests which
will be made upon the park board by the Aquatennial
Music Committee are listed and submitted in writing to
the park board representative. After being ok’d, they
are included in the junior Aquatennial requests which
cover all phases of the Aquatennial having to do with
park property and personnel, and submitted to the Board
of Park Commissioners for its approval. The Aquatennial
Music Committee has been in operation since the first
celebration in 1940 and the same person has represented
the Park Board Recreation Division on the committee
since that time. This has worked out satisfactorily. It
is often the case that the Aquatennial Music Committee
is made up of many new personnel each year and the
presence of someone who has the experience of previous
years often is invaluable.

During the Aquatennial Music Festival, the park
board representative attends each of the programs, checks
on the equipment provided and coordinates work between
the park board staff and the program directors.

Walter Dahlberg, of the Board of Park Commissioners,
who represents the recreation division on the Music
Festival Committee, estimates public attendance as fol-
lows: Lake Harriet—nine concerts, 39,500; Minnehaha
Park—weight concerts, 15,800; Folwell Park—eight con-
certs, 31,300.

A representative of the Park Board Recreation Di-
vision is included on all the committees having to do
with events on park board property. Mr. Doell, as an
Aquatennial board member, is in constant touch with
the general set-up of Aquatennial events. Through the
representative of the recreation and other divisions serv-
ing on Aquatennial committees, he is able to know the
situation as it develops for all events right up to the
time of the Aquatennial. Other committees upon which
the Park Board Recreation Division is represented are:

the children’s “Trip Through Wonderland,” baseball,
JUNE 1951

archery, bait and fly casting, shuilleboard, canoe derby,
motor and sail boating, tennis, golf and Grand Parade.

Don Neer, superintendent of recreation in St. Cloud,
Minnesota, and secretary-treasurer of the Midcontinent
Regional Park and Recreation Conference, as well as
chairman of the United States Junior Chamber of Com-
merce Sports and Recreation Committee, says that the
magic word, “Aquatennial,” vibrates over Paul Bunyan
land each July like the beat of the Sioux tom-toms.

Everywhere communities go all out in preparing for
the nation’s great summer sports carnival. Months in
advance Upper Mississippi communities plan and pro-
mote the famous 450-mile Paul Bunyan Canoe Derby,
which starts at Bemidji near the source of the Mississippi
and ends at the port of river navigation to open the
show oHicially. Many communities hold festivals of their
own from which floats, units, queens and other contest-
ants advance into Aquatennial competition.

.\..- 

 

Girl Scout Mariners take famous visitors around city lakes.

Musical talent is discovered each year through contests
for vocalists, instrumentalists, choral groups, bands, ba-
ton twirlers and accordionists. Businessmen lose their
identity in Aqua Jesters and other clown clubs. Not
only do these groups participate in the parades but,
annually, they, with other Aquatennial entertainers, bring
the civic celebration to shut-ins at old people’s homes,
children’s and veterans’ hospitals and similar institutions.

Charlotte Fosburg, senior recreation supervisor in
charge of women’s activities, reports that from one
hundred to one hundred twenty women participate each
year in the Aquatennial women’s golf tournament.

Spring warm-up for the summer festival begins in
April with the Minnesota state all-girl swimming and
diving championships.

Any recreation departments which may wish to do
some experimentation with a similar celebration, as a
culmination of the year’s recreation activities, may ob-
tain more details of procedures, organization and prob-
lems involved by writing to Walter Dahlberg, Research
Assistant, Board of Park Commissioners, 325 City Hall,
Minneapolis 15, Minnesota.

131

Final development of these filled lands is illustrated by
this playground view near Horace Harding Boulevard.

BECLAMATION
0F

 

PARK AREAS IN NEW YOBK CITY

The following statement was submitted in the form of
a letter to the Mayor of New York by Commissioner
Robert Moses in October 1950. It describes the steps the
park department has taken to reclaim areas for parks
by the use of sanitation fill and synthetic topsoil. The
successful methods used to provide additional park and
recreation space for the people of New York can be
applied to advantage in other cities.

I iloa SIXTEEN YEARS the New York City Park Depart-

ment has been reclaiming wastelands and swamps
to create new park areas as part of a long-term program.
Already 2,135 acres have been added and additional proj-
ects of 1,900 acres are under way. We have used every
kind of filling material—hydraulically-dredged sand, ship
ballast, rubble from bombed buildings in England and
from the demolition of structures within the city, De-
partment of Sanitation garbage, refuse and ashes, rock
from deep cellar excavations and excess stuff from public,
semi-public and private residential developments.
Impetus was given the reclamation program by a de-
cision of the United States Supreme Court in 1934. The
decision held that New York City created a public nui-
sance by dumping refuse and garbage at sea, which
floated ashore to litter the New Jersey and Long Island
waterfronts, and ordered the practice discontinued. In
the absence of incinerators, the city was forced to dis-
pose of its waste on land within the city limits and to
establish or expand vast dumps such as those on F lush-
ing Meadow in the heart of Queens and Riker’s Island in
the East River. These dumps were badly controlled and

132

offensive. Fires owing to internal combustion smoked
during the day and illuminated them at night. Papers
and refuse were blown around the countryside and a
pervasive smell of rotting vegetable matter was carried
for miles.

The 1939 World’s Fair ended the Flushing dump and
mountains of refuse were leveled off and used to grade
the remaining unfilled portions of the swamps. Today
this is Flushing Meadow Park, potentially one of the
finest recreation areas we have, temporary site of the
General Assembly of the United Nations and located in
the exact geographical and population center of the city.
At about the same time, the hills of Riker’s Island were
leveled to provide fill for the construction of La
Guardia Airport, and garbage and refuse disposal was
discontinued.

For a long time, the city hesitated to spend the large
sums necessary for new incinerators. The Department
of Sanitation, therefore, was forced to continue the dis-
posal of the city’s waste in low-lying lands, both private
and public. The first step toward orderly and decent
control of dumps was on the Bronx River at Sound
View Park. Here, reasonably-adequate facilities and
equipment under park department supervision were cs-
tablished as a basis for reclamation and to guard against
neighborhood nuisances. Simultaneously, extensive areas
of privately-owned lands were being filled under very
poor conditions with hills of loose refuse and with little
effort to cover operations quickly with clean materials.

Finally, in 1948, complaints by residents in the vicin-
ity of land fill operations forced the city to adopt a
definite program of construction of facilities for com-

RECREATION

 

plete incineration, a policy long recommended by this
department. It was agreed that, in the interest of plant
construction, waste materials would be placed only on
city-owned lands to be deve10ped as parks or for other
public purposes. Appropriations of adequate funds were
made for plans, suitable equipment, stockpiles of clean
earth for cover and for proper supervision, so that the
temporary fill areas would be operated without neigh-
borhood nuisances and produce ultimate constructive
results. Filling operations of this type are now being
carried on under excellent supervision. The locations are
hemmed in by dikes which hide the Operations from
public view. Odors are negligible. Tremendous stock-
piles of clean cover of earth or sand are kept nearby
and the open faces of fills are held to a minimum.

 

Flushing Meadow Park before the reclamation procedures.
In the absence of incinerators, the city was forced to dis-
pose of waste on land Within city limits and expand dumps.

This incinerator construction program has been co-
ordinated with the land fill projects so that the inciner-
ators will be ready when the present reclamation projects
are completed.

The final deve10pment of these filled lands for recre-
ation purposes involves one problem which has plagued
the park department, namely that of securing, at reason-
able cost, the topsoil required to sustain lawns, shrubs
and trees. Topsoil in the quantities required, nearly
2,250,000 cubic yards, is not available within the city
limits nor in this quantity in neighboring counties. Ex-
tensive residential deve10pments in the metr0politan areas,
accompanied by local prohibitions against stripping of
topsoil, have seriously constricted the sources of this
material. It is doubtful whether suHicient quantities of
topsoil are available within economical haulage dis-
tance to meet the needs of the several reclamation areas,
not to mention the already-established program of park-
ways, parks, playgrounds and other public improvements.
The cost of topsoiling the reclamation areas at today’s
prices would be about $8,500,000, and this cost is likely

to increase rather than decrease in the future. '

JUNE 1951

The solution obviously does not lie in reducing the
thickness of topsoil. Any saving made by such practice
is offset by increased maintenance expenses. Similarly,
no real saving is effected by lowering the quality
of t0psoil since transportation and spreading are the
controlling factors.

The prospect of excessive cost of t0psoil and of greater
scarcity and higher prices necessitated a detached and
scientific investigation of the various possible methods
of manufacturing topsoil which will support plant life,
beginning with a study of the surface cover of the re-
claimed area and of similar materials, organic and other-
wise, economically available within the city.

It appears that an excellent source of organic com-
pounds is available in sludge from our various sewage
disposal plants which is now being dumped at sea.
Therefore, the park department, with the consent of the

_Board of Estimate, employed Clarence C. Combs, a land-

scape architect, as its consultant, to report on economical
ways and means of making topsoil artificially. The in-
vestigation was not limited to sewage sludge, and the
consultant was instructed to test all other methods which
might be successful in connection with the surface ma-
terials, sand, clay, cinders and the like, used to cover
sanitation refuse in the various reclamation park areas.

In the course of the investigation, previous attempts
by other agencies to make suitable t0psoil were exam-
ined. Experiments were conducted at the Brookhaven
Laboratories by E. J. Hunter, consulting agronomist,
and excellent results were obtained on the fine Seldon
sand with Illahee feseue grass, without the aid of added
organic matter or other soil addition except a small
amount of chemical fertilizers and lime. It was found,
however, that this turf scuffed off easily and would not
last in an active public recreation area. This t0psoil is
extremely porous. Lawns would require continuous
watering and a high nitrogen level would have to be
maintained by the continual addition of commercial
fertilizer. At the Jamaica Disposal Plant, three inches
of digested sludge mixed into sand to a depth of about
six inches produced an excellent stand of grass. The
soil produced by this mixture, however, exhibited a
springy, loose condition not desirable on play lawns.
Moreover, experience at the Coney Island plant, where
a somewhat similar test was carried out, showed that
within a ten-year-period all of the organic matter had
disappeared from the sand.

The investigation proved conclusively that an accept-
able t0psoil must contain a fair percentage of extremely
fine inorganic materials to give body and water-holding
power to the soil. In addition, to support plant growth,
there must be organic matter which may be produced
naturally by the plowing under of green manure crops
or artificially by the introduction of an organic com-

pound such as sewage sludge.

The application of sludge to soil as a fertilizer and
conditioner is not new. It was an ancient practice in the
Orient and is used today on small farms‘ in European
countries. Large scale applications of sludge from mu-

133

nicipal disposal plants have been carried out successfully
in England and Germany and in Ohio and Texas.
The consultant finds that at parks which have hydrau-
lically-dumped sand coverings, artificial tOpsoil can be
created economically through the use of sludge. The

-d- -.- —..

  

 o. :' .l.o:'0.: I". .
- --~—.~ — "' 5W9“ ' " ' °' 9
. ':. 12.3.;  "'  ; animals!)
7a1...:.: . .I :-::-. 2.0.4.;2.-...0.:
922053? "'

 

present coverings also require the addition of clay to
provide the necessary body and water-holding properties.
He recommends that the sludge be applied by spray irri-
gation to a depth of four inches and that, after drying, it
be disced into the sand cover by ordinary farming
methods. This operation is to be repeated until an
equivalent of four inches of dry sludge has been added
to the surface. Thereafter, three inches of clay or other
suitable earth must be disced into the combination of
sludge and sand. This will provide an acceptable topsoil
at an average cost of $1,600 per acre as compared with
the cost of buying and placing natural topsoil at a cost
of $4,500 per acre.

Experiments were also conducted to produce a suit-
able growing medium through the green manure method.
This is a common device to enrich soil and .is good
farming practice. The problem in this instance, however,
is not so much to enrich soil as to create suitable soil

out of cover material consisting of a mixture of ashes,
clay, swamp muck and thc like. At parks with surfaces
such as these, it was found that the green manure sys-
tem, if continued for two years, would be effective. At
Sound View Park, which has an excessivc amount of
ashes, it was recommended that the present surfaces be
supplemented by the addition of clay, together with the
usual cover crop. The cost of preparing topsoil by this
method is approximately $1,000 per acre as compared
with $4,500 per acre for natural topsoil.

These investigations have proved to the satisfaction
of this department that the only economical way to sup-
ply topsoil for large reclamation areas is artificially
by the methods recommended by Mr. Combs.

This program can be completed in nine years if be-
gun on a conservative scale at this time. The total cost
of this essential phase of the development of these addi-
tions to the recreation system is $2,784,400. If the im-
provement were carried out by conventional methods
involving purchases on a commercial basis of natural
topsoil—assuming that it could be obtained at all in the
quantities required—the cost would be $8,550,000. Thc
difference is enormous. The saving, amounting to $5,-
765,600, cannot be ignored and the department recom-
mends, therefore, that this program be adOpted without
delay. Accordingly, we have included in our capital
budget request for 1950 the sum of $350,000 to initiate
the.plan in Marine Park.

Waterfront and meadow reclamation to provide
neighborhood parks in hitherto undeveloped areas
have invited and stimulated private building, public
housing, street and other large scale improvements and,
indeed, have been the magnet which attracts capital of
all sorts. Having promised these parks, we must not
delay their construction, and topsoil is the basis and
foundation of all park work.

Further Expansion of NBA Services

Three more members have been added to the staff of
the National Recreation Association in a further at-
tempt to increase the effectiveness of the association’s
services.

Mrs. Helena Hoyt and George T. Adams are giving
full time in the field to defense-related problems in vari-
ous communities, while Mrs. Frances Lee White has been
appointed the NRA’s executive secretary for the south-
ern division of the country.

Before joining the association, Mrs. Hoyt was for a
number of years superintendent of recreation in Syra-
cuse, New York, and has served as president of the
New York Recreation Society. She has
been active in Syracuse in the work of
the Council of Social Agencies and of
many other local groups whose pro-
grams are related to the recreation
field. At the time of her appointment,
Mrs. Hoyt was also chairman of the
Recreation Committee of Civil Defense,

 

Onondaga County, in which Syracuse is located.

Mrs. Frances Lee White is a graduate of the University
of Kansas and the National Recreation School. Shc has
served as superintendent of recreation in Morgantown,
West Virginia, and, later, in York, Pennsylvania. During
World War II, she devoted her time to the Ovcrseas Unit
of the American Red Cross. Upon her return from abroad,
she married, settling down in Asheville, North Carolina,
where she became an active community leader until ac-
cepting the position with the NRA.

George T. Adams, another newcomer, has had suc-
cessful rccreation experience in the
churches and settlements of Philadel-
phia and in rccreation, welfare and
physical rehabilitation work in the
United States Navy during World War
11. Before coming with the association,
he was for five years executive secre-

tary of the Philadelphia Recreation

Association.

 

RECREATION

 

Nathan L. Mallison and Waldemar Van B. Claussen

EXT TO THE RAFT, the canoe is man’s oldest form
of water-borne transportation. It has appeared

all over the world in many forms since the dawn of
history and, strangely, most of the known types are
still in use. The Eskimo still paddles a kayak made by
covering a framework of bones and wood with skin. His
tropical brother finds a dugout quite practical in the
atolls of the Pacific or the Everglades of Florida. Solo-
mon Islanders sew hewn boards together with reeds
and pitch the seams. Mexican Indians in the Xochimilco
Floating Gardens use the board idea but employ more
modern fastenings.

The American Indian, in the northern half of the
continent, needed a light craft that could easily be car-
ried from one water course to another. The birch bark

 

NATHAN MALLISON, superintendent of recreation for Jack-
sonville, Florida, follows canoeing as an avocation, while
MR. CLAUSSEN, one of Yankeeland’s foremost exponents
of canoeing and former leader of the Knickerbocker
Canoe Club in New York City, follows it as a vocation.
Both have been flag o§icers of the American Canoe Asso-
ciation, o§icials of the 1936 Olympic Canoeing Team at
Berlin, have held positions in the International Canoe
Federation and also have won national championships.

JUNE 1951

canoe was the result. It was the forerunner of the white
man’s canoe, whether made of light planking, covered
with canvas or, more recently, fabricated of aluminum,
molded plywood or plexiglas. In Europe, where kayaks
are popular, a covering of rubberized fabric over a light
ash frame is the white man’s version of the Eskimo craft.

The one thing in common with canoes is that all are
propelled by a paddle, with one or two blades, which is
not attached to the craft at all as are sweeps and oars
in other types of boats propelled by human effort.

“Paddle your own canoe” is an expression inspired
by the self-reliant exponents of man-propelled water
travel, which has come to be associated with a person
of suHicient fortitude to carve out his own destiny. George
Washington, Thomas Jefferson and Theodore Roosevelt
were all practical canoe paddlers and also capable of
“paddling their own canoes” in government.

No originality is claimed here for the descriptions of
one- and two-man paddling, and the safety measures as-
sociated with each. The practical experience of paddling
all types of canoes has been combined with the study of
canoeing authorities and kinesiology. If this article seems
dogmatic, it is because space does not permit giving rea-
sons and no departure from accepted orthodox tech-
niques isvdescribed. I

135

PLATE 1

CANOE PADOLING STROKE?
i

r . i . ‘- To 5TOP
. ' .- OR
TO GO '

_ TO GO
STRAIGHT ASTERN

AhEAD

\.
q BACKWATER“
Ag. STROKE

43': ton
'  BOW MAN

“J “5:33”? ‘ 'BACKWATER '

‘ STROKE
STERN MAN FOR
STERN MAN

TO MAKE A
PIVOT TURN

tI‘M/Al"! B. CLAUSSEN F EB. l95|

' ‘ LAUNCHING: The canoe is launched from a beach or
a bank, stern first, without sliding it on anything. Two
paddlers, standing on Opposite sides, slide the gunwales
through their hands. The stern man enters last, walking
down the keel line with hands on gunwales until the
canoe floats free, when he takes his regular position.
When alongside a pier, the stern man steadies the canoe,
holding the gunwale while the passenger is seated amid-
ships and the bow paddler located forward. Then he
takes his position and gets under way.

CORRECT PADDLING POSITION: Canoes are paddled
standing, seated, kneeling on one knee for racing or on
two knees for cruising. Safety indicates a position with
both knees on the bottom of the canoe, well spread apart,
and the buttocks against a thwart. For comfort, the leg
on the side opposite the paddle may be straightened for-
ward occasionally to maintain good circulation. A cush-
ion or pad under the knee is helpful to those whose
praying habits are irregular. This position gives the
paddler control of the lateral balance of his canoe, with
the center of gravity low-—where it belongs.

THE “J” STROKE: This stroke is a means of paddling
straight ahead without changing sides every three strokes.
The solo paddler uses it from whatever position is indi-
cated for him in trimming his craft properly. Note Plate
4 for three applications of the proper trim principle by
solo paddlers. The stem man of a tandem, fours or war
canoe crew also uses it. Note Plate 1, upper left. The
name “1” is descriptive of the path the paddle covers
on the left side; on the right side, it looks like a “C”
well opened up. The following technique-is for the use
of a solo paddler.

136

 

At the start of the stroke, the upper hand grasps thc
top of the paddle in front of the shoulder; the lowcr
hand grasps the shaft six inches above the blade. The
paddle is put into the water as far forward as possiblc
without straining, with the back side of the bladc facing
slightly toward the canoe. The upper arm is thrust diag-
onally forward toward the paddling side, until it is al-
most straight, when the lower arm starts pulling all.
During this operation, the paddlc is turned by applying
pressure on the thumb side of the upper hand. At the
conclusion of the stroke, the rear face of the bladc faces
out from the canoe. This “hook” at the end of the stroke
corrects direction, making it possible to paddle 011 one
side and still go in a straight line. When two or morc
paddlers man a canoe, the stern paddler normally will
have to use the “hook” at the end of each second or
third stroke for steering. For practical purposes, therc
is no Opposite number for the “1” stroke, although a good
paddler can do it backwards. Other strokes have oppo-
sites which frequently are used.

BOW AND STROKES: The same grasp used for the “1”
stroke is standard for the bow and backwater strokes.
In the bow stroke, the rear of the blade faces aft through-
out the power drive. At the end of the stroke, when the
lower hand is opposite the hip, the blade is slipped edge-
wise out of the water, away from the canoe, and carricd
forward for the next “catch of water,” with the loading
edge of the blade tilted up slightly to prevent “catching
a crab.” Plate 1, upper left, illustrates the standard bow
stroke.

The backwater stroke is the opposite of the bow strokc
and is used to stop a canoe under way or to reverse

CANOE PAOOLING STROKES PLATE 2

DIAGO-NAL SLIOE
TO PORT

TO
STARBOARO

OIAGONAL SLIDE I -   ‘1'
It, I I": " l \ fl

'  ‘ i - I

TO AVOID  -'  i

'REVERSE
SWEEP " FOR‘

ST ROKE FOR
STERN MAN

STERN MAN

BROAOSIOE

TO
STARBOARO

STFDKE FOR BOW
MAN

 

RECREATION

   
 

PROPER TRIM OF CANOE PLATE 3
FOR DIFFERENT CONDITIONS

 
 

TANDEM CREW

IN
SMOOTH WATER

IANDEM caew
m
ROUGH WATER

' . [WEIGHT
coucmrmreo

AMIDSHIPQ

    
   
 
 
 

 
  

TANDEM CREW
WITH A PASSENGER

 
 
 

WWN B. CLAUSSEN

 

direction. Reaching back, with the top hand low, the
flat of the blade is placed on the water to the rear of
the paddler. He presses downward on the lower hand and
pulls back with the top hand until the paddle is vertical.
To go backward, he repeats the stroke, taking the paddle
out of the water where the bow stroke usually begins.
When this is done by a tandem crew, a slight arc is
described by the paddle as shown in Plate 1, upper right.

SWEEP AND REVERSE SWEEPS: The paddle is held as
nearly horizontal as possible, with the blade in a vertical
plane. The top hand is close to the lower ribs and the
arm of the lower hand is nearly straight. The full for-
ward sweep for a single paddler is a half circle starting
at the bow and finishing at the stern with the blade close
to the surface of the water throughout. The reverse
sweep starts at the stern and finishes at the bow. These
strokes turn the canoe on a pivot and are most effective
amidship. In tandem, partial sweeps are used to turn
the canoe while maintaining forward motion. Some-
times a half sweep gives the desired change of direction
opposite to the paddling side. Plate 1, bottom, and Plate
2, upper left, show uses of the sweep.

DRAW AND PUSHOVER STROKES: The canoe, unlike
many other boats, may be moved sideways readily for
docking and for avoiding obstructions. The draw stroke,
when used in the middle by a single paddler, moves the
whole canoe sideways. When used at either end, it pulls
that end to the paddling side. Two paddlers, drawing on
opposite sides, will make the canoe do a pivot turn. To
execute the draw, the upper hand is held in front of the
chin and the lower reaches sideways as far as comfort-
able without leaning. The upper arm is straightened

JUNE 1951

 

  
 
 

toward the paddling side and the lower arm is pulled in
toward the gunwale, thus pulling the canoe toward the
paddle. Just before the paddle hits the side of the canoe,
it is sliced out of the water edgeways by dropping the
top hand and reaching for the next stroke. Warning: If
you let the paddle hit the canoe, release the top hand
immediately.

The pushovcr stroke, which is the opposite of the
draw, pushes the canoe away from the paddling side.
The paddle is sliced into the water close to the canoe;
the paddler pushes outward with the bottom hand and
pulls in with the top hand, recovers and repeats. Plate
2, bottom, shows a tandem crew moving a canoe side-
ways by the combination use of these two strokes.

The draw, used by the bow paddler, may be followed
immediately by the bow stroke, thus pulling the canoe
sideways and pushing it forward in one continuous mo-
tion. A diagonal draw may be used to bring the canoe
back on its course, after a slight deviation. The stern pad-
dler in Plate 2, upper right, is using the diagonal draw
for one of its many purposes.

Bow AND CROSS-BOW RUDDER: There are times when
the bow paddler, who has the best view of the water
ahead, may find it advisable to depart from the standard
stroke of forward propulsion in order to change direction
quickly and avoid hitting an obstruction. A good stern
paddler will follow with the correct stroke without a
word being uttered. The upper sketches of Plate 2 show
two such maneuvers, in which the bow man uses his
paddle for a rudder. Rudders are effective only when the
canoe is moving faster than the water upon which it
floats. The angle between the bow and the paddle is

PROPER TRIM OF CANOE PLATE 4
FOR DIFFERENT CONDITION-S

      
  

ONE MAN IN

MODERATE
SIDE-WIND OR
A STERN-WIND

_o~£m~m .-

STRONG HEAO- '
OR SIDE-WINO.
OR WHEN
MAXIUM

MANEUVERABILITY

L5 NEEDED IN
FAST-WATER

OR RAPID-5

on: MAN, IN smoorn
WATER, WITH CAMPING

DUFFLE ABOARD

W.VAN B.CLAU.5.SEN FEB. I95!

137

 

 

governed by the speed of the canoe and the diagonal
movement desired.

In the bow rudder, Plate 2, upper left, the paddler
leans forward, holding the blade axis vertically, and
dips his paddle into the water at an angle with the keel
of the canoe. This angle may be ten degrees in fast mo-
tion and thirty degrees when travelling more slowly.
Very few situations demand more than a thirty-degree
angle. The upper hand should never be held in front of
the chin, throat or chest as a self-inflicted knockout
punch may result.

The Opposite of the bow rudder is the cross-bow rud-
der. It is useful when a quick change of direction, oppo-
site to the bow paddler's side, is required. Bracing
himself firmly, the bow paddler leans forward, swinging
the paddle over the bow of the canoe and dipping it,
as in the bow rudder, at an angle of ten to thirty degrees.
The upper arm is doubled tightly with the hand below
the shoulder and the lower hand does the swinging. 0b-
serve the same precaution about the position of the upper
hand and be more careful about body bracing. Study
Plate 2, upper right, for position and effect.

SAFETY: One need not be an expert swimmer to enjoy
canoeing or any other aquatic sport. It is sufficient to
be at ease in the water and self-reliant enough to be calm
and capable if the unexpected happens. Smart Alec pad-
dlers have been known to fall out of a canoe without up-
setting it. Others have been caught in squalls on open
expanses of water and rode them out in safety.

The canoeist who wants to be safe and still have a
good time will put on his bathing suit and exPerimcnt
with swamping and capsizing his canoe close to shore.
He will soon learn that “don’t give up the ship” also ap—
plies to a canoe. All canoes, whether made of wood, wood
and canvas, or of aluminum with air compartments, will
float when full of water. It’s stupid to leave something
that floats and undertake to swim to shore, when a cramp
may catch one halfway.

The canoeist should sit in the swamped canoe as
though it were a bathtub and paddle ashore with his
hands. Four peOple may hang onto a swamped canoe in
safety with their heads out of water. If the canoe capsizes,
don’t try to climb up on it. Hold the keel and leisurely
swim toward land. Two swimmers may hold wrists across
the bottom of an overturned canoe and swim ashore.

TANDEM AND F 01135: While the ability to handle a ca-
noe solo is a definite asset and stimulating to one’s confiv
dence, the chances are that the canoeist will do most of
his paddling in company with others in tandem (pairs)
or in quads (fours). The modern‘girl friend seldom
rides as a sandbag passenger—#as did her counterpart of
the Gay Nineties, who dressed “Gibson Girl” style and
ensconced herself amid numerous silken pillows. Today,
campers and cruisers usually use a sixteen- or seventeen-
foot canoe for two paddlers and duffle or for a passenger
who serves as a relief paddler. Four may use an eighteen-
foot canoe and achieve some real teamwork in paddling.

Tandem paddlers usually paddle on opposite sides, as
indicated in Plate 3 on “trim.” Each has a responsibility

138

for his own end of the canoe. In straight-away paddling,
without too much wind or current, thc bow paddler will
use the straight bow stroke and the stern man just
enough “J” to keep the canoe straight. Crookcd streams,
cross winds, wave action and currents will necessitate

the use of other strokes described. A few examples
follow:

In general, the stern man steers but, quite frequently,
the bow man can assist and lighten the work of his part-
ner. If there is a light wind from the right, the bow
man should paddle on the right and the stcrn man on
the left. This will save excessive “J” stroking by thc
latter. The reversed procedure should be for a wind
from the left. ,

In a wide left turn going downstream, the stern man
paddling right may use a quarter sweep while the bow
man cxecutes a straight bow stroke.

For a medium left turn, the stern man could advan-
tageously use a diagonal draw right while the bow man
did a diagonal draw left. A sharp left turn indicates a
bow rudder left and a series of a quarter sweeps right.

Since all control is relative to one’s surroundings, onc
slacks off on a turning stroke, as he approaches the new
course, to eliminate the necessity of excessive Oppositc
control for correction. Use opposite strokes to the ones
described for right-hand turns.

In paddling downstream with considerable current,
it is wise to stay on the inside of the turns to avoid
a trip through overhanging brush on the outside. To
avoid an obstruction in fast water, it may be necessary
to move the whole canoe sideways. In moving right, the
bow paddler could use a pushover left while the stern
paddler used a drawstroke right. If the paddlers were
on the Opposite side, bow would use the draw and stern
the pushover.

Another way of moving the canoe to the side while
under way is for the bow man to use a bow rudder and
the stern man to put a sharp “hook” on the end of his
“J” stroke or use a quarter reverse sweep stroke.

Mild corrections of direction under way for the bow
man include a slight draw to change direction to the
side on which he paddles and a quarter sweep to alter
direction to the side opposite the paddle. Canting the
paddle during the regular bow stroke, either inboard or
outboard, will also accomplish minor directional changes.

The stern man uses the “J” stroke, straight stroke or
diagonal draw in as much degree as may be needed to
continue straight ahead. Practice prevents overcontrol.

CRUISING: With the basic skills described in this article,
one can enjoy parts of the country that few people ever
see—the water trails. In the state of Florida, for instance,
numerous springs will bear the paddler 011 their crystal-
line bosoms; the picturesque Suwannce will intrigue him
with 245 miles of charm; a chain of lakes and thc twist.
ing Oklawaha offer a never-to-be-forgottcn wonderland;
and there will still be six thousand miles of good pad-
dling water to cover. Other states and areas of this coun-
try have equally inviting water courses to challenge the
wcek-end viking.

RECREATION

. o . . .
I I 0 I O I . .
. I ' -.I I. ' 0'00'.‘ 0 o 0
_" ' _/\ wax
- . .
I tr...“
.. _—*_—..——.——_.—_.—_.__| - .1
e l
I ' ‘
_ f'
. I
. .
'.. ' ' .

     

_ . ' m1 9 .I o
“a L; ..
|___._._ ____ ___..__J I 
My .. 5

W

Drinking T F a L E
O
Fountoln T E II N I S o
11'“ . I

Q P
'1.'.'°.\,—«5CARL BERG

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
LOUISVILLE KENTUCK

I
l o

o
a
an

VOLLEY

     
  

LHAPHIC SCALE
m

0 3 to II 20
I I [1'

BALL

Drinking

2TOBEH 241950 . Fougoin

 

. .-.-. .._-. . o. -

.. ,I I. I. .. . .. .I.  ..

. . . . . I I .
snno n snori- ,

  ,. .  ‘1
. _ .. .. _...o.‘ .

_H-o-‘-
. ' - “" I... . I_. I I '
.0...'. ._ -' ..'..-. _" a!
.I II . I
.
o .o ’ ‘ .
O
.

 

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
LOUISVILLE KENTUCKY

% NOVEL TYPE or SWIMMING P001. and play cen-
ter is to be constructed within twelve neighbor-
hood playgrounds in Louisville, Kentucky, as a result of
the approval by citizens on November 7, 1950, of a
$1,500,000 bond issue for parks, playgrounds and recre-
ation facilities. Four hundred thousand dollars were in-
cluded in the bond issue for the construction of these
twelve centers for family use. As the accompanying plan
indicates, these will be delegated one-third of an acre
each and will be fully enclosed. Each center will consist
of a thirty-by-sixty-foot pool, surrounded by sand
beaches, a shelter house, courts for shufiieboard, volley-
ball and ring tennis and table tennis tables. The maxi-
mum depth of water in the pool will be thirty-six inches.
An unusual feature is a section designed to serve as a
totlot. In answer to a question as to whether the inclu-
sion of this feature would not add to the safety problem,

JUNE 1951

 

SWIMMING POOLS

William A. Moore, superintendent of recreation, replied:
“Our plan is to make this area within the playground
a family play center with activities for all age groups.
We hope that the entire family will come to the play-
ground—with those wanting to swim doing so and
Mother enjoying a place where she can take the little tots
to play under her supervision. Older people bringing
youngsters may swim too, or play the various games pro-
vided for them. Young children will not be admitted to
the area unless they have come to swim or are accom-
panied by an adult. The playground will offer play
apparatus for all age groups outside the pool area.
“The pool and the pool area will be under constant
supervision. Present thinking calls for operation Mon-
days through Fridays, nine a. m. to nine p. m. The pool
itself will be under the constant supervision of a recrea-
tion leader who is also a registered Red Cross lifeguard.”

139

 

HREE scone AND TEN YEARS formerly was considered a
r1"“ripe old age” during which it was presumed that man
could live a full and complete life, but in this modern
atomic age, when universes are reduced to equations,
there is a chance that most of mankind will never reach
that age. It was the basic principle of Einstein’s rela-
tivity theory that mass can be converted into energy
which led to the atomic, and now the hydrogen, bomb.
The grim paradox of our civilization, the perverse ability
to turn our scientific achievements into instruments of
death and race suicide have caused world-wide “fear——
not fear of war or death, but of life itself. A tremendous
force which should be used for peace and industrial
power has been turned into a Weapon of ultimate world
annihilation if one believes all of the scare headlines
and some of the radio commentators.

A fear of*“ the future prevails, built upon the belief
that there is no security in life. Life itself may be
snuffed out in an instant and man is helpless to save
himself. Some are saying: I""W7hat’s the use? The world
is going to be destroyed by the hydrogen bomb.” Worry
is expressed everywhere—~in private conversations, at
afternoon teas, at bridge and canasta tables, at cocktail
parties, club meetings, conferences, conventions, in the
newspapers, magazines and over the radio.

How can this fear be overcome? What can be substi-
tuted for this fruitless worry? Einstein recently said,
“We must remember that if thc animal part of human
nature is our foe, the thinking part is our friend. We
can and must use the thinking part now or human so-
ciety will disappear in a new and terrible dark age of
mankind, perhaps forever.”

Recreation is not a panacea for the ills and fears of

Reprinted through the courtesy of Connecticut Industry.

140

 

llEGllEATMN
I’ltllGll/lll

in the atomic age

C. E. Brewer

modern society; but if well-balanced recreation activi-
ties in industry, the community, the home and the school
are organized, the participants will have something else
than fear about which to think.

A recreation activity is basically the same wherever
it is conducted, be it on a public playground or in a rec-
reation center, school building, private agency or in busi-
ness and industry. The degree of success of a recreation
activity is the result of the adequacy, experience and
quality of available leadership, the type and size of fa-
cility used, proper budget provisions and consideration
of the number of pe0ple who must be served.

The incentive for participation in recreational activities
is the same for public, private, commercial, industrial,
church, school or other categories. Recreation is a
broad general term which may include any activity that
people engage in according to their own interests, in-
clinations and skills. Many employee recreation activities
are being conducted by business and industrial concerns.
According to a recent study by the National Industrial
Conference Board, Incorporated, “Recreation programs
of and for employees improve morale and afford an
opportunity for employees to meet fellow workers and
members of management. Supervisors, likewise, come
to know their employees better, and the friendly associ-
ation leads to better understanding and improved tcam-
work.”* The same survey states that the advertising
value of recreation programs to the company is negligible
as only two executives of 264 companies, employing
1,245,000 workers, mention it.

These results raise several qucstions, What activitics
compose employee recreation programs? What support
should a company give? How are the programs ad-
ministered? What facilities are uscd? How arc thcy
financed and what do they cost?

Activities

The number of activities vary according to the num-
ber of company or plant employees. The total number

It: Employee Recreation Activities Studies in Personnel Policy.
0. 102.

RECREATION

includes some 150 varied activities, as many as exist
in any public recreation program. The larger plants
have from eleven to twenty activities while those having
under one thousand employees vary from six to fifteen
activities. The most popular activities in business and
industry are bowling, softball, basketball, pienieking,
parties, horseshoes, baseball and social dancing. During
the noon-hour, table tennis, horseshoes, checkers, movies
and chess are favorite pastimes.

The programs include activities for all ages and both
sexes, with almost one-half being of the active physical
type; the remainder are about evenly divided between
educational or cultural and social activities.

After World War I, high-powered representative ath-
letie teams made up the industrial recreation program of
many concerns. However, during and after the second
World War, emphasis has been laid upon activities for
all employees rather than for a few on representative
teams. Athletic competition between departments or
within the plant has predominated games with neighbor-
ing plants. Comparatively few companies now have teams
which travel about the country playing other concerns.

Recreation activities for the wives and children of the
employees have become a vital part of industrial reere-
ation programs. Day camps, junior baseball elinies,
swimming, plant visits for families, picnics, outings, ex-
eursious to nearby places of interest are almost as gen-
eral as the Christmas parties for youngsters.

Administration

Experience has shown that administrative machinery
runs more smoothly if the employees participate in the
control of their own recreation activities. In many eon-
eer11s, the employee recreation program is administered
by the employees themselves, with advice and assistance
from the company, which is generally given through the
personnel or employee services department. In some cases,
central employee associations conduct the program. These
associations, usually organized under a constitution and
bylaws, elect their own officers and have membership
dues or fees. In other companies, a recreation committee
or council administers the program and, in a few cases,
the union eonduets it.

Because of the inherent differences, the planning and
operation of joint programs by company unions and
plant management have not developed as anticipated.
The planning of joint programs is usually done by rep-
resentatives of a company and its employees through
management-employee committees, regardless of any af-
filiation with a labor union. As the recreation program is
not a part of labor-management negotiations, and does
not concern conditions of work, recreational offering
should be made available to every employee regardless
of union affiliation. In planning joint programs, there
should be a sincere and cooperative spirit between labor
and management, free from any selfish interest and gain.

Paid individuals who devote full time to conducting
recreation activities are found chiefly in companies
having over a thousand employees. Most of the pro-

JUNE 1951

grams are run entirely by the employees or by some
part-time assistance from the personnel bureau.

Facilities

The expansion of employee activities in recent years,
particularly during the second World War, has been
largely the result of using facilities existing in the com-
munity, such as municipal, county, state recreational
areas and facilities and those of privately-supported
organizations, fraternal and religious groups and com-
mercial enterprises. Comparatively few companies, with
the exception of the textile mills in the South, own ex-
tensive facilities. Where the company does have its own,
they usually consist of athletic field, assembly halls,
elub rooms, ball fields, picnic grounds and garden plots.

Financing and Cost

According to a recent survey, “More than ninety per
cent of the companies contribute to the operating expense
of the recreation programs. Only five companies of those
reporting indicated no financial participation of any
kind.” Contrary to popular belief, management does
not bear the entire cost of the program. It will be found
that less than ten per cent of the companies now eon-
duet employee recreation programs on a paternalistic
basis. The employees help pay the cost of their activities
——either directly through dues or fees or indirectly
through the purchase of articles sold in vending ma-
chines and at canteens, or through admission fees to
events conducted by the recreation committee or council
within the plant. In some cases, the company matches,
dollar for dollar, the contributions made by employees.

Compared to the cost of maintaining health services,
the cost of employee recreation programs is very small.
The average cost to management is approximately three
dollars per employee per year; it is a little more for the
smaller plants. The median annual total expenditure for
recreation per employee (company and employee con-
tributions and receipts from other sources) is approxi-
mately five dollars. The range is from about eight dollars
for companies under one thousand employees to about
three dollars for those having more than five thousand.

I11 any business or industry, there are two forces——
one, the production force which manufactures the prod-
uct sold by the company; the other, the social force,
the product of group thinking of the employees.

Every day these social groups can be seen eongregat- '
ing during the lunch hour or rest period. They come
together because they have something in common. It

is from these social groups
that the recreation activity
groups start. When organ-
ized into a comprehensive
year-round program, em-
ployee recreation will keep
the minds and bodies of
participants busy in erea-
tive and interesting activi-
ty, as well as offset fear.

Badminton is popular with
both sexes at Ford Motor Co.

 

Left to right: 1. Femal, Bloom-
ington, Ind.; H. Robbins, Plains-
ville, Ohio; 1. Collier, Great
Lakes field representative, NRA.

 

The Magazine

Goes to a District Conference

GREAT LAKES RECREATION EXECU-
TIVES CONFERENCE—TOLEDO, OHIO,
APRIL 11-13, 1951. CO-SPONSORED BY
THE NRA AND THE CITY RECREA-
TION DEPARTMENT.

THE GRAYNESS OF A rainy April morning seemed not
to daunt the spirits of a group of recreation execu-
tives as they gathered for a preliminary meeting in To-
ledo, at the Hotel Seeor, to prepare for the official opening
of the Great Lakes District Recreation Conference that
same evening. They were intent upon an experiment—a
different method of helping fellow delegates to experience
a satisfactory meeting and to find the answers to some of
the problems which eternally beset the path of the recrea-
tion worker.

This method, generally speaking, was not actually new,
but the workshop type of meeting was, for only the second
time, being tried in a conference of recreation executives.
Last year it was initiated at the Midwest District Recrea-
tion Conference in Springfield, Ohio, where popular vote
found it satisfactory. The Toledo meeting was an out-
growth of the earlier conference and an earnest attempt
to improve upon its mechanics. Special consultants on the
workshop method had been called in for advice.

An orientation session, scheduled for nine a.m. on that
first day, was held for the discussion leaders, resource
people and recorders who made up the “conference team.”
They had been well primed for their jobs during preecd-
ing months.

Starting back in January, the plan had been initiated
and set up by a conference planning committee, under the
able leadership of John Collier and Bob Horney, district

142

representatives of the National Recreation Association.
State recreation associations had been invited to select
two representatives to serve upon this committee. A first
meeting, held in Ypsilanti, had outlined procedure gen-
erally and discussed program topics to be considered by
state associations. A letter was sent out to the six states
of the district, giving tentative topics and asking for
further suggestions before the next planning meeting.

The entire committee met again in St. Charles, the meet-
ing itself being conducted in the pattern of the larger
meeting to come. Here, the real “meat” of the conference
was decided upon and a second letter was sent to all
executives, explaining the type of conference and listing
the final selection of topics. Only one program topic
would be included. This would he Camping, as against
the Arts and Crafts session of last year.

As a last step of the advance planning, Mr. Collier
and Mr. Horney were delegated to send a letter of invita-
tion to carry responsibility to discussion leaders, record-
ers and resource people which would include: an outline
of the committee’s interpretation of the role of the confer-
ence team; an outline of the topics selected for discus-
sion; and an outline of the part the recipient would he
called upon to play.

When the conference team reached Toledo, therefore,
members were ready and eager to get under way. The
steps covered in their first day-long meeting as a team in-

RECREATION

cluded: general orientation by Mr. Collier; the getting to-
gether of teams who would be working on the same topic
—to clarify the subject further and set up limits to it;
the techniques of getting discussion under way, introduc-
ing members of the panel and discussion of the parts they
were to play; the techniques of keeping the discussion “on
the beam”; assignments for the next day; and an oppor-
tunity for a practice run of the first fifteen minutes of a
typical meeting. Those participating seemed to get a great
deal out of the experience although, at the end of the day,
a few were inclined to feel that the orientation had been
too elementary and consumed too much time.

The great majority of delegates-at-large had arrived by
evening, and the assembled conference got off to an offi-
cial start when the Honorable Ollie Czelusta, mayor, wel-
comed all to Toledo.

Two days of industrious activity followed, and it can
be truthfully said that these workshops were really work
sessions. The very informality of the meetings, plus carc-
ful leadership, spurred participation to one hundred per
cent. People seemed a little confused on the first day but,
by the second, were really under way.

The success of the meeting was dependent upon every
delegate signing up for one group and staying there
through the entire conference. Each group had one topic
to work on for two days. The thing that actually hap-
pened was that each member of the group got so caught
up in the discussion, through his own participation, that
no restiveness under this system was apparent. Also, the
very fine spirit of cooperativeness helped tremendously,
as did the fact that here was a chance to thrash out a
problem and come forth with some concrete results. The
hotel lobby was singularly quiet during the day, without
the usual wandering in and out and changing from meet-
ing to meeting.

Evaluations of the conference, turned in on the last
day and filled in upon a questionnaire supplied, summed
up as follows:

I. Ratings: No good—1; mediocre—3; all right—12;
good—81; excellent—~26.

II. Weaknesses: Too much time taken in orientation;
too many topics, too much ground to cover; two days not
sufficient time.

111. Strong Points: Better preparation of leaders and
resource people, more careful planning; opportunity for
everyone to participate; more accomplished.

IV. Suggestions for the Operation of Future Confer-
cnces: Even greater limitations of general topics; the
splitting of groups according to size of community popu-
lation; sessions on one topic limited to one day so that a
delegate may be able to attend meetings on at least two
topics during the conference; reports from various
groups be given at evening meetings.

V. Suggestions as to Kinds of Topics Desired at Fu-
ture Conferences: Special sessions for new recreation ex-
ecutives or for those from small towns; practical pro-
gram workshop sessions where one could participate in
actual program; inspirational speakers for evenings.

JUNE 1951

VI. How the Individual Benefited from this Confer-

ence: Picked up new, practical slants: benefited from hav-
ing questions thoroughly pursucd; received more practi-
cal information than at any other conference attended;
benefited through participation, clarification of thinking.

VII. In Favor of This Type of Conference Next Year:
Yes-——122; No—8.

In evaluation of camping mcctings, it is interesting that
the majority of those attending listed the experience as
excellent, all rated it as good.

Topics Under Discussion

Delegates took home a brief summary of the topics
actually discussed, detailed results and specific findings
to be available in the published proceedings. The follow-
ing resume gives some idea of the scope of the work
covered:

1. Recreation and National Defense—The role of the
recreation worker and his board in local civil defense ac-
tivities; the impact of the national emergency on the
community in relation to recreation services; the increase
in war industry, with its implications in added popula-
tion and the need for industrial recreation; pending
emergency housing and the need for recreation facilities
and services in these communities; how to meet the recre-
ation needs of transit or en route military personnel; the

status of NPA rulings.

II. Planning the Neighborhood Playground—Two sec-
tions with a total of forty-three participants discussed this
in terms of size, location, facilities, areas, fencing, drain-
age, apparatus, landscaping, lighting, walks, special play
areas, parking, multiple-use areas, wading and spray pools
and their relation to the neighborhood to be served. There
were healthy differences of opinion, but many definite
recommendations were reached. Scale models supplied by
the Flint Park Department made it possihle to combine
theory and visual aid.

III. Reinterpretation of Cormnunity Recreation—In all
of its aspects, this has not been satisfactorily defined. No
definite accepted set of policies has been evolved by pro-
fessional people in the field of recreation. Such a declara-
tion is imperative for further progress in the field. It is
realized that such a definition and policy can be evolved
only through scientific research and study by profession-
al recreation people and similar leaders in related fields
at the national level. Proceeding with this in mind, the
group discussed: the municipal recreation department’s
responsibility for fringe areas and groups; methods of
research in studying community recreation in order to
get a basis: for reinterpretation; the problem of maintain-
ing a balanced community recreation program; leader-
ship training, particularly college recreation training; the
philosophy of conducting recreation activities for fun;
the role of television in future program planning; public
relations.

IV. Growth on the fob—Two groups discussed this
problem. Group I dealt primarily with morale, philoso-
phy, staff training, visitations and relationships. Under

143

 

morale, they discussed the approach of workers in the
department to their governing boards or commissioners;
under philosophy, community participation and balanced
programs; under staff training, what should be in the
program and for whom these programs are intended; un-
der visitations, the value of visitations and evaluations;
u11der relationships, cooperation between private and pub-
lic departments and minority groups.

Group 11. Questions posed included: What value does
the knowledge of agency philosophy play in regard to job
growth? If we grant that a happy worker does a good
job, the following are considered valuable in the recrea-
tion field: (1) recognition of worker for work done, (2)
rewards to our workers, (3) vacation and sabbatical
leave, (4-) good working conditions and hours. If growth
of workers is a continuous process, consideration should
be given to: (1) yearly evaluations, (2) staff participa-
tion, (3) supervisory visitations, (4-) staff-board partici-
pation, (5) relation of workers to other allied fields.

V. Community Relationships—It was agreed that com-
munity relationship is the hub of a wheel with many

spokes; so the proper guidance of the use of leisure time
may be moved from a community to a county, to a state,

to a nation and thence 011 to the world.

The operation of a successful program is obtained by
cooperation with other agencies, by participating, by ad-
vising and planning as an administration. Through joint
planning, participation and administration, the philoso-
phy and objectives of good programs may he realizcd.

VI. Municipal Camping Workshop—Proceeding on the
assumption that outdoor recreation activities are a major
source of human satisfaction and meet a basic human
need, the workshop considcred primarily the responsi-
bility of municipal rccrcation departments in this field
and the ways in which such programs may be organized
and directed into proper channels. Some of the questions
raised by the group were: How many municipalities
serve and cooperate with the many other groups con-
cerned with these fields? What are the various types of
programs that might be offered? What areas, facilities,
leadership and equipment may be necessary to make these
programs a success?

Four major areas were discussed in detail: (1) day
camping, (2) resident camping, (3) crafts, using native
materials and nature lorc, (4) trips and excursions in the
recreation program.

RECREATION LEADERSHIP TRAINING PROGRAMS--1951

(Training opportunities in institutes, workshops, short-term confcrences.)

DATE LOCATION

June 11-15, 15-20
Stoddard, New Hampshire

June 1 1-23

Brasstown, North Carolina

June 18-23, July 16-21

August 13-18 (Western Dancing)

Folk Dance Camp, Camp Merriewood,

Short Course for Recreational Leaders,

John C. Campbell Folk School,

Cheyenne Mountain Schools

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION

Ralph Page, 182 Pearl Street,
Keene, New Hampshire

Mrs. George Bidstrup, Director,
John C. Campbell Folk School,

Brasstown, North Carolina

Lloyd Shaw, Supt., Cheyenne Mountain
Schools, Colorado Springs, Colorado

June 1830 Course in Calling and Teaching
June 23-30 Green Lake Recreation Lab (Northern
Baptist Assembly) , Green Lake, Wis.
June 25-August 3 Recreation Therapy Workshop,
Mills College, Oakland 13, California
June 26-28 Playground Leaders Training Institute,

July 1-14, 23-28,
30-August 4-
August 6-1 1

July 2-August 12

July 16-28

July 16-August 2

144-

County Center, White Plains, New York

Fourth Annual Rocky Mountain
Folk Dance Camp,

Lookout Mountain

Summer Workshop in Camping, Leadcr-
ship and Professional Education,
Manzanita Ranch, California

Folk-Dance Clinic, University of
Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky

Training School for Rural Youth

J. W. Beasley, Manager, Lake Fairlec
Club, 346 Summit Ave., Mt. Vernon, N.Y.

Howard Irish, 4677 Oregon Avenue,
Detroit 4-, Michigan

Dr. Phyllis Van Fleet, Mills College,
Oakland 13, California

Vivian C. Wills, Assistant Superintendent,
Westchester Recreation Commission,
Room 242, County Office Building,

White Plains, New York

Paul Kermict, 4-562 Quitman Street,
Denver 12, Colorado

Registrar
Eastcrn Washington College of Education,
Cheney, Washington

Miss Lovaine Lewis, Department of
Physical Education, University of
Kcntucky, Lexington, Kentucky

Alicc M. Schweibcrt, Ohio Fa rm Bureau
Federation, 245 North High Strect,
Columbus, Ohio

RECREATION

Children may use this horizontal
step made from garden hose to
jump easily onto the bar or rings.

 

S YOU LOOK AROUND at the playgrounds, you cannot
A help but notice a certain familiar sameness, and,
possibly, even drabness to the playground equipment
therein installed. Standardization of equipment on the
part of manufacturers has, of course, meant safer and
less expensive equipment. However, these advantages in
many cases have been accomplished at the expense of
losing some of the interesting features. From the users
and from the playground director come the best sugges-
tions for the improvement of play equipment.

One of the problems of administering the program of
a large city is to keep in close contact with the activities
at the local center. In order to benefit from the experi-
ences of the local director and playground patrons, the
Los Angeles Department of Recreation and Parks has
created the Recreation Equipment Committee. Serving
on this committee are two playground directors, a dis-
trict supervisor, a playground caretaker, an equipment
repairman from the central shops, a man with planning
and engineering experience and a skilled craftsman.
They meet regularly to discuss improvements to the
various pieces of playground equipment. A look at the
personnel reveals what each member contributes.

The PLAYGROUND DIRECTOR is the one under whose
supervision the equipment is used daily. He takes note
of the number of accidents, the number of children using
the facilities, the way in which they are used, the various
games played around the equipment and the comments
of the children and their parents. If he is a director
with imagination, he will suggest many ways of im-
proving the equipment.

The DISTRICT DIRECTOR is the one who has responsi-
bility for fifteen or twenty playgrounds. He notes how
the equipment is used on those playgrounds under his

 

WILLIAM FREDERICKSON, .18., is superintendent of recrea-
tion in Los Angeles Department of Recreationnnd Parks.

JUNE 1951

MORE ATTRACTIVE PLAYGROUNDS

William Frederickson, Jr.

  

supervision and discusses the matter with all playground
directors assigned to his district as well as with other
district supervisors. He also has knowledge of the cost
of equipment and the budget available for its purchase
and development.

The EQUIPMENT REPAIRMAN, who supervises the re-
pair and replacement of play equipment, knows from
practical experience what construction will stand up and
continue to function as originally designed.

The PLAYGROUND CARETAKER, responsible for the daily
maintenance and upkeep of the equipment, also has reg-
ular contact with the equipment and its users. He notes
what is difiicult or expensive to maintain and the many
facets of its use.

The ENGINEER takes particular note of the ideas brought
forth by various members of the committee. It is his
responsibility to make the first simple drawings of pro-
posed changes or additions and to prepare plans for fab-
rication or purchase after the equipment has been tested.

The SKILLED CRAFTSMAN, after the committee approves
the development of a new gadget, takes the idea and
builds the test or trial model if it can be done without
working drawings.

Suggestions are offered to the Recreation Equipment
Committee from many sources. Directors at all the play-
grounds are invited to send suggestions and other ideas
come from activity supervisors, caretakers, maintenance
employees, administrative staff and parents or patrons.

Once a trial model has been fabricated, it is reviewed
by the committee and put into service. It is placed in a
central spot where it can be carefully watched and its
results tabulated. The committee is interested in its origi-
nal cost, simplicity, ease of construction, practicability,
use interest, durability, cleanliness, safety and many
other factors.

After the model has been used, its history is again re-
viewed and, in many cases, changes are made. It is then

145

14

considered as standard equipment and placed into serv-
ice on as many playgrounds as budget and space permit.
The following are a few of the improvements or ill-
ventions that have come about through the efforts of this
novel committee. It is hOped that other cities may find
these suggestions of use in their own communities.
Horizontal Bar Step. Wherever a horizontal bar or

flying rmgs are used In an outdoor apparatus p1t, direc-

tors have noticed that the children have difficulty in rais-
ing themselves to a position where both hands may be
placed upon the bar or rings. Some playgrounds have
built small wooden platforms from which children may

 

Note the double basketball steps at the far right. A small court
for informal games was built at one end of a standard court.

reach, or jump up to, the equipment. This has been found
to be hazardous in that they are liable to kick, or fall
upon, the wooden step. The uprights which hold the
horizontal bar become slippery so that climbing becomes
more and more diflieult. In order for a child to reach
the bar easily, the committee has developed a simple de-
vice. (See photograph on page 145.)

A piece of wire rope is put through a discarded sec-
tion of garden hose. This wire, now covered, is placed
around the uprights which support the bar or the rings
and is securely fastened with the use of a clamp. Children
may place their feet upon this piece of firmly secured
hose and easily jump to the bar or rings. Obviously, its
cost is very small.

Double Basketball Backstops. Recreation directors are
agreed that basketball played out-of-doors on an asphalt,
grass or other playable surface does not always attract
organized teams. Informal play, to perfect basketball
skills, is enjoyed by small groups. This has increased
the need for more basketball baekboards than are found
on a single court. The committee has developed a court
which is described as a court and a half, with a basket-
ball backboard to accommodate the plan.

A standard outdoor paved area includes a basketball
court with a single goal at one end and a double-goal

146

structure at the other end. Boards at the double end are
baek-to-baek and a small court for informal games is
built at the end of the standard court. A volleyball, bad-
minton and paddle tennis court has been superimposed
upon the standard eourt; thus, when only a few wish
to play basketball informally, they may use the small

court while other games are played upon the standard
eourL

An attempt was made to build a structure which was
strong, sound and safe at the same time. It was necessary
to place the pipe supports far enough back of the ring
and net so that players coming in for a set shot would
not bump into the pipes. (See photOgraph.)

Game Tables. All playground directors have seen the
need for improvement in ping-pong tables. A number,
of course, have developed their own ideas. Ping—pong
and game tables designed by the Los Angeles Recreation
Equipment Committee have proved to be very effective,
durable and economical. The structure which supports
the table top is made of pipes, using ordinary pipe fit-
tings. The table t0p is bolted to the structure and is made
of weatherproof, painted, five-ply board.

Playcar. Recreation directors recognize the need for
manipulative development. Children traditionally like to
work with tools, to take things apart and put them back
together again. In order to accommodate this play in-
terest, an old and no longer usable car was secured from
a wrecking lot.

This was taken to the central shops and given a good
steam cleaning inside and out. By inside, we mean that
the crank case was taken off, as well as the differential
housing, so that all reservoirs where oil and grease were
found could be cleaned. Once the car was clean, it was
placed at one of the playgrounds within a fenced en-
closure.

Children use tools provided to tear the car apart and
put it back together so far as they are able. They may sit
in the ear, turn the steering wheel, take imaginative tours
or do whatever they enjoy within the limits of safety.

An attempt also has been made to secure discarded
airplanes for this purpose. So far, however, this venture
has not been successful because the planes have not been
available. Other cities may be more successful in trying
this eXperiment.

RECREATION Listed

With the March 25, 1951 issue, the Reader’s
Guide to Periodical Literature, published by the H.
W. Wilson Company in New York, begins the sec-
ond half-century of its existence. Today it is the
111081: widely read of all library indexes, and to be

listed therein is widely recognized as a mark of
distinction. Readers of RECREATION, therefore, will
be interested in the fact that a message from the
H. W. Wilson Company states, “You will find your
excellent periodical listed on the first page of the
Anniversary Number.”

 

RECREATION

     
 

«i=1 '3.
‘tl'lw"':.-- T“! 1
 |l    ..
_ (.1, u i

.|.

s. t. L
' i.“ s%

\

\E‘a

.

W:

AUSE A SECOND and let the question make its mean-
ing clear in your mind. Yes, it’s true~——each and

every piece of cquipment and gear in your stock or sup-
ply room is part of an investment selected and purchased
by you. If properly cared for and stored, it can return
dividends throughout many seasons’. The dividends are
not only financial but contribute toward the promotion
of good will in tllc department and the community. This
procedure also helps in making “a lot go a long way.”

Pr0perty and cquipment will deteriorate during a sea-
son’s play; but, however, that does not necessarily mean
that they are entirely valueless at the end of the season.
Quite a number of Model-T’s ended their final mile with
more replacement parts than covered in the original speci-
fications. A similar view should be taken of all equip-
ment and stock within your department.

Immediately after the summer playground season has
ended is the timc to make your investment pay for
itsclf. Check all your grounds and storerooms, pick up
all gear which needs storage and return it to the winter
storage site. Not only does this give you a chance to
check, repair and replace, but it removes the temptation
of breaking and entering by the curious. It also makes

a good newspaper story and serves a twofold purpose:

First, it informs the community that the recreation de-
partment is on its toes in taking care of the tax-purchased
equipment. Second, it serves as a public notice that the
buildings and storerooms are clean and cmpty.

Upon its return to the central point of issue or supply,
stack all gear in one spot and proceed to make a quick

Author LERTON KRUSHAS is the supervisor of recreation
for Playground and Recreation Board, Decatur, Illinois.

JUNE 1951

Lerton S. Krushas

PAY

inventory of the amount and kind of all usable or re-
pairable equipment. Sort out that which has no value at
all and dispose of it before you start to reassemble the
supplies on the shelves. With the actual count of types
and amount on hand, plan on paper the’ necessary space
and shelves needed to hold this equipment. In laying out
your shelf space, it is wise to keep as many of the sup-
plics as possible at “eye-level” height in order to make
removal easy. It is a human trait that pe0ple dislike

bending over to find something. Observe how the super-
market in your neighborhood is set up.

Equipment that is seldom called for or is not in de-
mand should be stowed upon the highest shelf, freeing
the central or accessible shelves for your items of greatest
call. Plan to keep the equipment off the floor, if possible,
because more good supplies are ruined by dampness and
moisture than by all the wear and tear given them dur-
ing an entire playground season. It also makes the main-
tenance and cleaning of the storeroom much easier when
floors can easily be swept and mopped.

Determine locations for the athletic supplies, crafts
materials, costumes, bases, nets, films, radios, music
supplies, paints, tools, first-aid supplies and administra-
tive materials. After each section is located, the most
important phase of storage is about to begin — the iden-
tification of each group. In a convenient location upon
each shelf, tack a printed card which will identify thc
particular item that is taking up that space. Such cards
are simple to print after about thirty minutes” practice
with a Speedball pen and showcard print paper. A pro-
fessional job is not needed as long as each card is neat
and legible. If some gear is to be kept in boxes and can-
not be seen, label the box with clear lettering and place

147

it in a section where the printing will show. This elimi-
nates digging into many boxes when seeking an item.

Keep bats, rackets and other supplies which would be
affected by the heat or cold in a place where the tem-
perature is nearly constant at all times. Inflated balls
will lose air during a period of storage and should be
checked occasionally to keep them from collapsing.
New balls should not be inflated until they are to be
put into use. Used balls will tend to crack in the indented
part of the ball if not kept round.

As much as possible, keep all equipment under cover
of some sort. If the original container is not available,
keep it in boxes of similar size. Place heavier equipment
at the bottom if one shelf is used for a dual purpose.
Coordinate various equipment with the type of activity
for which it is used. For example, place a catcher’s
mask, protector, shin guards and glove in one place;
crafts supplies and their necessary accessories in another.

You will find the dividends returning in the form of
financial and personal rewards. First, your budget will
be increased by the amount of equipment you can re-
use after prOper care and repair. The tax dollar in-
tended for new equipment will now be usable for an-
other or newly-desired activity. A close and continued
checkup on the equipment will prevent overstocking of
any one item. By prOper selection of storage and spac-
ing, you will be able to obtain a running account of the
gear on hand, at a minute’s notice. Thus the employees’
time will be saved when they can know right where to

look for requested articles.
Remember, too, to set aside a small area of the store-

room as the repairing section. It should occupy a well-
lighted space with all necessary tools, replacement parts
and material close at hand. An occasional visit to local
sporting goods stores will find the manager eager to
advise you upon the practicability of repairing a doubt-
ful article.

Tips to remember:

1. Rubber balls: Keep minimum amount of pressure
to insure roundness; check valves.

2. Softballs and baseballs: Keep covered and sorted
according to grade.

3. Masks: Brush clean; check elastic straps; work
saddle soap into places where leather is dry or cracking.

4-. Rackets: Use presses at all times when they are
not in use; store in place with constant temperature.

5. Horseshoes: Build a horizontal pipe in a remote
part of the storeroom and lay shoes over the pipe. This
will save much shelf space.

6. Nets: Shake well after season’s play; replace ropes
needed; store in box or bag and label properly.

7. Paints and brushes: Make full measures of odd
cans of same color and secure tightly. lf brushes need
cleaning, soak in turpentine and then run an old comb
through the bristles. After cleaning, wrap bristles in
heavy wrapping paper.

8. Boondoggle and leather craft: Since boondoggle
has a tendency to dry out if left exposed, it is best to
wind it tightly around the original roll, wrap it and

14-8

place it wherc the temperature is constant.

9. Projector and film: Have projector chccked, oiled
and cleaned before starting its winter use. All films
should be checked for breaks and need for cleaning.
An economical way to clean a film yourself is to placc
it on the projector in the rewind position, run it at a
slow speed, and let it pass through a clean cloth saturated
with carbon tetrachloride.

10. Records: If it is impossible to return thcm to the
proper albums, take old albums and relabel; above all,
keep records covered and separated.

11. Radios and p. a. equipment: Check for need of
mechanical repair and cleaning; store in a position
where they are least likely to get bumped or to fall. A
good coat of furniture wax will preserve the finish while
in storage.

Once the equipment is cleaned, packed and stored,
the job doesn’t stop. Periodic checks and cleaning of thc
storeroom in general are needed as equipment will be
drawn and replaced throughout the season and the issu—
ing will cause some disarrangement.

A hidden dividend of a well-kept stockroom is the
respect which the staff members acquire for property
and the pride that comes with being part of a good or-
ganization. A clean and orderly stockroom gives the
recreation worker the same sense of satisfaction that
the housewife gets from a newly-cleaned house. lt also
gives the occasional visitor to your stockroom the feel-
ing that the equipment under your care is efficiently ac-
counted for and tabulated. We should all be proud of
our stockrooms and able to show them off.

TV Programs and Youth

ln an interview with Detroit reporters, not long ago,
John J. Considine, general superintendent of Detroit’s
Parks and Recreation Department, scorned the effect of
certain television programs on youth. His remarks led
to the following editorial which appeared in the Detroit
Free Press:

“ . . . John J. Considine has a very legitimate beef
against one p0pular type of television program—the
phony sports contests of the professional wrestling and
roller skating derby class.

“ ‘The things these clowns pass off as sport do more
to teach children dirty playing than we can do to teach
them clean Sportsmanship,’ complains Considine.

“And hc is right. Youngsters certainly will never learn
the fun of clean, hard, sportsmanlike playing by watch-
ing the faked antics of a crew of professional wrestlers
or from emulating the tactics of deliberate mayhem and
dirty advantage as practiccd by the roller skaters. . . .”

Following the appearance of the editorial, the Detroit
Common Council appointed a committee of civic and re-
ligious leaders, with John Considine as a member, to
cxamine TV entertainment and make recommendations
to sponsors. Should sponsors refuse to coopcratc, the
council has ordered the committee to take steps through
the FCC to clean up the TV airways.

RECREATION

 
 
     
 

 

  

\ i
\llllN.

{It a
A

i

NATURE TRAIL '

A nature trail is an extension of museum
proper and provides natural surround-
Ings for exhibits which cannot be moved.

Should you be so fortunate as to have your
trail cross a stream or brook, you’ll find it
fun to construct a miniature log bridge.

 

JUNE 1951

[TH THE EXCEPTION of the Boy
Scout camps and some semi-

public camps, few of our camp direc-
tors take advantage of the tremendous
potentialities of a real nature study
or woodcraft program. The average
camp activity, from eating, through
sports, and ending with dramatics, can
be accomplished by the youngsters at
home with the help of a few friends.

If, however, the camp is located in a;

fairly decent natural surrounding, it
offers the unique Opportunity of an
outdoor laboratory or museum.

Most youngsters up to the agc -of
sixteen, or thereabouts, have an in-
satiable curiosity and interest in 11a-
tural phenomenon. They want to col-
lect things and learn about them or
enjoy the thrill of the “hunt,” even if
it is for small quarry. A good nature-
woodcraft activity in camp capitalizes
on these natural interests and utilizes
them to advance its program.

And you don’t need a scientist or a
biology professor to run the group.
In fact, these “professionals” are usu-
ally too technical to be interested or
too tired from their normal occupa-
tional demands to show any enthusi~
asm for a nature-woodcraft activity.
I speak from experience for I never
had a formal biology, zoology or re-
lated course, yet developed some of
the finest nature-woodcraft programs
(and that by other people’s judgment,
not mine).

Given a good general counselor,
with an interest in this subject, you
can really do a job, for here is one

-field where enthusiasm followed by

effort will make up for lack of tech-

Charles Belous

g WQ’W

FOR COUNSELORS

nical knowledge. You can learn with
the kids as you go along, provided
you are frank and tell them of your
shortcomings and don’t try to “fake.”

1. Specifically, here are a few good
projects. First, a museum should be
established in part of the recreation
hall, or better still, in an old barn,
garage, attic or other large, unused
building. In fact, for advanced and
older campers, an ideal project is the
construction of a log cabin museum
out of timber you yourself cut down,
if available. In any event, start a
museum where the campers can bring
any and every natural object. After
you start getting a little crowded, you
can be more selective. Here are a few
pointers to follow on this project.

(a) Use name cards in identifying
the objects and give credit to the do-
nators or collectors.

(b) Use the curator system for ap-
portioning the work of identifying,
research, mounting and so forth so
that Specific children have definite
jobs to do, and give them credit for
their work on the exhibits.

(c) Encourage the making of sim-
ple exhibit boxes, and so forth, for
insect, rock and other collections.

(d) Build up a good but inexpen-
sive library with plenty of field books
(illustrated) for ready use by the
children in identifying their exhibits.

(e) Plenty of field trips and excur-
sions will make the old drudgery of
the “hike” disappear.

(See figure—for plan of miniature

AUTHOR, an attorney, has had fifteen
years of camp leadership experience.

149

log bridge.)

2. Another project in connection
with the museum is a good zoo for
live specimens. Ants, snails, frogs,
newts, snakes, chipmunks, field mice
or white mice, rabbits, chicks—all
make interesting exhibits and give
their respective “curators” a real tie-
in to a going nature study activity.
Plants, mushrooms and small shrubs
can be transplanted and will also make
interesting exhibits.

3. When you have both a museum
and a zoo, the next project should be
a “nature trail.” Lay this out intel-
ligently and with a view to including
as many natural objects as can be
found in your area. Use a ball of
twine to lay-out the first trail, follow-
ing the natural contour of the sur-
roundings. If you can get the trail
to end at a beautiful view or at a
lake or a mountainside, this is a fitting

New Recreation

Library and Ojjfice

IN TOLEDO, 01110, a small green

building—neat with red tile roof
and white trim—stands on a tree-
shaded street corner at the edge of
the business district of the town. It is
the Zorah W. Bowman Recreation
Library—one of the first of its kind
in the country. In addition, the new
building shelters the new Great Lakes
district office of the National Recrea-
tion Association. It was Opened with
formal dedication ceremonies in the
Luella Cummings Home on April 8,
and by a three-day open house im-
mediately preceding the Great Lakes
District Conference of Recreation Ex-
ecutives in that city, April 11 to 14.
Joseph Prendergast, executive direc-
tor of the association, officiated at the
opening, and Mayor Ollie Czelusta
spoke of the gratitude of the citizens

150

climax. Along the trail, after a path
is laid out physically with stones on
either side (whitewashed if you want
to get “fancy”), you should identify
trees, plants, mushrooms, mosses,
rocks, rock formations, hirds’ nests,
or other animal homcs, any natural
object along the path which is worth
receiving attention. If you have the
time and a few older campers, rustic
benches, a footbridge, or a decorative
gate will not only enhance the beauty
of the natural surroundings, but will
give the campers a chance to identify
themselves permanently with that proj-
ect and that camp.

(See figure—for trail projects.)

4. My experience proved to me that
the maximum benefits and results from
a nature study program in camp can
be obtained by combining it with a
woodcraft program. By woodcraft, I
mean a little pioneering, construction

  

.- rl't)“:\H  Han“
1.

RETREAT“

work, hiking, camping outdoors and
Indian lore. The last is a fully dc-
vcloped program in and of itsclf for
aftcr dark activity in camp and was
organized in the old days by the
Woodcraft League of America. That
program fits in well with any naturc
study program and supplements it in
many, many ways. For example, part
of the woodcraft program is a wcckly
“Council Meeting,” where the camp-
ers play “Indians” around a blazing
fire. Part of cach council meeting is
devoted to
such as scout reports, demonstrations,

“instructional” activity,
nature talks or bird call records.

All told, a nature study woodcraft
program in the average camp is a po-
tential gold mine of fun, intcrest and
achievement for the normal child. It
is one field where a little effort and
application will pay off tremendous
dividends in satisfaction.

      

o 

’\ Him Hm,

  

The attractive library and new district office set up to
aid recreation workers. Left, Margaret Dankworth,

NBA, and Lois Lee, of Luella Cummings Home.

of Toledo. Some seventy-five espe-
cially-invited persons attended. These
included close friends of Mrs. Bowman
and representatives of interested com-
munity organizations.

The library and special recreation
services in Toledo have been made
possible through the generosity of a
public-spirited citizen—the late Mrs.
Bowman—whose interest in the local
development of recreation opportuni-t
ties and in the work of the National
Recreation Association dates from the
early 1930’s. The library itself is the
outward physical sign of the recrea-
tion plans which are going ahead in‘

that city. lt will make available to
the public a collection of reference
works, program materials and other
Iitcrature in the recreation field. A
quiet reading room with a big table
is provided, and the books will be
confined to use on the premises, at
least at present.

The National Recreation Associa-
tion hopes to have the library and
office serve as a research center and
to get help from foundations for rc-
search projects carried on at thc cen-
tcr, in close cooperation with local
recreation executivcs and local uni-
versities or colleges.

RECREATION

r R

‘  EL“. f4. ' s I
._   hi '
#iilhap _3

_ I
IE

‘y’ _.7..I

“a.-.

.- |.

 

MAGINE A TRAIL RUNNING just below the crest of the

highest mountains and through some of the most
scenic wilderness areas in the United States! Such is the
Pacific Crest Trail, following 2,255 miles continuously
from the Canadian border to Mexico, crossing Washing-
ton, Oregon and California and used, for the most part,
by backpackers and pack trains.

Trails for the exclusive use of hikers are not new.
Many EurOpean countries have constructed and main-
tained them through rural or mountainous areas; in the
eastern United States, the Appalachian Trail, which runs
from Maine to Georgia, entices hikers to back country.

In March of 1932, a plan to build a continuous trail
traversing scenic wilderness areas along the Pacific moun-
tain wall was submitted to the United States Forest and
National Park Services by Clinton C. Clarke of Pasadena,
California. When Mr. Clarke’s plan won the official nod
of approval, surveys were begun to determine the most
practical route to be followed; and by 1937 the Pacific
Crest Trail was a reality.

Although the greater part of the trail runs through
wilderness areas which are protected from commercializa-
tion by the government, it is unavoidable that in places
it must traverse settled areas. These areas are small, how-
ever. It is not difiieult to make contact with the trail for
many east-west highways cross it or it may be reached
by hiking over mountain trails.

From the rocky, glacier-hung crests of northern Wash-
ington to the almost desert ranges of southern California,
the trail passes through a wide variety of country. What-
ever your taste in mountain scenery, it will be served to
you. The Washington section is roughest in the northern
part of the state, with snow-covered mountains, granite
peaks and small mountain lakes. Farther south through
Oregon, the Cascade range is more gentle, with fine views
and excellent fishing. In northern California, the trail re-
mains easy until it reaches the snowy niassifs of the
Sierra Nevada range and runs for over five hundred miles
through the rocky, alpine heights of the California moun-

 

AUTIIOR studied recreation at Washington State College.

JUNE 1951

Janet Archibald

HITTING THE

HIGH SPoTs

tains past silent lakes, reflected in rocky pools, and
through patches of late snow and twisted, stunted trees.
It is a magnificent region for the more experienced
mountaineer. South of the Sierra ranges, the trail dips
down again to lower country and follows the crests of
the southern mountains through forests of pine, over the
semi-desert region above the Mojave, with its grotesque
forests of Joshua trees, and finally over the oak-covered
hills north of Mexico.

The trail is operated under the control of the United
States Government. Efforts are made to keep it well
marked throughout its length, and campsites are frequent,
with water provided where needed. Early spring and sum-
mer hikers may find the trails partly obliterated by slides;
by July they are well marked and easy to follow. The
months of July, August and September are the best, par-
ticularly in the higher areas, for by then the late snow
has melted. The Southern California region is semi-desert
and, although water is provided along the route, care
should be taken to avoid the heat of midsummer. Late
spring and early fall are more pleasant than summer for
exploring this part of the trail.

"7
1v
’ Q

    

    

Storm threat changes the mood of this lovely high Sierra Lake
in a magnificent region expert mountaineers can really enjoy.

151

0 SOME PEOPLE, the idea of graveyards in downtown
T Boston is a waste of space and money. To others,
prowling through cemeteries, looking at old gravestones,
is a recreation! Bostonians take facts like these calmly
and serenely, and realize that this grand old city has

 

Colorful and historical Boston is to be the scene
of the 1951 National Recreation Congress, October
I to 5. On these pages appear the local Commu-
nity Recreation Service’s own story regarding
things of general interest to look for, and to ex-
pect, in the land of the bean and the cod. For
further information watch for the September I95I
issue of RECREATION.

been here for years and years and, God willing, will
be long after we‘ are gone.

What is Boston’s appeal? Historical spots? Most cities
have them. Cultural activities? We are by no means the
tops in some of these. Climate? Other places brag about
theirs. We keep our fingers crossed for our “wait-a-
minute” weather. “When it’s good, it’s very, very good,
and when it’s bad, it’s horrid.” Recreational wonders?
Well, we don’t have Yellowstone Park or the Grand Can—
yon, but the Atlantic Ocean is pretty chumlny and the
Charles River isn’t too hard to take—externally. Shop-
ping center? New York and Chicago have bigger ones,
but Greater Boston has 2,550,000 potential customers
who know good things when they see them. This applies
specifically to the Famous Fabulous Bargain Basement,
where you may find anything from a pastel mink coat

 

AUTHOR is with Community Recreation Service, Boston.

152

 

Blanche C. McGowan

to the finest art treasure, strictly for cash, at low prices,
where periodical markdowns are made. Tourists have
been known to turn pale and falter as they enter this
justly-famous place. But once in, they push and snatch
like everyone else. You could call it recreation. On the
next corner is the first and oldest in continuous depart-
ment stores in the United States. ‘

Eating is an interest that most people share. Put this
inclination and Durgin—Park together, and you will gain
pounds easily at one sitting. This restaurant, over 150
years old, has red and white checked cotton tablecloths
on long, family—style tables, and the kitchen is actually
out in front with the customers. There are no flossy wall
hangings or electric light fixtures, and the waitresses
have been working there for years. But get there early,
or you will find a long, hungry queue of pe0ple waiting
in the street. No reservations may be made ahead of
time. But oh, that roast beef, those lobsters, that wonder—
ful Indian pudding and those mammoth strawberry
shortcakes. Should you long for more seafood, the Union
Oyster House nearby gives it a special touch. If you go
down there in the early afternoon, you may go to Faneuil
Hall, the “Cradle of Liberty,” and hear the ghosts of
revolutionary days—provided your imagination gives
you a chance. Be sure to look up at thc grasshOpper
weathervane on t0p of the hall.

Your special desire may be to absorb as much music

I as you can. It is possible in Boston. Our symphony or«

chestra is an institution of which everyone has heard, if
not in person, then on records. After the Friday after.
noon concerts, nlostly attended by ladies whose tickets
have been handed down from generation to generation,
the Charles Strect bus of the MTA is crowded with these

same ladies who live on “The Hill,” Beacon, that is, or

RECREATION

at the Hotel Lincolnshire. During World War 11, when
gasoline supplies were tight, these Bostonians discovered
the dubious delights of riding buses —— thus saving gaso-
line and their chauffeurs’ tempers.

Transportation difficulties are not any worse than they
are in other large cities but, for the total stranger, it’s
a toss-up where one might land, if one is not careful.
Tradition has it that our streets were laid out by an
early colonist leading his cow to pasture. There is a true
story about the Texan and his family who arrived in
Boston on June seventeenth to discover the city prac-
tically deserted. Driving up to a policeman, they asked
where everyone was. The courteous arm-of-the-law, not-
ing their collective accents and license plate, said that
June seventeenth was a holiday in Suffolk County and
why didn’t they drive over to Charlestown to see the
parade in honor of the Battle of Bunker Hill. They did
and, through some quirk of fate, actually got mixed
up in the line of march and drove blissfully along with

the participants. By the way, the battle was fought on
Breed’s Hill, not Bunker’s.

It is well, also, when asking directions of strangers,
to make it perfectly clear where you wish to go. If neces-
sary, write it down and show it to a policeman. Re-
cently, a Chicagoan, staying at the Hotel Statler on
Arlington Street, found himself at the end of the car
line in Arlington Heights, a town over six miles away!
Moral: It is wiser to say Arlington Street than simply
Arlington.

Boston is almost an island, and with all that water,
fresh or salt, around it, you would naturally expect to
find hoat trips. Did you know that there are four-day
boat trips from Boston to Montreal, week-end trips from
Boston to Nova Scotia, and short, one-day trips to
Provincetown or Plymouth (be a Pilgrim for a day)

Typical lobster fisherman’s shaek on the North Shore. This
city is one of the nation’s oldest and busiest fishing ports.

 

 

Canoeists of the Quineboquin Camping Club (see Recreation,
July, 1949) prepare an overnight camp on the Charles River.

and also to Nantasket Beach and around Boston Harbor?
There are, in addition, two extremely inexpensive wa-
ter trips———one for ten cents and the other for a single
penny! The former is, of course, the swan boat ride
around the little pond in the Public Garden—where
all the trees are labelled in Latin with English transla-
tions. Every adult, whether accompanied by a child or
not, should make it a point to take this grand tour. The
one-cent ride on the ferry to East Boston, across Boston
Harbor, is unique. You may ride all day for the same
coin if you stay aboard.

Not too far from the East Boston ferry is the Fish
Pier, where the fishing boats unload their catch before
your eyes. This “finny” business is big business in Bos-
ton, incidentally, for the city is one of the nation’s busi-
est fishing ports. Make your trip down there during the
week, however, because it’s as dead as a mackerel on
week ends. Don’t expect to see tea Hoating around near-
hy “T” Wharf; it was named for its shape.

Combine this excursion with your tour of the north
end of Boston (the old North Church, with its “one, if
by land and two, if by sea” fame, and the Paul Revere
House), hut don’t try to compare the narrow, noisy
streets to any place you’ve ever visited. Comparisons
are odious, it is said, and it is much more fun to take
Boston as you find it—incomparable. If you take your
car on the ferry, it’s easy to drive to the Logan Inter-
national Airport in East Boston, nearest airport to a
large city and soon to be the largest n1unicipal airport
in the world—and on your way back, st0p by for a
visit to “Old Ironsides,” the USS. Constitution, now
docked permanently in the navy yard.

There are several excellent boat rides up the Charles
River, too, that are the panacea for tired tourist feet—-

153

-'I'."

 

Orchard House was the home of Louisa May Alcott, author
of “Little W'omen.” Homcs of other authors, such as Haw-
thorne and Longfellow, are also very intcrcsting to visit.

a short one around the Charles River Basin; a longer
one up as far as the Harvard Stadium; and the longest
one, of several hours’ duration, to Watertown. This is,
frankly, a superb way to sightsee. It’s cool, it’s comfor-
table, no mental effort is required except to be cognizant
of the fact that Boston University is on the south side
of the river and M.I.T. and most of Harvard are on the
north side of the river and that side is Cambridge. If
Braves Field or Fenway Park is illuminated for a night
football game, the scene is for all the world like a Sat-
urday Evening Post cover. The lights on the river are
something to see, with the spectacular weather lights
atop the John Hancock Building insuring us a good
day if blue and had, if red.

Speaking about that new building, it is on Berkeley
Street, the street next to the Statler and, on weekdays,
between nine and cleven, two and four, plan to trot over
and up to the twcnty-sixth floor to see Boston at your
feet. Through plate-glass windows, the view is truly
glorious. There are the ocean, the Custom House Tower,
the green carpets of the Common (no “s” please), and
the Puhlic Garden (also no “s”), the leisurely flowing
Charles, the bridges connecting Boston with its neigh-
hors, Commonwealth Avenue and its permanent parade
of elm trees, the scurrying trath and unhurried pe-
destrians. Copley Square is showing its best face—
and why not, with the Boston Public Library, the Copley
Plaza Hotel, S. S. Pierce Company, Trinity Church, the
New England Mutual Life Insurance Company, the State
Street Trust Company and Old South Church eyeing it
vigilantly? Off to the southeast is Dorchester Heights,
the hill where George Washington scared the British
out of the harbor by means of a clever military maneuver
many years ago, one March seventeenth.

No one should leave Boston without seeing the Mn-
seum of Fine Arts and, a short distance away, the Isa-
bella Stewart Gardner Museum. The former is not only
one of the world’s most outstanding institutions of its
kind, but also docs a splendid job in its daily gallery
talks on museum collections and exhibitions and in its
comparatively new lectures, movies and informal ac-

154

tivities for childrcn. As for the Gardner Museum, open
Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays with no charge,
this genuine Italian Renaissance Palacc has to be seen
to be believed and/or appreciated. The palace is built
around a glass-roofed courtyard, which is filled with
beautiful flowers sclected according to the scason. And
if you never knew that lowly nasturtiums had glamour,
you’ll be aware of it for sure when you see masses of
them, planted to resemble a fiery orange waterfall on a
stone balcony several stories up. Local and out-of-town
youngsters give concerts open to the public on Tuesday.
Thursday and Sunday afternoons in the music room.

In this same neighborhood, the Fens section of Bos-
ton, are Simmons and Emmanuel Colleges, the Children’s
Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel
Hospital, Massachusetts School of Art, Boys Latin
School, Boston Teachers College, Girls Latin School,
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy, Lying-In Hospital,
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital, largest of its kind in the world.

The children of Boston have no excuse for growing
up ignorant in the fields of arts and science because
the Children’s Museum, a gem among educational in-
stitutions, the children’s Art Centre and the still-grow-

ing Museum of Science, among others, are places of
wonder and satisfaction.
At the Museum of Sci-
once, you may pat a
friendly porcupine or see
your voice!

Servicemen have al-
ways found a warm we]
come in Boston. The Bay
State Club, known as the
“Buddies Cluh” in World
War II, is a permanent
building on the Com-
mon near the Park Street
subway station. One hun-
dred eighty-seven thou-
sand, nine hundred eight
members of all branches
of service in 1950
dropped in to take part in the recreation program or to
find cheerful companions to help pass the sometimcs
lonely hours away from home. The Armed Services
YMCA in Charlestown also does a fine job.

During the siege of Boston, the first playground com-
mittee in the United States, composed of a group of
irate colonial children, protested to General Gage the
actions of his Red Coats in interfering with their coast-
ing on the hills of Boston Common. Impressed by their
courage, the General allowed them free use of the icy
slopes for their sleds. Over on Columbus Avcnue, near
Northampton Street, is Carter Playground, the play-
ground of Joseph Lee fame. It lately has had its face

lifted and new equipment installed.
Welcome to Boston! When you smell coffee roasting,

the wind is in the east!

 

Examining a catch during the
Fishing Carnival sponsorcd by
Community Recreation Scrviccs.

RECREATION

26mm

W. C. Sutherland

PERSONNEL SERVICE

A Brief Report on the Things

the Notional Recreation Association
Is Doing for Professional Recreation
Workers in the Defense Period.

EECREATION, LIKE ALL OTHER parts of the Ameri-

can system, is beginning to feel the strain of the
defense emergency. It is not only a problem of facilities
and programs; a great part of the (lifiiculty is, and will
be, manpower.

A National Roster of Scientific _and Specialized Per-
sonnel was established by the United States Govern-
ment during the last war, but there is no provision, at
the present time, for the inclusion of park and recrea-
tion personnel on it. With every passing day of the pres-
ent defense emergency, however, it became more ap-
parent that there should be a National Roster of Recrea-
tion and Park Personnel, both for the sake of the indi-
viduals concerned and for the recreation movemcnt and
the best interests of the nation.

Therefore, the National Recreation Association be-
gan, in April 1951, to establish such a roster. The Na-
tional Roster of Recreation and Park Personnel is a
voluntary registration and carries no financial or other
obligation. It is not to be considered as an application for
employment or a placement service and is quite separate
and distinct from the association’s Recreation Personnel
Service, which is the subject of this article.

The demands of military and defense agencies for
recreation personnel are now being added to the con-
stantly-increasing demands from local communities and
voluntary agencies for personnel for their expanding
regular services. It is a major function of the NRA
Rccreation Personnel Service to help satisfy all these
needs. It serves as a clearing house for professional rec-
reation workers and for recreation employers. Its staff of
four works throughout the year recruiting, selecting, clas-
sifying and placing recreation workers. It offers special-
ized services to the professional people in the field and
to the communities, agencies and executives who em-
ploy them.

For Career Workers

To the individual recreation worker, an Opportunity
is offered by the Recreation Personnel Service to have

JUNE 1951

@055

his professional record maintained at NRA head-
quarters. The original registration is done on a standard
personnel form, which also is adapted for use in place-
ment service.

As each personnel registration is received, it is clas-
sified according to education, experience, skills and po-
sitions desired. References are accumulated and filed
for use at any time that the individual may seek a new
position. This insures that complcte references can be
made available to employers without delay when tllc
applicant desires. Periodic check-up questionnaires make
it casy for workers in the field to keep the cumulative
record accurate.

It is important to have records on file for the year-
round professional recreation workers even though they
may not be interested in placement at the time of filing.
Guidance, counseling and response to inquiries regard-
ing professional opportunities, sources of training, types
of positions, job requirements and worker qualifications,
salaries and working conditions are important supple-
mentary services.

Local, state and regional geographical restrictions are
being removed gradually and qualified workers are
now able to move from one geographical area to an—
other. Last year, for example, the association received

requests for help in filling positions in forty-four states,
the District of Columbia, Canada, Hawaii and Arabia. If

we were to take into account positions with war-con-
nected services, we would add Trieste, Okinawa, Japan,
Alaska, Guam and European locations.

For Communities

Park and recreation departments, hospitals, institu-
tions, voluntary agencies, civil service commissions, in-
dustries and the armed services turn to the NRA for
consultation and advice on personnel standards, policies
and practices, procedures in recruiting, selection and

W. C. SUTHERLAND is the director of the Recreation Per-
sonnel Service of the National Recreation Association.

155

placement of recreation personnel. Additional informa-
tion is available on salary schedules, qualifications
for workers, job specifications, working conditions in
the field and in-service training opportunities for paid
and volunteer workers.

The Recreation Personnel Serviec maintains a pool
of pe0ple qualified for, and interested in, recreation
positions of many types in all geographical areas of the
country. From this group of pe0ple. it screens and se-
lects individuals in one of four ways:

1. A carefully-selected group may be chosen and
their confidential credentials submitted to the employ-
ing agency.

2. Candidates may be notified and requested to apply
directly to the employing agencies with the understand-
ing that complete credentials will be submitted by the
NRA as it becomes advisable.

3. A list of prospects may be submitted directly to
the employer, but without any accompanying creden-
tials, so that he may approach candidates personally.

4-. Additional service is rendered when wide publicity
is desirable and requests are submitted in advance. Job
notices are then publicized through our various mailing
channels.

Other Services

The association keeps in touch with colleges and uni-
versities and provides an opportunity for their gradu-
ates to register with the Recreation Personnel Service
even before graduation. Personal visits are made to
some‘ schools for the purpose of interviewing students
and advising them with reference to the field. Univer-
sities are assisted with problems related to their recre—
ation curriculums and, insofar as possible, they are kept
informed regarding the demands for, and the types of,
workers needed. Up-to-date lists of training sources are
maintained—including colleges offering major recrea-
tion curriculums, special conferences and institutes.

Membership and participation in professional groups
and related agencies help to make the over-all personnel
service more effective. Also, the general resources of
the association—the research, consultation and field serv-
ices—contribute greatly to the development and main-
tenance of desirable standards and conditions for workers
and employers.

Acute manpower shortages are now in the making
and, as they develop, recreation and social agencies will
be hard hit. Now is the time to anticipate the shortages
by long-range manpower planning.

Some rough going is ahead as we face the problems
of attracting competent people to positions vacated for
long periods by persons going into military service. Re-
cruitment and placement will be more difiicult, especially
in those departments where salaries and working con-
ditions do not equal those in related fields, in business
and defense industries.

Broader ranges of job descriptions will be needed. As
staffs are depleted, they will have to become more Hex-
ible, more versatile and subject to frequent changes of

156

 

assignments. More careful attention will have to be given
to the development and wise utilization of personnel.

There is no question but that we will have to set up
more aggressive recruiting campaigns locally and na-
HonaHy.

We must maintain the standards which have taken a
half-century to deveIOp. This is a serious question that
we must face now. Although we may not be ahle to hold
rigidly to the highest accepted standards if we are to
secure workers and meet the needs of the times, we must
not relax standards so much that the recreation move-
ment will be impaired permanently. Ingenuity, imagina-
tion and inventiveness will he called for in finding the
“golden mean” betwcen overrigidity and too much re-
laxation.

In-service training programs will need to be improved
and extended. Personnel policies and practices will come
in for more careful consideration. Good public rela-
tions programs now in the lip service stage must be put
into operation, extended and strengthened.

Executives will have to work harder on that most
important administrative function of all—the securing,
developing and keeping of the best leadership possible.

Personnel is the central powerhouse of the recreation
movement. It is the heart and_soul of our profession, the
key to the future and to the fulfillment of our purpose.

The outstanding and most successful leaders of today
have a very positive personnel point of view and helieve
that the development of their workers is their most im-
portant responsibility.

The association feels so strongly about this matter of
personnel that its own services on the national level are
being expanded. The addition of another staff member
last March to give full time to the Recreation Personnel
Service will help to increase the quantity and quality
of this phase of the association’s work.

Personnel Needed
Armed Forces—Civilian recreation personnel is

needed by the U. S. Army, U. S. Air Force and the
American Red Cross for work in all parts of the
United States and overseas. The demand is greatest
for women between twenty-four and forty-five years
of age. Positions are for service elub directors and
specialists in social recreation, crafts and drama.
A few vaeaneies exist for men specialists in arts
and crafts. College training in recreation and paid
experiences are basic requirements. Further infor-
mation may be obtained from the Recreation Per-
sonnel Service of the National Recreation Asso-
eiation.

YWCA—The national YWCA personnel service
lists numerous positions to be available in Septem-
ber in all parts of the country. These include young
adult, tcen—age and health program directorships at

$2,400 to $4,300. Inquiries should be addressed to
Personnel Services, National Board YWCA, 600
Lexington Avenue, New York 22, New York.

RECREATION

3mg} arses/i

F. A. STAPLES

g3 Zb bq

0 YOU KEEP a ship log book
on the playground? Why
not try it this summer?

The log book should be
planned by a comInittec of youngsters.
What is it to be like? How large? Who
is to make it and who will be chosen
first captain of ship log book? These
are some of the questions to be an-
swered at the first meeting.

It would be best to have a new
captain each day, selected by the
playground supervisor with the ap-
proval of the committee. However,
if it seems a better plan, the captain
can serve for two days. His job is
to keep the ship’s log, recording each
day’s happenings. There should be
no set procedure in keeping the log.
Each captain uses his own ideas. Some
may write or print the daily events;
another may paint a picture to illus-
trate the most interesting experiences
of the day; and still another may
record the complete program, giving
some indications of the results either
by sketches or by written word.

In selecting the ship log book com-
mittee, include children with different
interests. Storytelling, music, arts and
crafts, nature, drama, quiet games,
athletics and any other activities
which you plan should be represented.
In this way, the log at the end of the
playground season will give a com-
plete picture of the summer program.

Now, what kind of a log book do
you want? Will it have a stiff or soft
cover? Will it 'be large or small in
size? How will it be bound? What
would be an appropriate cover design?

In answer to these questions, a stiff
cover would be better because it will

get hard usage. The pages should be
loose-leafed, and the book should be

fairly large. Eleven and one-half
inches by fifteen inches would be

 

 

Author FRANK A. STAPLES is the direc-
tor of the Arts and Crafts Service of
the National Recreation Association.

JUNE 1951

an average size for the pages. This
would give the captain ample room
for writing and illustrating. The most
talented children should make the
cover for the log book.

COVER:
Material-—-3/ 16” plywood.
Size—12”x15%3”.

PAGES:

Material—heavy manila paper or
unprinted newspaper—l 1%”);15".

BunnNc:

Material—cord or leather lacing.

How to make the cover:

1. Cut two pieces of 3/16” ply-
wood 12”x151/2”.

2. Sandpaper smooth.

3. Cut strip 1" wide from front
cover.

4. Sandpaper cut edges. -

5. Drill holes of 3/ 16” diameter
in strip, three inches from each end
and in the middle, 7%” from ends.

6. Hinge two parts of front cover.
Use small metal hinges or strips of
leather. Leather hinges cut 1” wide
and 1%” long. See diagram. Small
escutcheon pins hold leather hinges to
cover. Hinges are 2” from ends.

How to prepare pages:

1. Punch 3/16” holes in each page
to coincide with holes in cover.

How to lace pages and cover to—
gether:

1. Lace through top, front to back.

     

LACING DARK
FOR STEPS ONE,
T»/°,THRE:.

LACING WHITE
FOR STEPS FOUR, FWE,5IXI

25$

2. Lace through middle hole from
back to front.

3. Lace through bottom holc from
front to back.

4. Loop around edge of book from
back to front and then through bot-
tom hole to back of book.

5. Lace through middle hole from
back to front. Then loop around edge
of book from front to back and then
through middle hole to front of book.

6. Lace through top hole from front
of book to back.

7. Tie the starting end of lacing
and finishing end of lacing to make
the last loop at top hole of book. This

may be a square or bow knot.

Decorating cover:

The cover decoration should be
planned by the committee who will
choose someone to make the design.

Here are a few suggestions——-a
painted, raised, wood-burned or metal
cut-out design. It could be pictorial,
just lettering or both. The raised de-
sign could be cut from thin plywood
and glued to the cover; the metal
cut-out design could be fastened to
the cover with small escutcheon pins.

The back and front cover, if not
painted, should be finished with either
a stain or shellac. To stain, mix a
small amount of the desired color and
paint on the wood. Then wipe stain
off immediately with cloth. If not the
desired shade, repeat this process. Most
stain finishes look best if waxed.

To get a good shellac finish, first
paint wood with thin coat of orange
shellac. When dry, rub down with
steel wool. Then apply a second coat
of orange shellac and rub down when
dry. Continue this process until de-
sired finish is secured. For best re-
sults, rub down the last shellac coat
with pumice and oil, using chamois.

If you want to carry out the ship
idea, have the children build a dry
land boat with a sail. They can take
many an imaginary trip in it.

157

7HOSE WHO BELIEVE in the values of an organized

camping eXperience as part of the growing-up proc-
ess of young people today need no defensive attitude
when there is a discussion of the nation’s present require-
ments and issues in national defense. They know that
now, as in previous years, good camps make a contribu-
tion to the nation’s well-being. However, in times of
stress, there is need of evaluation from a new angle; per-
haps there must be new emphases to meet the demands
of the times; it may be that the most valuable contribu-
tion will come from a “business-as-usual” viewpoint.

Before any camping season begins, the directors, camp
committees and program heads must evaluate their past
camping, must review aims, objectives, philosophy and
ways of work, and must plan to continue or modify these
to meet the needs of the season’s campers. They do this
by the staff that they select, the equipment and materials
they make ready, the organization of the camp itself. This
year, such evaluation has been more important than ever
in the light of the national emergency and of the pres-
sures continually brought upon leaders of youth to help
in making the people ready for emergencies. How do
camps fit into the national picture this year? What is their
place? What can individual camps do with campers to
help meet the needs of a state of emergency?

In order to take a look at camping in the light of the
times, we must have some basis of what good camping
aims to accomplish in the general development of chil-
dren and youth. This is difficult to do for all camps,
since no two camps are alike in aims, ohjectives, way of
organization and way of work; even within organizations
which have stated philosophy, there will be variations by

CATHERINE T. HAMMETT, national secretary of the Ameri-
can Camping Association, and VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN, di-
rector of the Correspondence and Consultation Bureau of
NRA, have recently completed “T he Camp Program
Book,” a valuable addition to the growing library of
camp literature. Available from National Recreation Asso-

ciation, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N.Y. $5.00.
158

Catherine T. Hammett

Il's Part in National Defense

camps. Too, when one speaks of “camping,” and especial-
ly of “good camping,” one is using a personal interpreta-
tion of what is “good.” So these statements are neces-
sarily the Opinion of this writer and not a statement of
all camps.

These, then, seem to be the elements of a good camp
for youth:

0 The camp itself is set up to provide for small groups
of campers and leaders who live, work and play together
at least a good portion of the day, making their own plans
for activities, as well as for living.

. The camp is in a spot that provides a natural setting
that abounds in the kind of resources needed for a good
outdoor program and that presents a place of natural
beauty with a degree of ruggedness.

. The program of the camp makes use of this outdoor
setting in its predominant activities, using the woods,
waters, nature, the land as a basis for living in the out-
of-doors.

. The emphasis of program is upon two things—getting
to know, appreciate, enjoy and use the out-of-doors for
fun, living, knowledge and for learning to live happily
and easily with other people.

. The leadership of the camp is concerned as much with
this living together as with skills and activities, and uses
the activities as a hasis of growth of the campers, rather
than as an end-all in themselves. Such counselors-for-
living are “rated” as important as are the skilled pro-
gram leaders.

. The facilities and equiplncnt of the camp are adcquate,
safe and in good condition, but are also simple, present-
ing some challenges in the need of making one’s self
comfortable and of lending a hand in the providing of
shelter and food for one’s own small group.

. The health and safety of the campers are guarded and
maintained, but there also are chances to learn to take
care of one’s self to meet the hazards to be found in the
out-of-doors.

. There are some spiritual gains for the campers, not
only religious eXperiences, but experienccs in the undcr-

RECREATION

standing and appreciation of people and the wonder of
the out-of—doors.

. There is opportunity for the widening of horizons to
include the affairs of surrounding neighbors and of the
world; there is isolation from city things, but not from
all that is in the world today.

These general marks of a good camp lead into two
great realms of program. The first answers the camper’s
need and desire for fun and adventure, for chances to
do things that he cannot do in town or without special
facilities and leadership. Into this category fall hiking,
outdoor cooking, camp crafts, conservation, nature lore,
waterfront activities, construction, trips, campfires and
similar aspects of the outdoor program.

The second realm has to do with learning to live with
other pe0ple. The living situation in a camp presents an
opportunity for learning to live with and get along with
and have fun with other pe0ple as is to be found any-
where. Here there are all the elements of a community——
the “family” or tent or cabin group; the “neighborhood”
or unit or small camp group; the “community” or whole
camp group. Since camps are geared to the campers, the
governing of the “family,” the “neighborhood” or the
“community” is on a camping level, and can be adapted
to the various age and experience levels found in the
camp. Any camper, no matter how young, can begin to
see his place in the three groupings. In the family group
he may have his part as an individual, while to the neigh-
borhood or community group he may go as a representa-
tive or send someone to represent him. Thus he begins to
practice and to learn the basic elements of representative
government. And, in the learning, he discovers that there
is no freedom of speech or of action that does not carry
responsibility to help carry out plans for the good of
individuals and the group.

Acknowledging that there are many agencies which
have an influence upon the total education of the child
today, we say that camping supplements the home, the
school, the church and the in-town, year-round organiza-
tions and agencies; camp leaders believe that camping
gives something that is over and beyond the good influ-
ences of such agencies in the child’s life.-

Needs of Youth

With this, then, as one basis upon which to look at the
camping program, let us turn to the needs of youth, as
related to the needs of the country in these times of stress
and emergency. What do we hope to accomplish in the
way of deve10pment of youth for the present day emer-
gency and for the future? The nation needs young pe0ple
who can fit into society in times that are normal—or as
normal as times can be these days——-and who also can fit
into community groups in time of emergencies by lending
a hand or by taking care of themselves. Specifically, the
needs of the nation are for:

0 Youth who are resourceful, self-reliant, able to take
care of themselves in emergencies, no matter what their
age. The need is for youth with specific training to be
able to give service in helping others to provide shelter,

JUNE 1951

food and other living arrangements.

° Healthy, strong, well-adjusted young pe0ple.

. Young people who understand the “American way of
life,” and how to help bring it about or continue it; the
need is for “good citizens.”

° Young people who know about our natural resources,
know how to use them, to enjoy them and also how to
conserve them.

Whether we speak of these needs in terms of physical
fitness, service projects, practice of democracy—or make
more general statements of needs—we know that there
is a need to spearhead our efforts and, often, to help the
young peeple to realize that they are doing their part to
serve the country when they are learning to meet the de-
mands. They- must see that practicing first aid or helping
reforest a hillside or doing a better job of group govern-
went all may be part of preparing themselves to be better
citizens in the future.

How, then, can camps help meet these needs?

A good, varied outdoor life with other peeple, under
wise and interested leadership, will do much to meet the
necessary requirements. With the younger campers—and
it is undoubtedly true that the majority of boys and girls
in organized camps today are under thirteen years of age
-——the camping-as-usual or, perhaps, more-camping-than-
usual would seem to fit the need. For teen-agers, there
may be more specific types of training. Certainly camp
directors can be sure that there is emphasis upon doing
for one’s self and not having too much direction, too
much protection or too much doing-for the camper. There
are definite types of work or service projects which will
challenge the older camper and give him a sense of serv-
ing that will be “good” for him, “good” for the camp or
neighboring countryside and, in the long run, “good” for
the nation, too.

In thinking over program emphasis for this summer in
camps, it seems to me that opportunities such as the fol-
lowing must be provided for the campers:

. Opportunities for campers to learn to do for them-
selves, to practice outdoor skills that teach self-reliance
and resourcefulness. This should happen in daily living,
not on an occasional hike or outing, and the camper
should have an active part in the preparations. These are
not times of entertainment, but times of doing, and from
the day-by-day practice will come skills that will serve
naturally in times of emergency.

. Opportunities for campers to share in service projects
—such as gardening, tree planting, soil erosion, insect
control—not just as activities, but definitely with a view
to lending their physical skills and strength to preserve
a better natural environment.

. Opportunities for campers to learn and practice good
outdoor citizenship in conservation, in fire safety and in
consideration and care of private and public property.

. Opportunities to learn interesting activities and skills
which call for little equipment but can be used as a source

of enjoyment when one’s away from radios, television,
movies and so on.

0 Opportunities to know and understand pe0ple of other

159

cultural groups- —racial, national, religious, geographical,
economic.

. Opportunities to gain in health through vigorous activi-
ties, such as swimming, hiking and so on; knowledge of
good health practices, as carried out by individuals.

. Opportunities to practice the democratic way—with
time planned for this in the daily program, with leader-
ship that is mature enough to give wise guidance and to
help interpret the daily camp planning to the needs of
citizens in the world today.

. Opportunities for just talking things out, especially
with teen-age campers, so that they may develop ideas of
their own.

. Opportunities for relaxation, lessening of tensions; rec-

\ N “ I A N Pow-wow

Edmonton ehiefs smoke the

reation that is not too competitive nor too stimulating.
. Opportunities to kecp in touch with the world of today
——through people, through discussion, through resources.

To sum it up—there must be opportunities to be chil-
dren or youth, to enjoy life, fun and activities, to gain a
sense of security in a world of insecurity; the leadcrs
must build on the living-together-in-the-out-of-doors to
plant seeds of self-rcliance, skills and inner resources
which will stand them in good stead in time of emergency
and stress.

Camps are important in the defense of the nation, not
for military training, not for adult activities and responsi-
bilities, but for the conservation and development of the
greatest resource the country has—its future citizens.

THE FOLLOWING IS a leaf taken from
the playground bulletin distributed
to staff by the recreation commission
in Edmonton, Canada, describing how
to put on this special event.

Planning: “Indian Days” is the pro-
gram theme. The Council Ring can be
an important feature of your program
and, with the Big Chief as chairman,
discussions of other activities can take
place and committees organized for
coming events.

Plan a ceremony in which chiefs are
shown respect in keeping with their
position. Set aside a secluded area as
a Council Ring. Colorful costumes,
blankets, painted faces and so on will
add color to the event. Tribal chants,
war whoops and cheers can be used.

Program: The boys and girls will
have lots of suggestions for this. The
following can be used as a guide:

Line up tribes, headed by chiefs.
The Big Chief should lead the cere-
monial parade to the Council Ring.
Each tribe sits down together, Indian
fashion, around the ring with the

160

Peaee Pipe as they diseuss
important affairs of state.

tribal chief in front, braves next and
squaws in rear. Squaws can be full-
fledged braves or even chiefs if this
would stimulate interest.

No one speaks until the lighting of
the council fire———which can be either
a tiny flame or red paper arranged be-
tween dry sticks to simulate a fire.
Some event should be planned for the
lighting ceremony, such as having each
chief add one stick to the fire and hav-
ing the Medicine Man set it ablaze.

Following this, each tribe can per-
form a ceremonial dance around the
fire and return to place. When the last
tribe has performed, the tribal chiefs
can make speeches to the Big Chief,
giving rcasons for the Pow-wow and
offering suggestions for programs.

Typical Story Book Speech
“Oh, Mighty Chief Big Plume,

Fearless hunter and warrior,
Leader and Counsellor of many Red

Men,
Favored by the Sun God and Moon
Cod,

 

Oh, wise and learned one,

Let us smoke many peace pipes.
StOp the hunt and the fighting.

Let our braves meet on the race

track
And the jumping pit to see who is
swiftest of limb,

And the strongest of heart . . .

Following these speeches, the Big
Chief can lead a discussion, decisions
can be made and the formal business
completcd.

Now come the special features:
stunts, sing-songs, stories, games of
strength, skill, daring, individual con-
tests, lndian legends, races, throwing
events, jumping, stalking contests.

Indian crafts also can be featured on
this day. Each tribe can provide con-
testants for each event, with points
awarded to the successful.

As a culminating feature, have tribes
assemble at the Council Ring for re-
freshments, presentation of award rib-
bons and the closing ceremony. This
last might be an Indian creed repeated
in unison.

99

RECREATION

[osep/az'ne Randall

Retires

JOSEPHINE Dows RANDALL, Superintendent of Recre—

ation, City and County of San Francisco, is retiring
this summer. As she brings to a close her active profes-
sional carecr, she must find great satisfaction in the
large circle of friends she has gained in this work and
in the many constructive developments that have been
achieved as a result of her leadership.

Miss Randall, a native of California, was well-equipped
from the beginning for the work she has done so well.
lived before she began her first recrcation assignment in
San Diego in 1913, she possessed both a B.A. and an
M.A. from Stanford University. She also had the enlight-
cning expericnce of serving as secretary to Dr. William
F. Snow, one of the great leaders in the public health
field, as well as some experience in settlement work.

For six years Miss Randall was employed in San
Diego—part of this time under the Girls Division of War
Camp Community Service. In 1920 she joined the na-
tional staff as the association was beginning its post—war
peacetime recreation service.

Through the four years that followed, she served as
field representative on the Pacific Coast and in the Mid-
dle West. Comments from those who worked with her
could have been woven into a very acceptable statement
on the qualities that a good recreation worker should
possess, including such phrases and words as a specialist
in recreation, splendid organizing capacity, careful,
thoughtful, effective with young people, good at girls’
work, excels in training play leaders, much reserve power,
cnthusiastic, versatile, absolute dependability, systematic,
accurate, no guess work, steady, effective, modest, a
most valuable worker.

In 1924 and 1925, under the auspices of the San Fran-
cisco Community Fund, Miss Randall directed a recrea-
tion survey in San Francisco and, early in 1927, was em—
ployed there as superintendent of the newly-organized
recreation department. In this capacity she pioneered in
untried fields. Any consistent reader of RECREATION and
the bulletins of the National Recreation Association over
the years will recall many new and stimulating ideas that
emanated from San Francisco.

The Year Book of the National Recreation Association

JUNE 1951

 

in 1927, compared with the Year Book for 1948, shows

that in a twenty-one-year pcriod, the number of play-
grounds under leadership in San Francisco increased
from twenty-eight to one hundred six; the number of paid
recreation leaders from eighty—seven to three hundred
twenty—six; the salary expenditures from $164,595 to
$937,658; the total recreation expenditures from $410,-
318 to $1,304,504. The recreation facilities developed
include several of an unusual nature, such as tho Junior
Museum, the children’s day camp, the photography cen-
ter and the vacation camp. The program is exceptionally
broad in scope and has fine balance. Playgrounds and
athletics, of course, but there’s also a rich offering of
music, drama and dancing in many forms, social recrea-
tion, crafts, gardening, camping and special events.

For many years Miss Randall has had a deep interest
in the international aspect of recreation. Inspired by
the ideals of UNESCO, she has been able to do much
through the playground program in bringing to the
children and young people of San Francisco a practical
understanding of other nations through participation in
programs built around. their customs, games, crafts,
dances, songs and folklore.

As the crowning glory of a long period of service in
San Francisco, the people, in 1947, approved a twelve-
million-dollar “Master Building Plan for Youth” and, in
recent years, much of Josephine Randall’s time has been
given to the successful completion of the various seg-
mcnts of this progressive plan.

In 1949 she had the distinction of being the first
woman to be awarded a citation naming her as a Fellow
of the American Recreation Society.

Josephine Randall has been a tower of strength to
the recreation movement. She has literally thousands
of friends. The number of people who have had happier
hours of leisure because of her efforts are countless.

And so, upon her retirement from active duty, we ex-
tend to Josephine Randall our very best wishes for the
full enjoyment of a well-earned leisure. However, as in
the case 'of many retired recreationists, it is predicted
that she will find many happy ways to continue to serve
the recreation field.

161

S. C. Summerfield

A
GUIDE T0

TEACHING TENNIS

N MOST AMERICAN CITIES it has become the custom to
I think of tennis as a summer sport. This may be true
in many respects where indoor courts are not available
but tennis can be taught indoors in YMCA gyninasiums,
church houses or in any comfortably-sized space. The
use of teaching apparatus and planned exercises will
give the rhythmic patterns of the basic strokes and foot-
work drills and body motions will simulate the actual
play. Bangboard practice with such drills will soon bring
the student to the point where, when. the season for out-
door play begins, he will be ready to complete his train-
ing by actual play on the court.

The ability of a student to learn to play this exciting
and absorbing game can be tested in simple ways. Eye
efficiency, for instance, is important to satisfactory per-
formance and can be judged by assigning the class the
job of learning how to juggle two tennis balls first with
two hands, then with the left hand. (Right hand for
students who are naturally left-handed.)

Basic rhythmical skill is born in every child and can
be deve10ped in accordance with the physical limitations
of the muscular and reflex action of the individual. Many
forms of natural rhythm are inherited by a race, as dis-
played by almost every nation in its folk dances.

To determine whether a person will succeed in any
action game, a method of tcsting his sense of rhythm
is most important. This can be accomplished in many
ways. However, it is best to select the basic rhythm of
the game to be taught and derived from the game it-
self. In tennis we have several basic forms of rhythm
such as weight transfer, wrist and arm action, body
motion and leg action. Without proper rhythmic action,
perfect timing in tennis is practically impossible.

A tennis instructor must consider the limitations of
the students’ individual physical differences. There’s the
student who has never been ablc to develop good muscu-
lar coordination or the one who is too short to do well
at the plays that require height and reach. These create
problems which must be solved individually, as must
those created by othcr individual differences—mental,

 

AUTHOR directs tennis in Daytona Beach, Florida.

162

 

In action, Pancho Gonzales, the 1949 National
Amateur Tennis Champion, shows top form.

emotional, learning ability, adaptability and the influence
of past expcriences.

The coach must base his teaching upon the basic
knowledge that mental effort creates habit patterns and
that habits correctly formed in the early part of train-
ing will carry through, in most cases, to a finished
player. Mental effort, therefore, should be stimulated, as
the strategy used is frequently more fascinating than
the physical aspects of the game.

The ability to anticipate a result in advance of thc
action is one of the major factors in playing bettcr
tennis. Most beginners will lack the ability to foresee
what will happen on the other side of the net and, at
first, will wait until the return has reached the net be-
fore deciding what to do to keep the ball in play. Con-
centration, keeping the eyes upon the ball, court tactics
and rhythmic motion in covering the court will make
a sound foundation for correct anticipation.

We are all born to grow physically, mentally and emo-
tionally. This growth is gradual and, as we grow, our
base of learning widens and assimilation becomes easier.
How far such development proceeds rests upon thc in-
dividual. In tennis, the real base is rhythmic coordina-
tion, which is made up of physical, mental and emotional
characteristics. Learning to do things with rhythmic ac-
tion is as natural as hunger, if the individual is started
young enough. The basic strokes could be learncd at
the age of five, if parents were instructed in what is re-
quired. A good coach will try for a balancc of inheritcd
ability, nervous energy, will to learn and conditioning
of the body by constant practice. However, because of
a variance in adaptability, a tennis instructor should not
expect individual differenccs in learning ability lo be
evened out through practice.

RECREATION

The home and school and even business will be re-
flcctcd in the student’s attitude and interest in obtain-
ing additional knowledge. The background of the in-
dividual presents a complex pattern of experiences and
influences, likes and dislikes, interests and enthusiasms.
Interests spring from unexpected sources—such as hob-
bies, reading and other activities which help to produce
a mind favorable or unfavorable to learning.

Attractive Learning

The most common problem of teaching thc game of
tennis is that of making it attractive. In doing this, the
most important questions to be answered are:

I. Is the student suited to the game?

2. Is the student convinced that he will improve him-
self both socially and physically by learning the game?
3. Is the coaching program designed to stimulate?

4. What teaching apparatus is to be used?

The processes and experiences should satisfy the in-
terest, be pleasant and should not be met with resistance
on the part of the student. Once interest is aroused, the
learning process can be simple and satisfactory.

The coach also should draw upon other interests, such
as baseball, swimming, golf or games that can be re-
lated to the simple underlying rhythmic muscular co-
ordination required by the basic strokes of tennis. The
instinct of personal accomplishment and the power to
progress are two of the strongest interests upon which
a real coach should base his approach to the job.

He should multiply the interests which are apparent
to the pathway which the learner must travel. He should
get his students interested in the lcading players, in what
they are doing, and have them study such related sub-
jects as keeping physically fit, how to concentrate, bal-
let technique, the nervous system, psychology in sports.

The “fish net” racket, the self-practice set,* the clothes-
line practice ball,* stroke-aid* and other stroke-develop-
ing apparatus should be part of every coach’s equip-
ment for multiplying the interests of his squad.

Making Students Remember

A good coach knows that no matter how well a job
is done, there is always room for,improvement. There-
fore, he should use all possible devices to increase the
processes of remembering and decrease the habit of for-
getting. Skill attained will weaken if not used and the
old saying, “Practice makes perfect,” is still good.

Students will recall best those things which:

I. They do most often.

2. Have a definite meaning and are made most inter-
esting.

3. Are associated with that which was last learned.

4. Are learned most thoroughly.

Physical skill cannot be acquired without actual prac-
tice, but with proper teaching apparatus and methods
which will guide or duplicate the approximate actual
conditions of performance, much can be accomplished.

Here again interest must be aroused. Pure repetition

* Teaching apparatus developed by the author.
JUNE 1951

is not enough. Some apparatus should be used to make
the subject appealing.

Related Knowledge

In tennis, it is possible to use related interests and
associations which make the learning process richer and
stronger. For example, in ordcr to obtain the rhythmic
back swing, it is a good plan to start with arm and
body exercises, later using the same exercises with ten-
nis racquet in hand. From the practice swing of the
arm, a vertical half-circle to the hitting position and a
horizontal forward swing are developcd which are finally
flattened out into the orthodox forehand drive. For
weight transfer, the pitching motion used in baseball is
excellent.

After emphasizing the proper rhythmic action for the
serve, the student should learn to juggle two tennis balls
with his left hand so that the correct throw for the serve
will become automatic. The prOper pivot footwork and
court coverage can best be learned with exercises set to
music. For the very young student, it is beneficial to have
him stroke to sound signals instead of voice commands.
Small bells may be used on the racquet for timing prac-
tice. In the field of rhythniics, many ideas can be carried
over into tennis coaching. Thc basic fundamentals of the
ballet could be modified to get better results in teaching
the game in a shorter period of time.

Going from Simple to Complete

The best way to teach tennis is to start from the
simple ideas of the back swing to the more complex tim-
ing of the entire stroke. In other words, begin with a
simple arm exercise from striking position to follow
through; then use a back swing exercise until you have
the complete movement.

Exercises which bring about an automatic rhythmic
forehand or backhand drive will enable the student to
concentrate upon watching the ball. In all cases, the
coaching should be done with small, rather than with
large, groups. However, small groups may be part of a
large group for routine drills and new work.

Transferring Knowledge to Skill

In tennis, to achieve the most effective transfer of
knowledge to skill, rhythmic patterns of muscular co-
ordination should be learned exactly as they are to be
performed. One of the common faults of teaching tennis
is that the transfer of skill is taken too much for granted.

The prime factors which retard learning in most sports
can be summarized as follows:

Lack of experience in similar sports or games.
Lack of good practice habits.

Prejudices against coaching.

Lack of ability to learn.

Prejudices against athletics.

Lack of ability to concentrate.

Lack of ability to understand verbal instruction.
. Excessive fatigue.

Lack of fixed habits.

PWHP‘P‘PWNE"

163

10. No sense of rhythm.
11. lnferiority complex. .
12. No interest.

Methods and Techniques of Coaching

The most important question in meeting the problems
of tcaching tennis is: What shall the student do?—-not
W hat should the teacher do? A brief classification would
include the “Lecture Mcthod,” “Question-Answer Meth-
od,” “Demonstration Method,” and what I have proposed
to call the “Coaching-Exercise Method.” All of these
should be used in coaching adults; however, the last is
especially recommended for young pe0ple. It will be pre-
sented in a subsequent issue of RECREATION.

Common Problems in Teaching Tennis

Regardless of the teaching method used, experience
indicates that certain problems of learning tend to recur
with considerable frequency and, therefore, must claim
the immediate attention of the instructor. The following
are general suggestions for dealing with these:

Problem: Lack of interest on the part of the student.

. Review the student’s interests and background and
stress the association of other sports.

Problem: Slow in grasping ideas—a slow learner.

. Don’t rush rate of learning. Try to find interests
which develop thinking. Review frequently.

Problem: A fast learner. A “natural” who learns faster
than required by the normal speed of coaching.

. Speed up coverage and use this type of student for
demonstration. Such students become the leaders for
groups of slow learners. This will maintain their interest.

Problem: Difficulty in grasping idcas which are the
basic principles of rhythmic muscular coordination. This
is difficult for students who have never participated in
athletics.

. Find something in the student’s experience to build
on constantly. Stress new ideas. '

Problem: Prejudiced on being able to lcarn; tends to
make up mind in advance.

. Convince the student that an honest conclusion al-
ways must be the result of trying hard before admitting
failure.

Problem: Doesn’t get the ideas behind the principles
involved. Finds learning hard work and slow.

. Assign reading matter and insist upon practice exer-
cises at home. Encourage signs of advancement.

Problem: Can’t sec the relationships between body ac-
tion, footwork and arm action.

. Use sketches or blackboard to show coordination of
muscular effort.

Problem: Overconfidence or “cocky.” Tries to monopo-
lize thc coach. Knows all the answers.

. Find out the student’s background and check the
material being covered, to be sure it is not too elementary
to hold the troublemaker’s interest. Tasks that are almost
impossible may be directed to thc troublcmaker. Special
assignments may be given or an interview held after
class to appeal for cooperation.

164

Important Points in Coaching

1. Plan each coaching pcriod carefully and thoroughly.
This should be a guidc, but not so rigid that it cannot be
modified if circumstances warrant. The speed in learning,
not schedulc, should be the controlling factor. Do not ex-
pect all students to learn at the samc rate.

2. Don’t talk down to your students. Don’t say, “Don’t
do it that way.” Say, “This is the way it is done.”

3. Watch for obstacles to learning. Thcy are morc
readily cleared up when thcy first appcar than later.

4. Let each student participatc as much as possible.
Don’t hold your class up for one or two slow learners.

5. Explain the reason for exactness in practice and what
ultimately may be expected.

6. Keep the student informcd of his progress as ho goes
along. This is most important.

7. Make the learning process a pleasant one, but do not
lower the standard of performance. Teach positively and
deliberately, not negatively and weakly. Be friendly, pa-
tient and pleasant; avoid sarcasm; praisc good results.
Point out the ill effects of constant errors.

8. Use all the illustrations possible to make the points
clear and to develop interest. Photographs of leading
players in action, drawings, sketches, lantern slides and
movie films should be used in discussion grOUps or be-
ginners’ classes to make the tie-in to the practice sessions.

9. Vary your teaching methods to avoid monotony. Thc
attitude of the student will usually reveal when a change
of procedure is necessary. Avoid excessive fatigue.

10. Remember, there is often more than one answer to
any one problem. Give credit to the students who offer
new ideas or new answers. The coach can also learn.

11. Review the material and lessons frequently. Empha-
size thc main points to remember and tie them together
in proper order.

12. Don’t stray from the well-defined principles of
teaching which should be applied in planning the instruc-
tion program. Each coach will create his own style, which
will be the application of his personality and knowledge
to the job of helping the student to learn and become
skillful in the game.

Can the Results Be Measured?

ln coaching tennis, the results usually speak for them-
selves. The coach who observes his pupils carefully
throughout the process of instruction will see, and even
feel, the results of his teaching by the way the studcnt
executes the work assigned.

Muscular coordination can be measured by a stroke-
producing racquet* which, with the aid of guide charts,
will measure the path of the racquet for all strokes except
the service. Emotional stability can readily be measured
by putting the student into competition; Written tests can
be given to measure the mental advanccment of thc as-
pects, tactics and rules of the gamc. ln general, the stu-
dents who have practiced faithfully and who have shown
the greatest interest will show thc greatest progress.

"' Teaching apparatus developed by the author.

RECREATION

    
    
  
 

ITII THE SUMMER SEASON upon US, HIOSIZ recrea-
Wtion programs will now be turned to the out-of-
doors, with aquatics coming into the fore. Swimming
programs which have lagged all winter will receive top
interest and boating will again come into its own.

Boating has a natural, irresistible attraction; yet little
has been done to use this great force in building body,
character and skills. From early youth through maturity
and into the advanced years, it can be enjoyed equally
by all ages. The records show that four- and five-year-old
youngsters are learning canoeing and that eighty-year-
old seniors are still enjoying it. Canoeing provides a
common meeting ground for father, son and daughter.

The canoe is the most adaptable of all water craft. Not
only does its ease of pr0pulsi0n make it a possible vehicle
for both young and old, but its adaptability to most
waters makes it more useful than any other craft.

Canoeing as a pleasant summer pastime or as a sport
has grown without formal training and education in its
proper use or in safety. But present trends indicate that,
at long last, recognition is being given to the boating
field and its possibilities. The sailing dink has been
adopted in colleges as a means of competition for a
group of students formerly neglected. Owing to weather
conditions usually encountered during most of the aca-
demic year, schools have found the dink more seaworthy
during a longer period of participation. The intercollegi-

 

MRS. LILLIAN RIDDELL, a graduate of Denison University,
Granville, Ohio, has a special interest in Indian lore. MR.
FANCHER was vice commodore, Western Division, Ameri-
can Canoe Association, Chicago, I ll., for eight years.

JUNE 1951

All ages enjoy canoeing in lagoons
and streams only a few feet wide.

Lillian Biddell and L. E. Fancher

Colleges use canoes in swimming

pools for primary boating training.

ate sailing programs are growing wherever it has been
introduced.

Some colleges also have recognized the need for small
boating instruction and are trying to meet it by including
some small craft work in their youth counselor courses.
More courses of this type are expected to follow as the
demand in this field is recognized.

Colleges and other schools are adopting the canoe for
primary training in proper boating because, first, it
adapts itself well to use in swimming pools during the off-
season period; second, it can be used in many small
bodies of water not suited to other craft. In two feet of
water its paddle seldom touches bottom and, in six inches,
the average loaded canoe will not even scrape bottom.
Channels, lagoons and streams of only a few feet in width
are ideal for this sport. No expensive docks or off-shore
installations are necessary, as in most other types of boat-
ing. Storage can be furnished in low-cost, dry-land build-
ings. Often, vacant spaces in basements or garages are
only awaiting development. The canoe is launched best
from the beach where there is little danger of injury to
the craft or personnel.

To anyone desiring to learn the art of sailing, the canoe
is most highly recommended. It surpasses all other craft

165

for the mastery of the elements of the sail in wind and
sea. Here, again, there is great reduction in expense as
the same canoe used for paddling may be quickly and
easily rigged for sailing.

For a competitive sport in small watcrs, none surpasses
regular paddling races-—particularly for those who feel
that they lack the proper physical attributes for other
sports. Size and age of the competitors are not as impor-
tant as skill and coordination. Courses from four hun-
dred yards to one-half mile in length are all that are
needed for these events. Should only two hundred yards
or less be available, novelty races can be held which will
offer exciting entertainment for participants as well as for
spectators.

Probably the most outstanding work in the small craft

educational program is now being carried on under the
leadership of A. W. Cantwell of the American National
Red Cross. In an effort to alleviate the shortage of capa-
ble instructors, the Red Cross gives a ten-day concentrated
course annually. This is primarily for the summer camp
counselor and, after two or three years’ attendance, the
student is far more advanced than the average summer
camp program requires.

Thousands of youths are being instructed in small craft
activities each year at private camps as well as at those
sponsored by various youth organizations. Camp di-
rectors, hampered by the dearth of qualified counselors
for these programs, have complained that waterfront pro-
grams are far too popular as compared to other camp ac-
tivities. However, with classes for instructors now avail-
able, they should have less trouble obtaining suitable
leaders.

Paddling the canoe offers healthful exercise to the
arms, shoulders and torso. Lungs and heart receive the
mildest exertion in the average cruise or can be given a

very strong workout in the racing program. The sport
provides an ideal conditioner for the athlete now partici-
pating in only a relatively short-period program, such as
football or basketball.

Where required, exercise can be taken with the double
blade canoe paddle to strengthen leg and abdominal
muscles. No finer instrument for this purpose can be
found and there is no more enjoyable method for reduc-
ing flabby waistlines.

AGAIN IN 1950-’5'l

America?! gineét
Athletic equipment

is built by
033

for catalog, address:
Dept. R, W. J. VOlT RUBBER CORP.

1600 E. 25th St.
Los Angeles 11, Calif.

 

166

 

Unfortunately, though, far too many canoeists do not
continue the sport during the greater portion of the year.
Eight- and nine-month outdoor programs on the water
are feasible in most climates and, if year-round programs
are desired, additional indoor tie-ins can he worked out,
such as making and repairing all typcs of gear.

In Boston, Massachusetts, canoeing has been found to
provide an ideal program for working with undcrprivi-
leged youtll. It has been developed into a year-round
activity and is one of the most popular ways of combat-
ing delinquency in the city.

In Jacksonville, Florida, canoeing has been developed
as a competitive program in the intcr-high school field
with wonderful results. Many have been encouraged to
participate who would not be interested in any other kind
of competition.

Chicago, Illinois, prefers the sailing dink in its youth
program and has worn out the first fleet of dinks after
many years of hard usage. It has been found necessary
to avoid all publicity of the program in order to maintain
any semblance of balance between the number of partici-
pants and the equipment available. Had this program
utilized canoes, rather than the heavier craft, at least
twice the number of participants could have been accom-
niodated with a similar outlay of money and other
facilities.

To the uninitiated, safety is always the object of much
concern when aquatics are mentioned; yet this is the first
consideration given to any water program under capable
leadership. Participants are thoroughly trained in meth-
ods of water and craft safety.

lt has been found that where some form of boating is
introduced as a goal for those who learn minimum swim-
ming requirements, the learn-to-swim program has been
greatly accelerated. In addition, there are many safety
skills applicable to the craft itself which are mastered
early in the program. For the very young, such skills in
the canoe can be taught in the form of games-wan enjoy-
able means of learning self-preservation.

For more detailed information on safe handling of the
canoe, the booklet “Know Your Canoeing” is exception-
ally helpful. It is available from the Western Division,
American Canoe Association, 8224 South Woodlawn
Avenue, Chicago 19, Illinois, and is priced at fifty cents.

PLAYGROUND SUMMER NOTEBOOK
195]

Remember those 12 loose-leaf bulletins that came weekly
each year to help you plan your playground program?
A new series will be available this spring—some price—

$1.50.
Subscribe NOW.

7% 72? it

Is your 1950 set complete? Need another set? Complete
sets at the 1950 Playground Summer Notebook are avail-

able at $1.50.

RECREATION

Lawrence Heeb and Florence Kiefer

MP

W

 

  
 
  
  

THE FOLLOWING RECOlVIMENDATIONS'}
cover limited phases of the problems
of facilities, leadership, program and
financing of day camping. They are
designed to guide municipal recrea-
tion departments which contemplate
starting a day camp program or may
wish to evaluate an existing program.

The day camp program should hold
to certain basic standards and ob-
jectives. Fundamentally, the day camp
should be an experience in outdoor
living—deveIOping understandings, ap-
preciations and skills related to the
outdoors. Naturally the camp should
provide an opportunity for fun and
adventure, improvement in the phys-
ical and mental health of the campers
and in the social values of adjustments
which are the outgrowth of any group
endeavor. But there also should be a
development of interests and skills
which will carry over into the home,
the school and adult life of the camper.

One of the chief functions of day
camping has been to reach children

unable to afford full-term camping;.

hence it is customary to keep fees and
charges at a minimum, limiting them
to material costs, food, transportation
and other necessary personal expenses.

When it is necessary to supply trans-
portation other than the regular public
buses or streetcars, that which is hired
or provided should be covered by lia-
bility insurance and should be safe and

* Report of the Committee on Day Camping
at Midwest Recreation Executives Confer-
ence, Spring 1950.

JUNE 1951

-----I

-.-:‘I---It
.— t
"Ii-“III
IIHIIL‘I- "
- )1

 

     

as comfortable as possible.

A well-organized camp will keep
records of its campers—including reg-
istration, written consent of the par-
ents, attendance and progress, health
and fees or charges paid.

Leadership

The success of a day camp depends
upon an adequate staff which is well-
trained, enthusiastic and believes in the
values of the program. Based upon the
premise that the staff should be large
enough to assure adequate supervision
and group planning, this committee
recommends that the camper-leader ra-
tio be twelve to one. The necessary
qualifications for camp personnel in—
clude the following:

Camp Director: The director should
be a mature person who has had ex-
perience in camp work that will qual-
ify him to assist and supervise other
members of the staff. He should he at
least twenty-five years of age and
should have a college degree or the
equivalent in training.

Assistant Director: When a camp
enrollment exceeds seventy-five camp-
ers, an assistant director should be em-
ployed. He should be at least nineteen
years of age and his qualifications
should parallel those of the director
although on a slightly lower scale.

Counselors—~Paid and Volunteer: It
is urged that volunteers be recruited to
supplement the paid staff and that their
qualifications be comparable to those
of the paid staff. They should enjoy

         
 

  
    

  

BM!!!“
inn!!!"

working with children; be interested in
the out-of—doors; be able to work co-
operatively with other pe0ple; be tol-
erant, considerate, fairminded; have
emotional maturity, good health and
vitality. The counselors should be
skilled in such special fields as nature,
first aid, camp crafts, and so forth.
They may be recruited from among
teachers, teachers-in-training, college
students, nursery men, hortieulturists,
parents and church groups.

Training the Camp Staff: There
should be pre-eamp and in-camp train-
ing for counselors.

Salaries: The salaries of camp per-
sonnel should be on a par with that of
recreation personnel of comparable
training, eXperience and responsibility.
The agency operating the camp should
assume full responsibility for meeting
the costs of leadership. If financial
assistance is accepted from other
sources, it should be understood that
there shall be no interference with
policies or personnel administration.

Areas and Facilities

The day camp site that rates high in
material beauty meets the first major
test. The more varied the natural fea-
tures, the richer are the possibilities
for a program of outdoor activities
which will assure the participants a
real camping experience. Seclusion is
also an asset as it affords freedom from
distractions and creates in the campers
a “we’re - really - living - in - the - woods”
feeling. However, it is economically
desirable from the standpoint of time,
energy and cost to have the camp es-
tablished within reasonable accessibil-

167

it) to the homes of the campers.

Safety or sanitation hazards imme-
diately should be eliminated. The size
of the campsite should be determined
in consideration of the number of
campers requiring these facilities:

1. A central gathering place to be
used as camp headquarters.

2. Unit-sites to be used as the unit-
home or sub-headquarters.

3. A large council ring for all camp
get-togethers. A smaller council ring
or fireplace is desired for each unit.

Cook-out areas should be provided
011 the same basis. The unit cook-out
site may be closely integrated with the
unit council' ring.

4. A clearing or open space for i11-
formal group games and folk dancing.

5. Building space or shelter to carry
on activities during unfavorable weath—
er. Toilet facilities should be available
in sufficient numbers and comply with
local health regulations. Drinking
fountains should be conveniently lo-
cated. Additional lavatories or water
supply may be set up at the unit-sites
or at the sites of arts and crafts activi-
ties. Storage facilities should be pro-

} ix

in every heist of sport in Profs»
mortal. Sentist and Amateur Buc-
baf‘l and Softball. '1': Universities
Coileges and High Sch” r. In Mu
nicipal and Industrva. Recrzation
MacGregor-Goldsm' th Sports
Equipment is rcoogniuo Is a lull-
eurl: of quality and unwary 33
awful-lure“.

n--1ru~unr' r4. our-o. u. s. a

168

vided for camp supplies as well as for
the personal belongings of staff and
campers. Refrigeration might be pro-
vided for the milk supply.

6. Adequate and sanitary provisions
for disposal of garbage and refuse.

7. A waterfront is a desirable, but
not an essential, feature. Adequate at-
tention should be given to safety and
cleanliness.

Although the campers should be
trained to keep their campsite in good
order, this phase of camp operation
only can be done effectively with a la-
bor force competent enough, and paid,
to do the job.

Program

In order to achieve the general ob-
jectives of camping, there should be
an Opportunity for campers to partici-
pate and gain skills in such activities
as swimming, boating, canoeing, fish-
ing, camp crafts, .nature crafts, out-
door cooking, camp gardening, trail-
ing, weather forecasting, nature expe-
ditions and many others.

Supplementing these basic outdoor
activities there should be storytelling,

A
M
O
N

D

singing, folk-dancing and pageantry.
To motivate more interest, the adop-
tion of a camp theme—such as living
011 a western ranch or in an Indian
village—has proved a successful ap-
proach. This practice brings about in-
tegration of the various activities and
helps to unify the interests of the camp-
ers. A program of this kind is of value
as long as the interest of the campers
is vital, not forced.

Essentially, the camp p r o g r a ni
should provide:

1. Opportunities for individual ac-
tivities.

2. Activities in units or groups.

3. Activities for the entire camp.

Adequate provisions should be made
for rest or “free” periods.

Among the typical equipment needs
of the day camp are table and bench
combinations, a bulletin board, books
and magazines for a “reading corner,”
tools and materials for crafts, water-
front equipment, outdoor cooking and
eating equipment, hand-washing, dish-
washing and other sanitary essentials,
a first-aid kit, storage cabinets and the
American flag.

OFFICIAL
PlTCHlNG

HORSESHOES

SUPER RINGER

JUNIOR OUTFIT

Diamond Calk manufactures the most complete line af

pitching horseshoes ond accessaries,

including the

Eogle Ringer ond Double Ringer, ond olsa the lighter
welght Junior shoes. All shoes are made from hlghest
grade steel, forged to exact weight for perfect bal-
ance. Corried in stock by most hardwore distributars

everywhere.

 

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE 00.

4616 Grand Avenue -

Duluth, Minnesota

RECREATION

 

 

Robert Montgomery

OBERT MONTGOMERY, noted screen
Rand radio star, has accepted the
national chairmanship of the newly-
formed Drama Advisory Committee of
the National Recreation Association.
Mrs. Roy S. Durstine, social and civic
leader of New York, is fund chairman.

Among those serving on the commit-
tce or who have agreed to work on the
campaign to increase support for the
drama service of the association are:

Richard Aldrich; Sidney Blackmer,
actor; Miss Helen Bonfils, actress and
producer; Gilmor Brown of the Pasa-

dcna Playhouse; Mrs. Howard Brauch-
er; Mrs. Albert W. Butt, Jr.; Miss

Bette Butterworth of Children’s World

Theatre; Mrs. Piercy Chestney; Miss
Sylvia Coe; Dr. Anne Cooke, Howard

University; Bing Crosby; Charles E.‘

Denney, Jr.; Mrs. Louis R. Dooley;
John T. Elliott; James Drummond
Erskine, III; George Freedley, Drama
Curator, New York Public Library;
Robert E. Gard, Director, Wisconsin
ldea Theatre; Mrs. Archibald T. Gar-
diner; Carl Glick, author; Miss Joan
Field of the Duxbury Playhouse; Ai-
leen Ewart Hargreaves; Paul Green;

Miss Jacqueline Goodwin; Miss Fay

Hancock; Leonard C. Hanna, Jr.;
Charles B. Hester; Edgar L. Kloten,
director of the Fordham University
Theatre; T. Newman Lawler; John
Lester; Ann Harrigan Lester; Mrs.
Samuel Mardegian; Percy MacKaye,
author and dramatist; Kenneth Mad-
gowan, Chairman, Department of The-
atre Arts, University of California, Los
Angeles; Carroll McComas; Frederic
McConnell, director of Cleveland Play
House; Monte Meacham, Children’s
World Theatre; William Miles, direc-
tor of Berkshire Playhouse, Stock-
bridge, Massachusetts; W. Bedford

JUNE 1951

Robert Montgomery

Heads New

Drama Committee

Moore; Mrs. Guida Pantaleoni, Jr.;
Robert Porterlield, The Barter The-

atre; Daniel L. Quirk, Jr.; Miss Maida
Reade, vice-president of the Twelfth
Night Club; Samuel Selden, The Caro-
lina Playmakers; Miss Cornelia Otis
Skinner; Miss Cate Thomas, Portland,
Maine, Children’s Theatre; Mrs. Clay-
ton E. Wheat, Jr.; Clinton E. Wilder,
Jr., producer; Miss Sue Ann Wilson,
drama lecturer and educator; Mrs.
Christopher Wyatt of Catholic World.

To foster and develop interest in the
drama as an integral part of the recre-
ation movement of the country, the Na-
tional Recreation Association outlines
the following purposes of the national
committee:

1. To aid dramatics throughout the
nation on a broad basis by helping or-
ganizations of all kinds in deve10ping
their own drama programs.

2. To stimulate interest in the drama
and stage.

3. To obtain advice and consulta-
tion from skilled, trained experts in the
professional theatre—from producers,
dramatists, directors, actors, actresses
and techniciansmand to disseminate
this information and material through
nonprofit bulletins, articles, pamphlets
and correspondence.

4. To broaden the existing program
and work of the association in the
drama field.

5. To obtain financial backing from
patrons of the theatre and from t0p
pe0ple in the theatrical world.

Future Plans

Future plans call for:

1. Extension of the drama consulta-
tion services of the association, includ-
ing the extension of present drama, li-
brary and research services.

2. Extension of drama bullctin and
publishing services.

3. Employment of a full-timc head-
quarters drama consultant.

    
 

4. Employment I I
of a full-time-
drama specialist
—in addition to
our present part-
time drama spe-
cialist~———to work
exclusively 011 the
drama while trav-
eling throughout
the country to va-

. Mrs. Roy S. Durstinc
I'IOUS groups.

Mr. Montgomery rcccntly statcd:

“The association is making a na-
tionwide effort to encourage drama,
particularly among young p e o p l e.
Through this work, a greater sense of
democracy and patriotism and a morc
vital interest in the dramatic arts can
be created.”

On March 14, 1951, Robert Mont-
gomery held the first meeting of the
association’s drama committee in thc
board room of the National Broad-
casting Company, 30 Rockefeller Plaza,
New York City. The meeting was well-
attended and there was a fine spirit of
enthusiasm for the work. It was de-
cided by the committee that the imme-
diate task ahead was to secure the nec-
essary funds to eXpand the drama
services of the association.

The chairman stressed the need for
additional workers to raise money and
appealed for more funds to aid this
effort. The campaign is now in prog-
ress. All who are interested may send
their contributions to Mr. Robert
Montgomery, 30 Rockefeller Plaza,
New York City 20.

169

 

' 1" Below: Private Johnny Green, U. S. Army;
Paul J. Carino, U. 5: Navy; Thomas E.
Rivers; Major \Villiam F. II. Santelmann;
Otto Harbaeh; Mrs. Robert Woods Bliss;

Judge Justin A. Miller; Webster Jans-
sen; President of the U. S. Harry Truman.

 
 
 
 
 

        
 

:39:-

   

Above: Private Johnny Green;
President Truman; Major \Villiam
F. H. Santelmann; Thomas E.
Rivers; and Otto T. Mallery.

756  igeeec'aed a. piazza

As we go to press, a colorful event
marking the twenty-eighth celebration
of National Music Weekh—May 6 to
13—has just become nationwide news,
via television, press, radio and news-
reels. At a special ceremony at the
White House, on May 9, President
Truman received a brand-new gift
piano, and delightedly rendered a
few selections on the new instrument.
It was presented to him by members
of the National Music Week Commit-
tee, its manufacture having been a
joint project of the members of the
Piano Manufacturers .Associationn—as
their contribution to the promotion of
interest in music in this country. Ma-
terials for its construction were col-
lected from many of the U.N. nations.

Music Week is sponsored and di-
rected by the National Recreation
Association, and Thomas E. Rivers,
assistant executive director of the as-
sociation, planned and carried through
this project. The formal presentation

was fittineg made by Otto T. Mallery
of Philadelphia, chairman of the NRA

Board. Music, in both civilian life and
the armed forces, received emphasis;

170

and the President seemed to enjoy the
celebration thoroughly.
Among those present, representing

the organizations comprising the Mu- 

sic Week Committee, were Otto Har-
bach, president of the American So-
ciety of Composers, Authors and Pub-
lishers; Webster Janssen, president of
the Piano Manufacturers Association
of America; Justin Miller, president
of the National Association of Broad-
casters; Mrs. R. W. Bliss, Washington
sponsor of the National Recreation
Association; Richard H. Bales, con-
ductor of the National Gallery Or-
chestra; Paul Calloway, director of the
National Cathedral Choir; Mrs. Wal-
ter Bruce Howe, well-knOWn composer;
Howard Mitchell, conductor of the
National Symphony Orchestra; Mrs.
Duncan Phillips, of the well-known
Phillips Gallery; Major William San-
telrnann and eighteen representatives
of various branches of the armed
forces.

77h. W}; %W

Mr. President, Representatives of
the Defense Forces, Sponsors of Music

Week, and Friends of Music: It is
good for us to be here at the VVllitc
House to emphasizc the essential place
of music in American life.

Mr. President, you, as an old fricnd
of the National Recreation Associa-
tion, know 110w for over forty-five
years the association, a sponsor of
Music Week, has helped to providc
music and drama, arts and crafts,
sports, play, recreation and leisure
time opportunities for all people.

The free peoples of the world arc
uniting to defend their basic freedoms
and cherished cultures. As in evcry
time of trouble they now turn to mu-
sic as a harmonizer of the spirit, as
a consolation, as an inspiration, and
as an expression of fortitude. This
Music Week seeks to dramatize by
inviting everyone to share more than
ever in making and enjoying music
as an anchor of the mind, as an encr-
gizer, and as a source of relaxation
and tranquility. This applies not only
in the White House but in all the
little houses of many colors, on the
playground, in the church and school,
in the hospital, in the armed forces,

RECREATION

and on the air. You will emphasize
this truth by accepting this compositc
piano, emblematic of the cooperation
in Music Week of thousands of mem-
bers of social, civic, patriotic and
business groups as well as of officials
of local and state governments.

Mr. President, its presentation to
you is particularly appr0priate because
you are the first president to be an
accomplished pianist. Although many
presidents have been lovers and pa-
trons of music, you are one of only
four presidents who were skilled mu-
sicians.

Jefferson said, “Music is the favor-
ite pastime of my soul.” On his Cre-
niona violin he used to play duets with
Patrick Henry. President Harding
played many band instruments and as
a young man led his own band, hir-
ing it out for both Republican and
Democratic rallies—an early form of
non-partisanship which did not last!
President Wilson sang second tenor
in the Princeton Glee Club and
achieved a thrilling effect on the high
note at the end of the Star Spangled
Banner. In the midst of war he said,
“A man who disparages music as a
luxury and a non-essential is doing
the nation an injury. Music now, more
than ever before, is a national need.”

Because we know you, Mr. Presi-
dent, share President Wilson’s convic-
tion, Mr. Harbach, Mr. Janssen and
I have been given the privilege of
presenting to you this piano. We hope
that it will be the means of providing
relaxation and recreation for you as
you carry the heavy burdens of your
great office. May this piano in your
hands be an instrument of the har-
mony and a symbol of the concord
you are seeking for the American
people.

 

77a. 7W2 Emma. . .

I appreciate most highly your
thoughtfulness in presenting me with
this wonderful piano, as the culmina-
tion of the celebration of National
Music Week. . . . I have always been
vcry, very fond of music. Since I
was twelve or thirteen years old, I
have heard all the great pianists . . .
and I have heard all the great singers
from that time until now.

I had a smattering of piano educa-
tion from the time I was about seven
until I was fourteen or fifteen or six-
teen and decided that I would have
to go to work and earn a living. There
are some people in the country who
think maybe the country would have
been better off if I had gone ahead
and become a professional musician.
I can’t say that I agree with them.
I am prejudiced, however.

I have heard Paderewski; in fact
he gave me a lesson on how to play
his Minuet (in  once, and I have
heard De Pachmann, and Joseph Lhé-
vinne, who I think was the greatest of
them all.

I have heard De Pachmann play
the famous Mozart Sonata, the Ninth,
which he always played, and I have
heard the the great Myra Hess and
Augusta Cotlow, and also these mod-
ern ones—Iturbi and Rubinstein—I
wasn’t old enough to hear the first
Rubinstein—and nearly all the mod-
ern pianists. . . .

I am still very much interested in
music and what it does for pe0ple.
My daughter has some interest in
music. My wife, too. . . My sister has.
My mother was very fond of music
and my father used to sing in the
church choir. So I come by my love
of music honestly.

. . . I am very fond of light opera,
and some of the parts of heavy Opera.
I can’t say that I can go to a “high
hat” opera for social purposes and
enjoy it all. But there is usually one
aria or onc song in nearly every great
opera that is worth listening to. . . .

I am very fond of Gilbert and Sul-
livan. There used to be a musical
show when I was a young man called
The Girl from Utah—with Julia
Sanderson, Donald Brian and Joseph
Cawthorne . . . and there were Fay
Templeton and Emma Trentini in The
Firefly; those were all great, great
shows.

(The composer of The Firefly, Otto
Harbach, was present at this cere-
mony, which fact was brought to the
President’s attention.)

The Merry Widow and other light
operas came along about that time.
. . . Now they are to some extent com-
ing back. We can get them all on
records, of course, and I have several
of all those old musical .shows and a
great many records of the great pi-
anists of the past, playing those won-

derful things of Mendelssohn and
Beethoven, Mozart and Bach and Cho-
pin.

I hope I will always have an ap-
preciation of music, and that you will
continue what you are doing to edu-
cate our people to love good music.

Whenever we have a banquet here,
this gentleman (Santehnann) usually
plays . . . and I think everybody pres-
ent enjoys it and that it contributes
to the musical education of a great
many. . . .

I want to thank you all for the
courtesy which you have shown me.
I appreciate it.

Have You a Vacation Story?

If you are planning, as a summer va-
cation for yourself or your family, a
trip to—or through—any state or na-
tional parks, wouldn’t you like to write
it up for RECREATION magazine upon
your return? At that time you will be
full of things to tell about and will
want to pass on to others what you
have learned about its possibilities as a

JUNE 1951

vacation spot. Why not jot these down
while your enthusiasm still runs high
and details are fresh in your mind?
We will welcome stories of your ex-
periences because our next summer
issue, if plans materialize, will carry
such material. We want good stories
on how to plan a rewarding and rea-
sonably-priced holiday, suggesting a

variety of possibilities, vacations that
are different. We want accounts of this
ycar’s experiences, whether they be
hiking, bicycling, camping, canoeing,
boating, motoring or trailer trips, in-
cluding information on where to go,
what to see, where to stay, good places
to eat, prices and so on. Will you have
something to contribute?

171

RHl’llES

‘
\

m‘w

\VITH A liEASON

Taylor Dodson

I OUNG CHILDREN LIKE to repeat simple verses that have
an easy rhythm and repeated sounds. That is one of
the reasons they love to count out in determining who
will be “it.” There is a certain suspense that makes this
counting out process almost as interesting as the game
that follows.

The writer cannot take credit for originality as far as
any of the jingles used here are concerned. Some of these
may be found in most books on games of low organiza-
tion; others have not been seen in print by this writer.

Counting Out Jingles

Enie, meanie, minie, moe; catch a rabbit by his toe;
If he hollers, let him go; enie, meanie, minie, moe.

Ackie, backie, soda crackie; ackie, backie, boo;
Any man who chews tobacco, chews a dirty chew.

Engine, engine, number nine, running on the Seaboard
Line;

How she glistens, how she shines, engine, engine, num-
ber nine.

Monkey, monkey, can you hear? How many monkeys
have we here?

O-U-T out goes you; old funny monkey you.

Ainie, mainie, mona, mike; bassalona, bona, strike;
Hare, ware, frown, hack; halico, balico, wee, wo, whack!

Little fishes in a brook; Father caught them with a hook.
Mother fried them in a pan; Father ate them like a man.

One and two and three, four, five; hopping rabbit much
alive;
Hunter sees him, pifi, puff, pooh; rabbit finished, that

is you!

One potato, two potato, three potato, four;
Five potato, six potato, seven potato, more;
Eight potato, nine potato, out goes you;
Number ten potato you.

 

TAYLOR DODSON is adviser, physical education and health,
Public Instruction Department, Raleigh, North Carolina.

172

One, two, three, four, five, six, seven;
All good children go to heaven.

When they get there, they will say
You are it, so go that way.

Children in Southern Indiana and in North Carolina
like to jump rope and to recite jingles. What’s more, they
like to do them both at the same time. The following
were learned from grade school boys and girls as they
chanted them while jumping. These may be old stuff to
most of you, but they do offer a novel means of adding
interest to the very good developmental activity of rope
jumping.

The rhymes and their accompanying antics are reason-
ably self-explanatory, but it might be well to say that a
miss at any time means that a new jumper comes in and
the rhyme is started anew. Try the following verses with
your own youngsters and see how they like them.

Rope-Skipping Jingles

Teddy Bear Action
Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, Turn as you
turn around. jump.
Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, Reach down with hand
touch the ground. to ground.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear,
show your shoe.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear,

Kick heels up to show
shoe bottom.

Shake head,

better skidoo. “No.”

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, Jump
go upstairs. . high.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, 13 old hands and how
say your prayers. head.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, Rcach up and turn
turn out the light. out light.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, Nod head in good-
say goodnight. night.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, Make motion of combing
comb your hair. hair.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, Shake head,
get out of there. “No.”

Teddy Bear; Teddy Bear, Squat between
sit on a pin. jumps.

How many inches did Count until a
it go in? miss.

RECREATION

Bow-Legged Dutchman Action
A bow-legged Dutchman Jump with bow legs.
Walking down the street, Jump with running steps.
A bow-legged Dutchman
Won’t you have a seat?
A bow-lcgged Dutchman
Takes a bite of bun,
A bow-lcgged Dutchman
You’d better run.

Squat between jumps.
lmitate biting the bun.

Run out on this line and
new jumper runs in.

i Like Jelly Action
1 like jelly, I like jam.
What are the initials of my
old man?

ABCDEFGHIJKLM Jumper st0ps when there
NOPQRSTUVWXYZ is a miss or continues to

Z if there is no miss.

Johnny Broke the Milk Bottle Action
Over the mountains, over the sea,
Johnny broke'the milk bottle and
blamed it on me.
I told Ma, and Ma told Pa.
Johnny got a whipping,
so ha, ha, ha.
How many whippings did
Johnny get?
Count until
there is a miss.

 

Leathers, Tools, Patterns, Buckles,
Lacings, Books

 

Free Ester Leathercraft Catalog illustrates,
lists 34 unfinished items in leather, com-
pletely sewn, punched, ready for colorful
hand lacing. Buy wholesale. Excellent
profit margin on Belts, Billfolds, Purses,
Coin, Key Cases, etc.

 

ESTER LEATHER COMPANY

DEPT. R—‘MS 5:. Paul Street
ROCHESTER 4, NEW YORK

JUNE 1951

Fudge, Fudge Action
Fudge, Fudge, tell the Judge;
Mama’s got a new-born baby.

It isn’t a girl; it isn’t a boy;
just an ordinary baby.

Wrap it up in tissue paper;
send it down the elevator.

First floor, skip; second floor, skip;
third floor, skip; fourth floor, skip;
fifth floor, skip; sixth floor,
kick out the elevator door.

0n word skip,
jump on

one foot.

Jumper runs out and
new one runs in on this line.

Other rope-skipping chants that are not exactly
rhymes, but which have been overheard while working
with elementary school boys and girls, may be said to
tell the fortune of the jumper. Two pe0ple turn and chant
while a third jumps the r0pe. Several questions are asked
relative to boy or girl friends which can be answered by
“Yes” or “No.” If the jumper misses on “No,” that is his
answer. If the miss is on “Yes,” that is the answer.

The following are typical questions: Does he love her?
ls he handsome? Does he have a car? Will she get mar-
ried? Will she have children? What will the first one be?
The answer to this question is “Boy” or “Girl,” instead
of the customary “Yes” or “No.” Another favorite ques-
tion is “What kind of a car does he have?” The answers
run through the well-known makes of automobiles and
start over until there is a miss. The final question is “How
many children will she have?” The r0pc turners then
count until the jumper misses.

r CHAMPIONS  
s** - cunnsr ;v<*

_ |_‘ _ I
n I a
v ._ - .
..
-:-“ r!" ’
t " g ’
if kh.‘ {tux-I

Finut In Tho World
for The World's

Greatest Athletes

f

a {A _ .
 ‘ 3"}

rill Fills"? Hf TH! til!!!
, - It: In

 

173

 

Eidola Jean Bourgaize

Wmmmm.

Fun for the Landlubber

Water games are good, rousing fun
and can help those who have not yet
learned to swim to forget fear or ti-
midity in the water. Among the games
for landlubbers, many who have been
swimming for years will find several
to suit their tastes.

Chinese Chickens

Equipment: Twelve beach objects—
shells, seaweed, bathing slippers and
caps, small stones.

Number of players: Two to six.

This game is for the true landlubber
because players don’t go into the
water. The beach objects (chickens)
are laid out about a foot and a half
apart, with parallel lines drawn on
either side of them like this:

 

I O I O . O O O O O O O

 

Each player in turn hops over the
“chickens” on one foot, always stay-
ing in the path between the lines. After
hopping over the last object, a player
turns around (still on one foot), picks
up that object (to make the game
harder, players might be required to
pick up the objects with their feet in-
stead of with their hands), and hops
back to the starting point. Without
putting the other foot down, the player
immediately drops the first chicken,
turns and hops over the objects to
pick up chicken number eleven. This
continues until the player steps Out
of the path, fails to pick up a chicken,
has to use two hands to get up or
hops more than once between two
chickens.

When a player has finished his turn,
he replaces the chickens for the next
player. The one who gathers the most
chickens is the winner. Or, if the hop-
pers’ legs aren’t too wobbly, the game

174

can continue until one person gets all
the chickens.
Beware the Shark

Number of players: Five to twenty.

One player is chosen as the “shark,”
and he takes his place in shoulder-
deep water. Hand in hand, the rest of
the players walk toward the shark,
who submerges when they get within
several feet of him. Suddenly he jumps
up and, when his head breaks water,
the players break their line and run for
shore or the end of the pool. All play-
ers captured by the shark before they
reach safety become sharks and help
with the capturing the next time. The
last player to be caught is the winner;
he automatically becomes the first
shark of the new game.
Human Quoits

Equipment: A rubber ring or r0pe
ring.

Number of players: Two or more.

One player submerges but holds one
hand up in the air. The other players
try to ring the upraised hand, using
the rubber or rope quoit. A successful
attempt counts one point.

Circle Games

Water Dodgeball

Equipment: A large rubber ball.

Number of players: Two teams of
five players or more each.

Team One forms a large circle
around Team Two. The large rubber
ball is given to Team One players
who try to hit members of Team Two
with the ball. The latter may duck,
dive, dodge or stay under water to
keep from getting hit, but they must
stay inside the circle. When a player is
hit, he joins Team One in trying to

* Games excerpted from More Fun in. the
Water, by Eidola Jean Bourgaize, Associa-

tion Press, New York. $2.00.

get the others out. When all members
of Team Two have been eliminated, the
players change places so that Team
Two forms the circle, with Team One
inside.
Fish Scrambie

Number of players: Ten or more.

The players are grouped in two’s or
three’s and given the names of fishes—
so that there will be two or three
trouts, two or three perches and so on.
The players then mix themselves 11p
and form a circle. “It” is in the cen-
ter; when he calls “Trouts swim,” the
players who are trouts must exchange
places. During this exchange, “It”
tries to secure one of the vacatcd sta-
tions. If he succeeds, the player with-
out a place becomes the new “It.”
Whenever a player becomes “It,” he
must surrender his name (trout, whale,
or whatever) to the player whose place
he takes in the center of the circle.
Drop the Bait

Equipment: One smooth stone.

Number of players: Six or more.

The landlubbers call it “Drop the
Handkerchief,” and the rules are just
slightly changed for the water fun-
sters. “It” must either make a big
splash or tap his victim on the back
when he drops the “bait.” With these
rules, ducking down to pick up the
bait gives “It” enough head start.

Two Fishermen

Number of players: Ten or more.

Two “fishermen” and one “fish” are
chosen. The players form a circle about
the fish, leaving the two fishermen on
the outside. The two fishermen try to
catch the fish, but the players in the
circle are on the fish’s side and may
do anything to hinder the efforts of
the fishermen as long as they continue

to hold hands.

A simpler version is to have one

RECREATION

 

The children who are “fish” in the game, “Beware the Shark,” must run for it or suf-
fer penalties. Water games mean much splashing, plenty of exercise and great fun.

fisherman and one fish, with the play-
ers in the circle perfectly neutral. In
this game, the fisherman may cut
across the circle only if the fish does so.

When the fish is caught, two or three
other players are chosen for the next
round.

Splash Ball

Equipment: A large rubber ball.
Number of players: Five or more.

Players sit or kneel in a circle in
shallow water. The ball is placed in
the center. By splashing the ball with
their hands, the players try to push
the ball to others in the circle. As soon
as a player touches the ball, he must
leave the circle. A player cannot push
the ball with his hand since touching
the ball would disqualify him.

Fun for the Novice

For these games, played in shallow
water, players must be able to duck
under the water without hesitation,
float on their backs and stomachs and
swim a little.

Still Pond

Numbcr of players: Four or more.
All players line up either on one
side of the pool or in shoulder-deep
water. The leader places himself where
all swimmers can see him. When the
leader calls “Moving waters,” players

JUNE 1951

float on their backs and kick to the
Opposite side or toward shallow water,
always keeping their eyes upon the
leader. When the leader calls “Still
pond,” all swimmers stop kicking and
float on their backs as motionlesst as
possible. Swimmers caught moving
must return to the starting line. The
first swimmer to reach the goal is the
leader for the next game.

Davy I ones

Equipment: One five-to-ten-pound
weight.

Number of players: One or more.

The weight is “Davy Jones” and is
thrown into water of at least waist
depth. The player who recovers it gets
to throw it in the next time. To make
this game more fun, Davy Jones can
be placed while the players’ backs are
turned so that they have to search
for it.

Battle of the Kickers

Equipment: One kick board.
Number of players: Two.

The kick board is placed in the cen-
ter of the pool, with one contestant at
each end of the board. At a signal, the
players kick as hard as they can to
force their Opponents backwards
toward the side of the pool. The swim-
mers may use the frog kick, flutter
kick, scissor kick or a combination.

Whale Says

Number of players: Four or more.

This is similar to “Simon Says.”
Any order the leader givcs by prefac-
ing it with “Whale says” is immedi-
ately obeyed. If the leader does not
say “Whale says” before the order,
players should not obey.

For instance, “Whale says, duck”
would be an order which all should
obey. “Float on back” or “Shark says,
right fc')ot up” would not be obeyed,
and any player who is caught napping
and does the stunt becomes the leader.
To confuse the players, the leader
does, or starts to do, all the actions

whether prefaced by “Whale says” or
not.

Kingfish’s Story

Number of players: Six to ten.

The players stand in a circle. One
player begins by saying, “We saw the
kingfish. He was winking his eye.”
Everyone in the circle then winks his
eye and continues to wink it through-
out the game. The second player says,
“We saw the kingfish; he was winking
his eye and hopping on his right
foot,” whereupon everyone hops on
his right foot. With each player, an
additional grimace, posture or motion
is assumed and kept to the end. Here
are a few suggestions: wave goodbye,
brush the teeth, nod the head, bend
over at the waist. The final one should
be: “We saw the kingfish; he was
winking his eye, hopping on his right
foot and so on and taking his right
foot off the bottom.” All players go
into a log float. The game is over.

Water Spud

Equipment: One rubber ball.

Number of players: Five or more.

The starter throws the ball high into
the air and calls out the name of a
player. That player recovers the ball
while all others scatter about the pool.
From then on he tries to hit one of
the other players with the ball. A
player must stay in the same spot, but
he may duck under to keep from being
hit. The person who is hit picks up
the ball and tries to hit someone else.
If the ball goes wild, the thrower gets
one spud counted against him. When a
player gets three spuds against him,
he must stand up, hands at sides and
let all the players give him a good
friendly splashing.

175

Forest Gustafson

WE MADE A DEAL

WE MADE A DEAL in Belleville, Illinois, and proved

that our city didn’t need tO own a pool tO have
a swinnning program. There were two privately-owned
swimming pools in our town, neither Of which had
functioned for years, and our alert citizens were aware
that, for lack Of opportunity, a discouraging number of
children were growing up without knowing how tO swim.

It was a fact that concerned the newly-founded recrea-
tion department. We were casting about for a solution
when we received the timely news that one large, cen-
trally located pool was to be reconditioned and Opened.
This gave us our opportunity. The owner was approached
with the suggestion that if he would allow the use Of his
pool and reduce rates tO fifteen cents per person during
the mornings three days a week, the recreation depart-
ment would provide instruction. It was expected that
such an agreement would be mutually beneficial and so
it proved.

There were four hundred who registered at the gate
that first morning. Such a swarm Of expectant children
was thrilling and rewarding. The huge pool (actually
a shallow pool—150’ x 40' and a deep pool—127’ x 60’)
could meet the demand, but it was a challenge tO the
staff to provide adequate instruction. It meant that a
new approach was needed. After considerable planning,
the following workable system was develOped.

Children were separated, according tO their own con-
venience, intO two groups—one meeting at the period
from nine to ten a.m. and the other taking instruction
from eleven a.m. until noon. The hour between periods,
used for recreation and practice fOr both groups, proved
highly valuable.

Instruction was set up on what we enjoyed calling an
“assembly line” basis. Thc boys and girls were divided
into six ability groups. At first, most Of them worked
in the shallow pool, where only a few skills were taught
in each class. But each Of the instructors was aware that
individuals must be promoted tO the next class at the
earliest possible moment- in order tO relieve the over-
sized classes in the beginners’ area, tO encourage the
swimmers and tO maintain the progress of the group.

When a person could swim forty feet in any fashion,
he was allowed to join a group in deep water. At this
delicate transitional stage, when confidence must be ac-

 

Formerly recreation superintendent in Belleville, Illinois,
Mn. FOREST GUSTAI-‘SON now holds the same position in
Detroit. Mr. Roy Leilich has replaced him in Belleville.

176

 

quired, each swimmer was given individual attention and
an opportunity to work on thc Red Cross beginner’s test
under the supervision Of a water safety instructor.

The other deep water classes, for intermediate and
advanced swimmers and for junior lifesaving members
of these groups, were encouraged tO continue indefinitely
in order tO become as skilled as possible, particularly
from the standpoint Of safety.

We found that not every child can learn rapidly in a
large class; some prefer individual instruction and provi-
sion had to be made for them. As a result, special after-
noon classes, tO be held during regular swimming hours,
were organized. These were limited tO less than ten
members and only one class was in session at a time.
No extra charge was made.

In this manner, the scope Of the program was extended.
When mothers asked for instruction, a class was Or-
ganized tO meet in the morning at the same time as their
children’s classes. Business girls were included, with a
group for them meeting in the evening. At the end of
the summer, we had given 4,953 lessons.

The second year the method Of instruction remained
the same, but the over-all picture was somewhat changed,
because we rented the pool fOr the season at a fee Of
forty-five hundred dollars, and tO us fell the whole task
of operating the pool, as well as giving instruction.

Because the rental figure meant an undue burdcn upon
the r'ecreation budget, it was the belief Of the board that
revenue from the pools should pay for its Operation.
Therefore, we decided Upon a twenty-five cents charge
for children and forty cents for adults 011 weekdays, with
fifty cents for adults on Sundays and holidays. The
morning instruction fee Of fifteen cents was retained.
Some complete free lessons were given and rates were
arranged for special groups. It was found that these
prices met the requirements Of service tO the community
without a drain on the tax monies.

The complete cost Of the second year’s program was
$15,300; the income, $15,500. That summer 5,522 les-
sons were given and 37,097 swims were enjoyed.

The pool has been in the black throughout our four
years Of Operation; and in 1950, the Playground and
Recreation Board entered a contract with its owner
whereby we will pay a rental fee Of $4,012.50 a year for
twenty years. We may break the contract at any time.

RECREATION

[DUISVILLE SLUGGEH BATS

FIRST IN SOFTBALL AS IN BASEBALL

Building championship power into Louisville Slug-

gers has. been our business since 1884. This ac-
cumulated knowledge of bat making

surance that the Louisville Slugger

select are the finest bats which skill
how” can produce.

is your as-
models you
and "know

16 Models

A bat for every type of
Softball hitter.

 

JUNE 1951

I 72 M em 07mm

John B. Maloney

Sacramento, California, reports the passing of John
B. Maloney, superintendent of the recreation depart-
ment, veteran of World Wars I and II and a Brigadier
General in the California National Guard. Mr. Maloney
had directed the affairs of the city recreation department
from 1932 until 19-10, when he was called to active mili-
tary duty. He resumed this position after the war.

The eighteen-hole championship golf course under con-
struction south of the Sacramento airport has been named
the Bing Maloney Golf Course in his honor.

P.  Hoffmaster

P. J. Hofimaster, director of Michigan’s Conservation
Department, died suddenly on March 19 in his office
in Lansing. He had been director since 1934 and had
served with the department for twenty-eight years since
his appointment as superintendent of state parks in 1922.

Julian W. Smith, who worked closely with Mr. Hoff-
master in recent years as chief of health, physical edu-
cation, recreation, school camping and outdoor educa-
tion in the Department of Public Instruction, writes:

“Mr. Hoiimaster was responsible for the development
of the great systems of parks and recreation that Michi-
. . His aim was to cooperate with educa-

gan now has. .

 

OSBORNE OFFERS YOU . . .
BIG ILLUSTRATED SUPPLY FOLDER

Shows many easy-ta-make

"CAMP SPECIAL" MOCCASIN

Genuine leather with campasi-
tion soles. All sizes for all ages.

Ideal far the beach, in the
woads, alang paths and for
launging.

Per Pair—$3.95
($3.55 in 12 pair lots)

 

ca mp p raiects

ready to put together, such as beautiful

bells, bags, purses, cigarette
hundreds of ather items.

C0595

and

 

*68-PAGE LEATHERCRAFT SUPPLY CATALOG—ONLY 25¢
Illustrates all types of moccasins and leather items of in-

   

terest at summer camps, modeling tools, lacings, instruction
books for handicraft purposes, etc. No experience needed.

.. ' t I _ CLIP AND MAIL NOW!

Please

I

l

l

I Catalog
I NAME
I

l

 

OSBORN BROS. SUPPLY CO.,
223 W. Jackson Blvd... Chicago 6, III.

rush F" Free.
Idca- acked 68-page

Illustrated Supply
Leathercraft
or which I enclose 25c in coin.

ADDRESS-

ITY___ __—___._
Li _________________ .1

STATE

 

Folder;
Supplies

tion in such a way
that every boy and
girl in the state of
Michigan could
have at least a week
or more of camping
experience. He had
set as a goal for

this achievement the
year 1960.

“Mr. Hoffmaster
was a c h a 1n pi o n

of cooperation and
teamwork in state government. He exemplified this by
being one of the original sponsors and chairmen of the
Michigan Inter-Agency Council for Recreation. . . .

“Every state park, recreation area and game preserve
will be a living monument to him.”

 

Dr. Putnam Helps Build
A Better America

A few months ago, Dr. Helen C. Putnam died at the
age of ninety-three. She was an example of the rare
spirits who have helped to build up and carry on the
work of the National Recreation Association through
generous and steady contributions.

In 1907 Dr. Putnam became actively interested in help-
ing to develop a local playground and recreation pro-
gram in Providence, Rhode Island. In connection with
this, she learned of the services of the NBA and became
a nominal contributor. In 1938, Lebert Weir, who was
at that time helping with the finance problems of the
association in New England, called on Dr. Putnam, re-
viewed all of the developments that had taken place in
recreation since her early interest in 1907 and outlined
the various services of the association and their impor-
tance to the whole recreation movement.

At that time, Dr. Putnam, still vigorous and keenly
alert to human needs, although eighty years of age, of-
fered to give one thousand dollars to the NBA and stated
that she would continue to do so each year for as long
as she lived.

 

CHANGE OF ADDRESS: Send your new address at
least thirty days before the date of the issue with whieh

it is to take effeet. Address: Reereation Magazine, Cir-
euIation Department, 421 Fifth Avenue South, Minne-
apolis 15, Minn. Send old address with the new, eneIos-
ing if possible your address label. The post ofiiee will
not forward copies unless you provide extra postage.

Duplieate eopies eannot be sent.

RECREATION

' PARTY

‘
AA

GAIIID

PA “TIES

 

5O::: :5::. 5O::55:O: Om 5:55. :5255: 3:555 mOn :5 :Om5M5wm.
@5293. mag. :::55 5 :O5::Oo: 5:: :55 :: :O 35:: 5 305:.n @535 Om
<O::5::r5::. H.553 0:5 5:55 H.553 £23 :5: H.553 .2555 5:55
H.553 :uocn. .25 :55 5:::3m :5535 35:: mOH :5 5:553:O:O:5:5::O. :m
:5: 5:5: 5 m5:55 M535. :5: 535:: O:- m:n::Om Om r555: 5:O::: :: :5
55:53: :O M55 :: 5 :::::5 555:3. C55 5 5:5 mOH 5 :5:. >M5::. :55
:5555. 5:55am :O :5 55:55:55. 555On:::m :O 555:: 553.5 55355.
0.53:5: ~53.- O:<5 555:: 55:55:: 55:55 5:: 3:5 5:: 55:555. M55:
:553 m5:55:m 5 55:5:. .m.:5 55:55:: 5:53:55 :55 5O::55:5::m :O 555:5
5 :5: mOH. :5 3o:5:. 5555 O: 5 55:5 55:5 55:55:. Om 5555: 555:5:
5O:Onm|5:5o :55: 55:55. :O:::55. .m.:5 3O:5:m 5555 :5 :55 5::
3:55:55 3555:: :5 :o55n 5:555.
35.2.55: 05:55 05.5.. U555 ramr: 55::O:O::5:5-5O<5:.5: :O::::5:Om :O
5555325 3355 5:: :5:5:. :55 55 3:55. 0:: ::.55 555:5:-m:5:5 :5:5:m
5:: 35 M55: 35. m5: :5 :5:5:m O: ::5 5:52: 5::." 5:: 5:: 5
535:. :55: 5:::5 :O:::: 5:: m55:5: 5::: :55: 5:5. :5 :555 2853.
:::.5 :O::::5:Om O: 5 15:5 :55 OH. :O:555 :53 O: 5::-5555.5: 55m:-
:55n: 5.35:: :5 5:: :: :5 5:55:55 Om 5 :55.

:9 35:5: 55: 5:55 :5 mO::O5::m 535mm :O 5:55:55: ::::mm Om:5:
mO::: :: 5 @5553 .55 355:. 5:5 M55555 :5 55:55::O: :5: 5-
55555 5 5:853 m53 :5 :55.

5:5 53:5 055:5:5
7:55:55: :55 0:: 05:55: :55:
.55 0:5 385 :uOOH @5251;

:55 m5::m 5 b::::5 gm: Om W855 35:. W5: mog:
mOm5m Om 5555:: .5555

55:: 4.5-55 araozmr :5 H.555

5::: m::m::::5 9:5 m5:55
WO:H-:55m 0:355 U555 E5515 5:: 0555 :v50:O:5

@555: 5:5 95:55::

5555:3555

:<:5:.n5 5Onm5®5m :O :5 :55: 55 m5<O:.5.
8.55:: :5 5:535 :: 555: 55:55. :5:
U55 :5 55.553 55:55 5:: 5:55 555:: 5:::
:5 5 535F555: 5:5: :5555 :5:. :u:555 :5
5535 :: :5 :55 55.553 5:: 5O<5n :5 5:5
Om :5 :o55n :-5: 5::: 3:5 Om 55.55: 5:55-
O:5:5 5:555: :O :55:5n :O 5.555325 5::.
>::n55:<5:::-:55On5:5: 55:55:55 5:: 5 m5-
515 55555555 5::: 53:55 :5 H5mn5m::-
35::5. Uo:.: mOnm5: 3.53:. 23.55: 55::-
5:5 mOH 5: 55:55 :55: Om 50:O:..

    

  
  

5§.§\w§
‘
3\\\\\§\\\“\“.\\\\

           
   

«\Q‘\\s‘\\

\II.‘I. 5|

 

555:5: man. 5.:—

Aukv-u-v-wz :39 -u.-. is.

75:35:
0:: :5 335:5: O5: Om :55: 5:53.55.
:5: 55:55:. 5:: 5 :::::55:5 O5: Om 5:::5

55:35:55 55:55. :55 :53 :Om5:5:.. 335 .25
:55: o: 5::. mg: m5:55 55555:. mi: 3.: 05.65:
:O555. $555 5:: 55:5 O: mO:. :5 :5555.

M555: On :55. :5 :5555 5:: 55:. :53 AFC mmc

5::: 55:55 On 553:5.

5559-5395

:m 5: 5:: :555:r:5. 53.5:M5 5 M555: M55
5:: 35:5: m5:55 5m :5 5:55:55 35 ::5
:53: 53:. U55On5:5 :5 :55 5:: m5:55
5::: 5.55: On :3::5::O: :5: 5:: :5555. DO::55: 55 35:: :5::5: :O:5::m
5m :5: 55: 5:: 5:55 :53 5:55 :5: 5::: :5 555:. :3: :O: :: :5
55:: Om :52: 55::<:::55. :: mnO:: Om 5:: 5: :5 :51." Om :5 5:5M5. ::
52.555 On o: 5:::OE 5:::5 55 5:535:55 E5555.

 

W55-w50m555 >5::<:::55

0.55:5: 0.5-05.5: 0:: 35:55.55 Om m5:55 m53 5 55:55:. >5 :5
@5555 53:45. 3: 5 35:35 Om 5 355.55 5: 555:: 35.5 555:." 5:: :55
555:: @555: :3: 5 M55 :5 :535 Om :55 m5:55 3: 55r::m 9:55:55.
$5555: :5 :5: :5 5:5 @555 5555:: 5::: 5 59.5.3555.
65555:. O5. :5 0555:... :95. :5: Q5 :5 65:55:. 255:: 55:55.
1:53:53.

15:55:55 095:55 55: :: 5 :5HM5 53:55 555:5. 5:: m55::m 3.
5::: :55::m :O::5:.

>5:O:u m:::5 :5m: 55:: 5:::55 :O 55:5. 2:85. :5: :5 :5 :5:5::m.
:5:5::m...

m:::5 lmr: 5:: 5:::55 :O 53:5. .4555. :5: :5 :5 :5:5::m. O
::O55|..

1555 555.355.. 35: m55::m 55357555255. :5::5m 5555.55. :.:O:-
OH 15535:. :35: :555 5:53;. :5::. 53.855: O: 53:. :m5.55:...

075 55535:. 1%: :5::. 5:: :O 5 @555: 1m? 5:: :5m: :O 55:5.
.5555 5::: :55 :5: Om :5555 :55 :::::5 5.55:::: :3: 3535:: 79:5 5::
:5:55ml....

 

59.. :35. 35:: m5:55. 555:5: 55:55:55 5:555:55 5 35355:. Om :5 55:35::
353::m 5:5: Om :5 25:55: N55535: >55O5:5::O:.

£53.55: 3553 5:: 9.35:5 Mega-5 65:555. 5555 :m. 25:25: N55535:
>mmo5:5:O:. Ema: 55::5. _

S

‘
1

PA “11

GA IIIDE. ' I'AIKTY

6::

~55—

85398 05: .5280 2 0:5: :05? .055: : 8 505: 0:0 5:0 880
:8 8092; .2398 25 0: 50:5 5 80.3 5:: 505m : 8:5 .:058m
05: 3:5 85: 8905 50:0 8:3: 05: 55 .8905 : 88050 2398
58m— .550:m 05: 50 3:05 05: 8 0:5 : :5 5:3: 0: 85398 05: 50¢.
.:058m 05: :m 8.05: 080: 0555 .385 05: 0:0m0m “5.0.585 50580
. .5830: : 8:0: m:m::m3
05: 030 :53 .8955: 5:: 35: 8:058:80 3530 .3205, “3:85
:3 8500 885 38800 05: 50 :052980 05: 8 0:00: 05: 8500
.888: 25 3:0 800.05: 830: 05: :55: 2398 58m 5:03:58
:0 0:8: 80:05:38 5:: 8 800.05: 8305 55m: .855: .825 55:50“
m:0_8:80 .0025 5.55: “3205, .0025 5:000: “08: .825 :85
88:90:85 05: 0: 80505: 830: 0.5m 38:80 50:0 .50 5:0 05:
:< .885 050:0 :88 5:: 5:05 82 : :85 053: 888: : :8:
.98 50:0 030 .2398 : 820m 0: 558m 50:0 53: 858.5 0:005
.280: 80.5 :05 8200 80.8555 :50“ 0:3 .038: :05: :053
555: : 385m 8% 0: 05 5—503 5:3 :05:0:< .883 :80 0:2 805:
05555 0: 50000:; :05 F .285 0: E05: 5:: .8590 :5 888 05: :305
50:3: 385m :05? .5088 58% : m:_>:5 :5 5:80 80> 0:05
05 ::0 25B .882 :50: 03:5 550% 05: 05559 88080.5 5058.0
.028 : :05 :83 02: : 0.8: .853 v.23: : 553 :5m80 8m 0: :0:
0:0 :8— 059 .2020 05: 50 :50 50:5 8.05: 05: m:5205 0:05: .83:
2:58 05: :05? :59: 05: 0: 8—05: 05: 8:: 385m 05: 5:: 0:3
505.55: : 0:25 “2:35 05% .m:2 8502 :0: 3505: .8:0 55:53:
08050 .00.: : 80.5 m3: : 80925 05: :0 85 0.50 885085
.888 m:m0:w .2020 08:1— 805888:
8335 850:5
2.95:29555 5:: 85250 085 F03: "080.3 555m
2:280: 50: 550 05: :3 F03: "080.3 55:
2.85 300:: 0: :50 0m =: F03: “88> 5:50n5
2.8300 05: :053 8805 0553 :5: m:m>m:5 05 F059. "080:, 5.558
.888 :8: 50 20:03 0: 30555052 :8 80505
A0235020.8::500V 8500.55 50 0:: :m m:m0:w .0:: “59:3: :5
52.5: .858 :30 .505: 85:5 :8: 85: 5:: .8502 0...: 05: .50 :88
.55 503:8 50.8 85:5 30:5 :3: 0:53 8:3 :5 :88 35mg .w

.A0235020v :050055 0:8: :5 :52: :5wmm— .n
82:00 0: 50:5 553 98:5: 50 20.50
:m 522: 8:8 :30 85:5 :8: 50:0 :05: 5:: 8:0:— 03: 05: 50
:88 :5 053: 50.8 85:5 895 :3: 0553 825 :m :88 Emma .5
20235023 :2 0: 050:: £30 8.00:5: 50 2020 :5 2085 20—. .m.
.88 5555: :30
85:: 8:5 :3: 5:: 5:: :53: 2:3: 85:5 80m 52 :0 55:5 .5

me)

L

is

(Fold Along Th

0

     

.380 35.5 30220084.: 8580805: 882:2 Am 6.8: £88.58; 58 85E...

.5838“ :53: Ema .m
A0235020-:3:500V :050025 50 0:: :m .5202 52:5 =<
.88 d2 :30 85:5 :53 82 .88 d2 m.::E 5:: d2 :0 :52 .55
05:8 508 85:5 80m 35mm: :0 :52 0:53 825 :m :52: Ema .N
583:3 :52: 55mm— .5
8050;:
.552 50:0 .50 5:85 0582 2205 :3: 8235020.:08500 mi
-5088 . A8552 0:5 5:3 :35 0.00:5: .50 20.50 09:2 8058835
2.8800
05: :053 .8800 05m :053 m:m30_5-: 5:: .5555 05 =.05m .w
m:m325.: 5:: .3555 05 F05: $2325-: 5:: .2555 05 =.05m .m.
8800 05m :053 .8800 05m 5053 m:m325.: 5:: .2555 05 =.05m .5
8800 05m 853 .8800 05m :053 m:m325.: 5:: .5555 05 =.05m .m
.080: 5:000m
.8800 05m :053 .:m3:50:_ 05: 5:50: @5800 05 =.05m .5
23:50:: 05:
5:50: m:m::00 05 =.05m £88508 05: 5:50: 955.00 05 =.05m .m
. 85:00 05:
:053 .8800 05m :053 23:50:: 05: 5:50: m:m_:00 05 =.05m .m
8800 05m
:053 .8300 05m :053 53:50:. 05: 5:50: m:580 05 F059. A
.088 :85 .m:0m 5:785:52

“5.88303 0.5: 580% 55580.0 0% 5.05m.

505:8: 0.8 850% 53598 =: :85 .2552 00: :0: 2 558m

05: Wm 25: 05:55:00 250805? 05: 80m: 9:583 05: 0: 5:05: mi

2:3 08 053 03: 05: 0: :0 888 .8925 .888 05: 5:: :5: 5:3:

80.83 055350 825:2 :0 Um: :5 955.2 =: 2.509. .583 05: :0

2.80m 50:03 05: 5:3 05: M85: .2500: : :0w 5:85 : .58.:5: w0
500% : :05 5:85 <2 .2083 0: 583:3 50:3: 805:5 "8505:

20235020 88503 508:: 50 0:5

m:m0:w .508: :30550 :0 5020M 885 .88: 02> :0 2.5m 03: :83:
.05 :3: : 3580.505 .2050 0W8— :5 88:5: 00:59 8053::0h

«208$: 05: 800 50%

305:505
:5 8050: 5:: 2020 2mg: 0m8_ :_ :585 :mom .888 8:.m
2803: :85 O: .2083 :0 .5805 8385 8:0:

2.35085 05 m5 :2 .835 .m:m0::5 $2085 .m:m0::5 05 m5 :2 .805:

.8583 0: 20.50 092 5:508 0235020808500 055: 5:: .2020
50 888 0: 8—85 553 :0:: .8385 30: 553 2085 5:05 :moh
2.5583? .583 :0 83.85 30: 8:0:

Idaho's Middle Fork of the Salmon River, called the roughest
in America, batters at an inflated rubber boat as a party bests

the foaming rapids. The Anderson brothers of the Bar X Ranch
now run thrill-packed trips down this once impassable river.

Wlll’l‘ll
WATER

F IT’S WILD WHITE WATER you crave, the Middle Fork
I is your river. This stormy stream, labeled the rough-
est in America, ploughs through the Idaho wilderness
like a runaway express, and only a handful of adven-
turers have bested its foaming rapids.

Early discoverers of the Middle Fork tried to ride
out its swirling currents in wooden boats. Some met with
disaster; their crafts were splintered on submerged
boulders as they plummeted through the seventy-odd
rapids. Few ever finished the sixty most rugged miles
of the river’s 108-mi1e course. But in 1940, a pair of
ingenious brothers named Andy and Joe Anderson de-
cided that it could be tamed. In an inflated life raft, the
two slithered through the worst the river could dish out
and never so much as turned over.

Trail Riders9 Expeditions

Thirteen expeditions for 1951 are scheduled by
the Trail Riders of the Wilderness, American F or-
estry Association, Washington, D. C. Among them
are a trip to the F lathead-Sun River Wilderness,
Montana, July 16 to 27; two expeditions leaving
Sun Valley, Idaho, to explore the Sawtooth Wilder-
ness July 24 to August 3 and August 7 to 17; two
trips gathering at the T-Lazy 7 Ranch at Aspen, in
Colorado, for ten days in the White River and
Gunnison National Forests, July 24 to August 2
and August 7 to August 16.

The High Sierra of California, dominated by Mt.
Whitney—mhighest peak in the United States—-—-will
be the scene of an expedition from August 29 to
September 10, starting from Lone Pine, California,
and including a trip to the summit of the mountain.

These trips are operated on a non-profit basis as
a part of the educational services of the association,
the riders sharing equally in the costs of the trips.
For further information, write to the American F or-

estry Association, 919 Seventeenth Street, North
West, Washington, D. C.

 

JUNE 1951

 

The war put a halt to their plans, but since 1946 the
two have joined forces with Sun Valley in offering the
breath-taking trek as a regular trip from July through
September. More than forty pe0ple have ridden a
buoyant rubber craft down the river under their guid-
ance since that date with never a mishap. It’s wild and
wet, with more thrills per square mile than all the roller
coasters in Coney Island packed into one. It has been
graphically illustrated in an issue of Sports Afield.

The trip gets under way with a 125-mile drive over
rugged mountain roads that lead to the Anderson’s
Bar X ranch, deep in the Idaho wilderness—one of
the last remaining primitive areas left in the United
States. Horses take over from there and transport party
and equipment over a tortuous thirty-mile trail parallel-
ing gushing Camas Creek to its junction with the Middle
Fork. From this point it’s water all the way.

The sixty-mile boat trip itself consumes four days,
depending upon the condition of the river. Camp, usually
pitched on a sand bar, is broken by mid-morning and set
up again in late afternoon, allowing plenty of time to dr0p
a hook after the mammoth Middle Fork trout or, later
in the season, for the ten-to-forty-pound salmon heading
upstream to spawn. Wildlife abounds in the craggy ter-
rain surrounding the river and deer, bear and rare
mountain goat and sheep are a familiar sight.

0n the third day the boats reach the Impassable Can-
yon, a huge cleft in the earth flanked by near-vertical
cliffs towering three thousand feet from the water’s edge.
From this point there is no turning back and the boats
thunder through rapid after rapid until they reach a
stretch of comparative calm. This is the last campsite
and jumping-off point for the Hancock Rapids, last and
wildest rapids on the river. After running this churn-
ing white water, the boats drift quietly for a few miles,
then round a bend to emerge upon the main Sallnon
itself. This is voyage’s end.

Prepared by BOB REILLY, Steve Hannagan Associates,
Sun Valley, Idaho.

181

How To Do n9 lacj_W£%%$

 

Make dour own wall plaques.

Malerials needed .,

Plas‘rer of Paris,
Meial Foils
Brush 9\Valer colors 9

Shellac 9 Wooden
Ice Cream Spoono

 

l‘lere"s l‘low

l.Draw design on paper.
2. Place foil under drawing and lrace.
3. Press oulline oi design evenlg and fairlg
deep in foil 0 Use edqe of spoono
4. Nexl press down areas of design 0
Use bowl of wooden spoon .
Have Thick padding of paper
or clo’rh under foil .

6" 5.Foldu ed 3 H 'l ‘ h.
/{ NW  P ‘39 ° °' 52:: 'li'fm
J a  g g /
~ 6h
/ % /_/ Spoon U lsdleded corner

NofezBe sure raised surl'ace o‘l design
w is on under side ol foil mold a

éoMix plasler of paris in waler lo creamq consislencq. Pour inlo foil mold o
7oAllow lo sci one hour" Then remove plas‘ler plaque from loll mold .
6.Painl wilh woler color and lhen shellac l‘o preserve Jrhe surfaceo

 

182 RECREATION

Magazines and Pamphlets

 

PRINCIPLES, RULES AND ADMINISTRA-

TION OF YMCA AMATEUR SPORTS.

Adopted by the National Physical

Education Committee. Association

Press, New York City, New York.
$11Ml

A RECREATION BIBLIOGRAPHY, pre-
pared by Profcssor Marvin Rife.
TlIc College Typing Company, Mad-
ison, Wisconsin. $.75.

AUDIO-VISUAL EDUCATION IN INTERNA-
TIONAL AND HUMAN RELATIONS. Bu-
reau Of Publications, Columbia Uni-
versity, New York, New York.

DAY CAMPING. The Child Service
League of Queensborough, Incor-

pOrated, Flushing, New York. $1.00.

BALKAN-JI-BARI. Silver Jubilee Souve-
nir. Edited by Shrimati Saraswati
Pandit and Professor L. H. Ajwani.
“Gulistan” Khar-Bombay, India.

PARK MAINTENANCE, March 1951
“Happy Grass,” William E. Lyons.
Chemical Era Means Well-Groomed

Parks, Buford H. Grigsby.

CAMPING, March 1951
State Laws and Regulations Affect-
ing Camps, William F reeberg and
Charles Heangton.
Is Your Nature Program TOO Ex-
clusive?, Robert Valett.

Psychiatric Pointcrs on Staff Se-
lcctions, Robert F. Rutherford.

THE JOURNAL OF TIIE AMERICAN ASSO-
CIATION FOR HEALTH, PHYSICAL ED-
UCATION AND RECREATION, APRIL
1951.

Youth in the Armed Forces, Charles
Brightbill.

Lacrosse as a High School Sport,
Glenn N. Thiel.

Pioneering with Recreation in the
Green Mountain State, Theresa S.
Brungardt.

SCIIOLASTIC COACH, April 1951
Boxing on the Schoolboy Level,
Keith W. Kerwin.
Democratic Values Of Sports,
Lynn W. McCraw.

The Rural Summer Playground,
Alexander F. Paul.

AMERICAN CITY, April 1951

Planning Parks and Recreation, II,
Thomas C. Jeffers.

JUNE 1951

PARKS AND RECREATION, April 1951

Bcauty Is Our Business, T. W.

Thompson.

Milwaukec’s Public Bathhouse at

Bradford Beach.

Turf Research and Expcrimental

Station, C. C. Simpson.
Park Turf, Tom MascarO.

Model Airplane Flying a Growing

Hobby, Rhodelle E. Owens.

Omaha’s Tennis Ccnter, R. B. Mc-

Clintock.

Maintenance Mart.

NEA JOURNAL, April 1951
Outdoor Learning, Julian W. Smith.
CAMPING MAGAZINE, April 1951
Camping and Selcctivc Scrvicc,
Colonel Campbcll C. Johnson.
Toward the lmplcmcntation Of
Camp Standards, Hedley S. Dim-
ock.
lmprove Your Rifle Range, Paul
Cardinal.
NATIONAL PARKS MAGAZINE, April-
Iune 1951
National Parks in Nature Education,

M. V. Walker.

 

Books Received

 

AMATEUR MAGICIAN’S
THE, Henry Hay. Thomas Y.
Crowell Company, New York. $4.95.

AMERICAN INDIAN BEADWORK, W. Ben.
Hunt and J. F. “Buck” Burshears.
The Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukce, Wisconsin. $5.00.

BASEBALL TECHNIQUES ILLUSTRATED,
Ethan Allen and Tyler Micoleau.

A. S. Barnes and Company, New

York. $1.50.

CAMPFIRE AND COUNCIL RING PRO-
GRAMS, Allen A. Macfarlan. Asso-
ciation Press, New York. $2.50.

COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION AND PLAN-
NING, Arthur Hillman. The Macmil-
lan Company, New York. $4.00.

FIELD BOOK OF SEASHORE LIFE, Roy
Waldo Miner. G. P. Putnam’s Sons,
New York. $6.00.

FUN OUTDOORS, Mary Louise F riebele,
Frances C. Smith and Bernice Osler
Frissell. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $1.96.

“GABBIT,” THE MAGIC RABBIT, Carroll

Colby. Coward-McCann, Incorpo-
rated, New York. $1.50.

INSECTS, A GUIDE To FAMILIAR AMER-
ICAN INSECTS, Herbert S. Zim and
Clarence Cottam. Simon and Schus-
ter, New York. $1.00.

KEEP-BUSY BOOK, THE, Marion Jol-
lison. Hart Publishing Company,
New York. $1.00.

LITTLE GOLDEN ABC, THE. Simon
and Schuster, New York. $.25.

HANDBOOK,

MORE FUN IN TIIE WATER, Eidola Jean
Bourgaize. Association Press, New

York. $2.00.

NEW YORK WALK BOOK, Raymond H.
Torrey, Frank Place, Jr., Robert L.
Dickinson. The American Geograph-

ical Society, New York. $3.50.

RHYTHMS IN ELEMENTARY EDUCATION,
Elizabeth L. Sehon and Emma Lou
O’Brien. A. S. Barnes and C0111-
pany, New York. $3.50.

SPORTS EQUIPMENT, Selection, Care

and Repair, Virginia Bourquardez
and Charles Heilman. A. S. Barnes

and Company, New York. $5.00.
TEN SURE-F IRE PARTIES FOR BOYS AND
GIRLS, Judith and Caroline Horo-

witz. Hart Publishing Company,

New York. $.50, cardboard edition;
$1.25 for sewn edition.

UKELELE AND HER NEW DOLL, Clara

Louise Grant. Simon and Schuster,
New York. $.25.

 

NOW READY

THE NEW HANDICRAFT—NINTH EDITION

Simplified Procedure and Projects,
the Complete Manual

By LESTER GRISWOLD
New Form - New Copy- New Illustrations

Makes the New Edition of Handicraft even
more valuable as a Handbook and Text for
the Craft Director and Teacher, the Recrea-
tion Leader, the Occupational Therapist and
the IndividuaI Craftsman.

Includes Instruction for Craftwork in Leath-
er, MetaI, Jewelry, Lapidary, Ceramics, Bas-
ketry. Bookbinding, Plastics, Weaving, Fabric
Decoration, Cord, Yarn, \Vood Carving and
Archery, also a section on Desimi in Handi-

craft.
Price, (unchanged) $3.00

Order from Booksellers and
Craft Supply Dealers

m

183

 

Plays for Great Occasions
Graham DuBois. Plays Incorporated,
Boston, Massachusetts. $3.50.

THIS IS A NEW COLLECTION of royal-
ty-free one-act plays for holidays
and important anniversaries, such as
Lincoln’s and Washington’s birthdays,
Thanksgiving, Christmas, St. Patrick’s
Day and others. Most of the plays re-
quire about thirty minutcs, very sim-
ple scenery and sets. Many have an his-
torical background. The four Christ-
mas plays are particularly good, one
of them “The Empty Room” being
unusually effective and beautiful.
These plays were first published in
the magazine Plays—The Drama Mag-
azine for Young People, and all have
been production-tested. They are suit-
able for both teen-age and adult casts.

A Field Guide to the Butterflies
of North America, East of
the Great Plains

Alexander B. Klots. Houghton Mifllin

Company, Boston, Massachusetts.

$3.75.

OME THERE MAY BE wno, deeply in-
S volved in the details and technical-
ities of the structures of the adult
butterfly, have forgotten the steps of
becoming a lepidopterist. Not so Alex-
ander B. Klots, who first collected but-
terflies as a hobby. As he progressed
from tenderfoot to Scoutmaster and
camp counselor, he not only collected
butterflies but, more important, be
stored up memories, which he now
shares with the reader.

From popular appeal, the contents
of this book entice one into the realm
of scientific values and accurate identi-
fication. It really is a growth guide;
and, since it claims to present the
data on “every last butterfly” and its
progenitor, the caterpillar, east of the
one hundredth meridian, it may be a

184

new Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

challenge to the novice who enjoys
games to see if one has been omitted.
Thus it is a basic publication which
may lead one into the secrets of habi-
tat or even into experimenting with
the food plants of the caterpillar. Four
hundred seventeen species of butter-
flies (247 in full color) signify quite a
butterfly population; and, of course,
one can live in New York City as well
as in the country and have as much
fun with the subject.

The butterfly hobby is not a mere
matter of collecting and naming speci-
mens; it can progress to interest in
plants, geography and even to the
whole gamut of natural history. The
initial outlay of $3.75 is a long-term
investment which promises annual re-
turns in enjoyment and satisfaction.
This book might well serve as a lure
in every house, school and camp.—
William Could V inal, head of recrea-
tion training, Massachusetts Universi-
ty, Amherst.

Baseball Techniques Illustrated

Ethan Allen. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $1.50.

Do YOU KNOW whether to buy base-
ball shoes a size smaller or larger
than your regular shoes? If you play
shortstOp or second base, is the tag
situation confusing? Ethan Allen, for-
mer big league player and Yale Uni-
versity coach, with an able assist from
well-known sports illustrator, Tyler Mi-
coleau, answers these and many other
important questions in this “first prim-
er” of baseball. First of a new series
to be published, especially for the be-
ginner and inexperienced coach—as
well as for a future DiMaggio—their
book offers concise, technical advice
on how to bat, play the infield or out-
field, pitch, catch and excel in the
other rudiments of the game-—-with

illustrations and coaching suggestions
efiectively combined.

Young Adult and Family Camping

Edited by John A. Ledlie. Association
Press, New York. $1.25.

T IIE FIRST IN A SERIES Of mono-

‘graphs on modern camping, this
pamphlet brings together the experi-
ence of YMCA family and adult camp-
ing projects and advances suggestions
and recommendations based upon
them. A section on trip camping con-
tains information on modes of travel,
camping techniques, planning, equip-
ment, program. List of national and
state resources for camping included.

National YMCA Lifesaving and
Water Safety Student Handbook

Association Press, New York. $.65.

THIS NEw FORTY-EIGHT PAGE book-
let is issued as a companion piece
to the Instructor’s Manual, released
last year, and is designed to reinforce
class instruction. It is illustrated with
cuts which interpret and explain tech-
niques. The YMCA program is not
only used in YMCA pools and camps,
but in other organizations and city
programs. A student’s tear-out exami-
nation is a part of the manual.

“First Joiner” Crafts

A LITTLE BOOK which came out a
few years ago, but which still
presents good material for those who
are planning crafts activities for young
children, is “F irst Joiner” Crafts, by
Charlotte Jacobsen. Published by the
Manual Arts Press in Peoria, Illinois,
and selling for $1.75, it presents in-
structions for simple and useful crafts
which are in good taste and which are
suitable for summer playground proj-
ects. Patterns are included.

RECREATION

 

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored jointly by the National Recreation Association and local recreation departments

June, July, August, 1951

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

Lexington, Kentucky
June 4-3

Toledo, Ohio

June 11-15

Huntington, West Virginia
June 18-21

Middletown, New York
June 25-27

White Plains, New York
June 28

Toledo, Ohio

June 4-8

Frederick, Maryland

June 18—20

Shepherdstown, West Virginia

July 16-20

Waco, Texas
June 4-8

Salina, Kansas
June 11-15
Boulder, Colorado
July 23-August 24

Hutchinson, Kansas

June 4-8

Beloit, Wisconsin

June 13, 14

Janesville, Wisconsin
June 15, 16

Pittsfield, Massachusetts
June 1322

Hudson, New York

June 25

White Plains, New York
June 26

New Britain, Connecticut

June 27-29
Florence, Alabama

July 9-13

Amherst, Massachusetts
June 1-3

Toledo, Ohio

June 4-15

Pontiac, Michigan

June 13, 19
Poughkeepsie, New York
June 25

Hudson, New York
June 26

White Plains, New York
June 27

Glens Falls, New York
June 29

Toledo, Ohio

June 4-14

Detroit, Michigan

June 25, 26

Morristown, New Jersey

June 27, 23

Miss Anna S. Pherigo, ExeCutive Director, Board of Park Com-
missioners, Gratz Park

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building

Marvin A. Lewis, Manager, Cabell County Recreation Board,
Field House

J. E. Hughes, Director of Recreation, Recreation Commission

Miss Vivian Wills, Assistant Superintendent, Westchester County
Recreation Commission, Room 242, County Oliice Building

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building

Mrs. Helma Hann Bowers, Recreation Supervisor, Frederick Rec-
reation Commission, 114 East Seventh Street

Dr. Oliver S. lkenbcrry, Shepherd College

Jol1n Morrow, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

David A. Zook, Superintendent of Recreation, 302 City Hall
Building

Miss Clare Small, Professor and Head, Department of Physical
Education for Women, University of Colorado

Frank H. Bowker, Superintendent of Recreation, Hutchinson
Recreation Commission, 504-B North Main

H. L. Jacobson, Director of Recreation

Pat Dawson, Recreation Director, Janesville Public Schools,
Department of Physical Education and Recreation

Vincent J. Hebert, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation,
52 School Street

Louis A. Pierro, Executive Director, Youth Bureau

Miss Vivian Wills, Assistant Superintendent, Westchester County
Recreation, Room 242, County Office Building

Joseph Hergstrom, Superintendent of Recreation, Municipal Rec-
reation, 327 City Hall

Mrs. Jessie Garrison Mehling, Supervisor, Health and Physical
Education, Department of Education, Montgomery 4

Miss Ruth Mclntire, Extension Specialist in Recreation, Uni-
versity of Massachusetts

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building
David Ewalt, Director of Recreation, Parks and Recreation
William G. Beal, Superintendent of Recreation, 35 Market Street

Louis A. Pierro, Executive Director, Youth Bureau

Miss Vivian Wills, Assistant Superintendent, Westchester County
Recreation, Room 242, County OHice Building
Daniel L. Reardon, Recreation Superintendent

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building

lrwin Shaw, Executive Director, Fresh Air Society, 250 Lafayette
Street, West

Gerald F. GriHin, Supervisor, Recreation Department

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually Open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the course, content, registration procedure and the like, communicate with the sponsors of the

courses as listed above.

 

TEAM UP “71TH THESE TYPICAL AMERICANS
IN THE PAYROLL SAVINGS PLAN!

 

* Pasquale Santella, millwright at
United States Steel Company’s Carrie
Furnaces of the Homestead District
Works, has a very personal reason for
buying Savings* Bonds. To C. F. Hood,
United States Steel Company executive
vice president, he says, “My son Tony, 19,
is missing in Korea. Used to be I bought
bonds because it was my duty and it was
a good way to save money. Now I want to
help lick the Reds and get Tony back. I
buy one bond every payday and when
Uncle Sam needs more money, I’ll buy
more bonds.” He has bought bonds regu-
larly since 1943, has never cashed one.

450.6? §awig29$axzczé WQEMBMZS’
$gy%/zz fem/y

TODAY join with other Americans—
business leaders and employees—in their
drive to make our country and our
citizens more secure. If you’re an em-
ployee, go to your company’s pay ofiice
now and start buying U. S. Defense
Bonds through the Payroll Savings Plan
——the safe, sure way to save for defense
and for personal dreams-come-true.

 

If you’re an employer, and have not
yet installed the easily handled Plan,
you will soon be contacted by one of
industry’s leading executives. Sign up
with liimu—and help him put the Plan in
every company! It’s a practical way to
help preserve our nation’s future, its
fortune, and the very institutions that
make our lives worth while!

Your Government does not pay for this advertising. It is donated by this publication in cooperation with.
The Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.

