 

 

Here are some suggestions for your February celebrations
of such important events as Washington’s and Lincoln’s
birthdays and Valentine's Day. The publications listed may
be obtained from the National Recreation Association.

Abraham Lincoln (MP 4J—Games, plays and a
listing of plays, music, stories and poems $.35

An All-American Party (MB 1373)—Quiet and
active games for patriotic holidays  $.10

Barn Dance Returns, The—Complete instruc-
tions for increasingly-popular barn dance, very
suitoble for February events . . . . . . . . . . . .$.25

Burying the Hatchet (MB 1914)—Games for
Washington’s birthday . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$.10

Fame in February—A reprint on a party of
famous February folks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$.15

Freedom Means All of Us Everywhere (MP
361)—-Program for a patriotic holiday. .. $.15

Fun for February (MB 1959)—Games for a
"hearty" and "patriotic" porty . . . . . . . . . .$.10

Games for a Patriotic Party (MB 1734) $.10

General Goes Home, The (MP 139)—A play-
let for eleven girls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$.10

ll

"Hearty Valentine Party, A—Decorations,

gomes, relays, stunts, music, dancing and re-
freshments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$.15

How to Celebrate Washington's Birthday
(MP 3)——P|ays, parties ond a long bibliography
of materiol for this celebration . . . . . . . . . .$.35

In the Hearts of His Countrymen—A pageant

play based upon episodes in the life of George
Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$.25

Let's Have a Log Cabin Party (MB 1604) $.10

I999 Valentine Party, A (MP 145)—-A celebra-

tion planned to be fashionable with the future
generation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _. $.10

Our Patriotic Holidays (MP 308)—Program
material, crafts, games and stunts . . . . . $.25

Parties for Special Days of the Year—
Four February parties, plus many other party
ideas for the year ’round . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$.50

Plays and Pageants Based on Incidents in
American History, Citizenship and Other
Patriotic Themes (MP 252)—A bibliogra-

phy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$.15
St. Valentine's Day (MP 61)—Parties, plays
and bibliography . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . .$.35

Washington and Lincoln Community Rally
(MB 1600)—Pr0grom for patriotic rally, as given
in Boston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$.10

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 10, NEW YORK

44 mmmvvvmmmaaa mmuvvvwww mam-wwvvv~--»~444--«-~vvv~~~444~~~

E-
)1}
1
1
1
‘
‘
‘
1
1
1
)1}
)1}
)1}
1
1
1
‘
‘
‘
1
1
1
)1}
)1}
’i
1
1
1
‘
‘
‘
1
1
1
I}
I}
)1}
1
1
1
‘
‘
‘
1
1
1
w
)1}
IL
1
1
1
q

5......mgqu; "can"... ‘ ‘ ‘ ........-.......... )ngng _.~r... ‘ ‘ ‘ ...................... Brag; WWW ‘ ‘ ‘ Hui“... gag; ..............-..... A ‘ ‘ "en‘s... gang; "macs"... ‘ ‘ ‘ “My.-.

5-

       

   

The gym at Tawsan High Schaal, Tawsan, Mar land, fea-
tures five Parter 217B "Haistaway" Basketball, Backstaps
which may be hoisted ta the ceiling ta make raarn for
ather activities. Parter 237B All-Steel Fon—Shaped Back-
baards are used. Towsan alsa has Parter gymnasium
apparatus including climbing ropes, harizantal bar and

gym mats.

at leading gym from (amt-tow;th t/ae c/aoz'ce 2'5 Porter

the Alla nh‘c States say,“Portef'

Go from Maine down the Atlantic Seaboard . . . cut back
diagonally to the District of Columbia . . . then return. Here
in the Atlantic States as elsewhere, wherever you go all over
America, you’ll find Porter basketball backstop equipment
and gymnasium apparatus in use in the leading schools,
universities, clubs and community houses. It’s not difficult
to find out why! Porter equipment meets the highest stand-
ards of quality—and Porter service is prompt, intelligent
and eager to please you.

EQUIPPING A GYM ?

If you are equipping an exiSting building or planning a
new one, Porter engineers can be helpful to you. Years
of experience in solving installation problems of broad
variety qualify them to counsel wisely. No obligation.
\Vrite today.

THE J. E.   R CORPORATION Ottawa, Illinois

Manufacturers of Gymnasium, Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment

    

CHICACO OFFICE: 554 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago It. Phone: Sllpariur 7-7252 NEW YORK OFFICE: II VI. 42nd St. New York 13. PltOIIl: [Oman 3-1342

DECEMBER 1951 361

 

 

 COURTS

 

READY TO INSTALL

Conform exactly to official requirements. Eosily installed so
top is flush with surface ond filled with clay. Stoke is

'0 ¢V¢WW°hPVHn FNM- ' .- . always at correct angle and does not become wobbly.
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Bosc-

hell and Softball. in Universities. 7 I I " Strongly constructed of 2"xlO” plonks bolted together
Coll nd H' In Schools.‘ M t “ . . . .

niclrff‘e; lnditriel Recrltio: - ' ' ond foced WIII‘I heovy Iron. Dtomond "Officlol Courts”
MecGrcgor-Geldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognised es 0 hell-

lost for years under hordest use.
marl at quality and unvarying
pcrionnencc.

 ¢WW  “'AMUND GMK HORSESHUE co.

“nun...” u. can. u. s. a. v m. 4616 Grand Avenue 0 Duluth, Minnesota

 

THIS BIG ILLUSTRATED

" LEATHERCRAFT

CATALOG AND GUIDE

_ CHAMPIONS

 .- ’e
d, .

   

LARSON LEATHERCRAFT
FOR CRAFTS CLASSES

Complete Stock - Prompt Shipment

 
 
   
  
   
   
   
  

Leathcrcraft is our only business, and our stock is the
largest and most complete in America. That is why yuu
can always depend upon immediate and complete ship-
ment of orders sent to us. \Vhether your requirements
are for beginners’ kits needing no tools or experience, for
very young bors and girls, or tooling leathers, supplics
and tools or o der, more advanced students or hobbyists,
be sure to check the LARSON LEATHERCRAFT CATA- ’

Finest In The World
For the World's
Greatest Athletes

LOG first. W'rite today for your FREE copy of our big il-

lustrated Catalog and Guide to latest Leat crcraft proiects.

J. C. LARSON COMPANY

The Foremost Name in Leothercraft

820 S. Tripp Ave., Dept. 1307, Chicago 24, Ill.

 

t
J. C. LARSON CO.. Dept. 1307 '
820 S. Tripp Ave., Chicago 24, Ill. '
Please send me a FREE copy of your latest I
Illustrated Catalog and Guide to Leathercraft. I I
I l a
E-———————————————— I. l . he .
NAM t _ ...... ”' I mm!
 -— I “a‘I‘Q—‘ii lea-race I l- I” II I
I «5’ a? _ .
CITY.-__..___.__.STATE__ _....... - I
J

362 RECREATION

DECEMBER, 1951

Editor, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, SONIA RACHLIN
Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ
ASSOCIATE Em'rons
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MussELMAN

Vol. XLV Price 35 Cents No. 7

 

 

On the Cover
Christmas holds promises of many things to many
peOple, but one gift available to all is that of re-
newed religious faith. For this annual church festival
imparts a deeper significance to the wisdom of peace
on earth, good will toward men. Everywhere, amid
the shimmer of tinseled festivities, men and women
are stirred anew by the miracle of the Nativity. Its
simplicity and message of communal brotherhood are
the true spirit behind the celebration of Christmas.
For the story on a presentation of the Nativity by
drama students at Sarah Lawrence College, see page
376 of this issue. Photograph, courtesy Gilman.
Photo Credits
Page 366, John W. Larson, Sr., New York; 371, 372,
374, 375, Fay Foto Service, Boston; 377, Gilman;
378, San Gabriel, California, Recreation Commission;
379, Oklahoma City Recreation Department; 380,
Tribune, Oakland, California; 388, 389, Fay Foto
Service; 392, Architectural Record; 394, Private
Titswortli, Fort Sam Houston, Texas; 395, Corporal
Reyes, Fort Sam Houston, Texas; 399, 400, Recrea-
tion Department, Tonawanda, New York; 401, N. .l.
Kemp and Recreation Department, Sparta, Wisconsin
(tOp); News-Press, Santa Barbara, California (bot-
tom); 404, Star-Tribune, Minneapolis; 412, Wilson,
North Carolina, Recreation and Park Department.
Next Month
The fact that next year’s National Recreation Con-
gress will be held in Seattle, Washington, has led to
many requests for further information about that sec-
tion of the country. In answer, we announce a series
of articles on recreation in the Northwest, the first
of which, “Washington State Recreation Division
Services,” by Dr. Frank F. Warren, Chairman of
Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission,
will appear in January.

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization su ported by voluntary con-
tributions, at 315 Four Avenue, New York 10,
New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscri tions $3.00
a ear. Canadian agency, G. R. Welc Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate 83.85. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Office in New York, New York, under Act of
March 3, 1879. Acce tance for mailing at special
rate of postage provi ed for in Section 1103, Act
of October 3, 1917', authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production 083cc: ones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 1 , Minnesota.

Space Representatives: Robert Edgell, 104 East
Fortieth Street, New York 18, New York; Mark
Minahan, 188 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 3757' Wilshire Boulevard,
Los Angeles 5, CalifOrnia. _

Copyright, 1951, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 302
° Trade mark registered in the U. S. Patent Office.

DECEMBER 1951

MAGAZINE

 

 
 
   
 

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

General Features

A University President Looks at Recreation

(Editorial), Dr. Paul Douglas .................................... .. 365
Ye Greate Aftonifhment (Greeting) ................................ .. 366
Christmas Poems ................................................................ .. 368
A Wagon Theatre Nativity Play, Doris Riker .................. .. 376
Artificial Snow Event ........................................................ .. 378
Successful Athletic Tour .................................................... .. 382
Prestressed Concrete Cuts Stadium Costs .......................... .. 392
Vacation Stories! ................................................................ .. 392
Special Service Openings .................................................. .. 400

33rd National Recreation Congress
In Review ............................................................................ .. 370
Among Our Exhibitors ...................................................... .. 374
Recreation and Defense at the Boston Congress .............. .. 386
Delegates at Work and at Play .......................................... .. 388
Personnel, W. C. Sutherland ........................................... .. 406
Administration
Notes for the Recreation Executive .................................. .. 383
Tennis in the Community Recreation Program ............... .. 397
Ice Skating Facilities ........................................................ .. 399
Recreation—A Career Service .......................................... .. 407
Program
Santa Brings His Reindeer ..................................... .3 ......... .. 379
All the Toys Come tO Life ................................................ .. 380
Building Community Drama ............................................ .. 381
Using Volunteers in a Recreation Program,

Helen M. Dauncey ........................................................ .. 390
How TO DO It! Christmas Tree Ornaments,

Frank A. Staples ............................................................ .. 393
The Value Of Puppetry in a Neuropsychiatric

Hospital, Anne Blood .................................................... .. 394
Teen Activities that Have Clicked .................................... .. 401
Every City Could Benefit from an All-Nations

Tournament, Robert Krishef ........................................ .. 404
Recipes for Fun—Christmas ............................................ .. 409
City Father Becomes Father Christmas .......................... .. 412

Regular Features

Things You Should Know ................................................ .. 367
Recreation Comments ........................................................ .. 369
Recreation News ................................................................ .. 403
Recreation Market News .................................................. .. 408
Magazines and Pamphlets ................................................ .. 414
Books Received .................................................................. .. 414
New Publications .............................................................. .. 415
Recreation Leadership Courses .................... ..lnside Back Cover

363

 

GEORGE E. DICRIE
HILDA HARRISON

GERTRUOE BORCHARo
DOROTHY DONALOSON

ROSE JAY SCHwARTz

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by l'ohmtary Contributions

JOSEPH I’REN1)ERCAST, Executive Director

 

Executive Director's OEce
THOMAS E. RIvERS
ARTHUR WILLIAMS
ALEREo H. WILSON

Correspondence and Consultation
Service

VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

LORAINE WILLIAMs

lb

Recreation Magazine
SONIA RACHLIN

Special Publications
MURIEL MCGANN

Personnel Service

WILLARD C. SUTHERLANo ALFRED B. JENSEN

MARY GURERNAT

New England District

WALoo R. HAINstRTH..BOSTON, MASS.

Mid d le Atlantic District

JOHN W. FAUST. . . . . .East Orange. N. J.
GEORGE A. NESBITT. . . .New York. N. Y.

Great Likes District

JOHN J. COLLIER. . . . . . . . . .Toledo, Ohio
ROBERT L. HORN EY . . . . . . .Madison, Wis.

Afliliate Membership

AEliate membership in the National
Recreation Association is open to all non-
profit private and puhlic organizations
whose function is wholly or primarily the
provision or promOtion of recreation serv-
ices or which include recreation as an im-
portant part of their total program and
whose cooperatiOn in the work of the asso-
ciation would, in the Opinion of the asso-
ciation's Board of Directors, further the
ends of the national recreation movement.

 

OFFICERS

OTTO T. MALLERY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Chairman of the Board
PAUL MOORE, JR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . First Vice-President
MRS. OGoEN L. MILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE. .Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer
GUSTAYUS T. KIRBY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer Emeritus
JOSEPH PRENoERGAST . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Secretary

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Research Department

GEORGE D. BUTLER DAVID J. DUBOIS
ELIZABETH CLIFTON

Work with Volunteers

E. BEATRICE STEARNS
MARY QUIRR MARGARET DANRwORTH

Field Department

CHARLES E. REI-zo JAMES A. MADISON
GEORGE T. ADAMS HELENA G. HOYT
RICHARD S. WESTGATE

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Southern District

MISS MARION PREECE . . . . .Alexandria, Va.

RALPH VAN FLEET. . . . . .Clearwater, Fla.
WILLIAM M. HAY. . . . . . .Nashville, Tenn.

Midwest District

ARTHUR Tooo. . . . . . . . .Kansas City, Mo.
HAROLD LATHROP . . . . . . . . .Denver, Colo.

Active Associate Membership

Active associate memhership in the
National Recreation Association is open to
all individuals who are actively engaged
on a full-time or part-time employed hasis
or as volunteers in a nonprofit private or
public recreation organization and whose
couperation in the work of the association
would, in the Opinion of the association's
Board of Directors, further the ends of the
national recreation movement.

 

F. W. H. ADAsIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bellport. N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Boston, Mass. SUSAN M. LEE...  York, N. Y.

MRS. ROBERT W’OOOS BLISS. . . . . . . . . . . . . .Washington, D. C. OTTO T. MALLERY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Philadelphia, Pa.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jacksonville. Fla. CARL F. MILLIItEN. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Augusta, Me.

WILLIAM H. DAVIS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York. N. Y. MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WOodhury. N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. PAUL MOORE, JR.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jersey City, N. J.

GAYLORD DONNELLEY. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .Chicago. Ill. JOSEPH PRENDERGAST. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y.

MRs. PAUL GALLAGHER. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Omaha, Nehr. MRS. SIGMUND STERN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .San Francisco, Calif.

ROBERT GARRETT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Baltimore, Md. GRANT TITSN’ORTH. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Noroton, Conn.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Seattle, Wash. MRS. WILLIAM VAN ALI-2N. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Philadelphia, Pa.

MRS. NORMAN HARRowER. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fitchburg, Mass. J. C. WALSH. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Yonkers, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. HICROX. . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michigan City, Ind. FREOERICR M. WARBURC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y.

 

Service to States. . . . . .ROBERT R. GAMBLE

Areas and Facilities—Planning and Surveys
H. C. HUTCHINS ALAN B. BURRITT
LESLIE LYNCH

Katherine F. Barker Memorial
Secretary for Women and Girls
HELEN M. DAUNCEY

Industrial Recreation. . . . . .C. E. BREwER

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

RUTH EHLERS ANNE LIVINGSTON
MILDRED SCANLON FRANR A. STAPLES
GRACE WALRER

 

Southwest District

HAROLD VAN ARSDALE. . . . . . .Dallas, Tea.

Pacific Nortbwest District

WILLARD H. SHUMARD. . . . .Seattle, Wash.

Pacific Soutbwest District

LYNN S. RooNEY. . . . .Los Angeles, Calif.

 

Contributors

The continuation of the work of the
National Recreation Association from year
to year is made possihle hy the Splendid
cooperation of several hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country, and the
generous contributions of thousands of sup-
porters of this movement to bring health.
happiness and creative living to the hoys
and girls and the men and women of
America. If you would like to ioin in the
support of this movement, you may send
your contribution direct to the association.

*—

The National Recreation Association is a nation-

wide, nonprofit, nonpolitical and nonsectarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the scrv-
ice of all recreation executives, leaders and agen-

cies, public and private, to the end that evcry child
in America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America, young and old, shall
have an opportunity for the best and most satisfy-
ing use of his expanding leisure time.

For further information regarding the association’s services and membership, piease write to the
Executive Director, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

364

RECREATION

EDITORIAL

 

A University President

"NE-QUARTER MILLION faculty mem-
bers, teaching in eighteen hundred
institutions of higher education, in-
struct some two and one-half million
young men and women and annually
graduate some half million bachelors
and masters and six and one-half thou-
sand doctors. These young men and
womcn represent a selected population
group. They live in a community un-
der discipline and pressing time obliga-
tions. For the most part, they are re-
quircd to distribute their studies in the
various areas of knowledge and to in-
clude a fairly uniform number of credit
hours in physical education. Universi-
ties are organized to produce a “whole
man,” without concern for recreational
activities in leisure time.

While the concern for physical
strength and skill in sports is now an
accepted part of curriculums, the idea
of recreation is neither current in gen-
eral faculty thinking nor is it fully de-
veloped as a habit in the behavior of
graduatcs. The creative use of leisure
time remains an undeveloped field in
wide areas of higher education.

Leisure, may I suggest, is the oppor-
tunity earned by work to enjoy time
without external compulsion. Recrea-
ation is the experience resulting from
the free personal choice among avail-
able resources of activities which sat-
isfy each individual’s idea of his own
role, when played by himself for the

 

Guest editorialist, Da. PAUL DOUGLASS,

until recently was president of Ameri-
can University of Washington, D. C.

DECEMBER 1951

Looks at
llcu'catiou

Dr. Paul Douglass

moment, wherein he is absolute sov-
ercign of his available universe.

How slight an impression of recrca-
tion college students gain during their
course is indicated by the fact that
when thirty thousand women graduates
were questioned, only three per cent
mentioned that their education had
bcen valuable in developing resources
for lcisure-time activities.

What then are the values of recrea-
tion on the campus to living and to
preparation for better living after
graduation?

1. Recreation provides circumstances
favorable for character growth. Re-
search has begun to indicate that you
can’t “teach character”; you just “get”
it in the interaction of persons in
groups. Character is really developed
in the “teachable moments” of human
[association and informal activity. Some
of these teachable moments are: (a)
when a person craves activity, (b)
when a person is idle, (c) when a per-
son seeks a thrill, ((1) when a person
wins or loses, (e) when a person is
lonely and seeks companionship, (f)
when a person wants approval, (g)
when a person wants hetero-sexual
association, (h) when a person emu-
lates a hero and (i) when a person
wants the satisfaction of creative re-
sponse.

Recreation, in addition to its power
to refresh and reinvigorate the indi-
vidual, provides a teaching situation
unequalled in the whole span of educa-
tional situations.

2. Recreation strengthens democ-
racy. If the foundations of democracy

are (a) freedom to choose, (b) status
represented by relationships involv-
ing respect, approval and recognition
which give life significance, (c) in-
volvement and participation, (d) re-
Sponsibility, (e) mutual deference and
(f) an opportunity to perform, for the
love of it, a freely-chosen task with
competence—«if democracy means these
qualities, then recreation is closely re-
lated to a way of life, about the pres-
ervation and integrity of which the
whole globe now is concerned. Recrea-
tion bcconles a nurturing fellowship. It
trains the shock troops of democracy
in primary face-to-face groups.
Strength evolves from a congenial fel-
lowship of common participation.

It is precisely at this point of the
private provision for recreation that I
find the. most necessary emphasis of
democracy.

Recreation has no political orienta-
tion or concern. It is a matter of the
free soul of every man. In totalitarian
regimes, a first attack upon democracy
is the public monopoly of recreation
facilities in the interest of authoritarian
politics. Rccreation and authoritarian-
ism are so diametrically opposed in
the scale of values that only the actual
havoc wrought by their weird partner-
ship stands as a tragic reminder to us
to maintain their separation inviolate.

3. Recreation grows personality in
the doing. If it is true that eighty per
cent of the people are little influenced
by books, we must recognize the fact
that even in colleges—where the use of
books is much less than dean’s wish—~—
recreation has an educational value be-
yond, perhaps, any other area. Many
times 1 have seen students get hold of
life as a result of recreation, while they
were shriveling from academic pres-
sures and, in the end, they pcrformed
their academic work with distinction.

A general principle is that the use of
facilities varies directly with the availa-
bility of facilities. If recreation is to
make its maximum impact on the cam-
pus, and from the campus to communi-
ties where graduates settle, universities
must concern themselves with the de-
velopment of facilities and the full utili-
zation of professional recreation per-
sonnel in the educational process.

I can conceive that the development
of recreation to maturity on the cam»
pus can easily be the most important
educational event of this decade. At
least it has inherent in its genius a
philos0phy related to American tradi-
tions, a method which unlocks oppor-
tunity for character growth and a uni-
versality of appeal which makes it ca-
pable of interesting a general citizen.

Just because recreation, in essence,
is an individual act of a free man, its
therapy of refreshment in relaxation
contributes to the health and sanity of
living in today’s world.

365

   

whosoever on ye nighte of ye nativity of ye young Lord J efus,

in ye greate fnows, fhall fare forth bearing a fucculcnt bone
for ye lofte and lamenting hounde, a wifp of hay for ye fhivering
horfe, a cloak of warm raiment for ye ftranded wayfarer, a bundle
of fagots for ye twittering crone . . . a garland of bright berries
for one who has worn chains, gay arias of lute and harp for all
huddled birds who thought that fong was dead, and divers lufh

fweetmeats for fuch babes’ faces as peer from lonely windows——

To him fhall be proffered and returned gifts of fuch an aftonifh-
ment as will rival the hues of the peacock and the harmonies of
heaven, fo that though he live to ye greate age when man goes
ftooping and querulous becaufe .of the nothing that is left in him,
yet fhall he walk upright and remembering, as one whofe heart

fhines like a great ftar in his breafte.

metric chriftmas

To All Our Readers!
RECREATION
and the

National Recreation Association

 

0 COMMUNITY DISCUSSION PROGRAMS,
on “The Heritage Of the United States
of America in Times of Crisis,” are
being established under public library
leadership by the American Library
Association as a result of a grant of
$150,000 from the Fund for Adult
Education of the Ford Foundation.
Adult recreation groups should be in-
terested in this information. Six dem-
onstration areas chosen by the ALA
are New York; Denver, Colorado; Los
Angeles; Montpelier, Vermont; and
La Crosse, Wisconsin. Funds will be
allocated to public libraries in these
communities. In conducting the proj-
ect, the ALA has agreed, among other
things, to “seek the guidance of other
interested national groups through such
channels as the Council of National
Organizations of the Adult Education
Association.”

0 CONCLUSIONS REACHED IN A THREE-
YEAR STUDY, completed by the Com-
mission on Life Adjustment for Youth
and sponsored by the United States
Office of Education, indicate that, of
the 6,500,000 pupils now attending the
nation’s secondary schools, twenty per
cent are enrolled in college-preparatory
courses and another twenty per cent
in vocational schools. But the remain-
ing sixty per cent, who do not plan
to enter either college or a trade, find

that the high schools do not meet their
needs.

It is emphasized that organized edu-
cation must provide youth with real
Opportunities for participation as ac-
tive partners in community affairs.
Every community in America needs
additional services, and every com-
munity has great resource in its youth,
who are eager to acquire status in the
community by rendering service.

0 APPOINTED TO THE EXECUTIVE COM-
MITTEE of the Workshop on Recrea-

DECEMBER 1951

tion, under the sponsorship of the
Athletic Institute, George Butler, of
the National Recreation Association,
attended its November meeting in Mia-
mi, Florida. He also attended the
American Institute of Park Executives,

held in Miami, during the week of
November 12.

oTHE ADVISORY COUNCIL on Partici-
pation of National Organizations in
the White House Conference held a
meeting on November 27, in New York
City to review the follow-up activi-
ties of the national organizations in
the council and to determine the fur-
ther course of action. The National
Recreation Association was represented
on the steering committee of the coun-
cil.

o NAMED As NEW DIRECTOR of the Na-
tional Park Service, Conrad L. Wirth
will succeed Arthur E. Demaray, who
retires on December 8. Connie Wirth,
son of the late Theodore Wirth, has
been with the park 'service in various
capacities for many years. He always
has worked devotedly in the interests
of parks, in land and recreation plan-
ning, and has closely cooperated with
the National Recreation Association
through the years. The association
heartily congratulates him on his new
appointment.

oTHE PACIFIC SOUTHWEST RECREA-
TION CONFERENCE, to be held February
19 to 22 in Fresno, California, will be
attended by Joseph Prendergast, Ex-
ecutive Director of the NRA. Mr.
Prendergast also will attend the Mid-
Continent Recreation and Park Insti-
tute at the University of Minnesota,
March 20 to 22, and the 1952 Cover-
nors’ Conference on Recreation in In-
diana on March 28. Recently, he was
banquet speaker at the Sixth Annual
Industrial Recreation Conference, No-
vember 18 to 20, at Purdue University

on “Recreation’s Contribution to Our
Industrial Society in a Period of Na-
tional Emergency,” and was on the
panel for the “Recreation and Educa-
tion” meeting Of the recent National
Welfare Assembly Conference on Com-
munity Mobilization, held in Washing-
ton, November 29 to December 1.

0 STAFF MEMBER OF THE UNITED DE-
FENSE SERVICES of the National Rec-
reation Association, Mrs. Helena Hoyt
is giving full time tO the recreation
problems of women in the armed
forces.

0 FIELD WORKERS OF THE NATIONAL
RECREATION ASSOCIATION are serving
262 communities in connection with
local defense recreation problems. USO
services rise to a total of 228 units
in this country and abroad with the
opening of a USO club in Los Vegas,
Nevada, for a ninety-day emergency
period.

0 A PAMPHLET RECENTLY PUBLISHED
by the California Recreation Commis-
sion, “Off-Post Recreation for Service-
men and Women,” with a foreword by
Governor Earl Warren, promotes meet-
ing the needs of service people—to
feel at home in a community—by a
cooperative effort of public agencies
and private groups. It suggests poli-
cies for off-post recreation—activities,
services and interests—which should
appeal to men and women away from
home.

0 BECAUSE THE MARCH 0F DIMES has
not kept pace with the march of polio,
the National Foundation for Infan-
tile Paralysis is compelled to enlarge
its 1952 drive from two weeks to a
full four-week period. The appeal will
start on January 2, instead of on Janu-
ary 15, and run through January 31.

The devastating impact and after-
math Of polio in the last three years
of record-breaking incidence found the
National Foundation, at the beginning
of 1951, pledged to care for a cumu-
lative caseload of an estimated forty-
five thousand patients. In addition,
help has been sought by four out Of
five of this year’s victims, whose num-
bers still are growing. It became ap-
parent in July that the money raised
in the 1951 March of Dimes would
not be sufficient to take care of the
situation.

367

 

Christmas Poenls

OVER earth’s shadows are ringing yet
The notes of celestial song;
The voices of angels and men are
met,
And praises high prolong;
Oh, love untold,
Hope manifold,
Joy of each Christmas morn!
———An0n.

I have always thought of Christmas
time as a good time; a kind, forgiving,
charitable, pleasant time; the only time
I know of, in the long calendar of the
year, when men and women seem by
one consent to open their shut-up
hearts freely . . .

And therefore, though it has nevcr
put a scrap of gold or silver in my
pocket, I believe that it has done me
good, and will do me good; and I
say, God bless it!

—Charlcs Dickens

The holly and the ivy,

Now both are full well grown,
Of all the trees that are in the wood,
The holly bears the crown.

—Old Carol

THE merry Christmas, with its gener-
ous boards,
Its fire-lit hearths, and gifts and
blazing trees,
Its pleasant voices uttering gentle
words,
Its genial mirth, attuned to sweet
accords,
Its holiest memories!
The fairest season of the passing
year—
The merry, merry Christmas time is
here.

—George Arnold
363

as)

Happy, happy Christmas, that can
win us back to the delusions of our
childish days, that can recall to the
old man the pleasures of his youth, and
transport the sailor and the traveler,
thousands of miles away, back to his
own nreside and his quiet home!

—Charles Dickens

Christmas is here,
Merry old Christmas,
Gift -bearing, heart-touching, joy-
bringing Christmas,
Day of grand memories, king of the
year!
—Washington Irving

The time draws near the birth of
Christ;
The moon is hid; the night is still.
The Christmas bells from hill to hill
Answer each other in the mist.
—Alfred Tennyson

We bring in the holly, the ivy, the pine,

Thc spruce and thc hemlock together
we twine;

With evergreen branches our walls we
array

For the keeping of Christmas, our
high holiday.

Glory to God in the highest we sing,

Peace and good will arc the tidings
we bring.

—Old English

Good news from hcaven the angels
bring,
Glad tidings to the earth they sing:
To us this day a child is givcn,
To crown us with thc joy of hcaven.
—Martin Luther

He rides to the East, and hc rides
to the West,
Of his goodies he touches not one;
He eateth the crumbs of the Christmas
feast
When the dear little folks arc done.
Old Santa Claus doeth all that he
can;
This beautiful mission is his;
Then children, be good to the little
old man,
When you find who thc littlc man is.
—+An0n.

As fits the holy Christmas birth,
Be this, good friends, our carol still——

Be peace on earth, be peace on earth,

To men of gentle will.

—William Makepeace Thackeray

CHRISTMAS CRAFTS

 

‘ Her MOM, (one SEE me um: um: mun 1 wave soc mo 91 THE HOBBY-SHOP! "

RECREATION

RECREATION

RE; A
O-r £43“

Volunteer Leaders
Sirs:

Regarding the article, “A Volunteer
Leader’s Training Course,” by John A.
Turner of St. Louis, appearing in the
September issue of RECREATION, I
should like to say that a good group of
volunteer leaders is one of the major
needs of every recreation department.
We sometimes slip up on using volun-
teers because of the time and effort re-
quired to prepare them for the work, or
we try to use them without training
and they drop out because they can’t
do the work or feel inadequate. In ad-
dition to skills, they must be taught
other phases of the work, such as pub-
lic relations, organization and recrea-
tion philosophy.

St. L0uis’ training course seems to
he an ideal situation. What city would
not like to have 180 volunteer work-
ers? There always is the possibility
that volunteers, after completing the
training course, may decide that they
can’t help. Someone may have offered
them a full-time job or they may have
found more need for their services at
home. Being able to train and keep
180 out of 250 volunteers is a rec-
ord . . . Congratulations to the St. Louis
Recreation Department!

The Winston-Salem Recreation De-
partment conducts a social recreation
training course every year, with Mrs.
Anne Livingston of the National Rec-
reation Association as instructor. In
addition to our professional workers,
we interest many volunteers in partici-
pating. After its completion, our pro-
fessional workers conduct a follow-up
course. With the groundwork laid (and
I mean laid) by Mrs. Livingston, we

DECEMBER 1951

give members of the group a chance
to practice over and over again what
they have learned. This helps more of
them to develop into leaders than other-
wise would be the case. We could not
meet the public demand for social rec-
reation without these volunteers.
MILDRED F ORMYDUVAL, Winston-Sa-
lem Recreation Department, North
Carolina.

“Do We Educate for Leisure?”
Sirs:

The article, “Do We Educate for
Leisure?,” in your September issue, is
excellent. I regret that most of us are
neglecting to teach the things for which
Dr. Best pleads. I hope that many edu-
cators will read his article.

WALTER E. HAGER, President, Wil-

son Teachers College, Washington,

D. C.

Sirs:

I enjoyed reading Dr. Best’s recent
contribution to RECREATION. It is a
timely article about a subject which
should be receiving more attention in
our schools.

F. R. F URLONG, SUpervising Princi-

pal, Sea Cliff Public Schools, Sea

Cliff, New York.

“Cease Firing”
Sirs:

Congratulations on Ed Durlacher’s
article in September. This is a smart
suggestion. I hope you get plenty of
votes in favor of the idea and that REC-
REATION decides to try it out. I have
had ample opportunity to meet square
dance people in every state except
Maine, and I can testify that there is a
real need for an unbiased medium for
the dissemination of square dance edu-

cation . . . If I can be of any assist-

ance, I will be glad to do what I can.
LAURENCE B. CAIRNS, National Coun-
cil, Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tions of the United States.

Letter from Germany
Sirs:

In visiting our reading center, I no-
ticed that almost all of the RECREATION
copies were lent away . . . We are so
grateful to you for your kindness and,
with pleasure, I can tell you that all of
my fellow students find your magazine
a very interesting, erudite and informa-
tive one. We, the German youth, al-
ways receive quite a lot of communistic
books and periodicals, but it seldom
happens that Western publications are
sent to us without any charge. If more
publishers would act in such an un-
selfish way, I’m sure that it Would be
better f0r all of us, who know the dan-
gers which come out of our Eastern
zone . . . All the magazines are sent to
East Germany after they are read. You
see, therefore, that RECREATION fulfills
a great and good work over here. Once
more, I thank you in the name of all
our readers.

OSWALD F. PUIN, Vice President, In-

ternational Christian Students’ Club,

Hochheim/Main, Germany.

One Thing or Another
Sirs:

I really do very much appreciate the
publication in September of the article,
“We Welcome You to Vallejo.” As a
result, I have received many letters of
inquiry and requests for sample pam-
phlets from various places.

In addition, the Clown Club idea,
taken initially from your magazine, has
become so active here that we just can’t
fill all the requests for appearances.
The activities of this club are develop-
ing into an attempt to cover about fif-
teen fairs next season—just on an ex-
pense basis.

KEITH A. MACDONALD, Executive Di-

rector, Greater Vallejo Recreation

District, California.

The article, “Reno’s Clown Alley,”
by H. T. Swan of Reno, Nevada, ap-
peared in the January 1951 issue of
RECREATION and led to an adop-
tion and elaboration of the idea in
Vallejo. The story of the Vallejo club
will appear in January 1952.—Ed.

369

“The Recreation Congress has served

to mobilize the recreation forces of
America in full support of the national
emergency and to continue to stimulate

and encourage rccrcation services for the
armed forces, the defense workers and
the home front.”—Joseph Prendcrgast.

 

” 2 ECREATION for a Strong Ameri-

ca,” the slogan of the National
iccreation Association, aptly expressed
the underlying tenor of all of the meet-
ings at the Thirty-third National Rec-
reation Congress in Boston this year.
There was noticeable, more than ever
before, an active awareness of the im-
portance of recreation to the demo-
cratic way of life and, specifically, to
both citizen and military morale dur-
ing a period of national defense. There
was a consciousness, too, of gratitude
to Joseph Lee, beloved founder of the
recreation movement, as recreation
workers gathered in the city where he
did his famous pioneer work for chil-
dren’s playgrounds. Joseph Lee, who
served for twenty-seven years as presi-
dent of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, was a native Bostonian; and
it could truthfully be said that, in visit-

ing Boston for its Congress, the na-
tional recreation movement had really
come home.

The importance of recreation in a
national emergency also was empha-
sized by the attendance and participa-
tion of a large number of representa-
tives from the armed forces and of
executives of the nation’s defense of-
fices in Washington. The group from
Special Services Division of the Army,
headed by their chief, Brigadier Gen-
eral Charles W. Christenberry—the
principal speaker at one of the evening
sessions—included Lieutenant-Colonel
Frank M. Davenport, Major Al Vitacco
and a total of eighty army and air

370

force special service club directors.
Lieutenant Commander Ralph H. Col-
son, United States Naval Reserve, Di-
rector of Welfare, First Naval District
of Boston, was on the panel for the
discussion meeting on “Defense Emer-
gency Problems for Community Rec-
reation—Civil Defense,” as was Sher-
wood Gates, Chief, Office of Communi-
ty Services, Air Force.

Said Mr. Gates: “We are going to
have a large armed force for a mighty
long time. It’s a new thing in our na-
tional life, and we’ve got to learn to
live with it. We can take the point of
view that service in the military is a
blank space out of a young man’s life
-—or a constructive, wholesome period,
adding to the richness of that life. It is
up to both military and civilian per-
sonnel.” (For further information on
Congress defense meetings, see pages
375 and 386.)

W. H. Orion, Director, Recreation
Service, Special Services, Veterans Ad-
ministration, chaired a meeting on
“Recreation and Mental Health for
Hospital Patients.”

Also, among the twelve hundred
leaders, both lay and professional from
forty-six states, who gathered at the
Boston Statler, were representatives
from six foreign countries. Dr. Yoshi-
hiko Kurimoto, Chairman, Board of
the National Recreation Association of
Japan, tOgether with three other lead-
ers in recreation and education from
Japan, attended as guests of our Ameri-
can government. As part of a good will

THIRTY-THIRD NA'I

gesture, they brought with them a
beautiful exhibit of approximately one
hundred arts and crafts articles, made
in the recreation centers of Japan.
This was in exchange for the recreation
crafts exhibit which the National Rec-
reation Association sent to the Japanese

Congress last August (sec RECREATION,
September 1951.)

The other countries represented were
Germany, Israel, Thailand, Puerto Rico
and the Philippine Islands. A delega-
tion of nineteen from Canada was
headed by J. K. Tett, director of the
Province of Ontario and, by govern-
ment appointment, member of the Na-
tional Council of Physical Fitness
(which is responsible for recreation in
Canada) and Dr. Doris W. Plewes, of
Ottawa, who is assistant national direc-
tor of Canada’s physical fitness and
recreation program.

Some of the states produced a nota-
bly large attendance, being led by
Massachusetts, with 187 delegates, and
followed by New York, with 155.

A distinct impression gathered from
these assembled representatives of the
field of recreation was that the strength
of the recreation movement indeed lies
in the fact that its leadership is made
up of public spirited laymen, board
members, contributors, professional
workers and government officials, all of
whom are drawn together in an attempt
to bring about a richer life in America
through recreation. The Boston Con-
gress particularly illustrated the depths
of this leadership through the active
participation of these various groups.
Ten members of the board of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, as well
as a number of association sponsors,
participated. Many of the sessions were
chaired by distinguished leaders such
as Charles Cabot, NRA sponsor; Mrs.
Hilda Ives, once a member of the

RECREATION

AL RECREATION CONGRESS-m 2W

board; and Albert West, chairman of
Boston’s Recreation Commission. In
many of the section meetings, lay mem-
hers of local and state boards actively
shared in leadership. .

0pcning day was charged with the
bustle of registering; locating friends,
meeting rooms, consultation room,
press room, offices, and thc making of
appointments. The spirit of the entire
five-day meeting was excellent, and
many delegates were heard to remark
on its warmth and feeling of friendly
informality.

The NRA consultation room, with its
display of published recreation materi-
als, was located in an especially beauti-
ful room this year, where guests could

.- {mi
m

and “King,” two frozen specimens of
the king salmon of Puget Sound, were
flown to Boston as evidence that Wash-
ington is a good vacation land.

Vying with the Seattle diSplay for
attcntion was the “You-Make-It” crafts
demonstration put on by Wichita, Kan-
sas. John Mahan, crafts leader of the
Wichita recreation department, daily
instructed interested crowds in the
techniques of the simple, easy-to-do
crafts, popular at Wichita community
centers and playgrounds.

The press room was, as usual, a cen-
ter of hurried activity as the summariz-
crs of each meeting reported the news
which was sent out to all parts of the
country. The Boston newspapers did an

 

NRA board members and guests. Standing, left to right: Henry L. Shattuck, Otto T. Mal-

lcry, Mrs. John D. Jameson, Thomas E. Rivers, Cregg Bemis, Joseph Prendergast, J.
Willard Hayden. Seated: Mrs. William L. Van Alen, Richard Westgate, Miss Susan M.

Lee, Stephen H. Mahoney, Miss Ellen Prebensen, Charles E. Reed,

Reverend Paul Moore,

Jr., and Mrs. Norman Harrower. Mr. Hayden was the gracious host at this luncheon.

sit down in comfort to examine the
largc scrapbooks on display.

A spot of great interest, following
the formal announcement that next
year’s Congress will be held in Seattle,
Washington, was the Seattle display of
materials and information about rec-
reation in the Northwest. “Blackie”

DECEMBER 1951

excellent job of coverage in a tight-
spacc situation. Those press photo-
graphs which they could not publish
were televised over the WBZ-TV news
broadcast of the Boston Post, on two
evenings. The Fay Foto Service of Bos-
ton cooperated by taking pictures of
Congress events, many of which appear

in this issuc. If anyone would like to
order prints, write to the service di-
rectly, at 45 West Canton Street.

The local Boston arrangements com-
mittee did an excellent job of helping
to make things go smoothly, and the
Boston Junior League and the Girl
Scouts helped considerably by supply-
ing ushers for general sessions and the
banquet. A large supply of locally-
donated apples was distributed at one
of the meetings on “Recreation in Ru-

ral Areas” by Miss Ruth McIntire of
the University of Massachusetts.

Mention should certainly be made
here, too, of the excellent Statler serv-
ice and the help of its master house-
man, G. Peter.

Evening Meetings

The Congress was officially launched
at the first large session on Monday
evening, when Charles G. Cabot, chair-
man and Boston sponsor of the Nation-
al Recreation Association, welcomed all
delegates. Mr. Cabot read aloud warm
greetings from President Truman; Ta-
kahito, Prince of Mikasa, honorary
president of the National Recreation
Association of Japan; and from Mrs.
Howard Braucher, wife of the late
president of the NRA. The Reverend
Paul Moore, Jr., first vice-president of
the association, gave the invocation.
The keynote of the entire Congress, be-
cause of its vital significance to every
American, was set by the principal
speaker, Erwin D. Canham, when he
chose the topic, “The Chances for
Peace.” Said he: “My own conclusion,
based Upon concrete points, is that we
have a very real chance to prevent
war, but that we face a protracted
period of uncertainty, calling for the
utmost national and international alert-
ness, calm, common sense, mutual tol-
erance, sacrifice and an awakening to

371

the basic spiritual values upon which
all survival depends.”

The Tuesday evening session was
chaired by Stephen Mahoncy, who is
vice-chairman of the National Advisory
Committee on Defense Services of the
National Recreation Association. The
three principal speakers of the evening
spoke on the topic, “Recreation and
the National Emergency.” They were
Ralph R. Kaul, who, until recently, was
chairman of the Critical Areas Com-
mittee, Defense Production Administra-
tion; James J. Wadsworth, Deputy Ad-
ministrator, Federal Civil Defense Ad-
ministration; and Brigadier General C.
W. Christenbcrry, United States Army
Department of Defense. The General
opened his remarks with warm and ap-
preciative thanks to the National Rec-
reation Association for the excellent
service it is rendering the armed serv-
ices; and he went on to urge the closer
cooperation of local community recrea-
tion departments in working with the
military to provide recreation for serv-
ice personnel in nearby army installa-
tions. In line with this thought, he
announced the formation, by the army,
of the new Community Services
Branch. (See page 313, November
RECREATION.) He also disclosed that
Ott Romney, dean of the School of
Recreation and Athletics of the Uni-
versity of West Virginia, has been
named chief of the new branch.

James J. Wadsworth talked about the
need for the skills of the recreation
worker in the civil defense picture.
Said he: “Organized recreation calls
for teamwork. Professional recreation
experts know how to work with people,
how to direct them in organized ac-
tivity, how to form them into teams
that can do a job of morale building.
Civil defense will need every bit of
help it can get from people like your-
selves.”

Mr. Kaul pointed out that recreation
is recognized as vital to the emergency
production effort; while Oscar Suter-
meister, a government consultant on
industrial dispersion, gave a brief talk
on the part recreation can play in the
remodelling of urban areas in the light
of the national dispersion of new and
expanding industries. (See page 375
for further details of this meeting.)

At the Congress banquet on Wednes-

372

 

Congress visits Northwest in 1952; Seattle exhibit offers information. Lou Evans, Assist-
ant Director of Recreation; Miss Pearl Powell, Supervisor of Women’s 6: Girls’ Activities.

day evening, Otto Mallery, chairman of
the National Recreation Association’s
Board of Directors, acted as toastmas-
ter. During the evening, a memorial
fund in honor of the late Ernest T.
Attwell was established when Mrs.
Frances Parrish, of the municipal rec-
reation department of Louisville, Ken-
tucky, acting for the Attwell Memorial
Committee, presented a check for
$2,075 to the Attwell Fund. The check
was accepted for the National Recrea-
tion Association by Miss Susan Lee,
secretary of the association’s board.

The first Speaker of the evening, Yo-
shihiko Kurimoto, ably—and some-
times humorously—assisted by his in-
terpreter, Shuichi Koba, gave a stimu-
lating address on the value of recrea-
tion in building friendly international
relationships. He told of the role that
recreation has been playing in helping
the Japanese to assimilate the princi-
ples of democracy. He urged that an
international recreation association be
formed, to play its part in UNESCO
and the establishment of peace in the

world.

John Tasker Howard, a director of
the American Society of Composers,
Authors and Publishers, the second
speaker, pointed up music’s part in re-
cording the history of a country—its
manners, customs, means of locomo-
tion, attitudes. “It is unlikely, for in-
stance,” said he, “that music writers
can ever again produce a war song that
is joyous, such as ‘Over There’ or ‘Tip-
perary,’ simply because their attitude
toward war is no longer one which
provokes singing.”

On Thursday, the last evening of the

0
Congress, Dr. Leonard Carmichael,
president of Tufts College, in speaking
on “Some New Light on Physical and
Mental Fatigue,” interested delegates
with his report on a series of tests re-
cently conducted at Tufts. Listeners
were amazed to learn that a tired feel-
ing doesn’t mean a thing as far as a
person’s ability to do accuratc work is
concerned, and that an individual can
work eiliciently on complicated tasks
despite irregular hours. What is some-
times needed, more than rest, is new
motivation, stimulation of interest.
“People who are too tired to do the
dishes after supper,” he said, amid
much laughter, “often find reserve en-
ergy that makes it possible for them
to accept an invitation to a night base-
ball game.”

In speaking of the close relationship
between motivation and fatigue, from
the standpoint of recreation leader-
ship, he pointed out that “children and
adults can disregard the fear that the
work which is done in properly super-
vised games or exercises is overtiring
or damaging to the individuals who
participate.” A long period of ani-
mated discussion followed Dr. Car-
michael’s address.

Daytime Meetings

The National League’s playoff and
the World Series did not seem to im-
pair the daytime discussion meetings,
which were very well attended and
lively. The topics, once well under way,
spilled over into corridor conversation,
luncheon and dinner get-togethers and
late bull sessions.

The themes of the fifty-four meetings
included such provocative topics as

RECREATION

“In-Service Training for Stall Mem-
bers,” “Board Members Make the
Wheels Go ’Round,” “Swap ShOp—Pet
Ideas Exchange,” “What Can Recrea-
tion Contribute to Churches?,” “Posi-
tive Values of Community Drama Pro-
grams,” “Financing Community Rec-
reation,” “Recreation Literature and
the Department Library,” “Cooperative
Community Planning for Recreation,”
“Recreation Personnel Policies and
Practices,” “Women’s and Girls’ Rights
in Recreation,” “How Realistic Is Col-
lege Training?,” “Federal, State and
Local Cooperation in Providing Rec-
rcation Opportunities,” “Recreation’s
Part in Mental Health,” “ Midget Play-
ers~—-—A Giant Problem” and others.

Several trends, other than those al-
ready mentioned, emerged from these
meetings: the growing concern for the
individual upon the part of public rec-
reation leaders; a growing interest in
recreation activities which will carry
over into retirement age; an ever-
growing emphasis upon the importance
of coOperation in the planning of local
recreation programs.

The recreation leadership training
courses in drama, music and social
recreation were scheduled for three
afternoons, under the leadership of
Grace Walker, NRA; Augustus Zanzig,
director of music for the Brookline,
Massachusetts, public schools; and
llelen Dauncey, NRA, respectively.
These workshOps inspired the many
cnthusiastic comments heard where
groups assembled.

Special Meetings

The special conferences on adminis-
trative problems of chief executives of
local recreation and park agencies, hos-
pital recreation, recreation in rural
areas and recreation for business and
industrial employees were, as usual,
held during the first two days. Special
meetings on defense were held through-
out the Congress.

Meetings of the American Recrea-
tion Society were held on Sunday, Sep-
tcmber 30, and its annual business
luncheon on Tuesday. The newly-elect-
ed president of the society is Gerald B.
Fitzgerald, Director of Recreation
Training, University of Minnesota.

Others included a special defense
luncheon on Tuesday, at which the de-
fense problems of industry and the

DECEMBER 1951

community were of chief concern. Prin-
cipal speakers were John Moore, execu-
tive director of the United Community
Defense Services, New York, and Dean
Snyder, of Special Services, Federal
Security Agency, Washington. (See, al-
so, page 375.)

J. Willard Hayden, president of the
Charles Hayden Foundation, gracious-
ly gave a luncheon for members of the
National Recreation Association board
and for a few of its other friends.
Charles Hayden served as a member
of the association’s board of directors
for many years.

Gregg Bemis, an NRA board mem-
ber, gave a special luncheon for the
distinguished group of Boston leaders
who served as sponsors of the Con—
gress. Included, also, were a number
of regular sponsors of the association,
its board members and members of
Joseph Lee’s family. T. E. Rivers, NRA

Assistant Executive Director, in paying
tribute to Joseph Lee, said: “The 1951

“

More material from the Congress will ap-
pear in future issues of RECREATION.

#

Recreation and Park Yearbook, which
highlights the extent of recreation in
America today, is a statistical and
factual picture of Joseph Lee’s dream
come true.”

Joseph Prendergast, Executive Di-
rector of the National Recreation As-
sociation, recognized the vast contribu-
tion made by Boston leaders to the rec-
reation movement as he found it after
his appointment, and pledged the asso-
ciation’s continuance on the high level
of efiiciency that has characterized it
through the years.

Delegates at Play

Recreation leaders, given the Oppor-
tunity, are never loath to “practice
what they preach,” and, incidentally, to
pick up a few leadership pointers on
the way. Such opportunities came about
through the careful planning of the
Congress committee and were inter-
spersed with the more serious business
of the meetings.

The National Recreation Association
tea was held on Monday afternoon for
the purpose of making delegates feel
welcome. All other daytime hours were
filled with meetings and appointments,
save one afternoon, which was devoted

to a bus tour of scenic and historical
Boston.

The singing at the opening of the
evening sessions was led, once again,
by Augustus Zanzig, director of music
in the public schools of Brookline,
Massachusetts, after an absence from
that role for some years. Delegates af-
fectionately wclcomed him back and
enjoyed his leadership immensely.

On Monday evening, the Whitin
Malc Glee Club, an employee group
sponsored by the Whitin Machine
Works of Whitinsville, Massachusetts,
conducted by C. Alexander Peloquin,
gave a professionally-polished and en-
joyable concert. The session was fol-
lowed by the shouts and laughter of
delegates in the ballroom, as they
rompcd through the social games con-
ducted by Anne Livingston of the NRA.
“Sado - Okc- Sa,” a popular Japanese
folk dance, was taught to the gIOUp by
Mr. Koba and Dr. Kurimoto of the Na-
tional Recreation Association of Japan.
Square dancing devotees had a chance
at their favorite pastime on Tuesday
and Thursday evenings.

The Congress banquet was held on
Wednesday evening, when 374 guests,
in best bib and tucker, gathered for
dining, dancing and fun. Entertain-
ment was under the direction of Mil-
dred Scanlon of the NRA. During din-
ner, flower girls drifted between the
tables, peddling nosegays to those who
could answer quiz questions; a beauty
shop quartet serenaded individual
tables with songs from the listeners’
sections of the country; a barbershop
quartet sang melodies of the Gay Nine-
ties from the balcony. Mr. Prendergast
tried to make a speech and was inter-
rupted by an Italian workman in over-

alls, with stepladder, who began clean-
ing the chandeliers, and refused to

leave until he was allowed to sing. His
request was granted. The entertaining
workman-singer later turned out to be
Henry Schubert, recreation director of
Dearborn, Michigan.

Also, while dining, guests were en-
tertained with an excellent exhibition
of square and block dancing, put on by
the Boston YWCA, directed by Ted
Sanella and Louise Winston. The color-
ful costumes and movements of the
dancers were most effective against the
black backdrop of the ballroom stage.

373

o “I want to say a word about an essential part of our Rec-
reational Congress and to pay tribute to the part that is
played by our commercial exhibitors. They make several
vital contributions.

“In the first place, they are an important source of revenue
for the Congress. Secondly, they have the ideas and sug-
gestions, materials and supplies which will be helpful to
delegates in their work. Third, they have always stood ready
to cooperate in any way in which the Congress managcmcnt
might desire their help. I want to say, with genuine feeling,
that we are exceedingly appreciative of their cooperation.”—-—-
Thomas E. Rivers, NRA Assistant Executive Director, at an

early meeting.

Many of the exhibitors are old friends who have long
been interested in the recreation movement; others joined
us for the first time this year. All were welcome; and their
colorful, carnival-like displays were swarn'ling with friendly
hordes of delegates throughout each day.

 

After the banquet, ballroom dancing,
to a good orchestra, was interspersed
with entertaining musical mixers, bal-
10011 and cut-in dances.

At the Thursday meeting, the local
YWCA again contributed to the dclc-
gatcs’ enjoyment with its Pioneer Play-
crs, directed by Robert Guest, present-

ing a one-act play, Sunday Costs Five
Pesos. This, incidentally, gave the
audience good ideas as to how a play

can be effectively produced without
sccncry. Also, a National Recreation
Congress Chorus, assembled by Mr.
Zanzig, entertained fellow delegates
with renditions of old favorites.

Recreation for Business and
Industrial Employees

The special conference on this sub-
ject shared the concerns and serious en-
deavor of the other sections of the
Congress. Employee recreation direc-
tors, as well as executive personnel
managers of industrial and business
concerns, sat in on discussions which
ranged from such topics as community
and family relationships to the United
States Government’s plans for indus-
trially-impacted communities, civil de-
fense, preparing employees for retire-
ment and the relationship of recreation
to fatigue.

The meetings pointed up the fact
that while industry can hire human en-
ergy for its mechanically-operated ma-
chines, it can neither hire enthusiasm
for the job nor the good will of the
employee. This must come from good
employee relations, in which employee
recreation programs are a major fac-
tor. In regard to employee recreation
and the community, it was decided that
“a sound comprehensive recreation pro-
gram can be maintained at a moderate

 

Tuesday evening speakers: Mr. Wads-
worth, General Christenberry, Mr. Kaul.

clared a civil defensc area. The criteria
for a civil defense area include:

1. A new defense plant or installa-
tion or a reactivated defense plant hav-
ing its operation substantially ex-
panded.

2. Substantial in-migration of indus-
trial or military personnel.

3. Substantial shortage of housing
required for industrial or military per-
sonnel that exists or impends; or that
community facilities or services are not

available or insullicicnt.
Recreation is included within the

meaning of community facilities or
services.

Hospital Recreation

The hospital conference meetings
eovcred recreation for general medical
and surgical patients, orthopedic pa-
tients, neuropsychiatric patients and
the t0pic of recreation and mental
health. These were pronounced exceed-
ingly helpful by the hospital group,
which was made up of representatives

from military and veterans hospitals
and private municipal hospitals. There
was registered a general need for re-
search and study to interpret recrea-
tion in hospitals to all related services
concerned with helping the patient.

Rural Recreation

Members of the conference on rec-
reation in rural areas agreed that one
of the greatest needs in this field is
that for improving relationships be-
tween rural and urban groups, in the
light of the growing merging of rural
and urban populations. It was agreed
that the cooperative and combined use
of all public facilities, particularly of
those of school and community, and a
better planning of all public facilities,
with the idea of maximum combined
use, are much to be desired

(Space in this issue prevents a
more detailed summary of all meet-
ings. Order the 1951 Congress Pro-

ceedings NO‘V! Price $2.25. Nation-
al Recreation Association.)

Board Members

Congress Panel Discussionu-Briefly, under the subject of “Board
Members Make The Wheels Go ’Round,” 107 board members agreed
that the ideal public recreation board should include both men and
women, consist of one member primarily interested and exPerienced
in community recreation, one representing the school board, one
from the Junior Chamber of Commerce, one with general business
experience and one especially trained in financial matters; that it
is important to work closely with city eouncilmen whose depart-
ments are directly affected by the community recreation program.
The details of program planning should be left in the expert and
experienced hands of the superintendent of recreation, but the board
should be thoroughly familiar with the over-all program and assume
full responsibility for ellicient and economical execution. It should
constantly project ideas for expansion and betterment. Members
should maintain close and frequent contact with the board of educa-
tion, preferably through the superintendent of recreation.

cost if industry and community com-
bine efforts and resources.” The discus-
sion on preparing employees for re-
tirement was enlightening, as few busi-
ness and industrial concerns yet realize
the importance of this ever-increasing
problem.

Speaking to the 135 persons at the
civil defense industrial luncheon, Dean
Snyder, Deputy Administrator for Spe-
cial Services, Federal Security Agency,
Washington, D. C., stated that, under
Public Law 139 (Maybank-Spence
Bill), no community is eligible for fed-
eral assistance until it has been de—

 

DECEMBER 1951

   

DIANY LOCAL communities through-
out our country are rarely, if ever—
by reason of locality or financial sta-
tus—exposed to the opportunity of
enjoying a living theatre production.
This situation presents a growing
threat to the theatre arts as a part of
our national culture, and is of grave
concern to all those who love the legitimate stage.

The way in which the theatre can be brought to com-
munities, and an interest awakened in it, therefore natu-
rally became one of the projects undertaken by students in
the theatre courses at Sarah Lawrence College a year or
so ago. They found one solution to the problem in the
discovery of a fifteenth-century nativity play which, in
addition to its extraordinary charm and simplicity, had
the advantage of being portable. With a horse-drawn
wagon as a stage, it could be transported from one com-
munity to another and presented in the open air to audi-
ences who surrounded it on three sides.

The choice proved to be a particularly fortunate one,
partly because of the pure artistry of the play, and partly
because it symbolized and coincided with the Christmas
season of communal brotherhood and good 'will. The
original script had been annually presented by the Tailor’s
and Shearer’s Guild in Coventry, England. Four students
undertook to condense it in order to facilitate production,

AUTHOR is director of publicity, Sarah Lawrence College.

376

Doris Biker

but the continuity of the play was carefully preserved.

It opened with the appearance of Isaiah, who mounted
the wagon in order to prophesy the coming of the Christ
Child. The scene following this prologue included the An-
nunciation, first to Mary and then to Joseph, ending as
they left the wagon, presumably on the way to Bethlehcnl.
The revelation next came to the three shepherds and thrcc
kings. Herod was also informed, and intercepting the for-
eign kings on their way to Bethlehem, welcomed them with
kingly dignity while treacherously planning their deaths
and the massacre of male infants, designed to protect his
position as supreme ruler. In the following scene, the kings
were warned by an angel of Herod’s perfidy and changed
their route in order to avoid death at his hands. The finalc
took place in the manger at Bethlehem. The adoration of
the kings and shepherds was followed by the departurc
of Mary, Joseph and Jesus for Egypt, and the play ended
as they left thc wagon, Mary and the Child seated on a
tiny live donkey.

Every student in thc department contributed some ti1nc

RECREATION

and effort to the project. The actual cast numbcrcd thirteen,
and was supplemented by twenty members of the chorus
dressed as English carolers, who stood slightly apart from
thc wagon and provided musical bridges to link the differ-
cut scenes. Also, they sang a number of traditional Christ-
mas carols both before and after the performance. Those
students not engaged in acting, worked on construction,
costumes, make-up, lighting, publicity and directing.

The costumes were executed from sketches submitted by
members of the costume-design classes who based their
drawings on a study of Giotto prints. The crude, solid
simplicity of the clothes worn by Mary, Joseph and the
three shepherds provided an interesting contrast to the
brilliantly ornate costumes of the three kings and Herod.
The portable stage presented a number of problems, and
several ideas were submitted from the classes in stage de-
sign. The design finally chosen provided for a covered
manger at one end of the wagon. The curtain in front of
the manger was to be drawn back in the last scene to reveal
Mary and Joseph.

In addition to the presentation of “The Nativity” at Sarah
Lawrence, four performances were held in the surround-
ing communities of Yonkers, Mt. Vernon, Bronxville and
Eastchester, and had a final appearance in Washington
Square in New York City. The weather was generally co-
operative, except in the New York performance where the
actors had to compete with a raging snowstorm. Perhaps
the most memorable performance, however, was in Mt.
Vernon, where the audience was mainly made up of chil-
dren who responded enthusiastically to the pagcant. In
addition to expressing violent disapproval of the tyrannical
King Herod, they reacted with great delight to the whitc
and gold angels. Gabriel, for instance, had her gown
tweaked by one of the youngsters, who asked with touching
faith, “Will you say a prayer for me tonight?” Another
child was more skeptical. Inspecting the swathed and illu-
minatcd bundle which represented the Christ Child, he an-
nounced to his more gullible friends, “It’s nothing but an
old flashlight!”

The community performances were made possible by the
sponsorship of local recreation organizations. The public
response to this experiment was immediate. Letters of
thanks and congratulations appeared every day, both from
individuals and private organizations. Also the play was
widely publicized in the current periodicals. Local and New
York newspapers carried articles, pictures or editorials,
and comment on it appeared in print even in the distant
columns of the Baltimore Sun, New Orleans Times-Pica-
yune, Los Angeles Herald and the Paris Herald Tribune.

As a direct outgrowth of this experience and the result-
ant requests from surrounding communities to continue to
work with them, two members of the theatre faculty, Miss
Madalyn O’Shea and Mr. John Blankenchip, offered a
course in which students made a study of the function of
the theatre in relation to the community. This course in-
volved active theatre projects, such as children’s plays, to
be put on in conjunction with recreation departments, and
other experiments in theatre, such as programs of improvi-
sations, sketches and one-act plays relating to problems in

DECEMBER 1951

which the community is interested.

One of the projects was a dance and song version of the
children’s record, “Tubby the Tuba.” Against a background
of bars of music decorated with notes, sharps and flats,
students dressed as the various musical instruments told
in dance and song the story of the tuba who could not
learn a melody. This was given for audiences of children
in several schools in Westchester and in the children’s
ward of Bellevue Hospital in New York.

During the summer of 1950, a troupe of Sarah Lawrence
theatre students toured Westchester County presenting
children’s plays, using the horse-drawn wagon stage in the
parks and playgrounds of seventeen county communities.
The group consisted of four Sarah Lawrence students, one
Sarah Lawrence alumna, the brother of a student and two
students from Harvard and Duke. There was a stage mana-
ger, a publicity and promotion manager, a driver who
was also official baby-sitter for the spirited team of horses.
As in most projects of this kind, every person did not only
his own job, but pitched in on that part of theatre referred
to as “back stage work.” The directing and designing of

the shows were handled by Mr. John Blankenchip, of the
Sarah Lawrence theatre faculty.

The three plays presented were “The Emperor‘s New
Clothes,” “The Fisherman and His Wife,” and “Pierre

Patelin.” “The Emperor’s New Clothes,” the well-known

 

In The Fisherman and His Wife, 3 genie is called forth in
a cloud of smoke—through a trap door in the wagon floor.

Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale, was chosen as the
afternoon show for children. It is the story of two indigent
weavers who fabricate a magical cloth, supposedly visible
only to able, intelligent pe0ple. When the cloth is cut as
a suit for the emperor’s birthday, no one, including the
emperor, dares admit that no material exists; instead they
outdo each other in extravagant praise. At the end of the
delightful scene in which the emperor is finally “clothed”
in his new suit, he parades through the audience under a
large red canopy wearing only his long-j ohns. Before each
performance a child was selected at random from the
audience to deliver the punch line, “But Mommy, he hasn’t

377

any clothes on." The success of this arrangement depended
upon the precarious thread of the temporary ingenue’s
memory and stage presence, and delivery ranged all the
way from “The empire doesn't wear nothing on,” to “Oh,
mommy!” and occasionally no line was heard at all.

The other two shows needed no outside help, but there
were always places in the script to keep the actors worried.
In “The Fisherman and His Wife” a genie is called forth.
Interrupted in a rendevous with a mermaid, he appears in
a cloud of smoke through a trap door in the wagon. On
occasion, the smoke bomb didn’t work or the trap door got
stuck, forcing the genie to be manually catapulted onto the
wagon. In “Pierre Patelin,” a farce involving an irrespon-
sible lawyer, an even less responsible shepherd and a
scheming tailor, no one ever knew quite what the end

  

The recreation di-
- rector of San Gabriel,
(a: California, Johnny
*5“! Klingenspor, is a snow
' enthusiast of the first
degree. Recently, he

bemoaned the fact that

Instead of the one, original Santa San Gabriel is in the
Claus, the situation required four.

 

citrus belt and there-
fore his little proteges
had never had the thrill of supervised winter sport play.
Being a man of direct action, however, he changed this
with one swoop of his recreation budget.

The decision was made to hold an artificial snow storm
at Smith Park in San Gabriel. Contacts were made with the
motion picture studios for the use of their giant snow
machines, and fifty thousand pounds of ice were ordered
for the event. The recreation department generated such
steam and enthusiasm in San Gabriel, however, that dona-
tions from residents were soon being received. What had
started as a local event snowballed into a national event.

When the day of the Snow Frolic rolled around, a grand
total of one hundred thirty-one" thousand pounds of
powdered ice was on hand—enough snow to cover an acre
of the park six inches deep. The recreation department also
stocked up with six thousand ice cream cones, two thousand
sacks of p0pcorn, three thousand wienies and ten thousand
marshmallows for the children. Instead of one Santa Claus,

378

would be. The final scene found the lawyer chasing the
shepherd, while the tailor chased the lawyer . . . twice
around the wagon, once across the top of it, and then
through the audience which, by that time, was pardonably
wondering who was chasing whom. One evening just before
the show, laughter was heard from the assembled specta-
tors. Sammy, the more lovable of the two horses, had
prematurely opened the show by turning calmly around
in the traces to munch away at the medieval straw broom
from the Patelin household.

“The Nativity” play, however, has heen given again and
again at Christmas time, by different groups of students,
with new approaches to lighting and staging, offering to
both participants and audiences an entertaining and satis-
fying experience.

 Artificial Snow Event

there were four. Instead of the original twenty-five hundred
children expected, there were over eighteen thousand under
ten years of age, as well as a similar number of adults.

The snow in the orange belt stunt caught the fancy of
the papers, magazines and newsreels, and seventy-two pho-
tographers were on hand. The event was televised on
three stations, and two newsreels were made of it. Life,
Time and Pic magazines sent people to cover it, and its
story was run in over eighteen hundred newspapers
throughout the country.

Mr. Klingenspor and his staff of eight recreation direc-
tors came through the ordeal with flying snowballs. Snow-
flushed children were given toboggan rides down specially
built slides, snow man contests were held, lessons were
given in the art of skiing, and of course the inevitable snow
ball throwing took place.

The Red Cross tent, set up for emergencies, reported
that things went so smoothly that there were only five
minor injuries, including a black eye suffered by one
member of the recreation department who tried to stop a
flying snowball.

Big bonfires were built to keep the children warm and
to assist in serving hot refreshments. The adults were not
forgotten either. Square dancing was held on the tennis
courts and over five thousand square dancers came to
dance near the snow and in the snow.

A little event had grown into a big one, with great credit
to the recreation department for producing so rare a spec-
tacle as an artificial snow storm.

RECREATION

Santa brings his reindeer

When over two thousand persons and
four arctic reindeer work for three months

 

to create a Christmas parade, it’s bound
to be successful—particularly when the merchants of a city
put up $4,800 to buy the necessary materials.

That is the way it was done in Oklahoma City last year.
During the preceding February, the board of directors of
the Oklahoma City Retailers Association approved the
general idea of a Christmas Parade, proposed by Emmett
E. Barbee, the secretary-manager of the association, and
voted a budget of $4,500 for the event. Dr. Chester Swan-
son, then deputy-superintendent and now superintendent of
schools, was the next to hear about it and he, in turn,
presented the idea to the principals of the fourteen high
and junior-high schools of the city."All agreed to co-
operate.

Several confercnces followed, with Mr. Barbee, Fire
Chief R. G. McAlpine, who was the parade marshal, and
Catherine Simpson, of the recreation' department of the
Oklahoma City park system, working out the general plans.
A parade committee, which was later augmented, met dur-
ing August. Among its members were representatives of the
police department, city schools and the head of the school
art department. The next month, Mrs. Simpson and Em-
mett Barbee met with the fourteen school principals and
worked out a set of rules to govern the building of the Floats.

It was agreed that fourteen city schools and two Catholic
high schools would enter Boats, with each participating
school receiving one hundred dollars from the Retailers
Association for the purchase of materials. Schools were
asked to stay within that budget and to return any unspent
balance. Nothing could be borrowed exccpt a truck or
chassis for the float.

The theme for each entrant had to be submitted for ap-
proval by the fifteenth of October in order to avoid any
duplication. As soon as each was approved, a check for
expenses was mailed to the school principal. Next, a meet-
ing of student representatives of the schools was called so
that they might help determine the position of each Boat in
the parade. In fact, as far as possible, all decisions were
left to students and faculty. In addition, a display manager
from a downtown store was assigned to each school to
serve as counselor. However, nothing could be rented from

DECEMBER 1951

the counselor’s own store. Catalogues from the Chicago
Artificial Flower Company, 3520 West Fullerton Avenue,
Chicago, and Gasthoff’s Manufacturing Company, 316
South Rome Avenue, Tampa, Florida, were very helpful
in the selection of designs and display material. Each dis-
play manager was presented with twenty-five dollars, and
the promise of a chance at the one hundred dollar prize to
be given to the one who helped with the winning Hoat. Thus
the incentive was provided! The fioat prizes also were
worthwhile—with a first prize of two hundred dollars,
second prize of one hundred dollars, third prize of seventy-
five dollars, and three honorable mention prizes of thirty-
five dollars each.

The art and wood-working departments of each school
worked together so well in designing and creating the fioats
that, of the sixteen finally completed, nearly all would have
qualified for a place in a professional parade. About half
of the themes were religious while the other half reflected
the very fine spirit of the Christmas and holiday season.
Not a line of advertising of any kind was to be seen any-
where during the ceremony!

On the day of the big event, schools were dismissed at
one-thirty, for the parade was scheduled to start promptly
at two-thirty. To facilitate matters, a blueprint of the park-

Fourteen public schools and two Catholic high schools in
the city entered Hoats created by students and faculties.

 

379

ing spaces at the point of assembly and of the parade route
was mailed to participants, and one hundred policemen
and one hundred guards from nearby Tinker Field were
drilled in handling the crowds. Forty-five minutes were re-
quired for the parade to pass the reviewing stand. A large
number of extra buses was put into service at one-thirty,
and was available immediately after the parade. By four-
thirty, the congestion was completely relieved and the
five o’clock rush was not hampered by parade crowds.

Quite early all schools were notified on what points their
floats would be judged by a committee of one prominent
artist, two art instructors from a local university, a dis-
play specialist and a minister. Each member made his
choice independently, using a point system, and it was
simple to total the points after the parade and announce
the winners.

Thirteen school bands, with about seven hundred musi-
cians, and seven school pep clubs, with more than six
hundred members, took part in our first venture. Each band
was allowed twenty-five dollars for the transportation
of players and instruments. However, this amount proved
to be inadequate and will have to be increased another
year, probably to thirty dollars.

The last featured number of the parade was old St. Nick
himself, in a sleigh drawn by four live Arctic reindeer. It
cost five hundred dollars to rent Santa’s helpers from a
Texas rancher who goes to the Arctic each year to supple-

24% Me 7m
6m to [dye

s AINTA OPENS his wonderful pack and all the toys come
to life, in one of-the most striking scenes of the Oakland,
California, recreation department’s Christmas pageant,
“Light of the World.” The two-hour pageant will be given
for its twenty-fifth year on December 8 and 9 in the local
municipal auditorium. Some seventeen hundred school
children from six high schools, eight junior high schools
and fifty-four elementary schools will take part in the series
of dances with orchestral accompaniment. The largest
group dance depicts four hundred twenty-five Christmas
fairies, some three years of age, welcoming the spirit of
Christmas.

Since 1926, directed by Miss Louise Jorgenson, the tra-
ditional festival program event has been a sell-out in ad-
vance of the pageant nights. No dress rehearsals are held,
but for two months prior to presentation, rehearsals take

380

ment his herd, but it certainly was worth it! It is doubtful
that even a few of our 100,000 spectators had ever seen
live reindeer, and the children loved them.

Arrangements were made with a commercial photogra-
pher to take pictures of each float, and our local news-
papers gave us live advance stories, ranging from a half
column to a column. They also ran two forty-inch ads;
and the day before the parade we, ourselves, splurged on
a one hundred twenty inch ad which cost us seven hundred
dollars. Also on that day, twenty of our members, who
regularly advertised in the Sunday paper, ran notices
about the event.

This was the first parade of its kind ever tried in Okla-
homa City and many mistakes were made—but they will
be eliminated in the future. In September, a lengthy bulle-
tin was sent to all schools, followed by six others, clarify-
ing matters and analyzing the problems which beset us.
These bulletins also went to the principal of each school,
the faculty members assigned to supervise the floats, the
counselors, student representatives, the bandleaders and all
members of the general parade committee. Addressograph
plates were made for each so that further communications
may be sent out promptly when needed.

No doubt about it—our parade was successful and Mrs.
Simpson and Chief McAlpine deserve a great deal of the
credit. We can now look forward to even bigger and better
events for our community.

 

The doll buggies, scooters, hobby horses, soldiers, dolls,
balloons and other toys dance around high Christmas tree.

place at the sixty-eight schools.

The pageant is divided into three parts: the Light of the
Sun, the Light of Peace, Love and Kindness and the Light
of the East. The Light of the Sun portrays the early
legendary worship of the sun by primitive man and the
celebration of the victory of light and warmth over dark-
ness. As time progresses, the early worship of the light of
the sun came to have a more significant meaning; and in
the Light of Peace, Love and Kindness, the spirit of good
will and giving is stressed. In the Light of the East, the
birth of Christ, as the Spiritual light of the world, repre-
sents the present significance of Christmas, the spirit of
Christmas as we know it today.

RECREATION

 

Helpful suggestions made by Donald Wetmore,
drama advisor to the Nova Seotia division of adult
education, over the Trans-Canada network of the
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.

 

The Drama Group

Most amateur groups, asked why they want to put on a
play, say they want to make money; but they could make
more money more easily with a dance or a rummage sale.
They say it develops character. So do group games and
panel discussions. Money, teamwork, character develop-
ment, recreation—all of these do appear as objectives, but
at the bottom is the truth stated by a choir leader: “We
love being in a play; we always have a good time with it;
and it’s a chance to use our imaginations. We want some-
thing worthwhile that will give us a lift.”

That being true-—-and it is, let’s put on worthwhile plays.
To recognize a good play, look for believable characters.
Something interesting happens to them, and the plot there-
fore is built upon suspense. The dialogue has some distinc-
tion and is worth listening to, and the whole thing is lively
entertainment.

Clever farce, comedies, pleasant and likeable characteri-
zation and mysteries usually make money. A lot depends
upon how often a community has a chance to see plays.
Repetitious gags, freakish characterizations, routine plots
may not yet bore the audience——-nor the actors. However,
experienced players want something that will spark their
imaginations. They want the lift of a good play. It’s better
to be a little ambitious—even in scenery. It is not neces-
sary always to have plays with just one set. The challenge
to the construction crew and the property man will interest
them and bind them more firmly to the group.

But if you are ambitious, face the difficulties early. In
sophisticated comedy of conversation, what about voice,
diction, a Mayfair accent? Shakespeare or a Biblical play?
Voice projection, movement, costumes. A farce? Speed,
always speed. _

The cast should be responsible for the play, and only
the play. Backstage, publicity, ticket sales should be
handled by another organized group, set up early and
given responsibility.

Any group that wants to put on a play should have
some sort of workshOp. Not only is scenery to be con-

Reprinted through the courtesy of Community Courier In-

formation Supplements, Community Programmes Branch, a

Department of Education, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

DECEMBER 1951

 

structed, equipment gathered, rehearsals held, but a spirit,
a nucleus for continuing effort, can center about a place of
thc group’s own. You don’t need a hall for this; any little-
used public room, someone’s “parlor,” will do. It should
be available at least twice a week. The object of a work-
shop or studio is to creatc opportunities for improvement
through study and practice.

The workshop may be an important cog in the business
of building interest and a permanent group, as well as a
place in which to discuss plans, ideals, the future. How
can we get the community behind us? These workshop
sessions often will be for small groups, such as those study-
ing design and making scenery, or make-up, or the use of
lights, how to dye materials, how to make and use puppets,
or model stages. Mostly, however, a workshop is used for
two purposes—to improve acting and to stage short plays.
Monthly meetings for all members will be improved by
reports of progress, and by the staging of plays for the
group. One of the main functions of the workshop will be
to get up attractive items for the monthly meeting.

Three important phases of producing demand attention
in the workshop—practical training in use of the voice
and body, exercises in acting technique, and the study of
plays. To read Gilbert and Sullivan’s delightfully deft and
tongue-twisting songs, followed by the reading of the
Psalms of David—that alone would make a valuable ses-
sion. Body training should be based on shadow plays and
pantomimes. Start by acting out familiar situations—going
to the dentist, going fishing. Add characterizations, and
finally a plot with a climax. Experiment with making up
such plots.

Acting technique is best studied by use of scenes from
plays or short skits, learning to take the cues and lift the
ends of sentences. Let the play-reading committee recom-
mend scenes and short plays and stage the reading in front
of other members, with only a rehearsal or two, the play-
ers holding scripts. Suggest stage movements and observe
the moods and climaxes; Your greatest h'ft will come from
attempting bits from great plays, things you’d never dare to

do for the public.
Just one caution: don’t let anyone get the idea the group

is a closed clique. Welcome newcomers, give generously
of your services to community projects. Be sure to have

381

some plays on call to use at the local orphanage.

A drama group should not get into a rut. One of the
nicest things people can say is, “We never know what to
expect, but it’s always good.” A good formula is two parts
popular fare to one part less commercial drama. This makes
for a colorful season.

Advertise your plays well. Put out some good publicity
which will indicate the enjoyment to be found in them.
Some groups present carefully written program notes, or a
commentator, or even a forum after the play.

In choosing plays, remember people like plays with
laughter, especially if the laughter is healthy and the com-
edy deals with pleasant people. The fun in stock characters
of dominating wives, hen-peeked husbands, social-climbing
widows and skinflints is soon exhausted. Some of the best
comedies of the pleasant type are: The Happy Journey, I
Remember Mama, January Thaw. People like mystery
comedies such as The Bishop M isbehaves, The Ghost Train.
Above all, once in a while there should be a play with an
idea, such as Our Town, Thunder Rock or High Tor.

We must not forget the children, the future theatre audi-
ence. Let grown-ups and children'be in the play together
and make it a big one, like Cinderella, Snow White or
Hans Brinker.

Include an evening of one-act plays—maybe those al-
ready tried out in the workshop. Here everything may be
included, from the poetic tragedy to social documentary,
and especially short folk plays.

Community Program

A community can do almost anything once people get
together in a determined effort. A college group refused
to do I Remember Mania because of the elaborate settings.
A backwoods group took the same play, scrapped the
Broadway settings, set up four simple platforms in each
corner of the stage, all that was needed to take care of the
many short scenes. A cast of seventeen adults and five
children spread the acting over the district, and the com-
plicated hackstage work used a crew of many more. The
whole district was sold on the play. That’s community
drama!

Many celebrations ought to involve all the local talent—
an annual or semi-annual outpouring of gifts. Sometimes
an evening can be made up of separate club productions—
a one-act play from the drama club, a short pageant from
the high school, a memorial service from the church group,
tableaux from the veterans or the Red Cross, background
music from all the choirs singing together. All this might
he connected by a commentator from the American Legion.
Group responsibility like this spreads the work and en-
riches the experience of everybody.

Few choirs have enough people to attempt anything am-
bitious, but massed choirs could give light operas and
tuneful musical comedies. There are many.

There are charming musical plays that children can do,
too. Often the burden of a children’s program is laid upon
the teachers; but since the program is for the community,

and enjoyed by the community, why should not everybody
help?

382

Perhaps the commonest type of community program is
the historical pageant. This often is difiieult and sometimes
expensive. What about simple scenes on local subjects writ-
ten by special groups? These can be enormously successful.

A group in New Brunswick staged a play about their
home town, showing what it was like in bygone days. One
episode keeps them chuckling yet—the old-time fire de-
partment with the village fathers hopping madly about the
stage armed with axes and buckets and clad in long flannel
night-shirts.

Now a group in Weymouth is writing a play, Is This
Weymouth? They meet all over the house of the leader,
in the living room, kitchen and bedrooms, each group
working on one episode. They read old newspapers, talk
with old-timers and, when they get together, one suggests a
line, another modifies it and by the end of the evening, the
script is on the way.

Projects like these are possible if people get together
and stick to their aim. Once a production has reached out
and touched all the people in a district, there’s a feeling of
having done something fine for everyhody. They have pro-
duced the best that community citizens can offer.

Successful Athletic T0lll‘

.John J. Downing, director of recreation with the New
York City Department of Parks, served as manager of a
group of United States track and field athletes who made
a good will tour of Japan under the auspices of the Ama-
teur Athletic Union of the United States in the summer of
1951. Twelve athletes and two coaches made up the team
which competed in twelve Japanese cities. Many records
made by foreigners in Japan were equalled or exceeded by
this visiting group. The athletes were royally entertained
throughout their tour, which included four days in Hono-
lulu where Theodore Nobriga, the director of recreation,
served as host.

Mr. Downing reported attendance at the games as vary-
ing from fifteen thousand to forty thousand persons. In
some stadiums, girls’ dancing exhibitions and track and
field championships for boys and girls were interspersed
with the feature events. Clinics on track and field activities
were conducted by the American coaches.

Perfect sportsmanship was displayed by the athletes, ac-
cording to Mr. Downing, and there was considerable frat-
ernizing, discussions and demonstrations between the Jap-
anese and Americans. He adds:

“Using as a barometer the applause of the spectators at
the opening and closing ceremonies, and the winning of
events by our athletes, also, the warm welcome extended
to our team during the street parades of welcome, 1 am
certain that the tour accomplished one of its principal
purposes, the establishment of good will between the peo-
plc of the United States and Japan.”

The prearranged schedule did not permit Mr. Downng
to attend the Japanese Recreation Congress, but he sent a
message of greeting to that Congress in behalf of the rec-
reation workers in the United States.

RECREATION

7W6¢ gm tée geezedm Execaa'ae

STAFF MEMBERS SPEAK OUT

AT THE 1950 fall conference of the

Illinois Recreation Association a
section meeting was set aside for mem-
bers of recreation department staffs. It
was unanimously agreed that staff mem-
bers should be given an active part in
planning the program for the associa-
tion’s annual meeting, and that prob-
lems of staff members should receive
a place on the program. The group in-
dicated the following problems to be of
vital importance for the consideration
of the recreation executive.

1. Recreation executives (men) often
do not consider experience, back-
ground, and services rendered when al-
loting jobs at the supervisory level.
Too often men are given these jobs
when women staff members are better
qualified. There should be no discrimi-
nation merely on the basis of sex, and
women should be allowed to supervise
men if their ability and experience
warrant such consideration.

2. Women staff members too often
are required to conduct most of the
creative activities in the department
(arts and crafts, music, drama, etc.)
since men are usually untrained in
these activities. The conduct of the fine
arts program involves a great deal of
difficult promotion, working with poor
facilities, and involves a great deal
more work than conducting sports and
other activities handled by men. Thus
the men conduct the activities that have
a more popular appeal or require less
orientation and a shorter instruction
period before satisfactions are realized.
Furthermore, too many executives do
not encourage supervisors and leaders
of activities that have a wide popular

DECEMBER 1951

appeal to influence children to partici-
pate in thc creative activities. The rea-
son is often lack of understanding by
the executive of the various program
areas, especially activities involving the
fine arts.

3. There should be no differentiation
in salaries between men and women
staff members for performing essen-
tially the same jobs.

The group also expressed the opin-
ion that administrators should sharc
their problems as much as possible
with staff members.

“Staff members often do not know
why they are required to do things a
certain way and are unaware that it
is often a community or board influ-
ence that forces the administrator to
follow a given policy. Such a sharing
of mutual problems will allow staff
members to contribute to the solution
of such problems, and at the same time
provide a basis for common under-
standing and esprit de corps between
the executive and the staff.”

The following points were consid-
ered to be of importance in executive-
staff relationships:

1. In general, most staff meetings are
“abominable,” whereas executives can
do a great deal to make them more in-
teresting and stimulating.

2. Staff meetings are often too formal
and staff members cannot or will not
criticize the executive’s policy for fear
of retribution. There should be some
reasonable job security for the staff
member.

3. Staff members should become fa-
miliar with all phases of the total pro-
gram and not become so involved in

their specialties that they do not un-
derstand what other staff members are
doing. Likewise, the executives should
ensure that all staff members cooper-
ate in the conduct of special events re-
gardless of which special event is being
conducted. Executives should ensure
that staff members promote all phascs
of the program, not only those phases
of the program that are their own
specialties.
4. The executive should ensure that
there is an adequate in-service training
program conducted in the department
to allow supervisors and staff members
to further their own training and also
to train temporary staff members, vol-
unteers and junior leaders. Such train-
ing for regular staff members should
include definite practical experience in
performing executive duties as well as
experience in the various phases of
program operation.
A. There should be periodic depart-
mental training institutes to carry
out the above-mentioned program.
Staff members should receive pay
when attending such institutes.
B. Evaluation institutes are recom-
mended to help the staff and the ex-
ecutive to determine progress madc
from time to timc and to formulate
the future plans of the department.

Automobile Allowances

Seven cents per mile is the rate of re-
imbursement most frequently used to-
day by governmental jurisdictions for
private automobiles used on public
business, according to a recent study
reported by the Municipal Finance Of-
ficers Association. The range of reim-
bursement varies from five to ten cents
per mile as compared with a range of
four to eight cents in 1944. The associ-
ation recommends use of a fixed mile-
age rate wherever practical for a num-
ber of reasons, and suggests considera-

383

tion of step rates which provide pro-
gressi ver lower rates of reimbursement
as the amount of travel increases. As-
pects of the problem covered by the
report—entitled, “Allowances for Use
of Private Automobiles”—are: meth-
ods and rates of reimbursement, prac-
tices by selected state governments, and
methods of determining rates and of
controlling use of automobiles. The
four-page report may be secured from
the Municipal Finance Officers Assoei-
ation of the United States and Canada,

1313 East Sixtieth Street, Chicago 37,
Illinois, at fifty cents per copy.

Liability

The growing tendency of the courts
to hold recreation agencies responsi-
ble for their acts was pointed out in a
talk entitled, “Liability in Public Bec-
reation,” by Dr. William H. Freeburg
of Southern Illinois University before
the 1950 fall conference of the Illinois
Recreation Association. Dr. Freeburg
stated that in general there is no liabili-
ty for public-sponsored recreation in
Illinois, where the recreation depart-
ment functions as a governmental agen-
cy. He pointed out, however, possible

instances where liability might be ap-
plied as follows:

“Although the operating recreation
department has been established as a
governmental function in Illinois, there
are times when it might be considered
as a pr0prietary function. When gov-
ernmental agencies violate statutes, the
agencies sometimes become liable for
damages. Some of the laws in Illinois
which might frequently be violated in-
clude building codes, nuisance laws
and laws requiring mandatory acts to
be performed. No record was found of
a case in which a recreation depart-
ment has been sued for the, above
causes.

“It can readily be seen that the basis
for the ‘immunity doctrine’ has little
chance for survival in our present-day
society. Many states have changed the
operation of their recreation and park
departments to a proprietary function.
It is highly probable that the state of
Illinois may do likewise before many
years have passed.

“There is a similar ‘immunity doe-
trine’ established for charitable eorpo-
rations which eonduct recreation pro-

384

grams in Illinois. The doers of charity
or, in other words, the workers and di-
rectors, are in most cases subject to the
same law as other private individu-
als.”

Narcotics

The apparent rise in the use of nar-
cotics by uveniles is recognized by the
Los Angeles Department of Recreation
and Parks in its weekly bulletin for
September 1951. It points out that
since children of that age Span eonsti-
tute the majority of patrons visiting
the public playgrounds, directors
should have knowledge of this problem.

“It should be the responsibility of
each director to read and study care-
fully all of the valid and scientific ma-
terial that is offered on this subject. A
few cases have come to our attention
where narcotics, especially marijuana,
have been sold to youth on playground
property. The sale of narcotics is not
restricted in this city to any type of
neighborhood but seems to reach into
all areas alike.

“We are told by the Los Angeles
Police Department that the arrest of
juveniles for possession and sale of
narcotics is up approximately one hun-
dred fifty-five per cent over last year.
Apparently, those selling narcotics hnd
it most convenient to contact and sell
to users at teen-age dances and also at
open spaces in playgrounds, parks and
schoolgrounds, as well as other places
where young pe0ple congregate.

“The use of narcotics is of such a
vicious nature that recreation directors
should take a very firm stand against
its use or sale on the part of youthful
patrons. Even though directors must
have the full confidence of children
who visit the playgrounds, this confi-
dence cannot be sustained at the ex-
pense of condoning the use of narcotics
on the part of children. Directors
should take a firm stand in counselling
with the youth who visit the play-
grounds. Children should know the
directors’ stand on this matter and
should not tolerate any patron who
uses, sells, or condones such use on
the part of others.”

Board Members

The composition of recreation boards
and their functions were discussed at
the 1950 conference of the Illinois

Recreation Association. In summary,
the group agreed that:

1. Board members should not be ex-
pected to act as rubber stamps for the
director of recreation.

2. Each board in the state should have
at least one woman member and one
politician. The politician was included
because it was felt that he could
handle other politicians who might be
“sold” on what the department was do-
ing. The woman membcr received the
nod because everyone felt that a wom-
an would help grcatly in interpreting
the program to women’s groups.

3. The board should assume a responsi-
bility for good community relation-
ships. Board members should be will-
ing to run interference for the depart-
ment’s program whenever eontroversics
arise.

4. Each recreation board should have
one member from both the school
board and the park board serving
actively.

Awards for Volunteers

The service rendered to recreation
departments by individuals and organi-
zations has played a large part in the
success of expanding recreation pro-
grams. The growing tendency to me-
ognize this service in a tangible way is
illustrated by the awards granted by

 

two recreation authorities in Califor-
nia.

The Burbank Recreation Department
has recently inaugurated a program of
honor awards for meritorious com-
munity service. An award certificate is
presented to persons and organizations
rendering service to the recreation de-
partment either through donations or
service in time and effort. The certifi-
cate indicates that it is presented to the
recipient “For Outstanding Civic Serv-
ice Rendered to the Recreation Pro-
gram for the Youth and Adult Citizens
of Burbank in the year 19—.” It is
signed by the president of the park and
recreation board and the mayor of the

RECREATION

city, and the presentation is made by
the mayor at a meeting of the city
council. The program of awards has
been heartily endorsed by thc city
authorities and it is felt that it will aid
materially in deve10ping good will
toward the rccreation program.

The Greater Vallejo Recreation Dis-
trict also honors persons or groups
who have done a particularly fine piece
of work, or who have given of thcir
time and talents to the recreation pro-
gram, through a monthly “Laurel
Wreath” award. The Vallejo Communi-
ty Center Mother’s Club, which since
1948 has sponsored and assisted with
dances at the center, was a recent re-
cipient. Its assistance has taken the
form of chaperoning, check room at-
tending, ticket selling, door guarding,
refreshment dispensing, and cleaning
up after the danccs. Several members
of the mother’s club were cited for
their special service.

No Cause for Action

Early in 1951 the jury in the Essex
County, New Jersey, court handed
down a unanimous decision which
should be of interest to recreation
authorities. In July 1949, in a twilight
baseball league game in Maplewood,
New Jersey, a first baseman was chas-
ing a high foul fly; and in doing so he
stepped on and spiked a woman walk-
ing in the park, throwing her to the
ground. She brought suit against the
first baseman, Maplewood Community
Scrvice and the Veterans of Foreign
Wars Post, which was the team’s spon-
sor, suing for $1,000 and $10,000 for
medical expenses, loss of work, and
suffering. The claimant maintained
that she was walking in a public park
and was entitled to collect. The defense
claimed that the ball player had a right
to be there and to play the ball in a
normal way. The case was decided in
favor of the defendants, with no cause
for action.

According to the executive director
of Maplewood Community Service, the
testimony of the league director and
the base umpire, with the report of the
accident at the time, were offered in
support of the player’s statement. He
suggests that the experience in this case
emphasizes the importance of compe-
tent umpiring, with records kept of the

DECEMBER 1951

name, address and telephone number
of the umpire of each game. A sugges-
tion also was offered that where games
are played in an open park, signs, such
as, “When a game is in progress pro-
ceed at your own risk,” might help
avoid possible accidents and aid the
defense in case of claims.

Basic Organization Principles

At thc Southeastern Recreation Ex-
ecutives’ Conference held in Jackson-
ville, in March 1951, Dr. Howard Dan-
ford outlined the following basic prin-
ciples for good administration and
effective organization of recreation:

1. Centralization of responsibility.
Good organization requires the estab-
lishment of a chief executive. This is a
principle, validated by experience in
the field, a basic principle of the uni-
verse—for a ball club, for the govern-
ment, for a city, for a church.

2. Creative participation. Bring into
the planning all representatives of those
who are involved in the plan. For ex-
ample, in planning a community center:
invite the youngsters, for they will
make or break it—let them elect their
representatives; invite the parents—
they want to know what is being done,
what the hours are; the school pe0ple,
particularly if it is to be in their build-
ing; and a representative from the rec-
reation department. Centers are suc-
cessful where young people and adults
sit down together to make up the pro-
gram; the adults then keep in the back-
ground.

3. Systematic collection of facts. It was
found that ahnost all injuries on a
playground horizontal bar happened to
small children; so a rule was made that
no one who had to be lifted to reach
it could use it. The development of a
policy or procedure should be done
through this systematic collection of
facts, not theories.

4. All facilities, activities and services
should be made to yield as large a re-
turn as possible. School buildings
should be uscd to the fullest—open
to recreation nights and week-ends.
“DrOp-the-handkerchief” can yield not
only fun, but the excitement of chasing,
and being chased. All the fun is gone
if the same ones do all the running.

5. Is the program for all? Is it fitted
to the nature and needs of individuals

in a democracy? An activity that is
good for high school age may not be
good for grade school children. It must
fit physically, emotionally, psycho-
logically. The leader must know some-
thing of physiology—boxing is highly
hazardous, for instance, as the brain
does not fit tightly in the skull and is
rattled when hard hit, so that con-
stant punching causes serious injury.
Some programs stick too much to the
traditional. Schools and recreation de-
partments must expand their programs,
so the oldest and youngest can par-
ticipate. There are four great drives
to action in human beings—security;
new experiences; recognition; and con-
genial companionship—all of which
they can get through recreation.

6. Administration should provide in
advance for problems that may come
up. Gct written permission from all
parents for a hike; call everybody in-
volved in a team decision; prepare for
fire before a lantern parade.

7. Understanding is basic to apprecia-
tion, and appreciation is basic to sup-
port. Public relations program—make
it continuous, using all media; never
miss a chance to eXplain why recrea-
tion is good.

8. Ample recognition should be given
to the individual in recreation. A
weekly newspaper column on play-
grounds should be filled with names,
posted for all to see. Prizes are not
necessary, but let all have the pleasure
of recognition.

9. Tested routine procedures should be
established. When there is an injury, a
routine procedure should be followed,
for the protection of the child and of
the playground director; otherwise, the
playground and the director can be
sued if something goes wrong.

10. Administration must be based on a
sound philosOphy of recreation. Per-
haps this should be the first principle,
because if you don’t know where you
are going, you get nowhere.

A young father tore a world map out
of a magazine and cut it up as a picture
puzzle for his small son. The boy soon
put it together and, when asked how
he did it so quickly, replied: “See,
daddy, there’s a picture of a boy on
the back. I knew if I could build the

boy right, the world would come out
all right, too.”—BP News.

385

RECREATION and DEFENSE
ml («46 30W Mom

THERE WAS no IlOOPLA, no Hag wav-
ing, no intense emotional patriotic
spree. The fifteen hundred delegates to
the National Recreation Congress in
Boston, October 1 t0 5, were calmly
and intently concerned with the prob-
lems of defense recreation services.
Distinguished national defense officials
joined with recreation leaders from
every section of the country in fitting
together the diverse elements of defense
into a single backdrop before which
all life goes on today.

Four special defense meetings were
held. A general session Tuesday eve-
ning featured the speeches of Briga-
dier-General C. W. Christenberry,
Chief, Special Services Division, De-
partment of the Army; James J. Wads-
worth, Federal Civil Defense Deputy
Administrator; Ralph R. Kaul, Chair-
man, Critical Areas Committee, De-
fense Production Administration; and
Oscar Sutermeister, National Resources
Planning Board. Sponsored by the Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Defense-
Related Services of the National Rec-
reation Association, the general session
was chaired by Stephen Mahoney, vice-
chairman of the committee. Two dis-
cussion groups met to consider recrea-
tion for the armed forces and recrea-
tion and civil defense. A special lunch-
eon meeting was concerned with com-
munity services in defense-impacted
communities.

Defense Affects Entire Congress

These special sessions were only a
partial reflection of the impact of de-
fense upon the Congress proceedings.

386

The large opening session on Monday
started the ball rolling with an address
on “The Chances for Peace,” by Er-
win D. Canham, editor of the Christian
Science Monitor. Wednesday evening,
at the banquet, John Tasker Howard,
a member of the board of directors of
ASCAP, reviewed a “Century of Popu-
lar Music in America,” pointing out
that every war except thc current strug-
gle in Korea has been marked by the
writing of popular music to commemo-
rate the event. He noted that no one
wants to compose music about what is
happening in Korea, but that, if some-
one did, no one would want to sing it.

The presence, at the Congress, of
almost a hundred uniformed represen-
tatives of the armed services could not
help but be noticed and felt. Every
discussion group could not avoid
touching upon ideas and problems
which were intimately affected by some
phase of the defense program.

Contribution of Recreation
Spotlighted

The featured speakers for other gen-
eral sessions continued with the theme
which concerns us all. What is needed,
they said, is not a quick and total mo-
bilization for war. This is no occasion
for a ,sudden surge of emotion. It is a
period of long-term preparation for
the defense of freedom and the demo-
cratic way of life. New facts must be
faced; new concepts understood. Plan-
ning must be long range. There must
be continued preparation for civil and
military defense and for maximum in-
dustrial production of all types of de-

fensc materials.

In this setting, the contribution of
recreation to the total national defense
program was clearly spotlighted. Thc
morale of the military and civilian
population in the battle of production,
or under any possible attack, is at
stake. For this reason, an alert, ag-
gressive community recreation pro-
gram is needed far more now than cvcr
before.

Recreation and the Military

Brigadier-General C. W. Christen-

berry left no doubt in the minds of
Congress delegates that our defense de-
partment is vigorously prosecuting a
program intended to provide “service-
men and women with cultural, re-
ligious and recreational opportunities
to help them grow as responsible citi-
zens of this great nation.”

“Morale,” he declared, “is an im-
portant army weapon. Without it, we
cannot expect to win battles or wars.
It would not be consistent to expcnd
the time, personnel and funds required
to train one soldier during his normal
duty hours and ignore the hazard
which is involved in not having a prop-
erly-directed program in which to
channel his off-duty time.”

It is the desire of the military, Gen-
eral Christenberry said, in substance,
to make the American serviceman and
woman a better person for having been
in the service. In order to achievc this
objective, military authorities must
turn for help to the civilian agencies
in each community.

“The integration of our uniformed

RECREATION

personnel into the recreational and cul-
tural activities of the communities rests
with the local community. The con-
tributions by civilian agencies for
maintaining a high level of morale and
welfare among our armed forces, with
the responsibilities localized impartial-
ly throughout thc nation, is the Ameri-
can way of meeting this great need.”

The importance that the defense de-
partment attaches to the proper kind of
off-post recreation Opportunities for
servicemen and women was indicated
by the official announcement at the
Congress of the organization of its new
Community Services Branch. (See page
372.) The function of this branch
will be similar to that of the air force’s
OlIice of Connnunity Services, which
has been operating since early this
year.

Defense Production,
Civil Defense and Dispersal

Three other speakers were conccrned
with different aspects of production for
defense. James J. Wadsworth, Deputy
Administrator, Federal Civil Defense,
pointed out that the military cannot
win without production, and produc-
tion cannot be assured without people
protected by civil defense. The civil
defense program is designed to “pre-
pare our country for attack; then, no
matter what hits us, we can get up off
the floor and fight back.” a

He continued: “The building of
morale, the preparation of the peOple
mentally, spiritually and morally, may
be one of the great responsibilities of
civil defense. Our welfare services re-
gard morale as a primary factor in
their work . . . ”

As a result of the threat of atomic
attack against our industrial produc-
tion, Mr. Sutermeister, of the National
Resources Planning Board, explained
that the Federal Government recently
adopted a national industrial dispersal
policy for new and expanding industry.
It will be constructed in widely-sepa-
rated localities, rather than within a
few large industrial areas as hereto-
fore. Responsibility for carrying the
program will rest primarily with local
groups. The Federal Government will
stimulate dispersal by a scheme of in-
centives connected with allocation of
materials for construction, granting of

DECEMBER 1951

certificates of necessity, granting of
loans and the awarding of defense con-
tracts. In addition, the government has
pledged to disperse its own facilities.
This program, with its need for the
maintenance of considcrable open
space between industries, as well as
between ar1ny installations, presents a
challenge to community recreation in-
terests to see that the finest use is made
of that land which is potentially suit-
able for recreation use.

Rccreation Is No Frill
Ralph R. Kaul, recently of the De-

fensc Production Administration, ap-
proached the problem of defense pro-

wawawaa

possible cooperation through the Fed-
eral Government.”

The same dcep concern with the
problem of industrial production pro-
grams for defense and their relation-
ship with community services was ex-
pressed in a luncheon meeting. John
Moore, Executive Director, United
Community Defense Service, and Dean
Snyder, Deputy Administrator, Special
Services, Federal Security Agency, de-
tailed the part voluntary agencies and
the Federal Government are taking to
gear community services to defense
production. Both emphasized'that this
must be a oint program of the govern-
nicnt and voluntary agencies.

wasawsw

“Recreation in our democratic society is always of increasing
importance to the growth and culture of the nation. In times of
national emergency, it becomes even more vital to the armed
forces and their dependents, to defense workers and their fami-
lies, and to Americans, young and old, everywhere. I am particu-
larly glad to sec that a significant part of your program this year is
relatcd to defense recreation services.”

HARRY S. TRUMAN, in a letter to the Congress.

aawawaw

duction from another angle. He said,
in part: “Recreation is no frill in the
fabric of production. It is important
in a great nationwide effort, such as
we now are making.” The problem of
providing such community services as
recreation is one in which the Federal
Government is directly interested. De-
tails of the Defcnse Housing and Com-
munity Facilities Act, Public Law No.
139, were explained. Mr. Kaul cmpha-
sized that the funds authorized are ex-
tremely limited. “The great burden
must be carried by private enterprise
and local funds.”

“You, who are engaged in recrea-
tion activities,” he concluded, “have a
great responsibility. Do all you can to
incorporate recreational facilities into
your communities because these will
strengthen and help maintain thc n10-
rale of our people as they face trying
times ahead. Make it possible for
workers, their families and friends to
play together today and they will work
together tomorrow to attain the
strength and security which our nation

must have. In that you will have all

itirirsfririrw

A highlight of the group discussion
on recreation for the armed forces was
the challenge expressed by Dr. Sher-
wood Gates, Chief, Ofiice of Commu-
nity Services, Department of the Air
Forces. Dr. Gates declared that mil-
lions of young men and women in the
years ahead will be graduating from
the services into civilian life. The kind
of contribution these alumni will make
to society will depend, to a great ex-
tent, upon their experiences while in
uniform. A positive approach by all
communities will help to make them
better citizens for having been in the
service.

An invitation to all recreation per-
sonnel to make their skills available to
civil defense, through the Emergency
Welfare Services of the program, was
expressed by Raymond T. Schaeffer,
director of Emergency Welfare Serv-
ices of the Federal Civil Defense Ad-
ministration and chairman of the
group. He urged recreation leaders to
volunteer their community organiza-
tion skills in the preparation of com-
munity planning for total defense.

387

722, 33“) NATIONAL RECREATION GONG

 

  

Presents

Defegaz‘ee at m

  
  

Circle: Charles C. Cabot, a Boston
NRA sponsor, opens Congress with
welcome; reads presidential greeting.

Right: Delegates thronged large ball-
room for evening sessions. Foreground:
Pat Hennegan, Hollywood, Florida,
wears Seminole Indian costume.

Many busy, but enthusiastic, people snatch a few moments to learn, John Collier.and George Adams (seated), of the National Recrea-
as well as actually practice, the “how-to-do-it” techniques and tion Association, are kept busy as throngs converge on membershl
tricks of simple, popular crafts projects from John Mahan, Wichita, desk. Many new members were welcomed; old frlendshlps renewet .

   

II

  
   

, " 'wmnma
“22“ MHNMH

V""i 'A “.5313
C



f“ 3","- "'

   
  

  

F:

   
   

.533 RECREATION

   

The Mayor of Eye, New York, Mr. Joseph A. Hannon (right), with Mrs. Mrs. Frances Parrish (left), Louisville, Ky.,
IIannon and Ralph Damiano examine Japanese crafts exhibit which was presents Attwell Committee eheck. Miss
a brought to the NRA Congress as good will gesture. Lee aeeepts for NBA Attwell Memorial.

«(alpha

a twelve hundred men and worneanrofessional recreation leaders and
- tives, board members, public-spirited laymen, educators and government
als of federal, state, county and community levels, as well as many repre-
tives of the armed forces—meeting in Boston October 1 to 5, for the pur-

of bringing about a richer life in America through recreation, also

 

yed some play activities of their own. Because of the busy schedule of Inect-

- , however, most of these were relegated to evening hours. Mr. Prendergast sueeessfully answers a quiz
to obtain a boutonniere from banquet How-

cr girl, Peg Dankworth, of NBA staff.

Representatives of the National Recreation Association of Japan Guests arriving at the NRA tea. Left to right, board members Mrs.
examine materials in consultation room. Left to right, Yoshihiko John D. Jameson, Miss Susan M. Lee and Otto T. Mallery gra-
Kurnnoto, Masaaki Muryama, Shuiehi Koba and Yoshio Imamura. eiously serve in receiving line with Mrs. and Mr. Prendergast.

 

DECEMBER 1951 389

 

Using Volunteers in a Recreation Program

Helen M. Dauncey

IT Is ALWAYS distressing to hear a recreation leader say,
“No volunteers for me. You can never count on them!”
\Vhat a chance that leader is missing to enrich his pro-
gram and to do a nice piece of community interpretation.
A volunteer’s enthusiasm and belief in what is going on in
an organization, either public or private, are quite different
from those of a paid worker in their effect upon the opinion
of the general public who supports the program.

It seems to me there are several basic principles involved
in the selection and use of volunteer workers:

1. The experience is always a two-way proposition. It
must be satisfying and interesting to the volunteer as well
as valuable to the organization. Volunteers are, after all,
patrons, too. The benefits to them of a good program
should be:

A. Satisfactions of giving service, of being needed.

B. New experience.

C. Making new friends.

D. Learning how to work with people.

E. Learning new skills.

F. Recognition.

2. The volunteer should be selected with the same care
with which a professional worker is chosen. This means
that there should be an unhurried conference, with time to
sit down and get acquainted, to discover what the volun-
teer’s interests and skills are—and what her background
of experience has been. What does your program offer
which would be of special interest to the volunteer? What
is his or her preference as to age groups; as to time sched-
ule? What has she to contrihute? This is the time to tell
the volunteer about your program, its aims and purposes,
and your methods of work. Paint a fair picture of this and
tell the worst as well as the best, so that she will not be
bafiled at the first deviation from the ideal set-up you may
have described. _

If possible volunteer workers should visit the program
before they decide to sign up. If they have nothing to offer
except time———perhaps you had better shake their hand and

MISS DAUNCEY, the Katherine F. Barker Memorial Field
Secretary for Women and Girls, serves on the training staf]

of the NRA and has a first-hand knowledge of her subject.
390

let them depart, for turning them loosc on pcople might
be a calamity.

3. The director of a program has a responsibility to prc-
pare the way for the volunteers. Tell the groups their
names and something about them so their reception will be
one of cordiality—not suspicion. This is especially true of
children who seize upon the advent of a new leadcr to act
their worst. The courtesy of a nice introduction is the least
one can do in appreciation for time and effort to be givcn.

4. Give the volunteers a word of appreciation and en-
couragement each time they come. Give them a real sense
of importance for the contribution they are making to thc
program.

5. A trained worker should always work closely with a
volunteer. Drop in occasionally to see how things are go-
ing and schedule time for conferences when the voluntccr
can talk over some of the problems. Too many volunteers
have been lost forever as they Iloundered around in a dif-
ficult situation with no help or encouragement. Not know-
ing how to get out of it, they begin to make up excuses for
not coming, or to make last-minute telephone calls asking
to be excused on that day. (Thcse are escape tactics which
all of us use when' we can’t face an issue.) I have seen
eager, enthusiastic volunteers spend time on preparation-—
only to find two or three children waiting for them. Rea-
son—a poor picce of organization on the part of thc agency.
I have seen cases wherein volunteers were not told about
a change of program or schedule until thcy arrived.

6. The assignment of a volunteer should he on a rea-
sonably short-term basis, with a specific job to do and one
which is interesting. At the end of this time, she may wish
to re-enlist, or the agency may wish her to depart. In either
case, it works out to the advantage of hoth to fcel that the
service is not to go on indefinitely, and that either one may
withdraw with dignity and no hard feelings. A voluutccr
may come to put on a Christmas play and enjoy it, but a
year of dramatics would be discouraging.

7. All the voluntcers should meet together occasionally
for their own enjoyment and to get the feeling that they
are all part of the team. Help them plan social cvents for
their own group.

8. A letter of appreciation from the chairman of the
board, at the end of the year’s assignment, will do much
to keep the volunteers coming.

RECREATION

Actually there are two types of volunteers:

0 Program volunteers, who assist with program leadership
and who should have special aptitudes, skills and interests.
What types of things can they do?

1. With children:

Teach games—either quiet or active.
Teach songs or singing games.

Teach folk dancing or rhythms.

Tell or read stories.

Help with crafts.

Coacll dramatics.

Help with parties—refreshments, decorations.
Lead a club group or a hobby group.
Take children on a nature hike.

Have charge of a library.

Play the piano.

Teach a cooking class.

Help in a wood-working class.

2. With teen-agers or adults:

Coach individual sports—tennis, badminton, archery,
skating.

Coach team games.

Teach social dancing.

Teach folk or square dancing.

Help with crafts.

Work with drama groups.

Help with music.

Help with social affairs—parties, picnics, dances.
Teach home nursing or first aid.
Lead a personality club.

Lead a hostess club.

Lead a radio group.

Lead a discussion group.

Help with service projects.

Direct a hobby group.

Umpire or referee games.

Sponsor teams.

Play the piano or some instrument.

Plan decoration of a club room.

0 Service volunteers, who need no special skills, but cer-
tainly the right personality, interest in and liking for peo-
ple and plenty of enthusiasm. They can:

Provide transportation for special trips.

Provide flowers or food for special occasions.

Assist in oflice duties—make phone calls, check attend-
ance, type, file cards, do bulletin boards.

Make costumes.

Serve on committees or councils.

Speak to groups.

Show interesting films of a trip.

Invite groups to use some special facility such as tennis
court, pool, lawn', barn.

Help with loan collections.

Help plan money-raising events for special things, such
as a record player, projector, new equipment.

Take pictures of activities (for the camera enthusiast).
Serve at a snack bar.

Act as hostess (or host) for senior citizens clubs, serv-
icemen’s programs, teen-age clubs.

How To Recruit Volunteers

Present your needs to service clubs, women’s groups,
church and school people, PTA’s, and so on. Make it clear
you are not asking them to vote funds, but to give some
of their time doing the kind of thing they like to do with
an age group which interests them.

Use good newspaper publicity, with specific jobs outlined
and well written up.

If your community does not have a volunteer service
bureau connected with your council of social agencies, see
if you can get one started.

Offer a training course just for volunteers.

Make the experience interesting enough so that your
present workers will talk about what they are doing and
get others started. Word-of-mouth publicity is still the best
kind.

Hold radio interviews with your

 

In working with volunteers, the trained staff person should:
'I. Accept wholeheartedly the fact that the volunteer can be at great help

present volunteers.

Present your needs to your board
members so they can do some re-

cruiting among their friends.

in determining the type and scope of programs, make a real contribution in

services.

2. Recognize and reSpect the volunteer’s obilities AND her own needs.

3. Be willing to take the time to orient the volunteer to the total program
and to the group situation with which she will be associated, and to help her

develop woys of working with people.

4. Clearly define to the volunteer the port her services play in the program

and help her to have pride in her job.

5. Make sure that the volunteer is having a sotisfying experience.
6. Work with the volunteer an o portnership basis, through plonning

conferences.

7. Be eager and ready to give recognition and odded responsibility to

volunteers as they are ready for new tosks.

8. Remember that octivities planned by volunteers, for themselves, also are

o port at the total program.

From Working with Volunteers, USO Division, National Board YWCA.

 

DECEMBER 1951

Let it be understood that a vol-
unteer does not take the place of a
trained worker, but rather supple-
ments what the staff member can
do. No reasonable person would ex-
pect a volunteer to work full time
on any program, nor would it be

fair to ask her to do it. What the
volunteer can do is the little extra-
plus things—the frosting on the
cake—the things that give a pro-
gram zip. Of course, it takes time
to work everything out and keep
things moving, but it is well worth
the effort expended.

391

a...

Prestrcssed Concrete
Cuts Stadium Costs

‘-

 

A gauge indicates prestressng force for the stadium beams.

N ARTICLE in the Architectural Record,* describing the

deveIOpment of prestressed concrete in the United States,
indicates how a football stadium was built in Fayetteville,
Tennessee, using this type of concrete at a resulting saving
in costs. In prestressed concrete, the steel is tensioned
against the concrete member to put it in a permanent com-
pression and thus eliminate tensile stresses under normal
loads.

“The football stadium, located at Fayetteville, Tennessee,
was first designed in poured-in-place, reinforced concrete

* “United States Progress in Prestressed Concrete," August, 1951.

L":

 

Football stands—capacity of 1,500——cost only $7.65 a seat.

providing seats for approximately fifteen hundred. How-
ever, a preliminary cost estimate of fifteen dollars per seat
exceeded the budget. A second design, using prestressed
concrcte members spanning thirty feet between concrete
masonry piers, was prepared and new cost estimates indi-
cated a price somewhere between seven and eight dollars
per seat.

“Construction was completed in thirty-two working days
using a crew of nine men under the supervision of a super-
intendent hired by the school. The final cost of the com-
pleted stands was $11,500, or $7.65 per seat. The savings
in materials thanks to the use of the prestressed design are
even more impressive than this cost figure. The reinforced
concrete design would have requircd fifteen tons of rein-
forcing stecl, two hundred sixty cubic yards of concretc
and an undetermined amount of form lumber. The pre-
stressed construction used five tons of steel (sixty-seven per
cent less than the reinforced design), one hundred ninety-
one cubic yards of concrete in the form of concrcte blocks
and sixteen cubic yards of footing concrete (twenty per

cent less) .” The stadium was erected without the use of any
shoring or framework.

 

Vacation Stories!

This is positively the last call for your vacation story—
the one that will help others plan a good, medium-income
vacation for 1952. Have you written it?

The vacation supplement to
RECREATION

(an extra issue) will appear

Spring 1952
392

Date to be announced.

We want articles on interesting, unusual, successful va-
cations; statc or national park vacations; camping, hiking,
bicycling trips; home vacations—vacation experiences,
routes, costs, equipment—places to go, things to do.

Send in immediately to: RECREATION Magazine, 315

Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

RECREATION

 

How To Do lT  bgzwfoaé

Chrlslmas Tree Ornamenls.

\‘f , '

 

Made will) ~

Various 5139.5 01‘ spools
Cons‘lruclion paper
\Vool qarn

Oil or Wa‘ler color painl‘

METHOD 0/

l. Sandpaper spools smoolh.

2. Painl spools wilh while painl.

3. Decorale wilh Chris‘lmas designs.

4. Cul red and green conslruclion paper discs

 

lhe si3e of llne spool ends.

 

5. Pasle disc on each end i

of spool. Puncln lnole lhru paper discs Wllh pencil 0

39a per

 
   

6. Thread garn lhru spool o
7. Make loop al “lop ~allach lassel or

small objec‘l ‘lo darn. al lhe bollom.

. c l 5'“?
 so? . ‘ -.
§z$§ €:§A,$%%§'  

DECEMBER 1951 393

 
 
    

IN 1937, a national organization called “The Puppeteers
of America” was founded, including in its mcmbership
amateurs, educators and professionals. During World War
II, members of this group entertained in hospitals and
service centers throughout the European and domestic
fronts. The Special Services Department of the Armed
Forces also recognized the importance of puppetry and
requested the organization to submit, in printed form, in-
formation on the construction and handling of all types
of puppets. Therefore, while puppetry is not a new type
of entertainment for hospitalized servicemen, it has proved
to be stimulating and fascinating. Many of the patients
in military hospitals have not only witnessed puppet shows,
but have worked with puppets in schools and recreation
centers. Many veterans of World Wars I and II have de-
scribed puppet shows which they have seen overseas, and
elderly men often will reminisce about the Punch and Judy
shows of the old days.

Puppetry is a group activity, the possibilities of which
are unlimited for long-term patients. Even though we are
restricted by the limitations of a neuropsychiatric hOSpital,
we have found that puppetry has creative and recreational
features which are of great value to the patient. The emo-
tionally disturbed patient, with little or no recreation inter-
est, may enjoy watching the puppets come to life and the
actual preparation of a show. Others find relaxation and
release from tension in the construction and handling of
a puppet. To the talented patient who is timid and with-
drawn, it provides a medium for his creative abilities
through modeling, script writing, music or scenic dr0ps for
the puppet stage. The indifferent may be aroused to assume
reSponsibilities and assist in the production. Through team

AUTHOR ANNE BLOOD is a Red Cross recreation worker at
the Brooke Arrny Medical Center, Fort Sarn Houston, Tex.

394

Anne Blood

The Value of

I PUPPETRY-

Above, Miss Blood, 3 Red Cross recreation worker, helps a patient in the
Neuropsychiatric Section of Brooke Army Hospital, Fort Sam Houston, Texas.

work, both introvertcd and extroverted pcrsonalities ex-
perience socializing influences and work together harmoni-
ously. These are a few of the factors through which pup-
petry, when skillfully handled, becomes an exccllent social-
izing agent. Many participants may be drawn into the
construction of the puppet and the planning and producing
of the show. Puppetry also secms to develop the paticnt’s
interest in something outside himself and to hclp him to
relate his contribution to the work of others. Every puppct
constructed and every show we have produced has a little
story behind it, which has significant meaning for the
patient participating.

For an example of how purposeful puppetry may be-
come, a thirty-eight-year-old patient, with an excellent
military record and a background of three years in a
Japanese prison camp, was unable to adjust whcn he was
reassigned to duty. After several periods of hospitalization,
he was admitted to the confines of the closed section. The
patient showed no interest in recreational activities while
in an Open ward and refused to participate in activities in
the closed section. One day, the recreation workcr, when
passing his door, called his attention to the puppets and
materials which she was taking to another ward. She
noticcd that, as the patient put a puppet 011 his hand, he
exhibited a spark of interest. She said wonderingly, “I
think we shall have to help you start making puppcts.” His
reSponse was negative. Howcver, on the following day, he
was not only waiting for her but had interested anothcr
patient. He said, “We think we would like to try our hand
with that puppet deal.” Inasmuch as these patients were in
a small ward and had refused to go to occupational thera-
py, clearance was made with the medical officer for puppet
materials to bc left in the ward, enabling them to work out
their own project. For several days, they relaxed and
played around with plastic modeling (permophast) clay
before they scttled down to anything constructive. When

RECREATION

in a Neumpsychiatric Hospital

 

Mary Frances, three-and-one-half-year-old daughter of Captain
William Rooney, poses with play therapy dolls used at clinic.

passing the ward, you could hear conversation and laughter
about the figures which they were making.

The first puppet completed by the patient was “Sad
Sack,” dressed in gray pajamas, which he explained as be-
ing “typical of myself and fate.” However, Sad Sack came
to life in a puppet show produced by other patients and
was not only a popular character, but the principal one.

As time passed, this patient became more receptive
toward hospital routines and stimulated the interest of
other patients. His ward became quite a workshop, with
hospital staff dr0pping in to see the puppets. The patient
was surprised at his own flair for modeling and proud of
the contribution he could make to the entertainment for
others. When he learned that some of the patients in thc

DECEMBER 1951

hospital were working on “Ferdinand the Bull,” he agreed
to construct Ferdinand. The women patients dressed the
puppets, and a little Mexican girl, who had witnessed bull
fights, gave explicit instructions for the costuming of thc
matador. Everyone was interested and worked as a team
towards the finished production.

Later, the patient in question became interested in other
hospital activities. As he constructed more and more pup-
pets, each became more joyful looking, and when he com-
pleted “Francis,” the army mule, it was a character of
mirth. We used Francis in a puppet demonstration at Ran-
dolph Ficld on Armed Forccs Day. The patient was drawn
into this production by using his voice in a characteriza-
tion of a doctor and a caseworker. This was recorded for
a demonstration of American Red Cross services. Here
again, his confidence was being restored.

Out of this pUppet interest grew the realization that he
belonged to a group and that talents and hobbies could
be developed. One day he started modeling mugs with faces
on them. Through referral, occupational therapy cooper-
ated by instructing him on the casting of a mold from
plaster of Paris and the use of modeling clay that could
be fired and glazed. This was his first acceptance of such
therapy.

From here on, he became interested in the occupational
therapy crafts sh0p and read books on puppetry and
ceramics. One day he told the Red Cross worker that he
had decided to take advantage of all the opportunities
which his hOSpitalization period offered. As his plans were
to build a home after his separation from the service, hc
studied House and Garden and House Beautiful maga-
zines and not only drew up the plans for a home, but
also plans for a kiln to be built in the yard so that he could
do his own firing. 0n release from the hospital, he reg-
istered for a six-months’ course in ceramics at a local
college.

We could relate many such incidents of how a patient’s
interest has been motivated through puppetry. Music and
other media of expression are woven into the project. The
shows are appealing to all age groups, and oHicer patients
and enlisted men are drawn t0gether.

Another interesting incident was in the introduction into
the puppet theatre planning group of a patient diagnosed
as a schizophrenic, paranoiac type. This patient suffered

395

 

r—u-v ‘1'.-

extreme feelings of guilt because of his background and
spent a great deal of his time reading the Bible. Whenever
he was invited to participate in activities or assist other
patients in setting up the ward or patio for the evening’s
activities, he would pick up his books and withdraw to
a place of solitude, generally upon the floor. While the
patient seemingly had poise, he became very rigid, as if
alerted for defense, when addressed. In attempting to draw
him into a conversation, the worker detected a pleasant
speaking voice, but a lack in ability to speak out. Waiting
for the opportune time to present the project, the Red
Cross worker encouraged him to be narrator for a puppet
show. She explained that she had noticed that he liked
to read, and that if he could read alone and to himself he
could read to others. She also told him that he would be
reading from behind a curtain and entertaining an unseen
audience. He agreed, and she spent a few periods listening
to him read aloud. As the narration needed a musical
background, the patient also selected the necessary records.

The show was presented in the outdoor patio and there
were many staff visitors. The patient did the narration;
spoke out clearly and distinctly without hesitation or in-
terruption. When the worker told him how well he had
done, he replied, “Thank you! Thank you! That is the
nicest thing ever said to me.” From hereon, he was given
more opportunities to become a leader. He conducted

games and quizzes with ease, as he found and established
his relationship within the group.

Recently, in planning a puppet show, the worker asked
an unusually quiet and reserved patient, who was recover-
ing from an attack of amnesia and was becoming extreme-
ly bored with his period of hospitalization, if he would
manage and plan a puppet boxing match. Recognizing the
need for a referee, he solicited the help of a patient who
was hyperactive, of the extroverted type. They were given
hoxing puppets with which to practice, and the afternoon
was spent in working out their act. For the withdrawn
patient controlling the boxers, this was a needed release
for his hostility, and he boxed with such violence that he
boxed off the head of one of the puppets. The patient very
meekly returned the puppet, remorseful and apologetic for
the injury he had inflicted, but the worker quickly assured
him that there was no harm done and that boxers were
expected to take a beating. With a little repair, the puppets
were able to encounter each other in the ring that evening

and, amid the cheers of a receptive audience, staged an
exceedingly good fight.

Following their experience in this performance, the two
patients then expressed a desire to write a play for the
puppet theatre. Since both had had a little experience with
school plays and script writing, their imagination was given
a free hand and, for three days, they added and deleted
humorous lines. The script, though not adaptable for drama-
tization, was a satire on a mental hospital, and while its
objective was humor, it brought forth the release of hid-
den, impassive hostility, from which they derived great
satisfaction.

Wherever there are groups of people gathered together
from different localities and many walks of life, there will

396

be contrasting intcrests. Thus it is only natural that music,
drama and art, along with the varied interests, character-
istics and capacities of individuals, should be interwoven
into the puppet theatre. For a little touch of western at-
mosphere, we have a hill-billy band record, or have talented
patients sing and play guitars behind the curtain. With
a puppet covering the keys of a toy piano, the patients
listen to both the classics and boogic. We also have a
puppet clown and a showman who acts as master of cerc-
monies, with his natural humor helping to tie the show
together. The patient who likes to write can see the results
of his efforts brought to life.

In all groups there are individuals interested only in
the creation of a puppet. With a neuropsychiatric patient,
it is sometimes a medium of expression for his fears and
anxieties. Often the patient who is tense and unrelaxed will
mold tenseness into the character. In his present sphere of
illness, this might be termed only busy work. However,
eventually the character he creates will find its place in
the puppet theatre. Among the women patients there always
is an interest in costuming or in enacting a part in the
play.

We have placed our emphasis in puppetry for the neuro-
psychiatric patient upon the hand puppet, because of its
simplicity in construction and operation. Having no strings
with which to tangle, the hand gives the sturdy, grotesque
little body its abounding life. Its accomplishments through
this medium are unlimited, and there is a closer contact
between the patient puppeteer in the coordination of words
and movements than if he were attempting to manipulate
strings. The hand puppet has advantages in that his move-
ments may be slow and direct or fast and furious. He
may bow, dance, cmbrace, pick up various objects and
strike out easily when assuming the role of a boxer or
wrestler.

There is no regimentation for the program of the puppet
theatre. It is flexible and based upon the capabilities of the
patients themselves, through which their individual needs
are met.

Gathering all these varied interests together, the puppet
theatre encourages unity, understanding and enthusiasm.
It develops a sense of humor and imagination. The audi-
cnce relaxes and is mystically carried through the land of
fantasy and make-believe. And when the curtain falls amid
rcceptive exclamations, another step in the restoration of
self—confidence is gained by members of the cast.

Throughout Brooke Hospital, staff members have become
aware of the values of this medium of expression for
therapeutic purposes, as well as for entertainment. The
colonel in charge of the child guidancc clinic decided to
usc puppets in psychological testing and asked us to con-
struct them. The patients were happy to participate in this
activity because they understood the need for puppets in
the children’s play room of the clinic.

We believe that the puppet theatrc could prove of great
value in any military hospital setting and that the minia—
ture characters could quickly worm their way into the
hearts of the patients.

RECREATION

5 PART OF 1115 GRADUATE WORK at

Ohio State University, Harold J.
Moyer of Williamsport, Pennsylvania,
made a study of tennis and tennis type
games and their role in the community
recreation program. The purpose was
to suggest the use of such games as a
basis for long range recreation plan-
ning; and it included an‘account of
promotional methods and techniques
used in an experimental tennis pro-
gram conducted for five summers in
Williamsport.

Mr. Moyer developed a number of
criteria for an ideal recreation activity,
suitable for total community participa-
tion, and selected tennis and tennis
type games as an activity which most
nearly approaches them. The major
findings are summarized as follows:

1. Size of community and provision of
facilities are no indication of degree of
promotion in using recreation facili-
ties.

2. Few communities have developed a
tennis program which utilizes present
tennis facilities to capacity; probably
none has yet coordinated tennis and the
tennis type games into a year-round
recreation program with central priori-
ty for development.

3. There has been very little attempt to
provide opportunities for shared plan-
ning and volunteer service in adminis-
tering public tennis programs.

4. Lack of program leadership and su-
pervision at the courts is a major Weak-
ness revealed in public tennis pro-
grams of most communities.

Suggested Program

The elements of a long range tennis
program are outlined in some detail.
They cover tournaments of various
types and procedures for organizing
them. Methods of developing and re-

MR. MOYER was in charge of the five-
year tennis program in Williamsport,
Pennsylvania, described in the report.

DECEMBER 1951

Tennis and Tennis Type Games Form Basis of Long

taining interest include leagucs and
tournaments, free play, a system of
awards and trophies, recognition of
volunteer service, exhibition matches,
instruction clinics, organization of
players by age groups, leadership.

Mr. Moyer oli'ers specific suggestions
for the public tennis clinic. “The pub-
lic clinic should be free to all begin-
ners and set up on an informal basis
directly at the playing areas. It should
be conducted at least three hours per
day at each location, five days per
week for the younger age groups, and
during several two-hour evening peri-
ods per week for adults. Instructors
should keep in mind that their objec-
tive is to create lasting interest instead
of expert players. For tennis, a fifteen-
minute period of pitching balls to cach
group of five beginners placed on thc
baseline of a court, stressing the funda-
mentals and calling attention to errors,
can put most beginners on ‘the ardcnt
interest’ list within several clinic peri-
ods.”

A detailed account of a five-year ex-
perimental tennis project in Williams-
port, conducted by the city recreation
department, is presented. At the be-
ginning of the experiment interest in
the game was negligible. Developments
each year were recorded, up through
the tennis program in 1950, which in-
cluded the following features: (1)
opening of the courts with a tennis ex-
hibition sponsored by sporting goods
interests; (2) junior development
clinic for ages six to seventeen oper-
ated five days per week; (3) adult
clinic for people over eighteen, held
twice weekly; (4) leagues: junior, in-
termediate and adult leagues playing
according to schedule, with varied
events; (5) municipal tennis team;
(6) junior invitational tournament for
boys and girls and city open tourna-
ment; (7) free play; (8) annual ten-
nis banquet; (9) publication of several
issues of a bulletin entitled, “Tennis

Range Planning for Public Support of Recreation.

TENNIS
hithe
Community
iRtoreathnl

Progranl

liacket”; (10) advisory tennis council
composed of four age groups, with
short term and long term objectives.

“The Advisory Tennis Council has
aided in carrying out the program in
many ways. It was through this group
that officials were procured for league
and tournament matches. They assist-
ed in drawing up the leagues and tour-
naments, recorded results and comput-
ed league standings, wrote publicity,
provided assistant instructors for the
junior development clinics and gave
some assistance on court maintenance
when their help was needed. They also
planned a Wiener roast, a reception
and buffet dinner for the Junior Invi-
tational Tournament contestants and
the annual tennis banquet.”

Each individual grOUp within the

397

warp—1

council sct its own membership dues.

“The advisory tennis council organ-
izcd in this manner enjoys many ad-
vantages in promoting public tennis,
public recreation and citizenship. Not
only will it provide increased oppor-
tunities for participation in a planned
leisurc program for the population in
general, but it will go much deeper and
providc valuablc opportunities for ex-
periences in democratic action for
young and old, provide a new sense of
importance for those who wish to share
in the planning and administration of
program and will serve to develop the
feeling that ‘this is our program’ . . . ”

The total expenditures for the 1950
tennis program in Williamsport, for a
twelve-week period, including mainte-
nance of twelve clay courts, were
$2,075.21. Nearly twenty per cent of
this amount was paid in by the partici-
pants. These expenditures provided a
major form of recreation for nearly
three hundred persons.

Public Tennis Survey

A questionnaire survey relating to
public tennis facilities and programs in
seventy-two cities was conducted to
provide a comparison with the Wil-
liamsport program and to determine
the stage of development of organized
tennis in other cities. The inquiry was
addressed primarily to cities which,
according to the Recreation Year Book,
were relatively well provided with pub-
lic courts. The cities varied in popula-
tion from 3,500 to nearly 2,000,000 but
more than half of them were between
25,000 and 100,000.

The ratio of tennis courts per popu-
lation is indicated by the following:

 

 

Population per Number of
tennis court Cities
less than 2,000 15
2,000 to 3,999 39
4,000 to 5,999 10
6,000 and over 8

 

Responsibility for the tennis pro-
gram and for maintenance of public
tennis courts rests with the recreation
department alone in forty-one cities. In
the other thirty-one it is shared with
one or more departments or private or-
ganizations. Sixty-three cities reported
an organized tennis program; nine do
not have one. The types of program
activities were reported:

398

Types of program Number of

activities Cities'
Leagues 26
Tournaments 63
t’ree clinics 53
Exhibitions 36
A wards 51
Banquet 4

 

°Total of 63 cities with program

Fifty of the seventy-two citics re-
ported employment of a seasonal tennis
supervisor but in only fifteen of these
does this worker devote his full time to
tennis alone. Ten cities rcported that
their tennis supervisor is a year-round
rccreation worker and one of these,
Cincinnati, reports a year-round tennis
director.

Types of tennis court surfaces vary.
In thirty-two cities only one type was
reported: nineteen of them have clay
courts only; eight, bituminous; and
five, concrete courts. Of the other forty
cities, twenty-seven have both clay and
bituminous courts; five, clay and con-
crete; six, concrete and bituminous;
and two, all three types. The figures in-
dicate that clay courts are found in
fifty-three of the cities, bituminous in
forty-three and concrete in only twelve.
Mr. Moyer’s conclusion from the local
program is “that clay or composition
(gravel and clay) courts with adequate
drainage and a full-time court attend-
ant with responsibility for maintenance
and program possess the essential qual-
ities for durability and lend great ap-
peal to participants because they are
less costly on balls, rackets, and shoes,
and reduce the possibility of physical
injury.”

Methods of controlling the use of
courts by fees and permits were re-

ported as follows:

E
Methods of Control Number of Cities

 

Hourly Rate

Clay courts 7
All courts 12
Permit; no charge 29
Permit; seasonal
fee 5
No permit, no
charge 14
No report 5

 

Seven of the cities charged on an
hour-per-pcrson basis while the re-
mainder charged a flat rate per court
per hour. Fees on the per hour per
person basis began at ten cents and
ranged through twenty cents, twenty-
five cents and fifty cents. Fees charged
on the hour per court system included

fifteen cents, twenty-five ecnts, tllirty
cents, forty cents, fifty cents, sixty
cents and sixty-five cents.

Only eightecn of the cities rcporting
have night-lighted tennis courts and
only two of them organizcd a night
tennis program. Another cvidcnce of a
limited development of tennis facilities
and service is revealed by rcports from
seven cities stating that they do not
provide tennis (nets) for public courts.

The weeks of the organizcd program
were reported as follows:

 

Duration of Organized Number of Cities

Program
less than 7 weeks 5
7 to 10 weeks 16
11 to 14 weeks 19
15 to 18 weeks 7
more than 18 weeks 10

 

Conclusions and recommendations
presented by Mr. Moyer include:
1. Generally speaking, public tennis at
the present time holds a low priority of
emphasis in community recrcation pro-
grams throughout the country.
2. Tennis is seldom considered im-
portant enough to vest definite respon-
sibility for an organized public tennis
program in a year-round tennis di-
rector.
3. Much of the retarded development
of public tennis may be owing to lack
of coordination between the responsi-
ble departments.
4. An organized program is necessary
in order to provide maximum oppor-
tunities for participation and the most
efficient use of existing facilities.
5. Program participants are seldom
given an opportunity to share in its
planning and carrying-out.
6. Public tennis programs rarely em-
ploy the methods and techniques for
developing interest and participation.
7. More consideration should be given
to charging small court fees for adult
participation, and free play for youth,
so that public tennis can become par-
tially self-sustaining and providc for
additional facilities and supervision.
8. Night-lighted public tennis courts,
with an organized program, will con-
siderably incrcase the use of existing
tennis facilities and opportunities for
community-sponsored recreation.
9. The opportunity for participation
from youth to past middle age is one
of the most advantageous aspects of the
tcnnis type games.

RECREATION

Q

ICE SKATING FACILITIES

u... HOW CAN YOU FURNISH
outdoor ice skating facilities to several
widely-separated neighborhoods with—
out running up a big bill for labor and
materials?

That was the problem facing the rec-
rcation department in the sprawling
town of Tonawanda, located just north
of Buffalo, New York.

The solution—an ingenious set ‘of
Hanged steel stakes—has enabled llec-
reation Director Franklin J. J. Diemer
to set up neighborhood rinks at a fifty
per cent saving in labor, using the
same materials almost indefinitely. Thc
equipment permits such flexibility in
the size and shape of rinks that they
can be placed in any vacant lot or
field, on lawns or tennis courts.

Mr. Diemer took his problem to Jack
Sexton, superintendent of parks, and to
Edwin H. Hough, mechanical foreman
of the parks department. Realizing the
difficulties in the conventional method
of constructing rinks, it was suggested
that wooden stakes be driven into the
ground and planks nailed to them to
form the sides of the skating area. But
stakes split and the expensive planking
could only be used a few times before
its many nail holes made it useless.
Therefore, Mr. Hough designed metal
stakes which have flanges at their top
end. Planking is drilled on a template,
so that holes for the bolts which hold
it to the stake are uniform—and any
plank can be used with any stake. The
stakcs are driven into the ground; the
planks dropped into the flanges; the
bolts quickly tightened—and you have
a skating rink!

Where two men formerly worked
two days to construct a rink eighty feet
by one hundred forty-four feet, they

DECEMBER 1951

now do it easily in one day; and thc
same planking is used year in and year
out, with no sign of wear.

Two types of stakes, of two-inch by
two—inch angle iron, were designed.
They can be of either five-sixteenths or
lhree-eighths stock. One stake is for
the corner connector and has a double
flange welded to it at a right angle.
The other is a center connector stake,
with a flange at each side. Corner con—
nector stakes are thirty inches long;
center connector stakes, twenty-four
inches.

Each flange has three twenty—five
sixty-fourths-inch holes drilled to it so
that three-eighths-inch bolts may be
used. Similar holes are drilled at the

 

are rounded slightly so that they snug-
ly fit into the connector stakes. The
joint is almost perfectly watertight.

Experience has shown that it is best
to place the boards in a trench one or
one and a half inches deep. Earth is
packed around the inside of the plank-
ing to a height of three or four inches,
and the fill is wet down and packed.
Best results are obtained when the rink
is set up before frost is on the ground,
although this is not necessary.

If the rink has bcen placed upon a
tennis court, baseball diamond or upon
a lawn, the surface easily can be re-
stored to its original condition in the
spring. After the stakes and planking
have been taken up, the earth used for

Metal stakes are driven into the ground and planks are bolted to them. Note new
double-ehute toboggan slide in the background. It is used in addition to a natural slope.

end of all planking to be used. Plank-
ing may be two by six, two by eight
or two by ten and any length up to six-
tee11 feet, depending upon the size rink
to be constructed. Ends of the planks

fill is swept into the shallow trench
that contained the planking; the excess
is carried away and, in a few days, no
one would even know that a rink had
been there.

399

The secret of obtaining the best pos-
sible skating surface is to spray——not
flood——the area after three or four
inehes of frost appear on the ground.
A fire dcpartment fog nozzle is excel-
lent for the purpose. This provides a
“sleet storm” effect, and good ice is ob-
tained in an extremely short time. Only
one-eighth to one-quarter inch of ice
is needed for skating.

“Volunteer fire departments are
equipped to do this job and are always
willing to help,” Mr. Diemer reports.

American
Playrounds

l

.u-I-

 

“T hey want winter drills anyway, and
so this offers them an opportunity for
a good workout. Only a small quan-
tity of water is required for thc avcr-
age rink, and this usually ean hc ob-
tained from a booster tank on thc
truck, thus eliminating the necessity
for laying lines of large hose.”

The town of Tonawanda has set up

 

five rinks with this equipment in the
past four years, with highly successful

results. Planking is treated with a

wood preservative and the original
boards still are going strong.

The method is particularly suitable
for areas that must have many rinks
for small groups of ehildren. No spe-

cial site is required; the cost is low;
and the work of setting up the rink
and taking it down is simple. In faet,
it is the solution to thc icc skating
problem whether one rink is required
in a backyard 0r dozens are needed
throughout a city.

What used to be an annual headache
for Tonawanda now is a quiek opera-

 

The corner connector stake has a
flange welded on at right angle.

tion every fall and spring. And skating
facilities are available to a vastly-in-
creased number of youngsters.
Additional information or prints
may be obtained from Mr. Diemer,
Director, Department of Recreation,

116 Southwood Drive, Kenmore 17,
New York.

Special Service Openings

New quotas for overscas recrea-
tion personnel recently have been an-
nounced. The most urgent need is
for women for special service club work
in the Japanese area. Some may be
sent to Korea, but only those who
volunteer for this specific location. The
following qualifications are required.

Age: Twenty-four to forty.

Marital Status: Single.

Health: Good.

Enthusiasm : High.

Education: College graduate or
equivalent.

Interests: Arts and crafts, music,
drama or soeial recreation.

Experience: Varying for different
positions.

Civilian women also are needed for
club work in other overseas areas. Ap-
plieations on Form 57——available free
from any post office—should be sent
to Overseas Affairs Branch, Civilian
Personnel Division, Oflice, Secretary

of the Army, Old Post Office Building,
Washington 25, D.C.

Women, ages twenty-four or twenty-
five, are in demand, too, for club po-
sitions at posts and bases in all parts
of the United States. Information con-
cerning all spccial service opportuni-
ties may be obtained from the Recrea-
tion Personnel Service, National Rec-
reation Association, 315 Fourth Ave-

nue, New York 10, New York.

RECREATION

76m  7% Wm 

 

F irelight Reverie. Music in the “youth
center lounge,” Sparta, Wisconsin. The
photo by spark plug in the camera club.



 

The Winners. Prize for first place in contest was won by
the Music Makers Orchestra of Santa Barbara Youth Council.

DECEMBER 1951

The Battle of the Teen Swing Bands

oThe Santa Barbara Youth Council, which is sponsorcd
by the local city recreation commission, reccntly stagcd
one of the most succcssful teen-age activities cvcr attempted
in the history of its existence. For several months in the
spring, the young people got in touch with various teen or-
chestras throughout the state of California, urging them to
come to Santa Barbara the night of May 5, to participate
in an all-youth “Battle of the Teen Swing Bands,” which
was to be followed by a tri-counties teen dance. Council
members organized overnight housing arrangements for
all visiting musicians. Many local townspeople assisted in
the project. The threc local radio stations participated
to the extent of sending three prominent disc jockeys
to act as judges. Judging consisted of attempting to find
the most outstanding musical group entered in the contest.
In addition, the best vocal 'and instrumental soloists were
awarded individual prizes. A capacity audience ammed the
recreation center auditorium and enthusiastically applaud-
ed. Following the contest, each of the first four musical
groups chosen as outstanding contributed one-half hour of
playing for the dance. Santa Barbara teen-agers and adults
are looking forward to next year’s battle, if it is decided,
by a vote of the Youth Council, to make it an annual affair.

Making Financial Contributions

oTcen Town members from Mount Vernon, New York,
appeared on a television program in New York City, where
they were presented with a scroll of honor for' their finan-
cial contributions to the Community‘ Chest, Red Cross, hos-
pital and other community funds. They had raised funds
by means of special events throughout the year, such as a
March of Dimes dance, a hayride, and so on. Eight mem-
bers attended and participated in the County Youth Organi-
zation Convention held at White Plains in April. In this
connection, it is interesting to know that the New York
State Youth Commission made a motion picture at Teen
Town, and other Mount Vernon locations, depicting youth
needs. It is called “Families First.”

The Problem of No Teen Center

0 Out in Sparta, Wisconsin, the plan for a teen center,
motivated and sponsored by the city park and recreation
department back in 1947, was not to be abandoned for lack
of a building; and the city hall became their Youth Center.

401

The auditorium was even equipped for basketball, with a
snack bar, and as the meeting place for song fests and small
group activities. Local bowling alleys arranged to give the
boys and girls instruction each week; and with the com-
ing of winter, the young people put in quite a season out-
of-doors with skating and tobogganing parties. Although
one of their most popular activities was the Saturday night
jean jamboree, where dressing up was taboo and they
danced to the music of amplified phonograph records, they
did not skip the monthly dress-up dance with the high
school swing band providing music. Shows what you can
do, when you put your mind to it!

They Do Their Own Planning

0 Eugene, Oregon, has a well-developed scheme for pro-
moting initiative among teen-agers. Through their own
councils, teen-agers organize, plan and suggest to the Bu-
reau of Parks and Public Recreation the type of recreation
activities they most want.

Schoolhouse Dances

OSaturday night dances are held in Milwaukee public
schools to the music of popular dance bands. A small ad-
mission fee is charged, and refreshments are available for
those who wish to buy them.

These dances are planned especially for teen-agers and
are not in the general sense “public dances.” Young people
coming to them register and identify themselves. They must
be vouched for by someone known to the director. Records
of the individual’s attendance at the dance is kept so that
parents may locate their children if they desire.

CHANGE OF ADDRESS: Send your new address at
least thirty days before the date of the issue with which

it is to take effect. Address: Recreation Magazine, Cir-

culation Department, 421 Fifth Avenue South, Minne-
apolis 15, Minn. Send old address with the new, enclos-
ing if possible your address label. The post oHice will
not forward copies unless you provide extra postage.

Duplieatc cepics cannot be sent.

 

Sport — Fun — Exercise

in TRAMPOUNING

By NISSEN — Maker of America’s
First Standard TRAMPOLINE

Write for FREE Literature

'Name TRAMPOLINE Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.

200 A AVE. NW. CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

402

 

Here's Your Music
For the Saturday Night Dance

Leonard Feather

The following collection of long-playing records, for an LP record
machine, should last you from three to four hours:

9:00 Dance Date with Harry
James
Col. CL 6138
Sweet Jenny Lou
These Foolish Things
New Two O’Cloek Jump

9:15 Benny Goodman Sextet
Session Col. CL 6052

Between the Devil and the
Deep Blue Sea

Sugar Foot Strut
At the Jazz Band Ball

11:15 George Shearing and His
Quintet MGM E-518
Summertime
Changing with the Times
Just One of Those Things As Long as There's Music
China Boy East of the Sun

Shine .
Rachel’s Dream 1130 Rumlliiyg: GEE; 511.11%
9:30 Dance Date with Xavier La Ultiiiia Noehe

Cugat Col. CL 6021 Bien! Bien! Bien!
Begin the Beguine Negra Leono

Estrellita Hokey Joe
Green Eyes 11:45 Hamp’s Boogie Woogie
La Paloma Decca DL 5230
9:45 Sing, Dance with Sinatra Hanip’s Boogie Woogie
Col. CL 6143 Tempo’s Boogie

Lover Hey! Ba-Ba-Be-Bop
It’s Only a Paper Moon Flying Home

MY B1116 Heaven 12:00 Sarah Vaughn

It All Depends on You C01. CL 6133
10:00 Dance Date with Les ItMight As Well Be Spring
Brown Can’t Get Out of This
Col. CL 6123 Mood
A Foggy Day Goodnight! My Love
Easy to Love Ain’t Misbehavin’

Drifting and Dreaming
Ebony Rhapsody

10:15 Waltz Time with Abe
Lyman Col. CL 6093
Charmaine
La Golondrina

Down by the Old Mill

12:15 Claude Thornhill Dance
Parade Col. CL 6050
Autumn Nocturne
1 Don’t Know Why
Night and Day
You Were Meant for Me

12:30 Erroll Garner Rhapsody

Stream . . Atlantic LP 109
Meet Me Tonight in I Can’t Give You Any-
Dreamland thing But Love

10:30 Cliliie Stone, Square Blue and Sentimental

Dance Band Pavanne
Cap. H 4006 Impressions
Double Bow Knot Turquoise

12:45 Music for the Fireside,
Paul Weston

Swing in the Centre,
Swing on the Side

Catch All Eight Cap. H 245
The Arizona Double Star I Cover the Waterfront
10:45 Abe Burrows Sings? Where 01' When

If I Could Be With You
Stars“ Fell on Alabama

1:00 Ray Noble Dance Parade

Col. CL 6065
Goodnight Sweetheart

Col. CL 6128
Lopin’ Along
Sweet Memories
Brooklyn
Gypsy’s Violin

11:00 Dixieland Jazz, Boh Cros- 
by Coral CRL 56003 Reprinted through the courtesy of

The Dixieland Band Parents lnstitute, Incorporated.

For Skating“

Polka King, Frank Yankovie In Old Vienna, Marck Weliher

Col. F 11 C01. C 81
Waltzes You Saved For Me, Strauss Waltzes in Dance Time
Wayne King . COL 13
Victor P 70 131111161: at tlIi)e 1\71/5aldorf
. ietor
StralisIEEagzes Friml Melodies, Jessie Crawford
at the Organ Deeea 548
Tangos, Marck Weblier Nutcracker Suite
(301- 90 Victor 1) 124
March Time with Golden Faniily Alhuin
Victor P 68 MGM 29
T angos for Two, Harry Horlick Memories
MGM 39 C01. 26

* Long-playing records used at the Wollman Meiiiorial Ice Skating
Rink in New York City, submitted by director of the rink.

RECREATION

Recreation News

E. H. Begnier Receives Weir Award
The L. H. Weir Recognition Award,

for the outstanding graduate major in
recreation at Indiana University dur-
ing the year 1950-51, was presented to
E. H. (Duke) Regnier, doctoral candi-
date in recreation, by Captain Steward
G. Case, last year’s recipient, at the
annual dinner of the Indiana Uni-
versity Graduate Recreation Society,

which was held in May.

The recipient is selected by a com-
mittee of the society on the basis of
service, scholarship and professional
attitude. Mr. Regnier is on leave from
the University of Illinois, where he
serves as associate professor of rural
sociology, and is in charge of recrea-
tion for the state. Captain Case, who
presented the award, has been serving
as rural recreation specialist for the
state of Colorado. Speaker for the din-
ner was V. K. Brown, director emeri-
tus of recreation of the Chicago Park
District.

The Lebert H. Weir Award is annu-
ally presented to the man who best
exemplifies the ideals for which Mr.
Weir was known while serving for
nearly forty years as a district field
representative of the National Recrea-
tion Association.

Youths Promote Democracy

Teen-agers in the South Side Terrace
Homes neighborhood of Omaha, Ne-
braska, are giving practical meaning to
democracy. Youths representing Lithu-
anian displaced persons and native-
born families have organized a council
to talk out their problems, come to a
better understanding and break down
elannish attitudes of the two groups.

Tensions had developed when sev-
eral hundred Lithuanian youngsters
settled in the community, and misun-

DECEMBER 1951

derstandings eventually led to open
fights between the two groups. Eventu-
ally the teen-agers came to realize the
futility of fighting and proposed the
council. Both groups decided to invite
representatives from Woodson Center,
another neighborhood house in the
community.

'Now native-born boys are bringing
the displaced persons into the center’s
crafts program by showing them how
to operate power tools and how to make
crafts articles. They’re even teaching
them American dance steps, and
youngsters from both neighborhood
centers have invited each other to use

their play fields.

Three-time Honors Winner
\Vithin

Lenscli, director of public recreation

recent months, Dorothea
in Portland, Oregon, has received three
special honors in recognition of her
leadership in the field of recreation.
First, during the past summer, the
United States State Department asked
her to serve as a member of the de-
partment’s educational exchange per-
sonnel in Germany, working with city
govcrnments, schools and various youth
groups as one of the recreation special-
ists assisting in setting up recreation
programs. Then she was named a fellow
of the American Association of Health,
Physical Education and Recreation,
for distinguished service in recreation
work and correlated fields.
ccntly, the third honor was presented
her by the Fraternal Order of Eagles,
in tribute to her recreation leadership

in Portland.

More re-

Dance and Song

“Around the World with Dance and
Song” is the theme of the diversified
program being featured by the Ameri-

can Museum of Natural History of
New York City, during the months of
December and January. Among the
artists who will perform are a native
Basque group from Euzkadi, who are
making their first visit to the United
States; Uday Shankar and his Hindu
ballet; La Meri and ensemble; Jean
Léon Destiné and Company. For fur-
ther details, write to the museum, Cen-
tral Park West at Seventy-ninth Street,
New York 24, New York.

Van Arsdale Playground
The Harold W. S. Van Arsdale

Playground recently was dedicated in
Elizabeth, New Jersey, in tribute to
Mr. Van Arsdale’s service in recrea-
tion to the youth and adults of his
former home community.

The National Recreation Associa-
tion’s southwest district representative
was, for nineteen years, associated
with the Elizabeth YMCA, chiefly as
director of its physical education de-
partment. The last nine years of that
period, until he joined the NRA staff,
he served as a member of the Elizabeth
Recreation Commission.

The recreation area formerly was
known as the New York Avenue Play-

ground.

Dr. Williams Dies
Dr. Arthur B. Williams, who had

been with the Cleveland Museum of
Natural History for twenty years,
until his retirement last year, died at
the age of seventy-one.

After practicing law and spending
several years in the real estate business,
he joined the Cleveland Museum in
1930 as a naturalist and ecologist, with
a special assignment as naturalist for
the Cleveland Metropolitan Park
Board. Nine years later, the post of
curator of education was added to his
duties at the museum and, from 1939
to 1946, he also served on its board of
managers.

In 1931, Dr. Williams opened the
Trailside Museum in North Chagrin
Park, reported to be the first of its
kind in the United States. Later, he
organized bird walks, wrote a book,
Birds in Cleveland, and edited the
Cleveland Bird Calendar and the Ea:-
plorer, the museum’s bulletin, until his
retirement.

403

Every City Could Benefit

from an All-Nations ’I‘ouruamcnt

IN 1923, Ed Currie, director of the Pillsbury Settlement
House in Minneapolis, told a bunch of Irishmen to “put
up or shut up.” From that concise challenge sprang one
of the most unique sports events in the country———the All-
Nations Basketball Tournament.

The sprightly group of young Irish thought they had a
basketball team that could lick any other nationality in the
city. So Currie issued his curt ultimatum, and the Irish
eagerly accepted. It turned out that they couldn’t beat ev-
eryone. The Swedes won that first tournament played
twenty-seven years ago.

The All-Nations event has grown immensely since that
first year. Only relatives and parents of the players both-
ered to watch the games in the beginning. Now the Pills-
bury house gymnasium is packed for every All-Nations
contest, and the settlement house annually nets from four
hundred to seven hundred dollars, which it uses for the
benefit of the hundreds of youngsters who play there. Last
year’s proceeds, for example, were set aside to help pay
for a new basketball floor.

The originator of the event, Mr. Currie, has been direct-
ing the All-Nations ever since its inception. He also has
been head of Pillsbury house for thirty-one years. He natu-
rally is pleased with the amazing success of his brain-
child, although he says that the tournament as it is today
certainly wasn’t his notion of what it would be, when he
decided to see for himself whether the Irish could beat
everyone. At any rate, the idea of an All-Nations tourna-
ment has been many times copied by other cities and towns.
La Crosse has one now, so has Duluth; and practically
every high school in Minneapolis holds a similar affair.

Why has the All-Nations become so popular? A possible
answer would be that here is a concrete idea to solve

 

AUTHOR KRISHEF, University of Minnesota Senior, is sports
editor on the Minnesota Daily, the university’s newspaper.

404

 

Bohemian player gets the ball away from Bill
Daley, a former football great, on Irish team.

nationality problems. The various peoplcs are able to blow
off steam in a healthful manner. There is heated competi-
tion among the teams in the Pillsbury event; and the di-
rector is proud that no serious disputes have ariscn bc-
tween nationalities because of a hard-fought gamc. There
has been only one real argument during the long span of
the tournament. That happened five years ago when the
Negro team protested its one-point loss to the Poles.

The kid-glove handling of any problem that might arise
was demonstrated by Currie when he sought to have the
game replayed. “I wanted to be certain that the Negro team
didn’t think there had been discrimination. Before replay-
ing the game, though, I had to get permission from thc
Poles’ coach, Louie Lopata.” L0pata almost anxiously
agreed to the replay, illustrating the teamwork in the
event. So the Poles and Negroes met again. The Polcs won
in another fiery game, but everyone knew he had been
dealt with squarely. That’s the keynote of the whole system.

The All-Nations tournament is valuable not only in giv-
ing the peOples a chance to root for their own boys, but
in getting the nationalities together in the first place.

PeOple learn some of each other’s customs from the
music and dancing at the games. Whenever a team steps
into the court, it is greeted with the cheers and music of
its own nationality group; and contests in dancing, besides
the halftime community dancing, are hcld at the Minnc-
apolis event. The Italians are especially apt at that phase
of the program. They won last year. The neighborhoods eat
each other’s foods at the All-Nations. The mothers of the
players bake their own foods to put up for sale. Currie
calls it a “sort of general smorgasbord.”

The Pillsbury event is held during the second week in
March, just before the state basketball tournamcnt. It lasts
four days, usually bcginning Tuesday afternoon and end-
ing Friday night. Medals are awarded to the top teams,
the winners receiving one of gold, thc runners-up, one of

RECREATION

silver. The Norwegians, Swedes and Poles have been the
most powerful teams throughout the years. Sixteen teams
usually enter, but they are not necessarily the same teams
each year. “We have a few teams that are old standbys,”
says Currie, “such as the Swedes, Poles, Norwegians, Jews
and lrish. The Bohemians, Italians, Finns, Negroes and
Dutch almost always enter.”

The Pillsbury house will take any nationality if it is
able to enter a team, but such squads as the French and
Scotch have trouble getting players from year to year.
One year, however, the settlement house even had an Indian
team playing in the All-Nations.

The personnel of each team is based, of course, on
nationality, and the rules are quite strict about exceptions.
Participants compete with the team of their father’s nation-
ality. “Occasionally, we’ll have an O’Hara playing with
the Swedes,” grins Currie. “When there is no team from
the father’s side entered, the player goes with the team of
his mother’s nationality.”

The entire state is canvassed for players and only the
best take part—only the best are good enough. As a mat-
ter of fact,I the list of men who have participated in the
event looks like a Minnesota basketball who’s who. Dave
MacMillan, a coach of the professional Tri-Cities team,
has played with the Scotch; Tony Jaros, professional play-
er with the Minneapolis Lakers, has competed with the
Poles; and Don Carlson, a former pro, has played with the
Swedes. It wasn’t that way during the infancy of the All-
Nations. For some of the teams in the beginning, it was
just a matter of asking any man of the needed nationality
to play, regardless of his ability. As the tournament pro-
gressed and fan interest grew, however, it became neces-
sary for every team to get “not just anyone,” but the best
available players to represent their nationality group. Now
only the younger players, who are really good, compete
for honors in the Pillsbury affair; and they have to be in
shape, too. Joe Hutton, coach of the Hamline college team,
once told Currie, “The hardest games I ever played in, in-
cluding the ones with Carleton College, came in the All-
Nations tournament.”

The devotion and thoughtfulness of the persons who have
played in the tournament, toward the Pillsbury house, have
actually stunned Currie. “Persons, who for one reason or
another, have severed connections with us, who haven’t
taken part in our affairs for years, still remember our
worthwhile project,” he states.

To prove this, he will proudly haul out two large charts
containing the names of three hundred eight men who as-
sisted the Pillsbury house last year. The money collected
from last year’s tournament didn’t come close to meeting
the cost of a new floor. S0 Currie, without much hope of

DECEMBER 1951

Robert Krishef

even getting an answer, wrote to some of the persons who,
at one time, had played on the All-Nations teams. He had
only a dim notion that any of them would join the plan
of “Get your name on a plaque by buying a board in our
new basketball floor, for one dollar.” But they did, and
Currie has the names of the contributors to prove it.

People think a lot of the All-Nations project. They don’t
know quite how to word their admiration. They speak in
simple, not spectacular, terms. “Swell idea,” says George
Otterness, who played for the Norwegians years ago, and
who was one of the University of Minnesota’s really fine
players in 1927, 1928 and 1929. Zig Bishop, who has been
connected with the All-Nations as both a player and coach
for twenty years, says, “When everyone is at war, a thing
like this helps.”

The All-Nations, as a method of instilling respect among
different nationalities, for bringing peoples together for
recreation, and as just a terrific competitive event, has
gone over with a bang. So Ed Currie, the “man who just
likes to work with people,” really started something when
he issued that challenge to the Irish twenty-seven years ago.

JUST OFF THE PRESS

IN TIME FOR CHRISTMAS!

A beautiful thirty-two-page memorial
tribute to the life and work of
E. T. Attwell

THE ATTWELL STORY

 

Published by the National Recreation Association
for the E. T. Attwell Memorial Committee

Limited clothbound
deluxe edition. . . . .$5.00

Paper edition . . . . . . $1.00

Order NOW
405

W. C. Sutherland

P E R s o N N ll] L

The thirty-third National Recreation Congress, in many
respects, was a personnel congress. Its emphasis was
upon “Recreation for a Strong America,” which, in effect,
means people. The phrase assumes leaders of unusual stat-
ure who are personally strong—leaders with intellectual
integrity, devotion and objectiveness, who do not permit
their self-discipline to break down. It means leaders with
convictions, statesmanship and the strength of character
which exemplify the best in the art and practice of human
relations.

Those concerned with personnel policies and practices
filled a meeting room to overflowing and settled down to
serious discussion. Many suggestions for the improvement
of working conditions and increasing personnel standards
were brought out under the able chairmanship of Henry J.
McFarland, Jr., of the Civil Service Commission of the
State of New York. He was assisted by excellent panel
members who came well-prepared for this important ses-
sion. Milwaukee’s plan for increasing salaries and improv-
ing standards came in for considerable attention, as did
Mr. McFarland’s formulae, interpreted by symbols, for
good personnel administration.

The meeting on in-service training, competing with other
important sessions being held at the same time, drew 135
enthusiastic delegates, who seemed reluctant to stop the
lively discussion as closing time arrived. Walter L. Scott,
Director of Municipal and School Recreation, in Long
Beach, California, and the group of experienced pancl
members developed many practical ideas which made this
meeting a realistic one. Attention was called to present-day
weaknesses in many programs. Specific suggestions for
improving in-service training involved incentives, new
and inspirational features, special adjustments in worker
assignments and the use of new materials, personnel and
library resources inside and outside the department. Therc
arc some who fcel that in-service training is so vitally im-
portant that a standing committee should be appointed to
deal with it systematically and continuously.

Bccause personnel is such a broad field, it quite natural-
ly cut across, and became a part of, many other sessions.
In fact one of the sections of the all-day executives” meet-

W. C. SUTHERLAND is the director of the recreation per-
sonnel service of the National Recreation Association.

406

ing dealt specifically with personnel.

Provision was made, throughout the wcek, for tllosc who
had not previously done so to register with thc National
Roster. This is a voluntary registration of all park and rcc-
reation lcaders for defense service during the emcrgency.
Full-time leaders in public, private and voluntary agencics
are registering in large numbers.

The “Job Mart,” a new feature at the Congress this
year, provided “self-service” for employers and candidates.
It was fairly active, but the response from both employers
and candidates will determine whether or not it will bc
continued another year as a placement techniquc. This is
an extra effort and an addition to the regular service per-
formed by members of the personnel service in an attempt
to bring cmployers and prospective candidates together.

The most active recruiting program during the weck
was carried on by the United States Department of Defensc
and representatives of the armed forces. A booth, stra-
tegically located, was constantly supervised by special re-
cruiting representatives, who distributed interpretive ma-
terial and consulted with prospective candidates regarding
recreational personnel needs of the armed forccs.

It was particularly encouraging to see the increasing
number of recreation staff people attending thc Congress.
Cities are making more adequate provision for their work-
ers to go to meetings of this importance. Also, the workers
themselves, through sheer determination, are finding ways
of attending and are becoming an important group in their
own right. For instance, a staff of seven workers drove in
two cars from Sherman Recreation Center, St. Louis, Mis-
souri, and paid their own eXpenses to attend the Congrcss.
Fifteen full-time leaders from the recreation departmcnt in
Buffalo, New York, and all but one of thc staff of eight
full-time workers from Roanoke, Virginia, were in attcnd-
ance, as was the chairman of their board.

A special group of twenty individuals, mostly from col-
leges and universities, met with Mr. Prendergast one evc-
ning to consider further the possibility of setting up a Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Recruitment, Training and
Placement of Recrcation Leaders. Such a committec has
been encouraged by the National Advisory Committee on
Defense, which Mr. Prendcrgast appointed during the early
days of the existing national emcrgency.

The Collegc Recreation Association held its fourth an-

RECREATION

nual meeting at the Congress and received reports from a
number of committees. The writer spoke on placement pro-
cedures of the N RA and its services to career workers and
employers. The presentation included a statement on the
responsibilities of employers, candidates and the profes-
sional training schools, as well as a report on the job situa-
tion and the factors influencing employment. Dr. John L.
Hutchinson, of Columbia University, succccds Professor
Gerald B. Fitzgerald, of the University of Minnesota, as
president. Other officers for the year are Jackson Anderson,
Purdue University—vice president and Howard Danford,
Florida State University—~—secretary-treasurer.

Two college training sessions were held on Thursday
and Friday mornings, respectively. The first one dealt with
the question: “How Realistic ls College Training?” A
double panel of six local executives and six college edu-
cators were so absorbed in the subject that practically no
time was left for audience participation. Walter Roy, Di-
rector of Recreation, Chicago Park District, chairman of
the meeting, was under constant pressure in his attempt to
recognize the many pe0ple who were eager to enter the
discussion.

The session on Friday gave the college educators an
opportunity to speak briefly on the distinguishing charac-
teristics of their respective recreation curriculums and to
interpret the materials submitted for exhibit purposes. Also,
reports were made by Gerald Fitzgerald and Fred Coombs
on the work of their committees on accreditation and cer-
tification. Dr. Paul M. Limbert, President, Springfield Col—
lege, Massachusetts, led this fast-moving meeting.

The college exhibit, prepared especially for the Congress,
was composed of three large volumes of material keyed to
a large map showing the geographical location of the
schools offering major curriculums in recreation. It re-
corded the anticipated number of students, by districts, who
expect to receive degrees in 1951. The exhibit material in-
cluded twenty-five different types of items——-from outlines
of curriculums and individual courses to examination
questions for a course in introduction to community recrea-

tion. The exhibit will be kept on display at NRA national
headquarters and will be available for inspection by
prospective employers, recreation executives and others in-
terested in professional preparation for recreation leader-
ship. The following colleges and universities submitted
materials regarding their curriculums. (Materials from
other schools will be received continuously and used as the

exhibit is kept up to date.)

University of Maryland, Col-

le e Park, Md.
oston University,
Mass.

Springfield College, Spring-
field, Mass.

Mississippi Southern College,
Hattiesburg, Miss.

University of New Hampshire,
Durham, N. H.

Panzer College, East Or-
ange, N. J.

New York University, N.Y.C.

State University of New York,
Cortland, N.Y.

Teachers College, Columbia
University, N.Y.C.

North Carolina State Col-
lege, Raleigh, N. C.

University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, N. C.

Woman’s College of Universi-
ty of North Carolina, Greens-
boro, N. C.

Pennsylvania State College,
State College, Pa.

George Williams College, Chi-
cago, 111.

Boston,

University of Illinois, Urbana,
111.

Indiana University, Bloom-
ington, 1nd.
I Purdue University, Lafayette,
nd.

University of Minnesota, Min-
neapolis, Minn.

Ohio State University, Colum-
bus, Ohio.

Ohio Wesleyan University,
Delaware, Ohio.
University of Wiseonsin,

Madison, Wis.
Chapman College, Los Ange-
les, Calif.

San Jose State College, San
Jose, Calif.

University of California,
Berkeley, Calif.

University of California, Los
Angeles, Calif.

University of Denver, Den-
ver, Colo.

University of Utah, Salt Lake
City, Utah.

Central Washington College
of Edueation, Ellensburg, Wash.

This article, at best, is only a brief and sketchy pano-
ramic view of activities, related to personnel, which took
place at the thirty-third National Recreation Congress.
It is hoped, however, that it will give encouragement to
those who are vitally concerned with the growth of pe0ple
and the professional development of recreation leadership.
Personnel is the central powerhouse of the recreation
movement and the heart and soul of our profession. Surely
it is the only assurance and the primary promise for the
fulfillment of our purpose.

(Summaries of these meetings will be included in the
1951 Congress Proceedings. Order from the National Rec-
reation Association NOW. Priee——$2.25 per copy.——-Ed.)

Recreation—A Career Service

Promotion from within departments has been an effective
incentive for many promising young leaders. For many
others, advancement has come by transferring from one
agency, department or city to another. In any event, lead-

ers belong not to the single location where they happened
to begin their professional careers, but, rather, to the
place where they can make the greatest possible contribu-
tion to the recreation movement. In this way, recreation

really becomes a career movement justifying the sacrifice,
time and money necessary for adequate professional train-
ing and preparation.

Raymond S. Kimbell has been promoted to the position
of superintendent of recreation in San Francisco, follow-
ing the retirement of Miss Josephine Randall. Mr. Kim-
bell started in the department as a playground director and

DECEMBER 1951

was rapidly advanced to supervisor of playgrounds and
community centers and to the position of assistant super-
intendent. His latest promotion is a just reward for his
long and faithful service.

David E. Lewis is the newly-appointed general manager
of the city’s Consolidated Recreation-Park Departments.

James Lang, supervisor of athletics, who acted as assist-
ant superintendent in Mr. Kimbell’s absence on military
leave, has now become permanent in this position. He,
too, started at the bottom as a playground director.

Julius DeMeyer, also in the San Franeisco department,
started as a playground director. He succeeds Mr. Lang
as supervisor of athletics.

Recreation, a new and growing profession, offers a chal-

lenge to those seeking a socially useful and personally
satisfying field of service.

407

Highlight Your Christmas Activities

The Eldridge Publishing Company,
Franklin, Ohio, and Denver, Colorado,
suggest, as a background for your
Christmas pageant, service or drama,
one of its scenic wall hangings. Each
is nineteen and one-half feet long and
seven feet high, in full natural colors,
picturing either the Nativity or Bethle-
hem scene, which will “set the stage”
for any type of Christmas entertain-
ment. The Nativity scene, lithographed
on heavy paper and especially treated
so that light may pass through and the
star shine brightly, may be fitted to
irregularly-shaped walls. The nine-foot-
nine-inch-wide center section may be
used alone or with either or both end
sections—each four feet ten and one-
half inches wide—to make a complete
scene. The Bethlehem scene, also in
three sections—each four feet ten and
one-half inches wide—may be similarly
divided, and has the added advantage
of being reproduced on weatherproof
paper, thus making it suitable for out-
door use. Each scene packs easily for
repeated use and sells for $8.00, plus
forty cents postage. Complete instruc-
tions are included. The company’s
1951-52 catalogue of plays and enter-
tainments for every occasion is avail-
able free upon request.

What’s The Name, Please?

No one need ask, if your team is
wearing “personalized” T - shirts or
sweat shirts made by the Radiant
Sportswear Division of Eldee Advertis-
ers Company. Effective lettering or de-
signs, which withstand laundering, are
imprinted by Special processes (includ-
ing Day Clo for which Eldee is a li-
censee) on athletic apparel in juvenile,
boys’ and men’s sizes; gym pants, girls’
head scarfs, banners, emblems and so

408

 

on. Prices, comparing favorably with
those in effect prior to the national
emergency period, will be quoted at the
company’s oHice at 1223 West Sixth
Street, Cleveland.

Enjoy a White Christmas.

“One hour’s snow shoveling in ten
minutes” is the claim made by Jari
Products, Incorporated, for its Jari Jr.
rotary-action snow plow. A rotary rakc
“chews” the snow, while the open
front scoops it into an adjustable cast-
ing chute which directs it out of the
way, clearing sidewalks and driveways
in sixteen-inch swaths, quickly, before
the snow can be tramped down. Hard-
ened steel drive pinions engage notches

 

in rubber tires, creating positive for-
ward movement which makes the ma-
chine easy to handle. The one-and-one-
half horse power motor may be used
on the Jari rotary cultivator; and other
attachments which may be purchased
from the company are the power spray-
er and the Jari, Jr., power scythe.
Snow plow and motor, weighing only
157 pounds, crated, retails for $170.

Pocket Exposure Guide

Slide envelope construction for con-
venience in use, pocket size for ease in
carrying and plastic, laminated card-
board for sturdiness make this three-
way guide to diaphragm and shutter
speed readings a handy accessory for
the camera enthusiast. It is manufac-

tured by the Bolsey CorpOration of
America. The arrangement of numer-
als and film type, designated 011 the
slide and correlated with windows on
the envelope, provides readings for ten
films, wide subject range under all rea-
sonable natural light conditions, eight
flash bulb types and a triangularly ar-
ranged photo-flood set-up. One side of
the envelope is devoted to daylight
photography, while the reverse side
features photollash and photoflood con-
ditions. Hints for better pictures also
are included, and the guide may be
used with any camera. Retailing for
only twenty-five cents, it might fill the
need for an ineXpensive prize or favor,
or even serve as a Christmas stocking
stuf‘ler. Available from all Bolsey deal-
ers, or write to Shappe-Wilkes, Incor-
porated, 215 Fourth Avenue, New
York.

“How Come Christmas?”

Fine interpretation of this Roark
Bradford “near-folk” tale has been re-
corded by O. H. Harbin, for the Meth-
odist Publishing Houses, and is avail-
able with two other Bradford stories—~—
“N o Vacancy” and “Little David.” The
three twelve-inch plastic records sell
for $3.95. Although small children
may not understand it, “How Come
Christmas?” may well become a Christ-
mas tradition for many groups and in
many homes.

Handcrafts Supplies
Any crafts group in school, hospital,
club or institution will find practically
every product necessary for its hand-
crafts project in the stock of the Cleve-
land Crafts Company, 735 Carnegie
Avenue, Cleveland 15, Ohio. At one
time a single mimeographed sheet list-
ed their wares, but now available is a
thirty-six page 1951 catalogue that
sells for twenty-five cents—refundable
with the first purchase for one dollar
or more. Hobbyists are invited to call
at their recently-remodelled sales dis-

play room when in Cleveland.

Christmas Creche for Your Center?

Holly Mountain Dolls, of Ozone, Ten-
nessee, makes lovely ones—the figures
about one foot high. For full details,
write to Mrs. Helen B. Krechniak, and
mention RECREATION.

RECREATION

C" II ISTDIAS

S

‘
1

PA IITI

:00. 5.0 :::8 :0 000 0:00 0000:0mu 2:0 0:0 0000 00 0:0 0000.
:9:8 mam 080 :00200: 00: :8 00:8 080 0000.:

725:0

O: 0:: :00 800000 00: 00::08 0: :00 :80:“ 00: 0: 0:: :8 0:00:
00000800 :00 008:0... :00 000 :00: 8:0 :00 :08: 00008 0-0:0m:0m :0
00100000. m:0m 00008 8 0 00:: 0: 000:. 0008000 00: 0:: «00:. 0000-

0000::0 00::::0m0 0: 0:00 00008 00: :00 0:808 01:0 0010:0000

500:0. 48:: 000: :000: 800:0 0:080 00: 80 :0000 :0 80000080:
M00: 8000::0mm 0: 0008:0000 008:0. 200 0:: 00: 00m00 80008
80008:; M00: :: 000 0:00 :0 08 00 0000:-
000.. w000:::0: 8000::0mm. 0: 008:0 08 0402.
00:0 :0 0008:0000 0:00:00“ 0:. 0:0m::: >800m
00000 0: :00 0:00.00 00:80:00; moo: 08”
0010:0000 003:0 0: 0:000 0.00:m|..<:0000
:88 000:: 3:030 :8: M005: 0010:0000
00:0:mll>:0x00:0~ U. $008800. 380:0:
9:080: 008:0 0: :00 M0m000 <0:0:::0.1:
<88: 00000: 000:0... M018 0080 00M00 00: 0:0000: 003:0 :00.
0010:0000 m8l<:0:0~ 000:0. 0.00:0 00:0. 00M00.

 

wmrwddéo >ZU m9OM29MFFHZO

:80::0m 0:00: 2:0 80:20 0000:: 00 0 000: 0: 0800 0010:0000. 0
:8::::00 :0 083: 0008. $008308. 00 0010:0000 00:0 :0 00:00:08
5::000: 0 0:03: <8: 0000 :000: 00003: 00: 000 :00 00:00:00 :0
00:0 000 00: :080 0:00:00. 000:: 00: 008008 00:00 000:8 :00. 000:
00.0 00.00. 00080 00: 808380 80000000: 0083...v M008 0: :00
88:00: 00: 00:08: 8:00 0: :8 20:13: :0m00:m. M008 0:000...
80::080:u 0:80:08u 00:000. 00: 00008 08 :000: :0 :00 :0::0€:0m
000:.an 0010:0000 90:8 :0: :80::0m >:00:. 0::8: 0:: $0000.: 0.0000.
20:. 200.0. :93. 00:00 @909 380:8 :80 0: <0:0:::0 90:8. 0::8:
0:: M88: 20:00:8000:u w000m-:<:08::: 00.00000. :0::00000::m.
:95. 00:00 00:09 0010:0000 00:08 >M0:0. 0:. :000 Z. 9000. :88
000::00:0m 00000000. 2:200:80. 3:0... 00:00 2.00: 088:: 0010:-
0000 :0 <00. 0:: 00:00:88.0 30000:“ M. :0. D0200 00: 00000000.
202 2000. Howm. 00:00 $wbo: gm moor 0: 0008008 M0:0H:0:0:000:m.
0::8: 0:. 0:00:08 :0 000.... :000:0:rn0~.::. 00000000. 00:00m0... :03...
00:00 «who: 0010:0000. >0 >801000 >0000: 0: 0010:0000 0:88-
:08 00: >2. 0::8: 0:. :00:0:00 :w. 0:000:00. <0:0000 90803.. >0m0-
000m 000::00:0m 0:008v 0::00000000. 00:00 089.: 00000. mmbo 0000:.
90:0 0000 :0 0000000: 0000 «00:. 0: 0010:0000 :000. :: :0 0 20080..
:0: 00:00:00 0: 0010:0000 0:00:00. 0000:::0::0 E00808: :0 00:00. >
8:80 :00: .0008 0 200:8:0: 00:00.8 :0: 000: 00830

0

(Fold Back)

0

O

 

 

508000 :00 5.:-
00080000 :0 :8 000000 0: :00m080. 0: i” 
w,

200.00 :0::0€m0:0 00: 0:0:0008. :8: :50:
002:8... :008:08. 00 8 00.:m0: 00 00:0 000..
0:8. 00 :.0::0 0m 0:: M? 2:00 00:. :0 :H:00:- 9’
0080. 8 20:0 00 0 00:0:0m 20:0 :0m. ¢

900 08:800. 0: 00080. 0000:: :0000:
0000 :00 3:00 0: 00:0 000 08 m:<:0m. O0
0008 0008:000 00:0 003:0 08 000m 00:
0010:0000 0:00:00 :0::. 0: 0 00008 0:00 08808:. 9008 08 :88.

000.080.. 2000 :00 0:00:0m 0: M0008 00008 :: 80:0 0 :0:::00 00:
M00: 000880.

> 3005wa Um00w>9:02 0.0:: O=m59z>m

m00€ 7:00 00 U000

90 0.08 :8 0::m0: 00: m_0:::0m :000. 00: 0 08:08:: 0:88 :00
:0008 :0 ::0.0080. :00: 2:0 :88 00000.. 008: 0:: 00:0 20:8 0800
0000:. 20:00 000 0000 0:888: 00: 00.0000: 00:0800 :8 00m08.
9000 00: 0:8:8 0: 0:000 80: 0:000 :00. :8 008. >:: 0 880 00:: 0:
8: 0800 0000:. :00. 0 008 00: 0 30:08: 00:0 :00 0 0000::u 0.0::0m
080:0. 900 00: :0 0 08:0 0: 0:000 0800 00000 0803. :0008 2:8
00: 080800 :0008 :00m. 00:: :0 00:: :00M:0-
2:8. 00:80. :8 :00m 0:80 0:80 :0m0:00: 00:
:8 5::0 0000: 2:8. 90:0 :00:8 00:. :0008
0000: 00:0 :0M0:000. w:8:00 :00 :0:8: 0: 00:-
:00: 0:®0 :0 :0000 :00 00:00. >:: 00: 000: 0:
8: 0800 0000:. > 008 00:. 0: 8: 08:8
0000:. 0:0 :0008 2:8. 00: 00:80 :8 M88

00: 0:0000: :0 0:000 008:. 0:0 00:0u 00.00880
:8 8008000.

033mm 0.0:: 90:: 0>w90

000:0: 5080:0388

0:8 0000 00800 0 0010:0000 :0m 0000 20:00 :0 21:80 :00 00000
0: 0 :00: 0800:08: 2:0 :00 0010:0000 00800. 00 :00 0:00: 0:0
0: :00 SM 08 21:80 0000 80:00:08 00 :080. a00:00:08 00080::
:0 :8 000:0 0000:: i8 008 :00: :00 0:000 00:::0m 800:0 :00 :0:::.

00:00:80: :0: 2020 0.000000 :0080R0: 00:03:88? 0000 088.0000 0.: 202:...
90100.00 908 00.033: 00: 20:00:: E00838: 0800:3000:

IIHISTMAS

C

I’AllTl ES

 

.:::0.$ 0:.03 =0 :0: 05:: :000m 0 05 00.5w 0:::
£08 0: 08:: 2:3 02202 2.00 20 3:0?
"m50m “20:00: :20 0:0: 0:: :50 :0::?
.:0: :0:0 0:::m 0::: 00 55:0: 0 :0m 0: 00::: h0:0::0 0:: :0 :0:500 0::
5: a00:0:0:Z :5:0m 0:0:05: :50 ::m:: 50 0:::m n0:50: 0:0:05: 5:0: 0:05
.::0:: «0:0::0 0::50Q “50:055.”: 2.03:: :0::::>: 0:: 0: 3:0:3 "0:05;:

53:27: :50m 0: 3:0:

.::0: m5:30 :50 05:0 :00: n5?:
m5:30 :50 05:0 :00: “0050005 £50 :0::: :0: :0::: “05:0:0 .:00:0:
“:00: 00:0:0 :50: .:0:500 0: 2:20 :50: “::m:: 0:: 0: 00:0:0 ::m:0 :00:
n::0: 0: 00:0:0 ::m:0 0:03 “0:50: 5:0: :00:0> 2.0::0m: 0:m5::.: “0:053:

0:00 20::
050552 005002

.0500: 0:::0>0: ::0:: :0: :00:0 :50 005::0:0:0 0::
50 :50:0 0:0:0:00n:0 0: F 0:0: 0:: :0 :50 50 ::0
m5:::=0 :50:::3 03:05:: 00 ::::0:5:: 00 :00m 0::
0: :0m 0: m5:0: :00.::0 0:: 60:0: 0:: :0 020:5: 0::
550:: :50 0: 5R0: :0:: :05w:0 m5:::0:0 0:: :0 :50
h0:000: 0:: 0: 503m 0: 0:000:00 ::050 :0 ::0n: 4
.000: 0:: 5: 500: :00:5:0: 0 m5:>:::0 0: 050 :000
“50::05m05: :0 :0:0::0 0 :m: 50:55: ::m:: 0::
50:0 0:0 05:: 0 :0 0:50:00500 ::m:0 :0 5m :00m
0 0: ::0:: 0:0 0:0: :05: 050 :0 0550050 m50.:

000m: :08 won:

.00:::0: 0:: 000nm 30:05 :50 00505 m5::00:
.:00 ::50 50:: 0:0: B:00:5:0=:000 0:0 95% 0:: 5: 0:0:01: :: 43:00::00
00:::0: :0 :0:5=5 :00:00:m 0:: :000005m 0:3 050 0:: 0: :::030 :20:
::::m::0 0 :50 n00505 :0 :0:: :00m50: 0:: :5: :0:0::: 0:: 0: 503w 0:
:0:030 54: .000005m 53:0: :0 :0:555 0:: :50 B::0:00::00 0:0: :0::
00505 0:30:00: :0 :0:555 0:: :5500 0:0:01: :50 a:00=00 0: 05:: h0:05
:0 00:55:: 50: :0 ::0::0n: 0 :0::: 002% 0:: :5: m50:0 60:00:05:
00: 0: m5:%0::: 000:5 500:0: :000 :0 0505 0:: 530:: 00:55 :50
:5000:n:0: 00:50:: ::0:: 00:::0: :0::: 00000=m h0:0::0 :0 0m5ma0::0
0:: :0 m5:v:00: 500: 0:: :550:0 000m 6:00 :50000 0:: 00:0: :000
n:00:0:000:n: 0:0 0:00:01: :0 50: B .:: 000 500 :0 0:0:3 :00:0 00:00:03 0::
0: ::055::: 0: 05:05 0::: o:00:0:5:.: 50:3 .:::0:5:0=:00055 0:0 0:0:01:
0:: :3 :: 30:0: 0505 0:: 5m:0 0: :50 05000:0 00: 0: :0::: 0: 00 05:0

(Fold Along This Line)

0 m5:>:m 0:50:: 0 :0::: 0: 50:: “:00? 307: 0:: :0: :::0: 305 0 :0
0:5::: 0: 5:: :09 5:: 0 :50 ::050:: 0 h0:0:00 00$: :0.:0:m: :000 0:0

005:3: .502

65:50::
::0: :0 0050m m5:m5:0 :0: 0:05:00: ::0:: :0::: 0:
50:: :0: 2:50:00 0:0: 0:: :50 ::0 0:: 0:5: :00000:
0:0 000:0:3050 000:9 .:0m:0m: A0500: 5:::: 00:0:
45050 50 50::::3 0:0 01% 0:: =0 :0 00505 0: r:.

thH—uhwm Ov—w—Trwcnm

.00:0::30 :0 0:55: 0 00.»:000: m5:v:00:0 0:00::
0:: m5::0:0: 050 0::. .::500 :0 m5:v:00:0 0 003000: m5:v:00:0 50:0:0m
0:: m5:>0: 500:0: 0:: :50 n:0: 0 0:05m:0 :0::00: 0:: n00555: 00:::
:0 :50 0:: :4 .::005:: ::005::0::5: :00: 0:3 500:0: 0:: :5: 0:00::
:055 0: “:50: :00m:m:0: 0:: 5: m5:v:00:0 0 00: :0::0: 0:: :: 50:07.: :0::0
-50 :0 0:50: :00:50::0 0:: :0 050 :0: :50 0:50: :0000:0 ::0:: :50:::0
:0:: a0::: m5:0:: 0:0 :0:: 0::? :.:::m 005:0:::U 0 05 03W 00007::
hm5:::00 0:005w :0::0 0:: 0: 00300505 05:55:: :50 0:50: :0000:0
:5: 50:0 0:03 0:0:07: .050 0:00:: 0 :50 050 50:0:0m 0 50000 :00:
0:0 0m5:v:00:0 0:: :0 =4 .m5:v:00:0 :0::00: 2050 0 :005m :000 0:0

:::0 00:50:50

00:3 ::050 0 :00:0:030 0: 050m 0::
:0 000:0 0:: :0 :: m5:>0: 0:::500 0: F .:0:00 :::0m :0 000:: ::0_:0 0:w5:0
0 0:02.: 50:: :5: 0: 0m5::: :0>0055 :0 0:05: 0: 0:0: :05 :::3 050
:0:: :50 30:: 5:0::: 5: 50:0:::: 0:0 m5:::0 :0 0000:: 0:: :0:: :00:0
:: 00:03: 50:50”: 53:00: 0:: m5::50::0 07:00:: :0 :0:::5 0:: 500::
:50n:0:0 3:05:05 :23 :0::: :50 :5 :50 0: 0: :0:00 :0 :55050 0: F
5055:? 0:: :00:0:00:: 0: M5:::0 :00m50: 0:: :5: 0:0:500 0:: “05:: :00:05
.m:00:0 0 :4: .:50 050 :0 :0::0m0: 50:: 0:: :0:: “0000:: 0:: :0::: :0:: 0::
.00:n:500 5: :0:00 0:: :0: :55: 0: :0:0: 0:0 0:0,:07: .::0: 3:0: 0:: :0>0
=0 50:: 0::: :50 0::m50: ::050 0:5: w5:::0 w5:n:n:0:3 005:0:::U
::0:0:00 03050985: :0 0:0: :0:0>00 :50 ...0..::::0 0:00am 50.: 05:0»:

:500 00:50:50 :00: 0::.

2:55:03 0:: 50::
0mm0 :0 00:2: 0:: :50 :53: m :m5E5:0 :0:0::0 :0
::::0::0n:50 0:: 5:00:55 0:: :::3 005005: m :0::

n0

    

can be easy if your friends are interested in rec-

5W? reation! If they are parents, students, teachers,

service or leadership volunteers, board mem-
bers, recreation staff leaders or just civic-minded

folks—

W
Let a subscription to

be the gift that carries your good will

One year — $3.00 Two years — $5.50
Foreign and Canadian - $3.50

Simply fill out the slip below and return it with your check

 

(tear here)

 

TO: NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION—315 Fourth Avenue
New York 10, N. Y.

Please send my personal Christmas greeting and a gift-subscription to the follow-
ing addresses:

Please check
1 year 2 years

E] E] To: M____—______

Street
City______________.___._____Zone—State
El El To: M.
Street
City_____________Zone—State
E] E] To: nh
Street
City—______Zone_______State
Cl C] To: M____.________—_—_
Street
City—Zone___State
Enclosed find check for $_._______ Please bill me
SignaturemAddreSL—“h_
City—_________.__Zone___State_______—___
4 4

 

DECEMBER 1951 411

 

Becomes

City Father

Father Christmas

0 Little fellow looks with wonder at jovial Santa who,
in reality, is none other than Mayor Littlejohn Faulkner,
of \Vilson, North Carolina. The Mayor played the role
of St. Niek at the two Christmas parties of the \Vilson
Beereation and Park Department last year.

 

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP,
MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULA-
TION REQUIRED BY THE ACT
OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24,
1912, AS AMENDED BY THE
ACTS OF MARCH 3, 1933, AND
J ELY 2, 1946 (Title 39, United
States Code, Section 233)

Of RECREATION, published monthly
except July and August at New York,
N. Y., for October 1, 1951.

1. The names and addresses of the
publisher, editor, managing editor, and
business managers are:

Publisher:- National Recreation As-
sociation, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N. Y.

Editor: Joseph Prendergast, 315
Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.

Managing Editor: Dorothy Donald-
son, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
N. Y.

Business Manager: Rose Jay
Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N. Y.

2. The owner is: (If owned by a
corporation, its name and address must
be stated and also immediately there-
under the names and addresses of stock-
holders owning or holding 1 percent or
more of total amount of stock. If not
owned by a corporation, the names and
addresses of the individual owners
must be given. If owned by a partner-
ship or other unincorporated firm, its

412

name and address, as well as that of
each individual member, must be
given.)

National Recreation Association,
Inc., 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, N. Y.

F. W. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.;
F. Gregg Bemis, Boston, Mass.; Mrs.
Robert Woods Bliss,Washington, D. C.;
Mrs. Arthur G. Cu1nmer, Jacksonville,
Fla.; William H. Davis, New York,
N. Y.; Harry P. Davison, New York,
N. Y.; Mrs. Paul Gallagher, Omaha,
Ncbr.; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.;
Robert Grant, 3rd, Oyster Bay, L. 1.,
N. Y.; Austin E. Griffiths, Seattle,
Wash.; Mrs. Norman Harrower, Fitch-
burgh, Mass.; Mrs. Charles V. Hickox,
Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. John D.
Jameson, Bellport, N. Y.; Susan M.
Lee, New York, N. Y.; Otto T. Mallery,
Philadelphia, Pa.; Carl E. Milliken,
Augusta, Me.; Mrs. Ogdcn L. Mills,
Woodbury, N. Y.; Rev. Paul Moore,
Jr., Jersey City, N. J.; Joseph Prender-
gast, New York, N. Y.; Mrs. Sigmund
Stern, San Francisco, Calif.; Grant
Titsworth, Noroton, Conn.; J. C.
Walsh, Yonkers, N. Y.; Frederick M.
Warburg, New York, N. Y.

3. The known bondholders, mortga-
gees, and other security holders owning
or holding 1 percent or more of total
amount of bonds, mortgages, or other
securities are: (If there are none, so

state.)

Nonc (nonprofit organization).

4. Paragraphs 2 and 3 include, in
cases where the stockholder or security
holder appears upon the books of the
company as trustee or in any other f1-
duciary relation, the name of the per-
son or corporation for whom such trus-
tee is acting; also the statements in the
two paragraphs show the afiiant’s full
knowledge and belief as to the circum-
stances and conditions under which
stockholders and security holders who
do not appear upon the books of the
company as trustees, hold stock and
securities in a capacity other than that
of a bona fide owner.

5. The average number of c0pics of
each issue of this publication sold or
distributed, through the mails or other-
wise, to paid subscribers during the 12
months preceding the date shown above
was: (This information is required
from daily, weekly, semiweckly, and
triweekly newspapers only.)

Dorothy Donaldson, Managing Editor

Sworn to and subscribed before me
this 20th day of October, 1951.

Miriam S. C. Dochtermann,
Notary Public, State of New York
No. 306043400

Qualified in Nassau County. Certifi-

cate filed with New York County Clerk

and Register. My commission expires

Ma reh 30, 1952.

RECREATION

   

RECREATION

is one of the fields in which
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES
I

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this

monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS — Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS — Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES — Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATIILETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS — Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Suhscrzption Price  Suhsce'ihe New

School Activities Publishing Co.

r 1515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

__—.._—____.T__H____________________._.—L____i______ _ _ —_ 1

DECEMBER 1951 413

r——1L——lr

Books Received

ANATOMY OF HAPPINESS, THE, Martin
Gumpert, M.D. McGraw-Hill Book

Company, Incorporated, New York.

$3.50.
BASEBALL READER, THE, edited by

Ralph S. Graber. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $3.50.

BOY AND HIS GUN, A, E. C. Janes. A.
S. Barnes and Company, New York.

$3.50.
CARVING ANIMAL CARICATURES, Elma

Waltner. McKnight and McKnight

Publishing Company, Bloomington,

Illinois. Paper, $1.50.
CHRISTOPHER AND THE COLUMBUS,

Kathryn and Byron Jackson. Simon

and Schuster, New York. $.25.
DOLLS TO MAKE FOR FUN AND PROFIT,

Edith Flack Ackley. J. B. Lippincott

Company, Philadelphia. $3.00.

FROSTY, THE SNOW MAN, retold by
Annie North Bedford. Simon and

Schuster, New York. $.25.

lf’s  if it’s

i
' l

GYM EQUIPMENT

0 Gymnasium Equipment
0 Teiescopic Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards

o Basketbail Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

70m gm Mk9
FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,INC

3566 DE KALB ST. ST. l.0UIS 18, M0.

For 78 Years
The Standard Of Quality

 

 

HERE COMES THE PARADE, Kathryn
Jackson. Simon and Schuster, New
York. $.25.

JUNIOR JAMBOREE, Jonathan Barrow.
Hart Publishing Company, New
York. $1.75.

MUSIC AMERICANS SING, Harry R. Wil-
son, Joseph A. Leeder, Edith White
Gee. Silver Burdett Company, New
York. Cloth, $1.98; paper, $1.32.
THE LOG for MUSIC AMERICANS
SING. Paper, $.80.

MUSIC AND DANCE IN NEw YORK
STATE, edited by Sigmund Spaeth.
Bureau of Musical Research, 236
West Fifty-fifth Street, New York.
$6.00.

NIGHT BEFORE CHRISTMAS, THE,
Clement C. Moore. Simon and
Schuster, New York. $1.00.

WHAT IF? Helen and Henry Tanous.
Simon and Schuster, New York. $.25.

 

DIRECTORY OF RECREATIONAL FACILI-
TIES FOR OLDER PEOPLE. Welfare
Council of New York City, 44 East
Twenty-third Street, New York 10,
New York.

EDUCATORS' GUIDE TO FREE SLIDE-
FILMS, compiled and edited by Pa-
tricia A. Horkheimer and John W.
Difior. Educators Progress Scrvice,
Randolph, Wisconsin. $3.00.

EXPLORING CHILDREN’S INTERESTS, G.
Frederic Kuder and Blanche B.
Paulson. Science Research Associ-
ates, 57 West Grand Avenue, Chi-
cago 10, Illinois. $.40.

HOW TO DO NATURE PRINTING, David
and Jean Villasenor. Foster Art
Service, Incorporated, Box 456, La-
guna Beach, California. $1.00.

JUST BE PATIENT, cartoons, Angelo.
John C. Winston Company, Phila-
delphia 7, Pennsylvania. $1.00.

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE. Depart-
ment of Landscape Architecture,
Graduate School of Design, Harvard
University, Cambridge, Massachu-
setts. $2.00.

NATIONAL SURVEY OF RECREATION IN
CANADIAN COMMUNITIES. Physical
Fitness Division, Department of Na.
tional Health and Welfare, Ottawa,
Canada.

Magazines

PARKS AND RECREATION, May 1951
Coping With Vandalism Through

Area and Facility Planning, H.
W. Groth.

Park Turf, Part III, Tom Mascaro.

East Bay Regional Parks Nature
Program, Jack Parker.

Community Center at Mount Airy,
North Carolina.

Playground Construction Program
at Milwaukee.

PARKs AND RECREATION, June 1951

Nature’s Tonic Provided by State
Parks of Florida, Lewis G. Scog-
gin.

Coping With Vandalism Through
Area and Facility Maintenance
(11), E. P. ROInilly.

Indoor-Outdoor Swimming Pool De-
signed, Wesley Bintz.

Park Turf, Part IV, Tom Mascaro.

Maintenance Mart.

PARKS AND RECREATION, July 1951
Coping with Vandalism Through the
Youth Bureau Approach, Lieuten-
ant William J. Szarat.
A Park F undamental—Scenic Beau-
ty, Roberts Mann.
Oakland Uses Imagination in Build-
ing Tot-Lots.
Maintenance Mart—Dallas Park F a-
cilities.
PARKS AND RECREATION, August 1951
St. Clair Metropolitan Beach Dedi-
cated, H. A. Lamley.
State and County Arboretum De-
veloping at Los Angeles, George
H. Spalding.
The Use and Abuse of Park Records,
George B. Caskey.

Maintenance Mart.

RECREATIONAL AND INFORMAL EDUCA-
TIONAL SERVICE, Gertrude Wilson.

‘ American Association of Group
Workers, Washington, D. C. $1.00.

THE JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN AS-
SOCIATION FOR HEALTH, PHYSICAL
EDUCATION AND RECREATION, May
1951.

Hospital Recreation.

A Physical Education Program for
Today’s Youth.

Physical Fitness Advisement and
Standards for Youth.

Archery for the Handicapped, Hen-
rietta Krumkolz.

Value of the Athlete, Harry Wiss-

mer.

Too Many Too Soon, Ott Romney.
Understanding Self Thru Dance,
Barbara Mack.

Placement Study, (Undergraduate
majors in health, physical educa-
tion, recreation in selected teacher-
education institutions for 1949).

RECREATION

 

Rhythms and Dances for
Elementary Schools

Dorothy La Salle. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $4.00.

As a recreation leader, often work-
ing with teen-agers and adults, I can’t
help but think: “Why, oh why, haven’t
these people had some good basic
training in rhythms as part of their
childhood education? How easy it
would be for them now—and how
much more real enjoyment they would
find in their folk games and square

'33

dancing.

For many years, a great many for-
tunate youngsters have had the rich
experience of a dance program based
upon the excellent material in Miss
La Salle’s first book on rhythms and
dances. Now we have a revised edition
and its format is exceptionally good.
The dances and rhythms are well
chosen and beautifully described, and
the music is very legible. In fact, any
classroom teacher could use the text
with complete success.

The author states the case for the
dance in the elementary school in
Chapter I, and includes valuable teach-
ing hints. Fundamental movements are
covered in Chapter II, followed by a
section on creative characterizations,
in which all these movements are used.
Singing games are next, with the old
favorites as well as many new ones.

Three chapters on folk dances are
divided into the simple, intermediate
and advanced—which is a great im-
provement upon former classifications
according to grade level. The folk
dances also are grouped according to
countries, which is a great help to the

DECEMBER 1951

new Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

teacher who is planning an assembly
program or a folk dance festival. A
glossary includes an explanation of all
steps one would need to know in work-
ing out a folk dance.

Since obtaining an able pianist al-
ways is a problem in a dance program,

one wishes that Miss La Salle had
designated desirable records for the
dances or had, herself, made record-
ings of the ones which are not now
available. This would have greatly in-
creased the value of the book for all
teachers, for there still are too many
schools which have neither piano nor
pianist, and only a good record player
is within the realm of possibility.—
Helen M. Dauncey, Katherine F. Bark-
er Memorial Secretary for Women and
Girls, National Recreation Association.

Not New, But Still Useful

Music Americans Sing, edited by Harry

R. Wilson, Joseph A. Iceder and
Edith White Gee. Silver Burdett
Company, New York. Cloth, $1.98;
paper, $1.32.

One hundred twenty-five old favor-
ites with new, brief, descriptive and
historical notes, and some even with
dance directions, are included here.
Units include American Indian songs,
work, patriotic, Stephen Foster and tra-
ditional songs and Christmas carols—
along with words, melodies and piano
accompaniments. In addition, there is a
Log Book—priced at eighty cents—
containing more extensive directions
and suggestions for use with groups.—
Certrude Borciwrd, Correspondence
and Consultation Service, National Rec-
reation Association.

Community Organization and
Planning

Arthur Hillman. The Macmillan Com-
pany, New York. $4.00.

The author of this volume points out
the distinction between community or-
ganization and planning, their rela-
tionship and the methods by which
they function. He conceives of commu-
nity organization as a necessary condi-
tion of conscious cooperation for local
planning. Planning in its local aspects
is designated as “an activity of organ-
ized and representative community
bodies that can act on behalf of the
community or major segments of it. It
is essentially a matter of intelligently
selecting and systematically implement-
ing them.” Major portions of the book
are devoted to “Planning of Communi-
ties,” “Organized Action in Commu-
nity Life,” “Functional Areas of Com-

munity Planning” and “Procedures in
Community Organization.”

Two chapters, “Community Centers”
and “Planning Recreation Programs,”
relate primarily to recreation. Like
other portions of the book, they are de-
voted, in large measure, to quotations
from other publications. The former,
primarily dealing with schools and set-
tlements, contains no special recogni-
tion of municipal recreation buildings
or of community buildings such as are
found in many towns and rural areas.
The other chapter outlines the develop-
ment of community recreation in the
United States. Mr. Hillman refers
to the special recreation board or com-
mission, however, as a coordinating
agency for programs of parks, schools
and other public agencies—rather than

415

as an agency performing an adminis-
trative, governmental function.

The relationship between national
and local planning activities in the pro-
motion of community services is dis-
cussed in the final chapter: George
Butler, Director of Research, National
Recreation Association.

Research Methods Applied to
Health, Physical Education and
Recreation

The American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation.
A Department of the National Edu-

cation Association, Washington, D.C.

$5.00.

This review of research methods was
sponsored by the Research Section and
the Research Council of the Research
Section of the American Association

'l'iiil‘.f.‘.§i‘i‘i'u£mi2ilsso for ALL

mam: nlmm -   a 
r 

       

      
 

COPPER YODLI

:ftasfztiiigi SUPPLIES! 
are: BIEtESI BAIAllll} YH starts: 1' 

 
    
    

   

  
     
     
 

for Health, Physical Education and
Recreation. It was prepared under the
direction of a steering committee, as-
sisted by chapter chairmen and com-
mittces, with forty authors contribut-
ing to the material.

The volume reviews research meth-
ods in the areas of health, physical
education and
major consideration is given in most
chapters to health and physical educa-
tion problems. It is designed as a gen-
eral guide for the benefit of graduate
students and others concerned with re-

recreation-although

search in these fields.

Chapters that should be of Special in-
terest to recreation workers and stu-
dents include the following: “Library
Research Methods,” “Historical Re-

search Methods,” “Experimental Group
Methods of Research,” “Survey Meth-

ods,” and “Writing the Research Re-
port.” Laboratory methods and various

techniques primarily applicable to
physical education research also are

described in considerable detail.

Here is a book that can be studied
with profit by all who are concerned

 

 

Square Dance Records with Progressive Ora!
Instructions and Calls by ED DURLACHER

Here is the easy and economical way to meet the
ever-growing demand for square dancing in your
community . . . the HONOR YOUR PARTNER

‘ series of square dance records.

if? a a

Each record in albums 1 to 4 starts with simpli-
fied progressive oral instructions by Ed Durlacher
—instructions easily understood by dancers of all
ages. Followin a brief pause, giving the dancers
time to square their sets, the music and calls

gin. The TOP HANDS, directed

by FRANK NOVAK, offer the best in scintillating and foot tapping s uare dance
music. The calls are delivered by one of the nation’s most outstan 'ng square

dance authorities, ED DURLACHER.

a a

a

The fifth album in the series contains music only, without calls or instructions-—

“The Square Dance Caller’s Delight”.

AN ENTHUSIASTIC USER REPORTS e e .
“W e are using your albums I, 2, and 3, and find them the very finest teaching aid

we have ever run across.”

Tom Pfacnder, Director
Physical Education & Athletics
New Ulm (Minn.) Public Schools

All records are guaranteed against breakage, in normal use.
You‘ll want to learn more about the HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums.

Write today for a descriptive folder.

HONOR YOUR PARTNER

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

DEPT. R-3

FREEPORT. NEW YORK

 

416

with health, physical education and
recreation.

Making and Staging Marionettcs

Woman’s Day, Incorporated, New

York. Paper, $.25.

Here’s a real buy! All you crafts
and drama leaders, club leaders, recre-
ation department members who have
been looking so long and hard for real-
ly complete and detailed plans for
marionettes, here it is!

It’s a reprint on slick paper and in
color. How do they do it for twenty-
five cents!

It has everything—step-by-step in-
structions, drawings, diagrams, cos-
tumes, stage, stage settings, production
——and, to make it really perfect,
three marionette playscripts: The Frog
Prince, The Princess and the Pea and
Hansel and Gretel.

Even if you haven’t started on mario-
nettes, get this while you can; after
you’ve seen and read it, you’ll want to
get started! Thanks, Woman’s Day!

Also, don’t forget to order the re-
prints that Woman’s Day so kindly
gave to the NRA. They’re listed on
page 316 of the November 1951 issue
of RECREATION—Virginia Musselrnan,
Correspondence and Consultation Serv-
ice, National Recreation Association.

Parties on a Budget

Louise Price Bell. Prentice-Hall, ln-
corporated, New York. $2.95.

This book contains plans for twen-
ty-two adult parties, nine children’s
parties, fourteen bridal showers and six
stork showers. It also contains a spe-
cial games section to supplement the
games and quizzes given for each spe-
cial event.

The parties are worked out around
themes, including those of seasons and
holidays. For each party, ideas for in-
vitations, decorations and refresh-
ments are included, plus a few games
and quizzes which can be enlarged by
using the extra suggestions included in
the special section.

The themes of many of the parties
are original and will stimulate the im-
agination of the families, school or
church groups and clubs looking for
new ideas. The style is genial and
sprightly. Those who remember Mary
Breen’s Party Book, now out of print,
will find this an adequate substitute.

RECREATION

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

 

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored jointly by the National Recreation Association and local recreation departments

December, 1951, January, February, 1952

Birmingham, Alabama
January 7-10

Grecnvillc, Alabama
January 14-17

Gadsden, Alabama
January 21-24

Opclika, Alabama
January 28-31

Scottsboro, Alabama
February 4-7

Tifton, Georgia
December 3-6

State of North Carolina
January 14-31

Winston-Salem, North Carolina
February 4-7

Fort Pierce, Florida
February 18-21

Shreveport, Louisiana
January 7-10

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
January 14-17

Amarillo, Texas
January 21-24

Galveston, Texas
January 28-31

Alice, Texas
February 4-7

Salt Lake County,

Murray, Utah
January 7-17

Hayward, California
January 21-24

Long Beach, California
January 28-31

San Diego, California
February 4-7

Santa Monica, California
February 11-14-

Aslleville, North Carolina
December 3-10

Port Chester, New York
January 7-10

Ames, Iowa
February 18-21

Dr. I. F. Simmons, Jefferson County Board of Education
Frank K. Echols, Butler County Board of Education
I. J. llrowdcr, City Board of Education

T. ll. Kirby, City Board of Education

Delbcrt Hicks, Jackson County Board of Education

Dr. George P. Donaldson, President, Abraham Baldwin Agricul-
tural College, Abac Rural Station

James S. Stevens, Jr., Acting Director, North Carolina Rccreation
Commission, 615 Hillsboro Street, Raleigh, North Carolina

Loyd B. Hathaway, Superintendent of Recreation, Department of
Recreation

Woodrow Dukes, Superintendent of Recreation

Clyde Stallcup, Superintendent of Recreation
Alvin R. Eggcling, Director, Recreation Department

Jack Hans, Director of Recreation, Park and Recreation Com-
mission, North Wing Municipal Auditorium

William Schuler, Director of Recreation, Menard Community Ccn-
ter

R. B. Dixson, Superintendent, Rccreation Department, City Hall

Paul S. Rose, Superintendent, Recreation Department, 5177 South
State Street

Harold L. Teel, Superintendent, Park and Parkway District,
1015 East Street

Walter L. Scott, Director, Municipal and School Recreation,
Long Beach Recreation Commission, 715 Locust Avenue
Mrs. Pauline des Cranges, Superintendent of Recreation

Leonard F. Bright, Director of Recreation, 1130 Lincoln Boulevard

Miss Rita H. Lee, Principal, Hill Strcct Elementary School

Paul Dcan Arnold, Arnold Bakers, Incorporatcd

Mrs. Gertrude Skow Sanford, Extension Specialist in Recreation,
Iowa State College of Agriculture

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually Open to all who wish to attend.

For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure and the like, communicate with the sponsors

of the courses as listed above.

'\

 

;,

 

Lieutenant Frederick Henry,
Clinton, 0kla.—Medal of Honor

This is the season when you think of stars.
The one over Bethlehem. The ones on

Christmas trees.

But this year remember another star, too—
the one on the Medal of Honor. And
make a place in your heart for the brave,
good men who’ve won it. Men who,
oftener than not, made the final, greatest
sacrifice—so that the stars on your
Christmas tree, and the stars in your
country’s flag, might forever shine

undimmed.

 

Major General William F.‘ Deon,
Berkeley, Califr—Mednl of Honor

 

 

Sergennt Charles Turner,
Boston, Mnss.—Medol of Honor

 

Private First Clnss Melvin Brown,
Mahafey, Pa.-—-Medal of Honor

Right now—today'—is the time to do
something important for these men who
died for you. You can, by helping to
defend the country they defended so far
“above and beyond the call of duty.”

One of the best ways you can make defense
your job, too, is to buy more . . . and more

. . . and more United States Defense Bonds.
For your bonds help strengthen America.
And if you make this nation strong

enough you’ll create, and keep, the
peace for which men died.

Buy Defense Bonds through the Payroll Savings Plan where you
work or the Bond-A-Month Plan where you bank. Start today!

Peace is for the strong...Buy U S. Defense Bonds

 

The U. S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. it is donated by this publication in.
cooperation with the Advertising Council nnd the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

