 

 

6 0 BUR/(fl

 unmatched safety - unequaled durability
unrivaled low cost maintenance

The youngsters depend on
you for the exercise and fun
of their childhood. Meet this
obligation with the finest and
safest . . . Burke Built Equip-
ment.

Before you buy let us furnish you
with all the facts on Burke Equip-
ment: complete specifications,
special literature, free planning
assistance, catalog. Let us show
you WHY Burke gives you and
youngsters more for the money.
Write Dept. H.

Rely on Burke’s reputation . . . built on
service and dependability: 25 years of
constant improvement in building
playground equipment; first to intro-
duee new safety features (unmatched
for safety); quality materials plus
distinguished craftsmanship and de-
sign tailored to meet all require-
ments; trouble-free equipment for
decades of most economical service;
line business relations and conscien-
tious attention to detail to make
America's playgrounds more enjoy-
able, more economical and safer!

THE J. E. BURKE CO., Fond du lac, Wis.
Factory Branch Box 986, New Brunswlck, NJ.

25th year equipping and servicing America’s playgrounds

Approved by Park and Recreation Officials Everywhere

lllIIIE-BIIIL'I'

KINDERGARTEN 3c NURSERY SCHOOL PLAY DEVICES
Whet- 60W (dose at £46 modal

 

EXCLUSIVE
FRAME FITTINGS

make Burke Equipment the best

 

Examine the inter-locking construction

Exclusive Burke designed fittings prevent
sagging, twisting, and misalignment . . .
the positive method of accomplishing com-
plete inflexibility.

 

Note the superior strength

Compare Burke fittings—hot dipped gal-
vanized iron, massive, heavily ribbed great-
er length and weight—with any other.

Burke fittings are designed to carry the
load!

LOOK TO THE FITTINGS—BUY BURKE
BETTER BUILT and you GET THE BEST

PLAYGROUND
E GU l PM E NT

   

Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

Climbing structure

0 No other playground device provides so

much play capacity per square foot of ground

area and per dollar of cost as JUNGLEGYM!
T hat plus JUNGLEGYM’S safety record

of more than one hundred million child-play-
hours without one single serious accident
are two reasons why you should give

the children of your playground the advantage

of JUNGLEGYM.

Write for Illustrated Bulletin on PORTER'S Streamlined Line that will Save You Money . . . Time

You can rely on PORTER for the basic units you need
for your playground . . .

    

No. 38 Cambination Set

Compact, economical unit that's ideal
for limited ground areas. Six varieties
of funful, healthful activity.

No. 136 Stratosphere See-Saw

Sensationally new. Gives “ups-a-daisy”
ride 331/396 higher than conventional
see-saw, but with greater safety.

 

No. SB-F Playground Basketball Backstop
All-steel fan-shaped bank rigidly mount-

 

ed on steel mast and braced for per- No. 240 Mrry_G°_R°und
No. '05 Six-Swing 501 mam” serv'ce' Will safely accommodate 30 children at
Sturdy 'IZ-ft. frame held rigidly togeth- one time. Naiseless, no-wobble, no-
er with exclusive Porter fittings make sway Operation. An en-
this a permanent, safe unit. gineering marvel. “ :

THE 1. E. CORPORATION
OTTAWA. rumors

MANUFACIURERS OF PlAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

 

Req.u.s.Pat.ort. STRUC-TURE

 

 

JUNE 1952 121

 

NOW IS THE TIME . . .

To start planning your summer
vacation!

oTired of going to the same
place?

0 Want to get MORE—for LESS?

      

   
 

O

 
   

I
a

0 Whether you plan to travel, or

f.

a
O
i

-

0 ,

  

. I
' . 6‘ j‘ -'* stay at home—
‘1 it- ’
. ,. . . T  g _   CONSULT THE NEW
| New Mexico State Tourist Bureau

W W ._ Z( 514.
\ PREPARED BY THE EDITORS or  magazine

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT-According to a new agreement, this Special publication is
‘5) being distributed by Rand McNally & Company, publishers, through their bookstore outlets.

Format and content have undergone considerable change. Sixteen new pages of text, ac-
cented with color, have been added, and the book will have a cover in color. Because of
these improvements, it must now retail for $1.00.

ADVANCE ORDERS for Smmez Wmc‘c’oxa -    which were postmarked

‘13 before April I5, will be filled at the 50-cent price, as originally announced. The otter of
a free copy with a new subscription, or renewal of a subscription to RECREATION magazine,
terminates May first.

l Spring 1952 JUST our: $1.00

1'. 5. Forest Service

Delegates traveling to the National
Recreation Congress in Seattle, per-
haps planning their vacations along
the way, will find this book particu-
larly helpful in determining how to

go, things to do and see.

ORDER NOW
NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N.Y.

° gmm  °

 

MWE

I

 

JUNE,1952

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
. Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Vol. XLVl Price 35 Cents No. 3

 

On the Cover

This canoeist finds placid water for his favorite rec-
reation in idyllic setting in Missouri’s central Ozarks
region. Photo by Massie, Missouri Resources DIVI-
sion.

In September

Look for new ideas and plenty of enthusiasm, to
match the baek-to-school and harvest-tangv vigor of
fall. There will be some “How to" articles on Hallo-
ween parties; prc-vues on the Congress, being held
in Seattle, September 29 through October 3; admin-
istration articles full of facts and concrete help;
the salary study which is available after June 15,
as a special prcprint; personalities in recreation;
an article on an extensive industrial recreation pro-
gram; ideas for enlarging the scope of activities
in your community center, variations on basketball
and accounts of “shot in the arm” methods of in-
creasing participation.

Photo Credits

Page 132, (center right) Kemmell Ellis, Seattle,

(lower right) James Lee. Seattle; 135, 136, Herald
and Review and Playground and Recreation Board,

Decatur; 143, 144, Board of Park Commissioners.
Minneapolis; 148, Stockton Record, California;
152, 153, (top) C. G. Rosenberg, Stockholm, Sweden,
(bottom) Maynard L. Parker, Los Angelcs; 155,

156, 157, Palisades lnterstate Park—Boland; 17],

Municipal Recreation Commission, Syracuse; 172,

Windy Drum, courtesy of News-Tribune, Waco; 173,
Bob Pondcn, Waco.

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary c0n-
tributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readch' Guide. Subscriptions $3.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. B. Weleh Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription ratc $3.85. Hc-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Office in New York, New York, under Act of
March 3, 1879. Acce tanee for mailing at special
rate of postage provi ed for in Section 1103, Act
of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Office: Jones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota.

Space Representatives: H. 'I‘hayer Heaton, 415
Lexington Avenue, New York 17, New York;
Mark Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 3757 Wilshire
Boulevard, Los Angeles 5, California.

Copyright, 1952, by the
National Recreation Association, 1ncorporated

Printed in thc U.S.A. 30:2
' Trade mark registered in the U. S. Patent Office.

 

JUNE 1952

MAGAZINE

OF

  
    
 

THE MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

RECREATION

General Features

The Place Of Supervision in a Recreation PrOgram

(Editorial), Gertrude Wilson ........................................ .. 129
Seattle Plans ...................................................................... .. 132
A Part Of My Life, Janb Twersky ................................ .. 137
Organized Camping .......................................................... .. 138
The Act Nobody Can Buy, Herbert Dalmas .................... .. 140
Thinking Of Sending Junior tO Camp? ............................ .. 142
Leisure Leaders Leisure Lodge, Marion C. Sparrow ...... .. 145
HollyWOOdland Camp for Girls, Minnette B. Speetor  146
Swenson Park .................................................................... .. 148
HOW to Keep Children in Their Own Back Yard,

Dr. Joseph E. Howland ............................ ..  152
A Tree, Ernest V. Bthm ................................................ .. 157
Paddle Volleyball ................................................................ .. 179
On the Campus .................................................................. .. 181

Administration
National Recreation Association Services—1951 .......... .. 124
District Advisory Committees .......................................... .. 125
Relationship Of Parks and Recreation,

Charles E. Doell ............................................................ .. 143
Nature Trails in State Parks, JOhn C. Orth .................... .. 154
Surfacing Under Fixed Apparatus .................................. .. 164
Rubber Bases ...................................................................... .. 165
The Authority tO Hire and Fire Recreation Workers  169
Their Own Center, Margaret R. Conger ..  172

Program
Lantern and Float Parade, Freda Combs  135
On the Trail, Therese Myers .... ........................................ .. 139
Objectives for the Photo Group, Irma Webber .............. .. 149
Sailing the “Sailfish,” Harold S. DeGroat and
Robert G. DeGroat .. .................................................. .. 158

Seven Steps to Easy Camp Cookery, John A. MacPhee  162
How To Do ltl Nut Cup from a Tin Can Top,

Frank A. Staples ............................................................ .. 166
Uncle Elmer’s Star Ball, Elmer E.- Heft .......................... .. 167
Tournament Tips, Morty Morris .................................... .. 177

Regular Features

Letters ........................................... ..i .................................. .. 127
hings You Should Know ................................................ .. 131
ersonncln-The National Advisory Committee ............... .. 126
Recreation Training Leadership Programs———1952 ...... .. 170

A Reporter’s Notebook ...................................................... .. 171

Recipes for F un—Sports, Swimming Meet .................... .. 175

Recreation Market News .................................................. .. 180

Books Received ................................................................. .. 182

Pamphlets ........................................................................... .. 182

Magazines .......................................................  ................... .. 183

New Publications .....................................  ..... .. ..  184

Recreation Leadership Courses ........................ ..Inside Back Cover

123

l 2-1

NA’I‘IIINAL llECllEA’l‘lllN ASSIICIA’I‘IIIN

Services—1951

2,174

10

39

59

14,532

1,319

2,500

1,250

170

l ,200

2,500

3,200

9,022

7,010

A Service Organization Sapported by Voluntary Contributions

cities were registered with the Association for field service and 1,776 field visits were
made by District Representatives during the year.

appraisals of recreation administration, personnel and facilities of community recrea-
tion agencies in 7 states were made.

cities in 13 states received the personal assistance of the Association’s l’lanning
Specialists on Recreation Areas and Facilities and Recreation Buildings.

cities in 10 states were visited in connection with the development of adequate recrea-
tion programs for minority groups.

cities in 12 states and Canada were assisted through personal visits by the Katherine
F. Barker Memorial Field Secretary for Women and Girls.

cities in 20 states and Canada received special service with reference to their arts
and crafts programs.

employed and volunteer recreation leaders in 151 cities in 34 states were given
special training in recreation skills, methods and programs.

recreation positions were handled; 920 personal interviews were held; and 1,018 sets
of personnel credentials were submitted at the request of employing recreation agen-
cies and candidates in 44 states.

recreation leaders from all 48 states and Canada attended one or more of the 11 dis-
trict conferences held during 1951.

recreation leaders from 41 states and 7 foreign countries attended the 33rd National
llccreation Congress in Boston. Massachusetts.

state agencies concerned with recreation in 36 states and 16 federal agencies were
assisted with their recreation problems and services.

companies received periodical bulletins on industrial recreation problems and develop-
ment: 100 industrial plants in 60 cities in 10 states were visited by a special worker to
help industries and munic1pal recreation departments meet the recreation needs of
workers.

playground leaders received the Summer Playground Notebook.

cities participated in the 28th annual observance of National and Inter-American

Music Week.

recreation leaders recvivcd RECREATION. the monthly magazine of the recreation
movement.

cities in all 48 states (including 101 cities in U. S. Territories and 225 cities in for-
cign countries) received help and advice on their recreation problems through the
.t'tssoeiation's Correspondence and Consultation Service. lie-quests for help totaled

21,236.

RECREATION

District Advisory Committees

ISTRICT ADVISORY committees are being set up by the

National Recreation Association to strengthen the joint
cooperation of the association and local recreation execu-
tives. Already there is evidence that this step is creating
more alertness to the problems within each district and to
the most effective uses of the association’s resources in
meeting them. Committee membership has been accepted
by the following:

Pacific Northwest District
Bcn Evans, Director of Recreation, Seattle. Washington.
Kcnneth Fowell, Director of Recreation, Great Falls, Montana.
Thomas W. Lantz, Superintendent of Public Recreation, Tacoma,
Washington.
Miss Dorothea Lensch, Director of Recreation, Portland. Oregon.
Carl S. Munson, Director of Recreation, Moscow, Idaho.
Mrs. Irene Squires, Superintendent, Williamalane Park and Rec-
reation District, Springfield, Oregon.
S. G. Witter, Recreation Director, Spokane, Washington.

Pacific Southwest District

Cedric Austin, Superintendent of Recreation, Phoenix, Arizona.

C.fC. Christiansen, Director of Recreation, Santa Barbara, Cali-
ornta.

Loveless N. Gardner, Director of Recreation, Tucson, Arizona.

W. C. Higgins, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, Reno,
Nevada.

George Hjelte. General Manager. Department of Recreation and
Parks. Los Angcles, California.

Paul S. Rose, Superintendent, Salt Lake County Recreation Com-
mission, Murray, Utah.

Walter L. Scott, Director of School and Municipal Recreation,
Long Beach, California.

Glen Worthington, Superintendent of Recreation. Logan, Utah.

Southwest District

William K. Amo, Superintcndent of Parks and Recreation, Little
Rock,’ Arkansas.

Vernon Chambers, Director of Colored Recreation. Houston, Texas.

Albert A. Dominque, Superintendent of Playgrounds and Parks,
Lafayette, Louisiana. ,

Alvin R. Eggcling, Superintendent of Recreation. Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma.

Miss Margaret Ford, Director of Recreation, Roswell, New Mexico.

A. C. Hamilton, Superintendent of Recreation, Lubbock, Texas.

Morris X. F. Jeff, Shakcspearc Center, New Orleans, Louisiana.

0. D. Johnson, Superintendent of Recreation, Lake Charles, Louisi-
ana.

Beverly S. Sheffield, Director of Recreation, Austin, Texas.

Will‘liam P. Witt, Superintendent of Recreation, Corpus Christi,

exas.

O. A. Ziegler, General Superintendent, Board of Park Commission-

ers, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Midwest District
Edmun A. Ash, Superintendent of Recreation, Kansas City, Kansas.
Lawrence J. Hecb, Superintendent of Recreation, Lawrence, Kansas.
Milss Kathryn E. Krieg, Superintendent of Recreation, Des Moines,
owa.
Kenneth M. Kurtz, director of Recreation, Casper, Wyoming.
James C. Lewis, Director of Recreation, Lincoln, Nebraska.
John N. Nichols, Superintendent of Recreation. Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Ben C. Porter, Director of Parks and Recreation, JclIerson City,
Missouri.
Mrs. Verna chsvold, Superintendent of Public Recreation, Kansas
City, Missouri.
Branch Russell, Recreation Department, St. Louis, Missouri.
J. Earl Schlupp, Director of Recreation, Denver, Colorado.
Duane Shefte, Director of Recreation, Huron, South Dakota.

Great Lakes District

Charles T. Byrncs, Superintendent of Recreation, Evanston, Illinois.

Donald B. Dyer, Director of Recreation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Jerome T. Femal, Director of Recreation, liloomington, Indiana.

A. R. Flanncry, Director of Recreation, Parks and Buildings, Battle
Creek, Michigan.

15. P. llartl, Superintendent, Division of Municipal Recreation and
School Extension, La Crossc, Wisconsin.

John N. Higgins, Director of Recreation, Board of Parks and Rec-
reation, Hammond, Indiana.

Ernest W. Johnson, Superintcndent of Playgrounds, St. Paul, Min-
ncsota.

J UN: 1952

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, Toledo. Ohio.

Harold G. Myron, Director of Recreation. Highland Park, Michigan.

John Niles, Director of Recreation, South St. Paul, Minnesota.

C. W. Schnake, Recreation Director, Recreation Department, Can-
ton, Ohio.

William A. Smith, Director, Frederick Douglass Community Associ-
ation, Toledo, Ohio.

Francis Shuster, Superintendent, Playgrounds and Recreation Com-
mission, Springfield, IlIinois.

Southern District

Joseph Austin, Director, Nineteenth Street Community Center, Gulf-
port, Mississippi.

T. A. Belser, Superintendent of Recreation, Montgomery, Alabama.

R. Foster Blaisdell, Superintendent of Recreation, Charlotte, North
Carolina.

Miss Nan B. Crow. Director of Recreation. CharIottesville, Virginia.

Marian Hale, Director of Recreation, Memphis, Tennessee.

W. H. Harth, Director, Park and Recreation Department, Columbia,
South Carolina.

Mrs. C. Paul Heavener, Director of Recreation, Charleston, West
Virginia.

Cliff Kerby, Recreation Supervisor, Callaway Mills Company, La-
Grange, Georgia.

George T. Kurts, Director of Recreation. Jackson, Mississippi.

T. B. McPherson, Supervisor, Church Street Recreation Center,
Gainesville, Florida.

Julian 0. Olsen, Superintendent. Recreation Department. Pensacola,

Florida.

Miss Anna S. Pherigo, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation,
Lexington, Kentucky.

1). C. Wingo. Superintendent, Smith Street Community Center, Nor-
folk, Virginia.

Middle Atlantic District
Msironk N. Hendrick, Director of Recreation, Niagara Falls, New
or *. .

David M. Langkatnmer, Superintendent of Recreation, Altoona,
Pennsylvania.

Philip LcBoutillier, Superintendent of Recreation, lrvington, New

Jersey.
Peter J. Mayers, Superintendent of Recreation, New Rochelle,

New York.
Mrs. Ruby M. Payne, Director, Crispus Attucks Center, Lancaster.

Pennsylvania.
Lorne Rickert, Superintendent of Recreation, Wicomtco County,

Maryland.

Frank M. Sabino, Superintendent of Recreation, Leonia, New Jer-
sey.

George T. Sargisson, Executive Director, Recreation Executive Di-
rector, Recreation Promotion and Service, Inc., Wilmington,
Delaware.

Hubert I. Snyder, Director, Baltimore County Recreation Depart-
ment, Towson, Maryland.

Miss Ruth Swezey, Executive Director, Playground Recreation As-
sociation, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.

Frank Wood, Dunbar Association, Incorporated, Syracuse, New
York.

New England District
Britten F. Boughner, Superintendent, Park and Recreation Com-

mission, Wellesley, Massachusetts.
John P. Cronin, Director, Department of Recreation, Providence,

Rhode Island.
James H. Grooms, Superintendent of Recreation and Parks, Auburn,

Maine.
William V. Haskell, Director, Community Center, Prcsque Isle.'

Maine.

James F. Hcrdie, Jr., Superintendent of Recreation, Rutland, Ver-
nlont.

Edward J. Hunt, Director of Recreation, Stamford, Connecticut.

Francis Malloy, Director of Recreation, Portsmouth, New Hamp-
shire.

Edward N. Powell, Executive Director. West Main Street Com-
munity Ccnter, Incorporated, Stamford, Connecticut.

Paul H. Rhodes, Director, Community Recreation Association, Dal-
ton, Massachusetts.

Robcrt M. Schultz, Superintendent of Recreation, Bridgeport, C011-
nccticut.

Richard A. Tapply, Director of Recreation, Bristol, New Hamp-

shire.
W. Norman Watts, Director, Dixwell Community House, New

Haven, Connecticut.

125

RECRUITMENT
TRAINING
PLACEMENT

The National Advisory Umnmittcc

lEVERAL mox'rus ace the National
l Recreation Association’s National
Advisory Committee on Defense Re-
lated Services reported that one of
the most serious problems facing the
country’s recreation movement during
the present emergency and for the
years ahead is the recruitment, train-
ing and placement of recreation work-
ers. '

The association’s board of directors
had also been concerned with this
problem for some time and certain
steps, including the appointment of an
assistant director of the association’s
recreation personnel service, had been
taken to improve and increase the
association’s work in the personnel
field.

Last summer a number of the out-
standing leaders in the area of under-
graduate and graduate recreation edu-
cation were consulted by the associa-
tion, through correspondence, as to
the advisability of the association’s
appointment of a nationwide advisory
committee to survey and review this
entire problem and make appropriate
recommendations or suggestions. The
replies so favored such a procedure
that an informal meeting was held at
the 1951 Congress in Boston to dis-
cuss the scope of such a committee's
work.

Further eonsidcration of the make-
up of the National Advisory Conmtit-
tee led to a plan of membership for
recreation and park executives and
leaders, teachers of professional rec-
leation leadership at both the under-
graduate and graduate college lctcls.
presidents and deans of colleges and
universities, and other persons who
would have general interest in or con-

126

cern with the professional preparation
and development of recreation person-
nel.

Dr. Paul F. Douglass, president
of American University, Washington,
D.C., has accepted the chairmanship
of the National Advisory Committee,
as announced in the March issue of
RECREATION (page 479). Dr. Douglass
is well known to the recreation move-
ment. During his administration,
American University’s enrollment has
risen from less than two thousand
students to more than six thousand, its
annual budget has increased four and
a half times, and there has been a
great deal of expansion in other ways.

Dr. John L. Ilutchinson, who is as-
sociate professor of education and
chief advisor of the
program

interdivisional
of recreation at Teacher's
College, Columbia University, has ae-
ceptcd the vice-chairmanship. Dr.
llutchinson is president of the College
lleereation Association and author of
a recently published book, “Principles
of liecreation." W. C. Sutherland. di-
rector of the recreation personnel serv-
ice of the National llecrcation Asso-
ciation, will serve as secretary to the
committee.

The association, whose headquar-
ters and field stall will provide as-
sistance to the committee, has been
active in the recruitment, training and
placement of recreation personnel since
l906. The groundwork for later de-
velopments was laid by a eonnnittce
appointed at the first national recrea-
tion congress in 1907. A program for
the recruitment of recreation person-
nel and a plaeement service to as-ist
the growing number of cities institut-
ing community recreation systems was

established by the association shortly
thereafter.

With the present rapid expansion of
recreation programs and facilities, the
increased recognition of the need for
recreation in modern high-tension liv-
ing, the increased responsibility of
recreation executives for larger budg-
ets and more comprehensive pro-
grams, the trend toward specializa-
tion of recreation leadership in new
as well as traditional areas, and the
increased demand for professionally
qualified workers, it is now imperative
that the whole area of recruiting, train-
ing and placing recreation personnel
be re-studied. This will be the function
of the National Advisory Committee.

Outstanding representatives of all
the broad areas of recreation service
have been invited to serve on the ad-
visory eonnuittee, and have responded
to the invitation wholeheartedly. The
personnel of the committee will be
announced in the near future. Already,
it has received historical information
and is considering apprOpriate areas
and priorities of investigaton by sub-
committees. The associations profes-
sional stafT is preparing additional
documentary material and making ba-
sis studics for use by the commit-
tee. One such survey covering cur-
rent compensation and conditions of
employment will be reported in the
September issue of RECREATION.’ 0th-
er questions and suggestions from the
profession will be welcome, and should
be addressed to the secretary of the
committee.

 

‘ l'reprinls mailatrle after June l5. I952,
National Recreation Association. Pncc: 35
eenls.

ltrzcnes'nov

 

Ilifle Clubs

Sirs:

I have noticed some recent corre-
spondence in RECREATION in regard to
Rifle Clubs for boys. We have spon-
sored a Junior Rifle Club, affiliated
with the National Rifle Association,
for two years.

Our own club is composed of fifty
boys, ages twelve to eighteen. We use
the police range in the City llall and
have obtained some excellent instruc-
tors among men who have fired in
state and national competitions. Most
of the boys use their own guns, but
guns are made available for those who
have none.

Our instructors, who are with the
boys on the firing line at all times,
continually stress safety in the use of
firearms. Each boy’s target is scored
and recorded. When he has qualified
for a certain medal, it is ordered
through the National Rifle Association.
The police have helped with the pro-
gram and in so doing have gained the
respect and confidence of the boys.

We have stressed individual accom-
plislnnent to date rather than compe-
tition and have found that this has
been eSpeeially helpful to those who
were not well adjusted socially. They
have learned self-reliance and have im-
proved in their attitude toward the
group. When we feel that they have
just ahout reached the maximum of
their ability, they will be divided into
teams for competitive shooting in order
that there will be no interest lag.

The restlessness which comes from
waiting turns to shoot has been over-
come by inaugurating checker tourna-
ments and domino games, and the ten-
dency toward hoistcrousness and
roughhouse has disappeared.

The majority of the memhers of our
club are boys who have shown very
little interest in competitive sports and

JUNE 1952

we feel that it
cellent hobby.

WAYNE BLY, Superintendent of Rec-
reation, Atclzison, Kansas.

gives this group an ex-

Smlrm-s of Shale-rial
Sirs:

l have just read Mr. Prendergast’s
article “Sources of Material for Cul-
tural Recreation Programs”, in the
February number of RECREATION.

There are many parts in this article
that I could quote, to which I would
shout Amen, but it is all good. His
reference to some of our giants of the
past was the tenor of the plea I tried
to make in the Literature Division of
the Boston Congress. Our youth do not
know the past, therefore, how can they
re-live it, reereationally speaking?

I don’t think any of our leaders in
the field should he representing our
great movement who have not read
L. P. Jacks or Joseph Lee, and the
many others referred to in the article.
No other leading profession would
place their stamp of approval on such
ignorance of their haekground. I’ll
grant you, we are a leadership of
doers, but we must have some dreamers
and thinkers to give reason for our
many activities.

A quotation from article, seems to
sum up the whole matter, “Feeding the
spirit is much more important than
training the body.“

GRANT D. BRANDON, Director of Rec-

reation, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

Lilllc- Longue-
Sirs:

l have read your report of the sur-
vey, on “Competitive Athletics for Boys
Under Twelve” in the February issue
of the magazine RECREATION, with in-
tcrcst. As a strong advocate of Little
League baseball, I wish to compliment
the association’s fair presentation of

 

the problem on competitive sports for
this age group. I might suggest, how-
ever, that many of the objections raised
against such a program are very nicely
covered in the booklet issued by Lit-
tle League headquarters, entitled, “This
Is Little League.”*

DANIEL J. MCFADDEN, Superinten-

dent of Parks and Recreation, Ar-

lington, Massachusetts.

*Available from Little League Baseball, In-
corporated. 34-8 William Street, Williamsport,
Pennsylvania.

The .‘Iagnzim-

Sirs:

I have served in recreation work
from community recreation through
university camp us recreation, the Army
Special Service program to the Veterans
Administration, and I am truly sur-
prised with the exeellent coverage of
every phase of recreation that appears
monthly in RECREATION.

This magazine serves as a tool to
keep me alert—with material and ideas
which keep me alive in my profession.
Particularly in my work with domi-
eilcd veterans there is a great chal-
lenge in meeting the recreation needs
of the older age groups.

By constantly receiving “fuel for
thought” I experience a greater reward
of growth and happiness in my work.
The article, “Sources of Material For
Cultural and Recreational Programs”
by Joseph Prendergast, in the February
issue, was excellent.

ALYCE E. HUSA, Recreation Director

For the Veterans Administration

Special Service Division, Iowa City,

Iowa.

Sirs:

The April issue of RECREATION is
the best issue ever published for use
by general staff members and we want
to furnish a copy to each of our sum-
mer supervisors.

W. A. MOORE, Superintendent, De-

partment of Public Parks and Rec-

reation, Louisville, Kentucky.

FLEXI SWING SEAT
"A Safe Swing Seat”

Order Today—$3.95 F.O.B. Factory

CHAMPION

RECREATION EQUIPMENT
P.O. 474—Highlund Park, III.

127

 

[28

NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contribution:
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST. Executive Director .

 

OFFICERS

Pam. Moon. jn...................

 

Journ Punoucan..........................

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

F.W.H.Acnut........................NevrYorh.N.Y. MII.JOIIND.JAHIION........ . . . .  . . . . ..Bellport.N.Y.
F.6Itoc Btuts.............................Boaton.Mm. Swan M. Lat...........................Neerorit.N.Y.
Mu. Ronrnr Woooa Bun. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .thhington. D. C. 0110 T. Maul". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i'hiladeiphia. PI.
Mrs. Aarasua (3. Carmen. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Jacksonville. Fla. Cant F. Mttuars. . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .Augmtr. Me.
Wt:ttauii.Davtt....... . . . . . . . . . ........\'eerotit.N.Y. Mas.0t.ot.~tL.Mutt”...................NevrYorit.N.Y.
Hauvi’. Davtson.......................NewYorit.N. Y. Pact Moou.JI . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . ..JerveyCity.N.j.
(iauono DONNILLEY . . . . . . . . . . .-. . . . . . . . . . . . . .Chicago. Ill. Jortrrt PIENDIIGAST . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nevr Yorit. N. Y.
Mn. Pact GatLacttu. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Otnaha. Nebr. Mu. SIGHUNO Stun. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .San Francisco. Calii.
RonnGaIurr...........................Baitimore.Md. Gaaxt'i'mvonn..........................'or0ton.Conn.
Anna: E. Gatrrmtt. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Seattle. Wash. Mat. Wuuaas Van Aux. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i'hiladelphia. Pa.
Mu. Nonuns Hallo-'11. . . . . . . . I . . .. . . . . .Filchburg. Mall. 1. C. WALSH. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Yonhera. N. Y.
Mn. Citaaut V. iitcnox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michigan City. ind. Faroutca M. Waanuao. ... . . . .. . .. . H. . . .Nev York. N. Y.

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Enncutivn Dirnctor’a 05¢]. Rntearch anlttment
Gtoaot E. Dtcata Talon-tat E. Rivera
Httoa Haaataox Aavrwa ritual-ta

Au‘uo H. Wtuox

Corretpondlncn nnd Contultntion
Service
Vtactma Must-Laure
(Brannon Boncetano

(irons: D. Bonn
Etnauni CLIH'ON DAVID J. DLBOIS

Work with Voiun tenre

E. BEATRICE Steals:

Raceution Magazine Ma" Qutlt Mancaatt Dantvroatu

Don om! Dosamtorr

Specinl Publication:
Roar Jar Senna": MUIIIL McGaNN

Pnnonnnl Snrvicn
Wm.an C. Str'mutano Auuo 3. Jesus
Maav Curtmat

Pinld annetntent

Cantu E. Rato Janet A. Maonos
Groace T. Aoaua Htusa G. Hort
Mann 5. Weston:

 

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

an Enginnd Ditteict
Vntoo R. ilatnavronrtt..iioetort. Matt.
(Pteunt addreat . . . New Yorit)

Middln Atlantic Ditteict
JOHN T. Faun. . . . . .Eatt Orange. . '. J.
Stone: A. Nt tam” . .Nevr York. N. Y.

Grent thnl Dittrict
Jorm 1. Count . . . . . . . . . .Toledo. Ohio
Rotter L. Hons" . . . . . . .Madiion. Wis.

Sontheen Diatrict

Mtat Mums Putct . . . . . Alexandria. Va.
Rate" Van Fun. . . . . .Ciearvrater. Fla.
thttaae M. Hat. . . . . . .Nashville. Tenn.

Midvvnat Diatrlct

Anrucn Tooo. . . . . . . . .Kansat City. Mo.
Haaoto Latrtnor. . . . . . . . .Denver. Coio.

 

Aiiiiiatc Membership Active Associate Membership

Otto T. MaLuIv. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .Chairtnan oi the Board
. . . Firtt Vice-Pretident
Mu. Occur L. Mina. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Second Vice-Pretident
Susan M. Lu. .Third Vice-President Ind Secretary oi the Board
Aoatas M. Mama”..........................Treuurer
Gustavus T. Ktuv. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Trenurer Emeritus
-Sccretaey

A‘iiatn membership in the National
Recreatioo Attociatioo is open to ell noo-
proit private and pnhlic organizations
who“ inaction is vrholly or primarily the
provieion or promotion oi recreation verv-
icea or which include recreation u an im-
portant part oi their tottl program and
who" cooperation in the Ito-tit oi the atto-
ciation would. in the opinion oi the Isvn-
ciation'a Board of Directors. further the
ends oi the nationai recreation movement.

Active attociale memhvrthip io the
National Recreation Asmiation la open to
all individuala who are Ittively eogaged
on a inll-time or part-time employed haeit
nr as volunteers in a nonproEt private or
pnhlic recreation organitntioo Ind vrhote
cooperation in the vrorh oi the atsoeietion
mid. in the opinion of the atrociation't
Board of Directors. inrther the ends oi the
nstlonal recreatioo movement.

 

 

Service to Staten. . . . . .Ronur R. (intent

(inter and Facilities—Planning and Snra'ryt
H. C. Hutcmm Ann 3. Bvum
Lntun Lvncu

Katherine F. Barker Meanoriei
Scrrrlnr) [or Wonrn end Girit
HILEN M. Dauscn

indnttriei Reerution. . . . . .C. E. Bnavru

Rrrrrntion Lendrrebi) Training Conraee

Rum EHLtIa ANN: LWINGtYON
Maoato Seaman Fun: A. Starut
(Enact Wanna

Southwnat Dist rict

Haaou: Van Aatoau. . . . . . .Dallas. Tea.

PaciEc Noethvvatt Diateict

Wmao H. SHuatnao. . . . .Seettle. Wash.

Pnciic Southweet Dist elct

LYNN 5. loan". . . . .Loe Angeles. Caiii.

Contributors

The continuation oi the Iorit oi the
National Recrettion Asaociation irocn year
an year it made ponsible by the splendid
cooperation oi several hundrnd voluntecr
aponvora thronghout the country. and the
generont contrsbntiont oi thontandt of so o
Earters ni thit movement to bring healt .
appineii and creative living to the boys
and girlt and the men and women of
America. if on Iroold like tn ioin in the
snppovt of t it movement. on may lend
your eontrihutioo direct to t e association.

 

The National iiccrcation Anociation ia a nation-
wide. nonproiil. nonpoiilicni and nonaectarian civic
organization. catnhiishcd in I906 and supported by
voiuntar contributions. and dedicated to the nerv-

li recreation executives. leaders and agen-

ice oi a

cica. public and private. to tire end that every child
in America ainaii have a place Io play in raier and
that every person in America. young and old. ainaii
have an op rtunity [or the heat and most antitiy-
ing use oi is expanding leisure time.

For further information regarding the association's services and membership, please write to the
Executive Director. hationai Recreation Association. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York 10. New York.

“manor:

The Home of Supervision
in o Recreation Program

A Guest Editorial

Supervision is a process through
which the work of an organization
“gets done.” In a recreation bureau or
department the responsibility for su-
pervision is delegated to the superin-
tendent by the recreation commission
and in turn is further delegated to
some members of the staff, in accord-
ance with the functional distribution
of the work of the organization. The
supervisors are the “middle men” in
the organizational structure. It is the
supervisors who help the superintend-
ent and, through him, the commis-
sioners to adjust the structure of the
organization to the changing needs of
the community. It is the supervisors
who help the superintendents to es-
tablish channels of communication
through which recreation workers par-
ticipate in thc planning and policy
making aspects of thc program. It is
the supervisors who help the workers
to understand the organizational struc-
ture through which the program
achieves unity. The supervisors, work-
ing with the superintendent on one
hand and with the workers on the
other, are the key pcOple in the de-
velopment of a social climate in which
not only each worker, but also the
participating public, find satisfying so-
cial expcrience.

Supervision is a rclationship be-
tween cmployecs of an organization
through which those staff members
designated as supervisors have the ob-
ligation to help the workers respon-
siblc to them to perform their func-
tions effectively. In recreation, these
workers may be paid or volunteer,
part-time or full-time. They may be
recreation workers or workers with as-

 

AUTHOR, professor of social welfare,
University of California, is. a well-
known leader in. group work field.

JUNE 1952

signments in clerical or maintenance
work. They may be specialists, such
as umpires or referees, engineers or
carpenters.

It is the responsibility of the“ staff
of a recreation bureau to develop the
organizational structure, under the
leadership of the superintendent and
the supervisors, in which each worker
participates in the process through
which policies and procedures are
determined and overall program plan-
ning is achieved.

Workers are able to participate ef-
fectively in planning and administer-
ing a recreation bureau when: (1)
they have knowledge, aptitude and
temperament to do the work assigned;
(2) they are introduced to their jobs
through a well-planned and skillfully
taught orientation course; (3) they
clearly understand their duties and
responsibilities and how their work
is related to that of other members
of the stall; (4) they know to whom
they are responsible and to whom
they can go for help (wherever pos-
sible, no worker should be responsible
to more than one supervisor); (5)
they feel appreciated, receive recogni-
tion for work well done and construc-
tive criticism for their failures, trust
their supervisors and identify their
work with that of the whole organiza-
tion in which they have a reasonable
degree of pride.*

The above description of the condi-
tions which enable workers to partici-
pate effcctively on the staff of a rec-
‘rcation bureau clearly indicates the
skill and functions of a recreation
supervisor. He must have:

1. Ability to recruit and select work-
ers with knowledge, skill and person-

I“Adapted from George D. Halsey, Hand-
book of Personnel Management. New York:

Harper 8: Brothers, 1947.

 

by Gertrude Wilson

ality for performing work to be done.

2. Skill in planning and teaching
orientation courses.

3. Skill in development of organiza-
tional structure based on specific job
descriptions and clear out lines of re-
sponsibility.

4. Skill in helping (teaching, guid-
ing and directing) workers to in-
crease their quality of performance.

5. Skill in helping workers to eval-
uate their own work, enjoy success
and profit from failure.

6. Capacity to establish relationships
from which workers develop a sense
of trust.

-7. Ability to share his own pride
in and identification with the recrea-
tion bureau with other workers.

Discussion of the above functions
and skills of a supervisor with a group
of recreation workers, consisting of
twenty-five supervisors, nine superin-
tendents, one member of a state rec-
reation commission and one staff mem-
ber of the commission, brought out
the following questions which may be
typical of questions in the minds of
many recreation workers:

1. What support should a super-
visor expect from a superintendent in
carrying out these functions?

2. Should a supervisor expect to
receive this type of supervision from
the superintendent?

3. Does a worker ever achieve suf-
ficient competence to function with-
out supervision? If so, by what criteria
may such competence be achieved?

4. To what extent do supervisors
recruit and select workers in a civil
service system?

5. How can multiple supervision be
avoided in a department where super-
visory positions arc defined in terms
of program specializations?

6. How can a supervisor help to
develop a dcmocratic administrative

129

 

Close Your ’l‘rein lleem
lleer and Say “l’erler,
Wake me up in Seattle”

Congress City —- Seattle, \Vashington
Dates -- September 28 to October 3

Official Train — Northern Pacific

 

There's nothing like a transcon-
tinental train for rest, and good
fellowship during any hours you
want to be awake. There may even
be confcrcnecs, arguments, talk,
noisc, fun as the official NRA con-
vcntion train rolls along. Delegates
can be busy when not sleeping. But
sleep everybody who’s tired will.
The N.P. roadbcd puts you to sleep.

Obi-There's one wild night on this
trip! It‘s a Barn Dance in Montana,
at Chico Springs—the folk-dance-
square-dance capital of Paradise Val-
lcy. "Swing your partners"!

And there's an extra-special stop
to see Yellowstone Park. Yellow-
stone is ollicially closed but NRA
pried the place open—just for us.

There's a Convention Trip folder
printed, with pictures. Send for it,
if there's the slightest chance that
you can go to Seattle next Septem-
ber. Please address,

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N.\'.

 

I30

structure in a department to which
such a concept is foreign?

7. What typc of content should be
included in course?
llow does a supcrvisor evaluate his

teaching methods? llow' improve them?

an orientation

8. How can a supervisor teach a
worker to carry out his work reSpon-
sibly?

9. How can a supervisor maintain
his position as a “supervisor” and at
the same time have friendly relation-
ships with his fellow workers?

10. How much time should a su-
pervisor spend with each supervisee?
Can one supervisor be responsible for
as many as forty-five or fifty workers?

These questions reflect the serious
thinking of a group of recreation lead-
ers struggling to emerge as competent
professional workers. The questions
raised are those which are perplexing
many workers in all of the professions.
They indicate areas for study and re-
search. The questions also clcarly in-
dicate what supervision, in many rcc-
reation departments (and in other
areas of work) actually is in con-
trast to the previous statement of what
supervision should be when considered
in the light of personnel management
principles based on understanding hu-
man relationships.

During recent years the attention
of socially minded scholars in many
fields has been directed to studies in
human relations with the result that
it is now recognized that one of the
great needs of human beings is to be-
long to a group in which there is
an opportunity to participate in its
management and program. The public
awareness of the value of self-govern-
ing groups has created a demand for
a diffcrent type of service from rec-
rcation workcrs as well as from other
social workers, teachers, physicians,
clergy, and those in all otlicr profes-
sions who work with people. The rec-
rcation worker who coaches, teaches,
leads or advises a team, class, intcrcst
group or club of
skill: (I) skill in understanding the
dynamics of human behavior and in
Using that undcrstanding as he dcter-
mines his own behavior as he coaches.

nceds two types

teaches, leads or advises. and I2l skill
in the progrmn content he uses when
he coachcs, tcaches. leads or advises.

One type of skill without thc othcr
is a job half done.

liccreation workers need help from
thcir supervisors in understanding
themselves and thcir relationships to
the groups and individuals with whom
they work. They need help in learning
how to work with one another as staff
members. They need help in learning
how to think about and participate
in the recreation bureau as a whole.
They need help in relating the pro-
gram of the recreation bureau to the
connnunity as a whole. These are the
elements of professional growth which
the supervisor seeks to stimulate.

\Vhile a great deal of the success
which a supervisor achieves in this
large responsibility is dependent upon
his own understanding of himself, and
of the behavior of others, individually
and in groups, as well as upon his
knowledge and skill in recreational
activities—the skill he may possess
will be negated in an organization
where administrative structure and
procedures are not in harmony with
the nature of the relationships which
the supervisor is trying to help the
workers to establish with their groups.
liccrcation is not a commodity, it is
a powerful force through which peo-
plc relate to one auqthcr to achieve a
varicty of purposes. Public support of
recreational programs is predicatcd
upon a belief that it enhances positive
human relations and provides oppor-
tunity for many pcople to experience
democracy through participation on
many levels. The achievement of this
goal is determined as much by the
quality of the relationship between
commissioners, superintendents, super-
visors and workers, as by the knowl-
edge and skill of the workers who
work directly with the participating
public.

Getting the work of an agency done
is a large cooperative undcrtaking in
which connnissioucrs, superintendents
supervisors and workers participate.
The challenge to achieve a real social
experience. through this endeavor is
one which must be accepted in spirit.
and fortified by study and research.
to identify the nature of an ideal situa-
tion toward which to strive and to de-
velop methods of work through which
to reach it.

llscamrmx

75% @cm Séwé'ci Km . .

 

F DELEGATES TO THE NATIONAL REC-
REATION CONGRESS in Seattle will be
interested to know that the “official
route” for transcontinental travel is
heing sponsored by the Northern Paci-
fic Railway. (See pages 130 and 133 in
this issue of RECREATION.) September
26, 1952 will be National Recreation

Congress Day in Yellowstone National
Park.

F CONTRACTS HAVE JUST BEEN SIGNED
by the National Recreation Association
with the National Park Service to
make: (1) a survey to determine the
extra-urhan recreation needs, interests,
preferences and opportunities of typi-
cal urban areas within the New Eng-
landNew York region, and (2) a sur-
vey of Alaska to (a) determine the
adequacy of community park and
recreation programs and formulate
general recommendations for expand-
ing and improving such programs, and
(b) determine for Alaska, as a whole,
both urban and extra-urban recreation
needs, interests and preferences and
the nced for expanding existing pro-
grams and initiating new ones.

F A NEWS RELEASE 0N LOCAL RECREA-
TION EXPENDITURES, which has recently
appeared in newspapers throughout
the country, has carried a statement
relating tO, in each instance, the local
expenditures for community recrea-
tion. Figures quoted have obviously
been drawn from the 1950 Recreation
and Park Yearbook. The news release,
howevcr, was not issued by the Na-
tional Recreation Association, nor did
the association have any knowledge
that such a story was being circulated.
It is unfortunate that some of the state-
ments were based upon incomplctc re-
turns, as submitted by the agencies re-
porting for the Yearbook, and were
therclorc misleading as to the total
picture in each locality.

This experience illustrates the im-
portance of submitting accurate and
complete reports for the Yearbook.

If you are interested in comparing
the 1950 non-capital recreation and
park expenditures of your city with
those of other cities of similar size,
you will find in the March 1952 issue
of RECREATION tables analyzing these
expenditures in terms of per capita
amounts spent by cities in various
population groups.

F HIGHLY COMPETITIvE SPORTS were
described by experts as being bad for
children below the ninth grade—both
physically and mentally—at the an-
nual convention of the American Asso-
ciation for Health, Physical Education
and Recreation, in Los Angeles in
April 1952. The opinions of the two
hundred twenty physicians, including
specialists in pediatrics, cardiology and
orthopedics, were presented, and the
overwhelming views expressed were
against “little bowl” contests and pub-
licity or “pep talks” which induce
superhuman efforts by the youngsters.
It was agreed that all youngsters need
sports for moral as well as physical
deveIOpment. Broader athletic pro-
grams were stressed which would in-
clude all youngsters with concern for
health coming before interests in a
winning team.

F A NEW NATIONAL PRODUCTION AU-
TIIORITY ORDER, to be in affect as of
July first, permits construction of
swimming pools and other Table I fa-
cilities; and major community recrea-
tion buildings can be constructed after
October 5, 1952. Commercial construc-
tion and community recreation build-
ings are permitted to use up to five
tons Of carbon steel including not
more than two tons of structural steel
and two hundred pounds of copper
and two hundred and fifty pounds of
aluminum per quarter. This material
may be self-authorized by the agency
undertaking the construction. Larger
facilities may be constructed by com-
bining the self-authorized allotments
for twO quarters.

F A LONG-RANGE PROGRAM SURVEY to
determine the needs of service men
and women stationcd at campsthrough-
out the country, was announced by the
USO in March. The survey will be
conducted by USO’s Program Advisory
Committee, under the chairmanship Of
Dean Kenneth Johnson of the New
York School of Social Work, Colum-
bia University. Executive administra-
tor for the study will be Dr. David
DeMarche, director of group work and
community organization at Springfield
College, Springfield, Massachusetts.
F THE PEOPLE OF OMAIIA, NEBRASKA,
(population 247,408), on April first,
voted to retain their public recreation
commission. This was the third suc-

cessful result from similar attempts to
abolish all local administering boards
or commissions in that city. The vote
was 42,496 tO 29,007.

F TACOMA, WASHINGTON (population
l42,975)—0n March 11 the voters
approved two recreation hond issues
hy a three to one majority. This in-
cludes four and one-half mills for
operation and five mills for new im-
prO'rements.

F WILLAMALANE PARK AND RECREA-
TION DISTRICT, Springfield. Oregon
(population 10,771)————At the same time
and by a large majority, a 372,000
bond issue passed for recreation build-
ing and operation.

F CARLINVILLE, ILLINOIS (population
4,965)—-—On April 8 the voters Of this
community were successful in their
efforts, through a referendum, in es-
tablishing a park district.

F TIIE LIGIITED SCIIOOL REFERENDUM
FOR CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, was success-
fully passed on April 8. This means
that the school board will have an 0p-
portunity to offer community center
recreation programs in many new sec-
tions.

F ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS for the
California civil service class Of recrea-
tion therapist have been liberalized to
allow additional men and women to
enter state service, according to the
California State Personnel Board. Now
college graduates who have majored in
recreation or recreation therapy are
eligible, providing their major has in-
cluded supervised field work. Gradu-
ates with minors in recreation or rec-
reation therapy, certain types of ma-
jors and a year of group recreation
work experience may also apply, as
may applicants who have completed
graduate work in a school Of social
work. Detailed information and appli-
cation forms may be obtained from
State Personnel Board offices in Sacra-
mento, San Francisco and Los Ange-
les, or any local department Of em-
ployment.

CHAMPION
TRAVEL CLIMB

Custom Built

 

A body building—fun—device
Unequalled in the climber field.
Write for catalog.

CHAMPION

RECREATION EQUIPMENT
P.O. 474—Highland Park, III.

 

131

 

Ien Evans John It. Vonderxicht

 

Bill Pand Robert C. Stephens

 a few among the many per-mus

Mn we looking forward to welt-umng recreation leaders
Itu rent \ 'tlllwt'H this fall. and Min null net as hosts

n.

‘It. 1
l’..- ‘ e .‘lrr . herlttlr I’La tin t. "In,
lt t ‘w‘utr l‘nr it: [ Irt- urn' ltlhn R- \ in
-l " 471' ii: ' ‘ n ‘ ..|.z' "mm in"
, '"I I.  " v'l. "'i' I, i" 7'" I" llion
.-. t w ,1» s. i.  w n. l\- r I .-'tnl\'
' 'r; «um-tut

 

Watched! Eamahx gang-wad
56min 29-05605“ 3. 7952

SEATTLE PLANS

Discussion Will Flourish

With the helpful eooperation oi the several Congress
committees for particular aspects of this year's Congress
in Seattle, the lleereation Congress Committee has now de-
termined the topies whieh will he covered in the group
discussions of the meeting. Diseussion always has been
the very heart of the Congress, and this year will see no
exception. Thirty-live (liilerent meetings are planned, at
present, not inelucling those espeeially seheduled on the
opening day of the Congress. At that time, recreation
exeeutives, reereation supervisors and workers, town and

 

Setad. l. to r.. Nit Upmeyer. Fieldhouse Supervlsor and
George D Wyn. Athletic Supervlsor, King County Parks and
Pioytields; Ruth E. Pike, Recreatlon Spocioiist, Stta Parlu nd
Recreatlon Carnmlnion; Pearl Powell. Racrootlon Supervisor.
Settle Perl: Department. Standing. l. to r., Ralph Wllson. lec-
reation Specialist, State Parks and lecreatian Commission; lou
Evans. Aulstant Director at lecreatlon. Seattle Park Daprt-
rnent; Runeil Porter. Communlty Recreation Supervisor. Klng
Cunty Parks and PloyF-elds.

RECREATION

country recreation workers (formerly called “rural”), hos-
pital recreation workers and industrial recreation leaders
will hold their special sessions. Still another special group
of guests will meet on Monday, but members are not plan-
ning to waste the whole day in meeting. They are the
wives of Congress delegates. Once they have decided on
an interesting program for the day and the week, the
chances are that they will promptly go about executing
a course of action.

The Recreation Congress Committee is husily engaged
now at finding the best possible people to assist with the
development of the discussion topics. Suggestions, if they
can be sent in very soon, will he gratefully received. Study
the t0pics listed and begin to collect your own questions to
throw into the hopper for those meetings in which you
are especially interested.

The Congress Preliminary Pamphlet has been published
and mailed to several thousand recreation leaders. If for

any reason your copy has not reached you, please write
for one and it will he sent promptly.

In the following list of topics, key words are italicized.
They cover an unusually wide range of problems this year.

As much care as possible is being taken to schedule these
meetings so that a minimum of conflicts will result.

Discussion Topics

Building the Recreation Program—Arts and Crafts For Board
Members Only

How Are Municipalities Providing Camping Opportunities?

Building a Well-Rounded Program in Indoor Recreation Centers

Organizing and Leading Chnrch Recreation Programs

Why Civil Defense Nccds Recreation

The Role of County Government in Recreation

Employee Recreation in a Defense Setting

Building the Recreation Program——l)ramatics

Strengthening the Family through Recreation

Developing Programs for Girls and Women

Highly Organized Midget Athletics Are Harmful—Fact or Fancy?

Where to Get More Money for More Service

Doing Our Best with What Money We Get

iuilding the Recreation ProgrammMasic

ldcas That Work for Off-Post Recreation

Activity Programs for Oldsters

Doubling in lirass——The One-Mnn Department

Recreation in Parlrs and Forests—National, State and Local

Recreation Personnel Problems

l’et ldens

Do Others See You as You Sec Yourself?—-—Arc Your Public Rela-
tions Showing?

Recreation aml Perla: Department Relationships

Appraising 1952’s Recreation Research Developments

Regional Recreation Planning At Work—Puget Sound Park Study

Regional Recreation Planning At Work—Alaska, River Basin Stud-
ies, New York-New England, Southern Regional Study

Getting in on the Recreation Planning of New Schools

Design and Construction of Specinl Recreation Facilities

Principles of State Recreation Services to Communities

Major Current Snrfncing Problems

College and Graduate Training for Recreation

ln-Scrvice Training Programs That Work

llow Creative Are You in Using Volunteers?

Developing and Conserving Wnter Recreation Resources
What I Want to Know Is

JUNE 1952

Getting to Seattle

How would you like to combine a trip to the Congress
with a visit to Yellowstone National Park? This question
so challenged the Congress Committee that after careful
investigation arrangements were finally concluded with the
Northern Pacific Railway Company for such a Special trip,
for all interested Congress delegates. Beginning in Chicago
on September 24 the trip will include a whole day, Septem-
ber 26, in Yellowstone, and then continue to Seattle, arriv-
ing on Sunday, September 28.

Traveling to the Congress this year may be almost as
much of a special event for some of the delegates as the
actual Congress itself. Westerners are old hands at showing
the thousands of natural wonders that fill their section of
our country. Easterners, however they travel west, are
sure to he moved by what there is to see—if they keep
their eyes open.

The majesties of nature are all the more interesting to

 
     
   
 
 
   
  
   
    
 

For Seattle Routes Consult

Summer Vacations- U. S. A.

O In this publication, travelers to the Congress will find
travel tips, information on routes, scenic wonders, what
to see in the state of Washington, special events to con-
sider when planning the trip, and vacation ideas for

every section of the country.

Olnfarm yourself about the important or enioyable
things to be seen between your home and Seattle. Don't
miss that wonderful place a few miles all your main
route, iust because you didn't know it was there. Let

SUMMER VACATIONS—U.S.A. help you plan. See de-
tailed onnouncement, page 122.

JUST OUT

Order from your local book store or
National Recreation Association.

Price $1.00

recrcation leaders. Many of the finest western sights have
been saved for all the people to enjoy through the action of
state and federal governments in establishing state and na-
tional parks.

This natural interest of recreation leaders is what led
the Congress Committee to give such careful consideration
to the opportunity to include a visit to Yellowstone in the
Congress program for those who wish to take it. There
are many ways to get to Seattle. Many will want to fly,
because of special preferences or to save time. Many will
want to go by train but will not have time to include a
whole day in Yellowstone enroute. Many are already plan-
ning family trips by car to Seattle and will combine some
vacation with the important business of attending the
Congress. There is talk in one southern city of chartering
a bus to take a load of delegates to the Pacific Northwest.
Whatever the mode of travel, whatever the route, some of
the finest scenery in the world lies between Seattle and
every prospective delegate to the 1952 National Recreation
Congress.

F or those to whom there is appeal in the idea of travel-

133

ing to thc Congress—and home again—with othcr Co_n-
gress delegates, and for those who are desirous of seeing
Yellowstone, the “ofiicial” tour may have a great deal of
interest. The trip originates in Chicago. but delegates can
join it enroute where the itinerary comes within reach.

This particular Congress delegation will leave Chicago
on the Burlington at 11:00 p.111., Wednesday, September
2-1. The next morning at St. Paul the Northern Pacific will
take over and head west to Livingston, Montana, arriving
there at 7:45 a.m. on Friday, September 26. All day Fri-
day will be spent in a tour by special bus of the wonders
of Yellowstone, including lovely Paradise Valley, Mam-
moth Ilot Springs, Golden Gate, Electric Peak, Firehole
Canyon, Yellowstone River, Eagle’s Nest Rock, Gibbon
Falls. the Paint Pots, Old Faithful Geyscr, of course, and
scores of mighty, activc springs and erupting geysers.

Knowing that Congress delegates enjoy square dancing,
the planners of this itinerary have ended this day with a
cowboy show and dinner dance at Chico Hot Springs, a
hotbed of Montana square dancing.

Aftcr National liecrcation Congress Day in Yellowstone.
and a mighty full day at that, our wcary delegates will
board the sleepers again at Livingston, and early the next
morning anothcr Northern Pacific train will stop just long
enough to pick up the special cars and start them on the
last lap of the trip to Seattle.

End of the line. going west, is reached at Seattle, Sunday
morning. September 28, 7:30 a.m.

For those who want to retnrn lnnne in a group, sevcral
alternate itineraries have been worked out. The most ex-
tensive one includes visits to Portland, San Francisco,
Yosemite, Los Angeles, Grand Canyon, and arrives in
Chicago the afternoon of October 16. Other routcs return

via l’ortland, Salt Lake City and Denver, or via Victoria.
Vancouver and the Canadian Rockies, or direct.

Seattle—Via National Parks

Delegates to the National lieercatinn Congress at Seat-
tle may want to consider visiting one or more of the na-
tional parks in connection with the trip to the Pacific
Northwest this summer. Some of the larger national parks,
which may be visited cnroute to that city—depending
upon whether you are traveling a northern or southern
route—arc listed below. The season, in some of the most
northerly of these, ends as early as the middle of Septem-
her, but the roads may be used until blocked by snow,
whieh nsnally is not until the middle of October. The
other national parks, except those in the extreme north.
are open all year. For specifie information about any of
these parks, address inquiries to the local superintendent
at the address given here.
liig liend National Park, Marathon. Texas
Crater Lake National Park, Crater Lake, Oregon
Grand Canyon National Park, Grand Canyon, Arizona
Mount liainicr National Park, Longmire, Washingttm

Lassen Volcanic National Park, Mineral. California

Olympic National Park. Port Angeles, Washington

Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks, Three Rivers,
California

Yellowstone National Park, Yellowstone Park, Wyoming

Yosemite National Park, Government Center. Yosemite
National Park, California

Special attention is called to National lieercation Congress

Day in Yellowstone National Park on Friday, September

26, when a tour of Yellowstone will be made by all Con-

gress delegates who wish to take the "official" route to

Seattle.

Recreation Facilities

In addition, delegates will want to visit at least one of
the fifty state parks in Washington. where fishing and
camping are especially good.

In the cities cnroute to Seattle, and in Seattle itself, the
municipal parks and other recreation facilities are out-
standing. Spokane has one of the oldest recreation pro-
grams in the state, with an activities program developed
through its park system. At Enumclaw, there are camping
facilities, and you can \ isit the King County park and field
house which serves that community. Also distinctive for
its park and recreation facilities is Longview, a modern
city planned by the Long Bell Lumber Company. Between
Tacoma and Seattle, on U. S. Highway 99, you pass the
Boeing Airplane Company, which operates such an out-
standing industrial recreation program. And, of course,
you will want to visit both the King County and city of
Seattle installations to see their programs in action.

 

HOTEL RESERVATIONS

Congress headquarters will be at the Olympic Hotel in
Seattle, where most at the meetings will be held. A number
at other hotels in the city are cooperating, and a list of these,
with the ronge of price! for room: and suites. follows. Delegates
are reminded that always there are only a very few rooms
available at the minimum rates. So, please make your reser-
vations early and correspond directly with the hotel of your
choice. The Congress Committee is not handling hatel reserva-

tionl.
HOTEL SINGLES DOUBLES
(and Twin!)
Olympic Hatel 5600-51050 5750-51150
Benlamin Franklin Hotel “.005 8.00 58.0051400‘
Earl Hotel 54.00 55.005 6.00
Hungerfard Hatel 55.00 57.00-510.00
Maare Hate! 53.75 55.505 7.00
Mayflower Hotel 55.005 7.00 56.505 8.50
New Washington Hotel 56.00 58.00-51000‘
Roosevelt Hotel 56.00 58.005 9.00
Stratford Hotel 54.00 55.00
Stewart Hotel 55.00 57.005 9.00‘
Vance Hotel 55.005 6.00 56.75-5 8.00

" Suites also available.

For fnrther information on getting to Seattle please write to tle- licereation Congress Cont-

tnittec at 315 Fourth Avenue. New York In, i\'ew York. Also. see Summer Vocations

131

(2.81.4.

"ELIHZATION I

 

Floats on lakc present beautiful spectacle. Grcatest number of
points are awarded to craft producing most striking reflection.

at!) A HILL and across a bridge, the lanterns sway gent-
ly back and forth with the motion of the marchers. Over
nine hundred children are carrying these in the annual
parade which weaves over a large unwoodcd area of Fair-
vicw Park, in Decatur, Illinois. The route is lined with
thousands of spectators. This event—a lantern and float
parade—has been one of the highlights of the local recrc-
ation department summer program for thc last seventeen
ycars, and closely ties in with the local playground pro-
gram.

Thc children finish their paradc at thc lake, wherc space
has bccn rcserved for them to sit on the banks, or to stand
on the bridge, with their lighted lanterns reflecting in the
water. As soon as the last child has settled into place, thc
launching of the floats begins. A micrOphone, manned by
a master of ceremonies, is used to announce the events;
and as each float is launched, the name of the playground
responsiblc for it is given.

The park police, as well as thosc of the city, cooperate
with the recreation departmcnt in making this big event a
successful one. Park police handle the traffic and parking
of cars. Onc of the city police squad cars, with two officers,
is stationed nearby to help if needed and to bc thc spot
where lost children and parents can be re-united.

Children of all ages, from four or five years old and up,
take part in the lantern parade, and makc and decorate the
lanterns which they proudly carry.

Thesc are constructed on the city playgrounds from
cardboard and boxes of all sizes, including ice cream
containers and hatboxes, which neighborhood merchants
save for the childrcn. Designs are either traccd or drawn
on them, and cut out with scissors and one-edged razor
blades. (No small child is allowed to use the razor blades.)

A local kite factory donates large quantities of red, blue,,

green and white paper, which is used to back thc cut out
designs. Somc of the more ambitious and artistic of thc
children color thc white paper with water colors, produc-

 

AUTIIOR, recreation. supervisor and director of piay-
grounds for Decatur, is in charge of special activities.

J me 1952

A Unique
Summer

Program

Freda Combs

[mm am! 76445
PA BABE

ing rich and beautiful effects.

Special precaution is taken to make handles for the
lanterns, which will eliminate the danger of a child being
burned; and careful spacing of participants in the parade
is rigidly enforced to avoid injury. lf a lantern should
catch fire, the child is instructed to drop it and leave it.
Never, never should he attempt to blow out a burning
lantern. Each playground group must have at least one
leader in charge, assisted by several parents: With careful
planning, this activity can be a very bcautiful spectaclc,
devoid of any hazards.

The children are assembled in a large, Open area, where
placards bearing the names- of the playgrounds have becn
firmly staked in the ground. No lanterns are lighted until
a signal is given by the leader in charge of the parade. As
soon as all are glowing, it starts moving. A leader with a
red flashlight torch sets the pace and acts as guide over a
winding course previously decided upon, while the munici-
pal band of Decatur furnishes a musical accompaniment.

The floats also are made on the playgrounds by the chil-
dren, with some assistance from thcir parents. Each sum-
mer thc department selects a theme for the summer play-
ground program, and the floats depict this theme as much
as is possible. The children participate in the planning and
construction of their floats with much zest. A grcat deal of
secrecy surrounds the actual operation, for each play-
ground attempts to keep its design a surprise until the big
night arrives. lt becomes quite a game when the children
try to get information about the kind of float being con-
structed on another playground.

Discarded or inexpensive materials are used for the
most part. Some of the floats are very elaborate while
others are very simple. The twenty-four by thirty-six inch
bases, made by the recreation department, are delivered
about three weeks before the event. They are uniform in
size and weight, and are salvaged after the parade and
stored for the next year. For the top construction, kite
sticks (from the kite factory), cardboard, wire, 'paint, glue,
string, wood, and so forth, are used.

A minimum of solid construction is most desirable, since

135

 

Launching float reqmres services of several men. Rope attached
to the front is pulled at signal by man on other Side of lake.

the more transparency there is the more reflection there
will he on the water. Lighting is either by candles or bat-
teries and small bulbs. Of course. the battery type of light-
ing Is- preferred, since there is less danger of fire.

loath playground is ret'luested to take. its float to some
nodv of water, before the final event, to test its balance.
I'rm-hcavy construction or uneven distribution of weight
will maler a float capsizc.

'-\Il floats are assembled at least one. hour before the
time set for the parade. The area is barricaded and a
leader placed in 1 barge to assure safekeeping.

Three judges from the community are selected to rate
the floats on I'unstruetiou, theme and reflection. They are
persons not directly mnnectcd with the playgrounds. and
then-fore are impartial. Thr- first judging is done on land,
for t'uttslt'llt'ltnn and theme. l'he greatest number of points

first I ’u Mished

TIIE ll.\\l)Ii()0K (If? PRIVATE S(‘ll()()I.S
33rd edition, 992 pp... $8.00

\ """lblr'tt-u‘ P‘i'lu‘tl edition of the standard annual Ili-
rrr tel s. I?“ .- .II" d: « ribe' and tIas-aifiec l’rivate behools.
I’i mm». 5. and-"v :‘pw'lulim'd, llourdiug and Day Schools.
and Inn..." t all.  Man? any features haw been added.

' Th .Trr’ Hindi-“n. .' I]; "re?! em put out wt." “I find
i w uufn- u ('1 r1: rerun n the may of listing schools
. I t ’ m." 'm. h.» on port. ‘ufarh' helpful." "We (on.

'n. .r. - .‘ lU. H ' .e mi Tonal on our lather (111.1 the
if I’I‘L I m”;.

FIJI ( \'l ltt.\ \I IJIItI~'.( 'I‘IUNS

A Report— 1951
132 pp., red silk cloth, $2.00

N tIIt-‘v.’ fish! on contempotirv trend 'nu ‘I

pchpeclm \ .nr-nmri..' volnm lt' I’nrtrr l‘. :‘ar
.:0 I i dun . n our dited md published III!
‘I' l . . ‘lllm. “in tim ’ includts n "n" tribute:

) .. :n' 'r  «rm -

(.t llil: In titlt' \II: It \‘lutt (.‘Ul I..l'2(.'l'.‘s
\\’t) offal It] lttn't) st IIUULS —\\‘t)
(1)] t [Adah

224 poges, 'Id ulk, cloth $2.20,- popor SLIO
Write for circulors of above ond other publications.
«"UI I \I‘IUVU VIII \'."l"l-I\t- l'flll l'lllFXT‘i
‘ Irl ' J .3. ' “ hndin, th right

i . I "v'dr n t tale .ud t
“I ' In 3...-ti. 'i

 

HT] II]

II Ioocon Stu rt

""" ' i h _ _. — —-—-—

‘3 \l'tfl \‘l'

Ioston 8, Moss.

t 

are given for reflection, however. so the judges must
wait until the last float is in the water to complete their
work.

For the launching, a length of rope is anchored on both
sides of the lake with a surplus equal to that needed to
stretch across the lake. On each end of the float base is
a book. The rope is attached to the front, pulled under
the float and hooked on the back end. At a signal. given
by flashlight, an operator on the other side of the lake
pulls the rope until signaled to st0p. Three or four floats
are attached in like manner to one rope, placed about ten
orl'twelve feet apart. Five such ropes are used, so that
the floats are placed far enough apart to make a distinct
pattern with their reflections. The launching requires the
services of one man on the opposite side of the lake, and
three or four men handling the float itself.

The children on the playgrounds have been asked to find
as many old candles as possible and to make floating can-
dles. These are placed around the edge of the lake, except
on the launching side, where they make a beautiful border.

Winners are announced over the loud speaker, and rib-
bons awarded. Local merchants donate window space to
display the first. second and third place winning floats.

This not only publicizes the playground program but gives

the public a better chance to study the construction.

Maybe we are tempting the. weather man when we an-
nounce the date for this event in advance, but we are
willing to take that risk, trusting he will forget this mo-
mentous August night. Actually, we haven't been rained
out of a single lantern parade since it was started.

' CHAMPIONS
‘ i OHOOSE

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

flout In Tho World
for The World’s

Ore-to st Athletes

 

Recasnios

Memories of camping experiences, showing how
much they can mean to a blind boy, or any boy.

A Part of My Life

 

PERHAPS it’s because I was a city
boy, tired of the smells of coal and
human crowds, despising the city’s
endless pavements and noisy loneli-
ness; hut whatever the reason, each
time I think back to the summers that
I ,spent at camp, the sweeter the
breezes smell, the warmer the sun feels,
the friendlier and gayer seem my fel-
low campers, and the more buoyant
and exuberant the freedom that I ex-
perienced in those days.

Forten summers I had this freedom.
Most of these I spent at Camp Light-
house on Barnegat Bay, New Jersey.
This camp for blind children, run by
the New York Association for the
Blind, was reserved for the girls in
July and hoys in August, and was like
any other camp, with its playgrounds,
lawns, recreation hall, mess hall and
cabins.

It had an excellent staii, headed by
Clyde Lytle, professor of English at
Kutztown, Pennsylvania State Teach-
ers College. “Chief Prof,” as he was
affectionately called, was a jovial, un-
derstanding, efficient man. He always
had a ready anecdote or riddle, and
often in the evenings he would present
Hamlet, The Merchant of V enibe, or
other Shakespearean plays—all one-
man performances. He took every part,
changing his voice to fit the melan-
choly Hamlet or the distraught Shy-
lock. He also sang selections from Gil-
bert and Sullivan and folk ballads. Be-

fore taps, when we were getting into

 

MR. TWERSKY, now an instructor in

history at City College in New York
City, has been blind since childhood.

L JUNE 1952

Jacob Twersky

bed, he would make the rounds of all
the cabins, joking with us or consol-
ing a homesick boy. He maintained
discipline, but he did not drive us. He
led us.

To me Chief Prof was wonderful.
There seemed to be no limit to his
fund of interesting information. It was
he who encouraged me to recite poetry
before the assembled camp and to be a
good athlete.

Students from Kutztown Teachers
College, whom Chief Prof brought
with him, made up most of the corps
of the counselors. Some of them, com-
ing from the Pennsylvania Dutch sec-
tion, impressed us with their German
accents, and by their quaint use of
German idiomatic expressions trans-
lated into English.

Much of our activity centered around
the bay. We swam—poor swimmers
near the dock and the better swimmers
around a raft in deep water—and we
rowed. In both cases we guided our-
selves by sounds: vocal directions from
partially sighted campers or fully
sighted counselors, and the general
sounds from the raft, dock or shore.

.Fishing from the dock or a boat, we

caught crabs, sea bass and eels. The
crabs we sc00pcd out of the water with
a net, after they had grabbed the bait
at the end of a line. On some evenings
we would huddle around a driftwood
fire crackling on the beach, listening
to the lapping of the bay, the rustling
of the grass in the swamp, and smell-
ing the wood smoke and salt air while
we told stories and sang.

I can easily understand why primi-
tive man considered inanimate matter,

especially water, as having spirits.
When I was a boy, I did the same. I
could see, for instance, that Barnegat
Bay had a personality, that it was
definitely alive. The evidence was suf-
ficicnt, for it had motion, a voice and
many moods. At night it often slept
quietly, or crooned peacefully to itself.
Sometimes it would sigh, and the rus-
tling grass on the shore would answer.
In the morning, it often felt young and
frisky and would run playfully back
and forth at the edge of the beach.
Sometimes it was depressed and beat
itself sorrowfully against the sand.
Surely, it had a great spirit.

We had our own ways of studying
plant and animal life. A tree was identi-
fied by touching its leaf or bark. We
knew well the glove-shaped elm leaf
and the cork-like oak hark. Flowers
were recognized by their smells: the
Indian paint brush smelling like a
piece of perfumed soap wrapped in
hay, the sweet pea’s discreet scent like
that of a woman who knows how to
use good perfume in moderation. We
became familiar with the fishing-rod-
smooth gartersnake, the pimply toad,
the gulping frog and the hairy squirm-
ing bat. With our j ackknives we Opened
clams, crabs and tortoises to touch
their muscles. We knew the flat, mo-
notonous call of the catbird, the shrew-
ish bawling of the crow, the flute-like
solos of the thrush. With life bubbling
around us, there could be no loneli-
ness.

My closest friend was Al Caraeeiolo,
a totally blind boy like myself. On Sun-
days, his family and relatives, a size-
able Italian clan, would descend upon

' the camp. They liked clams; so Al and

I would wade out into the bay, feel for
a clam with our toes and then duck
under the water to retrieve it. Encour-
aged by the clan, we frequently came
up with seven or eight dozen. These
would go back with Al’s folks, while in
exchange we would be given spiced
sandwiches and other delicacies on
which to feast during the week.

In my last two seasons at Camp

137

Lighthouse, when physicalexercise was
my great interest. I would rise an hour
before the rest of the camp every morn-
ing, get into a pair of sneakers and
shorts, and walk to the quarter-mile
long boardwalk. There. i would run
its length sixteen times, occasionally
touching one of the handrails to make
sure I was moving along the eenter.
Inti‘uding upon the general silence of
the morning would be the sounds of
my sneakers on the wood as I ran, the
eroaking of a bullfrog in the swamp,
or the crowing of a rooster on the
nearby farm. As i approached the bay,
the breeze would refresh me, and I
would hear the water as it broke
against the shore and the weird eries
of the seabirds. As I ran in the other
direetion, toward camp, 1 would smell
the woodsmoke from Anna’s and John’s
breakfast fire. Finally, when the four
miles had been eompleted religiously,
I would head for the washroom and
shower; and when passing the cabins,
would hear the first faint stirrings of
the waking camp.

Although memories of Camp Light-
house dominate my recollections of
summer camping, I (lid spend several
seasons, as a camper and then as an
assistant counselor, at Camp Wapa-
nacki in Ilardwick, Vermont. \Vapa-
nacki was run by the New York Insti-
tute for the Edueation of the Blind,
and was located beside a lake in the

Vermont hills.

At Wapanaeki, l enjoyed overnight
hiking. Small groups of boys, each
with a counselor. would set off for a
point some fifteen miles away, earry-
ing pup tents, ponchos, blankets, mess
kits, and food to be cooked. Cooking
was fun, even though it was messy and
unpalatable at times. Somehow, the
eoneoetion which I tried in my pan, of
potatoes, bread, bacon and slieed ap-
ples, lacked a pleasing flavor. At the
time, however, I dared not admit it,
for all of us had been boasting about
our prowess as cooks. Sleeping in a
pup tent in a cow pasture had its dis-
advantages, including a restless night
upon the lumpy ground, tussling with
a tentmatc for possession of the blan-
ket, and being startled awake in the
early morning by the loud moo of
cows that had decided to have an early
breakfast.

I shall never forget the last time I
went down to the lake. I walked along
the path that was strewn with pine
needles. The springy feeling of the
ground underfoot had always appealed
to me. In the pine and spruce forest
along the lake, the last sounds of day
were dwindling away. The lingering
notes of a woodthrush mingled with
the muted and monotonous song of the
crickets. Chirrupy katydids carried on
their gossip at either side of my feet.

I stopped at the edge of the lake,

(Drganizml {Jumping

listening to the coarse eroaking of
frogs above the soft, washing sound of
the water as it gently slid up and down
the bank. In the distance tinkled the
bells of stray eows returning home
late. Just then a breeze sprang up and
stirred the ancient spruces until the
twisted limbs moaned with subdued
sorrow, voicing my mood. From aeross
the water came the strange booting of
a lonely owl, and near at hand another
owl answered.

I breathed in deeply. l knew it
would be a long time before I had a
chance to return, and l wanted to re-
member it all. A lilac bush in full
bloom poured its perfume into the air;
and so strong was the smell of the
forests evergreens that it was like
background music.

I do not know how long l sat there.
I know that hours must have passed
and night must have closed in, because
dew desecnded upon grass and plants;
and the smooth surface of the granite
chunk on which I sat became colder
andsecmingly harder. The breeze had
grown into a brisk wind, penetrating
and chilly, and I shivered.

It seemed to me then that the woods
antieipated something, as though the
air carried with it a premonition of
rain. I started back along the path,
for the last time. l had outgrown it, I
knew. A part of my life had come to
an end.

 

138

'Stalcment prepared by Committee on Camping,
Education-Recreation Division, National Social
Welfare Assembly.

Organized camping is a creative, educational ex-
perience in cooperative group living in the out-of-
doors. It utilizes the resources of the natural sur-
roundings to contribute significantly to physical.
mental, spiritnal and social growth. It is a sustained
catperience under the supervision of trained leader-
ship. When sponsored by a national youth organ-
ization, it is an integral part of its program.

Camping contributes to good health through
supervised activity, sufficient rest, good food and
healthful companionship.

Camping aids in spiritual development by help-

ing eampcrs to reeognize and appreciate the handi-
work of God in nature.

Camping eontributes to social development by
providing experience in which campers learn how
to deal practically and effectively with living situa-
tions.

Camping is an experience in citizenship training,
providing through its community of campers the
medium for democratie participation in decision
making, planning and carrying out of activity at
their own level.

Camping contributes to the development of self-
relianee and resourcefulness by providing experi-
ence and instruction in which campers acquire
knowledge and skills essential to their well-being.

ltecnmrmx ‘

Therese Myers

5 VERY SUNDAY morning, in spring,
summer, autumn and winter, while
most city dwellers are still asleep, in-
dividuals and groups can be spotted
hurrying to catch an eight o’clock
ferry or a nine o’clock train. Who are
these people and where are they go-
ing?

They are of every age and of every
occupation—businessmen, housewives,
office workers, sales pe0ple, doctors,
lawyers, teachers, school boys and
girls. And they are bound for the open
road.

In spite of automobilcs, radio, mov-
ies and television, thcre are still many
pe0ple who have not forgotten—and
some who are just discovering—the
thrill of taking to the road afoot. Clad
in garments appropriate to the weath-
er, knapsacks over their shoulders, they
travel independently, in grOUps, or as
members of organized hiking clubs.

What are they seeking? They want
to see more of the sky, more of the
trees, more of nature’s colors. They
want to brcathe clean air and thc
odors of pine, clover, burning wood
and new-cut hay. They want to eXperi-
ence the joy of walking, not on pavc-
ments but on country roads, across
bridges, through meadows and ovcr
mountains; of walking with pc0plc
who like to walk; of walking at a
steady pace and fceling evcry muscle
tingle as it is set into motion.

They enjoy the element of surprise
in these walks. A little wooden bridge
will pop up around the bend; a path
will lead them up or down steps carved
out of rocks long ago loosencd from
a mountain slope; a row of scalloped
hills will be revcaled against the sky;
or a sudden, thick carpet of orange-
colored leaves will make them st0p
and gasp.

And the roads—where will the roads

J UNE 1952

0a {66 

take them? Away from books and pa-
pers and the noise of city streets, it
will lead to the Palisades and the
Alpine Circular along the Hudson
River; to the Ramapos; to Silver Lake,
Byram River Gorge or Algonquin
Woods in Westchester. It will take
them to the rusty, grass covered Cro-
ton Aqueduct; to the stream in Pine
Meadow Woods, where one listens to
the sound of the water dancing over
rocks, and can hear the splashing of
the falls farther on.

These people like to walk under a
shower of autumn leaves, and listen to
their crackle underfoot; to hear the
thud of falling apples as they are
loosened from their branches by the
rain; to walk in the cold, crisp air of
a winter day, through a snow white
landscape.

Sometimes there are unplcasant sur-
prises, particularly for new hikers——
such as having to pass through slush
and mud to reach a destination, get-
ting caught in the rain, crossing a
meadow full of briars. But all of this,
with the proper clothes and the right
frame of mind, can be laughed at. Ex-
perienccd hikers usually prepare for
all kinds of weather and often deliber-
ately go out in the rain and snow.

Among hiking clubs there are dif-
fcrent grades of hikcs, which vary in
the different groups. A “C” hike may
be three miles to some pe0ple, in an-
other group it is five miles, and in
still another ten miles might be con-
sidered easy. “A” hikes usually include
some climbing. In such cases it is not
only the distance which matters, but
the height and steepness of the moun-
tain or of the hills to be crossed.

Very often, hiking groups spend
their vacations walking and mountain
climbing. There are many shelters
along the Adirondack Trail for st0p-

 

overs. The Appalachian Mountain Club
in New Hampshire has sixteen shelters
and eight huts throughout the White
Mountains, which are a hiker’s para-
dise. The American Youth Hostel
maintains hostels in various “sections
of the country fqr hikers and bicyclers.
(See Summer Vacations—~—U.S.A., for
specific hosteling trails—Ed.)

Many people travel to the top of a
mountain by car or railway, and think
they have seen everything because they
enjoy the view from the summit. But
they miss the thrill of climbing
through the forest of birch, balsam or
spruce, of having the landscape slowly
unfold before them, of st0pping to
drink from a cool spring and perhaps
letting the water trickle over their feet.
They do not know what a wonderful
moment it is to stand before the moun-
tain about to be ascended. Mount
Washington in New Hampshire is high-
est in the Presidential Range—sixty-
two hundred feet above sea level. How
quiet, dignified and majestic it is. Oh,
to learn the secret of its imperturbabili-
ty! And then to climb, slowly and
steadfastly, through the forest, past
the timber line and gaze down at deep
ravines, revealed through mist; to
climb higher and higher, until you
reach the t0p and walk through the
clouds to see the earth and heavens for
miles in every direction! Here is the
prize which lures the hiker to.such
great effort—the sense of achievement,
of having won the right to this beauty.

Condensed from Newark News, June 1950.

139

 

ONE OF THE unfriendliest audiences
in the history of show business
assembled on the evening of July 17,
1951, in the tent city of Finthcn, near
Mainz, in the American Zone of occu-
pied Germany. It was also small—less
than fifty of the three hundred fifty Cl
population. Finthcn had just been by-
passed hy the most spectacular act on
the circuit: Boyd Bachnlan's Band, a
superior organization boasting the four
O‘chfe sisters. Finthen was in no
inood for the Buffalo Bills—a male
quartet.

Surprisingly, the applause for the
Bills’ first number was audible. A phe-
nomenon even more astonishing, how-
ever, was that the final chord of their
second song merged into a high shout,
mnnistakably from the audience. When
this was repeated a couple of minutes
later, with even more enthusiasm, Cl's
began to drift along the company
streets to see what was going on.

They saw four men in gray slacks
and blue coats on an improvised stage
of planks set between the tail gates of
two trucks—from left to right, a short,
slightly professorish-looking guy in
glasse.; a somewhat taller charaetcr
with dark, curly hair and a map of
lrcland for a face: a still taller kid
with light curly hair is ho looked rather
like a baby-faced prize fighter; and
a stocky, Incdiurnosizetl gent with thin-
ning hair and an inerasable grin. They

 

Mn. BALM“, former university Eng-
lish teacher, magazine u'ritcr, now a
producer 0/ industrial and school mo-
tion pictures, sings only in a shower.

I 40

THE ACT NOBODY

stood with their heads together, cx-
pressions of pure bliss on their faces,
harmonizing. Every kid watching had
probably tried the same thing back
home, but the audience knew they had
never achieved harmony like that; it
was genuine, one hundred proof, bond-
ed harbcrshop, and until the Buffalo
Bills became the International Cham-
pion Barbershop Quartet in 1950 noth-
ing like it had been heard in this
world.

Two hours later the Bills were still
singing cncorcs. They had done two
shows that day and had another that
night, but were apparently having
such a good time they couldn‘t bear to
leave. They finally organized an im-
promptu quartet of ofliccrs, instructing
them in barbershop harmony—andcn-
eouraging the men to make whatever
irreverent comments which came to
their minds. When this was going well.
they shouted goodbye and ducked out.

The Bills averaged three shows a
day for the thirty-five days of their
European tour, and they never failed
to have their audiences cheering by
the end of the second number. In this
respect the Cl’s were exactly like ci-
vilian audiences at home.

Counting the European Commaad
trip, the quartet traveled 75,000 miles
in 1951 and sang before audiences
totaling 300,000. This does not include.
a fifteen-week radio stretch and three
appearances on television.

These figures are made more im-
prcssivc by the fact that the Buffalo
Bills receive cxm'nscs but no pay. Each
member makes his living at a regular

job. Vern lieed, first tenor, is an in-
surance salesman; Al Shea, lead, is a
cop; Dick Grapes, baritone, represents
a paper-products company; and Bill
Spangcnburg, hass, is a truck driver.
They are members of the Buffalo chap-
tcr of the Society for the Preservation
and Encouragement of Barbershop
Quartet Singing in America, lncorpor-
ated. The Society was founded in 1938
by Owen C. Cash, a Tulsa, Oklahoma
oilnlan, and its slogan is “Keep Ameri-
ca Singing.”

lt has six hundred chapters in the
United States, Alaska, Hawaii, the
Philippines and Canada, with a total
of more than 30,000 members. Once
a year it holds a contest in which a
board of fifteen tough judges picks a
champion from forty quartets who have
won regional eontcsts.

The Buffalo Bills won in 1950, after
two unsuccessful tries, scoring a rec.-
ord 7,850 points out of a possible
10,000. Quartets are. judged on har-
mony accuracy, balance and blend of
voices, voice expression, arrangements
and stage presence. Once a quartet has
won a championship it can never com-
pctc again. Ever since winning the
1950 nigh honor, the Bills have been
in unprecedented demand to sing for
philanthropic and civic causes.

I first heard them sing on a “pa-
rade" staged by the \Vestficld. New
Jersey, chapter of the Sl’l‘iBSQSA. A
parade is a yearly function at every
chaptcr—-~a show in which they present
the best quartets from other chapters.
The Bills were so spectacularly good
that l asked an old question. Why

ltecnmrmx

Herbert Dalmas

CAN BUY

don’t they turn professional?

The Bills have had plenty of chances.
Last year, for example, they turned
down six night club offers and a con-
tract to tour the cocktail lounges and
supper rooms in a national chain of
hotels. Even the hottest attractions in
show husiness cool off, and hardly any
last as long as the Bills plan to be
around.

They enjoy being amateurs. Dick
Grapes told me, “If we turned pro
we’d have to sing at certain times and
certain places, and at no others. We
wouldn’t be able to sing whencver
and wherever we want to.”

In Buffalo, the Bills are a city in-
stitution. In June 1950 the city council
passed a resolution commending them
for the credit they reflected on the city.
Threc hundred and fifty admirers gave
them a hanquet before they took off
on their EurOpean tour. They are on
first-name terms with more high-eche-
lon business and professional pe0ple
than any other four men in Buffalo.

How the wives feelas quartet widows
is an interesting point. Probably there
is no greater strain on marital felicity
than the male tendency to withdraw to
the kitchen, about the time the party
is drawing to a close, to assay barber-
shop harmony. To wives who havc had
to wait, while their spouses were hav-
ing one more try at “You Tell Me Your
Dream," it may seem incredible that
four wives exist who make a positive
effort to get together three times a
week to hear their husbands do exact-
ly that.

When the original Buffalo Bills lost

J UNE 1952

 

their baritone in .1950, and Dick

Grapes was chosen after a considera-
tion of some forty possibilitics, Jerry
Shea, Peg Spangenburg and Mary
Reed invited his wife to a little party
and gave her a vivid picture of what
she had to expect. Not until she was
sure she could take it was Dick formal-
ly accepted.

On the other hand, the Bills are
feted wherever they go. Their wives,
who are always invited, too, share in
the enthusiastic attention which they
receive. This. makes for an exciting
social life.

They are always on hand for com-
munity chest dinners, defense bond
rallies, and other occasions where
crowds have to be put into a relaxed
and generous mood. In their home
town and towns nearby, they sing
ahout twenty-five times a year in hos-
pitals, orphanges and other institu-
tions. When they arrive in a city for
an cngagement, they are invariably
asked to sing at one or more local hos-
pitals. They never refuse. They sing
for as many ambulatory patients as
can get into the assembly hall, then
make thc rounds of the wards and the
single rooms. Hospital directors say
there is no morale builder to compare
with barbershop harmony.

 .15"

Secret of Buffalo Bills’ popularity is unmistakable enjoyment of own singing. Audi-
enee can’t resist them. L. to r. Vernon Reed, Al Shea, Bill Spangenburg, Dick Grapes.

Like most spectacular successes, the
Buffalo Bills are a happy combination
of factors and circumstances. They all
have superh voices. Each has studied
music; they all grew up singing in
church choirs, and they are relentless
critics of themselves. Also, they look
well together; they aren’t handsome,
but they radiate vitality without hav-
ing to turn it on. Besides, they are all
instinctive showmen. They have never
had professional advice; they operate
by reflex and their reflexes seem to
be flawless.

Their slogan is “Pitch ’em high and
hit ’em hard”; and whether they are
singing—in a hospital room or, as
they did once, for 78,000 people in the
Cleveland stadium—they hit ’em hard.
Audiences love it.

They have sung in just about every
place a quartet can sing—in theaters,
opera houses, churches, hotel lobbies,
school auditoriums and airplanes.
They have sung on top of a peak in
the Bavarian Alps, on a San Francisco

cable car, in a 1908 Oldsmobile under

police escort on their way from the
Milwaukee airport to their hotel, and
in a Pennsylvania coal mine.

When they arrive for a parade, they
are met at the airport by a welcoming
committee, whose first request is that

141

the Bills “bust one.” This often results
in a slight disruption of air schedules,
because when the Bills really bust one,
nothing coming over a p.a. system can
be heard. At El Paso last winter one
plane's departure was delayed because
the pilot had disappeared. He was lo-
cated in a state of hypnosis, his car
eocked at Bill Spangenburg’s shoulder,
absorbed in what Bill was doing with
his part of “I Want a Girl.” Seems he
was a bass himself.

Another reason for the Bills' popu-
larity is their uninhibited and un-
mistakable enjoyment of their own
singing. The expressions of sheer rap-
ture on their faces when they hit a
particularly satisfying chord are not
the prop smiles of professional enter-
taincrs. And when they finally punch

home the last ehord, their half-aston-
ished delight is so genuine that audi-
cnces can't resist them.

They are famous for their song ar-
rangements. They start out by buying
them, but no arrangement ever reaches
their repertoire as they bought it. They
tear it to pieces and put it hack to-
gethcr again as they rehearse it, put-
ting in the “swipes” so dear to the
hearts of barbershoppers. A swipe is a
chord change and can be anything
from corn to an inspiring display of
musical virtuosity.

Barbershop harmony is distin-
guished from straight harmony on one
hand and from modern harmony on
the other. Straight harmony uses three
notes to a chord with the fourth voice
“doubling” one of the others—that is,

repeating the same note an octave
higher or lower. Sometimes straight
harmony doubles two notes in a chord,
and sometimes all four voices sing the
same note. Barbershop never has all
four voices on one note. It uses a chord
on every note, and whenever possible
adds a fourth note to the chord.

The Buffalo Bills don’t have time
to analyze their effect on people, but
Peg Spangcnburg has a theory. She
says that every man who sees the Bills
pictures himself up there participating,
that every man in the world has a
longing to sing—not merely in the
hath but with three other men. And
she thinks that if all the men were di-
vided up into barbershop quartets a
lot of the world’s troubles would cease
to exist.

Thinking

of Sen ding

Junior

to Camp?

 

 

D According to an article by Kate Thompson in the Toledo, Ohio Blade, parents
who plan to send their children to summer camp should visit several to determine
what best suits their youngster’s needs. Officials of the American Camping Associa-
tion warn not to send Junior away for the summer, unless he really wants to go to

camp. There are many types of camps, and it is up to the parent to determine in what
kind his child will be happiest.

Diverse Cumps

Camps stress handcrafts, outdoor living, sports, competitive games, education, and
so forth. Some follow rigid schedules to which the child must conform; while others
permit a free choice of activity by the camper. Some put the emphasis on group
activity and living together democratically, while some stress the individual and
his needs. Some do both.

The article goes on to say, “Parents should talk with the camp director and find
out if he is emotionally mature, really enjoys working with children and seems to
display the traits of patience, understanding and kindness needed to lead then], in a
friendly atmosphere.

Grounds

“The camp grounds should be examined by the parents to cheek sanitary facilities,
the National Recreation Association advises. Be sure that there are adequate screens
throughout the camp, that sleeping quarters are well ventilated and lighted, that gas
for cooking or heating is not used in the children's rooms, that drinking water is safe
and approved by health authorities. that swimming is properly supervimd, that there
is one set of bathing and washing facilities for every twenty-five children and one
toilet for every fifteen children. Food should be nutritious and fresh, but not neces-
sarily elaborate. Proper refrigeration and a good garbage disposal system are im-
portant.

“The summer camp need not be luxurious. but it should have all buildings in good
repair, comfortable beds, elcan, attraetive outdoor areas and large. airy indoor areas
for play in bad weather."

Itncamrros

RELATIONSHIP OF

Charles E. Doell

711E ART of encouraging people to
engage in various forms of recre-

ation is relatively new. Only recently
has it aspired to the status of a pro-
fession. For the most part, it is still
unnamed, although its administrators
and advocates are variously referred to
as “recreation leaders,” “recreation-
ists,” or simply “recreation people”—
hut a precise acceptable term is still to
be found.

The nebulous beginnings of this art
appear to come mainly from two
sources—social welfare and physical
education. The carry-over from the an-
cient art of gardening to present day
recreation has been lost sight of
through the years. This constitutes a
third possible source, and, at least in
public administration, is the thread we
need to recapture, if the administra-
tion of combined park and recreation
systems is to be wise.

“Social welfare” is probably the
most descriptive term to be used for
that motivation which prompted the
establishment of our first playgrounds.
Recognition of the right of the child
to an opportunity to play, where, in
the crowded portions of our large
cities, there was no such opportunity,

 

MR. DOELL has been engaged in park
work for rnore than forty years, is a
past president of the American Insti-
tnte of Park Executives and has been
superintendent of parks in Minneapo-
iis, Minnesota, since August of 1945.

JUM: 1952

 

Colf has gone a long way toward satisfying the appetite for the rural landscape. Spec-
tators as well as players enjoy it. Above, scene on Columbia Golf Course, Minneapolis.

gradually led to the acceptance of this
general idea.

The teaching of skills or the playing
of games was a natural process for the
physical education people. To those of
us who were the street urchins and
alley kids of fifty years ago, it seemed
ridiculous to have to be taught how to
play. Nevertheless,our introduction in-
to the newfangled gymnasiums, and
later the first playgrounds, disclosed to
us how meager were the skills we pos-
scssed. The ordinary ball games, ice
skating, shinny, can can, and rough
and tumble fighting were well-known.
Boxing and wrestling, according to
rules, were something else again.
Tumbling and gymnastic work and
many of the field sports were known
only to the few. To have instructors

for such things as foot-racing was in-
deed the height of luxury. The teach-
ing of these skills came within the
province of the graduates of colleges
of physical education. They were our
first playground instructors.

For the most part, recreation courses
at the universities and colleges have
been part and parcel of the physical
education department. Only in recent
years has there been an inclination to
distinguish between recreation and
physical education. In many universi-
ties the division of recreation is still
a part of the physical education de-
partment, but today’s recreation em-
bodies a great many things in addition
to the teaching of physical skills and
the guidance of play. It is considered

to include all activities, sensations and

143

 

If possible, neighborhood parks should be large enough to provide green grass, trees
and shrubbcry, as well as the paved or well-worn areas for active play. Loring Park.

impulses which tend to renew the en-
thusiasm of the mind and body to per-
form its daily functions.

In this enlarged concept, we have
discovered that environment is an im-
portant stimulus to the process of re-
juvenatiom—«or recreation. Green grass,
trccs, shrubbcry‘, those things called
” by the senior Olm-
sted, coupled with pleasing patterns,
sweet music, pleasant conversation and

“verduousncss

social intereonrse, beautiful scenery,
fine pieces of architecture, sculptures,
paintings. either alone or skillfully
blended and placed in proper environ-
ment. are of fumiannental importance
in keeping minds and bodies- healthy.
We have included as admirable forms
of recreation a \isit to the zoo, camp-
ing, and eating out-of-doors.

W hen some of these activities and
settings are rm-ognizcd and advocated
by recreation leaders as part of the
too|.--. which they must use in their
profession. “t‘ have indeed come full
.irclc. home of our earliest parks and
rardens intltltletl hunting, places of
retreat. In'antifnl (that is.

lands: aped meneer hiking beautiful

H‘t'ttt’rt

patterns laid out or garden- and in
illas, palaces and fine residences. Sta-
In bippodromex

r'm ‘fotlrivs, Ille-
ty- .1 theater.- .1" found thelr
pane . 'mal card: as at me time or
moth. .nn past history During
the -' cm:- th venturé' tion were a
ts ,ar let. II‘ "t m-rc 1: Adv purposeb
'1  ' t .l 'IL'S fro ('t'lJllt :ntni
hum... me of nlr ulrlel

' t I

games, such as bowling on the. green
and a form of croquet which preceded
our present version of that game. l’a-
cilitics for playing tennis are of an-
eient vintage. However, it would be
improper to say these were the main
features of those gardens. They were
simply adjuncts, and we cite them here
only to point out that they were a part
of the gardenng art.

While the roots of both parks and
recreation are to be found in foreign
countries, parks and recreation, as we
know them today, are strictly Ameri-
can. There were European and espe-
cially English influenms, to be sure,
but the development occurred in this
country and, since, has spread its in-
fluence to others. Recalling these influ-
ences may help us to understand the
close relationship between parks and
recreation which is needed today.

It was during the nineteenth cen-
tury in England that a distinct rcae-
tion against the formalized type of
garden in Europe occurred. The Eng-
lish developed the informal or lami-
seape garden at the. time that the com-
mon people all over the world were
beginning to assert and assume their
rights as free citizens. lt would appear
that the extreme change of the garden-
ing art in England was a part of this
social revolution. and inherently it
found a fertile field in that country.
where hiking was much more popnlar
than -m the mainland.

The |)tll'l\':- in the linited States were
onee‘tved and constructed on the pat

tern of the English landscape-type gar-
den. Central Park in New York was
the first large park in the United
States, and it was designed to provide
a rural landscape in the heart of a
growing city. it was a form of escape
from city to country, and provided the
elements of recreation which one gets
from such a transition. Facilities for
some forms of recreation including.
of course, hiking. carriage-ways, bri-
dle trails, a parade ground. lakes for
boating (and on these, ice skating first
took its real hold in the United States).
a small playground, and settings for
one or two important buildings were
created. Anything that would interfere
with the effect of a rural landscape.
the designers fought off with zeal and
vigor.

The designers of Central Park influ-
enced the layout of a high percentage
of the large park areas and systems
established in this country between
1860 and 1900. lf they did not do the
designing themselves, their contempo-
raries and students followed the same
general pattern and philosophy. They
passed on to their successors this con-
eept, so thoroughly, that when the de-
mand for facilities for active recrea-
tion arose in the cities, park lllCll re-
sisted the encroachment with the same
vigor as their predecessors had resisted
eneroaclnncnts in Central Park. Ves-
tigcs of this conflict are still apparent
in certain localities today.

However, even the designers of Cen-
tral l’ark recognized the desirability
of many of these facilities-4m"
grounds, tennis courts. and so on for
public use. In their minds Central
Park was not to be the only park in
the city of New York. but one of many.
They even had in mind a system of
parkways. which
out. They fully agreed that ball fields.
outdoor gymnasiums, running tracks.

was never carried

tennis eonrts, and the like, were desir-
ablebut insisted that they shonld be on
separate plots of ground, or devised so
as not to interfere with the opportuni-
ties for recreation which one may get
through enjoying the rural scene as an
antidote for daily life in a crowded
city.

lint,as previously said. we have now
eome full circle. The well-informed ree-
reatiun leader understands the great

lltZCItEA rmv

therapeutic value of attractive, park-
like settings. Nature study has become
an important part of the recreation
program. Day-camping as well as over-
night camping constitute opportunities
for municipal recreation. At the same
time, the well-informed park planner
recognizes the difficulty of now acquir-
ing, in most municipalities of the coun-
try, the large park areas that are neces-
sary for establishing the rural scene.
For the most part, these are the res-
ervations which are estahlished in the
proximity of metrOpolitan areas, rath-
er than in the center of them. How-
ever, where these park areas have been
provided in the cities, their value is
well enough established so that only in
.a few cases are there still attempts
made to convert them into play areas.

Park and recreation people alike advo-
cate the establishment of numerous
play areas throughout a municipality,
to give ample opportunity for recrea-
tion for all people. Even in the park-
like reservations of state and regional
systems, the occasional small area is
developed for active recreation.

What is needed today in the public
park and recreation field is a full ap-
preciation of the basic purposes of
park and recreation service and the
historical background of each. The
unity of purpose of the two then be-
comes apparent. Unfortunately, the
study of landscape architecture and
college courses leading to degrees in
recreation each cover broad fields, so
that the application of public service
is seldom sufficiently emphasized. Per-

haps within the space of four years
there isn’t time to teach all these
things. Nevertheless, this mutual un-
derstanding of the other’s immediate
objective in providing recreational op-
portunities for the people must be well
established if we are to have wise ad-
ministration. Fortunately, there seems
to be a trend towards the consolida-
tion of the functions of parks and rcc-
reation in municipal government, and
whenever and wherever that occurs,
certainly those who have this sort of
knowledge will prove to be the more
capable administrators, assuming that
the other qualities of executive ability
are present.

Leisure Leaders lLeisure Lodge]

THE RECREATION DIRECTORS of the San Fernando Valley
district of the Los Angeles recreation and park de-
partment believe they have the most unique professional
recreation organization in the country. It all started eleven
years ago, when a group of valley directors were planning
a Christmas party for themselves. The suggestion was made
that a Christmas breakfast be held each year and that a
fun club he organized. Result? The Leisure Leaders
Leisure Lodge.

Committees were formed to work on a constitution and
a general plan of organization. They functioned well, keep-
ing the rules and regulations very simple, in order to
derive the maximum amount of pleasure from the club.
At that time, the San Fernando Valley had many wide
open spaces, so the full title of the lodge was known as the
Leisure Leaders Leisure Lodge of Prairie Dog Valley,
Capitulo Numero Uno (Chapter Number One). Everything
about the organization is in keeping with the title. The pre-
anlhle to the constitution is as follows:

“We are leaders, and try with our might,
The finest of all leaders to be—

But there are no leaders on this earth,
Tl1at enjoy a siesta like we.” ‘

Their motto is “Take It Easy” and their aim is a “Daily
Siesta.” Section one of the constitution reads: “The ob-
jectives of this lodge are to devcl0p a spirit of fellowship
and fun among professional recreation directors of the
valley district of the Los Angeles recreation park depart-
ment.” Section number two: “Honorary memberships are
presented by the lodge to lay citizens of San Fernando
Valley for outstanding contributions in the field of rec-
reation.”

MARION C. SPARROW is the district director of Los Angeles
Recreation and Park Department in San Fernando Valley.

JUNE 1952

Marion C. Sparrow

In all communities
there are many peOple
who give a great
amount of time to pub-
lic recreation. Recog-
nizing their efforts cer-
tainly is in line with
good planning and co-
operation for better
community programming.

The oflicers of the lodge are as follows: the president
is known as “Lost Motion,” the vice-president as “Losing
Motion,” the secretary as “Slow Motion.” the treasurer
as “Frozen Motion.” the sergeant at arms as “Commotion”
and the general membership as “Locomotion.” .

Two very outstanding figures in recreation have never
missed a meeting in the eleven years the lodge has been
organized. They are Mrs. Rollin Brown, president of the
California recreation commission and a member of the
Los Angelcs recreation and park commission for the past
twelve years, and Mr. George fljelte, general manager of
the Los Angeles recreation and park department.

Capitulo Nmnero Dos (Chapter Number Two) was re-
cently organized in the Glendale recreation department,
known as the “Casa Vcdugo” chapter. Their OfilCCI‘S were
installed and a charter presented to them by Lost Motion
of Prairie Dog Valley Chapter.

The lodge has been an inSpiring organization for the
recreation directors of the valley district, and they have
lots of fun with their Leisure Leaders Leisure Lodge.

 

Mrs. Prudence Harding is receiving
a certificate from George Hjelte.

145

Lawn adjacent to beautiful administration building, housing din-
ing room and other facilities, is uscd for games and drantatncs.

‘
“at
‘1‘
\

lwu interesting lcatnres of tlic attraetivc (lining romn llle modern functional cabins of tlte eamp provide tllc utmost
are tltc hanging lireplace and convcnient “lazy Susans. for llcaltlllnl, outdoor living; ncstlc against canyon walls.

R acnmnox

 

Located deep in the quiet canyons of Griffith Park, the
new Hollywoodland Girls Camp is breathtakingly beauti-
ful. Although it is but a short distance from any part
of Los Angeles, rising hills isolate it completely from
the everyday world. Expansive use of glass blends the
indoors with the out-of-doors. Traditionally, though lo-
cated in scenic outdoor areas, camp buildings have had
too few and too small windows, thus denying to campers
full appreciation of the scenery.

Opcrated by the recreation and park department of
Los Angeles, Hollywoodland Camp, with its modern archi-
tecture, is functional in every detail. The recreation lodge
contains a large lobby with Hoor-to-ceiling windows on
three sides. shelves of books, and a hanging fireplace.
Adjoining this is the dining room which seats two hun-
dred and fifty at round tables, each equipped with a lazy
Susan to hold the serving dishes. The stainless steel kitch-
cn is completely modern and electrically equipped. The
camp has its own large swimming pool, an arts and crafts
workshOp, an outdoor cooking area, sports and play fa-
cilities, and a special campfire arca backed by a rock hill.
The sleeping cabins are nestled againstiupjutting canyon

CAMP FOR GIRLS

walls, and large picture windows in each cabin givc an
excellent view of nearby hills.

The cabin arrangement lends itself to the unit system
of operation. The camp is divided into three units: one
for the younger girls, another for the intermediates. and
one for the older girls. Each unit has a supervising coun-
selor, and each cabin is staffed with a senior and junior
counselor. This gives “around-the-clock” leadership. In
charge of the entire camp is the camp director, who car-
rics twenty-four-hour-a-day responsibility for every girl.

Grcat attention is given to safety, and hazards are elimi-
nated wherever possible. The recreation and park dcpart-
mcnt has taken full advantage of the cooperation, coun-
scl and services provided by the municipal fire and health
departments. The health department inspccts all sanitary
facilities, and provides the services of a registered nurse,
who checks the physical condition of the girls as they
enter camp. In addition to this, last summer two regis-
tcrcd nurses were so intcrestcd in the camp that they

MRS. SPECTOR is Supervisor of Recreation, Department of
Recreation and Parks, City of Los Angeles, California.

| JUNE 1952

Minnette B. Spector

took up residence there and volunteered their services for
the whole summer. The health of the entire camp staff,
including counselors and cooks, is carefully checked. A
special health feature is the modern first aid room to care
for emergencies. The fire department frequently inspects
the facilities and surroundings to eliminate possible fire
hazards.

The new girls’ camp has experienced one full summer
of operation with extraordinary success. During the three
vacation months, twenty-one hundred girls spent one or
two weeks there. The camp’s success is, in large measure,
the result of the consideration given to each camper. Each
girl is treated as an individual. The boast that every girl
in camp is personally known to the director from the mo-
ment she registers is not an idle one. No single camper is
lost in the large number who attend each week. This is
one reason for the vast number of repeat campers. From
these repeaters stems a fine camp tradition, which es-
tablishes a valuable long-term relationship with each girl.

The camp is organized as a laboratory for living and
supplies rich experiences in the life of a growing girl.
It provides opportunity for emotional as well as physical
growth, for learning and acquiring skills in camp activi-
ties and for the experience of sharing with other girls.
Through these opportunities, girls deveIOp poise and se-
renity. At camp, girls find room to be quiet and room to
shout. Good morale and camp tradition are substituted
for the “don’t” type of rule. Cultural, economic and ra-
cial differences are submerged in the common enjoyment
of activities and comradeship, and lasting friendships have
their heginnings here.

Leadership based upon consideration for others mani-
fests itself even among the very young campers. They are
given responsibilities as kitchen aides, table hostesses,
leaders of games, librarians, custodians of play equipment
and program aides. This opportunity to serve and receive
recognition challenges each girl’s ability.

A further challenge exists in the special leadership train-
ing given teen-agers. For a period of two weeks, thirty
girls live in the pioneer area. Pioneers-in-training are
apprenticed to counselors to receive guidance and inten-
sive experience in many -phases of camping, including
sleeping outdoors. As these girls mature, they become
junior counselors, and many of them eventually become
scnior counselors.

Good citizenship is fostered by opportunity for all to
participate fully in camp affairs. Everyone has a part in
patriotic ceremonies, in making decisions, in using the sug-
gestion box, and in selecting representatives to determine
camp procedures.

The democratic process is implicit in the choosing of
activities by each camper. The program includes nature
activities; swimming; arts and camp crafts; hiking; sports;
archery; dramatics; creative, modern, folk and square
dancing; sketching; outdoor cooking; singing; nightly
campfire entertaimnent; and horseback riding. Special

147

t'\'t1lll~ lttt'ltnfr swimming. play-days.
'arnivals, damn recitals. masquerade
parties. festivals. puhlishing the camp
newspaper. trips to the Griffith l’ark
/.oo and Planetarium. camp eraft ex-
hihits and special field outings. These
Ictivities are so eondueted that girls
engaged in them are free from worry,
strain. hurry and envy. Satisfaction
comes from a worthwhile activity well
done. rather than from a desire to excel
at the expense of another. No girl feels
that she is in the “duh” class. Life-long
hohhies result from interests aroused
in camp.

llollywoodland is a singing camp.
\ething is more effective than singing
in making the new as well as the re-
peat campers feel a oneness with their
fellow campers. Vol only do girls sing
at meals and around the campfire but
they sing as they hike on the trails,
during the craft activities, at. outdoor
cooking. or just as they sit on the grass
relaxing. The fine quality of singing
acquired in so short a time will never cease to he a won-
der.

An air of high, joyous seriousness pervades the camp.
(‘anipers are free from self-consciousness. which often
finds expression in “smart-alccky‘" or sophisticated con-
duct. In everything ahout the camp there is adventure in
the fine art. and fun, of living.

The outstanding “rightness” of the buildings in this
ramp was recognized recently when llollywoodland was
anINltfi the top Distinguished 1951 Honor Award from
the ‘\Illt‘.l‘it°tln Institute of Architects, Southern California
--hapter. The report of the jury of architects said, in part:

"The light. in the main building has a fine quality which
"mes heeallsu of the numv sources. and there is no glare.

 

Expansive use of glass, unique sliding doors, prmide fresh air and sunshine. Each
cabin, staffed wrth senior and junior counselor, has round-the-eloek leadership.

The simple light fixtures are beautiful in themselves, as
their shape echoes the structure. and. with their floating
quality, add to the gaiety of the huildine.

“The craft building, the hathroom buildings, and the
small dormitory buildings all emphasize human scale and
dwell on the individual. ‘\ really great triumph for the

use of many children.”

Camping is a "must" in a good recreation program. The
summer camp is as American: as square dancing. The idea
originated and grew in the. linited States. lidu'ators. so-
cial workers, psychologists, psychiatrists. and recreation-
ists advoeatc that just as every child has opportunity to
learn to read and write so should he have firsthand ex-

perience with trees. insects and hirds. and the open sky.

 

Sll’lllSllN l'lllK

‘wenmn for thirty years if seryice.

l'he only ohieetum name from the chairman of the recreation enm-

. in whn ’Ollil‘lllit d it should he the right of the r-olllmissinn to
=an the honor The mayor declared. "\‘e have just honored
hardworking lnishand and wife. team in Stockton.

our sin: er.
tl' ltm' .‘ley rted their whole livrs to the elnldreu of this con!-
r. .t a n" performed .‘m act which will preserve their place

‘O

n r' heurts if '1 grateful citizenry.

l t . an 19 ll]! tudc-n ('alnp l'ire Girls llm Scouts. ('mmnmih
' ' ‘~ ' l I fan‘p founded hy‘ \lra. bwensun. and Mr. haensonis
‘1 is t .- recreation dirertur.

4f tlns year. the city council of Stockton. California.
.ted unanimously to name the new municipal golf (nurse. and its sur-
. rundmg reertational area Manama I’m/r, honoring llcrt and Stella

 

liert and Stella Swenson have impresme
recorrL As 11 team. they have worked to-
nether for more than thirty-five years.
l'nusnal husband-wife honor paid lly city.

Itncumrrox

Third and last in the series on photography as recreation

IN ARY SUCCESSFUL photographic
program the direction in which
you and your group are heading—and
what you hope to accomplish when
you get there—are far more impor-
tant to that success than most people
realize.

Having an objective gives you a
“reason for being.” lt presents a con-
crete goal toward which individual
and group efforts may be directed, and

 

I“ .

against which accomplishments may be
measured: and it ties a group together
in a way that nothing else will do.
Sometimes, however. the activities
of a photographic group may be de-
ccptivc to outsiders. To these it may
appear. after a superficial examination.

lMIA WEBBth is photography instruc-
tor at Denby High School in Detroit.

JUN: 1952

' w
 ,,

Experiment! How would the lowly dandelion look to a worm? Your camera can find out!

.
Q
a Q-
O 1

Irma VVebbcr

Objectives for the

Photo

that there is no objective or definite
program. But this is not necessarily
so. What may appear to be an aimless
and disorganized effort may be only
the instructor’s method of reaching a
desired goal.

In my own classes, for instance, I

s: 
3-0.,

.. ,»_ _ ,‘..: an... .4

have heard via the grapevine that
several of my beginners have said to
their friends, “Get into the photogra-
phy class, it’s fun, no work at all; we
just wander around taking pictures.”

Getting that kind of a reputation for
teaching. or the lack of it, would wor-
ry some; but I like it. It's proof, to
my way of thinking, that the students
are absorbing the instruction without

Group

being particularly conscious of the fact
that they are very definitely being
taught something. Such teaching. as
you know, is often more bencfieial and
lasting than a more formal and appar-
ent approach.

In my class, we wander over the
school grounds looking at the .way
mud has dried and broken into pat-
terns of lines and textures. I point to
a lowly dandelion and wonder how it
would look to a worm. We become
worms—stretch out flat and snap a
picture. We wonder how it would look
to a bird—climb a trce and snap a
picture. We wander near the tennis
courts, hockey field and football prac-
tice groups,taking pictures———and more
pictures.

All such activity may seem aimless,
and yet from this so-called fun and
obvious wandering, some photogra-
phers will develop. They will learn
to use the camera, become aware of
things around them and someday learn
to tell a photographic story that will
be both real and artistic. I, also.
hope that some will become interested
enough in our sports program to ask
for an assignment to cover our swim
and track mcets, the football games,
school dances or auditorium programs.
Such student photographers—through
their cameras—can makc a real con-
tribution to the school papcr. '

Notice that I said 1 hope some
would ask to be permitted to cover
such activities. That’s a very impor-
tant point, because I’ve discovered that
you can block progress by doing too
much yourself. Let the yomigsters hold
the reins and you’ll get quite an emo- ‘

1—19

tional jolt. In fact it will become a
question of who’s entertaining whom.
They can do a bang-up job of it.

It's an artlul device. in that connec-
tion. to appear to be helpless in lots of
ways. because that gets people to
thinking and puts them to work.

For example. I often prctend I can‘t
see a thing in focusing on the ground
glass of our old camera without a
hood. I whip out a magnifying glass.
peer doubtlully at the image. and have
always hoped that someone would make
a black viewing box. But I wanted it
to be their idea. I’d almost given up
h0pe of getting one when last week the
chap who made our salelight ambled
over and said. "You remind me of
Sherlock Holmes. Why don’t we make
a tube of sorts to put over the glass?”
The next day he came in with one that
titted to a “t”. That's what I call get-
ting "third dimension” from a group.

In our class we try to keep the pro-
gram planning flexible enough so that
we eau dr0p what we are doing it we
hear a cry for help. We heard one re-
cently from the library. and learned
a lot from it. The librarian needed a
new set of slides to orient all new
pupils on the uses and procedures of
library work.

In this instanee the entire class went
to the library. Some acted as models:
others arranged lloodlights:
that the librarian
would have a selection from which to
choose. All gained through the ex-
perience.

As a result of this. an l'Iuglish tcaeb-
er saw the photos and bought a set of
the slides for use in an illustrated lee-
ture. The audio-visual and core teach-

several
[1 wk pictu res. so

ers heard of this and arranged for pie-
hire-taking to illustrate their classroom
activities and various licld trips. These
pictures, in turn. were transferred to
tilm strips and became a permanent
record in their tiles. From this work.
one boy in particular. learned to use
his small camera creatively and made
a liuaneial gain as well.

I must. also. mention another young-
ster in beginning photography who
wants to lweome a photo journalist.
For extra experience and guotl down-
to-enrth training. I assigned Joe to at-
tend mother's club meetings in our

I 

school and take candid shots of their
activities. This gives him good practice
in shooting pictures in a hurry and in
working with large groups. It‘s teach-
ing him to be a good businessman.
too. because the club is buying his
pictures for their record book. and
he's watching his expenses earelully.
There's more than one way to teach a
math lesson. isn't there?

Lynwood is another boy In our
group who has put his eamera to work
for the school and community. llis
pictures hecame so popular he was
made picture editor of our school pa-
per and recently editor-in-chief of the
yearbook. Now he’s being called to the
grade schools in the neighborhood to
record special activities. (Such a mem-
ber of a reereatiou department group
can take the pictures of your program
that will intrigue the local newspapers
into running a story about it.—-Ed.)
The bug. in Lyn's ease. bit so deeply
and thoroughly that he gave up a won-
derlul summer vacation to do summer
school work. so that during the school
year he could devote more time to his
yearbook duties. In addition he. works
for a community newspaper. This
work. for both the school and news-
paper. has taught him to meet dead-
lines and has made him more depend-
able and alert in many ways.

One of the most interesting things
to come out of l.ynwood's work has
been his sense of values in good eom-
qunity living. For some while now
he‘s given his time without pay to the
Home Owner's Association. and the
pictures be taken of muddy.
poorly payed alleyways. unkempt lawns
and neglected garbage cans are dis-

has

played downtown in our city hall.

To my way of thinking. l.ynwood
is a boy who is using his camera to
help create better everyday living. and
since he has reached this perspective
at an early age. I feel quite proud to
call him one of our clan. He's an ex-
cellent example of what may be ac-
complished in the case of an iudividlml
who is working toward a deliuite ob-
jcetive.

.\lost of this article has been directed
toward the school rather than the
camp. day class or eomnumity center
or playgroundmlmeause that is where

most of my experience lies. However.
I can see no dillereuee between a pho-
tographic program in these and one
in a school.

Let your eamera radiate in every
direction—Iron: the arts and craft ac-
tivities to music. swimming Ineets. dra-
lnatics, nature lore, sports. trips, and
even the work of the camp doctor.
nurse and dietician. What you do with
your beginners. and the amount of
planning you do. will coordinate fun
and real eamera achievement.

The piuholc camera is an excellent
means of beginning a program related
to picture taking when few have cam-
eras of their own. llave a sample
ready to show the group before you
begin the making of one. There will
be a few skeptics who will think this
cardboard box. with a pinhole in the
trout and film at the back. cannot take
a picture. Keep a few pictures on hand.
too. that you have taken with this
eamera and pass them around for in-
spection.

Supply yourself with a lot of still
eardboard (railroad board is exeel-
lent).someuumber ten sewiug needlcs.
metal brads or round beaded paper
fasteners. thin hlack paper. gummed
tape, glue, cutting tools. rulers. Then
go to work. Construct three separate
parts for this °alneraz an inner section
open at both ends and two outer sec-
tions. both open at one end and closed
at the other. These two sections be-
come the trout and the baek of the
camera. The inner section slips into
the front of the camera and is glued
in place. The baek ol the eamera is
not attached. but will be removable
from the inner scction each time lilm
is inserted or removed.

Let's make the inner seetion first.
\ ’ith a ruler measure a strip of card-
board lilteeu inches long and 3%;
inehes wide: divide into [our parts.
the lirst and third being 4% inches
and the second and fourth being 31/:
inches. When these sections have been
folded and brought together. glue and
reinforce with black gutmned tape.
They now form an oblong or open rec-
tangle. One end is later glued to the
trout section of the camera: the other
end left to insert into the hack of the

camera. This end of the shell will

RECREATION

also carry the film, which will he
31/1 hy ill/pinch cut film.

For a ledge or resting place to hold
the film, cut several pieces of card-
board about  inch wide and glue
them together, one on top of the other.
Glue these into the shell about  inch
from the end.

Now, for the front of your camera

IN HER SECTlON
fold on lines and glue

SECTION

9
cut away the Four-
OUTSICie corners fold-glue.

i

—using cardboard  inches by 873/32
inches, measure off the four sides that
will he cut away. Each of these will
he 2-9/16 inches. Thc center oblong

I.| every Fri. of s- - P. of- '
f “I; 51!? PH tl'ld 33h II ari'm
lull in! Lama-u" 'n Un'wn'tn
u not a rd hm. «fiv- Is. I Mu-

: ml is :I lr'iustr m dt-via' in
M 43-" :0 5cm" ’ is
"I! no J'I‘ill s . fl

1 : r ‘ul'l-Iy urr’ rm.
I ..

.,   .7216. “er-ringyg': ..

“‘F‘P’hlf'f'l‘ H. ere-o. u S. A-

Juni‘. 1952

 

measures 11,3 by 31,25 inches, as do the
two corresponding slides. These two
 and two 31,,é-inch sides are folded
in toward the ohlong, glued and re-
inforced with tape.

0n the front of this section, draw
diago‘nals or bisect from corner to
corner to find the exact center. Now,
cut out a small square opening about

F RON T of‘
CAMERA

Black Paper

Pinhole

where lincs

End of inner inhrnd

section and

Seal off all light
with black gummcd tape

 

one-half inch or so. Over this, paste
a thin sheet of black paper. When
this is done, draw the diagonal lines
on through or over this black paper,

 

{I . l'
.I- If i
I' 1 I . p- | all

 

SPRING rUN

and where they intersect, you have the
center. This is where you make the
lens opcning or pinhole. I'se care if
you do not want uneven, ragged edges,
which will give excessive diffusion if
you are not exact with this operation
of the needle.

The placing of the shutter on the
front of the camera finishes this sec-
tion, and this can he made with an
inch strip of cardboard held in place
with a brad. Keep it loose enough to
move over the pinhole without jarring
the camera.

The back of the camera is construct-
ed in the same manner as the front of
the camera. and the interior of the
whole should hc painled black with
India ink or dull poster paint. You
have sealed off all possihle light leaks
with tape, your film is in the camera—-
now for a picture.

Make sure the camera is placed on
a solid support and not hand-held dur-

ing exposure, since even very fast film
on a bright, sunny day requires from
six to ten seconds to take a picture.
If a model is used in the set up, place
her seated and leaning against some
back support.

   

\

 

O O O
1

‘

HORSESHOE PITCHING
COURTS

Amateurs and Professionals olike agree thot Pitching Horse-
shoes is greot sport. Another thing they agree on is thot
pitching courts by “DIAMOND” are the best. Diomand
pitching courts are reody to instoll, built to conform exactly
to officiol requirements. Sturdily constructed of 2”x10”
planks to give you many years of enioyment.

"There’s Nothing Finer Than A Diamond”

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CD.

4616 Grand Avenue

Duluth, Minnesota

 

151

How 10 keep children in lle

CHILDREN ARE HAPPIEST when they are doing
somethina. They like to run. jump. swine.
slide, climb, balance or hang. But the} tire quickly
of repeating the same action. This is why filling the
yard with mechanical play equipment is no guaran-
tee they‘ll be happy. Better to stimulate self-activity.
So give them things their imagination can work
on. Sand and water and stuli easy to move, such as
hoards, boxes. barrels. ladders and saw-lmrses: are
suggestive and easily adapted to any imaginary
situation hy any age. They make the back yard a
wonderful land of make-helieve and children never
run out of “something new to do."

livery play yard needs some kind of playhouse.
The simplest are best. Imagination eonverls them

into just what the child wants most at the moment.

 

Pre-school children like to climb under,
user and through things, and a bael: yard
is unthinlmhle for vonng childcrn without
a sandpile; but the older children quick-
ly tire oi .sm'h attivities. So invest in
barrels and buses, or saw up tree-trunks
as thes do in parks in Stockholm. Sweden.
liven simple play equipment can be good
in [mm and design as evidenced by the
lret tnmln: jungle above and sandbox at
mht‘ Youngsters naturally love beauty ex-
msr them to it. They cannot be capes-ted
m a In 1p things tidied up always. so install
trm. ground pattern that keeps the eye
rum dieing wattered In)" Play f1l’tls
and e Isv tr ('ons'ert to adult use the
1rd!» 0 taming [lower bed. lot example

 

lternrcnnn

wn hack yard

Dr. Joseph E. Howland

This may be a house, store, robber’s den or fairy-
land.

Boys also want pirate ships. A simple aHair of
old boards. bright paint and a bedsllcet sail will

do. They would also he excited to get a discarded

 

automobile or airplane. You can screen cithcr oil 0 . o
. , Children, in the world of make-believe, forget safety
1" a corner: and 901ml 0“ Years Of {1111- Girls W311i rules. Fenee the play yard from automohile movement.

a placc—~maybe just a secluded spot in the shade.

undcr a tree, where they can talk to fairies. stahle Mother should be able to view the entire play yard
, _ . , without leaving household duties. Seat-wall serves
Imaginary hOI‘SBS 01‘ JUSt dream. Fhe)’ mid SOIHG- dual purpose —extra seating and protection for How—

thing new to do here each day. ers. A small slide (about $100) Is good Investment.

Both boys and girls like adult things. These let
them imagine thcmselves doing grown-up work.
Civc them a huckct of water and a paint brush

and they will “paint” for hours—*fenec. garage or

a favorite toy.

 

YOU NEED TO PROVIDE:
l. A paved hike run.

10. An outdoor danee floor.

11. Raised plant beds so plants are up out of the way.

somehmg to Climb on’ prefer lbly t] e“ 12. Resdlent plants that can Withstand aeeldents.

 Lawn space for tumbling and wrestling. 13 Fences mther thlm hcddeg
o C t D u. o
14. Scuff-proof paths.

15. An easy way to store play equipment.

4. A place to dig.
a. \Vater to play in.

6.C01ve' ' . .‘l  - -
I "lent mild qnd Win] hellmcg 16. Complete Isolation of play area from automo-

7. Sturdy seating that doesn’t have to be pampered hues

or bron rllt indoors when it rains. . .
I": o _ O O _ _ 17. Sun and shade, cooling breezes, and proteetlon
8. Dmmg faeihtles, preferably including a portable . .
. against mseets and dust.

barbecue for easy cooking outdoors.

( 0 r . o s ' a | .‘ ‘ .- q . '- F
J- COVCICda “eathchrOOde ral")"d‘ly Pld)’ 31)“LC- Prom House Beautijals Prmtmrl Gardener, 19.)].

Jun 1952 I 153

 

ANYTHIM} that tends to refresh man's mind from the
everyday pursuit of a living, anything that encourages
people to observe with understanding and to enjoy their
periods of leisure aml recreation intelligently, is of im-
measurable value. 0n nature trails. mueb ean be learned
to make the out-of-doors more enjoyable and understand-
able to the visitor. With the increased interest in the
preservation of our natural resources, as shown by con-
servation societies. Audubon societies and other wildlife
groups. it seems only right that a part of a state park
budget should be set aside to build and maintain nature
trails and trailside maseum units.

It should he the purpose of these “live institutions" to
call to the visitor's attention the animal, plant and geo-
logical story of the park and its relationship to everyday
living. This means going to nature herself rather than
to books, classrooms or inanimate museum exhibits. Cou-
servation, u much diseussed national problem, cannot be
pointed out to better advantage than on a nature trail.

In planning and building sneh an area, many factors
most be taken into consideration. An elaborate and well
planned trail only ebeats a large percentage of the public
from mueh enjoyment and knowledge of the out-of-doors
unless it is easily accessible. While the aeeepted defini-

———-————_—————
.lnm C. ()ttTtt is Paul- Aotumh'st o] the Palisades Inter-

state Park Commission at Bear .llountal'n, .\ ew York state.

l3l

John C. Orth

tion of a nature trail Is "an informal path through field
and wood. nature providing the illustrations. man the
story." this path should be so designed that young and
old, and even the physically handicapped. can use it. in
other words. a nature trail in a public park should be

' designed for all the visitors and not just a select few with

the agility of mountain goats or the endurance of seasoned
bikers. Nor should it be too long for the average visitor,
who is not accustomed to extensive walking.

By far. the best situation for a nature trail area is one
that is separated from the swimming. picnieking and
athletic areas. either by natural or man-made barriers
such as streams, lakes. rock formations or roads. with suf-
ficieut plant growth to screen other reereational areas if
they are nearby. Such treatment will preserve the proper
atmosphere. Any area of twenty-five to one hundred acres
that meets these requirements and is adjacent to parking
areas. bus stops, and so on. is ideal.

Before laying out the trails. planners should carefully
map the area. not only for topography, but also for in-
tercsting trailside material. Common sense dictates that
interesting natural features eaunot be brought to the trail.
so the trail must be made to pass them. l’erbaps an excel-
lent stand of ferns, a fine old tree. an onteropping of rock
or a view will put many curves in a trail. but eurves are
definitely an advantage. It should never be a straight line

between two points. but should meander through an area
\

RECREATION

and never be unadventurously in view too far ahead. The
points where these curves occur should be carefully se-
leeted. In this day and age of rush and hurry, the visitor
will soon try to make a trail of his own, constantly striv-
ing to create that straight line between two points. Heavy
undergrowth, blackberry, catbrier, rock formations or
even boulders placed at these points, will tend to keep him
011 the trail, since that will be the path of least resistance.
In the overall planning, erosion should be kept constantly
in mind. Whenever possible, trails should follow the con-
tour of the hills. Occasionally, existing trails can be used,
but the foliage and general natural features are often so
worn by use that new trails prove more practical in the
long run.

A trail usually goes through two stages. (1) Construc-
tion—consisting of clearing it to a width of two to three
feet, with all grass clumps, stumps, rocks and other ob-
structions removed to make walking easy, and the placing
of posts and labels where advisable. ('2) The initial period
of use and study of its pOpularity. Depending upon pOpu-
larity, it will have to be widened and improved to handle
the increased traffic, or it may need only occasional main-
tenance.

it is fallacy to assume that maintenance is not necessary
on this type of trail, that everything should be left to
nature. Experience has shown that if a nature trail cannot
be properly maintained, it is far better to abandon the
idea. Bridges or wooden walk—ways over streams or marshy
areas are not objectionable, but the use of blacktop or
other surfacing material on a trail is. mien and where
necessary, the application of an inch or two of sandy
soil on the surface takes little away from the naturalness of
the trail, and often helps to level rough spots. The purist
would undoubtedly frown on such practices, but a nature
trail in a state park is for the public. and one aim should
be to make the trails as usable as possible.

it has been said that people should be able to feel and
hear the rustle of dead leaves under their feet in the fall of
the year. Undouhtedly, this adds naturalness to the trail,
but it creates a fire hazard which can be very much les-
sened by the thorough raking of all trails to create fire
breaks in the event of public carelessness with cigarettes,
cigars and matches.

Nature trails relating to plants, animals and geology
can be planned for any state park, for regardless of where
or how they are situated, interesting facts regarding these

phases of natural history can be called to the attention of
the visitor.

Ecology, a thought provoking subject, cannot be pre-
sented to better advantage than on a nature trail. Here are
the settings, and the actors are going through their parts.
Where better could relationships between the soil, water,
plant life and animal life be shown? Directly COUpled with
this subject is that of conservation, showing how the de-
struction or depletion of any one of these basic factors can
be the weak link which will eventually break the chain.

A nature trail is as good as its labels. for it is along the
trail that nature provides the illustrations. man the story.
the latter being told by means of the labels. The purpose

JUNE 1952

of a label should be not only to tell the names of things,
but to furnish an additional story of interest to the visitor.
This should be told in as few words as possible, as it has
been found through experience that long, dry statements
will not be read. If a story cannot be told in a few words,
it is best to continue it on several labels. The one im-
portant fact, to be kept in mind at all times, is that each
label must be understandable.

In the overall planning of trails and labels, the neces-
sity for protecting the property against the minority of
vandals requires: (1) Constructing labels so tough that
they are practically vandalproof; (2) Where this is not
practical, huilding cheaply and with a minimum of effort
so that duplicate labels can be kept on hand to immedi-
ately replace defaced or stolen ones; and, (3) Posting
warning signs.

School groups, without proper supervision, are prohably
the worst offenders. The labels have a definite fascination,
for thoughtless boys habitually remove all signs. from
“Full StOp” to “Ladies.” These are hung on the walls of

 

Under new system, two colored leaf outlines, squares, circles,
or other designs are repeated on trees and shrubs of speeies.

t

their rooms, much as a big game hunter would hang his
trophies.

Apart from this deliberate vandalism, there is the
thoughtless variety. It is here that much good, regarding
proper park use, can he accomplished. To educate the
public in the preservation of all native animal and plant
life should be one of the aims of a nature trail. This policy
will tend to correct many types of injurious park behavior
and will teach people to think along lines of conservation.

Lahcls, if thoughtlesst written, can encourage vandal-
ism. An example might be, “The spice bush is also known
as fever bush and wild allspice. it can be identified by the
odor of the leaves when crushed.” This type of label is
virtually an invitation to peOple to tear off leaves, crush
and smell them.

Three simple and inexpensive types of labels have been

155

Iomm - m adllhlatlul'} on .tJlllIt trail: Ill Bear Mountain
htite Palk near \ew 'loIk (.‘ity. ‘\ll lal'uels are kept small.
F -r out-«fathe-wa} plat‘t‘s, where \'aIIdali:-III is hard to
'h ter'l :lln‘l imn plates. |lllt'"('igl1ll| inch thiek or thieker.
are lagsen-wed to loeust posts and eonereted into the
ground. 'l'hese tiff painted with a metal primer and then
given a mat or two of ontside. paint of whatever eolor is
Ira-t suitable. unto whieh the lettering is painted. and then
fllllrllt‘tl with m‘t't‘l‘tll roots of spar \arnish. To date. not
on of Ila-5v :Igns has heen broken or stolen, and even
the weather has had little or no effeet upon them.

'l‘ln label:- are fastened h} means of either two-inch .No.

.5 I and limo m Ia:- «In-“n: -..I three-eighth ineh earriage
bolt:- to the tIIru-inr'h lau- uf tww h) three-inch rough

at tm'nst Ilivilfi. whieh tn. ecnerrted into the. ground.
l'hese posts air- a llt-l’ltlallrlll I. ul of the trnil and are only
nen.c or Ir: .I-. wh'nh do not eh-‘Inge
trees. rot-k forlllalinns. and

Hell I’ ma 'k «pr
I-lll'ulm
faeed with \n fu-‘Jffll int‘h tempered

.ronl 1.” In an
.a n ll..' Mle Is II.
.n --. I nod reII'lur- ed on the top Ind lmtton' of the hack
e 'I. » fwmth Ilul'. h) two-Ineh tIr  pine strips. The
In. «d A Md ‘ nliled to the w 'lwtl ~trIp.~ wIth one 1nd
" llllf III: II In nixed Ir ~n . Iilr who-h are lone enough
."lIneh- o I t- tII h nod ‘Allllb l‘wo eoatr- 'lf huht nrav

'h tl....ll r- 'p..«w~tl ullfl Ifll‘l dr‘ing. the lathe! is

«l: l “n v mt. .f llut paint In [lieu applied.
,II. I III tt I Mn. with pen and waterproof
a “v t... ul"\f Ih-" -- tlv PlH‘lt tw~ not:i Irf
tl . ~I \ .lIH-I laln h 't: 'i all! i ll" long:
.. - . .. . law I: .  .. i: mm! 1..
u .III In -' up Ill :lIqur-nl .Iltl ln‘lt the
t t .n - o I h -m i- . lslnlllll‘
Iflt' ll IIII'HI tllll Ill. \
t ' It - ll: " ‘II ‘le I
I I - I I - -t . .l.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

l’l) .J

,4
IL «11,.‘tér‘gf. '
r‘l’ytg/br—‘b' v‘l’s,

I1 an" 50' Ll ft

Above, View of the animal
building, Trailside Museum,
Palisades In t e 1' state Park.
Bear Mountain. New York.

Left. the Snake l’it. III an
area where snakes are fairly
common, this can he made
an onlsta ailing attraction.

tiee alwaw to have a few dozen hlank lalnels: on hand
ready to he lettered in ease one or more are destroy-d or
defaced.

The text of each lahel is t;ped on a file eard. so that if
a lahel is stolen. it will not have to he rewritten. l'iat'h
lahel post. lahel nnd file card hears the same nnmher.

l‘or temporary lahels. :illltlll uniform-sized pieees: of
hardhoard are kept on hand. with a tent or two of flat
paint on the faves. 'l‘hese are fastened to wooden stake:-
and can he lettered and plaeed where necessary. Thiu l)pe
is llb('(l Inoz-tl} to point out annnal flowering plants. mneh-
roolm and so forth.

Thr color of the lahel allttllltl at all lllllt‘ In in keepinf
nllll the. surroundings nnd should he light ro that thr
lettering will stand out. hut at no time almllh'l it wise the
appearance! of an advertisement.

The plan mg of the lahel posts is of ilnportanee ft 1' if
(hex are plat ed .~ome distanee off the trail. the \i'lltd w'Ill
wear an indisidnal path leading from the nature trail to
them. \t liear Mountain. plaeing the post tlghte . lttt'llt'“
from the trail make-2 the lIIhel hard to read If Illlll'lh'lt‘ltt'tl
III} «loeel and tends to keep the pllhlit on the In”.

In I new sutem at li'ar .‘lonntain. eleh lalre' lus- two.

ltnnmnm

 

colorcd leaf outlines, colored squares, circles or other de-
signs Flanking the label heading. These same colored
designs are printed on small labels three inches by five
inehcs in size and loosely wired to trees and shrubs of -
the same specics. All of these are within easy sight of the
lettered trail label. Thus, interesting material not formerly
pointed out is now called to the attention of the visitor.

The first year this system was tried, the markers were
wired to small posts driven into the ground, but thc loss
to souvcnir hunters was so great, that last year only those
that could not be loosely wired to the specimens were
fastened to stakes. The loose wiring of these markers to
the trecs and shrubs docs no damage, as each fall the
markcrs are removed, the tree and shrub growth not be-
ing sullicient to be affected by the wire. The loss through
theft was ncgligible.

livery several hundred feet along the trail, signs painted
on flat rocks weighing about sixty pounds read, “PLEASE
STAY 03' 'I‘m-I. TRAILS.” Coupled with these are trail labels
telling why it is important for the public to stay on the
trail. The various reasons given includc poison ivy, eom-
paeting of the soil, danger to life and limb, trampling.

A trailside museum is an indispensable part of a nature
trail and might well be referred to as a covered trail. It is
here that material needing protection can be exhibited,
and where the story of widely dispersed trail spceimens
can be brought to a definite and pcrmanent eonelusion. It
is here, too, that spccimens of the small animal life found
along the {rail can be exhibited and properly cared for.
Only loeal material should be used. This building should
be the focal point of the area but, at the‘same timc, should
bc of such construction as to fit into a natural setting. It
should contain an office for the naturalist and possibly a
small auditorium where groups can gather for classes,
lectures and other programs during inclement weather.
Close by, but carefully screened, should be the rest rooms.

Near this building can be placed rustic cages of suitable
sizes to house some of the larger local mammals, birds and
reptiles. ln placing eages, it must be remembered that no
animal can stand a full day in the summer sun or a loca-
tion that is dark and damp without some sunlight. lf eages

June 1952

Nature provides the illustrations, man the story. The nature
trail is as good as its labels. These must be understandable.

are to be constructed, they should be planned with ample
room and good water supply. In an area where snakcs are
fairly common, a snake pit is an outstanding attraction. lf
poisonous snakes are found in the region, this should be
pointed out, and, if possible, some exhibited in the mu-
seum so that all may learn to reeognize theln. An effort
should, of course, be made to exterminate them from the
park for the safety of the public.

Poisonous species of plants, such as poison ivy, and
poison sumae, should never be left on the edges of the
trail. However, efforts should be made to have sueh plants
in sight of the trail with appr0priate labels pointing them
out, so that people can learn their characteristics.

To operate a good nature trail, there should be a natu-
ralist in charge at all times, and a large staff to care pr0p-
erly for the area and the public. A program of leetures,
guided trips and wildlife demonstrations adds mueh to
the interest in the area, and in natural history in general.

tl Tll Ill}

 

Ernest V. Blohm

Consider a tree. Standing obedient to nature's eode it
portrays images, too, of people’s reereation . . . spiritual
strength in its graceful posture . . . in silenee imbuing a
deep reverence . . . living harmoniously in a quiet glory
with others of its own or other kinds . . . relaxation is
expressed in the soft, cool green of its color. . . .

In the shade of trees is found recreation in meditation
. . . solitude, dreams . . . and inspired enjoyment in simple
beauty . . . wildflowers, sunrises and sunsets, the evening
and the morning stars . . . finger-painted cloud formations
. awe in the thunderheads, eleanness in the rains . . .

Trees respond in a whisper to the wind, echoing the
voices of birds, the hunter’s baying hound . . . the rasp of
swift skis and vigorous crunch of snow shoes, tinkling
Christmas bells, the nation’s lighthearted singing . . . pack-
saddles creaking. . . .

The eoals of many campfires are visionary in the lacy
pattcrns of a tree’s shadow, the glowing of warm hospitali-
ty and camaraderie . . . of busy adventure, pioneering and
trail blazing . . . exploration . . . boyhood, willow whistles,
fun . . . manhood . . . peace. . . .

lntimately allied with trees are sunny days out-of-doors
. . . family outings . . . lunch baskets and picnics . . . sun-
tans . . . swimming and bathing . . . clean, rustling waters
. . . boating . . . bent pin hooks and sunfish . . . tight lines
and splashing fish. . . .

Trees symbolically express the complex responsibility of
administrators and superintendents of forest preserves,
parks, rcfuges, and similar areas. Their undertaking is to
perpetuate and preserve the natural features of these areas
and to make them available for the enjoymcnt of people.
Thcir work is noteworthy as they keep sacrcd the public
trust bestowed upon them, by thwarting repeated attempts
of cncroachment resulting from eommercial, private-or
unsound cconomic motives.

ERNEST BLOIIM is Group Camp Supervisor of the Parks
and Recreation Division, Michigan Department of Con-

servation. Above poem is excerpt from, Mr. Blohm’s longer
work, “0] a Ball and a Tree, An Ode to Recreation.”

157

A Fast Developing Sport for Camps and Summer Resorts.

52%., animus”

I
#-
ill-P

ire”;
'— :3

1'

“Half the lure of sailing is advcnturc. Divide the rest
between two other universal human qualities—the desire
for freedom, and the urge to create—and you have the
unshakable architecture that is sometimes puzzling to lay-
men: a sailor's love of sailing.

“Frecdorn-—it begins the minute you cast loose from
the dock or mooring. It is freedom not only in the sense
that the visible world is yours. It is escape from the dust,
noisc, worry and confinement of the city; freedom from
the continual complexity and pressure of our life on shore.
It puts to rights a great many things that seem so often
wrong with us—-—by restoring peace, perspective and di-
rectness to our occupation.“

There are many rewards gained from this sport of sail-
ing. such as self-discipline, resourccfulncss and confidence.
They develop as natural complements to the adventure of
sailing and not from arduous cultivation.

The newly projected sailfish is a bathing suit eraft be-
cause it is constructed like a surf board, with no cockpit.
Actually, it is a surfboard outfitted with a “flip-up" rud-
dcr. a center-board, called a “daggarboard,” and a de-
mountable mast. When sailing it there is little likelihood
of remaining dry. The hull, weighing but seventy-eight
pounds can readily be transported on a ear-top carrier;
and it can be rigged and launched at any beach or doek.
In this last feature it surpasses any other type of sailing
craft in its usefulness and ndaptability to the needs and
wishes of the owner. lt ean carry two persons.

The sailfish is placing the fun of sailing within the
grasp of thousands of youngsters in camps and summer
resorts because of its low cost. The inercascd cost of such
craft as the “snipe,H the “comet“ and others, has placed
a limit on the spread of the sport in recent years. The new

‘ From llaw To Sail-HM Samuel Carter Ill. 1936. Leisure League
of America. 30 Rockefeller Plan, New York City.

158

Harold S. DeGroat and Robert G. DeGroat

sailfish. therefore, costing well under two hundred dollars,
and even less than that if the would-be sailor wishes to
purchase the ready-to-put-togcthcr boxed materials, is fast
catching the attention of camp and resort owners and
directors.

Techniques Applicable to Sailfish Sailing

Main Sheet Rigging—*Aftcr trying out the new craft on
New York statc’s Moss Lake. which is nearly oval in
shape, three quarters of a mile long and one half mile
wide, with gentle winds prevailing but often coming in
very ehangeablc gusts, the main sheet rigging was ehangcd
from the anchor end at the aft'cnd of the tiller and up
through the two pulleys on the boom. This reversed the
course of the sheet-rope by changing the anchor end to
the outer end of the boom and running it directly down-
ward to a swivel pulley on the top of the rudder end of
the tiller, thus making a direct pull downward. or inward
and downward. according to the position of the sail. This
gavc a chance to flatten the sail more readily and also al-
lowed morc maneuverability. It also required a special
technique of holding the sheet-rope along the tiller with
one hand, with the thumb pressing the sheet-rope against
the end of the tiller, tlms leaving the other hand free to
grasp the guard rail or to pull in on the sheet when
necessary.

Steering Position—As our campers bccamc accustomed to
sailing the sailfish they tended to assume two natural

 

HAROLD DECROA‘I‘. farmer direetor of athletics 0/ Spring-
field College, is the director of Town and Seltoal llealtlt.
l’ltysieal Education and lieereation,Newtou‘n,Connectieut,
and his son. Itomztn‘. former Air Faree pilot. is athletic
(lircetor and teaelicr at Tower llill Seltaol in Wilmington,
Delaware. llatlt are experieneerl in aquatics anrl camping.

It ECREATION

 

RUNNING FREE. Boat is almost ready to go “on the step.”

positions aboard the hull of the craft. One, when light
breezes prevailed, was that of sitting on the outboard hip
with the knecs bent and feet toward the stern, thus forming
a triangle made by the hip, under knee and ankle. This
position seemed to be comfortable and allowed easy body
shifting when “coming about.”

However, when the wind was fresh we found that the
sailor should sit as far to the windward as possihle, with
the knees bent slightly and the legs extended diagonally
forward. This position allowed the greatest use of body
leverage while still keeping the feet inboard so as not to
create drag. 0n gusty days the same seat on the extreme
windward edge was retained, and the weight changes
necessary owing to puffs and lulls in the wind wcrc made
entirely with the upper part of the body. The sensitive
sailfish rcquires, under such conditions, a change from a
position with the chin tucked between the knees as the
wind dies to a full hard lean in the next gust, all in the
space of a sccond or two.

Adjustment of weight fore and aft is also important.
We found that a clearance of ahout six inches between
the windward handrail and the forward hip kept the hull
in good planing trim.

Care of Craft and Launching—The manufacturers of this
new craft advise that the sailfish be takcn from the water
and not left exposed to the direct rays of the sun. How-

JUNE 1952

over, dragging it upon the beach or onto a dock can
quickly scar the under surface. Many canvas covered
canoes are ruined by the sandpaper effect of beaching
them on sandy beaches. It is true of this craft, also.

At Moss Lake Camp we devised two racks that took care
of four sailfish each and solved the problem of being out
of the water but not exposed to the sun. The rack that
proved to be the best was placed in shallow water near
the canoe or main camp dock. During the day the sailfish
could be taken from the rack, floated to the dock and tied
while the mast was stepped and the sail prepared for
raising. The sail was left on the deck of the hull when not
in use. The mast and sails with hooms were stored on top
of each hull as it was lifted into place on the extended
arms of the rack. To keep the sails from mildewing, they
were dried before being stowed away.

The rack was placed out of the way of canoe and dock
activities. The craft were tied in the lee of the dock,
shielded from the prevailing wind. The spaces between
each were set to prevent their bumping into one another.
Mounting or Starting Off—We found that the following
way of mounting the sailfish preparatory to sailing is the
best. First, raise the sail and arrange the sheet and rudder.
Second, untie the craft. Third, walk out with the craft
headed into the wind to knee-depth, or better yet, to where
the daggarboard can be pushed down. Fourth, hold the
hull so that it is pointed directly into the wind by grasping
one guard rail with one hand and the tiller plus the sheet
in the other hand. Fifth, when ready to mount, turn the

la...

The diagrams, Nos. 1, 2
and 3, show relationship

of tiller to sail in the A
turning maneuvers. B
.2
Diagram No. l
“Rudder
& Ti Ilcr

how of the boat a degree or so down-wind so that the
sail moves slightly away from you and leaves the deck
of the craft clear for placing your knee upon it. Now,
shove off with your rear foot; assume your sailing posi-
tion and gradually pull in your sail and you are under-
way. (See Diagram No. 1.)

Dismountin.g-——When returning to the area for dismount-
ing, we advise the following procedure. As you approach
the area of knee-depth water, he prepared to turn the craft
directly into the wind and then slide off, keeping the craft
pointed toward the wind, so that the sail settles over the
center of the hull. Now, back or guide the boat into an-
choring position hut keep it headed so that the sail main-
tains its center position. If the water hecomes too shallow,
pull up the daggarhoard or remove it and place it diago-
nally between the guardrails, where it will wedge itself.

Teaching Sailboat Techniques

Safety Element—Every prospective sailor must be a capa-
ble swimmer. Experience in righting canoes and paddling
them ashore and other safety instruction is advisable. It

159

is considered a good procedure to haw life-lwlts worn by
those of questionable water ahility.
Corning-Almut—Always face the sail when sailing. When
ready to come-allow, do these things: first. push the tiller
toward the sail: second, move your body across to the
other side of the craft. and as you do it third. change
your hands on the tiller and sheet, but be sure not to
change the tiller position. Fourth. let the sail and boom
pass over your head and hll on the opposite side. Fifth.
now. and only now. move the tiller and steer on your new
course. Caution, do not move the tiller before this time
or you are likely to fail and get into trouble. Sixth, pull
in on the sheet and it will start you all quickly on the
new tack.

Many new sailors make a mistake of liming up or turn-
ing too close to the wind as they approach the shore. and
then when they wish to come about, they do not have the
headway to exeeute it. They seem to think that because

the shore curves, they also must curve their course to

WtND
yr
3. Q ,
‘2.
(——
T WIND

Diagram No. 2

match it. They must he taught to go directly toward the
shore without curving and come about when danger of
running aground becomes likely.

Careful insistence that the tiller he moved toward the.
sail not away from it protects the beginner against the
dangerous maneuver ealled “jibhiug.” He must learn to
“jib” and know the difference between that maneuver and
the usual tacking or emniug-about maneuver.

Diagram No. 2 shows the two maneuvers.

.lilrbingr-We teach both the “controlled jib" and the
"bang jib" so that the beginner knows the differenee and
-au use judgment as to which to use. The controlled jib
is used in heavier breezes while the bang jib can be used
in light breezes when the strain on the rigging is not
likely to be overburdcnsome.

Controlled .lil: tllnncut'er The controlled jib requires that
the sail be. pulled in gradually as the turn is made with
the stern pointed upwind, while the tacking nIaueuvcr is
made with the bow toward the Wind. lu jibbing. the
tiller in moved away from the sail. As the sail is pulled

in while the craft is turning, it will come back over the

100

stern of the heat until it reaches a spot where the wind
eoming over the stern will shift to the opposite side of the
sail and start to move it forward on the other side of the
craft. If the sail is let out gradually. the boat will continue
turning to its new eourse without danger of being knocked
down. Alter the turn has been made, the sailor should
move to the other side of the eraft, change hands on the
tiller and dress the sail and tiller to fit the course desired.
The Bong Jib—We teach this in a light breeze with em-
phasis being centered upon the action of the tiller, the key
to success or failure. Failure in this case may be one of

several things. such as overturnin or loss of control of
*—
wmo

D.
A.
l,
\ i b
T
5‘K s— ‘V T a.

Course of boom
swinging from A30 B.

3. ‘2. 1 .
Diagram No. 3

 

the boat. with either the tiller flopping about or even
circling the craft eompletely around one or more times
at high speed.

Diagram No. 3 shows that as the bang jib is started
the tiller “T” is thrown away from the sail to “a” and
held there until the critical second when the wind will
cause the sail to flutter just before it will swing sharply
aeross overhead from “A” to "B". This is the dangerous
second, when the boom lifts and swings aeross with a bang.

If the tiller is moved quickly to “b” or the center of
the craft. as the sail whips across. the “bang jib“ will be
successfully executed and the power of the wind and the
sail will be expended upon the rigging and cause only the
bow of the boat to dip forward. Now the tiller is moved
back to “a” and the turn completed. 'l‘he sailor can now
move across and face the sail as he dresses the sail and
tiller on the new course. Centering o/ the tiller is the key
to success.

If, however, the tiller is left at Mla“
across, the power of the wind and sail will be expended

as the sail whips

upon the side, or long axis, of the craft and be likely to
capsize it or throw it out of control.
Approaching l)och, Mooring or Dismmmting Spot—This
Inanem er is very necessary if the beginner is to be trusted
to handle a craft.

Emphasize the following when teaching approaehes.

I. Always land on the lee sirle turn up into the wind.

'2. If possible. approach on the side of the mooring. dock
or spot of disinonnting. according to the position of the
sail. If the sail is on the right. approach on the. right; if
on the left. eonie in on that side.

3. According to the strength of your breeze
aml one-hell to two lengths of your craft away from the
sith of the dock or mooring us you approaeh for a land-

stay one

ing. This is important in allowing safety margin in maneu-
verability.

Itacum'nos:

4. To save damage to your craft, dock or yourselves, go
the same distance behind the dock or mooring (lee side)
before turning upwind, and drift into place. No matter
how stiff or light the breeze the craft will slow down and
reach the desired spot. Turn the tiller until the sail flutters
over the center of the boat and then center it and steer to
your point of approach.

5. If there is a choice, the corner of the dock is pre-

ferred, so if the craft comes in too fast, a slight moving
of the tiller can guide it alongside the dock or mooring
with no harm to the craft.
Notes for the Advanced Sailhsh Sailor—As a position of
running free is approached and the wind hegins to come
more over the stern, the sailor should move his weight
farther to the rear to counteract the leverage exerted for-
ward on the mast, which tends to dig the bow in. However,
too much weight to the rear sinks the stern too low,
destroying the planing properties and causing a greatly in-
creased suction drag at the stern. We found that a constant
heel to the sailfish, sufficient to raise the windward corner
of the stern free of the water even in the lightest breeze,
paid dividends by hreaking the suction caused by the Hat
stern design.

The usual procedure of completely raising the centcr-
board when running free should be modified when sailing
the sailfish, as the lack of draft to the hull will allow a
strong breeze to cause a crabbing action. For this reason
and for generally greater stability, the daggarhoard should
be left down about six inches.

The sailfish will get “on the step” in a good breezc.
That is, the ’fish will actually plane on top of the water
when the conditions are right. Once up, the heel may be
reduced and a true down-wind course taken if desired, but
this is a very delicate situation and all moves must be
sensitive and gentle, or the sailfish will drop back off the
step.

Teaching Suggestions

Position of Instructor—The preferred position of the
instructor in teaching sailing is always upwind. From here
the voice carries readily by megaphone. From here, wheth-
er on the dock, in a canoe or boat or another sailing craft.
it is easy to reach the down-windward craft quickly if it
is in need of help. Choose the area or course that gives
thc very best safety factor during the teaching sessions.
Order of Items To Be Taught—The following is the sug-
gested order of instruction to he given to sailfish sailors.

1. Terms of sailing, parts of the craft, and a short his-
tory of sailing, including the theory of sailing.

2. Launching and rigging the sailfish.

3. Mounting and the take-off—what to do if capsized.

4. Short run across wind, “come-about” and return-—
over shallow water if possible.

5. Proper return to dismount area and dismount, sail
lowcring. and anchoring properly and storing upon rack.
The dismounting or making dock approaches can be com-
bined with item number four.

6. Tacking Lesson—After learning to steer a straight
crosswind coursc and return over the shallow water, a

JUNE 1952

 

S A I L F I S H T R] P P I N G . New sport rivals winter ski trips.

course should be set that will require tacking upwind two
or three times to a buoy and return down-wind or on-a-
reach. This lesson should cover the proper dressing of the'
sail at close-haul and the pointing of the craft into thc
wind for the best speed attainable, how to make the turn
at the huoy, and the proper dressing 0f the sail and use of
the daggarboard when running down-wind. ‘

7. Triangular Course—After sufficient practice in tack-
ing and steering, the more advanced beginner may he sent
on a triangular course with the usual legs, requiring sail-
ing on a reach, tacking and coming in on the wind.

8. Practice Racing Starts—Teaching of the hitting of
the starting line at the end of three or five minute periods
is required next. More advanced sailors can race to a
crosswind huoy and'back as part of the lesson. The racing
rules need to be explained here.

9. Racing over a Triangular Course—This begins to
give the sailor the real fun of sailing and also stimulates
the desire to learn. ._

Common sense is the way to interpret the theory of sail-
ing; the rules and theory are quite simple. There will be
fcatures about your sailing area that will he peculiar to it
alone. Varying types of breezes will allow different tactics
on different days. Breezes coming down thc lake one day
will allow good sailing of certain courscs. Breezes coming
out of notches made by nearby hills or mountain peaks may
alter things entirely on another day. Breezes bouncing off a
woody side hill or a huge rock will set up rules of proce-
dure that must be taught when sailing near them. The
bounce-back of such breezes will cause changes in the
dressing of the sails. These must be understood by the sail-
ors, as well as the fault of sailing too close in the lee of
an island and being becalmed.

This sport of sailing is now within the reach of many
more young people. Its thrills and Opportnnities for “free-
dom” are there to be tasted.

161

  

 Camp cookery can bc furl.
 The novelty of a newly ac-
quired skill, the satisfaction of having
created something yourself, and the
“provin’ in the eatin’” all combine
to make camp cookery an enjoyable
experiencc.

None of these cooking procedures
are difficult if they arc taught in
proper sequence. Why not try them
yourself, and be at lcast a few steps
ahead of the campers? Confer with
the home economics teacher at school,
or the camp cook, for ideas on mixing
ingredients, greasing pans, testing to
see if food is cooked, fast cooking or
slow cooking, and so on. You can even
practice some of thc steps in the
kitchen. Bc careful with the flapjacks.
though, many an enthusiastic flip has
flapjackcd right onto the ceiling!
When the actual instruction is going
on, you will not have time to do any
cooking. llcmcmbcr the following
points in tcaching camp cookery:

It is most fun to cook without utcn-
sils. One gets the sclf-sullicicnt, pio-
neer feeling.

And, of course, part of the fun is
in the catin'. Eithcr do not have the
sessions too closc to regular meal
time, or have them at meal time.

Some of the masts in teaching
young campers to cook:

a. First and last a proper fire is es-
sential. Skill must be devclopcd in fire-

 

Al'TItOR, in recreation division 0/
State Unireraity of New York Teach-
ers College, Cortland, has been camp-
rra/t director, Camp lf'innrlmgo. .lfe.

l62 .

John A. MacPhcc

CAMP COOKEBY

making. This includes selection of
proper tinder, finger-thick kindling.
and hard or softwoods, according to
what is being cooked. And never for-
get what the wise old lndian said,
“White man keep warm by running
out and getting heap much wood for
big fire. lndian make small fire and
sit close.” The same rule applies to
cooking.

b. Every camper cooks. Keep the
number of campers, per fire, down to
two or three. Four is the maximum.

c. [lave cool:ng fires in a rough
circle, in a pasture, or grassy area to
minimize fire hazard. Supervision is
simplified if you, the instructor, stay
in the middle with all the supplies.

d. Never cook without eating. Do
this at the very first session. even if it
is only toast and margarine.

c. Cook close to camp. Thcrc is no
need to make drudgery of the food
transportation. Also, if you are cook-
ing a meal, and something goes wrong,
the camp kitchen is handy for extra
vittlcs to make up for thc stew that
dumped into the fire, or the steaks
that were squashed in the dust when a
beginncr was looking for the salt, or
the dough that was drOpped.

f. Make a game 0/ it. A little in-
formal competition: sometimes adds
Zest and novelty as well as speeding np
the learning process aml also gives
superior campers recognition. At ap-
propriate times. after the. basic fire
aml cooking skills are aecomplishcd,
competition might be eondneted. such

as: Who can build the first fire? Who
ean boil water first? Who cleaned up

the fire place best? l’op this now and
then unannonnecd and observe thc im-
proved tidiness. Did each put some
green leaves. fern, or long grass over
the site of the fire to prove the com-
plete absence of embers or any fire?
Who cooked with the least amount of
materials?

g. Rainy days are not lazy days.
Use ’em! Here are some rainy day

suggestions:

Wet-day fire building—practicc and
competition.

Reflector baking at the indoor fire-
place.

“Rey” Carlson cooks, indoors, with
a No. 10 tin can, by using a “buddy
burner.” lioll old cloth about three to
four inches wide, like a gauze bandage.
Place the roll with the edge up in a
can, aml fill the can with waste fat.
When the cloth is saturated, you have
the equivalent of a small burner. Now,
your tin can cookery may go on re-
gardless of weather. indoors or out.

Preparation of trip menus, cmpha-
sizing proper quantities. Every ounec
becomes a pound after the first few
miles.

Discuss various ways of food prescr-
vation. care of pcrishablcs when there
is no iee. and do not overlook ready-
mixes and dehydrated foods.

Discuss and analyze a
menu. 0n the trail, every meal can-
not be balanced. but the daily food
intake should be balanced.

Lastly, why not make the whole
eonrse part of n build-up to the first

balanced

overnight hike. l'ineourage campers to
learn and praetiee campcraft skills,

RECREATION

such as tent pitching and ditching or
bough-bed construction, so that the
first overnight experience becomes a
happy climax, composed of the inte-
gration Of the numerous campcraft
skills which have been learned previ-
ously. HOw many times is this first
overnight experience an ordeaI of na-
ture against living instead Of living
with nature. Improperly cooked fOOd,
uncomfortable sleeping, burned fin-
gers, knife or axe cuts, insect bites,
and many other things that happen to
the poorly prepared youngster, put a
damper on the novice camper. There
is no need for this tO happen!

So much for the philosophizin’.
Here are the seven steps tO easy camp
cookery.

1. Kabobs. Cook, and eat from a

stick, kabObs made Of meat, onion and
bacon. Cut a green stick (thick—as-
your-finger) and sharpen the thinner
end. Cut your meat (lamb, ham steak
or round steak) intO pieces roughly
one inch square and one-fourth inch
thick. Slice the onion about one-eighth
inch thick so the rings look like a
cross-section of a tree. Cut the bacon
in pieces about one inch long. Is the
fire ready? Any fire will do for this,
as long as you can get close tO it. Put
a piece Of meat on the pointed end Of
the stick, and push it down about eight
inches. Add a piece Of bacon the'same
way, and a piece of onion, pushing
them toward the meat. Leave a slight
space (about one-fourth inch) between
all pieces, tO permit even cooking.
Continue adding meat, bacon, and
onion until the stick has about six or
seven inches Of meat, bacon and
onion. Now, hold over the fire and
cook. TO eat, mercly place two pieces
of bread edge tO edge, flat on the
palm like the covers Of an Open book,
sandwich the bread around the meat

by closing it over the kabOb, compress '

securely, and while rotating the stick,
pull it out. Salt to taste. Finish with
some local fruit or berries, pickcd, if
possible, by the campers.

2. Flapjacks. Now for some culinary
acrobatics. Encourage the campers to
flip ’em. The main trick in the flip, as-
suming you have a light frying pan, is
tO keep the wrist flexible. Emphasize
the downward dip Of the pan, which is
the essential preparatory movement

JUNE 1952

for the upward flip. Make the first pan-
cakes small, so that the loss of a few
Hopped flapjacks will not detract from
the fun of flipping. Try greasing the
pan with a strip of bacon doubled and
slipped between the split ends Of a
green finger-thick stick about fifteen
inches long. The pan is hot enough
when drops of water jump around on
it. The ready-mix batter should have
the consistency Of heavy cream. When
you see bubbles appearing on the bat-
ter in the frying pan, “Let ’er flip.”
3. One-Pot Meal. There are Irish
stews, Mulligan stews, and so on, ad
infinitum. We will not suggest any
particular one. You cannot go wrong
if you fry the meat in fat with season-
ing first, and then add cold water and
bring tO a bOil, simmer for an hour or
more until tender, then add diced pO-
tatoes, onions and vegetables. While
waiting, why not add some pan biscuit
bread? Use a ready-mix, spread the
dough on a greased pan, bake by put-
ting the pan close tO the fire at an

angle to the ground to bake by the
reflected heat.

4. Hobo Stove. Much has been writ-
ten about using the big No. 10 tin
can. After the door has been cut (with
tin snips) in your little stove, addi-
tional holes must be made Opposite it
and near the tOp for a draft. Try mak-
ing the hOles with a beer can opener,
the kind that punches triangular Open-
ings. A nail may also be used. Try
fried bacon and eggs on this stove,
bacon first tO grease the pan. Fora real
novclty, cut out the center Of a slice
of bread, making a two-inch Opening.
Place the bread on the greased heating
surface, and drop a raw egg intO the
opening in the bread. Fry as usual,
turning when one side is cooked.

5. Plank Steak or Fish. The fOOd is
nailed or pegged (hardwood peg intO
softwood plank) flat on a plank. The
fire must be hot and high. Use soft-
woods. Reflect the heat, from a stone
or bank Of green logs Opposite, ontO
the planked meat or fish. Place the
plank at a forty-five degree angle tO
the ground, close tO the fire, Opposite
the reflector. The reflected heat does
the cooking. A pot Of tea, or a kettle
Of vegetables above the fire direct
more heat toward the planked food,
and will supplement the main course.

6. Reflector Baking. Now, we are out
of the tenderfoot and burned-finger
class. What type of reflector shall we
use? That depends on your pocket-
book, your skill with tools, or both.
Kinds you can make range from alu-
minum fOil on a light wire frame for
lightness on pack trips, tO a gallon tin
can, cut to expose two adjacent sides
tO the fire. You can also purchase one
from a sporting goods company. The
proper distance tO place the reflector
baker is under the spot where the fire
starts tO “cook” the back Of your hand
in three to four seconds. Blacken the
baking pan (black absorbs heat), but
keep the inside Of the reflector bright
and shiny (shiny surfaces reflect heat).
Adjust the reflector, close or away,
according to the heat of the fire and
the progress Of the cooking. What
should we cook? Why most anything,
from toast tO T-bone. Why not try
berry mufllns? Pick the berries (blue-
berries, blackberries, raspberries, and
so on) and toss ’em in the batter as
you finish stirring it. If yOu want tO
get real fancy, use two reflectors; cook
the mufllns on one side Of the hot, high
softwood fire, and reflect the heat over
to a second reflector baker on the Op-
posite side. Both will cook at once.

7. Roast. The roast, Of three tO eight
pounds, is the last step. If you are in
doubt about the cut Of meat, get a
cheap cut for the first attempt. Skewer
the meat with a wire that extends for
about two and one-half feet above the
meat. Secure a stout, wet string about
three or four feet long tO the tOp end
Of, the wire. Sear the meat tO keep in
the juices, by holding it close tO the
hardwood fire. Skewer some fat
through the wire at the tOp, and hang
the roast close to the fire, using the
full length Of wire and string tO sus-
pend it. Turn the roast frequently, or
wind up the string and the roast will
rotate by itself. Catch the drippings in
a green bark trough or a pan and
baste occasionally with the drippings.
Start the roast early. It takes about
an hour Of cooking time per pound.

Vary the time of the meals: the
kabobs at lunch, flapjacks at breakfast,
one-pot meal for supper, and keep the
reflector meal tO use in case Of rain.
What better motivation is there tO
good cookery, than eating the results.

163

IN A QUESTIONNAIRE sent to recreation and park authori-
ties hy the Committee on Surfacing Recreation Areas,
a portion was devoted to surfacing under fixed apparatus.
It included several questions relating to the playground
apparatus area, special types of surfaces under fixed ap-
paratus and opinions as to surfaces that have proved ex-
eeptionally good or quite unsatisfactory.

A large majority of the executives reporting have ap-
paratus concentrated in one section of their playgrounds.
One hundred sixty-six indicated such an arrangement;
twenty-eight did not. One-third. on the other hand, have
set off the apparatus section frotn the rest of the play-
ground by a fence, hedge or eurl). Sixty-four reported such
an arrangement; one hundred twenty-two did not. Two-
thirds of the cases reported tltc same surfacing under the
apparatus as on other sections of the playground. Only
seventy-three out of one hundred eighty-four cxeeutives re-

porting on this item have a different type of surfacing
under the apparatus.

Types of Surfacing in Use

The information submitted with reference to the types
of surfaces under the various kinds of apparatus affords
no consistent pattern of use. Many different materials,
either alone or in eomhination, are used under apparatus,
varying frotn concrete to sand and sawdust. Most of tltc
apparatus types have hcen erected on all kinds of surfaces.
Many cities report the same type of surface under all their
apparatus, as might he expected from the fact that the
surfacing is the same as that on tltc rest of the playground.
Several cities have made special provision for surfacing
under specific apparatus types. For example, one with as-
phalt under its swings and tnerry-go-round may have sand
or tanbark under its slide or horizontal bar. Taken as a
whole, the information submitted does not afford the
hasis for rccontmendcd procedure.

TABLE 1

Number of Recreation oar! Park Agencies Reporting
Apparatus on Specific Surfaces

Type of Surfacing

 

Tux-of age? ‘12”??? Eégozg 1'3. '33"?
b—_ ___ _I _ ' I. u: 2
Chair Swings 47 39 31 31 22 9 11 4 3 200
Climbing Structure 48 3t 27 2‘) 2l 8 IO 6 2 183
Climhing Trees 25 21 13 (I 12 1 4 2 w 84
Giant Stride. 36 19 13 8 16 6 2 1 1 102
High Slide: 43 4‘) 25 17 20 7 5 (t 3 175
Horizontal liar 41 37 22 1-1 20 8 6 5 1 154
Kindergarten Slide 40 44 26 15 21 (t 11 {I 1 173
MerryvCovRound 5] 27 2t 21 16 7 5 4 4 162

 Silva {11 2‘) 2‘) 27 17 10 6 3 2 181
Standard Swing: 54 41 31 33 25 13
Tran-ling Rings 32 25 13 13 15 2 3
Other: 3 5 —- 3 1 ~- 2 2 - - 16

Total 481 370 257 219 209 77 76 47 23 1762

' Includes one cork asphalt and one rubber a-phalt mixture.

'lneludes mixtures of sand with foam. shaving-n. dirt. gravel.
sawdu-t. tanhark. decompmml granite. etc.

' Includes eru-hed stone. screenings. slag. stone dn-t. etc.
‘ Include: shavings reported in two cities.

16%

 

Surfacing Under

Table l is a summary of the replies, indicating the fre-
quency with which various types of surfaces were reported
under several popular apparatus types. It shows a wide
variation in practice. The sec saw is more often reported
on dirt, loam or clay than any other type of apparatus:
the high slide on sand; chair swings on turf; standard
swings on asphalt, sand mixtures or stone surfaces. licla-
tivcly few eitics report the merry-go-round and sec saw on
a sand surface or tltc giant stride or slides on asphalt.
Standard swings more than any other piece of apparatus
are consistently reported on all types of surfaces.

Other conclusions with reference to surfaces now itt use
are:

1. Natural surfaces—dirt, loatn, clay—with no special
type of,surfacing are reported most frequently.

2. Sand. or sand in eomhination with otltcr materials
such as loam, shavings, gravel, sawdust, tanbark, is the
special type of surface most frequently reported.

3. Turf or grass ranks third and is reported more fre-
quently undcr ehair swings, slides and climbing structure
than under other apparatus types.

4. Asphalt is used more frequently under standard and
chair swings and climbing structure than under other

types.

 

TABLE 11
Rating of Surfaces Uader Fixed Apparatus
. As to As to As to
Safety MaintenanCer‘ Sititaltility_
Type Good _ llad Good  _ Good 11nd
Dirt, Clay 23 4 12 H 17 1
Sand 33 4 17 17 20 5
Turf 13 2 9 4 15 1
Asphalt 13’ 21 36' 2 23' 2
Sand Mixtures 13 15 3 11
Crawl. Stone, etc. 6 1 4 1 4 2
'l‘anhark 16 I2 I ll 2
Sawdust 8 Shasings 6 1 1 1
Content - Concrete 2 13 15 8 2

 

“—

 

TOTAL 133 43 121 43 11 1 16

' lttt‘1udes 1 cork and 1 rnhhcr asphalt and one. I‘tlt‘tlnlr‘tll restricted
to shim:- and see saws.

'lnt'ludes 1 cork a-pltall and one comment restricted to suing-t
and see saws.

’lncludes 1 rubber a-phalt and one comment restricted to swing-t
and see saws.

RECREATION

,rg'EZanmnnzeaz -

Fixed Apparatus

5. Tanbark, infrequently used, is reported most often
under chair swings and the kindergarten slide, suggesting
it is used most frequently in areas for young children.

6. Concrete, seldom used, is most often reported under
standard swings and merry-go-round, but also under climb-
ing apparatus.

Appraisal of Surfaces

Many comments were received as to the merits of various
types of surfacing under apparatus from the point of View
of safety, maintcnance and suitability for play. It was clear
that in commenting on such suitability, a number of
executives did not restrict their comments to areas under
fixed apparatus.

Table II rates the various major types of surfacing ma-
terials from the point of view of safety, maintenance and
suitability for play. It indicates that in general the sur-
faces, ranked according to safety, are as follows: sand, dirt,
sand mixtures, tanbark, turf, sawdust, gravel, asphalt,
cement. The rank order changes appreciably when sur-
faces are rated according to ease of maintenance, as fol-
lows: asphalt, concrete, tanhark, sand mixturcs, turf,
gravel, sawdust, sand, dirt.

“The following observations are based upon tlIc figures
in Table II:

1. More than three times as many good as bad surfaces
were indicated, which implies rcasonable satisfaction with
existing surfaccs.

2. The only two types of surface not generally approved,
as to safcty, are asphalt and cement.

3. Thc two types most highly rated for safety—sand
and dirt, are most frequently rated as had from the point
of view of maintenancc.

4. The two types given the lowest rating for safety——
asphalt and concrele, are considered most satisfactory as
to maintenance.

5. In spite of the bad safety rating givcn asphalt and
concrcte, very few cities consider them not suitablc for
play. In fact, morc cities rated asPhalt “good” than gave
this rating to any other surfacing material.

Comments

Many valuable comments with reference to eXperienee in

JUNE 1952

the use of specific surfaces were made hy the executives
reporting. As Table II indicates, there is considerable
agreement with referencc to certain types of surfaces. For
example, many workers fclt that a sand, clay, loam mixture
is best. Opinions differ widely, howcvcr, wilh respect to
other materials. r

A number of- replies stressed the importance of leader-
ship as a factor in reducing apparatus accidents. Others
pointed out that instruction in the proper use of apparatus
is more important than the surfacing under it. Still others
believe that the types and heights of apparatus are of
primary importance. Several recommend the installation
of curbs around individual pieces of apparatus, or of
groups of apparatus, especially where a material such as
sand, tanbark, or sand and sawdust is used. A few, on the
other hand, believe curbing is unsatisfactory and hazardous.
One or more cities are anchoring their apparatus below
the ground level to eliminate danger of accidents caused by
the footing.

The preceding article records in summary form in-
formation in questionnaire replies submitted by recreation
and park departments to the Committee on Surfacing Rec-
reation Areas. Information relating to the surfacing of
multiple-use areas and dust elimination, also secured
through the questionnaire inquiry, will be summarized and
published in a later issue of RECREATION. This article is

published as a preliminary statement of hndings and not
as a committee report.

 

JUST OUT

Surfacing Playground Areas
Newly Revised! $.35

In view of the current interest in surfacing, a revision

of this supplement is now being made available. New
bibliography included.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
New York 10, New York

315 Fourth Avenue

 

Ilublper Bases

From James A. Sharp, director of recreation in James-
town, New York, has come a recommendation, based on
his department’s experience with blacktop areas on play-
grounds. They are successfully using a set of all-white
baseball bases, consisting of a home plate, three bases and
a pitching rubber. Heavy, and made just a little under the
regulation size, these were designed eSpecially for play-
ground and gymnasium use. They are easy to move, and
if left outside, do not seem to suffer from rain. The rec-
reation department has ordered another ten sets, and the
school physical education administrators are considering
sets for indoor winter baseball games.

This solution to the problem of finding a suitable base

for blacktop surfacing was worked out with the aid of the
Mohawk Hubher Company of Akron, Ohio.

165

 

How To Do ITQ L3M¢£

Nu‘l~ Cup ~ from 0 M7 can 'fbp.
A” gou need is~

I. 7?)? can fop
2. 7m sn/jos

.3. Pen c// and ruler
4-. S/ée/ woo/
5. Hammer

 

f’lETHOD 

I 6' 7"
I. Mark 01% tin can W as shown in We diagram. 7:9
2.Cu1k Hn on doH‘ed lines. /\

3. Bend up ihe four ships. CM”?
4-. Rub 0H cu1‘ edges wiH‘) sfeel wool.

.5 frip --
(Be/'27L
Po//ed A

5fr/p

 
 

5. Roll The four ships To make ‘H'ne fee‘l‘ .
6.Cu1‘ ou‘fside edges of Tin can Jfop 'm1~o desired shape and s‘beelwool

all cm~ edges. Some sugges+ed cu1s shown below .0
I

 

7. Bend and roll Hue Four sides in1~o posiHon. igeplggf
lVo/é : //’ hammered or //'/29d or sofa/chea’
surface desired do #2125 be/bre calf/ivy #77 .

166 Racnmnox

Baseball Ballet—It’s new. It’s colorful. It’s exciting!

7T WOULD BE impossible to estimate
the total number of man hours spent
in playing “catch” since the turn of
the century. What makes this pastime
so interesting and pOpular? The light
exercise is beneficial, and there is a
thrill in developing accuracy in throw-
ing and effortless ease in catching.
Sometimes ball passing is done con-
sistently with a definite purpose in
mind, as in the case of the late Mr.
Feller who coached his son Robert to
become one of baseball’s grcats. Many
times it is done to escape boredom or
to while away an hour or so. Whatever
the reasons, the benefits and pleasure
derived are immeasurable.

Even with its widespread and last-
ing popularity, however, merely pass-
ing a ball back and forth does not hold
interest very long. In summer camps,
playgrounds, rehabilitation centers,
isolated military bases and on board
navy ships, there is a great nced for a
ball game that is adjustable to the
space availablc and which accommo-
dates varying numbers of players. Star
ball fills that need and is a game both
children and grown-ups find fascinat-
ing.“ Five players form a circle and
throw five balls simultaneously, each
player throwing to the second player
on his left. Since a player throws
to the samc catcher each time, thc
routinc is very easy to perform though
it looks complicated. “It’s a very fasci-
nating game! Why, it can even be
played in wheelchairs at rehabilitation
hospitals,” was thc comment of Mr.
Harvey Holmes, sports specialist of a
New York daily newspaper.

Deviations of star hall routines from
the irery amusing close range juggling
act to the seemingly impossible feat
of twcnty-scven, thirty-six or forty-five
men throwing as many balls over the

ELMER E. HEFT, in engineering work
since 1926, is active in many sports,
and hopes that star ball—which he has
originated -— may benefit organized
recreation. At present he is the owner
of a restaurant in Daytona Beach, Fla.

JUNE 1952

mate semen STAR BALL

same area at the same time, provide a
new source of entertainment for spec-
tators and participants. The colorful
spectacle of a baseball ballet can be
produced with the use of painted base-
balls or colored tennis balls for pre-
game exhibitions. If you want to have
more fun than a barrel of monkeys
in a banana patch, get five pe0ple to
toss a tennis ball, a volley ball, a soft
ball, a golf ball and a football across
a circle to five points of a star.

Star ball requires any odd number
of players, five or more, positioned as
shown in Figures 1 and 2. The 'arrows
indicate the Hight course of each ball.
When five play, each player throws to
the second on his left. When seven
play, each player throws to the third
on his left. When nine play, each
playcr throws to the fourth on his left,
and so on. Positions can be set at
random for any throwing distance. A
blueprint showing methods of easily
locating players in relation to bases on

baseball and softball fields can be ob-
tained by writing to Uncle Elmer’s.

Elmer E. Heft

The blueprint also gives directions for
laying out playgrounds and gymnasi-
ums and a table of dimensions for
locating positions for varying num-
bers of players at different throwing
distances, to suit different age groups.
For playgrounds, gymnasiums, service
camps and on board ship, discarded
tennis balls can be used. Some of the
star ball routines can be performed
by twenty-seven players grouped in
three circles, as shown in Figure 3.
The Warm, Up. A simple routine,
and excellent for slow warm up for
baseball players, is for nine players to
start with three baseballs. Players No.
1, No. 4 and No. 7 each have a ball
to start. Each ball not only will cross
to the points of the star but will also
move around the circle. As the arms
limber up, more baseballs are added
by the coach, who can thus control
the throwing pace. Any number of
balls from one up to the limit of the
ability of the group can be used. By
lofting the throws and increasing the
distance, nine players can keep eight-

v

v

5 m

 o

\‘ {V

4/!” ’

r éfEI’A

p

in... J»...

.. A
‘ “'.' ' FA. ‘ if- r
p» w v5.41
‘  ‘ 5 
A L...

'1'! E mean“

v If!
9’! 5'.

o v 
Ali»?
9

r“ (
2 If
4‘

7h

2

 

167

een baseballs crossing and circling
the star. Contests can be staged and
records established of the group or
club which can keep the most balls in
play for a given number of throws.
Have one ball dyed or painted red.
l'layer No. 1 starts with this ball attd
when it is returned to him via player
No. 6 the routine is completed.

The Round Up. Nine men converge
from all around the outer limits of the
held. At a distance of two hundred
feet or more they start throwing but
keep closing up the size of the circle
until the players are only a few feet
apart. As they get closer, they loft the
throws for a super juggling aet. The
players ean then baek away, as they
throw, sixty to ninety feet apart, throw
tlte balls briskly for a few throws, and
at a given signal reaeh into their
pockets for red baseballs, and on the
next throw all red balls suddenly ap-
pear. Switch baek to the white. Slow
the throwing pace slightly and nine
players can easily use the eighteen
balls, alternating the eolor on every

  
 
    

belts, bog s,

"CAMP SPECIAL" MOCCASIN

Genuine leather with composi-
tian sales. All sizes for all ages.

Ideal for the beach, In the
woods. along paths and for
launging.
Per Pie—$3.95
($3.55 In [2 pair lots)

*OI-PAOE LEATHERCRAFT SUPPLY CATALOG—ONLY 25c

Illustrates all types oi moccasins and leather Items of In-
terest at summer camps. modeling tools. lactose, Instruction
banks for handicraft purposes. etc. No experience needed.

CLIP AND MAIL NOW!

I ossoeu eeos. sunu co..
| 223 w. Jackson 31.4.. can... s. 111.
I

l.

  

Please rush F” Free
"' Idea-per hurt

I l same
: monass
emf

OSBORN OFFERS YOU . . .
BIG ILLUSTRATED SUPPLY FOLDER

Shows many aosy-lo-moke camp prolects
ready to put together, such as beautiful

punes.
hundreds of other items.

 

Illustrated Supply
. nit-pair Leann-retell
l Catalog lot which I enclose 25c In coin.

' *-

STATE

_._._.......__._._._..._._.__..._._J

throw. This differs from the above
routine in that the alternate ball i
held in the throwing hand until the.

Ur

other is caught. Fifteen players can
be used for this routine, or as stated
before, any odd number.

The Spiral. A few amusing twists
will add to the entertainment aspect.
llave a tenth man with a supply of
baseballs erouch beside player No. l
and hand the balls to him as fast as
he can throw to player No. 5, or as
fast as No. 5 can catch and throw to
player No. 9. Start with one red ball
and when the tenth man sees this ball
coming back to No. l, he stops sup-
plying the balls and heads for eover.
When the red ball is returned to player
No. l the second titne, the routine is
eomplete, or, at this point, player
No. 1 can “unload” the star by de-
llecting the balls ofi his glove into a
reeeptaele on the ground or held by
the tenth man, who wears a mask and
ehest proteetor. For eomie relief, put
two masks and two chest protectors
on him. Protected in this tnanner, the

cigarette cases and

tenth man can stay alongside player
No. l for the spiral technicolor rou-
tine.

Spiral Technicolor Routine. l’laycr
No. 1 loads the star with red baseballs.
When these are returned to hitn he
drops them in a eontainer and im-
mediately replaces each red ball with
a white one which he grabs frotn the
tenth tnan. Follow the same proeedure
with blue baseballs, back to the white,
and then use the red ones again. Use
nine baseballs of eaeh eolor for this
routine, and all players throw simulta-
neously. Most aecurate thrower should
be player No. 6 who throws to player
No. 1. To avoid eollision of balls in
the air, players No. 1, No. 4 and No.
7 throw to waist level or lower, play-
ers No. 2, No. 5, and No. 8 throw to
chest level, and players No. 3, 1'0. 6
and No. 9 throw to [up of head or a
bit higher.

For further information, write to
Mr. lleft, Uncle Elmer’s Restaurant,
South Atlantie on Ocean Front, Day-
tona Beaeh, Florida.

54TH ANNUAL CONFERENCE

AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF
PARK EXECUTIVES

Windsor Hotel

MONTREAL, QUE, CANADA
September 15 to 18, inc., 1952
Annual meeting of outstanding and progressive

’ark and Recreation Executives of the United
States and Canada. Important discussions and

papers on all phases of public park work.

Folder;
Supplies

 

l
l

1y magazine.

Special Tours - Exhibits

Includes annual meeting of American Association

of Zoological Parks and Aquariums.

For information write the Executive Secretary.
30 North La Salle Street, Chicago 2, Illinois. or
consult Parks k Recreation, the Institute’s month-

 

It ECRBATION

Summary of the findings of a questionnaire study made
at the request of recreation executives attending an
NBA district recreation conference.

The Authority

to Hire and Fire Recreation Workers

IN 1951 the National Recreation As-

sociation conducted a questionnaire
study of the authority to hire and fire
full-time, year-round workers in pub-
lie recreation departments. The pur-
poses of the study were to determine
who has the authority to hire and fire
workers, the restrictions on their pow-
ers and the legal basis upon which
the authority rests; also, to reveal any
local attempts to circumvent the con-
stituted authority.

0f the 303 replies, 264 came from
agencies which administer recreation,
either as a separate function or in
connection with park services. These
are the agencies that represent ap-
proximately ninety per cent of all the
year-round recreation departments, ac-
cording to the Recreation and Park
Yearbook for 1950. The other reports
came from school departments and
other types of recreation authorities.
One hundred ninety of the 264 recrea-
tion and/or park departments that re-
sponded are operated by hoards; sev-
enty-four are not.

The information submitted by the
264- dcpartments indicates that:

1. ln 3 great majority of cases,
boards have unqualified authority to
hire recreation executives.

2. Most hoards have unqualified au-
thority to hire all full-time workers,
but many reported that their superin-
tendents have such authority.

3. The SUperintendent is more fre-
quently granted the authority to hire
and fire other recreation workers in
non-board departments than in depart-
ments managed by a board.

4‘. A city ordinance most frequently
provides the authority for hoards to
hire or fire; a city charter commonly
gives such authority to other oflicials.

5. In most cities the authority to
fire is vested with the individual or
group having the right to hire.

I JUNE 1952

6. Residence restrictions in hiring
workers are reported by a greater per-
centage of departments without boards
than of departments operated by
hoards. Only fifteen per cent report
such restrictions on hiring the execu-
tive; eighteen per cent, as applied to
other full-time workers.

7. Few attempts have been made by
an individual or group, in violation
of the constituted authority, to inter-
fere with the hiring or firing of the

executive or other full-time workers.

Who Has the Authority?

Separate questions were asked con-
cerning the authority to hire and fire
the executive and other full-time work-
ers. Analyses were also made for de-
partments under a policy-making board
and for those without a board, as well
as of the allocation of power to ap-
point and to dismiss workers.

The Executive. Among the depart-
ments administered by ofiieial policy-
making boards, 143, or seventy-five
per cent of these boards, appoint their
executives without approval of any
other individual or group. Forty-eight
of these departments report that un-
qualified authority to appoint the rec-
rcation executive rests with another
individual or grOUp, such as the city
manager, mayor, city council or de-
partmcnt executive (in the ease of
recreation and park departments). In
the others, the authority to hire is con-
tingent upon the approval of another
individual or group. For instance, the
mayor, the mayor and city council
or the city manager must approve the
action of the board or commission,
or these appointing officials act on the
recommendation of thesrecreation
board.

In more than one-third of the de-
partments not administered by an of-
ficial policy-making board, the city

manager has unqualified authority to
hire the recreation executive. The city
council has similar authority in about
fifteen per cent of the departments;
other officials in about ten per cent.
In the other forty-seven per cent of
the departments, the concurrence of
another group or individual is re-
quired; a common pattern calls for
approval of the appointment by the
city council. The many variations re-
ported include one instance where
four parties are involved in the ap-
pointment.

Other Full-Time Workers. Eighty of
the one hundred ninety boards have
the unqualified authority to employ
full-time workers other than the rec-
reation executive. ln one-fourth of the
departments administered by boards,
the superintendent has the authority
to hire, subject to the approval of the
board. In recreation departments with-
out boards, three out of four sUpcr-
intendents are authorized to hire other
workers, either with or without the
approval of the managing authority.
The recreation executive has unquali-
fied authority to hire full-time work-
ers in about one-fourth of all depart-
ments reporting.

In only a few instances the indi-
vidual or group having the right to
hire does not have the right to fire,
and the authority for both actions is
usually vested in the same individual
or group. All of the variations occur
in cases where appointments are sub-
ject to the approval of another indi-
vidual or group. For instance, an ex-
ecutive might be hired by a board or
city council. subject to the approval
of the mayor, but might he fired with-
out reference to the mayor.

In some instances, the hiring and
firing authority holds informal eonver~
sations concerning appointments with
key municipal and civic leaders, even

169

though concurrence is not required by
law.

Legal Basis for this Authority

The wide variety of answers given
to this question, and the failure of
many reereation executives to make
any comment, indicates a lack of clear
understanding as to the legal basis
for the appointing power. Sonic an-
swered “none,” others referred to civil
service regulations and department
regulations. Authority to hire and fire
is usually assigned in a city ordinance
or in the local charter.

The legal basis for hiring and firing
full-time workers, in board and non-

board departments, was reported as
follows:

_ __.n-

Number of
Departments Reporting

 

Legal Rasis

 

With Boards Without Roards

13o t68%) 13 (13%)

«r ~—————. _

City Ordinance

___..—

 

 

 

 

 

City Charter 23 (12%) 22 (30%)
Others 32 (17%) 7 (10%)

 

a. Reply 5 t 3%) 32 «43%)

——_

 

Restrictions

I..-

Thc local rcsidcnec requirement is

the only major restriction on the hir-
ing of applicants qualified by reason
of education and experience. About
fifteen per cent of the departments re-
port residence requirements for the
hiring of the executive, and eighteen
per cent report similar requirements
in the hiring of other full-time work-
ers. Time of residence necessary varies
from six months to three years.

The above figures include depart-
ments where these restrictions are
either ignored or waived if no quali-
fied candidates are available in the
community. Other departments, not in-
cluded above, indicated that although
there were no legal restrictions, the
informal policy was to give first con-
sideration to local candidates.

The only other instance reported as
a restriction in the hiring of the rec-
reation executive was in a large park
and recreation system, which permits
only recreation supervisors within the
department to take the civil service ex-
aminatiOn for the position of director
of recreation.

Attempts to Interfere

Although several instances were cited

where pressures were exerted in the
the interest of the hiring or firing of
individuals, only three cases were re-
ported of definite attempts to circum-
vent legal procedure.

In one case, a mayor attempted to
fire the executive, when the authority
to do so rested with the board. When
he discovered this was not possible.
he tried to force the executive to re-
sign by persuading the city council to
cut the executive’s salary.

In another instance, the mayor as-
sumed he had the power to hire and
fire employees of the recreation boa rd.
Upon taking office he attempted to
“clean house,” but abandoned his plan
when he learned that he lacked the au-
thority to carry it out.

A city manager, in the third case.
tried without success to hire subordi-
natc full-time workers. although the
city charter specifically granted this
authority to the department head.

Freedom to make appointments and
to dismiss workers for cause, under
powers granted by law and without in-
terference from unauthorized officials,
generally prevails, according to the in-
formation submitted in the study.

RECREATION "RAINING LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS—1952

Date
June 20-2-1

July 2'."-
Angust 9
August 3-9
Aung 9-23
Augqu 10-30
Augu-tt 11-21
August I5-
Septemher I1

Augmt 17-23

August 17-30

Annual Two-State YMCA Aquatic School,
Springfield College

Annual Institute of Folk and Square Daneing.
Association Camp. Colorado

Wiseonsin Recreation Leaders Laboratory.
lambarrass. Wisconsin

Drum Major and Cheerleaders Camp. Oglebay
Park, Wheeling, West Virginia

Opera Workshop, Oglebay Park. Wheeling.
West Virginia

Religions Drama Workshop.
Green Lake, Wisconsin

National Camp (Protestant).
Port Jervis. New York

lowa Methodist Recreation Laboratory School.
Clear Lake, Iowa

Eautern Cooperative Recreation School
New York State Institute of Agrieulturc and

Continued from Maaen Racers-nos, page 578.

Location

For Further Information

Ray Corbin. Chairman. YMCA,
32 City Square, Charlestown 29, Massachusetts

D. Ned Linegar. 3012 Maple AvettUe.
Dallas. Texas

Rruce W. Cartter. Executive Secretary,
31-1 Agriculture Ilall. College of Agrieulture,

Madison 6. Wisconsin

Ilomc Economics. Cohblcskill

August
(tentative)

A ugu st 26.
Septetnlwr l

.‘N'ptember 21.27
October 8- I 5

October tlatet
or .\0\ ember

Fall

National Folk Camp, Cuivre River State l‘ark.
Troy. Missouri

‘nlk Dance Camp. Oglehay l'ark.
Wheeling. West Virginia

Great Lakes Recreation Workshop,
Traverse City. Michigan

lllack llilla Recreation traders Laboratory.
Rot Elder Camp. Nemq. South Dakota

Folk Dance Workshop.
lrxington. Kentucky

industrial Recreation Conference.
l'urdUe University

Mrs. Elizabeth 5. Paris,
Oglebay Institute, Wheeling

Mrs. Elizabeth 5. Paris,
Oglchay Institute, Wheeling

Amy Loomis.
Route 2, Lowell, Michigan

Denominational Ileadquarters

Reverend C. Orville Strohl, 615 Tenth Street.
Des Moines M. Iowa

Miss Marcia Dippel. 488 Flint Street,
Rochester, New York

James F. Gamble. Director. 008 Cratiot Street,
St. Louis 2. Missouri

Mrs. Elizabeth S. Paris. .
Oglebay Institute, Wheeling, \i est Virginia

Arden Peterson. State College.
East Lansing. Michlgan

Mary Frances Lyle, College Station
lirookings. South Dakota

James S. Brown. Rural Sociology Department,
University of Kentucky. Lexington, Kentucky

Jackson M. Anderson. Associate Professor.
Purdue University, Lafayette. Indiana

For the li-t of training courses conducted by NRA stall, see inside back Cover.

lTO

liECRHtTIOX

 

DRAMA

The San Francisco Municipal Chil-
dren’s Theatre has brought “Circus
Day” to twenty-seven elementary
schools. Ovcr twelve thousand children
have seen the play, depicting such
characters as Jacko, the clown, and
his little fat pig, Dinkie Dootle. Most
exciting of all to these young audi-
cnces is the mock duel between two
clowns, wilh huge oriental swords——
cardboard, of course. One of lhe clowns

falls “dead,” and when he suddenly

comes back to life, the youngsters
burst into cheers and laughter.

To parents and teachers it has of-
fered an Opportunity to share a new
experience with the children, and in
the classes, has afforded themes for
art work and English compositions, as
well as subjects for oral recitations.

From “Circus Comes to School” by Doré

Williams.
PERSONNEL

“We urge a more careful selection
of only the best playground personnel
for the full summer season and also a
longer and more thorough training
period. The National Recreation Asso-
ciation will provide, upon request, a
course of training which has been
used with success throughout the coun-
try. We recommend that each of these
persons employed in the playgrounds
be supplied with the ‘Playground
Summer Notebook.9 (Published week-
ly, twclvc issues, beginning April 25.
by NRA—Ed.) This is a dynamic
and useful tool for every playground
worker. It is impossible to overlrain
a playground instructor———it is tragic

JUNE 1952

Continuation of “Here and There” section of former NRA Playground and

Recreation Bulletin Service.

to have one without training or inade-
quate training.”

From Annual Report of the Board of Edu-

cation, City of Boston, for 1951.
MOVIES

At last! A well—organized list of 16
min films! It’s called Motion Pictures
on Child Life and is published hy The
Children’s Bureau, Federal Security
Agency, Washington, D. C. Price: for-
ty cents. Sections on Recreation and
Play, Juvenile Delinquency, Commu-
nity Life, Safety, and so forth, will
be of special interest to recreation de-
partments. The list is well-annotated.
with full information.

FOURTH OF JULY

A mayor’s Fourth of July commit-
tee planned last year’s celebration in
Butler, Pennsylvania. Leading clubs,
businesses and individual citizens com-
bined efforts to offer exhibitions, pa-
rades and contests. Everything free——
except the haseball game and stock
car races. Fun and fireworks, without
accidents, were the happy result.

CAMPING

Leaders in camping, conservation, na-
ture and outdoor recreation and educa-
tion will want to study Conservation in
Camping, booklet resulting from a
conservation workshol), sponsored by
the American Camping Association,
conducted at Lake Geneva, Wisconsin,
in 1951. Available from Soil Conser-
vation Service, U. S. Department of
Agriculture, Washinglon, D. C.

DELINQUENCY

The recreation profession had its
responsibility highlighted in a report
for 1951 of the Committee for the Con-
trol and Prevention of Juvenile De-
linquency of the lnternational Asso-
ciation of Chiefs of Police. Rather
than the police undertaking to provide
social advantages, the report stressed
the importance of “getting the exist-
ing agencies to help that youngster.”

VACATION

Development of western Maryland
as a vacationland is prOposed by the
state's planning commission. A seven
year $2,800,000 expenditure is pro-
jccled for land acquisition, deve10p-
ment and construction of recreation
facilities. It is expected that a major

project of the program will be to
broaden the region’s economic base
and increase employment.

GOLF

Growing out of last year’s golf school
for adults, sponsored by the munici-
pal recreation connnission in conjunc-
tion with the parks department, Syra-
cuse, New York, is following an en-
larged program of instruction. Eighty
per cent of last year’s enthusiasts were
beginners, the women outnumbering

 

the men by 99 to 42. This year, cn-
rollment was 214 women and 64 men.
The department of parks” furnishes
their pro, and the recreation commis-
sion furnishes a helper and golf clubs,
plastic halls and a golf target.

Six lessons are given f rec, to groups
of four in thirty minute periods.

S‘WIMMING

Enrollment in Oakland, California’s
“swim to live” classes, where boys and
girls eight through fourteen years of
age receive free instruction, reached
an all-time high last year, tOpping the
previous year hy twenty-seven per

cent.
PUBLICITY

The film, “Recreation for Every-
one,” (see May RECREATION, page 88.
——Ed.) made by local talent and tech-
nicians, as part of Houston’s survey
and campaign to improve recreation
facilities, stresses neighborhood needs,
showing existing conditions in con-
trast to what they might he. Since this
“grass roots” survey was begun, the
people have responded so heartily thal
the recreation budget has increased
thirty-nine per cent. An NRA repre-
sentative who recently saw this movie
highly recommends it.

171

 

On five-acre plot in a grove of trees, oldsters’ center is gav
with yellow stucco walls, bright green trim and red tile roof.

“Crow 0M along with me!
The best is yet to be,
The last of life. for reht'eh the first teas made . . .

99

Surveying the field of possible aetivities as soeial di-
rector for the recreation department, of Waco. Texas.
npon assuming her job in early 1950, Angela l'ctcrson
came to the conclusion that what was most needed was a
center for the older people of the connnunity——-the lonely
ones with little or no incentive or interest in life.

Fortunately, at that time, several groups of earnest
women had the same idea. Church women were becoming
aware that the needs of the elderly were not being satisfied
locally. The American Association of University Women
had appointed a committee to look into the matter.

Those interested turned to Mrs. l’etcrson for leadership,
reasoning that anything done for the aged, should be
along the lines of recreational activities. From the begin-
ning. Mrs. Peterson and her capable aides had the idea
of providing, for those of advanced years, a place of
their own where they could talk together of other days,
play together, aml work together on projects which ap-
pealed to themrsprojeets which they might originate if
they so desired.

There was assurance from the start that the AAUW, the
Couueil of Church Women and the Business and l’rofcs-
sional Women’s Clubn-to mention only three of many
civie groups would stand by with every possible help in
the lauuehing of such a plan.

The committee was able to gain the interest of "all
sorts and conditions of men," from the one who could
hand out a Cheek for fitt‘. thousand dollars to those who
could not give so much as a penny but would help to the
limit of their varying capacities.

liefore the organization and election of ofliCers, someone
actually did give five thousand dollars, the ll.l'.W.C. gaie
fifty dollars and the Council of Church Women sponsored

 

\lns. (snout. herself in the .wvenlies, and o lmn'ness-
mmmn, is active in her city's church and chic chain.

172

A story of the older folks in “face, Texas.

Margaret R. Conger

a book review, netting sixty dollars. which they turned
over to the fund.

With courage inspired by this material support, Mrs.
Peterson called a meeting for organization. Representatives
from all ageneies were invited; and thirty-eight clubs and
orders sent representatives.

The Waco newspaper cooperated fully from the begin-
ning and gave such excellent publicity to the project that
the entire connnunity beeame interested. Enthusiastic sup-
port resulted in the fact that the board of directors of the
l..ouey Migel Center for Old People now consists of leading
businessmen, doctors, professors from Baylor University.
local ministers, society and club women.

The proposition plaecd before the first meeting was that
the Waco recreation department would maintain and
Operate sueh a center if the community would provide the
building and equipment. As the consensus of opinion was
favorable, there was nothing to delay action.

One of the first connnittecs, the location committee, soon
found an unused buihliug on the old Cotton l’alaec grounds

—-a building which Louey Migel had given many years
ago to the retired firemen of the eity for a clubhouse. Most
of the old firemen had died, but those left. or their repre-
scntativcs. gladly deeded the place to the city recreation
departmcnt for the newly organized center.

With five thousand dollars on hand. plus a few contri-
butions from clubs, plans for making over the building
went forward. One wing will house the activity program,
arts, crafts, woodworking. greenhouse and games. The
existing central portion will be the focus of operation, with
lounge, kitchen, toilets and showers, storage. ofliee aml a
earctaker's room. while the other wing will contain the
auditorium and photographie dark room, which will be
shared with the eommunity.Thcre will be a stage, dressing
rooms and an amlitorium seating two hundred people,
with a movable partition so that more than one activity
can be undertaken at a time. The drama. lecture. movie
and music programs will be condneted here. as well as
book reviews aml similar projects.

An immense amount of bchiml-the-seenes work has been

ltccmznmx

done: conferences, phone calls, letters, other cities con-
sulted and research undertaken. Mrs. Peterson says of the
project. “This wonderful adjunct to our city could not
have grown beyond the dream stage had it not heen for
the marvelous cooperation and very real effort of the
many fine men and women, from all corners of Waco,
who have seen the need and so unselfisth have shouldered
the responsibility of meeting it.”

The young people of Waco have undertaken to supply
transportation, help with parties, games, tours, group sing-
ing, act as hosts and hostesses, prepare refreshments, teach
any skill they may possess and volunteer their services in
any need that may arise.

Everything was asked for—furniture, cooking equip-
ment, light fixtures, radios, rugs, draperies, books, office
equipment, tools, sewing machines, and so on, and the re-
sponse to this call was truly wonderful. The center is
beautiful now. The interior painting, largely done by
young cadets from JCAFB, the flying field just out of
Waco, matches the draperies—gift of the Business and
Professional Women’s Club.

Membership of the center cuts across cultural and eco-
nomic lines. The financially secure widow or retired busi-

 

Opening ceremony drew over 500 visitors despite the heat—103°.

nessman is just as lonely and has just as much idle time
as the man or woman living on old age assistance.

Centers should he open daily. Special activities should
be scheduled—time for companionship and activities of
the individual’s choosing, with the means at hand to carry
out individual or small group projects.

Older people move at a slower pace, and this should be
a haven geared to their gait. Therefore, such a center
should be separate from those planned for youth. The
pride of the older folks in a place of their own is inordi-
nate. Their center—even its rooms—should not be shared
with a lodge or school club.

The Waco center, not far from the heart of the city, is
easily accessihle by bus or car. It is all on the ground
floor level and has at present three or four rooms in readi-
ness for use. With the small funds at their disposal, Mrs.
Peterson and her committees have done a magic bit of
transformation; and the original plans are being held in
readiness for completion, as money is available.

I JUNE 1952

The opening or dedication of the Louey Migel Center
for Old People, on July 18. 1951. was a memorable event.
Johnny Morrow, the director of Waeo’s recreation depart-
ment, who has heen actively cooperative in every phase
of the undertaking, and without whose capable help it
could not have been achieved, made the arrangements.

In front of the center building there are huge trees,
and in their shade he had placed three hundred chairs,
approximately the number of guests he expected—hope-
fully. Long heforc the appointed time these were filled, and
Mr. Morrow was frantically sending for more, which, for-
tunately, appeared before it was too late. Speeches were
made to and by the old peeple, and refreshments were
served. All were urged to make a complete tour of the
premises, and to register at desk inside. Later reports
showed that at least five hundred had attended, and that
practically all of these were really older people.

Upon being asked what she had in mind for activities
for elderly people, Mrs. Peterson answered, “Visiting,
reading, card and table games, listening to the radio or
television, group singing, lectures, birthday parties, tours
and outings, shows, crafts, active outdoor games such as
shuffleboard, horseshoe pitching, quoits, bowling; dancing,
devotions, drama, camera clubs, quilting parties and, most
of all, the sharing with others of the special skills which
all of them have.”

What has been done with loving-kindness in this city,
can be done anywhere—if good leadership is available. A _
great deal has heen and is being provided for youth, and
that is well, for in youth lies our future; but those who
have borne the heat and the burden of the day, and whose
footsteps are slowing, need the care and thoughtfulness of
their community more than do the youngsters who have
so many interests and diversions. For this reason, it is
most imperative that notice be taken of their needs and
such centers as this one provided wherever possible, to re-
store their personal pride and lift their morale.

The Waco reercation department guarantees mainte-
nance and operation for our center, with the help of volun-
tecr leaders under the direction of one paid employee. It
will be open daily, and the only ticket of admission re-
quired will he an age of fifty-five or over, and a desire to
live whilc alive!

Writing a month or more after the center opened, Mrs.
Peterson said: “The success of the center is amazing—and
touehing. We have averaged better than fifty members
daily, and at our old-fashioned fiddle jam session last
Thursday night the three hundred fifty who attended had
to move into the yard, as they overran the building. It is
Christmas every day, for gifts continue to arrive. The
women are busy with plans for a fall bazaar and a Santa
workshop. They are beginning to spot good voices, as we
sing, and plan a mixed chorus of ‘over sixties’ to serve
the community and entertain themselves.”

__________.___ _._ _

This is the tragedy of civilization—-that the end of all
our labor and sacrifice has been, for so many men and
wom en, the defeat of that inner life which it was our whole
object to preserve—Joseph Lee

173

 

AAHPER YEARBOOK

DEVELOPING
DEMOCRATIC

HUMAN

RELATIONS

through

HEALTH EDUCATION,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
RECREATION

 

Considers the progressive ac-
quiring of democratic can-
cepts and attitudes tram
childhood through early and
late adolescence, and adult-
haad. Applies to the fields of
health education, physical ed-
ucatian, and recreatian, re-
cent research an methads and
techniques in group dynam-
ics, saciametry, social group
work, and general education.

562 pp.

ORDER TODAY

American Association for
Health, Physical Education
and Recreation

1201 lblh SI. N.W.. Wash" D.C.

Please send me_..._._s capies oi the

AAHPER Yearbook.

['1 Check enclosed 0 Bill me

Name. — .. .
Street,

City.

Zone State

174

$4.25

CHANCE OF ADDRESS: Scnd your
new addrcss at lcasl thirty days before
the (late of the issue with which it is

to takc cITecl. Address: Recreation Mag-

azine, Circulation l)cpartmeul,421 Fifth '

Arenuc South, Minneapolis 15, Minn.
Scnd old address with the new, enclos-
ing it possible your addrcss label. The
post oflice will not forward copies un-
less you provide cxtra postage. Dupli-

cate copies cannot bc sent.

Mdilimal
on

American
Playgrounds
______,.,_..,

I I
5'

0%”(7/9m" 09516.!
Mir/(Ari: cgrrz¢mwd

 

O - n n I a I I n u o I I I u I a O n I I e a I O I n I.

just Whai We Need I"

. . . the universal comment of Camp
Directors and Recreation Leaders
whenever they see and hear...

‘
I

__ _—_...,__._-5

$7

—_.._

  

__,_.—

-.-.‘...........-.-.-.--...-.

—..._._.———_.____.—..._
.-.--.--...--.-.-.

Rek—O-Kut's All-Speed, Portable,
lndaar-Outdaar Phanagroph

l ’wgoJUSl wilal we Mead l. because:

0 The RNYTNMASTEI. in addition to playing
your 33th. 45 and 70 R.P.M. records at
their normal speeds. IS THE ONLY PNONO-
GRAPH AVAILABLE INA! ALLOWS YOU TO
PLAY ANY RECORD AT ANY SPEED which
best meets the exact requirements at
counsellor and camper.

0 8y plugging a microphone into Input pro-
vlded. the counsellor can superlmpose his

end accent the record with personal com-
ments and Instruction.

0 iNOOOllS: Powerlut amplifier and speaker
accommodates 1000 campers in the soclal
hall. mess hall. etc.

. OUTDOORS: The RNYTNMASTER is portable
. . . can be carried easily all over the camp
grounds . . . simply plug your trumpet
speaker into the Rhythmaster tor use at
the lake. at the pow-wow, tor callsthenics.

outdoor talk and square dancing. athletic
held. etc.

3 EDUCATIONAL TOOLS IN 0M:

I—A full range Iii-H phone’reph

2-A EA. system (when microphone is
plugged in)

J—A Iii-H radio receiver (when used with
your AM or I’M tuner)

lTCOSTSlESS TO lUYRfK-O-KUT! .

0UALilY is the word tor REK-O-KUT...Your
REK-O-KUT INYTNMASTER will serve m taith-
fully. without maintenance or breakdown. day-
ln and day-out. It will pay ou well to Invest
In the incomparany versati e Rhythmster. ..
It costs less and etters more in the long run.

Write tor new 1952 catalog oi IEK-O-KUT
Instrumenls tor the educational field.

eon-o-Kur co.

JH ‘9-su - 1 near.” N -

y or her voice over the selection being played
I

.
-I| "'_l

 

Ill-:cum'rlm

HHH. 2.85me 5.15505

3.99 QEQEA 955555 Gamma. 25555 OOH—0558 >555?
555555.: >. m. @558 5& OoEtmzvr 25< 45.x.

ET

‘
L

S\\'I.\l.\ll.\'l£ .Vll

H.
m.
w.
. H.
m.
w.
H.
m.
w.
,9.
H.
m.
w.
NH.
8 n
T H.
H
m N.
S w.
NH.

T555“; 5—0 555

meo QEQE MSASEAam maaavoew. >5m85. >955” dame:
oA :5 gm. >555: >93"? :55: www wuommHEmw
25¢ <5? a. 2m? M81?
mwhm 32.. 5.; GA 0%5555 $55....“ .Ao_5 Q. was? Hugsmom-
3.5:... H5”: do 3:: >355? 25,. Macaw :u 25< Macaw.

Homouwwmww.

W Savanna—5% mam—Swami

Omlm
>mo 0. 55w 5& 5&5."
mam" 55 :5
wow" 53555. 5&5. €55.
Emmamsomv
wmmH E5 A55 35$
>ma o. I m V539
Hmémum 5.15u r5” 51a
@5553
C5& 55mm mom: A555;
95 $5 A55 A543
>ma w... 5 55.9
mo.w.m& 5&5g mama 51m
Amtmo&v
3578—? 5a? HwH\w H5&m
H.Ho_&5m H565: 5&5. 255.
Arm—3: 5&5 H5&m H55.
m2m55mu
>mo Hm I. Hm H555
wmégzi 5&5. mama 51m
A £553
955 5&5. 255. Emmamsoov
ro_&5m Hum—:55 5 55:7
Hmm 5& 595 58
$53: mm H5&m H55. 53555.
>mo Ha V555 5& 55.”
moédum 535. Anna 5me
Amtmo&v
15.3. &7.5m
95¢ 58 A5553
$535. mm 5&m 55. 95555

H.

m.

w.

 

wowm
5% o. “as: 5& 5&5"
$5 55 5:
wmmn m25555. 5&5. $585.
Emmamzoov
momn 958 A55 A05;

3% o. la H555
Hm¢5& 5&5u mama 51m
A555:

U5& 55} :05 A355
womH 5:5 A55 A55;

>Mo wl Hm H528"
wo.H..m& 53:: man 51m
A583
935 5&5. 5.5mm gag—5o.
macro: 355ch
$13: EX” 5&m 15.
53552

Ewe Hal Hm “55w”
main—AH 5&5u Anna 51m
A585

was. 5&5. 255. Emma—.53

3555155 9585

$13: mm 555 55. 53553
>mo 3. H52: 5& 9.5."

mo.wm& 5&5u Ammo 5&0

A5553

Hum—5% $3.5m

.35:qu 5555

5&3: mm wmnmm :5. 53555.

.c «.35 m Foxgmuoz. aha—5:53... Emmm!5~& 63.5.55.

0

(Fold Back)

Ewan—5m 7:. Eu:-

m§555m 5& .755 mo EMS—55.. ES
H5535. 5& mama? 35d mm .5 05:5
cm :5 255% we: :55 555555. 275
was cummsmmm m 85555me 535.55%
555. aura: A55 m macaw? moo—.555:
momma? 555 o: m€m555m wooH Ow-
2555. 05555. Home“ 2 2mm Eotmamnw

HQ m&€m& .A. 9518 5& .2553 m. 3o.
Cosocmr. M505 d555me Ono—.mmm.

DEMON HHmH.
MS. m€H555m 30.5 >a—55H55mos

wmeLHH/Hmzkwww MESS/HUMme

>. MEG. 25:3 5 m: 58555H H523? 2er m 3:5,?ch 3:5.
om 535:0: A85 $5 mwosmolsm 5.555555.

w. 6583555 0* m 555% :5 A5. A555 5655.

0. 35.555 0A 5525. 5&5? 5.2555“ 36555.

H. Cw HO <<mmHA wmowm 5mm EMMA.
>. 55.55.6—
H. 0985?

V m. 535m
v c. 55.55.

 

o. 15.x OH 85.5

&. :55.

m. mam: 5&m5

A. @555 0* H555. 55m
m. Eism 5&m8

r. 55.5.

. aism moo—.5.

.m. 550555.

r. :5& Ari—Hm T&mm
5:355— 535555

5. :55 mo:5.m 5& 5.855
H5. 5555

a. 5358an 2.5.55.

&. HEW—mo m&&~.mmm £585 £55.55.
a. 35 5& A55& Hum—.555.
A.

m.

r.

m.

H.

m.

tam—.5: &mm:.:5H5.m

5.5505 A5. 3555 5& H&mom
55555: $555.

. v 555 55.55.55

A V ._. ocmHommms

Hw. men—555:
H. 0555— 28%

A v m. $8558 2:: coop oAmomm—m
A e U. 5.255. 8553553
A v o. 3225. $.55. _5.m_

Hal—NAAIHHH‘A >AH‘A‘AA—K‘a—ulxal—‘A'A—K
VH—lN—JN—JVVN—J‘a—J LVVV‘a—J‘a—JN—va‘u—J

I'I'I‘

‘
{
1

HI

SH'IMNII. '1

SPOIITS

00:00:01

.000 000.0. 0w0000000 :15 0.0200: 0.0: .00... 0;. 0. 10.00.0000
000.710 0.5. 100 0101000 0000.. .00: 0.5050 00; 0000.0000m. .0

0.0.30 000; 000— .0000 .001 A00 00:0 30.0.1005: 010030

.001.310. .0 0015000000 00.. 0110000 00.00: .13 00000000...
0100.00 100 B000100000 $000000 0... .0 00_.0~.00w00 .00W0Em .m

$0.01 .0051: .00E 0;.

0:0 0. 00— 1.00010 03.00.30 000.0... mm: 000.000 0;. @1001
00.0050 03000. 00 .00 0. 0w00000 11000—0 00w000E .0000 00—... .<

.000: 00.. .00.:an .=

.. 0.0.050 .A00. 0;. 101..»
.000 0a. 1.00.? 0.0.07. m._0_0E0 0010.0w00 00 0.01.0 1000.00 .2
010100—00 0.0.. 010101 0 30:0. 11000—0 1:0
b.0080; .33 00100 .0w 1.0010 .000. 0;. 011.0000 00.000055 .0
0.00; 10.0. .0 00.000 0.01.0000 0. .10.... 10000—0
00.. .1000; 0. .000. 0;. .0 0.01 00—. :w0000 .3000 103100—00
0.. 1.00010 w010000 0.0.0000 00:. 60:00:. 00.0000 00.. .0 0.00.:
00000 00 .001 .000w 0 0.001020 :15 00.. .A0.00 00 w00_w00:U .m—
..000_ 00—.
.0 20.0 A0300 0... 000.00 10.02.00 00 1.00010 0.1000: 100000.
.0000 0;. .10 >01 00—. 00 10.1000. 00 :00 00.0.5.0 00—. .0 00:00.
0&0.— .:0_._.0;=_00 000.0000 3.0.0.0 A0 0000.1 100 000.000.»;
0... 80000. 5.414. 00.. .3 0010000 100 01.3 0010000000 .4.

“0.0.000..— .A000.=_=00m .A
.034 wcmzzzmam
3.0005000 0 00 0001000 001 :0

ZOAPAamAAOhZA d<ZOAEAQQ<

00.10010 03.0000 00 0.00 00.0.0 ..00.0 .0500
w=_.001000 0. 100—000. 000.. 00 0010:0030. 100000 .1 A V
10.02.00 000..
0000— 20.008 :0 00:0 .00000.0..0 1000001 0000000. .0A v
. 300% “00.30.0100; 0. 00..
05.0.0.1 00.. 0.1.000 :000w00E_0_ 03.0000 00.000.00.00 .0. A 0
0.000. 000.0. :0 00.00 100
.mw0.AE__0 000000.000 h000—000. 0100000 000000000.
.00: 90.100.00.00 :0 000000.00 000.0. 00.. 100000 .0A v

.0000: .m—
2001 A001 0.501 :00... .0 A v

0.01 =0 0E A. A .

2005.000 :0 000—000 00 000.00 .0 A 0
00.0020 .41

Emu—r. “Am—:4 .meAF/JQm—IJQ .>—
0001.0.— 100 0:: 0.0.01 .w A v
3.002 w0100.m £000.00... 000. .A A v
01000 01.0: “0.0.01 .0 A .
0000—009... 00200.0 .0103... .1 A v
0100.— 01... .0 A .
0.0.0.0.: :0..." 0— A .

O

0

(Fold Menu This Line)

0

 

00.003 01.3 000. 00300.0 .0 A .
.00EQ1EW .m

.000000 .5000 0.00.: 100 00.00000 .000 .0 A .
.000000 10050 00:00.0.w00 .1 A v
100.— 00 00.0.0.30 .00.: .0 A v
0010.0 0.0... 100 0000.0. .30.. 100 00007.0 :0 A. A v
00.00000 0000110 0.3000 .0 A v

.00000000 10003111. .N
0000100000. 01.... 00:100.. 0.0.0.00 =0 .0 A .
00010.0 .0 0—0.0E0 =0 .1 A ..
105.001. 3000.000 000... 100.. 100 0.013 100; .0A .
0000000 000100.00. A. A v
00.00.. 0.010.020 0.0.0.000 01m: .00.: .0 A 0

0.0.01.0 .A

A300: 0... 000.0: 0:0; 0:0 .000. .0. 70005000.. .4.

Emu—r. 0.0 .w/uh— .2—

.00E0w00000 100 001.100.. wcmmm001 0.000.000 .1A 0
0000: 0.0.0050 .000. 00.. 300.009.0000 020. 0.0000 .0A 0
0000.00 4.00.0 .000000000 00.. 0.0: .A0.00 £10000.
0:0 £0.00. £100.00 00.1500 100.020 0.000.000 .AA 0
01000 :0 0.005000 .0 A .
.0050100m .2
0.00.00.10.01 E05000 00.00. .A A 0
00:00 .0000000 .0030. .30: £000.00 .30; .0 A .
.00000000 A000...11< .N
0.1001. 100 10000000.. 100; 3.0000 .0A A.
30000000 10500.0: .0 “0.01015 00.. 0w00000 A. A .
100: 00 0; =1: :0 .00.. 00a. 0. 0.30—0.00 .0 A v
0.0.050 .—
Agconoa é.

Hum—m: m2... mmOhm—A— .502 OH. m9 .2

A v 0.0001 0. 000
.A00_. 30; 100 .A . 90300.5 .000 .A00_. 0000—3 .11: 20.0%? .A.
A .. 0000.0 0. mm .0350 0.000 0.03.: 0. >100 00 .m
A . 0001. 100 .00.... 6.01 0. 00 30.0100 05.00 .N.
A _. 0020004. 00 0.0050 .A

7.00000 .0
100100..." 100 0300 100020: .0 A .0
0:00.— .0x0m. 0.0.1.0.. .0 w0m.0_0a .0 A .
.0000 :0 10000 .E A _
0100...... 0. .4001 00 00000 05000.... 00.. 10.0.00 00m...” A 0
0.001 .00.. 00.. 100.0 0100.00 .0020. £05000: . A .
000.00.02.00. 00.. 0.000.0w00000 9.1000
00.001— 100 2000.. 0.00.00.00.00 0000.000
0.101. 1000.00 £10003 5.0.0.? 0.000110 0.300 . .
0.0%... 000.000.0000 . A
0001000001
01000 100.0.00—0 .
01w=0_ .02. .0 100000 000.00%..0 .

.

|
.
O
C

U“... “cannot—‘4—

‘I-d-Hi-

A
..
.
A
A

'5

'a

'-

\‘L‘
\\
,\
i
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\

l
i
I
l
l
'l

‘\\\‘\\\\‘\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\‘\\\

‘\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\.\u r}

w...

NB OF THE greatest stimulants to any recreation or ath-

lctic program is a well organized, smoothly-run tourna»
ment. Unfortunately, too many directors of intramural
and recreational programs constantly hold loosely organ-
ized, generally unsatisfactory tournaments, without ever
realizing that their own lack of good administration has
been the chief cause of failure.

In analyzing the steps essential i1] running a good
tournament, we can casily divide the tournamcnt into the
three phases of bcfore, during and after, with the added
important factor of publicity. We, therefore, can plan our
entire tournament under four basic headings.

1. Planning and Organization

2. Period of Competition

3. Post Tournament Period

4. Publicity

Under step one, we survey the area from which we will
draw our participants. It is important that the competitors
be equally balanccd if possible. Nothing kills a tournament
faster than unequal competition. This can be controlled
through the tournament rules, which will vary according
to local conditions.

Next, all datcs involved must be checked and cleared.
Not only must playing areas be free, but the time selected
must fit the participants’ schedule. A bowling tournament
for professional men would hardly be apprOpriate for a
morning hour, nor would a basketball tournament for high
school boys be scnsible for nights during exam week.

Entry blanks, team list sheets, rules and whatever other
paper forms arc needed must be prepared well in advance
of the first announcement. By the timc the contests are
first publicizcd, everything should be ready to slide into a
smooth, well-dirccted pattern.

It is important that all rules be definite and clearly
statcd. Most important, no concessions should be made at
any time. The tournament rules must be simplc and con-
eise, yet so complctc that they present neither special con-
ditions nor compromise. If a compromisc becomes neces-
sary, it proves that the rules drawn up were inadequate.

To emphasizc the importance of the no concession rule,

 

AUTHOR is director of recreation, Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.

JUNE 1952

Morty Morris

let me cite two instances where tournament managers tried
to be good fellows by giving a team or an individual a
break through some concession.

In a Westchester community a recreation director made
two mistakes. First, he permitted one team to enter a
basketball tournament a day after entries were scheduled
to close. It seemed a good idea to give the youngsters a
break, and it 'also gave him two full brackets, eliminating
any bycs. Second, he failed to collect entry fees from all
teams at the set date, before the bcginning of play.

Unfortunately, the late registering team won the tour-
nament, and in no time at all the entire community was
in an uproar. The losing finalist team protested, tempers
grew hot, the director was accused of showing favoritism,
all teams defeated by the winners joined in protest and
everyone remotely concerned took one side or the other.
Antipathies were created, and all thc youngsters in the
city had box seats at a violent session of poor sportsman-
ship. Morale took a definite nosedive.

Error number two found three of the eliminated teams
delinquent in paying their fees, and finally, the director
had to dig into his own pocket to make up the differcnce,
so that the expense of tournament trophies could be met.

All in all, the recreation group was put in an embar-
rassing situation and given a black eye for their well-

intentioned work. Community dissension was created,

friendships dissolved, weeks of work with youngsters were
lost, and the next tournament was overshadowed by gloom
of the fiasco.

Another case concerned an honest effort to bolster a
weak team in a round robin tournament in a small New
Jersey community. To step the point slaughter, the lcague
director allowed a team that was (lefinitcly out of the
running to use a boy over the age limit. The boy was not
good enough to play in the next age group, and the direc-
tor figured he could kill two birds with one stone, strength-
ening a weak team and getting into action a lad that
would otherwise be left out. Within hours hc was deluged
with pestering boys who were in the same position. Each
team in the tournamcnt, except thc club lienefitted, pro-
tested bitterly, and even parents entered the controversy.
Finally, hiding behind a disciplinary upheaval of his own

1??

   
   

t
i

h\\\\“\\\\::s\p 1'
II..- {.-
t
I
I
t
/ 9.
I
g t
l
I
3'

‘““\“‘ ‘S‘S‘S‘S‘ “S”
up. u- - u- - a -” " ‘.

creation. the director canccllcd all play, while confused
and amazed at the boys’ apparent lack of sportsmanship.
It is wise, therefore, to be sure yonr rulcs cover all

emergencies, and then be sure you are man enough to
stand by your guns.

Tournament Tips

ln lining up the tournament. it is wise. also. to prepare
a general schedule sheet and several daily schedule sheets,
with hours, locations and other pertinent data included,
leaving only team names to he added after the draw has
been completed. Naturally, all areas to be used are re-
served, and all officials, plus a few substitutes to cover
emergencies, are definitely assigned. These finished sehed-
ules should be distributed to all persons involved aml
advcrtiscd through every publicity media. The draw itself
should be made as puhlicly as possible.

Finally, all scorc sheets and rule books should he ready
for use. Awards should be obtained aml displayed as osten-
tatiously as possible.

l’nblieity throughout all three phases of the tournament
is essential. Often tournaments are made. or broken,
through the amount of effort, or laek of it, expended in
the direction of effective propaganda. There are many
outlets for a good publicity campaign—radio. TV, speak-
ing engagements, newspapers tlocal. area and school). bul-
letin boards, flyers, personal contact by mail and phone
and, best of all, enthusiastic word of mouth.

Good publicity includes advertising through all the
above media. l’icturcs, both on bulletin boards aml on the
printed page, are hard to beat. Mimeographed schednlcs,
entry blanks, and announcements distributed well in ad-
vauec of final dates are all a part of good publicity. l’ast
histories of other tourneys provide good background ma-
terial, and there is nothing better than a growing tradition
to keep up interest in a moving activity.

While the tournament is in aetual progress. be sure that
the playing fields are ill the best possible shape. with the
lining aml polishing done as though for international
championships. It .is annlzing how a professional looking
playing area can improve both the play and the attitmle
of a boy who is used to a rocky, unkempt sandlot.

Have all oflicials ready aml prompt. Like the field or
gym, be sure they are dressed for the job. Whatever paper
work or checking must be done should be hamllcd as
quickly and effortlessly as possible. Above all. amid irri-
tating delays. Keep the “hole show on schedule and
moving.

Al the close of each contest. Check all books and scoring
to insure accuracy in records and reporting. Check all

the equipment and get ready for things yet to come.

178

Make full use of publicity. Get the facts spread through
each available media. If possible, pictures. pictures and
more pictures should be used to tell the story.

Finally, when all play has been finished, put out newsy
bulletins of everything that happened. Make the award
presentations and photograph your winners and record
breakers. You will find men coming back fifteen years later
to proudly point out their championship team picture dis-
played in your recreation club rooms. This is part of the
aforementioned tradition that can be built up further by
keeping individual and team records. For each tournament
or league, a separate record of each year's play and an
overall record book should be kept, to build up and carry
on this tradition.

Lastly. the type of tournament to hold is dependent on
several factors—the number of entrants, type of activity,
amount of time for conducting the tournament, the playing
area, the season, aml the age, sex aml abilities of the par-
ticipants. There are three catcgorics—-—round robin, climi-
nation and challenge tournaments.

The round robin type tourney is handled much like a
league. l'iach team plays every other team, giving each
elub the same number of games. At the end of the round
robin, the team with the best average is declared champion.

ln elimination tournaments, an impartial drawing can
be made, or if tcam strengths are known, teams may be
seeded to avoid the strongest teams eliminating each other
in the early rounds. With an eight team tournament, like
the one listed below, seeded teams uould be placed in the
following slots: the two best teams would be one and
eight. The next two teams would get slots [our and fine.
This insures close matches for both the semi-finals and the

final round. In a single elimination tournament, one defeat
finishes a team.

Should the entrants number fewer than four or fewer
than an even multiple of four. it is necessary to have byes.
These must all come in the first round. With more than
four but less than eight teams, byes should be placed in
the following slots in the order listed: Slot flt‘t), slot seven,
slot three, slot six. With a tournament of many brackcts
(four teams constitute a bracket). byes and seeded players
are divided equally throughout all brackets.

The consolation tournament is a type of elimination
tournament in which losers play on for the consolation
championship aml are not eliminated until they have been
twice defeated. Scedings and byes are handled as in regu-
lar single eliminations. On the playing chart you will
notice that winners move to the right and losers move to
the left. At the semi-final or field-of-fonr level, the losers
not only move to the left but are shifted toanothcr bracket.
This helps to prevent the same two meeting again and hav-
ing one man beaten twice and thus eliminated by the same
opponent. The unbeaten player or team, as in the single
elimination. is declared champion. and the once beatcn
finalist to the left is consolation champion or runner-up.

A double elimination is handled in the same way, except
that the runner-up is given a chance to play the nnbcatcn
man twice, while another loss will eliminate him from the
tournament.

It scenarios

Challenge tournaments are of two major types, pyramid
and ladder. These are eSpecially well adapted to individual
activity games and will practically run themselves once
organized. In the ladder tournament, names are placed
vertically in any order on a peg board. Challenges made
to either of the two pe0ple above must be acccpted. Follow-
ing the match the winner and loser exchange places on
the board with the winner taking or kecping the higher of
the two positions. Two places is the highest one can chal-
lenge.

In the pyramid tournament, challenges can be made only
to thc row above. Therefore, the one in row seven on the

pcg board must challenge and defeat the one on row six
before getting another chance to move higher. Anyone not
on thc board, in either type of challenge play, may get on

the board by challenging and defeating the person or per-
sons on the bottom rung.

the
PLAYGROUND

summer notebook

Twelve weekly issues, beginning April
25. You can receive all of the back
numbers, plus the remaining issues
each week.

(mum: N0\\'
$l.50

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Ave. New York 10, N.Y.

It’s  If It’s

llll

GYM EQUIPMENT

0 Gymnaslum Equipment

 

Want your playgrounds
athletic fields, tennis courts
kept frce of annoying, germ-
bearing dust? It’s easy with SOL-
VAY CALCIUM CHLORIDE. This

Paddle Volleyball

Grace Arnold, women’s director of the Ypsilanti, Michi-
gan, recreation department, writes that the following game
has been used successfully by a group of adult women for
the past two years, and that it will be tried on the play-

grounds this summer.

Equipment: Wooden paddles for all players (paddle tennis paddles
may be used), one tennis ball and net.

Court: Twenty-five by thirty feet with three-foot net across center.

Players: Any number may play, nine to a side is good. Players ar-
range themselves in rows, as for volleyball.

Serve: Ball is served from right-hand corner, but may be returned
by any player on the Opposing team. One “net” ball is allowed on
the first serve. Thereafter a “net” ball is “side out.” One assist
is allowed on.-the serve.

Points: Score when serving. Game is twenty-one points.

Play: After the ball is in play, it may be hit once by as many as
three players on a side before it goes over the net. “Let” balls are
played as good balls. Ball may be hit before it bounces, or after
having bounced once.

Side Out: A side is out when it fails to return a hall, knocks it out
of bounds, when more than three players on a side have hit it, or
when one player hits it more than once. Players rotate.

For CLEAN, HEALTH FUL

DUSTLESS
PLAY AREAS

. . . Use Clean—Odorless

 

Low Cost

       

SOLVA

""11? M31 It). :1 5 . "R 2‘1.

Calcium
Chloride

clcan, colorless, odorless material completely eliminates
dust on practically all types of unpaved surfaces. It’s in-
expensivc and is easily applied, even by inexperienced
hclp. Requires no expensive equipment. Makcs play areas
bctter, safer, healthier places to play in. Used by school
boards, park departmcnts and tennis clubs for over thirty

years. Solve YOUR dust problem with SOLVAY CAL-
CIUM CHLORIDE.

0 Telescopic Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards

0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

Wm {M W9
FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,INc.

3566 DE KAIB ST. ST. IOUIS 18, M0.

ISOLVAY SALES DIVISION

I
Allied Chemical & Dye Corporation :
4O Rector Street, New York 6, N.Y. I
|
|
|

 

SEND FOR
FREE BOOK

For complete infor-
mation on methods
of application, quan-
tities required and
other details, send
for free hook—“END
DUST with Solvay
Calcium Chloride".
Contains important
inforz-Jatiou on the
dust problem. as
well as helpful in-
struetions. Mail cou-
pon today . . . no
obhgadon.

Please send me, without obligation, your free book "END DUST
with Solvoy Colcium Chloride.”

Nome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Orgonizotion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
Address

For 78 Yeors
The Stondord Of Quofity

 

JUNE. 1952

 

Baseball

The 1952 “Famous Slugger Year
liook" and “Official Softball Rules,”
published annually by llillerieh and
Brads-by, are available from your
sporting goods dealer. The former is
made up of sixty-four pages of base-
hall pictures of 1951’s outstanding
sluggers, records, hints on how to bat
and other highlights of the past sea-
son. Included is an article entitled
“Batting Fundamentals” by Lew Fon-

seca, former American League batting
champion.

PermaJVbite

liadiant Manufacturing Corpora-
tion, 2627' West Roosevelt lioad, Chi-
cago 8, lllinois, has announced a new
process for projection screens that re-
tains the whiteness and brilliant rc-
fleetive qualities ofglass-beaded screen
fabrics, for a guaranteed ten-year
period or longer. The manufacturer
claims “l’crma-White" is washable,

flame and mildew proof, adaptable to
any climate.

I’liatex

The l'liatex .\lold liubbcr Kit. put
out by Sculpture llouse, 30f West
42nd Street, New York City, allows
even the inexperienced to make their
own rnbbcr molds a new easy way.
The kit contains a half pint bottle of
l’liatex mold rubber, paste, filler, cast-
ing plaster. separator fluid, dividing
brass, a Down plastic modeling tool.
applicator brush aml brnsh cleaner.

and a complete illustrated instruction
lumk. List price. $2.93.

Safety-“Folk

"Safety-Walk" is a mineral-coated
fabric less than one-sixteenth of an
inch in thickness, developed for the
Navy to be used on weather decks of

Hit)

 

ships. The material is waterproof and
provides excellent non-slip footing un-
der the wet or soapy conditions of
shower rooms, around pools and on
diving boards. ft is usually applied in
six by twenty-four inch pieces spaced
not more than two inches apart, or it
can he installed in roll form. For de-
tails. write Minnesota Mining and
Manufacturing Company, 900 Fau-
quier Avenue, Saint l’anl 6, Minnesota.

Ilip Boots

Hip-length stockingfoot-type boots
that a fisherman can wear all day with-
out fatigue, with form-fitted feet to be
worn inside shoes. are made by Seal-
Dri Sportswear Company, 25H Kil-
burn Avenue, Rockford, Illinois. Made
of tough Vinylitc plastic, resistant to
abrasion and
t e a r i n g ,
mould. mil-
d e w a n (1
mois t u re,
they are avail-
able in small.
medium and
large sizes.
They are sus-
pended from
the wearer's

belt by straps,
or.fold compactly to fit into a pocket

or tackle box. Approximate price,
$3.95.

Tinlex

llere is a possibility for your arts
and crafts classes. Tintex has printed
a free booklet of detailed instructions.
“llou to Make lsncly l‘ilowcrs and
from l'sed Nylon Stock-
ings." The cost is trifling. Needed are
discarded tl}lons, a few boxes of color
remm er and all-fabric dye tat fifteen

Corsages

and twenty cents each), porcelain or
agate pans and a wooden spoon for
the color-removing and tintexing oper-
ations, ordinary copper sereening,fior-
al tape, scissors and corsage pins. ln-
quire for booklets at any dye counter
in department, drug or dime stores, or
write Tintex Home Economics Bureau,

485 Fifth Avenue, New York 17.
Cykora
Anseo has developed a versatile,
medium high-speed, chloro-hromide
- - u _ 99
pI'OJCClIOII paper called Cykora. It
has a warm image tone, and is avail-
able in a new glossy surface. double-

weight paper, in contrast grades 1, 2
and 3, in the following standard pack-

 

ages: Sx "Zn—25’s, 100’s, 500's; 8): 10
—25’s, 100's, 250's; llxl4—10's, 50’s.
The illustration shows the clarity of

detail obtained with Cykora CL DW.
Plaques

lf you still need to order plaques
for your awards at the end of the sum-
mer playground season. you may want
to investigate the products of Greene-
Williams, 7 liast 42nd Street, New
York 17, New York. Their plaques
come in composition, wood, metal.
bardboard, glass or plastic, and range
from 20 cents per unit to $8.00, and
up. Write a description of your needs
to the company and they will submit
samples.

\Vatcr Pick-up Machine

Scrubbing of large floor areas can
be made easier by using a water pick-
up machine. The American Floor Sur-
facing .‘laehine Company. Toledo.
Ohio, makes an electric machine dc-
signcd for this purpose. For price and
specifications, write manufacturer.

ltncaentos’

0a 756 6a.de

Members of the Student Recreation
Association of Minnesota University,
a lively group, are busily engaged in
carrying out their own student or-
ganization program. Activities planned
for the spring quarter appeared in the
first issue of their new news sheet, and
are presented briefly below:

Sandstone State Hospital, April 26-27.
This trip will provide an excellent oppor-
tunity for those students who are considering
the field of state hospital recreation as well
as getting rid of some of our incorrect be-
liefs concerning mental hospitals. You will be
impressed by the fine staff which this hos-
pital has. The hospital provides free lodging
and food for the two days. For further in-
formation, see Lois Lindstrom or Jim Gilbert.

Gillette Children’s Hospital, Date to be
announced. The recreation director is our
own Bud chnell, who graduated in June,
1948. Bud is running a very fine program,
and you will certainly get a kick out of
working with the kids.

Campus Carnival, May 2. This is the first
time the S.R.A. has had a booth in the show.
This year we are putting it on in conjunc-
tion with the “M” Club. There will he three
acts, of which we think one will be “Little
Nell,” another a chorus line (naturally),
and the “M” Club is keeping their’s a secret.

Scnior Banquet, May 21, 6:30 p.m., 307,
308, 309 Coffman Memorial Union. This is
another “first time” affair for the S.R.A. and
we would like to make it an annual affair.

Canoe Trip, May 24-25. This year we are
going to drive up to Taylors’ Falls and canoe
from there to Stillwatcr. If we can get
enough tents, we will use them this year.

Ramsey County Old Folks Home, Date to
be announced. We’re invited back for a re-
turn engagement. This kind of recreation
isn’t work, it’s fun.

Operation Blood Donation. By all means,
don’t give that pint of hlood until we set
the date for us all to go down together to
the Minneapolis Red Cross. We probably
will go down on a Wednesday, during Field

Work Class.

Alexandria and Hibbing Workshops, May.
John Leslie, Field Consultant of the Youth
Conservation Commission will be in Cookc
Hall Monday, April 21 and Wednesday,

April 24. to interview those people who are
interested in handling the two workshops in
this area on program planning. These phases
should he covercd-—0pcration and adminis-
tration, low organized games, crafts.

llattcr Up! All you Joe DiMaggios and
Ralph Kiners, join our intramural softball
team.

At Indiana University, students do
the detail work for the annual I’oka-
gon State Park Conference, such as
taking the minutes of meetings and
writing summaries of addresses.

Note: If enough news is received
from student groups, we shall be glad
to establish such a column in RECREA-
TION.-—-Ed.

JUNE 1952

    
  
 
    

ROCKY MOUNTAIN HOBBY ART CAMP
Lookout Mountain near Denver, Colo.

August 3-9, 1952

'Recreative workshop with fellow artists in
a relaxed sociable setting.

For details write Paul Kermit-t,
Rt. 3, Golden, Colo.

mt::3:::€::iftl "1'" for 

L stun 25’. as: Ittlnmtll
m Itlll mm “NINE!

_ MSSO illhml iSUPPLIES DIDL  245 S. Slrllll. lls Ingclu II. Call!

 

 

The furore about hard-
surfaced playgrounds

. . is answered in PARK MAINTENANCE for May—“Bruised Kiddies

Lead to Rubber Research.” In this issue also: “Urge to Destroy ls Tre-
mendous Cost Factor.”

Be sure to read these two typical examples of the constant flow of

ideas and methods for better recreation with better maintenance.
This issue free with subscription starting in June.

$3.00 Per Year

PARK MAINTENANCE

P. 0. BOX 409 APPLETON, WISCONSIN

 

CAN

SQUARE DANCIN BE

Samcwéem...$am¢tateacé

With these Square Dance Records with Progressive
Oral Instructions and CaIIs by ED DURLACHER.

Here is the easy and economical way to meet the
ever-growing demand for square dancing in your

community . . . the HONOR YOUR PARTNER
series ofsquare dance records.

if: if? *2:

Each record in albums 1 to 4 starts with simpli-
fied progressive oral instructions by Ed Durlacher
—instruetions easily understood by dancers of all

r. ages. FollowinUr a brief pause, giving the dancers
time to square their sets, the music and calls egin. The TOP HANDS, directed
by FRANK NOVAK, offer the best in scintillating and foot tapping s uare dance

music. The calls are delivered by one of the nation’s most outstan 'ng square
dance authorities, ED DURLACHER.

The fifth album in the series contains music only, without calls or instructions—
“The Square Dance Caller’s Delight”.

it *2: 15:

AN ENTHUSIASTIC USER REPORTS . . .

“The square dance album ‘llonor Your Partner’ is all that you claimed it to be—we
tried out tltc records on a group of eighth grade students and they picked a the
instructions without dimculty. In the space of thirty minutes, this group, whim bad
uez’ersqrmre danced before, were doing the figures in an expert fashion. The records
werc also a hit at the adult square dance which we held last night.”

Alfred Elliott
HONOR YOUR PARINER

Recreation Director
SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

Greenwood, Mississippi
FREEPORT. NEW YORK

  

learn more about the
HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums.
Write for a descriptive folder.

All records guaranteed
against breakage,r
in normal use.

DEPT. R-9

181

Books Received

 

ALL TIIROUGII TIIE YEAR, Florence

O'Keaue Whelan. Hall and McCreary
Company, Chicago. (Song Collec-
tion) $1.50.

BEST SPORTS STORIES, 1952, edited by
Irving T. Marsh and Edward Ehre.
E. P. Dutton and Company, Incor-
poratcd, New York. $3.50.

BOY’S WORKSHOP COMPANION, TIIE,
W. Oakley. Greenberg: Publisher,
New York. $2.75.

CAMPING FOR ALL IT’S WORTII, Wil-
liam E. Swanson. The Macmillan
Company, New York. $2.95.

DO IT YOURSELF! Berniec Wells Carl-
SOII, Abingdon -Cokesbury Press,
Nashville. $2.00.

GOLDEN GEOGRAPHY, TIIE, Elsa Jane
\Verner. Simon and Sehustcr, New
York. $3.95.

I’ICTURE PRIMER OF ATTRACTING
BIRDS, C. Russell Mason. IIoughton
.\°IilIlin Company, Boston. $2.50.

PLAY IDEAS AND TIIINGs-To-Do, The
Little Child’s Busybook of, The Lit-
tle Girl’s Busybook of, Caroline
llorowitz. IIart Publishing Com-
pany, New York. 31.50 each.

SOMEBODY’S PONY, Nancy Caffrey. E.
P. Dutton and Company, Incorpo-
rated, New York. $2.00.

STORIES FROM MARY I'OPPINS, P. L.
Travers. Simon and Schuster, New
York. $1.50.

STUDENT ACTIVITIES IN SECONDARY
SCHOOLS, Edgar G. Johnston and
Roland C. Fauncc. The Ronald Press
Company, New York. $1.50.

TEENS . . . How To MEET YOUR I’ROD-
I.EMS,John and Dorathea Crawford.
Woman's Press, New York. $3.00.

TIM AND IIIS IIEARING AID, Eleanor
Ronuci, Joan and Max Porter. Dodd,
Mead and Company, New York.
$1.75.

TowARD NEW TOtvNS FOR AMERICA,
Clarence S. Stein. The University
Press of Liverpool, Liverpool, Eng-
land. Western Hemisphere agents,
Public Administration Service, Chio
eago. $3.00.

WHERE TO SELL llANDCRtI'rS, Dorothy
Glazer. Charles T. liranford Com-

pauy, Boston. Paper, $1.50.

WILD WEST Snow, Jack B. Crawford.
Ilart Publishing Company, New

York. $1.00.

WoNDERS OF TIIE SEASIIOIIE, .laCIlueo
lyn Berrill. Dodd, Mead and Com-
pany, New York. $2.50.

WORLD SERIES AND HIGHLIGHTS OF

BASEBALL, TIIE, Lamont Buchanan.

E. l'. Dutton 8' Company. lneorlmo
rated, New York. $3.95.

182

YOL‘R PUI'PETRY, John Wright. Charles
A. Bennett Company, Incorporated,
Peoria, Illinois. $2.75.

Pamphlets

 

AIRMAN—AND YOUR COMMUNITY, TIIE.
Office of Community Services. Spe-
ciaI distribution by IIcadquarters

USAF.
AMERICAN RED CROSS, TIIE—A BIIIEF

STORY. The American National Red
Cross, Washington, D.C.

BIKE SAFETY PROGRAMS, HOW TO PLAN
SUCCESSFUL. Bicycle Institute Of
America, Incorporated, 122 East
42nd Street, New York.

COMMUNITY SCHOOL WORK-LEARN
CAMP, A. Sponsored by Department
of Public Instruction, Department
of Conservation, W. K. Kellogg
Foundation and Ann Arbor, Bay
City and Dearboru Public Schools.
Lee M. Thurston, Superintendent of
Public Instruction, Lansing, Michi-
gan. Available upon re uest by
school administrators au leaders
in youth activities.

CovERNOR’S CONFERENCE ON TIIE
PROBLEMS OF TIIE AGING, PROCEED-
INGS 0F TIIE. Adrien .I. Falk, Cou-
fcreuce Chairman, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

IIANDIIOOE t-‘OR ONE-IIANDERS. Aaron

L. Danzig. Federation of the IIandi-
capped, Incorporated, 241 West

23rd Street, New York 11. $.50.

IIISTORY OF SPORTS. Compiled by The

Municipal Athletic Ollice, Depart-
ment of Municipal Recreation, A‘Iil-

waukee Public Schools, 461 North
35th Street, Milwaukee 8. 3.25.

LEISURE lIOURS. Luther Johnson and
John C. Gill. Bureau of Public Ad-
ministration, University of Tennes-
see, Knoxville, Tennessee.

MOBILIZATION CONFERENCE FOR
HEALTH EDUCATION, I’IIYSICAL ED-
UCATION, AND RECREATION, report.
American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation.

\Vashington, I). C. $1.00.

NATIONAL YMCA LIFESAvING AND WA-
TER SAFETY STUDENT lIANDIIOOR.
Association Press, New York. 3.65.

NEW IDEAS FOR LATER YEARS. The Uni-
versity of Georgia, Division of Gen-
eral Extension, Athens, Georgia.

OUR NATIONAL HEALTH I’ROIII.E\I. Re-

search Council for Economic Se-
eurIty, Ill West Jackson Boulevard.

Chicago.
PMIK DEPARTMENT, TIIE. Robert Mo-
ses, Commissioner. The City of New

York.

’IIYSICAI. l‘illL'CATlON‘ INSTRUCTOII AND
SAFETY, TIIE. National Education
Association, 1201 Sixteenth Street,
N. \V., Washington 6, D. C. 5.50.

PIIYSICAL EDUCATION IN TIIE SCIIOOL
CHILD’S DAY, Simon A. McNeer
and Elsa Schneider. Superintendent
of Documcuts, United States Govern-
ment Printing Ollice. Washington
25, D.C. $.30.

PLAYS AND ENTERTAINMENTS, cata-
logue. Eldridge Publishing Com-
pany, PraIIinu, Ohio.

PLAYS, SELECT 1952. Cataloeue. The
I'Icuer Publishing Company, Cedar
Rapids, Iowa.

PROGRAM PLANNING. National Tri-IIi-
Y Commimion. Association Press,
291 Broadway, New York 7. $.80.

PROGRAMS OF TIIE FEDERAL CovERN-
MENT AFFECTING CHILDREN AND
YOUTH, prepared by Interdepart-
mental Committee on Children and
Youth. Superintendent of Docu-
ments, United States Government

Printing Office, \Vashington 25,
D.C. $.55.
RECREATION FOR EVERYONE. Recrea-

tion DeveIOpment Pro'cet, Commu-
nity Council, 12091/3 apitol, I'Ious-
ton 2, Texas. $1.00.

RECREATION FOR OLDER PEOPLE IN
CALIFORNIA, edited by Gladys Snyo
der. Printing Division, Documents
Section, Eleventh and 0 Streets,
Sacramento 14, California. $.50.

RECREATION FUN FOII ALL. IIelcn Wat-
son. Department of Agriculture,
Province of Manitoba, Canada.

RECREATION IN INDUSTRY. Community
Programmes Branch, Department of
Education, 206 llurou Street, Toron-
to, Ontario, Canada.

REPORT FOR THE MIDCENTURY WHITE
HOUSE CONFERENCE ON CIIILDREN
AND YOUTH, with discussion guide.
Play Schools Association, 119 West
Fifty-seventh Street, New York 1‘),
New York. $.35.

REPoRT OF leESTIGATIONS INTO TIIE
INCIDENCE AND CAUSES OF l’OSTUIIAI.
DEFECTS IN AUSTRALIAN CHILDREN.
Commonwealth Department of
Health, Canberra, Australia.

RURAL RECREATION PROGRAM TIIAT
MEETS TIIE NIIEII. Bulletin number
125. Extension Division, Charlottes-
ville, Virginia.

SAFETY TIIRU ELEMENTARY SCIENCE.
National Education Association,
Washington (I, I). C. 3.50.

SECOND IIORI'AON. The Welfare Federa-
tion of Newark, 1001 Broad Street,
Newark 2, New Jersey. $.50.

SERvICE DIRECTORY OF NATIONAL 0R-
CANIEATIONS, AFFILIATED AND AS-
SOCIATED wITII TIIE NATIONAL SO-
CIAI. WELFARE ASSEMIII.Y, 1951. Na-
tional Social Welfare Assembly, III-
eorporated, 1790 Broadway, New

York 19, New York. $1.23.

RECREATION

SKI PATROL TRAINING MANUAL. Stan-
Iey W. Stocker, Berkshire Industrial
Farm, Canaan, New York.

SKI SAFETY AND FIRST AID. The Amer-
ican National Red Cross, Washing-
ton 13, D.C.

SPEECHES MADE EASY. Ben Solomon.
Youth Service, Incorporated, Put-

nam Valley, New York. $1.00.

SQUARE DANCE CALLER, THE. Rickey
Holden, 835 Erie Avenue, San An-
tonio 2, Texas. $1.50.

STANDARDS FOR SUMMER GROUP PRO-
GRAMS FOR CHILDREN. Welfare
Council of New York City, 44 East
Twenty-third Street, New York 10,
New York.

STATISTICAL BULLETIN, CONQUEST OF
TUBERCULOSIS IN TIIE INDUSTRIAL
POPULATION. Mctropolitan Life In-
surance Company, 1 Madison Ave-
nue, New York 10.'

SURVIVAL IN WINTER. E. Laurence Pal-
mer. New York State College of Ag-
riculture, Cornell Univcrsity, Itha-
ca, New York.

TECIINIQUES. Higgins Ink Company,

Incorporatcd, Brooklyn, New York.

$1.00.
TEEN-AGERS LOOK AT TIIEIR TOWN,

leaders’ guide for conducting a com-
munity program, Ann G. Wolfe. The
American Jewish Committec, 386
Fourth Avenue, New York 16, New
York. $.10.

T OMPKINS PARK YOUTH LEADERSHIP
PROJECT, REPORT OF. Brooklyn
Council for Social Planning, 30
Third Avenue, Brooklyn 17, New
York. $.50.

TRAINING YMCA LEADERS FOR PIIYSI-
CAL EDUCATION SERVICE. Associa-
tion Prcss, 291 Broadway, New
York 7. $2.50.

TRAVELING TIIE CIRCUIT WITH PIANO
CLASSES. Music Educators National
Conference, 64' East Jackson Boule-
vard, Chicago 4. $.50.

UMPIRE’S HANDBOOK OF THE AMERI-
CAN BASEBALL CONCRESS. American
Baseball Congress, Youth Building,
Battle Creek, Michigan. $.50.

VAGRANT CHILDREN, Problems in Ed-
ucation Serics, UNESCO publica-
tion number 644. Columbia Univer-
sity Prcss, Ncw York 27, New York.
$.45.

VETERANS ADMINISTRATION HOSPITAL
RECREATION PROGRAM FOR NEURO-
PSYCHIATRIC PATIENTS, THE, B. E.
Phillips. Vetcrans Administration,
Rccreation Service, Washington 25,

D. C. Frcc.

WALKING, MOUNTAINEERING AND NA-
TURE CLUBS OF AMERICA, DIREC-
TORY OF. Compilcd by William Hoe-
fcrlin. Walking News, 556 Fairview
Avenue, Brooklyn 37. $.25.

WHEN CIIILDREN START DATING, Edith
G. Neisser. Science Research Asso-

JUNE 1952

ciates, 57 West Grand Avenue. Chi-
cago 10. $.40.

YOU CAN’T WIN, Ernest E. Blanche.
Public Affairs Press, \Vashington.
$2.00.

Magazines

BEACII AND POOL, January 1952
Advantages of the “Water Level
Deck” Pool, A. R. Matheis.
Red Cross Adopts New Method of
Artificial Respiration.
February 1952
Check List of Recommended Prac-
tices in Pool Operation.
The Value of Swimming in Reha-
bilitation, Harold Hemming, Jr.

March I 952

Supervising the Indoor Pool

California City Plans Unusual In-
door-Outdoor Pool, Ralph S.
Brooks

Getting Ready to Paint, K. T. Eezer

CAMPING MAGAZINE, January 1952

A Good Basis for Counselor Evalu-
ation, Reverend John E. Ransom

A Basic Camp Maintenance Calen-

dar
February I 952

Twenty-one Ideas on Camp Promo-
tion, Merrill J. Durdan

How to Operate a Camp Bicycle
Program

The Art of Leisurcly Camping, J ose-
phine W. Hubbell

Basic Craft Principles, Eugene E.
Garbce
March 1952
Aged in the Woods, Forty Years of

Girl Scout Camping, Catherine T.
Hammett

Licking Those Weed and Brush
Problems, Dr. A. E. Carlson

Try Hiking Sticks, Sylvia Cassell

Famin Camping—"Twenty Year Suc-
cess Story, Lou H. Smith

AWARDS

OVER
DEPARTMENTS

THE GROUP, January 1952

A Place in the Sun for the Aged,
Florcnce E. Vickery.

THE JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN AS-
SOCIATION FOR HEALTII, PHYSICAL
EDUCATION, RECREATION, December
1951
How Do You Feel? J. B. Kirk-

patrick.
January ]952
At Home in the Snow, Gunnar Pe-
terson
The School Camp in Winter, Leslie
Clark
Developing Democratic Human Re-
lations T h r o u g h Recreation,
George Hjelte
Service to Music, Evelyn K. Dillon
Why Not “Recreation Education?”
A. E. Weatherford, II
How We Do It
February 1952

Trampolining, Our Newest Activity,
Newton C. Lokern

A Ski School in Action, Nanette
Taylor

Recreation Education,
Metcalf

Everybody Joins in the Fun, Frank
J. Anneberg and Darline G. Can-
over

How We Do It, Indian Dodge Ball

March 1952

Backboard Tennis, Paul C. Wilson

Opening Doors Through Dance,
Marian Chace

Recreation in Today’s
Karl Kauffman, Jr.

PARKS AND RECREATION, March 1952

Land Planning for Park Use, Allyn
P. Bursley

Layout of Baseball and Softball
Diamonds, Lawrence P. Moser

Tennis Court Design, Rhodell E.
Owens

“Pitch-and-Putt” Golf Courses,
Philip B. Stroyan

More “Pitch-and-Putt,”
Brown

Show Wagon, R. B. McClintoek

The Maintenance Mart

Harlan G.

Schools,

Paul V.

YOU CAN AFFORD

I00 RECREATION
USING

OUR PLASTIC TROPHYS

WRITE TODAY FOR

FREE SAMPLE

 

 

Community Planning for Human
Services

Bradley Bucll and Associates. Colum-
bia University Press. $5.50.

This volume deals with four basic
community “problems”—depcndency,
ill health, maladjustment and rcerea-
tional need—and suggests procedures
for solving them. The thesis is ad-
vanced “that the vast networks of
health, welfare and recreation serv-
ices can and should be more effec-
tively planned and organized to pre-
vent and reduce these community-wide
problems." In the section on recrea-
tion needs, four community-sUpportcd
recreation systems are listed; munici-
pal recreation, voluntary youth and
recreation, federal rural youth and the
federal and state parks. llowevcr, only
the first two are considered in detail.
The authors estimate national public
recreation expenditures total $30,000,-
000 to $10,000,000 annually, and that
the totals for voluntary youth and
recreation agencies “probably exceed

$250,000,000 annually.” f l‘ZXpenditurcs
reported in the Recreation and Pork

Yearbook [or 1930 totaled $269,000,-
000.)

The authors discuss the transition
from private to public responsibility
and from philanthropy to recreation
for everyone. Some of their statements
regarding reasons for this transition
seem to be made without awareness
of widely accepted facts.

The hook, and especially the section
on recreation: needs, merits careful
study. A fundamental question may he
raised as to whether recreation needs
should he considered in the same cate-
gory with dependency, ill health and

181

new
Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

maladjustment. Protection and preven-
tion are central themes. Recreation
needs should, rather, he considered
as normal, in the same category as
education. The major emphasis in the
book is revealed by the fact that in
the comprehensive ten-page bibliogra-
phy only a dozen recreation references
are listed—George Butler, Director of
Research, National Recreation Asso-

ciation.

Growing with Art

Maud Ellsworth and Michael F. An-
drews. Benjamin ll. Sanhorn and
Company, Chicago.

In a new series of elementary art
books, cight designed for use by the
children, plus a teacher’s book, titles
are priced as follows:

Rook One—Fun to Begin ...... .. $.45
iook Two—Learning to

Talk on Her Way .. .   .45
Book Three—Seeing and Doing .  .45
Book Four—Diseovering Surprises ..  .48
Book Five—Exploring and Making  .48
"00k Six—Art Where We Live .48
Book Seven—Adventure at Your

Elbow  .  .51
Book l‘lighlA-Ewrylmdy's Business . .51
The Teachers Rook .   .. .. .25

Each booklet is around sixty-four
pages, bound in bright colors, profuse-
ly illustrated in both color and black
and white. While prepared with the
eight elementary school grades in
mind, they can he used flexibly, de-
pending upon thc individual child's
interest and ability.

In these booklets,
he mysterious, and opportunities are
given to experiment in all sorts of
media—crayons, fingerpaints, water-
colors, oils, paper, papicr-mache, clay,
wool, wood—all in terms of projects
that are fun and that grow out of
the child's interest in his environment.

6‘ 9‘

art ceases to

As he learns to understand the ele-
ments of design and color, he enjoys,
because the projects result in finished
products for his own use or pleasure.

The material in these booklets is
not theoretical. lt came from real chil-
dren in real classes—in Lawrence,
Kansas. We recommend that-any ree-
reation department interested in vi-
taliziug its arts and crafts program
would do well to give a set of these
booklets to its leaders in this activi-
ty.—-Virginia xlfussclmaa, Correspond-
ence and Consultation Service, Na-
tional Recreation Association.

Recreation Through Music
Charles Leonhard. A. S. Barnes and

Company, New York. $3.00.

Addressed to musical laymen in gen-
eral, and to recreation leaders in par-
ticular, this book discusses the sig-
nificance of musical activity in the
modern concept of recreation, de-
scribes the instruments of the orches-
tra, types of composition and song
forms. lt gives specific guidance for
the recreation leader, how to select a
nmsical program, how to conduct it,
how to start a listening program and
build up appreciation classes, how to
arrange for concerts and recitals, how
to assemble a record library with com-
prehensive and well classified lists of
music—these and other problems, even
how to choose and care for phono-
graph necdles, are covered. All types
of group singing are discussed, with
ideas for increasing interest and at-
tendance. There are full, carefully se-
lected lists of song sheets, song books
and choral collections. A twelve-page
list of repertory sUggestions includes
action songs,art sougs,and folk songs,
combined songs or “vocal combats,”
hymns, chorales, popular songs, songs
with dcscants, spirituals and- work
songs; also included are a dozen or so
standard song books in which most of
the titles listed may he found.

Two chapters are devoted to piano
and instruments of orchestra and
band. The author contends that the
instrumental program can be self-sup-
porting, and that it can be handled to
satisfy both the beginners and those
with private and classroom instruction
in Inusie.—-Certrude Bore/lord, Cor-
respondcncc and Consultation Service,
National Recreation Association.

RECREATION

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored jointly by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

June, July, August and September, 1952

Huntington Beach, California

J une 2-5

Weber County, Utah
June 9-12

Provo, Utah
June 16-20
Flint, Michigan
June 23-27

Shepherdstown, West Virginia
July 28-31

Lancaster, South Carolina
June 3-6

Berks County, Pennsylvania
June 10-12

Watertown, New York
June 16-19

Waterbury, Connecticut
June 23—24

Westchester County, New York
June 25-26

Bear Mountain, New York
July 7-10

Austin, Minnesota

June 2-3

Faribault, Minnesota
June 4

Camp Pa Hu Ca, Minnesota
June 5

Mankato, Minnesota

June 6

Toledo, Ohio
June 9-12

Youngstown, Ohio
June 13

Slieboygan, Wisconsin
June 16-19

l’ittslield, Massachusetts
June 23-26

University of Colorado
July 24-August 26

William Proctor, Director of Recreation, 17th and Orange Streets

Carl Taylor, Director, Recreation Board, 712 City County Build-
ing, Ogden

Harold Glen Clark, Director of Extension Division, Brigham
Young University

Miss Lina Tyler, Director, Flint Recreation and Park Board, 3300
North Saginaw Street

Dr. Oliver S. Ikenberry, Shepherd College

Tom Connell, The Buford Consolidated Schools, Route 5

Lloyd H. Miller, Director, Recreation Board of Berks County,
Reading, Pennsylvania

John H. Patterson, Director of Recreation
Miss Marion Hunt, Community Council, 35 Field Street

Miss Vivian O. Wills, Westchester County Recreation Commission,
White Plains, New York

Joseph K. McManus, Superintendent, Camp Department, Palisades
Interstate Park Commission

Harry Strong, Director of Department of Recreation

Milton Hustad, Director State School and Colony

Joe Crunz, Director Recreation Department, Faribault, Minnesota
Edward Johnson, Director of Recreation

Arthur C. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safcty Building
Oliver S. Ellis, Director-Treasurer, The Youngstown Playground
Association, 318 Dollar Bank Building

Howard R. Rich, Director of Public Recreation

Vincent Hebert, Superintendent, Parks and Recreation, 52 School

Street

Miss Clare Small, Department of Physical Education for Women,
University of Colorado, Boulder

(Miss Seanlon is tcntatively scheduled to conduct leadership training courses in the Midwest
District, September 825. If you arc interested in sponsoring a week of training or if you want
further information, please correspond directly with Arthur Todd, NRA District Representative,

l’arkville, Missouri.)

Ames, Iowa
June 2-5

Bowie, Maryland
June 16-19

Sawyer, Michigan
July 19-26

Cambridge, Maryland
September 15

Reading, Pennsylvania

June 10-11

Allentown, Pennsylvania
June 12-13

Wilmington, Delawarc
June 16-18

Durham, New Hampsllirc

(latc June date to he dctermined)

Glens Falls, New York
June 26

University of Massachusetts
July 7-17

Miss Julia M. Faltinson, Assistant State Cirls’ 4-H Club Leader.
Extension Service, Iowa State College of Agriculture

Paul E. Huifington, State Supervisor of Colored Schools, State

Department of Education, 2 West Redwood Street, Baltimore,
Maryland

The Reverend Stanley B. Hyde, Director of Christian Education,
The Congregational and Christian Conference of Illinois, 815
South Sixth Avenue, Maywood, Illinois

Mrs. Viola J. Comegys, St. Clair High School

Stewart L. Moycr, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall
Alfred L. Ceschel, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

W. Frank Newlin, Recreation Director, 377 City Hall

C1,}. B. Wadleigh, Statc Club Lcader, University of New Hamp-
s irc

Daniel L. Reardon, Recreation SUperintendent

Dean William L. Machmer, South College, University of Massa-
ehusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts

Atlcndance at training courses eonducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to loeation of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsors

of the courses as listed above.

M

IT WAS A BRIGHT EARLY DECEMBER DAY and
Lieutenant lludner was flying a Korean combat
mission alongside another plane piloted by
Ensign Jesse Brown. A burst of flak caught
the ensign’s plane and he went spinning down,

' aflame. Despite
the presence of
enemy ground
troops, Lieuten-
ant Hudner then
deliberately
crash landed
near his flame-trapped shipmate. l-le radioed
for help, after which he fought to keep the
fire away from the fatally injured ensign until
a rescue helieopter arrived. Today Lieutenant
Hudner has something to say to you:

“Maybe if Ameriea had been strong enough
to discourage aggression two years ago, my
friend, Jesse Brown, might be alive right now.

 

Lieutenant (jg)
Thom as Hudner. Jr.

USN

 

The U

 

So might thousands more of our Korea dead.

“For it‘s only too sadly true—today, in our
world, weakness invites attaek. And peace is
only for the strong.

“Our present armed forces are strong—and
growing stronger. But don't turn back the
clock! Do your part toward keeping America's
guard up by buying tnore . . . and more . . . and
more United States Defense Bonds now! Back
us up.And together we'll build the strong peace
that all Americans desire!" Peace is for the
strong! Buy U. 5. Defense Bonds now!

* 'k it

Remember that when you're buying bonds for defense.
you're also building a reserve of savings. Remember.
too, that if you don't save regularly, you generally don't
save at all. 50 sign up today in the Payroll Savings Plan
where you work, or the llond-A-Monlh Plan where you
bank. For your country's security, and your own, buy
U. S. Defense Bonds now!

  
    

“ Medal
of Honor

1

warn-n! an" M m fur Into “Hunt-(If in II dun-om: he IM- MMIMIH In cooper-Ito. rlth In Adrenalin.
Con-til and the Hog-aloe Publish!" m] Ant-rim.

