 

   

Time is FLYING . . .

Soon you will start planning
your summer vacation, and if

you are looking for new ideas,
or

If you want to try something
“different” . .

WATCH FOR THE NEW

I New Mexico State Tourist Bureau

p

\ gm  — Z( 5.’ v4.
3 A SPECIAL ISSUE or  magazine
kn

This special publication, planned to supplement our usual ten issues of RECREATION, will
tell you, your family and your friends how you may have BETTER summer vacations, for LESS
MONEY—at home, in the community and nearby recreation areas, and in the state and no-

tianal parks throughout this country. Here is a chance to become familiar with exciting and in-

: teresting information an the subiect. Do you know, for instance, that there is an organization
V which will give you information on farm vacations; that pack trips in the Eastern mountains
M can be arranged for you; what “treats” to plan if you stay at home; what to take on a camp-

. ing trip; how to keep your children amused an a long drive? Are you on expert car packer?

Would you like to know about dude ranch visits, wilderness trail rides, or special events in

l different parts of the country?

U. 8. Forest Service

COMING—SPRING 1952 Price $.50

FREE with a new magazine subscription or a renewal

FREE offer with new subscription or renewal of a
subscription to RECREATION magazine will be avail-

i able for a limited period of time only so ORDER

NOW. Magazine $3.00—One Year; $5.50—2 Years.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue, New York IO. N.Y.

° gm  '

  .

4W5

5 ' V2572

 

:1qu  We Need!

. . .the universal comment of the
Recreation Directors at the Nat’l
Recreation Association Conven-
tion in Boston . . .when they saw
and heard . . .

nun-n-III-IIIII-G.

Rek-O-Kut's All-Speed, Portable,
Indoor-Outdoor Phonograph

ye? Just What We Need ! “because:

0 The RHYTHMASTER. In addItIon to playlng all
your 33%. 45 and 78 R.P.M. records at thelr
normal speedsl Is the only phonograph avall-

able that allows you to play ANY record at
ANY speed which best meets the exact re-
qulrements of teacher and pupil!

0 By plugglng a mlcrophone Into Input pro-
vIded, the recreatlon director can super-
Impose hIs voice over the selectlon belng
played and accent the record with personal
comments and Instructions.

9 IN000RS: Powertul amplltier and speaker
accommodates 1000 people In audItorlum,
gymnaslumI ballroom, etc.

. 00T000Rs: Simply plug your trumpet speak-
ers directly Into the RHYTHMASTER tor use
on athletic fields, etc.

3 EDUCATIONAL TOOLS IN ONE:
'l—A fuii ronge hi-ti phonograph
2—4 P. A. system {when microphone is

plugged in)

3—10 hi-ii rodio receiver { when used with
your AM or FM tuner)

IT COSTS LESS TO BUYREK-O-KUT!

QUALITY Is the word for REK-O-KUT...Your
REK-O-KUT RHYTHMASTER will serve you taith-
fullyl without maintenance or breakdown, day-
in and day-out. It wIII pay you well to Invest
In the Incomparany versatile Rhythmaster...
It costs less and offers more In the long run.

Write for new 1952 catalog of REK-o-KUT
Instruments tor the educatlonal tield.

REK-O-KU'I’ CO.

38-19 Queens Blvd., long Island City, N. Y.

“2‘?! r'” “0- a"! it"‘rinar. err t‘vk City. ll % I.

"er-r > I "'_w. ’1': I I. .I}! u 1"]

FEBRUARY 1952

s
e
I

 

 

      
     
    
      
 
   
   
 
 

THE PLAYGROUND SUMMER NOTEBOOK
1952 Edition

Same Size—l2 weekly issucs

Same Time—Beginning April 25, 1952
From iast year's notebook users:

A. E. Center, Superintendent of Recreation, Akron, Ohio.

port News, Virginia.

0rdc-r front
National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N.Y.

For CLEAN, HEALTH FUL

DUSTLESS

 

. . . Use Clean—Odorless

     

Low Cost

    

SO LVAY

Rode-Mari Ira U 5. Pat. (H.

        

Want your playgrounds
athletic fields, tennis courts

Calcrum
kept frce of annoying, germ- 
bearing dust? It’s easy with SOL-

VAY CALCIUM CHLORIDE. This

clean, colorless, odorless material completely eliminates
dust on practically all types of unpaved surfaces. It’s in-
expensive and is easily applied, even by inexperienced
help. Requires no expensive equipment. Makes play areas
better, safer, healthier places to play in. Used by school
boards, park departments and tennis clubs for over thirty

years. Solve YOUR dust problem with SOLVAY CAL-
CIUM CHLORIDE.

   
      
   
     
 
      
    
    
  

SEND FOR
FREE BOOK

SOLVAY SALES DIVISION

Allied Chemical 8; Dye Corporation
40 Rector Street, New York 6. N.Y.

For complete infor-
mation on methods
of application, quan-
tities required and
other details, send
for free book—“END
DUST with Solvay

with Solvay Calcium Chloride."

———#———_——‘q

-——_—_-—--—--—___-__---—--

Please send me, without obligation, your free book “END DUST

Same Price—$1.50

“This little publication is excellent. It is brimful of good ideas. We like it.”--~

“We especially like thc listing of spccial activities ahead of time to allow sufli-
cient preparation for the program.”-—~—Genis G. Crowder, Division of Recreation, New-

_q

Calcium cmmide". Nome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Contains important . _

information on the Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

d u s t problem, a s

we" as helpful in- Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
structions. Mail cou- _

pan today , , , no Cliy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Zone . . . . . .Stote . . . . . . . . .2‘252
obligation. L _______________ _ _ ._.. ________ __ _

 

no playground is complete without a

 

Reg. U. 5. Pat. OE.

climbing structure

   

Safety, no maintenance, biggest play capacity per
square foot af ground area and per dollar of

cast—these are iust a few of the reasons why
JUNGLEGYM is admittedly the world's mast famous

playground device. Thousands are in daily use
from coast to coast. Why not give the children of
your playground the advantages of a JUNGLEGYM
. . . naw?

Write for Illustrated Bulletin On Porter's
Streamlined Line That Will Save

You Money . . . Time.

PORTER can supply you with these fundamental playground units, too!

 

 

Na. 240 Merry-Ga-Raund

Will safely accommodate 30 children at
one time. Naiseless, na-wabble, na-
sway operation. An engineering mor-
vel, and precision-made. Guaranteed.

 

No. 136 Stratosphere See-Saw

Sensatianolly new. Gives "ups-o-daisy"
ride 33-1/3‘Vo higher than conventional
see-saw, yet safer because of hoop
handles, saddle seats and level-seat
feature.

     

Na. 58-F Playground

Basketball Backstap Na. 38 Combination Set . .
All-Steel fan-shaped bank Offers six different kinds of funful, No' ‘09 S'x'swmg 58'
rigidly mounted on steel healthful playground activity. A com- Bullt for safe, permanent service. Sturdy
mast and braced for perma- pact, economical unit that’s Ideal for lO-ft. frame held rigidly together by
nent service. Finished tawith- limited ground areas. Ruggedly can- Tested Molleoble Iran fitting of exclu-

stand the weather. Official. structed. sive Porter “bolt-through" deslgn.  I

THE 1. E. CORPORATION
OTTAWA. rumors

unuurncruarns or PLAYGROUND, omnnsrum nuo. SWIMMING POOL rourmrur

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

 

Reg.U.S.Pat.Off. STRUCTURE

474 RECREATION

FEBRUARY, 1952

Editor, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol XLV Price 35 Cents NO. 9

 

 

Photo Credits

Page 483, United States Army photograph; 484,
Captain Frances Rice, Army Special Services; 485,
United States Army photograph; 487, Art Forde
and Fred Carter, Seattle; 489, Manitowoc Recrea-
tion Department and Radio Station WOMT; 491,
Harold L. Teel, Santa Ana, California; 493, United
States Army photograph; 495, South Carolina State
Parks (top), Tennessee Department of Conservation,
Division of State Parks (bottom); 496, Indiana
State Parks; 500, 501, G. J. Gray, Mason, Ohio;
503, Bernard Lehmann; 511, Otto Rothschild, Los
Angeles (top), National Park Service (center.)

0n the Cover

The birthdays of our great historical leaders always
bring to mind the greatness Of our heritage and
prompt us to renew our own constructive work.
Boys of the Madison Square Boys’ Club of New
York City depict the “Crossing of the Delaware” on
the roof of their clubhouse five stories above the
ground. The boys of the dramatic group participated,
using a row-boat borrowed front Clear Pool Camp.
The water stays on- the roof waiting for cold weather
to freeze it for ice skating. Photograph by courtesy

Of Albert B. Hines, Madison Square Boys’ Club, 301
East 29th Street, N.Y.C.

Next Month

March RECREATION offers the variety of spring
weather. Center stage are three articles on activities
of older groups. “Performance Budget for Recrea-
tion” by Jesse A. Reynolds and John A. Donaho
will prove valuable to administrators. Public rec-
reation facilities are spotlighted in such different
moods as “A Matter of Life and Death,” 3 report
on teaching service personnel swimming for survival
and “Drama in The Parks—An Experiment.”

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary con-
tributions, at 315 Fourtb Avenue, New York 10,
New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscri tions $3.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. R. Welc Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $3.85. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Office in New York, New York, under Act of
March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special
rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act
of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Oiliee: Jones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 15', Minnesota.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 415

Lexington Avenue New York 17, New York;
Mark Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 3757 Wilshire
Boulevard, Los Angeles 5, California.

Copyright, 1951, by the
National Recreation Association, 1ncorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 3&2
° Trade mark registered in the U. S. Patent OHice.

FEBRUARY 1952

MAGAZINE

 

 
  
    

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

General Features

“Loving Kindness” (Editorial), J. W. Faust ....... .. _  477
Recreation and the Personnel Of the Armed Forces,

Brigadier General C. W. Christenberry ...................... .. 483
Under the CanOpy Of Heaven (Brotherhood Week) ...... .. 486
Developments in Soldier Music, Clarence L. Mills .......... .. 492
Special Service Openings .................................................. .. 494
Sources Of Material for Cultural and Recreational

Programs, Joseph Prendergast ...................................... .. 498
Children’s International Village, Mary J O Schroder ........ .. 500
Hats Off! ............................................................................ .. 512

Outstanding Worker

Award Winners

A Thoughtful Gesture
1952 District Conference Schedule ..............  ................ .. 516
Jump Around, A New Parlor Game, Ernest G. Dodge  522

Administration
Competitive Athletics for Boys under Twelve ................ .. 489
Recreation Leadership in State Parks,

Nelson Dangremond ...................................................... .. 495
State and Community Forests .......................................... .. 497
Tape Recording as a TOOl in Recreation,

Bernard Lehmann .......................................................... .. 502
Concessions, Fees and Charges ............................ ..' .......... .. 506
EXperiments with Surfacing under Apparatus ................ .. 517
The Picture Isn’t Complete, Dr. Hollis F ait .................... .. 524

Program Activities
Music under the Stars, John Donnelly ............................ .. 487
Begosh and Begorra . . . It’s a Party! .............................. .. 504
Community Hospitality for Service People .................. .. 509
Music Week and the Recreation Department,

Gertrude Borchard ........................................................ .. 510
How tO DO Itl—Make a Glow Candle, Frank Staples .... .. 513
Recipes for Fun—Social Games ...................................... .. 519

Regular Features

Things You Should Know ................................................ .. 479
Editorially Speaking .......................................................... .. 480
Letters ............................................................................... .. 481
Personnel—Recreation Leadership Training Programs .. 488

—In-Service Training, D. B. Dyer .................. .. 514
Suggestion BOX .................................................................. .. 521
Recreation Market News .................................................... .. 525
Books Received .................................................................. .. 526
Magazines and Pamphlets .................................................. .. 526
New Publications .............................................................. .. 528
Recreation Leadership Courses .................. .. Inside Back Cover

475

 

476

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

F.WQH.ADAMS-O.‘IIUUIIOOQQIIIIII.

F. GREGG BEMIS...........................BostOn, Mass.
........Washington, D. C.

. . . . .Jacksonville, Fla.

WILLIAM H. DATIS............... . . . . ..New York, N. Y.
HARRT P. DAvISON.....................
GAYLORD DONNELLEY........................Chicago, Ill.
MRS. PAUL GALLAGHER..................
RORERT GARRETT.......................

MRS. RORERT WOODS BLISS. . . . . .
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER. . . . . . . . . . .

AUSTIN E. GRIPPrrHS......................Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARRowER. . . . . . . . . . . . .

MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX. . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michigan City, Ind.

Executive Director’s Office
GEORGE E. DICEIE THOMAs E. RIvERS
HILDA HARRISON ARTHUR WILLIAMs

ALrRED H. WILSON

Correspondence and Consultation
Service
VIRGINIA MussELMAN
GERTRUDE BORCHARD LORAINE WILLIAMS

Recreation Magazine
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Special Publications
ROSE JAY SCHwARTz MURIEL MCGANN

Personnel Service
WILLARD C. SUT'HERLAND ALI'RED B. JENSEN
MARY GUaERNAY

0110 T. MALLERT. . . . . .
PAUL MOORE, JR.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .First Vice-President
MRs. OGDEN L. MILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .SecOnd Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE. .Third Vice-President snd Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE...........................
GUsTATUS T. KIRRY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer Emeritus
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. .Nevr York, N. Y.

.New York, N. Y.
. . .Omaha, Nehr.

 

OFFICERS

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Research Department

GEORGE D. BUTLER DAVID J. DUBOIS
ELIzARETH CLIFTON

Work with Volunteers

E. BEATRICE STEARNS
MARY QUIRE MARGARET DANEwORTH

Field Department

CHARLES E. REEo JAMES A. MADISON
GEORGE T. ADAMS HELENA G. HOYT
RICHARD S. WESTGATE

. . . . . . . . . . . .Chairman of the Board

. Tressurer

.........o...Secretary

SUSAN M. LEE. . .

PAUL MOORE, JR.. .
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST..................
MRS. SIGMUND STERN. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .San Francisco, Calif.

FREDERICE M. WARRURG.................

 

MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON..................Bellport, N. Y.
. .. . ...New York, N. Y.
0110 T. MALLERY.......................Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL F. MILLIEEN.........................Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS..................Woodhury, N. Y.
........... . . . . . ....Jersey City. N. J.
. .New York, N. Y.

..............

. .Baltimore, Md. GRANT TnstRTH. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Noroton, Conn.
MRS. WILLIAM VAN ALEN. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Philadelphia, Pa.
....Fitchhurg, Mass. J. C. WALSH............ . . . . ...........YOnkers, N. Y.

 

Service to States. . . . . .ROEERT R. GAMELE

Areas and Facilities—Planning and Surveys
H. C. HUTCHINS ALAN B. BURRITT
LESLIE LTNCH

Katherine i". Barker Memorial
Secretary for Worms: and Girls
HELEN M. DAUNCET

lndmtrisl Recreation. . . . . .C. E. BREwER

Recreation Leadership Training CoarseI

RUTH EHLERS ANNE LIVINGSTON
MILDRED SCANLON FRANE A. STAPLES
GRACE WALKER

 

New England District
WALDO R. HAINstRTH..BOSTON, MASS.

Middle Atlantic District
JOHN W. FAUST. . . . . .East Orange, N. J.
GEORGE A. NEsaITY. . . .New York, N. Y.
Great Lakes District

JOHN J. COLLIER. . . . . . . . . .Toledo, Ohio
ROEERT L. HORNEY. . . . . . .Madison, Wis.

 

Affiliate Membership

Aliiliate membership in the National

Recreation Association is opea to sll non-
pro£t private snd public organizations
whOse function is wholly or primarily the
provision or promotion of recreation serv-
ices or which inclnde recreation as an im-
portsnt part of their total program snd
whose cooperation in the work of the asso-
ciation would, in the opinion of the asso-
ciation's Bosrd of Directors, further the
ends of the national recreation movement.

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Southern District

MISS MARION PREECE. . . . .Alexandria, Va.
RALPH VAN FLEET. . . . . .Clearwater, Fl s.
WILLIAM M. HAY. . . . . . .Nashville, Tenn.

Midwest District

ARTHUR TooD . . . . . . . . .Kansas City, Mo.
HAROLD LATHROP . . . . . . . . . Denver, Colo.

Active Associate Membership

Active associate memhership in the
National Recreation Association is open to
all individuals who are aetively engaged
on s full-time or part-time employed basis
or as volunteers in a nOnprofit private or
puhlic recreation organization and whose
cooperation in the work of the association
would, in the Opinion of the association's
Board of Directors, further the ends of the
national recrestion movement.

Southwest District
HAROLD VAN ARSDALE. . . . . . .Dallas, Tex.

Pacific Northwest District
WILLARD H. SHUMARo. . . . .Seattle, Wash.

Pacific Southwest District
LTNN S. RODNET. .. . .Los Angeles, Calif.

Contributors
The continuation of the work of the

.New York, N. Y.

National Recreation Association from year
to year is made possihle hy the splendid
cooperation of several hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country, and the
generous contrihutions of thousands of sup-
porters of this movement to hring health,
happiness and creative living to the hoys
and girls and the men and women of
America. If you would like to join in the
support of this movement, you may send
your contrihution direct to the association.

——__———-

The National Recreation Association is a nation-
wide, nonprofit, nonpolitical and nonsectarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the serv-
ice of all recreation executives, leaders and agen-

cies, public and private, to the end that every cbild
in America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America, young and old, shall
have an opportunity for the best and most satisfy-
ing use of his expanding leisure time.

For further information regarding the association’s services and membership, please write to the
Executive Director, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

RECREATION

John W. Faust

“Loving Kindness”

THAT IS A SINGULAR CAPTION for an

editorial in a recreation maga-
Isn’t it? But wait. Is it so
strange after all for a profession dedi-
cated to helping others—a profession
that, happily, cannot “command its
parishioners” but only beseech and
beguile them?

During the nine months past we
have been thinking again through this
whole question of leadcrship in the
potentially great and significant field
of recreation. Face after face ap-

zine!

peared before us in the heartening re-
view of the leaders we know and have
known across the land.

But then one begins to wonder
about some things. Why, for example,
among equally competent technicians
in our field, are only some great
leaders? Why are others, of equal
competence, merely technicians? Why
do some instill in all they touch—in-
dividuals, neighborhoods, yes, whole
communities—an added richness and
fun in living? And again, why do
others with equal professional equip-
ment, leave these little changed? Why
in one of our cities did most of the
children in the neighborhood of an
attractive playground walk by it, eight
blocks, to another less attractive one?
The personnel records of both super-
visors were identical and good——in
education and training. One notices at
recreation congresses that certain men
and women are in almost constant de-
mand by younger leaders in the field
for advice, consultation and encourage-
ment. Why?

For some years we have had our
own answer, but want two others to

speak first. John Colt, who had taught

 

JOHN W. F AUST is the greatly beloved
dean of NRA district representatives,
having devotedly served the associa-
tion for twenty-eight years to date.

FEBRUARY 1952

at Princeton, been a bank president, a
state official, editor of a neWSpaper and
finally director of parole of a state—
his proudest job, wrote us the week
hefore he died: “One conviction which
I hold with unswerving certitude is
that if we want to accomplish anything
with people, it can only be done
through truc loving kindness. This is
a matter of the heart, as well as of the
mind, and that is why we haven’t ac-
complished more in human relations
through all the thousands of years of
recorded history. But it is the greatest
work in the world and must and will
go on.”

Next, hear from an outstanding
scientist and author, Dr. Ashley Mon-
tagu, chairman of the department of
anthrOpology of Rutgers University. In
his book, “On Being Human,”* he has
brought together, for the first time,
leading scientific data from the fields
of biology, physiology, psychology and
the social sciences in support of the
principle that c00peration, not con-
flict, is the natural law of life. He has
this to say: “Man is born for coopera-
tion, not for competition or conflict.
This is a basic discovery of modern
science. It confirms a discovery made
some two thousand years ago by one
Jesus of Nazareth. In a word: it is the
principle of love which embraces all
mankind. It is the principle of hu-
manity, of one world, one brotherhood
of peoples.

“Man cannot live by bread alone—
physiologically, biologically, psycho-
logically and socially, he can retain his
health and flourish only in love of,
and cooperation with, his fellow man.

“Science points the way to survival
and happiness for all mankind through
love and c00peration . . . Men who do

* Published by Henry Schnman,
porated, New York, price $1.95.

I ncor-

 

not love one another are sick.”

The qualities of hcart and soul and
mind to which these men refer, we
have for years labeled as a capacity for

militant affection. We do not mean
the kind of love that “as the creeper
entwineth the tree trunk” and kills it.
We mean an outgoing affection that
envelopes and buttresses all those
whom it touches, hcartening and en-
couraging them to greater nobility of
achievement. We mean that affection
which resolutely sees the finest in peo-
ple, believing that is what they are;
one which makes it possible to kindly
and affectionately admonish, and both
to give and withhold with love.

This we believe fervently is the hall-
mark of truly great leadership. It
raises such leaders and their works
above the horizon.

For them, recreation leadership is
not just a job, “security” and a pen-
sion. For them, it is a way of life—a
dedication, a devotion to ideals of liv-
ing. Its greatest compensation is to
know that one has had a part in help-
ing others burgeon out in the full
bloom of living fully, richly, of “living
for the fun of it” as Dr. Fosdick puts
it.

Professional skills and competence
are basic and essential, but they alone
are not enough to merit the profes-
sional status to which we aSpire. Sta-
tus is merited and won by growth in
stature, Spiritually, mentally, technical-
ly. It is won by a steady deep flowing
current of dedication and devotion to
one’s fellow man and the job. Loving
kindness, cooperation, militant affec-
tion are the yeast that “leaveneth the

whole loaf.”

477

  
 

Just oil the press
OSBORN OFFERS YOU . . .

27/16 Vim/ell Story

Shows many easy-to-malce camp praiects In lrlbUle l0 ErnaSl TenYCk

ready to put together, such as beautiful .
belts, bags, purses, cigarem cases and Attwell for thtrty years of

hundreds of other items. faithful service in inspired

recreation leadership, this

.P’If

book is one of the treasures
"CAMP SPECIAL" MOCCASIN

Genuine leather with campasi-
tion sales. All sizes far all ages.
Ideal for the beach, in the
waods, alang paths and far
Iaunging. . .
pa,- pair—$3.95 recreation profession.
($3.55 in 12 pair lots)

*68-PAGE LEATHERCRAFT SUPPLY CATALOG—ONLY 25c

Illustrates all types af moccasins and leather items af in- Paul-Shed by
terest at summer camps, modeling tools, lacings, instruction , . _ _
I Natlonal Recreatlon Assocmtlon

haaks far handicraft purpases, etc. Na experience needed.
5 ‘ cup AND MAIL Now! for E. T. Attwell Memorlal

you will want in your library

—as a guide and reminder of

 

creative achievement in the

   

 

OSBORN BROS. SUPPLY co., Commlttee
223 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago 6, Ill.

Please rush [3 Free Illustrated Supply Folder;
Idea—tpacked 68-page Leathercraft Supplies
0

I

I I

I Lzmtted clothbound deluxe edition ........ ..$5.00
Catalog r which I enclose 25c in coin. I

|

|

I

l

Paper edition ............................................ $1 .00

 

THIS BIG ILLUSTRATED

I.’ BHAMPIIJNS

  LEATHEBCBAPT
.  __ BH008E 

CATALOG AND GUIDE

   

LARSON LEATHERCRAFT
FOR CRAFTS CLASSES

Complete Stock - Prompt Shipment

 
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
 

*
no..."

Leathcrcraft is our only business, and our stock is tlic
largest and most complete in America. That is why you
ean always depend upon immediate and complete ship-
mcnt of orders sent to us. \Vhether your requirements
are for beginners’ kits needing no tools or expcrienee, for
very young bo s and girls, or tooling leathers, supplies
and tools or o der more advaneed students or hobbyists,
be sure to check the LARSON LEATIIERCRAFT CATA—
LOG tirst. \Vrite today for your FREE co y of our big il-
lustrated Catalog and Guide to latest Leat ereraft projects.

.I. C. LARSON COMPANY

The Faremast Name in Leathercraft

820 S. Tripp Ave., Dept. 1407, Chicaga 24,1".

J. C. LARSON CO... Dept. 1407
820 S. Tripp Ave., Chicaga 24, III.

Please send me a FREE copy of your latest
Illustrated Catalog and Guide to Leathercraft.

' m NAME——-———————————_——_—

Mr runes: Mr m: In”; ADDRESS

annotatrillu. canvas” . I u I no

Finest In Tho World
For The World's

Greatest Alhlutu

 

RECREATION

 

V STANDARDIZED RECREATION TITLES
and specifications have been adopted
by the Westehester County, New York,
Personnel Division for use in the coun-
ty’s town and villages. The Westches-
ter Recreation Executives Association
worked closely with the Personnel Di-
vision for eighteen months on this
project. The executive’s standard title
is “Superintendent of Recreation.”

F AN INVITATION TO SERVE on a new
lay advisory committee of the New
York Department of Hospitals has been
accepted by Joseph Prendergast, Ex-
ecutive Director of the National Rec-
reation Association.

P A NEW LEAFLET, Recreation a New
Profession in a Changing World, pub-
lished by the National Recreation As-
sociation is just off the press, and is
being mailed immediately to all recrea-
tion and park executives and members
of the association. It summarizes the
training, experience and personal back-
ground needed for full time work with
military and civilian recreation agen-
cies. A handy guide for persons who
counsel students considering careers,
and for young peOple who want to en-
ter the recreation Held, it is available
free upon request from the Recrea-
tion Association Personnel Service. Be-
cause the great demand for recreation
workers by the armed forces, as well
as by community recreation depart—
ments expanding to meet defense needs,
has created a shortage Of professional
workers, the pamphlet was planned as
a defense service of the association and
was financed by United Defense Fund.

V CONSULTANT SERVICE ON PARK PLAN-
NING problems was recently provided
by the National Recreation Assoeia-
tion’s planning division to the Erie
County, New York, Planning Board.

FEBRUARY 1952

75% @055 Séwé'd Km .

 

Other studies completed during the fall
months include an analysis of the rec-
reation services of Oglebay Park and
Oglebay Institute, Wheeling, West Vir-
ginia, and a recreation plan for the
town of Franklin, Virginia. The replan-
ning of recreation properties in Toledo,
Ohio is continuing, with a preliminary
report to be published in the near fu-
ture. A series of area designs has been
completed for the Callaway Community
Foundation, Lagrange, Georgia.

F CHAIRMANSHIP of the NRA National
Advisory Committee on Recruitment,
Training and Placement of Recreation
Personnel, which is now being estab-
lished, has been accepted by Dr. Paul
Douglass, President of American Uni-
versity, Washington, DC. Dr. Doug-
lass, who now is on leave of absence
from the university, recently wrote a
stimulating editorial for RECREATION,
which appeared in the December 1951
issue. He served as chairman of a
panel of college presidents at the Na-
tional Recreation Congress in Cleve-
land, in 1950, and as chairman of a
panel on the question of recreation
boards and commissions, at the Con-
gress in Boston, in 1951.

Dr. John L. Hutchinson, Associate
Professor of Education and Chief Ad-
visor of the Inter-Divisional Program
of Recreation at Teachers College, Co-
lumbia University, and President of
the College Recreation Association, has
accepted the first vice-chairmanship of
the committee.

F INTERNATIONAL TIIEATRE MONTH is
being promoted, for the month of
March, by the American National
Theatre and Academy, “to reflect the
broad idea of international good will
and emphasize those elements within
the nation or the individual which
build toward a better world.”

F A NEw, SUBSTANTIALLY REVISED and
expanded edition of the NRA defense
pamphlet — Community Recreation
Programs for the Armed Forces will
shortly be off the press under the new
title, Off-Post Recreation for the
Armed Forces.

* AN INTER-DEPARTMENT COMMUNITY
SURVEY FORM has been completed by
the Minnesota State Inter-Agency Com-
mittee on Recreation. A member agen~
ey, the Department of Education, has
done the printing.

V COOPERATION IS AGAIN BEING GIVEN
by the NRA in the conferences of the
Orange State and Georgia State Rec-
reation Associations. The Second An-
nual Orange State Recreation Confer-

enee will be held in Orlando, Florida,
February 29 and March 1. The eighth
Annual Georgia Recreation Conference
will be held in Atlanta, March 5 to 8,
with March 6 and March 7 exclusively
devoted to a leadership training pro-
gram under the direction of Mrs. Anne
Livingston. For further information,
address the Orlando Recreation De-
partment, or Mr. T. J. Crittenden, Sec-
retary of Georgia State Recreation As-
sociation, 816 Play Lane N.W., At-

lanta.

> AN ANNUAL CAMP CONVENTION is
being held by the Association of Pri-
vate Camps, at the Hotel New Yorker,
New York City, on February 13 to 16,
1952, will be attended by over twenty-
Hve hundred direetors. It is open to or-
ganizational camp directors and per-
sonnel, and to private camp directors.
Eighty-seven exhibits will cover camp
equipment and supplies.

College Graduates
A large eastern city’s recreation
department is now accepting appli-
cations for the position of Senior

Recreation Leader from college
graduates with degrees in recrea-
tion or related fields..This is an

opportunity to gain good profes—
sional experience in a well-estab-
lished department. Salary range:
£52,850 to $3,350. Write to Recrea-
tion Personnel Service. National
Recreation Association.

 

479

Edi/“adage Specialty

\Vill \Ve Permit?

The pcople of any American com-
munity, in voting for or against the
establishment of a fully public rec-
reation program, supported by taxa-
tion, should ask themselves the fol-
lowing questions:

1. Will we permit our children to
live dangerously on the streets, at the
railroad crossings and on the river
banks, or will we enable them to play
constructively in recreation centers un-
der competent leadership, on play-
grounds, under healthful, supervised
conditions?

2. Will we permit our aged, whose
span is constantly being increased by
medical science, to wither away, or
shall we enable them to spend their
remaining years in interesting and en-
joyable leisure-time activities?

3. Will we permit the citizens of
our town to become lost in the hustle
and bustle of our modern society,
with its tremendous physical and emo-
tional strain, or will we provide them
with extensive means for the worthy
use of leisure time which will, in turn,
better equip them to meet the prob-
lems of everyday living?

Recreation is not a luxury; it is a
fundamental, human necessity which
everyone, regardless of race, color,
creed, nationality or economic status,
should have an opportunity to enjoy.
—Editorial appearing in The Bruns-
wick Record, Maine.

Happy Books Are Unreal

According to Dr. Hanna Colm, clini-
cal psychologist of Washington, D. C.,
the “happy emphasis in our children’s
hooks of today may be so unrealistic
as to be harmful.” Writing in the
November 1951 issue of Understanding

the Child, published quarterly by the
480

National Association for Mental
Health, Dr. Colm asks what may be the
result of the present flood of books
depicting the cmotions which adults
think children ought to feel, rather
than their actual feelings, in so many
instances, of loneliness, envy and an-
ger. ,Many of today’s books depict
scenes of the child’s everyday life. Dr.
Colm contends that these should en-
courage him in his everyday feelings
as well. It’s difficult to have a new bahy
at home, for instance. Books empha-
size the baby’s cuteness and lovable-
ness, thereby serving to make the older
youngster feel guilty about looking
upon the newcomer as an interloper
and rival for Mother’s affections. The
psychologist says: “It has occurred to
me that much of the passion children
have for the controversial comic books
is based upon the ‘badness’ of the char-
acters one encounters in them. The peo-
ple in the funnies have wicked and
murderous feelings—they don’t say
‘nice Daddy’ when they mean ‘bad
Daddy,’ and still everything ends the
good way in spite of this. The part of
the child that feels murderous and hate-
ful and envious can side with the bad
people in the comics, finding an ex-
pression for his own had feelings
through them; and, yct, the good side
of the child can hc sure that the good
people in the story will finally win out
over the bad ones. With our unrealisti-
cally ‘loving’ books, we leave our chil-
dren alone with the most frightening
feelings of hate and envy, rather than
helping them to learn to accept and
integrate their bad feelings, after which
the good feelings can emerge.”

Encourage the Old

In a thought-provoking letter, ad-
dressed to the Seattle Post-Intelli-
gencer, Judgc Austin E. Griffiths, a

board membcr of the National Recrea-
tion Association for many years,
writes:

“Our waste of old age capacity is
deplorable and is becoming more se-
rious. Yet, there is no substitute for
the fruits of living: skill, prudence,
knowledge. Tllc notion that the older
we are, the less we know and that
the younger we are, the more we know,
is silly, mischievous.

“We should encourage the old peo-
ple to rejoice in the use of thcir
residual ability and strength. Nowa-
days, a job may be refused because
of jeopardy to a state allowance.
Pensions or not, elders, microcosms
of great value, should live in the sun-
shine of usefulness, not as remnants,
salvage for the Salvation Army. The
year sixty-five is an arbitrary indus-
trial Rubicon. Indeed is it not a re-
proach that men even in their forties
find it more difficult to get jobs and
are shunted to the scrap pile? Our
high standard of living depends upon
total productive power, whether wc
u'se machines or men. Although ma-
chines diversify and accelerate activi-
ties, no one should suffer on that ac-
count

“The social-industrial order in peacc
and war should plan to utilize all sane
persons, regardlcss of age—if only
they plant gardens or keep watch and
ward. It is hard for real Americans
to be reconciled to unsought idleness.

“In one or more countrics, busi-

 

nesses having more than so many em-
ployees take on a certain per cent of
blind persons. Why not do so in our
country and include all qualified old
persons?

“Remember aged Ulysses who, after
the fall of Troy, ahandoncd his island
kingdom for new adventures: ‘His
gray spirit yearning in desire to fol-
low knowledge like a sinking star
beyond the utmost bound of human
thought’?”

RECREATION

 

Rocking Chairs

SIRS:

We note that in “Rocking Chair
Recreation Outmoded,” in your Octo-
ber 1951 issue, the careful selection
and adaptation of activities, the close
coordination of the program with the
medical staff and the accent upon ac-
tive participation all find counterparts
in the Veterans Administration hospi-
tal recreation program. This pleases
and encourages us in that we find
added assurance of the soundness of
our ideas and programs with every
instance of the success of a like pro-
gram in a non-veterans administra-
tion hospital or home.

This story is a record of a real step
forward in the development of hospital
recreation as a profession. The Cali-
fornia State Veterans Home and Major
Hill may well be proud of their pro-
ject of relegating the rocking chair
to the attic.

W. H. ORION, Director, Recreation
Service, Special Services, Veterans
Administration, Washington, D.C.

Industry—Community

SIRS:

In reading Mr. Prezioso’s article,
“Cooperation of Industry and Com-
munity Recreation,” in the Novem-
ber RECREATION, I get the impres'
sion that, if there is a lack of coopera-
tion, it reflects upon the community
or municipal director. I wonder if
there is factual evidence to bear this
out? I cannot imagine, nor have I ever
seen, any municipal director who
would not welcome a group with mu-
tual interests, and especially an or-
ganized group from industry where
leadership makes it a “natural.” If
you will pardon the personal reference,
I have enjoyed complete cooperation

FEBRUARY 1952

in the community where I am present-
ly employed and, also, in other com-
munities where I have been employed.
If I may, I would like to make this
observation. Municipal recreation de-
partments are not in a position to com-
pete or bid for the respective recrea-
tion services, yet are available to offer
services requested. On the other hand,
there are agencies and pressure groups
within communities which actually
compete for the industrial dollar al-
lotted for recreation. This condition
will probably exist until such time as
industrial managements realize or un-
derstand the general policies of com-
munity recreation departments.

FRED A. WILSON, Coordinator of
Employee Activities, Scovill Manu-
facturing Company, Waterbury, C on-

necticnt.

Want a Good Job—No Pay?

SIRS:

Mr. J. Campbell Bruce’s article in
your October issue touches upon an
always timely subject. There cannot
be any doubt about the need for con-
tinued professionalization of recrea-
tion and group work. On the other
hand, we have to be careful to balance
such professionalization with the inde-
pendent judgment of the community
which we serve. There is no better way
for assuring such balance than through
the active participation of volunteers
from the community in our work.
That role of volunteer seems to me to
be at least as important as the actual
leadership work with our groups.

In this connection, let us not for-
get the thousands of volunteers who
serve private agency boards and pub-
lic agency advisory committees. They
represent those whom we serve with
common sense, devotion and sound
judgment. Without them, our profes-

    
   
   
   
     
   
     
        
 

THE NEW 9TH EDITION

HANDICRAFT

BY EESTER GRISWOLD
Colorado Springs, Colorado

SIMPLIFIED
PROCEDURE & PROJECTS

Basketry Lapidary
Bookbinding Leathercraft
Ceramics Metalcraft
Cordcraft Plastics
Fabric Decoration Weaving
\Voodworking

PRICE $4.00

Order from Booksellers and Craft Supply
Dealch

The Magazine of Fall: and Square Dancing
Published by the Folk Dance Federation of California
0 We to six Fell: Dances monthly

0 Latest news on boolts. records.
current events

0 Four to sir. squere dance cells
each month

F or information or subscription: (82.50 a year) write

LAWTON HARRIS. Editor
College of the Pacific, Stockton, California

It’s  If It’s

' .
' I

GYM EQUIPMENT

0 Gymnasium Equipment

 

 
 

0 Telescopic Gym Seats
0 Basketball Scoreboards
0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

Wade gm mo,
FRED MEDARI’ PRODUCTS,INC.

3566 DE KALB ST. ST. IOUIS I8, M0.

  

For 78 Years
The Standard Of Quality

  
 
 

l

481

FOR SAlE—A new boxing ring lé'xlé'
with mat complete with metal posts and
turnbuckles. Was bought for community

center which later diverted space other-
wise.

If interested Write Arthur Sanford, Or-
pheum Electric Building, Sioux City, Iowa.

 

      

  

'1::::::.::::'fma $5930 for A“
itittiitmst “unsung;
SUPPLIES! we...

ateltrnunrn - 

ms. Home”. 1'
iit'oii‘ BllililSl lilllllllil mm mm . .

YOOLS. 5U ' f L15 5'
IUSSD “mm ‘SUPPLIIS Dept. Kli 213 S. SFHBI. lu Incl" 12. talul

 
      
    
        

     

Hd‘tlimal
O '1

American
Playrounds

i

all...

M22me £32m
MW copyrzz'dmew/

.Jj ,

 

4-82

sional work could easily lose its touch
with reality. With them, we can be
sure that professional judgment and

community needs and feelings remain
balanced.

Having just completed a successful
Community Chest campaign, we also
should not forget the thousands of vol-
unteers who serve as solicitors. In
Cleveland, more than a million dollars
of Community Chest money is allo-

cated to group work and recreation
agencies. Without the help of those

volunteer solicitors, those agencies
could not do their jobs.

HENRY B. OLLENDORFF, Executive
Director, The Neighborhood Settle-

ment Association, Cleveland, Ohio.

“Cease Firing”

SIRS:

I heartily agree with the proposal of
Ed Durlacher’s article, “Cease Firing,”
in RECREATION of September 1951.
And I should like to contribute what
I can to its realization. Certainly
c00peration, not conflict, should be the
order of the day for square dancers.
Square dancing by its very nature is
dancing of the people, and all of us
concerned with people’s recreation
should help keep square dancing as a
means of fellowship and fun for all.
Mr. Durlacher’s suggestion that REC-
REATION be a cooperative clearing
house for square dancers all over our
nation is a fine idea for bringing har-
mony out of a situation beginning to
head toward chaos. His idea stresses
a sharing of points of view, expe-
riences and dance forms, not a
standardization. All will benefit on a
level of mutual respect for each other’s
differences. This is the essence of de-
mocracy. In my capacity as a sociolo-
gist, I long have been interested in
social recreation—particularly in folk
and square dancing——which I, as an
active devotee, enjoy thoroughly, and
which, I believe, is one of the best
mediums of achieving the fellowship
so necessary to social well-being. I
have, therefore, noted with some per-
turbation certain extremist trends that,
if proceeding unchecked, will serious-
ly damage the fellowship values of folk
and square dancing. All of us of good
will, then, should work together to
maintain the congenial social spirit
and the hearty social enjoyment in-
herent in the folk and square dance.

ARTHUR KATONA, Association Pro-

fessor of Sociology, Colorado Agri-
cultural and Mechanical College.

0 Dr. Katona is the writer of
“Whither ‘Western’ Square Dance? ”

3
about which so many letters were

received. He feels that this article
has achieved its purpose and he
wishes to clear the air of speeula-
tion regarding its author. The tre-
mendous interest shown in the arti-
clc has demonstrated its timeliness.

—Ed.

Articles Go Overseas
SIRS:

Illustrated reprints of articles ap-
pearing in American magazines, news-
papers and other publications are sup-
plied to the foreign press as part of
the department’s overseas information

program, to give people of other coun-
tries a true picture of the United
States and of the American way of life.
Distribution is made by approximately

one hundred United States Informa-

tion Service posts in more than seven-
ty-live countries.

HOWARD FLYNN, Chief, Photo Fa-
cilities Section, International Press
and Publications Division, Depart-
nzent of State.

0 The State Department’s Interna-
tional Press and Publications Divi-
sion has been granted permission to
reprint the following articles from
RECREATION: “The Building of a

Recreation Center,” February 1951;
“A Summer Festival,” June 1951;

“A Successful Community Center,”
September 1951; “Lighted Sehool-

house Sock Hops,” October 1951;
“A la Robin Hood” and “The Char-

acter of Children’s Museums,” No-
vember 1951.—Ed.

Suggestions
Sirs:

I am sure that you try to do this,
but because the actual scheduling of
an activity takes place many weeks in
advance of the event, why don’t you
have a section in RECREATION entitled
“Better Prepare Now” or “A Look
Ahead Three Months from Now?” You
can pick a better title than either of
these. The reason I raise this question
is that on page 340, in the November
issue, you have a list of Thanksgiving
films. It’s a question of proper timing.
If one is planning a program for
Thanksgiving, he probably would have
it all worked up long before that issue
arrived on his desk.

GEORGE T. SARGISSON, Executive Di-
rector, Recreation Promotion and
Service, Incorporated, Wilmington.

° The list of Thanksgiving films ar-
rived just in time to use in the
November issue, and although we
realized that it was late, it seemed
better to use it immediately than to
hold it for another whole year.—Ed.

RECREATION

Address Given at the 1951 National Recreation Congress

Iteerentien and the
Personnel of the Armed Ferees

Brigadier General C. W. Christenberry

. 1N ACQUAINTING myself with the

program, past achievements and
future goals of the National Recreation
Association, 1 have learned many
things which greatly encourage us in
W'ashington. The fact that you have
a special representative on defense
matters in that city simplifies our
problem of liaison. Your foresight in
joint, cooperative effort with us, as
with many other agencies, in meeting
the problems connected with the over-
all defense effort, avoids duplications,
helps in maintaining harmony among
all contributing groups and strengthens
the unity of service so essential to suc-
cess.

We of the Armed Forces recognize
and appreciate what you are doing;
and we are vitally interested in tak-
ing every necessary step to enlist your
vast resources, experience and leader-
ship. You have been responsible in a
large measure for the advancement in
public recreation over the past forty-
five years. Today, recreation has be-
come an important part in the life of
every American. Communities, indus-
tries and the military have come to
realize that for an individual merely
to work, to eat and to sleep is not
enough . . . You have blazed the trail.

It is now a national concept that

During World War II, General Chris-

tenberry served as Adjutant General
of Mediterranean Theatre of opera-
tions, and of Allied Forces in that
theatre.

FEBRUARY 1952

there is a direct relationship between
good morale and efhciency. It is also
a national concept that there is a
direct relationship between adequate
recreation facilities and programs and
good morale. Today we are living in
an age where great emphasis has been
placed upon mechanical and scientific
advancement and achievement. How-
ever, we all recognize the fact that we
must not lose sight of the role played
by, and the value of, the individual as
an individual.

The recreation progra1n——-in fact,
the entire military special services pro-
gram—is challenging, since we are
dealing with this intangible, morale.
It is not a gun or a tank or a plane;
yet morale is an important Army weap-
on for, without it, we cannot expect
to win battles or wars. I t would not be
consistent to expend the tirne, person-
nel and funds required to train one
soldier during his normal duty hours
and ignore the hazard which is in-
volved in not having a properly-direct-
ed program in which to channel his
off-duty time.

The morale of his troops is not only
the responsibility of, but a matter of
vital interest to, every commanding
ofhcer. The efhcient military command-
er has recognized the fact that he can
no longer be content with limiting
himself merely to a normal duty work-
ing hour interest in the serviceman,
but that his interest must carry on
into the leisure time of every man.

' There is a new face on the United

Brigadier-General Charles \V. Christen-
bcrry, Chief of Army Special Services.

States Army. It is a young face. The
concerted effort to recognize each
youth, each soldier as an individual,
and to help him further develop him-
self as an individual, stems from the
President and the Congress of this
nation through the Department of De-
fense, each arm of the service and to
every military commander. The Ameri-
can soldier cannot be divorced from
today’s society, with all its advantages
and technological, scientific and cul-
tural advancements. The military is
quick to recognize the difficulties in

483

 

changing from civilian to Army life,
and it is its resPonsibility to help
bridge this gap.

One goal of our American way of
life is to provide. every boy who grows
up in the United States the opportunity
to participate in many recreation
activities. When he reaches the age of
approximately nineteen years, he can
expect to serve in a branch of our
Armed Forces. There may be a gap
of one, two, or, in time of national
emergency or war, more years before

he is returned to civilian life. This

 

“\Ve all recognize that we must not lose
sight of the role played by, and value
of, the individual as an individual.”

gap must not be a sterile one. . . .
The period of military service for
the youths of America occurs at a
critical time in their lives. To deprive
our youth of the benefits derived from
these Opportunities could seriously
affect future generations. It is the
responsibility of the military to see
that the American youth does not de-
teriorate during his time of service.
Perhaps we are reaching for the stars
when I mention that it is the desire of
the military to go even one step
farther——-to make the American service-
men a better man for having been in
the service. We believe that planned

484

recreation activities can play a large
part in the morale of these young men.
affecting their lives as responsible citi-
zens of tomorrow.

As a fellow recreation worker, l
share with you the burden of common
public misconceptions about recrea-
tion. Just as you must justify your
budgets before public bodies which are
inclined to consider recreation solely
as a matter of providing play areas
for children, so must I justify my bud-
get.

The way to make military service
as helpful to the individual as we possi-
bly can is to provide for him the
largest possible number and variety of
opportunities and encouragements for
self-improvement. Much of what needs
to be done is being done within the
framework of the military structure.
Our training programs, our military
schools, our career plans are all a part
of this process. On the free-time side,
we offer the man in uniform broad
opportunities in the religious field, in
education, in recreation and in in-
formation.

Much of what needs to be done
cannot be done by the military au-
thorities themselves, and we must turn
for help to the civilian community, to
civilian agencies. And let me say here
something with which I am sure you
will agree: that the integration of our
uniformed personnel into the recrea-
tional and cultural activities of the
communities rests with the local com-
munity. As a matter of fact, the poli-
cy-makers of the National Recreation
Association stress this in a defense
publication titled A Community Rec-
reation Program for Armed Forces
Personnel.* It is so important that
it will bear emphasis here. The con-
tributions by civilian agencies for
maintaining a high level of morale and
welfare among our Armed Forces, with
the rCSponsihilities localized impar-
tially throughout the nation, is the
American Way of meeting this great
need. Especially in our off-post free-
time prOgrams do we need help from
such civilian institutions as the
churches, the social welfare agencies,
municipal governments, community or-
ganizations and just plain civilians.

* Sent to all National Recreation Associa-
tion members. Available to others on request.

Even more especially do we look to
community recreation
support in this field.

agencies for

In seeking the help of community
groups. we invite the help of all groups
and citizens of good will in thc com-
munity. If there is one sapreme prin-
ciple which determines our approach
to the community it is this—we be-
lieve in inclusiveness, not exclusive-
ness.

The kinds of things which we want
from community recreation agencies
are very simple. We want to be in-
cluded in their regular programs. Ath-
letics? We want invitations to our
teams to join the league. Square danc-
ing? We want invitations to our men
to join the fun. Theatricals? We would
like to see the productions and help
produce them. Music, crafts, hobby
programs, social life, nature study—
whatever programs are interesting and
good for the civilian community are
programs in which we would like our
young men and women in uniform to
be invited to participate.

The serviceman in uniform is nor-
mally reticent and will not go where
he feels that he is a stranger. The bars,
the cheap dance halls and the dives
welcome him as a friend. He is made
to feel as if he “belongs.” We would
like to see the more healthful segments
of the community give him that same
feeling. We think that with imagina-
tion, initiative and persistence, the
community recreation program im-
parts that feeling. It exists in many
places throughout the nation, where
recreation agencies are doing an out-
standing job of providing a large num-
her and a wide variety of healthful off-
post free-time Opportunities for serv-
icemen.

The Armed Forces recreation pro-
gram, developed over the last twenty
years and still in the process of de-
velopment, has progressed to the point
where it now encompasses a world-
wide program utilizing the full-time
services of over four thousand profes-
sionally-qualified recreation specialists.
The military has a peculiarly difficult
job in programming because our fa-
cilities and the interests of our service-
men are affected by the particular
geographical location of their post,
camp or station. The recreation pro-

RECREATION

gram accompanies the military around
the globe. We must consider the man
who serves under extreme climatic
conditions, at isolated places and in
foreign lands. Our difficulties do not
end even here. We must also develop
planned programs which can be suc-
cessfully conducted in combat areas
and under battlefield conditions. The
recreation program accompanied the
serviceinan to Korea. It was tempered
and changed to fit his needs. These
needs vary, of course, as he is returned
from the front lines to the rear areas.

The greatest single requirement for
such a program is leadership. The
President’s Committee on Religion and
Welfare in the Armed Forces issued
a report entitled Free time in the
Armed Forces, which deals with the
over-all subject of special services and
recreation. The committec concerned
itself, to a very high degree, with the
problem of leadership in the develop-
ment and conduct of a free-time pro-
gram. The National Recreation Asso-
ciation can help us develop leader-
ship through its many devices for that
purpose. The Army is endeavoring to
establish the career of recreation on a
recognized professional basis—t0 give
stability to the free-time programming
through a career plan.

Military personnel also need train-
ing to meet the recreation problems
which they will encounter in the field.
The Adjutant General’s School at Fort
Benjamin Harrison, Indiana, includes
a Special Services Department, estab-
lished to give ochers training in ad-
ministering and directing the Army
and Air Force recreation program.
The school also trains enlisted person-
nel in the techniques and procedures
of organizing and supervising a general
recreation program, and provides
orientation for newly-employed libra-
rians and service club directors re-
cruited for overseas assignments.

The National Recreation Association
has led the way in promoting the role
of clinics for in-service training of per-
sonnel. Following the lead of the asso-
ciation, many _military commands have
conducted training conferences for li-
brarians. During the past few years,
several entertainment training projects
have been held for the purpose of
training enlisted personnel in assisting

FEBRUARY 1952

 

Members of the Special Services “Take Ten” show entertain men of thc Third Infantry
Division, Division Headquarters in Korea, with some good old square dance numbers.

in the technical implementation of the
entertainment program.

In the field of sports recreation,
several all-Army Coaches’ Conferences
have been held at West Point to fur-
nish in-service training for military
personnel engaged in operating the
Armed Forces sports program. Also,
from time to time, outstanding civilian
sports officials have toured military
commands, conducting Sports officials’
clinics.

Recently, several armies, with the as-
sistance of the Department of the Army
instructors, have conducted a series of
recreation training conferences for
service club program directors, crafts
directors, special services officers and
enlisted personnel. These conferences
will continue to be conducted for thc
purpose of providing information,
guidance and materials to recreation
personnel. . . .

Concrete steps are being taken to
provide for the best recreation lead-
ership. We are training the best sol-
diers in the world. The best troops
deserve only the best—in training,
equipment and leadership.

In our zeal to elevate the role of
military recreation, we must never
lose sight of the primary mission of the
Armed Forces—the military safe-
guarding of this nation. Our recrea-
tion program plays a vital role in mili-

tary life but, of necessity, we cannot
forget that the military’s main objec-
tive is to protect and defend. To over-
emphasize our recreation program is
to weaken its acceptance.

While the recreation program for
military‘pcrsonnel is often considered
as a military adjunct, it is not only
this, nor should it be, nor can it ever
be. It, in fact, comprises two com-
ponents:

First, the actual military recreation
program found 011 military reserva-
tions, posts, camps and stations and
within military organizations at home
and abroad in peace and at war. This
portion of the program is conducted
for all practical purposes by the serv-
ice itself with its own funds, personnel
and services.

Second, the civilian community rec-
reation program, which largely in-
volves the efforts of the local com
munity to provide, through its own
resources, recreation opportunitics for
service personnel which are compara-
ble to those provided for its own citi-
zens. On the higher level, this also
involves the efforts of county, state
and national agencies to encourage
and facilitate these programs.

One of our important, but less ap-
parent, needs is one that you can help
us to fulfill from your local level——
that is, the integration of service per-

485

sonnel within your own community
life. By this, wc mean inviting the
individual soldier to participate in all
of the different interest groups of the
community—churches, clubs, fraternal
orders, musical societies, little thea-
tres. The realization of this integra-
tion cannot be accomplished by one
individual or one group, but requires
the encouragement of all the com-
munity’s organizations, which can be
tremendously assisted by the local rep-
rcsentatives of the National Recreation
Association.

One way in which we are preparing
to c00perate with the National Recrea-
tion Association, United Service Or-
ganizations, United Community De-
fense Services and other national
organizations offerng service to the
Armed Forces is by the establishment
in the Special Services Division, The
Adjutant General’s Office, Department
of the Army, of a Community Services
Branch. Briefly, this Community Serv-
ices Branch will provide a civilian field
representative in each of the six Army
areas, as staff advisors to the six com-
manding generals in all matters per-
taining to the utilization of community
services and facilities in their relation
to each and every locality where tr00ps
are stationed and/or where dependents
of military personnel reside. A small
guiding, supervisory, policy-making
staff will comprise a new branch in

my Washington office, headed by the
very best civilian we can obtain in this
field. (Ott Romney, dean of the School
of Recreation and Athletics of the Uni-
versity of West Virginia, has been
named chief of the new branch.) The
six field representatives will be fully
qualified by experience and ability to
work quietly and efliciently, in c00pera-
tion with the Air Force and the Navy
and Marines, to bring about a unity
of c00peration between the civilian and
the military to a degree never before
achieved. Much, of course, has already
been done . . . but you would be the
first to agree that much remains to be
done. As you may know, the Air Force
has had a similar Office of Community
Services in Washington for some time,
with five regional representatives in
the field. . . . I feel that they are doing
a fine job and have proved the worth
and necessity of such an activity.

No matter how much civilian agen-
cies want to do for units of the Defense
Establishment, however, it is impera-
tive that the responsibility for morale
and welfare of our troops remain a
command function; which means that
each commander, from commanding
general of an army to the commander
of a small post, is charged with the
duty of taking every step to produce
an efficient soldier. This cannot be
delegated. lt can, however, be marvel-
ously aided, abetted, guided and sup-

ported by connnunity action. Hence,
the soundness of establishing our Army
and Air Force Community Scrviccs
Branches, with civilian representatives
working from within the military struc-
ture; and, by the same token, the
great csscntiality of the supply of com-
munity services from without (as the
National Recreation Association and
other national agcncies are doing),
coordinated always with the military
commander and furnished in the exact
way called for by his particular local
problem. Thus, we hope that our field
representatives, working with your re-
gional men and those of the Air Force,
as well as with those of the United
Community Defense Services, the'
American Social Hygiene Association,
the American Red Cross and other
recognized national bodies, will make
possible a new level of achievement in
the unity of the defense effort.

The military has a great responsi-
bility today. As the custodians of a
large segment of American youth, it
is the Armed F orces’ solemn obligation
to provide servicemen and women with
cultural, religious and recreation op-
portunities to help them grow as re-
sponsible citizens of this great nation.
With your help, we can aid this growth
by devc10ping, promoting and main-
taining the Armed Forces recreation
program at its highest possible level.

 

Under the Canopy of Heaven

General Carlos P. Romulo

We have a saying in Asia that all men are brothers under the canopy of Heaven.

Brotherhood

Week
February 17-24

1952

The problem of peace in our harassed world boils down to one word: brotherhood.
Peace cannot be built on hate; it cannot be founded on conflict among nations; it
cannot be established by means of wars, hot or cold.

Not until men learn to be brothers can they attain freedom from fear and security

from want. This is the central lesson of our time, a lesson learned through the bitter

clash of words in the United Nations, and taught all over again by the bloody clash

of embattled hosts in Korea.

To recall this hard-learned lesson is to realize the tremendous importance of the promotion of brother-
hood among men, in which the National Conference of Christians and Jews is taking a leading part.
It is the best of all possible incentives for helping to make Brotherhood Week, this year and in the years

to come, a shining success.

Helping to give the flesh and blood of reality to the ideal of brotherhood is one of the most effective ways
of bringing about peace, understanding and c00peration among the nations. It is one of the most valuable
gifts anyone can give to this generation and to posterity.

(Send for booklet America’s Number One Problem——~—a short course on intcrgroup relations, Na-
tional Conference of Christians and Jews, 381 Fourth Avenue, New York 16. See also “CHILDREN’S
INTERNATIONAL VILLAGE,” page 500 in this issue.—Ed.)

4-86

RECREATION

Music Under the Stars

DURING ONE of the free summer light opera productions
in Seattle’s Volunteer Park, an informal survey party
wandered through the audience which was sprawled on the
grass, stopping now and then to ask someone why he
attended these performances. The replies ranged from “Be-
cause I like music” to “None of your business,” but the
most frequent answer was “For relaxation.”

The survey was cursory and not designed to prove any-
thing. But it did indicate that Seattleites, after three years
of listening to public concerts and operettas, have come
to rcalizc that music in the parks is a basic form of
recreation.

Such a concept is comparatively new. Music has long
been accepted as a medium of understanding between peo-
ples; but its lofty place as an art had overshadowed its
work-a-day function as a medium of recreation. It was
something one heard on the radio or in a concert hall,
not in a park—unless one counted the oompah of an
earnest, and rather taken-for-granted brass band on the

Fourth of July.

Today, however, rhythm and harmony are as much a part
of recreation as are junglegyms and baseball diamonds.
Symphony orchestras and ch'oral societies can be heard in
hundreds of parks throughout the nation. Most municipal
park agencies conduct a program of music. Where they do
not, they are eager to allow private agencies to make use
of the parks for performances. I

I

This awakening to the recreational function of music. is
based primarily upon a broad definition of the word
“recreation.” Say “recreation” to a layman and he im-
mcdiately thinks of sports, sitting in a movie or any of
a hundred things—except listening to music. '

But say the same word to the professional in the field,
and he will think of any act which refreshes mind and
body by diverting attention from a work routine-—includ-
ing music. By applying this broad definition, music in thc
parks has progressed from scarcely-heard hand concerts
through music. festivals to polishcd stage productions such

MR. DONNELLY is,.at present, acting as the publicity direc-
tor for the Department of Parks in Seattle, Washington.

FEBRUARY 1952

John Donnelly

as those sponsored by the Seattle Park Department in its
“Music Under the Stars” series.

These outdoor light opera productions, complete with
costumes and intricate lighting, can only be staged on a
civic, nonprofit basis, since the financial risks involved
are too great for private enterprise and its insistence upon
profits. With the backing of a civic organization that is

prepared to trade a financial loss for a recreational gain,
“Music Under the Stars” has become an important part of

Seattle’s musical diet.

 

Park music has progressed from band concerts to the polished
stage production. “Rose Marie,” Seattle’s Aqua Theatre, 1951.

Even with that backing, however, the ambitious musical
program would have failed if the city could not have pro-
vided talented singers and actors who are willing to work
long, hard hours for small monetary reward. There are, in
every city, plenty of frustrated stars eager to forsake home
and family temporarily to shine in the spotlight. But en-
thusiasm is no substitute for talent. Audiences expect
entertainment, and there is none in listening to the soprano

487

crack on a high note or in waiting for the hero to remem-
ber what line comes next.

Importing professional talent would have raised Seattle’s
production costs beyond the reasonable, so it was decided
best to form a summer opera company. Salesmen, students,
doctors turned out in surprising numbers for the audi-
tions. About sixty of them met the standards set down by
musical director Gustave Stern. Only a few of the sixty
were former professionals; yet, in three years, the com-
pany developed into one of the finest musical organizations
011 the Pacific Coast. It was an application of thc “do it
yourself” theory. No light opera group existed, so one was
developed. Superintendent of Seattle parks Paul V. Brown
believes that similar groups, with equal skill, can be formed
by other park agencies.

How large an appropriation is needed for a series such
as “Music Under the Stars”? Superintendent Brown sug-
gests a ratio of five to one—five thousand people benefited
for each one thousand dollars spent, or twenty cents per

'

beneficiary.

The formula is flexible, of course, and will vary with
local conditions. Seattle has found that its “concert ver-
sion” of light operas, using a narrator to “set” the stage
verbally, thus eliminating many costly props and much
scenery, can bc produced for less than twenty cents per
beneficiary. Other cities may need more.

But, says Mr. Brown, although the human body may bc
worth about thirty dollars chemically, the value of the
human spirit has never bcen calculated. Until it is, recrea—
tion must proceed upon the assumption that spiritual values
are beyond dollars and can be mcasured only in terms of
service to the individual. For those who want athletic rec-
reation, park agencies should provide the best possible fa-
cilities. For those who like community projccts, park
agencies should provide leadership.

And, for those who get release from daily tension

through music, park agencies should provide music under
the stars.

Recreation Leadership Training Programs—1952

Date
February 9

February 17-24
March (tentative)
March 13-15

March-April 12

April 1 (tentative)

April 4-5

April 13-17
April 16-18

April 17-24
April 20-26

April 25-May 3

488

(See January RECREATION for other listings)

Location

Cooperative Recreation Work-
shOp, University Settlement

Longhorn Recreation Laboratory,
Athens, Texas

University of Omaha Recreation

Workshop

Sixteenth Annual Recreation
Conference

New England Contra-Dance In-
stitute, Washington, Oregon,
California

Recreation Training School,

White Plains, New York

Kentucky Folk Festival,
University of Kentucky

Florida Park and Recreation
Training Institute, Highlands
Hammock State Park, Sebring

North Carolina State Church
Recreation Workshop, Greens-
boro, North Carolina

lhduhapi Recreation Lcadcrs
Laboratory, Loretto, Minnesota

Buckeye Recreation Workshop,
Urbana, Ohio

WorkShOp in School Camping
and Outdoor Education, Ver-
sailles State Park, lndiana

For Further Information
John Trostle, 340 Cherry Street, New York City

Captain Warren Knox, Route 4, Box 392, Austin,
Texas

E. F. Corr, University of Omaha, Omaha,
Nebraska

Lawrence V. Loy, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst

Bob Hagar, Central School Building, Tacoma,
Washington; Walter Grothe, 390 Liberty Street.

San Francisco 14; Ralph Page, 182 Pearl
Street, Keene, New Hampshire

Miss Vivian Wills, Westchester Recreation Com-
mission, Room 242, County Office Building,
White Plains, New York

James S. Brown, Rural Sociology Department,
University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky

R. L.. Fairing, Head, Department of Citizenship
Training, General Extension Division, University
of Florida, Cainesville

R. E. Fakkcma, Highland Presbyterian Church,
Fayetteville, North Carolina

Arthur Bell, Box 491, Minneapolis, Minnesota

R. Bruce T0111, Extension Sociologist, Ohio State
University, Columbus 10

Reynold E. Carlson, Indiana University Depart-
ment of Recreation, Bloomington, Indiana

RECREATION

COMPETITIVE ATHLETICS
FOR BOYS UNDER TWELVE

0 At the request of recreation execu-
tives participating in the session on
“Standards for Sports and Athletic
Programs,” at the National Recreation
Congress in Cleveland in October 1950,
a committee was appointed by the Na-
tional Recreation Association to con-
sider standards of organized competi-
tion in sports and athletics for boys
under twelve years of age. The com-
mittee was requested to study the prob-
lem and report its findings and recom-
mendations to the 1951 Congress.
Headed by F. S. Mathewson, Superin-
tendent of Recreation, Union County,
New Jersey, Park Commission, the
committee—womposed of twenty-four
recreation superintendents, directors
and college representatives—arranged
for the National Recreation Associa-
tion to distribute a questionnaire, in
the name of the committee, to all rec-
reation executives in the country. Its
purpose was to determine the general
competitive sports and athletic pro-
gram practices of recreation depart-
ments and the current thinking of
recreation executives on the various
aspects of competition for the under-
twelve age group.

Summary of Findings

On the basis of the 304 question-
naircs received and tabulated during
the period from July 16 to August 26,
1951, a number of findings can be
reported:

1. A heavy majority of recreation
departments approve competition on
either an intra-center or city-wide

FEBRUARY 1952

basis for a number
of activities, provided
these activities are
conducted with ade-
quate controls. It is
also clear that an
overwhelming pro-
portion of those re-
turning question-
naires are opposed to
state and national
competition at this
age level. State and
national competition
is most frequently re-
ported for softball,
baseball, basketball,
track and field, in the order named.

2. Most departments use some modi-
fication of playing areas for the major

sports. Wide variation in modifica-

' _..— 1,

tions is reported, a number of replies
simply noting “smaller fields and play-
ing areas.” For baseball, softball, bas-
ketball and football, many different
sizes of areas are reported in use. In
addition to these areas for major team
sports, reductions are reported by six
for volleyball, one for handball, three
for soccer, one for horseshoes, one for
hockey and one for tennis. Reduced
distances were mentioned by twenty
for track and field, by two for swim-
Ining and two for skating.

3. A majority of ’ departments say
that it is not the general practice for
teams in this age group to wear any
special uniform for 'intra-center or

A Survey

The majority of recreation executives were opposed to
any state and national competition at this age level.

city-wide competition. Even more di-
verse than the variations in playing
areas, however, are the arrangements

made for uniforms. Two hundred thir-
ty require no particular brands of sup-
plies or personal equipment. Fourteen
use “little league” equipment and five
designate equipment from specific
sporting goods manufacturers.

4. Among those departments report-
ing partial or full uniforms for some
or all activities, the greatest sources
of funds for the purchase of these
uniforms are from community and
business groups and local merchants.
Recreation budgets offer a very limited
sourcc. A clue as to the number of de-
partments actually having teams play-
ing with partial or full uniforms is
indicated by the answer to the ques-
tion: What happens to the uniforms at

489

 

the end of the season? One hundred
thirty-four replied that the boys return
the uniforms; thirty-seven said that
they keep them. There is no indication
as to the completeness of the uniforms.

5. Although a majority report de-
sirable results from having boys wear
uniforms, a considerable number feel
that special outfits have undesirable ef-
fects upon them, upon the extent of
participation and upon the boys not so
equipped. Those who were impressed
with the desirability of uniforming
teams gave such reasons as:

Gives more interest to the game and
adds inspiration.

Makes them feel more like ball play- '

ers.

Creates parent interest.

Achieves better cooperation; young-
sters are easier to handle and control.

Makes players proud of their uni-
forms. '

Makes them play better.

The substantial group of executives
opposed to uniforms said that the fol-
lowing effects on the boys were noted:

Players tend to think of themselves
as big shots.

Expect too much from leader and
public.

Do not want to play other games
without uniforms.

Uniforms spoil them.

These ill effects were noticed on
boys without uniforms. They:

Feel slighted.

Feel out of place and envious.

Become hard to handle and lose in-
terest.

Tend to be slovenly.

Sh0p around for teams with best
uniforms.

Leaders find it depressing, and cre-
ating bad habits.

6. Two out of three departments are
not part of any national tournament
or promotion campaign. More than
nine out of ten departments which do
participate in a national program say
that local teams and leagues are co-
sponsored. One hundred thirty depart-
ments report that local teams and
leagues of boys organized as part of a
national tournament or promotion
campaign use the public recreation fa-
cilities. F orty-four do not. Eighty-eight
sponsor such teams as a part of their

490

program. Of this group, eighty-five co-
sponsor the activity with other groups,
usually service or civic clubs. One
hundred forty-four instances of spon-
sorship by outside groups are reported.

7. Although community recreation
facilities are used extensively by teams
outside of the department, less than
ten per cent said that these groups
brought pressure for priority use of
the facilities. About the same number
said that too many outside groups
were jeopardizing the regular depart-
ment program by using the facilities
in competition with the department’s
program.

8. About one-third of the depart-
ments report admission charges or col-
lections taken at games connected with
national programs. Of this group,
more than three out of four depart-
ments do not share in the revenues.

9. About one in three departments
indicates that there is some kind of
participation from the community in
state and national baseball tourna-
ments. It is evident from the extent of
returns on the questionnaire and also
from the numerous comments given
for the approval or disapproval of state
and national competition that there is
considerable feeling over this part of
the organized athletic program for
boys under twelve. Numerous authori-
ties are quoted, with supporting evi«
dence from educational and medical
organizations frequently attached to
the questionnaires. Generally, those
who favor state and national competi-
tion cite these reasons:

Travel is good for the boys.

State and national competition serves
as an incentive.

State and national competition is de-
ve10ping at a fast rate. It is going to
exist and recreation departments should
get on the band wagon so that they
can control it as much as possible.

State and national promotions show
the local citizens just how important
athletics are for boys of this age. More
funds are then made available for this
purpose.

It is a good means of publicizing
the recreation department.

It brings a lot of volunteers into
the recreation program.

It is one of the most eHective means

of bringing together father and son
around a common interest.

Those who oppose state and national
competition for this age group insist
that these disadvantages outweigh any
advantages:

Such competition places too much
emphasis upon winning.

It is too expensive a program for the
relatively few boys it serves.

The boys are not mature enough
physically and emotionally to stand the
stress of this kind of competition.

Such programs stress specialization
rather than broad participation in a

variety of sports with greater carry-
over values.

It comes too early in the boy’s life

and gives him nothing to which he
may look forward.

Travel with too few and untrained
adults is difficult.

Youngsters are forced to compete
with adult standards.

Commercial sponsorship ignores
their fundamental welfare.

Such programs have no justification.

10. About one in five report that
the little league program is a part of
their community, and about one in
twelve recreation departments sponsor
local little leagues. Although this study
concerns sports and athletics in gen-
eral, it is perhaps inevitable that most
of the discussion centers around base-
ball. The phenomenal growth of the
little league program in the past few
years has brought recreationists and
educators face to face with the problem
of national competition for boys under
twelve. This current study indicates
that thirty-six out of 304 replying to
the questionnaire approve national
competition in baseball for boys of
this age group. The development of
baseball, since it was first recognized
“as the national game of the United
States” in 1872, by the magazine
Sports and Games, has certainly moved
in the direction of more and more in-
tensive competition for a lower and
lower age group. In recent years, 10-
cal recreation departments have con-
ducted more and more programs of
organized athletic competition for boys
of all ages. Practically every year-
round department sponsors baseball
lcagues for boys in the various age

RECREATION

brackets under seventeen. The promo-
tion of the little league program for
ten- or twelve-ycar-olds has raised a
number of problems in the whole field
of competitive athletics for boys of this
agc, which need investigation and
analysis.

11. Less than half of the depart-
ments report that young boys’ teams
playing in local intra-city competition
are commercially sponsored. It should

 

Intra-center and city-wide competitions
under adequate controls, were approved.

be pointed out that the questionnaire
does not include a definition of “com-
mercially sponsored.” It is possible
that there are several interpretations.
Recommendations on restrictions and
controls on commercial sponsorship
for both intra-city and state and na-
tional competition are requested. A
great variety of suggestions are made,
among them:

Have the recreation department run
the show.

Let the sponsors pay for uniforms,
equipment and fees only.

Limit the money that the sponsor
can spend.

Eliminate rewards for players.

Limit advertisements to the name
of the sponsor only.

Limit sponsorship to exclude liquor
establishments.

Limit uniforms or make them stand-

ard.

Do not permit sponsors to dictate
rules.

Operate under guidance and super-
vision of recreation departments.

Some of these problems lend them-
selves to objective study and conclu-
sions. For instance, it should be possi-
ble to reach agreement on standards
of playing areas and equipment for

FEBRUARY 1952

organized team play. A great need is
for the establishment of qualifications
and the training of voluntecr coaches.
The financing of competitive athletics
for boys of this age needs to be ex-
amined.

How much of the community recrea-
tion budget should go for a competi-
tive sports program for the under-
twelve group? Is it financially feasible
to have separate facilities for this age
group? Should community recreation
facilities be reserved exclusively for
adults during the evening hours? What
health and safety precautions should
be adopted for boys of this age? What
competitive athletic activities are ap-
propriate for their emotional and
physical skill and maturity?

These are a few of the areas which
need standarization, regardless of
whether the competition is on the local
playground, the school field or a na-
tional “World Series.” Recreation lead-
ers and educators might be able to
establish standards on most of these
matters without reference to any other
group. On some questions, the coopera-
tion of doctors and psychologists would
be desirable and necessary.

Beyond this there needs to be a re-
evaluation of the competitive athletic
program in relation to the philosophy
of the recreation movement. The recent
scandals in amateur sports give added
impetus for taking another look at the
philosophy of certain programs of com-
petitive athletics. The September issue
of the National Parent-Teacher maga-
zine carries an article on “Sportsman-
ship and Our Schools.” This begins
with the statement, “The apparent de-
cline of good sportsmanship in our
schools, both on the secondary and on
the college level, has been a matter of
grave concern to those who realize the
bearing of such matters on character

' development.” If, as educators insist,

the formative years of a child’s life
have great bearing upon his ethical
conduct as he matures, there is every
reason to be concerned about the ele-
mentary-aged child’s participation in
competitive athletics.

The question of specialization in a
particular activity at an early age is
partially a question of values and phil-
os0phy. Does a boy of twelve or un-
der lose some of the experiences which

society holds to be important by con-
centrating upon a single or a few play
activities? Does intensive competition
in a few athletic activities give a child
of this age the kind of experiences
which will satisfy his current play
needs and, at the same time, build a
foundation for the best and fullest use
of his leisure time as he matures?

These are questions of fact and
value, for which all recreation depart-
ments scek answers. If state and na-
tional competition is accepted, even by
a small group of public departments,
there are additional problems which
need investigation. What kind of pro-
visions should be made for travel?
How can the emotional and physical
health of the participants be protected?
What regulations should be adopted as
to sponsors? These are some sugges-
tions as to the kind of questions which
need to be answered if state and na-
tional competition is to continue.

During a discussion meeting on this
subject at the recent National Recrea-
tion Congress in Boston, October 1951,
a representative of one of the commer-
cial rubber companies stated that the
little league program now consists of
749 four-team leagues and that pro-
motion will be further extended
through the medium of a colored mo-
tion picture recently made. In connec-
tion with the tournament on the local
level, a show of hands indicated that
only six would be willing to allow it;
sixty-three were against it. The group
thereupon recommended that the Com-
mittee on Standards for Sports and
Athletic Programs be continued to fur-
ther its study, and that its members
meet with representatives of health,

physical education and medical asso-
ciations.

.Following this recommendation, the
committee called a meeting in De-
cember 1951, with representatives of
little league baseball and of the
AAHPER. Ott Romney, Chief, Com-
munity Services Branch, Special Serv-
ices Division, AGO, Department of the
Army, was also asked to attend. Plans
have been made for further cons'ulta-
tion with organizations on mental and
physical health to see if they will con-
duct studies to determine the effect
of competitive athletics upon children
in the under-twelve age group.

491

Illustrating the importance of music in program.

DEVELOPMENTS IN

01%: WOULD SUPPOSE that the musical preferences of thc
soldiers of today would be more or less identical
with those of the general public. lf visitors to military in-
stallations expect to find be-bopping, jive-jumping barracks
atmosphere, they are due for a pleasant surprise. The
musical tastes of today’s draftee undergo a definite change
during his metamorphosis from civilian to soldier. As a
soldier, he generally chooses to sing slower and swecter
melodies, leaving the neurotic turbulence of be-bop behind

him. He prefers “Mockingbird Hill” and “On Top of Old
Smoky” to “Dinah” and “Idaho.”

Changes in musical preference displayed by military per-
sonnel have been noticed before. During World War ll, a
survey, conducted by the Special Services Division, re-
vealed that the mean tempo of music requested by service-
men dropped gradually throughout the conflict. This phe-
nomenon preceded a correSponding slow-down in the
civilian entertainment field. The general musical tastes of
the public were probably affected for many months after
demobilization began.

Sociologists account for the preference of a soldier for
more soothing types of music by explaining that he is so-
cially in an environment which provides certain desirable
securities. At least, he is sure of a regular income and has
left behind him the uncertainties which he felt as a draftee.

The Special Services Division may have figured in the
most reccnt musical slow-down of the Army. During the
spring of 1949, the Army officially joined hands with the
Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of

Barber Shop Quartet Singing in America, Incorporated,
(SPEBSQSA) in an eHort to introduce barbershOp quartet

singing into the recreation activities of our servicemen.

The Army-SPEBSQSA collaboration program has de-

veloped from limited liaison among top-level representa-

tives of Army and SPEBSQSA to a widesprcad matrix of
contacts among SPEBSQSA and Army personnel, involv-
ing technical assistance and personal appearances of

SPEBSQSA units at Army post and unit levels.
Liaison has been recently established by the Special

 

AUTHOR is chief of the Music Unit, Special Services Divi-
sion, 0,6506 0] Adjutant General, Department 0] the Army.

492

Services Division with several othcr national music or-
ganizations. The number of civilian organizations which
have volunteered to assist in the devclopment of the Soldicr
Music Program is quite imposing. Included with the Na-

' tional Recrcation Association are the National Music Coun-

cil, the Music Educators National Conference, Broadcast
Music, Incorporated, Amcrican Society of Composers,
Authors, and Publishers, American Guild of Organists, Phi
Beta Fraternity, American Symphony Orchestra League,
Music Publishers Protective Association and the National
Federation of Music Clubs. And the list is growing!

The reserve of available volunteer leadership throughout
the civilian organization is plentiful. With over five hun-
dred thousand active members in nearly every city and
hamlet in the nation, every Army post, camp or station has
technical assistance near at hand for the asking.

Technical assistance may include, but need not be lim-
ited to, the compilation of program notes, the selection of
recordings for libraries in service clubs and day-rooms,
the repair of music instruments, the care and tuning of
camp pianos, the organization of vocal or instrumental
musical enscmbles, the conduct of song fests and many
other services, as the need becomes evident.

Many of the national organizations will supplement the
present and future on-post entertainment programs by of-
fering to post special services officers highly qualified
musical shows, concerts and recitals. Package shows may
include single specialty acts for blending into musical
revues after they arrivc on the military post. They may
include disc-jockey programs for presentation in service
clubs or libraries, music appreciation programs, folk en-
sembles of the hillbilly or Negro spiritual types and re-
citals by amateurs or professionals. They may consist of
symphony orchestra concerts, concerts by professional
ensembles or performances by students from nearby high
schools or schools of music.

The principle of maximum use of volunteer leadership
is a basic axiom of the Army recreation program and per-
meates all phases of soldier music activitics. The reason
for the support of this policy is that it is desirable to make
the program an integral part of the soldier’s lifc, rather
than an imposed commodity which ceases to exist when
professional leadership on the Operational level is unavail-

RECREATION

0LDIER MUSIC

.

able. When the conveniences of garrison life, including
motion picture theatres and service clubs, are taken from
him, the soldier is left to his own entertainment resources.
Experience gained in field maneuvers shows that he is
eager to use his talents and abilities to entertain himself
and his fellow-soldiers.

It is the purpose of the soldier music planning staff to
discover and make maximum use of volunteer leadership,
both from within and outside the military community. U11-
der professional staff supervision, soldiers have recognized
the valuc of the Soldier Music Program and have actively
participated in its many activities.

Thc service club on the Army post is the ccntcr for this
program. Soldier music includes comprehensive vocal
(soldier singing), listening (soldier concert series) and in-
strumental activities. These basic elements of thc installa-
tion and civilian-level Soldier Music Program are included
in the special services officer’s plan of Operation.

Garrison and field living conditions make an abundance
and a variety of entertainment desirable. In contrast to
commercial entertainment, which is difficult to provide un-
der ficld conditions, Soldier Music Programs depend large-
ly upon the self-participation of the soldicr. The program,
in its ideal concept, and as advocated by the Adjutant
General, consists of having organizers appointed who carry
on their musical assignments in addition to their regular
military duties and who know the best liked soldier tunes
and unit songs. For example, every platoon should have an
enthusiastic song leader and a campfire instrumentalist.
Every company, or similar unit, should have a music or-
ganizer, a barbershop quartet, or other small vocal en-
semble and, when possible, a day-room with phonograph
and rccordings. Every battalion should have a music or-
ganizer to promote a combo (small combination of in-
struments) or a hillbilly band, platoon singing contests
and barbershop quartet parades. Every regiment should
have a regimental music organizer to promote a dance
band, soldier chorus, music festivals for hillbilly bands,
combos and barbershop quartets. Candidates are readily

available as platoon, company, battalion or regimental ‘

n1usic organizers and know that such functions are in addi-
tion to other assigned duties. Under the technical super-
vision of the recreation director, these men are not neces-

FEBRUARY 1952

 

Clarence L. Mills, Captain AGC

' i‘ EM CLUB
NCO CLUB
OFFICES Clue

OFFICERS L‘tl :

Service clubs on the army posts are centers for the Soldier
Music Program. Above, bulletin board in Sonthofcn, Germany.

sarily musicians, but “sparkplug” organizers who handle
unit contacts and inspire participation.

At a recent Sixth Army entertainment conference, the
activity which attracted the most interest was the new com-
prehensive listening program—the Soldier Concert Series.
Its objective is to stimulate active listening to music
on the part of soldier participants by presenting a series
of carefully-selected programs in all categories of musi-
cal entertainment. These includc, but are not limited to,
popular, semi-classical and classical, vocal and instru-
mental music. The presentations arc conducted in such an
cntertaining manner as to attract the soldier’s interest and
to encourage and obtain his continuing participation.
Listening to music, as well as active participation in musi-
cal organizations, can contribute immensely toward the
stimulation and maintenance of the morale and welfare of
the soldier. And, as can also be said of sports, music has the
advantage of universal appeal. Active listening can be at-
tained by presenting, in conjunction with musical pro-
grams, relevant and interesting information pertaining to
the composer, the music or the performers. The enjoyment
derived from each presentation is thereby intensified,

493

changing listening from a passive to an active experience
which will cause the audience to listen rather than simply
to hear.

Stimulation of active listening to music is accomplished
only through programs of real musical enjoyment. These
programs are not designed to elevate musical taste or to
foster an appreciation of “better” music. Any well-planned
and presented series of musical entertainments could un-
doubtedly broaden the musical awareness of the partici-
pant; but the establishment of musical culture as the
immediate goal would probably result in a dulling at-
mosphere.

Generally, the programs proceed from the known or
familiar to the unknown or less familiar. Careful selection
is, of course, of paramount importance to such programs.

Next to the actual choice of selections, the prime requi-
site of music for enjoyment is a high performance stand-
ard. These standards refer to taste, fineness, showmanship
and technical perfection within the musical limits of the
idiom involved, whether the presentation be a simple folk
song, a Tin Pan Alley ballad or a symphonic masterpiece.

Three sources of music constitute the media for the
presentation of the Soldier Concert Series. They may be
used singly or in combination and include phonograph
recordings, film musicals and live entertainment. The basic
element of the series is recorded music, since it is most
widely available to troops. However, every effort should
be made to include one film musical in each program and

Special Service 011enings

New quotas for overseas recreation personnel recently
have been announced. The most urgent need is for women
for special service club work in the Japanese area. Some
may be sent to Korea, but only those who volunteer for
this specific location. The following qualifications are re-
quired.

Age: Twenty-four to forty.

Marital Status: Single.

Health: Good.

Enthusiasm: High.

Education: College graduate or equivalent.

Interests: Arts and crafts, music, drama or social rec-
reation.

Experience: Varying for different positions.

Civilian women also are needed for club work in other
overseas areas. Applications on Form 57—available free
from any post oHice—should be sent to Overseas Affairs
Branch, Civilian Personnel Division, Office, Secretary of
the Army, Old Post Office Building, Washington 25, D.C.

Women, ages twenty-four to forty-five, are in demand,
too, for club positions at posts and bases in all parts of
the United States. Information concerning all special serv-
ice opportunities may be obtained from the Recreation
Personnel Service, National Recreation Association, 315

Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.
494

at least one live artist in each series of programs. Each
medium enjoys general popularity with the average soldier,
which indicates the validity of the program as a whole.

Nominated by many Army recreation personnel as the
one most important innovation of its kind is the new
“Armed Forces Song Folio” (formerly called the “Hit
Kit”). This booklet contains eight popular tunes arranged
for piano, with tuning charts and chords for ukelcle. A
barbershop quartet arrangement also appears in each edi-
tion. On the back cover of the folios are production notes
for a theatrical presentation of one of the eight selections.
Orchestrations of song folio numbers are shipped concur-
rently to all Army installations. Requests for additional
copies of these booklets have been so numerous during
the past months that allocations to commands, beginning
July 1951, have been increased one hundred per cent.

The basic need of the American soldier-musician for as-
sociation with musical affairs—the need to feel a part of
an important activity which he knew in his home environ-
ment—cannot be minimized. For this reason, it is con-
sidered advisable to bring soldier-musicians into the social
life of civilian communities, where opportunities can be
provided for participation in civilian musical organiza-
tions. Civilian groups——organizations, orchestras, bands.
church choirs, fraternal orders and so on—wby being con-
tinually on the alert to invite military musicians to par-
ticipate in their activities can, in this way, do much to
create a friendly soldier-civilian atmosphere.

YOUR
1952 CONGRESS

 

0 Circle the dates of September 29 to October 3 on your
calendar. They mark the 1952 National Recreation Con-
gress to be held in Seattle, Washington. The Olympic Ho-
tel already has been selected as Congress headquarters.

A local arrangements committee of Seattle and King
County recreation leaders is beginning plans for special
features which will remind delegates for years of what
western hospitality really means.

Your Congress committee is busily working out a bet-
ter-than-ever program for this important event. It would
like to have your suggestions so that meetings and sessions
can feature the t0pics in which you are most interested.
If you haven’t yet submitted your ideas, please send them,
as promptly as possible, to T. E. Rivers, Secretary, Recrea-
tion Congress Committee, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York

10, New York.

RECREATION

 

The hunger for natural beauty expresses a basie human need.
State and_ national parks are best equipped to meet that need,
perpetuating such intnnsie beauty for the enjoyment of all.

All park reereation leaders should eneourage individuals and
groups to take full advantage of out-of-door Opportunities,
and engage in aetwntles In line with natural surroundings.

FEBRUARY 1952

 

RECREATION

LEADERSHIP
(a State PW

Nelson Dangremond

EECREATION LEADERS, park admini-

strators and many lay people have, in the
past, become involved in discussions of the fundamental
purpose of the state in making available park areas for
the use and enjoyment of its citizens.

In more recent years, there has been general agreement
that “state parks must perpetuate for all time the outstand-
ing scenic, historic and natural areas of the state in their
original condition.” If this statement were taken to its ulti-
mate end, fences would need to be placed around all state
parks and the public would be forbidden access. Very
logically, a clause has been added to this policy of preser-
vation . . . “for the use and enjoyment of the people for
all time.” The questions now arise as to what “use,” type
of “enjoyment” and methods of attaining these ends.

Herein lies possible controversy. Recreation leaders,
trained in dealing with the leisure-time interests of people,
believe in diversified recreation Opportunities for all age
groups. They know they must satisfy all levels of interest
through the use of functional or direct leadership. A muni-
cipal recreation program endeavors to provide the greatest
possible variety of recreation activity. A person trained in
this broad field will be prone to use the same activities
and methods when employed in a state park program.

On the other hand, state park leaders point out that
extraneous activities not compatible with a natural en-
vironment should be discouraged, if not eliminated, in a
state park program. These leaders also point out that their
facilities are designed for use by those who wish to escape
the pressures of organized society in the restful surround-
ings of a natural area, and do not wish to be supervised
or have their activity organized.

There will be no controversy if both can agree that the
human hunger for natural beauty exPresses a basic human

495

 

need and that state and national parks
are best equipped to meet this need.

State parks have a fundamentally-
solid program based upon sound ob-
jectives. It is a highly specialized
form of recreation and an essential
one to man’s existence. Historically,
man is a pastoral animal and needs
contact with the good earth to be able
to live in a modern society.

For untold centuries, he has lived
close to the earth and, up to modern
times, has been able to satisfy his in-
herent need for experiences in the
outLOf-doors. In this twentieth cen-
tury, he has been divorced from such
experiences and has become the vic-
tim of his own imaginative mind.
Civilization is made up of machines
and relationships which are constantly
changing with every passing year.
Natural beauty and varied experi-
ences in nature never change. Man
now seeks the security of these natural
surroundings but knows not why. In
a feeble effort to satisfy this basic
urge, he comes to a state park with
softball equipment in one hand and a
picnic basket in the other. He is ut-
terly lost when he gets out of sight
of paved roads and well-trimmed
lawns. He needs help to bridge this
gap between familiar activities and his
outdoor heritage. He must learn to
give—to share with nature—and re-
turn refreshed from healthy out-door
eXperiences.

Indiana state parks express this
vieWpoint on each of the trail maps

distributed to park guests as they en-
ter the park.

“Along the quiet trails through these
reservations, it is expected that the
average citizen will find release from

196

Peaceful state park
seene seems far re-
moved from worries.

the tension of his overcrowded daily
existence; that the contact with nature
will refocus with a clearer lens his
perspective on life’s values, and that
he may here take counsel with him-
self to the end that his strength and
confidence are renewed.”

In a state park program, recreation
leadership must be the connecting link

. between the individual and the natu-

ral environment. Such leadership must
be of an interpretive nature and must
promote activities which encourage in-
dividuals and groups to make the full-
est use of their contact with the out-of-
doors. An accepted activity should not
be an end in itself. Each activity must
be judged in its relationship to this
sound thesis.

ln order to effect the transition from
city to forest, it is essential that initial
meetings with nature be in a familiar
atmosphere with many familiar activi-
ties.

It is a fundamental approach in all
recreation activities to start with one
that is familiar in order to lead on‘
through an ever-changing pattern to
the point where other fields of interest
may logically be introduced. State
parks utilize this principle when they
provide facilities and services—-sueh
as well-landscaped public-use areas,
open areas for sports, playground
equipment, paved roads and modern
cabins. Such facilities, along with
many varied activities, are not the end
objective. They are permitted and en-
eouraged because they appeal to the
familiar and thus tend to make the
state park program attractive and in-
viting.

The use of extraneous facilities and
activities cannot be determined by a

positive yes or no. Their use can only
be determined by their relative im-
portance to the basic objective. If
such activities as softball, swimming
and shuHIeboard become the major
emphasis, the basic state park program
has failed.

State parks have accepted and used
recreation leadership, but not neces-
sarily under the name of recreation.
Some of the following will serve as
examples.

A state park program is a super-
vised recreation program. Lifeguards,
attendants, rangers, naturalists, fore-
men as well as superintendents, are
all concerned with the supervision and
control of the recreation activities of
park guests.

All activities in which the park
patron participates are under leader-
ship—if carried on for more than one
person at'a time. After all, a picnic
group has a father, mother, or volun-
teer, who serves as the leader and
supervisor. Other groups may have a
counsellor or a school teacher for
supervision. Even “unled” teen-agers
have a leader. Unless these natural
leaders are helped, how can they be
expected to utilize the program possi-
bilities of a natural area to their full-
est extent?

The group unfamiliar with the pro-
gram possibilities of a state park will
obviously carry on the type of activity
with which the leaders are familiar.
This may include low organization
games or a series of variegated track
events, which are quite all right—in
and of themselves. But how much bet-
ter it is to encourage activities which
may or may not include the above, but
do include simple, interesting and
active programs which involve ob-
servation and awareness of the natu-
ral features and science of the area.

There has been some concern re-
garding the danger of rcgimented
leadership in state parks. This con-
cern has arisen because of the use of
leadership unfamiliar with the concept
of state parks, and the assumption that

any park leadership or guidance in

———_..______________
MR. DANGREMOND, Supervisor of Rec-

reation, Department of Conservation
in Indiana, based his artiele on his ad-
dress to Midwest State Park Assoeia-
tion members, Spring Mill State Park.

RECREATION

recreation activity must be direct lead-
ership. Some of the most effective and
most difficult leadership is indirect.
Good recreation technique does not im-
ply reginlentation. Perhaps one of the
best approaches may be classed as
“enabling leadership.” Most state
parks endorse this type and, of necessi-
ty, regimented leadership—particular-
ly in the ease of a water safety pro-
gram, where a lifeguard can hardly
be expected to “suggest” if a man’s
life is in jeopardy.

It has been proved, to the satisfac-
tion of the Indiana State Park Natu-
ralist Service, that the best naturalist
is one who has developed a recreation-
al approach to his work. Such a trained
leader is sensitive to the initial inter-
ests of the group with which he is
working and can use good recreation
methods to enhance the quality and
carry-over value of his program.

A park recreation leader does not
have to be a naturalist, but he must
be versed in the basic sociological and
psychological needs, and
habits of people in their leisure time.
He must believe in the values of out-
door experiences. The park superin-
tendent calls upon the engineer to de-
sign a bridge and the landscape archi-
tect to enhance the natural beauty of
an area through good design. So should
he call upon the specialized knowl-
edge of the recreation profession bet-
ter to serve the park guest through the

interests

STATE
and .
COMMUNITY r £ij
FORE STS q

application of recreation techniques in
the fulfillment of the primary purpose
of state parks.

The knowledge and background of
naturalists and guides, trailside muse-
urns, motion pictures, illustrated talks,
trail maps, self-guiding nature trails
and other accepted devices are essen-
tial. These and related types of inter-
pretive programs are too numerous to

discuss, but more, many more, are
needed.

Such programs pay dividends over
a period of years. Unfortunately, it
is easy to neglect an interpretive recrea-
tion program since the results are so

difficult to. evaluate and so particularly ,

hard to justify to a money-conscious
legislature. But, if state parks are to
fulfill their obligation to society, they
cannot ignore this vital service. State
park systems which are carrying out
even a token of interpretive recrea-
tional work are earning the satisfying
commendation of citizens who realize
that their needs are being met. Such
people talk about their state parks.
Such people know state park objectives
and will not permit desecration of the
scenic qualities of an area. Such peo-
ple will be the first to step forward
when it comes to needed appropria-
tions. Uninformed peeple will be com-
placent.

The state park administrator has
learned that recreation leadership must
be the connecting link between the in-

dividual’s stated interests and the
healthy use of the large natural area.
He knows that recreation is not just
physical activity on the sports field or
children’s programs on a playground.
He knows that state parks are not es-
sentially for the use of the relatively
few who already know how to use
fully the rich experiences of scenic
areas. He knows that the knowledge
of handling people in their leisure time
is a specialized skill, and is willing to
call upon the recreation profession for
assistance in reaching all of the people
with a sound, interpretive recreation
program.

The recreation leader has learned
that state parks have a specialized
function to perform and that most
highly-organized activities must be
secondary to the more important ob-
jective of satisfying a basic hunger
for natural beauty. He knows that he
must maintain an abiding love of the
out-of-doors in order to help maintain
perspective. He knows that a state
park must perpetuate the intrinsic
beauty of outstanding natural areas
for the use and enjoyment of the peo-
ple forever.

With this mutual respect and under-
standing, state park administrators
and recreation leaders will work to-
gether to effect a positive state park
program that will be rich in content
and result in meaningful eXperiences
for park guests.

A marked increase in the acquisition of state and community forests during
the past decade is revealed by a report of the chief of the Forest Service. Every
state now has some forest acreage—although the amount in some states is very
small. In fact, three-fourths of all state forest acreage is in four states—Michi-
gan with 3,860,000 acres, New York with forests and parks totaling 3,026,000
acres, Minnesota with 2,094,000 acres and Pennsylvania with 1,767,000 acres.

These lands serve a variety of purposes. Some, especially the smaller ones,
are devoted wholly to recreational use; others are hunting grounds. In some,
watershed protection is paramount; while still others are managed for timber
production. Most of them, however, are administered on a multiple-use basis.

In 1949, the number of community forests had risen to 3,125 and the ag-
gregate area to just under 4,500,000 acres. Only five states have no community
forests, although twenty-two states have less than ten each. Wisconsin leads
with 321 tracts, followed by Michigan and New York.

Community forests are usually smaller than state forests, but they are man-
aged for similar purposes. Many are devoted primarily to recreational use.
Schools or school districts have acquired many forest tracts to serve as out-
door laboratories for the study of biology and conservation. Cities often buy
extensive areas to protect municipal water supplies. Since the war, many com-
munities have established community forests as living memorials.

FEBRUARY 1952

497

Sources of Material

for Cultural

and Recreational

Programs

WHEN I WAS asked to make this
talk on “Sources of Suitable Ma-
terial for Cultural and Recreational
Programs,” I thought I had a cinch!
I’d just tell you all about the hundreds
of books, bulletins and other publica-
tions of the National Recreation
Association, recommend our fine maga-
zine RECREATION—and the job would
be done! Then I began to think about
this topic, “sources.” What did it
really mean? Was it really so easy to
define? The best answer to that was
to look it up in the dictionary! The
origin of words is very often an ex-
cellent clue to their inner meaning,
sometimes lost in everyday usage.
Did you know that “source” comes
from medieval English and old
French and means “to rise, to spring
up,” and that it also can mean “to
plunge, to swoop”? Finding sources,
then, isn’t an easy, passive thing. It
involves plunging into all the accumu-
lated knowledge found in libraries and
other centers of information. It in-
volves swooping upon new ideas,
wherever they may be found. It means

498

Joseph Prcndergast

springing up with your own spirits re-
freshed and your enthusiasm renewed.
And, to be effective, this new infor-
mation, inspiration and enthusiasm
must run over into your work, be
translated into a better understanding
of your young pe0ple and a better op-
portunity for them to lead richer
lives.

Emerson has said that “Beauty is
its own excuse for being.” Perhaps
so. But for beauty to exist, there
must be eyes to see it and hearts to
feel it. Recreation, like beauty, does
not exist in a vacuum. It is tremen-
dously important~—but important be-
cause of what it does for people. Like
most things, it can be good or bad.
Putting a paintbrush or a lump of
clay or a basketball into a boy’s hands
isn’t necessarily important. Being an
expert instructor or leader in arts and
crafts, music, dramatics, or sports
doesn’t necessarily have any particu-
lar influence for good upon the boys
and girls of your center.

Once upon a time, such a statement
would have been regarded as heresy in

the field of recreation. More and
more, we now realize that activity for
its own sake and the mere teaching of
new skills are not enough. What is
important is what that activity, that
new skill does for a person. The end
result—the painting, the piece of
sculpture, the game won—doesn’t mat-
ter, only the intangibles—the satis-
faction of accomplishment, the feeling
of belonging, the new personal rela-
tionships, the satisfying of inner drives,
the increase in perception and ap-
preeiation, the better adjustment to his
environment that that person receives.

And that brings me back to our
main topic, because the main source
for suitable material for cultural and
recreational programs is——yourself!

Mere knowledge, mere skill is not
enough. Even love is not enough.
Love can be misguided and misused.
You’ve got to have knowledge and
skills and love if you’re to be a real
leader, but you must also have under-
standing. Perhaps intuition or feeling
is a better word for it. It’s the ability
to see below the surface—to know
when to plunge and when to spring
up. Feeding the spirit is much more
important than training the body.

Understanding is knowledge that
has been digested and absorbed, which
brings me to my second point: Where
can you get this knowledge that you
must translate into understanding be-
fore you can be not just a good, but
an effective, leader?

First of all, you must go to the past,
upon which the present is built. There
you’ll find the results of long years
of study and experimentation, upon
which our modern theory and philoso-
phy of recreation are based. Read A
Philosophy of Play, by Luther Hal-
sey Gulick. Read Education Through

Play, by L. P. Jacks. Read Play in
Education, by Joseph Lee.

You’ve all read American history.
But how many of you have read a his-
tory of play in our country? Find out
about it by reading America Learns
to Play, by Foster Rhea Dulles. And
follow it up with Jesse Steiner’s
Americans at Play. Then read Twenty

Years at Hull House, by Jane Addams
and The Making of An American, by

Jacob Riis—and be proud of your
profession. Many of these books were

RECREATION

out of print during the war, but they’rc
in most libraries.

Then go into theory. What is play?

Why do pe0ple play? Read The
Theory of Play, by Mason and Mitchell

and Leisure and Recreation, by the
Neumeyers.

Learn about the importance and the
values of leisure and recreation by
reading Edward Lindeman’s Leisure:
A National Issue, Slavson’s Recreation

and the Total Personality, and John
Eisele Davis’ Play and Mental Health.

These, plus many others, of course,
might be called the nuggets in the
gold mine of literature in our pro-
fession. Don’t neglect the pay dirt,
however. As you read, and as your
interest and understanding begin to
soar, go to the periphery of the circle.
Read books on your special skill or
interest. Then go more afield and read
books on other special phases. Learn
more about them—the history of the
theatre, the modern drama movement,
music, the arts, both classic and
modern, sports, crafts. The more you
know of the others, the better leader

you’ll be in your own special skill or
interest and the more understanding

you’ll deve10p. If you’re a sports
lcader, you’ll lose some of your im-
patience with youngsters who don’t
seem to like sports. If you’re a crafts
leader, you’ll learn to be more tolerant
of the youngsters who spend much
time on the gym Hoor.

Then, of course, you’ll have to read
and keep on reading as much of the
new material on your own specialty as
possible. Selection of these is always
a problem, so I advise you to read
book reviews carefully, to browse at
your public library and local book-
stores, so that your critical values will

sharpen and you’ll get the best for
your money.

I’ve mentioned literature on philoso-
phy, history, theory, and techniques.
1 could not leave you without trying
to cmphasize another type of reading
—and understanding that is very im-
portant. It may seem unrelated to rec-
reation, but I assure you that it is not.
And the type of reading to which 1
refer is on current events—in the news-
papers, magazines, books and 'so on.
Take, for example, this problem of

FEBRUARY 1952

civil defense. Perhaps you haven’t
thought of how it affects your work.
Yet your agency may be called upon
to extend its program because of a new
industry in the community or a train-
ing camp nearby or a new housing
development. The nationality groups
using your center may change—all
factors directly influencing your work
and effectiveness.

So far, I seem to have talked mostly
about printed material, old and new.
I don’t want to neglect other types,
however—types which you may not

have used as widely or as well as you
should. What about films? There are
hundreds of films now being used

more and more widely in the education
field, and capable of use in our field
of recreation. What about radio and
television? Are you using these media,
or letting them use you? What about
records? Your files and scrapbooks

 

An address given by Mr.
Prendergast, executive di-
rector of the National
Recreation Association, at
the third National Catho-
lic Youth Conference in
Cincinnati, Ohio.

should include catalogues and lists of
these, with annotations—which means

that you should see and hear your
material before choosing it.

A profession is known by the tech-
niques which it develops in an area of
learning. The more important the
profession, the more and better litera-
ture it produces. Go into a lawyer’s
office and you’ll see the walls lined
with books. Look at a doctor’s library
or upon the bookshelves of a scientist
or college professor. Our profession is
a relatively new one, and one of the
encouraging signs of its health is the
increasing literature that it is pro-
ducing. Those of us in this profession
must be willing to read and purchase
this literature, if we expect it to con-
tinue to grow. In other words, we
must be willing to support it; other-
wise it won’t be published.

We must also add to it. Many of

us are doers. We are used to doing
things—using our hands and bodies
actively—and we’re often too busy in
our work to take time to sit down and
write. And yet, many of your people
here have deve10ped new techniques
which would help other leaders,
planned special programs which are
original and exciting, designed new
crafts projects, thought up new
methods of coaching. It’s part of your
job to pass these along. There are
many outlets for such material in the
various professional magazines. Our
magazine RECREATION would welcome

such contributions.

The last, and not the least of re-
sources of increased understanding, is
not found in printed or in visual-aid
form. It is human and therefore the
most interesting of all—other pe0ple!
Take time to talk to them—the butcher,
the baker, the candlestick maker, the
boy and girl in your center, the child
in your home or on your street. And
don’t just talk—listen! Don’t be so
wrapped up in your own interests and
your own work that conversation with
you almost is a monologue. Relax and
listen! You can learn more about what
people like and dislike, their fears,
their faiths, their dreams—what they
are really like—by quietly listening
than by any other method. Interpret
what you hear with tolerance, under-
standing and a real affection—and
your work will have added strength.

It is my firm conviction that only
by giving can we receive. The more
we have to give, the more generously
we give of ourselves, the greater the
rewards of inner strength and in-
ner growth will be ours. Read John
Donne’s great poem with its often-
quoted lines: “No man is an island,
complete in itself . . . Never ask for
whom the bell tolls. It tolls for thee.”

And if I may be permitted to quote
a Protestant minister: “Character is a
victory, not a gift.” The world—its
past, present and future—is full of
inspiration and help to us in living
richer lives and helping others to
reach out for_ new horizons. The
sources are many and varied. Whether
we use those sources wisely and well
is the factor between success and
failure, not in the monetary meaning

of the words, but in life itself.

499

HE CITY OF CINCINNATI, in Ohio, was

host to the fIrst Children’s Inter-
national Summer Village, held at St.
Edlnund’s Camp, one of the city’s es—
tablished camps. This project was an
“experiment in living” whereby,
through the children’s camping to-
gether, new insights into the problems
of international understanding might
be found. This initial attempt was ex-
perienced by fifty-four children from
nine different countries—namely, Nor-
way, Sweden, Denmark, Germany,
Austria, France, England, Mexico and
the United States. Each country was
represented by three boys and three
girls between the ages of ten and
twelve, with one man and one woman
acting as adult chaperons and inter-
preters for their group. Since Cincin-
nati was the host city, the six Ameri-
can children were selected from the
Cincinnati school systems upon the
basis of being outstanding students
with pleasing personalities, high moral
standards, leadership qualities and the
ability to learn quickly. In addition,
each had to represent a different reli-
gious and social background.

To select the young delegates from
the foreign countries, an American
representative for the project went
abroad to make the necessary arrange-
ments in cities chosen at random. In
some places, she met with peOple
familiar with the project; in others,
she had to decide whether to plan
with the school system or with in-
terested individuals who would form
the committees which would choose the
youngsters to represent their countries.
Each group—of some eight to tcn peo-
ple—had its own method of selection,
although the basic qualifications were
the same everywhere. Several commit-
tees, such as the one in Stockholm, pre—
ferred Cincinnati’s method of selecting
the six best qualified children from the
list of candidates submitted by its vari-
ous schools.

The camp Operated for the month
of June, during which time the chil-
dren lived, played and worked to—
gethcr, exchanging customs and dances
of their respective countries.

The idea, plans and organization

 

MISS SCHRODER serves the Public Rec-
reation Commission of Cincinnati as
supervisor of community activities.

500

 

Ingolf Stahl, Swedish editor of the Summer Village newspaper, expressed in youthful
way his idea for a better world; Barbara Crosby copies it for her Ameriean friends.

Children’s International Village

Mary Jo Schroder

necessary for such an undertaking were
initiated and motivated by Dr. Doris
Twitchell Allen, a member of the psy-
chology department of the University
of Cincinnati. Interestcd educators and
individual citizens soon caught her
spirit and aided in the promotion and
realization of this one-time dream.
The experiment, financed by voluntary
contributions from private groups and
individuals, paid in full all cxpenses of
all thc delegatcs to and from their
countries as Well as during their stay
in the United States. In addition, it
paid the normal operating cost of the
camp.

The Cincinnati Public Recreation
Department, through its nature and
camping staff, participated in the pro-
gram by highlighting American Indian
lorc, dancing and legends. The young-
sters were spellbound by the new cx-
periencc of learning authentic Indian
dancing, making their own costumes,
tom-toms, peace pipes, rattlcs and so
on—all ‘phases typical of the ancient
culturc of the Amcrican Indian. Likc-
wise, tlIcy were fascinated by the art

of rope-spinning because they had al-
rcady become captivated by the “HOp-
a-long Cassidy” intcrests of young
Americans.

The girls from most of the foreign
countries were particularly intrigued
by the American game of “Jacks,”
which is played so differently in Swe-
den and France. III their countries,
“Jacks” is played without a ball, but
with six odd-shaped solid objects
about the sizc of ping-pong balls. One
of these has to be thrown into the air
and caught beforc it touches the
ground.

Especially noteworthy was the basic
skill of the foreign children in swim-
ming. In Eur0pean countries, the
breast-stroke scems to bc taught as
basic stroke, probably becausc of its
usefulness in life-saving. These chil-
dren found much novelty and enjoy-
ment in our ovcrarm, back and sidc
strokes.

American children in thcir free time
like to do social dancing; whercas
thcir European fricnds prcferrcd folk
dancing and grcatly enjoyed learning

RECREATION

Youngster, on first visit to America is
fascmatcd by costume of first American.

American square dances.

Lastly, it was gratifying to hear all
the groups from each of the nine
countries singing, in their native
tongues, such familiar tunes as “Auld
Lang Syne” and Brahms’ “Lullaby.”

Obviously, the chief aim of the vil-
lagc was attained. It was quite notice-
able during the first few days of camp-
ing that the children from each coun-
try segregated themselves from other
groups. Soon, however, when choosing
sides, they selected players on the basis
of ability rather than nationality. Likc-
wise, during free periods, boys and
girls alike were eager to learn soc-
cer from their Scandinavian friends,
cricket from their English pals, the
crawl, softball and square dancing
from their American collcagues. Lan-
guage differences presented no prob-
lems. At the end of the month, all
campers had lived and played har-
moniously together. The once en-
chanted American way had become a
reality to them. On the last day of
camp, many tears were shed because
the children wished to remain in
America. The following comment truly
eXpressed their feelings: “We would be
willing to sell our clothes so that we.
could stay at least one week longer in
your wonderful country.”

The Cincinnati Recreation Depart-
lnent itself was host to the Swedish
chaperon, Captain Eric Thor, a super-
visor of recreation in the city of Stock-

A bit of Denmark in Cincinnati. A folk
dance exchange was the order of the day.

holm. During a personally-conducted
tour, various phases of the recreation
program -—~ maintenance, construction
and activities of community centers
and playgrounds—-—-were observed and
explained. The reciprocal experiences
and exchange of program ideas typical
of Stockhohn vs. Cincinnati were re-
freshing and challenging to all.
Through Cincinnati’s “youthful ex-
periment in living,” it is hoped that
this first step taken by the United
States may contribute, in some small
way, to the end of international prob-
lems and the start of eventual peace.
Each country represented at the sum-
mer village was selected because of a
like interest in establishing a similar
experiment in the future. Stockholm
and Paris are vying for the honor of
entertaining a similar group.

 

Swedish hopscotch. Camcs of diffcrent
countries were played by all children.

 

Children from (I. to r.) Mexico, America,
England, express interest in nature.

Junior world leaders engrossed in “game
0 O ’ ’
of hvmg’ rather than a “gamc of war.’

 

6‘ URRY! HURRY! Step right up,
ladies and gentlemen. See the
man with twenty fingers and twenty
toes. Yessiree, ladies and gentlemen,
it’s a most revealing experience . . . ”
Carnival talk, like the above, with
carnival music in the background,
shouting popcorn vendors, interviews
with the show performers, descriptions
of the carnival booths and their fea-
tured attractions helped to make a
tape recording which reproduced the
excitement that greets us when we at-
tend a carnival. The seventy boys at
the YMCA camp 011 Flatrock River,
near St. Paul, Indiana, who were using
it, had the feeling that they were at a
real, honest-to-goodness carnival be-
cause of the atmosphere it created.

The unending possibilities of using
a tape recorder in the field of recrea-
tion should prove interesting to the
recreation leader. These uses include,
among other things, providing music,
improving dramatic productions and
techniques of public-speaking clubs and
self-evaluation. For parties, tape re-
cordings can be invaluable as icebrcak-
ers-——-with man-on-the-street type of in-
terviews, for putting on a radio show
or, perhaps, simply acting out a story.

When music is needed for a square
dance or a social dance, there is the
possibility that the neighborhood rec-
ord store will permit tape recordings
of their music in exchange for pub-
licity.

Sound effects, such as a boat whistle
and waves splashing against the side of
the vessel, may be used to help visual-
ize a scene when recordings are made
of community sings on boats.

The use of sound effects, to give
realism to dramatic skits, is unex-
plored. For instance, with the aid of
a microphone, simple gadgets like a
tin cricket become a machine gun or a
typewriter, balloons filled with BB shot
realistically change into thunder or
ocean waves striking the shore and, if
the volume is adjusted to high, the
sound of the BB shot could even re-
semble an explosion. Cellophane when
crinkled before the micrOphone, sounds
like crackling fire or falling rain. The
imagination can further be stretchcd

AUTHOR is now organization and train-
ing consultant, Catholic Youth Organi-
zation of Essex County, New Jersey.

302

TAPE RECORDING]

with the use of a collection of sound
effect records. These are obtainable at
regular sound effects libraries.

Indiana University offered many 0p-
portunities to Bill Carlock and the
writer to make use of recording equip-
ment. The campus Echo Recording
Service recorded campus talent and
provided novel entertainment.

The first experience with our own
entertainment idea was off the campus
at the state Y’s men’s convention. The
social chairman helped choose cleven
men and their wives for character
parts, and two skits were staged.

The highlight of the evening came
when it was announced that a tape re-
cording had been made of both. The
volume control meter on the tape re-
corder was used to determine the
amount of applause. The audience was
told to applaud the loudest for the skit
that they preferred and the highest
reading was easily determined.

Candid recordings arouse the most
interest of all techniques. For exam-
ple, Jean Hoffman, who is majoring
in recreation at Indiana University,
and the writer were assigned a party
theme project in a class called “Tech-
niques of Social Recreation.” A “Kid-
die Christmas” was the theme. A throne
for Santa was set up and the micro-
phone concealed in a box decorated
with crepe paper and loosely covered
with lollipops. A low seat was placed
in front of the throne so that students
would automatically be close to the
microphone when they told St. Nick
what they would like for Christmas.

As soon as the students arrived, they
were given a pair of scissors, crepe
paper and string. The object was for
them to make some parts of a kiddie
costume, such as a hat and suspenders.

After this activity for first comcrs,
another recreation student arrived in a
Santa Claus suit. He took his place up-
on the throne and asked the “little
boys and girls” to come, one at a time,
and tell Santa what they would like
for Christmas. Their requests ranged
frOm Frank Sinatra in a striped suit to
Rudolph the Red-nosed Reindeer. After
Santa left for theNorth Pole, everyone
was asked to sit around a large Altex
speaker. Without a word about What
was going to happen, the tape record-
ing was played back.

Tape recordings helped prepare the
Bloomington Toastmasters for a spc-
cial television program of the group in
action. The toastmaster, four speakers,
four evaluators and the grammarian
held a dress rehearsal at the regular
meeting of the club before the tele-
vision program. After the meeting, all
the toastmasters helped evaluate the re-
cording just made. During the tele-
vision performance, another recording
was madc of the thirty-minute pro-
gram. Afterwards, the toastmasters en-
joyed listening to their speeches, and
those who desired a copy were given
a disc recording.

The Junior Toastmasters, a group of
students sponsored by the Blooming-
ton Toastmasters, used a tape record-
ing at each of their weekly meetings.
The main speakers were recorded along
with any toastmaster who requested a
record. This scheme served as an ex-
cellent basis for self-criticism. Copies
of most of the speeches were trans-
ferrcd to discs for souvenirs and later
for comparison with other speeches.

When free ballroom dancing instruc-
tions were given to university students,
p0pular music was recorded on tape
and playccl in the auditorium. Records

RECREATION

l

Bernard Lehmann

s a Tool in Recreation

\

were borrowed for this transfer to tape
from the stacks of a local record deal-
er in exchange for publicity. This
method was especially convenient when
hard-to-get records were needed to
teach the tango, samba, or rhumba.

Evaluating the singing of choral
groups by tape recording the voices
during practice sessions is the method
used by one choral teacher. He also
records the piano accompaniment and
uses the tape recording instead of a
piano during rehearsal periods.

While at camp, the boys loved to
have their songs recorded. If there was
not enough time to play back the songs
the same evening, it was fun to play
them back while they were eating.
Sometimes two cabins would have a
contest in singing. Both would make a
recording and the rest of the campers
would listen and judge the winner.
The applause meter helped consider-
ably.

“Who is the talking boy?” “What
will be the next clue?” “Shall I really

get breakfast in bed for guessing who
the talking boy is?” These and many
more questions kept excitement high at
camp for one week, as the result of a
tape recording stunt. Here’s how it was
done.

Bobby Dicky became the unknown
talking boy. One night, while the rest
of the camp was sleeping, Bobby tape
recorded five separate clues to his
identity. Posters were distributed
around camp, advertising a chocolate
milkshake, a silver dollar, and break-
fast in bed to the one who guessed his
identity, a gift being added each day
as the contest continued.

0n the opening day, the first clue
was given over the public address unit
of the tape recorder. An announce-

FEBRUARY 1952

ment was made that each contestant
should submit only one entry each
day and that the winning name would
be announced as soon as the talking
boy was identified. Additional records
of Bobby’s voice were played daily,
giving more and more new clues.

Another interesting camp activity
was the learning of simple Indian
dance steps. The Indian drum music,
recorded on tape by Rudolph Terrazas,
an Indian from Albuquerque, New
Mexico, and used for instruction, had
a great deal to do with the interest
shown.

For modern dance recitals or, pos-
sibly, a musical stage show, tape re-
corded music can add to the perform-
ance if the recreation budget will not
allow live accompaniment. Having lo-
cal musicians tape record the music
can personalize it. Maybe just a piano
player can accompany all the rehears-
als through this same medium. Some-
one may say that a piano player can
save time when a particular chord
needs replaying during practice. This
is true, of course, but considering the
economy of using tape, it is not too
much to wait between five and forty
seconds for the accompanying music.
With a special attachment to the re-
corder, the operator can tell exactly
how far to rewind the tape in order
to replay the desired music. However,
this fast playback is possible only when
the recorder has a fast rewind.

There are many excellent tape re-
corders on the market. I, myself, find
the Magnecorder to be one of the best
of the portable models. Because of its
versatility, it is a money saver to its
owner. Among its features are twelve
hundred feet of recording tape re-
wound in forty seconds, which means

almost instantaneous playback, and
with proper cueing, even a musical
note can be found. As a public address
system, the recorder amplifier has
powered two twelve-inch speakers, one
sixteen-inch speaker and a large out-
side horn. It can be used as a booster
for another amplifier. Added pieces,
such as microphone mixers and adap-
ters for using larger reels of tape, may
be purchased at a later time without
discarding the equipment
bought

Although a higher-priced recorder
is desirable, lower-priced machines will
give excellent results. Actually, it isn’t
necessary to buy any equipment; rec-
reation leaders who need a tape re-
corder for only a short time would
do better to rent a machine.

The most economical feature of tape
recording is the tape itself. Twelve
hundred feet of tape will play from
fifteen minutes to two hours, depend-
ing upon the recorder. The cost of
twelve hundred feet is $3.60 when
ordered from a supply house. The tape
(plastic) will last as long as ten thou-

already

sand playbacks without any loss of
quality or added surface noise. When
compared to a Bing Crosby recording,
which will last approximately 150 re»

 

A young miss entertains as tape records.

plays, the tape is costless. But this low
cost is not the real advantage, for the
important feature is that tape can be
erased as easily as a blackboard when
the recording is no longer needed. A
new recording on the tape can be made
at the same time.

With the tape recorder as a tool in
the recreation leader’s hands, a new
and helpful twist is added to his pro-

gram, combining fun and usefulness.

503

 

Begosh and Begorra . . .
I T’S A PAR TY!

0h, St. Patrick was a gentleman,
Who came of decent people;

He built a church in Dublin town,
And on it put a steeple.

His father was a Gallagher,
His mother was a Brady,

His aunt was an O’Shaughnessy,
His uncle an O’Grady.

50, success attend St. Patrick’s fist,
F or he’s a Saint so clever;

0h, he gave the snakes and toads a

twist,
And bothered them forever!

YES, IT’S A CAREFREE abandon that

characterizes the celebration of St.
Patrick’s birthday—a light-heartedness
that stirs and warms the heart of
everyone, whether he owns a dr0p of
Irish blood or not. It is this bright
spirit which should permeate all activi-
ties planned for March seventeenth.
So, with this in mind, here are a few
suggestions and the top 0’ the day
to ye!

The Invitation

Whether your invitation takes the
form of a shamrock, pig or the Emer-
ald Isle, green is the color for your
design. With ink of a diiierent color—
white usually is best—write or print a
clever rhyme, including time, place
and date. Here’s one:

Come and join the pigs in clover

E’er St. Patrick’s Day is over.

Whether you’re Irish or whether not,

You’ll find the (place) a festive spot.

 

 

(address)
(time) (date)
504

Irish Shenanigans

Museum of Ireland—Before your
party, make up small notebooks, in the
form of shamrocks, for each guest.
Tell the players to write their names
upon the green covers. They are next
invited into the great Museum of Ire-
land, where everything on display on a
long table is, in some way, associated
with Ireland. The guests use their
notebooks to enter the exhibits by
their numbers and to tell what they
represent. There will be many puzzled
frowns, and probably no perfect lists,
so give a prize to the one who scores
the highest number of correct answers.

Here are a few of the exhibits which
you may include:

1. A drop cookie, full of nuts. (Sham-
rock)

2. A big cork. (City of Cork)

3. A wilted rose. (“The Last Rose of

Summer”)

4. A bell sewed
(Belfast)

5. A large green glass stone in a
saucer of water. (The Emerald

Isle)
6. A raincoat. (Ulster)

to the tablecloth.

Pat’s Path from Pathos—Guests are

given typewritten sheets of the follow-
ing story, with blanks for adding the
words—each beginning with the sylla-
ble “pat.” If you’re very ambitious,
these sheets may even be made into
booklets with cardboard covers, suit-
ably decorated. Allow a limited time
for this game for all contestants or

award the prize to the first contestant
banding in a perfect cepy.

The Story—One windy March day
(Patsy) was busily cngagcd (patch-
ing) her dress. Her (patience) was
sorely tried in attempting to match the
(patches) to the (pattern) in the
goods. As one looked at her, it really
seemed (pathetic) that she must try so
hard to make ends meet. However, she
was a true (patriot) and did not com-
plain of her lot. In fact, as she worked,
she hummcd an old tune of Ireland,
the land of her (paternity).

All at once, she was awakened from
her reverie by the (patter) of steps
upon the (path). She went to the win-
dow and there, on the (pathway), she
saw (Pat). In a moment, he was (pat-
ting) her cheek as he said “011, (Pat—
sy), I have secured the (patent) at
last and now we can live in comfort.
Come bake a (patty). Let us cat and
be merry. (Pathos) shall no longer
hover over our home.

Hunt the Pig—Players stand in a
circle, except for the one extra player
who is called the hunter. The lluntcr
starts the game by walking around on
the outside of the circle and touching
one player upon the shoulder. He asks
of this player: “Have you seen my
pig?” The player then replies: “What
does he look like?” The hunter then
tells him something about the appear-
ance or dress of someone else in the
circle-——sueh as “He has black hair” or
“He wears a red tie.” The player who
was tapped tries to guess whom the
hunter has in mind as 11c adds more
details to his description. When he
finally guesses correctly, he must chase
the person described. The latter leaves
the circle and starts running immedi-
ately upon hearing the hunter’s “ch.”
Both must run around the outside of
the circle. If the chaser catches the pig
before he gets back to his place in the
circle, the chaser becomes the hunter.
If he does not, the pig takes the hunt-
er’s place. The hunter never runs, but
joins the circle as the runners start.

Irish Hats—This is a laugh riot for
smaller groups. Five or more guests——
no more than eight—stand shoulder to
shoulder in a circle, hands at their

RECREATION

sides. A hat, with a bright green band,
is placed upon the head of each by the
leader. On the count of one, each play-
cr puts his right hand on the hat of the
one at his right. On two, he removes
the hat and places it upon his own
head. At three, he drops his hand to
his side. This action continues until
the leader calls “Reversc.” Then the
left hand and hat to the left are used.
When the leader calls “Stopl,” every-
one remains as he is and the player
without a hat steps out of the game.
Continue until only one contestant
remains.

 

Shamrock Hant——Hide tiny tissue
paper shamrocks in various parts of
the house. As someone plays an Irish
tunc on the piano, all the players
march in a circle, clapping their hands
to the music. When it stops, unex-
pectedly, everyone scrambles for as
many grecn shamrocks as hc can find.
But, as soon as the music begins again,
all players must immediately resume
the marching and clapping. This con-
tinues for about five minutes, with the
loader eliminating from the game any
players ’who linger in their search
while the music is being played. At the
end of the game, the player with the
most shamrocks wins. This also can be
played in teams.

Gaelic Ice Breaker—Give your guests
cards bearing the names of their clans,
supposedly written in Gaelic. It won’t
be in Gaelic, of course, but merely the
letters of an Irish surname scrambled,

such as Nilleo for O’Neill, Erhtyloaf
for O’Flaherty, Cakoccramm for Mc-
Cormack and so on for various Irish
names. These cards are pinned on or
strung about the neck with green rib-
bon. Everyone tries to guess the clan
names of as many guests as possible.
As soon as a player’s name is guessed
(the correct name is written on the
back of each card, in case its owner
can’t decipher it either), he hands the
card to the one who guessed it. The
person collecting the most cards—that
is, guessing the most names—receives

FEBRUARY 1952

a prizc. (A bag of good old Irish pota-
toes would be fine!)

March Madness—-This is a very
amusing relay race. Thc leader in each
line is furnished with an Irish cane or
stick about as long as an ordinary um-
brella handle. Placing the end of the
stick firmly on the ground, he puts
both hands on the t0p and rests his
head on his hands. Then, with eyes
open, he goes around the stick four
times without lifting it from the
ground or moving his head from the
position first taken. After making the
required number of turns, he next
races to a goal at the opposite end of
the room and back to his starting
place. As soon as he reaches the head
of the line, number two on the team
starts turning around the stick, re-
peating his teammate’s actions.

Irish Golf———Lay out a “course” by
placing unbreakable bowls or sauce-
pans around the room. Scotchtape a
small dowel stick, with a green pen-
nant attached, to each dish, stating
the numbcr of the “hole.” This will
mark the order of the “holes,” which
may bc sct around the room in any

[desired way. Each guest is supplied

with a small potato and a tablespoon.
Without touching the “ball,” which is
the potato, with his hands, each player
must toss it from “hole to hole,” until
the course is completed. Keep score
for prizes to be awarded later on.

Blarney—All players sit in a circle
except one, who stands in the cen-
tcr. The player in the center recites
the following counting-out rhyme,
pointing to a different player on each
word:

Riggidy, higgidy, wiggidy, rig,

Paddy dances an Irish jig.

While feeding potatoes to his pig,

Riggidy, higgidy, wiggidy, rig.

Out goes y-o-u.

The player counted out is blind-
folded and given a “shillalah,” which
is nothing more than a yardstick or
cane. He touches someone in the cir-
cle with the stick and then has to
“blarney him” by saying that he likes
his curly hair or his blue eyes and so
forth. He may pay any compliment he
chooses, but the compliment must fit.
lf it does not, if by chance the per-
son pointed to has brown eyes instead
of blue, “It” has to pay a forfeit. Then

“It” rccitcs the counting-out rhyme
and the next person spelled out takes
his place in the circle.

Linzerirks —- Make up your own
limericks, leaving the last line to be
filled in by guests. If desired, the
company may be dividcd into teams,
with prizes for the clcvercst “poet” or
group of poets. Here are some sam-
ple limericks as a starter:

Said pretty young Katie from Cork,
“I’ll be takin’ the trip to New York
Where me Patrick’s a cop—
Sure he’ll make the boat stopl'

A roarin’ old topper from Dublin

Would sing when his spirits were bub-
blin’,

“We will meet at the wake

0f old Mikey Blake

A talkative man from Kildare
Said “I find it a terrible care!

I don’t give a dab
For my gift 0’ the gab!

A colleen as light as a fairy

Who danced all thc danccs at Kerry
Cried, “Show mc thc lad

Could make me heart sad!

Informal Singing—The program
just won’t seem complete without
group singing of some p0pular Irish
songs. The following should bring out
a tenor or two:

Wearing of the Green My Wild Irish Rose
When You andI .Were Bea-eve Me If A“
Young, Maggie

Danny Boy
Moth er Machree

I’ll Take You Home
Again, Kathleen

Mary Is a Grand
Old Name

Th ose En dearin g
Yo ung Charms

Where the River
Shannon Flows

W hen Irish Eyes
Are Smiling

For additional ideas, the National
Recreation Association has several
good publications available on St.
Patrick’s Day activities, among them:

St. Patrick’s Day Party, (March
1951 RECREATION ...................... ..$ .35
(There are only a few copies of this
issue rcmaining, so if your order ar-
rives too latc, check your magazine
files or your library.)

Suggestions for a St. Patrick’s Day
Program (MP 101) .................. ..$ .25

505

THE QUESTION of what types of fees

and charges to make and what
policies should govern the making of
such charges constantly faces every
recreation and park department, es-
pecially in view of mounting costs of
Operation and maintenance. A related
question is concerned with the desira-
bility of direct operations by the
department or the granting of con-
cessions to private individuals or
companies. Several statements which
have appeared recently with reference
to these subjects should be of interest
to RECREATION readers.

Principles Governing Fees
and Charges

The Metropolitan Recreation and
Youth Services Council of Los Angelcs
has recently issued a statement“ under
the above title, setting forth principles
governing fees and charges for public
recreation services as established or
justified by practice of public rec-
reation agencies specifically in Califor-
nia and generally throughout the
nation. It has also issued a compre-
hensive chart setting forth the fees and
charges for recreation facilities and
services in selective public and private
agencies in the region. These cover
both indoor and outdoor facilities of
various types and special services.

The bulletin presents the following
statement relating to special services
which justify fees:

. “Traditional public recreation pro-
grams include some activities which
entail expense beyond the normal cost
of activities in the general program.
Custom recognizes the appropriateness
of assessing nominal fees for participa-
tion in these activities or for material
consumed in them. Among these are:

“a. Fees charged for expendable ma-
terials used in handcrafts which are
furnished by the department for the

* A copy of the statement and accompanying

chart may be secured from the Council, 205

South Broadway, Los Angeles 12, California.
Price, $1.00.

506

convenicnce of the participants and
the department.

“b. Fees for special instruction too
specializcd for the department to pro-
vide as part of its uniform and basic
program.

“c. Fees for a spccializcd but essen-

eighty pcr ccnt profit. It uses mobilc
trucks, parking them at different loca-
tions for convenient salcs. The samc
truck may visit two or threc different
areas or special events on thc samc
day. Mobile trucks have bcen found
less expensive than the construction

 

CONCESSIONS

FEES

AND CHARGES

 

tial activity, such as swimming or
camping, which is carried on in a
facility too costly to construct and

_ operate unless supplementary revenue

is collected from thc participants.
“The public expect that those making

use of a limited public facility should

pay their just share. If a single activi-

ty, on the other hand, becomes a'

public necessity to the extent that
general participation should be pro-
vided for, the public might prefer to
pay the entire cost through some form
of taxation.”

Municipal Policies and Procedures
At thc Mid-Continent Regional Park

and Recreation Conference held in
March, 1951, a representativc of the
Minneapolis Park Department reported
that instead of granting concessions to
private Operators, the department
operated its own services directly and
collccted from twcnty pcr cent to

and maintenance of permanent “con-
cession shelters.”

At the same conference, representa-
tives of some of the smaller communi-
ties felt that it was advantageous to
let out concessions on bids because
they did not involve sufficient volume

to justify direct operation by the de-
partment.

Illinois Executives Report

A committee appointed by the 111i-
nois Rccreation Association investi-
gated financial policies and procedures
of recreation authorities in the state.
The following policies relating to fees
and charges were in effect in 1950 in
the number of departments indicated:

Charge for the cost of craft ma-

tcrials ................................ .. 19
Fec for league entry, trophies,

oliicials, ctc. ...................... .. 7
chtals and lnisccllaueous

charges .............................. .. 7

RECREATION

Pool charge ........ .. .  1
No fees at all ...................... .. 7

Recommendations adopted at the
1949 conference of the association, and
reafiirmed at the 1950 conference, in-
clude the following:

A. When special services or privi-
leges are provided, a charge is war-
ranted. Examples: golf, swimming,
tennis on clay courts and adults’ or-
ganized leagues.

B. When individuals or organiza-
tions use recreation facilities to make
financial profit or gain, a scale of
rentals for the various facilities bc
adopted that will cover the full Opera-
tional cost.

C. Where separate municipal de-
partments exist, recreation departments
be responsible primarily for all pro-
gramming and that, insofar as possible,
facilities bc provided and maintained
by municipalities, park boards and
school boards.

D. Gifts, funds or memorials to
recreation agencies be accepted only
after a separate fund or endowment is
set aside for its maintenance, and that
the recreation agency have full control
as to the use or disposal of such gifts.

Miniature Train Operations

Disposition of income from the
operation of miniature trains was re-
ported in a discussion of finance at the
North Carolina Recreation Executives
Conference in 1951. In Raleigh, ten
individuals raised funds to purchase
the train, which is Operated by the
recreation department. After deduct-
ing operating expenses, funds received
from operation are returned to the
contributors. It is anticipated that,
after they have been fully reimbursed,
all net revenues will be used to im-
prove and expand the miniature train
line rather than be returned to the
general fund, as in the case of other
facilities.

In Burlington, where the Kiwanis
Club purchased the train, the club is
to receive one third of the gross reve-
nue for a five-year period, while the
city receives the balance. After five
years, the city will receive all revenues
derived from operating the train. The
park authorities are permited to use
all monies derived through concessions
in any way they see fit.

FEBRUARY 1952

Policies and Procedures in
State Parks

In addressing the National Con-
ference on State Parks, held in Texas
late in 1950, K. R. Cougill, director of
Indiana state parks, lands and waters,
read a paper entitled: “How Can We
Best Handle Concessions, Fees and
Charges?”* In dealing with conces-
sions vs. direct management, he stated:
“Wherever at all practical, all neces-
sary service in state parks should be
rendered directly by the park authority
and not by concession operators.
Public parks surely are not maintained
for private gain. Likewise, concessions
must, of course, be considered in-
cidental to the enjoyment of the park
by the state park visitor and not a
primary feature. Direct department-
controlled service best protects the
public’s interest. It is generally agreed
by all, however, that such park facili-
ties as hotels or lodges, restaurants, re-
freshment stands and similar public
accommodations be considered pro-
prietary and may, therefore, logically
be operated upon a concession plan
of management, subject of course to
controls which will insure satisfactory
public service. Because of the very
specialized nature of these services,
most park authorities prefer not to
manage them directly.

“Riding stables are also usually in-
cluded in the list of facilities most
generally operated on a concession
basis.

“Boats are often concession-
managed, but our department has re-
cently taken over all boat operations
in Indiana state parks and has found
the new plan very satisfactory. All
housekeeping cabins and bath house
facilities are also now operated di-
rectly by the department with highly
satisfactory results.. Again I repeat,
whenever practical, the park authority
should directly operate necessary serv-
ices and facilities.”

He further stated that, as a general
rule, he believed the public interest
could best be served with the fewest
possible number of concession Opera-
tors in a given park. The greater the
number of operators, the greater the

’9‘ Reprinted in American Planning and Civic
Armani, issued by American Planning and
Civic Association, Washington, D.C.

administrative detail of the park au-
thority and the more chance there is
for friction among the concessionaires.

#In discussing the length of term of
concession agreements, he stated:
“Naturally, the greater the investment
on the part of the concessionaire, the
greater is the need for a long-term
contract. If the park authority has
the greater capital investment in the
enterprise, then the term of the con-
tract can be for a shorter period.

“Short-term contracts do not en-
courage the operator to build up a
strong business organization that would
bring returns in the future years from
high standards of service performed
today. If long-term contracts are not
possible, the policy of renewing the
short-term contracts of satisfactory
concession operators tends to bring
about similar good results of long-
term contracts.

'“It is desirable that accounting
principles and procedures be some-
what uniform in all concession opera-
tions. In most instances, the park
authority does not have a sufficiently
large staff of auditors to function ade-
quately. The certified public ac-
countant audit requirement is, in my
opinion, worthy of serious considera—
tion in states .where State Accounting
Divisions of Government are not ade-
quately available to park authority.”

In Indiana, where a modest fee is
charged for admission to all state
parks, the results have proved satis-
factory in the opinion of the authori-
ties. Records show that the operation,
maintenance and administration costs
of the entire division of state parks,
including the state memorials, have,
for the last fifteen years, received
ninety-seven per cent of their financial
support from earned income. During
the same period of time, the division
received more than $2,400,000 in
legislative appropriations for capital
improvements.

Mr. Cougill concluded his remarks
as follows: “It is my belief that al-
most all necessary services and facili-
ties in state parks can be rendered
with the highest degree of public serv-
ice directly by the park authority.
Public parks are maintained for pub-
lic service and not for private gain.
0n the other hand, it is believed that

507

the best public interests are served
when such specialized services as ho-
tels, restaurants and saddle barns are
operated on a concession plan of
management, providing that controls
are suflicient to guarantee a satisfac-
tory degree of public service.

“It is further believed that those
few states which have established a
nominal entrance fee method of help-
ing to finance maintenance and opera-
tion costs could not find a more fair
and equitable source of revenue.

“As for other fees and charges, it
is certain that special services should
be financed by those who benefit. As
long as the fees and charges are rea-
sonable and the state park properties
are well managed, the public will ac-
cept such a plan as a sound way of
financing a system Of state parks.”

Concession Policies
of the National Park Service

In October 1950, the Department
Of the Interior issued a report“ pre-
pared by an impartial, expert and
non-governmental committee, desig-
nated the Concessions Advisory Group
Of the National Park Service, which
conducted a study Of the policies
governing concession policies within
areas administered by the service. The
following are a few Of its recommenda-
tions, which have been approved by
the Department of the Interior:

* This report, entitled “Concessions Policies
of the National Park Service,” was issued by
the Department of the Interior, Washington

25, D.C. '

Sport — Fun — Exercise

in TRAMPOLINING

By NISSEN — Maker of America's
First Standard TRAMPOLINE

Write far FREE Literature

unsj§.A-M-P'0-tI-N.E

°Name TRAMPOLINE Reg. U.S. Pat. OH.

200 A AVE. NW.

508

CE DAR RAP I 05, IOWA

 

“It shall be the policy of the de-
partment to permit the development of
accommodations within the areas ad-
ministered by the National Park
Service only to the extent that such
accommodations are necessary and ap-
propriate for the public use and en-
joyment of the areas, consistent with
their preservation and conservation.
Where adequate accommodations
exist or can be developed by private
enterprise outside of such areas, ac-
commodations shall not be provided
within the areas.

“The number of sites and the loca-
tions and sizes of the tracts of land
assigned for necessary accommoda-
tions shall be held to the minimum
essential tO proper and satisfactory
Operation.”

As for merchandising within the
areas administered by the National
Park Service, it “shall be limited, in
general, to those items and services
appropriate or necessary for the pub-
lic use and enjoyment of the areas.”

“Automotive transportation service
shall be authorized in areas ad-
ministered by the National Park Serv-
ice only tO the extent necessary tO
make the areas and their features
available tO the visiting public.

“Saddle and packhorse operations
shall be encouraged.
privileges tO base saddle and pack-

Preferential

horse Operations within the areas shall
be granted, however, only to the ex-
tent necessary tO insure that such serv-
ice is available.

Recreation Directors,
others. Nothing to buy. No entry Fee. Simply hold a Table
Tennis Tourney. We furnish owords, instructions, rules, etc.
FREE. Simply send 0 1 cent postcard for information.
All-AMERICAN TABLE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
20 E. Jacksan

“\Vbere public accommodations are
necessary for the enjoyment Of an
area, and the basic facilities with
which to provide such accommoda-
tions and services cannot be provided
by private capital, it shall be the policy
Of the department to provide such
basic facilities, where funds are availa-
ble and make these facilities available,
under contract, for operation by re-
sponsible parties. There is no inten-
tion that the government should
operate government-Owned concession
facilities. The department believes that
such facilities should be operated un-
der contract with private concessioners,
including nonprofit-distributing cor-
porations.”

As for franchise fees, “It shall be
the policy of the department that fran-
chise fees be commensurate with the
value tO the concessioners Of the Op-
portunities granted tO them tO do busi-
ness within the areas administered by
the National Park Service and the
services and facilities furnished them
by the government, for which no
separate fee is charged. Accordingly,
as a general policy, franchise fees to
be negotiated by the parties to the con-
tract shall consist of a reasonable llat
charge for ground rent, plus an addi-
tional fee based upon percentages Of
gross revenues.

“The department recognizes a pri-
mary obligation to provide for the
furnishing of accommodations and
services tO the visiting public at rea-
sonable rates.”

The Golden Age Chorus of Kansas City, Missouri made
their first public appearance at the time of the recreation
district conference last year. Since then they have ap-
peared on the radio, at a number Of meetings, and have
made tape "recordings, some Of which have been sent to
other cities. This year a weekly series of radio programs
will be put on by the Golden Agers. 111 this connection
creative radio courses will be offered club members.

FREE Table Tennis Information

 

Cooches, Scout Leaders, Y Directors,

RM-7'I'IB Chicaga 4, III.

 

RECREATION

o What Some Beereation Departments Are Doing . . .

Community Hospitality for

E8 ANGELES, CALIFORNIA—George lljelte, general man-
ager of the Department of Recreation and Parks, says:

“I am much concerned that our department shall render
all needful services to men and women of the armed forces
when in Los Angeles and, also, that we shall do our part
in providing recreational opportunities for defense work-
ers. So much of our service to men and women of the
armed forces, whether in uniform or in civilian garb, is at
places and activities where there is no registration of each
person. Accordingly, it is very difficult, if not impossible;
for us accurately to estimate the amount of service which
we are rendering to this personnel.

“For example, at our Cabrillo Beach in San Pedro, the
most comprehensively-developed beach recreational area
on the Pacific Coast, we serve a tremendous number of
men and women of the armed forces. During the summer
months, our director at this beach estimates that the at-
tendance of such personnel is roughly ten thousand a
week.”

lncluded in the list of activities which the Los Angeles
Recreation and Park Department makes available to serv-
icemen are the following:

F rec admission tickets—Swimming pools, golf courses,
planetarium, Marine Museum, Astronomical Observatory,
community sings, horticultural exhibits, park band con-
certs, football league games, baseball league games, tennis
tournaments, other sports events.

Group activities—Square dances, social dances, hobby
clubs.

Special activities—Picnics, table games in recreation
centers, talent shows, participation in sports leagues, visits
to the zoo, beach activities, fly-casting, recreation leagues
and tournaments.

Colorado Springs, Colorado—This program, which rec-
ognizes military personnel as “civilians in uniform” and
concentrates on making servicemen feel at home, has been
blessed by the Fifth Army Command. The department is
doing everything in its power to integrate the recreation
desires of servicemen into the over-all city recreation pro-
gram.

Amarillo, Texas—H-The recreation department and the
Chamber of Commerce sponsored a luncheon meeting of
recreation supervisors and volunteer workers from fourteen
communities within seventy-five miles of the Amarillo Air
Force Base. Principal speaker at the luncheon was Ray-
mond C. Morrison, southwest regional representative of the
Oliice of Community Services, United States Air Force.

A cooperative approach, whereby all of the communities

FEBRUARY 1952

SERVICE
PEOPLE

will share in the responsibility of developing off-post rcc-
reation opportunities, was developed at the meeting. Clovis,
New Mexico, for example, offered to take airmen on week-
ends and teach them how to ride and rope calves.

Extensive use is made of Amarillo’s park and recreation
facilities by Air Force personnel. Married servicemen bring
their families to the parks for picnics and play. Umnarried
officers and airmen flock to join in various games, ranging
from horseshoes to volleyball. Ping-pong, tennis and shuf-
fleboard rate high with the younger men. On Saturday
nights, square dancing attracts all ranks from private to
colonel. The staff of forty-five recreation supervisors in the
twelve parks where recreation programs are being con-
ducted includes nine airmen.

Roswell, New Mexico‘-—-An “Off-Duty Activities Regis-
ter” is being compiled at the Walker Air Force Base so
that, as civilian programs are established, information
about them can be channelled directly to interested persons.

All personnel are invited to fill out a_brief questionnaire
on their recreational interests, social activities, church pref-
erence and the activities which they would volunteer to
lead or help conduct.

Wichita Falls, Texas—There was nothing unusual about
a little theatre production of a musical comedy, Up In
The Air, recently. That is, there was nothing unusual ex-
cept that the show was written, produced and staged by a
combination of civilians and air force personnel and that
the guiding force behind the production was a cooperative

group representing Sheppard Air Force Base, Wichita ,
Falls YWCA and Midwestern University.

Booklets Distributed

Many recreation departments are distributing small, but
informative, booklets to all military base personnel, wel-
coming them to the community and describing department
facilities and program and listing information 011 local-
resources—churches, concerts, museums, golf courses, ski
areas and so on. In Albuquerque, New Mexico, men are
invited to visit Indian pueblos, dances, fiestas. Additional
information is provided on national parks and state parks
within driving distance.

509

MUSIC WEEK

am! the zemeaa'aa Egan/amped

70R RECREATION departments already doing consider-
able work along musical lines, as well as for those
seeking to strengthen their music program, National Music
Week oiiers an opportunity that should not be missed. The
seven-day period, when public interest is drawn more
consciously than usual to the value of participation in
music, forms a setting in which to sharpen the communi-
ty’s awareness of what is going on in its midst, to encour-
age singing, playing and intelligent listening and to make
known-where the field needs to be extended or more in-
tensively cultivated.

Dates of Music Week may seem distant at this time—it
always begins the first Sunday in May, falling on the
fourth of the month this year—but it is by no means too
early to sketch in plans.

In a growing number of cities, the recreation department
is either the initiating agency, prominently c00perating
with a citizens’ Music Week committee, or is otherwise
taking advantage of the occasion to impress upon the
community that it recognizes the significant role of music
in recreation. Baltimore, St. Louis, Chicago, Los Angeles
and Indianapolis may be cited as examples of this trend
among the larger cities; York and Wilkes-Barre, Pennsyl-
vania; Alton, Illinois; San Diego and Bakersfield, Cali-
fornia, among the less populous.

San Diego Includes Servicemen

In San Diego, the celebration last year brought in the
servicemen as well as civilian organizations. Thus it set a
pattern which will no doubt be followed this year in many
towns near training camps and naval stations. In San
Diego, the Park and Recreation Department sponsored the
Music Week committee, with Mayor Knox as chairman
and Maria Fielding, supervisor of social recreation in the
department, as vice-chairman.

The calendar of events included a conccrt by the Naval

 

MISS BORCHARD, who is a member of the Correspondence
and Consultation Service of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, serves as Assistant Secretary, National Music Week.

510

Training Center Band of sixty musicians at the Balboa
Park Bowl the opening Sunday. 011 the same day, a pro-
gram was presented at the Organ Pavilion by a massed
choir of nearly two hundred voices, directed by Carl
Dewse, conductor of the city’s civic chorus. A featured
number on this program was “America Loves a Melody”
by Ross Hastings, theme song of a radio opera which has
won its composer a five thousand dollar prize. With this
song, and with other numbers by American composers on
various programs of Music Week, San Diego did its share
in furthering one of the leading purposes of the observance
—the promotion of wider acquaintance with music of
merit written in this country.

There were musical services in the churchcs and a
carillon recital, a musical festival; by the Catholic schools
of San Diego County, special programs in service clubs, at
the State College and by the San Diego Symphonic Band,
the Youth Symphony and other musical groups. The public
schools gave their major contribution in the form of a
Mother’s Day music festival on the closing Sunday of the
week, with four hundred children taking part.

Generous space was given the observance in the press
and time on the radio. It would have been hard for any
citizen to remain indifferent to his town’s musical ad-
vancement or ignorant of the recreation movement’s share
in bringing about this advancement.

Cooperative Plan in Baltimore

In Baltimore, the Bureau of Recreation has, for years,
been giving a demonstration of how a municipal agency
can cooperate with a civic committee in an eflective utiliza-
tion of the Music Week observance. The Music Week com-
mittee there included, in 1951, representatives of the
leading music clubs, Music Teachers Association, women’s
clubs, American Legion Auxiliary and other musical and
non-musical groups, together with two members from the
recreation bureau. One of these was Mrs. G. Franklin
Onion, supervisor of music and dramatics, who arranged
concerts by the Recreation Symphony Orchestra at the

RECREATION

 

Museum of Art and (by the second orchestra) at the
Samuel Gompers School. The bureau also presented the
City Recreation Chorus at a community program at the
Polytechnic Institute auditorium. Both the instrumental
and the vocal groups gave excellent performances of worth-
while and attractive music and aroused much enthusiasm.

The National Recreation Association is sponsoring the
work of the National Music Week Committee as it has
done for nine years, and T. E. Rivers, assistant executive
director, is secretary of the cominittec. On receipt of the
programs sent him by Mrs. Onion, Mr. Rivers wrote: “It
is an achievement of which to be proud when a public
recreation department can produce symphonic orchestra
groups capable of giving such programs as those offered
by your Recreation Symphony Orchestra the opening Sun-
day of Music Week. . . . That was a distinctive program,
too, in which your City Recreation Chorus took part.”

Mayor D’Alessandro, issuing one of the finest Music
Week proclamations of which the central committee has
record, urged hearty support from the public for Balti-
morc’s musical organizations. His message emphasizcd
their role in the culture, entertainment and renown of the
city, and their help “during these trying times when the
world is in a state of turmoil and tension.”

Indianapolis and St. Louis

The Recreation Division of the Indianapolis Department
of Public Parks took advantage of Music Week to present
to the public two teenage musical groups in which it takes
just pride. They are the Teen Sinfonietta and the Teen
Vocal Ensemble. The joint concert given by these groups
at the John Herron Art Museum, on the opening Sunday
afternoon, was warmly received by a large audience and
accorded good space in the press of the city.

In St. Louis, the Municipal Recreation Department cele-
brated by arranging a “Night of Music” at the Sherman
Recreation Center. The numbers, representing the folk
music of many nations, were given by some of the singing,
dancing and verse-speaking classes under the general di-

FEBRUARY 1952

Gertrude Borchard

cht: Los Angeles festival program, held in Hollywood Bowl.
Youth chorus shown here consisted of seven hundred voices.

Below: Small groups—people of all ages—have wonderful time
With music. Might be used to spark other music activities.

 

rcction of Ruth Meyers, the department’s supervisor of
music and dramatics.

Towns in Pennsylvania

The Playground and Recreation Department of Wilkes-
Barre, Pennsylvania, has long been c00perating with the
local citizens’ Music Week committee. Indeed, Music Week
has become a custom so well established in the town and
in the surrounding Wyoming Valley that many organiza- ,
tions regard it as a regular event in their year’s schedule
and look to the committee only for help in such matters
as avoiding a conflict of dates.

Speaking for the committee, Ruth E. Swezey, director
of recreation, wrote after the close of Music Week last
spring: “We now do more of a coordinating job, where
years ago we promoted and planned the individual events.
Probably this is as it should be, as the community accepts
our committee as the chief agent for publicity and the
like.” She added that good stories about musical develop-
ments were featured all through the week and that the
radio station helped extensively.

York, Pennsylvania, has a history of having celebrated

511

National Music Week since its ineeption on a synchronized
basis in 1924. In recent years, the observance has been
sponsored by the York Recreation Commission and, in
1951, Robert J. Hepburn, superintendent of reereation,
was chairman of the city’s Music Week committee. Here
is a condensed report of the way in wllieh the committee
organized the town for Music Week participation:

1. A Musie \Veek committee was formed and this com-
mittee planned the week’s program.

2. Letters were sent to chairmen asking them to call at-
tention to Musie Week in York.

3. Letters were sent to the choir masters asking them to
play church musie over their outside systems each
day at noon for a few minutes.

4. The schools and individual music groups put on radio

shows every day during Music Week. The stations

cooperated in planning daily Musie Week programs.

All stations had lots of recorded and live music.

The newspapers carried stories on Music Week.

The mayor made a Music Week proclamation.

:49?“

A free coneert was presented at the elose of the week.
It was a memorial to a man who had recently died
and who was responsible for giving York a great deal
of musie. The concert was both instrumental and
voeal and was listened to by a full house.

8. Window strips on Music Week were given out to city
merchants and they were asked to place these in their
store windows. Strips were also passed out around
the county.

Keynote for 1952

The keynote for this year’s Music Week observanee is

“Make Your Life More Musical.” That includes playing
and singing, individually and in groups', but so far as rec-
reation is eoneerned, mainly in groups. It also ineludes
listening—the more active listening whiell means an en-
riclling expcrience.

iecreation leaders might well let the observance spark
their eampaign for supplementing their work in music in
whatever dircetion they eonsider it inadequate. Enthusiasm,
interest in people and a minimum of musieal training are,
in the main, the equipment necessary for those who con-
duct group singing in the early stages—and even at the
stages where deseants and two-part songs are introdueed.

Professional training is desirable for leadership of the
more advaneed groups, whether vocal, instrumental or
listening, but young men and women with sueh training
may be easier to find than they have been in the past.
Many musie schools and conservatories reeognize the pos-
sibilities in the recreation field. They may be willing and
glad to supply their senior studcnts and young graduates
on a volunteer or nominal fee basis. A few colleges have.
eourses in elementary musical skills for thc reereation
leader. For a rapidly growing number of people, “music
appreciation” has become a hobby to whieh they devote
a generous portion of their leisure. Some of these people,
with a solid culture in musical literature, may be happy
for the opportunity to share their knowledge with others.

In any case, National Musie Week is a time for stock-
taking. If the other weeks of the year have their due quota
of music, let that fact now be underscored. Where there
are gaps, let provision be made for filling them. Make it
known that musie has taken its plaee in recreation and
that the recreation department has kept abreast with the
procession.

Outstanding Worker \ Q

0 Eugene and Springfield, Oregon, eiti-  if

zens reeently paid tribute to Mrs. Irene Q ' “if   ’
Squires for her outstanding youth \  ‘ .
guidanee work. The superintendent of 

Springfield’s Williamalane Park and j/Q

Recreation District was presented the .\ l

Eugene Eagles Annual Civic Service
Award, the sixth sueh award to be
made by the fraternal organization.

Award Winners

0 Architects Smith, Jones and Contini
are the recipients of a distinguished
honor award—the first to be granted
by the Southern California Institute of
Arehitects—for their design of Los
Angeles’ new girls’ camp. Several hun-
dred other projeets were entered in
the competition. An award was also
given to the contractor and to the
Board of Recreation and Park Com-

missioners.

512

A Thoughtful Gesture

0 Recently, a very good friend of the
National Reereation Assoeiation, who
has been serving as sponsor in her
town for fourteen years, came to head-
quarters with a speeial message. She
spoke feelingly of her deep belief in
the assoeiation and of her satisfaction
in working with one of its representa-
tives. Her particular purpose was to
announce that a small foundation was

being set up to continue some of her
eontributions. She is even planning to
inerease her current contribution and
and has instructed her daughter to eon-
tinue it after she has gone. In addition,
she also talked of her plans to iuelude
the association in her will.

Her name will long be recorded with
those of many others who have made
bequests to the National Reereation
Association so that it may continue its
many services.

RECREATION

How To Do IT 9 bj:M¢/§O=&=

MAKE A GLow CANDLE .

Mailer/a /5 Needed.
Paraffi n Wax

Quart“ \ce Cream Con‘famer
Small Paper Plaie

qu Beoier,

Ice Pick

Rug Yarn and Wax CraLjon.

 

STEPS /

I. Fill quar‘b com‘afner and paper p\a‘}e wi’fh meH‘ed wax.
Me/f wax crayon in paramn fa secure desired co/or.

2.\)\/hen wax congeals remove ‘From com‘ainers.
3. Pu‘i wick in candle «— Mazée no/e cuff/7
ice p/bk. DI}: rack in Wax and when
rig/d pa)‘ in no/e . Pour a //'///e wax

C an fathers

    

around uric/t 2‘0 na/a’ 17/}? p/ace .
Ruq qam makes qoool wick . Q
CWax Forms

   
   

Wick

{fa/e in Caner/emade 4. AHach base ‘I‘o candle .
arr/h me pick P/ace ao/fano afcand/e in me/Xea’ wax.

cand/e Quick/y a/I’ac/v cand/e fo base .

  
 
  
  

Candle

Ne/fed wax

To DECORATE. .
r410 approprfafe pl'cl’ure may be af/acned )‘o cand/e by coa/I'nq

back of pic )(w‘e “07/7 602" We: x and pressing aaar'nsf sat-)Gtce ofcand/e .
Frasf cand/e by Warp/Dina wax will) e99 bea/er. Spread over cand/e .

Base and (and/e a/Xacned

FEBRUARY 1952 ‘ 513

PERSONNEL

“.ln-Scrviue

Trahnng

The Milwaukee Department of Municipal Recreation,
with the approval of its control body, the Milwaukee Board
of School Directors, has recently put into effect a prepara-
tion-type salary schedule for the various classifications of
full-time recreation employees. Its purpose is to encourage
professional study with or beyond the objectives of a
higher degree, and to give recognition for special prepara-
tion for such items as professional service, study in non-
accredited schools, work experience, travel and so on.
Coupled with the schedule is a program of in-service train-

ing, to encourage and provide opportunities for continu-
ous growth.

Organization of the Department

For a clear understanding of this preparation-type sal-
ary schedule and in-service training program, it is neces-
sary to know about the organization of the Milwaukec de-
partment and its classification of positions. The department
is headed by an assistant superintendent of schools, who is
assisted by three divisional directors: director of the Divi-
sion of Playgrounds and Social Centers, director of the
Division of Municipal Athletics and director of the Divi-
sion of Service and Maintenance. There is a supervisory
staff of six, who are directly responsible for promotion,

MR. DYER is in charge of recreation and adult education,
Department of Municipal Recreation, Milwaukee, Wise.

514

organization and supervision of certain fields of activities
—-—such as drama, music, arts and crafts, adult education,
sports and games, club work, nature study and so 011. The
city is dividcd into fourtecn recreation districts, each hav-
ing a director who is in charge of the social ccntcrs and
playgrounds within the district and who is responsible to
the director of the Division of Playgrounds and Social
Centers and his staff of supervisors. Each district also has
recreation instructors serving in its various social centers
and on its playgrounds, who are responsible to the district
director. Although the recreation department is under the
jurisdiction of the Board of School Directors, the pro-
gram is city-wide in scope—and activities are conducted in-
and out-of-doors for all ages. This departmcnt has no re-
sponsibility whatsoever for the regular day school program
of physical education or any other public school activi-
ties. The funds for the operation of thc department are de-
rived from a special nine-tenths mill tax and may only be
used for municipal recreation purposes.

Evaluation Policy Committee

To implement the preparation-type schedule and in-
service training program, the Evaluation Policy Commit-
tee, consisting of nine members, was created by the Board
of School Directors to prepare standards and regulations
for the evaluation of training and preparation. This com-
mittee acts as a board of review for rcquests involving the
evaluation and accrediting of training and experience sub-
mitted by full-time recreation employees of the depart-
ment. Following are the general policies and criteria which
are applied to the many types of preparation and experi-
ence to be evaluated:

1. Recommendations for allowances of credits for train-
ing shall 'be considered in terms of benefits directly ac-
cruing to the recreation department.

2. Credit allowances shall only he made for preparation
and expcrience in the field of education, in the field of rec-
reation or in the field of_ general culture related to the indi-
vidual’s assignment.

3,. 0f the thirty-two units necessary for rccognition as
onc year of preparation for salary classification purposes, a
minimum of eightccn units must be credits granted by an
accredited univcrsity or college, and fourteen may be
equivalency units. This ratio shall be applied in all cases
of salary classification.

4. In-service training plans, which involve credits not
applicable to a degree, shall require pre-approval.

5. Grants of equivalency credit shall bc limited to those
activities where no financial remuneration has been re-
ceived.

6. Equivalency units shall, so far as possible, be com-
putcd according to university ercdit standards; that is,
sixteen class instruction hours plus prcparation or thirty-

RECREATION

two class hours without preparation are required for one
semester hour.

Credit Allowances

A “unit” of preparation is a scmester hour of university
or college credit, or its equivalent, with certain qualifica-
tions, as listed below:

1. Credits earned in an accredited school. Credits so
earned shall be accepted at face value.

2. Professional study in non-accredited schools. Courses
completed in these or specialized schools may be( allowed
for equivalent credit. °

3. In-service training courses. Courses, workshops or
seminars, if specifically pre—approved, shall be creditable.
Where such courses are operated under university or col-
lege sponsorship and held to university standards as to
hours, preparation, examinations and so on, the units so
earned shall be considered as credits earned in an ac-
credited school. In all other cases, credits shall be applied
as equivalency units.

4. Courses taken in the armed services. Such courses,
which are acceptable as requirements for a degree, shall
be accepted as credits earned in an accredited school;
other courses may be accepted as equivalency units under

Schedule No. l—Recreation Instructors

Qualifications—college graduate.

Probationary Period—3 years.

Tenure—after 3 years of probationary service.

Salary Increments—automatic annual increments of $200.

Service—200 days of 8 hours each, hetween September 1 and
June 30, as assigned.

Minimum

Maximum

Schedule No. 2—District Directors

Qualifications

Probationary Period

Tenure

Salary Increments

Service—220 days of 8 hours each, between September 1 and
August 31, as assigned.

Minimum

Maximum

Schedule No. 3—Staii Supervisors
Qualifications

Probationary Period }Same as Schedule No. 1
Tenure
Salary Increments—automatic annual increments of $250.

Service—12 months, 1 month of vacation with pay.
Minimum

Maximum
Schedule No. 4—Division Directors

Qualifications

Probationary Period }Sanie as Schedule No. 1

Tenure

Salary Increments—automatic annual increments of $250.
Service—12 months, 1 month of vacation with pay.
Minimum

Maximum

Schedule No. 5—Assistant Director of the Department

$Same as Schedule No. 1

BA Equivalent
or 128 Units

I).]3.I)yer

certain conditions.
5. Private instruction. Equivalent credit may be allowed
for professional study under private instruction.

6. Service on professional committees. Such service, on
a voluntary basis, shall be eligible for equivalency credit,
provided that it is approved and rendered under certain
conditions.

7. Travel, when conducted under the auspices of an ac-
credited university and when recognized by such institu-
tion for credit, shall be allowed.

8. Work experience may be recognized for equivalency
credit when pre-approved and when no financial remunera-
tion is involved.

9. Teaching in local in-service training. courses. Instruc-
tors shall be eligible for double credit in lieu of financial
remuneration.

Classification of Positions and Salary Schedules

The preparation-type salary schedules listed below for
the various classifications of full-time recreation positions
are the base rates of pay. To these base rates are added
an annual cost-of~living adjustment, which amounted to

$1,346 for the year of 1951 and will amount tow $1,615
this year.

MA Status
plus 32 Units
or PhD

BA Degree MA Degree MA Status
MA Equivalent plus

or 160 Units 16 Units

$3800
$5550

$3900
$5850

$4000
$6050

$4100
$6250

The director of the Division of Playgrounds and Social Centers is also classified as an assistant director of the department, with

a minimum salary of $4,500 and a maximum of $6,600.

FEBRUARY 1952

 

515

In-Serviee Training Committee and Courses

This plan of in-service training for the full-time em-
ployees of the recreation department encourages profes-
sional improvement by offering the individual an Oppor-
tunity to improve his salary status through his own efforts.
While many courses offered regularly in Milwaukee col-
leges and universities are valuable and practical for recrea-
tion workers, it was deemed desirable to offer additional
courses which would specifically benefit the recreation de-
partment. Consequently, the department established its own
in-service training committee.

This 'committee consists of six full-time employees, two
recreation instructors, two district directors and two staff
supervisors. Members determine the type of course to be
offered, select the instructor and the college or university
to sponsor it and aid in determining its content. '

A typical course consists of eight two-hour class ses-
sions, meeting once a week. Sixteen hours of outside prepa-
ration are required, as assigned by the instructor. One
equivalency unit is granted for each such approved course.
Instructors are obtained from local colleges and universi-
ties, industrial plants, commercial concerns or from profes-
sional ranks, depending upon the subject offered.

The first course offered in 1951 dealt with personnel
relations and was taught by a former university professor
who now is in the field of industrial personnel work. The
second course, which is being offered at the present time,
deals with public relations and is being taught by the di-
rector of public relations of one of Milwaukee’s largest
industrial plants.

In-Serviee Training for Part-Time Employees

The department conducts in-service training programs
throughout the year for part-time social center and play-
ground employees; This training is compulsory for ap-
pointment to such positions and does not affect salaries.

Training courses are conducted for social center em-
ployees by each staff supervisor for the leaders and in-

structors conducting the social center activities for which
the supervisor is reSponsible. For example, the supervisor
of games and athletic activities conducts a course of in-
struction for those in charge of gymnasiums, table game
rooms, table tennis rooms, billiard rooms, boxing classes
and so on, before the social center season opens. During
the season, special training sessions may be held in the
evening by closing the activity room a half hour earlier
than usual. Thus, all table game room instructors in half
of the recreation districts may be called together for a
meeting by the supervisor of table games, which means
that only one activity is closed a half hour earlier.

Each of the fourteen district directors conducts an ori-
entation meeting for all the employees of the social centers
in his district, before the season opens, to discuss general
objectives and regulations of the department as well as
specific rules and regulations for the conduct of activities,
building discipline and so on. Building meetings for all
personnel may be held from time to time by the social
center director, usually after the closing hour for center
activities—about nine-thirty p.m.

Part-time spring and fall playleaders must attend an ill-
stitute, held in the afternoon, before the playgrounds open.
In the summer, all playleaders attend a two-day institute
before the opening of the season, for which they receive
no remuneration. During the season, they must attend a
Saturday morning playground class of three hours every
week, for which they receive two dollars a morning. Staff
supervisors and district directors serve as instructors at
playground institutes and classes. Instructions are given
regarding general administration, department policies, pro-
gram planning, technique of game instructio‘n, games and
special activities.

Since the schedule and program have only been in effect
a little more than a year, it is not yet possible to evaluate
the long-term results. However, the immediate response, in
terms of participation (sixty-seven per cent of the fulltime
personnel), is indicative of a high degree of interest.

 

 

 

NRA T952 DISTRICT CONFERENCE SCHEDULE

J

16

District Location Hotel Dates DR
Pacific Southwest Fresno, Calif. Californian February 19-22 Rodney
Southeast Tallahassee, Flo. Duval March 12-14 Van Fleet
Middle Atlantic Buck Hill Falls, The Inn March 20-22 Faust
Po.
Midwest Denver, Colo. Shirley Savoy March 26-29 Todd-Lathrop
Southwest Corpus Christi, White Plaza March 27-29 Van Arsdale
Texas
Pacific Northwest Eugene 8- Spring- Osburn, Eugene, April 2-4 Shumard
field, Ore. Ore.
Great Lakes Madison, Wis. Loraine April 16-18 Callier-Horney
New York State Bear Mountain, Bear Mountain April 23-26 Nesbitt
New York Inn
Southern Wheeling, West Ogleboy Pork April 27-29 Morion Preece
Va.
New England To be announced May 7-9 Hainswarth

RECREATION

EXPERIMENTS WITH

SURF AGING UNDER APPARATUS

THE SCHOOL authorities in at least

two California cities have recently
taken action, in response to protests
from parents of school children, to
minimize the danger of serious acci-
dents to children falling from play-
ground apparatus. The statement be-
low describes action taken by the Los
Angeles Board of Education in follow-
ing up the reports on playground sur-
facing quoted in the November 1951
issue of RECREATION“ and similar
steps taken in Pasadena.

In Los Angeles

A study conducted by the school
authorities, to determine the cost of
installing resilient materials on a per-
manent basis under the 3,331 pieces
of apparatus at 334 elementary schools,
indicated the approximate cost as:

Sand ........................ .. $ 727,700
Rubber ...................... .. $1,096,700
Cork ........................ .. $1,161,400

The time required for a total in-
stallation program was estimated to
vary from six monthsrto a year.

The Business Division and Physical
and Health Education and Youth Serv-

ices Branch of the schools suggested
that, before a large sum of money was
spent on permanent installations, ad-
ditional information should be sought
as to more satisfactory cushioning

 

* Reprints of this article, “Playground Ac-
cidents Prompt Surfacing Study” and of the
above are available from the NRA at twenty-
five cents each.

FEBRUARY 1952

materials than are now available. In
order to provide a minimum program
of essential apparatus activities, it of-
fered the following suggestion which
was subsequently approved by the
Board of Education:

“That we proceed at once to install
a boxed enclosure on t0p of the black-
top surfacing and surrounding the
apparatus listed below, said enclosure

to be filled with sand to a depth of

eight to ten inches. The apparatus
here listed is selected Upon the basis
of lower accident potential and also
as more suitable to the sandbox base
arrangement.

1. Multiple climbing tree.

2. Horizontal ladder eight feet.
3. Low bars.

4. Travelling rings.

5. Horizontal ladder sixteen feet.”

Further recommendations likewise
approved by the board were that it
appropriate a sum, not to exceed
fifty thousand dollars, for further re-
search, and that the following types of
apparatus be removed from the play-
grounds and stored until suitable ma-
terial under the apparatus has been
determined:

1. Swings.

2. Slides.

3. Giant stride.

4. Climbing poles.

This equipment was selected because
of higher accident potential and be-
cause a sand base was considered less
practical beneath the apparatus.

The nature of the material to be
used for the boxed enclosure around

the apparatus was not specified. It
was recognized that this arrangement
would add problems to the supervision
and maintenance of the facilities, that
the action was expedient under the
circumstances, if only considered as a
temporary solution to the present situa-
tion.

Subsequent to the actions referred
to above, instructions were issued to
all elementary schools and administra-
tive oHices stating, in detail, a policy
with reference to the supervision of
apparatus areas and covering the use
of playground apparatus. It also out-
lined the duties of custodians with

reference to care and maintenance of
the equipment.

In Pasadena

A thorough investigation of the pos-
sibility of removing blacktop from
underneath playground equipment on
school grounds in Pasadena was con-
ducted by the school authorities. Two
proposals were considered in detail.
One was the removal of blacktop and
the installation of sand, sawdust or
other material below the existing
grade. The estimated cost of removing
the asphalt surface, excavating six
inches of soil, installing a rounded
curb and filling the area with eight
inches of washed sand was estimated
at $29,117. Advantages of the pr0posal
were that the present grade would be
maintained, therefore providing no ob-
stacle. The rounded curb would pre-
vent injurious falls. Disadvantages

517

listed were that the pit would form a
natural pool during the rainy season,
debris would gradually tend to blow
into it and the sand would tend to be
blown about by the wind. The other
disadvantages were that the heavy soil
would mix with the washed sand to
form a gumbo and, in many eases,
eonerete foundations of the apparatus
would be exposed and would require
lowering of the equipment.

The alternate proposal was to install
a curb of eonerete blocks around the
apparatus and to fill the area inside
with eight inches of washed sand. The
estimated eost of this project was
$24,389. Use of sixteen-inch redwood
headers, instead of concrete blocks,
would reduce the cost to $18,096.

Advantages of installing the curb
above grade were that it could be done
in two operations instead of four.

It would effect eonsiderable saving,
drainage would not present a problem,
sand would dry quickly and would not
the soil.

The

mix with installation

 

p

above grade would lessen the amount
of debris blown into the sand. If
desired, the curb eould later be re-
moved and used for sandboxes. A dis-
advantage was that installation of the
curb might require raising of some
equipment.

It was agreed that a pre—paved eon-
erete bloek ramp set above grade of-
fered the lowest eost per year and had
the greatest llexibility. Installation of
such a curb was therefore authorized
on an experimental basis at three
sehools.

The prefabricated eonel'ete eurb de-
signed by A. J. Glaser, director of
buildings and grounds, is east in
twenty-four-ineh portable seetions, six-
teen inehes Wide. It is installed around
the playground equipment at a dis-
tanee of five feet from any projecting
member. The eurb sections are bound
together with three-eighths-ineh gal-
vanized bolts, and a sixty penny nail
is driven through the reeess in ad-
joining easts into the blaektop to

Square Dance Records with Progressive Oral
instructions and Caiis by ED DURLACHER

Here is the easy and economical way to meet the
ever-growing demand for square dancing in your
community . . . the HONOR YOUR PARTNER

series of square dance records.

it it it

Each record in albums 1 to 4 starts with sim li-
fied progressive oral instructions by Ed Durlac er
—instructions easily understood by dancers of all
ages. F ollowin
time to square their sets, the music and calls

a brief pause, giving the dancers
egin. The TOP HANDS, directed

by FRANK NOVAK, offer the best in scintillating and foot tapping s uare dance
music. The calls are delivered by one of the nation’s most outstan 'ng square

dance authorities, ED DURLACHER.

The fifth album in the series contains music only, without calls or instructions—

“The Square Dance Caller's Delight”.

it

it

AN ENTHUSIASTIC USER REPORTS . . .

"We are using your albums 1, 2, and 3, and find them the very finest
teaching did we have ever run across.”

Tom Pfaender, Director
Physical Education 6: Athletics
New Ulm (Minn.) Public Schools

All records are guaranteed against breakage, in normal use.
You'll want to learn more about the HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums.

Write today for a descriptive toider.

HONOR YOUR PARIN ER

” ' SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

D E Pro R's

518

FREEPORT, NEW YORK

 

anchor the curb. The concrete is a
one to two-and-a-half to thl'ee-and-a-
quarter mixture, with pea gravel used
for the eoarse aggregate and approxi-
mately six gallons of water per sack of
cement. This is a very dry mixture,
so that it must be tamped or vibrated
in place, permitting the forms to be
stripped within a comparatively short
period of time. Consequently, few
forms are made. It is not considered
essential to include reinforeing steel,
but old reelaimed feneing has been
used for a reinforeing mesh.

As a safety measure, the surface of
the eurb is sloped with‘rounded edges
in the belief that the inclined plane
presents less of a hazard than other
types of rise. The surface of the curb
is roughed to minimize slipping. The
entire interior of the enelosure is;
filled with eight inehes of sand.

The installations have received
mueh favorable eonnnent and present
indieations are that they will prove
sueeessful.

Friendly Signs

In Washington Park, Michigan City,
Indiana friendly signs are achieving
better cooperation from the public
than the old standby “Keep Off the
Grass” and “Don’t Litter” signs usu-
ally in evidenee. Among those to be
found in Michigan City parks are:

TO LINGER BUT NOT LITTER . . . TO
REST BUT NOT MOLEST . . . TO ENJOY
BUT NOT DESTROY.

TABLES FREE TO EVERYONE

WHO SEES THAT ALL HIS CLEANING’S
DONE.

BUT FIFTY CENTS WE FINE TIIE MAN

WHO LEAVES HIS MESS OUTSIDE THE
CAN.

STOP, LOOK AND LISTEN

BEFORE YOU CROSS THE STREET

USE YOUR EYES, USE YOUR EARS
AND THEN USE YOUR FEET.

LET NO ONE SAY, AND SAY IT TO YOUR
SHAME, THAT ALL WAS BEAUTY IIERE
UNTIL YOU CAME.

JOBS WITH A PLUS
IN THE YWCA

Emphasis on Creative Leadership
Re uire Bachelor‘s degree and ex rience,

suc as Recreation-Group-W’ork— caching.

“him to Personnel Services,

National Board, Y‘VCA
600 Lexington Avenue, New York 22, N.Y.

RECREATION

S

‘
J

GADI

[AL

‘
1

SIM

S

‘
A

CAM

SIDCIAL

45:5: 45:8...

M5555 2:: :5 5:55: 3: ::5 55:5: 55:: M55. 4.5 5355:
5 5 :5:: 5 5:5: ::5 5 :5::5: 5 5 M55:.

65:5 :5 M55: ::5 55 55:5. >: 5 5:M:5:. ::5 :55: 5:55: ::
555:: 55:: 15:55 :5 5:5: 5 5 25:: 5:. 5 55:5: ::5. :5: 555
5:: ::555 :5 5:5: 55:: 5 ::5 5::: 555555. 4.5 5::: 15:55
:55 :5 55:5 :::MM 5:: 5o 5 M55 5::: .555:: 5555:. o: ::5 55::
:55 5:5: :5 5:5: 5 :5 :5:. 4:5 :55: 55.5 5 ::5: ::5. O:
55:55. ::5 ::Bocg: 5 :: M:::::M :5 55::M. 555M 5:5? 2:53:
5::: :55 5 5555 :J: ::5r:::M 55 55:. 275:: M55553: ::5 ::5
5:5: :5 E5:M 25:: > ::5. 5555 5:55 5 :55: 5:. ::5 :.5:5:Tl:3:
5 :55 5:: :5 55:55 525%. ..

1'

H: :5 7:55:55 5:. ::5 >955:

~55 5 5 5:2. M555. 5: 5::.:::5 5:515 ::5: 5:555 5:515
55::M. :::.. 5 5:55: 5:: 5555 :5 55.: 5:::5 :5 5:55 555::
5:5555 5: 5:55. 55:: 55 2552;...

:5... 5555 5::. 5 :5:: ::::: M555 :5 5:55. ::5 55:5 5 155:.
5 :5 555 6535155 55: ms :5 55:55:. 0:. ::5 5:55. :59. 5:53:15
::5 :5:: 55:2 ::5: :: ::5 ::5:5:. 5:. :5 5:55... 4:5 155:. 2:5 5
5 55:55: :55: 65:55:55 55::M 5:52;. :: 3:: :55.” M555
:5 5:55. :5 55:5 :5 :5:: ::555: 5 :5 55:5 ::5:. 55: :: :5
::5:5:. 5: 5:55:55.

M5: 55 555:: :5 5:55 55: :5 55:5: 5 :o 55::5::::M 5:::
:5 :5:.55: 2:5 5 2:: M55555 :5 5:55. :: :5 55:; M555. ::5 55:5
:5... :: :5 :5:.55 5 3:532:15 ::5 5555 2:55:55... 55 ..5:o:<:::....l
5 5 55515::5. :35: 2::3 M55555 :5 5:5:.::. :5 155:. 55:55:

5:.555: 55:55 2::3 5:: ::55 5 5:555 5 555 5:5::5:. 5:55.
:5

:55. U5 :5: 5:5 5::: Z5:M:::5:..wa

4:55 5 5 :o: o: 5:5:55555 55:5: :: ::5 M55. > 5555: 5:55
5 ::5: 555: 5:: 55.35:5 :::::::5:.5 0:4. @557 :5:.55: :55: :.5-
55:55:. ::5 :::::::5:.. :4”: 55::5 :: :5 55:15:. 0:. :5 5:55 5:: 55:55
5::: 5:5 :5:.50: 15:::M" 2mg): :5 :5:: ::5 :55. 5:M:::5:...:..

4:5 15:55 @5355: 55: 55:5 555:. o: 55 5:53:55. :: ::5 55:5
2:53: :5:... 553.25 5:55:55; 5::5:M55 555:5 2::5 25.. 535515
5 :5: 5 555: 5:. :::::55::. :: 2.5.. 555555 :: M5:::M 5555:. :5
15:55 :5: 5:: 51:55 5 5:55 :55555 ::5...

::. :5 1555 5:555 :5 555:: 55:53 :5 55: 55:: n.: :o:.: ::5
:3: 5:M::5:.... :: ::5 5555. 25.. :5: 55:5: 2:355 :51: :5:
:5::5:. :55»: 4:5 155:. 55: 55:55. 27:55:55 I 5:: ::5:5:. .3
4:555 55 155:5 5:5: :5: 5:55:55; 5::5:M5 555.5 5::: :5
155:5 5::::M o: 5::5:. 5:5 5: :5. 155:. 5:5:51:M :5 ::55:o:5.
2::3 2.55 5 M5: 55 5:. :5 5::. 5:555 5:: 555:: 5:55 :5 155:5
55 55:57::M. 5:: :5 155:. 5:: 2:55: 5 5:55 55:55 :5...

::5: 5 :5:: 0:. 255::M: ::5 5:5 :5 5::5::.5 55 555::

 

.w 4:555 M555 5...: :55: 555M: :5 55:353. 5: ::5 m:5:::M ::5:::5::::M 055-

553.. 551:5: :5:: 3: W55: 05:55 :3 5555.555; 5:. ::5: 5:: 05:55::
46515:. 3.8.

 

(Fold Back)

O

 

555:}; 5:. HEB

WGOHFF QFSEM

05:55 5:.5 551.5555 :5
1‘\.::55:o: 5:53 5: 4:5: 5:.5
:5 ::5 45555555 5:. ::5:.:55
5:: 55:5: M5:5:.::M5 o: 5:: 515. 55 5:: 5M55 5:: 55:5 5: ::5. m555
M555 :5: :5 5::. :5 5:5::::M @955. :5 55:33: 5: ::5 2:55
:5::3 55.55 :55:0:: 55:5“ 55:5 1.53:5 5: 5:52.553: 5:. 5::.
5555555? :on :5 55:22:53 5: 55:55::5 55:55:!“ :55: 555::
50:55:09 5555: 5:55:55 :::.o:M:: M5::u 15::l5:: 5:: ::5.
3:5 5 $5::5:.::: ::5 5:: 5 53: :55::.5:::5 ::5: 0: 55:55:55
::5: 555::5 :5 5::: :.55:.55:o: 5:552:55 5:: :5 4:555-
4.55555 >555:5:o: 5:. >:¢.o:. 0:5. 5:55: 5:55:55: 5 55:5: :55.
55:5: ::.5::::M ::5:55|o:5 o: :5 ::5: :u4.> 55:55 0: ::5 5::
Il5:: 5:59:55: :5 :5::025M M555 5 ::5 5:55:55.

4.5.55 4.5.53 4.55:. 3 3:5 :5 :55. 255:5on

4.:5 155:5 5:.5 5555: :: 5 5:55 5:: 555:: 5. 55:5: 5 55:: ::5
:555 5:. :5 :5:.55: o: ::5 :.:M::: 5:: o: ::5 5:5 0:: ::5 :5:”. 4:5 M555:
::5 5 2:: 5:155:55 5 15:53 55%::M ..:::M::n.. 5:. .453...
27555:. ::595: ::5 ::555. 4:5 155:. 5:::5555:5: 5:5: 51::
5::: ::5 :35 o: :5 :555: o: :5 5:5 5:5: :555 2:: 55: 55::

24.55:: 4.5.5:: 4.5.5:...

H.555 M:5M5:5

0:5 5 :5: o: $.5::.:A:o:<: 5:5:.:5::M 5:0M5:5 5 :55. M555 5::
55:: 555:: 5 ::5::::: :5:: :55 5:5 5 5:: 5::MM55:5:5:

:L 7.55:: ::5: 55:55:M::.: 53:15:55 2:155:55 momwv
9555 :5:. 40:: U55: 0:55:55;

3:5: 5 :5::5 :: :5::5. 9555:.5 ME":

055: 5 ::5 :55: :5:? 9:55:55: 4.45555 00:55:
355:; 5555::5: :5:. ::5: >53

:.J:.o:: 5:5:5: 525. 2555.5: 3:5

4:5 ::M55:::5 :5:. 50:55:
4.5:: 55:53:. 49555155 O:M5:.5_55:

4:5 ::5qu :555. 43555:: 0525M 05:: \

55:55::5 5:: :.5:.a55::::M. 4055 05:5: xii :_
::5 5555:..5 :555. 3355:. 4.5::n::M :<:5.. W 2.x
5:::5: . .31....
:: :55. 3:53: mama -
:5:: :5 ::5: ::5 52:5 55. 44:55:55:

5555595:
4:55 5 5:5. 255:: 4.555:

C

«ompww

    
    

 

r—H—I
HopM

  

l—‘i—I
9°.“

,_1
:5

GADIFS

SIN‘IAI.

S

‘
4

(SARI

8011A I.

\\

82:2 0: 080m :82 0:. :80 30.8 2 00:0:0 0 m8: m0: 883
:000 8E0 8E888w E 8:E.: 8:: 0: E .002 0.: mEmmgw 8::
E02 0:: 8.: E08830 E 88: 0:0 00:: :82 80% 2 0880 02E
0:“ 8m 2 E 88: 0:. 00000.88 0:806 .8 0280 0 30.8 0: 888
88 8:88 0::3 .0E_.$_m 8889?? 0 30.8 8:. 88:: 0:0 ...%EU
:8? >82 .82.:839. E :308 0: 0H 02E 0:: .08808 8m ..:
.8888 8 08:88 30.8 “2:: 8: .88.: 0E8:
“.80 "0:0 80% C80 mE30E0 E 0:...» .883 0: E .EE: ES :00: 00:
8:: 003 0:: 0388: m0 x308: m0 :8: 0:: :0 30.8 00 0Em0: :08
:82 E: 0: :00: 0:0: 888 :000 :0: E .08: 0:80 0:: 8 E02 :000
.8 88:: 0:0 0“ 002 :0 08:03? 03 .:0 00 6:0 02E: :00: ~08 00:00
.8001 .8888 .000E .8 “0: 88:08 0 00: 8:82 0:8 .882 00
80 0: 808: 0:0 :80 .0802 088 8 0.5 .8 :000 8.: E08: 0 :80
8:0: :0 :00: 0 0.8 :80: :0: :0 .8888 0“ E05 :08: 0:: 8 0E

08—8.8:5 t4

8:8» 088: Mo
8:80: 80:00:: 0:: wE80m 802 0: H .00: E 08:2 0:: 8 :E8E8:
0:: E:E.: E0: 0: “2:: 883 0:: 88:30 0:: E 0822 0.8 0.8::
:05 088:: 830.: 0.8 08:: m: .88: 0 00800 :08: 0“ 8:: 0:08
05. ...:-E.0.:-H.: :83 0:: “0:508 8:0 880 E2: a: mEEo: £2,000:
0:: 0: 802 :000 80E 808:3 :0: “08.: 0:: E 0822 0:: mEgo:
08:08 0:.H 2:82: 0:: :08? 0 80 0:00 :80 800: 0:: 8 :08 0:0
8 8:20 880— 0: E .0888 0:: @880 :08E2E: :08 030 :000
.l 0: 80% E 30:0:30 0:: 8 8:2 0 WE
$03020 :000 .880 .8 8m 4 .800: 0.:
m0 0030 2:00:50 :0 8:8 :000 00:80.:
r80:: 02: E :88 08x03 0: E E88:
.08 0.8 8:0:30 0:“ 8 20m 03.:

’4’ wE=0mm 800%

.8800 0::
2 0w “0:8 E 88800 08: 38:0 0:? :008: 0:: .E0:0 0 20m
..E: 00:? £0: E: :0 E0:0 0:: 8: 03:08:00.: E 0:0»88 .E0_
0:: 0: 20:0 0: 08:08 880— 0:: .2 .E SE 20:0 8:8 8000> Em?
mm: :0 E08 0:: 8:: 0:3 :38: 0:: .38.: 0:: 0: 08:: 2 20:8 0::
8.: 0:00 0: :25? 20:0 0: 0.88:: 0:: 080.: 0: :03: E :E80EE0
2: .0 .02 .5 £0: 20 2 we: .2 .03.... 2 .008 .30: .02?
0:00 0: 04 88:: 8w. :8 0: 08.8: E 2 :8: :008: 0:: :3 8:0:
mE0: 3:025:00 mm 8:: E08 8000.: 0:: E E0 0: 08828 03 20:8
0:: .8 8800 0:: E 8:020 88:: 0:80 0:9. 88:0 0.38 0:0 0E0:
.:00 :03»: 0:0.E0 000:0 0 E E00800 0.8 .80 30008 .0888 0:: :4

00:0 2:8: .0000

.mE80m080: E 0: 8:: 0008.8 98% 0:: :8: :0200 E: a:
:00: :88 0m .EE 0“ 8:808 :00: 00: :03...» 08.: 0:: :3 E0080
-EzE 80:08 0:: 8:828: :80 28:: 0:: 2 0:80 “8:. 0: 80:00
.r: 0:8: 0.883 0 8:3 .08: 0 8 0:0 .:E: 0: 808.0 :000 0:00 “0:0
..0:0.::: 0:: 8:: 000:: 0:: 00:2 0883 0:: .8 0:0 8:: 0:: :80
880980 .8E0m .838: .8903: m0 :0:m|0_8.: E280 0 8 0:8:
.2: 8:23 0E :28: 8:: 88: 8 E8 0 :38 E 82% :00:

v
r

:5 :9: 803.5:

  

(Fold Along Thin Line) J

 

GEM—080V 8:00:80:
A“0:88:08 MM 0M8: w: .mm 200 80%.:820 5:4 .3
8.0080 0: .308
m80 “0050008 4 .0m A..80 0:3?0304 .mH
. 20:00:80: 8830088 20082084 .3
080 88:0 4 .mm 8::02880:
A8900: A“0:38.81: 80% 4 .HH

A308:0? 0:: 8.: 80 4 .mm £8080: ~80 88: 4 .3

2.8.5880: 91:88.0: 080 wE80:m4 a

«3:8 :08: 0 :E3 80 4 .Hm 300.880:
A0sw0_080~ m80 mEE: 4 .ON N08 0:: 8.: 80 :00: 4 .w
A::um:020UV 0:0: A88808UV N803?» 4 .N.
.8me 088:0: .8 80 4 .3 83080: ~80 00.: 4 .0

2.0.00 :02
m.80 m.:0::8:mm 4 .wH .080: AW80 :mm:0:m 4 .m
888 32.00 022%.. o: 0

«H80 9:08:80: 4 .5 A0:
30.0.0.8 -8800: 80 .00.. .8 0 .0

N80 8083:: 4 .3 3800080: 0000::
T8880: 88:: 6:888:08 :4 .m

200: 0 .830 0 0.8:: 80 4 .2 20:88:08 m80 .803 4 .H

.08: 830. 0 EEE: 08.800 2.380:

&: mm: 0E8. 0: 8:00 E80 :08: 0 8:8... E 80.8
.. mm. \0 :00m 82:00 0:: 8.: :80; .8 0050 000%

08—00 080

.838: 0:: m0
:mEmww 0:: mE»8> km: .38: 880mm .80 8: E000: 0: 8:: 0:; .88m
030“ 3.8: 0 0:08 0: :E: :00 6:0 mEbm 8 :08.» 0 .88 £80.50
00:: 538: 8:0: 038800: 0 .Eam0:8_0 0 80:0. :000 030

08.20.”: E98520

82:08
.28 0.5: .3 om 20 .03: .8
. $88800 008805 0E..— :03
-:0E0:.EV .8EOEEU 8 :.m8.:m 0:: 003 .mm
A8>0m 0.8.3 .20: 0:: :E? HES 30:00 .NN
8:89:00? 3:10:09
808:“:0—0 “88:02.8: E8 0:8 .HN
A:::0_0E..— m:0.:m
A54: .080: 0:: E 800: x88 80: .ON
A8>Em 0850.5 08
: -mom 5%: 633 80.: 80>. 0:. 8m :00..— d:
L 80:80:93 8:018:08 mo “00:00.0: 0:8 .M:
80805 :8:00> 880—:
0:020 E 00'80008 E m0! .080“ S .5
. gm
82:000pr .:0:0: 3 0>E :0: E8 0.; A:
A0288wmu 00:.Sm .38.: 8280. 0.: .2

 

Mmm'

A...,.._.

Fri-EM

E-"$u casino

Kite Carnivals

Kite-making, with kites decorated to
suit the maker’s taste, might begin in
the indoor community centers, as it
does in Syracuse, New York, and
terminate in kite carnivals on the play-
grounds, when the weather is more

dependable than in March. March,

however, could be used for try-outs.

Someone in Coventry, Connecticut,
introduced a course in kite-flying into
the first and second grades of the
public schools. The children made and
decorated their own kites according
to their tastes; then, one day, seventy
excited youngsters launched their own
productions.

Joint Planning

In Muskegon, Michigan, the schools
and city have jointly employed a
landscape architect. The planning has
been excellent, and both the school

board and the city council are very
pleased with the outcome.

For Carrying Plastic

ln Beloit, Wisconsin, the crafts
leader, Charles F. Jorgensen, Jr., has
worked out a way of carrying rolls of
plastic from one place to another. He
has run poles through an old drawer,
from side to side, and threaded the
plastic rolls onto these. The drawer
has a r0pe handle, to make carrying
easier. To a lid have been fastened
samples of many articles that can be
made from plastic, thereby creating an

FEBRUARY 1952

 

attractive display which is transported
easily and from which articles cannot
be removed. When the cover is taken
off, the orderly rolls of plastic turn
freely on the poles, ready to be used.
This arrangement also prevents the
possibility of the plastic being mis-
placed, for the rolls cannot be re-
moved.

Sources of Official Rules

Have you ever wanted a copy of the
rules for a certain sport and didn’t
know where to get it? The Athletic
Institute has the answer to such dilem-
mas—a list of the sources of more
than fifty sports activities from
archery to wrestling, with the cost of
rule book. It’s a handy ref-
erence for every person connected with
sports. A free c0py may be obtained
by sending a stamped, self-addressed
enveIOpe to Rule List, The Athletic
Institute, 209 South State Street, Chi-

cago 4, Illinois.

each

Square Dance Booklet

A good idea has been initiated by
Mr. and Mrs. Bill Cehreans, square
dance callers for the Pittsburgh rec-
reation department adult program.
They prepared a mimeographed book-
lct of square dancing helps, called
Square Your Sets, to be distributed to
all participants in this type of dam-
ing. Titles of some of its sections

are: “So You Wanta Square Danee?,”
“What ls a Caller?,” “Am I Going

Too Fast,” “Learn the Rounds.”
Another section presents the meaning
of some of the calls. Says Bill, in the
introduction: “It won’t do you any
good if we skip over some of this
stuff so fast that you aren’t able to
get each of the fundamentals as they
come up. On the floor, he sure to let
me know by waving your hands when
I ask, ‘Is there anyone who didn’t get
the last figure?”

Award Ribbons

For several years, the Caldwell-West
Caldwell Recreation Commission, in
New Jersey, has “battled” the problem
of finding suitable prizes for special-
events days on its playground. Mem-
bers have been searching for colorful
and attractive, yet reasonable awards
and, last year, they used colored rib-
bons imprinted with white flock. The
ribbons, two by six inches, were blue,
green and red, and were used as
awards for first, second and third
place, respectively. Spaces provided
on the ribbon permitted typing in the
name and date of the event. Each
playground was provided with twenty-
four ribbons, three of which were used
on each of the eight special-event days.
Judges were usually adult volunteers,
although youngsters occasionally acted
in this capacity. The ribbons were
attractive and were highly prized by
the boys and girls, who attached them
to the regular award certificate issued
by the commission.

Winning Their Letters

A point system of awarding credits
to students for extracurricular activi-
ties has been developed in the high
school in Van Wert, Iowa, which en-
ables boys and girls to win letters
similar to those awarded for partici-
pation in athletics. Students are given
twenty-five points for playing in the
band, ten points for appearing in a
class play, twenty-five points for main-
taining a perfect attendance record;
and points are taken away for absence
without excuse from rehearsals, public
appearances and so on, or failure in
any school subject. Chenille letters
are given for accumulation of one
hundred points. Students who receive
two hundred points also receive pins.

521

Ernest G. Dodge

MILLIONS OF Americans have, at

some time in their lives, sought
entertainment of a quiet sort through
one or another of those table games
calling for strategy, in which the ob-
ject of play is to move one’s men
across the board more rapidly than
does the opponent. “Halma,” “Chinese
Checkers” and “Pyramid” may be cited
as examples. The new game of “Jump-
Around,” invented by the author and
tested for several years before release
to the public, is governed by rules
which permit playing pieces to travel
much more quickly than in any of
the foregoing. The interest of the game
is further greatly enhanced by three
special devices peculiar to “Jump-
Around.” These include the complete
circling of the board in contrary
directions, which causes one’s men to
tangle with those of the other player
twice in each game instead of once;
the pushing-back of the opponent’s
pieces, which tends to disturb his
strategy; and the special play called
“Grand Break-Out,” occurring once in
each game for each player, whereby
three delayed pieces suddenly come
forward in ways quite _often unpre-
dictable.

Though the rules of the game are
copyrighted, there is nothing to pre-
vent the reader from making a “Jump-
Around” board for himself or friends.

AUTHOR, now retired from govern-
ment service, resides in Washington,

D. C.
522

This he can easily do, at a very small
expenditure of time, if he is content
to forego anything as fancy as wood
or beaverboard and to use merely a
piece of light colored wrapping paper,
a little more than eighteen inches
square. For the disks with which to
play, use ordinary cheekermen, ob-
tainable at almost any variety store.

In addition to the one large and
three small black figures known as
“Barriers,” the board consists of 120
small squares, each one and a half
inches in size. It is divided by heavier
lines into eight unequal areas, which
are made distinguishable to the eye by
the dots or figures inscribed in certain
of them. The two spaces of irregular
shape, full of horseshoes, triangles
and stars, are the “Home Fields” of
the two players. Neither player is al-
lowed to trespass into that of the other.
One person begins the game with
home field at his right, and his men
travel clear around the board in a
clockwise direction; the player whose
home field is at his left must send
his men around the board counter-
clockwise. In general, the pieces of
the two players will first pass each
other in or near the “First Bottleneck”
(the large area in plain color lying
most remote from the home fields) and
then they will pass each other, a
second time, under more crowded con-
ditions in or near the “Second Bottle-
neck,” (the area with four dots in
each square).

The irregular space of nine squares

in plain color, right beside your home
field is called your “Suburban Field”;
and the two areas with a plus sign
in each square are called the “Long
Rectangles.” The sample board pre-
sented here is arranged to show the
position of the pieces while an actual
game is in progress.

'Position of Men at Beginning

of Game
Within your home field, five of

your men will occupy the five horse-
shoe squares, and these must do all
the playing prior to the “Grand
Break-Out,” described later. Until that
time, the three men 011 the triangle
squares are not allowed to move,
though they may be jumped over. To
help in remembering their temporary
immobility, those three are held down,
for the time being, by having a second
disk piled on tOp of each. The three

star squares stand vacant.

Position of Men at Finish
of Game

In order to win the game, you must
be the first to move your eight pieces
around the board and back to your
home field; but, this time, you must
arrange them to cover all your star
and horseshoe squares, leaving the tri-
angle squares vacant.

Simple NIoveS

Pieees may be moved diagonally,
directly to right or left and directly

RECREATION

to and from the player. When it is
necessary or desirable to move a man
without his jumping anything, he may
travel in any one of the eight direc-
tions to the extent of either one or two
squares, but no farther.

Jumping Your Own Men

If one of your men is directly ad-
jacent to another, and there is a vacant
squarc on the opposite side, the one
may jump over the other, not dis-
turbing it in any way. After making
such a jump, if the man in play is in
position for another jump, the series
may be extended as long as proper con-
ditions are encountered. It is not com-
pulsory, however, to continue jumping
as far as possible, since the player is
free to terminate his play whenever

he thinks best.

The Ante-move

If you are separated by a two-square
distance from the man you desire to
jump—or if, though adjacent, you are
not on the square which best serves
your purpose—you may first move
your man to the extent of one space
in any direction which will bring it
into the desired jumping position,
after which the jump or series of jumps
proceeds as above.

The After-move

After completing a series of one or
more jumps, you may stop, if you
think best, on the square reached by
the last jump. Most frequently, how-
ever, it is better to finish the play by
using the privilege of the after-move.
This means that you may move the
jumping piece one square more, in
any desired direction. This not only
advances you farther, but often helps
to build up a so-called “ladder” or
series of men two spaces apart, over
which further umping for rapid prog-
ress will be possible later——unless your
opponent manages to break it up.

Jumping: i.e. Pushing the
Opponent’s Men

This is the modified form of a jump
which affects a disk of Opposite color
from your own. You are allowed to
jump-the other player’s pieces under
the same conditions as your own, but
with one important difference; instead
of leaving his man undisturbed

FEBRUARY 1952

wherc you find it, you carry it along
with you onto the vacant square into
which you are umping. To accomplish
this, you place your man on top of
his, push the two into the vacant space
bcyond, then lift your man off and
carry it further—by another jump or
by the after-move. The after-move
may be in any direction.

The Grand Break-Out

This is a spectacular series of four
consecutive plays which you will cxe-
cute once in each game. Until you
start playing the “Grand Break-Out,”
three of your men (as already noted)
have heen left far hehind on the trian-
gle squares of your home field, being
anchored there by the extra or cover-
ing disks. You are not allowed to
start these men into play until at least
three of your five other pieces, already
in action, have passed clear through
the first hottleneck, so as to have
reached your opponent’s side of the
board. Even after getting three or
more of your men thus advanced, you
may postpone your “Grand Break-
Out” for a while if you wish, and some-
times it is well to do so.

Whenever you decide upon a “Grand
Break-Out,” you have the unique
privilege of making four com-
plete plays one after another,
while your opponent wonders
what the board will look like
when you get through! You pro-
ceed as follows: First remove
from the board the three top
disks which have served as an-
chors. Then, in three consecutive
plays, empty the triangle squares
by moving your three men out
of the home field and advancing
them as far as you find practica-
ble. Right after this, you are
allowed to make a fourth play.
For this, you may move any
piece which still is left on your
side of the board, not yet having
entered the first bottleneck. (Occa-
sionally it may even be the piece which
has just performed the third play.)

Things Advised and
Things Forbidden

At the very beginning of the game,
it is to your advantage to leave un-
touched the man on the horseshoe

 

square farthest from the corner until
several other men have used it as
something to jump over. By use of
ante-move and after-move, you can

build up a ladder.

Remember that you cannot uncovcr
your pieces on the three triangle
squares and start thcm into play until
at least three of your other men have

left thc first bottleneck.
Never advance any man farther than

the squares forming the second hottle-
neck, until both your home field and
your suhurhan field are left entirely
empty. This is based upon the valid
principle that men just starting out
and men who have nearly circled the
board must never be allowed together
in the same field, creating a possibility
of confusing thc one with the other.
Never move any man of yours into
your opponent’s home field—not even
to reach a momentary position from
which it would jump out as part of the
same play. “A man’s home is his
castle.” Nevertheless, your opponent
may push a man of yours into his
home field. Once you have been thus
pushed, you are free to move your
man in any normal manner, the samc
as though it were elsewhere. In your
move for escape, you may sometimes

.555
E.

Q

IE
I
I!
I!
II
I!
IE!
IE!
I!

even push a man of his out of his home
field.

If your man has been pushed into
your opponent’s home field, you may
delay moving it out for a while, if you
wish. But if a man of yours should
chance to be thcre after the opponent
moves the last of his pieces out of the
second bottleneck (into either his
home or his suburban field), you must

523

then make it your business to get out
of his home field by your very next
move or moves; for, if you were to
stay there any longer, you would un-
justifiably stand in his way.

Scoring at the End of
the Game

As soon as either player gets his

eight men into final position, he
should say “All Homcl,” thus calling
or terminating the game. The defeated
person should then continue his play-
ing (though not for more than five

plays), in order to see by how much
he has come short of winning. If he

can get all his men into final position
by using those five supplementary

The Picture Isn’t Complete

IN ANY DISCUSSION of a competitive
sports program, Opinion grows vio-
lently pro or con, depending upon the
individual’s experience with, and ob-
servation of, competitive activities. In
moments of intelligent calmness, we
must all admit that the picture of what
happens is far from complete.

A recent study of the effects of com-
petitive play upon the boy of junior
high school age,* reveals that there is
much need for further study before
anyone can say with certainty that
competitive athletics are harmful or
helpful to the participants. One im-
portant area of such study, which has
been largely overlooked, is that of
competitive playground sports.

Children participating in playground
programs often engage in many of the
same competitive sports offered in
school athletic programs. Consequent-
ly, they are exposed to the same pos-

* HOLLIS F. F AIT, An Analytical Study
of the Effects of Competitive Athletics
upon Junior High School Boys, un-
published, Doctor of Philosophy dis-

sertation, State University of Iowa,
1951.

524

Dr. Hollis Fait

sible injuries which may occur in
competitive school sports.

Competitive play is a 'common part
of the playground program. In a re-
cent questionnaire survey of the play-
grounds of twenty large cities of the
United States, it was found that fifteen
of the sixteen directors responding in-
dicated that competitive inter-play-
ground activities were conducted by
various playgrounds in their cities.
Only four of the cities required medi-
cal examinations of the participants
in the competitive Sports program.
Few kept any records of the number
and nature of injuries incurred on the

' playgrounds.

Playground directors could render
a valuable service to themselves, to
physical educators and those interest-
ed in the effects of competitive athletics
upon the growing child, generally, by
requiring thorough medical examina-
tions of those children involved, and
by keeping adequate detailed records
of all injuries. The study of such rec-
ords over a period of years would add
immeasurably to the over-all picture of
what happens when a child engages in
strenuous activity.

A medical examination is, of course,

plays (or less), the contest is con-
sidcrcd a “normal game”; but, if the
five moves are not sufficient, the game
is pronounced a “shut-out.”

Three subvarieties of a normal game
are: “photofinish” or “eyelash,” which
is a margin of only one play; “light
margin,” two or three plays; and
“strong margin.” four or five plays.

essential for the child’s protection.
The examination should be thorough
enough to eliminate those with patho-
logical hearts and other conditions
which might be aggravated by
strenuous play. Aside from this, the
examination is necessary to provide
full data on the participant in order
that his record of injuries will be
meaningful.

For example, some orthopedic sur-
geons have stated that there is con-
siderable danger of partially or to-
tally displacing the epiphyseal caps of
the long bones of pre-high school boys
during rough play. The medical acci-
dent reports from the different states
are silent concerning such injuries——
if they occur, they are apparently
classed with dislocations or fractures.
If the records are to be helpful to
recreation specialists, they should in-
clude such detailed diagnoses.

Complete records of the number and
types of injuries which occur to in-
dividuals of each age group while
engaging in competitive play could
also add greatly to the over-all acci-
dent data by dctcrmining which in-
juries are most frequent, which age
group is most susceptible to injury and
under which conditions injuries are
most likely to occur.

All playground directors and rcc-
reation specialists connected with
playground work should be urged to
direct their efforts toward the keeping
of such records. These cannot fail to
be worth the time and effort spent in
organizing and preserving them.

 

DR. FAIT is director of health and
physical education at thc Arkansas
Agricultural and Mechanical Collegc.

RECREATION

 

For Fun and Usefulness

A new handcraft hobby line of

boxes with the intriguing name of
“Glamorwood”, is being offered by the
Metal Goods Corporation, Woodcraft
Division, 640 Rosedale Avenue, St.
Louis 12, Missouri. “Glamorwood”
kits contain chests made of rich hard-
wood adapted to decorating by paint-
ing, wood burning, carving, metal
trimming, and the application of
Velvctcx and wood carvings. They are
available in seven basic sizes, ranging
from those small enough to accommo-
date cards or cigarettes, to the largest
(twelve and one-half inches by eight
and three-fourths inches by three and

three-fourths inches) which can be

 

“Glamorwood” box

ready for assembly

used for such things as lingerie, sew-
ing kits, hosiery. Each kit contains
assembled, smoothly sanded boxes
ready for decorating and finishing. A
free brochure and catalog entitled
“America’s Exciting New Craft” may
be had by writing to the manufacturer:

Playground Equipment

Many playground directors are al-
ready familiar with Jamison Play-
ground Equipment. To them this is

FEBRUARY 1952

a reminder, and a suggestion to those
who don’tknow what they offer, to
send for the latest catalog. Write to
Jamison Manufacturing Company,
8800 South Mettler Street, Los Ange-
les 3, California. Their products in-
clude the Steelspin Merry-Go-Round,
the Schoolspin Merry-Go-
liound, Nursery Climber, a variety of

smaller

slides, swings, gym sets, hasketball
hackstops, teeters, turning bars, bi-
cycle racks, and steel fittings.

Damp Resistant Paint

Information on a new coating for
painting locker and shower room walls
may be .obtained by writing United
Laboratories, Incorporated, Cleveland,
Ohio. Certified Wet Surface Enamel
No. 445, available in white and several
colors, is especially adaptable to paint-
ing surfaces which are constantly damp
and where humidity is constantly high.

Floor Protector

For those responsible for floor sur-

faces in auditoriums, gymnasiums,
clubhouses, and even roller skating
rinks, it might be well to investigate a
matting manufactured by Vinyl Plastic,
Inc., 1825 Erie Avenue, PO. Box 451,
Sheboygan, Wisconsin. Known as
“Flor-Life” it is less than one-eighth
inch thick, yet has proved able to resist
damage in clubhouses where golf
cleats are permitted throughout the
building. “Flor-Life” is laid in a simi-
lar manner as rubber tile, and all
necessary materials, adhesive, runner

material, and coving are also available.

Improved Transcription
Califone Corporation of Hollywood,

California, announces a new 1952 line
of transcription players, ranging from
the lightest portable player to thc most
powerful single unit sound system. It
includes as an optional feature, FLUID
SOUND, thc new pickup system which
givcs improved fidelity of sound and
makes possible perfect reproduction
of both microgroove and standard re-
cordings with a single stylus. The 1952
linc also includes the patented “Vari-
polc” speed control which permits a
gradual adjustment of turntable speed
from twenty-five percent below normal
to ten percent above normal. Another
important feature is the exceptional
portability of all models 'in the 1952
line. In those containing two speakers
and capable of reaching audiences of
3,500 persons, total weight is only
thirty-two pounds. All improvements
have been incorporated into the 1952
line at no increase in prices. Further
details may hc obtained by writing to

the Califone Corporation, Department
JO, Hollywood, California.

Play Ball

A completely new line of Sun official
rubber athletic balls, including foot-
halls, basketballs, soccer balls, volley
balls, water polo balls, baseballs, soft-
balls, and playground balls, is now
available. All of the new balls, sub-
jected to stringent tests, have been
proved superior in every respect. A
full color, 12-page brochure describes
in detail the new line, and also gives a
brief history of Sun’s pioneering ef-
forts in the development of rubber
athletic balls and describes the re-
search involved in the development of
the new line. Write the Sun Rubbcr
Company, Barberton, Ohio, or Sun’s
New York office, 271 Madison Avenue,
Room 708, New York 16, New York.

Room for One More

A new bleacher design principle
which seats four spectators for the
cost of the first three, plus additional
seat and footboards, has been incor-

porated in the Sico Portable Steel
Bleacher.

For complete information, refer to
form KP-D, Seating, Incorporated,
3565 Wooddale St.

Park, Minnesota.

Avenue, Louis

525

Books Received

 

MucRICA-N SCHOOL AND ['NIvERSITY
YEARBOOK. THE. American School
Publishing Corporation, 470 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. $5.00.

BALLET FOR TODAY, Nico Charisse.
Murray and Gee Publishers, Ineor-
porated, Culver City, California.
$5.00.

BETWEEN Two CENTURIES, edited by
Clifford M. Carey. Association
Press, New York. $2.00.

BOSTON YMCA AND COMMUNITY NEED,
TIIE, William B. Whiteside. Associa-
tion Press, New York. $3.00.

CALENDER OP PARTIES, A, Edith and
Jaek B. Fellows. Broadman Press,
Nashville, Tennessee. $3.15.

CHAMPIONSHIP FIGURE SKATING, Gus-
tave Lussi and Maurice Richards.
A. S. Barnes and Company, 232
Madison Avenue, New York. $3.75.

CHILD LIPE STORY BOOK, edited by
Anne Samson. The John C. Win-
ston Company, Philadelphia. $2.50.

COMMUNITY USES OF PUBLIC SCHOOL
FACILITIES, Harold H. Punke. Kings
Crown Press, New York. $3.75.

COWBOY JAMBOREE: WESTERN SONGS
AND LORE, Harold W. Felton. AI-
fred A. Knopf, New York. $3.00.

CL’RLING, J. Ken Watson. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $3.00.

FAMILY SCRAPBOOK, THE, Dr. Ernest
G. Osborne. Association Press, New
York. $3.95.

FLOWER MAKING, Clara Kebbell. Stu-
dio Crowell, 432 Fourth Avenue,
New York. $31.50.

GREATEST SPORT STORIES, THE, from
the New Yo'rk Times, edited by Alli-
son Danzig and Peter Brandwein.

A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $4.95.

GROWING IN TIIE OLDER YEARS, edited
by Wilma Donahue and Clark Tib-

bits. University of Michigan Press,
Ann Arbor. $2.50.

HANDICRAFT, Lester Griswold. Ninth
edition. Lester Griswold, Colorado
Springs. $4.00.

HANDBOOK OF ACTIVE GAMES, Darwin
A. Hindman. Prentice-Hall, Incor-
porated, New York. $6.00.

HIGH SCORE BOWLING, Tony Sparan-

do. Sterling Publishing Company,
New York. $1.00.

HOCKEY HANDBOOK, TIIE, Lloyd Per-

cival. The Copp Clark Company,
Limited, Toronto, Canada, and A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York.

$3.75.

HOW TO BUILD GAMES AND TOYS, B.

W. Pelton. D. Van Nostrand Com-
pany, Incorporated, New York.

$3.95.

MAKING POTTERY FOR PROFIT, Richard

D. Cole and Peg B. Starr. Sterling
Publishing Company, Incorporated,
New York. $2.95.

ROCKS AND THEIR STORIES, CarrolI
Lane Fenton and Mildred Adams
Fenton. Doubleday and Company,
Incorporated, Garden City, New

York. $2.50.

AWARDS YOU CAN AFFORD

OVER
DEPARTMENTS

IOO RECREATION
USING

OUR PLASTIC TROPHYS

WRITE TODAY FOR

FREE SAMPLE

 

Magazines

 

BEACH AND POOL, November 1951.

How to Organize a Handicapped

Children’s Swimming Program,
Marjorie E. Yaut.

Coping with Public Health Prob-
lems in Swimming Pool Opera-
tion, E. Harold Hinman.

SCIIOOL AND COLLEGE MANAGEMENT,
September, 1951.

The Adventure Approach to Educa-
tion.

UNDERSTANDING THE CIIILD, October
1950.

What a Community Can Do For the
Mental Health of its Future Citi-
zens, Elizabeth Beplogle.

The Value of Art in Understanding
Children, Lilian Mould.

UNDERSTANDING TIIE CIIILD, June 1951

Summer Play Groups for Young

Children, Adele S. Mossler.
UNDERSTANDING THE CHILD, October
1951.

Do Our Children’s Books Meet Emo-

t-ional Needs?, Hanna Colm.

Pamphlets

 

BETTER THAN RATING: NEW AP-
PROACHES TO APPRAISAL 0F TEACII-
ING SERVICES. National Education
Association, 1201 Sixteenth Street,
NW, Washington 6, D. C. $1.25.

CARE AND CONSTRUCTION OF TENNIS
COURTS. United States Lawn Tennis
Association, 120 Broadway, New
York 5. $.25.

CASEWORK SERVICES IN CHILDREN’S
INSTITUTIONS. Welfare Council of
New York City, 44 East Twenty-
third Street, New York 10. 3.50,
with bibliography $.60.

CHILDREN’S THEATRE MANUAL, com-

piled by Seattle Junior Programs,
III e o rp 0 rate d . Children’s Theatre

Press, Clovcrlot, Anchorage, Ken-
tueky. $.75.

CONSERVATION, A HANDBOOK FOR

TEACHERS. New York State College
of Agriculture, Cornell University,

Ithaca, New York.

RECREATION

   

RECREATION

is one of the fields in w/oz’c/o
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
D1'. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this

monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS — Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS — Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES — Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATHLETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS —- Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS — Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscmption Price  Subscribe Now

School Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

FEBRUARY 1952

527

 

Handbook of Active Games

Darwin A. Hindman. Prentice-Hall,
Incorporated, New York. $6.00.
This is a valuable book for the

library of the physical education
teacher and the recreation leader. The
.author has used an unusual method of
presenting his material—arranging it
according to game-family groupings
and then proceeding to show the re-
lationship between the members of that
family.

For example, under “,Tag Games,”
there are two classes: “Continuous
Tag” and “Non-continuous Tag.” Un-
der each of these headings are divi-
sions and sections which immediately
show the reader what methods of
traveling are specified, how the run-
ners can obtain immunity from being
tagged, whether they are independent
or work in pairs or teams, whether
or not the chaser is predetermined.
Under each of these divisions, the au-
thor has listed the best known and
favorite games of children, describing
them briefly and clearly.

0f the eleven chapters in the book,
the following deal with “Running
Games With No Tagging”: dodgeball
games, combat games, stunt and alert-
ness games, target games, propel and
catch games, bandy (batting) games,
baseball games, bombardment games
and goal games. In addition, Dr.
Hindman has included an alphabetical
index for quick reference.

It is good to see women’s rules em-
phasized for many of the team games
and to see references to the National
Section on Women’s Athletics of the
American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation.

528

118W

Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

Between the covers of this four-
hundred-page publication are the di-
rections and rules for practically every
active game which a leader would use
for either children’s or adult groups.
Dr. Hindman is to be congratulated
for producing a t0p-notch game book.
—Helen M. Dauncey, Katherine F.
Barker Memorial Secretary for Wom-
en and Girls, National Recreation
Association.

Principles of Recreation

John L. Hutchinson, Ed.D., A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York.
$3.50. '

This textbook provides a compre-
hensive fund of information concern-
ing recreation principles and methods
of achieving the best recreation serv-
ice. In Part I, dealing with founda-
tions of recreation, the author presents
a thoughtful and provocative inter-
pretation of the meaning and objec-
tives of recreation, traces its cultural
development in the United States and
its economical and social aspects. Ree-
reation is defined as “a worthwhile,
socially-accepted leisure experience,
providing immediate and inherent
satisfactions to the individual who
voluntarily participates in an activity.”
The author’s viewpoint rules out any
predetermined hierarchy of experi-
ence within the field of recreation.
Consideration is given to aspects which
often are avoided, such as segregation,
gambling, waste and non-constructive
forms of leisure-time activity.

Part II treats with the status of
public recreation and includes chap-
ters on municipal, state and federal
recreation and recreation in education.
The author gives fair and serious con-

sideration to the pros and cons of
problems, controversial issues and pro-
posed solutions. In his interpretation
of statistics relating to municipal rec-
reation, a number of errors are de-
tected and several conclusions relating
to the administration of municipal
recreation are subject to question. His
statement, for example, that towns un-
der twenty thousand population can-
not be expected to support a full-time
executive and year-round program
and, therefore, will look to the school
authorities for part-time leadership can
readily be challenged. Deve10pments
in a large number of small cities in
recent years have demonstrated that
smaller cities can and will support a
year-round recreation executive and
program.

Principles of recreation, as applied
to program methodology, administra-
tion and evaluation, are developed in
considerable detail. proce-
dures and principles are stressed.
rather than specific detailed opera-
tions. Throughout this section, the
author presents “levels of attainment,”
under which he portrays various de-
grees of adequacy with which the dif-

General

ferent recreation principles can be
applied. He takes a critical view of
recreation planning, administration
and programs as frequently practiced
on the state and local levels. and chal-
lenges recreation authorities at many
points to raise their sights and analyze
their methods and accomplishments.
He is especially critical of the inade-
quacy of the provisions which many
recreation agencies are making in the
way of family participation and in
planning leisure activities for the aged.

In the final section, John Hutchin-
son defines community recreation, out-
lines its problems and offers a specific
plan for its coordination. Other pro-
posals call for the certification of
workers, state financial aid to com-
munitics and more sincere efforts at
coordination and cooperation among
recreation agencies.

Principles of Recreation is not a
book to be scanned quickly; it de-
serves careful reading. Dr. llutchin-
son has rendered a genuine service by
preparing it.—Ceorge D. Butler, Re-
search Department, National Recrea-
tion Association.

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored jointly by the National Recreation Association and local recreation agencies

February, March and April, 1952

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Scottsboro, Alabama
February 4-7

Portland, Maine
February 18-21

Greenwich, Connecticut

February 25-28

Niagara Falls, New York

March 3-6

Binghamton, New York

March 10-13

Richmond, Virginia
March 24-27

Jefferson County
Louisville, Kentucky

March 31-April 3

Santa Rosa, California
April 21-24

Hollywood, Florida
February 11-14

Fort Pierce, Florida
February 18-21

Southern District

March 3-27

Cumberland, Maryland
March 31-April 3

New York, New York
April 14-17

Alice, Texas
February 4-7

Austin, Texas
February 11-14

ldaho Falls, Idaho
February 25-28

Pocatello, Idaho
March 3-6

Boise, ldaho
March 10-13

Pacific Northwest
March 17-April 17

Peoria, Illinois
February 14-15

Ames, Iowa
February 18-21

Davenport, Iowa
February 26

Richmond, Virginia

March 24-25

San Diego, California
February 4-7

Santa Monica, California

February 11-14

Fresno, California

February 19-22
(Pacific Sauthwest)
(District Conference)

Pacific Northwest
February 25-March 6

Lawton, Oklahoma
March 10-14

Muskegon, Michigan
March 31-April 3

Delbert Hicks, Jackson County Board of Education

John H. Crain Jr., Director of liecreation, Parks and Recreation
Department, 260 Congress Street

Joseph Catalinotto, Banksville Community House, R.F.D. No. 1

Myron N. Hendrick, Director of Recreation, Bureau of Parks,
City Hall

Miss Evelyn S. Emerson, Council Secretary, Council of Social
Agencies, 32 Henry Street

L. E. Kibler, Assistant Supervisor, Health and Physical Educa-
tion, Safety and Recreation, State Board of Education

Charlie Vettiner, Director, Jefferson County Playground and
Recreation Board

Hans A. Thompson, Recreation Director, Recreation Department,
500 King Street

Pat Heneghan, Superintendent of Recreation and Florida Exten-
sion Division, Gainesville

Woodrow Dukes, Superintendent of Recreation

Ralph Van Fleet, 1747 Apache Trail, Clearwater, Florida

J. D. Lonnholni, Director of Adult Education, Board of Educa-
tion of Allegheny County

Miss Florence Kennedy, Department of Child Care, The Catholic
Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, 122 East 22 Street

R. B. Dixson, Superintendent, Recreation Department, City Hall
Beverly S. Sheffield, Director of Recreation, Post Office Box 1160
James F. lnfelt, General Secretary, YMCA

John Clark, Director of Recreation, 318 West Center

William Everts, Jr., Director of Recreation, City Hall

Willard H. Shumard, 1627 Tenth Avenue West, Seattle, Washing-
ton

Henry M. Harper, Executive Director, George Washington Carver
Community Center, 715 Spencer Street

Miss Gertrude Skow Sanford, Extension Specialist, Iowa State
College of Agriculture

Ted Corry, Director of Recreation, 236 West Central Park

L. E. Kibler, Assistant Supervisor, Health and PhysicaI Education,
Safety and Recreation, State Board of Education

Mrs. Pauline des Granges, Superintendent of Recreation
Leonard F. Bright, Director of Recreation, 1130 Lincoln Boulevard

Lynn Rodney, 607 South Hill Street, Room 424, Los Angeles,
California

Willard H. Shumard, 1627 Tenth Avenue West, Seattle, Wash-
iugton

Mrs. Latha H. Prosser, Executive Director, Lawton-Ft. Sill Coni-
niunity Chest, Post Office Box 167

Chase H. Hammond, Director, Department of Parks and Recrea-
tion, City Hall.

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.

For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure and the like, communicate with the sponsors
of the courses as listed above.

THE LONG AUGUST NIGHT W'AS HOT—but not as
hot as the bitter lighting that raged about Agok,
Korea, in the Naktong River area. Sergeant
Kouma, serving as tank commander. was cov—
' ering the with-
drawal of infan-
try units from
the front. Discov-
ering that his
tank was the only
obstacle in the
path of an enemy
breakthrough, Sergeant Kouma waged a furi-
ous nine-hour battle, running an eight-mile
gantlet through enemy lines. He finally with-
drew to friendly lines, but not until after his
ammunition was exhausted and he had left 250
enemy dead behind him. Even then, although
wounded twice, he attempted to resupply his
tank and return to the fighting’.

 

“A withdrawing action is not my idea of how
Americans should fight,” says Ernest Kouma.
“If we must fight, let’s be strong enough to take

lVI/Sgt. Ernest R Kouma

  ' Medal of Honor

  

The U. S. Government does not pay for this adver-

tisemmt. It is donated by this publication in

cooperation with the Advertising Council and the
Magazine Publisher: of America.

 

the oflcnsive. In fact, if we’re strong enough,
we may not have to light at all. Because, now-
adays, peace is for the strong.

“So let’s build our strength—lct’s build and
build to keep a strong America at peace. That’s
where you come in. You can hclp by buying
U. 5. Defense Bonds. Buy as many Bonds as
you think you can afford. Then buy some more.
It’s a far lessmpainful sacrihce to build for
peace than it is to destroy in war. And peace

is what you’re investing in when you buy
Defense Bonds.”

it * 7‘:

Remember that when you’re buying bonds for national
defense, you’re also building a personal reserve of cash
savings. Remember that if you don’l save regularly, you
generally don’t save at all. So sign up in the Payroll
Savings Plan where you work, or the Bond-A-Month
Plan where you bank. For your counlry’s security, and
your own, buy Defense Bonds now!

Peace is for the strong...

13qu S. Defense Bonds now!

 
   

