 

   
   

   

I
o 
Illll I

‘< /

mm as nuiun'm

*
gum" 3 m

D
II E
I. er notebook

Illl

 
    
  

 
  

   

   
 
 

    
  
  

   
 
  

 
  

 



 
    

. . . 315 fourth avenue.

=93

 

1  2 E D I T I O N Same size—l2 weekly issues

It's New! Same time—Beginning
April 25, 1952

It’s Fun!
It's Full of Good Ideas! Same Price . . . . . .3150
,u I t “a.
" SUBSCRIBE NOW
I: @ For EV")? P'aYSround - For Every Playground Leader

U S E F U L .7 Ask the subscribers!

Ask these communities bow many subscriptions they used. . .

Auburn, Me.

I’an Alto. Cal.

Ctrcnwkh. Conn.

“slur-y. SJ. . s . . . . .. l2 nth

Union. NJ.

Auburn. NJ’.

Linden. NJ. . . . . 13

Jackson, Mich.  . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..l-I
Davenport, Iowa and Salim, Knnsas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..15
Evanston, Ill. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
Salisbury, NC. and jackson, Miss. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

Charlotte, NC. . r ., .. 30

THE PARADE

 

 

quickly and effectively
with Gulf Sani-SoiI-Set

 

GULF SANI-SOIL-SET is the praCtical answer to
your dust annoyance problems. Here are a few of

the many good reasons why it will pay you to in-
vestigate this elecient duSt-control medium now:

HIGHLY EFFECTIVE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust

annoyance completely immediately after application.
No long waiting periods are necessary before the ground
is ready for use. The dust allaying effeCt is accomplished
by the action of the compound in adhering to and weigh-
ing down dust particles.

LONG LASTING—Because of its extremely low volatility
and insolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains

effeCtive for long periods. One application per season or
year is usually sufhcient.

Gulf Oil Corporation ' Gulf Refining Company

GUlF BUILDING, PITTSBURGH, PA.

Sales Offices - Warehouses
Located in principal cities
and towns throughout
Gulf’s marketing territory

 

APRIL 1952

EASILY APPLIED—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing,
easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-
sprinkling or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly.

SAVES MAINTENANCE EXPENSE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set

prevents the grOWth of grass on areas treated, and mini-

mizes dust annoyance and expense in near-by houses,
Stores, and laundries.

Write, wire or phone your nearest Gulf ofhce
today and ask for a demonstration of the advan-
tages of this modern proven dust allayer. If you
have n0t yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
produCt, mail the coupon below.

Gulf Oil Corporation ° Gulf Refining Company R
719 Golf Building. Pittsburgh 30. Pa.

Please send me. without obligation. a copy of the booklet. "Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern, proven agent for cantrolling dust."

Name ..................................................................................  .................. ..

Title. 

Address

Time is FLYING . . .

Soon you will start planning
your summer vacation, and if
you are looking for new ideas,
or

If you want to try something
"different" . .

WATCH FOR THE NEW

   
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
 

New Mexico State Tourist Bureau

6’ ' A
PREPARED BY THE EDITORS or W” magazine

This special publication, planned to supplement our usual ten issues of RECREATION, will
tell you, your family and your friends how you may have BETTER summer vacations, for LESS
MONEY—at home, in the community and nearby recreation areas, and in the state and na-
tianal parks throughout this country. Here is a chance to became familiar with exciting and in-
teresting information an the subiect. Do you know, for instance, that there is an organization
which will give you information on farm vacations; that pack trips in the Eastern mountains
can be arranged far you; what "treats" to plan if you stay at home; what to take an a camp-
ing trip; haw to keep your children amused an a long drive? Are you an expert car packer?
Would you like to know about dude ranch visits, wilderness trail rides, or special events in
different ports of the country? Would you like your trip to be an adventure in leaIning?

spRlNG 1952 0 FREE with a new magazine subseription or a renewal C $.50 per copy

l'. 5. Farm! Semiot-
FREE offer with new subscription or renew-

al of a subscription to RECREATION mag-
azine will be available fara limited period
of time only so ORDER NOW. Magazine
$3.00—One Year; $5.50—Twa Years; $.35

per copy.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Pa urth Avenue, New York 10, N.Y.

 

 

RECREATION

APRIL, 1952

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, Vmemm MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLVI

 

Price 35 Cents No. 1

 

On the Cover

Two youngsters leaping through the spring sunshine
——two boys expressing their joy of life—this is April,
and children, anywhere. This happy Spirit of fun
symbolizes playground aims of recreation leaders.

Next Month

In May, RECREATION matches the season, with artie ,
like Boy and Girl Anglers, It’s Garden Time and
The Air Force Takes to the Farm. Other subjects
range from swimming pool and golf course operation
through painting as a hobby to another good article
on golden agers. Look for The Value of Play in
Chiidren’s Homes by Helen Dauneey and the second
article of the series on photography.

 
  
    

Photo Credits

Page 5, Houston Post; 13, Los Angeles City Recrea-
lion and Park Department; 14, 1950 Graflex Photo
Contest; 15, Department of Recreation, Oak Ridge,
TenIIeSsee and J. E. Westeott; 16, Herald and Re-
view and Playground and Recreation Board, Decatur,
Illinois; 21, 22, Los Angeles City Department of Rec-
reation and Parks; 24, Carl Custalson, Vancouver,
Washington; 25. Park and Recreation Department,
Charleston, West Virginia; 26, Asheville Department
of Recreation, courtesy of North Carolina Recreation
Society, Ineorporated; 29, Playground and Recrea-
tion Board, Decatur. Illinois; 28, Manitowoe, Wiscon-
sin Recreation Department; 29, Miller-Martin Studio,
'l‘orrington, Connecticut; 31, Metropolitan Life lnsur~
anee Company; 33, Boeing Airplane Company; 40.
Recreation Commission, Long Beach, California; 58,
Recreation Commission, Long Beach, California.

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary con-
tributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
New York; is on tile in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers' Gmde. Subscriptions $3.00
a year. Canadian agency, C. R. Welch Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street \Vest, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $3.85. Re-entered as
second—class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Office in New York, New York, undcr Act of
March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special
rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act
of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Ollice: ones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 1 , Minnesota.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer lleaton, 415
Lexington Avenue New York 17, New York;
Mark Minahnn, 168 North Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois; Keith 11. Evans, 3757 Wilshire
Boulevard, Los Angclcs 5, Californla.

Copyright, 1952, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 3.4»:
° Trade mark registered In the U. S. 

APRIL 1952

MAGAZINE

  
  

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT
'CONTENTS
ill”).

General Features 5'“ O»- -

What Community Recreation Programs Can DO for
Service Women (Editorial),

Oveta Culp Hobby ....................  ................................... .. 5
Declaration of Brothers, Otto T. Mallory .......................... .. 11
Congress Committees .......................................................... .. 32
Hobby Show at Boeing, Arthur G. Scott ............................ .. 33
Water, Seattle’s Staff of Life, Lou Evans .......................... .. 34
Hot Dog. This is it! Bernard Ballantine .......................... .. 55

Administration
Blacktop for Apparatus Areas? .......................................... .. 19
Please, Mister, May I Have a Ball? Ernest B. Ehrke ..... .. 20
Filing Equipment for Playgrounds ................................... .. 22
New Ideas for Playground Equipment, A. J. Gatawakas.... 38
Training Playground Leaders, W. C. Sutherland .............. .. 42
Summer Recreation ........................................................... .. 47
Summer Items ...................................................................... .. 50

Mac Murray College

Something New in Playgrounds, Helena Braddock Lamp 53
A Safe Playground for Every Child, William F. Keller... 58

Program
A Look at Our Playgrounds ............................................. .. 13
Weave in Some Singing, Arthur Todd ............................... .. 17
A Summer Playground Production, John V. Smith
and Minna B. Reichelt .................................................... .. 23
We Ilad 3 Baseball League, Robert W. Ruhe .................... .. 25
Crafts in the Recreation Program, Viva Whitney ............ .. 26
Young Anglers, Frank W. Bramhall .................................. .. 29
Special Events Improved, Doreen O. Kirkland ............. .. 30
The Photographic Group, Irma Weber .............................. .. 36
Let’s Have More Play 011 Playgrounds,
Helen M. Dauncey ....................................................... .. 40
How To Do It! Make Sandals for Beach and
Swimming Pool, Frank A. Staples ................................ .. 56
Regular Features
Letters .................................................................................. .. 7
Editorially Speaking .......................................................... .. 8
Things You Should Know .................................................... .. 10
Suggestion Box .................................................................... .. 39
Personnel '
Services of the National Recreation Association,
W. C. Sutherland . ................................................... .. 44
Recipes for Fun—Games and Parties ............................... .. 51
Recreation Market News .................................................... .. 60
yo: In" Books Received .................................................................... .. 62
' I d N mglublications ................................................................ .. 64
tile 1' R L’e ibfi Iiéédership Courses ............... .. Inside Back Cover

3

 

NATIONAL RECREATION

 

Ml). 060m L. hitLLs. . . . . . . . Second Vice-President

Susan M. Lt-t. .Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
. .Treasurer

0......

Aomu H. MAIHI...........
Gmravus T. Ktut.................
Josrrtt PIKKOKIGAS‘I.......

oooooooogoIIoOo

   

. . .Troasurer Emeritus
. . . . . .Secretary

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

F. V. H. Ana-us“... ...Nev York. N. Y.
F. Gator: ltmt...........................Bounn. Mass.
hits. Routr Vooot Bun”.u.........."ultin[t0tt. D. C.
Lias. Aunt-t G. Cousteau . .... .. ..... . Jacksonville. Fla.
Vtttuu ii. Dam.....................Nrtr York. N. Y.
iiastr P.DATIION...".................N¢' York.N.Y.
GATEMD DONNIUJT........a....aa.........Chi¢oto. 

Mas. JOHN D. JAMIION..... .........Beilport. N. Y.
SUSANhi.1.11...aaa..o............a...Nc'Yorh.N.Y.
. . . . . . . . . . .Philadelphia. Pa.
0......00.....Q.....'.Ausu'la. 
.......Voodbury. N. Y.
OOoooOaaooJCm” Cit}. No J.
.......Nrw Yorh.N. Y.

Ono T. hiALLllf............
Carl. F. hiltttuu. . .
hilt. Doors L. hints. . . . . .
PAUI. Moon. Jt.............
JOSII'H Pttunttont. .

oooo'

OOOOOouoooO

Mts. PAUL GAILAGHfI....s.....  .Ornsha. Nehr. Mus. SiOM‘UND Sn:.~r............... ..San Francisco. Calif.
loattt Gautn.........................Baitisnorc. Md. GIANT Trrswonu.......................Norotoo. Cann.
Aus‘rtu E. thrrnrts. .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .Srattlo. Vault. hilt. Vtutnas Van Aux. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phiiadoiphia. Pa.
Mat. Noon": Haatowtt.................l'itchhnr;. Mass. J. C. WatsH...........................Yonltors. N. Y.
Mat. CHAltll V. litclox... .. .... .. .. .hiichigsn City. ind. Futonth hi. Van-to... . . . . . . . . .. .. . . .New York. N. Y.

 

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Rouaeeh Department .Rottlt R. Cantu

Etecutin Diroctor't Oiee Sen-rt! to Stetet . . . . .

Gtoou E. Dtcara Ttroaus [-2. [runs
iirton linulsort Ammo: Vtusaau
Atrnn H. Vttsou

Coreespondoncn and Contuitation
Sorvico

Vuomu Hustzusau
Guttuol Boutqu

Iocrution Hagaaino
Dosmrtt DONAUIOI

Spociai Puhiicatinot
lot: Jar Suntan: Mum. “(Gum

Porno-oi Sonico
Vuutn C. SUTtttltAtlD Anna 3. Jtustu
Han Guuatu'r

 

New England Distriet
'auo I. liAthI’Olrll..BOtTON. hiass.
(Protein tddreu . . . New York)

Hiddlo Atlantic Distriet
Jous- U’. Fwst......Eaat Orton. N. J.

Gtotor D. It.qu

Etrnttttr Curran Dun: J. Dclots

Woek with Voluntoon

E. Beatrice Srtuus

MA" Quaar. hintmm DANII’OIYH

Field Department ‘

CHM.th E. Run James A. MADIION
Grocer T. Ann-ts Henna G. Hort
human 5. VISTGAYI

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Sonthorn District

Miss Llaaros Pure: . . . . . Alexandrit. Va.
latest VAN Ftut . . . . . .Cieanrster. Fit.

Vtutau hi. HM“. . . . . . .Nsshrilio. Tenn.

Areal end Facilitirt-Piennrn; and Sun-()1
H. C. Hmcmm Aunt B. Baum
Lzsur meu

Katherine F. Borirr Mrtnorui
Secretary for Wot-sen "d Girls
HIIBN hi. Dauncer

indutrrirl Rrrrntson . . . . . .C. E. Burn

thrrotr'oss Leadership Turning Courier

RUTH Emut ANN: Ltrmcs'rou
Mitottn SCANLON Fun: A. Sunset
Gnu. VALIII

Southwest District

iinaom VAN Aunnu. . . . . . .Dailas. Tel.

Pneiic Northwest Disteict

thuan ll. Sttuuato. . . . .Srtttlc. Wash.

Gtosoa A. Return. “New York. N. Y.

Great Loltca Dittrict
Joint J. COLLIII..... .....Tolcdo. Ohio
Ioosat L. llosntr. . . . . . .Mtdison. Vss.

Aliiliatc Membership

Ail-ate membership in the Nstioosl
Iotreatsoo Asaoeistioo is open to all non-
proit prlrare and public orgaoiettions
who-o innction is wholiy or primarily the
provith or pro-otioo oi rccroatsoo serv-
i-cct or which include recreation as ao inn-
portsuot put of their: totsl program and
whose cooperation in the work of tho "so-
oittioo would. in the opinion oi the tno~
eittsoo't load of Directors. further the
ends of the national recreation movement.

Midwest District

Atrttut Tooo. . . . . . . . .Kansat City. Mo.

iinou LAftllOl'. . . . . . . . .Dcover. Coto.

Active Associate Membership

Acrsve associate membership in the
Nstionsl Recreation Association is open to
sli individusls who are activoiy engaged
on t full-time or part-time employed basis
or as volunteers in t nonproét prirsto or
public rocrcstion organiration tnd whore
cooperttioss in the work of the usoclstion
wonid. in the opinion of the association‘s
Iosrd of Directors. further tho end: of the

nstionsi rocrcstlon movement.

Paci Ec Southwest Dist rict

Ltmr S. Rona". . . . .Loa Angela. Calif.

 

Contributors

The continuation of the work of tho
Nttionti Recreation Association from year
to frsr is made potsihle by the Ipirndid
cooperation of seterti hundred toiuntccr
spooaots throughout tho conntry. tnd the
morons tootributions of thoutands of snp-

rters of this movement to hrin; heaith.
appiorss and creative iivin; to tho boys
aod girls tnd the men and Iron-urn nf
Americt. ii Loss Ironid like to loin in the
support of t is movement. you may send
your contribution direct to the association.

. _ __

The National Recreation Arsoeiotion It a notion-
sritle. nonprofit. nonpolitieal and nonsectarinn civic
organization. established in 1906 and supported by
voluntarr contrilmtiont. oncl dedieated to the serv-
ice oi oi recreation executives. lenders and agen-

cies. public and private. to the end that every (‘llllil .
in America the" have a place to play in safety and

that every person In America. young and old. shall

have on opportunity for the best and most satisfy-

ing use of his expanding leisure time.

F or further information. recording the association's terrier: and membership. please write to the
Executive Director. A otlonol Recreation Association. 315 Fourth Arenue. New York M. New York.

ASSOCIATION
A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH I'R ENDERCAST. Executive Director
OFFICERS
Otto T. hlAlLllf. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Chairman of the Board
hut. Moon. Jt.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fint Vice-President

 

4 lincmzmms'

What Community Recreation Programs

Can 110

Will SERVICE WMIEN

A Guest Editorial

URING WORLD WAR II, the whole
I] idea of women in uniform was so
new-——-and to some still so shocking—
that the problem of recreation was
only a part of a greater problem.

In the early stages, therefore, the
effort to provide recreation for the
women was sometimes misguided,
sometimes well intentioned, occasional-
1y ludicrous.

The WAC remembers with some
amusement in its oliicial history the
post commander who was so startled to
receive a shipment of WACS that he set
up what looked to be emergency rules
for them: they were to use the post
exchange and the post movie on Tues-
day and Thursdays, and—with careful
segregation—the soldiers to use them
on Wednesdays and Fridays.

As the army discovered that WACS
were simply people-——-the same kinds of
women they had known in civilian life
—~—there was a swing to acceptance of
women in uniform as a normal thing.

But this, in turn, resulted in another
misconception: that women in uniform
are just like men in uniform, and can,
therefore, be given the same enter-
tainment and recreation.

Looking back on papers of World
War II, I find a notation: “One of the
main distinctions between successful
leadership of women and similar
leadership of men is that women need
to remain individuals to such an extent
that group activity, outside of oflice

hours, can very easily be overdone with
them.”

Now, with women a permanent part

MRS. HOBBY, formerly direetor of the
Women’s Army Corps, is now executive
vice-president of The Houston l’ost.

APRIL 1952

of the armed forces, the time has come
to analyze their military situation, to
see their needs, and to plan a balanced
recreation program and facility for
them.

Because women are new to the
services, the average military post to
which a WAC, WAF, Wave or Wom-
en Marines” Unit is assigned does not
have as complete a recreational facility
for women as for men.

Though the station may try to in-
clude women in its baseball, football,
and other athletic programs, these at-
tract only the younger women. Most
stations share their swimming pools
and bowling alleys—if they have them
-——-with women, but as women are only
a small minority, only a few hours a
month can fairly he alloted to them.

Eyen for oliicers, the usual officers’
athletic club, such as the one in the
Pentagon, finds that men and women
cannot use the facilities at the same
time, and that the number of women
who would attend is not consistent
enough to justify giving them set hours
there.

If the armed forces cannot make
special provisions for the women, it
may fall to the community to help
make community facilities available to
the service women-“golf, tennis, horse-
back riding, swimming, hiking and
other Sports. Because enlisted women
may lack the funds to_ take advantage
of local clubs, or may lack transporta-
tion, the community help may be tre-
mendously important.

The community has much to offer
the service woman which the defense
department either cannot or has not
provided.

 

by Oveta Culp Hobby

While the armed forces have made
all their special study courses by cor-
respondence and off-duty training
available to women, the majority of
these courses are more apt to appeal
to men only-——-being on such subjects
as electrical engineering, welding and
other trades and occupations.

This lack could be met by the 00111-
munity, by arranging for service wom-
en to attend its classes in sewing,
cooking, languages, as well as arts and
social sciences. Though the armed
forces encourages company parties,
skits and “blackouts,” again the ma-
terial is tailored for the all-male cast.

The service woman would enjoy
being included in community theatri-
cals, and in dance, music and drama
groups.

Despite the magnificent job done by
the national service agencies during
World War II, both here and overseas,
not all of them are equipped to pro-
vide for service women to the same
degree they provide for men. Another
factor has been that here and there, a
local representative of the agency has
not been indoctrinated to the needs of
the service woman.

Though the USO headquarters made
vigorous efforts, some USO local units
in World War II did not allow service
women to attend the dances and other
events planned for servicemen.

In Italy, England and Australia,
some Red Cross field workers turned
a deaf ear to headquarters’ ruling that
they should provide equally for service
women. And not until the end of the
war were the rest camps made availa-
ble to women.

In the actual planning of military

5

installations, the question of recrea-
tion for service women deserves spe-
cial study and especially adapted ar-
rangements for them.

\l here the average barracks for men
needs only one day room, the women's
units need two types, one for girls re-
ceiving dates, and the other for those
who are not dating and need a place
to lounge and write letters. in pajamas
if they like.

The. first should have a record player
or juke box, and if possible a snack
bar. The second should have com-
fortable furniture of a homelike quali-
ty.

One advisor to the air force noted
that attractively furnished day rooms
“go far toward offsetting the harmful
effect of rcgimentation on women.” Lt.
Colonel Margaret Craighill, a doctor
employed by the Surgeon General dur-
ing the war as consultant on women’s
health and welfare, wrote that “All
women personnel need a day room in
which they can lounge informally to-
gether. as well as a recreation or re-
ception room in which thcy can enter-

   

belts. bags.

"CAMP SPICIAL" MOCCASIN

Genuine leether with camped-
tion soles. All Illt! for all ages.

Ideal far the beach, In the
woods, along palhs and for

lounging.
Per Petr — $3.95
($3.55 In I? pal: lots)

«kn-nor anrncun sunrv CATALOG—ONLY 25¢

lllaetrnlu ell lypes of mental and leather item: of in-
trrml el summer temps. modeling loals, lectnzc. intimation
books [or kinda-rah purposes. etc. No experienca needed.

I Wav- rth " Free
ldee- sch-d
lama ..

I monass
I Cl [Yr

OSBORN OFFERS YOU . . .
310 musruno SUPPLY row"

Show: many easy-ta—make camp praiects
ready la pul lagelher, such as beauliful
purses.
hundreds of other Items.

 

l oseonm nos. surm co..
I 221 W. Jackson Blvd" Chlrege 6, Ill.

Gil-pen
I (ate! I or wt'*h 1 MW u 25c tn min.

tain men.

"ll adequate facilities are not availa-
ble. the incidenec of pregnancy and
venereal disease is likely to increase."

The British women’s services felt
the same need, saying "The gregarious
are well cared for by wireless, games,
concerts and dances, but more quiet
rooms are needed for women who wish
to relax."

This need of women for reasserting
their individuality is felt in the mat-
ter of social entertainment as well as
in facilities.

In WAC units all over the world.
it was found that the women very soon
tired of large parties or mass enter-
tainment, and would not willingly go
to such entertainment whether it was
arranged on the post or off.

Instead, they preferred social gather-
ings in small groups and. where indi-
vidual choice played a part. A dinner
in a private home, or individual in-
vitations to social events or eoneerts
or plays, meant more to them than
unit affairs to which they were taken
in mass groups.

   
  

elgarette cases and

I
lllmlreted Supply Faith-“l
[In-Iberian" Suppliee:
~~ *— l
l "
sun I
.l

i i
I. k \ -
" ‘ -g \

 

No one can fail to realize the deep
need for good recreation services for
women in uniform. Because their work
is sedentary, because they have little
outdoor training on their schedule.
and because they do not have the in-
centive of keeping fit for combat, they
can easily overlook their own need for
exercise.

In this strange period of waitin",
none. of the armed forces has quite the
vivid which
wartime gives to keep their morale

high.

incentive and stimulus

This means to me that service wom-
cn today nccd community help—-
community friemlship-—~more than they
ever needed it before V] Day.

\Vomen of all kinds. many of them
only eighteen, far away from home,
detached from all the hometown pat-
terns, set in a military installation
which seems remote from everything
they have known, need healthful. in-
telligent cordial recreational help from
both the armed forces and from the
individual communities as they have
never needed them before.

CHAMPIHNS 4-

CHUUSE 

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

"nest In the World
In 'I’he Werld‘l
Oreetett Athlete!

_ 9
e \

. ’ r W
i a;

 GMwa  F firm-w!

.I-atl tube-O eouenle - II an. I a

RECREATION

 

Board .“c-mlu-rs

Sirs:

You will be interested to know that
a COpy of RECREATION magazine is
placed on the magazine stand in the
lobby of the General Tire and Rubber
Company each month.

Mr. Charles Burke, Chairman of the
Akron Park and Recreation Board, is
assistant to the prcsident at General
Tirc and Rubber Company. Each
month, after Mr. Burke has completed
the reading of his copy, he givcs it to
the receptionist in the Iobby, who
places it on the magazine stand. This
suggestion might provc of some value
for other board members who have
business connections.

A. E. CENTER, Superintendent of

Recreation, Akron, Ohio.

Clowns
Sirs:

We saw an article, “Clowns Un-
limited,” in the January 1952 issue of
iECREATION magazine. Enclosed is our
elIeek to cover cost and mailing. Please
send a eopy to our address.

“KUK U,” Chief Clown, Phoenix, Arie.

Playground Accidents

Sirs:

ln referenee to thc article by Dr.
l-Iollis Fait, “The Picture Isn’t Com-
plctc,” appearing in the February,
1952, issue of RECREATION, I was much
interested in thc suggestion made
therein that studies of accidcnts hc
made hy rcereation peoplc as a con-
trihution to thc licld of recreation.

To those who might be interestcd, I
wish to point out that such a study
was published in the RECREATION
magazine in thc April issue of 1938,
or thereabouts, entitled “A Study of
Playground Accidents in Pittsburgh,”
of which I was the author. It was and
still is, as far as I know, the only study

APRIL 1952

of playground accidents made in the
past twenty-five years.
MICHAEL E. WARCO, Director of
Recreation, Clairton, Pennsylvania.

Blental llealtll
Sirs:

In the January issue of RECREATION
there was a wonderful article by Dr.
George E. Gardner, “Recreation’s Part
in Mental Hcalth.” I have bcen work-
ing on a study similar to his theories
for the past seven years, “Introducing
Recreation as a Therapeutic Instru-
ment in Child Care Institutions,” which
is almost finished.

I am vcry happy to see that there
are psychiatrists and other profes-
sionals who are recognizing the real
powers of I'ecrcation in relation to the
ehild’s mcntal and social growth.

CIIARLEs BAKER, Athletic Director,

l’leasantville Cottage School, Pleas-

antville, New York.

From 1 ‘a under

Sirs:

We were greatly intrigucd with the
guest editorial by Kenneth W. Kindel-
sperger, “The Relationship of Recrea-
tion, Physical Education and Group
Work.” This editorial was very timely
and will he of great assistance to the
combined physical edueation, recrea-
tion and group work organizations in
thc Montreal area. . .

We are getting into our stride,
somewhat slowly perhaps, in our or-
ganization for civil defense. We note in
RECREATION magazine that thc Na-
tional Recrcation Association will sup-
ply twenty-tive cOpics of the booklet
entitled “Emergency Rccreation
Services in Civil Defense.” This, also,
will be of grcat help to us. .

WILLIAM BOWIE, Executive Director,

The Montreal Parks and Play-
grounds Association, Incorporated.-

worp, splinter, rot or sog.

deoler's or write direct to foctory
for more informotion.

 

group work program. Skills and experience
necessary. State details.

CAMP lEHMAN
1391 lexington Ave., N.Y.C.
Phone-ATwater 9-0568

JUST OUT

Proceedings
of the
33rd National Recreation Congress

Price $2.25

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue New York IO, N.Y.

  
     
   
    
   
 
   
  
    
   
 
    
  
   

y- . .
. tennis, badmin-
; ton, squash and

' paddle tennis.

 

D

Fas terp/ay../anger/ife.

For yeors DAYTON Steel Roc-
quets hove been the fovorite of
professionols ond beginners
olike. Thousonds ore now ploy-
ing on improved gome—with
more spéed ond occurocy thon
ever before.

Doytons ore procticolly inde-

structible—ideol for 

schools ond ploy-
grounds. Steel strings Rules illlll
court layouts

ond tubulor. steel
frames ore not of- “aluminum
III tennis are

fected by climotic
chonges. No covers or Your: In] the
asking. -

presses ore needed to
protect them. They won't

It will poy you to investigote
now. See them ot your locol

DAYTON RACllllET CUMPAN
742 Alhright St. Arcanum. Uhin

ayton

 

STEEL RACQUETS

JOBS WITH A PLUS
IN THE YWCA

Emphasis on Creative Leadership
Remin- Bachelor's degree and e

rience.
sue an ltureation-Croup-‘Vork— caching.

“’rite to Personnel Services,
National Board. “VGA
800 hesitates! Avenue. New York 22. NJ.

 

“550 for All.

lEATHERlCRAFT

I anaemia. ' ' -

«one: mm m 5 sun. to hem: n on

r_________-____

I New, true-to-Iife :
I ADVENTURE STORIES I

l for teen-age boys, girls |

L-—_—--_—--_--Il

CAMPFIItE ADVENTURE STORIES ol- I

fern teen-agers a pathway and guide to
outdoor adventure. mystery and lun . . . l
in two novelettex and six short stories]
that provide at least 22 story “hours” for I
reading to young people anywhere. .‘laine
lorests end the Candian Northwoods pro- l
vide the settings lur these absorbing tales I
based on real-life camp adventures ol
young people. I

(menus ADVENTURE sromrs '
by Allan A. Mocforlon

"Once you start reading CAMI'FIRE Al)-
VENTL’IIE STORIES to them. your
vouriplers will lprobably clamor Ior more I
at every esai ble opportunity." as I I
llnward l'. Holloway, editor and publis t-

er ol Cam in; illagrrzine. .‘lr. Maclarlan

la the IIIl or Ol "Campfire and Council I
"in; l'rogrenui" and is a member ol the

Outdoor Writers An'n end Nat'l Audit-l
hon Stwlety. $2.95 I

I assocunou PRESS
I 291 Iroadwoy. New York 7, N. Y.

 

I
I
ISeod roe  rapier ol CAMPFIRE'
I ADVENTURE STORIES at $2.95 each.
I Home I
I Address :
| City. Zane. State I
I D Payment herewith {postpoid)
I ['1 Bill me (poster extra) I
I

8

 

8W 5W

Dear Recreation Reader:

For the convenience of you who, by
sending us information, articles and
photographs, help to make RECREA-
'nox a magazine which can be of
value to recreation workers and to
pcOplc everywhere, who are interested
in recreation, we are publishing the
deadline dates for all issues still to
be published in 1952. Please consult
this schedule carefully when consider-
ing the submission of material for
publication.

Although issues are regularly made
up three months in advance of publi-
cation date, the September, October
and November issues must be made up
during the spring and early summer in
order to make possible a summer va-

cation schedule for our ollice staff.
1952 Deadline 1952 Issue

March 10 June

May 7 September
June 7 October
July 7 November
September 8 December

Please note that llallowccn articles
should be in our hands this spring,
and that Christmas material should
reach us not later than the eighth of
September.

\Vc are particularly interested in
receiving. right now, articles and in-

formation on:

1. Sports. indoors or out «activities. lead-
ership. instruction. organization. lacilities.
equipment«nu-inter sports particularly.

2. Activities- Ior church groups, club
groups.

3. Art and painting in the recreation pro-
gram.

1. llobhie» (how-to-do articles).

5. Student recreation in colleges.

6. Parties.

7. Cralts projects.

8. llecrr'ation program: or activities uti-
lizing or encouraging the reading ol books.

9. Winter hiking or camping.

Write us the sort of thing that
you, yourself, would find helpful in
the magazine.

And, please don't forget our lct-

ters-to-the-editor page.
QEEI Marxism

Editor, Itscasntos‘

Tough Job W'ell Done

The following editorial, quoted from
The Garden C ity Daily Telegram, Car-
den City, Kansas, points up some of
the qualities and ways of work which
go into the making of the effective rcc-
rcation director:

“Public scrvants suffer through in-
difference to their efforts, until they
get off base in the opinion of one
or a group of voters and taXpayers.
Then they hear about it!

“That’s why, today, The Telegram
wants to point to the very good work
being done by one new division of
our city government—the city recre-
ation department.

“City Recreation Director llcrman
Beringcr has been doing a bangup job
for the youth of the town ever since
he arrived two years ago. He started
from scratch without a program, a
building, or without even the full as-
surance that the adults and the kids
of the community really wanted a full-
scale rccrcational program. He built
solidly and he put in more hours than
most workers would care. to count.

“Arriving at a time when there was
considerable community controversy
about all the school and non-school
demands being put upon the young-
stcrs’ after-school hours, be carefully
worked out a program which didn’t
demand too much of any age group of
youngsters, but gave them all an equal
opportunity to,make fair use of thc
ecnter’s facilities each week.

“He has had his problems and he
has worked them out, quietly and ef-
fcctivcly. He likes youngsters and will
be the first to tell you that today’s
generations of kids are nothing for
any adults to worry about. that they’ll
do okay. He keeps ‘hep‘ to all the
new ideas in his party and entertain-
ment program. He sees that pimple
know what is going on, especially the
parents, and he likes to invite adnlts.
so they will understand better the
eity’s youth recreation program by
seeing it in operation. llc hasn’t ncg-
lectcd the adults themselves, either.

Itscamrios

     
   
   
   
     
   
     
       
       

  

Some of his adult education classes the local kids, the parents, and the
have been standout successes. His club program he is working with.

for old-timers has given the oldsters “We think Garden City likes him,
a lot of enjoyable hours together, too. The Telegram wants to tell him
something they need so much. He likes so.”

It’s  If It’s

IIiI

GYM EQUIPMENT

0 Gymnasium Equlpment

 

Here’s Help You Need

for Successful Recreation

Become 0 monthly reoder of PARK MAINTENANCE. Its orticles will give

you expert oid for more efiicient ond economicol Operotion of your to-

o Telescoplc Gym Seats

ciIities. Eoch October you receive 0 complete Buyer’s Guide, listing more . BOSke'bun s‘orebourds

thon 500 sources of equipment ond supplies. 0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

Ware gm W9
FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,mc.

3566 DE KALB ST. ST. [OUIS 18, M0.

$3.00 Per Year

PARK MAINTENANCE

P. 0. BOX 409 APPLETON, WISCONSIN

 

  

For 78 Years
The Standard Oi Quality

SQUARE DANCIN Gig”

A

‘——————————————‘

50 W to [W . . . So eatery (0 W [Easy_1.°_1.each GAMES l

 

With these Square Dance Records with Progressive : for boys and glrls l
Oral Instructions and Calls by ED DURLACHER. l to  anywhere.. . :
Here is the easy and economical way to meet the l- -' -' — — — — — -' -' -' -' — — o
evcr—growing demand for square dancing in your Here’s a new, omnibus collection of
community . . . the IIONOR YOUR PARTNER lpopular, easy-to-teaeh group games and
series of square dance records. I grOUp entertainment for boys and girls,
if if if I from age 7 through the teens. THE BOOK
OF GAMES makes more fun instantly
Each record in albums 1 to 4 starts with sim li- I available in active and' quiet games in-
aed ProgTGSSiVC oral inStWCHODS by Ed Durlac 61' l door and outdoor games. contests ,and
—instructions easily understood  dancers 0f  [ournafnentgh as we“ as Stories magic
' 3335- FOIIOWin a brief Pause, giVing the dancers I and puzzles for group entertaiiiment. ,
time to square their scts, the music and calls dmgin. The TOP HANDS, directed |
by FRANK NOVAK, offer the best in scintillating and foot tapping s uare dance I The 300k Of
music. The calls are delivered by one of the nation’s most outstanding square GAMES
dance autlioritics, ED DURLACHER. l .
. . . . . . . by G- 5- Ripley
The fifth album in thc series contains music only, Without calls or instructions— I Amhar 0‘ "Games {or BO 5 u e“
"Thc Square Dance Caller's Delight". [“ . y ' '
This book goes farther than the average
A A A [gamcbook,” says Virginia Musselman in
AN ENtHusmsnc USER REPORTS [Recreatiom It includes sections on shows
’ ' ' and exhibits and neighborhood contests.”
"The square dance album ‘Honor Your Partner’ is all that you ciaimed it to be—we l “Places a‘high priority on fun ” says Wes
tried out the records on a group of eighth grade students and they picked up the [H. Klusmann, B.S.A. Nat’l Camping Serv-
instructions without dimcuity. In the space of thirty minutes, this group, which her! ice Direcion “Hag wide variety and a
never square danced before, were doing the figures in an expert fashion. The records I host of activities,” $3.00
were also a hit at the aduit square dance which we heid iast night.” I .— _ —' .— —' .— _ _ _ — _ _ .— i—I
ilféfi.§?i'iiimm. “55°C'AT'0N PRESS I
C' ‘ .  . [291 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
.recnwood, Mississippi
[Send me .__.._...__ copies Of THE BOOK
All records guaranteed Learn more about the I 0': GAMES 0* 33-00 “Ch. I
“gains, breakage, notiORVOURPARTNER HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums. I Name I
in normal use. write {or a descriptive {olden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
- I Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
SQUARE DANCE AssocmTEs ioiy, 2...... sim. .................... ..l
     I U ngment herewith (pGS‘I’POid) I
I [I Bill me (postage extra).

r-___—_————————J

APRIL 1952 9

 

1952 NATIONAL CAstetxc cox-

thtt—t
\ENTION is being held at the Hotel
Stevens, in Chicago, April 16 through
19th. Tltcrc will be a large exhibit of
eantp newspapers at the meeting. Blue
ribbons will be awarded to those whiclt
best reflect the convention thcmc—
"liettcr Camping . . . for All."

yNA'rtOSAL PARK AND RECREATIOX
WEEK falls on the dates May 21 to
June 5 this year. For promotion ma-
terials write to Weldon B. Wade,
American lnstitutc of Park Executives,
30 North laSalle Street, Chicago 2.

prnt: anvmue ACT or 1951, Public
law 183, recently signed by the l’rcsi-
dent, removes the excise tax on admis-
sion fees to “swimming pools, bathing
beaches, skating rinks, or other places
providing facilities for physical exer-
cise, operated by any state or political
snbdivision thereof” if the benefits
therefrom inure exclusively to the bene-
fit of the state or political subdivision.
The admissons tax is also referred to
in l’ublic Law 124 by providing that,
"No tax shall be imposed in the ease
of admission. free of ehargc, Of a
member of the arntcd forees of the
l'nited States when in uniform.”

y't‘ttt: couxcu. ON SOCIAL \vnttx EDU-
(:ATION approved by-laws at a constitn-
tIonal convention held on January 28,
1932. The purpose of the newly or-
ganized Council is to promote the de-
velopment of sonttd programs of social
work education in the United States,
its territories and possessions, and
Canada.

The American Association of Social
Workers, One Park Avenue, New York
City, has published a report on. “The
Study of Salaries and Working Condi-
tions in Social Work." ln addition to
information about the economic status
of social workers, the study gives data

10

on number of social workers and their
geographic distribution; personal
characteristics such as age, sex and
marital status. fields of specialization,
employment in federal. state, local and
voluntary agencies, educational prep-
aration, and length and type of ent-
ploytnent. Tlte report is available for
one dollar a copy.

5 THE mv CAMP user of the New York
City board of health has a special
advisory eomntittec which is studying
conditions in day camps and other sum-
mer programs for children. A series
of seminars have been held for camp
directors and operators, and have been
eonecrned primarily with eonnscling
and good standards.

l’or help to parents itt selecting a
day camp, the department of health
published and released last spring a
pamphlet cntitlcd, Pointers for Parents.
Free copies are available at tlte dc-

partmcnt’s Division of Day Care, 125
Worth Street, New York 13.

’Tlll'; NATIONAL CHILDREN‘S THEATRE
CONFERENCE will be held in Madison.
Wisconsin, itt August 1932.

yttAt't'v RETIREMENT TO tn: Till-I At.\t
of a three year study, to be condttcted
by tltc New York Adult Education
Council, which will begin in September
1952. Ottc hundred tncn and women
approaching retirement age will be the
“gninea pigs" in this one hundred
thousand dollar venture, for which
funds are now being raised. The pilot
project will try to determine ltow per-
sons in their forties and fifties "ean be
ltelped to make good and realistie
preparation" for the lengthening nnm-
her of years that follow retirement.

ltt line with steps being taken by
industries to help employees adjust to
the retirement years, the lisso Com-
pany of New Jersey has recently is-

 

sued a booklet, I’retmration for Retire-
ment Years. whieh explains their ap-
proach to the problcnt.

p THE POSITION OF SUI‘ERINTENDEN'I‘ 0F
ttccaEA'rtox in Oakland, California,
will be filled by Jay M. Ver Lee, who

has been appointed to snccecd llobcrt

\V. Crawford. Mr. Vcr Lee formerly

held tlte same position in Colorado
Springs, Colorado.

.\‘larvin Rife, coordinator of the rec-
rcation curriculum at the University of
Wisconsin, this June will assume new
duties as director of camping and re-
search for the Herald Trilmne l’rcsh

Air Fund of New York.

p As A NEW vexruac, the National lice-
reation Association is sponsoring a
training institute for playground super-
visors in the Great Lakes District to be
held in Toledo, April 7, 8, 9, 1952.
The course will include sessions on:
Planning Your l’layground Training:
liating Yourself as a Supervisor:
Leadership Training Teehniqucs. l’rac-
tiec workshOps in arts and crafts, dra-
ma, music and social recreation, and
an evaluation of the total
will be inclttded.

program

Teaching and llesearch
Assistantships in Recreation

l’art-tintc teaching attd research
assistantships in recreation will be
available at the University of llli-
nois for the school year 1932-53.
Applications close April 30, 1932.
Assistants teach six hours per
week itt service courses, or assist
twclvc ltonrs per week in research.
Appointees are eligible for a full
academic sehednle withont tuition
payment. The position carries a
stipend of $600 for M. 5. candidates.
Candidates sltonld ltave a bae-
ealanreate degree with major etu-
phasis in recreation or a closely al-
lied field, and a “li” av cragc for the
last two years of nndcrgradnate
stndy. Interested persons should rc-
qnest Form 10 B‘l-ll-IG from:
Charles K. Brightbill, l’rofcssor,
Supervisorof lleereationTraining.

lll llnff Gym. University of llli-

nois, Urbana, lllinois.

lt Bet-teArtox

\Vritten as a part of a

o O ,’
“declaratlon of interdependence,
this poem carries an Easter message . . .

Otto T. Mallery

\Ve speak:
Sons of God:

Black and white, brown and yellow —-
men of all nations;

The halt and the hale;

The filled and the empty; the
naked and the clothed;

The builders of buildings, the
dreamers of dreams —

All sons of God;

All brothers in our deep currents.

I said, Hold my hand:

we shall walk together;

We shall destroy fear, you and I;
We shall fill the empty ones and
ease those who suffer; we shall
strengthen the feeble; the tyrant
shall flinch from us; we shall

 

impart knowledge. They told me, the child unborn is 3
And feeding them, be fed; and healing Sword t0 the heart 0f tge mOtlECf; and
them, be healed. So shall we profit, - manblto dwoman a Swor ’ our OOIStePS
the one by the other; are of) Y-

1:0r we are the sons of God. What Is man but a sword—a sword and

fodder for cannon?

We have felt the earth shake, we have
seen the mushroom swell over the city.
Let us build no more houses.

We are brothers in the deep currents.

Have I shown you my truth? It is a
small thing. I shall add yours to

it, mine small and yours small; but
together they compass the heavens.

Spare, then, my truth; lest yours, too, Shall we carve our meat with a dagger,

be wounded; then, and make our porridge with gunpowder?
And my tent, lest yours, too, should Or go hungry, saving our substance to kill with?
crumble. I knew not my brother in the battlesmoke,

Your way is your way; mine is mine; nor his voice in the song of the rocket.

to each his own forebears and offspring: Now the tanks have clankcd

the black, the white, the brown, the yellow; on over the hill; my brother lies

men of all nations; bleeding; I know him.

Yet all sons of God; Can men with clenched fists clasp

All brothers in the deep currents. hands?

APRIL. 1952 11

I have looked on your lace. my brother;
I l<now your com )assion. Behold my
heart; understand
You and I moving forward united: so it
shall be. I swear it.

\Vho whispers evil of you. I will not
hear him.

\Vho stril<cs at his neighbor through
greed, whercsocver, you and I will not
add to that striking.

“’c will not march in the army of the

aggressor. .
Swear with me, l or we are brothers in

our deep currents.

12

me; pity my failing.

Surely, where one rests,

his brother may rest also; and where
one eats, his brother

may brealt bread; there shall be

no discrimination between us.

Nor will I impede your passage across
my Country. \Vhat I have is here;

go home and tell them:

"Ore in the mines, so much;

and factories and farms; yes,

and in that country such and such
thoughts.”

Send me your bales. I will buy them.
and send in turn;

we will exchange freely according

to our needs.

Suck lorthrightly

your )articular good; I will hel ) you.
'lhe laborers shall gather together

for their good, and the farmers,

and those who buy; and the children
shall gather in the schools; with none
favored; all for their articular 00d;
‘-\ll brothers our chi dren, too, rothers;
l‘ur it was said, "\Io man lives to himself,
and no man (lies to himself; but living
or dying, we are the lord's

and each other's

“The earth yields its fullness

3

to all men; all are brather:.'

j‘llCTCIOTC [UC SDCOL’.’

Son§ of God:

Brothers in our deep currents.

\Ve say to our leaders, Lead us in the
way of love

and reconciliation,

and we shall follow;

\Ve shall toil up the Steep slepes,

ll need be, all our lives long; and
barefoot if need be;

Till we greet the day of justice and
love, the (lay

of freedom from fearing.

This is our pledge and our contract—
The black

and the white,

the brown

and the yellow,

men of all nations.

This is our pledge to our Father.

Mn. Mummy who retired from presidency

of the Philadelphia recreation association
in I913. is Chairman 0/ the Board 0/ NRA.

 

{scum-nos

It’s Time to Spruce Up the Program!

)4 A’aaé a: 0m Playgrounds

Every summer more and more communities are developing comprehensive, crea-
tivc playground programs. Many recreation departments set up special projects to
be featured each week, or summer-long projects to culminate in a concert, tourna-
mcnt or exhibit. Examples of playground activities in this article have been chosen
from monthly and annual reports, in the hope of passing on usable ideas, all of
which have been successful in action. a '

SCHOOL IS OVER. The Spark
of enthusiasm. should be ignited
by interesting, joyous activities.
Above: Los Angeles youngsters.

IN Lancaster, South Carolina a surplus World War II

combat plane is standard equipment at one of the
playgrounds. The youngsters are encouraged to swarm
over the plane and to “get the feel” of aviation. Hcrc
imaginations are called into play, and flights take off for
far corners of the world. The gift of War I acc, Colonel
Elliott Springs, the plane wears out and must be replaced
every six months—though in regular flying service such
planes last ten years or longer.

I' I' I- I! I-

Worcester, Massachusetts, undcr the direction of John
J. Nngcnt, the supervisor of recreation. provides a loose-
leaf notebook of mimcographed instructions for summer
play leaders. General theories of play are briefly stated;
the playground program is outlined; and specific instruc-
tions are given for special events.

I- l- I- l- *-

Sometimcs little extra treats are offercdoas a surprise

APRIL 1952

fut—h

 

to both leaders and youngsters. Last year in Martinsville,
Virginia a dairy sent a calf to the playgrounds. The child
who came nearest to guessing its weight won a quart of
ice cream.

In Flint, Michigan the fire department invited groups of
youngsters to visit the fire stations. Firemen slid down
poles, rang bells, blew sirens and showed television.

I' l * I’ I’

In International Falls, Minnesota, the country club makes
its golf club facilities available, for instruction and play-
ing, to boys and girls under fourteen years of age. The
recreation department purchased twenty-four sets of clubs
several years ago and these are loaned to youngsters who
want to learn the game.

* l’ * *' *

The annual storytelling festival held on twenty-two play-
grounds in Salt Lake City is open to the public. The leaders
are in costume and tell stories of about ten minutes in

13

length. Eager and fascinated children move from one story-
teller to the next at a signal from a coordinator dressed

as Old Father Time.

I I I I

In Elmira, New York the playground storytelling is
developed somewhat differently. Supervisors tell stories at
all seventeen playgrounds. Then the children have an op-
portunity to retell their favorites at storytelling contests.

 

Spray pools versus swimming pools present great problem in
warm weather. (April and May, 1951 issues of Recreation.)

It sometimes includes character dramatizations and pan-

tomimes. llowevcr, storytelling is interesting enough in it-

self. and does not need the added impetus of competition.
I I I I I

Youngsters love to undertake dramatic productions on
their own. Miss llene N. Langsam of Ventnor, New Jersey,
now eleven years old, wrote us this letter several months
ago.

“Last year my friends and I produced the play, ‘The
Captain's llat.’ We collected eight dollars through the sale
of tickets. lemonade and popcorn. We gave this money to
the Betty Bacllraell llome for Crippled Children in Long-
port. New Jersey. . ."

l’layground leaders often are the adult guidance behind
projects of this sort and encourage the strides toward in-

dependent leadership made by the children.
I I I I I

There is a Water Babies Club in Sylacanga, Alabanra.
\i ater games are supervised for pro-school children. in a
wading pool. There is an adult night (adults only) when
tables are arranged around the pool for bridge, eanasta
and other table. games. and a record player adds atmos-
phere.

I I I I I

.lfassena, Yew York boasts a dart baseball league, for
groups sixteen to seventy-live years of age. There are seven
to nine on a team. Contests are held once a week and have

14

proven very popular. The dartboard is six by eight feet and
the darts are seven inches long. Throwing line is twenty-
live feet for men, twenty feet for women.
I I I I I
In Mobile, Alabama, to follow through on one feature of
their well-planned, vigorous program, the children selected
a "playground reporter” for the children’s page of the
Mobile Press Register, and made trips through the news-
paper oflice and radio station WABB. They wrote monthly
reports and made drawings of activities.
I I I I I
Omaha, Nebraska has a Woodland Pixies Club which
uses seeds, cones, twigs, and so forth, to make miniature
animals, birds, pixies and models of storybook characters.
I I I I I
In Tena/ly, New Jersey, a residential community, a popu-
lar item on the playgrounds has been the making of num-
bers for the front lawns of houses. Orange crates and other
wooden boxes can be used to make the placards, the num-
bers burned or painted on the wood. A stake nailed to the
back can be driven into the ground.
I I I I I
From Honolulu comes news of the combining of adult
dancing and playground recreation. A volunteer dancing
teacher offered to give ten lessons to couples winning in a
series of ballroom dance contests, to be held at playgrounds
and community centers. The recipients of this special
training in turn were to become teachers of the tecn-agers.

Mobile Playgrounds

ln Billings, Montana a “new show wagon has been a
real asset and is used for fun frolies, talent show, and
square dancing in some neighborhood every night of the
week. On nights of adult square dancing the children also
attend and have games and play. Sometimes the show
wagon is used on school and park grounds, other times on
roped oil streets. About twenty different locations in the
city are visited on schedule. Talent shows are balanced
because all specialists from various skills are consulted
and hpr contribute.”

I I I I I

In Lafourche Parish in Thibodaux, Louisiana. equip-
ment—for horseshoes, croquet, volleyball. table tennis,
archery, softball, children's games and stories, square
dancing, badminton, box hockey, track, games and con-
tests. checkers, darts, and special events such as doll
shows, pct shows and bicycle days—is moved to various
locations, visiting each section of the community six times
during the summer. One feature is Adult Day when eaeh
child must be accompanied by an adult aml prizes are
given for the youngest parents. the tallest. and so forth.
It was found that attendance increased on days of special
events.

The superintendent of recreation. Al Le Blane. .lr.. writes
that this is a stop-gap program and is unable to provide
many of the services of a standard playground. One of its
major purposes is to arouse public interest in support of
a regular program, with one or two rolling playgrounds
retained to serve rural areas.

ltrtemzvnos

Community Nights

From Meridan, Mississippi comes a report describing :
successful all-family program.

“In an effort to give parents more opportunities to play
with their children, ‘Community Night’ was established
this ycar on our playgrounds. o

“Each playground director formed a parent council in
an effort to bring about better understanding and coopera-
tion of the parents with the playground program.

“Every two weeks each playground celebrates com—
munity night. Mother. dad. and all the children gather to
participate in the planned activities, such as picnics, cook-
outs, community sings, square dances, band concerts,
talent shows, bingo parties, lawn partics, treasure hunts,
box-suppers, tack parties and watermelon cuttings.”

Basketball School

The Los Angeles, California report announcing the last
weck of their annual basketball school demonstrates the
typc of program which will draw eager participation.

“The casaba school’s classcs, open to all boys thirteen
years of age, are being held at thirty Los Angeles munici-
pal playgrounds. lts teaching stall is made up of recrea-
lion directors well versed in thc intricacies of thc court
game, and top-flight collegiate players and coaches are
acting as guest instructors.

“At several of the classes, a sixteen-millimeter sound
film will depict professional basketball as played by the
Minneapolis Lakers, Baltimore Bullets, Chicago Staggs,
Boston Celtics, New York Knickerbockers, and other high-
scoring fives.

“Pro stars George Mikan, Jim Pollard, Joe Foulks, and
a host of others will‘ bc secn in individual and team action
shots. Scenes of actual pro games will enable mclnbers of

the school classcs to see at close range the play-for-play_

hoopsters’ scoring plays and defense maneuvers.”

The Point System

In Watcrtown, New York, a point system is used to
crcate a compctitive spirit among the playgrounds of the
city. Points are awarded to boys and girls for:

1. Learning a New Game: Must be able to explain rulcs
for playing to the instructor—25 points. A game is con-
sidercd to be new when first taught.

2. Each Article Marie in Handcrafts: F or each project
completcd and acceptcd by supervisor of handcraft—SO
points.

3. Bringing New Children: Introducing two new chil-
drcn to the playground—25 points.

4». Specialty Events: The first three .places in cach spe-
cialty event, and for participating—25 points for first
place; 15 for second; 10 for third; 10 for participating.

5. Tournaments and lnterplaygrounrl Leagues: Parti-
cipating-——10 points for every competitor; 3 for each
game; 20 to anyone in thc playoffs.

6. Part in Music and Dramatics: Taking part in any
musical club or dramatics of any type—H50 points.

7. Improve Grounds Weekly: Picking up papers, stones,
filling in holcs, repairing baseball diamond, sandbox,

APRIL 1952

horseshoe courts, and so forth, under supcrvision—ZS
points each week.

8. Five Good Turns on. Playground: Five good turns
during the week, such as assisting smaller children, watch-
ing swings, slides, and so forth to prevent accidents—25
points.

9. Good Behavior and Sportsmanship All Week: Being
in harmony with all work done on the playgrounds during
the week—50 points each week.

10. Volunteer Leader: Helping with games, checking on
equipment, encouraging the proper placement of bicycles
——points judged by leader.

Weekly awards to individuals are made on each play-
ground, and an end-of-sunimer banner is awarded to that
playground earning the most points. Events used in de-
termining the winner include: interplayground doll show,
Safety Day, Indian Day, playground circus, Joseph E. Lee
Day, interplayground boxing show, interplayground
checker tournament, interplayground volleyball tourney,
interplayground softball, interplayground tennis, interplay-
ground horseshoe tourney, interplayground Mardi Gras,
interplayground hobby and craft exhibit, and Gypsy

round-up.

 

A group of adults, measuring ringers in game of horseshoes,
attests to popularity of playgrounds for those of all ages.

The banner is presented to the playground receiving the
highest number of awards for the summer season. In addi-
tion to special events, each week, the most interesting
bulletin board, the appearance of the playground, and the
originality of the programs that week are judged on each
playground.

Tots on the Playground

l’re-kindergarten playgrounds, in fenced-in areas—with
grass and playthings—take care of the youngest children
in illanitowoc, Wisconsin. As many as thirty or more little
ones attend each daily. Through the gentle guidance of

15

trained attendants from the state teachers colleges, these
tots learn the important and basic lesson of how to get
along with others and share their toys and activities, which
will help them in school and throughout their lives. Some
of the children show early preference for art, or clay work,
and all of them like to play on the swings.

Al ]. Schara, Manitowoe's recreation director, works
with a quiet enthusiasm which stems from a natural love
for people and for children in particular. IIe realizes the
deep importance of recreation, conducted in a constructive
manner, in the shaping of worthy citizens. Says he, “It is
more important to have ten children playing together with
one ball, than to have one child playing with five balls by
himself.”

The rcercation department in Manitowoc conducts eight
playgrounds for youngsters from ages six to eighteen,
which are open from 9 All. to 11:45; 1 P..\I. to 4:45 and
6 RM. to eight. The program is conducted by men and
women trained in recreation for children. Mr. Sehara be-
lieves that the playground should be the most interesting
place in the community and that children should come
because they are attracted there. Says he, “The leader must
be like one of the youngsters and get into the game, like
them as well as they like him.”

Craft Exhibit

In Greensboro, North Carolina, part of a very full sum-
mer program is an intensive handeraft schedule. Last
summer an average of four hundred sixteen children re-
eeived instruction each week in one of the following pro-
jcets: carving wood and colored plaster paris; modeling
sawdust. clay, exeelsior and papier mache; making shell
earrings and pins; linger painting on glass, paper and
wood; weaving leather and plastic pocketbooks and belts;
weaving potholdcrs and rugs with looper clips; textile
painting including stenciling, potato prints and spatter
prints; carving and hammering metal trays and pins; and
constructing marioncttes from wooden blocks.

(mngratulatory remarks were plentiful when the annual
arts and crafts exhibition was placed on the theatre mez-
zanine. A five by thirty-six foot table was covered with
samples of the Work done by the children.

Itl addition, those on each play grouud competed in the
annual sandcraft contest by building a sandbox display.
Some of the structures featured were an Independence Day
scene, the ideal community playlot, a drive-in theatre.
\lr'atraz, and a Louis-Charles boxing boat in Madison
square (iardeu all constructed with sand, materials native
to the playground. and objects made in craft classes. The
.‘hildren's display of originality and the degree of perfec-
tlutl in many of the models Were astonishing. The winning
player-mud was honored at an IH‘ err-1m partv.

More Good Ideas

“he” Itader. «change ideas at r--rr::aliun rungress or
nstr ct waft-retire. meetings. playground proprams soon
feel mt aft of new Jetlvities. ()ne crowd idva In a balloon
ascensl- n «cutest. l’osteards arc attm‘hed to the balloons.
bCftIl't: their release. address of a playgr and on them. and

I(-

a child's name. The first card received back is the winner.
And a prize can be given for the card mailed back from
the farthest distance.

Older boys especially will be interested in interplay-
ground radio programs with ham radio Operators in auto-
mobiles or on the playgrounds handling them. There may

 

A pet parade is one of the most popular of “special events."
Both boy and dog seem to be having fun in Decatur, lllmors.

be broadcasts from east side to west side playgrounds.

There are sportsmen's shows and fishing dcrbies. In one
city they didn't catch any fish, and were up against what
to do with the prizes. In a case like that, it is necessary to
do some quick thinking in determining ways to dispose of
the [Howe—perhaps to the boy with the most freckles, or
the girl dressed most like a fishing lady. In one city, the
fishing contest was constantly interrupted by squeals from
the girls who wanted the boys to bait their books or re-
move a fish that they had caught.

Fun for Everyone

From doll shows and pet shows to athletic tournaments,
from individual crafts to community sings the playgrounds
serve all ages. Their summer programs. though designed
primarily for children. have a definite place for adults, too.
Last summer in Alice, Texas twenty-nine teams, both men's
and women's, played a series of softball tournaments, in-
eluding exhibition games with out-of—towu teams. League
teams paid an entry fee, and fifteen and twenty-five ecnls
admission was charged spectators. Those of school age and
a guest for each player were admitted free. Income was
mad for improvements. repairs, supplies, umpires, scorers,
gatekeepers, and other expenses.

ltseasnxox

 

If Bing Crosby or a Venetian gon-
dolier were playground leaders, there
would be music on their playgrounds
because they would sing and their
singing would be contagious. The chil-

dren would join in, and it would he as

natural as breathing, which is the way

the ways of bringing this situation into
being.

The first step is to win the minds
and hearts of leaders to the idea. In-
tellectual acceptance is not enough.
They must be shown. They must be-
lieve it because they feel it. Therefore,
the best basic training for leaders in
music is the pleasant experience of
participating in singing. It is a matter
of becoming accustomed to it in much
the same informal manner that is to
be followed on the playground. This
means singing at staff meetings, during
pre-playground training sessions, at
staff picnics and social affairs, singing
at open and closed meetings, during

Even if this person is engaged for only
part of the time, it is worthwhile. The
specialist should work out the detailed
plans, with the help of the music com-
mittee, and endeavor to have them
carried out by the staff. It is well to
remember that the success of any mu-
sic program which is comprehensive
and significant depends upon the in-
dividual leaders. Therefore, the work
of the specialist that will count for the
most will be that which is done with
the leaders. If there is no specialist,
quite obviously the whole responsibili~
ty falls upon the leaders.

We have been concentrating upon
the leaders and nothing has been said

 

singing on the playground should be.
There would be interesting musical
events and programs because every-
body’s mind would be attuned to music
and to thinking up ways of having fun
with it.

Unfortunately, dcr Bingles, gondo-
liers and their ilk are the exception
among playground leaders, which is
not to say that there are not many ex-
cellent and well trained leaders. There
just don’t happen to be many who
have an irresistible urge to sing or who
seem to be able to touch off the inusi-
eal spark in children, most of whom
need very little encouragement to
burst into song.

lnforinal singing can and should be
an integral and very natural part of

the day by day playground program,
so let us proceed to look into some of

 

MR. TODD, a musician himself, writes
from, many years of experience as the
NRA Midwest District Representative.

APRIL 1952

breaks and to fill gaps. This is quite
a different thing from a special music
period, although that will be necessary
too. It means having, perhaps, a few
“special” songs to be used on certain
occasions: a song of recognition, of
welcome~—-—the sort of thing that is
frequently done in camps.

A large part of staff training should
consist of the learning of many songs.
There should he a sharing of favorite
songs. There should be someone to in-
troduce good songs which may not be
well known. There is a need for having
printed song sheets. This calls for a
committee and a leader. The leader
may be someone from the staff who is
competent, or it may be someone from
the outside. The committee is made up
of playground leaders. Together they
make plans for the singing at staff
meetings and for the playground pro-
gram, working closely as a team.

If it is possible to have a music
supervisor or specialist, that is fine.

Arthur Todd

about what to do on the playground.
The fact of the matter is, if the leaders
do enough singing and talking about
ways of using music in their programs,
the job will be done. There are a few
suggestions that might be made.

Song sheets should be a part of the
playground equipment. Like everyone
else, children do not remember the
words of familiar songs and they need
to have the words of new songs. The
song sheets can be used by groups
when a time is set aside for singing,
and they should be available when-
ever a few children want to use them.
Different sets of song sheets should be
prepared and issued from time to time
throughout the season.

Regular periods for singing should
be scheduled, with either a weekly
“sing” or some group singing at sched-
uled special events. The goal of getting
ready for a weekly event is an excellent
incentive to learning new songs.

The choice of appropriate songs will

17

greatly enhance playground themes.
The use of weekly or seasonal thcmes
is unquestionably one of the finest
means of motivating and sustaining
interest. It is impossible to think of a
good playground theme that does not
suggest a rich vein of songs. Musical
activity, like no othcr, can weave to-
gether and tie up the threads of the
theme.

There should be regular times for
singing, such as at flag raising and
lowering eercmonies, the Opening of
special events and to welcome guests.
Thcre should bc special songs learncd
for use on these occasions. Also, sing-
ing can improve the story hour. The
possibilities here arc almost too ob-
vious to mention.

The making of a song scrapbook can
be a rewarding project. It may bc a
Scrapbook of Favorite Songs. Each
participant takes a pagc, writcs or
pastes in his favoritc song and deco-
rates it appropriatcly. thn the book
is completed, each child tells why he
likes his song and either sings it or
leads the group in singing it. This may

Designed for the Playground —

—Priced for the Playground

Rollo«H00p
Educators
recommended
tool of ploy
on
Plo ygrounds
Coast
to
Coast

Rollo-Hoopl The body builder ond exerciser. Sturdin
constructed of 36" round solid steel. H00p 24" in
diameter and it's Zincrome Ploted. The hondle is
permanently ottoched which propels and guides

hoop.

Price per 00:. $9.60 (F.O.B. Steelton, Pa.)

J. A. BRANDT & CO.
P. O. Box 30, Steelton, Pa.

 

be done as a contest, if so desired,
with the group dividcd and cach sec-
tion making a scrapbook. Many dif-
ferent thcmes can be used: oceupa-
lions. ships and sailormen, people of
other lands, nonscnsc and others.
There are excellent musical activi-
tics that rcquire organization and
trained lcadership: choruses, instru-
mental groups such as rhythm bands,
harmonica and ukulele groups, even
"real" bands. These activities require
equipment and rehcarsal facilities not
availahlc on many playgrounds, but
all are desirable and of proven value.
There is ample instructional material
available which leaders can find in
libraries and obtain from other sources.
It is suggested that every playground
leader who has the skill and interest
dcvel0p special music grOUps, and that
the necessary equipment be supplied,
insofar as this is possiblc. Paid or
volunteer leadcrs trained for this kind
of work should be uscd to thc fullest
extent. Therc is no thought of dis-
paraging the importance of organizcd
music groups. But after years of ob-

scrving playgrounds in many dilierent
cities. the realization that even a little,
simplc, informal music woven into the
lifc of the playground is something
quite rare and in need of encourage-
ment lcads me to emphasize this aspect
of playground music.

There is one final suggestion for
those who would like to do something
about playground music but fecl in-
capable of going ahcad. Call upon the
local school music supervisor or a
music teacher whose vocation indicates
interest in music for the sake of people.
Modern music education stresses music
for cvcrybody, and once thc teacher or
supcrvisor undcrstands the conditions
prevailing on playgrounds, knows the
purposes of the music program and is
told somcthing about the leadership,
the chances are good that he will have
some extremcly practical suggestions
and will want to help. It is a mistake
to pass up this resource.

Give music a place in thc program
this summer. Blend it in easily. Culti-
vatc it carefully. Thc children nced it,
and thcy love it. You can't lose.

The Pennsylvania State College

Summer Sessions — 195 2

Isrim-Srsslos
June 10 to June 27

Mars SL‘MMl-le SESSION
June. 30 to August 9

l’osr-Sr‘ssios
.4 ugust II to August 29

 

Extensive aeademic program with special-
ized courses in health education. physical
education. recreation. and athletics.

Moderate living expenses and instructional

fees. No additional fees charged to out-ol-
Statc students.

The «ml. mountain environment of Penn
State is ideal for summer study and ree-
reation.

 

ma I’L'll'l'llm ISNJRS‘IATIOS. ADDRESS“:

Designed for the Playground -- Priced for the Playground

18

DIRECTOR OF SUMMER SESSlONS
Room 102-! Iurrewes Building

7H! PENNSYLVANIA 57A?! COLLEGE

State College, Pennsylvanch

ltscnmrlos

THE ELEMENTARY school principals in Portland, Oregon,
were asked their opinion regarding playground ap-
paratus, “hardsurfaced” areas and apparatus accidents on
school playgrounds in a survey conducted in 1951. Replies
to a questionnaire sent out by the supervisor of elementary
education indicated that most of the principals favor hard-
surfacing on at least a substantial area of their playgrounds
and the installation of playground equipment on them. A
summary of the information submitted by the principals
follows:

1. With the exception of three schools, all are equipped
with hardsurfaced areas.

2. The hardsurfaced areas vary. considerably. Most
schools are equipped with from ten thousand square feet
to two hundred eighty thousand square feet.

3. Seventeen principals recommended that the entire
playground bc hardsurfaced; forty-seven, that a substan-
tial area be hardsurfaced; one, that no hardsurface be
installed on playgrounds; one made no recommendation.

4. Two hundred twenty-six pieces of playground equip-
ment were reported by all principals; one hundred fifty-
onc pieces, or sixty-seven per cent, are installed on black-
top surface; seventy-five pieces, or thirty-three per cent, are
installed on playground areas not hardsurfaced.

5. Sixty principals stated that they would advise in-
stallation of playground equipment on school playgrounds;
three, that they would advise against installation of play-
ground equipment on playgrounds; thrce made no state-
ment.

6. Forty principals stated that they would recommend
hardsurfacing under playground equipment installed;
twcnty-one, that they would recommend against hardsur-
facing the area under playground equipment; live made
no statement.

7. Nine hundred ninety-four accidcnts from all causes
were reported to the business office between September,
1950 and May 17, 1951. Ninety-eight, or nine and nine-
tenths per cent of these, occurred on playground equip-
ment. Sixty-five, or sixty-six per cent of the accidents on
playground equipment, occurred at schools where equip-
ment was not installed 011 blacktop. Thirty-thrcc, or thirty-
thrcc percent of the accidents on playground equipment,
occurred at schools where equipment was installed on
blacktop. Two hundred seventy-five accidents attributed to
playground equipment, were reported in the questionnaire
by all principals. (An explanation for the discrepancy be-
tween accidents reported to the business ofiice and on the
qucstionnairc could be that less serious accidents were not
reported to the business oilice, but were listed on the ques-
tionnaire.) One hundred seventy-two, or sixty-three per
cent of the two hundred seventy-live accidents reported on

APRIL 1952

Blacktop

for

Apparatus
Areas?

the questionnaire, occurred at schools where playground
equipment was not installed on blacktop. One hundred
three, or thirty-seven per cent of the two hundred seventy-
five accidcnts reported, occurred on equipment installed
011 blacktop.

8. Sixty-seven per cent of playground equipment is in-
stalled on blacktop, yet reports indicate only thirty-sevcn
per cent of all accidcnts can be attributed to playground
equipment.

9. Accidents related to specific apparatus:

Number Total Number
Type of of Apparatus Installed
Apparatus Accidents Installcd on blacktop

Jungle gym 24 56 22
Slide 20 39 16
Horizontal ladder 8 44 17
Triple horizontal bars 22 23 4
Swings 13 15 3
Merry-go-round 6 12 1
Traveling rings 3 3 0
See-saw 2 18 6
Others 0 16 6

10. Accidents on playground equipment reported by
principals to business ofiice: 1947-48, fifty-nine; 1948-49,
forty-nine; 1949-50, seventy-four; 1950-51, ninety-eight.

Analysis of the principals’ replies further revealed
that in relation to the number of units installed, traveling
rings and horizontal bars are most dangerous. More ac-
cidents occur on junglc gyms and slides, but a much larger
number of these units arc in use.

A further consideration would be the number of ac-
cidents that occur in relation to the number of youngsters
who use the various pieces of equipment. We have no
statistical information on this, but from observation, the
jungle gym, merry-go-round and slides would appear to
get more use than other equiplncnt.

Number Accidents Accidents per

Installation Installed Reported Installation
Traveling rings 3 3 1.00
Triple horizontal bars 23 22 .95
Swings 15 13 .87
Slides 39 20 .51
Merry-go-mund 12 6 .50
Jungle gym 56 24 .43
Horizontal ladder 44 8 .18
See-saw 18 2 .11

19

A story of the honor system as applied to the
checking out of playground supplies.

S UMMER is HERE! A great tidal wave
of impatient young humanity heads
straight for the nearest playground.
swimming pool, sports field, beach or
park. “This is summer t°aeation,-——aud
boy, will we have fun!”

At the headquarters of a San Pedro
playground. where Mr. Keen is the
recreation director, there’s a noisy
crowd surging around outside the open
window of the ollice. \Vhat is this?

Three boys are shouting for a bat
and softball: that pretty blond girl
wants a table-tennis ball; this eahn old
gent would like to borrow a checker
hoard. A red-headed boy wants to re-
turn a soccer hall and check out a
football; that fine-looking woman is
waiting impatiently to ask about the
l’riday night square dances; and then
the telephone rings!

Mr. Keen is busily engaged in or-
ganizing a boys, club. ln fact, poten-
tial members are now gathered in the
nearby clubroom right where he left
them twenty minutes ago, restlessly
wondering what they can do for fun
until Mr. Keen returns.

Of course this is the woman di-
rector's day off; but what in the world
ean have happened to the young man
recreation assistant. a part-time
worker? He was supposed to have
been on duty nearly an hour ago.

Our harassed Mr. Keen decides that
some volunteer help is needed at once!
lle glances over the ntilling crowd
and spots lourtecn-year-old Jimmy
Jones rcaelting in through the open
window to get the inllater.

"Jimmy, please come in and gite
me a hand?"

“Sure, .\lr. Keen", replies Jimmy.

“Thanks, Jim", Mr. Keen is smiling
now, “please check out balls and play
supplies. Have the peeplc sign for

 

l'itthtiST l'lllthF. is director of the hor-
lmr district of the Department of Ree-
rrotion and Parks in Los Angeles, Cali].

20

  
 

everything they borrow, and be sure
that they bring back everything when
they are finished.”

With that, young Jimmy suddenly
becomes a very busy boy. llc is a
volunteer worker now, and a good one.
Before long things siunner down. As
Mr. Keen leaves the ollice, he can be
heard muttering something about how
a recreation director really should
have “eight arms like an octopus!"

Summer vacation is really here!
I ‘I ‘I

~

Let
more important considerations con-
cerning that responsibility so agreea-
bly assumed by our mythical Jitnmy
Jones, namely that of the issuing of
play supplies.

The exact manner in which this is
i is

s brielly analyze some of the

aecmnplishcd, or in fact whethcr t

done at all, is, of Course, a matter of
local policy as determined by the de-
partment concerned. llowct cr. most
public. recreation departments are con-
vinced that such desired play supplies
should be tnadc available to encourage
maximum participation. Such a policy
means more fun for all, because every
1tisitiug citizen thereby is assured an
opportunity to participate, regardless

of his or her own economic status.

Please, Mister,

Certainly our patrons want this
service; they expect to be able to bor-
row the equipment or play supplies
which will help them to enjoy the use
of the facilities at the playground.
These are the taxpayers and their chil-
dren, the citizens who pay the bills,
and it is our job to do our best to
“keep 'cm happy."

Therefore, if the availability of some
play supplies is justified and highly
desirable and is a vitally necessary
part of our service wherever there are
any patrons on public playgrounds,
what then are some of the factors to
be considered, from the practical stand-
point? llow can we handle this routine
problem with a minimum stall, so that
the solution will be a happy one for
all concerned?

Let's take a look at the following
“field notes," which reflect my personal
ideas only, and, therefore, are not
necessarily the ollieial opinions or poli-
eies of any municipal department.
What to Check Out?

The stock of play supplies which are
readied for check-out purposes should
represent a wide variety in kinds of
items, for many different types of
games or activities. llowevcr, the wise
recreation director will avoid trying

Rithnu'rmst

BE PREPARED. An avalanche may
descend upon you, as the children
head for their nearest playground.

May I Have a

to compete with Santa Claus and will
limit the “visible” quantity of any one
kind of item. Thus, while there are
occasions when it seems as though
“everybody wants a ball,” it is a fact
that the patrons will be encouraged to
play together and to socialize more,
learning how to get along with one
another, if fewer balls are issued. Also,
fewer checked out items means fewer
losses. For example, the temptation to
take a ball home is much less for the
patron who is required to play with a
group than it is for the solo ballplayer.

All “check-out” supplies should be
clearly and expertly branded or
marked, in such a manner that any em-
ployee of the department, and any pa-
tron as well, ean immediately identify
the items as being departmental prOper-
ty, at a distance of ten feet or more.
Incidentally, the manufacturers of rub-
ber balls are able and glad to bake the
department label into the rubber sur-
face in permanent fashion, as an in-
tegral part of the manufacturing
process.

How to Arrange Checking Out?

The chances are that the department
budget will not permit the hiring of
special part-time employees just to
check out play supplies, although any

APRIL 1952

 

Ball?

recreation employee, full-time or part-
time, will assume this responsibility
when not too busy elsewhere. However,
the regular full-time directors should
not be interrupted for such routine at
times when they are directing activities
or occupied with program leadership.

Assign volunteers? Maybe! But the
recreation director is not always able
to find such a dependable “eager
beaver” as our gracious Jimmy Jones.
True, many directors do discover ex-
cellent volunteer personnel among the
membership of the clubs, classes and
groups which meet regularly on the
grounds, and which the director him-
self has organized. Some directors or-
ganize service groups, similar to the
Safety Patrol, whereby such volunteer
duties are assumed on a rotation basis
among the members. (Let’s prevent
“volunteer fatigue”) Also, every play-
ground director knows a few faithful
individuals who enjoy being asked to
help.

It is interesting to note the tremen-
dous success of the honor
when properly encouraged, in the
checking out of play supplies on neigh-
borhood playgrounds. In this case the
director will indoctrinate the “regular”

patrons with the idea that all this

system,

Ernest B. Ehrke

property, including land, community
building, apparatus and facilities, plus
expendable equipment and play sup-
plies, really belongs to them, and that
the department is working for them.
Thus a neighborhood attitude of loyal-
ty and responsibility may be eulti-
vated, and patrons will see to it that
“their” equipment is returned after
use. Woe betide anyone of their group
who tries to get away with any item,
for the pressure of this localized group
opinion will react upon the delinquent
companion until the missing item is
returned.

Now, let’s see how the honor system
may be applied to the subject of our
discussion. A series of sixty day tests
were made on several playgrounds, to
see what would happen if the play sup-
plies were left out-of—doors all day un-
attended. They were placed in a large
open cabinet, so that peOple could help
themselves freely, borrowing and re-
turning equipment as they pleased,
without clerical attention and without
even signing for it.

Each morning an employee would
move the portable cabinet, loaded with
play supplies, to its destination on the
grounds—about fifty feet away from
the building but in plain View of the

21

office. And each evening it was re-
turned to the building, where the cabi-
net and its cargo were locked up for
the night.

(NOTE: An attractive cabinet can
be made for use as a portable con-
tainer, with wheels or casters so that it
can be rolled like a cart. Such a cabi-
net should have a height limit of about
two and one-half feet, to avoid top-
heaviness and to accommodate the
younger patrons.)

These experiments were deemed sne-
cessful. Not a single item was missing
until the forty-sixth day, when a new
football disappeared. One budget-wise
director estimated that even if the en-
tire supply of play equipment was
stolen and replaeed each month, it

still would be far cheaper than the
salary of a recreation assistant for the
same length of time: but as has been
pointed out. the aetual loss was quite
negligible.

Therefore, it was decided that check-
out service by personnel is really not
necessary. except in emergency situa-
tions or special cases. No longer is this
regarded as a “problem,” for the cafe-
teria style “serve yourself” plan proves
workable. And happily, everyone seems
to benefit. The honor system is good
when it is stimulated by skilled leader-
ship.

But now if you will excuse me, I
wonder what that small boy is saying?

It sounds like, “Please, zlfistcr, may I
have a ball?”

 

All will watch out for the "littlest
one" on this Los Angeles playground.

Filing Equipment for Playgrounds

A BULLETIN SETTING FORTH the
recommended procedure for the
filing of materials at individual play-
grounds, has been issued by the Los
Angeles Department of Recreation and
Parks. The information which it con-
tains will be of interest to all who are
concerned with the operation of play-
grounds, especially on a year-round
basis.

l'iaeh playground in Los Angeles was
provided with a three-drawer stcel fil-
ing cabinet for records and other ma-
terials. The following directions were
issued to the directors in order that
they might obtain the maximum bene-
fit from its use:

(a) One drawer will be designated
for the man director, one drawer for
the woman director, and one drawer
will be used both by the man and wom-
an director. and will be called the
playground general file. Please note
the subject headings for each drawer
as designated.

(b) Three sets of Oxford Index
files have bCen sent to the playground,
which are alphabetieally annotated.
We have, therefore, ordcred gummed
labels on which the subject headings
will be typed and glued on these in-
dexes. There will be delivered one

22

hundred (100) manila folders to be
used for file folder headings. These

will be made out at the time a piece
of subject matter is ready to be filed,
using the standard headings as shown
on this bulletin.

(c) The central office will, in the
future, record on the lower left-hand
side of the material sent out, the file
reference for information for filing
same when received.

fd) This administrative bulletin
should he placed in front of the
“general file,” so that it may act as an
index to information filed in the three
drawers.

(c) All material sent to the play-
ground should be filed as soon as the
staff has had an opportunity to exam-
ine its contents and place their initials
thereon as having seen the same.

ff) Since each playground will have
identical files, employees transferring
from one center to another will not
take material out of the files to their
new assignment.

Accompanying the directions for us-
ing the filing equipment were lists of
subject headings to be followed in
filing material and also titles for spe-
cific file folders under some of these
headings. The general subject headings

suggested were as follows: Administra-
tive Bulletins; Aquatics; Community
Organizations; Department Policy;
Finances; ln-Service Training; Munici-
pal Sports; Personnel; Programming;
Public Relations; Recreation Papers
and Publications; Reports; Requisi-
tions.

The subject headings for the men
and women directors were almost
identical although the file folder head-
ings differ widely because of the nature
of their respective duties and special
interests. The special subject headings
were as follows: Active Games and
Sports; Arts and Crafts; Club Activi-
ties; Collecting; Dancing; Dramatics.

Typical of the file folder headings
suggested are the following:

Subject heading—Active Games and
Sports (for the woman director)

Fife [older headings—Low-organized
games, Individual and Dual Games.
Team Games. General: Basketball,
Softball. Volleyball.

Subject heading—Arts and Crafts
(for the man director)

File [older headings -— Carving —
Soap. Wood, Rone; Ceramics, Leather
Craft, Metal Craft, Model Aircraft.
Model Making. Photography, Plastic
Crafts, Toy Making, Woodworking.

RECREATION

How To Add Zip To
Your Program

A SUMMER -
PLAYGROUND

PRODUCTION

The actors?
The youngsters. The grownups.

The producers?
You and your staff.

The stage?
Your playground.

The audience?

Your whole community.

Thc run?

July through August.

WILL YOUR SHOW be a Broadway hit or a flop? It all
depends upon you. Perhaps the following few sug-
gestions may help you produce a satisfying performance.

The Rising of the Curtain—Start the show promptly and
start it right. Make a real ceremony of the flag-raising
at nine o’clock each morning. Pick out a star actor every
day to play the leading role and raise the flag briskly
while the rest of the cast stands at attention. All recite
the “Pledge of Allegiance” and sing a patriotic song as
part of the ceremony.

At sunset, the flag is lowered slowly, with care being
taken that it does not touch the ground. Never place any
object or emblem on or above our national flag.

The Chorus—By this we mean singing; the more the bet-
ter! This is an important part of your daily production.
See that it goes over with a bang, because a flat sing is
as flat as a deflated balloon.

Galhcr the singers around you and start with a song
that everyone knows. Announce the title clearly. Be sure
that the pitch or tone on which the song is to be started
is heard; Get them all “set” for the start of the song;
leave no doubt in their minds that “now” is the time.
Give a sharp decisive movement which will bring every-

MR. SMITH is chief of I’hiladclphia, Pennsylvania, Bureau
of Recrcation; MISS BEICHELT scrves as assistant chief.

APRIL 1952

John V. Smith and Minna B. Reichelt

body in on the first note. A clean-cut release or ending
of a song is no less important than a good attack.

Always maintain variety in the choice of songs to keep
up continued interest. Ask for requests from the group
and select the song that you think will go best at the
time. Keep your ears open for special talent upon whom
you can call to sing a verse or chorus alone.

The introduction of rounds or canons adds much to the
fun and good-fellowship of singing. Divide your chorus
into parts and sing such songs as:

“011! How Lovely is the Evening,”—three parts; “Three
Blind Miee,”—four parts; “Are you Sleeping?”——four
parts; “Row, Row, How Your Boat,”—four parts.

Contra singing is fun, too. Combine two familiar tunes
when musically possible, such as:

“Long, Long Trail” and “Keep the Home Fires Burn-
ing,” “Tipperary” and “Pack Up Your Troubles.”

Old favorites that have been found satisfactory for
group singing include:

“Abide With Me,” “All Through the Night,” “Ameri-
ca, the Beautiful,” “Annie Laurie,” “Believe Me, If All
Those Endearing Young Charms,” “Billy Boy,” “Carry
Me Back to Old Virginny,” “Farewell to Thee,” “Good-
night Ladies,” “Home on the Range,” and so on.

Patriotic songs and, of course, the current hit tunes
always go over big. So, vary them for best results. For
music accompaniment use a piano, banjo, accordion,
ukulele, harmonica, guitar or violin. The use of the
microphone is a big help outdoors for the director and

soloists.

Big Sing \Veek—Feature a “Big Sing Week.” Publicize it
early, and dig up talent for it! Make it a gala week. Get
any number of groups, quartettes and soles. Use boys,
girls, men and women as performers. Hold a contest
for original playground songs. Have the song writers
sing their songs and let audience applause decide the
winner. If you have enough talent, have eliminations and

23

select the best numbers for a star hill for the main per-
formance. Be sure to use all the local talent you have
on hand.

if there is an outstanding song leader in your com-
munity. invite him to lead the group singing. Ask local
clmrch choirs and musical groups to sing on the program.
liivitc a local band or orchestra to play for the singing.
Scout around for someone in the community to serve as
“MC,” to add local color and interest. Use variety in your
program to make it entertaining.

Musical Number: Good music is the finest entertainment
that can he offered to people who love music. “Listening”
programs can he the highlight of the season's schedule
for many of your patrons. A varied program of music
that appeals to all can he arranged so easily, especially
where a “PA” system is available.

Talent Hour—ls there a youngster alive who doesn’t want
to he a part of the show, to get up before an audience
and get into the act? Talent hours held at regular speci-
fied times all during the season’s run will give the embryo
stars a chance to “strut their stuff”-——whether it’s singing,
dancing, reciting, acrobatics, comedy, magician’s trieks.

Cirls’ Ilat Showw—For a hit of amusing entertainment,
plan a hat show. This will hring out large hats, small
hats, old hats, new hats, pretty oncs, funny ones, original
ones -~sucl1 as those trimmed with kitchen utensils, fruits
and vegetahles a la Carmen Miranda, turbans—and many
other types that ingenuity and initiative can create.
Judges can select the hest in the various classifications.

Came \Vcckw- A game jamhorce should keep things huzz-
ing for a «Idle and everyone husy. Plan active games for
the t'nnl part of the day and in the evening, quiet games
in a cool place during the heat of the day. Singing games
for the little ones are fine, snch as “Oats, l’eas. Beans,”
“The Farmer in the Dell," “Loohy Loo,” “Did You liver

See a Lassie,” “liig-a-Jig-Jig,” and so on.

Roller l)crhy——l"or exhihition and spectator attraction,
roller skating is tops. Solo cxhihitions, doubles with
music, triples with music, relay races, one-legged raees
tone skate on and carrying the other} and novelty events
will present quite a show.

Stilt Exhibition This is interesting, a hit unusual and
hound to please the audience. Make a series of thirty-six-
inch circles, five feet apart. A contestant for each circle
places hoth stilts inside of the circle and takes a position
for mounting. A command is given for all Contestants
to do as follows: Mount and turn around to right, turn
around to left, hop on stilts, raisc one stilt while standing
on another, walk around rim of circle.

The one doing those things without getting out of
the ring or dismonntiug. wins. In case of ties, repeat until
one remains. For excitement, finish the derhy with a dis-

tance race.

Doll Parade Consider single and group entries, provide
tables for Kronp entries. Single entries. of course. will he

9!

 

Friendly policemen of Vancouver “arrest” most convincing

“hohos” at an all-city “Hobo Day," for too: of City Hall,
including jail. Adults are (l. to r.) Captain Crowley, Po-
licc Chief Diamond, Mayor Anderson and Oliiccr Spin-ling.

in the parade. Judge the following: Smallest doll, largest,
oldest, hest-dressed, prettiest, most original, novelty dolls—
made up of yarn, raflia, tafiy, gulndrops, Clothespins, whisk
brooms, fruit, and so on. Additional classifications can
be judged for street costume, sports costume, evening
dress or colonial dress. Group judging can he for the
largest collection, authentic foreign collection, eomplcte
foreign family, bridal party, Indian family, and so on.
lied, white and blue rihbons for those judged the hest
or other inexpensive prizes will please the winners. Plenty
of advance publicity in local newspapers, on hullctin
boards and hy individual contact will increase the uumhcr

of entries.

Sand and \Vater Carnival—lbr real carnival atmosphere,
decorate thc sandhox with flags and hunting. l’lace flags
around wading pool. llavc sand well dampened hefore the
sand modcling project hegins, and set a time limit for the
contest. Allow twenty minutes to a half hour to complete
projects. No molds should be permitted. Make your own
rules covering the use of small flags, artificial trees.
picket fences, and so forth for decorative purposes. Mod-
eling a castle, farm house, clmreh or boat make good

projects.

Mardi Grits—'l'his should he along the general lines of the
celehrated Mardi Cras in New Orleans. It should he a
highly colornt and jolly affair, with local hands supplying
the music.

Advertise the event well in advance and decorate the
playground with flags and hunting. Award rihhnns or in-
expensive prizes for the following divisions: decorated
hahy coaches and strollers, hicycles, doll carriages and
dolls, express wagons, toy automobiles—drivcn or pulled
hy a child, floats with participants in costnmc.

From the masqncrade costume division select winners
and award rihbons for the following: most elahorate, fun-
niest, most original. hest couple, outstanding group. Wind
up the affair with an outdoor jamhoree including music,

dancing and singing.

Itccnsxrtos

Circus—-——The possibilities of a playground circus are nu-
merous—with clowns, acrobats, elephants, freaks, balloons,
pennants, the circus barker. What fun! ROpe off a large
area for the performers’ ring. Erect a booth at the en-
trance of the grounds with a “barker” who announces
the wonderful features of the circus—“stupendous,” “co-
lossal,” and so on. A snake charmer and fat lady or any
other freak can be on the platform beside him.

Begin with a parade of all performers around the inside
of the rope. The “ring master” introduces them as they

We Had a Baseball League

LAST SUMMER we operated baseball leagues for boys be-
tween the ages of twelve and fifteen years as a part
of the La Porte, Indiana recreation program. Any boy in
the community desiring to play was given the opportunity,
and all groups were encouraged to choose their own
players on the basis of friendship rather than solely on
ability—to obtain a more natural grouping. We attempted,
insofar as possible, to organize this program on an intra-
mural basis. The boys themselves, at an organizational
meeting, decided that they should pay a small registration
fee, so that they might have some feeling of responsibility.

At the outset of the season we anticipated having four
teams of boys in the specified age groups. However, on the
day that rosters were filed, we were astonished to find that
ten teams of boys, one hundred and fifty in all, had entered.
It was quite heart warming to see these youngsters bring-
ing pennies, nickcls, dimes, and so on, to the office and
feeling that this was their program.

At the organizational meeting, the policies of the recrea-
tion commission pertaining to athletics for the group were
discussed with the boys. They were:

1. Teams would not be allowed a financial sponsor to
buy uniforms or equipment.

2. Our program was to be geared to the masses, and we
would attempt to enroll the largest number that we could
handle adequately.

3. There would be no all-star teams.

4. There would he no tr0phies or awards given.

It is interesting to note that there was not one forfeited
game throughout the ten game season.

T he participants recruited their own coaches. The
coaches’ major responsibility was to teach the boys in
practice sessions the fundamentals of baseball. I do not
believe that this was overemphasized.

The boys furnished their own gloves (spikes, too, if they
wanted them). The recreation commission furnished leader-
ship, facilities, balls, bats and catching equipment. The
operation of these leagues cost the recreation department

MR. RUIIE, with a M .A. in recreation from Indiana Universi-
ty, became La I’ortc’s director of recreation in July 1950.

APRIL 1952

pass in review. Have as many freaks as possible—tall
man (on stilts), bearded lady, fat lady, (stuff with pil-
lows), sword swallower, snake charmer (use papier-mache
snake), tight repe walker (stretch white tape on ground).
Also include eannibals, clowns, Indians, cowboys, ballet
dancers.

Make up an interesting program of acrobatics, dances,
Wild West activities.

What a show will have heen produced when the curtain
rings down on the final number!

Robert W. Rube

 

Park and recreation department con-

ducts baseball school,

a total of $231.35 for leadership“ and supplies for a ten-
week period.

Voluntcer umpires were recruited and during the sea-
son there was no expenditure for umpiring. The leader
was a part-time person who served as the athletic adviser.

At the conclusion of the season the boys decided that
they would like some celebration, so a banquet was ar-
ranged. Each boy paid fifty cents for his meal, and the
twenty-five eents which each boy paid at the beginning of
the season helped to defray the cost.

At the banquet the only recognition for accomplish-
ments during the season was the asking of the teams, who
won the championship, to stand and receive applause from
those present. This was also done for leading batters.

The values of this recreational athletic program are
threefold: first, the most important factor is the end
result of the activity upon the boy. Opportunities must be
present for youngsters to participate at their own level of
efficiency. There is so much'to be accomplished in addition
to determining a “winner.” Secondly, this department, like
most other departments, does not have an abundance of
funds. We feel, however, that—regardless of how much
money is available—this type of program is still advan-
tageous in that volunteers can more readily interpret it
to the community; the participants have a share of re-
sponsibility in the planning and feel that it is “their” pro-
gram. Third, it releases the constant dependence on local
merchants for trophies and awards.

As a result of this experience, last fall found us besieged

with constant requests to organize basketball leagues on
the same basis.

25

Charleston.

 

Children should experiment with variety of materials. Arts and
crafts are a daily part of Asheville, N. C., recreation program.

“Why wiff the chifd desert his play
The cra/tsman’s tear}: to see?
Something within him fatent stiff

’9 3!

Whispers, ‘Worh rmits [or me.

THESE worms were copied in my first craft notebook,
. although l know not who wrote them. Nearly every
craft tcaeher frequently hears the equivalent of the follow-
ing remark: “No, l don’t want to play a game, I am going
to tear/t." Crafts often mean work to ehildren, not in the
sense of laborious toil. but in its fulfcr meaning.

Our first venture in crafts found our youngsters hys-
tericafly (and I use the word advisedly) eager to make
something quickly and run home with it. No conception
of eraftsmauship. no idea of patience. no notion of one
process following another to create form and beauty was
present. Individual development is expected. but there is
a group development, a craft consciousness that comes only
over a period of years.

After six years of ups and downs in a city of eighteen
thousand, we established a craft center, where three hun-
dred and fifty registered for summer classes, aml had
facilities for preparing five hundred and fifty projeets per
week for use on the eity’s sevcu playgrounds. Saturday
classes for seventy-five and vacation classes for an average
of eighty were held. Leadership training sessions twice a
year were attended by eighty persons. Special classes for
Scouts. i II and many small leader training meetings were
part of the program. Adult interest showed steady growth.
and seven to ten adult classes were held weekly. In addi-
tion, five local organizations added craft classes to their
program, utilizing as teachers. tltosc who had been students
in the craft classes at the center.
————————-_——_.________________
Mas. Wtursav. [ormeriy arts and era/ts and recreation di-
rertor in Rutfand, is with the Kathran w"it! Smut Council.

26

Our basement has a shop equipped for woodworking. a
paint corner, and in the assembly hall, tables where many
aetivities may be earried on simultaneously. Our attic
holds a wealth of scrap material supplies as well as pur-
chased ones.

Our summer program includes elasses in: woodworking.
finishing wood and plaster, decorating and design, sketch-
ing, kindergarten, primary crafts, flower arrangement.
metaleraft. lcathercraft, individual projeet time. At all
times, there are self-directing projects available, such as
the making of woven pot holders, Bon Ami paintin". pine
dolls, and so on. Each season the emphasis is different.
With all of these classes available, however, the children
on the playgrounds still need erafts brought to them. It was
necessary, therefore, to plan a program of playground
crafts which would not overburden the playground in-
struetor, whieh would not require a shop setup and which
would cost very little money.

Equipment

First of all, for each playground, we constructed a craft
cupboard made of inch pine, four and one-half feet tall,
three feet wide, twenty inches deep, with three shelves—
eight, twelve and sixteen inches wide. The front is remova-
ble, fitting across the top to act as a table. A hasp and pad-
lock hold it at the top. The construction cost, including
finishing with woodstaiu, was $5.86 per cupboard. while
the equipment and materials for each averaged $4.20.

l’urehnsed materials for crafts projects averaged nine
dollars per playground, or $63.01- for the seven grounds.
Most of this was spent for sponge and lau3ard material.
water color paints, paper, and felt for banners.

0n the top shelf of each cupboard we placed a knife
box—wthe type sold in the dime stores. Sturdy ho.\es held
other supplies:

l’inc, push tacks

Scotch tape and [trashing tape

Rubber cement. library paste.
nmcilage, glue. dr' stekko
flour for paste. twe \e paste

Twelve scissors

Homemade rulers

Six boxes of crayons
Ponds and erasers

One snmll hammer and can

of anorted nails bro-hes
Saw and blades Dry tempera paints. rw-rlu-
Medilnn pliers unall brushes. six tittt‘oincl‘l
Awl brushes
l’nper punch “'le stain, shellac and alco-
Stapler hol

liecmmrrox

Viva Whitney

wtéezmmmpwm

Cloths and newspapers
Paper
Assorted ribbons and yarns

Sand pa per, steel wool

Paper cups and plates
Needles and threads

The place for each tool or container was marked, by draw-
ing the shape of the object and printing the word under it.

If the budget had permitted, we would have added to
each outfit the following: a paper cutter, pinking shears, a
few leather tools, tin snips, small vises, mallets and molds
for metal work.

Thc next step was to make a list of projccts for thc
playgrounds. Materials had to be inexpensivc, something
a teacher with no special crafts training could teach suc-
cessfully and, for the most part, one—scssion projects.

Things ‘Ve Made

This was our list for the year, varied, of course, by the
instructor on each ground according to the age of thc
children, their natural interests, and the instructor’s own
ability and experience:

Sachets

Leather bookmarks

Leather wallets

Braided leather belts
(leather scrap from glove
factory)

Playground banners of felt

' T-shirt
"jg a ) . Lanyards and bracelets from
Twisted copper wire brace- guimpe

lets Blucprinting

Sponge rubber objects of all Wooden napkin rings
sorts, including model Wooden games—checkers
playground layouts and boards

lndian bead rings
(beads from donated

materials)

Textile painted T—shirts
(stencil with playground
name—each child furnish-

Paper objects:

Airplanes
Drinking cups
Stuffed animals
Easel-type pictures

Woven mats

Douhle woven baskets
Three kinds paper chains
Catstairs flowers

Baskets Can rubber pictures
Lanterns Lace paper doily designs
Pinwheels Sunhonnet walking dolls
Pine dolls Mother Goose dolls

Each of these projects was processcd at the craft center
and distributed at the wcekly staff meetings. By proccssed,
1 mean that all materials for a project were collccted in
units of ten rcady for prcsentation to the class.

Taking thc woven mats, for example, this involvcs: ten
shirt cardboards for foundations; ten pieces of wallpaper,

APRIL 1952

 

cut the size of the shirt cardboard with the slits cut;
weaving strips cut for the weavers. To these the instructor
adds from her cupboard: newspapers, paste, brushes, shel-
lac————and she is ready to proceed.

We divided our materials in packets of ten for a reason.

 
 

t r

'

Nine-year old Billy \Vond, Decatur local playground young-
ster, weaving belt in crafts demonstrations at State Fair.

Thc lcader with a small playground would take perhaps
two units, while a large playground could take seven. De-
pending on large or small attendance on a particular day,
the units could be sent to the playground needing them.

Children under twelve do not want to spend eight or ten
weeks becoming proficient in any specific craft. They want
and need to experiment with all sorts of materials, lcarning
their possibilities and limitations. We try to provide the
following selection of materials. All of these cannot be used
on the Open playground, but all are available at thc craft
center: paper; leather; wood; plaster; oil and water color
paints; good pictures; plastic; metal; shclls; stains, var-
nishes and enamels.

Both the instructors at the center and the ones on the
playgrounds must have clear objectives before they present

27

any project to a group of children, be it ever so simple.
If the leader does not have objectives clearly in mind, it is
better to substitute some other activity.

\Vliat “’0 Set Out to Do

There are two sets of objectives—the child’s and the
leader’s:

Child's: (I) He needs the article in his play or work;
till wishes to make a gift for someone; (3) enjoys the crea-

“W'ritc in your mind
and heart the fact

that the material
molds the child.”

 

tiou or the thrill of experimenting with a new media.

Teacher's: Vary with each project, but fall under the
following general headings: (1) To develop originality;
(2) to encourage careful workmanship; (3) to ensure
success by careful, wise guidance, without destroying
originality. Some of the aims in specific projects are as
follows: (I) design and application, (2) color harmony,
(3) cutting, (4) folding, (5) mounting, (6) use of ad-
hesives, t7) shape and form, (8) limitations of materials,
harmony of form, design and material.

Only a small part of the total handcraft projects at-
tempted in a city are carried on by the recreation depart-
ment or an organized craft center. Scouts, 4-H, .lunior
Catholic Daughters, adult women’s groups, Sunday schools
and others have many such projects during the year.
Therefore, we have found that the greatest service that can
he rendered in our community is to provide:

l. Leader training for these groups.

2. Source of supply for Consultations and information
on any specific project.

3. l’ooling of orders to obtain necessary supplies that
often can be obtained only in large quantity.

4. A scrap depot where scrap supplies may be stored,
processed and redistributed.

5. l'ixhibitious, movies and materials on the ever-in-
creasing number of new projects and materials available,
teaching, at the same. time, the fundamental values in-
volvcd.

O. Au awareness and desire to reach the neglected
groupsm the aged, the crippled, the hotnebouud child or
adult.

The Child Is the Material

Take all of these factors into consideration: then, write

28

on your mind and heart these words: “It is not what the
child does to the material that is important, but what the
material does to the child." Usually the child or adult who
takes an intense interest in crafts is more of an introvcrt
than an cxtrovcrt. All well and good, you say. We’ll help
him. with crafts, to become better balanced. Yes, you will
if you consciously recognize the fact that you must not,
dare not, work for quality and production alone, but only
for quality and production as it develops the individual.
Craft projects can, with thought, he related to social needs
and responses; craft classes also can provide social eon-
taets and broadening soeial interests.

What do i mean? Let’s take our little folks on a play-
ground. We plan to color paper doilies and napkins—one
of the simplest things we do. The children who want to do
it are the small ones, the shy ones, and often the backward
ones. If they color the napkins and doilies and take them
homes—that is that. They have learned a bit about color,
design and careful handwork. But if they use those same
doilies and napkins to entertain their mothers at tea, they
have had a social experience. if they send a package of
the doilies to a sick child, or show a sick child how to make
them, they have shared their interest with others.

Let us consider an adult metalcraft class. in a class of
thirty, many will have taken up this work to satisfy some
need, perhaps to find release from strains or tensions in
their personal lives. It is well to become an expert silver-
smith, but most of these people do not desire this. if, in
addition to class instruction, the class puts on exhibits,
meets socially with other groups with similar interests, if
the members feel themselves responsible for helping their
own group and other groups, besides working as indi-
viduals, then the project is worthwhile.

Creative experience is one of our basic needs. More and
more. specialization takes away from us the opportunity
for creativeness in our everyday living. Organized group
activity is the answer to this need.

if we needed proof of interest in the field of crafts, the
bookstores would supply it. Six years ago, one had to
search for a hook on handcrafts. Today, the bookstore
shelves display many fine oues. Library records show eraft
books called for frequently, and often there are waiting
lists for new ones. This is a trend of the times—old as
time itself—-bnt with new approaches, new reasons and new
applications.

One of the greatest services a recreation: department can
render a community is to furnish leadership, education and
guidance so that the experiences of both children and adults
in this field may be full, rich and integrated. The football
boys, members of the archery class, the dancing class, the
bikers, the bicycle club, teen [owners to golden age groups,
all have lll‘CtiH that the craft program can fill for them.
liven the boys who scoru anything but boxing like to
make their own T-shirts with apprOpriatc letters and
numerals, Using textile paint.

Few activities yield such direct and immediate satisfac-
tions, yet have. at the same time. such potential value for
building happier people and a better society.

Recnmriox

 

..vUe Ina, ' ‘ .

Boys in every state like fishing. Above, prize winner for the best
Becky Thatcher outfit, Torrington recreation department fish derby.

FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS the San Jose recreation de-
partment was concerned about the fact that it had con-
ducted very little in the way of such .out-of-door activities
as conservation, hiking, camping, fishing, and so on.

In 1949, therefore, the department opened “Rustic
Lands” day camp for youngsters and the response from
the community in the way of registration for camp at-
tendance was excellent. Many individual playgrounds
also initiated hiking programs, with outdoor cooking and
nature study features; but even so, little or nothing was
done about conservation activities—and fishing programs
were non-existent.

Then, early in 1950 the department received a communi-
cation from Better Fishing, Incorporated, Chicago, llli-
nois. (See September 1950 issue of RECREATION—Ed.)
It learned for the first time, that the main purpose of that
organization is to assist cpmmunities in introducing to
youngsters the joys and highly satisfactory recreational
benefits of fishing. Better Fishing, Incorporated, was
prepared to give, without cost, to every city that would
sponsor a youth fishing program, four complete fishing
outfits, consisting of a casting rod, line, reel, hooks, arti-
ficial bait in the way of plugs and other lurcs. These,
of course, were to be used by the sponsoring city for
awards in the juvenile fishing rodeo which would be held
in connection with the program.

A date for a juvenile fishing rodeo was immediately
set, for a Saturday in May, at the Stevens Creek Reservoir
about fifteen miles from San Jose. The superintendent of
recreation, an avid fisherman, and Wilbur Knudtson, “Fish
and Game” writer of the San Jose Mercury Herald, got
in touch with representatives of the San Jose Sportsmen,
the San Jose Nimrods, the San Jose Rod and Gun Club
and the president of the \Villow Glen Lions Club. The four
organizations agreed to contribute one hundred fifty dol-
lars in cash to be used in defraying expenses for trans-
portation to the reservoir, bait and other necessities, and

W

MR. BRAMIIALL, who is the “avid fisherman." of the article,
is superintendent of recreation in San Jose, California.

APRIL 1952

Young Anglers

Frank W. Bramhall

to supply fifteen to twenty volunteers each, to assist in
supervising the program and to act in the capacity of
fishing instructors. '

The program was set up according to Better Fishing,
Incorporated, regulations; registration blanks were run
in the columns of the San Jose Mercury and the San
Jose News; and the big event officially got under way.

On the great day, the boys were met by the committee
in charge of the program, and one adult volunteer leader
was placed in charge of every four boys. Fishing tackle
was provided for those who did not have it. Bait, includ-
ing fishing worms and salmon eggs, was distributed; sites
along the face of Stevens Creek Dam were assigned to each
fishing group; two first aid stations with two qualified
attendants were set up by the recreation department; five
life guards, one of whom worked from a boat ofi shore
and four from positions across the face of the dam, were
assigned to their stations; the wily trout all scurried for
cover; and the young anglcrs were off.

Long before noon the gigantic lunch which each boy
had brought to assuage the pangs of a typical American
boy appetite, had disappeared, along with the two hundred
half-pints of milk that were provided by the program
sponsors.

At three'o’clock, the persevering anglers reluctantly
stopped fishing and assembled at the fishing rodeo head-
quarters on top of the reservoir for the judging of the
catches. Well, would you believe it? With two hundred
boys fishing under the expert guidance of the volunteer
sportsmen leaders, how many trout were caught? Exactly
four! Boy, those local trout are plenty smart.

The San Jose recreation department feels that the Bet-
ter Fishing rodeo was one of the best recreational activi-
ties that has ever been conducted in this area. Forget-
ting the number of fish caught, two hundred boys were
taught how to assemble their tackle, had a whole day in
the out-of-doors, received expert instruction from local
sportsmen, went home with terrific appetites. They were
taught something about, and really practiced, conserva-
tion—because they wanted to catch only enough trout to
make it possible to award the prizes legally. They are
now bitten by the fishing bug and will probably be the
best storytellers in Santa Clara Valley.

Since then, one trip each month has become a regular
part of the recreation program in San Jose during the
summer season.

29

 

Doreen O. Kirkland

SPECIAL EVENTS conducted during the summer play-
ground season at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, were indeed
“special.”

In the past, special events were held aeeording to the
“more the merrier" theory, but in recent years stress has
been placed on conducting fewer events but of the “bigger
and hettcr" variety.

We all know that many activities are “tagged” special
events when they are merely routine and should he part
of a well halanced daily or weekly program. Storytelling,
(lranlaties, music, crafts, even routine aetivities are often
lost in the shuffle of the eontinuons preparation for the
next special activity.

In 1919 a curtailment of the nnmher of events each
local playground conducted was initiated. At the elosc of
that season. these were evaluated. showing that the organi:
zation of the events had improved over the previous year.
hat that those which had been condurted wcre “shop
worn."

At the beginning of the next summer season. as a
further step toward improved special aetivities, an ap-

 

AUTHOR is supervisor of recreation centers in Oak Ridge.

30

Oak Ridge, Tennessee, locale of United States Atomic
Energy Commission, takes steps to raise the level of
playground special events.

proved list of fourteen events was given to the playground
leaders at our annual five day workshop, with instruc-
tions that three events should be eondueted. The approved
list consisted of: All Wheels Day, Fashion Show, Frog
Jumping Contest, Joscph Lee Day, Horse Show, lndian
Pow-Wow, Kiddie Karnival, Little Brother and Sister
Show, Mother Goose Party, One-Aet Plays, Dressed up
Pet Show, Quizz Show, Tagged Fish Rodeo and Turtle
Derby. This list was compiled as a means of getting play-
ground direetors to plan events requiring organization
and forethought. New ideas were readily accepted if they
appeared to have general appeal to several age groups;
therefore, originality was not curtailed; among playground
leaders. In addition .to these aetivities, there were three
annual city-wide events: the Junior Olympics, the Arts
and Crafts Exhibit, and the Playground Cireus, held in
mid-summer, the ninth and last wcek respeetively.

The approved list was aecompanied by a special event
form containing fifteen pertinent questions which had to
he eomplcted and turned in to the eentral office one week
in advanee of any seheduled activity. This gave the super-
visory staff time to go over the completed form, ask ques-
tions and make suggestions. The purpose of this form
was to aid the playground staff in planning for their
event: to help them determine in their own minds the
problems and steps neecssary in planning a successful spe-
cial aetivity.

llolding fewer special events resulted in more enthusi-
asm on the part of the youngsters in preparing for the
events, inereased participation and improved parental
interest.

Many playgrounds. with noticeahle sueecss, held events
in addition to those speeified, among them scavenger
hunts, stunt nights. hat shows, and so on.

Seven playgrounds condueted dressed up pet shows:
three, little brother and sister shows; three. kiddie kar-
nivals; three. all wheels rodeos; two, Indian pow-wows;
one eaeh, Joseph Lee celebration, musical extravaganza.
button contest, aml krazy kolympics. The latter three
were not on the specified list but were given the “go-
ahead" by the supervisory staff.

As an added attraction. movies were shown at dark
every other week at eaeh of the playgrounds.

A more cnriehed daily program developed from this
planning, with ereative aetivitics sharing honors in popu-
larity with the leagues and tournaments. Special events
eeased heing unpleasant chores to hoth leaders and
children and became fun and cxeiting to prepare for and
to participate in whole-lieartcdly.

llandhills advertising their own special events were
prepared hy the directors of all playgrounds. Each play-

RECREATION

 

YOUR SPECIAL EVENT

Form Filled Out by

Ployg rou nd Directors
Recreation Deportment 1950

l. Whot ore yau calling your Special Event?
2. Dote_.._____.__._.___—Hour
3. Are you using adult volunteers?

ln whot copocity?

4. What are their names?

Full Nome Address Telephone
1.
2.
3.

. Are certificotes far your winners reody?

. Whot properties ore you using? (list)

O~UI

7. Is your event scheduled ot o good hour for parents
to attend?_._.._.._____.._.._.___—_____

8. Are you using ony af the following mediums to odver-
tise?

l. Handbills— 3. Plocords

2. Pasters_—_.___ 4. Bulletin boords

9. Are you using progroms?

Wha is making them?
10. Are yau decaroting?
ll. Are you providing choirs for the spectotors?

12. Are you hoving o Community Sing before the event
starts?

13. Do you have o Reception Committee?___......___

14. What duties do yau have for your Junior Leoders?_

 

15. Does the event onswer these questions? New
DiHerent_____ Fun
Signature

Dl RECTOR CO«D| RECTOR

 

ground contributed an act to the annual city-wide events.

Among Events Chosen

Kiddie Karnival—This presented unlimited possibilities
and was a real playground project. All age groups were
interested. The older boys constructed booths, which were
gaily decorated by girls and younger children. Games of
skill were set up to form a large circle similar to a midway.
Paper hats and Hawaiian leis were made by the children
to be given as prizes at the bingo booth. Leg toss, spear-
ing corks, bean bag toss, weight lifting, hit the pins, bounc-
ing ball, nail driving and weight guessing (on bathroom
scales) and other guessing games were conducted. Bark-
crs kept the crowd moving from one booth to another.
Score cards were given each participant and attendants
at the booths tallied their scores as they played. Small
prizes were awarded to high scores in the various age

classifications. Participation of both children and parents
was very good.

Indian l’ow-Wow—A village of decorated tecpees, made
from brown wrapping paper and small trees, was placed
in a circle. lndian music, as a background, was played
on a record player. Several boys beating on tom-toms
which were constructed in craft class opened the event.
A medicine man had the place of honor in front of the
largest tcepcc. lndian dances, selection of an lndian chief
and princess, pony race, tug-of-war, judging of best
dressed, most savage, best squaw and smallest Indian were
conducted. The event was an ideal activity for boys and

A em I. 1952

girls twelve years and under. It was also an excellent
spectator activity for parents.

All Wheels3 Day or All Wheels” Rodeo— A large crepe
paper wagon wheel was constructed, with contestants in
each classification circling inside of the rim of the wheel.
Judging of the various classes of decorated wheels in-
cluded: bicycles, tricycles, wagons, scooters, doll buggies,
even a wheelbarrow and a lawn mower. Tricycle and doll
carriage races climaxed the program. The event appealed
to all age groups and was both colorful and a good specta-
tor activity.

Krazy Kolympics—The Krazy Kolympics followed a
“track-meet” theme, and was a good activity for a crowd
wanting lots of action. Children were divided into equal
numbers of teams, and each team was given a color.
Scores were recorded on a large score board, and the
winning team was presented with a watermelon. This
activity appealed to boys and girls under twelve years
of age. A few of the events were: discus throwing, using
paper plates; shotput, using blown up paper bags; stand-
ing broad grin, measuring the biggest smile: javelin
throw, using toothpicks; softball throw, with small balls
of cotton; fifty-yard dash, with strings fastened to wall,
other end in contestants mouth, hands behind back, chewed
until nose touched wall: two hundred twenty-hurdle, eating
cracker and whistling; one hundred yard dash—suitcase

relay.

Little Brother and Sister Show—This activity had less
appeal to all age groups, but twelve and under youngsters
were proud to show baby brothers and sisters. Babies were
divided into three age groups: up to nine months, ten to
eighteen months, and nineteen months to four years of age.

Babies were judged on the following: brightest eyes,
happiest, most tears, most dimples, fattest, daintiest, most
personality, most rugged boy, daintiest girl. Certificates
were awarded to winners in each age classification.

Dressed Up Pet Show—Rings were set up for each clas-
sification and novel ways of decorating brightened and
gave color to the event. Prior advertising of the classes
increased originality among the children in dressing their
pets. Birds, dogs, cats, rabbits, white mice, turtles, gold-
fish, alligators, hamsters came dressed as cowboys, cow-
girls, babies, football players, and so on. A-’ splendid
turnout of children and adults appeared at every show.

Tents made and dee-
orated by children,
part of crafts pro-
gram in Alexandria,
would be just right
for a “pow—wow.”

 

WW4

.The e00pcrative machinery, which each year produces tlte National
Recreation Congress, is now being assembled so work may begin on
the 1952 model which will be displayed in Seattle, Washington, Sep-

tctnber 29 to October 3.

Fundamental in all congress planning are the committees, which
this year will include a national advisory committee, district advisory
committee, a local arrangements committee, an executive’s advisory
committee and a rural advisory committee. Other committees may he
appointed, if needed, to assist with problems of special meetings.

The National Advisory Committee includes representatives from the
many special interests which find a home at the congresses. Those who
have thus far agreed to serve on this year's committee are:

ll. T. Abbott. Superintendent of Parks,
Spokane.

Paul V. llrown. Superintendent of l'arks.
Seattle.

Miss Theresa Chiesa. Recreation Super.
visor. Department of Recreation, Denver.

George lljcltc, General Manager, Depart-
ment of Recreation attd l'arks. Los AngclcS.

Dr. John L. llntchinson, Associate l'roles-
901‘, De artntent of llcalth Education and
Physics iducation. Teachers College, Co-
lumbia University. New York.

David M. Langkarnrncr, Superintendent of
Recreation. Altoona, l'ennsylvania.

Martin M. Nailing. Jr.. Director of Recrea-
tion and Secretary to the. Board of Park
Commissioners, Fort Wayne. Indiana.

E. l.. l'arker. Administrative Su ervisor,
industrial Relations Department, Callaway
Milb Company. l.aGrange. Georgia.

.‘rlrs. Frances M. I'arrislt. Divlsiou of Ree-
rcatlon. Louisville. Kentucky.

Mrs. Rutlt E. l'celer. Viee Chairman. State
Park: and Ileereation Commission. Seattle,
Wa-hington.

Dr. Doria \V. l'lewes. Assistant Director of
Physical Fitneu. Ilepartmcnt of National
Ilealth and Welfare. Ottawa. Ontario, Cana-
da.

Jen-e A. Reynold-I. Director of Recreation
and l’arlu. Richmond. Virginia.

G. On Romney. (:llit-l, Community Services
Ilranch. Special 50".:ch Division. Depart-
ment of the Army. \\ auhington. I). C.

(wortte T. Sarglason. Executive Director.
Rerreation Promotion and Service. “tluiiug-
ton. Delaware.

I'. R. Stroyan. Superintendent and Engi-
neer. Iloard of Pat Control-sinners. \an-
eomer. ltriti-h Columbia, Canada.

Ilen ll. Thompson. Chief, Recreation l'lan-
uing Divi-ion. National Park Scrvice. \Vasb-
ingtnn. D. C.

Mrs. Marietta Higgins Vincr-at. Direetor of

Recreation. Memorial Center for Cancer and
Allied Diseases. New York.

Mrs. l’earl Wanamaker. State Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction. Olympla.
Wa-hlngton.

32

The District Advisory Committee,
which will give special attention to
matters relating to the general area in
which the Congress will be held, con-
sists of:

lien Evans, Director of Recreation. Seattle.
Washington.

Kenneth Fowcll, Superintendent of Rec-
reation. Great Falls. Montana.

Ton) Lantz. Stiperintcmlcut of Public Ree-
rcation, Tacoma. Washington.

Miss Dorothea l.cnse|t. Director of Recrea-
tion. l’ortland. Orcgott.

Carl S. Mnnson. City Recreation Director,
Moscow. Idaho.

S. G. Witter, Recreation Superintendent.
Spokane. Washington.

The Loeal Arrangements Committee
which will help work out details of the
Congress which particularly concern

Seattle. has as members:

Russell Cutler. Executive Ollicer. School of
Physical and llealth Education. Department
for Men. University of Washington, Seattle.

Ilcn Etanu, Director of Recreation. Seattle
(Chairman).

William J. Golden. Manager. Touri-t attd
Cotncntiou Department, Seattle Chamber of
Column-rec.

Dr. Norman l". Kundc. Associate I'rofes-
mr. School of Physical and Ilealth Educa-
tion. Department for Men. University of
Washington. Seattle.

William ll. I'ond. Supervisor. Recreation
Divi-ion. State Parks and Recreation Com-
miuion. Seattle.

A. D. Scott. Director of lieereation. Doc-
ing Airplane Qantpany. Seattle. o

\Villiant Spcldel. administrative assistant
to the mayor of Seattle.

Robert C. Stephens. Superintendent of
Recreation. King County.

\Valter Van Camp. Ctr‘ttlcr Seattle. Incor.
taunted.

John R. Vanderzicltt. Director. State Parks
and Recreation Commission. Seattle.

The Committee of Executives to plan

the special sessions for executives:
R. B. McClintoek. Omaha. Nebraska.

Chairman.

Homer D. Abbott, Grand Forks.
Dakota.

R. E. Anderson. Richland, Washington.

Eugene L Rarnwell. Alexandria, Virginia.

Miss Virginia Carmichael. Atlanta.

Pat Connors. Anaconda, Montana.

John D. Crain. Jr.. Portland, Maine.

Charles W. Davis. Berkeley.

John Downing. New York.

Alvin Eggeling. Oklahoma City.

Jolm Farina, Edmonton, Alberta. Canada.

E. l’. llartl, La Crosse. Wisconsin.

Franeis llartzcll. Chambersburg. l’cnnsyl-
vania.

Vincent J. llebcrt, l’ittslield. Massachu-
sells.

Mrs. Marjorie Milne, Vancouver. llritish
Columbia. Canada.

E. S. Richter. l’ontiac. Michigan.

Paul S. Rose, Salt lake County, Utah.

Beverly 3. Sheffield, Austin, Texas.

The Rural Advisory Committee in-

cludes the following rural leaders:

Miss Jessalec Mallalieu. Recreation Spe-
cialist. Oregon State College, Corvallis, Orc-
gou.

Miss Lucille ll. Moore. Recreation Spe-
eialist. Agricultural Extension Service, Col-
lcge Station. Texas.

Dr. E. J. Nietlcrlrank, Extension Rural
Sociologist. United States Department of Ag-
riculture. Washington. l). C.

Mrs. Ruth Radir, Extension 4—H Club Spe-
cialist. State College of Washington, I’ull-
man. Washington.

North

llave you sent in your suggestions
for the Congress? Please help the
several committees by sharing with
them your own ideas. Address your

suggestions eoneeruing topics for
discussion. program participants,
special features to T. E. Rivers, Sec-
retary, Recreation Congress Com-
tnittec, 315 Fourth Avenue, New

York 10.

 

Special Trip?

The Rockies, both American and
Canadian, and other mountain ranges;
Yellowstone, Glacier and other nation-
al parks; the wheat eouutry; the “Bad
Landsf’ Bonneville and Grand Coulee
dams—the latter the largest man-made
attraction in the world; these are sotne
of the tvonders of nature and of man
that delegates can see on their way to
the Congress.

The Congress Conttnittee would like.
to be as helpful as possible to prospec-
tive delegates. ls there any interest in a
specially arranged train trip to Seattle,
originating at some central point. such
as Chicago? Would sotnc other start-
ing point he better? Would delegates
like to meet and travel together? Won't
you please write to us and let us know?

liECltEATltJ\

This year’s show will be held during the week of the National
Recreation Congress in Seattle. Delegates will be invited to attend.

Hillllll
8|]th
at BOEING

Arthur Go 500": ployecs later staged full-scale fine arts exhibit.

 

(CIT WAS A FINE SHOW, and I’ve seen a lot of them,” stated A. F.
Logan, vice president—industrial relations of Boeing Airplane Radio contmlled sailboats: HIGHS and a
Company, after viewing the employee-initiated hobby show held late fireboat drew be“ attention 0f the Show'
last winter in the company’s huge sixteen hundred scat cafeteria.
The largest show of its kind in Boeing history, it was witnessed by . _ I $118,280 h
27,652 employees, their families and friends during its five-(lay run. 1

Larry Popp, chairman of the employee committee which organized
and presented the show, explained that one of the principal jobs
entailed in planning the exhibit was the classifying of entries.

“We decided early in the game to limit the entries to thirteen dif-
fcrent divisions,” Popp said. “It was a good thing we did because our
entries ranged from a forty-cight-foot wingspread sailplane, that an
employee flew as a hobby, to a crocheted tablecloth entircly made by
an employee while riding to and from work on a bus.

“If we hadn’t set the tight classification rule, none of us doubts that
each of the one hundred six employees who registered a total of one
hundred twenty-nine exhibits would have considered his entry in a

class by itself.” Above typical crowd shows popularity of othis
Other exhibits included a Ming tree (the eonnnittec classed this as event' Large“ crowds “mad It at luncmlme'

handeraft rather than horticulture on the tenth ballot), a

twcnty-four-foot sail boat, a ninety-cight-year old marine Exhibit laid out in Shape of a “U” in blocked
chart of a portion of Puget Sound and a wide range of 0“ Portion 0f Boeing’s 1600491“ cafeteria-
seale and operating model airplanes, boats and trains.

The committee awarded attractive gold cups in addition
to ribbons for first, second and third place division win-
ners. They also presented a gold cup to the sweepstakes
winner—~Norn1 Hood, whosc ten wheeler Pennsylvania
05 steam locomotive was adjudged the finest exhibit in
the show. His locomotive is thirty inches long, is Oper-
able at one hundred pounds steam pressure, and weighs
one hundred eighteen pounds. Hood said that the minia-
ture represented 6,735 hours of spare time labor.

Not a single exhibit was lost or damaged during the
entire run of the show. This, despite the fact that many
entries were displayed on Open tables and not behind
showcases. l’opp attributed this success largely to the
eilorts of the exhibitors themselves who acted as hosts
and hostesses during every moment that the show was
open.

 

 

 

MR. SCOTT is the com party’s capable recreation coordinator.

Avon. 1952 33

 

Seattle is a city girdled by water. To the east there
are the cold, ehOppy stretches of Puget Sound, the deep-
water harhor that puts the city high on the list of import
and export tonnages. To the west there is the vast es-
panse of Lake Washington, fifty miles in circumference.

Smack in the middle of the eity, like a dropped emerald.
is Green Lake. Around its three-mile cireumfercnce are
two hathing beaches, the quarter-million dollar Aqua

Theatre, a bicycle path and innumerable picnic spots.
0 ,‘ ’ ~ ‘
\‘ i . n o I.
0 ° ‘. ,
I, o h f
‘ o

f
.- i,

g'.

a},

a Q ‘

 

An “all-out" training program of park department ensures
a high degree of safety on the municipal bathing beaches.

The lake is a summer mecca for youngsters and their par-
euts.

It is, then, little wonder that Seattle is fast llecoming
the water-sports capital of the nation. The annual Seafair

ten days of civic whoopee—Ccntcrs on aquatics. The
l‘).'il Gold Cup Trophy speedhoat races were held on Lake
Washington. The world-champion University of Washing-
ton crews work out on the lake. The shorelines of the
lake and l’uget Sound are dotted with hoat moorages.
When the wind in iu the right quarter the city is surround-
rd hy hallooning sails and roaring hoat engines. And every-
one goes to the french.

In view of the marine life of Seattlciles. the citizens
thank lltc rigid sulwrvision of municipal hathing heaches.

 

\lR. l'it‘ns, for many years Seattle‘s assistant director of
recreation. is responsible [or the Seattle Irene/a program.

31

Lou Evans

SEATTLE’S STAFF OF LIFE

and the all-out training program of the Seattle park de-
partmcnt. for the fact that there are so few drow'nings.

For more than thirty years. the recreation division
of the department has worked to make sure that every
youngster in the city will know‘ the basics of water safety.
Under the coaching of men like district reereation super-
visor Tom Scdgw'ick, recently nominated one of Seattle’s
“Men of the Year,” more than fifty thousand boys and
girls have learned what to do when faced with an emer-
gency in the water. ‘ .

The city’s newspapers, the Times and the Post-Intelli-
gencer, work in close cooperation with the department on
the program. So does the Seattle-King County chapter of
the American lied Cross. Among them. these four agencies
sponsor summer-long swim classes for youngsters under
fifteen, and lifesaving classes for those over twelve.

in addition. one or another of the four agencies spon-
sors swim tournaments. In a spaee. of about eight weeks
there will be eight races-none a week. with an average
entry list of two hundred and fifty youngsters.

Beginning shortly after school is dismissed for the
summer, and continuing for eight weeks. the Post-Intelli-
geaeer and the park hoard sponsor a series of swimming
classes. instruction: is supervised by two roving teachers
who visit each of the city beaches at least once a week.
l’ark department lifeguards augment the teaching. Any
youngster, front five to fifteen, may enroll in the classes,
which are graded according to aliility and previous train-
ing. A tremendous swimming carnival. with more than sis
hundred swimmers entered in the twenty-sis events.
winds up the season.

The junior aml senior lied Cross lifesaving classes for
the more advanced swimmers are run off at about the
same time as the swimming classes. Persons who finish
the eight-week course go through a final test involving
swimming with clothing on. rescue procedures and artifi-
cial respiration. Those who pass are awarded llcd Cross
lifesaving certificates.

The famous Green Lake Mile Swim. sponsored lay the
Seattle Times and the park hoard. is held in conjunction
with the Pacific Northwest .luuior :\.:\.l'. open champion-

ships. Contestants from all of the Pacific Northwest states

lttztmmtox

journey to Seattle for the two-day event. To provide the
best possible conditions for the tourney, new concrete
piers and cement turning bulkheads have been constructed
at the site. Standard steel A.A.U. diving equipment is
used.

The city’s high schools come in for a special event of
their own. Before school begins in the fall each of the
high schools enters teams of swimmers for an annual
championship meet, cosponsored by the park board,
school board and the PTA. Upwards of four hundred
boys and girls compete in the tournament. The winning
tcam carries off the Seattle park board trophy for the
year.

Two community districts, West Seattlc and Rainier,
hold swim meets during the annual Seafair. These arc
open events, with awards presented by the district com-
mercial clubs.

Swimming and diving training is only the base for an
elaborate program of water-safety. Sailing is an important
recreation activity in Seattle. There are probably more
sail and power boats per capita in Seattle than in any
other American city. With available water spacc cluttered
by hundreds of ships, an extensive knowlcdge of sailing
is:_a requisite for safety. Last year (1951), the park de-
partment started two sailing clubs, one with meeting
hcadquarters in Rainier fieldhouse, the other at Grcen
Lake. Instruction is given at the department’s Lcsehi
Boat Moorage. Youngsters who want to join the clubs
must first know how to swim. From then on, experienced
sailors teach them the intricacies of handling small boats
under sail in all types of weather.

Those with a deep interest in yachting, but without the
means to acquire boats, can join one of the model yacht
clubs around town. There is a fine deep-watcr model
yacht basin at Golden Gardens beach, and the races be-

Swimming instruction is under
the supervision of two roving
tcaehers, who visit each city
beach at least once every week.

APRIL 1952

tween the sleek homemade models are often as exciting as
those between expensive sloops and yawls on Lake Wash-
ington.

Seattle is sometimes called the crew race capital of the
world. The University of Washington crews—1936 Olym-
pic and world champions—train on Lake Washington.
During crew season, the lake surface is dotted with the
slim shells, skittering at0p the water like giant bectles.

To maintain the city’s high standing in this arduous
sport, junior crew clubs have sprung up. One of thcse,
co-sponsored by the park department, has a neat little
shellhouse on the shores of Green Lake. Each day, scores
of bronzed youngsters dip their oars into the water under
the watchful eyes of former university crew members.

Any discussion of aquatic events in Seattle would be
incomplete without mention of fishing. The area is laced
with swift mountain streams, ideal breeding grounds for
speckled trout. Puget Sound teems with steelhead and
king salmon. The Alki Fishing Derby, with prizes for
the largest salmon hooked, is a nationally famous event.
So is the Alki Kids” Fishing Derby, co-sponsored by the
park department. Children of ten and eleven often come in
off the water toting salmon as big as themselves.

For those who prefer the delicate art of casting, the
department, in cooperation with thc Seattle Times, holds
a skish bait and fly casting tournamcnt during the An-
nual Sports Show in the civic auditorium. Men, women
and children cast their bait or flies at targcts, much as in
a rifle competition. Winners of the various events are
awarded trOphy cups.

Water has given to Seattle more than a booming intcr-
national trade. It has also given it year-round recreation.
No one is so poor, and no one so rich, that he cannot
find release from daily tensions on the lake, seawatcrs

and rivers of the city.

 

 

3,

“Planar. muse has universal
appeal. It's as common as rocks
on a hillside, and anyone can sueeess-
fully participate. It’s as fascinating as
a spider spinning a web, whether pur-
sued by individuals or groups of any
size.

()Id and young alike can have fun——
aud relaxr with this hobby. Whether
your group centers about the school.
ehureh, small neighborhood Cllll), seout
troop, the "Y". summer eainp. or any

other recreational

center, can
build a successful program whieh euu

3'0”

be of great service to your organiza-
lion in many ways.

For instauee, in one of Detroit's
community centers. photography
started w hen two young boys brought
their cameras to the center for the fun
of taking a pieturc of a friend. Later.
a fen more came in with cameras,
and the informal get-together resulted
in some 1workshop activity. All intelli-
gent director spotted this and was

quick to utilize it. llc proposed that

 

\ltss \V [mum is photography instruelor
at the Darby High School in Detroit.

3()

they build a permanent visual record
of their work, games and parties. lle
equipped a darkroom, asked for a
volunteer photo leader, and they were
oll'~—-with fun and photography.
Today, the boys and girls have
covered not only all activities within
the main recreational center, but are
going into branch centers as well.
They shoot teen-age parties, workshop
groups, and “grownup” functions, too.
Thus, this permanent reeord—ewhieh
is useful in many ways—his the out-
growth of two camera bugs Coming in
to take a simple picture of their friends.
And right there you have the secret
of starting a successful photo group
in any club or organization.
talize on existent

Capi-
l.et the
group develop naturally by choosing
its own objectives. Give it a useful job

interest.

to perform, so that people can see how
important their pictures are to the or-
ganization. l’rovide only the direction
necessary to keep enthusiasm aml ae-
eomplislnnent high. and watch it grow!

Many of these hobby groups start
with a eouunou interest in just taking
pietures and enjoy ment in sharing
small snapshots. Soon such people be-
Culth interested in cameras, not just
“my camera." but “my uncle's camerau

we

or “my buddy's camera. This can be
the start of eager learning. without
obvious teaching. When a gang be-
gins t0 notiee the differences in caul-
eras. lenses. shutters and film. that is
your opening. Aet'.

(iroup participation stimulates in-

i The Photographic
roup

Irma \Vcbber

terest, but give the spotlight to each
individual. Let him talk about his
camera, and show his pictures. By com-
biuiug tact with enthusiasm at this
point, you can really start the ball
rolling. Also, you can often “spark”
activities by asking ordinary questions
to which many already know the au-
swers. This will lead to other questions
which the youngsters would like to
have answered, but are often too shy
to ask. It puts everybody on an equal
plane. The ice is broken and unity is
established.

Oue successful photo group leader
uses a pin hole camera as a starting
point. She gives a demonstration of
how to eonstruet one from a cardboard
box. The excitement in the group is
worth watching. especially after a pic-
ture is taken, developed and printed.

Another leader—a summer camp
eounselor-«always starts the fun with
a box camera. knowing that most of
the clan own one. Using a familiar tool
gives them a feeling of somlrity and

“oueuess' with their leader. lt helps
dissolve any dividing line at the time
of shooting a picture. Later, when
prints are made, the counselor hopes
that some will be out of focus. or show
camera movement. This will give her
an opportunity to illustrate the point
that it's the person behind the camera
who can. or cannot. control the tool.
since all of the cameras used by the
group are similar.

The experiences of this (‘ullltSt‘lOI'

prove that a good leader should wait

ltnemzn'iox

 

This, the first in a series of three
articles dealing with photography as
a hobby, emphasizes its value as a
teaching tool. The second will deal
with getting an active photographic
program started, while the last will
outline tlre “Jo’s” and “don’t’s” of

photography for the recreation pro~
gram leader.

 

until she has gained the confidence and
respect of the group, by proving that
she can produce with a simple tool,
before a more complicated camera is
introduced. She has learned that it
definitely pays—up to and including
the introduction of new cameras—to
let the group explore the subject “as a
group." And it is best not to give the
advanced members more attention than
is bestowed upon the beginners.

If this is your first photo group,
you’ll find that different youngsters
will learn at various rates of speed.
Some will be contented for many weeks
with just taking pictures. Who can
deny there isn’t great joy and satis-
faction in that? Others will want to
learn, in a very short time, all the
“know-hows” of the skills involved.

In view of these varying interests it
is important for the leader to bave a
definite purpose in mind—-—in addition
to having fun. In small groups one can
know the individuals, their wants or
needs, and carry them along at their
own rate of speed. When their interest
in “know how” becomes apparent, be
ready.

Again, there are no upper or lower
levels. Many boys aspire to be big
leagucrs, but have fun for years pitch-
ing a ball around, as they know they
must grow up to accomplish this. A
good leader will not expect profes-
sional skill with a camera in a few
short weeks. Growth in skill comes
with both mental and physical develop-
ment. Good guidance and sympathetic
understanding, plus an abundance of
enthusiasm, can bring this about. One
excellent way show them their
growth is to keep on file a record of
their pictures. On the back of each
picture, give date, title, kind of camera,
when, where and why it was taken.

to

APRIL 1952

These files should be available at all

times for individual study and com-
parison with the latest pictures they
are making.

This means of instruction varies a
bit from some of the organized pro-
grams planned in the recreational cen-
ters. In some of the Scout groups it
occurs on a more or less individual
basis. However, there are definite
standards set up. Each Scout progresses
at his own rate of speed. The Scout
who works for a merit badge is given
a set of questions. On his own, he will
look up the answers and must be able
to explain and demonstrate what they
mean. Guidance is given, however, in
where and what to explore for picture
subjects.

One Scout troop in the Detroit area
has done surprisingly well in the short
timc they have been working with a
camera. A large scrapbook has been
made and filled with record shots of
all trips. Other snapshots include se-

 

An amazing thing you’re likely to
find as a result of photo activity is
how frequently this hobby will pop up,
perhaps to overpower another. F or
example, in a nearby small community
several families recently started vying
with one another in raising and dis-
playing garden flowers. They formed
a garden club, studied flower arrange-
ments, even qualified as judges in local
and regional exhibits. One day a
camera bug sneaked into all these gar-
dens, and later a big surprise came
during a monthly club meeting. llepli-
cas, in color, of all members’ gardens
were flashed on the screen. Now, they
have many black-and-white camera en-
thusiasts, and all experiment, working
in color. Slides are always a part of
their club program. Members of this
club never travel without cameras.
They are also reaching out for help
from professional teachers and lee-
turers, and often the guest speaker is
a photographer.

Cameras help make field trips more effective and more memorable.

\

lected phases of their home and social
life. Some very .interesting pictures
show activities at their monthly meet-
ings when guest speakers have ap-
peared. It is always a source of pride
to parents when they attend these
meetings and see the book on display.
The picture, taken by their John, is
enjoyed again. Guest speakers, too, are
always pleased to be remembered later
with pictures they receive from the
Scouts.

\.

3

Another wonderful outgrowth of
photography’s application to a specific
problem came about in an art class.
The boys and girls in this class were
doing memory sketches of their
parents. The teacher asked for snap-
shots of Mother and Dad. The idea
swept through the class in no time. A
new bulletin board was set up for the
snapshot display. It gave the teacher
a yardstick for judging the sketches,
plus some first-hand information con-

37

cerning the parents and the homes.

But the portraits were only the be-
ginning! “Our houses." “our neigh-
borhood," “our car." and "our pets”
appeared in succeeding exhibits on the
board. The shelter theme was tackled
next. This led students into other sec-
tions of the city, to neighborhoods far
different from their own. It helped de-
velop an awareness of the many styles
in architecture.

The subject of food, too, was worked
out. A shot of Mom shopping, pre-
paring the dinner and sister arranging
the table were “talking” pictures. Even
a trip to the prodUee terminals and
large markets was made and recorded.
Both the students and teacher know
now that it’s a wonderfully alive thing
to he working with a camera instead
of using standard pictures from a file.

Another situation where the camera
was put to practical use paid big divi-
dends. One teen-age girl in an art
class became interested in display ar-
rangcment. She collected the art and
craft work and arranged it each week.
She often used the bulletin board as a
background. llcr added materials were
scrap paper, yarns, strings. hits of dis-
cardcd cloth, and so on. She felt a
sense of pride over each finished pro-

duction, but annoyance when she had
to dismantle it for a new replacement.
When the rest of the class took their
work home from the display. .loan had
nothing left to show for her crcativc
efforts. The teacher, in this case. sug-
gested that she Use her camera to keep
a record of her assembled display. In
this way she, too, could take some-
thing home to her parents. One eve-
ning on her way home she showed her
pictures in a gift shop. Recognition of
her talent instantaneous on the
part of the shopkeeper. Here was a
small genius, who could be put to work
crcating window displays. Joan was
hired on the strength of her snapshots.
Again, the box camera had come
through.

, Getting down to the organization of

“'35

group camera work in adult recreation
centers, some workers feel that a com-
pleter formal program is necessary.
in some instances, such an approach
works very well. although in other
cases it is not as successful as a more
spontaneous course which is more
adaptable to the desires and objectives
of the participants. However, since
most of the folk who join a group will
come in because they are already cn-

joying photography as a hobby, they

can usually get more from a formal
program because they wish technical
help in order to progress a bit more
rapidly. Stumbling along alone can bc
mighty discouraging, and a good
leader who has varied experience can
help beginners materially.

Most successful YWCA and YMCA
leadcrs give weekly demonstration les-
sons, including lessons on types of
cameras. lenses, shutters, films, de-
velopcrs, papers, contact printing and
cnlargine. Some
filters alonc. Others may devotc an en-
tire tcrm to flash photography. As the
individual leadcrs vary, so do the les-
sons and demonstrations. There is al-
ways something ncw for the amateur
to learn.

But no matter what your group or
how you start, remember that one of

have a course on

the vital things about a hobby is its
fun. Lcarning is fun. Fun lies in shar-
ing with others and in companionship.
A real, live hobby, such as photogra-
phy, will account delightfully for a
surprising amount of well spent leisure
time. By encouraging your group to
have fun photographically—and
through photography to fulfill some
useful mission—the success of your
activity certainly will be assured.

72%: 7m in pier/gamed Zgatéémwt

snacm sew mavenooso ideas

have grown very rare. Except for
adaptations of existing games and
added safety measures applied to
slides, swings, teeter-boards, jungle
gyms, horizontal ladders and bars.
traveling rings, and so forth, tlte only
innovation has been the
pearanee of a few modernistic concrete
structures consisting of steps, ramps
and tunnels.

recent up.

Here are a few ideas for possible
further appraisal and exploration:

It has always required two players
to Operate a teeter-toner. A single
board mounted on a fulcrum involving

 

Al'Ttton is new with U50 in California.

38

a tension principle would permit a sin-
glc person to tecter Up and down. In-
elusion of a swivel base would allow
not only vertical movement but also
a circular motion, and could probably
very aptly be called a “teeter-round."
Psychologists often use a device
known as a “maze” in their stimulus-
response and learning tests with small
animals. A durable playground maze,
four or five feet in height, would pro.
vide the elements of suspense. advcn-
turc, surprise and motor-activity. and
stimulate the imagination of the smaller
children. An observation platform
could be erected to one side of such a
strUeture to permit play leaders to
supervise activity within the maze.

A. J. Calm 'akas

Often grassy play areas are too hard
and solid to permit children to indulge
fully their natural inclination to roll
and tumble around. Why not have an
area set aside as a “natural tumbling
mat," built up and seeded like the
greens on a golf course? This could
include an incline or bill. to allow
them to roll to their hcarts’ content
without fear of accumulating bumps
and bruises.

Children have always loved to swing
-——whethcr on a standard seat swing
or on a garden gate. The construction
of a swing-gate (leviee. patterned after
an ordinary gatc, could afford small
children as much pleasure as swinging
on an old-fashioned gate.

[{acam'nos

 

NOTICE!

We strongly urge all recreation
departmentsoto establish a new poli-
cy, if they are not already practicing
this suggestion. On all reports and
bulletins, include the name of your
state, as well as the name of your
city or county. As many as six or
eight states may have a city or
county with the same name. It is
sometimes impossible to determine
from what locality a report comes,
unless the name of the slate also is
clearly printed—preferably on the
first or second page.

 

Prizes Can Be Fun

From Henry D. Edgren, professor of
recreation at George Williams College
in Chicago, Illinois. we have received
some original ideas for making your
own prizes. They are the kind which
can be fashioned from the cast off
materials usually found around the
home or the oflicc. You can think of
any number of other ideas to fit the
mood of the occasion or the personali-
ties of your guests.

1. Loving Cups
a. Miniature cap made from thimble,
man’s collar button, and safety pins.
1). Milk bottle, coffee cup, pipe cleaner
covered with tin foil.
2. Ribbons
Ribbons with medallion made from coke
bottle cap, onc-half egg shell, 3 prune, or
a kernel of popcorn.
3. Cream of the Crop
Milk bottle t0p, with match box for rib-
hon.
4. Lucky Strike
T0p of can, Lucky Strike cigarette wrap-
pcr, and colored paper.
5. Volleyball Champ Spiker
Wooden plank with colored railroad spike.

APRIL 1952

6. Screwball
A colored steel screw with wooden ball.

7. Golf King
Golf ball with painted face and golf tees

for crown.
3. Dead Eye Willie
Ping pong ball for head, pipe cleaners

for body and rubber ball in hands.
9. Booby and Grand Prize
Smiling and sorrowing faces on acorns.

Inspiring Publication

Under the Sponsorship of the Evans-
ton, Illinois recreation department the
Sunshine Club publishes the Arm
Chair Sentinel. We are rcprinting an
from their January-February
1951 issue because other cities with

item

similar needs may feel encouraged to
start, or start again, a creative pro-
gram for shut-ins.

\Vhy an Ann Chair Sentinel?

We of the Sentinel would like to
point out that this issue marks the
beginning of this magazine’s fifteenth
year. We think this is quite a credita-
ble. record for a magazine of this type,
as many of them have a tendency to
"blink out” with discouraging fre-
quency.

The Sentinel has three main reasons
for being: 1. To bring a bit of cheer
and entertainment into the dull and
lonesome lives of its readers. 2. To dis-
seminate information about the ‘do-
ings' of the Sunshine Club and its
members. 3. To serve as an outlet for
the literary efforts of its readers, to
give them that feeling of successful ac-
complishment which shut-ins, more
than others, need so much.

* * *

We suggest that an acquaintance
with this little publication might be

helpful, even to thc hale and hearty.
It has a quality of light-heartcdness
and inspiration which could serve as
a pattern for others.

Citizenship Dramatized

Do you need a one-act play that is
fun to do, but still carries a message
about the importance of taking part in
civic affairs? Then order a copy of
Our Way, Leaflet 6, Series 17, issued
by The Country Gentlewoman League,
Curtis Publishing Company, lndc-
pendence Square, Philadelphia 5, Penn-
sylvania. No royalty required if credit
is given. COpies five cents each. It's

good, particularly for small and rural
communities 1

Knee Pads

For around three dollars rubber

knec pads can be purchased by gar-
deners and others doing “kneeling”
work. However, Charles Dorian of
Sudbury, Ontario, Canada suggests a
way to make your own from cast-off
galoshes. Trim the cloth down to the
rubber toe and heel, leaving cloth flaps
to be fastened at the back with the
dome fasteners. Or, the dome fasteners
can be replaced by hooks and eyes,
and thick felt pads can be glued to the
insoles for greater comfort. They'are
worn with the knee in the heel of the

galosh and the rest of the sole fitting
over the shin.

May Baskets

Wouldn’t it be fun to
fit)? °
1 __ q hang a little umbrella

 full of flowers on your
m" friend’s door knob?

To make the um-
brella, begin with a cir-
cle of paper, six inches across, and a
pipe cleaner for the handle. Fold the
circle across once, then once again.
Now fold it diagonally, making a pa-
per triangle with a rounded top. Cut
the top into a hollowed line, like the
above illustration. Punch a hole at
each side for a ribbon or cord, which
should be laced through all the holes
and tied. This holds the umbrella
closed. Poke the handle down through
the center and bend its lower end up a
bit to keep the paper from slipping off.
Other types of May baskets can easily
be designed, also.-—Froni a News Bul-
lctin. .

 
    
 

39

 

,‘s H)! a. is won a.“ h to then eltild-
‘ lluml and youth. there are tertain

lllL'll (it'tdh'ihnr- whieh stand out in

anumn mum [(df'llf‘l’r and leaders

«.rt- well .menulwred, while strorfs ol
nthrr» has» long amm- been forgotten.

\Itl. .ngh we did not know it .1! the
to..- the om.- we remember best
re:- lll‘l: - imp .onnselors Iltrl re: rt-a
lion H'H‘l'utls m-re all exmlples ol
do. (I le. dn «hip l'hu I: as lnye been

TIIIILsthlf for ome .pl the high oer 1-

 n! the' may have lh’t‘ll people

o “,w .za ln'ltlL- with 1nd didn't
- ulu’J lint] 'atc-r how much \u had
«A. .e'.l fr he . Without exception.
11 "r the ‘II’ who alwa. .4 tr-atu'd
. " :umsi winner and nmlu
I |>
l (o t at v p. naronntt‘ w ill
I ' l Illlr «ter' mm
\I It .i . .. » audit-m .t
I .- - u. v r41 [Wilt fl” 0-
: i n - q I [In] t "I "In. all
I ‘ a it no furl?
iv"

years heme or lltm will hau- joined
the parade of the forgotten ones.
Which will it he?

Are they planning some of the good
times whieh will always stand out?
Will they be remembered because of
their personalities and beeause they
err-ated that lirst interest in something
which earried over many years. into
the future?

These are a few questions which
make the job of a playground leader
III important one. Mnch has been writ-
ten about the qualifieations for a
worker on a playground. All of them
ire ll’llu- md all of them are good.

“at h has been written also about
llanrtunml programs and the im-
aortanw Ml «penal events. I'd like to
“I. .kr‘ .1 plea for [In .lay-to-day prov
.i. at If whleh ellOllld be much
tl' llt'l lllun they no . id like In make

I7] ‘l'lf‘

oh .I. too. for the txpe of person who

I pal leader not .1 sports perv
t '1 w" ill .Ittrmtiu \oung man or
r- t - tru- l' I'Haklll}! for summer

«:I- n qt.

Let’s Have

(in a typical playground there are
boys and girls of many age groups
and from many types of homes and
baekgrounds. They are all there be-
cause they have chosen to come and
because they are hoping there. will be
something interesting going on. Their
needs, their abilities and their interests
show tremendous dillerenees. It is no
small task for leaders to meet
situation successfully.

It requires a knowledge of child de-
velopment and a recognition of ehild
dillcrcnees before program aetiyities
can be planned. Working with children

this

in a group rather than with a group of
children is not only desirable, but im-
perative. 'l‘here's a big tlillcrcnce be-
tween the two!

When this method is Used, the leader
beeomes aware of the child who does
not partieipate or who is not sneeess-
lul in attaining aeceptanee by the
group. and takes steps to remedy it.
If he does not, that ehild stops eoming
to the playground, or if he eontinnes
to tome, he probably becomes a be.-
hnyior problem.

Although games are an important
part of the playground day. many ehil-
dren who attend do not have the basic
skills whieh are essential to the enjoy-
ment of any game. The ehild who can-
not throw. jump, dodge or stop a ball
with some degree of skill will not have
1 very jolly tnm play ing dodgeball.

ll the rules of volleyball are not
understood, and no one has tanght the
sonngster how to some or how to eon-

ltecnenros

Helen M. Dauncey

More Play On Playgrounds

trol the ball, why should he lose face
with his friends by being the dub on
the team? It is easier in either case
to say, “I don’t want to play,” or “I
don’t like games.”

Although it is most desirable to
have plenty of play equipment on a
playground—balls, bats, bean bags,
jackslones, checkers, dcek tennis rings,
paddles, quoits, box hockey, croquet,
eraft material, and so on—it becomes
a tool for effective learning only if it is
identified with a good teaching situa-
tion and associated with a feeling of
success and achievement for the in-
dividual. It is too easy to pass out
equipment to children day after day
with the result that at the end of the
summer, they know no more about
how to use it than they did on opening
day.

It is not surprising that many chil-
dren come to a playground, use a few
pieces of play apparatus, perhaps make
a craft article and then disappear for
the rest of the day, unless a Special
event is being planned to lure them.
Special events are fun, but they are
not substitutes for good, day-byday
programs. Too much cake spoils the
appetite for bread!‘

“Choiee” is the key word in recrea-
tion, but it presupposes a nodding ac-
qnaintancc with several types of ac-
tivities before selection is made. A
playground must never be regimcnted,
but, with skilled direction, mneh of
the daily program can be changed
from aimless activity to one of pur-

A van. 1952

pose, progression and pleasure for all
concerned.

Any child who, at the end of the
playground season, has not learned
many new games (quiet, active, group,
individual or team) which he has en-
joyed at his own level of performance,
has been cheated.

If a child has not been given the
opportunity to eXperiment with some
new things in crafts, drama, music,
storytelling, being in a tournament,
serving on a connnittee, helping to plan
events and feeling responsibility for
the sueeess of his playground—then
the summer program has failed him.

If the leaders have not learned to
know which children need help in
making an individual, as well as a
group, success———they have failed in
their most important responsibility.

It is essential that a playground
leader, like any good workman, have

lots of good activity materials at his

fingertips, for those are his
tools. In the brief span of time
available for training, just
prior to the opening of the pro-
gram, too much time often has
to be spent on giving material
which a leader should know he-
forc he makes application for
the job. More time is needed
for methods and teclmiques of
using what he may know and
more time for discussion of ways in
whieh the child may be helped to
grow.

In this day of gun-toting and cow-

boy jargon perhaps it is too much to
expect, but it does seem unfortunate
that youngsters are not familiar with
many of the games that are part of
their heritage. The traditional singing
games for little children should al-
ways be part of the summer program,
and the time-honored Prisoners’ Base,

Run Sheep Run, Duck on the Rock,
Blind Man’s Buff and Still Pond and
No More Moving should be passed
along to this generation of boys and
girls.

By all means, have surprises, special
events, community nights and all the
other wonderful things which go into
the making of a good playground pro-
gram, but meanwhile, be sure that the
day-to-day activities are interesting,
appealing and meaningful to the boys
and girls.

Be very sure that no children leave
the playground because they just don’t
have a good time there!

 

 

"The more good things we are interested in,
the more ardently we live.”—Franeis Bacon.

41

Training
Pla Igrouml
Leaders

1V. C. Sutherland

[I‘HMMSG playground leaders is not a minor problem or
a function to he taken lightly. The playgrounds of
America provide the major centers for the play life of a
large portion of the nation’s child and adult population,
and play an important part in the shaping of our future
citizens.

The size and importance of the training problem he-
eomes clearer when one considers that last sunnncr nearly
four million visits were made each day to thc playgrounds.
The majority of nearly fiftccn thousand playgrounds were
under leadership. Training institutes for leaders prior
to the opening of the playground season are considered
essential for a successful program.

There is no standard training program that can meet
adequately the requirements of all communities. Not only
do communities vary in size. facilities. resources and
characteristics. bttt the type of leadership available for
summer playground work may vary considerably among
cities.

There are. however. a number of publications which
have been found helpful by those interested in training

W

W. C. StTllf:Rl.A\n is in charge of A’R/f's Personnel Service.

42

their playground lcadcrs. Probably the best known. and
most widely used. are prepared hy the National Recre-

ation Association and include those suggested below:

Training Your Playground Leaders. An institute syllabus for the
training of playground leaders, which contains suggestions for
organizing and eondueting an institute, with comprehensive hibli-
ography. $.35.

Playgrounds—Their Administration and Operation. A compre-
hensive guide for the use of the playground executive and the

worker on the individual playground, this is used widely as a
text (revised edition 1950). $4.00.

Playground Summer Notebook—twelve weekly issues during the
summer. $1.50.

Conduct on Playgrounds. Praetical suggestions for leadership.
aetivities. program planning. administration, equipment and sup-

plies. $.50.

Many cities use the association’s specialists in the train-
ing of playground leaders. These specialists have suggested
the following outline for a playground training course,
presented in two-aud-onc-ltalf-hour sessions. which has
been acceptable in many places:

Session l—Discussion: Playground Goals and Objec-
tives; The J 01) of a Play Leader. Activities: Low-organized
games—group, line. circle.

Session ll—Discussion: Planning a Well-Rounded Pro-
gram for All Age Groups; Leadership Methods: Play-
ground Problems.

Scssion Ill—Discussion: Special Events on the Play-
ground; Using Volunteers; Publicity. Activities: Rhyth-
mic Gamcs for Children; Quiet Games for liot Days or
Rainy Days; Active Group Games.

Session lV—Discussion: Neighborhood Relations; Com-
nnmity Nights; Question Box. Activities: Team Games,
Games for the Whole Family; Square Dances and Couple
Mixers.

The following three-day and five-day institute programs
were conducted last season in Westehcstcr County, New
York. and in llutchinson. Kansas.

Three-day institute under the auspices of thc \Vcstchcster
County, New York llccrcation Connnission and Recreation
Executives Assoeiatiou:

Tuesday. June 26. 1951

9:20- 9:30 AM. Fun with Nlusie and Dancing on the Play-
ground.

9:30-10:00 A311. Playground Goals. Age Characteristics and
Aetivities for each age ronp.

10:00-10:30 All]. Playground Activities ant? Demonstration for
the Pre-school group.

10:30-10:40 A.M. Intermission

10:40-12:00Noon Playground Activities and Demonstrations
for the following age groups: 6-8 years;
9-11 years; 11-14 years.

12:00-12:30 P..\f. Management of the Playground. Care of

Equipment. C00prration with Maintenance
Stait.

\‘t'edneulay. June 27
9:20- 9:30 AM. Fun with Music and Dancing on the Play-

ground '
9:30-10:50 A..\l. Arts and Crafts for the Playground

10:50-tl:00 A.l\1. Intermission

11:00-11:30 A..\l. Safety on the Playground

11:30-12:30 P..\l. Crafts for other Playground Activities—in-
eluding Nature. Crafts. Craft Stunts. Indian
Crafts. Puppets. Making Musical Instruments.

Thur-day. June 28
9:20- 9:30 AM. Fun with Music and Dancing on the Play-
ground.

liECREATtO.\

9:30-10:30 A.M. Planning the Playground Program (daily,
weekly, seasonal); Leadership Methods and
Techniques, Schedule Making, Playground
Problems.

10:30-11:20 A.M. Special Events for the Playground; Use of
Volunteers.

11:20-11 :30 A.M. Intermission

11:30-12:30 A.M. Public Relations in the Neighborhood of the
Playground-—~Comniunity Nights, Question
Box.

Five-day institute conducted by the Recreation Commis-
sion, Hutchinson, Kansas:

Monday, June 4. 1951
8:30- 8:45 A.M. Registration
8:45- 9:00 A.M. Opening Proceedings

9:00- 9.45 A.M. Playground Programs
9:50-10:35 A.M. Musical Games and Mixers
10:40-11:30 A.M. Group Contests
1:00- 1:45 P.M. Womcns and Girls Programs
1:50- 2:35 P.M. Active Games for Young and Old
2:40- 2:55 P.M. Playground Crafts
3:00- 5:0 P.M. “Craft Work Shop”

Tuesday, Jun 5

0
e

9:00- 9:35 .M. Playground Manual
10 M

A
9:30-10: A. . Musical Games and Mixers
10:15-10 :40 A.M. Storytelling
10:45-11:30 A.M. Group Contests
1:00- 1:45 P.M. Quiet Games for Young and Old
1:50- 2:50 P.M. Stunts and Fun Songs
3:00- 5:00 PM. “Craft Work Shop”

Wednesday, June 6
9:00- 9:25 A.M. Program Content
9'30-10:10 A.M. Circle Games and Relays

10:15-11.30 A.M. Alhletic Games and Sports
1:00- 1:45 P.M. Games for Hot Weather and Rainy Days
1:50- 2:50 P.M. Co-Recreation and Family Rccrcation
3:00— 5:00 P.M. “Craft Work Shop”

Thursday, June 7
9:00- 9:25 A.M. Reports and Questions
9:30-10:10 A.M. Games for Individuals and Small Groups
10:15-11:00 A.M. Folk Games and Folk Dances
11:00-11:30 A.M. Planning for All Ages
1:00- 1:30 P.M. Special Event Planning
1:30- 2:10 P.M. Active Games
2:15- 2:55 P.M. Leadership Advice
3:00— 5:00 P.M. “Craft Work Shop"

Friday, June 8
9:00- 9:30 A.M. Registration and Reports
9:30-10:00 A.M. Athletic Game Schedules
10:00-10.30 A.M. Equipment and Supplies
10:30-11:00 A.M. Arts and Crafts Program

11:00-11:30 A.M. Administrative Papers and Payroll
1:00- 1:30 P.M. Special Event Days

1:30- 2:00 P.M. Final Instructions

2:00- 3:00 P.M. Games and Sports

3:00- 5:00 P.M. “Craft Work Sh0p"

It is not possible to prepare a person adequately for
playground leadership in a single institute lasting for only
a few days. It is hoped, however, that most of those at-
tending will have had some previous playground ex-
perience and special training in high school or college.
Also, those selected for positions should have acceptable
social attitudes: and be personally desirable and profes-
sionally promising. Many of our future full-time profes-
sional leaders should be recruited from among these sum-
mer workers.

Because the institute training is all too short, it should
be followed by in-scrvice training throughout the sum-
mer in the form of stall meetings, interviews, leaders’ con-
ferences, close supervision, directed reading.

Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in addition to the institute, con-
ducted before the playgrounds open, holds Saturday morn-
ing classes of three hours each week throughout the season.
Many cities hold staff meetings on Saturday mornings, or

APRIL 1952

on Monday evenings.

In addition to the wise selection of the right people,
another matter which is closely related and should receive
careful consideration, has to do with establishing condi-
tions that will tend to hold good workers after they are
trained. There is little gain in training leaders only to lose
them to more lucrative positions in business, industry and
other professional fields. Turnover is costly and it is
doubtful if private concerns could stay in business with
the rate of turnover that takes place in some of our public
recreation departments.

Summer positions should be paid fairly and adequately
if we eXpect to attract and hold the type of leadership
children deserve. Not only fair salaries but other factors
are important and make for satisfied workers with good
attitudes and high morale. Workers want good supervision, ‘
reasonable hours, recognition as individuals, a feeling of
acceptance as professional members of the recreation
team; workers want to feel that they are doing something
important and socially useful; they want to have respect
for the executive and the department for which they work.
Securing, developing and holding the best leadership pos-
sible is second to no other consideration. Unless a city

 

wishes to accept a standard of leadership and service much
less than the best, it must:
1. Select wisely and only those who are professionally

apt and personally desirable.

2. Provide the best training possible.

3. Establish personnel policies and practices that make
for desirable and acceptable conditions of work.

A Challenging Career

To college trained women who believe that work with the
youth of our country is a challenging responsibility, the
Camp Fire Girls organization offers opportunities for an
interesting and satisfying career.

Throughout the United States there are more than three
hundred sixty thousand Camp Fire Girls between the ages
of seven and eighteen. To the administration of this pro-
gram the professional worker must bring a sincere interest
in people. She helps to obtain, train and supervise volun-
teer leaders. She works with local board members, coun-
cil committees and community leaders. The direction of a
summer camp is often her responsibility. In every aspect
of the job there is opportunity for creative thinking, origi-
nality and initiative, a challenge to be met.

43

The Recreation Personnel Service of
National Recreation Association is the
national central clearinghouse for
prospective employers in need of rec-
reation personnel and for professional-
ly prepared candidates seeking recrea-
tion positions. Its purpose is to serve
recreation agencies, prospective em-
ployers, and professional leaders in the
interest of extending and enriching the
recreation movement.

How It Functions

lts staff of three, together with steuo-
graphic and clerical assistance, works
throughout the year recruiting, se-
leeting. classifying and placing recrea-
tion workers. it provides specialized

Personnel

services to the professional people in
the field and to the communities, agen-
cies, and executives who employ them.

For Career Workers—Au opportuni-
ty is offered to the individual to regis-
ter as a professional worker in the
recreation field. This registration as-
sures each person that if he wishes,
his professional record will be main-
tained at National Recreation Associa-
tion headquarters. The original regis-
tration is done on a standard personnel
form which is also adapted for use in
placement service.

As each person registcrs. he is clas-
sified according to education. experi-
ence, skills, and positions desired.
References are accumulated with the
candidate's permission and filed for
immediate or future Use. This insures
that a complete set of credentials with
references can he made availahle to
employers without delay w hen the ap-
plicant desires a new position. Such
information is made availahle With the
candidate's permission and in ac.
will] his l’erimlic
check-up questionnairm make it easy
for workers in the field to keep the

corda nee wishes.

 

Ma. St nozamxo is the director of the
Recreation Personnel Service of WWI.

ft»

cumulative record up to date and ac-
curate.

Guidance, counseling, and response
to inquiries regarding professional op-
portunities, sources of training, types
of positions, job requirements and
worker qualifications. salaries and
working conditions are supplementary
services.

For Communities—Park and recrea-
tion departments, hospitals, institu-
tions, voluntary agencies, civil service
commissions, industries and the armed
services turn to Recreation Personnel
Service for consultation and advice on
personnel standards, policies and prac-
tices, procedures in recruiting, selec-
tion and placement of recreation per-

wide publicity is desirable and requests
are submitted in advance. Job notices
are then puhlicized through our various
mailing channels.

For Colleges. The association is keep-
ing in touch with colleges and uni-
versities and continues to provide op-
portunities for their graduates to regis-
ter for personnel service. l’ersonal
visits are made to schools for the pur-
pose of interviewing students and ad-
vising them with reference to the field.
Universities are assisted with proh-
lems related to their recreation cur-
riculums and the National Recreation
Congress programs include college
training sessions. The schools are kept
informed regarding the demand for

Services of the NATIONAL

Additional i n form at i o n is

availahle on salary schedules, qualifi-

sonncl.

'cations for workers, jol) specifications,
working comlitions in the field, and
iu-service training opportunities for
paid and volunteer workers.

The central personnel service main-
tains a constantly changing pool of
people qualified for and interested in
recreation positions of many types in
all geographical areas of the country.
Employers may draw from this group
and Recreation l’ersonuel Service will
screen and select individuals in one of
four ways:

l. A carefully selected group may be
chosen and their confidential creden-
tials sulnnitted to the employing ageuo
cy. Candidates may or may not he
notified. depending upon the request
of the agency.

2. Candidates may he notified and re-
quested to apply directly to the em-
ploying agencies with the understand-
ing that complete sets of credentials
will he snlnnitted hy Recreation Per-
sounel Service as it hecomes advisahle.
3. A list of prospects, with their ad-
dresses. may he stllnnittcd directly to
the employer so that he may approach
candidates lwrsonall}.

4. Additional serviCe is rcndered when

leaders and the types of positions
availahle. Other information relative
to training and employment condi-
tions is available upon request. Up-
to-date lists of colleges offering major
recreation curriculums are maintained
and made availahle, and their train-
ing programs are interpreted to pro-
spective students, employers and to the
recreation profession. These services
are heiug maintained and increased.

Membership and participation in
professional groups and related agen-
cics help to make the overall person-
uel service more effective. Also, the
general resources of the association‘-
the research, consultation aml field
services—contrilmte greatly to the de-
velopment and maintenance of desira-
hle standards and conditions for work-
ers and employers. Through our per-
sonnel and field stalls we are ahle to
make personal follow-ups and main-
tain current reports on the develop-
ment and growth of professional
leaders

Responsibilities

Personnel service is not a one-way
street. All the responsihility does not
rest with the l'iffective
service depends upon teamwork and

association.

ltccasnmx

full cOOperation involving candidates,
employers, college training centers and
the association.

The Employer’s responsibility in-
eludes the provision of a statement
covering the following items: (I) the
name and location of the employing
agency; (2) the full name and address
of the person to receive communica-
tions; (3) a statement about the spe-
cial conditions and characteristics of
the agency, neighborhood or city; (4-)
a description of the position listing its
major duties and responsibilities; (5)
qualifications desired of the candidate,
such as personality traits, training, ex-
perience, age, sex and marital status;
(6) salary schedule; (7) date employ-

This article is based on address given at the third annual
meeting of the “College Recreation Association.” It is pub-
lished here because of many inquiries, upon request of those
present and of others who were not able to attend.

 

for recruiting and selecting competent
students. The selection process is, ac-
cording to some authorities, an aca-
demic exercise unless the number of
would-be students exceeds by fifty per
cent the number who can be admitted.
Under less favorable conditions, only
the obviously unfit are eliminated. It is
not fair to the student, thc college, or
the profession to allow a person who
lacks desirable qualifications to enter

RECREATION ASSOCIATION

ment begins; (8) statement of person-
ncl policies and practices.

The cmployer has the further re-
sponsibility of keeping us informed
of his progress and advising of any
major change in the situation. He is
obligated to respect the confidential
nature of personnel credentials and to
return all records promptly after they
have served their purpose. He is ex-
pected to acknowledgc correSpondcnce
from candidates and treat them all in a
fair and courteous manner.

The Candidates are responsible for
filling out application forms adequate-
ly and accurately. Additional informa-
tion required should be submittcd as
requested. They are expected to bc
prompt in answering all communica-
tions and in reporting changes in their
employment status. New information
should bc reported promptly, such as:
change of address, additional train-
ing, new assignments, change in mari-
tal status or number of children. Agrec-
ments and appointments should be kept
and a high standard of behavior, per-
sonally and professionally, is assumed.

Professors also have reSponsibility
in this pcrsonncl business. In many
respccts, thcirs is the greatest of all.
111 the first placc, they are responsible

APRIL 1952

W. C. Sutherland

and remain in the professional cur-
riculum. The number of years of
schooling is not an accurate measure
of the quality and ability of the per-
son. Qualities of the mind and heart
are primary requisites to good leader-
ship. Devices, techniques and methods
are adjuncts to, but cannot be sub-
stituted for, these qualities.

Professors should make sure that
students know how to apply for jobs,
how to present themselves in written
communication and how to conduct
themselves in personal interviews. Lack
of preparation in these matters may
nullify much of the professional and
formal training. They are rcSponsihle
for assisting directly or indirectly in
the placement of those trained. They
are obligated to follow up graduates,
to help assure success in the early
years of their careers and to determine
the effectiveness of the professional
training. They are expected to submit
honest and adequate appraisals regard-
ing their studcnts, as a guide to us
who are trying to place them.

Factors Influencing Employment

Factors that influcnce and determine
employment according to employers,
candidates and personnel specialists,

whether good or bad, can be summed
up as follows: (1) education and prep-
aration, (2) experience, (3) person-
ality and character, (4-) intelligence,
(5) health, (6) luck and chance, (7)
prejudice and favoritism, (8) supply
and demand.

Whether these factors should deter-
mine employment in all cases is not
the point; whether we like it or not,
they very often do determine it. The
first five factors have to do with the
individual. He can do something about
them, and they are more or less within
his control. The other factors, how-
ever, are for the most part beyond his
control, as, for instance, the forces of
emotion unfortunately expressed in
prejudice and favoritism. ln spite of
proved fitness, the candidate can do
little in the face of prejudices when
they exist for and against persons 01]
the basis of age, sex, race, marital
status, rcligion, political affiliation, eco-
nomic views, or place of residence.

The factors of supply and demand
set aside or nullify much or all that
the individual can do. This factor is
influenced by economic conditions and
by political, financial and educational
policies; and from the standpoint of
the candidate, it makes little difference
whether these conditions are real or
fancied, wise or unwise. An oversup-
ply of workers in the recreation field
means persons out of work. Also, it
means stationary or falling salaries for
those who have jobs. In general, this
situation is a dangerous hazard to all
personnel standards and a threat to
the recreation movement, as well as
to the profession as a career field.

New Services

The personnel staff of the National
Recreation Association has been ang-
mented to meet the new and increased
demands growing out of the national
defense situation. A national roster for
the registration of park and recrea-

4-5

tion personnel has been established as
a defense measure. Special attention
has been and will continue to be given
to the needs of the various branehes
of the armed forces.

It is hoped that, as soon as some of
the emergency needs are met, more
can be done to channel additional posi-
tions into the personnel service and
into the college recreation training cen-
ters. We need a more complete listing
of the staff positions in the classifica-
tions appropriate for beginners with
professional training but with little or
no experience. In the highly p0pulatcd
and urbanized East more of these posi-
tions are received. Consequently, we
are able to place more graduates with
varying degrees of qualifications. On
the other hand, we are not—at the
moment—able to place youngcr leaders
as rapidly in the less industrialized
and more rural sections. This means
that we are more helpful to graduates
of some schools after they have been in
the field for three to five years and are
ready for larger responsibility in t0p su-
pervisory and administrative positions.

There are many agencies, public and
private, that are not adequately in-
formed regarding the association’s
personnel services and the improved
recreation training programs at many
of the colleges and universities.

We are lmping to be able to keep
the colleges better informed regarding
developments in the field as it relates
to the demand for leaders. Ve want to
place material on standards in the
hands of more employing groups and
to advise them of the high calibre of
people who are being trained in our
well-balanced rccreatiou eurriculums.
There is need for more and better my
rational material to dramatize the role
of the recreation leader in our effort
to rceruit better students for profes-
sional training.

Job Situation

The number of executive positions
filled in 1931 showed a slight increase
over I95“. The executive positions
filled by the assm'iation during l95l
were in a salary range of three thou-
sand to six thousand dollars. The me-
dian salary was four thousand two hun-
dred dollars. The demand for women
has been esmrially heavy, primarily

46

because of the large number needed in
the army special service club program
overseas. [7 or the most part, these posi-
tions have been for club directors and
program people. The various army area
headquarters in the continental United
States have absorbed quite a few. Re-
cruiting for this emergency defense
service will continue to be systematic.

The usual staff positions, mostly for
well-balanced program people, will
probably show an increase. The num-
ber of requests from institutions, es-
pecially hospitals, should show a dc-
cidcd increase.

The number of vacancies occurring
annually for recreation leaders in pub-
lie and private agencies is estimated
conservatively at fifteen hundred. This
does not include the war emergency
jobs with the military.

The 1950 Yearbook reports a total
of 6,784 full-time, year-round workers
in public recreation systems. This is
a gain of 885 positions since 1948.
This two-year annual average of 442
new positions looks very good com-
pared with the twclvc-ycar average
gain of only 140 per year from 1935
to 19-16. The annual average increase
from 19-16 to 19-18 was 376 positions.
This new rate of increase is most en-
coIIragiug. Since full-time positions oc-
casionally dcvcl0p from part-time as-
signments, it is interesting to note
that the latter increased from 42,619 in
1918 to 51,245 in 1950—a net gain of
8,596 part-time and seasonal positions.
The number of volunteers increased
from 89,23-1— in 19-13 to 101,589 in
1950 for a gain of 15,355 volunteers
in the same two-year period.

Leadership All Important

There are still too many employing
agencies willing to accept anyone who
shows up with a letter of introduction
from the “right party." There are still
too many professional training schools
admitting all comers without enough
concern for their qualities of leader-
ship or promise for success. We need
to get more “steamed up” about this
business of personnel and radiate our
enthusiasm and convictions to others.

Personnel is the central powerhouse
of the recreation movement. It is the
heart and soul of our profession, the
“key” to the future and to the fulfill.

ment of our purpose. The colleges and
universities are carrying too large a
part of the responsibility for the re-
eruiting and scleetion of our future
leaders. This is so because the pro-
fession itself has not yet awakened to
its responsibility. This is a serious
matter beca use the profession that does
not recruit its own membership is
doomed. It is good that the college
recreation educators realize the serious-
ness and magnitude of this task, for
recruiting and selection are important
foundation stones upon which rest the
extent and quality of recreation service
now and in the years to come.

The college recreation educators are
important members of the recreation
team—they are the first line of attack.
Their training programs are improving
rapidly, and they deserve the reSpcct
and support of the recreation profes-

sion.

 

Volunteer Leader

Last year, as an outgrowth of their
classes in marionctte making and ban-
dling, Patterson Park recreation center
in Baltimore, Maryland, developed a
teen-age volunteer leader. Fifteen-year-
old liobert l’ctza became so interested
in the project that together with his
father he built and wired a marionctte
stage. Soon he began writing and pro-
duciug shows, and he and his friends
spent hours making scenery, recon-
structing and redressing marioncttes.
selecting records and making plans.
Shows were given at the Center 011 spe-
cial holidays. In the spring. Robert
asked to be a volunteer leader, and
each day during the summer he as-
sisted with the general playground pro-
gram, while oncc a week he conducted
a special marionctte class.

So successful were the marionctte
shows that his father helped him build
a portable stage, and “Bob's Mario-
nette-s" toured Baltimore, stagiug shows
for children of other playgrounds and
recreation centers.

Fall and winter classes and shows
followed this successful beginning. Not
only did one recreation center gain
an active program and the entire city
of Baltimore benefit from it, but a
career may have been launched. as
llobcrt and his group are scheduled to
appear locally on television.

liECltt-iATlON

Summer Recreation

LONG EXPERIENCE has proved that
an efficient recreation director
usually becomes a community leader,
and he soon has many voluntary as-
sistants in every part of his program.
He must be a diplomat, whose ideas
and guidance come to the surface in
other persons’ performances, expres-
sions of their desires and their coopera-
tion. Lack of interest, lack of personali-
ty and laziness on the part of the
recreation director result in poor pro-
grams, small attendance and no in-
terest by the adults in the community.

Leadership Qualifications: The need
of playground equipment pales into
insignificance beside the need for spe-
cial “equipment” on the part of the
playground director. The following are
some of the personal qualities neces-
sary: personality, to attract others;
executive ability, to make orders carry
weight; common sense, plus a good
sense of humor; courtesy and tactful-
ncss, combined with patience; robust
health; alertness; enthusiasm.

Personal hints: Develop confidence
through preparedness. Confidence is
acquircd through experience, but even
the experienced leader enjoys such

From Summer Recreation, The Organization
of a Community-Wide Program. Prepared by
The Youth Conservation Commission, 117

University Place, St. Paul, Minnesota. Avail-
able free.

' APRIL 1952

confidence only when he is thoroughly
prepared to do the particular work at
hand. Be enthusiastic. The successful

game leader must spontaneously enjoy
his work of leading quite as much as
the players enjoy playing. Leadership
must be carried out in the spirit of
play. The avenue of least resistance is
not thc way to real recreation leader-

ship.

Helps for Program Planning: The
following suggested schedules, weekly
and daily, are samples of the type of
preliminary planning which will be
helpful in organizing the summer rcc-
rcation pr0gram.

Thc summer schedule lists a featured
activity for each week and one or more
special events, with some suggestions
to guide the director in advance
preparation. For example, the fourth
week might have an “On Wheels” con-
test, including tricycle, bicycle, scooter,
pushmobilc and roller skate races, doll
buggy paradc, novelty events and con-
tests for construction of best pushmo-
biles. Construction work should start
during the second week. Practicing for
the various events will be done for one
or two weeks in advance. Publicity
and other necessary arrangements
should be made during the third week.

The weekly and daily schedules sug-
gested assume that there would be one

man and one woman leader on each
playground. In case only one leader is
available for the playground, use must
be made of volunteer leadership, or

the schedules be substantially reduced.
In the weekly schedule, while one per-
son is conducting instruction in golf
or tennis, the other leader would be
at the playground getting out the
equipment and taking care of pre-
liminaries as indicated on the daily
schedule. Dcfinite activities are sche-
duled for each day of the week at spe-
cified times. This is important in order
that participants and volunteer leaders
may know exactly when the activities
in which they are interested will be
scheduled.

For example, a leader may be availa-
ble for storytelling on Monday morn-
ing for younger children, and on Tues-
day and Thursday afternoon for upper
elementary children, or league games
in softb_all may be scheduled for Mon-
day and Wednesday afternoons. The
weekly and daily schedules should
clearly show these points. The daily
schedule indicates the types of activi-
ties which would be provided for each
age group at specified times during the
day. Posting of such schedules on the
playground bulletin boards and pub-
lishing the information in the news-
papers will enable childrcn and parents
to know how to plan their time.

4-7

Designation

FIRST
\VEEK—
Organization

SECOND—
Learn to
Swim \Veek

TIIIR I)—
Know Your
Community
\Veek

FOUItTI [—
“On
\Vheels"
Week

FI P'I'I 1—
Nature
\Veek

SIXTH—
Camera
and Movie

Week
SEVEN'I'I 1—
Arts and

Crafts
iVeek

EICI ITII—
Athletic
\Veek

N 13"“ I—
Ilobb y
Week

TE; '1'] 1-—
Community
W'eek

Fen t :1 red Special Even ts

Treasure Hunt and llike.

lnstruetionr-Swimming. Life saving,

Water Carnival. Bicycle Club. Ilike.

Trips to parks, zoo, industrial con-
cerns, historical places. Bonfire sings.
Nature study. Field trips. l’lcnles.

“On Wheels” contests. Doll buggy
)arade. liaees for scooters, tricycles,
bicycles, puslnnobiles, wagons, roller
skates; novelty events. I’ushmobile
construction. Music Festival.

Trip to park, picnic grounds or area
suitable for nature study. Fourth of
July celebration. One-day camp.
Overnight camp. Camera hike.

Camera and Movie Exhibit

0

Arts aml Crafts Exhibit; woodwork,
coloring, pastels, metal tapping, weav-
ing, knitting, clay modeling, and so
on. Soap carving contests. Sandcrait
contest. °

Track and Field Meet. Ilorsesboe
Contests. Archery Contests. Tourna-
ments in tennis, golf, volleyball, ta-
ble tennis, paddle tennis, and so on.
Swimming meet.

lIobby Exhibit. Flower Show. Pet
Show. Drama Festival. Kite Day.
Model Iioat Ilegatta. Model Airplane
Show.

l’layground Demonstration or “Know
Your Playground" Day. Achievement
l'ixhibit. Square Dance Festival. l’ro-
gres-sive Came. l’arty.

Suggestions for Preparation

'l‘ake inventory of supplies and equipment. See that
facilities are in good condition. Ilold general practices;
set up organizational meetings, practice schedules for
athletic leagues—midgets, juniors, intermediates, sen-
iors, “old-timers” slowball. Start to organize clubs—
garden, drama, bicycle, camera. Select, work with
committee to plan treasure hunt hike. Get acquainted
with children; try to discover junior leaders. Teach
proper use of playground facilities. Arrange for
second week swimming instruction; publicize “Learn
to Swim” week, post schedules, rules and regulations.

Begin work on swimming badge tests. Make pre-
liminary arrangements for trip for third week. Benin
0 ' 6‘ ,9 D
construction of pushmobiles for On Wheels contest.
Organize committees for Fourth of July celebration.
Appoint junior leaders to assist in daily activities.

Special events (community sings, stunts, quiz pro-
grams) for intermission at band concerts. Make nec-
essary arrangements for “On Wheels" contest—use
oi streets, police protection, publicity, registration.

Make final plans for Fourth of July celebration. I’ub-
lish week to week results of all league competition.
Work on swimming and athletic badge tests. Develop
projects for arts and crafts groups.

Arrange with library for display of books on nature.
Identification of trees and shrubs on playground. En-
courage nature collections. Bcgin teaching folk dances
for square dance festival. Prepare for camera club
exhibit.

Encourage commercial concerns to exhibit camera and
movie supplies and materials. Prepare for arts and
crafts exhibits, arrange for demonstration.

Make preliminary plans for IIobby Week. Prepare for
Athletic Week—publicity, entries for all events, ar-
range ior simple awards, post schedules for week and
tournament drawings on bulletin board.

Prepare for Ilobby Week—publicity, contact people
with special hobbies, arrange for flower show, pet
show.

l’repare publicity to encourage connnuuity-wide par-
tieipatiun in recreation activities during “Community
Week." Complete league schedules.

Arrange for final play-off games in league competition.
Close playgrounds—iuventory, repair equipment. store
supplies, prepare reports.

AVAILABILITY Cheek day of week or month, and hours, you can teach, direct or supervise an aetivity.

IIOW OFTEN TIMI'I

M. 'I‘. W.

'-I-—-'-—-

 

Maximum number you prefer in your group or activity.

and sex,—

DA Y

Th. 1". Sat. Sun.

, ____ _.___ Other.._____.____ .—

OnCe a month..

_____..__, __.,__do you preIer to work?

 

Once a weck_____. Morning

In ening

 

____.__......_._With what age group

I'leasc indieate names of others who might be interested in serving their community.

NAME

_ # __. +..Al)l)lil".SS____.

I’l.l'..-\SI°. Illu'l'l'llh THIS FORM TOM

48

 

I’IIONF

 

 

It rzcnizx'riox

SAMPLE DAILY SCHEDULE (Two leaders with volunteer assistance)

 

TIME CHILDREN UNDER 8 CHILOREN 8 - II CHILDREN I2 and over

Get out equipment, inspect apparatus and play areas, mark courts and fields, distribute game supplies, post
announcements, organize groupst

H - _ - — - —-—_ _— — —- —— -—_————-I--I- H__H—-— _——-—_-
0 Group games ) Low organized games"I Informal team a groups gamest
R Singing games).§ hour 95°“ Apparatus play # Table games #
H Apparatus play # Team and group games ** Stunts and tests *
I: ATTENDANCE TAKEN _AREAS CLE_ANEO_ _ _ _ __ __ _ _ _
6 Sand box play # league games *3 Handcraft *

Block building # Handcraft, quiet games * Nature activities **

Handcraft * Nature activities * Quiet games #

Story telling ** Badge tests and stunts ** Badge tests and stunts 3*

NOON HOUR CHECK IN MATERIALS
PREPARE FOR AFTERNOON PROGRAM
A —__—H_ _ _ _ - _ — — _ _ "——————_ —_—— —— _——_—-
F Sand box # Group games * 1ndividua1 games #
T Apparatus # Husic, dramatics, story telling ** Athletic events **
E Apparatus play # ~ Organized team games 3
R -—————__ —- — ——-__—_ - — — — _ — — — — — _ — _ —————
N ATTENDANCE TAKEN
0 Low organized games * Contests, Tournaments * Organized team games **
0 Sandbox & apparatus play # Handcraft ** Preparation for coming events #
N Watching other events # Special features — preparations # Handcraft **
DINNER HOUR CHECK IN MATERIALS CHECK PLAYGROUND PLAYGROUND USED INFORMALLY

   
      
 

  
  
 

  

Self-organized games
Watching other .
activities #

Iesgue games in softball,
volleyball, archery,
horseshoes, etc. *

Free play,
Quiet games

 

‘ Indicates leader directed
" " ualunteer leader (juniar or adult) '
a Indicates free play - may have leadership, if available.

SAMPLE WEEKLY SCHEDULE

TUESDAY HEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY

Golf

   
 
  
  
   
      
  
  
  

SATURDAY

  
   
 
 
  
 

I!"
a

Golf Instruction Golf Tennis Instruction Golf

  
  
   
 

  
   
   
 

    

  

   
 

D Group Games Lou Organized Music Activities Group & Singing Free Play Tests
R Singing Games Games (orchestra) Games Preparation and

N Apparatus Play Tests & Stunts Tests & Stunts Softball League for Stunts
I Softball league Handcraft Music Activities Games Special

N Gamea (band) Handcraft weekly Group
G Story Telling Handcraft Feature

An Dccasiona! Picnic

   
   
   
  
   
     
 

  
   
  
  
 

   
 

  
   
 

Apparatus Play Story Telling Group Games Husic Preparation
Table Games Dramatics Instrumentai Dramatics for Special
Sandbox Music Group Practice Story Telling Features
league Contests Handcraft Hiking Special

Sandbox Preparation for league Contests Swimming Weekly
Apparatus Play Tournaments & Club meetings Feature
Special Contests

zouzmm—I-nr-

An Occasional Heiner Roast and Bonfire Sing

 
    
    
  
    
 

      
  

   
    
   
   
   
   
     

    
  
    
    
   
 

   
  
  

    
     

     
    
   
 

    
     
  
   
 

     
     
  

E Volleyball League Contests Preparation league Contests Volleyball
V Archery For High School for For High School Archery

. E Horaeshoe Boys & Girls Speciai Boys & Girls Horseshoe
N Deck Tennis Features Aerial Darts
I Aerial Darts, etc. league Games Conl'nunity Night League Games Deck Tennis
N league Games for Women Band Concerts for Men Quoits, etc.
G for Men Special Features league Games

for Women

fate:' Children nat in jarual activity nay utilize ecuibaent and space nat required far the directed pragraa.

Arrangements may be made far free use af lacal galf caurse by high schaal students during early morning haurs when it is nat
in great demand by regular club members.

Requests for instruction in galf and tennis might be satisfied by scheduling an haur per seek for sass instructian in each
af these activities.

'u

APRIL 1952 49

COMMUNITY VOLUNTEER FORM—Among the many types of record fomis that are suggested for

use in connection with the summer reereation program is one relating to volunteers. A form of this type
is helpful in reeruiting volunteers and in using them effectively.

NAMF
.sDDRt-Lss- _ _ _ _ __..__.

PHONE IBU‘.'. ...._.____ _ tiles)- Do you have a car?

too need not be highly skilled in an activity in order to serve as a volunteer. The essential requirements are an interest
In the aetntty or program. Please check any of the following which you would like to teach or supervise.

SEX— AGF

Date of this report...._.__.____.____

 

 

 

 

     
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
   

   

    
   

 
 
 

 

 

  

 

 

       
 
   

    

 

 

THIS BIG ILLUSTRATED

LEATHEBCBAPT

CATALOG AND GUIDE

LARSON LEATHERCRAFT
FOR CRAFTS CLASSES

Complete Stock - Prompt Shipment
Leather-trait Is our only Imsiuess. and nor stock is the
tarxesl and most complete In America. That Is why you
can always depend upon Immediate and complete shlp-
Inenl ol nrsters sent to us. “'hether your requirements
are lor lseginners' kits needing no tools nr esperienee. l0r

se youn ho s and girls. ol' tooling leathers. supplies
an touts or o rler. more advanced students or hobbyists.

be spre to check the LARSON LEATltlithIIAFT CATA-
l.0(. firs]. “(site today lor your Fltl-JE co 3* ol our big il-
lustrated Catalog and Guide to latest lxatiiereralt proieets.

J. C. LARSON COMPANY

The Foremost Name In leothereroft

820 S. Trlpp Ave., Dept. 1507, Chicago 24, III.

J. C. LARSON (0., Dept. 1507
"O 5. lepp Ave" Chicago 24. Ill.

Please send me a FREE copy ol your latest
Illustrated Catalog and Guide to Leathereralt.

   
 
  
     
   
  
  
 
 

 

ATHLETICS CLUBS DANCING HOBBIES OUTDOORS SOCIAL
ACTIVITIES
E] Boy .‘ieouts E] Paper I] Folk E] Photography E] Camping [1 Danees
E] Cubs E] Wood E] Square E] Stamp E] Cooking E] Parties
E] (:irlScouts E] Metal E] Tap Colleeting E] llieyeling E] Picnics
E] Brownies E] Oil Painting E] Ballet [1 Coins E] flail Casting E] Tours
E] E] Camp Fire I] Water Colors E] Modern [:1 Flowers E] Fly Casting E] Community
I] Swimming Girls I] Drawings E] lnseels E] Hunting meetings
I] Football E] YMCA E] Steneilling ~ I] Others I] Hiking E] Storytelling
E] Golf I] 4-H E] llloek DRAMATILS ' E] Nature Lore E] Cards
E] Hockey E] F. F. A. Printing E] Stageerafl
Q . . .
E ;::i:::g E  [:1 {affirm 3  HOME ARTS MUSIC WELFARE
E] Softball Clubs?_____ E] Sewing E] Puppetry E] Cooking E] CrOUp singing I] Pro-school
E] Volleyball E] Chureh E] Others I] Marionettes E] Deeorating E] Choral groups I] Nursery
E] F... Clubs?_ - E] Others I] liaud E] Houtevisits
E] Garden I] Orchestra E] Service to
Clubs'.’___ - E] Instruments Handicapped
E] Others - (kinds)

Sammy: 766md

Playground flours

Adaptation of the hours of summer playground opera-
tion to tncct local conditions is reported in Peoria. Illinois.
For a number of years the Peoria playgrounds were Open
afternoons and evenings. A check of the attendance records
showed the evening participation to be approximately twice
that of the afternoon. Several of the playgrounds have little
or no shade, and the recreation authorities believe that the
heat during the afternoon hours cut down on the partici-
pation. Last year, therefore. the playgrounds were open
during the morning and evening hours. with the result
that the morning attendance nearly equalled that during
the evening. Thus, the total attendance was increased ap-
proximately twenty-five per cent. The plan of closing the
playgrounds during the afternoon was. therefore. continued
in Peoria during the 1951 season. Children are encouraged
to visit the swimming pools during the afternoon. The new
schedule has been accepted with enthusiasm by lIoth adults
and children.

Colf

ln Cincinnati. Ohio. high school students are given spe-
cial golf lesson rates of twenty-five cents per lesson. This

NAMEHLTP .__—_-__. _-T o _ .
appltes through thc summer before tcu tn the morning two
AIJDIIEoo. . . . 1
days a week at each course. and after tno-thtrty In In-
CITY— STATE

———_——_-_

I
I
I
I
:
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
l
L.

afternoon on these days during the school year.

RECREATION

PARTIES

0:5:00. >:: :0:5::0..0 55 50:5: :0 0:5: :5:.. 0:50 5:: :5... 5 2:.
7.02.0. :.00: 05030:: :..5€::m. Q: :5:. w: 5:: 00 0:. 50 5: 4.5:0:0
4:500.

:.020 3.00. :<:0.:0..:: 00:50:. > :5:: 00::5::::m 5:005: :...0:::.-:....0
0::00:0 :0 :.5000: 5.0.5:. :0:5:.0..0 55 50:5: :0 :00:: 0:000::. 5: :5
0:....00:0. 4.5:: :0 55.000: 5:: :5:: :...::0 :5:: :02... 9.0:. 0:505
5.5 0:52: 50 0:00: 0: :...05:. :5:: ..::m. :5::::. :00:0::. :5... ..0:0:000r.
05:.0:5:0... 00:32.0. 5.55:: m00..0. 50:55: 55.5.. 0: 003.00: 053:0.

509:0 M5“. w:::::0:: 00:50:. 35:53 5:
::.:0 5:05 55 55:. 0:0 5: 5 :::5. :00.
:.::: 5 0050:. 2:55 :5:: 55 :0::::.
:0::0:. 5:: @500 :02: 0:.0:::..m ::.::m0
:5:: 5:. :0 :5:. 5:5: :5:. 5.0. $0.00:
:.. 0:.5..m0 0: ::.:0 550 #0050 :5 002.0.
03.005 :5:: 5:. :0 0:5: 55:: ::0:::0
0::0:. 05:05m0. 0:5000. 50:01.5. 0:50.
550:. 7.00:: 005:0. :020... m00..0" 50:55:
..:...:00.. 0: 03.005 ::0:::::0:.

 

:45 :00: 9:.le» 550 00.3.3 50 5 :.5..:::m m..0:::. > :5: 5:: m:..:
5.5 0:500: 50 :.0 :.....:0.. 5:: :5 w:::. :00::. 55 :.:::::0::0:.

:25...“ :0:. :5: :5:: :5::0 0.. :5 550 5: :5 03.00::0 02:03.
5:: 5: :5 0:m:5: :02: ::5 55:0... 0:5..: :0 :.000 552...: :5 57:0. :5
m:..: :..:.::m :0 500:: :5 :5: 27:0 :.0 :..:00 :0 055:. :50. :0::. :.05
0:02;. 5:: :::0:::. 00 50 :0 :55.. :5 0:5...0 5055050. >: :5 0:50:..
.<:.:0:. 5:.<5:.0 02:00 50 5 023.55 0:35:00 :0 :5:. :5 :.....5.. 5::
:5 :5::0:. 5 :0... 005.5 :0 0730:. >::0.. :20 0.. :...00 005:0:00 :55
:.:5:.0:. :55 :5 :50: h.m:::.. ::::0:::. 550.5: 5:: 5.2.0 :55M:.0 55
5:5: 50 :5 :.:::0.. 00:::::3 :0 :..:. 5:: :0055 :.0...

::....2: 25::0:5: :w00..05:0.. 4...5:..::m :..0::..:0. 7.5350 0::... 3:0.
0050::

9.00:: :0:

:55 :.0: :5 :0::0s.:..m .:5:0..:5:0 0: :.0:.. :0..0:000:0:5: 0:.0:<00..V
15:51:: 5 U:::0.. :0.. > 20:50 5:: 65:575.. 152:.

:1 3 .................................................................... _. m.:o
4.55055 2.55 9:0 ME: .......................................... .. ma:
05:: 2:.5::3 25:0 :3: .............................................. : m.ww
:::00.. 055:5: 9:0 wow: ........................................ .. m.:m
m.:0::0 100%.550 3:0 mm: ........................................ _. $9....
mu<0..:.:00::..0 w:n::.:5:. m.5..::. 3. M3 ......................... .. m.:o

O..:0.. :..0:. 25:0:5: :w00..0m:0: >0000:5::0:. gm :..0:n:. >40-
:50. 20:. <01: 3.

(Fold Back)

500:5: :..: 5::

55:45::4- unv—wmvm
HG: whim-7A“

      

.\..\&..\\\.\§\\§\\\
1\\\\\N\n§\\\\\\\x

E55 M0: H~:0::. . .. I I I.

:... @0050 :505300Tl07557 50:5: 55 m5: :0 55:50.. :5:: :00
050:. 5 30:00:. 5:: :0 00.....0 :5 205:. G00 :5:... 00.:E:::::. 00:50
:50::::00 :: :.000::.:0“ :: :0:. 25 0: :5 0:55:50 2. 00:5 0:50 :005:
m..0::. 05: :5 5.0.55: :0 00::..::0::0 :50:::::00. 4.5:: 5:::0 5:53
5:: :050::0:0 0: :0.<0..0 55:50 0:00:03 :000..5::0:0 :0.. ::.:0. 0:0 0..
:50 00.::.:::::. 5:30:05 :5:. :00 55505.: :: 5:5::::m 50 @505.
5:: m:<::m 5 :0..:0: :::0...:5: 5::. 4.50 0.5:: 5.05:: :00 00:50:55.
535555 :0 5::. 00:52.5: :.. :.0:.. :005::::..

:5. M0055 Mm: U000S::..m: 3053:]
:0: 5:. :.0 0mm0 5:55: 0: :...0 5::
:5: :5:. 0:: 0: 5 520 5::. :505.
:.5..:. 05:5 05:5... :.5:..:. :500 5::.
:..m. :05:5..0 00 0::5.. 0:3 5:: 0::0
0: 255.5: :5: :0:: ::5...00:..00 :0

 

::.:0 :.....:.000. m...0<::0 02:0 0:.::.:0
:...::0...0..:0 :0 $.01». 5::. 5:: 0:5..: :5 :5:: :0:. :5<::m :20 0.. :500
@0525 05055::. 20:25 0: :5 0mm0. <23: :..:: ::.5: 0:.0..:.0:0 :0
:00r::m 5.05:: ::5.: :.. :0 ::.:0. 505:: :: :5:. 05: :5:... 4.:5 :5:
05.. :5 :.::5..:0:0. 5:: 5: :5 0:: 0: :5 0:.0:::m. :...:N00 05: :0 m:<0:
:0.. :5 :.00:. :5:..:00:. 5:: 00 0:.

:: O:::.:...:.0.. Q:::.0:.:ml>0:h 02.5 :005: 0::.:::55 :0 00:5 :: 5::
5:: 0:00:00 0: :005: :::0:0..:. 5:: 0:50.553. 4...:. :0 :..: 02:0 00:0...
:..: 05055. 5.70 05: :...::m 0:: 55:50.0. 5.05:0:0 0.. 0:5.. :5:.0::00
0: :5 :50:. .9: 0:0 0.5:. m5::5..::m. 5 5:05.. ::0:0:5::0: :500::5::m.
0:: ::5..:00 0: 05..::. 00:::0..0 5:: 0H:m:.5: 0023 0: :..5..050::0:0 ::
555.. 1:75 5::. :5 7:02:05: m0:.0.......0::. :: :.:M:.: :00 5550::m ::
00:50.5 :5: :.5:0 5 00::00::0: 0: :.:.0:0m..5:.:.0 0.. :00:m:0 0: 0::
0:::00 :.. 0:250 :05 :5:. :.0: 5:: 20:5?

"‘
as
‘-

PAHTII

: m::h:_._ 2.5.5 :5. 8.5m «5.5. 485:: m:_.:::1 m5 .:=:.& 83...:

._ ...8: .N. .8: .m ..8: ".1 £83.. .859: 8.8.0 ...m:._ :5. .5 8::
898:... :5m .15.... .5: 855:: 1.5. 85. 55:1 85:... :. 137.: «5 8.95..
5::m 8—5:. :5. 1.2.3:: 18mm...— 5 8.5::m:5 :m::_ :: :..:::m....:..
5: 8:53 .:.:::..8: 5: 95:: < 485:: @5883. 18.5 8.3:: 35...:

18185. 855:: 55:1 85:... 8.51. 58m 18:5. 5::...
.5 3:5 : 95.: :5: 85a. m: 8—18: x::5 m: m1:8:5. 8....1— 5....8 1::
.85... m. 159.... < 1.85. .5: 15.7... : 1:: A88 :m..:_ .38... 8:8,...
.5: 5.5.. : .85 8...:_._ 58:”.— ..8...:: m.._1:::5..8_18:./. .925 31:.“

i: 185.5.— m::85 .5: 855:: _::.:: 8:8... 5:5. :3 ..
8...: 1:: 3555...... 5: 5.8:. .3 85.: :5. :. 
.5: 8:: 5:: 5.85 8.8.5:. 58.51. 5::me : .4.
.58.— ..o :3 m. 2:: ::O .m._:: 81:.— .::::5... :5.
1:: 35:55:. :3. 5...: 1:132.— mm 8.3—.— 5::m_ M
.91....553 5...: 5:85 a: 955:...— .::Q :33:

1:581 .3 .::.5m :5 .h::. 85:: 155. 1:: 1::8... 5.5..— .m:_.: :88
5mm: .83... x1... :: .: 81:... 8:8... :5. 9511: .>.__:. 85 .8 :..::m
5:: 85 2.85 8.5—.— 5::m £855... :: 8:: 885—. .8::..5::::m
:5. m5 2...... 5:8 ::.. 1::....:::: mm 85.55 :8. :: a»... .5: 5:5— :5:
< .m.8:m 85.: :5. h: 8::.: 55.... 12.5.5.8: 85:85 8...:1. .38.»:
1:: 8—5:. .5: .: 18.5:81 m.5:5 .3 1:85.555: m. .5: o: .5... .55. :_
@5833: 5:8... .: mm:__.::m:: 8.5:. 85. .: .8m::_ 815:... :5. :...:m
7:... 85. 8.3: .m:mm::.w::._ 25:. 58:: .: 85:8 5......— 85. 85:... 3:... :5.
.5: 1:: :5. .4. 8—5:. 5:8 .: 88.95.— :::.. 5...... 15.5.5158: 8...:m
.: 855:: 39.8.5 1:: .3588: .1 88.... 8—5:. “rm—5:5 5m .5 8m

85:0

$5.: 85 81:: ._:::m : 5.5m
:5... :. 181::m8._ :5 :8 .8:.::_:., 18.81.. 1:: 12885185.:
:58 :: 5:513. 595 85. .: 88:55. .5mzm:m :: .::.::1 :5. 8...:
.38.. 1:: 5.1.5:: .5: .1818: m_ 8:..150 .m::m.::1::._ 18: :. m...
.m8:m::: .A__::.88 1:: m5:— 5::.. 55.. @518: .5 .::.::1 m::_8m
o:::. .5 1388.... 8:585 .1... 5.55.: ::::m w 1::.::. .::.m : :5
:8 £5... 5: :m 1:: £95.85 £25855... 5.8:... .: .858: >.._:::::::
:5. .: m._:::w 85.: :3 :85. 8.5m 1:: .=: :. 5.15.... 888.898
.351 5:5: 5...... a: 85:... I: 5 m: ::._ :5. ::.. .m:_.lu:_._::._ m:::.h .5:
:53... m1: $5.259.— 85. .zaluaaru :: 55:0 EzEQ :....:.~:.~.:m :1.

5.5: :85. .5: mm...85.:m 1.8:"...
:: $5.88.: :Q:53_::.:: m:_1_:5 5.5.55.5. m::_::> :5. u: :25:
$1551: :5. 55.: 5.5.5358: 95.58.: 100m m:E:_:81 85:: 18::
.585: : 8.58585. 95.5w .3 85.5.. .88 5 8555:... :8 ::::w

A...qu

0

Line)

(Fold Along Th

:5. 1:: .::::_::._8 .::.::._:5 5... m. 8:1..8... .5: mi...»— ....._:::m 5.5.
::.. :: :m 1:: .8...:w .51....— ._:::m 6.3. WEI—5. .85:w 1:: 3:9—
m5.8=.8 {83:5 81.8.. .5 E5351 .m::..:......:_ .5:— 1:: 85:5
13:8 1_: .8.::5 £85.15: .m_:.m._u...5 78.5 .5: «.18.. :5. .._u.::::_.:::
>.1:..... .5: 8.5558 :: &:::m <1..5:.::......5 1:54 :. 8......8m.

T1”..- . ....:....:8:. 1.
1:3 .55. :. 28m: 18— ___.$ .mwd. =5... .5 18553:.— m....x_ :11“...
51.15558... 85.3%. 3:: 85.... .7..— _::5:... 5mm; 1:185:58: :
5:: 18.81.... :8... 5.5.85.5.— ...3_::= 5w:::5._. 35:0 5......8.’
.1< :4... 5 95:8 $51.8: :m::::::: e. .81.... 855:: : 125:1.
m8w:.:8. m:::.h m5: .5: :_ .wm._:1: w:::.. 81—: 8.. :3... :: :55».
1:: m5.— _:c._:m 5E5 ::.. “.518: 19%. 13.5559. 31...... :5. 5:
:53. 5:5 35.. 51— 3:... .55.... 5:. 55. .8ww:... .c: .5... 81.9....
.0551 :. 9.58:5... >.8> .:: ::: «3:58: 5.55 :.:..ml.......:.:.u «9.5 1.

.858 :c .8. .8358
lum.:::.58:..8: Em: :...::m 1:: 5.1.3.9.. .5 :5 5... 55. 8.55.8: .5:
.858: 5:.“ :85. .::._m ....5:::.:.:: :5. :. 5...: :5... 85:3... :.
5.55.: .5 .5... 1::m : 1:: 2:55.553: 51555:: 1::w 5.5528
:. 5.55.: .5 .5... 28:88 :: .5 .55... .51 5...: =8 :. :c c... 1::
685:8... 1:85 .5818— 25: .8:— .m.:..::.. 885.... .2... £55525:
.5 8:51... .358: 1:: 2.81:.— m.._m::5 182 58.. 81.0.... :55—
.8...:: 55:55:... 53. :. 5:5 ....::._....:5 : 5.55:.8 2......—

:5. 55:88:... >.:1::m :: ...:1::.:.r. 855.: :O .. 45:: .9..1z..5:2 1.

6:38.275. ...5.8:1: 5:73.51
.82 w::.:: 5:: 25.55.... :5 15:5: .55....818— 8:55.... .55..
1:: 125:: .85 5:“ .5 15:557. .8:8.5..8.. w:::.. 5.. :.. 5......—
_::5..¢. 5.5.5 185 ::n_ll..:::0 MESSFh 1:... "venom 5518...: V

81.5555. 55. :3. .5: mt...— 5:5
:85. :3 8.5:: : 8.5% :5 1—5.5... .550 535..
:5 3.1.55 .57. 2:881 :. :: 38.81 : 55..
E1 5.. 5:55:81 :5. 5.. ...:.:::.. :5. 3.5 «25:.
158.7. 85:5 :. :25 .595.— m:::.. 1.. 15:2,.
.:.:..: 1:58—85 52.1.8.5 : .5 :5...— _:...5 a a:
.35.... 8:8... :1...— 57. .1- .835 35¢ .52. V

 

1:3... 85...: .._.....::_::=5 : :. 985.755.: 5.25.5581 1::
5:8: : w:_:5 :1: 5 55. 5:. 1:5 :5... :3.» .1.....:_.:.u .5181 95 :1:
:5...» .5: 8:5. .55. 5. :15... 87:”.— 1983. :3 _::_m....:_: .5: 8.555
:85... 5:5: .5: .m:_85.:m ...:: .: ...:_.::1::..5 2:. 8.3.3:. 8.5.1

Same/(4&4? W
m PLAYGROUNDS

Tm; PARKSIDE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
in Silver Springs, Maryland, last week
completed, with father-labor, an imagi-
native new playground which should
help to revise present-day concepts of
equipment for public play areas for
children. The playground was con-
ceived and designed by Samuel Sny-
der, young electronics engineer with
the navy department, when he was
chairman of the Parent-Teacher Asso-
ciation Playground Committee.

The design of the playground is di-
reetly related to the school’s philoso-
phy of “learning through doing,” and
to the desire of the staff for play
equipment on which the children may
use their imaginations as well as their
muscles. It also provides continuous
activity for large numbers of children,
thus circumventing the age-old play-
gronnd problem of the more aggres-
sive children taking over, while the
shyer and smaller children spend most
of their time waiting their turn.

The playground is a concrete and

Reprinted through the courtesy of The
American City, New York.

APRIL 1952

Helena Braddock Lamp

 

Run, jump, climb, crawl, hide! Fun on concrete and cinder-block structures.

cinder-block structure, sixty by sixty
feet, embracing ramps and steps for
running and jumping, three culverts
for crawling through, a Hreman’s pole
for sliding and shinnying, an “inching
ledge” along which the children can
creep by clinging to the bare wall,
and even a “secret” passage. The only
items that are subject to weather and
wear are movable dowel sticks that
can be placed into apertures in the
walls to form ladders and shinnying
bars. There is an amphitheatre, suita-
ble for outdoor classes, seating seventy-

five children. There are also a number

of auxiliary structures surrounding
the central one. They include a small
house for playing “dolls” or “store” or
“pirate’s lair,” a foxhole, an airplane,
a ship, a spiral staircase, a hop-scotch
court, jump-off ledges, hurdles, and a
corral. So sturdy is the eonstruetion
that there will be little if any cost for
deterioration and replacement.
Careful attention was given to the
safety features of the structure, which
rises in one place to a height of eight
feet. The children are protected on the
higher ramps by an iron railing with
openings too small for them to be

53

pushed through. in the spring, a mix-
ture of sand and sawdust will soften
the ground around jumping ledges. in
the three months of the playground’s
operation, there have been fewer cuts
and bruises than on the conventional
graveled playing field according to a
report by the principal.

“’liole Community Helps Out

To make the playground financially
feasible for the PTA treasury, Mr.
Snyder hit upon the novel idea of hav-
ing the fathers of the school‘s four
hundred children act as volunteer con-
struction men. Except for land-clearing
by a board of education bulldozer, all
work of excavating for foundations,
brick-laying, form-building, and so
forth, was done by crews of fifteen or
twenty volunteers, working two or
three evenings a wcekoand all day
Saturdays and Sundays, over a two-
month period. The PTA was thus able
to provide a ten thousand dollar struc-
ture for a cost of two thousand six
lnmdred dollars, all of which has been
raised during two school years by an
annual Christmas Book Fair and an
annual Spring Fair.

in the

.9]
./
I I

54

lEADEHS

The playground project had a uni-
fying effect upon both the school and
the community. With ninety per cent
of the fathers participating on con-
struction, and the mothers cooperating
on fund raising (they also served eof-
fee and doughnuts at most work ses-
sions), the PTA was welded solidly
together. In the community widespread
interest was aroused. The volunteer
fire department supplied scarcblights
for night work, the park commission
gave log railing, a local factory do-
nated lumber for concrete forms, and
radio stations and newspapers in the
vicinity took the initiative in publi-
cizing the project.

Even the children had a hand in
building their playground. Many older
boys helped their fathers lay bricks,
and the sixth graders who were study-
ing conservation used an eroded hill
behind the structure as an object-les-
son. They constructed drains, a retain-
ing wall, steps down the hillside, and
covered the slopes with planting to
stop the erosion and beautify the area.
They carried the project into art and
mathematics classes by running a

, sum: 51,,
s“ "33>

HIllERlEHEBRAllSBYU

. 

_/'/7// r 

   

school bazaar of children-made objects
to finance the shrubbery.
Children Enthusiastic

The real test of the playground came
when it was turned over to the chil-
dren, who greeted it with wild cn-
thusiasm and use it at every oppor-
tunity. As one small boy put it, “Cce,
you can play some real games on this!
lt's.better than some old swing where
you wait all the time, and then you
just sit there, anyway.” As many as
two hundred children have used the
playground simultaneously with activi-
ty for all.

A number of schools and communi-
ties across the nation have inquired as
to how to build and how to finance
similar structures. The Parksidc chil-
dren, the school staff and the PTA are
all so enthusiastic about their challeng-
ing new play area that they hope to
make the ideas accessible to many
other groups. The playground is stimu-
lating and satisfying to the children.
It is durable and inexpensive to keep
up; and through volunteer labor, it
can be feasible financially even for the
relatively small school or community.

       

   

     
  
      
  

J UISVILLE swoon:

Choice of the Champions in every league

RECREATION

by Bernard Ballantine

HOT 006‘. This is it!

 

SINCE EVERYONE Is MAKING a survey of one kind or

another these days, I might as well get into the swim
and tell the many readers of RECREATION magazine about
the results of the survey I took one warm afternoon last
summer at Briggs Stadium, home of the Detroit Tigers.
This survey was made with the thought of trying to find
out whether baseball is still our national pastime. (Some-
where I had heard that television was pressing baseball
for the number one rating.)

Without mincing any words or using a lot of boring
statistics, let’s take the survey, proceeding from character
to character. The first person talked to was usher number
eleven.

“Mr. Usher,” 1 Opened up, “do you think baseball is
still our national pastime, or do you prefer television or
maybe even checkers?”

“I dunno, sir,” he replied. “All I know is that my pct
corn is kicking up quite a fuss today, and I would like
to go home. If I could leave now, I’d make it home in
time to see and hear Hopalong round up those eulprits he
was after yesterday.”

Realizing l wasn’t making much headway with my sur-
vey, l shunted usher number eleven aside and grabbed a
peanut vendor by the arm.

“Say,” I addressed the goobcr mcrehant, “what do you

MR. BALLANTINE’S “surveys” in no may interfere with
his duties as director of recreation in Roseville, Michigan.

A mm. 1052

think of baseball as compared with the other sports?”

“Man, it’s the greatest game on earth. Why, there’s more
peanuts sold at baseball parks than at all other sporting
events combined. Without baseball the peanut business
would be just a shell of its present self.”

Encouraged by the peanut hawker’s claim, I made my
way to another part of the park so as to obtain a cross-
section View. My next subject was a hot dog dispenser.

“My good man,” I said to the puppy nlcrehant, “would
you mind telling me why you like baseball?”

“Likka da baseball? Likka da baseball?” he shouted.
“Meester, I likka da hot dogs. I sclla da hot dogs. You
take uppa my time. I gotta no time to talk da bascball. I
sclla (la hot dogs. You likka one, maybe, with mustard?”

“No,” I blurted, and down the aisle he went to dispense
his dogs and mustard, leaving me somewhat discouraged
and with a large gob of French’s special on my sport
shirt sleeve. I went to my seat and sat down, forgetting
about my survey until the seventh inning, when the Tigers
started a rally. In the midst of the rally, I recalled my
purpose for being at the stadium and arose to interview a
fan behind me.

“Mister,” I spoke to the fan politely, “what do you like
or dislike about baseball?”

“I can tell you what I dislike," he answered quickly,
“and that’s guys like you who stand up and block my
view, especially at a time like this. Sit down, you jerk.”

I responded hurriedly, sensing that I had had enough for
the day on the subject of baseball surveysmand hot dogs.
Some day maybe I’ll disclose the results of another vital
survey I made, but right now the buteher boy is knocking
at my door with the frankfurters my wife ordered. Did
I say frankfurters? I mean hamburger.

55

How To Do '1' 9 55_7§an1¢.%o_£

Make Sandais for Beach and Swimming Pooi.

 

 

MATERIALS

Sole lea‘iher.
Heawj “Felix

Canvas or \ea‘iher.
Cemen‘i‘ and ,Tacks.

H QQVLJ PQPQT'.

 

\. Trace foa‘r shape on heavu paper ~ boih riqhi anal \efi‘.
2. CUT OUT paper fooi shapes and cemeni i0 sole leaiher.

3. Cu‘i soie \eaiherucorreci Tooi shape si3e.

4. CUT Teii lininq % smailer on around

Than ieaiher sole sige. [wig/2:;
\\ 50/9 Leafher ’0
_\\
_—§\X
x-QA‘QQFe/z [in/r29 5.Cemen‘i ‘Feh‘ \ining
“\\§\ Leaf/79 50/9 To Ieaiher sole.
“ r

6. Make upper form To m foai .
[/58 (“0/71/05 or /€a)’/79r.

Fe/f : 5H
%/5% 59/ _, I

A leaf/7 er

7 5pm lea‘iher soie ai five poinis where upper ‘Form isio be
aiiached. Cemem‘ upper form ends in spl'n‘s and Tack.

    

56 RECREATION

 

No. 58-F Playground

All-Steel fon-shoped bonk
rigidly mounted on steel

 

no playground is complete without a

®mwna’”

Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

climbing structure

Safety. no maintenance, biggest play capacity per
square foot of ground area and per dollar of
cost—these are iust a few of the reasons why
JUNGLEGYM is admittedly the world's most famaus
playground device. Thousands are in daily use
from coast to coast. Why not give the children of
your playground the advantages of a JUNGLEGYM
. now?

Write for lllustroted Bulletin On Porter's

T952 Streamlined Line That Will Save
Yau Money . . . Time.

PORTER can supply you with these fundamental playground units, too!

 

No. 240 Merry-Go-Round

Will solely occornrnodote 30 children at
one time. Noiseiess, no-wobble, no-

 

swoy operation. An engineering mor-
vel, ond precision-mode. Guoronteed.
No. 136 StratoSphere See-Saw

Sensotionolly new. Gives “ups-o-doisy”
ride 33-] /3% higher thon conventionol
see-saw, yet sofer becouse of hoop
hondies, soddle seots ond level-seot
feoture.

      

No. 38 Combinatian Set

Offers six different kinds of funful, No' 109 SIX'SWInQ 59'
heolthfui ployground activity. A com- Built for sofe, permonent service. Sturdy

Basketball Backstop

most ond broced for permo- poct, economicol unit thot's ideol for lO-ft. frome held rigidly together by

nent service. Finishedto with-
stond the weother. Officiol.

T

APRIL 1952

iirnited ground oreos.
structed.

Ruggediy con- Tested Molleoble iron fitting of exciu-

sive Porter "bolt-through” deslgn.
s M“;

"‘“PORTER

IMANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMINO POOI. EOUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM*

Reg. U. S. Pot. OH.

CORPORATION

ILLINOIS

OTTAWA.

 

CLIMBING
STRUCTURE

The element of danger is continuous-
ly present on every playground, and
all possible precautionary measures
must be employed. Safety always
should he the primary eonsideration of
the recreation leader.

Although it is estimated that in-
telligent planning and operation will
eliminate at least fifty percent of play-
ground accidents, the fact remains that
accidents can and do oeeur.

A playground should be clean.
'l'houghtless persons sometimes leave
broken bottles, sharp edged empty
cans and similar trash where it can
be picked up or stepped on by playing
children. liven an unbroken bottle can
soon become a jagged piece of glass
if it is left where a child can get his
hands on it.

Since no playground leader, no mat-
ter how well trained, ean possibly he
in all places and see in all directions at

 

Thme not swinging should stand back.

once, it belmmes both parents and
ehildren to eooperate to the fnllest ex-
tent in order to maintain a safe play-
ground.

Children's cooperation is obtained
at the playgrounds in Burbank. Cali-
fornia. bv the appointmcnt of safety
Ma. karma serves Burbank, Cali/or
nia. m the superintendent of recreation.

58

A Safe

Playground

for Every Child

patrols made up of youngsters ranging
in age from nine to fifteen. Members
of the patrols are given arm bands
designating their authority. Adults also
render valuable assistance by acting
as volunteer supervisors of wading
pools, assisting with tiny tot programs,
and hy calling any hazardous condi-
tion to the attention of the leader.

Safety is the purpose of at least
ninety percent of all playground rules.
lf the leader says, “Don’t ride your
bike on the playground." he is merely
trying to prevent some tot from being
run down. lf he says, “Don't park it
in front of the building." his objective
is to keep someone from falling over
it.

Few, if any, reereation leaders like
to keep saying. “No. You can't do this
r -you can't do that.” People come to
playgrounds for only one purpose. and
that is to have a good time. The leader
knows this and tries to go along—dint
there still exists the problem of safety.

For that reason rules are set up and
must be followed. If children and their
parents are familiar with these simple
regulations and willineg cooperate
with the director. it will make for bet-
ter leadership and a happier. safer
playground.

In ballgames: l’lay only in desig-
nated areas away from other activities

\Villiam F. Keller

and where there is little likelihood of
the ball rolling into the street; never
throw the bat; spectators stand back:
no baseball spikes in the lower age
groups; no hard soled shoes in basket-
ball.

In swings: Those not swinging keep
back; do not climb framework: no
jumping off while swing is in motion:
no standing or other acrobatics; never
run aeross the swing area.

On slides: Slide feet first; no run-
ning up slidc; climb the ladder only;
keep hands away from sides when
coming down; he sure front of slide
is elear before coming down.

Teeterboards: Warn other person be-
fore getting off; no standing; do not
bounee.

General: No throwing of rocks or
sand; keep out of play areas of other
games; wrestling or rough house only
on mats or lawn; stay off walls, fences,
high plaees: do not bring dangerous
toys such as air rifles, sling shots. and
so on, to the playground: do not at-
tempt to lift heavy objeets beyond your
strength.

Safety regulations vary at each play-
ground. but the general pattern re-
mains the same. If we all employ cour-
tesy. common sense and consideration
for others. there will be Very few ac-
eidents.

RECREATION

 

   

RECREATION

is one of t/ae fields in w/oz'c/a
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this
monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS -- Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES — Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATHLETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
IIOME ROOMS - Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

I’EI’ ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS —Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music. commencement, point systems, etc.

‘D

Subscwptz'on Price  Subscribe Now

School Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

 

APRIL 1952 59

 

Bleachers

In San Francisco the recreation and
park connnission has installed gal-
vanized steel portable bleachers in
seven of its sixty-five playgrounds and
plans to provide bleachers in all the
play fields as the budget permits. At-
tcndance at both youngsters’ games
and the industrial leagucs’ games has
increased noticeably. The product of
Beatly Safway Scaflold. Incorporated
of San Francisco, these bleachers in
sections six rows high acconunodatc
two hundred fifty-two persons. A sec-
tion this size can be erected and taken
down by two men in half a day. Cal-
vanizcd stecl requires no painting,
making maintenance economical. A
safety feature of the engineering design
lies in the even distribution of stresses
and strains.

 

Swimming Pool Manual

.A new twelve-page swimming pool
manual titled, “So You're Going to
Iluild a Pool." may be obtained by
writing to Koven Steel Swiunning
l’ools, Incorporated. I51 Ogden Ave-
ltlle. Jersey City 7. t\cw Jersey. The
manual discusses the advantages of a
steel swimming pool and gives full
design. Constrnetion and erection de-
tail-a of the Kovcn large and standard
pools. I'iach design feature is elearly
illustrated by drawing: or sketehcs.

Baseball Bats

Ilanna Iiatrite Bats for baseball and

60

softball recently celebrated their twen-
ty-fifth year of manufacturing. Their
bats range in price from thirty-five
cents for a miniature model fifteen
to eighteen inches in length and a
natural as a novelty souvenir or party
favor, to the professional quality and
weight models at $3.85. A detailed
price list and catalog may be obtained
by writing to The llanna Manufactur-
ing Company, Athens, Georgia.

1952 Catalog

W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation has
announced the publication of its new

athletic cquipmcnt catalog. Illustrated
in color, this thirty-two page booklet
carries an Olympic Games motif
through its layout and artwork. Over
eighty items are described, including
some new ones, such as safety mouth
protectors, adjustable swim-fins, dc-
luxc custom swim-mask, and others.
Write to a Voit oflice in Los Angclcs.
Chicago or New York.

Biddy Basketball

Modeled after Little League Base-
ball is a project known as Biddy Bas-
kctball. lScc Racnas'nox Magazine,
October 1950, page 270.) As it caters
to ages eight to thirteen, playing sites
and equipment are tailored to measure.
Baskets are placed eight and one-half
feet from the floor. which is reduced
in size to fifty by thirty feet. The ball
is only tw(.-nty-eight inches in circum-
ferenee.

The Seamless llnbbcr Company.
New Haven 3. Connecticut. manufac-
turcs their Kolitc ball in this special
size for Iiiddy Basketball. Information
about the game itself may be obtained
by writing to its originator. Jay
Archer. 601 Brooks Building. Scran-
ton. I‘cnnsylvania.

Bat Bak

Endorsed by army and navy sports
and recreation oflieers, Bat Bak com-
bines features of paddle handball and
table tennis. A portable backboard,
which may be set up on its own table
or on a table tennis regulation table.
the game may be played solo or with
two players. N0. T-S, packed with two
sets per carton, $37.50 retail, $30.00
institutional price. No. [3-20, one set,
$43.75 retail. $35.00 institutions. Bat
Bak, Box 1133. G.P.O., KY. 1, N.Y.

Garden Sprayers

With garden club season under way
there will be much experimenting to
combat insects effectively. Ray Sanders
and Company. National Distributor.
220 Security Building, Pasadena 1,
California handles the new llayes Jr.
IV garden sprayer. It weighs three
pounds fully loaded with liquid or
powder insecticide. It attaches to the
garden hose and chemicals are
thoroughly mixed with running water
in internal jets. Water pressure does
the work of mixing and spraying. A
back-flow brcakcr valve prevents in-
secticidc from being drawn back into
the water stream. This four-gallon
model retails at $3.45. The two-gallon
IIaycs-Ette Il retails for $5.45.

 

Bar-lI-an Crill

About the size of a serving platter
this Table-Top Iiar-Ii-Que Grill lends
itself to picnic atmosphere when you
can't go farther than your dining room
or kitchen. A jigger of denatured al-
cohol poured over the glass wick in the
central burns with a
steady. odorless flame hot enough to
barbecue wccnics, kabobs or squab.
Made by Nahdgcc, Incorporated, 6172
W. North Avenue. Chicago 35, Illinois,
this grill retails for $15.95 prepaid.

pottery oven

RECREATION

 

AWARDS YOU CAN AFFORD

AAHPER YEARBOOK

DEVELOPING \’ - b. OVER 100 RECREATION
‘ DEPARTMENTS USING

DEMOCRATIC 

HUMAN OUR PLASTICTROPHYS
RELATIONS

lhrough WRITE TODAY FOR FREE SAMPLE
HEALTH EDUCATION,

PHYSICAL EDUCATION, 704 N_ MARI posA

 

     
     

For CLEAN, HEALTH FUL

DUSTLESS
PLAY AREAS

. . . Use Clean—Odorless

 

 

Considers the progressive ac-
quiring of democratic con-
cepts and attitudes from
childhood through early and
late adolescence, and adult-
hood. Applies to the fields of
health education, physical ed-
ucatian, and recreation, re-
cent research on methods and
techniques in group dynam-
ics, sociometry, social group
work, and general education.

Low Cost

  
    
  

SO LVAY

1504* “ml 000.0. 3. Pt“. C‘.

Want your playgrounds   I u m
athletic Holds, tennis courts c h I .
on d e

kept frce of annoying, germ-
bcaring dust? It’s easy with SOL-

VAY CALCIUM CHLORIDE. This

clean, colorless, odorless material completely eliminates
dust on practically all types of unpaved surfaces. It's in-
expensive and is casily applicd, even by inexpcrienced

help. Requires no cxpensive equipment. Makes play areas
better, safer, healthier places to play in. Used by sehool

   

     
      

  

      
   
   
   
   
   
     
   

562 pp. $4.25

ORDER TODAY

 

American Association for R" boards, park departments and tcnnis clubs for over thirty
Health, physical Education years. Solve YOUR dust problem with SOLVAY CAL.
1201 16th St. N.W., Wash., a.c. I __________ __

Please send me copies of the SENDFOR SOLVAY SALES DIVISlON
AAHPER Yearbook. FREE BOOK

Allied Chemical 8. Dye Corporation
40 Rector Street, New York 6, N.Y.

For complete infor-

. mation on methods

Cl Check enclosed El Bull me ofapplication, quan-

. tities required and

other details, send

Nome _ for free book—“END

DUST with Solvay

Calcium Chloride”.

-...._ ._... Contains important

automationblon the

- u at pro em. a s

C'ly'h ‘ m "‘ well as helpful in-

structions. Mailcau-

pan today . . . no
obligation.

with Solvay Calcium Chloride."

Nome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Street

 

...
|
l
|
l
Please send me, without obligation, your free book “END DUST :
|
l
l
|
l

I—-----—

 

APRIL 1952 61

 

putstamling
A texts . .

Introduction to
Community lloerontion

By George 1). Butler, National Recreation As-
sociation. Second Edition. 558 pages, $5.50

A popular hook dealing with the methods and
problems of organizing and administering a com-
mnnity recreation program. This text will give
the reader a comprehensive picture of community
recreation in the United States. It includes see-
tions covering the nature, extent, significance, and
history of community recreation; recreation lead-
ership personnel—its functions, training and se-
lection; the planning of recreation areas and
facilities; recreation activities and program plan-

nin g.

The Cannp Connsolor

By It. A. Benson, M. l)., New York Medical
College: and J. A. Goldberg, N. Y. Tuberculosis
and Health Association. AIcGrme-Hitt Series in
Health Education, Physical Education, and
Recreation. 337 pages, $4.75

Covers all phases of the child and child develop-
merit and problems that arise in camps in con-
nection with the physical, mental, emotional, and
social conduct of the individual. An exceptionally
comprehensive study, this test, well supplemented
with class-room aids, will he invaluable to anyone

connected with 'aqu administration.

Send for your copies on approval

.‘IolillA‘V-IIIIJ.
"00K (I‘DRII'ANY. INC.

330 \Vest 42nd Street New York 36, N. Y.

 

62

BOOKS RECEIVED

BIRTHDAY PARTIES FOR Bovs .xsn Guns. Mary Grosvenor
Ellsworth. Woman's Press, New York. $2.50.

CAMt’FtttE ADVENTURE STORIES. Allan A. Macfarlau. Asso-
ciation Press, New York. $2.95.

CIIILnIuas‘s Canes FROM an Lssns, edited by Nina
Millen. The Friendship Press, 156 Fifth Avenue, New
York. $2.00.

COMMUNITY Seances roe OLDER PEOPLE. Community
Project for the Aged of the Welfare Council of Metro-
politan Chicago. Wilcox and Follett Company, Chicago.

$3.00.

Cownor hummus: \VESTERN Soscs AND Loan. llarold \V.
Felton. Alfred A. Knopf, New York. $3.00.

CREATIVE DRAMATICS IN HOME, SCIIOOI. AND COMMUNITY.
Ruth Conscr Lease and Geraldine. Brain Siks. llarpcr
and Brothers, New York. $1.00.

FAMOUS NATURALISTS. Lorus ]. and Margery ]. Milne.
Dodd, Mead and Company, Ncw York. $2.50.

GATEWAYS T0 liEADABLE Booss. liuth Strang, Christine B.
Gilbert, Margaret C. Seoggiu. The ll. W. Wilson Com-
pany, New York. Second edition. $2.75.

llosIESPUN CRAFTS. E. Kenneth Baillie. The Bruce l’uhlish-
ing Company, Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin. 53.00.

H ORSEMASTERSHIP. Margaret Calicll Self. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $5.00. '

MAKING A START IN ART. Anna Airy. The Studio Publica-
tions, 432 Fourth Avenue, New York 16. $5.00.

    

OFFERS A IDE CHOICE
or PITCHING HORSESHOES

the Diamond
SUPER RINGER

Drop forged from
corbon steel. Heat
treated. Perfectly bol-
onced. Pocked in

poirs or sets of four
with stokes.

 

the Diamond
EAGLE RINGER

DrOp forged from spe-
ciol Diomond Horse-
shoe steel. Furnished
either hordened or soft,

dead tolling type.

  
  
 
    
 
   
 

the Diamond JUNIOR

For ladies ond children.
Mode in one pottern only.
Furnished in bronze ond
silver.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
—4614 GRAND AVENUE —— DULUTH, MINN.

 

ItecaesTIos

NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION Avenue, New York. $5.50. Barnes and Company, New York.

PROCEEDINGS, Volume Eighty-nine. PIIYSICAL EDUCATION HANDBOOK, Don $4.00.

National Education Association, Cash Seaton, lrene A. Clayton, How- ROBERT AND HIS NEW FRIENDS, Nina

Washington, D. C. ard C. Lcihce, Lloyd Messersmith. Schneider. Simon and Schuster, New
NEITHER HAY NOR GRASS. John Gould. Prcnticc-Hall, Incorporated, New York. $.25.

William Morrow and Company, In- York. Paper, $2.65. SEEDS OF ITALIAN NATIONALISM, 1700-

corporated, 425 Fourth Avenue, RIIYTIIMS AND DANCES FOR ELEMENTA- 1815, Emiliana Pasca Nocther. Co-

New York 16. $2.75. RY SCIIOOLS, Dorothy LaSalle. A. S. lumbia University Press. $3.00.

NEW ZEALAND BECKONs. Margaret L.
Macphcrson. Dodd, Mead and Com-

patty, 432 Fourth Avenue, New
York. $2.50.
PRINCIPLES OF RADIO. Keith Henney

and Glen A. Richardson. John Wiley
and Sons, Incorporated, 440 Fourth

Mdtlimal
on

    
 
     
   
 
    
   
    

UNSURPASSED in SAFETY
and DURABILITY

       

In a feature by feature comparison, BURKE-Built  MA].  r'
Equipment definitely offers outstanding value. .--’ l o “"41 
. Approval by park and playground officials from K. w t
 coast to coast is an authoritative support for its L. MAIN?  A
d superifority. Specizl fittings ahnd scientific design ‘ £~A~c£ J

offer unctianol a vantages t at really contribute '“ " u—I'

 s to safety, durability and economy in the highest l/ . ,- I ,P‘ f
_...—---""'""7‘ degree. ‘ ' "\v \I

      
      

    
 
     
 

.HT . C U

y ' Equupmenl by BURKE Is bunlt on constant research
and is unconditionally guaranteed against de-
fects in workmanship and materials. Choose

BURKE—the choice of men who know outstanding
value.

THE J. E. BURKE CO., Fond do let. Wis.

Factory Branch, Box 986, New Brunswick, NJ.

You Can Be More Successful
Iu Campuzg!‘

The secret lies in always keeping up to
date with the latest ideas in
organized camping.

WRITE TODAY

Free Planning Assistance
by Burke engineers.

Complete catalog and price list.
Address Dept. A

Alert camp directors and their staffs read

about tried and proved ideas in the monthly
CAMPING MAGAZINE and the annual REF-

ERENCE AND BUYING GUIDE issues. They
know the danger of static thinking and obso-
lete ideas. You, too, will find these publications
a never-ending source of new, usable ideas.

Membership includes your subscription to
these publications and many more valuable
benefits, costs $3.00 to $25.00 per year, de-
pending an classification. For full information,
write American Camping Assn., 343 8. Dear-
born St., Chicago 4. Or you may subscribe
to the publications alone for $3.00 per year
(Canada $3.25, Foreign $3.50.) Fill in and
mail the handy caupon NOW, 50 we can send
you your first, fact-packed issue right away.

 
 

0%IMM'2IIJ €526!
ail/Ifé/I'c gull/1w”!

 

AMERICAN CAMPING ASSN. CAMPING MAGAZINE

343 S. Dearbarn St. 705 Park Ave.

Chicago 4, Illinois Plainfield, N..l.

Please send me full information on member- Please enter my subscription to Camping
ship in American Comping Association. Magazine. Payment of $ . . . . . . . . is enclosed.
Nome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Street and No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Zone . . . . . . . . . . Stale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Use separate sheet to enter additional orders for your staff. RM-52 .

 

APRIL 1952 63

 

The Book of Games

G. S. Ripley. Association Press, New

York. $3.00.

Almost all of us in the recreation
profession have at one time or another
had the task of conducting games
somewhcrc-——on the playground, in the
center, at camp, at meetings. We all
have our own ideas about the best
methods of classifying games, and
some of us would not always agree
with Mr. Ripley’s classifications.

We would not, however, quarrel
with him on his careful selection of
games, and we would praise him for
including a section on balloon games,
and a section of small-group games in
which he includes many good magic
games, stunts and puzzles.

Those of us who conduct summer or
day camps would also praise him for
his sections on stalking and hiking
games, camp stunts and water sports.

This book goes farther than the
average game book, in that it includes
sections on shows and exhibits and
neighborhood contests. lts diversified
contents thus make it helpful to play-
ground leaders, camp counselors, club
leaders and teachers.

Dance and Play Activities for
the Elementary Grades

Lois M. Batter and Barbara A. Reed.
Cliartnell llousc, Incorporated, 280
Madison Avenue, New York. Volume
l-«Gradcs One to Three, 33.00;
Volume llr ~Grades Four to Six,
$3.50.

The material In these books has been
well organized, according to grades,
and contains a nice balance of games,

64

new Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

rhytlnns, self-testing activities and dra-
matic play.

As each grade is discussed, the au-
thors give a brief picture of the child’s
physical and emotional needs at this
period in his dcveIOpment. These, plus
the emphasis on safety, should be most
helpful to the teacher or recreation
leadcr.

Playground and recreation leaders
should find Volume I particularly use-
ful, because so many game books do
not contain very much material for
children of grades one, two and three.
Many of the self-testing activities in
both volumes would be useful for hot
days when strenuous play is not ad-
visable.

The authors have also been very
wise in giving the tune to each singing
game, and also the number of a phono-
graph record with the song whenever
possible.

The volumes are attractively printed
with blue covers and red spiral bind-
ing—Helen M. Danneey, Katherine F.
Barker Memorial Seereta ry for Women
and Girls, National Recreation Asso-
ciation.

How to Use Hand Puppets in
Group Discussion

Jean Schick Grossmau. Play Schools
Association, 119 \Vest 57th Street,
New York. $.60 paper.

Those familiar with other publica-
tions by this author will not be sur-
prised at the clarity and sincerity of
this booklet.

New methods for stimulating group
discussions are much needed. One of
the best of these methods is through
dramatic sketches, and in these, pup-
pets allow a wider freedom of per-
sonal experience. since the players can
often say and do through puppets what
they would be too self-conscious to
say or do as actors.

This booklet discusses in detail the
use of puppets in fostering groUp dis-

cussion among children, parents and
professional leaders. in recreation and
social group work there is a great need
for material dealing with techniques
and methods, and we hope the author
will follow up this booklet with others
of the same type, discussing other
methods and techniques—Virginia
Musselman, Correspondence and Con-
sultation Service, NRA.

A History of Popular Music
in America

Sigmund Spaeth. Random House, New
York. (New Edition) $5.00.
Groups planning to include numbers

by American composers on their pro-
grams for Music Week and other oc-
casions will find helpful material in
this book. First published in 19-18, it
includes data on all songs, written be-
tween the founding of the Republic
and the middle of the present century,
of interest to people in general.

It is the kind of material a leader
would want to have conveniently at
hand if he were planning to present
ballads celebrating incidents in the
country's history, sentimental tunes of
the Gay Nineties, songs of the first
World War, or familiar melodies about
the writers of which little is known.

There are useful observations on
the official state songs, and light is
thrown on the ohseu re backgrounds of
many modern and former favorites.
There are lively notes on the better
dance and musical comedy hits and
breezy anecdotes eoncerning their com-
poscrs and interpreters. Irving Berlin,
Oscar Hammerstein ll, Ring Lardner,
the team of Gallagher and Shean,
George Gershwin, Gertrude Lawrence
and Danny Kaye are a few of the
many musical and theatrical figures
who pass in exciting procession across
the pages of this book.—Ccrtrude
“orchard, Correspondence and Con-
sultation Service, National Recreation
Association.

RECREATION

 

Recreation Leadership Courses '

Sponsored jointly by the National Recreation Association and Local Recreation Agencies

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

April and May, 1952

Inglewood, California
April 14-17

Santa Rosa, California
April 21-24

Berkeley, California
April 28-May 1

Petalunia, California
May 5-8

Palo Alto, California
May 12-15

Whittier, California
May 19-22

Toledo, Ohio“
April 7, 8 and 9

New York, New York
April 14-17

District Conference
Bear Mountain, New York
April 23-26

District Conference
Wheeling, West Virginia
April 27-29

Huntington, West Virginia
May 5-8

Atlanta, Georgia
May 12-15

District Conference

Eugene, Oregon
April 2-4

Vancouver, British Columbia
April 7-10

Albuquerque, New Mexico
April 21-24

University City, Missouri
April 28-May 1

Hattiesburg, Mississippi
May 5-8

West Point, Georgia
May 12-15

Toledo, Ohio“
April 7, 8 and 9

District Conference

Madison, Wisconsin April 16-18

Lafayette, Indiana
May 9-10

Merom, Indiana
May 12-17

Toledo. Ohio"
April 7, 8 and 9

Annapolis, Maryland
April 21-24

Columbus, Ohio
May 19-22

*Tliis eourse open to supervisors only. . o o o .
Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually Open to all who wish to attend.

For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the Sponsors
of the courses as listed above.

R. K. Coates, Director, Park-Recreation Department, 621 North
La Brea Avenue

Hans A. Thompson, Recreation Director, Recreation Department,
500 King Street "'3

(SIharles W. Davis, Director of Recreation and Parks, 2180 Milvia
treet 

Steven A. Mezzera, Director, Recreation, Parks and Music

Edward E. Bignell, Superintendent of Reercation, Community Cen-
ter, 1305 Middlefield Road

R. Walter Cammack, Superintendent of Recreation

John J. Collier, 949 North Prospect, Ypsilanti, Michigan

Miss Florence Kennedy, Department of Child Care, The Catholic
Charities of the Archdiocese of N.Y., 122 East 22 Street

C. A. Nesbitt, National Recrcation Association, 315 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York, New York

Miss Marion Preece, 814 Bashford Lane, Alexandria, Virginia

Marvin A. Lewis, Managing Director, Cabell County Recreation
Board, Administration OHice, Field House

Miss Virginia Carmichael, Director of Recreation Department of

Parks, City Hall

Willard H. Shumard, 1627 Tenth Ave. West, Seattle, Washington

Miss Marjorie Milne, Supervisor, Playgrounds and Community
Centers, Stanley Park

Charles F. Renfro, Director of Recreation, 221 Wcst Lead Avenue

Melvin Oppliger, Chief Recreation Supervisor, 6801 Delmar Boule-
vard

Dr. Petc Davis, Professor of Recreation, Mississippi Southern
Collcge, Station A

Robert A. Turner, Coordinator, Department of Community Rec-
reation, West Point Manufacturing Company

John J. Collier, 949 North Prospect, Ypsilanti, Michigan
Robert L. Horney, 100 Shepard Terracc, Madison, Wisconsin

Jackson M. Anderson, Assistant Professor of Recreation, Purdue
University

John L. Marks, Assistant in Rural Youth Work, Indiana Farm
Bureau, lne., 130 East Washington Strcct, Indianapolis, Indiana

John J. Collier, 949 North Prospect, Ypsilanti, Michigan

E. R. Sceders, Director, Community Service Building, 9 St. Mary’s
Strcet

N. J. Barack. Superintcndcnt, Department of Public Recreation,
Room 124, City Hall

 

Qatar;ng gm 1556
SUMMER I'ILAYGlloUNID SEAsoN ?'

With school vaeation only a few weeks away, it is time to begin
planning the busy days and evenings ahead.

Often the ideas and instruetions in a good book or pamphlet can
turn a hard task into a happy venture. The following may be obtained
by writing to the National Iieereation Assoeiation, 315 Fourth Avenue,

New York 10, New York.

 

ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION Dramatics
Playgrounds—Their administration and operation.. . . . . . . . . . . . . .$4.00 "Child'" “f "‘9 Am9'i‘m" (MP 333)” PC3900!“ - - - - » - - - -- - - - JO

Community Sports and Athletics-Organization, administration and Entertainment Stunts (MP 170) . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15

program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00 "H:me a, Freedom, A” (MP ‘6)_A program of .

Conduct at Playgrounds. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 song" whim” and "my ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ‘ ° ° - ° ° ° - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- '15

Summer Playground Evaluation—A check list . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25 Inexpemive cmwm" k" Play" Fe’li‘m" and Pag'am' (MP 4”- - ° ° '25
Music Unites the Nation (MP 350)—Music ond dances of the
LEADERSH") United Natians . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

PersOnnel Standards In ReCreatian leadership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50 Playground Pal" A (MP soo—Scrip' cmd duetlio'“

tar a playgraund pageant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15

' ' Y in d l d . . . . . . . . . .4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .35

“WNW at" P Wm” °° '" Pussy Cat, Pussy Cot (P 6)—A play for children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15

° ' V l t f R t' S ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .50

mm" ° "" "" °' “m '°" m'“ - Silver 3.". and Cockle Shells and Seven on." Plays . . . . . . . . . .. .35

PUBLIC RELATIONS
Games and Special Activities

A B C's at Public Relations for Recreation, The . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85

88 Successful Ploy Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .75

Publicity for Recreation (MP 424) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25

For the Storyteller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

PROGRAM Games for Boys and Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

Arts and Crafts o Games for Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

Arts and Crafts for the Recreation leaders Games for Quiet Hours and Smoll Spaces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

byFronicA.$topies.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1.50

Picnic Programs(MP251) . . . .  . . . . . . . .  .15

Finger Puppets (MP 322) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35

So You're Planning a Parade (F 14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

MaleYaurOwn Games (MP332) ... . . . . . ......... . . . . . . ..... .15
Twice 55 Games with Music—Singing games ond rounds
      ' 0 ° ' ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ° ' ‘ ' ' ° ° ° ° " "' " '15    . e e e so eee e e s e s a eeeeeeeo eeee o e e e oeess e on e40
Manufacturers and Distributors of craft Supplies Water Games and Stunts (MP 158) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
and Equipment (MP 238) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Outline Guide in Arts and Crafts Activities at
Diiierent Age levels (MP 258) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 Nam” and camp'"9
    by  A.  ... ‘. .‘ . .‘..     e ee e e o e e e 0 see eeee e o e o o e e o . o o . . . . e e75
Day Camping . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .. .. .50
D l d M i
amng on “C Enioying Nature... . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .65
. I I I I Q I I t I I I I C I I I I I ’ I I I I I 
Adm" song! (MP 325) leader's Nature Guide by Marie Goudette . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
Born Dance Return,1'he .... - . . . . ... . . . . . .... -...... .25
t MP 13........ ..  .15
bonus and Their Monogemen ( 3 ) specie. -
h t It 15' I ..  .. .35
For” Approx “ a n or” me no Playground Summer Notebook. The-Twelve weekly issues 1.50
" Mi”bM. dM.H Fd . 1.25
Goad am no Y r on u on", or Recreation Magazine-Ten issues onnually
Musical Mixers and Simple Square Dances..... .50 Per Year  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .. . 3.00
Starting and Developing a Rhythm land... .35 Foreign  . . . .  . 3.50

