 

 

NOW IS THE TIME . . .

To start planning your summer
vacaRon!

- Tired of going to the ,same
place?

0 Want to get MORE—for LESS?

- Whether you plan to travel, or
stay at home—

CONSULT THE NEW

New Mexico State Tourist Bureau

6’ ' 2/
W W“ -— .  v4.
PREPARED BY THE EDITORS or W magazine

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT-According to a new agreement, this special publication is

being distributed by Rand McNally & Compo ny, publishers, through their bookstore outlets.
Format and content have undergone considerable change. Sixteen new pages of text, ac-
cented with color, have been added, and the book will have a cover in color. Because at
these improvements, it must new retail for $1.00.

ADV‘NCE ORDERS for SW’: WW4 -   )4" which were postmarked

before April 15, will be filled at the 50-cent price, as originally announced. The after at

a free copy with a new subscription, or renewal of a subscription to RECREATION magazine,
terminates May first.

Spring 1952 JUST OUT! $1.00

U. 5. Forest Service

Delegates traveling to the National
Recreation Congress In Seattle, per-
haps plannlng their vacatlons along
the way, will find t'hls book particu-
larly helpful in determining how to
go, thlngs to do and see.

ORDER NOW

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fe urth Avenue, New York 10, N.Y.

5 ' V572

 

 

 

Control

quickly and effectively

with GULF SANI-SOIL-SET

Gulf Sani-Soil-Sef is the practical answer to your

duSt annoyance problems. Here are a few of the
many good reasons why it will pay you to investi-
gate this eflicient dust-control medium now:
Highly Effective—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates
dust annoyance completely, immediately after ap-
plication. No long waiting periods are necessary
before the ground is ready for use. The dust allay-
ing effect is accomplished by the action of the com-
pound in adhering to and weighing down dust
particles.

Long Lasting—Because it has extremely low vola-
tility and is insoluble in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set
remains effective for long periods. One applica-
tion per season or year is usually suflicient.

Easily Applied—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing,
easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand
or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly.
Saves Maintenance Expense—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set
minimizes dust annoyance and cleaning expense
in near-by houses, stores, and laundries.

MAY 1952

Write, wire, or phone your nearest Gulf oflice
today and ask for a demonstration of the advan-
tages of this modern proven dust allayer. If you
have not yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
produCt, mail the coupon below.

 

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
719 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa. '

Please send me. without obligation, a copy of the booklet. "Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern. proven agent for controlling dust.”

Name .................................................................................................... ..
Title ................................................................................ .. .

Company ......................................................................... ..
Address ........................................................................ ..

65

no playground is complete without a

leg. U. 5. Pat. OH.

climbing structure

Safety, na maintenance, biggest ploy capacity per
square foot of ground area and per dollar of
cast—these are iust a few at the reasans why
JUNGLEGYM is admittedly the world‘s mast famous
playground device. Thousands are in daily use
from coast ta caast. Why nat give the children at
your playground the advantages at a JUNGLEGYM
. . now?
Write for Illustrated Bulletin On Porter's

Streamlined Line That Will Save
You Money . . . Time.

A PORTER can supply you with these fundamental playground units, too!

   

     
 

No. 2 40 Merry-Go-Round

Will solely accommodate 30 children at
one time. Nalseless, na-wabbie, no-
sway operation. An engineering mar-
vel, and precision-made. Guaranteed.

 

No. 136 Stratosphere See-Saw

Sensotionolly new. Gives "ups-a‘dolsy”
ride 33-1 [3% higher than conventional
see-saw, yet soier because 0' hoop
hondies, saddle seats and level-seat
leature.

 

No. SO-F Playground
Basketball Backstop Na. 3! Combination Set

 

Athteel Ion-shaped banls Otters six dilierent Isinds at lunlul, No' ‘09 sh'SWIng 5"

rlgldly mounted on steel healthtul playground activity. A com- Bulls lor sole, permanent service. Sturdy
mast and braced tor perma. pact, economicol unit that‘s Ideal tor IO-it, irarne held rlgldly together by
nent service. Finished tawith- limited ground areas. Ruggedly con- Tested Malleable Iron lining of exclu-

stond the weather. Otiicial. slructed. sire Porter “balt~through" design.  I

‘

1H5]. E. CORPORAIION
ottAwA Iumals

unwwum'. or mvsvousts LNHM'L“! um 'wwvwo im. re: eel-H

Exclusive MAKERS or me WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

 

le9.U.$.Pet.OH. SIRUCI'URE

RECREATION

MAY, 1952

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH Pannnnacxsr
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLVl Price 35 Cents No. 2

 

 

On the Cover

Proof that fishing is good in Missouri is this catch
of trout taken from Pigeon Creek, a minor tribu-
tary to Current River’s headwaters. Many Ozark

streams are stocked from the hatchery in Montauk
State Park.

Next Month

June RECREATION, the summer issue, is packed with
ideas for summer programs, camping and play-
ground leadership, besides good articles on adminis-
tration, parks, community centers and sports. A
random sampling of titles reveals “A Part of My
Life” (camping seen through a blind boy’s eyes),
“The Authority to Hire and Fire Recreation Work-
ers,” “Lantern and Float Parade,” “Tournament
Tips," and the third in the series of photography
articles. “How a Recreation Executive Appraises His
Own Performance” pulls no punches. “Nature Trails
in State Parks” tells how to make vandal-proof signs.

Photo Credits

Cover, Massie—Missouri Resources Division; Pages
77, 78, Elcmore Morgan, Baton Rouge, Louisiana;
79, Louisiana Art Commission; 80, 81, 82, Dow
Chemical Company; 87 (tap), Seattle Tirnes, (bot-
tom) King County Park Department; 89, Martin
Kleinman, Brooklyn; 91, Robert Nickles and James
Hetherington, (right) Clyde Hare; 92, 93, “OHicial
photo USAF, by AF Training Command”; 84, Black-
stone; 98, Long Beach, California, Recreation De-
partment; 100, The Milwaukee Journal; 102, Harry
Berger, Boston; 103, Boston Board of Recreation;
104, Hickory Community Center, North Carolina;
105 (lcft), Inglewood News photo, (right) Ben
Schilf; 106, Dayton, Ohio, Department of Public

Welfare; 112, The New York Times; 115, Pennsyl-
vania State Department of Commerce, Harrisburg.

 

RECREATION is ublished monthly except July
and August by the ational Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary con-
trihutions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
Ncw York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $8.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. R. Welch Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $8.85. Re-entered as
Second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Oflice in New York, New York, under Act of
March 8. 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special
rate of postage provided for in Section 1108, Act
of October 8, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Office: ones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 1 , Minnesota.

Space Representatives: II. Thayer Heaton, 415
Lexington Avenu New York 17, New York;

e

Mark Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois; KeithaH. Evans, 8757 Wilshire
Boulevard, Los Angeles 5, California.

Copyright, 1952, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 3.42
° Trade mark registered in the U. S. Patent Otiice.

 

M AY 1952

MAGAZINE

 

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

' CONTENTS

General Features
Recreation—The Fulfillment of Human Needs (Editorial),

Dr. S. R. Laycock .......................................................... .. 69
Recreation Personnel Changes .......................................... .. 79
Richard Montgomery Tobin .............................................. .. 84
Walk With Nature, James H. Hamilton, Jr. .................... .. 85
Cooperation is King in King County,

Robert C. Stephens ........................................................ .. 86
Sunday Painters .................................................................. .. 89
America Alerts Her Senior Citizens, Charles E. Reed ...... .. L9'7'
Heading for Seattle ............................................................ .. 101
Campus Grass Gets Chance ................................................ .. 108

Administration *
Cooperation in Aquatics ..................................................  82
Swimming Pool Operation, Martin Nading and

Sam Basan ...................................................................... .. 83
Maryland to Develop River Valley Park .......................... .. 88
Let Folks Know .................................................................. .. 96
Golf Administration .......................................................... .. 109
A Study of Public Golf Course Operation ........................ .. 115

Program Activities l

Recrcation Through Art, Edward Kerr .., ........................ .. 77'
We Make Our Own Music, Bob McKellar .....................  80
It’s Garden Time! Barbara Shaluca  ............................ .. 90
The Airforce Takes to the Farm,

Corporal Connie Alexander .......................................... .. 92
The Photographic Group (Second in Series), :

Irma Webber .................................................................. .. 94
Honoring Joseph Lee .......................................................... .. 102
Boy and Girl Anglers—by the Million .............................. .. 104
“The Dearest Wish,” Daniel E. Wagner ........  .................. .. 106
BaseballmSoftball Skill Contests, Sterling Geesman ...... .. 110
Recipes for Fun—Skits and Stunts .................................. .. 113

Regular Features

Letters .................................................................  ............... .. 70
Things You Should Know .................................................. .. 72
Editorially Speaking ..........................................................  74
A Reporter’s Notebook ...................................................... .. 112
Recreation Market News ..........................  ........................ .. 117,
PersonnelmWhy Do Recreation Executives Fail? .......... .. 118
Books Received .................................................................. .. 119‘
New Publications ...............................................  .......  120
Recreation Leadership Courses .................. ..Inside Back Cover

67

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

.4 Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PRENDERCAST. Executive Director

 

OFFICERS

One 1'. Maurer. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .Clssirrnan ni tha Board
Pour Mooeoe. Je. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . First Vice-President
Met. Ocotrt L. iriILLl. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Second Vice-President
Susen M. er. .Third Vice-President and Secretary oi the Board
Aoetasr M. Mounts. ..........................Tressurer
Gustavus 1'. Kurt. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer Emeritus
Josrrsr Pl!NOllCntT.........-... ..............Secretary

   

BOA RD 0 F DIRECTORS

Fe 'n I". Ao‘u‘oooeonllooooonononnoonoNc' YOfk. No Yo
Fe 0‘.“ n‘ul'nnooneoononnegononnnnnoonnnlo'ton. "'3'.
Has. Roerer Vooot Burn. ............Waslaington. D. C.
Hat. Armor 0. Cusrsrre“ . ........... ..Jtchtonviiir. Fia.
Wautess H. Devtt.....................Neer York. N. Y.
lia‘.‘ Po DA'ISONnnennnoego-OnoeoonnoenN"Yo'l. Ne Y.
c‘mo DOHN‘m'nneeooeeoeooeoooooeoeeooChic.8°s 
Mas. Pent. Geuaorrra.....................Omaha. Nehr.
Roerer Gettr‘rr.........................Baitimore. hid.
Ausrssr E. Grtrrrrrrt......................$eattle. Wash.
Mat. Nossresr Heeeooee.................Fitclahnrg. Mass.
Met. CHAILII V. Hsceor... .  . ....hlichigan City. ind.

Met. JOHN D. Jeurtost..................leilport. N. Y.
Susest hi. er.........................Neer York. N. Y.
OTTOTe H‘Lu‘YIolnnoonoooooooooooononphil'dclphi.. P.o
CA‘L Fo $‘lul‘lnoooijciooionoCannon-IIIIIAH‘H".. 3“.
Met. Ocnrsr L. Liters”................Woodbury. N. Y.
PAUL  J‘nioo-oInn-IonIIoniicnoIJ'ru’ Ci". N. J.
Joarrrr Peruoeecntr................. ...Neer Yorlt. N. Y.
Met. SICHUNO Srrrsr.................Ssn Francisco. Cslii.
Green Trrsvror'rrt“.....................Noroton. Carin.
Met. Wanna Vest Atrrr........ .. .....Philsdeiphia.i’a.

Jo Co W‘L.Hononnoonoooe‘o.onnoooooooneYonl'r'. t a Y-
Farorrsce hi. Weeeurc” . . . . . . . .... .....Nevr York. N. Y.

 

IIEADQUA RTERS STAFF

Reseerch Depertsnent Srrs‘t‘cr to States. . . . . .Roerer ll. Gassetr

Enocntive Director's O‘ce
Groecr E. Drcrsr Trrosret E. Rtveet
Htha Heaattosr Aa'mur Wsutem

ALrero H. VILIOH

Correspondenu nnd Cons ultation

9"3“ Work with Volunteers
Vseossrse HuttlLHnN

Geereunr Borcsreao

locreetinn Hegerine
Doeorsrr DONALDION

Specie! Pnhilcetiont
Rosr Jer Scnoee'rr MueseL McGem-r

Pemnnni Snrvico
Wtuaeo C. Surrreetasro Auaro n. JINtIN
hirer Guee—arrer

Groacr D. Bmee
Eureert'st CLII'TON Dnrtn J. Duiiort

Areas and Funnier—Planning and Surveys
H. C. Hurcrtsm Aunt Ii. Bueet‘rr
LrtLtr LvNClt

Katherine F. Buirr hirnsoriai
Sender) for Worrer and Giris

E. Brareacr Srreasrs
HrLrN M. Dauncrt

Maer Qutee Marcus" Deneooerts

industrial Recreation . . . . . .C. E. Beeora
Field Depertlsent
Rte-nation Leadrrtbip Training Courses

Runs Errues Asme LtleCt'l'orr
Mttnaro Summer Feasts A. Starter
Glncl Wetetr

Crrnaus E. Raeo Jessra A. Meotsosr
Groece T. Aoesst listens 0. Hon
Rscsteeo S. Wrsrcarr

 

DISTRICT REPRES ENTATI VES
Son thern District

Mitt HAND" Patrcr. . . . .Aieeandria. Ya.
Reurr Yet-t Fuer . . . . . .Clearoatar. Fla.
WILLIAM H. lint. . . . . . .Nashvilla. Tann.

New lnglend District
Virus-o R. Hamsooem..losrosr. Matt.
(Present address . . . New York)

Hiddin Atlentio District
JOHN W. Faust” .. . .Enst Orange. N. J.
Geoecr A. Nltem....Navr York. N. Y.

Geeet Lohos District
Jomr J. Cousre. . . . . . . . . .Toladn. Ohio
Ineaer L. Hoesrrr. . . . . . .hladiton. Vit-

Sonthvrest District
iieaou VAN AesoeLe. . . . . . . Dallas. Tea.

Peciic Northwest District
Vsunao H. Srrussaao. . . ..Seattia. Wash.
Midwest District
PeciSc Southwest District

Aemur Tooo. . . . . . . . .Kansss City. Ho.
erv S. Router?” . “Lo-s Angeies. Caiii.

Hseou Lament. . . . . . . . .Denvar. Colo.

 

AHiliate Membership

Ailiate membership In the Nationsl
chrastion Association is open to all non-
pro‘t privata end pnhlic orgsnirations
whose inoction is wholly or primarily the
provision or peornotioo oi recreation serv-
ices or Ihith loclnda recreation as an latt-
portsnt ptrt ni their total prograna and

Active Associate Membership

Active associata membership in the
National Recreation Association is open to
all individuals who ara actively angaged
on a inil-tinse or part-tima employad hasis
or as volunteers in a nonproEt privsta or
pnhlic racreation organization and whosa

cooperation in tha noel ni tha essociatioo

Contributors

The continuation oi the noel ni the
Nasionai Recreation Association irorn year
to year ls msda possihia hy the splendid
cooperation oi several hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country. and the
grnarous contrihntions oi thousands oi sn a

run oi this movement to bring heai .

appinass anti creativa living to tha boys

whose Cooperation In the noel oi the asso—
ciation Ionld. In the opinlon oi the asso-
ciation‘s Iotrd of Directors. inrther the
ends ni the national attention movement.

and girls end tha men and Ionian ni
America. ii on voold like to ioin in tha
snpport oi this movement. on may send
your contrihntion direct to the association.

would. in tha opinion oi the association's
Bosrd oi Directors. iurther the ends oi the
nstional recrestion movement.

 

The National Recreation Association is a nation-
wide. nonprofit. nonpolitical and nonscctarian civic
organization. established in 1906 and supported by
volunta contributions. end dedicated to the serv-
iec of ill recreation executives. leaders and agen-

cies. public and private. to the end that every chihl
in America shall here a place to play in safety end
that every person In America. young and old, shall
have an 0p rtunity [or the host and most satisfy-
ing use of is expanding leisure time.

For further information regarding the association's services and membership, please write to the
Executive Director. National Recreation Association. 3l5 Fourth Avenue, New York 10. New York.

 

(Iii littrtttm'rtrm

on.“ WE KNOW that play and rec-
Treation are vital elements in hu-
man growth and adjustment. We
haven’t, however, been doing a very
good job in meeting children’s needs
in a healthful way. The National Com-
mittce for Mental Hygiene says if the
present trend continues, four or- five
of every hundred children in our
schools will sometime in their lives be
patients in mental hospitals; others
will suffer from mental illness, but be
treated at home or in a general hospi-
tal; from thirty to fifty will suffer from
crippling mental traits, such as bad
tempers, sullenness, sulkiness, shyness,
self-pity, oversensitiveness, and the
tendency to rely on minor ailments like
sick headaches as a way out of difficul-
ties.

Let us take a look at the personality
needs of boys and girls, and adults,
which must find adequate channels of
expression if human heings are to lead
mentally healthy livcs:

The Need for Affection

Psychologists thesc days are very
fussy about the fulfillment of the need
to be loved and to matter. They think
that, next to a reasonable amount of
food, it is the most important human
need, from the cradle to the grave.
Certainly this is true of infants and the
pre-school child, but it is also true of
the older folks. Small children need
to be talked with—a form of play with
their parents———as an important part of
their development and as a fulfillment
of their need for affection. Indeed, one
of the chief contributions of our own
adult friends is that of companionship,
of sharing our interests and recreation.
When we turn our attention to our
senior citizens, they greatly need the
sensc of mattcring which comes from
shared recreation—not only with those
of their own age but with those of
other ages as well.

Even adolescents, who seem so
anxious to break away from their
parents, need to feel secure in their
affection. This security often results
from the comradeship of doing things
together—so long as this does not

‘From an address delivered by Dr. S. R.
Laycock, Dean of Education, University of
Saskatchewan, at Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

MAY 1952

Recreation

The Fulfillment of Human Needs*

A Guest Editorial

hinder them from comradeship with
their own age-mates.

The Need for Belonging

Closely allied to the human hunger
for affection is the need for belonging,
to feel that one is a desired and de-
sirable member of a group. The fami-
ly is the first and most important of
these groups. Few things give a child
such a scnse of belonging as participa-
tion in family recreation—family
games, picnics, music, auto trips, and
even the occasional fatnin visit to the
movies.

Next to feeling that they really be-
long in the family circle, children need
to feel accepted by their play group.
To feel rcjected is a tremendous blow
to them. For adolescents, it is nothing
short of catastrOphe, for they have an
especially strong social hunger.

The Need for Independence

In our industrial society, many jobs
are of a routine nature. Only a limited
number of persons have jobs which
are synonymous with play—something
which they prefer doing to anything
else. Play and recreation provide that
sense of freedom which finds satisfac-
tion in doing what one wants to do.

The Need for Achievement

As our life becomcs more complex
and spccialized, fewcr and fewer hu-
man beings can find the thrill of
achievement through their work. Rec-
reation is one of the chief ways in
which adults can find creative satisfac-
tion and a sensc of achievement. So
far as children are concerned, play and
recreation often have to supply the
achievement which in pioncer days
would have come from participation in
family work and chores.

by Dr. S. B. Laycock

The Need for Recognition

In pre-school days, play is the child’s
chief legitimate source of winning
recognition. Even after_ he goes to
school it may still be his chief method
of gaining approval.

Adults during their active work-life,
receive a great deal of their recogni-
tion from their work. This is apt to be
cut off by their retirement, however,
and as a result, they must lean heavily
on recreation in order to find the
recognition which will keep them men-
tally healthy.

The N ccd for Self-Esteem

Fcelings of inadequacy or inferiori-
ty, real or fancied, are apt to result in
all sorts of defensc mechanisms——
boasting, bullying, bossiness, lying and
stealing, or else in withdrawing me-
chanisms like shyness, seclusiveness,
daydreaming and phantasy. Success in
recreational activities brings to many
a youngster and adolescent the antidote
to such feelings.

Many psychiatrists today feel that
if we want to get anywhere in improv-
ing community, national and interna-
tional life, we are going to have to do
a better job in the mental hygiene of
early life.

It is the business of all good citizens
through their homes, their schools and
community facilities to see that chil-
dren and adults find satisfying outlets
——in work, recreation, human relation-
ships and community service. If this
doesn’t happen, be assured, then, they
will find outlets in other ways which
are anti-social or. which lead to much
unhappiness and suffering. No com-
munity can neglect the provision of
abundant recreational facilities and ex-
pect not to suffer for it. h

69

The 5th Annual

ROCKY MOUNTAIN fOlK DANCE CAMP
Mountain, nmr Denver. Colo.

June 29 - Aug. 2

at lookout

rounds. {elk dances“ rolling, etc.
to details wn‘tc l’nnl hcrmiel,

RI. 3. Golden. Colo.

quart

‘  for All.

LEArusaacaag
SUPPLIES! - ‘

CHANCE OF ADDRESS: Send your
new address at least thirty days before
the date of the issue with which it is
to take. effect. Address: Recreation Mag-
azine, Circulation Department, 421 Fifth
Avenue South, Minneapolis 15, Minn.
Send old address with the new, enclos-
ing if possible your address label. The
post office will not forward copies un-
less you provide extra postage. Dupli-

cate copies cannot be sent.

 

 it's for o.
Gymnasmm ...

510%

lllDARl

O Gymnaswm Equipment
0 Telescopic Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards

0 Basketball Iaclutops _

0 Steel lock-rs.- Lack-ratios
and Grads-[labor

70M [or m
RED MEDART PRODUCTS,IN(.

’566 0! Kill 51 SI' IOIJIS ll... M0

 .For 78 Yvon
‘ lea Saundu‘dol would?
we _

 

 

Lea [Ir-I

Sirs:
The February issue of RECREATION
described the new leaflet entitled “flee-

reation, a New Profession in a Chang-v
ing World.” I was especially pleased
to receive this leaflet recently, and be-

lieve that this type of thing will do
much to enhance the recruiting and
interpretive phases of hospital ree-
reation—as well as the various other
specialties within the field of recrea-
tion. I would like very much to uti-
lize this leaflet in some of our local

high schools as well as at our forth-
coming conferences aud fairs.

liALl’ll ROSSEN, Acting Commission-
er, Mental Health; Superintendent
of Hastings State Hospital; St. Paul.

Editorial
Sirs:

We appreciate very much Mr.
Faust's editorial in the Fehruary issue
of RECREATION. Somehow or other that
seems to put into words what I have
felt for quite some time. I would like
very much to mimcograph that article
for each one of my workers and for
each one who makes application for
work at our recreation center.

I have discussed the article with Dr.
Joseph llartmau, Superintendent of
Schools. and also with Jack Stochcr
of Thicl College. Coach Stocher has
discussed it with his Leisure l'idueation
class and feels that it is the philosOphy
that we need to have if we are to have
a successful recreation program.

l)t"\‘lt.\.\l V. lltfan. Director, Crccn-

rillc, l’enna. Recreation 43m.
airs:

Mr. l’anst's editorial presents a real
thallcuge to all people associated with
the recreation movement. The article
is really inspiring aml should he read
In every recreation leader. I made it
"mupnlson reading for all of our dc-
partnicnt employees. Loving-kindness

is something we need today and it is
the simple answer to all the world’s
troubles.

After reading your editorial every
recreation worker should re-dedieate
himself to seek, from time to time,
a classification of purpose; and a sim-
plification of means becomes a prime
need of the individual and of the
group.

GEORGE ll. BAUER, Supervisor 0]

Recreation, Milbttrn, New Jersey.

Book Club
Sirs:

l have heen in the field of recrea-
tion for only three years and my per-
sonal library of good recreation ma-
terial is rather meager. Since others
may have the same problem, I have a
suggestion that I thought I would pass
on for what it is worth.

I would like to see a Recreation
Book of the Month Club started. Ex-
perts in the profession could select
hooks or pamphlets and make them
availahle to club memhers each month.
In this way members could build a
well-rounded library without having
to spend a large amount at an ' one
time. The selection period could he
l)l-IllOl1llll}' or quarterly.

.l. C. CARTER, Louisville, Kentucky.

llouglIm-cks
Sirs:

l have for quite some time been a
regular reader of your magazine and I
always find it contains nmch valuable
information. I especially enjoyed Mr.
llowscr's article on “Games for Rough-
nccks" in the January issue. Some-
thing like this can pnly be appreciated
when it is put into practice. l am con-
ucctcd with the local boys. club where
we have a few ronghnccks. I read Mr.
flowscr's article one day and tried out
his suggestions. lielieve me, they
work.

Cmrronu a. Kna. Caincst‘illc, Flo.

Itecumrmv

In!

.-

f5"

-,-_-..".=‘--
_....--

E9...”

.— a
'I- #—

F

,-
._ nil-B”

 

MAY 1952 71

 

D THE COMMITTEE ON CITATIONS AND
AWARDS, of the American Recreation
Society, invites nominations for the
1952 presentations. These should be
submitted before June first. and may
be sent to any one of the following
committee members: Robert W. Craw-
ford, Deputy Commissioner of Recrea-
tion. City llall Annex, Room 432, Phil-
adelphia, Pennsylvania; Milo F. Chris-

tiansen, Superintendent of Recreation,
3149-16th Street. N.W., Washington

10, l).C.; Ceorge lljelte, Cencral Man-
ager, Department of Recreation and
Parks, 305 City llall. Los Angelcs.
California; Harold D. Meyer, Recrca-
tion Consnltant. North Carolina Recre-
ation Commission, Box 1139. Chapel
Hill. North Carolina; Charles II. ling
lish. R.l".l). l. Wakeman, Ohio: E.
Dana Ca ulltins, Chairman. Superintend-
ent of Recreation, \Vestchcster Coun-
ty Recreation Commission. Room 242.
County Olhce liuilding, Whitc l’lains,
New York. Candidates may be nomi-
natcd for a special citation in recogni-
tion of some outstanding professional
achievement or for election as “fel-
lows" of the American Recreation So-
ciety. All pertinent facts regarding the
record of the candidate should he sub-
mitted in duplicate with the nomina-
tion.

D Tttt: FOLLOWING CHANCES are being
made in the personnel of the special
services department of the army: lirig«
adier Ccneral Christenberry. Chief of
Special Services. has been named l)ep-
nty Chief of Stall of the Eighth Army
in Korea. Lieutenant Colonel Rudolf
llegdahl succeeded Colonel Davenport.
April 15, 1932: Colonel Raymond
Stone. .lr.. sut'eeedcd General Christen-
berry on the same date.

D \POLOMEs. Author of “Declaration
of lirothcrs." on page eleven of REC-

72

aEATION, April 1952. is Willard Espy,
Board of Editors, Reader’s Digest—
and not Otto T. Mallery, as annonnced.
The poem was written by Mr. Espy
after reading a declaration of inter-
dependencc by Mr. Mallery.

D A STUDY OF RECREATION SALARIES,
conducted by National Recreation As-
sociation, is scheduled to appear in the
September 1952 issue of RECREATION.
However, pre-prints of the material
will be available front the association
by June lirst.

D A QUESTIONNAIRE, to obtain informa-
tion about camp programs of public
recreation departments, was recently
sent to recreation directors of lifty-
seven Wisconsin communities, forty-
one of which have directors who arc
members of the Wisconsin~Recreation
Association. 0f the thirty-four reports
received, twenty-seven were returned
by WRA members and seven by non-
members. Many directors indicated
that a camp program is desirable and
expressed a desire to develop onc; six
reported that programs under dircc-
tion of Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Y.W.
C.A., Salvation Army, and so on, scrve
respective communities adequately;
seven departments hope to begin some
programs in 1952.

D THE sALI: or 12,660,993 IIUNTING
LICENSES during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1951, has brought. according
to Sports Age for March 1952, the
forty-eight states to an all-time high

gross revenue.
$37,ll10.7‘) l .

front this source. of

D IN Mott}: CITIES UNDER TIII: CITI’
MANAGER FORM or oovsItNmzN'r with
year-round recreation departments, the
department is administered by a policy-
making board or commission rather

than by an executive. without such a
board. Two out of three of these cities
without a policy -tttakittg board have the
benefit of an advisory citizen recreation
group. Although city managers, gen-
erally, look with disfavor upon the ad-
ministration of recreation departments
hy policy-making citizen boards, and
favor an executive appointed by the
city manager and responsible to him,
several instances have come to the at-
tention of the association recently where
a city manager supported a proposal
before the city council for the appoint-
ment of a board to administer the
recreation department.

D A SERIOUS PROBLEM I-‘ACING MANY
GROWING CITIES is a procedure for con-
trolling the development of land ad-
jacent to the city limits. Grand Rapids,
Michigan, has entered into an agree-
ment with the four townships which
completely surround it, to assurc such
control. The city will supply water,
sewer and lire protection service on
the condition that the governing bod-
ies of the townships adopt thc same
land use policy as that adopted by the
city.

Jobs in Korea

There is immediate need for rec-
reation personnel in Korea, although
vacancies also eNist in Japan, Oki-
nawa, Guam and the Philippines.
A new rcqucst jnst reccivcd from
llcadquarters. Far East Air Forccs,
advises of unparalleled Opportuni«
ties for recreation personnel wish-
ing to serve with the United States
Air Force in Korea. The urgent
need is for special service pcrson-
nel in manual arts. library and serv-
ice club programs. (Men are pre-
ferred for the mannal arts posi«
tions.)

College graduates between twcnty-
four and forty years of age. with
training and experience in recrea-
tion. are preferred. Applications on
Form 57, available at any post of-
licc. should be scnt to the Overseas
Employment Coordination Ollice,
Director of Civilian l’ersonnel.
lldqts. ll.S.A.F.. Wright - Patterson
Air Force Base, Dayton. Ohio.

 

RecaaA'rtos'

AAHPER YEARBOOK

     

DEVELOPING

DEMOCRATIC

HUMAN

RELATIONS UNSURPASSED in SAFETY
through and DURA BlLlTY

In a feature by feature comparison, BURKE-Built
Equipment definitely offers outstanding value.
Approval by pork and playground officials from
coast to coast is an authoritative support for its
superiority. Special fittings and scientific design
offer functional advantages that really contribute
to safety, durability and economy in the highest
degree.

Equipment by BURKE is built an constant research WRH-E tODAY
and is unconditionally guaranteed against de-
fects in workmanship and materials. Choose
BURKE—the choice of men who know outstanding
value.

THE J. E. BURKE CO., Fond du Lac, Wis-

Foctory Branch, Box 986, New Brunswick, NJ.

HEALTH EDUCATION,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION,

RECREATION

Free Planning Assistance
by Burke engineers.

Complete catalog and price list.
Address Dept. A

 

 

 

Here’s Help You Need
for Successful Recreation

 

Become a monthly reoder of PARK MAINTENANCE. Its orticles will give

Considers the progressive oc— . _ _ .
you expert oud for more efficuent ond economlcol operotlon of your to—

quiring of democrotic con-

cepgs one] onimdes from cilities. Eoch October you receive o complete Buyer's Guide, listing more
childhood through eorly ond thon 500 sources of equipment ond supplies.

Iote odolescence, ond odult-

hood. Applies to the fields of $3.00 Per Year

heolth educotion, physicol ed—
ucotion, ond recreotion, re—

cent reseorch on methods and   

Tethn'q‘ies '" 9m”? dyn°m' P. O. BOX 409 APPLETON, WISCONSIN
ICS, socuometry, socuol group

work, ond generol educotion.

562 pp. $4.25

ORDER TODAY

American Association for
Health, Physical Education
and Recreation

1201 16th St. N.W., Wash., D.C.

OVER 100 RECREATION

DEPARTMENTS USING
OUR PLASTIC TROPHYS

Pleose send me copies Of the

AAHPER Yearbook.

 

 

 

Cl Check enclosed [:1 Bill me
Nome WRITE TODAY FOR FREE SAMPLE
Street________________ _ .
City_____ - ....
Zane State

 

MAY 1952 73

 

POSITIONS OPEN

For Professional \Vorkers
with
CAMP FIRE GIRLS, INC.

in \arious sections USA. College de-
gree required. Group or camp leadership
experience desirable. Responsible for
working with adult volunteers in pro-
viding Camp Fire program for girls.
ln-sen'ice training.

Opportunity for Advancement

Write: Personnel and Training l)ept.
Camp Fire Girls, lne.

16 East 48th Street, New York l7, N.Y.

 

Wildfowl

American
Playgrounds
.-—-""""—'".n

i
I

 

  
 

  

     
   

gafle Seeding.

Rubber Isn't Enough

Akron. the Rubber Cit}, is doing
some important pioneering in the field
of rubberized surfaces for school play-
grounds.

With attention focused nationally on
hazards of the playgrounds. this city
can be proud that it is a step or two
ahead of the rest of the country in pro-
viding a softer and safer surface for
children to play on.

We hope that the technical details
may be ironed out rapidly so that play-
grounds all over Akron and in other
cities may be rubberized.

However, we hasten to point out
that even latex cushions a foot deep
wouldn’t be enough to keep some
youngsters from getting hurt. They’ll
continue to bump into each other and
into fixed objects like walls and they’ll
go on beaning each other with balls

SQUARE DANClN as

and bats.

For more important than any surface
which can be put on a playground is
the supervision which the area gets.

Also indispensable is preparation to
give first aid promptly and to call for
professional medical help when it is
needed.

Considerable help can and should
be given by parent-teacher organiza-
tions in checking on playground eon-
ditions and in giving financial assist-
ance where necessary.

But the primary responsibility lies
in the hands of the principals who
must see to it that proper supervision
is assigned when children are on the
playgrounds.

Accidents to youngsters probably
can never be stopped, but they can be
lessened in frequency and in intensity
by alert supervisors—Akron Beacon

CAN

Samoytolema...Saead«'/ZOW

With these Square Dance Records with Progressive
Oroi instructions and Cells by ED DURtACHER.

Here is the easy and economical way to meet the
ever-growing demand for square dancing in your
community . . . the HONOR YOUR PARTNER

series of square dance records.

a it a

Each record in albums 1 to 4 starts with sitn li-
fied progressive oral instructions by Ed Durlaeier
—instructions easily understood by dancers of all
ages. Followin a brief pause, giving the dancers
time to square their sets, the music and calls gin. The TOP HANDS, directed
by FRANK NOVAK, olicr the best in scintillating and foot tapping s uarc danCe
music. The calls are delivered by one of the nation's most outstan 'ng square

 

 

   

0%”! who} (527/245!
Mir/(142' gym/'37er

74

    

dance authorities, ED DURLACllER.

The fifth album in the series contains music only, without calls or instructions—

"Thc Square Dance Callcr's Delight".
‘Q’

1%

AN ENTHUSIASTIC USER REPORTS . . .

“The square dance album 'iionor Your i’ortncr' is oil that you claimed it to bc—wc
tried out the records an a group of eighth grade students and they picked u the

instructions without difficulty. in the space

HCI'C'

a thirty minutes, this

i

were dwrrcr/hdorc. were doing the gurcs in an expert fas ion. The records

rou p, u-br'r [Md

were a so a hit at the uriuit square dance u' ich we hcid inst night.”

All records guoronteed
ogoinst breakage,
in normal use.

 

Mined liliiolt
Recreation Director
(iteelitvood. Mississippi

team more obout the
HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums.
Write tor o descriptive folder.

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

DIPT. R-I

PRHPORT, NEW YORK

RECREATION

ROCKY MOUNTAIN HOBBY ART CAMP
Lookout Mountain near Denver, Colo.

August 3-9, 1952

Recreative workshop with fellow artists in
a relaxed sociable setting.

For details write Paul Kermiet,
Rt. 3, Golden, Colo.

 

Second Annual

FOLK CENTER

Central Michigan College of
Education

August 18-23

FEATURING AMERICAN
COUNTRY DANCING
AND FOLK SINGING

with College Staff

Instruction in: Elementary and Advanced
Dancing: Falk Singing & Balladry; and
Square Dance Calling.

Miss Grace Ryan, authar of "Dances at
Our Pianeers", will be the Directar.

Far infarmation, write ta the Directar
af Field Services, Central Michigan
Callege af Educatian, Mt. Pleasant,
Michigan.

 

        
       
   
   
   
       
   
       
     
  
     
   
     
 

I466 z4¢aamal

For a trainload of thrills
with the —

“IBHYS’ IlilLlllllll
CLUB”

zl new Q-Teel 16mm sound movie
for

FREE LOAN!

SEE—a fabulous model railroad system,
eomplete to the last spike!

MEET—a real railroader who gives the
lowdown on the “big ones”!

THRILL—to “riding the cab” through
tunnels, ’round bends, along the
straightaway!

SEND FOR—Our new FREE folder,
“Free Films for Reereation Pro-
grams”, and start your Summer Movie

Programming!

 
 

Recreation Division

Association Films, Inc.

347 Madison Avenue
New York 17, N.Y.

Branches in: Cbieago, San Franciseo,
Dallas

MAY 1952

The magazine of
Social Exploration

Carries news of:

. . . the Family . . . Community
Life . . . Social Work . . . Educa-
tion . . . Health . . . Recreation
. . . Housing . . . Race and In-
dustrial Relations . . . Crime

Prevention . . . International
Affairs

Brings you:
The substance of social devel-

opment in one monthly publi-
cation

High Points

She Acts It Out,
Marion Robinson

A profile of Grace Walker, an
actress who became a Recrea-
tion Leader; new techniques
she has developed and the ex-

citing results obtained.
April

Social Welfare In lndia—a spe-
cial section

The Villages. .Dorothy Moses
Health . . . Dr. K.C.K.E. Raia
Child Welfare. .Dr. K.H. Cama

May

Far East Series on Social Wel-
fare will move on to Indonesia,

Ceylon and other eastern ports
in coming issues.

Special Introductory
Subscriptions to
new subscribers

V
Single copies 50c

Send orders to

SURVEY ASSOCIATES, Inc.

112 East 19th Street
New York 3, N.Y.

Congress Day

at Yellowstone

September 26, 1952 will be Na-
tional Recreation Congress Day in
Yellowstone National Park. Its a
very special and exciting day, when
Yellowstone’s historic Gardiner Gate
swings wide to welcome oflieers and

delegates traveling to the Seattle
Congress.

For more than eighty years, Yel-
lowstone has closed officially for rail
visitors about September 10. This
will happen again in 1952., when the
“Savage” Co-eds, who make the beds
and feed the people, and the “Gear
Jammers”, who drive the buses, will

hurry back home to their colleges
and other duties.

Yellowstone Park then becomes a
quiet, magnificent wonderland. No
“Savages”. No “Dudes”. N0 nice ho-
tel rooms. But wild animals galore.
They come out of the woods in
great numbers: elk, antelope, buf-
alo, moose, deer, bighorn sheep.
Scenes and thrills to be remembered!

“Can we see Yellowstone in Au—
tumn, on the way to the Seattle Con-
gress?” the National Recreation As-
sociation representatives asked Na-
tional Park Service. The answer is
“yes” so here we go!

 

The Northern Pacific Railway is
arranging the trip, with official bless-
ing of the Congress. Leave Chicago
September 24. Conferences, good
fellowship and Yellowstone enroute.
Square and folk dancing in a Mon-
tana barn one evening. Arrive Se—
attle 7:30 A.;\’I. September 28. Con—
vention until October 3-—then home-
ward bound as you please, or eon-
tinue with the Congress Tour to
California and Grand Canyon.

An illustrated Congress trip folder
has been printed. Write for it to the

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y.

75

 

'76

   

RECREATION

is one of the fields in which
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this
monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS — Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES —Suggestions for financing student functions.

A'I'IILETICS —News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and inter-scholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
IIOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

I’EI’ ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS -— Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS —Suggcstions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscription Price  Subscribe New

School Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

Rncam'rma'

The Louisiana Art Commission Leads the Way

 

Mrs. Hal Porter's “The Circus,” on exhibition in the Old State Capitol gal-
leries, Baton Rouge, during show. She is 77 years old, has been painting a year.

   

The painting might
not have looked like
much to an average
art connoisseur. It was done in ama-
teurish fashion on a piece of meat
wrapping paper, using simple auto
lacquers as the medium. But this
painting. the first offering in Harry
Hehnrich’s art life, was chosen by the
lecturer one night at a rural Louisiana
art meeting as one of the best exam-
ples of primitive painting yet seen in
the state.

Helmrich, a former auto mechanic

MR. KERR has a. distinguished combat
record, is a former newspaper editor,
now press representative for the Louis-
iana Forestry Commission.

M AY 1952

by Edward Kerr

rcndered an invalid several years ago
by arthritis, is one of the hundreds
of Louisiana citizens who have found
the advantages of using art as a source
of recreation and relaxation in their
daily lives, through the efforts of the
Louisiana art commission. The only
state-sponsored organization of this
nature in the United States, it en-
deavors to bring art’s manifold thera-
peutic and stimulating offerings to
every citizen of the state.

Hehnrich is a member of the Tan-
gipahoa Parish art association, which
is one of twenty-one active art groups
in the state, all but three of which are
located in rural communities. Most of
the groups meet once a week to paint
together and offer criticism of each

RECREATHMV

THROUGH

other’s work. Six of the groups have
regular instructors who come from
nearby state colleges each meeting date
and teach elementary principles. The
objective with each group, as it is
with the entire state organization, is to
paint for the simple enjoyment of it,
not necessarily to win prizes.

Membership of the groups rangcs
from twenty-three to six hundred fifty-
five at the present time but is steadily
increasing as the members actively
work to encourage individual artists in
their areas. Each year these groups
are given shows in the art commis-
sion’s galleries in the Old State Capi-
tol building in Baton Rouge and they
also exchange shows among them-
selves.

An art group member might be a
practicing woman lawyer, a retired
businessman, or a housewife. He or
she might be a seventeen-year-old
freshman at college or an eighty-three-
year-old mother like Mrs. Hal Porter
of Amite. Mrs. Porter completes an
average of at least one painting a
month. Another example of an older
lady who has just started painting for
the fun of it is Mrs. Georgia Starkey
of Hammond, who painted her first
picture when she was well past sev-

77

\lu lnuul that It

lat: u. litt- tn start panama. Ila «ahe

"llth
.

l:- m-Jt't tuu
ltd: [11411er au‘h‘rfll liwnnralrlo mm-
tim.» in 'riltlr -h~w.-s. inzluding the
Km tlrlc m:- llrlzztulu \luwum’a 30th
\Imi..ar:-..rj I‘ll-"n. “ltlt'll was .I no-
t mJ' .‘hi. mun. “in France: Pulse
-f ltrml'mtl. an invalid. organized .111
.ut aruuro herself in Imlnuroho Parish.

lt n-m has wrwnty-lnur nu mlwrs.

lhr l4 uisialm art mmmiaaion was
--rnwd in [033 h} .111 art of tho
[. Jordana legislature .sltter nmn} wars
nl insisto-nu— Ir} a group of women in
llutm‘. Rump-\- art league. lt.- work
“"13 limit: d ..t thc- start by the look of
‘mula for t lull-tin" (lifm'luf and In:-

ma. ml the ensuing war wars. llow-

1'qu ill \lm-h nl If”? the .trtiats'
'lft'£llu:- Imam tn umtnrialize. Thm

ILIIIng'd I" «ovum six thousand (lol-
-Ir- ho. tlu lt-gisluturr for tho mxt
-. at -. t-fit'flll-Illn :ml sttlt‘t [N] a “turn”.
'r.:'rgvflll' u-llmruln artist In tlu- 11am:
-l l4; Brnus-‘artl to lead tho “21)” ab
Jitmt-u. Brunsmirtl, ssllu- llaol lu-ni

working in limit-breaking: jHlth at the

«.It ‘muw .mcuml his natiu \eis-
lhuria. inn his (lisa'lmrgv lrmn the

whim ah .a 'lttlhtt'r sergeant, lust no
u '-\\..It"ltt;! thv u‘iltz-timetl art
.rurm. tlllh i444 tu-I..pn. lli.‘z \‘Wlt‘lV

'll"

.mnawiutiut. now elm-r to elwrn

mr its-nul (l-tllau is al“ 1-. - tin: -'tt:p.~
*ehuirl all.” i- unatlml to l\cl‘|) pm-

n th l..- "(|ullllln!r:: «'lu-rlun.

l" nun-a I... I. who I] v .1.

I'll.I '5‘
t "-J l‘ I» ll”: ii'wtl I----t t‘ thu'nm
l I it

or h..- ‘llt't't'tlul [I lightin
‘ l howl: .l- .l twingn {iti

In; . t... n' t"? “u v unlms: 1N1. lmli
.. u.“ .1: \w t - up” ttlm: it th
. III th - oil: lll -t1.‘t
t [I l lil‘ “4‘38- (ll ‘I ll "
t "l I ll'\ «i it at?» ll‘lftl'
' ’ ‘ l: tlll “luck in! rkli.
1l-lt n "l "Ill. 0 lull
I '.--.:-’|r ' --l i .xh..".iu tl
' Fur "l‘tll‘ l" ‘
-II' II
' ~ 1. ... «l. Ll.
: » « . . tt- u l
 . - s u.
h l'_ " H
| l
| 0 '- t
'* I \ 1H t
- l r [1- it
c. . 1

than; Ir -' «ml. “Why. me. of t-nursH'

It

a h- In!-
 l 0-- {I'll} [D '

ht .
l H’In

Ii

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 

.\ jumor member is I\cil
Jackson, painting in one
of the Saturday morning
classes. None are too
young or too Oltl to take
part in the art programs.

Below, one of Louisiana's
budding amateur artists,
Harry ltelmrieh. works in
his “studio” at his home.
He recently sold a paint-
ing, his first, to a church.

I" .ultlll'. .r' t I hin regular in. Al: .llttl

"III...

.III“

11; ~

oll'

It].

'i

“I: l arlr' iIIIIJl'r-‘(lg 

'llI In! ("In [0' ft on?! :- Mmur

mp .mlI-ntnn. with art

w. m .H inn .- af rm ' .t
||>lltlr «a lit.-- ll. l‘t‘lVl'

ll: um I. l: 'm-n .m tier-fl.” in
’14“ 'llltll‘l'l L. .I~ llltkt'l

t In -- - qr?! t n r{rt (It [In
-t I Br :1 .iw “hwn ""I

Illt'Jtt tlt‘l I'ummissimi main lump-vb

is thv trawling (xhlhitionr- who h
mm numer tm-ntyoight. Thou.
r-lluth sshirh .m-lmh— origmal (Ir-mink.-
l'mlt thr \ssm'intml \nu-ritan \rtist:

tmllm ('6 m \a-w Lulu. and (lmunwnt-
ul puntl -l]uts- from thc‘ \luw-um ol
\lotlnn \rt. an to tow srhnnl. emu].
nr lllrr u. who h 1.. t‘npdgt‘tl .n .u in
anagram tur utll‘ a solar" rhorgt- to
u r r -t ul transportation.

\uotlu ' lr ll!" of tho r ’llltllliJ-ntr-n '-

Itsrmzanm

“Old Man of the. Delta,” by II. C. Fultz
of New Orleans. “Best print in the show."

program to stimulate interest in art
among amateurs is the annual amateur
artists’ exhibition, in which the com-
mission offers prizes of $100, $75 and
325 out of its pinched resources for
the first, second and third place win-
ners. Last April, the ninth annual ex-
hibition was held. Amateur photog-

 

raphers of the state vie each year for
honors in its annual amateur photog-
raphers’ exhibition, the third of which
will be held this February. Another
big event is the annual art students’
exhibition, entries for which are di-
vided into four categories: adult
amateur part-time students, college
art students, high school art students,
and children in the elementary schools.
No prizes are given, but the show is
documented and filed with the state
library for future reference on art
progress in Louisana.

Broussard’s latest precedent-setting
project is the First Louisiana Forestry
Art Exhibition, which was hung in the
commission’s galleries during Novem-
her. It was sponsored jointly by the
Louisiana forestry commission and the
art commission. The exhibition, which

drew two hundred fifty entries from
throughout the state, was Open to adult
amateurs, professionals, college art
students, high school students, and
elementary children for the purpose
of stimulating interest in forestry
through art. The project has been so
successful in demonstrating the use
of art to further interest in other
fields that other agencies of the state
now want an exhibition, tool
Louisiana definitely has led the way
in proving that art should not be
forgotten in any recreational program
of a city, state or nation. Its proof
lies within the cities and on the bayous
of this southern state, where countless
hundreds of everyday folks have found
the recreational, and sometimes life-
saving qualities available in the world

of amateur art.

“Emphasis in the encouragement of local art courses
is upon the recreational value of art. The art groups
appeal to all ages, and include many older people,

and people who are incapacitated, in addition to the
young. This program is outstanding!”—BILL HAY,
National Recreation Association Field Department.

 

Recreation Personnel Changes

Joseph Owens, Superintendent of
Recreation in Caldwell, New Jersey,
has resigned to accept the position of
National Director of Athletics and
Recreation for the Veterans of For-
eign Wars, with headquarters in Kan-
sas City, Missouri.

Frank Evans, Assistant Superin-
tendent of Recreation in East Orange,
New Jersey, succeeds Mr. Owens as the
newly appointed executive in Cald-
well, New J erscy.

Warren P/ost, Superintendent of
Recreation in Webster City, Iowa, has
been succeeded by Robert Eldridge.
Mr. Pfost returns cast for community
center work in Trenton. New Jersey.

Syl Fultm'ler is the new superin-
tendent in Puyallup, Washington. and
Leo Fondacaro succeeds Jack Hans

MAY 1952

as the executive in Amarillo, Texas.
I’ennell Eustis has reported to Lewis-
ton, Maine, as the new executive.
Nice things continue to happen to
recreation executives. This time it is
Carl Soden, superintendent of recrea-
tion in Great Bend, Kansas, who has
been selected for contributing most
to the community in the preceding

.year. He received the Distinguished

Service Award from the Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce as the “Young Man
of the Year.”

William 1’. Witt, Superintendent of
Recreation in Corpus Christi, Texas,
has been promoted to the combined
responsibility for parks and recreation.
His assistant, Robert Moorman, has
been advanced to the position of su-
perintendent of recreation, and other

members of the staff have moved up
the ladder. Promotion from within has
made for a career service for the rec-
reation staff in Corpus Christi.

John M. Stephens, In, Director of
Parks and Recreation, Salem, Virginia,
has transferred to a similar position

in Coral Gables, Florida.

Edwin 1. Moses, Director of Parks
and Recreation, Urbana, Illinois, has
been called back to service in Korea.

Don T. Neer, formerly superintend-
ent of recreation in Zanesville, Ohio,
has accepted a position with the United
States Junior Chamber of Commerce
as sports director.

Gus H. Hoycock, Superintendent of
Parks in Corpus Christi, Texas, is now
Superintendent of Parks and Recrea-
tion in San Antonio.

 

Sunday recital group, Midland String Quartet, all symphony orchestra members.

We Make Our Own

’lUSlC

Bob McKellar

F IT IS TRUE, as some say, that the

American people are a nation of
spectators, then those who deplore the
tendency to sit and watch someone
else perform would no doubt find sol-
ace in the activities of the people of
Midland. Michigan, in the Dow Chemi-
cal Company music organizations.

Midland is a relatively small eityr-H
about H.000 inhabitants some dis
tance from the centers of population
and industry usually associated with
a company as large as |)ow. Perhaps
that's one reason why the eouununity
talus such an active part in its l'ec.
reatiun programs

Vol that qood professional enter'
tainment is unattainable: in these days
an mnsionul trip to Detroit. one huu-

New..." her if» v"

1951.

80

Journal. January

dred twenty miles away, to attend
a concert or a play eertainly is not
out of the question. But, somehow, we
find it much more satisfying to make
our own music.

And make our own we do. Last
year the Dow music organizations gave
seventeen coueerts, thirteen in Midland
and four out of town. Coueerts during
the last seven years have included such
major works as Elijah, The Messiah,
The Creation, The Ordering of Moses,
NioIr-Mho's Wedding Feast, Carmen,
acts from Morth and Tales 0/ Hal]-
mon. The (ilihmlo, Patience, .‘Ynnghly
.llorieno. lleethoveu's Symphonies “Yo.
I and No. i}. Mozart's Nomi” Syru-
phony. .‘lcndclssohn's Violin Concerto
in .«l liinor. Beethoven's Triple Con-
certo for Violin. (Cello and i’ionn, and
many other major and smaller works.

You might say that the Dow music

program was the result of spontaneous
combustion. The first flames were
kindled baek in 1936, whcn a group of
men at the plant organized a male
chorus and petitioned the company for
a little assistance in the form of some
mnsie, programs. a piano, and the sal-
ary for a part-time director.

This arrangemcnt was fairly suc-
cessful: the chorus provided the out-
let for self-expression whieh mnsie of-
fers. but the musical standards of the
group were probably no better than
those of any comparable unit from
Maine to California. And part-time di-
rectors came and went, although the
chorus had grown to a membership
of seventy-six men by the beginning
of the war.

The members of the ehorus were
just people who loved to sing. It was
a fairly good cross seetion of the
plant—a scattering of white collar
workers mixed with some in overalls.
But in addition to their love of sing-
ing they possesst the understandable
desire for professional eompetenee.
liortunately, they were able to do some-
thing about it. In 19-13 the group
asked the company for a full-time
musie direetor. Thus it was that the
employees themselves, through their
great enthusiasm for musie and with
the cooperation of the Dow Chemical
Company, created their own mnsie de-
partment. Dr. Theodore Vosburgh,
former assoeiate profcssor of mnsie at
Albion College, Albion, Miehigan. was
chosen by the chorus as director of
the new project in the summer of 19-13.

The purpose of the Dow Chemical
Company in setting up and finaueing
a music department was not publicity.
The company had long pursued a poli-
ey of assistance in improving the. cul-
turn] and recreational facilities of the
entire community, and it believed that
music could be a vital factor in em-
ployee morale. would provide an outlet
for musieal interest, and would be a
medium for providing wholesome cu-
tertainment both for employees and
for the general public.

These views certainly have been jus-
tified by the success of the program.
l'ndcr the direction of Dr. Vosburgh.
the musical project has gained tre-
nlcndous impetus until today we hm e
a well-balanced progranIH—the largest

It IZCtlt-IATIOV

industrial music organization in the
world.

The backbone of the Dow program
is a trio of musical groups; the male
chorus, the girls’ chorus, and the Dow
symphony orchestra. The pattern for
each season has been fairly well es-
tablished. From November to May the
public may hear, free of charge, a
concert every four weeks, a schedule
culminating each spring in a two- or
three-day festival. The vocal organi-
zations give their own memorized con-
certs, then combine for one oratorio
in December. One mixed choral and
instrumental concert is produced dur-
ing each season, and a major c-horal
work is included in the festival. For
those who hanker for a little grease
paint and the glamor of the footlights,
either an operetta or operatic acts are
given each season.

The orchestra presents two concerts
a year and joins the vocal groups in
the concerts already mentioned. On
an occasional Sunday afternoon the
public may enjoy a chamber music
program: small ensembles, such as girl
scxtets, male quartets, trios, woodwind
and brass groups, and string quartets
organized mostly from the large
groups.

On three occasions each season the
church choirs and many others join
the Dow musio groups: for the era-
torio in December, the choral program
of the festival and the annual operetta.

To those with creative talents every

One of combined Dow groups’ first major productions is usual-
ly oratorio in December. “The Messiah” was presented in 1944.

encouragement is gix en, with the idea
always in mind of producing original
works. One of the most popular per-
formanccs of the program’s history
was an original variety show in six
aets called. appropriately. “Chemie
Capers.” lt was written, directed and
produced by the cooperative efforts of
a great number of Dow and other
Midland pc0ple. Included was a ballet
with original music and dances.

To avoid giving the impression that

- the Dow music groups are composed

entirely of Dow people, we should like
to point out that, with one exception,
the community at large is welcome
to participate. Because of the excep-
tional popularity of the male chorus,
a limit of one hundred Dow employees
has reluctantly been set, and there is
usually a waiting list. The girls’ chorus
of one hunderd tcn voices and the or-
ehcstra of sixty members are open to
everyone in the community. Inciden-
tally, our symphony orchestra is com-
posed entirely of local persons, none
coming from outside the Midland area.

All productions of the Dow music
organizations are open and free to the
public. Freewill offerings are taken
at all main concerts and, since 1945,
the Midland Music Foundation has
been the beneficiary of funds accruing
from this source.

The Midland Music Foundation was
conceived to stimulate interest in music
and to assist in the musical education

of the children of Midland County.

.‘qp.

Once each year the foundation spon-
sors a contest. The winners receive
music scholarships and prix ate les-
sons. Last spring one hundred twenty-
five students competed; four students
were awarded eight weeks each at In-
terloehen, and tWo students were giv-
en two weeks at that well-known music
camp. Twelve more winning contest-
ants received cash awards to be used
for private lessons with local teachers.
The foundation also has a scholarship
fund which is used to provide needy
talented students with means to con-
tinue their lessons.

The children benefiting from the
foundation range from eight years old
through high school age. They are di-
vided into three groups for purposes
of competition. This year the founda-
tion is helping to pay the salary of a
full-time music instructor for the Mid-
land County schools.

The board which administers the
funds of the foundation is composed
of two representatives of each major
Dow group, Dr. Vosburgh, and one
other member of his staff. For the
contest, impartial udges, usually from
college music departments, choose the
best performances.

Since one of the main purposes of
the Dow music program is to provide
self-expression for the individual, local
talent is given every opportunity to do
solo work. Such a policy has been jus-
tified by the many excellent perform-

ances which have been given. How-

Mcmbcrs of choruses and symphony orchestra join forces to pre-
sent “The Red Mill” as one of the major productions of 1950.

 

ever. one or more nationally known
artists appear on about two-thirds of

These

increase attcndanec;

our concerts. artists are not
brought in to
rather, they supply an exciting stimu-
lus to the performing group from both
a musical and a personal point of
view. The artist usually performs a
work of some length with the groUp
and then offers some shorter pieces.
lnformal get-togethers are held after
concerts, so that the local people have
an opportunity to meet and chat with
the artist.

Among the well-known vocalists who
have appeared with our groups are
Winifried lleidt, contralto; Conrad
Thibault, Donald Dame,
and Josephine Antoine, so-
prano. lnstrumcutalists include Whitle-
and pianists; l’crcy
Crainger, pianist; Yélla Pessl, harpsi-
chordist; and Lois Banncrman, harp-
1st.

baritone;
tenor;

mo re Lowe,

Until last year, rehearsals of the
music groups were held more or less
wherever space could he found. Usual-
ly the Dow auditorium or the plant
cafeteria was available. When these
two places were in use, space was bor-
rowed from local churches.

Last year the department, with all
its activities, settled into
building, contributed by

its own
the Dow
Chemical Company---—with no strings

attached. lt has an auditorium large
enough to accommodate rehearsals of
the largest groups. practice rooms, and
ollices for Dr. Vosburgh and his three
assistants. Performances are given, as
before, in the community‘s largest au-

that of Midland lligh

ditorium,
School

Dr. Vosburgb is a graduate of the
Eastman School of Music, and was
granted a Ph.D. in music from the
Detroit Institute of Musical Art in
194-1. In addition, he studied conduct-
ing with F. Melius Cbristiansen, John
Finley Williamson, and Fred Waring.
and coached with Edward llarris. He
has appeared in many recitals, radio
programs, oratorios and opera per-
formances. Before coming to Midland
he headed the voice department of
Newberry College in South Carolina
and for six years was associate pro-
fessor of music and director of vocal
organizations at Albion College, Al-
bion, Michigan.

One of his assistants is his wife,
a musician in her own right. She, also,
is a graduate of the Eastman School
of Music, having specialized in voice
and piano. She became an ollicial
member of the Dow staff this year,
having served in one capacity or
another in praetically every produc-
tion of the project.

liobert Moss, pianist, joincd the

Coopc ‘ation in Aquatics

“r111”: llole of Survival Aquatics in
the National Emergency” was
the subject under discussion at a meet-
ing held at Yale L'nivcrsity, November
26 and 27, under the auspices of the
Conference for National Cooperation
in Aquatics. This Conference includes
in its membership representatives from
national organizations and individuals
who have particular abilities or inter-
est in aquatics. The National lleerea-
tion Association is one of the cooperat-
ing groups.

82

The purpose of the November meet-
ing was to devise effective methods and
techniques to stimulate and guide lo-
cal groups to work together in initiat-
ing, developing and conducting aquat-
ic programs designed to teach the
aquatic skills, as developed by the
department of defense, and other ap-
propriate aspects of survival aquatics.
The conference is urging the need for
greater awareness among community

agencies of the need for expanding

Dow music department in 1946, after
three years in the navy and teaching
at the University of Texas. lle, also,
is an l'iastuian graduate.

l’ortia 'l‘hede is the fourth member
of the stall. She received a Bachelor
of Science degree in physics and a
Bachelor of Music degree at Michigan
State College. where she studied under
Alexander Schuster. ller specialty is
the cello. which she played in various
symphonies throughout the state be-
fore coming to Midland in 19-13.

It is hard to evaluate the true worth
of a program such as the one at Dow,
although there is no doubt in the mind
of anyone who has attended even one
performance that it is of inestimable
value. Perhaps the figures tell the real
story. In the last seven seasons the
three major organizations have given
ninety-six full concerts in Midland be-
fore about one hundred twenty thou-
sand pcopl&—in a hall seating only one
thousand two hundred fifty. Free tick-
ets are distributed for each perform-
ance in an effort to control the size of
the crowds. 'l‘hese tickets are given out
at three distribution points, and even
when three thousand seven hundred
fifty tickets are given out for three
nights they are often gone in an hour.
Can there be any doubt that Midland
is getting her share of the satisfaction

that music can bring?

swimming and survival
Creat emphasis is being placed upon
preparation of the civilian population
as well as of young persons facing mili-

programs.

tary service, since more than half of
the total population of the United
States participates in swimming and
other aquatic activities.

The conference is urging the devel-
opulent of cooperative action in lo-
calitics, to the end that aquatics may
contribute to the national defense ef-
fort to the fullest extent.

Itaemwnos

 

HE ACCOMPANYING statement is a
T summary of the discussion and
recommendations of the Swimming
Pool Section at a midwest recreation
executive conference held in Spring-
field, Illinois. Chauncey Hyatt, swim-
ming pool consultant, contributed much
to its deve10pment.

It seems fairly clear that the prob-
lcm of swimming pool operation is
sanitation. This problem involves the
preparation of the hathers before they
enter the pool, housekeeping in the
pool and around the pool area, and
prevention of the transmission of di-
scase during epidemics.

Preparation of Bathers before
Swimming

All bathers, in all walks of life,
all ages and both sexes, should be re-
quired to take a bath prior to entering
a pool. The pool management should
provide for adequate and proper in-
spection of all bathers to make sure
they have bathed before entering the
pool. This inspection should be cour-
tcous, and done by personnel who will
not embarrass the hathers.

Facilities should he provided which
will permit all bathers to take a nude
warm water shower with liquid soap
before entering the pool. Liquid soap
is preferred to bar soap for various
reasons. In progressive communities
the tendency is toward open-type
showers for both sexes. Where there
is a demand for privacy, somc man-
agers resort to the device of a canvas

wall hung from a cable stretched
across the room. The most recommend-
ed footbath was the shallow floor de-
pression, supplied with a flow of clean
water. If the footbath is of the chemi-
cal type, it is recommended that the

MAY 1952

SWIMMING POOL
OPERATION D.

 

Martin Nading and Sam Basan

chemicals be renewed every hour. It
was pointed out that the use of some
footbath chemicals caused excessive
irritation, and that the problem of
foot infections is diminishing.

It was recommended that wherever
possible a nurse be employed to in-
spect patrons for skin troubles, nose,
throat and ear infections. Patrons
should be required to have dry suits
and towels before entering the pool
area.

The problem of pool sanitation is,
in the main, essentially a matter of
good housekeeping. The public should
be well informed through advance pub-
licity of those rules and regulations
aimed toward better housekeeping and
more sanitary pool conditions.

Transmission of Diseases

It was pointed out that the human
being is not essentially an amphi-
bious animal, and thus not accus-
tomed to living in a water environment.
His nose is not protected to shut out
the water as in a seal or other aquatic
animal. In swimming and diving, the
person is subjected to pressures which
flush the protective coatings in the
nasal passages into the sinuses, carry-
ing up potentially infected organisms,
thereby causing sinus infections. Also,
sneezing or coughing by the swimmer
causes dr0plets of possible infectious
material to adhere to the water briefly
and other swimmers nearby may take
in this material which may result in
a respiratory infection.

Regarding the transmission of polio,
advice was sought from Alex J. Steig-

man, M.D., consultant in clinical epi-
demiology, National Foundation for
Infantile Paralysis, who wrote as fol-
lows:

“Present day information would sug-
gest that swimming pools which are
well managed from the sanitary point
of view, do not directly constitute a
hazard from the standpoint of polio-
myelitis. Two outstanding features of
poliomyelitis are: (1) that it is spread
by personal contact, and (2) that ex-
haustion and fatigue, as well as chill-
ing, render individuals more suscepti-
ble to the severe effects of the disease.
It is probably for these two reasons
that swimming pools have for a long
time been held under suspicion, not
because of the water, but because a
swimming pool is a place of assembly.

“At the national conference on Rec-
ommended Practices for the Control
of Poliomyelitis, held in Ann Arbor,
Michigan, in June 1949, it was rec-
ommended that health oilicers do not
take action to close or prevent Opera-
tion of places of recreation or amuse-
ment, since such measures were inef-
fective, as a rule, in controlling polio-
myelitis epidemics.

“I think you are quite right in in-
dicating that when you do not have
control over the length of time the
children spend in the water, such a
situation is not good. The chief things
in operating a swimming pool of the
type you referred to in your letter
are: (l) to see that the children are
not permitted to remain in until they
are exhausted and chilled, and (2) to
see that crowding, either in the water

83

or on the adjacent beach or platforms.
is not permitted.”
Bacterial test samples should be tak-

(11 during periods when the swinnning,

pool is in use. in order that a true
picture of the water condition ean be
obtained. In the state of Illinois. both
ehlorine and bromine are approved as
pool disinfectants. It was pointed out
that in chlorinating pools free chlorine
is nmch morc cfleetive than combined
chlorine.

In consideration of the hygienic
aspect of wading pools, it was pointed
out that Spray pools are to bc rec-
ommended over wading pools.

Some Management Problems

lleeonnnendcd f o r

compensation
pool personnel is as follows:

Managers $250.00 per month
Lifeguards .. .75 per hour
Instructors 1.00 per hour

Lifeguards, llcad 50.00 pcr wcek

Maximum work day .. ..7 hours

6 days

Maximum work week

lt is recommended that lifeguards
havc qualifications which are equiv-
alent of the senior lied Cross ccrtifi-
cate. To enforce good discipline. the
guards should be assigned to their
posts on a rotating basis.

To reduce the number of public be-
havior problems it is recommended
that the rules and regulations of the
pool be clearly posted in conspicuous
places around the pool area. In the
light of good citizenship, pools should
adopt a policy of non-discrimination
as far as the racial question is con-
cerned, althOUgh it should be left
to the local community to work this
problem out thoughtfully through a
program of public education.

Every community should offer free
swimming instructions to all age
groups. When local conditions permit,

such as the size of the pool, operating
hours, and so forth, swimming classes

should bc separated from “open” or

recreational swimming. Thc swimming
classes or othcr leader-led pool activi-
ties might be climaxed with such
events as swimming meets. pageants.
water carnivals and other events which
will serve to create swinnning interest
and confidence in the swimming pro-
gram. Some pools capitalize on the
spectator interest in swimming by
providing a spectators” arca, which
should be in the shade and should be
provided with seating faeilitics.

Pools should be open seven days a
week, opening at one p.m. on Sunday.
While it is most desirable to operate
the pool free of charges, or to pro-
vide eertain free swim periods. all
aspects of this decision should be left
to thc local connnnnity. The prices
of tickets or issuance of scason tick-
ets, are strictly local problems. l’ools
designed and planned to opcrate on
a self-supporting basis should draw
sullicicnt revenue to meet Operating
and maintenance costs.

 

liltlllill‘tl Montgomery ’l‘uhin

I In the death early this year of the
llon. llichard Montgomery Tobin, the
National Recreation Assoeiation lost
one of its most valued sponsors.

lliehard M. Tobin passed on in his
nativc city of San Francisco on Jan-
uary 23, l952. at the age of eighty-
five. For more than sixty years, he
actively supported the cultural and
civic organizations of his city. Known
internationally for his six years as
United States Minister to the Nether-
lands from I923 to I929, he endeared
himself in countless ways to his fel-
low citixens at home.

lle believed strongly in youth guid-
ance and was. for many years, the
San Francisco sponsor of the National
llecrcation Association.

“The hope of the. human race," he
said, “lies in starting our ehildrcn
right." To him that meant doing some-
thing about providing the best pos-
sible recreational and edneational fa-
cilities for thc connnnnity.

{H

llis was not a philosophy of merely
“talking about" recreation, for he
gained a rcputation as a sportsman,
along with his many other activities,
playing compctitive polo until he was
nearly fifty.

In his business life Mr. Tobin was
prcsidcnt of thc llibcrnia Bank, of
which he first became a director at
the age of twenty-thrcc.

lle supported many art and music
enterprises and was a sponsor of the
San Francisco Symphony.

During his years in The Nether-
lands he studied the art of that coun-
try and later wrote a widely accepted
book on the Dutch school. lle was
the first American ever granted mem-
bership in the Utrecht l’rovincial As-
sociation for Arts and Scicnces, one
of the highest honors in Europe.

Survived by his widow, his brothcr
and two sisters. .\lr. Tobin has left
behind loving memories in many
hearts. llis was the kind of leadership

 

Richard M. Tobin

by exmnpfe in which good will was
fortified by good works.

This resolution was passed at a
February meeting:

“That the lloard of Directors of the
National llecreation
Cords with decp sorrow the death of
llichard .\l. Tobin. who for nearly
twenty sened as
in San

Association re-

years association
and for

five years as honorary membcr of the

sponsor Francisco.
association.

“llis lxadership. his generosity, his
willingness to raise money for the
association, have all helped strengthen
the recreation: movement in America."

ltccnmnos

 

  

Above: A picnic area
hcckons hcncath cool
trees of a wooded glcn.

     
  
 
  
  
  

Children see live, but
a bit slcepy, screecli
owls for the first time.

llacky, the raccoon,
grcat show-off, al-
ways draws a mob.

Baby red foxes, to
be trusted now, but
probably not later.

Left: a boy, a girl,
I a brook, a bridge—
liappy spring scene.

MAY 1952

James H. Hamilton, Jr.

N’ SUNDAY AFTERNOONS almost a thousand people visit
Athens, Georgia’s Trailsidc Museum. lts ten enclosures

containing foxes, raccoons, opossums, screech owls, squir-
rels, rabbits and a skunk are fascinating to adults as
well as children. Its snake pit, surrounded by a moat,
enclosing a variety of snakes, alligators and turtles is
always encircled by a crowd of wide-eyed visitors.

The enclosures are large. The frames have been built
of small trees and covered with wire that is almost in-
visible from a short distancc. The animals are content
and unafraid. Once the door of thc opossums’ pen was
left open for several days, but the animals, captured only
three weeks before, remained inside.

Along the many trails, the diffcrent varieties of trees
and shrubs are identified by small namc plates, which in-
cludc their common names and other information con-
cerning their origin and peculiarities. Bird-feeding stations
have been placed beside the trails, and already the birds
have begun to make the park their permancnt home.

The Trailsidc Museum was begun early in 1950 by thc
Athens parks and recreation department, and was first
opened to the public last spring. A wide well-worn path
through the woods‘ was chosen and the undergrowth was
cleared a few feet back from each side. The enclosures
were placed wherever the trail proved level enough. Ani-
mals have been contributed by intercsted amateur natural-
ists and the Georgia wildlife commission.

New animals are added almost weekly. For these more
enclosures must be built. The museum’s cxpansion is a
continuous process, yet all this costs the public nothing.

The only expense has been for a few yards of concrete and
wire.

There are no guides or time limits, and the peOple may
fecd the animals. Parents have no cause to worry about
their children. Thcy may wander safely where they please.

Only in idea is the museum modern. Trails worn long
ago havc been left unchanged. An informal theme is car-
ried throughout the park, even to the unfinished signs
which mark the many trails.

These wonders of nature may be small and simple. The
woods hold countless numbers of the very animals in the
museum now, but few people have the opportunity to
watch them work and play in their own enviroment as they
do in the Trailsidc Museum.

 

AUTHOR was Publicity Director, Recreation and Parks.

85

 

Every park and recreation system begins with a recog-
nition of a basic human need—the need for relaxation,
for play and for a satislacory social life. The King County
park and recreation system was no exception. Community
leaders knew that there is true eonununity living only
when people come together as neighbors. This spirit of
cooperation between the people and King County ollicials
in the late 1930's was thc beginning of the first county
park system in the state of Washington.

Twelve counties have acquircd areas for parks, all of
which gained a needed stimulus from the 1937 state legis-
lature, which authorized counties to aequire by purchase,
donation, gilt or dedication, camping, scenic views, recrea-
tion sites and parks for puhlie use and enjoyment. Follow-
ing the passing of the state law, the 1938 King County
Board of Connnissioners passed a resolution setting up
the department of public works, parks and playgrounds.
The resolution authorized the acquisition of appropriatc
sites, the construction of community buildings and rec-
reational facilities, and the maintenance and Operation of
an adequate system of community recreational areas
throughout the county, within the limits of the money
provided.

In contrast to most eounty park systems in other states,
the areas selected were not he to scenic parks, but
rather, areas for dcveIOptnent as community centers and
as aids in a charactcr building program, designed par-
ticularly for the younger and unemployed members of
the community. At this time, community cluh activities
were highly develOped and this develOpment has not
lessened. At present there are more than one hundred
tcn aetive conntnnnity clubs in rural King County.

Eight major lieldhouses and connnnnity centers were.
built in 1938-39. Approximately twenty-live per cent of
the cost was borne by King County, while the balance was
provided by the W.l’.A. as labor on the projects. Materials
and supplies were furnished either by King County. com-
munity clubs or other intcrested groups. 0f the land
acquired, only two acres out of a total of about two

 

Itomzar STEPHESS has been the superintendent of parks and
recreation, King County, Washington, since Allard: l, 1951.

86

COOPERATION IS KING

hundred filly aeres wcre purchased. Most of the county
apprOpriations since have gone for park development.

Until 1943, it was possible for the department to meet
the needs intendcd with an annual budget of sixty-six
thousand dollars. From 1943 to 19-17, the budget elimhed
to one hundred forty-live thousand dollars. Further
progress was made in park legislation in the state when
a bill was passed in the 1949 legislature which enabled
county commissioners to appoint a county park board.
King County’s first park board was appointed in February,
1950. Under its leadership, and the increased interest
in park facilities and leadership, the park-minded eounty
eonnnissioners recently approved the 1952 budget of
$270,700.95, with fifty thousand dollars allocated for land
acquisition.

Recreation Councils

The coolicrative ellort between the people and the King
County park and recreation department has persisted in
the provision of recrcation lcadcrship. Over fifty pcr cent
of the total budget is for salarics and wages, with a

Recreation councils, community cluhs, government of-
licials, private and public recreation agencies look for-
ward eagerly to the opening day of the 1952 Congress

in Seattle. A typical western welcome will he ollered
to all who attend. During the short, busy week, everyone
will have a chance to see the recreation opportunities in
King County.

 

major portion of this for playground personnel, swim-
ing instructors, specialists and lull-time directors. The
latter are assigned to the outlying areas. 'l'hcse proles-
sional recreation leaders work closely with the local rec-
reation council to provide recreation programs in the
available lacilitics. At present. there are sixtecn active
rcereation councils in King County, and all departmcnt
pcrsonncl are alerted to the necds oi the community
through recreation council meetings.

A rcccnt study of all such councils, conducted by the
council of social agcncies and the King County park and
recrcation department, revealed the need for a county-

Itccamrtos

IN KING COUNTY

Robert C. Stephens

wide rccreation council, to coordinate the efforts of all
rccreation agencies; and members of local councils have
recently organized one, so that problems of one council are
shared and discussed by the entire group. Private and
public agencies also attend these meetings. From them,
representatives take information—which they could obtain
in no other way—to their local community councils.
Monthly meetings are democracy in action, and the “seed”
must be planted here if it is to play a successful role
in the community.
Program

King County is blessed with many natural swimming
beaches and lakes, and without exception the best and
most outstanding summer activity is swimming. The
King County chapter of the American Red Cross and the
King County park and recreation department annually
hire a staff of roving water safety instructors who move
into the communities for concentrated programs of swim-
ming instruction. County school districts provide bus
transportation to county beaches or private resorts, and
beach supervision is provided by local recreation coun-
cils and P.T.A. groups.

During the summer of 1951, seventy-two thousand chil-
dren and adults took part in the swimming instruction
program. Local Red Cross authorities report that this
program is one of the best attended in the country.

All sports activities are organized in the many sports-
minded suburban and rural communities and coordinated
into lcagucs by a full-time county athletic supervisor.
Jamborees and county-wide tournaments and play-offs pro-
vide the incentive necessary for the novice recreation
sports participant. Plays, field (lays, dancc festivals and
square dance groups are organized in a similar manner.

Specialists in camping and arts and crafts are sent into
the various communities upon request for in-scrvice
training to local groups.

Realizing that full-time year-round recreation leadership
is critically needed in the more populated rural areas,
the King County park and recreation department has eni-
barkcd on a joint program with the local community and
its recreation council to hire a full-time community rec-
reation director. This cooperation has operated success-

MAY 1952

 

 

Des Moines baseball field, grandstand is a popular facility.

fully in two communities during the last two years, and
a new program is beginning this year. The director is re-
sponsible directly to the two agencies, each paying one-
half of the director’s salary, and to the school adminis-
trators who are in charge of the facilities which are used
for after school and evening activities. All parties con-
ccrned in the three programs agree wholeheartedly that
the recreation dollar is well spent in this program of
joint participation.

King County park and recreation department services
and activities are made known to the agencies, volunteers,
and participants through the local weekly newspapers and
a mimeographed monthly Recreation Bltnetin edited by
King County park and recreation department personnel.

Facilities

The present King County park facilities were planned
and deve10pcd by men who had active recreation pro-
grams in mind. They were designed so that fhey might
serve a wide variety of recreational purposes for people
of all ages and still be operated economically. Enumclaw
Park, the largest of King County parks, with more than
ninety acres, is an active recreation facility, with a nine
hole golf course, fieldhouse, rifle range, baseball and
football fields with grandstand and an outdoor swimming
pooL

Seven other fieldhouses, all constructed by W.P.A.
labor, are stalled the year-round by trained recreation
directors and leaders. In addition, five county beaches

87

are staffed seven days a week during the summer months.

All county parks and centers are maintained jointly
by a permanent eustodian and a roving maintenance
crew. Community clubs and recreation councils also assist
the department in work projects supervised by park
department personnel.

Planning for the Future

The past fifteen years have seen little or no progress in
planning beyond the city limits of Seattle. In May, 1951, a
group of men and women interested in the preservation of
publie waterfront and park sites in King County met to
see what could be done before all the opportunities had
vanished. This group ealled itself the Puget Sound Park
Study Group and bi-weekly meetings throughout the sum-
mcr gained momentum and support from every community
organization in King County.

Weekly reeonnaissance tours by study group eommittecs
revealed that the people were fast losing public access to
beaeh and park sites.

A preliminary hroehure entitled “Too Little—Too Late”
was published and distributed to public oflieials, community
clubs and civic organizations in Seattle and rural King
County. To continue the study further, the board of county

Maryland to llevclop

t—zvt—It.0I'.\tENT of l’atapseo ltiver Valley as a Maryland
I] state park became assured through the approval by the
legislature of a $900,000 bond issue for this purpose. For
six years a committee has been studying the possibilities
of this great recreation project, and its report issued in
1930 by the Maryland State Planning Commission provides
the basis for carrying forward the project. The following
description of the proposed park is based upon or quoted
from the development plan.“

“Land proposed for acquisition and development com-
priSes principally well-wooded slopes, but it also includes
river bottom land, swamps, and a limited acreage in farms.
The valley is rich in history, varied in mineral deposits.
and replete with animal life. The river and its tributaries
will serve as good fishing streams, once pollution is re-
moved.

“The total area recommended will add 6,971 acres to
the present l,561 acres in l'atapseo State Park. This land
lies within Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Carroll, and Howard
Counties and tom-hes all the urban centers from Baltimore
City to Sykesville. The l’ark will be 26.45 miles long and
have an average width of one-half mile. 011 the North
Branch of the l’atapseo it will connect with the new Liberty
lieservoir property and on the South Braneh it will termi-
note at the llugg-Thomas Wildlife Demonstration Area,
which is administered by the State Game and Inland Fish
Commission.

"linder the Development Plan. about 6.000 acres of the
park will be of forest character and will be given to eon-

‘Detelopmen! Plan [or Paropseo River Park. Maryland State Plan-
ninu Commission. Ottober 1930. Illustrated. photographs and plans.

88

eolnmissioners allocated three thousand dollars toward a
park study whieh is to be eompleted in 1952 by the King
County Planning Commission and the Puget Sound Park
Study Group.

King County, with more than seven hundred fifty
thousand people, will eontinue to “spill over” in the areas
surrounding the Queen City, Seattle. Increased demands
for the acquisition and development of recreational faeili-
ties and the establishment of recreation programs in the
suburban and rural areas are inevitable.

The King County park and recreation department will
eontinue to share with other public ageneies the responsi-
bility of furnishing reereation facilities and leadership to
all the people, so that the greatest possible opportunity for
benefieial and satisfying recreation may be extended to
all where it is most needed—right in their own home
community.

llecreation services from the King County park and
recreation department to the eitizens of King County will
be inereased, as long as the publie recreation dollar is used
eflieiently. Community cooperation will insure this growth,
as it has sinee the ineeption of county responsibility for
parks and recreaton in King County, \Vashington.

ltiver Valley Park

servation praetiees, hiking, fishing, horsebaek riding, pie-
nicking in Small groups, and nature study. The remaining
2,500 odd acres are recommended for large-scale pieniek-
ing, camping, and urban and semi-urban-type park units.

“The faeilities proposed for the urban and semi-urban
centers include baseball, softball and soceer fields, swim-
ming pools, varied game courts, pienie centers, shelter
buildings, day camps, fishing,‘ canoeing and boating cen-
ters, food concessions, and snch revenue-producing fa.
eilities as bieyele paths, golf-driving ranges, archery.
dancing pavilions, and outdoor bowling alleys. The mud
flats are to be transformed into a large lagoon surronndcd
by a park and playfield.

“When fully developed. the park will include five camp-
ing eenters, eight swimming pools and ponds, seventy-live
miles of bridle paths, and sixty miles of hiking trails. Long
sections of eighteen stream valleys are incorporated in the
proposed development. Boating and canoeing are recom-
mended in the slack water above the several dams.

“The estimated eost of the land reqnired for aeqnisition
with existing improvements is 5000.000 or $115 an acre.
Cost of the development and etmstrnetion program, to be
spread over a twelve-year period, is estimated at approxi-
mately $6,000.000. When fully (lt‘\ eloped the park is c.\'-
pected to attract an estimated annual patronage of more
than l.I00,000 persons exclusive of motorists driving
through it. Annual operating costs, after deducting income
from revenue-producing units, are estimated at $60,800.

As stated in the foreword. “This is not a timid plan. It
is ambitious but in keeping with the needs and interests of
the area surrounding greater Baltimore and of the state."

Itaeaantos

 

THE RECENT announcement that the Amateur Artists As-
sociation is being organized under the aegis of the very
professional “American Artist” magazine serves to focus
attention on the burgeoning interest in art, evident from
increased museum attendance, sales of paintings and enroll-
ment in art schools. Both rural and urban residents have
been experiencing what Winston Churchill once called
“a joy-ride in a paint-box,” and have become “Sunday
painters” with boundless enthusiasm. These countless ama-
teurs who pursue “art for art’s sake” on their.day off make
their living as dentists, machinists, truck drivers, carpen-
ters, housewives and in a wide variety of other occupations.

Many of these novices paint purely for diversion and
have no ambition to become professional artists. Others
have been advised by their physicians to take up some kind
of a hobby to obtain a release from the tensions and
anxieties of this atomic age. Some have forsaken the
psychiatrist’s couch for the artist’s easel and stool. Others
hope to become professionals when they have had sullicient
training and experience. A few have been inspired to daub
paint on canvas because celebrities of the stage and screen
have turned out creditable pictures.

Can Anybody Paint?

The professional artists who watch the ever-growing
number of enthusiastic amateurs must have mixed feelings
of apprehension and delight—apprehension lest the public
purchase technically inferior paintings by tyros, and de-
light that so many of that public are becoming “art con-
scious.” The understanding of the professional painter ap-
pears to be greater than his antagonism, and many of them
cncouragc amateurs and also supplement their own incomcs
by teaching. With awareness and knowledge, they believe
that the public will ultimately purchase judiciously.

A recent radio interview with live charter members of
the newly formed Amateur Artists Association revealed
that three of the live had been painting for ten years, and
two had been at it for thirty years. A dentist and a clcrgy-
man were the seniors, or “advanced amateurs,” while an
advertising copy writer, a housewife and a restaurant
owner were the comparative newcomers. All of them, when
they spoke over the municipal radio station, admitted that
their appreciation of art had developed over the years and
that now, instead of merely admiring a painting, they
purchased it whenever the price was within their means.

The great satisfaction in being an amateur painter, most of.

them agrccd, is that a dauhcr can paint any subject he
pleases, and with no obligation.

The Carefree Dabbler

Perhaps—“once in a blue moon—his work is so good
that he sells it—-——but that eventuality is “somewhere over
the rainbow.” Yet llC paints on, Sunday after Sunday, and
on Saturdays, too, if he has the day oil, content to paint
for pleasure. Not so the professional. who must paint to

MAY 1952

 

“Sunday Artist,” snapped by a fourteen-year old in the park.

Sunday Painters

eat, to pay his rent, to educate his children and, of course,
because of his stronger inner compulsion.

To the new association of carefree amateurs we wish
happiness rather than prOSperity, and sunlight rather than
success. If no Rembrandt or Titian, Matisse or Picasso
emerges from the membership, at least these diligent dilct-
tantcs are doubtless better dentists, machinists, truck driv-
ers, carpenters, housewives, et al because they are “Sunday
painters.”

But if these happy amateurs would stay happy and
would continue to enjoy a sense of personal gratification
through projecting their inner disturbances and frustra-
tions onto paper, canvas, c0pper plates, clay or wood
blocks, they would do well to read Rudyard Kipling’s poem,
“When Earth’s Last Picture ls Painted,” which ends with
this happy thought:

“And no one shall work for money,
And no one shall work for fame,
But each for the joy of the workings
And each in his separate star
Shall draw the thing as he sees it

For the God of things as they are!”

Commenting on the therapeutic aspect of the art boom
among amateurs, officials of the Museum of Modern Art
pointed out that “ordinarily one judges the value of art
by the quality of the product, but here the condition is
reversed. One evaluates the product by its effect upon the
ercator. It is what happens to the painter that counts, not
the quality of the result.”

 

Reprinted from “Topics of The Times,” January 1952, through the
courtesy of The New York Times.

89

 

Barbara Shaluca

Tllls ls REALLY Bill's story. for our "big garden" began
when he told of his adventures as a city farmer rais-
ing cr0ps on a pile of ashes and about the pumpkin har-
vested in the fall, which helped make one Thanksgiving
Day extra special. When the dessert was served, his mother.
looking straight at Bill, said to the guests. “This pic was
made from a pumpkin Bill grew this summer!”

Today, boys and girls of Bloomington know that there is
a plot of good earth for them in the “big garden,” which
stands on a hill just beyond the hustle-bustle of the side-
walks . . . one which spells green magic for them and for
their annual cr0p of garden teachers. It grew from a field
of alfalfa into an outdoor classroom known as the Junior
Carden Workshop. an integral unit of the course in hor-
tieulture, offered by the botany department of lndiaua
l'niversity to its students. demonstrating that there is a
relation between learning and living.

For the past four years, this leisure-time science pro-
gram has offered our students many enriching experiences.

Active participation in it has developed an awareness of

the far! that thinking citizens of communities. large and

 

Du. SIIMJTA. Botany Dejmrtment, College 0] Arts and
Sefeares, Indiana (’nirersity. is the author 0/ “A Garden
Ii'eeord." used by the students in the. Junior Garden
li'orhshop. Copies are arailahle from her for 33 cents.

90

small, are seeking ways to provide their children with
experiences which will lead to useful living. ln his garden,
no matter how small, Bill is “king of a green kingdom.”
Here he may begin to understand, for the first time, how
all the things around him work in helping him to produce
a bumper crop.

This community project, jointly sponsored by the city
department of recreation, Indiana University and the
Blooniingtou Garden Club, provides a leisure-time pro-
gram for the city’s children and a working laboratory
for the university students who may assume similar rc-
sponsibilities in their vocations. Some may be training
for recreation leadership and others for the teaching pro-
fession or social work. All are keenly aware of the chil-
dren of the sidewalks and the need for programs to keep
their minds and bodies busy in pleasant and constructive
occupations when out of school.

Our present pattern is simple and flexible, affording
the student a chance to see how it can be readily tailored
to a community’s needs. livery activity in the garden pro-
vides boys and girls with opportunities for the devcl0pmcnt
of responsibility and an appreciation of work. The leader
must know his subject and must enjoy working with young
people. To assume major leadership in a connnunity
project of this kind, who is more eminently qualified than
the gardener? llasn't he discovered a way of life . . . one
worth living, as it is shaped by the hours spent at work
with fingers reaching deep into the good earth, drawing
harmony and refreshment for tomorrow's decisions?
Wherever there are children’s gardens. there he knows
he will find boys and girls in a program with a purpose,
providing for the building of sound bodies and healthy
minds.

The gardening season is announced by the recreation
director in late March. Boys and girls between nine and
twelve years of age who enjoy the out-of-doors are eligible
for membership. Radio and television programs specially
designed for young peeple ofler rich channels for publicity.
lint, it is Saturday’s junior citizen who is the most influ-
ential salesman for our program. Scores of veterans have
sold it to a buddy in numerous ways throughout the sum-
mer.

The student garden teacher receives in-scrvice training.
Once a week we meet as a group to discuss ways and
means of instructing young pople in an outdoor cduea-
tional program. One Saturday morning is enough to show
these young leaders that without a well-thonght-out meet-
ing there is little interest shown by the youngsters.

In late April, the young gardeners are ready to transfer
their plans on paper to their garden plots, no bigger than
ten feet square. l’lanting day has become D-day for the
eonnuunity.

There is pleasant work at all times for everybody in
the "big garden." Thus, discipline is seldom a problem.
Outdoor learning. especially during the child's play time,
demands careful examination of teaching ways, and one
finds that the young gardener responds happily and pleas-
antly to simple. well-planned lessons and has time to
share in the good fun everyone is espcricucing.

ltacam'nm

Thc sun does not always shine on Saturdays once the
outdoor program has begun, but thc indoor lessons are
continued and are ust as interesting as thosc on the hill,
for the leaders are taught to show the young gardeners
how important it is to gain “know-how,” to help produce
a bumper crop for the family.

When school is out, the program swings into action with
gardening twice a week and nature exploration trips every
Saturday morning. Under the able direction of four stu-
dent supervisors, guided by those responsible for the
workshop, our garden assumes a significant role in the
child’s life. The garden periods are devoted to the care
of their vegetable plots or to the fulfillment of require-
mcnts in the honor work plan. At the end of the season the
flower garden is a special spot, for it represents many
things beautiful to him, now and in years to come. In the
herb garden he has discovered plants which have helped
flavor his mother’s cooking, and he has found that it
is fun to help wced other pe0ple’s gardens, and that there
are many such jobs available when his fricnds go on
vacations.

Saturday mornings are spent exploring, in and out of
town. It is at this time that the young pcople begin to
understand how their community is related to the world
outside . . . here they discover for themselves the large
variety of trees, the wildflowcrs and where they grow in
the fields and woods, insects of all kinds and sizes, and
thc animals about which they have talked in school but
have nevcr seen in their natural habitats. All this they
carefully record in a garden book, which is later studied
with their teacher and classmates in the classroom. The
garden season is concluded with the awarding of honors
at a special program planned by the garden club women.

With the garden gate closed for the summer, our boys
and girls leavc with sun tanned faces, new friendships
and new skills to use next ycar when word goes around
that “It’s garden time!” But more important are the
sccds of healthy attitudes which Bill sowed for himself

in the garden, as he worked and played with other boys
and girls.

The older students have had a summer full of hard work
in a classroom whcre they were the teachers . . . here,
lessons in horticulture, in group action and human be-
havior were relearned. They havc had a chance to draw
their own conclusions as to the effcctiveness of such a tool
when on the 0b. They leave prepared to strengthen existing
gardening frontiers, with much-needed trained lcadership,
or to introduce new ones wherever there are boys and
girls.

Children, filled with boundless energy during thcir play
time, are also human beings who seek activities rich in
work as well as in fun. Gardening promises fulfillment
of both work and fun in the open air and sunshine. Just
listen to Bill as his crop is weighed and carefully recorded.
“I worked hard on that head of cabbage . . worth it! Look
at the size!”

Today one finds many crowded classrooms and many
tcachers with little time and energy to bring the living
world into the classroom. Communitics might well as-
sume the role of providing trained leadcrship to continuc
thesc lessons during play time. This leisure-time program
Opens up infinite possibilities for unlocking latent interests
in science which would otherwise remain undiscovered. It
provides everyone with a chance to express his natural
curiosity to explore things for himself. One discovery,
competently explained, lcads to another, and in time, per-
haps a life work opens up for a boy or girl. Children have
a deep desire to work with living things.

Communities, wake up! Harness your local talent and
offer gardening to all juniors, tomorrow’s citizens. Watch
them share in this unique life expcrience and develop
into happy people for their tomorrow.

 

ON PAPER, Junior gardeners eagerly plan their vegetable gardens well
ahead of planting time, with aid of a pencil and their garden teaeher.

MAY 1952

FROM A SINGLE SEED: Abundance and a sense
of achievement in providing food for the family.

91

“HOMES AWAY!" Baled _
hay Item the loltl Farm

 

chores are a part of the
[1111, as well as helplul.

bOl‘Uil-i l)‘\N( Ii! \pel
family and the (nests
olten \tnge thur nun.

lnlnt'tmllih

is the rule.

 

 

“SHADES OF TIIANKSCIV'INGI" says Dan Pierce of llarlingel

Texas, as Mrs. Apel displays the Christmas turkey. lie is no:
I o o
the Apcls son-m-law, and may he allowed to help stuff the but

756 Ala 7am “'

"/4Ll. I WANT to do is milk a cow and eat. a good ‘farm’

meal." These words, spoken by Keith Kenngolt of
New York three years ago, started a ehain of happy times
for many airmen from the Vance Air l’oree Base, Enid,
Oklahoma, one of the air loree’s advanced multi-engine
pilot training eenters.

Corporal Kenngott had been snllering from that vicious
enemy of the services, loneliness, when he presented him-
self at the one lmndred sixty acre. farm of Mr. and Mrs.
Henry Apel, two miles east of Vance and five miles-
southeast of Enid, and asked to help out with the ehores.
\o hired help was needed, hot when Keith asked for just-
enongh work to earn .1 good farm meal, «\lr. Apel said,
"Amtime you want a home-emnked meal, just eome on
in. And if you want to, )ou (an milk the. rows, too."

lxeith spent many hours at the ‘Xpel home, and they en-
pn-ed his visits so mneh they tll‘tltlt‘tl to invite. other air-
men to their farm. The \pels allow the lads to do as they-
wish. as if thev were in their own honu-s. They may hnnt
rahhits. drne the traetor. help milk the eows. feed the“
"hirltens and :‘w on. Few mealtimes pass at the \pel farm
withont some \‘am e i onngster slowing away a home-eoolted'
meal.

The ho}! aren't the onl) v-m's who haie enjoyed it sol
lnn'e thr nine ‘Xpels Ilather mother and seven daughters.

 

IME OUT! Cpls. Leal and Mallow accept a “smoke” from Mr.
Spel as they take a break during one of the many hunting trips
round the Apel farm. Life on a farm is not all work and no play.

 

aged elcven to twenty-three). One airman who has been

an Ape] guest often, Sergeant Don Pierce of Harlingen,

Texas, became a son-in-law in the family last June, mar-
_ rying daughter Bernice.

The Apels have received many gifts from former Vance
airmen who have been sent overseas and to other stations.
Typical is the Japanese fishing rod and kit given to Mr.
Ape] by Corporal Don Talccki of Bridgeport, Pennsylvania.
Don has also sent paintings and other presents from Japan.

Shortly after Don receivcd orders to report to the Far
East, he learned that his brother, lid, also in the air force,
was in Oklahoma City on a routine flight and would be
there ovcrnight. After several vain attempts to reach Ed
by telephone, Mr. and Mrs. Apel took Don to Oklahoma
City in their car. Since the two boys had no favorable
place to be together there, the Apcls invited them to stay
overnight at their farm, giving them a few happy hours
with each othcr hcfore Don went overseas.

The Apels have also given farewell parties and receptions
for boys from the air base.

Whether they know it or not, they are doing a great
service to their country by entertaining these youths—per-
haps your son, or brother, or the boy from around the
block—who arc in the air force, giving time, effort, and
risking their lives, to help defend our freedom.

 

'64 wtée7mm

Corporal Connie Alexander

‘I “ll”

(I

Max:112: mum

THE “LO\V-DOWN” is given to Sgt. Joe Locke (down low) or
how to apply oil to the return elevator of a combine. Mr. Ape?
points to vital spot as Sgt. Pierce (background) greases sprocket

 

SUNDAY DINNER at the Apcls’ means stowing away a heart}
home-cooked farm meal with “only” sixteen at the table. Below
Mrs. Apel gets an able assist from the air force.

 

The

Photographic

Group

The second in a series of three articles
on photography in the recreation program.

 

Irma \Vebbcr

 

Camera elnhs get a feeling of accomplishment and being needed when they are
given an opportunity to do eomtmctise things. When Denhy lliuh School in
Detroit staged a "fair," camera club participated and had its own booth, too.

91

LAST MOST“, in diseussing the role

of photography in the recreation
program, it was stated that many
highly successful photographic proj-
cets get their start by capitalizing on
existing interest. It seems, in fact, that
most photographic groups usually de-
yel0p as the result of such mutual
objectives and interests. But what if
you have the kernel of such a photo-
graphic group in your own organiza-
tion? What if the “interest” is already
there? What do you do next? Where
do you go from there?

Well, by any standard, the leader
is the vital faetor. That individual may
or may not be an aeeomplished pho-
tographer, for, aetually, photographie
ability is not as important as the fact
that the leader should he creative and
entlmsiastie. Choose as your leader
a person who can express ideas and
thoughts to others in terms that they
will understand. Furthermore, since
photography is a means of communi-
cation, seleet as your group manager,
the kind of person who is sensitive to
the interests and needs of others. lie-
gardless of his photographie “know-
how,” if that person possesses a high
sense of values in group and eommu-
nity living, he will always get along.

How much organization: is neces-
sary? Sometimes very little, some-
times a great deal. This depends to
some degree on the size of the group.
If the group is small, little formal or-
gauizatiou may he required. 011 the
other hand, if the group is large, for-
mal organization can he used to hold
and bind its members together. This
may involve a president, treasurer. sce-
retary, and many eonuuittees. Such
Iahcls often pay big dividends hecause
they make group members feel more
important and “needed.” As a result.
these members are more likely to
want to see the group successful, and
tlms put forth effort.

Committees are a fine deviee for
group work. Therefore, get as many
started as possible. Some. of the pos-
sibilities are: a committee for plan-
ning field trips. including plaee, time,
food and transportation: another for

ltncnmnos

print collecting and hanging exhibits
in the recreation center; still another
for judging prints; one for exchanging
with and circulating prints among
other photographic groups; a commit-
tee for the display of work in neigh-
borhood stores and theatres; one for
new membership; one for color slides;
and definitely one to help new mem-
bers in their struggles.

One recreational camera group with
which we’re well acquainted solves the
“instruction” problem with the help
of two boys who consider themselves
advanccd amateurs. These boys offer
their time and darkroom twice a
month to anyonc in the club. This

 

Curh'eues of paper and glass beads were
used for this “photogram” by Denby club.

gives the beginners a lot of fun, since
they can explore and experiment with
equipment different from their own,
while it is of equal value to the two
boys, because it gives them the ex-
perience of lcadership and recognition
for their ability.

Speaking of equipment—plan on
having a committee for that, too.
Equipmcnt in itsclf isn’t so important,
but a committec will look for things
to do and supply your needs a bit
faster.

In my own situation, we have the
bare essentials. Until a few wecks ago,
wc owned one safe light with two
filters, which we changed conslantly.
Thc yellow-grcen one was cracked.
Wc had patched it together in many
places with tape, and put wire around
the glass, light and stand to keep it
intact. Then. one young boy who had
becn around for weeks, but had nevcr
come up with a picture, recognized

MAY 1952

our need. Hc picked up discardcd
wooden cratcs from a grocery store
for the frame, begged some scrap
metal from a shop for wall brackets,
and where he got the rest of ma-
terial I’ll never know, but bless his
heart, his safe light is wonderful. So
you see, every individual is needed and
can be important.

Last month, I
places, in this recreational program,
where groups could get together for
regular meetings. But “just where”
really doesn’t matter as long as space
for a darkroom is available. One group
uscs a church basement. Another
group—which is fairly large—has a
darkroom in one corner of a fruit
cellar, and turns out some very fine
work, notwithstanding the fact that
to wash prints they have to run from
the fruit cellar to the laundry tubs
and back again.

suggested many

When you’re organizing your photo
group keep an cye out for a friendly
photographic store in your neighbor-
hood. Photo stores are often morc than
happy to open their doors to you and
your group and to provide regular
hcadquarters. If you have such an
opportunity, make the most of it. Both
your group and the store will profit.

Our darkroom was at one time a
janitor’s broom closet. Even now our
cquipment consists of only a small
sink, a table for three eight by tcn
trays, one contact printer, two safe
lights, one thermomctcr, and one very
old enlarger. The bcllows of this cn-
larger have patches on tOp of patchcs,
and when we have to make prints be-
yond the usual eight by ten inchcs,
we have to borrow trays and an extra
timer unless onc of the clan poPs up
with an illuminated watch having a
swecp hand. But no matter what the
problem, we always seem to have
friends who are glad to help. Of all
the hobbies in which I have partici-
pated, photography has undoubtedly
bccn outstanding, as one in which peo-
ple really cnjoy sharing.

But let’s become practical and start
a successful program. Let’s assume
that we have a group with the same

 

Surrealist art? No, just a photo from but-
tons, a pull chain, and few odds and ends.

interests and needs. The leader enjoys
pe0ple, and has something of himself
to give, and we have decided on a
meeting place. Various members of
the group have brought equipment to
help us get startcd. Now, the job is
to make this first exploration a suc-
cess for everyone.

For a feeling of immediate accom-
plishmcnt and satisfaction there is no
better way of starting than to makc a
shadow print or “photogram.” This
can be done by placing a few objects
on a sheet of enlarging paper, exposing
the paper and objects to light from a
flashlight, and developing thc papcr
to produce a shadow print. Paper and
flashlight can, of course, be any size.
However, the objects placed on the
paper should be rather small, if the
paper is not at least eight by ten
inchcs. My experience suggests that for
interest and crcative reasons, the se-
lection of material to be used in this
work should vary in size, shape, and
density. Some of the objects should be
transparent, others translucent and
a few opaque. Bits of ceIIOphane, cut
and twisted into spirals, and old plastic
perfume containers are excellent, since
some light is blocked by the objects
while some passes through and still
other light rays bounce off in another
direction. This produces patterns in
various tones and values. Opaque ob-
jects should be used, also, but it is
best if they are small and interesting
in shape, since Opaque objects leave
thc paper pure white and tend to_ over-
balance the gray and black tones in
the composition.

“Composition” as such is, of course,

 

MISS WEBBER is photography instruc-
tor at Denby High School in Detroit.

95

too involved a subject to get into im-
mediately with any beginning group,
but without talking composition you
can often suggest and employ the
principles involved by approaching the
problem in the following manner—
cspecially if the group is a young one.

Say something like this: “Look,
fellows, l have an old piece of plastic
from my purse handle; its shape is
oblong with a few curves on one side
for variations. What have you got
in your pockets that looks different
and interesting?

“All right. Now, let‘s pretend we
have characters in a show, and this
object which is large and important
will bc the leading lady. Since the
leading lady is the star of the pro-
duction, we'll place her in a very
prominent place on the paper. Now,
most good shows have a leading man
who is near the star, but not quite
so important, so we’ll select this
portion of an old tooth brush and put
it in here, not too far from the lead-
ing lady. Next, we need some strong
“character” players. For those lct's use
a few glass buttons, or cut paper dc-
signs. That pretty well takes care of

things, but remember—in any play
even the “bit” players must take their
places, too. So let’s scatter some very
small objects in and around the whole
scene, to round out our production and
complete our composition.”

Among other objects which can be
used advantageously in making photo-
grams, chains are good because you
can use them to demonstrate the use
of a curved line running through the
pattern. Such lines can be shown com-
ing over the t0p of some objects and
running underneath or around others.
These lines help “tie up” the whole
design or pattern. However, any small
objects will be usable for the first
demonstration.

After members of your group have
made their arrangements on the paper,
let them beam the flashlight at the
paper. Hold it low, hold it high,
move in close, step back at a dis-
tance, shoot it in at an angle from
the sides and from directly above.
Then you can let the fun start! As
you dunk each print in the developer,
you'll see all the eyes peer down into
the tray, as this strange and fasci-
natiug abstract picture begins to pop

Let Folks Know

up at them. And when its there, give
it a quick wash in water or “short
st0p,” then pop it into the hypo tray.

No one can or should be permitted
to fail with this first creative ellort,
because with it you can gain the
group’s interest and prove that each
individual can produce a successful
picture. This is a much more satisfying
and effective approach to photOgraphy
than by starting with “theory” or the
deveIOpInent of film! Remember, such
an experiment is pcrsonal——rcal. In it,
each individual is creating, with the
odds and ends boys and girls carry in
their pockets. Such objects, as you
know, have little value, but they arc
cherished by their owners, and thus
the pictures made from them will have
value, too.

I like to consider such an approach
the same as playing a game with the
young fry. In this fast-moving world
of ours such simplicities all too often
seem to have become extinct.

As a reminder, I’d like to refer
again to how important it is that a
group as a whole be given something
to do. If all share in responsibility,
it is true dcrnocracy at work.

Several media of publicizing the public recreation fa-
cilities, and recommended improvements, are hcing uscd
elTectively in Houston, Texas. A sixty-page, attractively
printed brochure titled, “Recreation for Everyone,” pub-
lished last year,’ outlines the importance of recreation and
informal education, and sets forth detailed recommenda-
tions for the improvement of facilities and services for
every age and interest group in the eommunity. Also availa-
ble, is a short movie' with the same title, dramatizing the
need for and possible fulfillment of a recreation program.

The brochure presents a very thorough analysis of the
eity's specific circumstances, stressing throughout that
llonston is at the bottom of the list of cities in the same
class as to per eapita expenditure for recreation. General
recommendations for public recreation development. cou-
densed from the brochure are: that appmpriate local
governmental units acquire land for park and playground
development, aiming for a five to seven acre park within
a half mile radius of every home, properly stalled and
olTering the following: (a) recreation building, (b)
lighted multiple-use athletic field, (e) lighted playground
apparatus, (d) pienie area with tables, benches and grills:
a laige playfield of fifteen to twenty acres within a mile
radius of every home. offering: (al large building with

f

‘ Available from Communin Council of llou-Ion and llsrris County,
[200% Capitol. llonston 2. Texas. 81.00 per Copy. Write [or in-
formation on movie.

96

 

gymnasium-auditorium, club and craft rooms. kitchen
and rest rooms, (b) outdoor swimming pool with lockers
and showers, (c) lighted hard surface play areas for
tennis, basketball and volleyball, (d) lighted baseball and
softball fields with bleachers, (e) automobile parking
areas; the preparation of a detailed plan of public recrea-
tion devel0pment; an increase in the operating budget;
full departmental status of the parks and recreation dc-
partment; reactivation of the parks and recrcation board;
the hiring of full-time pcrsonnel to stall centers and play-
grounds; giving due regard to cultural pursuits within the
recreation program; the development of faeilities to serve
equally the needs of Negro, Latin American and Anglo
residents; maximum use of existing school facilities; the
acquiring of new playgrounds adjacent to new school sites;
the development of scenic parkways; the devel0pment of
park and parkway ncreage around the proposed San .la-
einto lliver dam and reservoir; cooperation with other
governmental units to develop a metropolitan park system
within a radius of ten to twenty-five miles of llonston to
provide large reservations for camping, hiking, natnre
stndy, picnics, boating and fishing.

This report is the work of four hundred citizens, bring-
ing to more than a half million fellow residents the facts
about their own connnnnity. This community conncil be-
lieves when you let folks know what is needed, they will
see that it is done.

ltecanx'nox

An Address“

America Alerts

Her Senior Citizens

HE EXTENT To which the public
Tconeern is now centered on our
senior citizens, and the rapidity with
which it has spread within the past
half decade, is little short of phenome-
nal. Probably no age group has aroused
as much nationwide attention within so
brief a period. Some of the manifesta-
tions of this interest and the hasic
factors that prompt them have real
significance for professional recreation
people.

First, the rapid increase of older
population in relation to our national
problem of leisure time arrests atten-
tion immediately. The recent report
of the Bureau of the Census for the past
decade showed that the nation’s p0pu-
lation of citizens sixty-five years of
age and over in 1940 was nine million.
By July 1950, the number within this
group had increased to eleven million
six hundred thousand. Some authori-
ties estimate that by 1960 it will be
fifteen million and hy 1976 possibly
twenty million. Actuarial calculations
show the average length of life in 1850
was forty years; in 1900 forty-nine
years; and in 1950, sixty-seven years.
It is expected by 1960 there will be
thirty-five million people in the United
States who have passed the forty-five
year mark. For recreation planners
and administrators this means that by
another decade approximately one-

"' Delivered by Mr. Reed at Southern Con-
ference on Gerontology, University of Flori-
da, Caincsville, January 1952.

MAY 1952

fourth of the potential participants in
their community programs will be
older adults. In his thought-provoking
book entitled, “The Best Years,”
Walter B. Pitkin, earlier known as
the author of “Life Begins at Forty,”
recounts the phenomenal scientific
achievements which are contributing
to prolonged life, and more important,
the new opportunities that can make
these added years more fruitful and
satisfying.

Another factor of real significance
and promise for the future is the
change in the public attitude toward
the aging and their problems. No
longer do we hold that people get
only what they deserve and that it is
their own fault if they cannot care
for themselves. We now know that
economic security will not enable older
people to solve all their problems. Our
present day social consciousness rec-
ognizes that older persons are more
frustrated and more discouraged than
they have ever been before, because
they are without enough interesting
things to do and lack status in their
families and in their communities.

At the National Recreation Congress
in 1948, Dr. William C. Menninger,
the well known psychiatrist, stated,
“In civilian life every physician, both
knowingly and unknowingly, treats pa-
tients who are emotionally ill. It is
estimated that fifty per cent of all
patients who consult all physicians,
general practitioners and specialists,
become ill from the stress and strain

   
 

of life on their personalities rather
than from invasion of bacteria, injury

or cancer.

“Recreation has not only played an
important part in the treatment pro-
gram of many mental illnesses, but
it has been a considerable factor in
enabling former patients to remain
well.

“It is my firm conviction that if
we could encourage and watch and
guide more pe0ple to more effective
reereative activity, we could and would
make a major contribution to our na-

and

tional international

mind.”

In his book, “The Second Forty
Years,” Dr. Edward J. Steiglitz says
“Success or failure in the second forty
years, measured in terms of happiness,
is determined more by how we use
our leisure time than by any other
factor.”

The National Conference on Aging
held at the request of the President
in Washington during 1950, gave
prominent recognition nationally to the

peace of

various problems of this age group.
Health, education, recreation, hous-
ing, employment and community or-
ganization were important considera-
tions. A special section on recreation
brought together about eighty indi-
viduals representing rural and urban
areas, local, state and federal govern-
ment agencies, well known private
agencies, churches, labor, industry and
a number of other community groups.

Prior to this national gathering,

Q7

there had been a number of commis-
sions and committees, some federal.
some state, which dealt with segments
of the overall problem. such as mental
hygiene and employment. More recent
steps by a number of states have spe-
cial significance just now. ln 1947,
New York State set up a Joint Legis-
lative Committee on Problems of the
Agin". to study and develop a com-
prehensive plan for attacking these
problems, including recreation. North
Carolina soon established a legisla-
tive committee to work along similar
lines. Illinois and Michigan created
governors’ committees on the aging,
the latter in 1951. Florida launched
a program through the State lmprm'eo
ment Commission. By unanimous vote
of both houses, Wisconsin last year
directed a joint legislative council
to study all problems of the aging.
including recreation, and voted an
appropriation to meet the cost. llhodc
Island established in 1930 a legisla-
tivc committee to study discrimination
against older workers in indtlstry, and
Connecticut created a state commission
on care of the chronically ill, aged
and infirm, which is oriented mainly
though not exclusively on the medical
and rehabilitation aSpccts of the aged.
The special governors’ conferences on
problems of the aging held in Califor-
nia and in North Carolina, both in
I95l. gave prominent attention to rec.
reation. In 1950, the Ohio Citizens
Council for llealth and Welfare. in
cooperation with the state department
of public welfare, issued its report
of a study of rcercation for Ohio’s old
people.

State and local dcpartnn'nts of pnb-
lic welfare are increasingly aetive in
promoting rcereation as a means of
rehabilitating and keeping senior eiti-
zcm out of mental hospitals. A full-
time Consultant on older age recreao
tion groups has been working out of
the department of social securin in
[be state of Washington for the past
two years. His responsibility is to
encourage the establishment of older
age ('luhs under the sponsorship of lo-
cal rcercation departments and eoin-
mnnit) service gronps. This service
was initiated by the department of
social security partially as an econo-

my measure. The cost of medical care

0!!

which the state was subsidizing for
many older age persons was extremely
high. There was ample evidence to in-
dicate that some of this illness was not
physical hut the result of feelings of
loneliness and rejection. A sound rec-
reation program for this age group
was found to be a positive factor in
reducing the need for Incdieal care.
The state division of social welfare
of Minnesota has employed an oecu-
pationalist to introduce leisure time
activities in homes for the aged. State
park. conservation and recreation hod-
ics, responsible for planning state
parks and forest areas for public use,
are giving more consideration to dis-
tanees hetween parking sites and rec-
reation attractions to accommodate the
physical limitations of senior citizens.
Planners of local school structures
should include suitahle indoor rccrca-
tion facilities for this group. especially
hobby and quiet game rooms.

During the past three or four years
in particular, the recreation needs of
this group have had a prominent place
in the programs of many state recrea-
tion conferences, the yearly district
conferences of the National Recreation
Association and in the annual meetings
of the National Recreation Congress.
In the last decade a considerable nnm-
her of articles on recreation for the
aging appeared in the magazine REC-
"RATIOS.

Much of the interest and initiative
and planning for the recreation needs
of the nation’s senior citizens have
also eome from private agencies and
groups. In November 1950, Communi-
ty Chests and Councils of
sent a questionnaire, on local commu-
nity planning to meet the needs of the
aging. to caeh of its four hundred and
fifty member councils. Of the one. hun-
dred and sixty-four replies. eighty-
three eonncils reported local commit-
tees working on some aspect of the

America

problem. lly far the largest nnmber
of eomnnmities were concerned with
recreation.

l’ornard looking educators have also
voiced concern. Formal consideration
of the subject was first given by the
National l‘idtn‘ation Association in
l‘Jl‘) when its Corttllllllec on l'itlltr'a-
tion for An Aging l’opnlation met and
nrged all adult education ageneies to

work toward the following objectives:

I. Revision of the attitudes of all
community groups in order to aehicve
recognition: of the usefulness. the
dignity and the needs of older people.

2. Creation of educational activities
that will prepare all people for the
second half of life and that will meet
their needs as alert, functioning ment-
hers of society.

3. lie-training older workers for
employment in occupations suited to
their changing capacities and for
eventual retirement.

4. Giving professional workers in
all fields the new knowledge they need
for successful work with older people.

A noteworthy recreational-educa-
tional experiment in the form of a
course for older pc0ple, designed to
assist them in making adjustments to
old age, was conducted in 1943 by
the University of Michigan Extension
Service and the. lnstitntc for Human
Adjustment. Prom it grew the Ann

 

Family group together, weaving reeds in
recreation program of Long Beach, Calif.

Arbor program of activities for old-
sters of the community. Participation
in the course and in the community
program that resulted was, and still
is. by the senior citizens themselves.

The stake of the clmrch in this na-
tional problem is high beeanse those
of older age have an increased sense
of the importance of spiritual values.

The National Council of Churches of
Christ in America carries on a train-
ing program for pastors and parish
workers to help them with the health.
recreation and spiritual needs of
church members. Facilities and pro-
grams in t'lllll’ClI-SIJUIISItl't'tl social and
recreational centers are being provido
ed increasingly by all of the leading
religions faiths.

The present tempo of retirement and

pension systems imolving thousands

llFCltFZATIHN

of employees has stimulated a number
of business and industrial companies
to formulate plans designed to help
workers to make their “graduation”
from active employment a satisfying
experience. These concerns see the
great importance of their recreation
programs.

The prevailing method is a counsel-
ing or interviewing plan with guidance
on how the employee can best serve
himself, his family and his community.
The Esso Standard Oil Company pro-
vides an excellent plan of counseling
and help by conducting a seminar or
discussion group for its employees
to be retired. The group discussions,
carried on by small groups of people
(ten to fifteen), last about one hour
each, and are held at various times.
A series of five meetings is held for
the group, whose retirement is about
one year off.

The objectives of the program are:

1. To give each person in the group
an understanding of the problems he
is apt to face when he retires.

2. To stimulate organized thinking
toward suitable post-retirement inter-
ests and activities.

3. To generate some action 011 plans
hefore actual retirement.

The General Electric Company,
Bridgeport, Connecticut, starts its pro-
gram for persons to be retired five
years in advance of the retirement
date. The personnel manager discusses
with the employee what he plans to do
when he retires. If he plans an ac-
tive retirement, a physical examina-
tion is given. lf the worker plans to
set up a business, the employee is
given advice on the many problems
connected with the conduct of a busi-
ness. Following his retirement, com-
pany representatives visit the retired
employee periodically to see how he
is progressing. Similar counseling and
guidance plans are functioning in
the Ford Company, General Motors
Corporation, Bell Telephone Company
and probably some others.

In other concerns, the employee
about to be retired is encouraged to
join one of the hobby groups of the
company‘s employee recreation pro-
gram or to acquire a hobby having
a carry-over value.

Generally recognized, too, is the

“AV lQSQ

active interest of the major labor
groups of the country, not only in
the extension of pension and retire-
ment privileges for employees but,
also, in the provision of recreation
and other community services that
will help working pe0ple to face the
older years with confidence and antici-
pation.

It was the original intention to
enumerate in this review the commu-
nities .over the country which now
have functioning clubs, daytime cen-
ters and other types of noteworthy pro-
grams of recreation for senior citizens.
So great is the number, however, it
has seemed better, within the limita-
tions imposed, to highlight some of the
varieties of sponsorship and organiza-
tion which may suggest present trends
and the prospects of further progress.
According to the Recreation and Park
Yearbook, issued this year by the Na-
tional Recreation Association, three
hundred and ninety-two cities of the
total of two thousand two hundred re-
porting, indicated they were providing
recreation activities for older persons.
One hundred ninety-one of these re-
ported ninety-four thousand seven
hundred and three participants of this
age group. These represent public
agency sponsors of large cities, me-
dium sized and small communities and
This number does not in-
clude the many similar programs op-
erated by private organizations. The
annual reports of the field staff of the
National Recreation Association for
the year just closed, uniformly testify
to the popularity and success of these
programs and to the considerable num-

counties.

ber of new programs started during
the year by municipal recreation au-
thorities throughout the country. Most
of these are club programs. Some
were started among older pensioners,
and these have not seemed to attract
many outside of this group, although
membership is open. This has raised
the question of the advisability of
starting in this way. As with other
age ranges, grouping by ages is not
considered by many to be the sole and
complete solution to recreation needs.
Oldsters, they say, like to be among

children

play, and to participate in activities

younger persons, to watch

that they enjoy purely on the basis

 

Purposeful activity gives oldsters feeling
of usefulness, and fly-tying is just that.

of personal interest or skill. In Mem-
phis and elsewhere, older eitizens
square dance with other age groups
and participate in the community sings
and family night programs of the pub-
lic recreation department. There is
an obvious tendency, as with teen
centers which started as separate units,
for more older age elub activities to
become a part of the public recreation
department’s regular programs, eon-
dueted at regular neighborhood cen-
ters.

Since 1941, when the public recrea-
tion department of Milwaukee organ-
ized its first club for oldsters, the
number has grown to thirty-three. The
membership is now more than fifteen
hundred men and women. All but four
of the clubs meet weekly in the social
centers of the recreation department.
One full-time recreation director and
two full-time instructors devote them-
selves to the promotion, organization
and supervision of these programs.
Much of the original interest and ini-
tiative from local
agencies and civic groups. Other lead-
ers point to the desire of this age
group, also, to want and need associa-
tion with those of like age who under-
stand their problems and can give
them the kind of social reeognition‘ and
satisfaction that they crave. The unor-

came welfare

ganized active and passive recreation
opportunities afforded by public parks,
playgrounds and school facilities con-
stitute a substantial contribution to
the recreation and enjoyment of senior

99

citizens.

Not to be overlooked, too, are the
important contributions of pioneering
private agencies, such as the clubs
for oldsters in Philadelphia, the day
centers for aged in New York, home
visitation services or others, all of
which gave national impetus to the
movement. Sclf initiated and operated
social and recreational organizations
by oldstcrs themselves have arisen and
prospered. One of interest, for men,

is the Old Guard, which was estab-
lished in Summit, New Jersey in 1930
and now has twenty-three chapters in
eight states.

Beginnings have been made by a
limited number of public and private
agencies to provide visitation and rec-
reation services to shut-ins and the
home-hound. It is reported that nearly
eighty percent of our senior citizens
live in their own establishments and
that one fourth of the persons re-
ceiving old age assistance in Cook
County, Chicago, cannot get out of
their homes. This needy group offers
to recreation agencies unlimited op-
portunities for service.

It has been well said that “to know
how to grow old is the master work
of wisdom, and one of the most diffi-
cult chapters in the great art of liv-
ing." Much work lies ahead to bring
about the useful and important chang-
es that will give older people the vital
place in modern life which they de-
serve and of which they are capable.
It will take research in a number of
areas, not the least essential aspect
of which is in the field of recreation.
What can older people do? What do
they want to do? What Opportunities
for recreation are available to them?
To what kinds of recreational activi-
ties and interests do they most eagerly
respond? What types of community
participation will give them status
and new ccmlidence? Limited but sig-
nificant answers to these
questions are already at hand in the
remarkable annual hobby shows for
older people in Washington, l).C.,
Chicago, New York and Cleveland,
which has had its fifth: camping pro-

some (if

grams for senior citizens which have
been provided by the public and pri-
vate agencies cooperating in Durham,
North Carolina. Chicago and perhaps

100

a few other cities; and the Confcr-
encc of Older People sponsored by
the Chicago Recreation Commission in
which fifty per cent of the planning
connnittec older age
groups. Nowhere have we tapped the
great resources for leadership among
scnior adults themselves.

represented

The high level objective of the rec-
reation program for America's senior
citizens was voiced at the recent meet-
ing of the National Recreation Con-
gress. It held that the recreation move-
ment can do much to emphasize the
idea of older pe0ple continuing to con-
tribute to society rather than society
taking care of them; and that recre-
ation for older people shonld convince
them they are needed and respected
by the members of the community, in
the help they give to make the com-
mnnity a better place in which to
live.

The way Richmond, Virginia, ap-
proachcd the rec-reation problem of its
aged citizens, to cite one city of moder-
ate sizc, suggests a constructive pro-
eedurc which the responsible public
and private rccrcation agencies of any
community may well follow. Last year
this city made a study of recreation
for pe0plc sixty years of age and over.
The report on home visits made as
a part of the study shows “that about
half of the older persons interviewed
say that they generally have nothing
to do all day.” Of ninetcen general
medical practitioners who replied to a
questionnaire, fifteen said the men
and women over sixty in their practice
are lonely and have too much leisure.
Eighteen of them said a handbook of
recreation and leisure time services
wouhl be helpful to them in their prac-
ticc. Accordingly, the Committee on
recreation which made the study rec-
onnnendcd “that the department of
recreation and parks assign a staff
worker. not only to develop depart-
ment programs for the aged in both
Negro and white connnnnitics. bnt
also to assist the churches. the homes
for the aged and other Community
groups in the development of these lci-
sure time acti\ities." lt reconnnemled
also that the lliclnnond area connnuni-
ty council provide a handbook on ree-
programs and facilities in
lliehmond available to those sixty

reation

 

Milwaukee Golden Agers meet weekly in
local centers and take their chess seriously.

years of age and over, for use by
doctors, nurses, ministers, social work-
ers and this
age group; also, that all local organ-

others who work with
izations which use voluntccrs give
consideration to fullcr use of retired
people as volunteers. 'l‘oo. students of
research in rccrcation, as well as ad-
and other recreation
workers will profit by the results of

Ininistrators

current studies of such problems as
housing. health, education and em-
ployment of the aged. Many valuable
research projects in these fields have
been made and others will be nndcr-
taken by well-known foundations. edu-
cational institutions, governmental and
private agencies and other professional
groups, such as the American Psychi-
atric Association, the American l’sy-
chological Association, the Geriatric
Society and the Gerontological Society
organized in 1944.

It is recognized that no substantial
improvement of services for older peo-
ple can be achieved if the community
does not nndcrstand their needs and
wish to meet them. The obligation
of tax supported recreation agencies
to serve all age groups in the coin-
nlnnit} has long since been accepted.
at least in principle. lleereation should
be one of the very vital forces to alert
our senior citizens themselves, as well
as community leaders generally, to
a realization of their abilities. their
capacity for continuing growth and
usefulness as well as personal enjoy-

mcnt.

ltecmmnox

7971661165592?

{an
Seattée?

National Recreation Congress
September 29 - October 8

By the time this issue of RECREATION appears, the out-
line of the program for the 1952 National Recreation
Congress will have heen published. If your copy has not
yet reached you, be sure to let the Congress Committee
know, and it will be sent to you immediately. Address the
committee at 315 Fourth Avenue,New York 10, New York.

The Congress will Open in Seattle on Monday morning,
September 29, with sessions for chief executives of recrea-
tion programs, for recreation supervisors, for those in-
terested in recreation in rural areas, recreation for indus-
trial and husincss employees, and recreation for those
in hospitals. New this year will be a session for playground
directors, in answer to popular demand for a special meet-
ing for this important grOUp, more and more of whom
are attending the Congress each year.

Another innovation this year will he a special meeting
on Monday for the wives of recreation workers. The 1951
Congress at Boston gave special recognition to wives by
means of the “Certificate for Wives,” which proved so
popular that the limited supply went very quickly. This
year plans are being made for the wives to have a meeting
of their own to get acquainted and to discuss the possi-
hilities of their week in Seattle and to make plans. Results
of this meeting will be watched by the Congress Committee,
and by husbands, with a great deal of interest.

Preparations for the Congress are always two-way—the
Congress committees work hard to develop the best possi-
ble program, and the delegates have to do their planning
for getting to the Congress. This year the recreation leaders
in the Pacific Northwest, who have so loyally attended
congresses in every other section of the country for many
years, are having somewhat the better of the planning.
Leaders in other sections of the country must make an
extra, effort in order to attend.

MAY 1952

But the additional planning will be well worth the effort.
The trip itself is one which many peeple dream of taking
some day. Many a delegate is making it this year as part
of his vacation and in the company of his family. Inci-
dentally, valuable help in planning this trip can be obtained
from.the new Szunmer V acationsw—U. S. A.,* which carries
information on the various interesting routes into Seattle,
maps, a listing of special events throughout the country,
travel tips and facts not generally known ahout visiting
state and national parks.

The surpassing beauties of the Seattle environs cannot
be exaggerated. And the recreation programs of Seattle,
King County and the state of Washington are well worth
a visit and study. The extra effort made in getting to the
Seattle Congress, on the part of those some distance away,
will be repaid many times over in experiences which will
be remembered for years.

The program is being planned this year to be of the
most possible help to all kinds of recreation leaders—from
board and commission memhers to playground workers,
from executives to volunteers, from veterans to students.

Special attention is being given to such subjects as the
problems of smaller cities, particularly appropriate this
year; finances, always appropriate; problems of parks;
resources for water recreation; regional recreation plan-
ning; family recreation; community centers. In addition
there will be meetings on public relations, pet ideas, ath-
letics, camping, church recreation, volunteers, research,
surfacing, national defense implications and many other
subjects. (For the full list see the program outline.) Several
general addresses already have been scheduled, and next
month’s RECREATION will carry a fuller statement about
this aspect of the Congress program.

An important function of the Congress is annual re-
newal of inspiration for the important work for which rec-
reation leaders are responsible. The messages of the general
speakers bring a lift, an increased enthusiasm to take home
and use in making our work more effective. More and
more recreation leaders 'are seeing the importance of at-
tending the Congress cach year. New trends and develop-
ments, which occur during each twelve months, are re-
viewed. Young—and old—“recreation workers periodically
need renewal of spirit and of dedication. Board and staff
members have a chance to rotate from year to year, so
that eventually all will have had the opportunity to attend
the Congress.

It will assist the Congress Committee considerably if
you will let them know whether or not you will be able
to attend the Seattle meeting. A post card will suffice, and
it will be sincerely appreciated.

Next Month

RECREATION will carry next month a complete outline of
the Congress program and pictures of many of the Seattle,
King County and state of Washington recreation leaders
who are doing so much to make the 1952 Congress one
of the finest ever held.

 

* Published by the National Recreation Association, April 1952.
Order through your local book store. One dollar.

101

gt! "I 85

 

 

stunts
pageants
stories
just having fun . . . In memory of a man

who believed in play for everyone.

:- THE ANNUAL CELEBRATION OF JOSEPH LEE DAY, on the last Friday of July, on many of
America’s playgrounds ranks second only to the Fourth of July. Remembered as “The
Godfather of Play,” Mr. Lee began in 1894 his lifetime work of establishing playgrounds
and fostering play, for children and adults, when, as a young lawyer in Boston, he was
shocked to witness the arrest of some boys for playing in the streets. in order to do
justice to this day, start planning now.

in Readers Digest for December, 1937, Susan Lee wrote: “Don’t let my father grow
into a department store Santa Claus, with nothing but a white beard and a reputation
for benevolenCe to rcconnnend him, or yet into a cherry tree type of childish hero. He
liked people who were ‘fierce' or ‘sassy,’ pictures and dances that had ‘zip’ and jokes that
caught you under the fifth rib and woke you up laughing in the middle of the night.
I have never knmvu anybody farther from the traditional stereotype of the ‘dear old
gentlemau.’ One of my father's favorite expressions about a speech, conversation and
the like, was ‘a song and dance.’ it seems to me somehow symbolic of his attitude

toward life.”

.v [95], MANY crruzs carried out ef-
fective memorial celebrations- -soine
for one big day, some through week.
long The “Playground
Founder and Donor’s Week” program
in 'l‘orriugton. Connecticut, was one of

programs.

the most successful, receiving wide
recognition in the newspalmrs in that
area. l‘iv ents included a junior Olympic
track meet for boys aml girls, earnio
\al on nhcels parade with awards.
storytelling. eity hand conCert, a Huck
Finn fish derby. wild west play day
and an amatenr hour contest. Local

102

donors of recreation areas and other
gifts in support of playgrounds re-
eeivcd special honors. Recreation Di-
rector Carl Bozcnski was especially
proud of an unsolicited editorial which
appeared in the August 5, 193], We-
terbury Sunday Republican, which
said in part: “Torringtou's . . . pro-
grains have been well planned and
well carried out . . . several special
events have been arranged in a man-
ner which has attrached national rec.
oguition.”

The Joseph bee Day celebration in

Charleston, West Virginia, a city-wide
program on all playgrounds, developed
into an elaborate and gala affair.
l'Iach playground chose a theme or
plan of action to be carried through
the Friday celebration. At one play-
ground a life-like figure of Joseph Lee,
constructed by the children and lead-
ers, greeted visitors at the gate. l’arti-
eipants wore Cay 90's costumes, even
sporting bustles or handle bar mns-
taches. Another adoptcd the “Spirit
of Play" theme, and included an “Old
Folks Corner” to extend a welcome

RECREATION

to visitors from eight to eighty. Other
playground themes were “Alice in
Wonderland;” “Carnival Spirit;”
“Progressive Party,” featuring relay
races and competitive contests; a fairy-
land, decorated with bright balloons
and crepe paper; a circus, with side
shows, dancers and barkers; and in
many places one found peep shows,
folk games, dances, contests and com-
munity singing. Several picnics were
planned.

It is not easy to plan special events
which are different, and though the
following activities are not new, they
may give leaders a few ideas for which
they can develop a new twist.

I]oseph Lee Mask Contest

Use the old paper bag mask stunt,l
and hold a “portrait” contest to see
who can most nearly reproduce 3
Joseph Lee likeness.

Stilts

There are many ways in which stilts
can add to the fun—with stilt races
for experts, beginners’ contests for
those who have never bcfore been on
stilts, for circus “giants.” A long-
range project might combine arts and
crafts with playground stunts by giv-
ing awards for the best looking and/or
best constructed pair of stilts made in
the workshop.2

Parade

Although it might grow into too
elaborate an affair, one way to bring
parents into the spirit of Joseph Lee
Day would be to enlist their aid and
participation in a full-fledged parade,
from a chosen starting point, through
the streets to the playground. rl'his
would make the whole town part of
the celebration, as such an undertaking
would entail police permission and
supervision, and merchants might con-
tribute toward Iloats developed on cars

1 Paper Bag Masks, M.B. 510.
“Stilts (building instructions), M.B. 1138.

MAY 1952

 

Boston’s Mayor John B. Hyncs holding a cepy of the late Joseph Lee’s monumental
work, “Play in Education.”-In the fall of 1950, he accepted, on behalf of the city’s
rccrcation board, what was probably the Hrst library on recreation in America, ac-
cumulated by Mr. Lee, NRA founder, “Father of American Playground.” Presentation
was made by President Mayo Adams Shattuck (L), Massachusetts Civic League, also
founded by Mr. Lee. Books are authoritative, by pioneers of recreation movement.

and small trucks, not to mention the
crowds who always “love a parade.”
Story book or sports themcs can pro-
vide endless ideas for floats.“

Friendly Nations Picnic

Come in costumes of other lands,
and plan picnic food of native delica-
cies of the land chosen. It could be
to have different groups
and give

arranged
choose certain
prizes for the cleverest costumes and

countries

mo$t authentic foods. This lends it-
self to whole-family participation. Aft-
cr the picnic there might be a series of
“acts” in which each group would
demonstrate, for the others to watch,

330 You're Planning a Parade (Hoat con-
struction on cars), F 14.

Other Provocative Bulletins:
Novelty Games for Your Track Meet, F 16.
A Chinese Picnic, M.B. 1993.
A Model Parachute Contest, M.B. 1591.

Order from Bulletin Service, National Rec-
reation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10. All bulletins ten cents each.

games and dances of “their” country.
Any number of variations could be
developed on this idea—~a historical
periods picnic, fairy tales picnic, oc-
cupations picnic (farmers, fishermen,
woodsmen, ranchers, and so forth).
In many cases costumes could be in-
dicated simply, such as overalls and
bandana for a farmer, and thus entail
no extra cost or effort for mothers.

Once you begin to explore ideas
already used by others, original stunts
begin to form in your own mind. By
trying to celebrate Joseph Lee Day
in a “more fun than usual” manner,
you’ll find yourself and your groups
doing some creative thinking. That is
the kind of living memorial with which
Mr. Lee himself would be most pleased.

“Play is synonymous with growth. The
child . . . follows the ball each day into
the unexplored regions of potential
character, and comes back each evening
a larger moral being.”-——Joseph Lee

103

10$

 

l-‘lSlll‘Ilt\\'().\lliN. Fishing intrigues three serious
participants in rodeo co-spomored h ' recreation
commission and wildlife cloh in llte or)’, 3-. (..

and Girl Anglers

6 .
2,0,

YOUNGSTERS, fishing poles, lures, bait, excited cries of
— “I got a hitcl”, sudden dunkings, proud fathers, sun-
burned noses and ravenous appetites—mix all this with
fresh air and fun and you have the ingredients for the
growing following of small fry fishing derhics.

The number of children oflieially participating in super-
vised fishing reached the four million mark in 1951. All
over the United States, more and more recreation depart-
ments are sponsoring fishing dcrhies, Tom Sawyer and
Becky Thatcher costume contests, and dad and son (or
daughter) outings.

In Milwaukee last year the department of municipal
recreation conducted its first fishing trip for hogs and their
fathers. “The expedition went fifty-five miles to Kettle
Moraine State Forest, at a round trip cost of Sl.10 per
person. The recreation eluh leaders had developed this
project at cluh meetings with discussion on fishing para-
phcrnalia. the kinds of fish and distinguishng marks and
shapes. feeding habits of fish, how to hait a hook, how
to prepare a fish, safer faetors and good sportsmanship.
"Boys were instrncted to hring a jointed eane pole or
fishing rod. fish line and cork. snelled gut hooks. garden
worms or night erawlcrs, a fish stringer, old clothes
and rnhhcrs. The fish that were hiting at this time. were
hluegills, erappics and hullhcads. liach hoy was rcqnircd
to submit a signed parental permission slip for the trip.
The bus made piekups at eight in the moran and returned
all ho.“ to their homes hy six in the evening.

“There was a good representation of fathers on the trip.
Imt the awards for the. heaviest fish and the longest fish
were won by the hoys. Among the experiences shared
were outdoor cooking, tangled fish lines, wet feet and a
(lay of happy companionship with their dads.”

“scam-nos

 

s
"
_ ,. r...

GOOD CATCH. Two proud Alondra Park fisher-
men display fish on Huck Finn Day, Los Angeles.

3 “i

One recreation leader received proof of the success of
the venture when he later encountered a father who asked,
“When do we go on the next fishing trip? My son and
I had a wonderful time and he still talks about it.”1

Out in Los Angeles, California, the idea of a vacation
fishing project for children, last summer, “originated with
the Sportsman fathers who belonged to rod and reel clubs;
and, tri-sponsorcd by the Los Angeles recreation and
park commission, the California state fish and game com-
mission, and the Los Angeles .lunior Chamber of Corn-
merce, thousands of boys and girls had the opportunity
of whipping the waters of three city park lakes. Echo,
Reseda and Lincoln Park city lakes were chosen because
all have shallow water near the shore. There were various
rules: no bathing suits, thus removing the temptation to
slip into the water for a swim, no fishing from docks or
boats, and no overhead casting because of the danger
from flying hooks. Conspicuously posted signs on the
trunks of palm trecs gave the rules.

“0n opening day, approximately fifteen hundred chil-
dren packed themselves along the shore of Echo Park
Lake to catch the hluegill, catfish and carp with which
the water had been previously stocked. Thcy were equipped
with gear ranging from mop handles which dangled bent
pins from a length of cordstring, to dad’s super-fancy
fly rod, double-tapered line and automatic reel. And to
say that the fish were surprised would be the under-state-
ment of the year. Never in all their citified existence had
they beheld such a bewildering choicc of bait: dough, sal-
mon eggs, bugs, worms, grasshoppers, bits of salami,
chunks of raw liver—hand they turned up their noses at all
of them. But bread? \Vhat city park fish hasn’t snapped at

 

‘ Excerpts from article by l). B. Dyer, Assistant Superintendent, Rec-
reation and Adult Education, Milwaukee Public Schools.

MAY 1952

 

BIG CITY FISHERMEN. Believe it or not, this is scene in Brooklyn’s
Prospect Park, where youthful anglers gathered for a fishing contest.

bread cast upon the waters by picnickers? And, with no
competition from the skeptical ducks, thc~fish swallowed
the hread, and alas! also the hook . . . ”2

Regular police and lifeguard patrols kept a watchful
eye on the youngsters, to pull a few from the water when
a careless step too near the edge resulted in a wet tumble,
or to bandage the minor scratches and bruises which were
the day’s only casualties. The catches ranged from strings
of carp to a tiny goldfish, and rewards came mainly in
the fun of the fishing and praise from mothers who
brought picnic lunches.

Sponsored by service cluhs and civic groups, city fish-
ing for youngsters has become the t0p junior sports-
participation event of the country. Since holding the first
of the Boy and Girl National Better Fishing programs in
194-8, the ofiicials of Better Fishing, Incorporated—a not-
for-profit lllinois membership corporation with national
headquarters in Chicago (See RECREATION, September
1950, page 214.)—rcport that at least ten million boys
and girls have enjoyed guided fishing fun. Annual muni-
cipal champion boy and girl anglers are chosen to be
junior national Better Fishing kings and queens by reason
of having booked and landed. without physical assistance
from an adult, the heaviest game fish from representative
sport fish families.

One purpose of this program is to raise a whole genera-
tion of wildlife conservationists, who, as adults, will
desire and demand preservation of our wildlife resources.
But the immediate purpose being served is that millions
of boys and girls are gctting a chance to understand and
practice an outdoor sport which offers inherent qualities
of challenge, peace and patience, amid beautiful natural
surroundings.

iExcerpts from article by Charlotte B. Norris, Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia.

105

Przgcmzny
Public R elaticm

Participation

 

The fancy castle, where the little girl's wish was granted, was centered in a hedge of flowers.

Hui: move Tuaaa CONCERNS formed

a simple statement of recreation ob-
jectives in Dayton, Ohio, in the spring
of 1931. First of all, we wanted to
produce a pageant with little or no
funds. Second, we wished to get good
publicity for the recreation program
and estahlish better public relations
in the community. Third, we wished to
build participation in certain age
brackets and encourage volunteer as-
sistance. The to ac-
complish these objectives is described
below by the three specialists em-
ployed on the division staff. The re-
sults achieved exceeded luy far our
fourlcst expectations.

As a climax to the 1951 playground
season, a city-wide storytelling pageant

“The Dearest \Vish"- —was presented
on August 10. at the Leslie Diehl
Memorial lland Shell in Island Park.

Many of the playground activities were

vehicle chosen

eomhincd into this one hig production
in order to demonstrate to the public
the varictv and type of recreational
onrtunities which had been offered
during the summer.

.\t the beginning of the playground
season. questionnaires were distributed

_"'-—-

Mn. \V \(.'\t.t. Superintendent o/ Rec-
reatmn. Dayton Ohio, lei” be happy
to reply to requests [or irr/ormation.

l06

 

to our forty playgrounds and the di-
rectors held try-outs for the best talent.
Alter a two-week city-wide search, the
leading characters and special groups
were chosen for the production.

A nine-week period for classes was
scheduled by the three specialists
in dramatics, dance and crafts. Dc-
spite vacations, day camps and sum-
mer schools, attendance was remark-
ably good. Because the children were
enthusiastic and the playground di-
rectors cooperative. a great deal was
accomplished in a relatively short
period of time. The directors of the
various playgrounds assisted the spe-
cialists with costumes, and taking
charge of their groups backstage at
the dress rehearsal and the final per-
formanee.

The theme was built around the
story of a little girl who wandered into
fairy'land. ’l'here she was granted three
wishes by the fairy queen. The wishes
were these “dearest to her heart": to
listen to stories. to have lots of candy

and to play.

Music and Dances

The Dayton Jnnior l'hilharlnonic
Urchestra. under the direction of Blar-
jorie Kline. accompanied the dances
and many of the pantomimes with a
wry beautint musical score. The nse
of good music was a definite asset to

the entire performance. Among the
works presented were: “The Four
Swans” from the Swan Lake Ballet
and “Serenade for Strin s." both by
Tschaikovsky; “Children’ March"I by
l’rokoficfl'; "Cavotte” from the opera
Mignon by Amboisc Thomas; “Morn-
ing Song” from I’cer 637:! Suite by
Grieg, and many others. Variety in

m 0:

types of music and in the manner of
presentation helped give color to the
performance. The drama and suspense,
in return. helped effectively to popu-
larize good music. l’or the children it
developed rhythm, created the mood
for better interpretation. encouraged
better concentration. taught teamwork.
developed grace. and helped stimulate
their appreciation of good music.

In creating the dances, it was nec-
essary to keep in mind the fact that
most of the children were untrained.
llccanse of this. and because it was a
creative type of production with
fairies, huttcrflies, sunbcalns, and so
on. creative interpretive dances were
used. However, a few children had
had previous training in ballet. lior
exalnplc, the fairy queen's dance,
which was the only solo. was a bean-
tiful toe dance. and was performed by
one of these children. All other dances

were done in groups.

On those playgrounds where no

RECREATION

"The Dearest Wish”

piano or phonograph was available,
the dances had to be rehearsed to
counts and handclaps. On others, we
were fortunate to be located near
a school or community center where
facilities for accompaniment could be
found. All dances were choreographed
according to the age and ability of
the children and to the types of char-
acters they were portraying. For ex-
ample, the clves’ and gnomes’ dance
was sprightly with many jumps and
hops, while the sunbeams’ dance was
quiet and smooth, with a stealthy feel-
ing like the morning light as it creeps
over the land.

The dance groups, in order of their
appearance, were as follows: butter
flies and young fairies, five- and six-
year-olds; older fairies, six- to ten-
year-olds; elves and gnomes, fairy
queen’s court (pages, trumpeters, jest-
ers, and ladies-in-waiting), King
Sweetmeat and candy subjects, older
square dance group, twelve- to four-
teen-year-olds; younger square dance
group, fivc-year-olds; folk dance and
sunbeams.

Dramaties

ln presenting the dramatic side of
the pageant, the action was kept as
natural and creative as possible. The
formal type of drama, with memorized
speeches, was, of course, necessary to
tic the whole program together and
present the plot. The lines were taken
from the original pageant, by Pauline
Oak, which may be found in Silver

Bells and Cockle Shells published by

the National Recreation Association.

MAY 1952

Creative dramatics and pantomime
were used primarily in the storytelling
episode. Mother Goose rhymes and
stories were narrated by the story lady,
while the children created the appro-
priate pantomime. The action and
characterizations were created cntirely
by the children through their own
ideas, feelings and imaginations, with
the exception of a few stage directions
to give the best effect. It was a delight-
ful experience to see the freedom and
enjoyment displayed in rehearsals and
in the performance, as a result of
using informal drama created by the
players themselves. Instead of the
frightened five-year-old trying to re-
call the action she had been drilled to
remember, it was Little Miss Muffet,
herself, remembering all the panto-
mime which was her creation from the
very beginning.

Throughout the summer, the play-
ground leaders were instructed and en-
eouraged to use this enviable Oppor-
tunity to share the world’s greatest
treasure of stories with the children.
In the final project, the importance of
storytelling—the oldest of all arts—
was again pointed up as a must in the
recreation program. The main theme
of the whole pageant was summed up
in the story lady’s final speech, “It is
over-Hall but the stories, which shall
go on as long as there are children in
the world.” The story book Cpisode
was indeed the highlight of the pageant
and the little girl’s dearest wish come
true.

Adaptations of games enjoyed on the
playgrounds were used to illustrate

Daniel E. Wagner

the little girl’s third wish, which was
to play. Creative dramatics were again
used in the singing game, “Fair Rosa.”
Other singing games used were “Looby
Leo” and “Swinging in the Lane.”
A speaking jester introduced each new
game group, with a short poem clev-
erly accompanied by pantomime.
Puppetry is increasing more and
more in popularity, as a recreation
activity, and therefore should not be
overlooked on the playgrounds. How-
ever, since puppetry is best given for
a small audience, it was not presented
in the pageant, but was used in con-
nection with the publicity. As an ex-
ample of one of the stories to be re-
vealed in the pageant, “Hansel and
Gretel,” a marionettc play, was done
on television by a group of children.
Two weeks before the pageant an ex-
tensive program of publicity began.
Three hundred and fifty posters were
distributed about the city. Some of
these were made by the children on the
playgrounds, for a city-wide poster
contest. The rest were contributed by
a printing press in exchange for a
small advertisement of their service
in the corner of the poster. Other
private concerns contributed gener-
ously. Four television shows were giv-
en, to interview the specialists and
leading players and to present the
marionette play and special groups
who would appear in the pageant. Day-
ton’s two newspapers carried a fea-
ture story and announcements. All four
radio stations made spot announce-
ments, and one did a fifteen-minute
broadcast. Dayton’s leading dcpart-

107

.C..-..-..O'DDDCDCDOQDDDIDDU.
O

\
I

3qu Whal We Need !"

.0

I

I

i

I

' ...tho universal comment of the
: Recreation Directors at the Nat'l
: Recreation Association Conven-
I

I

I

r.

tion in Boston...when they saw
f and heard . . .

  
   

"/

Medel
IPJJVC
$269.95

1%WWW0

Rek-O-Kut's All-Speed, Portable,
Indoor-Outdoor Phonograph

   We .because:

0 The RHYTHMASIER. In addition to pieyinr eiI
mm 33%. 45 end 73 R.P.M. records et their
normal speeds. Is the eniy phenezreph ereli-
eole thet eilows you to pier ANY record et
Att‘! speed which best meets the erect re-
quirements oi teecher end pupiii

0 By plugging e microphone into Input pro-
vided, the recreetion director cen super-
Impose his voice over the selection being
pteyed end eccent the record with personei
comments end instructions.

0 menses: Powerful empllher end speeiter
eccommodetes 1000 people In eudltorlurn,
rymnesium, beiiroorn, etc.

o ourooons: Simpty plug your trumpet speelt-
ers directly Into the RHYTHMASIER tor use
on ethletlc fields, etc.

3 EDUCATION—Al TOOLS IN 0M:

I—A full rouge nun phenegroph

2—4! EA. system {when microphone is
plugged In)

3—4 hI-tl recite reeelrer {when used with
year AM er IM tuner)

lT COSTS [US TO lUYRfK-O-KUT.‘

QUALITY Is the word tor itEK-O-KUI‘...Your
RtK-O-KUT lHYiH‘MAS‘Itl wiii serve you teltho
tuiiy. withoet meintenence or breelldown deyo
In end day-out. It will pay on well to nvest
In the incompereblr verseti e it thmster...
It cests less ene otters were In he ten; rue.

Write ter new 1032 cetelo; et ltK-O-KUT
instruments tor the sheetienel field.

nan-oyster co.

‘0 Iv‘el '.

d

 

103

ment store featured a huge story book
and story book characters in a very
effective window display.

Scenery and Costumes

The handshell was a natural sctting
for the scenery—a castle upstage een-
ter with a high hedge at the sides.
in front of the hedge, clumps of
sunflowers and hollyhocks, flowering
vines, tulips and jonquils, logs and
groups of toadstools were arranged to
give the effect of a fairy ring for our
fantasy.

The color scheme was, of course.
worked out first and carried out in
both scenery and costumes. The lat-
ter were made for the most part by
the mothers, and in some cases by
older sisters. Some of the scenery.
such as the castle. the story hook.
toadstools and the fairy wings, were
made at playgrounds where a work-

shop was available. All playgrounds
made paper flowers.

Realizing that there had been no
provision made in the budch for an
elaborate production, every effort was
made to economize. Some of the fram-
ing for the castle and the garden gates
was made from scrap lumber destined
to become kindling. Some old Cos-
tunies left from past pagcants were re-
modeled, bleached and dyed the de-
sired colors, or used as foundations
for crepe paper creations. The hedge
was made of artificial grass, borrowed
from the cemeteries and hung over a
chicken wire fence. The entire bill
for the flame-proof crepe paper, paint,
wallboard, chicken wire and miscel-
laneous items came to about seventy-
five dollars. Additional personal serv-
ices eost another sixtyofive dollars.
making a total of one hundred forty
dollars in eXpenditurcs.

The final rehearsal held at
the bnndshell the day before the per-
fornrancc. Directors with their groups
Itwcnty groups altogetherl reported at
the west stairs of the shell where they

WI! 5

were assigned dressing room space.
Approximately two hundred children
participated in the show. It was im-
possible to place them all in the dress-
ing rooms in the basement. so space
was roped oil in the rear of the shell
for half of them. Chairs were placed
in circles and eaeh group was as-

signed to a definite section, where cos-
tumes and lunches were deposited.
The groups, with their park directors,
took seats in the audience and waited
until called upon to perform. Imme-
diately following the run-through, the
entire cast ate a picnic lunch in the
park. At seven, everyone returned to
his assigned place and the make-up
crew, which eonsisted of twenty park
directors, went to work. After make-up
was applied and the children were cos-
tumed, the dircctors told stories and
conducted quiet games. This kept the
children entcrtained and together while
they waited for the cue girl to take
them backstage for their entrance.
This procedure, used for dress rehears-
al. was followed for the final produc-
tion and resulted in a smooth and
well-organized performance.

Over four thousand people packed
the grounds at lsland Park to see the
first city pageant presented in ten
years. A thrilling "Olihhlihh" arose
from the audience as the lights came
up full upon the setting. The audience
was an appreciative one, which en-
couraged the players immensely. The
use of dancing and dramatics gave the
players a sense of freedom which
helped them to thoroughly enjoy the
whole production. lt also gave them
a feeling of accomplishment and satis-
faction to have been part of a project
from beginning to end.

 

Campus Grass Gets Chance

When it was necessary to obtain the
eooperation of the students to preserve
the landscaping improvements on the
University of Cincinnati eampus. the
authorities held a slogan contest, givs
ing prizes to winners, to elicit from the
students themselves the best “keep off
the grass." persuaders.

Winners, which proved very effective
when put to actual use, were :

Detour. seeds at work!

Stop! l am not lawn for this world.

l)on't be a sclnno, let it grow.

“Let's have the ‘new look,‘ the lawn-
er the better."'

Don't tread on me or my name will
be mud.

Give the gay young blades a chance.

Don't get nosey with that tocsy.

Spare the blades and keep the carn-
pus sharp!

Condensed from Park .lfar'nremrnre.

liecnmrros

Golf Administration

Golf Reservations

In an administrative bulletin, the department of ree-
reation and parks in Los Angeles has set up the following
regulations covering the department’s gelling activities:

1. On Tuesday, Wednesday,_ Thursday, and Friday,
reservations will be taken between the hours of 9:00 am.
and 4:00 pm. On Mondays, reservations will be taken be-
tween the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. When a legal
holiday occurs on Monday, reservations will be taken on
Tuesday from 6:00 a.n1. to 4:00 p.m. When a legal holiday
occurs on Friday, the latest time a cancellation will be
received is 4:00 p.m. on Thursday.

2. All reservations for starting times for any day of
the week on the Rancho l8-hole course and on the Griffith
Park’s Wilson, Harding, and Roosevelt courses will be
made by telephone only.

3. Reservations will be taken only on the department
switchboard, except on the day of play, when a telephoned
reservation may be made direct to the golf course.

4. Reservations may be made for only one week in ad-
vance, that is on Monday, for days through the following
Monday; on Tuesday, for days through the following
Tuesday; and so on. The reservation office will be open
only on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and
Friday of each week, except when a legal holiday occurs
on onc of these days, in which event reservations may be
made for an extra day in advance.

5. A reservation may be cancelled by calling the same
number up to 4:00 pm. of the last day, excluding Sat-
urdays, Sundays and holidays,'prior to the day of play.
Reservations for Sunday may he canccllcd by calling the
golf course direct on Saturday. Reservations may be made
for singles, twosomes, threesomes, or foursomes. It is
not necessary to give the names of all members of the
party at that time. The department reserves the right to
complete all foursomes where a reservation is made for less
than four players, cither by reservation or from the daily
call sheet. Only one starting time may be secured for
any weekend.

6. The registered player who made the advance reserva-
tion will pick up the tickets on the (lay of play, at least
fifteen minutes prior to the starting time, hy identifying
himself and by payment of the greens fees and regis-
tration fees for the entire party, giving their names. In
the event that the person who made the reservation is
incapacitated or delayed, he may call the golf course at
least flfteen minutes before his starting time and authorize

MAY 1952

any other member of his party to pick up the tickets
by paying the reservation fee for the entire party and
giving the original reservee’s registration number.

Registration of Golfers

1. All golfers desiring to make advance reservations
for starting times must be registered with the department
of recreation and parks.

2. A numbered registration card will be issued free
upon application.

3. Applications are available at all golf courses, or
may be secured in person, or by writing to the Los An-
geles Department of Recreation and Parks, Room 305,
City Hall.

4. It is not necessary for other members of a party to

be registered players, but reservations may be made only
by a registered player.

5. The player who makes an advance reservation for a
starting time must appear in person at least fifteen min-
utes prior to the reserved time on the day of play to pick
up the tickcts and identify himself, show his registration
card, and give the names of all members of his party.

6. A registered player who fails to take up his tickets
after having made a reservation will forfeit the privilege
of making further reservations until he has paid the entire
rcservation fces for his party, if he has not given preper
notice of cancellation.

7. This payment may be made at any of the municipal
golf courses or to the ofiice of the department of recreation
and parks, Room 305, City Hall.

8. Monthly ticket holders may make advance reserva-
tions on weekdays only, but must pay the regular reser-
vation fees.

9. Registration cards are not transferable. The person
having a number should treat it confidentially. When
reservations are taken on the phone, the registered player
must give the number of his card.

10. In the event that bad weather causes the closing
of any course, making the use of said course hazardous
and detrimental to the course, all reservations will be
automatically cancelled and no penalty shall attach to
anyone having made a reservation. .

11. It will be the golfer’s responsibility in case of
bad weather to call the course in order to determine if
the course has been ofiicially closed.

12. Rain checks or refund will not be granted to any
player if his ticket has been punched or play has been
started.

109

\St-LIHLI. AM) SOFTBALL are sports of
Ii moderate activity that are perfectly
adapted to the physical education or
athletic program during the spring
months.

To motivate learning and provide op-
portunities for practicing and develop-
ing the basic techniques, the instructor,
leader or coach may resort to any
number of excellent skill contests re-
solving around throwing. catching.
fielding, batting and base running.

The instructor may organize these
contests in the form of a field day, or
he may use them in his classwork to
measure individual ability. In both
cases, they will promote interest in
the sport and furnish an incentive for
improvement.

The coach may employ them as prac-
tice media, since coinpctition in game
skills is much more exciting than
"just practicing.”

The contests may be conducted be-
tween individuals or between tcams.
When conducted on a team basis, they
may be scored by totaling the distances
of throws or hits, or by totaling the
number of points, with the team scor-
ing the greatest total being declared
the winner.

Standards may be worked out to in-
crease the interest and incentive, and
the. results can easily he measured by
thc participants themselves.

A good program of skill contests
may be worked out as follows:

Pitch for Accuracy. Draw on a
wall a rectangular target eightecn
inchcs wide and thirty-six inches high,
so that the bottom edge is twcnty
inches above the ground. The target
represents the strike area over home
plate.

Allow each player ten pitches from
the regular pitching distance. One
foot must be on or in contact with the
pitching line when the ball is re-
leascd. Dalls striking in or on the
outer edge of thc target score one
point. The player's score is the sum
of the points made on the ten pitcbcs.

Throw for Accuracy. Draw on a
“all a target consisting of three Con-
centric circles eighteen. thirty‘six and
fifty-four inches in diameter. so that
the bottom line of the ontside circle is
six inches above the ground. Draw a
throwing line on the ground. at a

110

Baseball-Softball

distance from the target commensurate
with the age and skill of the playcrs.

Allow each player ten throws from
the throwing line. One foot must be
behind or in contact with the line
when the ball is released. The circles
score thrce, two and one points from
the center out. Throws hitting a divid-
ing line are given the higher value
of the two. The player’s score is the
sum of the points made on the ten
throws.

Variation:

1. Using the target as a pivot, draw
a semicircle on the ground. Mark five
points on this semicircle, equidistant
from each other. Allow each player to
attempt two throws from each of these
points. Score the same as in the
original test.

2. Draw throwing lines on the
ground thirty, forty, fifty, sixty and
seventy feet from the target. Allow each
player two throws from back of each
line. The player’s score is the sum of
the points made on the ten throws.

3. Draw on a wall a target seventy-
two inches wide and forty-eight inches
high, so that the bottom edge is
twenty-four inches above the ground.
Divide thc target into six equal parts,
as shown in Diagram 1. Draw a
throwing line on the ground, the dis-
tanee from the target varying accord-
ing to the age and skill of the players.
Allow each player ten throws from
the throwing line, with five throws
being of the playcr's choosing, and
five being prescribed by the teachcr.

Throws have the following values:
tat A ball hitting sections A, ll or
C seores three points: (b) a ball hit.

Skill Contests

by Sterling Gccsman

ting sections D, E or F scores four
points; (c) a ball hitting the section
called by the teacher scores a bonus
of two extra points. The player’s
score is the sum of the points made
on the ten throws.

ABC
DEF

Distance Throw for Accuracy. The
players stand behind a restraining
line in center field and attempt to
throw the ball so that it will strike the
ground as near home plate as possible.

Draw a line from home plate, bi-
secting the base line between first and
second, and another which bisects the
base line between second and third.
Using home plate as a pivot, draw an
are ten feet from home plate, inter-
secting’ the first aml third base lines;
draw another are, twenty feet from
home plate. Give a point value to
these sections, as indicatcd in Diagram
2.

Allow each player fivc throws. The
player‘s sCore is the sum of the points
made on the five throws.

The diagram shows the scoring
values for throws from center field. If
the throws are from left or right field,
the lanes to that field would yield the
five and three point values and the
adjacent lanes would yield the lower
scorcs.

Variation: Using home plate as a
pivot. draw five concentric circles of
thrcc, six, nine. twelve and fifteen

ltecnenios

feet in diameter. The circles score
five, four, three, two and one points
from the center out. Allow each player
five throws. The player’s score is
the sum of the points made on the

five throws.

Throw for Distance. The pla ye r
stands behind a restraining line and
throws the hall as far as he can. The
distance is measured from the restrain-
ing line to the spot where the ball
first hits the ground. Stepping on or
over the restraining line counts as a
foul. Each player is allowed three
trials and is credited with his best
distance.

Variation: Mark the field with elev-
en lines creating ten zones, each five

 

this skill test the

yards wide. In
player stands behind a restraining line
fifty yards from the first line and
throws five balls as far as he can.

Points are scored according to the
zone in which the ball falls: one point
for zone one, two points for zone two,
three points for zone three, and so on.
The player’s score is the sum of the
points made on the five throws.

Catcher’s Throw to Second Base
for Accuracy. A barrel, open at one
end, or a bushel basket, is placed on
its side on second base, with the Open
end toward home plate. Blocks of
wood should be placed under the bar-
rel or basket to prevent it from rolling
and to elevate the open end three or
four inches.

Allow each player five throws from
home plate. One foot must be on the
plate at the moment the ball is re-
leased. Each ball that goes into the
barrel orbasket on the fly scores three
points; on the first bounce, two points;
and on the second bounce, one point.
The player’s score is the sum of the
points made on the five throws.

MAY 1952

Bat for Distance. Mark the dia-
mond with lines into three zones. Ex-
tend the first line, from the midway
point between home plate and first base
to the pitcher’s plate. and from there.
to the midway point between home
plate and third base; the second line
connects first, second and third base.
(See Diagram 3.)

Allow each player ten trials to hit
a pitched ball. Only pitches that would
be counted as strikes should be in-
cludel in the ten trials. Batted balls
that first hit the ground in zone
one score one point; in zone two, two
points; and in zone three, three points.
Missed strikes and foul balls score
no points. The players score is the
sum of the points made on the ten
trials.

Throw and Catch. A player stand-
ing at home plate catches the ball
thrown to him by the pitcher, then
throws the ball to first baseman, re-
ceives it back from him, and in order
throws to and receives a throw from
the second baseman and the third
baseman. The player is thus required
to catch four throws and make three
throws for a total of seven chances.

A throw is considered good if the
player catching it can place both hands
on the ball by stretching, still keeping
one foot on the base. If the throw
to the player at home is bad, the

 

throw is repeated. The player’s score
is seven minus the number of errors.

Fungo Hit for Distance. The play-
er stands behind a restraining line,
tosses the ball into the air, and bats
it as far as possible. The distance is
measured as in the Throw for Dis-
tance.

Fungo Hit for Accuracy.The play-
er stands behind a restraining line in
center field, tosses the ball into the

air, and bats it so that it will strike
the ground as near home plate as pos-
sible.

l’sing home plate as a pivot, draw
five concentric circles of five, ten, fif-
tecn. twenty and twenty-five yards
in diameter. The circles score five,
four, three, two and one points from
the center out. Allow each player five
hits. The player’s score is the sum of
the points made on the five hits.

Catching Fly Balls. Draw a throw-
ing line on the ground twenty feet
from a brick wall or other smooth
surface. Place a mark on the wall at
a height of fifteen feet. Place the
player behind the throwing line, and
at the starting signal, allow him to
throw the ball against the wall and
catch the rebound as rapidly as he can
for a period of thirty seconds.

The players score is the number of
times the ball is successfully caught
on the rebound from above the fifteen-
foot mark.

Fielding Ground Balls. Draw tw 0
parallel lines, one si); feet and the
other twenty feet from a brick wall or
other smooth surface from which the
ball will rebound. Place the player
between these two lines and allow him
to throw the ball as rapidly as he
can against the wall for a period of
thirty seconds, so that the ball will re-
bound as a ground ball. Each ball
that is successfully fielded scores one
point.

Base Running for Speed. The run-
ner takes a crouching position with one
foot against home plate. At the start-
ing signal, he runs the circuit of the
bases, touching each base in order.
The stopwatch is started on the start-
ing signal and stopped when the run-
ner touches home plate.

Variation: The runner stands in the
batter’s box and hits a pitched ball,
then makes a circuit of the bases,
touching each. He is required to hit
only pitched balls that would be
counted as strikes and run on any
ball hit, fair or foul. The st0pwatch
is started with the crack of the bat
and stopped when the runner touches
home.

Reprinted from Scholastic Coach.

111

 

Tax 315

The free tennis clinic for boys and
girls under sixteen, held last summer
at the Boulevard Gardens Tennis
Courts, Woodside, Long Island, drew
participants from all areas of New
York City. Free weekly lessons will be
given again this year, and youngsters
who fail to register at the first ses-
sion will be welcome to attend the re-

maiuin g lessons.

lissrznsu.

The boys sixteen, se‘renteen and
eighteen years old are often referred
to as the “forgotten age" in baseball,
as they are too old for the loeal leagues
and too young for the semi-pros. In
Oakland, California, they have been
doing something about it, organizing
a Sunday morning hard hall league

for this group.

Swrsrsuxc

Twenty-nine American Red Cross
national aquatic schools have been
scheduled for this summer, to provide
leadership and instructor-training in
swimming, lifesaving. first aid and
small craft. Applicants are eligible for
enrollment if they are eighteen years
of age or older, in sound physical eon-
dition, plan to use their training to
teach others, and should he reason-
ably strong swimmers. Small craft stu-
dents must hold a current Red Cross
certificate as a water safety instructor,
senior lifesaver or swinuner, or the
equivalent. Additional information and
applieations may he obtained from
loeal Red Cross chapters or area of-
fires. Classes begin in June.

112

Continuation of “Here and There” section of former NRA

Playground and Recreation Baffetr'n Service.

DRAMA
The Town Park Players of Char-

lotte, North Carolina, have been pro-
vided with a new workshop by the
park and reereation commission. In
this setting, gay with new paint and
bright eurtains and a fine new re-
hearsal room, several excellent plays
have been produced this year. The
majority of players have been from
six to seventeen years old, with a
mama. papa, unele 0r aunt stepping
into_ the mature adult roles. There is
no fee of any sort for the budding
aetor or erew member. The shop and
plays are Open to all who wish to par-
tieipate.
IDENTITY

We are slipping in this suggestion,
from now on, as often as we find a
little spaee—to ask all recreation iead-
ers throughout the country to please
put the name of the city and the state
on all reports, bulletins, programs or
other printed material concerning com-
munity recreation activities. Everyone
in Columbus or Watertowu or Pine
Junetion may know where they are,
but it is sometimes hard for an editor
to guess within a thousand miles,
some eity names oeeurring in many
states.

SMIIIATICM.

In June Miss Ruth Melntire, ex-
tension specialist in recreation, on sab-
batical leave from the University of
Massachusetts, will travel abroad to
study facilities and organized reerea-
tiou programs of home and community
groups in the Scandinavian and low
eouutries of Norway, Sweden, Finland,
Denmark, Holland and Belgium. This
study will be arranged in eoopera-
tion with the. Swedish Institute and
the American Swedish News l'thehange
and the Danish and Norwegian lnfor-
mation Service.

lNSURANCE

In East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisi-
ana. the softball players are organiz-
ing into a city association to provide

softball insurance for all players. This
will eover everyone, not just those for
whom sponsors might earry insuranee.
FORESTRY

This past winter a junior forestry
program was carried on in twelve pub-
lic schools in Omaha, Nebraska. Ten
forty-minute discussions were eonduct-
ed every two weeks in eaeh of the
schools by a eireulating teaeher of the
subjeet.

l’norocnsenv

Cineinnati, Ohio is fortunate in hav-
ing the loeal services of a natural-
ist, Mr. ilerbert lleger. who has also
had many years of experienee as chief
photographer for the Nationai Park
Serviee. Camera fans in the Hamilton
County Park Distriet, with Mr. Heger
leading the field trips, enjoy the ad-
vantage of his knowledge of both wild-
life and photography. Trips were made
every Saturday right through this past
winter.

MEMORIAL

A memorial gate and ornamentai
fenee for the new ehildren‘s play-
ground in New York City’s Central

 

Park is being dedicated in honor of
William Chureh Osborn. lawyer and
corporation director. the late Mr. Os-
born was president of the Metropoli-
tan Museum of Art for many years,
and was a benefactor of the New York
Society for the Relief of the Ruptured
and Crippled and the Children’s Aid
Soeiety. it is particularly fitting that
this memorial should be an archway to
a playground, as M r. Osborn believed
that the most important thing in the
world is helping children.

ttecaenros

STUNTS

SKITS

3.02% mama... .28 05. 05 £030: . . . 338er m :03: 3:: 3:03
90 ESE w0::m mm: . . . Erma 90 Kama 200—." 0.3 . . . mnormm Em
gar m:m magi—0m“ m:m 90 _0:m 200—." warm . . . £0870; €er wanna
350. :20. :0_: 010m :5 :35 mt.— . . . gag—Aim :3 0 09:2. 2::
ran 032% rm:mm Vargm 70:. Fun—n.

b" 5:: 3030:" 90 Q02. 53 3:05: 305:”; £00: m:m m: 35er
m S: :5: . . . 5601:.m m ~0:m 21:00.3. 3mm 300 20m 75%: Ex 0
muoowm:m rm: :5 Em <03: 20m _0s. “EL 3030:". 59:92 So... rm
mmmmu m:m mag—w wcmrom V0500: 90 9:5 05::m mm; . . . “Em 90
05. 05 205:: . . . 2:0 EH00 9:3 vowing row. m:m0~. my :5 S:
30: . . . > «0:05 mom . . . 705—0; r03 ::m9. :8 mmmr 90 Fawn
Ema—A 0M: . . . muoimm mmmmP “Sm 90 _0:m Emor $0.8 . . . rmmmmm.

O: 90 Simoé m5 0 Em 200—." 2.02 . . . mam—non m:m Sow—ham Bow”
mmmamzw. ~50 $5 0000: mm: moE. 500—." :03 . . . Ba :03 :8? :0me
m: 90 $00 0m 1:0 9:3 Vac—Em mt.— . . . 57:0 Hrnocmr 0:0: ngoi
0008; :5 @3835 $00. 0m 0 vommm 50:. . . 2008:. gm 803:. H0
90 05u 05 £050: . . . #00:" 30 S: Em: . . . mama 0: $5 05. 05
£050: . . . 220 Ewan—Em mwmm. m:m wcmrmm gar Em rm". 85:: SH.
Emma mrlmr 90 05. 05 205:: . . . 200.2% H0 :5 L09.o 3:020; 3‘
:9. Emma 200—." am» . . . 702::m «0:02 mom . . . _0:m 300—." m:m_.n0 . . .
H05. Ema—A ~55 . . . gm 90 Em Ema—z. 9.0:: . . . Ewan 90 0000: :5
:55 «SSW mml . . . 70m 3389 How. 5.92. :5 :3 0m :5 S: :5:
. . . 50m :8 mrmmzw 00::8:m:00 0m .0 enema. . . _

~25 0:050 360 0m £03. Esmm :00: "0 m mam... <3me 0* 0—05.
mnonmom 0:05 300— 02:55:? £25305 5mm? 70 403‘ 75:03:53:
mag—£00m m: "Em 52:50.. >05 0m 00:30. 00:00:30 5—00 mm<0 :3

O

001% muocw 0 BE 070:8 :0 22:08: 2:: :5 0703083 or

0:5— 3:92. A0343

.Eamm «<20 A911: @0073
mania:— Umcmrnmu A>-r-r-r.5
Igmmosa %0::m 30: Q5: 33
@0302; gamma 2.33505

:0 f 5

(Fold Back)

500:5: man. 5-:-

maduwvomw 50:5 "0 :an m:8
Em mar: gm m:1:m m zed—w
102% mm m moon 3:5 H0 mo F
€703 3.0 096:: £35 0* 79:-
Egm £36 0:. mgam. : a: 0.5
"0 50 ma: 3. :5 :0mmrvonroomw
vcmmum 80:-mm0 3321"»er
3.008 :5 :mESmm: 50m. .25
mozoégm mame—g Emma". Em.
33:" $1.30 0m 253m 3 Hr:
m<mi:m.m 7:013:

 

5:50:de Harms. r

>mmmm: 0703083 "0 000: E30? 2 $5 003% mm Emma. a??? 3
F3 8003— mnoctm m:m 7310 000: muocw 0:823: 15 090mm. 10:.
000: 05308:. 90 309% 0:. $5 030a 9088 m 35:02 £50: :33
~00 wounumwmm Euocmrog Em 0030:. 10:. m:m$:0m. 0:0 008:. :EmH
may ES 0 3530—. 0:092. 58 0 How. 0:092. 58 0 ma: 0m 03:05
0:099. 58 m mouomw m3. m:m mo 0:. : mm 0.:mnm:m Erma 0:00:03
5820—3 m.:0:m 0703083 5;: Hams—r mm. *0“. 88330. 90 30:0
mm 2:5 3:1? my 95mg: Boggm Emu—$3”: m:m 000: 070333
3:6. 3:05 H0 0:53u 70m :5 Sim 50::03. mm _00§:m 333mm
38:. m: :5 mmw H0 m0_:0 00:33: m:m m0 337. m: :5 500m 0m Em
3:102. 95:005. goimam—Jw wroca rm mmmmmsmm wagon—v. 8 mmor

 

1—3.qu m0 1:: :5 0030: a: mag—ow mwoamgocm—vu Z. 0:552:
H0 000—: Erma. m :=0:: m:m m "0.03:: m: :00: 3 0:0 0:092.“ 90:.
00:33:30: BE 00:05 3.0 oni H0 awed—ow :10 M00: 9.05030
mmgmzoa.

SK I TS

STUNTS

.Omd 010... 30.4 .2 4.0% .50.. .0..:0.»< .1..:0..- Em.
.com.0m00mm< 00:00.00: 3.8102 .3 10.1.23...— .....E 8.....i 2.0.5 ..

a... 6:33.. .00..“ :0. 0.... .04: .:_..w .3001... 0 .1...» 10:10.88 0.1.
33:0. 0:01. m::0.»0... . . . Em m5...» 11...: < 1:0. 5.0::

. . . 00—05 #003 m:0_ 0 10:1»: .210
0.1 1.50.... 1:: . . . .00 0—003 0?... 0 10.00.. E... 0:0 .01.... 50.1.. . . .
00......» 1.0 .1.0 :0 10.50% :m 1:: 10.50% £0000 0.: 3511.5 .30:
.0101 0.: 0.... ...0 EH: .1...» 103m 1:: 201.30 1:..— 0... :0 :301
1:: a: 100.80: . . . Em mczoa 1...... 0 .3 :_ .100. m...:..00 .. mg...
1020...... 20000 0?... 0 320.00 E Em... .m.....0.m 1.... .101 0 :O

a.

....P0.m.

A2803... .m10._.m..0.»0. 50:0
2.50.: w01 30:0...

CREE :0... :0?
$04.01: 0.1:; 0—0:... m:0w_
00.0003 :0: 030». 7.6.0:: .00 .40....— 090‘—
T..........»». 2...— ..003 .00... Ema.— =_..._mv .8500» 1.0 .15
15:0 .300. ...»0.0 0—0....— mmm A:....0..0m .0 no... Em w::0.m 11:5.

uhk$~b§~¢<0

12:01:. 0&0: 0.1 00.1....
5:09.00 .0 9.0% ..0 £020.. 10...:mmm01
0.1 10:02:05. 0. 3.00.0.1. 0 0...: £000
1:0 3.010.: 0;. .3 3.0020551 1:: 332m \\
100.. mm .m..0.m 0;... ..:0m0.:.0.. 0. 20.00.05
:0.»_m 0.... 0.0.3... 0.: .33 10...... 0.4m: 0.1
.11..» 0.0.... 0 :. 10.:0m 6:20 1:0 m0_mmmw
.10.. 3—0.6 0. 10:3...01 E...“ 01.00 :4. b

3.2m #0:”. a.

1.0.0.2.... m: 900...... E0... 000050.. ..0 .5100— .1.>»v HZDHw mDOM—O

709.510 10.... $321 .63. 0m... .0 .30 0 .133
28—00.. 3:09....— 0:_._.._.a 0.1 :3 0.... 0.040.. 0:. 03:00.14: .10..k

«.0.
3:...— 003 .00.. .00..» 0. .5...» :0.“ 1:. .2...» £03 35:... 3.1....

fu0m:..00._.a.._ 2...... 003...... a... :0 .0: 0..-.
10.:....»...».... 3:0 _ 331:...— ..:0.. .0: am... 0. mix... .0: :5 19¢

“:0 2:00 3:1:00
950... 0.5. 61$...» 0.1 0.0.0:... 3:00.— m. 0103..» 5:... x... £0.10...
30: .20.. .1...» .».=.::._ a... .0: :mE 0. a... ....100.. 00> .:0 10; .35.
:2?» .0 3:000: :0 01.5.0.1:03: .00.— 0:0..:: 010:. .0.»0 .210... a...

me)

(Fold Along This L

O

O

.0... .2... ..:.....0 :0.“ 0...... a... 1:... ....:._. =0 .0.— :..E 0 0.5.... x... .30..
9.031. 8......— .».7. .:0 0.»..._ :0... .04..» 0.0.3.021 .30 040.: .1301 .m
:21 :00» 2.00.1.0.— ..»05. :0... ..A...»».»..... .3... :0 =5 ..:01 5:3 :2.
6—00— 00.. .3...» 0.1 .1...» w:0....» wife. 0.0.2:. mvm..0u.:0./H .30....

£30.10... 0.8.: m... ..0.10:..:.-.: .00» .1... .m ..».1.._.._. ..10..m

.3 .090.— ..:01 1:: £50.». m0
100m :0 7:... mm .».:......._ .22. 33.5.... 0; 0. mEcm 2.00.». .0 Ewm. .2107.
.00... 1:: :35?» 0.6.10.— ..0.».I.mE. 00.». :0. .z: .0. 307. .321 0...:
.0: :0... 1:: .210... a... 00... 0. Em _ .00.... 0.: :_ 0:... .»._:0 2:. .3 ._
.5...» £05. 0.2.0.107. 0. m:_0m 3.0.... 3:000.— 0:. .0.— 0200.:w0mm1
mmcz. 0.10.: 0. w:_.».... E...“ 0.....0» £040: 10.... .00.. .1...» 9.0...» 0.3;...»
30:.— _ £0 00:53.73 0: .0 m.._ .m. .m .5...» 0.00 ..:01 _ .81:

luau: 40... .10.... ._ 5.77. ..10...m

«U00... 1:. .201. .00.... .00.. .090. ..:1:. 00% .089. :0.“
1:0. :1.» .21.... .950 9.16.1. .50.». .090.— ..0A .: 0.5 3.10.... b...
:00 :0» .50....100. .00.. :0. :0... .: .05.. ..:0.»..._ 0.5 .30.. 02.0; 0w
1.... 1:00.... 5:. 0. m:_0m ..:0.0 0...» £0.15 10...— ...0m :0. _ .09....

Flo... 0. 00......— .»._:0 1.00.». .3 ..m1.._.._. ..:._.= ..1..:K

20.10:.
mix... :5 010......2... .0... 01.0.3 ..:02 2:0 #00.— ..so: 50... 0.1
£0.00 0. 0...: .0m .A_:0 00.0.5 .0... 0...: 11.0.1. _ «300: 00 i1:

.0. .0w.m.m .3051. 0...—
...0:...:.». 0m 0. .0w.m.m 0.»... .00... :0... _ ..».1.._. ..:._.L.m .12K

.50... .0 . 9...: 0.: ..0 .»....:. :u
o o —*r — w
mfg—.0. no... .31... .mm0..100m .0.._ .:0 0:50 .10....— .:0 0:50 2.13

.3w0g000
.1?» 9.1:— £3020. 10.; 0:032...
1:0 03.... m:..~....00 .30.:0 .13.
1:97...— .0: .10....
0:...»
10m..£_11_.: 0 Q1..— “20.00359
o 321:0... .0 .00: 0.: :—

.0:0»...0.»0 .0.— ....._ 1.... .00 0. .02...
.03....» 0. .».......0 mm :03.» £0.31. .0 0.7.. 0:. l m:m.:0=0._ 2:. 4:0...
.:_......0.:0 0... .0 :0.— ._.._:..:._ 5..» 0...». 30.0.. 0.1 a: 0:: 1.... 00:0»
.10 :_ m.»...1 .50.— .. 0.9.0.... .3... 0......00: .0 .01....— 05. .0100 :5. :—

.:./_m Guam—1.1mm;

 

Vacation Valley golf, near Stroudsburg, Pa.

The department of recreation in Bridgeport, Connecticut,
submitted a qucstionnaire to authorities operating public
golf courses in 1951, requesting information as to re-
ceipts, Operating costs, fees and other items relating to the
operation of the courses. The purposc of the study was to
determine whcther or not the fces charged in Bridgeport
should be changed in view of rising operation and main-
tenance costs. lieplies to the questionnaire were submitted
by 56 authorities. On the basis of the information sub-
mitted Bridgeport increased its golf course rates for the
1952 season to the following:

Season Tickets—Area rcsidents only ....... .. $20.00
Season T ickets—Women, weekdays only.... 10.00

18 Holcs  .......................................... .. 1.00

9 Holes—weekdays only ............................ .. .50

Lockers (season) ....................  ................ .. 6.00

The golf course data were summarized as follows:
1. 0f the 56 cities reporting, 33 operatcd their golf
courscs on a sclf-supporting basis; 23 did not. In some

cases the profits from concessions and refectories are in-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Il Study
[ll Public [loll Course
Operation

cluded in the course income; in others it is not.

2. The cost of operation per player varies from 3.31 to
$1.81, the average being around 65 cents. Many factors
must be considered, mainly the type of maintenance and
condition of the course. A properly maintained course will
attract all golf enthusiasts.

3. Season ticket policy and charges vary quite a bit,
with scveral attractive reductions for women and juniors.
The cost of daily tickets for 9 or 18 holes also varies. The
average greens fee for 18 holes is $1.00 and for 9 holes,
$.60. Many courses have discontinued a 9 hole ticket, but
others have substituted a twilight reduced rate after 5:00
pm. About half the courses increase the daily ticket rate
on Saturday, Sunday and holidays.

4. Where concessions or refectories are in operation, 31
are let out on contract; 16 are operated by the city itself;
eight are run by the pro, usually as a part of his com-
pensation; one by a caretaker and one by a steward.
Seventeen serve complete meals; twenty serve beer, and
only three serve liquor. The incomc to the city from this
source varies grcatly.

6. Most of the cities listed are in the northern half of
the United States, but even in this territory, weather condi-
tions vary quite a bit. Of the 56 cities, 21 keep their
courses open during the winter, although a few make no
charge during this period.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

n:
U)
Ill
0- OPERATION mg CONCESSION AND I4 WINTER :2
zg g 1050 0:3 REFECTORIES 8 GOLF 0
CITY AND 23 :— ms“- % a, 0, mm Ago: I, 2 <
DEPARTMENT do 90‘ o 0.33 5E 35 8E gag. H I so 0 0 E3
is g _1
m” ‘55 - 5 $2 2” W w 25 - :3 3s 5 - 5 Es 5 In es
5‘0 0.1: 3 0 0.4 m9 =9 no.9. zt-IO ‘35-. 3" .253 g 0.10: c:- 3 >40
m0 010: o .5 on. int-a Gt" _4_. o<<z on 012 <00 _... mix. 0 II. in:
BTFIDGEPORTWCONN. I2—13 I No  50.723 I 43.371 I .537 I 17.00 I 40 I .05 I 04.332I City I No I‘Beer I 2000 I 5.00" Y‘s—JI 05' I
ec. 0111111153011 I _M _Hu‘h- “_m_‘ ____ I ____ _—
mRTrFoRD.‘ CONN. T10“ _No I 40.000 ‘ 44.053 I .310 35.00 25 I .00 155.095 I City ' No I No I I 3.00 No I 1
_E’atlyvgevartmcnt 3311. ‘__________I 25.41 ____________F_A ____________.______ _f_____________ _
MERIDBEN.dCONN. I 1-13 I No I 13.000  13.000 I I30.00 I 50 I 1.00 ' Out. | Yes I Beer 350 I No 2
__¢°- (Er—_______ .-___.I_____..____. W _.._.____ ____I____ _ I __ _ __
NEW BRITAION. CONN. 1-13 Yes I 33.722 I 33.040 I .512 I30.00 I.55 I 1.0 I 05.343 ‘ Cnt.  Yes I No 350 I 5.00 No I 3
Par]: Commission ‘ “__l_H_—_____ _ Hg“ ___________ _____I _______ ________ __ _ __ _
NEW HAVEN. CONN. L113“: _Yes I n I “I A 20.90 I £5T I_.00 h _Ciiy HNgy ‘ Beer I10.oo - _Yfi .00 _4_
wgrgRéiURY. CONN. I 143 I Yes I 45.730 43.330 I .301 I330}? _I .50 .00 51,314 I City No IBcer I f 0.00 No - 5
_E __°_'!1!_“_'3"_°“___._. . _H _ w. ___._..___ __I__._..__.~__ 2:“ I __._-__ F__ __ _..___._.__,
PORTLAND. MAINE 1-13 Yes I 1.000 23.000 1.00 40.00 N 1.25 20.204 ' Cnt. ' No No I 3.00 No
Ilgiiemutmiant of Parks and I I 35.-R  I I I I
ccrcation I . I
1.501: _ _4_”
BosTON.1\&Ass. “' 213 I' No I105.000 I 43.500 1.50 40.00 '—N I1.00 03.000 - Cnt. . No Beer I 250 I 3.00 I No 0
__I:a_r_k. Pegartment I _ I 30.-R | 2.001: - _i _ . I
BROCKTON.MASS. 1 13 I Yea I 24.043 I 27.031 30.00 I N .75 25.031 Stew. No No I 500 ' No I 7
Park Commission _ _ | ' _ __ I 20.-W '_ LSOX | _ I _ _____ F___. _
BROOKLINE.MASS. 1,13 I Yes I 33.541 ' 42.230 I" .350 '35.00 N 1.25 I 45.000 I Cm. I No I No l 300 ' 3. No ' 3
_ng Department ____ _ . l 30.-R , 1.0011 1 - __ , __ __ l I
MELROSE. MASS. I .35 I 1.50 ' 5.00 _‘ No I' 0

 

1—18 Yea
Purl: Department

l l

 

      

I “42.50
37.5011 I1.oox I 1.751:

 

  
 
  

25.453 Pro._ No ' No
l l . |

. 2.00X i

 

   

 
    

     

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. CONCESSION AND WINTER "'
:57, 7-. oparoglow  11100000111120 GOLF g
2;: 2 a 430 '2
CITY AND G0: I: --—-. 1:: -.r. ,0: 02.0 .13“ —-.= 3' " *' 2,,
DEPARTMENT E? ‘5 E    gt; 35‘5- g a: 3:6 o g 
3.:  553 i g g: :5 Eu "'5 étd 3.. E25 .532 § 
":3  t3 .5 0:. 0:17: a: 35: «(a C: J: <:: .. #—

- -~ I “I. II 20402' 17700 101 27"”50 I N 1.00 15Tw0'I'Cn1. I No I No— "500 1.00I No I I '0
WR5EEEI‘E".7.”C‘§§;. ' '“" . "° I ' R | ' I ° '22.51_1n_I_ Luca: | *_________Y_:_a_m 3.0.0- "No
ALBANY.NEW‘?$RIE_ 'I'1'107'N3—I—25000 I 17.001 I .002 i10.00 I I? I :50): I 10.151 I €1.30: I. u I I - I I I n-
0022:2L11%21I5_Ygu;__?‘0_§0 PWMEO I .025 I N" I 33‘ IIO0.000TCnt. I No Illa" 10.000I 1.00 I No I I

coma-9",?!h——_ “*zlu" “""" ’ fir—‘7EOH-N '1.00—_108.47i-—E;1_t-.—-_1I1o No. I No I I

o nun-.11 NEW 701211 I 1-10 No 44.045 40.000 I I I I
11 (I . I I I I I 5, R I I .5012 *

Dulsion o! Pith m___ N 100 No I 12
gYmcUsE-o—MIILZBRK’ — I 1:0 I’No' I 7.710 I 5.445 I .111 I 10.00 I55” I I 25.015 I cm. I No I 0 Id I I _. I if
0720:123301: 00,3177. “'“I‘i 10  1m IT75.200")'172'5.7400 I .001 I25.-1 I N "I Iggy: I104.ooo I Cm- I Yes I *0 IIJ-fWI 37?“ | I“ I o I N.
2330331?" ' ‘ 1 0 Tu "70.047"70.100"F'T712 A .75 I 1.25 1 05.000 '10.”: N0 No I N  I 1m 5
.P‘uh (30171011103301: I l—l3 I I   I comm' [

_ _I -- I .7511 al.1125x |_ , ,- *1. Mun—Y —w ,5-
uwmngCGTNTT' T"27 Tn I 75.720T70.255“'124 I40.00 Ifgx IRE): I 00.034 1&3; "0 I N: I I'°'°° I y" I E; I_l°
111ml” 1'1 . H“ 0 ____: _ ‘ ______ -
BAL;1M;RE.MD. " '1 0 "‘No 130.0‘5‘0‘715040 .010 N .40 P .50 100.440 I Pro- Ionuogy "0 I  "" I

Burnt: o1 P112110 3-18 I .75x I  co 1' I I

_ -n- 1:00...- ' #N 17'—
PITTSBURGH 1m. ‘ ‘— I 110 “No 20.404 25.130 I 10.41 N 1.00 I I No I I“ I I  I y . I __I__ __

Department i’uhslnd Rec. I I __I__ _ I - ._I_' I_ 1.503 . .___I_N _, -ae;;________5_oob___y;‘_____§ ls
C1NCINNATTI.01110 2-10 I Yes I 00.725 I 02.001 -1.14 10.00 N I .73)‘ I 00.000 City I o I I I _ I I _

Rec. Committee ___ - ___________________________3_5L.:1i_t__b _______1_2 ____ __ r__________________+____o.- - No
cuzszANnaomo 2-10 I No I170.000 I140.040 I100 I N .05 I.ng I150.174 I Cm. I You I No I -  _ I I W

00110 1 .  -- ._.. - - -——-————*——*—- 0
1111570113: 3111:; ' 1 0""No 145.400 1 07.000 .001 13.00 N .33): 105.000 CM- "0 3'" 3-“ "0° Y"

11101100011571. I I: o  .50

' ' .7511 '.
.75
TULEDO. 01110 H" 1 :5 No 05.700 I 45.504"“.000 N .15 1.3? ' ’ 00.700 Cm.'”"N0 No I I No 20
Division o1 Putin 2 :75x
'1 IOOX ., ._..._ .
_m_H_—° *— —————-——-—- -— , Y b
W11EEL1NG.W.‘OVA. I 1-10‘I “(I 10.100 I 20.702 I .42 I15.00 |.50 I 1.00 I 45.000 I cu; I No In": I11.11 I 1:0 I u I I 21

Pakaqu :1 _ i _  -__- —-— -———— N

making'agoum I1 10 '70. I 10.100 I 21.010 I .401 I20.00 I50 I .00 I 47.704-Lt’ro. I No I No I I No I I u
7 m :0 Wm _ _......._. _ .
GARYJNDIANA ' I 1 0“ "N3" '40.142‘"'”10.010""i.'00 N I .50 1.00 I 44.240 I Cnl- I "0 I I“ I “OI '00 I ° I __

Park Bond I 13 I I I I I '25“ '50“... - ——-—--——-----—-— 200 No
c1I;c:?9.11.1.1*-N010 .Ha I  H I I  N I55 I '50 IN”?00 I '3‘" I I“ I M I O  ° I I - -

2 101. I - . - —— - --'. ‘—""" ‘
JULIET. 11.1.124015 2 10 Tu 20.275“ 10.700T 507 N N .75 51.741 C111 No I“ °°7°l I no 3’

Pork mu. ‘ I I 1%? I

I __ _.____;7.5x ———— A T ‘7'" ”—'—y'* _ N 2‘-

121£nh1alio1IIc1tNms 1 10 I Yes I 40.500 I 40.500 I .441 I 10.00 I N I .75 I100.104 I Cut. I Yes I No I 15"I N I "-I “L35-
7 101' - —--- o N

Ruexmao.1t.t.1N010 I 10 Yes 407001 40.074 I .475 15.00 I.50 I 1.00 I 00.100 I Cut. I Yes I No  '50 I ° I  .

Ruth Dist. 2 I! I _ ' w __ I lo-R - — - - -—--—*"*""'_'— N y,‘ N 20
ANN mammmcn. 10 I Tu 10.505 I 20.100 I .502 I N .50 I 1.35”: 11.001 I N I I I “-Iw L _I__ ..

Pnrk Department I 18 mm , _ - _-_ .- MI 3;" 10.00 I N, I I 27
DIEIR:)1!')I‘.:11C1‘I'II'R}AN 151,175 1 Yes I150.000 194.000 I .570 I N I.50  IZVZMO I C“! I I I I E- _____ d”

«p. 020011 at. _ -- - - ° -- -- -. W .

FLINT.MICIIIGAN I 2 0 No I 55.310 I 40.004 I .571 I N I.4 I .00 I 00.450 I cm I No I "0  “2,5 I__ o I I ,
5"" 30m! 3 '3 ,_ __ - __.________ ..___._... *WFI'I‘NrN‘r—soo'l N I No I I 3"
JACKSON.M1C}IIGAN 1 10 I Yes 12.000 I 10.000 I I N I .45 I JSJ I “- I I I ._._
Purl: Boo_rd _____ O _ _ ‘_ _. _ No KW N No .10

LANblNG. mcmmN 1 0 I Yes 11.000 I 14.000 .400 N .10 .75 75.003 Cnl- I I I
Put Board I 15 I is I 60 Y s I ..
.__..__._, .. . - , es
w1c111TATx1NSAS" 2 10J'T3T" 32.101 22.057 .504 I 50.00 N No 1.000 lgm I 11
P0711 Commission (I) (0) (I)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

--———-—.-—-

um} 11,101 I .1112 1 I

0 No I 57.210'I 40.6577 .570 I20.00 I01;

 

20.00
51. 10515101711115.8011!!! 0.00

l’nk Den-tune!“

3T. LOUIS. MlbeUHl
Division 01 Put: 0nd Ru.

51:111N131712L11. 1110000141

2

1.00 I 43.520 C111. No
.50
1.501
.75 __
I .65 I

15:712 11:0.I No I No I

5
2
O

 

 

 

-r-urH—I-vw—

- n-u—l

 

 

 

 

“k n d 0 I Tu 12.020 I 10.500 I .557 40.00 I N I 1%,: 22.002 I Pro. I :1
7 on v i.— .._... ° -
AlixtmeaWISCONblN 1 10 Yes 15.000 I 10.544 .50 2 .00 I .40 I .ggx .LJOWO I Cm- - I“ I
f f _. __ - -' - —- ’ ’
)ANwwLLEWIchNMN 1 10 No 14.000 10.000 .474 17.00 .40 .75 20.500 I 1'10. I No I No I r - _ I ~
Polk Comm. . I _ 12.00,] _50X _ 1.001 I — - Y ; 3", I253” 3.00 ' Yea N 37
ngauxm 1:11.. 1015. I 2 4118 , Yu 107.101 100.050 I .505 N I .50 .75 I170.717 cm I e I - I , I I n.
r Comm. 0 ‘ "" No
1111:1010 W150)me 2 0 No 51.210 17.040 I .501 10.50 I .45 .00 01.200 100. I Y“ I‘“" I - ..I__I. _.
Put (541111111. 1 ll "-50 , Y He; ' 300 No I 3.
Max:310. w1scuN51N 1 10 No 11.050 0.500 I  .50 .05 Cm- “ I I - _ __I_.6_
r apart-lent __ _ “ 500 21.00 No
DULUTH. M12474. 2 1: N0 . 12.171 14.204 .572 25.00 .00 115 57.990 CM- N" I 3' ' Im10'1 I - I_ _ I _.__.I .-
Puh lbw-111110111 ‘ "'75 Loox I Y- Beer 1 3.00 No I I ‘1
MINIIK€1211L15. mNN. 5 10 Tu I200.1112 125.001 1.11   ' 1% 203-5“ I C"? " I I _-I- - - 7 ,_4..2__
. 7 0mm 1 ° ' -- —‘ 100 3.00 No
111;c1;1.3T1:11. MINN. I 1 10 I N. I 20.100 10.015 .042 I 25.00 .50 1.00 21.412 100. I No No I - 4L__I_“_
07 41mm , - ' ‘ 2.00 N0
0T PAUL. mNN 1 10 Yes 57.701 I 50.451 10.00 I N '33 C"? I“ I '5'" I  ..
Dirt Pnrhl Ind Hysdn. _ ,T, ' C" ' Y" . If“; I No I “
(Jarvis-0:“. N. n 1 11 Tu 12.250 10.500 .017 10.00 N 30‘ 15.000 3' ._.._
r r I - ‘ I
1.000 1.00 No
1111:0330“. IOWA 1 10 Tu 21.000 1 22.105 .070 N N 115 12.241 I Cat. No . N -I I, :5...
2 0mm. 4.00 ' No '
LINCULN. NLBRASKA 1 10 You 31.901 12.300 .804 25.00 N .75x 10.070 (:11; No I "0 _ I
Rn Durant-ant '25 c N No No ‘0
"IniglhlaggznntsxA _: 1:8 20.13100 N .45 75 I 63.573 lel. o I . b3
7 0 er out-ma. . . ‘ 6.00 Yes I.
(11110111111; 111-439;. cum. 1 11 7.. 14.000 15.000 1 14 15.00 N I23! 20.417 (.01. Tu Tu 8-00 10:71. I 57
1001. 01 II. n 1 124.91 6.00 Yen
1:11_th0:1.101.111111141 1 10 Tu 07.000 00.000 .044 25-00 N ' 133x “5”” ' C'"' N" m" you , -I ‘5
'01 Jen-4711100441 _ ' . .2315 3.00 Yu 3’
PORTLAND 111101.110 10 To. 00.015 00.070 .421 00.00 - .00 I 120" 104.002 . (.211. N0 N0 I Q - O -
Flo-tent 0! but. 2 ll ’70“ ‘ I“) I Y No - Yes 5 I ‘9
"3'33: 3,0011 1 111 ".601 375° ‘0 75 cm' H - —o - 7 '50”
l l'
2 0 4.00 I Yes I 5
01mm”. was.” 2 10 To. 04.720 01.501 101 4000 .00 1-00 73-“5 '3'“ Y" I 3’" I '5‘ I
Put Donna-lent

 

110 1100111217105:

 

\Vrenhaven

Bird nesting time is here, and the

W. R. Vermillion Company, 2205
Grand Avenue, Kansas City 8, Mis-
souri, is offering a wren house which
can be assembled easily by anyone.
Designed on dimensions reconnnended
by the United States Department of

 

lnterior, it consists of seven pieces of
Masonite tempered Duolux, cut to in-
terlock without‘ the use of glue, nails

or screws. Each house is packaged flat
in an envelope on which are printed
pictorial directions for assembling.

Retail price, $1.50.
Projection Chart

i Want to quit “guessing” where to
set your movie or slide projector to
get the right size and focus on your
screen? This chart, in simple, easy-
to-read tables and diagrams, supplies
information on correct
and models, lens focal lengths and
projection distances for all types of

screen sizes

projectors. If you know the projector
and projection distances, the chart
tells the proper screen size. If the
screen size is established, the chart
shows the proper projection distance.
Diagrams on seating arrangements and
audience size are also included. For a

“av 10“)

free chart, write to Radiant Manufac-
turing Corporation, 1221 South Tal-
man Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

Phonograpl1-P.A. System

A phonograph combined with a pub-
lic. address system, and radio receiver,
can be your best buy if you need an
instrument to use on the playground
this summer, and then want to take it
indoors in the fall to use for dances
and other community center activities.
The Rek-O-Kut Company, 38-O3A
Queens Boulevard, Long Island City 1,
New York, makes a variety of models
and combination models for profes-
sional and educational use. In several
of their phonographs, a combination
public address system makes it possible
for the recreation leader to make an-
nouncements or give instructions at
the same time a record is playing, the
machine amplifying both at the de-
sired volume. For detailed catalog and
prices, write to the manufacturer.

Portable Proscenium

A portable stage front, Pla-ade,
large enough for children to use, is not
merely a miniature theatre for pup-
pets. When set up, it requires a Space
ten feet wide, six feet high and at
least four or five feet deep. It has
draw curtains, and lends itself to
modest dramatic productions, as a
frame for movies or to display exhibits.

Address inquiries to Walter L. Lukens,

301 New Jersey Avenue, S. E., \Vash«
ington 3, D.C.

Fluorescent Accessories

Especially adaptable for use in ex-
hibits, displays, lectures and charts,
these new fluorescent accessories in-
clude marking pens and stamp pads
for use with invisible inks, yarn, rib-
bon, crayons, invisible‘tracer pastes
and powders, fabrics, papers, card.
boards and assorted colored sands that

are intensely brilliant under the Blak-
Ray light. Also available are water
eolor aml bulletin paints—the “visi-
ble" daylight colors which grow more
brilliant in Blak-Ray light, and the
“invisible” paints which appear white
until under this special light. Another
paint may be used on window glass,
mirrors and other glossy surfaces and
can be wiped off when desired. For
complete catalog listings and price data
write Ultra-Violet Products, Incor-
porated, 145 Pasadena Avenue, South
Pasadena, California.

Childplay

Childplay, 203 West 14th Street;
New York 11, New York, is offering
a price list for a complete line of
games and creative crafts for nursery

schools, community centers, camps and
kindergartens.

Leathercraft

Leathercraft kits, in which preci-
sion die cut leather for specified ar-
ticles, all hardware and accessories
needed for assembling are included,
can be obtained from Wilder and Com-

pany, Leathercraft Hobby Headquar-
ters, 1038 North Crosby Street, Chi-

cago 10, Illinois. This company also
handles all tools for leather work.

Permamix

A brand new Hoor patching material
called Permamix, claimed to incorpo-
rate many features not included in
other similar products, is now on the
market. Laboratory tested for three
years, it can be used on any present
type flooring, indoors or out. There
is nothing to add, nothing to mix,
and it will not freeze. It sets instantly,
and traffic can be resumed immediate-

ly. It comes in fifty-pound net weight
drums. Address inquiries to Permamix

Corporation, 228 North LaSalle Street,
Chicago.

Shuttlecock

A very durable shuttlecock made of
plastic, which stands up much better
than the feather type, has been tested
by some of the directors of the Los
Angeles recreation and parks depart-
ment and has been found to be highly
satisfactory. Known as the Penn Carl-
ton plastic badminton shuttlecock, it
is made by Pennsylvania Rubber Com-
pany, Jeanette, Pennsylvania.

11'?

P E B S 0 N

N

EL

 

\Vlly Do Recreation Executives Fail?

This question was asked Charles K.
Brightbill, director of the professional
recreation educational curriculum at
Illinois University. Based on his ex-
tensive recreation experience, includ-
ing service with the National Recrea-
tion Association and with the l’resi-
dent’s Committee on Recreation, it is
his opinion that recreation executives

fail beea use they—

1. Don’t understand the fundamen-
tal principles of community organiza-
tion for recreation.

2. Haven't learned that what is done
by people is more important than what
is done for them.

3. Try to sell activities rather than
the objectives at which those activities
are aimed and the values which re-
sult.

4. Forget that recreation is a team
job among the policy maker, the exec-
alive, the leader and the public.

5. Overlook the fact that even the
smallest of details must he handled ac-
curately, because the sum total of how
well the details are taken care of adds
up to superiority.

6. Delegate responsibility to sub-
ordinates but do not delegate the nec-
essary authority to go with it.

7. Do not take enough time to eval-
uate their programs, to refine them
and better them.

8. Do not keep in mind that recrea-
tiou is not a philosophy of govern-
ment, but rather a way of life.

9. Neglect to recognize the inter-
relationsiip of recreation, housing,
health, welfare, safety and education.

10. Do not appreciate the impor-
tance of functional design and the
part recreation plays in total, com-
prchcnsive community planning.

ll. Seem to be allergic to the ef-
ficient administration of finances and
the budgetary aspects of the job.

12. Lack understanding of the legis-
lative processes in a democracy and
of proper, dependable strategy in se-
curing passage of needed legislation.

“8

13. Dismiss the importance of being
the perpetual student, neglecting to
read and keep abreast of fast-moving
developments in the field.

14. Are found wanting in the tech-
niques of creating and sustaining the
interest of the people—getting them
to work for themselves.

15. Pass over lightly the essential-
ity of being good administrators and
multiplying their efforts through mak-
ing the best use of subordinates.

16. Refuse to adjust themselves to
existing traditions, customs and ways.

17. Lack the qualities of good teach-
ers and successful salesmen.

18. Won’t look ahead and build for
the future as well as meet the needs
of the immediate present.

19. Side-step the need for building
a solid foundation of lay support and
won’t linger long enough to educate
their boards and committees, give
them problems which are within reach
of solving and “take time" to under-
stand and appreciate the other fel-
low’s point of view.

20. Think they can make a large
part of community recreation self-sup-
porting.

21. Believe that success depends upon
the quantity of areas and facilities
they have at their disposal, and acquire
more in the way of physical lant
than their community can ever 10pe
to maintain.

2. Criticize other professionals and
eivic leaders whose ambitions and
abilities they fear will make them
change from the status quo.

23. Put their sales story eggs in
the basket of juvenile delinquency and
then cannot make it stick.

24. Don’t know the community in
which they work, much less the think-
ing and desires of the people they
serve.

23. Aren't acquainted with the con-
tent of their own enabling legislation
and similar laws related to their work.

26. Get all mixed up in professional
terminology, semantics and gobbledy-
gook so that the average man on the
street doesn’t know what they’re talk-
ing about

27. Won’t stand firm on basic prin-
ciples when politics interfere with
them.

28. Lack imagination.

Investigations by the National Rec-
reation Association, through its field
workers and personnel services, and
reports from employing agencies over
a period of many years confirm the
truth of Mr. Brightbill's observations.
Usually it is a combination of several
of the factors listed which causes a
condition serious enough to bring
about a dismissal.

The weaknesses in present day pro-
fessional education, as pointed out
recently by a group of prominent rec-
reation executives, has eonsiderable
relationship to the above list of items.
They include the following:

(a) Bad selection of students; (b)
students misjudge conditions as they
actually exist, and are disappointed
and confused; (c) ineffective field_
experience and sUpervision; ((1) lack
of training in business administra-
tion, budgeting aml finances; (e) lack
of understanding in maintenance of
recreation properties and facilities;
(f) lack of ability in public relations,
Communications, public speaking and
writing; (g) lack of understanding of
recreation legislation, political struc-
ture, community organization and
structure of municipal government.

The association has been reasonably
close to most executive plaeements
through the years, and feels that the
situation is improving in part, be-
cause the professional education pro-
rams for recreation: leadership are
rceomiug more adequate. College rec-
reation educators and professional
leaders in the field are cooperating
iucreasiugly in an effort to relate,
more realistically, professional prep-
aration to leadership needs.

RECREATION

BOOKS RECEIVED

DRAMA: ITS COSTUME AND DECOR, James Laver. Studio
Crowell, New York. $5.75.

HOMESPUN CRAFTS, E. Kenneth Baillic. The Bruce l’ublislt-
ing Company, Milwaukee. $3.00.

PLAY IDEAS AND THINGS-TO-DO, THE BOY’S HANDBOOK OF,
TIIE GIRL’S HANDBOOK OF, THE YOUNG BOY’S BUSYBOOK
0F, Caroline Horowitz. Hart Publishing Company, New
York. $1.50 each.

PROFESSIONAL PERSPECTIVE, Report of Tricnnial Confer-
ence of the Association of Secretaries of YMCA’S. Asso-
ciation Press, New York. $4.00.

RADIO LICENSE EXAMINATIONS, HOW TO PASS, Charles E.
Drew. John Wiley and Sons, Incorporated, New York.
Paper, $4.50.

SCRATCHBOARD DRAWING, C. W. Bacon. The Studio Publi-
cations, 432 Fourth Avenue, New York 16. $5.00.

SIMPLE BRACELETS, J. W. Bollinger. The Bruce Publishing
Company, Milwaukee. $2.50.

SECRET OF BARNEGAT LIGHT, THE, Frances McGuire.
E. P. Dutton and Company, Incorporated, New York.

$2.50.
STARS, Herbert S. ZinI and Robert H. Baker. Simon and

Schuster, New York. $1.00.
WHOLE WORLD SINGING, THE, Edith Lovell Thomas. The

Friendship Press, 156 Fifth Avenue, New York. $2.75.

WORLD’S GREAT HEROINES, A TREASURY 0F, Joanna Strong
and Tom B. Leonard. Hart Publishing Company, 114
East 32nd Street, New York 16. $2.50.

 

‘ ,a‘"
riff
\- \-

.1 CHAMPIONS

J

Finesl In The World
For The World's

Greatest Athletes

A ‘ um -
I” n: tnrli'r Mr w" rrruwr
w new to rulrua calla!!! o I” II.

.. [an IO 0|

bi:

MAY 1952

 

Designed for the Playground —

—Priced for the Playground

Rollo-Hoop
Educators
recommended
tool of play
an
Playgrounds
Caan
to
Coast

 

Rollo-Hoop! The body builder and exerciser. Sturdily
constructed at ‘i/is" round solid steel. Hoop 24” in
diameter and it’s Zincrome Plated. The handle is
permanently attached which propels and guides
hoop.

Price per Box. $9.60 (F.O.B. Steelton, Pa.)

J. A. BRANDT & CO.

P. O. Box 30, Steelton, Pa.
Designed for the Playground — Priced far the Playground

 
   
  
    
      
     
   
 

THIS BIG ILLUSTRATED

LEATHERCRAFT

CATALOG AND GUIDE

LARSON LEATHERCRAFT
FOR CRAFTS CLASSES

Complete Stock - Prompt Shipment
Leathercraft is our only business, and our stock is the
largest and most complete in America. That is why you
can always depend upon immediate and complete ship-
ment of orders sent to us. Whether your requirements
are for beginners’ kits needing no tools or experience, for
very young boys and girls, or tooling leathers, supplies
and tools tor oder more advanced students or hobbyists,
be sure to check the LARSON LEATHERCRAFT CATA—
LOG tirst. “’rtte today for your FREE co y of our big il-
lustrated Catalog and Guide to latest Leattercrait projects.

J. C. LARSON COMPANY

The Foremost Nome in leothercroh

820 S. Tripp Ave... Dept. 1607, Chicogo 24, Ill.

—,

.I. C. lARSON CO., Dept. 1607
820 S. Tripp Ave... Chicogo 24, III.

Please send me a FREE copy of your latest
Illustrated Catalog and Guide to Leathercraft.

l
t
t
l
|
NAME_.__________.____ :
I
I
|

ADDRESS

CITY__._..._____.__STATE
__________________ _ _..J
119

 

School Camping

George W. Donaldson. Associated
Press, New York, 1952. $2.25.
Mr. is the director of

outdoor education for the public

schools of Tyler, Texas, and former
director of the Kellogg Foundation
camps. His analysis of the needs of
children in the present-day world, and
his plea for authentic outdoor, out-of-
eity experiences for children is one
with which we would all concur. Some
of us might feel that he occasionally
assumes too much carry-over value in

Donaldson

camp activities. Certain general as-
sumptions, also, might he argued, such
as the statement, “The view that there
are certain areas of the growing up
process to which camps can make
definite contributions implies that the
school is the best overall organiza-
tion to select the things to he done
in camp.” That statement might he
advaneed by many other organizations
equally as interested in the welfare
of children, aml equally willing to
meet the very highest standards of
camping.

We. believe firmly that sellool camp-
ing is an important part of education.
but we would not assign camping
lock, stock and barrel- ~to any one
agency. Like religion. it can live under
many different roofs and many differ-
ent names and still function.

The chapter on reereation is very
short and condensed. The general
philosophy is sound, but we wish this
chapter had been more detailed.

We are not sure we would agree that
crafts should he limited to things
to use, which can he made with a jack-
knife. axe or saw, using native materi-
als. Can't they sometimes he just for

I20

new
Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

fun? Or Just for beauty?

The last half of the hook, dealing
in detail with Camp Tyler, will be
valuable to any school system con-
sidcring'sehool camping. lts factual
information is detailed, well organized
and very complete—Virginia Mus-
sef'rmn, Correspondence and Consul-
tation Service. National Recreation

Association.

Selected Papers in Group \Vork
and Community Organization

Selected Paper in Case \Vork

National Conference of Social Work.
Health Publications Institute, lncor-
porated, lialeigh, North Carolina.
$1.75 each. (paper)
ln addition to publishing the Pro-

ceedings of their 1951 conference, the

officers and staff of the National Con-
ference of Social Work, have brought
out the two above volumes of papers,

which were carefully selected by a

committee, for this purpose, on the

basis of agencies especially looking
for‘material for in-service training
programs, staff discussion and student
research. Recreation leaders will he
particularly interested in the Selected

Papers in Group Work and Communi-

ty Organization which covers, among

others, such topics as "Utilizing New

Knowledge Ahout lndividnal Behavior

in Work with Groups in the Leisure

Time Setting." by Alexander li. Mar-

tin, “Speeial of Congestcd

Communities," by Charles Odell, “lia-

eial Tension in New Areas." by Dr.

Warren Banner, “'l'wo-l’ronged Ap-

Needs

proach to Community Planning," by
Edward I). Lynde, “Rallying Commu-
nity Forces in Planning for the Aging."
by Lucia liing.

Travel Games

l'idmund Beaver. Order from author,

Clifton. Texas. 25c.

Traveling with the small fry this
summer? The did—and
worked out a little booklet of contests
and games to keep the children hap-
py. lt's attractive in its bright yellow
pages, and is pocket-sized. It worked
Sn well with their four children that
they’ve printed it, so other parents
can use it with restless young travelers.
Very clever, Mr. Beaver! Can’t we
grown-ups use it, too?

liea vet's

Dances, Games and Songs

Looking, for new, authentic folk
songs, games and dances? The Coop-
erative Recreation: Service, Delaware,

Ohio, has just issued two new book-
lets:

1. Let’s Be Merry (Linksmi Bukim),
hy Vytautas F. Beliajus, one of the
great folk leaders and authorities. Mr.
Beliajus is in a sanitarium at the
present time, and the Cooperative Ree-
reation Service has donated several
thousand copies of his booklet of
Lithuanian folk material to he sold.
the money going to cover his hospital
costs.

2. Riqne Ran. games and songs of
South American children, collected
and translated by Mary L. Goodwin
and Edith l... Powell.

Order from publisher. 25c each.

Prisoners are People

Kenyon J. Seudder. Doubleday and
Company, Incorporated, New York,
1952. $3.00.

The author of this account of the
amazing California lnstitution for
Men at Chino, has been superintend-
ent of that institution for the past
eleven years and is partly responsible
for a revolutiOnary experiment in
prison reform. llc relates the trials
and errors from its beginnings and
his difiieulties in selecting the first
members of his staff, gives fascinat-
iug anecdotes and case histories.

At Chino, inmates may decorate
their living quarters, picnic with their
families on Sundays. These men run
the twenty-six hundred acre ranch of
the institution. organize and run the
prison's entertainment program, share
in its edueational and vocational
training.

ltacnmrms

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored jointly by the National Recreation Association

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

and

Local Recreation Agencies

May and June, 1952

Petaluma, California

May 5-8

Palo Alto, California
May 12-15

Whittier, California
May 19-22

Huntington Beach, California

June 2-5

Provo, Utah
June 16-20

Flint, Michigan
June 23-26

Huntington, West Virginia

May 5-8

Atlanta, Georgia
May 12-15

Lancaster, South Carolina

June 345

Reading, Pennsylvania
June 10, 11 and 12

White Plains, New York
June 25-26

Hattiesburg, Mississippi
May 5-8

West Point, Georgia
May 12—15

Austin, Minnesota
June 2 and 3

Faribault, Minnesota
June 4

Faribault, Minnesota
June 5

Mankato, Minnesota
June 6

Toledo, Ohio
June 9-12

Youngstown, Ohio
June 13

Sheboygan, Wisconsin
June 16-19

Pittsiield, Massachusetts
June 23-26

Lafayette, Indiana

May 9-10

Mcrom, Indiana

May 12-17

Columbus, Ohio

May 19-22

Reading, Pennsylvania
June 10 and 11

Allentown, Pennsylvania
June 12 and 13

Wilmington, Delaware
June 16, 17 and 18

Durham, New Hampshire

June 23 and 24

Glens Falls, New York
June 26

Steven A. Mezzera, Director, Recreation, Parks and Music

Edward E. Bignell, Superintendent of Recreation, Community

Center, 1305 Middleiield Road
R. Walter Cammack, Superintendent of Recreation

William Proctor, Director of Recreation, 17th and Orange Strcets

Harold Glen Clark, Director Extension Division, Brigham Young
University

Miss Lina W. Tyler, Director, Recreation and Park Board, 3300
North Saginaw Street

Marvin A. Lewis, Managing Director, Cabell County Recreation
Board, Administration OHice, Field House

Miss Virginia Carmichael, Director of Recreation, Department
of Parks, City Hall

Tom McConnell, The Buford Consolidated Schools, Route 5

Lloyd H. Miller, Director, Recreation Board of Berks County,
Court House

Miss Vivian 0. Wills, Westchester County Recreation Commission,
County Office Building

Dr. Pete Davis, Professor of Recreation, Mississippi Southern Col-
lege, Station A

Robert A. Turner, Coordinator, Department of Community Rec-
reation, West Point Manufacturing Company

Harry Strong, Director, Department of Recreation, Post Ofiice
Box 246

Milton Hustad, Director, State School and Colony

Joe Grunz, Director, Recreation Department

Edward Johnson, Director of Recreation

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building

Oliver S. Ellis, Director-Treasurer, The Youngstown Playground
Association, 318 Dollar Bank Building

Howard R. Rich, Director of Public Recreation, 837 Jefferson
Avenue

Vinccnt Hebert, Superintendent, Parks and Recreation, 52 School
Street

Jackson M. Anderson, Assistant Professor of Recreation, Purdue
University

John L. Marks, Assistant in Rural Youth Work, Indiana Farm
Bureau, Inc., 130 East Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana

N. J. Barack, Superintendent, Department of Public Recreation,
Room 124, City Hall

Stewart L. Moyer, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

Alfrcd L. Geschel, Supcrintendent of Recreation, City Hall, Room
305

W. Frank Newlin, Rccreation Director, Room 377, City Hall

C. B. Wadleigh, State 4¢H Club Leader, University of New Hamp-

‘sliirc

Danicl L. Rcardon, Recreation Superintendent

Attendancc at training courses conductcd by National Rccrcation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsors

of the coursc as listed above.

 

 

 Alli!
II II||||||| "‘°
I II 0., I: r O

  

 

 

9 :+ . '
i i  notebook I  - i
u - ‘ '2 5 our 0 0 I" a ,‘ ‘
. ...3l$f Ih venue, . n-e‘é  f  

. o a g c i ' I
I III-Il-I IIII u mulu Inwnumv ‘

 

1 9 5 2 E D I  O N Same size—l2 weekly issues

It’s New! Same time—Beginning
April 25, 1952

It’s Fun!
It’s Full of Good Ideas! Same Price . . . . . . $ 1.50
‘u a c ‘F
“° SUBSCRIBE NOW
:1" @ For Every Playground - For Every Playground Leader

U S E F U L? Ask the subscribers!

A 51% these communities how many subscriptions they used. . .

Auburn. Me.

l'aio Alla. Cal.

Greenwich, Conn.

Hallway, NJ. . . . . . . a . . . . . . .
Union. NJ.

Auburn. N.Y.

Linden. N.J.... . . . . . a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13

Jackson, Mich. . . . p . . . i . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Davenport, Iowa and Selina, Kansas. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..15

Evanston, Ill. . ., . . . . .. . . . . . i . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..18
Salisbury, N.C. and Jackson, Miss. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 20

Charlotte, N.C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ‘30

THE PARADE

 

