 

  
 
 

Christmas Fun

CIIRISTMAS BOOK, THE—A beautiful booklet full
of information about Christmas customs and
legends around the world, parties, carols, dee-
orations, gifts and other Christmas ideas and
suggestions .............................................. ..S.50

CIIRISTMAS FAIRS (MB 984)—Three-in-oue
Christmas program for community centers.
Tells how to set up demonstration booths giv-
ing children and adults ideas for inexpensive
gifts and activities which can be carried on

at home ............. ..  . ........................ ..$.10
COMMUNITY CIIRISTMAS PARTY, A (MP 295)—
Community-wide party suggestions ...... .. $.15
MIXERS FOR CHRISTMAS DANCES AND PARTIES
(MB 1425)  ..................................... ..$.10
NIGIIT BEFORE CHRISTMAS PARTIES WITH A PUR-
POSE (F28) .......................................... ..S.10

YOL'R CHRISTMAS PARTI"——Suggestions for plan-
ning novel parties ................ ..S.15

Christmas Crafts

CHRISTMAS CRAFTS (P13)——How to make an
aluminum Christmas tree; how to stencil $.15

CHRISTMAS NovsLTIES FOR EVERYONE—How to
make ornaments, decorations and the like $.15

CHRISTMAS TREE ORNAMENTS FROM EGG SHELLS
(MB 1133) .... .i ....... ..  .........S.10

CHRISTMAS WINDOWS AND OTHER DECORATIONS
(l’ l46)-—llow to make colorful windows and
decorations for your home and table ....$.10

.......... ..S.10

GIFTS AND GADGETS MADE OF PAPER (P 128)
-—ldeas for gifts and decorations .... .. $.15

Jo'I’Ot'S NOEL (MB 1825)-—-Christmas decora-
tions made from inexpensive clay, tin cans

and the like  . ...S.10

MAKE YOUR wa CHRISTMAS TREE OR.\'AMENTS
(Ml’ 257)v--C0n1plete directions for making
unusual ornaments fronI inexpensive mate-

rials .  ..W.....$.25

EASY-TO-MARE CHRISTMAS CARDS“

Christmas gins

  
       
       
      
      
     
     
   
     
   
 
      
       
      
     
      
           
    
    
   
     
 
    
   
 
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
  
  
   
  

SUGGESTIONS FOR NOVEL CIIRISTMAS CARDS
(P l45)-——With excellent illustrations tO excite
your imagination  ........ .. $.10

TRIMMING THE TREE FOR SANTA (MB 1955)—
Suggcstions for making cornucopias, angels,
stars and other holiday novelties . 3.10

You CA.\' MAKE YOUR CHRISTMAS CARDS (MB

607)-—Fourteen ways to success .......S.10
Christmas Songs and Services
CANDLE-LIGHTIxG SERvICE, A (P 18)   $.10
CHRISTMAS CARNIVAL IN CAROLS A.\°D PANTO-
MIMES (P 133) ................  ................. ..$.10
CIIRISTMAS CAROL LEAFLETS—per 100  $.80

CHRISTMAS CUSTOMS AND LEGENDS AROUND TIIE

WORLD (P l44)-—Told in pantomime form,
will serve as a basic pattern for Similar pro-

grams     .................... ..$.10

$.10
FESTIvAL OF LIGHT' (P 148)—For Hanukkah

and Christmas. Narrator, carols, pantomime
for a community program ........................ ..$.10

HERE WE GO A-CAROLINC (P 28)-——Brief earol
program suggestions for reader and choir $.10

DEDICATION or A CHRISTMAS TREE' . 

JOY TO THE WORLD (MB 1585)-——A pageant for

church, based on the story according to St.
Luke  .................................................. ..$.10

STORIES OF THE CHRISTMAS CAROLS (P 132)
—Also suggestions for “Learn a Carol :1

Day” .................................................. ..$.15
TREE-LIGHTING SERVICE (MP 417)-——A beautiful

and impressive service which takes but a

half-hour to produce ................................ ..$.15
New Year’s and Twelfth Night

CROWN YOUR TwEI.vE MONTHS MERRILY (MP

265)-—An unusual twelfth-night party to bring
the season to a close ................................ ..$.10

RING IN THE NEW (1’ 14)—Cames and decora-
tions for your New Year’s party   $.10

WATCH NIGHT PARTY (MP 346)—Camcs, stunts,
relays and the like  ......... .. 3.10

'lieprint from RECREATION.

Available from the National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, IKY.

USE MODERN SOUND SLIDEFILMS AS

’0

 

 

' a, TENNES l :

 

 

ARCHERY

BADMINTON

Teaching basic sports skills is an essential part of every
school and college athletic training program. But it's nOt an
easy job. That's why the Athletic Institute, with the aid of
n0ted teachers and instruCtors, has produced the sound
slidehlms illustrated here — to make your job easier —— to
make skills and techniques more understandable to begin-
ners — to make sports instruCtion more enjoyable for all.
A good instruCtional film library — now standard equip—
ment in many of the nation's top educational institutions ——

 
 
  

l
GOLF

“SHIN

 

BASKETBALL

  

WEI-.5." 35% .. 

will develop more interest in sports . . . . not only for
beginners, but for all who look to you for guidance in
learning the proper fundamentals and skills in competitive
games and carry-over aCtivities. Equip your athletic depart-
ment with a series of these modern audio-visual aids, and
you’ll see a marked improvement in your physical education
and recreation programs.

A slidefilrn on softball is now under production ond should be
ready for distribution in the Spring of 1953.

Write taday for full details -— The Athletic lnstitute‘r 209 S. State St.,r Chicaga 4, III.

A NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION DEVOTED TO THE ADVANCEMENT
OF ATHLETICSIr RECREATION AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

 

 

This seal. prluemuk of
the Athletic Institute,
Identities Its mombots.

at leading gym from coast-to-(omt the (bait? 1'; Porter

lieu) tpr Eade’mp ' born mTexas

   

Chorlion-Pollard High School in Beaumom, Texas. no! only
selecled a new Porter-developed 246-3 Gale-type BacksIOp Io
bridge a folding parliiion which cut the main (our! in half,
bul inslolled four Porter 217-5 "Hoisloway" Backslops on the

lwo parallel praclice courls. Parler 208-3 Reciangular Plywood
Backboards are used on the "Hoislowoys".

Whether the problem is easy or difficult, Porter
has the best answer when it comes to basketball
back5tops. When Charlton-Pollard High School

The new Parlor-developed 246-5 Gale-Iype
Backslop "swings like a gale” Io permil Ihe
folding parlilion Io be closed. Easy lo operate

in Beaumont, Texas, faced the question Of how to and rigid when in use, Ihis new Parlor back-

bridge a folding partition which bisected the “0P will be m" in m?" cm“ ."30" GYM

gymnasium, they turned to Porter. The answer "°""'“‘ °f "‘°d'"‘ “Mm P°""'°"’ 9'“
. ln populornly.

was a new gate-type backstop which undoubtedly

will win instant favor with architects and builders comm? on News

Whether your problem is
equipping a new building or
adding basketball backstops
or gymnasium apparatus to
on old building. you will
find helpful the suggestions
of Porter's experienced engi-
neering staff. No obligation.

planning to use modern folding partitions. For
nearly a century, The J. E. Porter Corporation
has been solving problems in design and manu-
facture. COuntless schools and community centers
all over America boast of Porter installations.

mm. PORTER

Manufacturers of Gymnasium,

 

    

 
      
 

CORPORATION

Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment

Ottawa, lllinois

   

  

 
       
  

 

tlltliil Biiltf: Ill ll. lliclipi Alt, tlicm ll. Phil: Slntbt 1-12"

 

Nil WI! filtf: II I. If“ 5L. lltl Teri ll. PM“: [II-1er MHZ

{1’8 - Racnmnox

DECEMBER, 1952

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERCAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
BUSINESS MANAGER, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Vol. XLVI Price 35 Cents No. 7

 

On the Cover

Nature’s own decoration contributes a white Christ-
mas, enhancing recreation indoors and out, in this
joyous season. As in this picture, it takes but little
imagination to hear sleighbells, gay laughter, and
to see a Yule log blazing merrily on the hearth.
Photo courtesy Of Sun Valley News Bureau, Steve
Hannagan Associates, New York.

Next Month

Thoughts in the New Year turn to self-evaluation,
houseclcaning, the strengthening of program and ad-
ministration. Our January issue has been planned
to help you. The line editorial on “The Spiritual
ASpects of Recreation,” by the Right Reverend
Stephen F. Bayne, Jr., Bis110p of Olympia, and “Rec-
reation and the Richer Life,” by Dr. Anderson, as
well as a fine set of New Year’s resolutions, will
give you plenty to think upon. “Community Center
Housekeeping" will bear careful reading, and “Re-
cipes for Fun” will be on the subject of bulletin
boards.

Photo Credits

Page 382, Christian Science Publications; 386, Brit-

ish Information Services; 388, Fred Carter, Photogra-
pher, Seattle; 389, Arthur D. Scott, Boeing Airplane
Company, Seattle; 390, James O. Sneddon, Univer-
Sity of Washington; 391, 393, 394, Fred Carter; 399,
Harry Bergcr, Boston; 403, (left) Casca de Portu-
gal, New York; 404, Baain Courmpetis, Photogra-
pher’s Broker, Athens, Greece; 405, 406, 407, The
National Film Board, Canada; 408, 409, Fred Carter,

(lowcr center) Arthur D. Scott; 414, 415, 416, Mi!-
waukee Journal.

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization su ported by voluntary con-
tributions at 315 F0 Avenue, New York 10,
New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Rcaders’ Guide. Subscri tions $3.00
a ycar. Canadian agency. G. R. Welc Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $3.85. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Oflice in New York, New York, under act of
March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at Special
rate of postage rovided for in section 1108, Act
of October 3, 1 17, authorized May 1, 1924.
Advertising and Production Office: ones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 1 , Minnesota.
Space Representatives: 11. Thaycr Heaton, 141
East 44 Street, New York 17, New York' Mark
Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 593 Market Street, Suite
304, San Francisco 5, and 3757 Wilshire Boule-
vard, Los An eles 5, California.
opyright, 1952, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 3-2
°Trade mark registered in the U. 8. Patent Oflice.

 

DECEMBER 1952

MAGAZINE

   
 
 

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

General Features
The Season’s Greeting—A Christmas Wish,

Anna H. Hayes .............................................................. .. 382
Recreation in Amorica Today (Editorial),

Joseph Prendergast ........................................................ .. 383
Christmas, Robert Merrill Bartlett .................................. .. 387
Postscript to Christmas, Margery Wells Steer ................ .. 395
Junior Santa Claus WorkshOp,

Helen Madeleine Klemm .............................................. .. 396
I Am a Professional Recreation Leader,

Lillian Schwertz .............................................................. .. 401
A Global Look at Recreation, T. E. Rivers .................... .. 402
“Fun Doesn’t StOp at Sixty” .......................................... .. 414
Softball—1953 ................................................................  416
Ways and Byways on the Road to Painting,

Ruth Hill Wood ........................................................... .. 417
The Burning of the Greens ............................................  420
A Job in a_Changing World, Jane Johnson .................. .. 427

Thirty-fourth National Recreation Congress
In Review ............................................................................ .. 388
Congress Capsules .............................................................. .. 393
True to Form .................................................................... .. 408
Statement Drafted ................................ ..t ........................... .. 418
Administration
Notes for the Administrator ........................................... .. 410
Forest Preserve Services .................................................. .. 419
Are Highly Competitive Sports Desirable for Juniors?  422
Equipment for Tot Lots .................................................. .. 426
Program
Ornaments on Your Tree, Virginia Nelle Wilson .......... .. 385
The Influence Of Joseph Lee, Elizabeth Clarke ............ .. 398
First Steps in Producing a Play, Blanch M. Hogg ...... .. 405
A Handkerchief Party for Christmas .............................. .. 412
Regular Features
Things You Should Know . .............................................. .. 381
People and Events ............................................................ .. 421
Personnel—Undergraduate Training,

Charles K. Brightbill .................................................... .. 428
A Reporter’s Notebook .................................................... .. 430
Recipes for Fun~——Simplified Decorations ...................... .. 432
Recreation Market News ............. .. . .......................... .. 434
Listening and Viewing ................................................... .. 436
On the Campus ................................................................ .. 437
Books Received .................................................................. .. 438
Magazines, Pamphlets ........................................................ .. 438
New Publications .............................................................. .. 439
Recreation Leadership Courses ................ ..Inside Back Cover

379

NATI UNA L RECREATION :ASSOCIA'I‘ION
A Service Organization Supported by l’oiuntary Contributions
JOSEPH I'R ENDERCAST. Executive Director

 

OFFICERS

Oreo T. Maltese. . . . . . . . . . .Chairman of the Board
Paul. Mooaz.Jl. . . . . . 
Mat. Ocotts L. MILIJs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sccond Vice-President
SL‘sas M. Lee. .Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
Aoarats M. Masste................
Gustavus 1'. Kit". .. . . . . . . . . ..
Josrrts Pursue-ac“? . . . .

. . . . First Vice-President

. . . .Treasurer

....D...

   

. . . . . . .Treasurer Emeritus
. . . .Secretary

I...‘....O.'OOU....

BOARD 01“ DIRECTORS

F.W.H.Aoaats........................NewYork..".Y. Mas.JOItND.JAH£s03\' . . . . . . . . .............Bellport..’.Y.
FoG‘IWB‘HISIIOoooOOOODOOOOOOOOOOOO e e a a ..BOHOII.LII!!. SUIANM.Ll!...........................Nel'Yorh.a'.Y.
Mas. Roarar Vooos Buss... ..  . .. .....Washington. D.C. Ono '1'. Mann: . . . . . . . ....   .. .....I’hiladelphia. Pa.
Mas. Aartwt G.Cuatuts... .... . . . . . . . . ...Jachtonville. Fla. Cast. F. Mutt-tear. .. . .. . . . . .   . . . . . . .Augusta. Me.
returns H. Davlt........................'ew Yorh.N. Y. Mas. Occur I... Mms.....................xew York..‘. Y.
Hater P. Davrsors.......................New York. N. Y. Pact. Moon. Js . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . ....Jersey City. .'. J.

10"," PIENOFICAST ooooeaaeoseoeeee oxe' York. ... Y'

Mas. SIGHUNO Srtast. . . . ..

GA'HOIO DONNILLIY.........s...”sss.......ClliCl‘°. 
Mas. Pam Gatuenra. . . . . . .Onsaha. Nehr.

Roatar Gaaatrr”  .. .. ..... ... .. .. ..... .Baltinsorc.Md. Gaaxr Trrswoartt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Nororon.Conn.

Mas. Norman Haaaowta. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fitehburg. Mass. Mas. Worm: Van Aux. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Philadelphia. Pa.

Mas. Csraatts V. Htcrox. ..... .... .. .. .Miehigan City. Ind. J. C. Wants” ... .. .... .. .. ... .. . ... . ....Yonherr. N. Y.
Farotsrce M. Vaaauao. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York. N. Y.

 

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Personnel Service
Wruaao C. St'rsttsuno
Mast Guteanar Atreto B. Jeanne

Serrrce to Stetra
William M. Na?

Exocutivl. Director's OSes.
(icons [5. Drcus Trtouas E. Rrvtas
Hsua Haallsort Asrrtcs Wruraus

Aunts H. Vinson

ilaeow Larrsaor

Arret and Fertiitrre—Pieuaiag :er Sersrys

Research Dapartnant
Lune ertcrt

Gtoece D. 3011“
Davro J. Duaors

Correspondence and Consultation
Service
Geosct A. Ntsarrr

. 1
Current Boscsraao EDNA Baaccsua K“”‘"" F B‘I‘" Mrmrh

Serrrtery for Wooten and Girls
HELIN M. Dauncer

Work with Voluntnrs
E. Beanies Stuarts

Program Service.
Mast Qusu Mascaatr Danawoa‘n-t

You:er MUHILMAN

Recreation Magazine.

Donn," Barnum" Recreation Leadership Training Courses

Rune Euuas ANN: Lrvmotrox
Mrwsro SCANLON Pram: A. Status
GIACI Water-s.

Field Department

Cnaaus E. Rut:
C. E. Bttwtt Janet A. Maorson
Roster R. Gauau Huerta G. How

Special Publications
lose Jar Scmrasr: Meant. McGatsar

 

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

New England District samba"! Diurict

"aroo I. Hamswos‘rrt. .Bos'rou. Mass.
(Present uddress. . .New York)

Southwest District

H loco V N Aasoatt. . . . . .D ll . Tea.
Mus Matron Patter. . . . .Aleaaodria. Va. 1‘ A i u

o cacao use 0005‘“ FImCiICO. cilif.

Middle Atlantic District
JOHN W. Faust. . . . . . East Orange. N. J.
human 5. Vtsroan. .New York. N. Y.

Grant Lakes. District
Jones J. Count. . . . . . . . .Toledo. Ohio
loasar I... Hotntt. . . . . . .Maditon. Wis.

W

Allilinte Membership

Ailiate membership In the Nstioml
Recreation Association is open to all non-
proGt privste and poblic oeganitatioos
whose function is wholly or primarily the
provision or promotion of recreation serv-
ices or which include recreation ss so into
portsnt part of their total progrsrn and
whose cooperation ln the work of tha asso-
ciation would. in the opinion of the asso-
eiation's Board of Directors. further the
ends of the nstional recrestion movement.

Eaten Van Fun. . . . . .Clearwster. Fla.

Mid west Dist riet

Anew! Torso. . . . . . . .Kansas City. Mo.

Active Associate Membership

Active associate memberrhip in the
National Recreation Association is open to
all individuals who sre actively rengsgeJ
on a full-time or part-time employed hasis
or ss volnnteers in a nooproht private or
public recreation organization and wbesse
cooperstiots in the work of the assoclation
would. in the opinion of the association's
Board of Directors. further the ends of the
nationsl recreation movement.

Pacific Northwest District

Wruatn H. Srwstato. . . . .Seattle. Wash.

PaeiGe Southwest District
Lens 5. Rooster. . .

Contributors

The continuation of the work of the
Nations! Recreation Associslion from year
so year is made possible hy the splendid
cooperation of several hundred volonteer
sponsors throughout the country. and the
generoos contributions of thousands of so -

rters of this movement to hring healt .
appiness and creative living to the boys
and girls and the men and women of
America. If lou would like to ioin in the
snpport of t is movement. you may seod
your contribution direct to the auocistion.

III—#—

. . Los Angeles. Cslii.

 

ciea. puhlie and private. to the end that every chth
in America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in Amcrica. young and old. shall
have an opportunity for the heat and most satisfy-
lng use of his expanding leisure time.

The National Recreation Aawcintlon is a nation-
wide. nonprofit. nonpolitieal and nonacctarian eivle
organization. eatahlishcd in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions. and dedicated to the serv-
in' of all recreation executives. lenders and agen-

For further information regarding the association's services and membership. pit-are write to the
Executive Director. National Recreation Association. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York IO. New York.

 

 

 

“censure-x

 

p CHLORINE DELIVERY PROVISIONS and
percentage ceilings on marketable pro-
duction were eliminated on Novem-
ber 18 by the National Production
Authority, United States Department
of Commerce. This action was taken
through revocation of M-31, the chlo-
rine order, and was made possible be-
cause, for the past six months, the
supply of chlorine has been adequate
to meet the demand.

r ONE OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS
adopted at the National Conference on
Cooperation in Aquatics, held at Yale
University in October, was that a com-
mittee be appointed to make a study
of the design and construction of out-
door swimming pools, and to report
their findings at the next session.

> THE MUNICIPAL FINANCE OFFICERS
ASSOCIATION reminded members in its
January, 1952 Newsletter, that their
budget program should include provi-
sion for attendance at the associa-
tion’s annual conference. Likewise, this
would be a good time of year for
recreation executives to get in touch
with their local municipal finance de-
partment about attendance at the Na-
tional Rccreation Congress in Philadel-

phia, Sept. 28———Oct. 2, 1953. And don’t

forget provisions for board members!

b A CAMP SURVEY, to provide help-
ful data on all phases of camps and
camping, is being conducted under
the sponsorship of the Amcrican Camp-
ing Association. This is the first sur-
vcy of its kind in this ficld, and will
include facts about over-all financial
operation.

r A NEW PUBLICATION on community-
military program, bcing put out by
the Defense Related Services of the
NRA, is entitled Christmas. It carrics
activity suggestions for that season of
the year. Available free, from the Na-
tional Recrcation Association.

> ANNOUNCEMENT WAS MADE, at the

DECEMBER 1952

Pennsylvania Recreation Society Con-
ference, Octobcr 23 and 24, of the
appointment, by Governor Fine, of a
state recreation council.

p AT TIIE REQUEST OF THE U. S. AIR
FORCE, the National Recreation As-
sociation is compiling a list of indus-
trial firms which publish material, or
provide other types of assistance use-
ful in planning and operating recrea-
tion programs.

> A LIST OF SPRING AND SUMMER short
term training opportunities will be

published in the February, 1953 issue
of RECREATION. This is absolutely the
last call for 'those who wish to have
their institutes, conferences and work-
shops included. Send in by return air-
mail, and keep your fingers crossed.

b Two PUBLICATIONS HAVE JUST BEEN
RELEASED by the State of California
Recreation Commission—Directory of
Public Agencies Providing Year-Round
Services and Comparative Data on
Finances and Personnel. The former
can be purchased from the Docu-

Incnts Section, Statc Printing Office, -

Sacramento, at twenty-six cents, in-
cluding tax; while the latter can be
procured upon request from the Rec-
reation Commission, 9091/2 Eighth
Street, Sacramento 14, California.

> AN ORDINANCE ALLOCATING $80,000
for the construction of a swimming
pool was recently adopted by the city
commission of Jersey City, New Jersey.

> THE RESULTS OF A STUDY of 5,000
school children in grades three through
eight, in the Albany public schools,
will soon be published by the New
York State Youth Commission under
the title, Reducing Juvenile Delinquen-
cy—What New York State Schools Can
Do. Dr. Ralph B. Spence, educator
consultant to the Youth Commission
and executive officer of the Columbia
University Teachers College Advanced
School of Education, is the author.

> BEGINNING DECEMBER 1, 1952, the
Pacific Southwest District office of the
National Recreation Association will
be located in Room 1009, 606 South
Hill Street, Los Angeles 14, California.

Recent Bond Issues

> A $150,000 bond issue was approved
in Kinston‘, North Carolina, for capi-
tal improvement and land acquisition.

b The state of Rhode Island passed, by
a two to one majority, authorization
for a $500,000 bond issue to develop

two beach areas in that state.

b The voters of Evanston, Illinois, ap-
proved a referendum, by a five to one
vote, for a substantial budget increase
for the recreation department. In terms
of budget, this means that up to
$150,000 may now be budgeted as
against a top of $69,000 previously. It
also represents a splendid vote of con-
fidence for the recreation superintend-
ent, Mr. Charles T. Byrnes.

b In Essex County, New Jersey, 3 suc-
cessful referendum vote granted per-
missive legislation to levy one mill
instead of a three-quarter mill tax for
maintenance of county parks.

t

b The recreation referendum in To-
peka, Kansas was successful by a vote
of 23,506 to 10,247. This means that,
under the state law, it will now be
possible to levy up to one mill for
the establishment of a joint school-city
recreation commission and the em-
ployment of a year-round recreation
director.

. Job Opportunities

Vacancies for Service Club Di-
rectors have been announced by
the Second Air Force with instal-
lations in Florida, Georgia, Louisi-
ana, Missouri, Ohio and Puerto
Rico. Single women are preferred,
with United States citizenship, and
between the ages of thirty and
forty-five. Requisites include col-
lege graduation, with three years
of recreation experience. Substi-
tutes for a college degree are con-
sidered. Basic salary, $4,200.

Prospective candidates should
get in touch with Miss Frances
Hcdgbcth, Recreation Director-Li-
brarian, Headquarters Second Air
Force, Barksdale Air Force Base,
Louisiana.

 

381

TIIE SEASON’S GREETINGS

 

A (lllrislmas “’ish*

For every child the right to grow in stature strong and free
And grace to grow in fellowship; in his own right to be
A loyal, able citizen, endowed for liberty.

For every child a world at peace, a world where hate and fear
Will not destroy brave, youthful dreams; where sympathy and cheer

Awaken joy and glowing faith, to light each hope-hound ycar.
ANNA ll. lines

from RECREATION MAGAZINE

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

'Repdnted through courter of Mn. Hayes. National Congress of Parents and Teachers.

382 RECREATION

 in  706356“;

Joseph Prendergast

The following message was presented in Mr. Prender-
gast’s address to the 34th National Recreation Congress.

I believe that

the last two years,
above everything
else, have sharp-
ened the vision
of things to come.
The local recreation picture is no long-
er a picture of service only within the
walls of community recreation build-
ings or within the fences of neighbor-
hood playgrounds and playfields. The
recreation needs and demands of the
American people are breaking through
these limiting boundaries. To meet
them adequately, the local public rec-
reation executive has thc responsibility
of providing the community with the
leadership necessary to use all recrea-
tion resources and services available
for the pe0p1e’s recreation. The Ameri-
can people today also want a balanced
recreation program beyond the politi-
cal boundaries of the local communi-
ties in which they live. County, metro-
politan, district, state and national re-
sources must all be used and the com-
munity recreation executive must have
the vision to see the ways in which
these extra-urban resources can con-
tribute to his service to the pe0p1e.
If the rccreation executive is to main-
tain his position as the recreation
leader of his community, he must havc
the imagination to see new trends, to
takc advantage of the Opportunities
which they bring to him, and to be
alert and vigorous in his leadership.

Since June 1950, there has been
considcrable reorganization of the Na-
tional Recrcation Association under
which, among many other things, has
been the formation of district advisory
committces. These, I am convinced,
can bccome an important force for thc
advancc1nent of recreation in each of

 

DECEMBER 1952

the districts. It is also h0ped that
through these district advisory com-
mittees, and through district oflices,
closer service relationships can be es-
tablished by the association with the
professional societies and other recrea-
tion organizations of the districts, just
as closer relationships are being es-
tablished at the national level between
the more recently organized national
advisory committees of the association
and national organizations.

It is of the utmost importance to
the national recreation movement, as
well as to the individual recreation

executive and the local recreation

'agency, that as many recreation lead-

ers as possible should have somc ac-
tive experience and participation in
the field outside of their day-to-day
single community work. That is how
the individual can grow and advance
in his chosen career; that is how the
local agency can benefit from the ex-
perience of other agencies; that is how
the national recreation movement can
deve10p the philosophy and the leader-
ship necessary in the world today.

But let there be no mistake. The
finest trained professional leadership
in the world and the best possible
teamwork between the National Rec-
reation Association and professional
recreation workers and their societies
is not enough, no matter how perfect
that teamwork may be.

You can’t win a football game, or
any other contest, with only two-
thirds of a team. It seems to me that
rccreation.is analagous and equiva-
lent to education and that we might
thcrefore learn from the r,experience,
of the public education movement.

There is probably no better organ-
izcd and administered professional or-

ganization than the National Educa-
tion Association and the finest of
teamwork exists between that associa-
tion and the education profession; in
fact, I- believe. the association has ap-
proximately 500,000 professional mem-
bersu-but they have found that such
perfect teamwork between a service
organization and a profession is not
enough. ‘

More and better facilities, more and
better teachers and more financial
support from the community are con-
sidered the three most pressing needs
for public education today (and I
could also add for public recreation).
The NBA and the teachers of the coun-
try have found that they cannot meet
those needs through their own efforts.
They have found that they must have
the general support of the public, and
they have learned that such support
can be obtained only through lay
leadership.

As a result, two years ago a Na-
tional Citizens Commission for the
Public Schools was established and
every effort has been made since then
to win lay citizen support and build
lay groups in every community to help
the schools. Throughout the nation 10-
cal citizen groups are being founded
to work for better school facilities for
all the children. An estimated 5,000
such citizens’ organizations, consisting
of every segment of the community,
have already been established.

Educators are citing this tremendous
growth of citizen interest as one of
the most encouraging deve10pments
of the last five years. They have come
to realize that there is no more effec-
tive channel through which the nation
can strengthen and deve10p the entire
structure of our public school system
than through citizen participation.

And what has the national recrea-
tion movement been doing about this
during the past few years? Speaking
frankly, I would say we have been
too preoccupied with our own grow-
ing pains to do much, and we are
losing our public support. Even the
long-accepted and well-established citi-
zen recreation boards and commissions
have been dropping by the wayside
and the neighborhood groups -are no
longer “as active-kin many "recreation
systems as they used to“ be. We are
in danger of cutting ourselves off from

383

the very source of our strength: the
people of our communities and their
natural leaders.

The history of community recrea-
tion is the oft-told story of a small
citizcn group becoming interested in
some phase of recreation and then
going on to a greater understanding
of a community’s need for recreation
until a community-wide, year-round,
tax-supported recreation program has
been established under professionally
trained leadership.

I. believe that as members of the
team. the association and the profes-
sional workers should together seck

Just. Published . . . for -

their missing team mate—the lay citi-
zen interested in recreation.

I believe the framework of organi-
zation exists if we will but restore it
to its proper place. During \Vorld War
I the association established what was
called the War Camp Community Serv-
ice. it did so at the request of the
War Department in order to obtain
community cooperation to take care
of the recreation needs of the soldiers
from the training camps. It was cmi-
uently successful in enlisting the whole-
hearted support of the outstanding na-
tional and community leaders of the

country.

Y0“

the

recreation

leader

The why, what, and how of a beneficial
program of leisure-time activities

by E. o. HARBIN
Author of THE FUN ENCYCLOPEDIA

. This realistic. usable book sums up
the author's thirty years' experience in
planning and directing recreation pro-
grams. It otiers sound principles and
workable methods for everyone—experi-
enced or inexperienced—who plans or
directs leisure-time activities for chil-
dren. young people. or ndults.

Maintaining that recreation leaders
are "made—not born." Mr. llnrbin
shows:

..llow to discover and develop recre-
ntnon leaders 1n the community and
m the church.

. . How to base a recreation program on
a wholesome philosophy of life.

F11 n. for Eve rybody.’
THE FUN ENCYCLOPEDIA

by E. o. HARBIN

0 The standard one-volume encyclopedia of fun—the
comvlete answer to the age-old question. "What'll
we r o?" A hm library of 1.000 pages with more than
2.400 plans for parties. cntertainuu-nts. games. stunts.
sports—indoor and outdoor. and for everyone from

eight to eighty.

"A gold mine of practical suggestions."—A’ational

Recreation Association.
2" ILLUSTRATIONS.

COMPLETELY INDEXED.

..llow to evaluate the role of recre-
ation in ebnracter training.

Specific. detailed. prnctical. THE

RECREATION LEADER is an essen-
tial for everyone who wnnts to know the
“what to do" and the “how to do it" of
a beneficial leisure-time activities pro-
gram.
Contents: You Can Be a Recrention
Leader—A Philosophy of Recreation—
]tecreation and Character Educntion—
Genernl Guiding Principles—Age-
Camp and Sex Didercnees—Ohjectives
nud Hvaluation—Socinl Recreation—
Outdoor Activities—~Cultnml and Cre-
ative Recrention—Conuuunity Recre-
ation — Additional Resource Books —
Sources of Equipment

 

$3.95

At your bookstore A BlNClXIV-COK ESlil‘liY PRESS

38$

 

After the war similar work was car-
ried on under the name of Community
Services and a great deal more was
accomplished for the recreation move-
ment. Then came the frenzicd years
of prosperity and the disastrous years
of the depression and, for many reas-
ons which I cannot go into here. the
emphasis shifted from the citizen in-
tcrcstcd in recreation.

Now I believe is the time to restore
the balance. Both citizcn leader and
professional worker are necessary if
America is to realize its recreation
potential. Today the National Recrea-
tion Association has board members
from every corner of the country. It
should have more.

Today the association has 350 hou-
orary members and sponsors. Through
these honorary members, the sup-
port of many groups is obtained and.
through the sponsors. many thousands
of lay citizens are now being reached.
There should be more honorary mem-
bers. more local sponsors. morc indi-
vidual citizen support.

Today local recreation boards and
their lay members have varying dc-
grces of relationship with the associa-
tion, but this should be a stronger.
a closer relationship and all boards
should be part of the recreation move-
ment.

Of all community agencies. the rec-
reatiou agency is or should be closest
to the hearts of the people. it should
receive the greatest support from the
leaders of the community. i think you
will agree with me that there is an
important job for us to do before
it is too late. \Vc must welcome the
lay citizen to the recreation team and
we must start doing it now.

There should be teamwork between
the National Recreation Association.
individual local. state and national
recreation agencies. public and pri-
vatc. and professional recreation work-
crs and their societies and associations
on all levels. Yes—but more than that.
teamwork between all men of good
will. be they professional workers. lay
board members or community leaders.
who have. at heart the best interests
of recreation in America and in the
world. On such a team. 1 ask for the
National liccrcation Association not
the high place of leadership. but the
humble place of service.

Rscacsrlm

Ornaments '

on Your Tree

FOUR-YEAR-OLD Bobby did not shout

and run excitedly toward the large
and glittering Christmas tree by the
fireplace. Instead he burst into tears.
“Santa Claus didn’t like our tree,”
he wailed.

The child ran to the window and
pressed his face against the cold pane.
In the snowdrift outside the door lay
a lopsided cedar with short bits of
foil icicles and two forgotten glass
baubles caught in its scrawny branches.

This was the cedar which the boy
and his aged great-grandfather had
cut. Together they had dragged it
home through the deep snow. They
had unwrapped each piece of tinsel,
each golden ball. They had trimmed
the tree for Santa Claus and he had
scorned their assistance. During the
night the ragged but “beautiful” tree
had been discarded for the perfect and
elaborately decorated specimen hy the
artistic adults of the family.

We “wise” grown-ups ofttimcs feel
that beauty is the purpose of Christ-
mas decorations. Beauty, symmetry and
elaborateness; hut such is not the case.
Beauty is hut incidental to the love
and feeling, the history and tradition

Reprinted with permission from American
Forests, December 1951.

DECEMBER 1952

of holiday trimmings. Our modern cus-
toms of this season have been given
us by the peOple of many centuries, a
queer mixture of pagan and Christian
beliefs.

Our basic holiday decoration is the
evergreen. “Bringing in the greens”
has its roots in the profound rever-
ence which all ancients fclt for na-
ture. In their simple and childish
minds, all nature was alive. In every
fountain, bush and tree dwelt a spirit.
These spirits in green boughs were
brought indoors during the long win-
ter months to insure protection for the
family. 50 deep rooted was this cus-
tom that the early Christian churches
could not successfully ban it, so they
ad0pted it.

Many legends about the tree have
been told and retold through the cen-
turies, but history says that it was
Martin Luther who first decorated a
tree for his home. Luther loved nature,
Cod and his children. As he walked
through the woods one night, deep in
contemplation and communion with
his God, he saw a snow-covered tree
reflecting the lights of a brilliant star.

In this bit of nature he saw a beauty
he wanted to preserve and to share,
so he carried a small fir tree to his

 

Virginia Nelle Wilson

home and placed candles upon its
branches. Yearly at Christmas time his
family followed this practice. It was
not until 58 years later, 1604, that
German literature mentions its great
popularity in that country. Prince Al-
bert carried the custom to Queen Vic-
toria’s court in England, and gradually
the Christmas tree became the very
centcr of the holiday celebration.

Let’s trim your Christmas tree and
trace the story behind each decoration.

First, you will Spread the thick
green branches and entwine them with
strands of tiny electric lights. These
lights are but replacements for the
candles which Luther first put upon
his tree to represent the shining stars.
Candles have had deep religious sig-
nificance through the ages. In the most
ancient Jewish and Roman rites the
burning of candles represented knowl-
edge. So our modern candle-lights
glow as symbols of enlightenment in
Christendom.

As you 100p the r0pes of gold and
silver, cranberries and pOpcorn on
your tree, you are practicing a pagan
custom. Long before the days of Chris-
tianity, the old Teutonic tribes coiled
strings of fruit and grain to honor

the sacred dragon, Nithhaggr. Like
385

these same Teutons, you will place
golden balls upon the branches of your
tree. In an ancient rite, glittering balls
of the precious metal were hung to
pay homage to Balder. god of the ever
mystical sun.

The hanging of red balls and imita-
tion fruit upon the tree has come to
us from the peasants of southern Eu-
rope. Ripe and juicy apples are hung
upon their trees, and on Christmas Eve
these treats are fed to the farm ani-
mals, those lowly witnesses in the

stable when the Christ Child was born.

 

Each -ear thousands of Londoners admire

fairy ights of tree in Trafalgar Square.

From this same region of Europe
comes the tradition of the decorative
lantern you may place upon a bough.
Lanterns, especially polished for this
holiday, gre used by these people to
light the trail to the church for the
early dawn Christ Mass. From this
early morning Ceremony comes the
very name, Christmas.

No tree would be complete without
the small silver cones which twinkle
and reflect the lights. The use of
these comes from an ancient legend of
the llartz Mountain district. It is
said that each day a good but poor old
woman gathered pine cones to be used
for fuel in her home. Even though her

386

aged husband was bedfast and unable
to provide for the family, she did not
complain but was known throughout
the community for her good deeds.
One morning while she was bent over
her task in the wood, an elf came to
her. “Take from beneath this tree,"
he said, “and don’t look into your
basket until you are home."

On her way home the basket be-
came very heavy, but the woman was
obedient. When she returned to her
kitchen she poured the cones out upon
the floor. Each one was solid silver.
We honor that good woman when we
hang each shimmering cone—or so the
people of the llartz Mountains say.

Another legend of this same district
explains the tiny yellow canaries which
you may have among your tree trin-
kets. Thcse little birds are replicas of
the canaries who found refuge in a
huge fir trcc during a terrible blizzard
one Christmas Eve. Old residents of
the Hartz Mountains say that the ca-
narics are still singing about that
night, praising the Power who guided
them to the protection of that old
Christmas tree.

Every Yuletide tree must have a
roly-poly Santa Claus dangling in a
conspicuous place, for he has become
the very symbol of the Christmas spirit
of giving. Our modern Santa with his
broad smile, bright red suit, high black
boots, and all his jolly fatness is the
product of Clement Moore's imagina-
tion in his poem, “The Night Before
Christmas."

The original St. Nick was a very
thin young bishop who lived about
300 A.D., and who went about doing
good. It was St. Nick who started the
giving of goodies to all deserving chil-
dren. It was he who left presents in
the shoes of the Dutch boys and girls.
Some smart child, no doubt, outwitted
the generous man by leaving a boot
or stretchable stocking in place of his
small wooden shoe. llis little friends
must have played follow-thc-leader, for
today the stocking has replaced the
shoe and is as much a part of Christ-
mas as the. tree itself.

Next you will hang a tiny bell which
continuously tinklcs its bit of holiday
merrimeul. The bell is the most primi-
tive type of musical instrument but
it did not find its way into religions

celebration until the Medieval Ages.
Then, bells became a part of the call
to worship. During this time they
wcrc considered almost living bcings.
Prayers were offered that God might
make their sounds “summon the faith-
ful, drive away storms, and terrify evil
spirits.”

Great bursts of melody rang out
over the communities on Christmas
live. Each pealing of the church bells
told of the birth of Christ, and sym-
bolizcd his second coming. And the
bell, large or small, has found its
place upon your tree.

Other tiny musical instruments which
you might be using for brightness have
come to us from Europe also. You may
have little golden harps, the “instru-
ments of the angels,” like those used
in the dawn services in Wales. Or you
may have bright-colored metal horns
which represent the old Danish cus-
tom of “blowing in the Yule.” Just as
the sun rose on Christmas morning.
the trnmpetcers played four hymns
representing the four corners of the
world.

It takes no delving into history
books to know that the dainty little
angels which twist and turn on slender
threads are reminders of the morning
when angels witnessed the Holy Birth.

And the luminous star gleaming on
the slender tip of the tree is, of course,
the star which guided the wise men
and shepherds to the famous birth-
place. In many European countries the
shining of the first star on Christmas
Eve is the signal to start the holiday
celebrations.

So, in the shinnncr of the lights
about the base of your tree you place
a tiny crcehc, the miniature scene so
loved by your family. The first creche
was made by St. Francis of Assissi.
It was but a simple manger with a doll
representing the tiny Babe of Bethle-
hem. Small children brought gifts to
the Christ Child, while their elders
brought prayers. Beside the crude scene.
Francis and his brother monks sang
ancient carols.

Each year more aml more was addcd
to the simple scene. Its popularity
grew until during the fourteenth and
fifteenth ecnturies such displays be-
came common throughout the conti-
nent of Europe. The most skilled arti-

RECREATION

sans were employed to produce these
religious panoramas. Rich velvets em-
broidered with gold threads and valua-
ble jewels adorned all the figures.

But today, wc find again the scene
as it should be—simple, unadorned,
realistic. It has taken an important
place in telling the story of Jesus in

the home, the school and the church.
In the future, as you trim your tree,
remember the significance of each bau-
ble and ornament. Each tells a story
of the ages gone by, a story you will
retell to the coming generations. Don’t
be guilty of thinking that a Christmas
tree is but a thing of beauty, an ex-

pensive and elaborate decoration. Be
proud to take part in this rich blending
of the old and the new, sharing this
experience with all the peoples of the
Christian world.

Likc the small child, love your
Christmas tree for what it means, not
what it costs.

 

DECEMBER 1952

God of this festive season, may the joy
of friendships and family gatherings, and

the giving of gifts, illuminate our lives
with a radiance that will transform the
drabness of thc world. May thc tendcr me-
mories of Christmas stay with us always to
brighten our lives in days of adversity.
Let no distractions or busyness with trivial
things keep us from the pilgrimage of the
shepherds and the sages. May we opcn our
hearts to the color and checr of this an-
niversary, and to thc coming of thy spirit
into human life.

As we sing the carols of his nativity, may
new hope quicken our hearts, and may
thcir swect tones diSpel the discords of hu-
man life. May we lift our eyes above the
darkened earth to the star that summons us
to glorious living. May the candle flame
point us to the light of thy truth, and the
burning yule logs warm our hcarts toward
the needy and the lonely. Shed abroad

throughout the earth the Christmas friend-
liness, until animosities are forgotten and
hatreds disappear, until suffering is re-
lieved and mankind bows before the Princc
of Peace.

Let not our minds be busy inns, where
thcre is no room for the Christ of Christ-
mas, but rather open doors, where the
spirit of this friend of all men will entcr
and find an abiding place. Help us to know
that close at hand the Christ child is wait-
ing to be welcomed into our lives. Amen.

ROBERT MERRILL BARTLETT. Boys’ Prayers,
Association Press, New York. 1947.

  
  

..-. ...... .-
osu.“ ‘ _ . . ‘ I .,

canal-i.

..—.—-~- .
....-

38

‘l

 

Joseph Prendergast, Executive Director, National
Recreation Association, Chairman of Congress, de-
livers his report, “Recreation in America Today."

THERE IS A soar or MAGIC in watching a congress get
under way, in seeing it develop in a few hours from
a pile of packing cases in the secretary’s oflice to a bum-
ming, busy meeting. Exhibits blossom in the consultation
and exhibit rooms, early arrivers find themselves bustling
about in the performance of unforeseen jobs, and suddenly
hordes of delegates materialize out of nowhere and start
lining Up at the registration desk. Old friends hail each
other, introductions are the order of the day, while an air
of gaicty and anticipation finds its way to the most remote
corner of the hotel lobby.

Spotted throughout the crowd again this year were the
uniforms of all branches of the military, for the armed
services continued their practice of sending a large dele-
gation of representatives. Included among thcm were not
only service club directors and their staff members but
such service ofliccrs as Colonel Raymond Stone, .lr., Chief
of Special Services, U.S. Army, Captain W. G. Chapple,
Director, Special Services, U.S. Navy, Colonel B. E. No-
wotny, Chief, Personnel Scrviccs Division, U.S. Air Force,
and Lieutenant Colonel R. L. Stallings, Special Services
Branch, U.S. Marine Corps. Representatives of the commu-
nity services branches of the armed forces were present-m
the Community Services Branch of the Army, headed by
Ott Romney, and the Office of Community Services, U.S.
Air Force by its chief, Sherwood Gates. Lieutenant Gen«
eral Robert W. llarper, Commanding General of the Air
Training Command, U.S. Air Force, was a guest speaker.

Although the Congress was to be opened oflicially on
Monday evening, the conferences and meetings of special
groups got under way earlier; as usual, starting with a
Saturday morning meeting of all National Recreation Asso-
riation staff members in attendance. All day SUnday there

388

were section meetings of the American Recreation Society:
and at their annual business meeting on Sunday evening.
Theresa Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation, was
elected president for the coming year. On Monday morn-
ing the wives of delegates gathered, under the chairman-
ship of Mrs. F. F. Powell of the Seattle City Council, to
plan their own recreation for the week, and Mrs. George
Hjeltc front Los Angclcs was elected president. Meanwhile,
recreation executives, industrial, hospital, town and coun-
try recreation leaders and armed services personnel all
held their separate workshop conferences.

Some of the meetings continued into the afternoon.
when the first of a series of leadership training courses also
was offered, under the leadership of National Recreation
Association staff members—Frank A. Staples, Arts and
Crafts; Grace Walker, Dramatics; Mildred Seanlon, So-
cial Recreation.

The first social event occurred at five o’clock when dele-
gates were invited to a tea given by the National Recre-
ation Association to welcome guests, have them meet those
association board members who were present, and bring
together old and new friends over refreshments.

in between times, during the (lay, guests were getting
settled and attendance figures were steadily mounting,
finally to reach the total of 819 registered delegates. This
was considered excellent in view of the fact that many
delegates had great distances to travel in order to reach
Seattle; and it was inevitable that quite a number of muni-
cipal and agency budgets could not be stretched to cover the
trip. Forty-one states, District of Columbia, Alaska and
Ilawaii were represented, as were other countries includ-
ing Canada, Germany and Japan. As usual, a generous
number of public-spirited laymen attended.

All delegates learned during this busy week that storied
western hospitality is a reality. Everything possible was
done to make visitors happy and to show them local things
of interest. (Since Mount Rainier was coy throughout the
Congress, arrangements were made for a busload of dele-
gates to go to the mountain on Friday. They verified its
very beautiful existence.) Seattle literally put out the wel-
eonte math-before the hotel cntrancc. Also, a large banner
of welcome in the lobby of the Olympic gave evidenee of
the local feeling and added to the festive atmosphere. In
the grand ballroom, where general evening meetings were
held, there hung an impressive giant seal of the National
Recreation Association with its slogan underneath, “Recre-
ation for a Strong America." This was made and presented
to the Congress by the Boeing Airplane Company.

liECREATItl\

J

’l‘llIll’l‘l’l‘UUll’l‘ll NA’I‘IHNA

RECREATIHN CllNGItESS - m 26mm:

During the entire week Ben Evans, Director of Recre-
ation in Seattle and Chairman of the Local Arrangements
Committee, personally saw to it that a large and fresh
supply of Seattle roses was on hand in the Seattle local
information booth, to be handed out to visitors each day.

Among many invitations extended to guests was one
from Reginald Parsons, former NRA sponsor, to visit the
tower of the Northern Lifc Insurance Building and enjoy
its magnificent view of the city.

Commercial exhibits located in the accessible and at-
tractive Spanish Lounge, just off the lobby, wcre colorful
and crowded again this year. A few other special exhibits.
in addition to that of the Seattle State Park and Recreation
Commission, included the live display of arts and crafts,
put 011 by the Long Beach Recreation Department at the
invitation of the Congress Committee. Its crafts activities
were demonstrated here, and delegates invited to partici-
pate. Another featured the exchange display of Japanese
arts and crafts which was so pOpular at the Boston Con-
gress last year. Those interested in the planning of play-
grounds made a special visit to the NRA Consultation
Center to see the N oguchi-Whittlesey design for a modern-

istic playground.

 
   
 
   

Ralph Wilson, Washington
State Parks, hard at work
setting up ARS exhibit.

Mrs. Ruth Pike, \Vashing-
ton State Parks, and Mrs.
James Lewis. Nebraska.

DECEMBER 1952

The Consultation Center itself, though rather off the
beaten track, was spacious and gay with its display of
the association’s published materials. Many of these were
sold, especially the new series of program booklets, and
orders were taken. One of the most p0pular books in the
room, as usual, was the consultant’s appointment book.

A press room was set up for the convenience of dele-
gates wishing to send stories home to their local papers
and the summarizers of all meetings c00perated by report-
ing for an interview immediately after their meetings.
Local press coverage was good.

Summaries of the discussion meetings, incidentally, were
mimeographed on the spot in “The Rough Draft” and
made available at the congress. These should not be con-
fused with the Congress Proceedings available in Decem-
ber at $2.25 a copy. The latter will be more comprehensive
and more carefully edited.

Underneath all gaiety, the note of serious purpose, for
which the Congress is known, was again strongly felt this
year. The hotel lobby and corridors were deserted during
meetings, and attendance at general sessions was excep-
tionally fine. The evening addresses and the workshOp dis-
cussions stimulated many corridor conferences, breakfast
meetings and “bull sessions” in delegates’ hotel rooms.

Evening Sessions

The program of the official opening session on Monday
evening was launched in a moving and impressive manner
when the deep-toned notes of organ music heralded the
surprise entrance, down the center aisle, of fifty boy scouts
carrying large American flags, followed by a senior color

.guard representing each of the armed services. As they

stood in formation before the speakers” dais, a soloist filled
the room with a lovely rendition of “God Bless America.”

After this, the meeting was officially called to order by
Joseph Prendergast, Executive Director of the National
Recreation Association and Chairman of the Congress, who
welcomed all delegates and friends in the name of the
association before turning it over to the chairman, Otto
Mallery, who is also chairman of the association’s board
of directors. The invocation was given by The Reverend
W. J. McGettigan. State and city officials were introduced,
and greetings to delegates were expressed in person by Thc
Honorable Arthur B. Langlie, Governor of the State of
Washington, and The Honorable Allan Pomeroy, Mayor of
Seattle.

A trend which was to persist through the other meetings
of this year’s congress was keynoted by the two principal
speakers of the evening. Lt. General Robert W. Harper,

389

CllltlllESS - a» 26m

Commanding General of the Air Training Command. US.
Air Force. in his address “A Challenge to the Recreation
Forees of America," and George Hjclte, General Manager
of the Los Angeles Department of Recreation and Parks
and Chairman of the National Advisory Committee on
Defense Related Aetivitics of the NRA, in speaking on
“Recreation in the Continuing Emcrgcncy.” Both stressed
attention to the individual in planning the recreation pro-
gram. and urged that planning be done on a more selective
basis rather than in terms of mass produetion.

“Make it a quality program,” urged Gcneral Harper,
“and don’t uw the whip! There is no way that man has
yet eoueeivcd of foreing another man to do something
that he does not want to do.” Mr. lljeltc pointed out that
scrviecmcn seek off-duty recreation out of uniform and
like to partieipatc in a community program on the same
basis as any other citizen. “This suggests not a desire to
be anonymous so much as a desire to bc aceepted not by
reason of any special identification implied by the uni-
form, but rather for one’s own self,” Mr. Iljelte said.
“Contact needs to be made with the individual, not with
the uniform.”

As a break in the more serious aspects of the program.
a very enjoyable interlude was. offered by the lively mem-
bers of “The Four Teens" of the US. Air Force. the
[952 International Champion Barbershop Quartet. They
were reealled again and again by enthusiastie applause.
whilc Gcncral llarper bcamcd appreeiativcly. _

The Tuesday evening mccting began with general sing.
ing under the leadership of Wayne S. Hertz, Chairman,
Division of Music, Central Washington College, and was
chaired by Mrs. Paul Gallagher, charming member of the
NRA board of direetors. The meeting was produetivc of
two excellent addresses. A wcleomc gucst from Canada.
petite Dr. Ilcnrietta A. R. Anderson of Victoria, who is
known throughout the Northwest as an excellent speaker.
moved her audience with an inspirational talk on the
subjcet of “Recreation and thc Riehcr Life." Dr. Paul F.
Douglass, Advisor to the President of the Republic of
Korea and Counsel to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who
is also chairman of the NRA National Advisory Commit-
tee for the Recruitment, Training and l’laecment of Ree-
reation l’ersonucl, gave a stimulating address on "Leader-
ship for the National Recreation Movement." (Dr. Doug-
lass' talk is published in full in the November issue of
Itecuen‘tox.)

Colorful entertainment during the session was provided
by the unexpected and somewhat startling appearance——
with a shattering war Wlloop-—-—0f lndiau daneers. The [Cr-
ncstics. Roger and Gloria, have made a study of Indian
dances and have eollected authentic aml beautiful costumes.
These were eXplaincd as the dances proceeded. The daueers
were provided through the eourtesy of the Queen Anne's

Lion's Club.

The program of the third evening. Wednesday, was
chaired by Kenneth R. Colman. one of Seattle’s leading

390

citizens, and former long-time member of the Seattle Park
Board. The prineiple speaker, The Right Reverend Stephen
F. Baync, Jr., Bishop of Olympia, spoke on the spiritual
implications of recreation, and his address was an inspiring
one. Entertainment on this evening was supplied by a
quartet whieh figured as runner-up in the Seattle Regional
Barbershop Quartet Contest, and again dclegatcs responded
cnthusiastieally to the eolorful rendition of old favorites.
The quartet appeared through the eourtesy of the Seattle
l’ark Department.

The end of the day’s work sessions on Thursday ushered
in the most gala affair of the big meeting, the Congress
banquet. The crystal chandclicrs of the Spanish Ballroom
shonc down upon a glittering array of napcry, silver and

 

The tour included a visit to the University of Washington. Being
greeted cordially by its president, llcnry Sehmitz right), are
Susan M. Lee, Mrs. Paul Gallagher and Joseph Prenderga-st.

liowers. Au orchid corsage had been placed by each plate.
The speakers tablc extended the length of the long room
and had been set for thirty honored guests.

Diners were seated at seven o’clock, and dinner service
was aeeonlpanied by the music of a string-trio provided
by the Seattle Park Department.

Otto T. Mallcry, aetcd as toastmaster, and the evening
program started when Mrs. C. M. McCune. daughter of
the late Judge Austin l‘i. Griffiths—for many years a board
member of the association and known as the “Father of
Seattle‘s Playgrounds"-——presented the NRA with a $3,000
check, her father's bequest to the association. Said she.
“My father always advist me to make the best use of my
leisure time, and added, ‘Do it now.‘ Therefore, in this
presentation. 1 am hastening to earry out his instructions."

James E. Rogers and .l. R. Ratebelor. both retired from
the National Recreation Association staff, were honored
during the evening for their contributions to the recr ~1-
tion movement through their many years of service to that

organization.

0n the gaycr side, ladies at the speakers' table were
personally presented with orehid corsages by Mrs. lithe-l
Mori. Mrs. Aina K. Manuel. and Mrs. Thelma Wieke of

Hawaii. while the gentlemen received an orehid lei and a

Racnmrtos

kiss, according to old Hawaiian custom. All orchids at the
banquet were contributed by the Honolulu Parks and Rec-
reation Department and were flown from Hawaii by the
Hawaii Visitors Bureau for the occasion.

The King, Queen and Prime Minister of Seafair-—-—the
Seattle Centennial which was celebrated this year—were
guests at the speakers’ table and, in a formal ceremony,
knighted officials of the NRA.

Among the treats of the evening, a concert of songs was
rendered hy the excellent “Music Under the Stars” chorus
of the Seattle Recreation and Parks Department. (See the
February 1952 issue of RECREATION for a detailed account
of this local recreation program.)

As principle speaker of the evening, Thomas E. Rivers,

 

Tom Rivers looks on while Mrs. Howard Braucher, widow of
the late president of the National Recreation Association, re-
ceives an orchid corsage from Mrs. Thelma VVieke of Hawaii.

Secretary of the Congress, gave an excellent and thrilling
report of his recent trip around the world in the interests
of recreation.
Daytime Meetings

The usual morning sessions, at which the summaries of
discussion meetings of the preceding day are presented,
were abandoned this year in favor of making the sum-
maries available to delegates in mimeographed form. This
way of saving that time for other meetings was an experi-
ment, the success of which has not as yet been determined.

One general session was held on Thursday morning,
however, during which Joseph Prendergast reported 011
“Recreation in America;” and members of the national
advisory committees, which the NRA has set up, reported
upon their activities. The meeting was chaired by Susan M.
Lee, Secretary of the Board of the National Recreation
Association. The committees, and the representatives re-
porting, were: the National Advisory Committee on De-
fense Related Activities of the National Recreation Associa-
tion, Georgc Hjeltc, Chairman; the Recruitment, Training
and Placement of Recreation Personnel, Dr. Paul F. Doug-
lass, Chairman; Recreation Research, George D. Butler,
Secretary; Recreation Programs and Activities, Virginia
Musselman, Secretary; and the Study of Recreation Lead-

DECEMBER 1952

ership in the Southern Region, W. C. Sutherland, Study
Director. Charles E. Reed, Manager, Field Department,
National Recreation Association, spoke on “The Work of
the District Advisory Committees.”

The reports which gave a clear picture of the recent
growth in the recreation movement and of the expansion of
the association’s services and activities were received with
interest and enthusiasm. (_ For remarks from Mr. Prender-
gast’s address, see page 383.)

The content of the fifty-four discussion meetings sehed-
uled each day from 9:15 A.M. to 4:00 P.M., and in some
instances to 5:30 P.M., included such topics as: Why
Civil Defense Needs Recreation; Major Current Surfacing
Problems; Building the Recreation Program—Arts and
Crafts; Music; For Board Members Only; The Role of
County Government in Recreation: Regional Planning at
Work; Design and Construction of Special Recreation
Facilities; How Creative Are You in Using Volunteers?;
Building a Well-Rounded Program in Indoor Recreation
Centers; Activity Programs for Oldsters; ‘Recreation and
Park Department Relationships; ln-Service Training Pro-
grams That Work; How are Municipalities Providing
Camping Opportunities?; Understanding a Recreation Pro-
gram for Girls and Women; Highly Organized Midget
Athletics are Harmful—Fact or Faney?; Recreation in
Parks and Forests———National, State and Local; Recreation
Personnel Problems; Getting in on the Recreation Plan-
ning of New Schools; and others. A special workshop.
under the chairmanship of G. Ott Ronmey, met on Friday
morning to discuss some of the implications of nationally
sponsored recreation programs.

The Recreation Leadership Training sessions, started
on Monday, continued each day with the exception of
Wednesday. These were p0pular, as usual, and provided
delegates with a “refresher” experience, new techniques
and materials to take back to their local jobs.

Special Meetings

In addition to the pre-congress special conferences pre-
viously mentioned, the usual luncheons, dinners and other
meetings either sprang up spontaneously, or held to pre-
arranged schedules. Among them were the meetings of the
NRA National Advisory Committees on: Recruitment,
Training and Placement of Recreation Personnel; Reerea-
tion Research (first meeting); Defense Related Activities.

The annual American Recreation Society luncheon was
held Monday noon at which time fellowships were awarded
to G. B. Fitzgerald, retiring society president, and Ted
Banks, President of the Athletic Institute; and citations
were awarded to George Butler, research specialist of the
NRA, and James E. Rogers, retired NRA staff member for
“distinguished service to their fellow man in the field of
recreation.” A dinner for all delegates from the Northwest
took place on Monday evening. Those who had taken' the
Yellowstone Park Tour en route to the Congress, met on
Thursday morning. Former and present Red Cross workers
galhered at luncheon, as did the National Recreation
School Alumni—in their annual reunion.

At the special dinner meeting of the National Advisory
Committee on Defense Related Activities on Tuesday eve-

391

Ulhllll’lllSS - c3: 

ning, a statement was prepared on the responsibility of
local communities for providing off-post recreation serv-
ices. (See page 418)

On Tuesday afternoon, an unscheduled demonstration
of modern dance was presented by Martha Nishitani and
Dancers, at the invitation of the Seattle Park Depart-
ment. A professional group, these dancers urge expanded
interest in modern creative dancing for children. teen-
agers. adults—particularly teachers. As an outgrowth of
their demonstration, another meeting was set up for all
those interested in the creative aspects of recreation.

Other Activities

Play and entertainment always prove to be “grist for
the mill” for recreation people, for leadership in snch
activities is apart of their business. Therefore, no time
was wasted, and pointers as well as fun were picked up
during the social hours which had been planned by the
Congress and the Local Arrangements Committees. The
NRA tea on Monday, and the entertainment during eve-
ning sessions, were followed by a suecession of enjoyable
and interesting events.

Another very special tea, which turned out to he a com-
bination tea and musicale, had been arranged for the
wives of delegates on Tuesday afternoon. As guests of the
Seattle Art Museum, they were transported to the party
in cars placed at their disposal. The curator of the mu-
scum and her assistants acted as hostesses. A musical pro-
gram was ofl'ered by a trio of charming girls, who played
the piano, violin and cello. Guests were personally con-
ducted through the museum and given time to examine
some of its beautiful treasures, notably the unusual collection
of exquisite Chinese jadc—-of which it is justifiably prond.
Beautifully served and truly delicious refreshments were
the final treat. Tea and coffee were poured by Mrs. l’oine-
roy, wife of Seattle’s mayor, and Mrs. Eugene Fuller, wife
of the man whose donation made the museum possible.

Evening parties or social gatherings, after all meetings
were over, were in the capable hands of Mildred Seanlon.
a social recreation specialist of the NRA.

On Monday evening, guests were invited to the Olympic
Bowl, one of the hotel‘s night club ballrooms, only to
discover themselves in the midst of a circus. Scenery and
props had been donated by the local recreation depart-
ment and brought participants right into the big tent. A
group of delegates, drafted to be part of the show, sud-
denly appeared in the colorful and humorous costntncs of
eircns folk. Clowns. barkers, dancers, majorettes and so
on, made a grand entrance. They circulated throngh the
erowd, creating considerable laughter and, to put it mildly.
some chaos. llere, Keith Macdonald, Executive Director
of Greater Vallejo Recreation District. California, really
came into his own. By special request Mr. Macdonald, who
is the leading spirit and accomplished performer of the
Vallejo Recreation Department’s clown elnh (see January
1952 issue of RECREATION]. had brought his own clown
costume. He appeared in full regalia. and-was the saying

goes-«really “went to town." When Miss Scanlon mold

302

at last he heard, the guests settled down to a series of ice
breakers and other hilarious games.

On Tuesday evening, still undaunted. delegates threw
themselves into one of their favorite pastimes, folk aml
couple dancing; while Wednesday evening brought the ini-
tial performance of what it is hoped will become the
annual “Congress Little Show"-—a collection of acts put
on by the guests themselves. After the banquet on Thurs-
day, the last evening of the Congress, social dancing—
with an orchestra—was provided in the Olympic Bowl.

One of the most interesting and enjoyable events of the
week. however, was the truly excellent all-day bus tour
of Seattle, which had been beautifully organized down to
the last detail by the Local Arrangements Committee. The
committee reported really excellent cooperation from local
officials and organizations—such as the transit system,
police department, state highway department, schools,
chamber of commerce, and so on. This was clearly evident
as the cavalcade, with its motorcycle escort, wheeled
through busy intersections against the lights, stOpped to
play with the baby elephant in the zoo, lunched in the
new modern high school, was personally greeted by the
president of the University of Washington, Dr. llenry
Sehmitz, the commanding officer of Fort Lawton, Colonel
G. ll. Wilson, the district engineer of the govermnent locks
and ship canal. and so on, throughout the day.

Twelve full buses left the hotel at 9:30 in the morning
and returned at 6:00 in the evening. Passengers were not
too weary to be enthusiastic about the natural beauty of
the city, its recreation facilities and beautiful field houses
———about which we in the East have heard so much.

Among the highlights of the day was an unusual op-
portunity to see the Sfo-Mo-Shun, fastest speedhoat in the
world, in action. from the Lake Washington Floating
Bridge. She was the only boat to finish in the 1952 Gold
Cup race, when she lirokc her own record with a run of
178.49? miles per hour. Officials had arranged a demon-
stration especially for the Congress guests. Upon special
invitation, the Boeing Airplane Company plant was visited.
where Norman Allen. assistant to the president—as well as
sponsor of the NRA—welcomed guests in behalf of Presi-
dent William Allen. The impressive Boeing Annual llobb}
Show (see RECREATION, April 1952) was open for the
inspection of delegates, and refreshments were served.

Another special treat was arranged by the Department
of Parks at their dramatically constructed Aqua Theatre
at Green Lake, in the heart of residential Seattle (see
RECREATION, February 1952), where the buses were un-
loaded and a program of singing and champion high div-
ing was presented.

Special Conferences

Detailed information regarding the special conferences
on Recreation for Business and‘ lndnstrial l'imploy ees, llos-
pital Recreation. and Rural Recreation. as well as a com-
plete coverage of evening addresses aml other items on
the Congress programs, will be available in the Congress
Proceedings, to be published by the National Recreation
Association later this month. Order Your f’mermh'ngs

VOW!

ltscamrtox

CHNGRESS CAPSULES

COMMUNITY RECREATION
FOR THE ARMED FORCES

 

Harold LathrOp, defense staff, NRA; Lt.
Cmdr. .l. W. McChee, U. S. Navy; Lt. Col.
R. L. Stallings, U. S. Marine Corps; Col.
Raymond Stone, .lr., Special Services Divi-
sion of U. S. Army; Col. B. E. Nowotny,
U. S. Air Force; Arthur Williams, defense

staff, NBA; .1. Ver Lee, Oakland; Austin
Welch, community services, U. S. Army.

Community recreation for the armed
forces is a two-way street and all par-
ticipants in the sessions emphasized
this fact. The community, as the mili-
tary see it, is that area within easy
reach of the average serviceman when
Off duty. If he is going to use his free
time to best advantage by joining
hands with civilians to enjoy the same
things recreationally and spiritually,
there is need for a variety of facilities
and programs in which he can partici-
pate. Military and the civil planners,
through joint action, must concentrate
on strengthening the ties between both.
An “open door” policy must be em-
phasizcd.

Planning recreation facilities and
programs to meet the impact of mili-
tary personnel should be no different
from accepth practice in planning for
the community—except as to type and
amount. They should not be planned
as something separate and distinct
from the community, but should be
accomplished so as to make the serv-
iceman and servicewoman feel that
they are a part of community life.

The serviceman wants to pay his
own way-—thc Opportunity to stand on
his own feet, the same as any other
individual in the community. Recre-

DECEMRER 1952

ation organizations must take the lead
in helping the serviceman to become
integrated into community life.

All community organizations, both
public and private, should have an op-
portunity to share the responsibilities
and compensations from such worth-
while participation. They should be
given assignments as members of co-
ordinating committees or for specific
jobs in the over-all program which
brings the serviceman into all parts of
community life.

Liaison committees should be ap-
pointed by the mayor or mayor and
commanding officer, unless already ex-
isting committees are utilized to bring
about the closer relationships between
the community and the military. Some-
times community councils, Chest coun-
cils, recreation or church councils can
do the job of coordination without any
additional mandates. Facilities and
programs of already existing private,
public and church gI‘OUpS must be util-
ized fully before planning new ones.

Programs must be inclusive and
planned to meet a variety of interests
and personalities. Intellectual hOSpital-
ity is as important as providing for
physical or social participation. Com-
mercial recreation interests should be
included in the planning group if the
variety of wishes and desires are to be
satisfied.

Although the major job of off-post
recreation falls upon the community,
the military want to be in on the plan-
ning and will help wherever possible.
The present situation differs greatly
from World War 11 because of many
more teen-age men in service; and
what was done then will probably have
to be somewhat changed to meet the
needs of the younger military person—
ncl. Programs must be made 011 a long-
time basis and every effort should be
made to have a sufficient number of
military personnel on the liaison corn-
mittee to give continuity of policy re-
gardless of changes made in the top
command.

A RECREATION PROGRAM
FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS

 

Margaret Dankworth, NRA staff; Nita Up-

meyer, Supervisor, King County Parks and
Recreation, Seattle; Margaret Wilson, Win—
nipeg, Canada; Helen G. Smith, Professor
Physical Education for Women, State Col-
lege of Washington; Dr. H. Jean Swenson,
Assistant Professor, U. of California; and
Mildred Noble, Seattle Park Department.

Recreation interests of girls and
women were broken down into:

1. Imitative play. Small girls are in—
terested in play activities imitating the
work and recreation of their mothers
and other adults.

2. Creative activities. These are ac-
tivities that best give girls emotional
satisfaction, and include arts, crafts,
dancing, music and drama.

3. Co-recreational activities. There
is a great desire among girls of ado-
lescent age and older for more of these
activities, including social dancing,
group and individual sports, all kinds
of parties.

4. Sports and athletics. While the
major team games seem to be losing
popularity among older girls and wom-
en, there is always a sizable group
who want and need these activities.
There should be ample opportunity to
learn the sports which lend themselves
to co-recreational play and carry over
into adult life, such as: golf, skiing.
tennis, badminton, swimming.

The success of a program for girls
and women varies greatly among dif-
ferent communities according to the
emphasis, time, money and leadership
given tO'it, and to the understanding
of, and the sympathy for, these activi-

393

ties by the sponsoring agency.

Failure to meet the needs of girls
has resulted from the tendency to give
the girls a lesser c0py of the program
that is already operating for the boys.
and this is usually mainly athletic, and
to the lack of competent leadership.
with a great many early programs us-
ing men leaders exclusively, even for
girls’ programs. However, most sys-
tems are steadily enlarging and im-
proving their girls’ programs and now
have women supervisors, and are de-
veloping a more equitable distribution
of time, space, facilities and money
for their program. More emphasis is
being given to the arts, crafts, music.
homemaking, rhythmic and co-rcerca-
tional activities.

Resultant implications as to program
content:

1. We should continue activities
which have proved to be sound recre-
ational practices, such as: sports, ac-
tive games, and creative and homemak-
ing activities.

2. We should provide experiences
for girls as girls. Women supervisors
and women leaders should be used.
The program should include activities
for girls of all ages. Girls’ activities,
mainly, should be set up on a partici-
pation and not a competitive basis.

3. We should broaden the sc0pe of
the program by providing for the needs
of society, as well as the needs of
the individual and the group-—rec-
ognize the area of social service as one
of our functions and provide people
with a chance to serve the community.
This would include analyzing the com-
munity and judging the program to see
if all who need recreation are being
properly served.

4. We should consider the following
means to stimulate participation:

a. l)evcl0p better leadership.

b. Maintain better public relations.

c. Give information on recreational
services of all local agencies.

5. We should increase the scope and
program by lmttering public support.

6. There should be more women on
the boards which provide the finances
and formulate the policies. More pres-
sure and influcncc should be brought
to bear upon these boards, and upon
heads of departments, in behalf of the
program for women and girls.

391

COLLEGE AND GRADUATE
TRAINING FOR RECREATION

 

Charles K. Brightbill. U. of Illinois; Verna
liensvold, Kansas City. Missouri; G. B. Fitz-
gerald, U. of Minnesota; Paul F. Douglass,
Adviser to President of Republic of Korea:

John L. Hutchinson, Columbia U.; and
Norman Kundc, University of Washington.

All members of this panel were strik-
ineg in accord with the idea that col-
lege and graduate training for recrea-
tion must represent a cooperative en-
deavor between “producers and con-
sumcrs.” Professional preparation re-
quires a very realistic approach that
can come about only when a team work
relationship has been achieved.

From the consumer aspect:

I. There must be alertness for po-
tential leadership and an attempt to
recruit desirable persons.

2. Employment of professionally
prepared people should be followed.

3. Recreation departments must set
up an environment in which profes-
sional people will want to work.

4. The colleges and universities
must be informed of what is wanted in
the way of teaching—uthe needs must
be clarified by job analysis and good
follow-up of progress of employees.

5. Internships should be set up as a
means of practical experience.

6. Recreation leaders must do a bet-
ter job of education and interpretation
in thcir own community.

7. Recreation departments must as-
sist in conducting of research and help
to carry out experiments; new meth-
ods, procedures, tcclmiqucs require
eomhined chorts.

ln summing up, recreation depart-
ments must continually solicit, and de-
serve, help of the training institutions.

From the university aspect:

Recreation requires far more quali-
ties and characteristics for success than
scholarship alone. Personality, diverse
recreational interests, previous group

experiences are all factors that must
be taken into account.

In recruiting: Entrance depends up-
on the college or university itself and
the admission requirements. The long-
er an institution has been in the busi-
ness of training the more referrals are
to be expected. Majors in the program
bring in others; student personnel bu-
reaus make referral of students.

Selection of candidates: The careless
selection of candidates makes for
meaningless training. An investigation
of present graduates has disclosed that
only two out of five candidatcs had
some promise in the field. It was felt
that we would go a long way in selec-
tion if we had a means of determining
the presence of the characteristics of
resourcefulness, imagination, personal-

ity, and enthusiasm.

College instructors can be of great
help in recruiting by being very clear
about the focus of their curriculums—-
whether for hospital recreation, com-
munity recreation, or industrial recre-
ation and so on; stating concisely the
general entrance requirements of the
college and special requirements for
the recreation curriculum; listing in-
struction available and qualifications
of instructors; inviting operators to
see their program in action; utilizing
criticism, favorable and unfavorable,
ofTered from outside the college.

Operators in the field can take full
advantage of the above by going to
educational centers to acquaint them-
selves with programs in progress and
by inviting collcge educators to come
to their recreation centers. They also
can help with recruiting by adminis-
tering their programs in such a fashion
that they will attract young pe0p|c who
are looking for a profession to follow.

The colleges themselves should fur-

ther (a) establish sound entrance re-
quirements based on the field needs,

(b) establish means for interviewing
and evaluating prospective stndents.
(c) use data which is submitted by
the recreation executives on each can«
didatc, (d) provide a enrriculum and
other experiences which automatically
eliminate the incompetent or nnintcr-
cstcd student, (c) hold fast to the col-
lege and professional standards, and
not compromise these for the sake of
an increased enrollment.

Recnmrlox

Pammw ta sz

g ACH YEAR at Christmas time thou-
sands of bemused adults go wan-
dcring past toy displays marveling at
the things ingenious manufacturers
have dreamed up for children to play
with—and parents to buy. Toyland,
they discover, has become Wonder-
land! Electric trains complete with
lights, signals, bells and whistles, go
sweeping round and round on runs
without beginning or destination. Here
are the dolls that do everything——
tllcre, the playhouse furnished to the
last ready-made drapery—yonder, the
counters full of mechanical performers
going through astonishing routines. If
your child yearns for music, a record
player or portable radio will make mu-
sic his without those boring hours of
practice.

We are dazzled but not entirely de-
lighted with all this. Memories from
the past and misgivings about the
future insist on troubling us.

In thc chimneyplace of one of the
oldest houses still standing in our
country a doll was discovered which
consisted of noth-
ing at all but
a forked stick
wrapped in a
scrap of cloth.
Some child of
long ago, using
imagination and

«3

\> hatever was at
hand, had made
herself something
to play with,
something to lovc. This primitive play-
thing is symbolic of thc resourceful-
ncss that has built America.

Two centuries later necessity was
still the mother of invention, and not
many miles from this old housc the
children of a certain farm family were

 

MARGERY STEER has written numerous
articles for the educational journals.

DECEMBER 1952

playing house in an unused corn crib
elegantly furnished with odds and ends
of junk, and were devising an early
model auto in which they took com-
pletely stationary rides, hats anchored
fast with motor veils lest the winds
of their swift progress carry away
their home made millinery. These were
the quaint old days when imagination
and ingenuity took the place of a trip
to toyland or the five-and-ten.

And now it has suddenly come to
pass that our very virtues threaten
to become our undoing. The urge to
contrive, to experiment, to invent, and
the ability to do and to “make do,”
have brought us to the place where
there is more and more temptation to
watch others play, and less and less
necessity to do things for ourselves.
Having created a world of ever-ready
gadgcts that can be wound up, turned
on, or plugged in, we can now live
happily ever after.

But here and there voices are raised
to suggest that all may not be well
with a world in which watchers out-
number doers and in which pe0ple
expect even their entertainment to
come the easy way. Wild life authori-
ties have recently warned that under
ordinary circumstances the habitual
winter feeding of birds may make
them less able to survive if for any
reasons that feeding is interrupted.
It seems to be a law of life that dan-
gcr lurks in too much dependence on
others. Thcre are those who believe
that as a pc0ple we are already show-
ing the unhappy eficcts of these atti-
tudes in a lcssening of self-reliance
and initiative, and in a reluctance to
put forth any sustained personal effort.

Alert and far-seeing rccreation lead-
ers, teachcrs, and parents are doing
a great deal to reverse this trend and
to brighten this rather dismal outlook,
in their efforts to encourage amateur
arts, crafts, and music, and in their

Margery Wells Steer

insistance that home made fun of
all sorts is tremendously important.

When‘ Mrs. X responds to the rhythm
of a radio orchestra by whirling around
her kitchen in a fifteen minute dance
interlude between breakfast dishes and
bed making . . . that is play! When
Mrs. Y gets daily pleasure improvising
her own harmonies on the piano . . .
that is true recreation. When Mr. Z.
who long ago learned the thrill of
matching words to ideas, puts his little
talent to use for his community . . .
that, too, is a satisfying activity. Be-
fore the day when life offered so much
entertainment that was easy, auto-
matic, and professional, every man
was his own entertainer. In acquiring
an interest or in learning a skill, he
was able to make his personal life rich-
er and to contribute to the life of his
family and community; for play is
both solitary and social.

Will today’s children be equipped
with interests and activities they can
carry with them into adult life? If
solitude is their lot, can they make
it fruitful? Will they have enthusiasms
to share and service to render to
those whose lives they touch in home
and neighborhood? As we choose their
Christmas gifts can we distinguish
the perishable plaything from the life-
long treasure? _

We have come a long way since the
day an unknown child took a twig and
a bit of cloth and made of them the
thing she craved. The symbol of our
own time might be the goose that lays
golden eggs. This fabulous creature,
so the story goes, each day presented
her owner with a miraculous, unearned
gift, and in due time became the vic-
tim of his greed and laziness. Our age
presents its children with a thousand
“golden eggs”, but it is not by means
of golden eggs that life is continued.
In them may lurk the threat of dis-
aster.

395

Christmas Gifts to Make at Home or in a Community Center

{IVER SINCE I can remember, we had
I] a Junior Santa Claus Workshop at
home where we made loads of won-
derful gifts whieh we distributed to
the family and friends on Christmas.
My parents did not believe in buy-
ing presents, not so mueh beeause
they cost money but because ehildren
should learn very early that time and
thought spent on a gift are more im-
portant than its eommereial value. Par-
ents of most of our friends shared
this belief. We always looked forward
to those weeks before Christmas with
their atmosphere of eXpeetancy, busy
fingers working with paper, glue, felt
and other lovely materials, whispering
and secrecy.

It usually started on a Saturday
early in November. The table was
nicely set for afternoon refreshments,
a few branehes of pine behind pic-
tures and on the mantelpieee giving
us the feeling that Christmas was eer-
tainly around the eorner.

“Well,” my mother would say, “I
think it’s time to sit down and make
our Christmas plans. You know, ehil-
drcn, Santa is mueh too busy with
toy-making, so he wants you to take
earc of the family and our friends.
We are going to set Up a real Santa
Claus workshop.”

l'iaeh of us mentioned the family
members and friends who should re-
ecive a present; all were earefuly
listed on a pad so no one would be
forgotten.

My mother would ask, “How about
Mrs. Jones, who was so nice last year
when you all had measles? You re-

 

Mus. KLEMM is the author 0] articles
on headers/t in the Woman's Home
Companion and the American llome.

396

Junior Santa, Claus Workshop

member how often she eame to play
with you.”

Of course, Mrs. Jones deserved some-
thing. Usually one or another of us
then remembered another deserving
person, the niee buteher around the
eorner, our seamstress who always
found time to help out with a few
stitehes when we tried to fix up our
dolls’ wardrobes.

“It’s a long list,” mother would
eonnnent thoughtfully, “but now what
will you give them?” Usually she
offered a few helpful hints, suggesting
either one or another item whieh we
were rather good at making. “For
whom would that be useful?” she
would ask. We found out quiekly that
it was rather foolish to surprise an
unmarried unele with pot holders, no
matter how elahorate, but that he
might he pleased with a deeorated
notebook for addresses. Of course, he
never eould rememher telephone num-
bers and birthdays; with a little book-
let he would never again have to
apologize for having forgotten one of
these important events. Granny always
had diflieulty in finding her glasms or
keys and spent many an hour in search
of them. A have-it-handy poeket, an
easy to fix up eontraption, would he
the ideal solution for her gift, and
so, without really knowing it, we
learned how to seleet a present that
would please and warm somehody’s
hearL

Eventually there would he only a
few friends on the list for whom we
just eonld not think of anything use-
ful or nice. i still remember when
my sister in desperation suggested
going over to our aunt’s and just in-
vestigating to see what she might
need. “But let's pretend we just want

Helen Madeleine Klemm

to pay her a visit,” my mother sug-
gested. We all went over, and most
probably Aunt Carolync soon realized
that we had something up our sleeves.
We giggled, erept into eorners and
eontinuously emphasized that it was
just lots of fun to inspeet the kitchen
and the elosets. As we investigated
we came aeross a big tangled mess of
string.

“What’s that?” I asked. “String for
my paekages,” my aunt said. This was
the eluc. A fine string reeeptacle
was just the thing she needed. And
imagine, somebody with sueh a well-
equipped household not having a prop-
er holder for twine!

Finally, when the list was really
eompleted, and a gift for everybody
had been selected, a day was set for
shOpping: glue and felt, eolored pa-
per and ribhons. Many of the mate-
rials ncedcd were found around the
house, half a yard of lovely printed
eotton, an empty cookie jar, tin eans
and other odds and ends. It did not
eost mueh to buy the things we needed
and we usually divided the eXpenscs
evenly ont of our modcst,savings.

“I hope you are not going to spend
everything; just leave a little bit in
the hank for a rainy day," my fa-
ther would say. Even the emphasis
on spending less than one had was
stressed in such a way that it beeamc
deeply imbedded in our thinking and
planning. Isn't it lots of fun to fix up
a nice present with just a few pen-
nies? Anybody can buy something
expensive, but imagination is what
eounts.

Although we started early there was
usually some rushing toward the end.
We loved this extra excitement, and
did not mind staying up a little la-

R scnanms

ter until each present was carefully
wrapped, decorated with cut-out fig-
ures or designs—a job in itself——-and
then provided with a little label.

We would not have missed this
Santa Slaus workshop for anything in
the world, and sometimes when I see
children rush into the live- and ten-
cent store to quickly buy presents for
their mothers or dads, I feel sorry for
them because they miss the pleasure
and excitement, the satisfaction of
doing things themselves.

Here are a few suggestions for
those who would like to start a junior
workshop in their home this Christ-
mas. With time and a little imagina-
tion there will be no difficulty in keep-
ing children, as well as helpful adults,
busy until Decemher twenty-fifth.

1) Midget chest of drawers for
keeping all sorts of needed things, such
as buttons, paper clips, thumbtachs.

Material needed: six empty match-
hoxes (the kind made of thin wood),
glue, a piecc of colored paper approxi-
mately nine inches by six inches
(scraps of wallpaper are excellent),
six paper fasteners, thumbtacks, pa-
pcr clips, and other supplies to be put
into the drawers.

Directions: With household cement,
glue thrcc of the Inatchboxes together,
one on top of the other; repeat with
the other three.
Glue both sec-
tions together, so
that you have a
three-tier chest
with two drawers

 

on each level.
Cut colored paper to fit both sides and
top. Carefully glue into place. Cover
fronts of drawers with papcr cut to
size and glued in place. For a fancier
chcst, decorate with cut-out dots or
small designs which you may iind in
any magazine. Pull out drawers and
attach paper-fasteners for the knobs
to open the drawers. Fill drawers
with whatever small items you choosc.

2) A string or twine holder.

Material needed: round cardboard
container (the kind used for potato
salad), colored enamel or scraps of
wallpaper or plastic, dried leaves,
small amount of shcllac, ball of string.

Directions: For a nickel or a dime

DECEMBER 1952

any friendly grocer will sell you a
cardboard container (round) with a
lid. Takc a ball of string with you to
be sure it lits into your box. Give
container one or two
coats of colored enam-
el, leaving upper part
unpainted where top
fits over it. The box
can be artistically dec-
orated by anybody
who can draw or has a knack for
color combinations. For a different
design, carefully imbed a pressed leaf
into wet enamel. Allow it to dry, and
then shellac. Repeat same process with
lid after having punched a hole (with
a heavy household nail) in the center.
The hole should allow string to be
pulled out easily, but should not be so
large that the string will slip back.

 

3) String-decorated ivy holder.

Material needed: empty tin can (pre-
ferably peanut can size) with wide
opening, string (glos-
sy type), shellac, one
ivy pot.

Directions: Punch
hole just above lower
rim of can, using thick
household nail and
hammer. Slip one end
of string from outside
into can, knot end
firmly and pull from
outside. Spread glue on
lower part of can, about
one inch in width, and carefully wind
string around it, continuing to apply
glue as you go along till you come to
a quarter-inch below upper rim. Watch
out that there is no gap between in-
dividual circles of string. Cut off and
hold in place with pin until securely
attached. Cover upper rim, about one-
half inch, with white adhesive tape so
that end of string is hidden. Paint tape
green or some other color, shellac en-
tire outside of can. Punch three holes
in top part of can, below the upper
rim and at equal distances apart. Slip
piece of string about eighteen inches
long through hole and secure with knot
inside of can. Repeat with two addi-
tional pieces of string in the other
two holes. Gather all three free ends
of string together and knot, forming
a one-inch loop. All that is now needed
is a small ivy plant and the holder is

 

ready to hang on the wall.

4) N aphinholder.

Material needed: two paper plates,
woolen thread, enamel, shellac.

Directions: Cut one paper plate ex-
actly in half. Punch holes with leather
or ticket punch around the rims of
the full-size plate and the half-plate,
spacing holes three-eights of an inch
from the edge and iive-eighths of an
inch apart. Color both plates and sew
them together with whipstitches using

 

of colored woolen

a double strand
thread. Continue stitches along un-
covered half of full-size plate for deco-
ration. Pull double thread through
center hole of upper rim to make a
loop for hanging. Fill with napkins.

* l- I- 'I *

Many books and pamphlets are avail-
able on the making of other simple
inexpensive gifts.

One of the most recent ones is Gifts
to Make at Home by Marjorie Mueller
Freer, a profusely and clearly illus-
trated book containing more than three
hundred easily made and inexpensive
gifts and holiday decorations. There
are gifts for everyone from babies to
adults—toys, clothing, home acces-
sories, jewelry, and so forth—-—many
constructed from simple materials
which may be found around the aver-
age house. Also included is a list of
sources whcre various hobby supplies
way be obtained. Published by The
Studio Publications, Incorporated, in
association with Thomas Y. Crowell
Company, New York. $2.95.

Another publication, featuring craft
projects, which made its appearance
late this fall is The Book of Hobby
Craft by Glenn A. Wagner. This, also,
is well illustrated with step-by-step
procedures; however, the projects are
more advanced, and require more ma-
terials, tools, time and skill. Older

boys, especially, should be interested

in making thcm. Published by Dodd,
Mead and Company. $2.75.

397

In planningfor the New Year, let us remember Joseph Lee.

66 istsasos’ wuora ‘Every institution

1 is the lengthened shadow of one
man,’ and the National Recreation As-
sociation is Joseph Lee’s shadow.”' To
the association and all that it stands
for, he devoted his life with an en-
thusiasm that has been the 'guiding
light for the development of recreation
throughout the country. Although his
efforts were directed primarily to aug-
menting the play facilities for children,
he by no means limited his sc0pe of
endeavor to children.

Joseph Lee was a Bostonian; a pie-
neer who had the courage to carry his
ideas to completion. Many times he
must have startled staid and proper
Boston.

llis dynamic personality captivated
all who met him. No person could be
ill his eompany long without feeling his
magnetism. lie was humorous, had a
keen mind, a knowledge of human na-
ture, and a wise administrative judg-
ment that has had far reaching effects
in the furtherance of civic growth.

To many children and grown-Ups his
natne is symbolic of all that stands for
growth through play and education,
regardless of barriers of race, creed or
social standing.

Recreation for All People
It was Joseph Lee's wish to raise
and dignify the play of children and
to make parents understand its place
in their development. To him recrea-
tion was also important in the lives of
groWn people. In addressing a llar-
vard alumni meeting in the resume of
his activities frotn 1913 to 1933, he
stated, “lieercation is not alone for
children, but the aged also, because
the aged know enough to learn.”2 lice-
reation for the adult population of the
country has had a slow but steady de-
velopment. This interest many times

can be traced to his leadership.

 

'llonaltl C. l’callic, “Godfather of Play."
Reader's Digest, January 1940. lrom Chris-
tian Srian Monitor, December 9, I939.

'Cmrgc Barrage, “Wilh the Class ol 1883
at Howard." RECREATION. December 1937.

308

Mr. Lee's Philosophy

The welfare of the neighborhood or
community was upperntost in the
thoughts of this leader who understood
the importance of group membership.
He felt that play should be of a fortn
that receives neighborhood recogni-
tion, such as drama, dance, games and
so forth, and that everyone should cul-
tivate the power of expression in art,
music, science and literature so that in
times of play it may be pursued more
fully. He thought it necessary that
each person have the satisfaction of
accomplishment, for, however insignifi-
cant, it brings its reward.

To Joseph Lee, the problem of civil-
ization was the problem of leisure. For
tltose to whom leisure is denied, and
who are not able to express themselves
in art or play, civilization is of doubt-
ful benefit. The way to win life is to
live it. Through all, the resources of
the community can bring life to the in-
dividual.

To him play was an educational
force, and it was the SUpreme serious-
ness of play that gave it educational
importance. “Play is thus the essential
part of education. It is nature’s pre-
scribed course.”3 He felt that school
was invaluable in forming the child to
meet conditions and opportunities;
without this training a child would not
grow up to fit our institutions. He once
said that to a grown person, play was
reminiscent, it was the return to the
fortn but not the substance of youthful
games; that most persons formed their
own ideas of what play consisted.

Over the years M r. Lee's own use of
leisure hecatne rellected in expanding
the public recreation movement.
Among the play activities he was fond
of were picnieking, dancing, music,
drama, sketching, painting, walking,
reading, eunoeing, fishing and conver-
sation. He believed in simplicity but
cared deeply for standards and for
making the program, whatever it was,
the best. It was always his wish to help

 

'Joscph Ire. Way in Education, Macmillan
Company, New York, 1920.

The
Influence of

On Adult Recreation

people to find in their life a measure of
enduring satisfaction. In his opinion
there were less strenuous forms of play
to which adults could turn, such as
contemplation, the appreciation of
poetry, of music, of beauty in nature
and in art, of the wonders of the uni-
verse as revealed in science. lie felt
that it was necessary for everyone to
put forth an effort in something that
is creative in order to grow. “A man
is truly awake when he has his dream,"
he wrote in his article. “The Need to
Dream.”‘‘ But Mr. Lee believed all
dreams must be brought down to earth.

He wanted everyone to he himself
and to live his own life, to get all the
thrill, humor and glory that he could.
He valued human togetherness as tnuch
as httman dilicrenccs. He thought that
lives added up; and he wanted them to
add up to better things. He was inter-
ested in final values as well as in the
fullness of immediate experience.

Since play is deeply rooted in litt-
man nature, he felt the ideal was to
have man’s work satisfy his play in-
stinct. llowever, he learned that civil-
ization Upset this theory and there is
little place in business today for play.
Therefore he specialized in aequainting
cities and communities with the recre-
ation movement, to provide the fullest
opportunity for people to grow up as
human beings.

Civic Interest
Mr. Lee felt that a great deal of the
local political unity and national de-

‘Joscph Leo. Journal of Addresses and Pro-
ceedings, National Education A-mciation.
Ann Arbor. Michigan. 1913.

Ilaennnnm

Elizabeth Clarke

Joseph Lee

in Baltimore

mocracy are dependent upon the com-
munity. A person can make a contribu-
tion to the community through interest
found first in local recreation activi-
ties, and from this, form political and
civic interests. He thought it was up
to the citizens to consecrate their lives
to ennobling the state, the country and
its heroes, and to the children. In his
undertakings he felt his country was
not a success unless it could bring de-
cent living and fair opportunity to all
who had willing hands and active
minds.

To him, the chief end of democracy
was to give individuals and communi-
ties the kind of environment which
would enable them to be most truly
themselves, and to give them a chance
to work out what was most fundamen-
tal to successful living.

Influence in Baltimore

As early as 1907 the impact of this
young man, whose ideas were receiving
national notice, was felt in the grow-
ing community of Baltimore. At that
time, Robert Garrett was among the
group of far-sighted men who organ-
ized the Public Athletic League. It was
in 1922, with Mr. Garrett as president,
that it was found desirahle to bring to-
gether the Public Athletic League and
thc Children’s Playground Association.
Later this was called the Playground
Athletic League, and operated through-
out the state. In a reorganization in
1938, district supervisory positions

 

MISS CLARKE is supervisor of garden
and nature activities, Department of
Recreation and Parks in. Baltimore.

DECEMBER 1952

 

Joseph Lee in his Boston study. Says Susan Lee, “Don’t let my father grow into a
department store Santa, with only a reputation for benevolence to recommend him.”

were established in the fields of ath-
letics, music and dramatics, arts and
crafts, and garden and nature activi-
ties.

It was in 1940 that the organization
became a department of the city gov-
ernment, the Department of Public
Recreation, with Mr. Garrett as chair-
man of the hoard. To effect better co-
operation between the park and recre-
ation departments, they were combined
in 1948, to form the Department of
Recreation and Parks, comprised of
the Bureau of Recreation, Bureau of
Parks and Bureau of Music. Mr. Gar-
rett was president of this board until
1950. At a banquet'in his honor in
that year, Mr. Garrett said that he
derived his inspiration for starting and
supporting recreation in Baltimore
from Joseph Lee.

Clubs. Prior to 1922 there were
mothers’ clubs which were active in
charitable and civic work, and in as-
sisting with children’s pageants and
plays in a few centers. It was in March
of 1922 that, at a board meeting, a
motion was made and carried that an
adult recreation worker be employed.

The adult social recreation program
had as a nucleus nine mothers’ clubs.
At that time the work of the league
was spread over the county and state.
Social recreation took many forms; in
some instances the supervisor was
called upon to conduct programs for
the PTA of the county, to conduct in-

service training programs, to organize
dramatic groups and to direct festivals.
With a supervisor for adult social pro-
grams, interest was developed in social
dancing, bowling and athletics for old-
er people. Community play nights were
started with general community Christ-
mas celebrations. Tours of art galler-
ies, travel talks, bus trips, symphony
concerts, ukelele instructions, dance
classes and dramatic clubs became pop-
ular.

When the reorganization was effect-
ed, the number of women’s clubs i11-
creased to seventeen. There are now
ten clubs within the city of Baltimore.
These clubs include in their activities
social recreation programs, pageants,
and a play produced yearly by the
combined membership. In 1936 it was
suggested in the report to the board
that more attention be given to adult
social activities such as drama, music,
arts and crafts, and nature study.

Music and Drama. While this divi-
sion, organized under the set-up of
1938, was in its infancy, plays and
community singing were stressed. A
small drama group gave plays and en-
j oyed the sociability of the club.

It was in 1942 that a symphony was
organized. Several years later a second
orchestra was started, similar to the
existing one, with rehearsals and con-
certs given for relaxation and pleasure,
to both the orchestra members and in-
terested Baltimoreans. At times a

399

speech clinic and a radio workshop
have been suggested and carried
through by citizens. For all of these
programs in music and drama. the
finest leadership has assisted the rccrc-
ational fine arts groups to reach high-
er levels of achievement.

Arts and Crafts. Before 19-11 a pro-
gram of arts and crafts had been de-
veloped for children. it now was
thought best to concentrate on an adult
program. l’ottcry was the first interest
of a community center group of five or
six people. This interest has grown un-
til there arc seventy-two persons in
different classes, and there is a long
waiting list. An instructor of city-wide
renown is provided.

Weaving has been a successful ac-
tivity concentrated in a community
center in another section of the city.
Looms of all types are owned by the
bureau, and expert leadership is pro-
vided. With these two programs well
under way in 19-15, a jewelry class
was organized. \lorc pc0plc than could
be accommodated were eager to par-
ticipate in this new hobby. At present
there is a beginners’ group aml an ad-
vauccd group. l‘inameling is the latest
addition to the program.

The success of these varied arts and
crafts activities is attributed to the
professional and skilled leaders who
have been obtained.

Sports. in the sports program of-
fcrcd by the bureau of recreation arc
centers for badminton and table tennis,
gymnastic classes; a general recreation
program of bowling. social and square
dancing; and roller skating, football,
basketball, volleyball and deck tennis
leagues are in operation throughout
the city during the winter. Softball for
girls and women, and softball and
baseball for men and boys are part of
the extensive summer program.

Gardening and Nature Activities. lu
I937, with the growing interest in
adult activities, a group was organized
to take hikes and walks through near-
by parks aud wooded sections. Vith a
specialist in the natural history field as
leader, these walks have continued to
the present time.

It was not until I918 that the hu-
reau used the city greenhouse for in-
struetion in the care of plants that can
be grown in the home. Because of

100

small space and the type of activity,
groups are limited to twenty adults at
each \i'orkstp. llcld twice a year, this
horticultural bobby has gained in pop-
ularity. With requests for additional
workshops in related subjects, the pro-
gram has possibilities for further dc-
velopmcnt.

Evaluation of Lee Philosophy

That Joseph Lee's philosophy 1s
comprehensive is demonstrated by the
scope of his thinking and the applica-
tion to existing problems. In recrea-
tion he never lost sight of individual
needs while providing for group activi-
ties, in all fields, for children and
adults. From his interest in slum clear-
ance. health measures for schools, the
founding of the Civic League, and also
his interest in the juvenile court, it
can be said that his is a philosophy
that is all inclusive. it deals with gov-
ernmcnt, education, recreation, health,
and individual betterment.

In the field of adult recreation in
Baltimore, it has been a great influ-
cncc. Because of the changing pattern
of local government, it was perhaps
slew of growth; but it has expanded
from organized community social rec-
rcation to include many programs of-
fering all kinds of cultural and social
activities. For the aging population, op-
portunitics for checkers and other
games, singing, square dancing, parties
and reminiscing are cherished. This
substantiates his statement that the age
to learn to dance is the age you are.
To help people live a‘ better life he
wanted them to live life fully and en-
joy leisure as he did.

That the Baltimore program is com-
prehensive and includes programs for
all types of people is demonstrated by
the neighborhood women's social clubs

 

 

“What we must aim at is to liberate
the connnunity's urge to play, so that
caeh individual finds satisfactions for
his needs of hunting. fighting. team-
work. creation and understanding.
W o r k r - economic independence -—-- is
one condition of an individual's self-
reslwct aud happiness. but only half
of it: the man who has only work and
no play has only half of him alive.”
enfoseph Lee.

 

 

comprised of the wives of laborers.
Contrastcd with this are the programs
for the musicians and singers who at-
tend rchcarsals of the orchestras and
chorus.

The field of art in Baltimore has
also felt his influence. Programs are
attempted and carried on, in many
places, under situations with hardships
and makeshift accommodations; how-
ever, great plans are being made for
better facilities. An outstanding exam-
plc is the youth and adult center that
was converted from a bowling alley
by the members. After eight years a
dream came true and a new building
was erected on the grounds of a school.
These two buildings are used by the
school and the bureau of recreation.
Again it illustrates a theory, which first
proved true in 1902 in New York, that
schools and recreation centers or play.
grounds can be combined.

Perhaps because this philosopher
lived his theories and beliefs, they can
be said to be most consistent. Through
all his life his ideals were to give every-
one a chance to live a life of his own.
He was constantly striving to improve
not only the individual but the coun-
try in which he lived. Throughout his
life he wanted high standards for pro-
grams but felt the program should fit
the needs of the neighborhood. Au apt
illustration of this is the general arts
and crafts class that was started in a
poor section of Baltimore. Soon it was
discovered that the program was not
successful, primarily because the adults
had far too much work, either in the
home or through employment, to find
time away from home and family.
When moved to another section of the
city, it was very popular. Here the
adults were of higher economic stand-
ing. had smaller families and more lei-
sure time. Thus the program better
fitted the needs of that community.

Recreation, as established in various
cities throughout the land. varies to
meet the needs of each community. The
philos0phy followed is certainly broad
enough to allow for these dichreuccs
and yet is consistent in all parts. The
principles embodied are those set forth
by the association, whose policies were
formed by its president. .loscph Lee.
who for so many years has been affec-
tionately called “Father of Recreation."

Itecamnos

     

DECEMBER 1952

Looking Forward to the New Year

I Ann :1 Professional
Recreation Leader

Lillian Schwertz

17L

0 THIS MEANS THAT I am one of the many thousands of workers
struggling for recognition in a comparatively new profession . . . a
pioneer in the field of happiness!

This means I know the shortcomings of my profession, and yet love it enough to
continue in it. I know that the ultimate goal of recreation, to become a definite ac-
cepted part of all communities the same as are the schools, police, fire departments
and public health, will be reached during my lifetime.

This means I love my fellowman, and the opportunities offered him through this
thing called “play,” so much that I am willing to work harder than I need to work,
face discouragements as they come, for the final satisfaction of knowing that, through
my small contribution, I have bcen instrumental in the development of a future well
established profession.

This means I recognize that even though I may never have the monetary income
that the job deserves, I shall be richer with my bank account of memories than I
could ever be with a bank account representing the dollar sign.

This means that through my profession I have helped people find a richer, fuller
area of living. I have heard the laughter of children, I have seen the same children
become happy, wholesome teen-agers, and then I have seen them take their place
in life as well adjusted, well balanced young adults. I have proudly watched these
same young adults bring. their own children to the playgrounds and centers for the
abundant opportunities which they once found themselves. I have seen loncly, older
people become happy and young in spirit.

This means that I must keep myself mentally alert, physically fit, spiritually hum-
ble and morally clcan, because as a leader in my community I shall be in a position
to influence for good or bad all with whom I come in contact. I must remember that
a cross word or unsportsmanlikc deed on my part is indeed a mark against the prin-
ciples of all things good and true . . . the principles of my profession.

This means I must constantly reprimand myself if I commit acts of pettiness,
selfishness and thoughtlcssness, because how can I help others to enjoy their leisure
hours if I am not a happy, well adjusted person?

This means that when I ask myself “Why are you a recreation leader?” I can
truthfully answer: “By being an instrument of service to my fellowman, I, too, be-
come a more worthwhile person and a better citizen in this great wonderful country.”

It means, to me, nothing is more completely satisfying than to have a child come to
me and hecausc of my efforts say, “Gee, I had FUN! . . . Thanks!”

 

MRS. SCHWERTZ is supervisor of playgrounds and recreation centers in Dallas, Texas.

401

THOMAS E. RIVERS, Assistant Ex-
ecutive Director of the National Rec-
reation Association, and Mrs. Rivers,
have just returned front a trip around
the world. They were first invited
by the National Recreation Associa-
tion of Japan to visit that country to
help in the expansion of the recrea-
tion movement.

The Board of Directors of the N -
tional Recreation Association of the
USA. accepted this invitation in
their behalf, and authorized them to
make brief stops in other countries
enroute to look into recreation de-
velopments. The whole project was
financed by special contributions.

This is the first of a series of ar-

ticles on the Rivers' global recreation
service for National Recreation As-
sociation. A fuller account of the
mission to Japan, where the Rivers
spent six weeks, will follow in a
later issue. The Seattle banquet ad-
dress on global recreation service

will be available in pamphlet form.

 

Part I

471115: MESSAGE of recreation as a means of life enrich-
ment as we know it in America has been carried lit-
erally around the world. This message was listened to
eagerly and heard gladly by men and women of many
races and tongues. A tense world is turning to recreation
for mental and emotional relief.

The hunger in the hearts of men, women and children
for abundant living is much the same, whether the skin be
black or white, brown or yellow; and in many lands,
recreation is beginning to satisfy that hunger.

l am proud to report that this world mission has won
friends for America. In our field of recreation, interna-
tional ties have been strengthened through this demon-
stration of practical coOperation between peoples in meet-
ing a fundamental human need at a critical time in the
world's history. We have Opened Up channels of informa-
tion and established contacts that will form the basis of
a world-wide brotherhood in the field of recreation.

Their confidence in us puts a responsibility not only
upon the National Recreation Association, but upon the
whole recreation movement in America.

We left New York on June 27 and flew all the way.
We have felt heat when it was 110°F. in the shade; spoken
to crowds when the glare was so bright we could not see:
seen monsoons flood streets in India; and felt rain come
through the hotel roof in Pakistan as we registered. A
typhoon interfered with some of our program in the

402

QWZ .4006 at

Philippines. We left Cairo just before the King of Egypt
abdicated; walked alongside of no man’s land in Jordan
—Jerusalcm; toasted the birth of a royal heir who ar-
rived one day before we did in Thailand. In beautiful
llong Kong, one of the last outposts of freedom in the
Far East, we looked over the border into Red China, out
of which pours a steady stream of disillusioned political
refugees. We saw thousands of ill-clad, poorly fed refugees
in the Arah lands; and walked among and talked to home-
less Hindus and Moslems uprooted by the partition of
India; ate in a Chinese home in Hong Kong with the
family of a recreation director who brightens the lives of
people in the most densely populated area in the world:
and dined with members of the imperial family in Japan.
concerned about recreation for the people.

In Greece a group of undernourished children danced
for us. In Kyoto a group of Japanese aristocracy in elabo-
rate costumes demonstrated for us the ancient royal game
of Kemari or “kick hall." In India we fed bread to wild
monkeys from the windows of a modern dining car. At
the Inner Shrine in Japan, temple maidens and priests
put on a service of sacred dances for us, and at Nara we
spent the night in the quarters of the Grand Patriarch of
Tenri, a religion that has over three million followers.

We worked in lands where civilization first began, where
today these ancient cultures are being blended with twen-
tieth century miracles, where Cadillacs vie with sacred
cows for a place in crowded streets. In these strange places
and others, we drapvpcd out of the sky to be greeted by
friendly people who waited our coming and had prepared
programs for us.

I gladly acknowledge here the careful preparation, hos-
pitable reception and enthusiastic cooperation of repre-
scntativcs of various agencies that helped to make our
mission successful; our own United States Embassies, the
YMCA, the Near East Foundation, and national. and local
government agencies in the countries visited.

In each of the countries visited, we met with leaders of
publie and private agencies to do two things: (I) to re-
port on the recreation movement in America and the serv-
ices of our National Recreation Association here and
abroad, distribute a set of the recreation literature that
might be helpful, and (2) to find out what they were
doing and how we could help then and later. We did this
in twelve countries before reaching Japan.

Recmm'rros'

26mm

T. E. Rivers

In all these lands our message basically was this:

The real spirit of America is to share the good things
of life with all mankind. .

Leisure is the gift of modern technology.

America has leisure. Ways should and will be found to
give the people of the world more leisure.

Recreation is one of the satisfying ways to use leisure.

Recreation has many values.

We then proceeded to explain in detail what we meant
by the recreation program; how it was organized, fi-
nanced, promoted. We emphasized: that recreation was for
all the people; that good trained leadership was of para-
mount importance; that the recreation movement should
have a strong central agency to give service and guidance
to the local units; that local initiative and the “do it your-
self spirit” was the path to progress; that schools should

 

The National Stadium in Lisbon where soccer contests are held.
Soccer is one of the most p0pular national Sports in Portugal.

help to prepare the people for leisure; that the recreation
program was broad; that girls and women should be
more widely included as participaan and leaders; and
that home and family recreation were especially desirable.

Here are some of the experiences that linger in our
memories.

Portugal

0 Lisbon from the air was lovely. In the brief sweep over
the city we spotted the stadium, three swimming pools, a
park, and the circular building we later learned was the
Praca dc Touros, where bull fights are held.

Clear Mountain Park, an area about two kilometers

DECEMBER 1952

square located on the highest spot in Lisbon, is a new park
being deve10ped by the government on partly contributed
land. Low-cost housing projects are nearby. It looked
like an impressive beginning of a great recreation area.

We saw a number of private clubs for soccer, horseback
riding, and gymnastics—the club is the basic recreation
unit.

Our fieeting look at Portugal was very favorable. Lis-
hon was clean and the people were friendly. The Rue
Liberdade was a most interesting mixture of the old and
new. Modern automobiles, donkey carts and women with
large baskets of fish on their heads mingled, while men
sipped drinks on the cafe-lined sidewalks.

Spain
0 In Spain there is no recreational organization for recrea-
tion generally as we know it. The Falange—the dominant
political party—is all pervasive in education, sports, camp-
ing and handwork. Schools are backward; we learned of
only one with modern recreational facilities, but that is
excellent and is hopeful as a model.

The two principle sports interests of Spain are soccer
and bylLfighéng—Fut b0! and Toros. Soccer is to Spain
what sand-lot baseball is to America; and boys know the
top players, their records and standing in the league.
In addition, Spain has music, drama, ha1_i_(_i_(_:raft, sp_o_rts,
beautiful parks in Madrid; but the top rating for recrea-
tion activity must go to the panes. Of all the media of ex-
pression for the Spaniards, talking is first; and a p20

 

 

 

Soccer also draws large crowds to Madrid’s Chamartin Stadium,
for this Sport is to Spaniards what baseball is to Americans.

is a group of people of like interest who meet together
to talk for fun. Men and women have their own separate
groups. Seldom were they mixed, but more and more, as
women advance, they are becoming co-recreational.

Madrid is in the mountains; and one exception to
“sport for the wealthy only” is skijpg. On a winter week-
end, we were told, thousands take the electric train to the
mountains; and whole families ski together.

We had a delightful interview with Senor Cecilio Rodri-
guez, the eighty-seven year old chief of parks and gardens
of Madrid. He began in the park system at eight years
of age as a gardener’s assistant, and today has an avenue

403

named for him, and his statue is already erected in the
principal park.
Italy

0 ln ltaly, Ea\’.A.L. is the association most comparable
to our NRA. It has an extensive program of assistance to
local groups. lt has inherited many of the facilities of
the old Dapolaeoro, active before the war. At a meeting
in Rome, organized by E.N.A.L., about forty organiza-
tions came together, in their headquarters located in a
count's palace, for an exchange of information and experi-
ence. We exchanged literature, toasted cach other as
spiritual brothers, and each pledgcd to the other con-
tinued cooperation in Spreading Opportunities for freedom
of choice of recreation for its own sake without regard
to economic, political or other reasons.

We visited a numbcr of C.R.A.L.’s, or recreation cen-
tcrs for various industries or govcrmnent departmcnts.
They had fine facilities but we noticed the absence of
leadership.

One outstanding recreation Spot visited was the Fla-
mingo Boeci Club. Herc large numbers of pe0ple of all
classes were playing the well-known ltalian game on indoor
and outdoor courts. Familics were present and a very
happy recreation atmosphere prevailed.

The modern Fora llalia, started by Mussolini and now
being completed, is a gigantic recreation facility with a
stadium seating 100,000, a swimming pool of enormous
prOportions, and many tennis courts.

While in liome we had the rare privilege of an audience
with His Holiness, Pope Pius Xll. Hc greeted us cordially,
and I quickly gave him our message: that, next to religion,
the wholesome use of leisure could be one of the most
important ways to make life more abundant for the peo-
ple; that the NRA serves all agencies, governments,
churches, hospitals and schools that want to use rccreation
for the enrichment of the human spirit; that, although the
recreation movement was non-sectarian, many of the as-
sociation’s friends and supporters were Catholic and would
be tremendously pleased if I could take to them a word of
encouragement.

He gave us, our family and friends, his benediction and
then walked away, but turned back and said, “And a very
special blessing for your work.” Many of you will remem-
her that Pope Pius XII some years ago issued a very
strong lcttcr on the importance of the right use of leisure.

Before leaving Home We walked through the Colosseum
where a perverted sense of recreation, nearly 2,000 years
ago, was satisfied by the slaughter of Christians or a
fight to the death by gladiators. We saw the Circus Maxi-
mo: where an audience of over 200,000 used to watch spec-
tacles put on for the pc0plc.

Greece
0 In Greece, Demetrius Lezos is a living example of the
biblical injunction to cast your bread upon the waters.
Fifteen years ago, the NRA cooperated with the Near East
Foundation, which brought Ll‘zos to America, and super-
vised his rccreation training. lle learncd what a public
playground should be and how it should be run; and went
back to Greece and took charge of the llyde Playground

401

(contributed by A. A. Hyde of Wichita, Kansas).

The Hyde Playground, under the inSpiring leadership
and devoted service of Lezos, has become a symbol of
American service to Greece. Lezos’ spirit and influence were
felt wherever we went. Children and adults greeted him
with affection. Men all over the city spoke with apprecia-
tion of what Lezos and the playground had meant to them.
Here is an example of recreation lcadcrship affecting the
life of a nation. For not only does it serve the people of
Kaesariani, but under the Ministry of Education which
now operates it, it is a model; and as Greece gradually
gets back on its feet, other playgrounds are following.

 

Drama group on playground in Greece is coached by bishop
who had been active in revolution for Greek independence.

One of the most inspiring days of our trip was a Sunday
spent in two camps for working boys and girls, twelve
miles out of Athens on the Aegcan Sea. They were as clean
and efficiently run as any camps I have seen. Their pro-
grams were rich and varied and entered into with zeal.
What we saw and felt there was a moving caperience.

Mrs. Napika Parpandoki, a rcmarkable woman who,
after twenty-five years of serving the girls of Greece
through two wars and a revolution, feeding them during
the occupation, giving health instruction, vocational guid-
ance and meeting the many other needs of youth in a
troubled nation, said to me: “The thing of which I am most
proud is that l have taught thcm to laugh and play.”

In a farewell talk, made not fifty feet from a cement
gun emplacement left by the occupation forccs which used
this camp during the war, I said I would report to Amer-
ica that the nation which had contributed so much to the
culture of the world and has suffered so much in defense
of freedom was today in good hands.

On all the items sent to Greece with American aid ap-
pears a label with the slogan “Strength to Greece from
America.” Recreation scrvices are not so labeled, but the
spiritual and physical power of Greek youth today and
their fierce devotion to the democratic way owe much to
the opportunities to live happily in their limited leisure
during this difficult reconstruction period.

This article will be continued in the January, I933
issue of RECREATION, and will include experiences in
Egypt, Jordan, Pakistan, lndia, llong Kong and the Philip.

pines.

It scam-nos

FIRST STEPS
IN PRODUCING A PLAY

IN ALL PROBABILITY the director will
have read the script and begun to
dream about a possible production
long before any actual work on it be-
gins. But whether this particular time
lapse is long or short, the fact remains
that the first step in the preparation of
the pcrformance is made by the di-
rector alone and it consists of reading
and rereading the script, getting the
feel of it as a whole, how it is built,
how it grows; sensing what the author
wants to say and the response which
he hopes the audience will give; get-
ting to know the charactcrs in the
play, how they are related to each
other, and the mainsprings which mo-
tivate the things they do. This prepara-
tion may be long or short, but by the
time it is completed the director has
a first, clear impression of what the
play is about and how the production
might takc shape. Thcre is nothing
binding or inflexible about this first
impression, but it is the springboard

AUTHOR is with London Little Theatre.

from which the director will work.
Nothing is more important in the
preparation of a plan than careful
casting. This is a point where it be-
hooves a director to move slowly. If
an open casting reading has been
called, the director will probably be
faced with actors whose work she al-
ready knows and whom she may al-
ready have in mind for certain parts,
but also by people of whose capabili-
ties she knows nothing. The first
step is, therefore, to consider carefully
everyone who wishes to read for a
part. The director should talk indi-
vidually with each one; and her assist-
ant, who is the stage manager, should
take notes of all points which are
brought out in these interviews which
might be helpful, such as name, age,
height, how they speak, whether they
have any expericncc or not. He should
also note any suggestions made as to
the part thcy might play. Not un-
til everyonc has been interviewed or
talked to, should any attempt be made
to cast the play. And bcfore doing this,

 

In casting, everyone should have chance to read several different parts.
real testing period, shows whether actor is suitable for part, responsive to ideas.

DECEMBER 1952

This is a

A Guide’

Blanch M. Hogg

 

The play starts as an idea in director’s

mind, its Hrst form being the script.

it is a good idea to take a little time
and consider carefully the two lists
which by then will have been pre-
pared—the list of the characters in
the play (this the director will have
prepared in advance of the reading)
and the notes on the readers which the
stage manager assembled during the
interviews. From these two a third list
may now be prepared, grouping the
readers’ names about the part for
which they seem best suited.

Interviewing the Potential Cast

The director is now ready to begin
casting readings. The director should
not try at this stage to read the play
as a whole. It is much better to se-
lect a number of scenes. Nor should
she try to cast all the parts, but

I"Reprinted from Prelude to Performance,
by permission of National Council on Physi-
cal Fitness and the Physical Fitness Divi-

sion, Department of National Health and
Welfare, Canada.

4:05

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Careful checking and necessary altera-
tions of costumes are important. Costumes
should fit the period, complement the
settings, respond well to the lighting.

A final approval of all make-up should
be obtained from the make-up department,
although each actor should be trained in
this art and learn to put on his own.

 

   

concentrate on the main ones, or on
such as have marked individual char-
acteristics. Smaller parts, such as lords-
in-waiting. and so forth, can be filled
in later. It is often a good idea to
have only two or three readers at a
time. The readers themselves will not
be so nervous. The director can lis-
ten and concentrate better, and get
a clearer impression of the things
she is looking for. What will these
be? A natural for the part. if she is
lucky enough to find one; but on the
whole, type casting is not by any
means the most important considera-
tion. However, there are certain es-
sential physical characteristics which
should be considered. For instance, in
.43 You Like It, Rosalind must be tall,
and Celia short. An intelligent read-
ing of the part and an understanding
of the lines is an important considera-
tion. Sight reading is notoriously mis-
leading; some people read better than
others but have really very little more
to give, others stumble and are un-
impressive, but given a chance to get
to know the lines better, improve out
of all recognition. The director can
test this capacity a little by herself
clarifying the meaning of some of
the lines. and then having them re-
read. One thing which can be tested
is the. general voice quality. whethen
it is pleasant or unpleasant. ltltlllolth
nous or colorful, clear or muffled.

Methods of (fasting

During the course of the readings
the director should try to hear every-
one in two or three parts. By that
time she will have formed some pretty
clear impressions but should not be in
.1 hurry to make a definite casting.
It is better at this point to eliminate

1-06

only those who are quite unsuitable
for the play and to invite everyone
else to come back to the next reading,
which will be a complete play reading.

Generally speaking, a director is
wise to allow two or three such read-
ings. They are the real testing period.
As readers become more familiar with
their parts, it becomes much clearer
to the director whether or not they
are suitable. whether they have ideas
of their own and are. creative and
imaginative, and whether they are re-
sponsive. to ideas which are suggested
to them, that is, to direction. During
the course of these early readings the
director will share with the cast her
ideas about the play, what it is about,
how it grows: the broad lines of the
characters, their relationship, and the
motives which prompt their actions.
She will encourage discussion and the
exehange of ideas. By the end of these
readings the casting should have been
sonipletcd and everyone should have
1 grasp of the play as a whole. In part.
the director will achieve this by sug-
gesting what she. feels is the anthor's
Intention and by explaining how she
plans to interpret it. in part, it will
be the result of the impact which the
play itself makes upon each actor as

he reads it. The actors themselves will
have begun to think about and know
the characters they are going to play.

Designing the Sets

During this same period when the
foundations of interpretation are being
laid for the aeting, or preferably even
previous to it, work will have begun
on some of the production problems
of the play. Sets must be designed.
Very often an artist or scene designer
is asked to do this. it will be much
more helpful to the designer if the
director is able to indicate right at the

,start any features of the set which

have already become important to her
in her preliminary study of the play.
For instance, she may have a strong
feeling about wanting variety of level.
steps, and so forth. She may feel that
the position of some door or point of
entrancc and exit is of great impor-
tance. She will suggest something of
the general mood and intention which
she has in mind in devel0ping the
play. The designer, too, should have
read the play and be able to bring sug-
gestions as to how it can be. visually
interpreted. Working together, rongh
sketches can be drafted. The designer
will later develop these in detail, and

Itccnm'rtm

should also prepare a ground plan of
the proposed set, drawn to scale and
planned in terms of the area which
will be available on the stage to be
used. Eventually, the designer may be
able to prepare a little model of the
set, indicating everything in color and
proportion. This can be a great source
of help and inspiration to everyone
who is working on the play.’

Constructing the Sets

Once the set has been designed,
other workers must be called in to
carry out its construction. The chief
of these will be the stage carpenter,
and before he starts work on it he will
be wise to verify all the measurements,
and if possible to rough out the actual
dimensions of the area to be used.

Planning the Costumes

If the play is a costume play, a
great deal of preliminary work will
have to be done. The costumes must be
planned to go with the set, they must
belong together in period, in color
and in general mood and quality. In
addition, there are considerations of
texture and of the response of the ma-
terials to lighting. There are also,
probably, very practical considerations
of expense and of the use of cheap
fabrics which give good effect. The
set and the costumes may be designed
by one person, or by separate artists;
but the important thing, if there is

to be any unity, is that they be planned
in relation to each other and that the
scene designer and the costume de-
signer work in the closest collabora-
tion with one another and with the
director. The costume designer should
prepare sketches of the proposed cos-
tumes, and these and the materials
which will be used to make them
should be checked before any work is
begun on cutting or sewing.

Collecting the Properties

Another job which should be or-
ganized, right at the start, is that of
the pr0perties. “Props” will be re-
sponsible for all furnishings and hand
preperties required, and a complete
list of these should be prepared in
advance. It will be the responsibility
of the “props” to furnish substitutes
for these which can be used during
the rehearsals and to locate, or to
make, the actual articles which will be
used in the performance. Here again,
“pr0ps” does not work alone, but in
conjunction with the director and the

designers.

Forming a Team

In fact, what hashappened is that
a production staff has been assembled,
made up of all those who will be re-
sponsible for the visual effects in the
production. Each of these will have
their own group of workers, who will
be working with them on their special-

At dress rehearsals, the prepared work of the actors and all elements of the visual pres-
entation which clothe and frame the action are blended into one coordinated production;

 

DECEMBER 1952

ized jobs. The director will work di-
rectly with the production heads and
will hold staff meetings at different
times to keep everyone in touch with
each other and with the progress and
deve10pment of the play as a whole.
The person who works most closely
of all with the director is the stage
manager. He is her assistant and he
should be familiar with every detail
of the performance as it is set and
deve10ped. The stage manager should
prepare a very special script 'of the
play which is known as the stage man-
ager’s script. This may be a loose-leaf
notebook with a page of the printed
text inserted between each of the pages
of the notebook. The main point is
that there be plenty of marginal space
or a blank page upon which the stage
manager can make notes of everything
pertaining to the performance of the
scene. The stage manager should be
able at any time to re-rehearse any
scenes which have been set by the'
director, and eventually it is the stage
manager who will be in charge of
the performance. During the period of
the readings, the stage manager as-
sists by keeping any notes which may
be required and by preparing a sched-
ule of the proposed play rehearsals.

Planning the Action

The time which can be spent on the
production should be carefully planned
by the director. Better results will be
achieved if the actors know, in ad-
vance, what they will be working on
at each rehearsal and what will be ex-
peeted of them.

The following pamphlets published
by the National Physical Fitness Di-
vision may be ordered from Mr. Ed-
mond Cloutier, King’s Printer, Ottawa,
Canada: Simplihed Staging, 10 cents;
Simplified Stage Lighting, in press,
approximately 7 cents; Prelude to Per-
formance, 7 cents; Here’s How to Do
It, 45 cents; Supplement to Here’s
How to Do It, in press, approximately
43 cents.

Films and filmstrips for community
drama groups are also available. For
information about the titles, content,
prices, and preview arrangements in
the United States, write to the Na-

tional Film Board of Canada, 1270
Avenue of the Americas, New York 20.

407

W

Delegates worked hurt!
at the 1952 National 13

 

Banquet on Thursday evening presented a gay and colorful spectacle.
Note the Speakers table at the right, seating thirty honored guests.

     

\lrs. Um: I\ Manuel. bupervisor of
..\luseurn \etivitics. (,itr and Coun-
ty of Honolulu, presenting an or-
chid lei and a kiss to Ben Evans,
director of recreation in Seattle.

 

“The Four Teens," 195?. elmmpionshi
barbershop quartet, were llown in trot
\in‘orcc Base. Illinois. to entertain at

LEFT, the Wurlullup on drumnties. l. to
r., Winilrcd Bowers, University of l'tah,
Edna B. Kennedy. Portland, Oregon.

(Qraec Walker, of the NRA stafl', and
Mrs. Howard Braucher, 1 'ltA, New York.

NIGHT. Robert \V. Crawford. Philadel‘
phia Deputy Commissioner and Sue
pcrintendent of Recreation. extendin
invitation for the 1953 National Recre-
ation ('Ongrc“ to he held in that cit}-

 

1‘ " ltu RPATIOS

    

uyed heartily

on Congress

 

ABOVE, Mrs. C. M. McCune, daughter of the late
Judge Austin E. Griffiths, presenting her father’s
$3000 bequest to the association. The check is ac-
cepted by Chairman of the NRA Board Otto Mallery.

ABOVE, Discovered applauding at
the speaker’s table during the ban-
“,NJ quet was Mrs. Howard A. Frame, who
- , is an interested sponsor of the NRA.

 

ABOVE, Guests are knighted by King
Neptune, of the Seattle Seafair Cen-
tennial Celebration. Joseph Prender-
gast, Thomas Rivers, Susan Lee, Otto

Mallery, and Mrs. Paul Gallagher.

LEFT, Proving that some of the
fun was “just a circus.” Keith Mac-
donald, Executive Director of Bec-
reation, Greater Vallejo District, rep-
resented his department’s clown club.

 

DECEMBER 1952 409

Size of Diamonds

The American Baseball Congress re-
cently reported on a survey under-
taken to determine the size of dia-
monds used for junior play. Results
indicated a wide variety in local prac-
ticc. Fifty-nine per cent of the cities
reporting use regulation playing fields
for boys thirteen years of age and
older, 71 per cent for boys fourteen
and over and 80 per cent for boys
fifteen and over. A great variation:
in size is reported for players twelve
years of age and under.

By and large, the trend is to use
the regulation diamond for players
fourteen and older. Size of the ab-
breviated diamonds varies from a
sixty-foot base line, reported in one
city, to an eighty-two-foot base line
reported in several cities. l’itehing
distances vary from forty-four to fifty-
seven feet.

City Employee’s Code of Ethics

In days of the exposure of graft in
public ofice, it is encouraging to see
that some cities have adopted a corle
of honor for all municipal employees.

The “City Employee’s Code of Eth-
ics," which appeared in the Los An-
gcles City Clerk’s Your Government
at a Glance, will be of interest to all
and applieahle to the recreation em-
ployee:

Attitude of Employee to Public
Service

I am a public employee—mindful of
the fact that I am but an integral
part of the entire governmental struc-
turc, and that my employment is not
a personal right, but a privilege em-
bodying a trust.

I Will Be: Loyal, for fidelity is the
foundation upon which the structure
of public service rests;

Honorable, for stability of the pub-
lic service structure depends upon hon-
or and integrity;

Emcient, for eflicieney creates pub-
lic confidence and assures progress in
public service;

lic-liable, for I must assume my
share of responsibility, knowing that
my fellow employees will do likewise.
thereby improving the public service;

Courteous, for courtesy greatly en-
hances both the value and eflieieney of
public service;

Resourceful, ever seeking to extend

-ll0

 

my sphere of usefulness for the bene-
fit of public service;

Tolerant, of the opinions and con-
duct of others, both within and with-
out the public service;

Watchful, in public and private con-
duct to ever uphold the highest ideals
of public service.

Recreation Areas in Subdivisions

A publication entitled Suggested
Land Subdivision Regulations, recent-
ly issued by the Federal Housing and
Home Finance Agency, recognizes the
importance of park and recreation
areas in subdivision planning. A sec-
tion dealing with purposes and ob-
jectives contains the following:

“Parks and Recreation. Provision
of adequate recreation facilities, in-
cluding playgrounds and small parks,
is a factor which cannot be minimized
in the acceptability of a plot. Side-
walks and streets are not safe recrea-
tion areas. Multi-family dwellings, row
houses, duplexes and other types of
dwelling establishing concentrations of
poPulation may aggravate the recrea-
tion problem. As much as possible,
the garden apartment type of multi-
family devcl0pment should be encour-
aged to provide for internal recrea-
tion spaces as part of a project. The
health, welfare and stability of a resi-
dential community requires a careful
analysis of the anticipated child age
Composition and adequate attention to
the needs and convenience of a recrea-
tion program for the community as a
whole. The municipality has an in-
terest in negotiating with the sub
divider for the reservation or dedica-
tion of space for necessary play-
grounds and parks in appropriate lo-
cations."

In a section dealing with design
standards, the following statement ap-

pears with reference to public sites
and open spaces:

“1. Where a proposed park, play-
ground, school or other public use
area shown in a general community
plan is located in whole or in part in
a subdivision, the planning commis-
sion may require the dedication or
reservation of such area within the
subdivision in those cases in which the
planning commission deems such re-
quirements to be reasonable.

“Small neighborhood parks, play-
grounds or other recreational open
spaces form an important and neces-
sary part of the development of the
land. Their location should be deter-
mined by some degree of community
or neighborhood planning, so that
each area which is of suflicient extent
to need or justify a neighborhood open
space will obtain such an open space
of the appropriate size and at the ap-
pr0priate location. The best, most eco-
nomieal time to do this is before or at
the time that the land is being sub-
divided. However, as ownerships of
land, and consequently subdivisions,
seldom correspond to these neighhor-
hood or community areas, it follows
that requiring each subdivider to dedi-
eatc a certain percentage of his tract
would not result in getting compact
and concentrated playgrounds or other
open spaces of the pr0per size and lo-
cation. For the same reason. it would
result in injustice to require a tract
smaller in area than the neighborhood
or community area to contribute more
than its share of the apprOpriate loca-
tions.

“The fair and intelligent method
would seem to be that the planning
commission make neighborhood or
community plans, designating in a
general way the nature and extent of
the open spaces and then, as any por-

ltacasnms

for the Administrator

tion of the area comes to be submitted
for subdivision approval, take such
steps as will cause the dedication of
the recreational spaces at or about the
places designated in the neighborhood
plan, with money adjustment to com-
pensate the owner of any subdivided
tract for the excess contributed by
him above his fair share.

“2. Where deemed essential by the
planning commission, upon considera-
tion of the particular type of deve10p-
ment proposed in the subdivision, and
especially in large-scale neighborhood
unit deve10pments not anticipated in
the general community plan, the plan-
ning commission may require dedica-
tion or reservation of such other areas
or sites of a character, extent and lo-
cation suitable to needs created hy
such development for schools, parks
and other neighborhood purposes.”

School Expenditures Upheld

The right of the hoard of education
of a school district in the state of ll-
linois to establish and operate a sum-
mer rccreation program for children
was upheld by a decision handed down
in the circuit court of St. Clair Coun-
ty in Illinois on July 27, 1950. The
case resulted from the refusal of the
township treasurer to receive and hon-
or warrants drawn up hy the board of
education of the local school district
for the purpose of maintaining and
operating summer physical education
and recreation programs. His refusal
was based upon advice received from
ccrtain school authorities of the state
to tl1c effect that the board had no
right or authority to maintain and op-
eratc such programs.

The plaintiff, which was the Board
of Education of School District No.
189, had conducted a program for
thrce summers without any question

DECEMBER 1952

having been raised as to its authority
to expend funds for this purpose.
When the township treasurer refused
to honor its warrants, it brought ac-
tion against him.

The decree of the court, as reported
in the Illinois Recreation Association
Bulletin, was as follows:

I. Plaintiff has the right, power,
and authority to institute, establish,
maintain, and operate summer physi-
cal education and recreation programs
for children of school age residing in
School District No. 189 in the County
of St. Clair and State of Illinois in
school buildings in said district and
to pay the cxpenses thercof out of its
educational fund derived from taxes
duly levied by it and thereafter col-
lected by the propcr authorities and
paid to the defendant as Township
Treasurer, as aforesaid for it, and
from funds received hy said defendant
as Township Treasurer, as aforesaid,
from other sources for plaintiff.

II. The defendant, Forrest P. Beck-
with, as Township Treasurer of Town-
ship two north, range nine west, in
the county of St. Clair and state of
Illinois, shall hereafter accept and pay
all school orders and warrants drawn
on the educational fund of the plaintiff
in his hand and presented to him
as Township Treasurer, as aforesaid,
for the institution, establishment, main-
tenance and operation of summer phy-
sical education and recreation pro-
grams instituted, established, main-
tained and operated by the plaintiff
for children of school age residing in
said School District No. 189, in school
buildings in said school district for
the year 1950 and thereafter.

Ill. Plaintiff shall have and recover
of and from the defendant the costs
of this action to be taxed by the clerk
of this court.

A Case of Legality

The San Mateo Park and Recreation
Department has taken issue with the
legal Opinion of the city attorney,
who doubts the legality of a new ordi-
nance pr0posed by the commission.
The ordinance would require a fee
from the subdividers for each lot in
a new tract before the city approved
the subdivision, with the money to be
put into a fund to finance park and
recreation facilities.

A joint statement, issued by Matt
Thiltgen, Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, and Stanley Pitcher, Superin-
tendent of Parks, said, “It is not the
intention of the park and recreation
commission to deprive anyone of their
property without due process, and this
was not implied in the proposal. The
recommendation was that a fee be paid
by subdividers to provide a facility for
the public welfare. Many require-
ments are placed on business enter-
prises within cities in order to serve
the welfare of the community; require-
ments which, if imposed upon indi-
vidual property owners, might be chal-
lenged as illegal, but are not so con-
sidered when set up as requirements
for business Operations——and the sub-
division of property is definitely a
‘business operation.’

“While it is true that no court de-
cisions have been made on these ordi-
nances, it seems strange that if they
are illegal, they have not been chal-
lenged. License fees and assessments of
all sorts are charged for public bet-
terment and the constitutionality of
such is never questioned. What is the
difference between these charges and
the prOposed fee for the provision of
seriously-needed public improvements
which will serve the general good?”

A recreation subdivision ordinance
designed to enable owners of future
annexed lands to contribute to the
Mountain View Recreation Depart-
ment is to receive its first formal in-
troduction, according to Ray Mathies,
Director of Recreation. The ordinance
provides that subdividers, prior to
the approval of a final map “shall first
deposit with the city the sum of twenty
dollars for each lot.”

A letter has been sent to the San
Mateo Park and Recreation Depart-
mcnt asking them to advise us of the
decision on the ordinance’s legality.

411

 
 

that but men
logde at D [It
the but. lento:
uh [Ir IhIrl
an. Initial-I
«run It t‘ In-
IrIlrlr [It the

[In loft.

W

 

Poll I, III m-

Squirrel

Mattie-rhea
up “er4 the
he“ I“ futon
with I hIId
In.“ Ink II-
‘tf pI-I.

IIIIIJJILL

lath; II obi-It.

‘ as

Purl I, the III-
u-II II the but:
hr the My tail
III tutu with I

N“.

M tum tutu rind: ml:
for each it“ In. fattening

with bonds

Frog

Fold 2. I II I. J
autumn-oblong.
At A. (Ithcr
about I" Inch“
lulhehndJnl-
coin; hotly-rill:
I had.

 

silly that I'rIII
Inn mm
the hand IIrlr-
rlm the land.

ur- II It III C
[If the [m MI.
[Intel-ht nth
with I Ell.

With the III "Illitlt cor-
Im minke lug" mule"
I“ tum mll In II": III
MM" ind- Ihul on lack

I'Irt.

‘ \\\

Kaolin“:

"Inlet: for
the ImI.

 

   

A] A. nth! ful-
m [It the but.

luch with I
DIM.

412

It label. I ind
my Intuit the
H7.

I'Ill the fill
“in to "I It
the hell. “to;
the «In

74 3"ch

elllLDREN FOR MANY GENERATIONS past have been afforded much
pleasure and entertainment by transforming their handkerchiefs into
imaginative, though temporary, animals and dolls through a simple proc-
ess of twisting, knotting, or rolling the squares into the desired forms.
Handkerchiefs have also long been used as essential equipment for such
well known childhood games as Dr0p the Handkerchief and Blind Man’s
Buff. For a Christmas party that is different, and requires a minimum
amount of equipment and preparation, this party for young children,
hased on the use of handkerchiefs, is suggested. The figures shown lend
themselves to a variety of uses for parties and programs; however, they
are featured in this party as a learn-how activity.

To make the figures, a plain colored handkerchief of firmly woven
fabric, ahout fourteen inches square, and several ruhber hands are needed
for each child. The leader or instructor should know the steps thoroughly
and be able to explain and dcmonstate them to the children slowly and
carefully in the simplest manner. After they have learned to make all of
the figures, let each child select the one he likes best and re-make it to
take home as a party souvenir.

Party Favors
Favors of candy and nuts, tied up in small red or green handkerchiefs
and fastened to candy canes. may he quickly and easily assembled, and
are most apprOpriatc for a Christmas handkerchief party.

HANDICERCIIIEF GAMES

Santa Comes by Parachute
Equipment—A Santa figure about five inches high, cut from heavy card-

board (or paper, weighted with a metal washer); a parachute made of a
small silk handkerchief with an eight inch piece of string tied to each
corner and then fastened to the top of the figure. A landing zone made
by marking off a piece of wrapping paper into twelve-inch squares. and
drawing or pasting a picture of a different toy in each square. Small
candies in the forms of the toys pictured in the squares.

Each child, in turn, throws the Santa figure up in the air so that it
parachutes down onto the landing zone. and receives a candy toy matching
the picture of the one in the square in which Santa lands.

Find the Toy
£qm'pment——~A small toy wrapped and tied in first one handkerchief and
then another until there are about ten layers.

Handkerchief figures are reprinted will: permission from Out of a Handkerchief by
Vance; Ii. JIC‘OlI". illuslrIlr-«l hy .‘fIrion Downer. Lothrop. Lee Ind Shepard Com-
pany. New York. Out of print.

RECREATION

Children sit or stand in a circle and pass the package around to the
music of “Santa Claus Is Coming to Town” or any other well known and
lively Christmas tune. The music is stopped abruptly and the child caught
holding the package unties and removes the first handkerchief. The music
starts again and the package is passed until the music st0ps and the second
handkerchief is removed. This continues until a child finally unties the
last handkerchief and wins the toy inside of it.

Jingle Handkerchief Belay
Equipment—One handkerchief for each team.

Divide the group of children into equal size teams of seven or more
players. The teams line up and the first member on each is given a hand-
kerchief with a small bell tied to one corner. He shakes the bell three
times, makes a complete turn in place, shakes the bell three more times
and passes the handkerchief to the child behind him. The procedure is re-
peated down the line to the last player. He brings the handkerchief back
to the first player, who shakes the bell five times. First team to finish wins.

Searching for Santa
Equipmenf——A small bell and a handkerchief for a blindfold.

One child is blindfolded and another is chosen to be Santa Claus and
is given a small bell. The blindfolded child stands in the middle of the
room while the other children scatter around him. When he says, “I’m
looking for Santa”, they all stand still; and Santa rings his bell to indi-
cate where he is. The blindfolded child walks around, trying to find him,
until he touches someone and then asks him, “Are you Santa?” If he is
not Santa, he answers, “No, I am only one of his hclpers.” The child who
is Santa rings his bell and the seeker tries again to find him. When he is
found, Santa and his seeker choose other children to take their places.

OTHER USES F OR HANDKEBCHIEF FIGURES
The handkerchief figures have many other possibilitics for the program

leader:

—-—finger puppets for impromptu shows and stunts;
—on-thc-spot-fashioned props for story hours;

—-—banquet table stunts (using napkins instead of handkerchiefs) ;

———tray decorations for hospitalized youngsters;

—-—table decorations and favors for a circus party;

—-—and the rosebud bouquets make simple and effective mother-daughter
party favors, and inexpcnsive and practical corsages for a teen-age dance
or party.

DECEMBER 1952

   

Knot corners at B
together for the
head. pulling up the
two ears.

Fold 3 to 2 making
a trlangle.

 

Knot A and C aepa- At the bottom pinch
rately for the fore enough for the hind
iegs. fastening each

i . Bring the iega
uelfsand fasten then: with a band.
.. wlth a band around
the body.
’
Gk;

At the back pinch a piece for
the tail and fasten wlth a
: band.

 
      
 

Knot 2 with a long
end for the trunk.
Twist it slightly and
fasten so that it will
hold.

 

 

Turaupbtlhidragging couture:
Se atei . knot l and 4 for at t e c an more e
thimfore ylegs. tuchin ln point to a pinch of the body
enda of corners to make eet. for the taiL

1 ’I
/ For hind legs gather up
E polnta A and B and fasten

each with a band.

Rosebud Bouquet

I
’l P Pull out a point at A.
\ EGDand knot each
a \ c aeparateiy for the
6 four buds.
D l
a 9’“
/;

In the hand. gather the buds Pull up the four loose cor-
together and fasten in a nera for tbeleavea.

bunch with a band. This

hand becomes hidden under

the buds.

\

l Underneath. twist the material and
fasten for the steam

413

 

Milwaukee's Golden Agers are fortunate in havingr excellent
facilities and leadership provided for them at “hobby shop."

AV ESPECIALLY well organized and eondueted recrea-

tion program. designed to meet the needs of the aging.
is oflered by the \lilwaukee Department of Municipal
Recreation. This might well serve as a pattern for other
eonnnunities.

In 1941 the reereation department organized a club for
older persons residing in the Parklawn area on Milwaukee’s
north side. Shortly thereafter the Community Welfare.
Couneil, then known as the Couneil of Soeial agencies,
appointed a Committee on the Aged to stud) the need for
recreational opportunities for older people. In 194-5 a
Committee for Recreation for the Aged was ereated and
experiments with several groups were. rondueted. liven-
tually the first Golden Age Club was formed. In 19-1". the
reereation department appointed a full-time direetor to
promote, organize and eonduet a year-round recreation
program for these oldsters. In 1951 more than fifteen hun-
.‘lred men and women were active in this eity-wide organi-
zatlon, with thirty-three vluhs, twenty-nine of whiuh meet
regularly in the soeial eenters of the recreation depart-
nent. three in private agency tommunit} houses, and one
m l parish ehureh and lltt'll‘ number is still growing.
Club Organization

in. me si‘ttt _\ears of age or over is eligible for mem-
tw-ralup. \rlc-oting:~ are held neeklv. l'lauh group eleets its
an. ollners- ltl'lr- tariuu» committees which help in plan-
nine the progratm .Incl aetivities of the I‘lulI and eonduets
.ts dish in tho- none manner as any prit-ate organization.

“uninshnp t.» rml'uited through the Famih Serviee'
\ .sitt'ip \urnc‘s' \anm iatiun: \mrriean lied (.ross. neigh
hair-ne- and v-t'nag-tgw-s: homes for the aged:
--terr.la- (run uulylit letter- 1nd lntllallutlo to
all 1r.ln.tl-- in word f-oouth poster and hullrtin hoard

-Irh'-ml
l}-’.t'lu'it':-

-:1.mlu.+ H.» t pl".-- title and telnmon.

HI.

“FUN DOESN’T

 

This group supplied an act in the Gay 90's Revue, the all-
city show in which over one hundred club members took part.

The Program

The elul) is a suhstitute for a famin in many eases. A
pleasant greeting, a heart) handshake. a birthday party.
an anniversary celebration. a get-well eard, are. all events
nf tremendous importance.

(in meeting days. the early arrivals play ehess. eheekers.
dominoes, or t-ards; listen to the radio, \isit, or read.
Tlth aetivities ofler splendid opportunities for sm-ial eon-
taets. fun. eolnpanionship and new interests with people
of their onn age. and verify the elnhs’ slogan. “Fun Dammit
Pitop at Sixty.’

The organized program for the elub's meeting is elosely
related to the partitular needs and interests of'that group.
hpCflliPl‘F are. often part of the program. and a spirited dis-
~ussion nsualls follows their remarks. Musir. drama pres-

lt ECREATION

STOP AT SIXTY”

entations and movies are p0pular program numbers; and
the formal meeting is followed by coffee and cake. A small
box on a table, for voluntary contributions, in most cases
is sufiicient to pay for the club’s refreshments, to purchase
get-well cards and to defray other miscellaneous expenses.
This procedure gives the members a feeling of independ-
ence and self-sufficiency.

Special club events include birthday and anniversary
parties for members, holiday parties, community singing,
old-time dancing, and educational tours. In addition to
visiting shut-in or sick members, each club has service
projects, such as making blankets for disabled veterans;
planning, providing and helping conduct children’s holi-
day programs; and making table decorations for the social
center’s community parties.

When a club is first organized, the members want to be
entertained; it takes a little time to move them from
passive to active participation. Older people are quite
rigid in their behavior patterns; thereforc, the program
contcnt must bc geared and tempered to their pace. As
group participation and responsibility. slowly dcvelop, the
mcmbers come to rely more and more on their own abili-
ties. That is why the membcrs of committees responsible
for serving refreshments, visiting shut-ins and performing
other tasks are changed often.

Councils

Of major importance is an All-City Council composed
of two reprcsentatives from each of the Golden Age Clubs.
This council forms the planning and steering committce
and docs most of the coordinating for the all-city activi-
ties. The group meets the first Monday of each month.
Oflicers are clectcd annually and consist of a president,
vice-president, and secretary. This “governing body,” as
the council is sometimes called, is very democratic and
the programs planned are determined by the exprcssed
desires of the members and the available facilities.

Thc All-Club Council assists in the planning of pro-
grams which bring the members of all the clubs together
for such events as picnics, concerts, card tournaments,

DECEMBER 1952

Milwaukee’s Recreation Program for the Aged

 

Summertime finds oldsters enjoying
picnics. Here they are boarding bus
for the country. They have appetites of growing boys.

entertainments. The Golden Age Club News is published
regularly and includes news items about individual clubs
and members, original songs and poems, human interest
stories and letters. It is distributed to the entire member-
ship free of charge. This year the Council sponsored a
dramatic production entitled “The Gay Nineties,” planned
and produced by Golden Age members. The department
provides a central hobby shOp, which provides an oppor-
tunity for all who desire to renew old skills or learn new
ones.
Leadership

The backbone of this entire program is its leadership.
Onc full-time recreation dircctor devotes her entire time
to promotion, organization and supervision of these clubs.
She is assisted by two full-time recreation instructors and
several part-time leaders, who are trained in handicraft,
music, arts, and game and party planning. The age of thc
leader is not too important; but it is essential that the
leadcr be interested in “old folks,” and that she is sympa-
thetic and has a willingness to understand the problems
of these oldsters. The same basic grOUp work philosophy
and principles apply to old people as well as to youth.

This period of growing old is a time for adjustments of
many kinds and should be the concern of the entire com-
munity. There are many needs in addition to that of rec-
reation, and the various agcncies of the community, public
and private, have definite responsibilities in helping to
meet these needs. A public recreation department has the
reSponsibility of providing leisure-time activities for‘ the
aged as well as for youth. Howcver, recreation cannot

415

 

nut prizes. is stressed. Certificates of award

Play for fun
are given to three top seorers. above. "Sheepshead" players.

sols“ .1" the problems of this aged group. Coordinated
planning and aetiun will attain the first results.

The. reereatinn department's. primary function is to pro-
till? leisure-time activities for these old folks and to make
their lives happier through an organized program of
friendly sunrle whieh provides opportunities for soeial
eunlm‘la and the prev-(:rvatiun of skills and hobbies. In
this manner, eaeh one receives- mental stimulation, satis-
faetury burial relationship:- and dt'CC|)lS group responsibili-
ties. The rue-relation program nl’IUUld never be thought of
.Is an end in itself, but should also aid in meeting other
Ilr‘.eI_l.-- of the group and thr individual members.

Letters

'lypieal of the molly letters received by the department
from rm-mlwrs uf the (mlden \ge Clubs are the following
t‘Xt’tfl’pfSi

“sint'r I lost my husband four years ago. I thought
thnv uas nothing 1. ft in thi. world for me any more. I
new-r cared to lean- the house and after a whilr found
myself setting; rlusr to haunt; a nen'uus hreahdoun. ll 1'
neiyhlmn who wen already (mlden lee (.iluh niemhers,

 

Those not caring for games may work on favorite service proi-
eets. These ladies are making afghans for veterans hospital.

finally sueeeeded in getting me to attend one of the meet-
ings. From that day on I’t'e had a new outlook in life. I

can't wait for elub night to eome. It means meeting new
friends and loads and loads of fun.”

“I had felt for years that nobody wanted us old folks
around, and so I felt there was nothing left for me but to
sit and wait to die. Then one happy day I received an in-
vitation to attend a club. IIere I found more folks like my-
self; soon we beeame soeiable and friendly.”

"Last year I lost my wife. I am now living with my son
and his family. They try to be kind, but their friends are
Young and I am only in the way. In my Golden Age Club
I take part in activities with folks my own age and am

happy.”

“I loolr forward to the monthly birthday parties, with
we eream and cake. One of the happiest days of my life was

uhen my rlub helped me eelebratc my eighty-fifth birth-
day. I never really had a birthday before."

 

S0I9TIIAI.I.—l953

\"cw Rules
lhe International Joint llules (anlnlnilter ult Softball, at
Ila in anal I! ectme In Me few 1 "Hath"; in the will! ial rules
-f .-«t1--:l| for l'l u.

\ l'ul‘ tn «ulm'tutud. «I pla-rr- “In ref)! .1 haw runner

: "no l..m~ «nth. '  .1 m. I.» him mth tln vuhst‘ld
-‘ ".1 -p}« a._.e t: u. v .tpl.llll or '..am;;.:: r and truth [hr
1 , al.t N1 t nihl ulh f lululn reruutl In PthH.h’ ful
lutll I u u. .t. .1 ... tlu 9.1m was- alumni llul. “Pt”!
II“ -- mm . .. up u.» t wlll‘f on alllrr-llllll." 1am f. .1 lm.

. un-  1h -ul 1 th. run-
[ I‘ I'l 'l'.” “1' (Id!!! 1' iv “at I I I
t 1 tool to halt.

\ on v t e In In:

".Jlt rib I (I § ' I.“ hula

llh

New Officers
llulcs (‘omnlitlee ollieers elected for 10533 were:
Chairman t". ll... Brewer. Detroit. \liehigan
\ ire (illairumn James Lang, ban Frnneiseo. ( Ialifornia
herretarp'l‘reasurer \. T. \oren. .-\lelrnse. Massaehusetts

llUlCn Interpreter ll. U. Johnson, Detroit. Michigan

llnle Books

h'lnes of the Ill-if SOItliall Rule Ilooh with rule res-n
stun.— for I‘ll?“ averted. mm he olitaincd free uf charge
tron. llIllr-rn II 1nd llradsln" tolnpanv. lnmrpurated. 43-1-
l-‘s‘t- lmzer Street, Louisvillc 2. kcntiieky.

RH Rt A'l'tlh.

Ways and Byways
on the Road to Painting

 

I AM STILL PAINTING with watercolors
and finding it fun in spite of what
that mean, dapper little man said to
me one bcautiful morning as he ap-
proached from a distance. I remember
the exact words: “Good morning,” he
said enthusiastically, “it’s a fine day to
make a fine painting.” Then, as he
came near enough to see my land-
scape, flatly, “Well, it’s a fine day, any-
how.” Yes, I am still trying, but I
think “fun” is not the exact word to
describe it. It conveys, too much, a
carefree, rollicking pleasure.

What I do mean is the challenge and
satisfaction which I find in practicing
by myself, studying art books and
taking lessons now and then when it is
possible. Progress is slow, but recrea-
tion values are high. It is a leisure-
time activity which I expect to enjoy
long after most sports have been re-
luctantly given up. I find it like moun-
tain climbing, each hump which you
get over reveals new heights. There
is a real thrill in the climb, in the
effort of meeting each challenge as it
comes along. Of course, I’ve been

RUTH HILL WOOD serves as assistant
professor in the Department of Physi-
cal Education of Connecticut College.

DECEMBER 1952

discouraged sometimes, but somehow
have found myself absorbed again the
next time I’ve had a chance to try.

My interest in painting has gone
along with a love of the outdoors and
physical activity. I’ve lugged a paint-
box up a mountain; l’ve climbed up
on a roof and looked down on flying
seagulls and swaying masts. 1 had no
idea then of trying to get an interest-
ing angle; 1 ust took my paints where
l wanted to be at the moment.

Onc sunny day, on an open hillside,
l sat with an umbrella handle down
my back, inside my jacket, to kecp
the glare off my paper. Now I know
enough to use a large straw hat or
dark glasses. In the winter, once, I
took off my skis, sat in an open car,
and painted a watercolor of the moun-
tains. The water froze on my paint-
brush. Now 1 use alcohol. I remember
that I tried to put down a last look
at the mountains as the train carried
me back to the city, a drinking cup
in one hand, paints on the seat, a
watercolor block in my lap—result,
nothing but nostalgia. I did something
evcn more foolish once. I sat in the
stern of a little boat on a choppy sea
and started to draw the mast and
rigging!

One of the best subjects 1 ever
worked from was a stone quarry which
1 had seen from a train. 1 found that
by leaving early in the morning, I
would be able to get off at a stop near-
by, and return in the afternoon by
flagging the train. The station was
boarded up and the flagging machine
broken, so 1 took off my sweater to

Ruth Hill Wood

use as a flag. As the train roared
around the curve, I waved my sweater,
feeling a little nervy to take the rail-
road up on its offer. The train came to
a st0p and I, with my canvas bag over
my shoulder, climbed aboard.

Yes, it is a stimulating challenge-—
a clean sheet of paper and an urge to
put down in form and color your own
reaction to something which you havc
chosen to paint. That’s the time when
l understand best how children feel—
all excited about investigating somc-
thing new and resentful of being in-
terrupted in their play. Children, as
well as adults, say things to you when
they discover you painting. One child
commented, “You haven’t wasted any
blue, yet.” Often they ask, “Where
did you take that, lady?” or “You for-
got to put on my buttons,” or “You’ve
only put in three windows and there
are eight.” I don’t want my pictures
to be photographic c0pies. Sometimcs
1 give them a pencil and paper and
say, “Here, you draw me and l’ll
draw you.”

I think that, most of all, I enjoy
doing quick sketches of people in
stores, subways, on beaches—*ahnost
anywhere. You can gazc off in one
direction, then take a quick look at
the person who interests you without
his knowing it. Quick action sketch-
ing is good practice: fishermen on
docks, people feeding pigeons in the
park, dancers, children playing. Once,
on a station platform, I was practic-
ing the action lesson in Kimon Nicol-
aides’ book, Natural Way to Draw.

(The emphasis is on scribbling down

417

the action lines by trying to feel the
movement, not looking at your draw-
ing at all—it resembles what a two-
year-old does with pencil and paper.)
Suddenly I became aware of someone
gazing over my shoulder, and I shall
never forget the expression of alarm
and concern on the baggageiuau's face
as he looked at my scribbling and then
quickly at me. I explained to him that
I really was all right and that scrib-
bling was a method of learning to get
action into your drawin".

Lately I’ve been working on the
animals in a pasture nearby. l wan-
der around hens, cows and heifers, a
lamb, a big work horse and three
squealing little pigs who streak under
their house. Sometimes. the heifers get
so close that all I see are their wet
noses and curious eyes. I remember
finding some goats one day, while I
was out walking. I couldn't get far
enough away to draw them until I
finally sat up on a little heuhouse roof
and let the mother goat lick my legs
so I could try drawing her little kids.

Out in the country, when l was
painting a landscape and had my
paints on the ground, two kittens sud-
denly roniped through my watercolors
and scurried off with patches of ver-

million and yellow on their coats.
Someone who saw me drawing her
goat the other day looked at drawings
1 had done on the way to her house.
There was an assortment of pasture
friends. I said, “All I hope, so far,
is that you can recognize one kind
of animal from another.” She pointed
to a heifer and encouragineg replied.
“I surely can—I’d certainly know that
was a pie." So you see . . . anyway,
sometimes you can tell.

Gradually, I am learning to quickly
put down the lines which count. This
depends upon practice in observation
and a sense of what is important for
characterization. And now, 1 have
come to the point of making quick
sketches, from which I later construct
a picture, striving for good organiza-
tion. Picture making is another chal-
lenge-——rearrangiug subject matter or
creating from imagination a composi-
tion which is art. It is far from paint-
iug things exactly as they are. Good
design, of course, is basic.

These experiences in trying to con-
vey impressions and feelings in good
design make me appreciate more the
dillicultics an artist overcomes. I look
at paintings and try to learn what the
artist wanted to say and the technique

he has used in saying it. But, mostly,
I, myself, want to try.

This much l have come to believe.
Just copying nature cannot be art.
Creating something which expresses
your emotional reaction to nature,
animate or inanimate, in your own
particular way makes you eligible.
Then what you are able to convey in-
tuitively or from study and practice.
is the determining factor. Maybe it is
art, maybe not. But either way, it is
good recreation, an absorbing activity
for those who feel this way about it.
A little improvement, 3 little discovery,
suffices to keep the challenge alive,
to bring satisfaction and excitement.
Everything is yours to use. It is a
matter of selection and expression.
Technique will come if you have per-
ception, they say. Practice quickens
your perception; you see with a more
sensitive eye. Anyway, if you have a
little success some of the time, it will
encourage you to keep practicing. to
build something new which is your
own idea and hope, each time, that
it will be what you are trying to make
it. And always you can remind your-
self that Robert Louis Stevenson said,
“To travel hopefully is a better thing
than to arrive.”

Sl‘aliellleln: Drafted

A special dinner meeting of the Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Defense
llelated Activities, held on Tuesday
evening during the National licerea-
tion Congress, was attended by twenty
of the committee's fifty members.

After reviewing the accomplishments
of the Defense Related Services of
the National lleereation Association
during the past two years, Chairman
George lljclte, General Manager of the
Los Angelcs llccrcation and Park [)e-
partmcnt, led a discussion of new ways
in which the association can be of
scnice. in the mutiliuing national de-
fence. Committee nlembcrs from va-
rious sections of the country commen-
tcd on the need for better public
understanding of the dcfcu-c program

(HP.

and recreatiou’s part in it.

The state-wide coordination of na-
tional, statc, and regional agencies
concerned with off-post recreation in
California was outlined by Sterling S.
Winans, Director of llccrcation for
the California Recreation Commission.

The following statement, on the re-
spousibility of local communities for
providing off-post recreation services.
was drawn up and the group voted
that it be given wide publicity:

I. The primary responsibility for meet-
ing the off-post recreation needs of
the members of the armed forces and
their families rests with the local colu-
Inunity;

‘2. Community resources should be

made fully available through an In-

clusive central planning and coordinat-
iug body established by local leader-
ship;

3. Where supplementary resources are
needed to provide adequate services.
they should be determined in consul-
tation with this local over-all plan-
ning and coordinating group and made
available as component parts of the
total program:

4. All agencies serving the off-post
needs of the men and women in the
armed forces and their families, should
accept and follow these principles to
the end that local initiative and en-
operative planning be strengthened
and extended in the devel0pment of all
community recreation services for thc
peeple of America.

ltrcnmnox

FOREST PRESERVE SERVICES

THE DIVERSIFIED SERVICES provided
for the pe0ple of the Chicago re-
gion by the Forest Preserve Commis-
sioners of Cook County, Illinois, are
described in detail in the annual mes-
sage of the president of the board.
This profusely illustrated report of
eighty-four pages can be read with in-
terest and profit by all who are con-
ccrned with parks and recreation.

Nature lore and nature education
are an outstanding feature of the pro-
gram, which is developing an apprecia-
tion and respect for the conservation
of natural resources. Weekly nature
bulletins are mailed to every newspa-
per in the county and some papers
reprint them wcekly. Weekly radio
broadcasts are provided in the Chi-
cago schools. Lectures on conservation
and on nature are delivered before
women’s clubs, garden clubs, sports-
Inen’s organizations and other groups
in the county. Two naturalists, each
with his own movie equipment, are
kept busy delivering illustrated lec-
tures, primarily in the public and paro-
cliial schools. Training courses in nat-
ural history and the techniques of out-
door education totaled 1,928 leader-
(lays of training. Acquisition of a new
bus enables the authorities to pick up
410 or more leaders or tcaclIers and
take them on field trips in the prc-
serves.

In cooperation with the Chicago
l’ark District, a two-day workshop on
native arts and crafts was conductcd
for camp leaders. The registrations far
exceeded expectations and only 265 0f
the 400 who applied were permitted to
attend. Instruction and a half-day of

Ih‘nuunrrn 10:9

practice were given in each of four
crafts: clay modeling, plaster casts,
jewelry and leaf prints, each of which
was related to native materials which
were supplied for the leaders’ use.

A total of 116 permits were issued
during the summer for day camps held
in the forest preserves. In order to
supply naturalist service to these
camps, eleven extra naturalists were
employed. A lack of suitable transpor-
tation to day camp areas was report-
ed as a major stumbling block in
the way of expansion in the day camp
program.

A trailside natural history museum
is open daily without charge through-
out the year. Visitors totaled more than
36,000 throughout the year. The trail-
side museum is considered the best in-
troduction to the Forest Preserve Dis-
trict.

Even though the policy of the au-
thorities is to maintain the preserves
as nearly as possible in their natural
statc, many facilities for recreation
have been installed. These include three

 

large, well-equipped swinnning pools
and six golf courses, the attendance

at which totaled more than 200,000 for
the yea r. Nearly 33,000 equestrians

have been licensed to ride on the for-
est preserve trails during the first
three years after enactment of an ordi-
nance regulating use of the trails. An
annual junior horse fair and gymk-
hana is available to all children and
attracts a large number of spectators.
Hikers, bicyclists, bird lovers and
scouting groups likewise Inakc exten-
sive, all-season use of the trails lead-
ing through the most scenic and inter-
esting portions of the district. Tobog-
gan slides are provided in the winter
months; and ponds, lakes and streams
are used for ice skating.

In order to assure prOper distribu-
tion of visitors, all picnic groups com-
posed of twenty-five or more are re-
quired to secure an advance permit for
an outing. This arrangement assures
the small family group peace and soli-
tude by setting aside restricted areas
for exclusive use of family groups. A
total of 5,976 permits were issued for
organized picnics in 1950 with an
average of 197 persons per permit. Es-
timates indicate more than 15,000,000
persons make use of the preserves a11-
nually.

Sections of the report describe in
detail the important functions rendered
by employees of the district in oper-
ating and maintaining the areas at a
high level. Of special interest is the in-
service training school for rangers who
protect the 38,000 acres of the district.
Among the subjects covered in the
1950 school were: the historical, geo-
graphical and geological makeup of
the Forest Preserve District; human
relations; juvenile problems; funda-
mental forestry; wild flowers and wild

A1 0

life of the Forest Preserve District;
and public relations.

An appreciation of the district which
appeared in an editorial in the Chicago
Sunday Times is quoted by the presi-
dent of the board in his report, as fol-
lows:

“No Chicagoan ueed deny himself
the joys and benefits of the outdoors
because he can’t get away for such ma-
jor jaunts as mountain climbing, fish-
ing for muskies or knocking over big
game in distant wildernesses.

“Instead of staying grumpily at
home because you haven't got the

cash, the time and the—Jet's face it-
physical stamina for the more grandi-
ose forms of sport, forget about the
fancy stuff and plunge yourself body
and soul into the Cook County Forest
Preserves. . . . . Anybody who dwells
in Chicago or suburbs is only a short
trip away from one or more of the
preserves. . . . .

“What we'd like particularly to
bring to your attention is the Oppor-
tunity the preserves offer for wood-
land walking. Along the trails one
may bike for as long or as little as
one pleases, at whatever pace one pre-

fers; in a crowd, if you like, or alone
with ample opportunity to observe the
many varieties of birds, wild flowers
and trees that abound in happy re-
minder of the days when the forests
covered almost all of the North Amer-
ican continent.

“A pair of stout shoes, rugged dress,
a sandwich in one pocket, a bit of
fruit in another, and the hiker so at-
tired and so equipped will find along
any of the trails a gratifying experi-
ence. an appreciation of nature, a zest-
ful tingling of his blood. and an in-
disputable aid toward health."

 

 

ln early Christian times, Christmas
was celebrated for twelve days, with
special emphasis on the last day, Janu-
ary sixth, when the Three Wise Men
of the East arrived in Bethlehem. This
day has been called Twelfth Day,
Twelfth Night, the Feast of Kings, and
Epiphany, but whatever its name, even
as late as the seventeenth century it
was an important holiday of the year.
While to the church people it signified
the arrival of the Wise Men, to others
it was the last day of Christmas festivi-
ties, calling for uproarious celebration.

As a part of this celebration, time
was set aside for the burning of the
Christmas greens—a custom which be-
gan in Germany when people thought
that such an observance would save
the trees from the disgrace of the ref-
use heap, and commemorate the light
of the star which guided the Three
Wise Men to Bethlehem as well.

Planning a Community Celebration

Care must be exercised in selecting
the site for the burning: and it should
he at least seventy-five to one hundred
yard-u from any adjoining building. ln
order to prevent any adjoining dry
grass from catching fire the night of

- 1—— ‘

Some of thin material wan lakcn from bulle-
lin of the Delaware (horny Park and Recrea-
lmn l'rmrd. \leclia. l'cnn-ylvlnia.

420

the ceremony, it is advisable to pre-
burn a fire area so that no dry grass,
weeds, and so on, can come into con-
tact with the burning trees.

Contact the local fire department or
municipal officials: (l) for permission
to conduct the ceremony; (2) for pro-
tection at the time of pre-burning the
area; (3) for protection at the time
the trees are burned. It is advisable
that they have their apparatus hooked
up and prepared to subdue immediate-
ly any fires which may arise. The local
fire department can also be of great
assistance in supplying the light neces-
sary to conduct this night time festiv-
ity. Most fire fighting units have a
gasoline operated generator and spot
lights mounted on trucks that can be
used to light the area prior to the
actual burning of the trees.

Interest in the activity may be de-
veloped through having a competition
among the children and awarding priz-
es for collecting the fl) greatest num-
ber of trees, (2) largest tree, (3)
smallest tree.

In order to prevent a fire hazard or
a possibility of someone setting off the
trees before scheduled time, it is best
that individuals in the neighborhood
he requested to keep their trees until
the day set for collection and on that
day, and that day only, turn them over

to the children. Otherwise, the young-
sters will select a hiding place for the
trees days before the burning, thereby
creating fire hazards.

It is further suggested that, when
the rules and regulations of the event
are drawn up, individuals be forbidden
from joining others in an attempt to
collect the greatest number of trees un-
less the competition is originally set up
as a team activity.

On the date set for the burning, a
deadline should be determined for the
depositing of the trees at the burning
site-five o’clock in the evening is the
suggested time. Arrangements should
be made beforehand to have judges
present at the burning site to write
down the number and size of the trees
as the youngsters bring them to the
burning site. After the deadline, the
entire area should be cleared of chil-
dren for at lcast two hours to allow
time for final preparations.

Additional beauty may be added to
the actual burning by using one of the
commercial flame coloring products
available; or you can make your own
by mixing the chemicals listed below,
for the color you desire, with shellac
and then adding sawdust to this solu-
tion to form a paste. Pour this over
four or five trees in the pile.

Violet Potassium chlorate

Yellow Potassium nitrate or
Sodium chloride (salt l

Orange Calcium chloride

lied Strontium nitrate

Apple-Green Barium nitrate

l‘imerald Copper nitrate

Green Borax

l’urple Lithium chloride

ltecamnos

PEOPLE and Events . . .

Paul Stacker, superintendent of
parks and recreation in Columbus, I11-
diana, has received that city’s Junior
Chamber of Commerce Good Govern-
ment Award for 1952 in recognition of
his distinguished contribution toward
increased effectiveness and greater eth-
ciency in government.

Dr. Carl L. Schrader, one of Massa-

chusetts’ pioneers in physical educa-
tion was presented with a citation at
a testimonial dinner in celebration of
his eightieth birthday in October. The
citation termed Dr. Schrader “a mas-
ter teacher of teachers in a pioneering
profcssion, and an exemplary exponent
of the life abundant.” The dinner,
which was held at the Boston Univer-
sity Faculty Club, was attended by
physical education leaders across the
country. Dr. Schrader and his wife,
Maude, a professional partner with her
husband, celebrated their fiftieth wed-
ding anniversary two years ago.

Elections

Election of officers of the American
Recreation Society was held in Seattle
during the National Recreation Con-
gress; and the following people take
office for the year of 1952-53.

Theresa Brungardt, Montpelier, Ver-
mont—President

Jackson Anderson, Lafayette, Indi-
ana—First Vice-President

Fred Coombs, State College, Penn-
sylvania—Second Vice-President

Pat Abernathy, Washington, D.C.——-
Secretary e

Harry C. English, Washington, DC.

-—Treasurer

The new officers of the College Rec-
reation Association, elected at its an-
nual meeting during thc week of the
Congress in Seattle, are as follows:

Howard G. Danford, Tallahassc,
Florida—President

Jean Swenson, Los Angeles, Califor-
nia—Vicc-President

Norman Kunde, Seattle, Washington
-—Secretary-Treasurer

Newly elected officers of the National
Confercnce on State Parks, chosen at

DECEMBER 1952

the 32nd Annual Meeting, for a two-
year term, are:

V. W. Flickinger, Columbus, Ohio-- 
President

Kenneth R. Cougill, Indianapolis, In-
diana—First Vice President

William W. Wells, Baton Rouge,

Louisiana—hSecond Vice-President

Recent Appointments

J. John Birmingham—Superintend-
ent of Recreation, Kennett Square,
Pennsylvania.

Iris Chapman -— Associate Director,
Westfield Community Center, West-
field, New Jersey.

Harold Dillon—Superintendent of
Recreation, Zanesville, Ohio.

Michael J. Di Renzo—Superintend-
ent of Recreation, Rockland, Maine.

Stanley E. Francis—Superintendent
of Recreation, Carlisle, Pennsylvania.

Louis S. F rezza—Superintendent of
Recreation, Bound Brook, New Jersey.

Art E. Center—Director of Recre-
ation, Howell, Michigan. '

Kathryn Godball—Assistant Super-
intendent of Recreation, Radford, Vir-
ginia.

Robert E. Haux—Superintendent of
Recreation, Danville, Kentucky.

James H. Horn, Sr.-—Director, Book-

er Washington Association, Rockford,
Illinois.

Don J Olly—Superintendent of Recre-
ation, Kansas City, Kansas.

Clair Kuss—Superintendent of Rec-
reation, Pocatello, Idaho.

Armand Matern—Assistant Direc-
tor, Recreation Departmcnt, Kenne-
wick, Washington.

Frank S. Menagh -— Superintendent
of Recreation, Sunnyvale, California.

John F. Panatier—Superintendent of
Recreation, Milford, Connecticut.

Jack A. Reynolds—Director, Twin
City Recreation Center, Bloomington,
lllinois.

Helen Stoney—Assistant Director,
Community Service, Maplewood, New
Jersey.

Raymond J. Thompson— Director,
Ncshaminy Valley Youth Center, New-
town, Pennsylvania.

Billy L. Woods—Superintendent of
Rccreation, Clinton, Tennessee.

Rena M. Thorndike—“Assistant Di-

rector, Recreation Department. Whit-
insvillc, Massachusetts.

Alfred H. Wyman

Alfred H. Wyman, for many years
executive director of Park and Play-
ground Association of St. Louis, Mis-
souri, died from a heart attack last
summer.

His accomplishments in the field of
recreation were numerous and varied.
He was greatly responsible for the in-
crease in the number of local parks
and playgrounds, the addition of physi-
cal education and recreation courses to
the regular curricqums of the schools,
and the conducting of the first school
camp in St. Louis. Writing articles on
recreation, hoIding office in national
organizations, such as the American
Camping Association and the Amer-
ican Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation, and teach-
ing courses in camping and recreation
at local universities and coIleges were
but a few of his activities.

Mr. Wyman was the recipient of the

1951 Fellowship Award of the Amer-
ican Recreation Society.

His untimely passing has left a gap
that all who knew him feel can never

be filled.

Mary C. Hogle

The National Recreation Association
and many others mourn the loss of a
loyal friend and honorary member,
Mrs. Mary C. Hogle, (Mrs. James A.
Hogle) of Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs.
Hogle was an outstanding leader in
numerous civic, religious and educa-
tional causes; and was Salt Lake City
sponsor of the association for seven
years. Ill 1942 she was made an honor-
ary member of the association in rec-
ognition of her work for and devotion
to recreation, througll contribution to
and intercst in the association.

The Salt Lake City Deseret News
commented editorially upon her death,
“The passing of Mary C. Hogle ends
the mortal life of a most beloved
benefactress but her friendship to all
men will long live as an inspiration to
the pe0ple she reached.”

421

24w Wight? 

Conclusions and Suggested Princrjbles
from Report of the Committee

on Highly Organized Competitive Sports
and Athletics for Boys Twelve and Under.
Presented to the Meeting on This Subject
at the National Recreation Congress.

Wmnx THE PAST TWENTY Yams interest in highly

competitive athletics for boys twelve and under has
greatly increased. Some of the reasons for this are the
enormous growth in the number of both the public park
and recreation facilities and the trained leaders in recrea-
tion departments and physieal education departments of
the public schools, and the emphasis through radio, press
and television on the professional, semi-professional and
amateur “stars” and champions. '

Some indication of how sports for everyone have grown
in this country can be seen by a comparison of the year-
books published by the National Recreation Association
for the years 1921 and 1950. In twenty-six years the num-
ber of baseball diamonds operated in public parks or recre-
ational areas has grown from 2,522 to 5,502. The number
of softball diamonds has increased in the same period
from practically nothing to 58,029. In 1950 the yearbook
reports that the average daily attendance at playground
pr0grams operated by public recreation agencies was four
million. It is reasonable to assume that at least half of those
in attendance were boys. On an average summer day that
year probably close to one million boys of twelve and un-
der took part in baseball, softball, basketball or track and
field activities under the direction of professionally quali-
lied recreation leaders.

This combination of increased opportunity for everyone
to participate in athletic activities in his own neighborhood,
together with the glamor of more highly organized com-
petition, had its effects on the public school athletic pro-
grams. liig stadiums, big crowds. big conehes. big “stars”
often tend to become an integral part of the seeondar}
school program. Pressure to extend this down to the ele-
mentary school level has been great. The objections of
school and ntedieal authorities have prevailed, however,
and today few elementary schools themselves conduct high-
I} organized inter-school athletic programs.

The Position of the Schools
A recent study has reaffirmed the Opposition of educa-

422

tors to highly organized competitive sports for elementary
sehool ehildren. The American Association for Health,
Physical Education and liecreation, the Department of
Elementary School Principals of the National Education
Association, the Society of State Directors of llealth,
Physical Edueation and Recreation, and the National Coun-
cil of State Consultants in Elementary Education joined in
a study of athletic competition for children of elementary
and junior high school age which was completed in April,
1952. After a survey of doctors and educators, the com-
mittee representing these groups concluded that first pri-
ority should be given “to a broad and varied program of
voluntary informal recreation for children of all ages and
an interesting extensive program of intramural activities
for boys and girls in upper elementary grades and above
. . . . within the individual school or neighborhood recre-
ation center.” The committee itemized “high pressure ele-
ments of an interscbolastic pattern" which should be avoid-
ed. These include “frequent contests, long seasons, little
bowl games or other procedures that cause pressures or
that may make undue physical demands on young boys or
girls . . . . over-emphasis by means of newspapers, radio,
television, or similar media, stress on individuals'rathcr
than teams.”

Although elementary schools continue to feel pressure
to adopt the characteristics of the high school and college
interscbolastic sports program, most of the recent develop-
ments have taken place outside of the school system. While
it is true that local educators, from tbe principal and coach
to school board members, sometimes are leaders in such
movements as Little League, Pop Warner Football and
Biddy Basketball, the school systems themselves rarely
sponsor these programs as a part of the schools’ extracur-
ricular activities. As a result, the recent development of
“highly organized competitive athletics" for the elementary
school age child has been sponsored largely by private
independent groups not connected with the schools or the

public rcc reation department.

Conecm of Recreation Leaders
liy October 1950, the growth of highly organized com-
petitive sports for boys undcr twelve had reached such a
point that delegates to the National Recreation Association
Congress in Cleveland requested the appointment of a na-
tional committee from the recreation field to formulate
principles for gnidanee of community rcereation leaders.
A eontmittce of twenty-three recreation lcad-crs nnder

RECREATION

Santa @eméé'e for; ymc'm?

the chairmanship of F. S. Mathewson, Superintendent of
Recreation of Union County, New Jersey Park Department,
was appointed by the National Recreation Association.
Under its direction, a nation-wide survey of existing ath-
letic practices and programs in municipal recreation de-
partments was conducted early in the summer of 1950.

Under the auspices of the committee a meeting was held
in New York City on December 6, 1951, attended by repre-
sentatives of Little League, AAHPER, National Recreation
Policies Committee, Industrial Sports Journal, National
Recreation Association. The possibility of additional re-
search was discussed. Areas of agreement and disagree-
ment were explored.

In March of 1952 a news release was distributed to the
newspapers and magazines of the country outlining the
committee’s work and pointing out the vast program in
competitive athletics available through municipal reere-
ation departments all over the country.

During these two years, most recreation people eon-
cerned with highly organized athletics for children have
reached general agreement on two major points.

1. Additional objective research should be encouraged
on all phases of “highly organized competitive athletics
for boys twelve and under.”

2. Interim principles based on existing evidence and
philosophy should be developcd as a guide for community
recreation departments.

Clearly, no one study or research project will produce
noncontroversial evidence that Little League, Pop Warner,
Biddy Basketball or any of their home-grown counterparts
are either overwhelmingly “good” or “bad.” The relation-
ship of the child of twelve and under to highly organized
baseball, football and basketball competition is extremely
complex. Physical, emotional and sociological factors need
to be studied and evaluated in relationship to the variety
of situations which such competition involves. They also
need to be compared with factors present in less highly
organized compctitive situations.

Many studies of human growth and development have
already been conducted which will throw much light on
the child in competitive athletics. A three-year study re-
cently has been initiated by the sponsors of Littlc League
baseball to determine the effects of participation in Little
League activity on boys of this age group. It is assumed
that therc will be additional studies in the future on
various phases of the relationship of the child to both gen-
eral and specific competitive sport activities.

DECEMBER 1952

It is the responsibility of leaders in the field of human
relationships to actually lead people in the direction of
those actions which will be most individually and socially
beneficial. Recreation is one area where this is specially
true. Recreation leaders of course must be keenly aware of
interests and desires. The programs they sponsor and or-
ganize must be in tune with the needs of the participants.
But it does not follow that all activities which have “sell-
ing” value are the most desirable or the most needed.
Simply because one approach to leisure time activity seems
to get a lot of “customers” does not mean that recreation
leaders have to get on the bandwagon if that approach has
objectionable features.

lt is the opinion of the committee that there is already
sufficient objective evidence, together with established edu-
cation and recreation philosophy to determine interim
principles. These conclusions should be continually open
to re-examination in the light of additional evidence which
may be secured in the years ahead.

What Are Highly Organized Competitive Athletics?

Part of the emotional and fuzzy thinking which frequent-
ly surrounds this subject results from the lack of a clear
definition of “highly organized competitive athletics.” For
the purpose of this report, highly organized competitive
athletics is considered 'to be any athletic activity which in-
volves a considerable amount of the lcisure time of the
youngster in formalized practice, which encourages ex-
tensive attendance by adult spectators, which is limited to
the outstanding players: and which involves the selection
of winners on a state, regional or national basis. It should
be clear from this definition that intra-mural competition
in football, baskctball, baseball, tennis or any other sport
would not be considercd highly organized. Intra-city com-
petition may or may not be highly organized; state, re-
gional or national competition usually is.‘

While participation in Little League, Pop Warner or
other national promotions as a rule means highly organized
compctitive athletics, local competition may or may not be
highly organized. Because a community does not use the
names of national programs does not mean that it might
not be sponsoring a highly organized competitive program.

In the following statements, the committee has attempted
to summarize the best available information on the im-
portant issues involved. lt is on the basis of this evidence
that carefully reasoncd principles can be reached. The
committee has attempted honestly and fairly to present as

423

G

strong a case for eaeh side as ean be made.

It should be pointed out that the proponents of some
"midget" sports disassociate themselves from other promo-
tions. For instanee. the promoters of sports not involving
body contact tend to remove themselves from the criticism
sometimes made ahuut the possible physical injury to the
participants. This may be true about boxing and football.
they say. but not about baseball, tennis or golf. Because
Little [cague involves more boys and more communities
than any other national promotion. diseussion of highly
eompetitive athletics for this age group usually centers
around baseball.

The references appended in the list were earefully evalu-
ated in reaching these conclusions and principles.

Issues and Conclusions

1. Can a highly organized eompetitive athletic program
satisfactorily meet the needs of all hoys of this age?

No community athletic program for boys under twelve
is adequate unless it provides the opportunity for every
boy to participate with other boys of comparable age and
skill in a variety of sports within the neighborhood and
community.

2. Can an intra-mural type eompetitive athletic program
satisfactorily meet the needs of all boys of this age?

A community-wide intra-mural type program is the basic
means of providing satisfactory opportunity for all boys

to participate in competitive athletics.

3. Can community enthusiasm and resources be mobil-

ized for a local intra-mural type program?

Although community enthusiasm and resources may not
be as quickly mobilized for an intra-mural type program
as for the more highly organized, there is the evidence of
many years of experienee to indicate that effective com-
munity support is forthcoming for this type program, when
adequately interpreted to the public.

4. ls exclusive use of areas and facilities for eompeti-
tive athletics for boys of this age desirable?

A community should avoid establishing installations for
the exclusive use of any one age or interest group. Ade-
quate scheduling and supervision will provide the most
equitahle use of facilities and areas.

5. Are highly organized competitive athletics financially
sound?

Until a community is providing the hasic essentials of
a genuinely well-balanced and total recreation program,
it is financially unsound to spend large sums of money on
a few participants.

6. Are highly organized Competitive athletics harmful to
the healthy physical dcvclopment of boys this age?

The greater the percentage of boys twelve and under
participating in a highly organized competitive program,
the more likely is the possibility of physieal injury to the
less physically mature participants.

7. Are highly organized competitive athletics harmful
to the healthy emotional devclopmeut of boys of this age?

Competitive athletics hold greater danger of being harm-
ful to the healthy emotional development of boys of this
age when they are highly organiZed and imitate the ten-

sions. excitement. and pressures of high school varsity,

.121

college, semi-professional and professional athletics.

8. Are state and national tournaments desirable objec-
tives for boys this age?

From the point of view of growth and development of
the child of this age there is little justification for state
or national tournaments.

"the important thing in the Olympic Games is not to
win but to toke port, the insportont th-i-n-g in life is not
the triumph but the struggle. the usentiol thing is not

to have conquered but to how: fought well. To spreed
these precepts is to build up on more scrupulous ond
more generous humanity.“ Boron Pierce du Cou-be-rtin—
Founder of the Modern Olympic Games.

 

Recommended Principles

0n the basis of its study of existing literature on high-
ly competitive athleties, knowledge of the philos0phy of
eommunity reereation, and the conclusions which it has
reaehed, the committee recommends that the following in-
terim principles' be adopted for the guidance of com-
munity recreation agencies:

1. The fundamental values for which a community ree-
reation program should strive are: (a) the satisfaction
of such basic human needs as happiness, acceptance, reeog-
nition and adventure; and (b) devel0pment of the quali-
ties of the good citizen in a democracy. These values are
best realized through participation under good leadership
in a wide variety of activities.

2. Competitive athletics should be only a part of a total
community recreation program which includes such ac-
tivities as outdoor living, games, parties, music, drama,
and arts and crafts.

3. Competitive athletics for boys twelve and under
should be organized in such a way that every child who
is interested will have available both instruction in the
skills of the games and the opportunity to play with boys
of comparable age and skill in his neighborhood and eom-
munity.

4. The allocation of community funds for competitive
athletics should he made with reference to the total ree-
reation needs of the community, and the needs of all age
groups and hoth sexes.

5. Acquisition, devel0pmeut and eonstructiou of addi-
tional community recreation areas and facilities should
be made with the idea of their maximum use by all indi-
viduals and groups within the community.

6. State and national tournaments should be discour-
aged. Emphasis for this age group should be placed on
playing the game for the sake of the game. Awards of
intrinsic value should be kept simple and reduced to a
minimum.

7. Since highly organized competition is potentially
harmful to the healthy development of the participant of
this age, it is imperative that when such competition exists.
every possible precaution be taken to guard against ex-
eessive fatigue and injury.

1!. All supervised community recreation activities for

'A- mmllfit‘tl and unanimously approved at the 1932 National
lit-creation Contact“.

RECREATION

the child of this age should be conducted in an atmosphere
which avoids abnormal emotional pressures and strains.

9. The boy is the center around which and for which
the program of competitive athletics is organized. The
welfare of the individual participant is of paramount im-
portance.

10. Community recreation leaders are charged both with
the responsibility of educating the citizens of their com-
munity to sound principles of athletic competition and of
conducting a program for this age group in accordance
with them.

(Arguments “pro” and “con” are presented in mimeo-
graphed committee report. Available free from National
Recreation Association.)

Suggested Reading

H

“A Giant Controversy over Midget Sports (mimeograpbed),
Katherine Montgomery, Director of Physical Education, Florida
State College, Tallahassee, Florida.

“A Page from the Director’s Notebook,” Olga M. Madar, Round
Up—Volume 5, No. 2, Recreation Department, 8000 East Jefferson
Avenue, Detroit. Michigan, February and March 1952 issue.

“A Study of Little League Baseball in Operation, 1951,” Howard
B. Holman, Recreation Director, City Hall, Fresno, California.

A Survey of Recreation Executives on Organized Competition in
Sports and Athletics for Boys under Twelve, National Recreation
Association. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York City. Copy of report,
$1.00.

“Competitive Athletics for Boys under Twelve,” a summary of
findings, RECREATIOV magazine, February 1952.

“Baseball Babies,” Baron l’ittenger of the Hartford Times, Febru-
ary 1950, Parks aad Recreation Magazine.

“Cardinal Athletie Principles,” policy on intersebolastic athletics
of the National Federation of High School Athletic Associations
and the American Association for Health, Physical Education and
Recreation, Journal of Health aad Physical Education, September

1947. '

Competitive Activities for- Cllildrenn—A Policy Statement, Bulle-
tin No. 7, May 1952. North Carolina Recreation Commission, Edu-
eation Building Annex, Raleigh. North Carolina.

“Competitive Sports: Menaee or Blessing,” Jaek Harrison Pol-
lack, Parents Magazine, June 1952.

“Desirable Athleties for Children—Reeommendations of the
Joint Committee on Athletic Competition for Children of Elemen-
tary and Junior High School Age,” The Journal of the American
Asésociation for Health, Physical Educatioa and Recreation, June
19 2.

“Football in Junior High Schools,” William P. Uhler, Jr., School
Board Journal, November 1950.

“Little League———Yes or No”—-—Supplement, Illinois Recreation
Assoaatioa Bulletin No. 31, Bevier Butts, Director of Recreation,
Waukegen, Illinois.

“Midget League liasel)all-——l’l‘os and Cons,” New Jersey Recrea-

tioaal Development, A] Post. editor. Trenton. New Jersey, April
1952.

“Recommended Policy of Competitive Sports for Children and

Prc~Adolescent Youth,” State of California Recreation Commission,
9091/2 Eighth Street. Sacramento. California. January 18. 1952.

“Report of the Joint Committee on Athletic Competition for
Children of Elementary and Junior High School Age,” American
Association for Health. Physieal Education and Recreation, Sep-

tember 1952.

“‘Report of the National Conference on Physical Education for
Children of Elementary Sellool Age.” Athletic Institute, Chicago.
Illinois, January 1951.

“Small Boy's Dream Comes True.” Harry T. Paxton, Saturday
Evening Post, May 14, 1949.

DECEMBER 1952

“Teamwork, The Case For and Against Small-Fry Tournaments,”
Ames Castle, Industrial Sports Journal, February 15, 1952.

“The Elementary Athletic Problem,” William J. Tait, Empirec,
New York State Recreation Association, Fall 1951.

“The Little League Is Big Time,” Arthur Daley, New York
Times Magaziae, May 25, 1952.

“Two Important Resolutions,” Jouraal of Health and Physical
Education, October 1938.

“What Industry Is Doing for Kids—Midget Sports,” Bill Rid-
inger, Industrial Sports Journal, December 15, 1951.

“What Oakland Parents Say about Little League Ball,” Ames
Castle. industrial Sports Journal, May 15, 1952.

“Team Equipment Costs for Little League Baseball,” Industrial
Sports Journal, July 1950.

ADDITIONAL POLICY STATEMENTS
Joint Committee

Statements of the Joint Committee“ on Athletic Compe-
tition for Children of Elementary and Junior High School
Age recommend:

1. The best interests of all children are served when
school and community give priority—-—-in professional per-
sonnel, space and facilities, equipment and supplies, time
and money———to a broad program of instruction in physical
education, based .upon individual and group needs, for all
boys and girls.

2. Next in consideration should be a broad and varied
program of voluntary informal recreation for children of
all ages and an interesting extensive program of intra-
mural activities for boys and girls in upper elementary
grades and above . . . with competition limited to contests
between teams Within the individual school (or neighbor-
hood recrcation center).

3. Activities such as play days and sports days, and
occasional invitational games which involve children of
two or more schools, and which have high social values
are to be encouraged. The emphasis should be upon social
participation with the competitive aspect subordinated.

Activities should be appropriate to the level of maturity,
skills and interests of the participants. Tackle football for
children below the ninth-grade age and boxing for chil-
dren and youth of all ages are definitely disapproved.

California Policy on Competitive Sports

A recommended policy on competitive sports for chil-
dren and prc-adolescent youth has been formulated by
the State of California Recreation Commission at the re-
quest of local recreation agencies and community organi-
zations. These seek to provide a diversified sports pro-
gram for all children in keeping with accepted health
practices, and to avoid the hazards of competition in or-
ganized sports leagues which are desirable for older youth
and adults.

The period of rapid growth presents special problems,
such as lack of coordination, only partial ossification of

"‘ Joint Committee, representing: Society of State Directors of Health,
Physical Education and Recreation; American Association for
Health, Physical Education and llecreation; Department of Ele-
mentary Principals of the National Education Association: and
the National Council of State Consultants in Elementary Educa-
tion.

425

bones, mental and emotional stresses, and physiological
rcadjustmcnts.

Highly organized competitive sports leagues are not rec-
ommended for children and pre-adolesccnt youth, because
such activities may (1) cause emotional disturbances
through competition under unnecessary pressure; (2) rc-
quire participation in elimination tournaments from city to
national scale; (3) result in a selected few receiving the
instruction and attention of specialists; (4) result in the
exploitation of children through commercial sponsorship;
fSl encourage children to attempt sports designed for
those more mature: (6) be conducted by sports specialists
and promoters who may not understand the physical and
emotional dcvcl0pmcnt of children; ('2’) require com-
munity financial support of specialized facilities for ex-
clusive use by one group or for one sport; and (8) focus
attention: of children and adults on championships, expen-
sive equipment, or awards.

It is significant that the PTA recommendations coincided
with the foregoing.

North Carolina Policy

A policy statement adopted by North Carolina likewise
expresses an awareness of the growing interest in organ-
ized, competitive athletic lcagucs for children, the poten-
tial values as well as the doubts and dangers involved.
It urges that community and recreation authorities as-
sume responsibilities and give guidance in such events
because (1) condemnation of the trend does not solve the
situation; (2) such activities open up possibilities of
negative practices and results.

It calls for further study and research, stating: “We
join hands with all individuals, groups and agencies
working in this field and welcome every Opportunity to
gain knowledge as a better guide for direction and action.
. . . . We hclicvc in wholesome competitive activities, that
competition is a fundamental social process . . . . properly
guided and tcmperatcly used, it is an asset regardless of
age participation . . . . in partnership with cooperation it
should always result in constructive procedure.”

 

Equipment for Tat Luis

H scommxmrtoxs mu Tm: EQUIPMENT for tot lots, (lis-
eusscd by a committee at a conference of the Illinois
Recreation Association some time ago, are still good and
bear reexamination. The committee maintained that tot
lots should be either a separate unit enclosed with a low
fence or hedge or should he an area within a regular play-
ground removed from the main playground traffic. Tot lots
should be dcvcl0ped whcre traffic is negligible and close
to a drinking fountain and lavatory facilities.
Apparatus

l. Sandbox, ten by ten feet minimum size.

A sand box, firmly constructed of wood or other matc-
rials, such as concrete. was recommended. The box should
not be covered and sand should be raked frequently,
watered daily and changed at least once a year.

The sand box should be provided with wide molding
boards. which would prevent sand from being tossed out
of the box and could also be used as seats as well as a base
or platform for small sand molding and modeling projects.
It should be near or under a tree in order to obtain some
shade. llowcvcr. it was stressed that it also should have
some sunlight for aeration. It should be. inspected daily
for debris.

2. Secsmes (chters)

A battery of seesaws, with fixed low fulcrum. should be
installcdrsthe height to he determined by the waist height
of the. average user fpre-sehool and kindcrga rden agel .

3. Swing:

Metal swings, eight feet maximum height, should have
triangular bracing at the end supports, with two support-
ing legs in the middle if the unit is a multiple one. Pipe
should be at least two inches (inside measurement).

It was recommended that in a multiple unit the seats

426

consist of two types, chair seat and belt type scat. Elimina-
tion of one belt seat provides for more safety.

4. Sfftfes

The committee recommended the use of metal slides.
four feet and six feet maximum height.

Consistent with best safety practices, all slides and
swings should face north where possible, to prevent heat-
ing of slides and sun reflection in participants’ eyes.

5. Cfimbing Structure

Climbing structure should be metal, with a maximum
height of six feet.

6. Benches—Tomes

Low tahlcs and benches should be installed for crafts,
table games, playing with blocks and for the comfort of
mothers. This equipment should be near apparatus and
constructed of durable materials.

All of the above recommendations refer to permanent
or semi-permanent installations.

Drinking fountains and lavatorics should be so located
as to be easily accessible. It was likewise reconunended
that both fountains and toilets be installed to meet the
height requirements of the average user.

Surfacing Beneath Apparatus

The committee recommended that tan bark be used be-
neath apparatus. Other materials which may be used in-
clude sod, wood shavings, sand and sawdust. llard sur-
faces, such as eindcrs and crushed rock, should not be used
under apparatus to be used for small children.

Fencing

-Tot lots should be fcnccd. either by natural or artificial

barriers for the protection of the children.
All-weather Area

It was further recommended that a portion (opcn areal
of the lot lot be made into an all-weather area to permit
multiple use. There should be frequent inspection and up-
to-date maintenance of apparatus.

It scamrlov

I4 gag m at gazed“? War/aid

7HESE ARE CRITICAL DAYS in a rap—
idly changing world. Tension, fear
and insecurity are words which we
hear repeated time and time again. In
such a world, one of the most signifi-
cant and exciting careers can he found
in the Young Women’s Christian Asso-
ciation.

Just two years ago, I sat in my ma-
jor professor’s ollice at State Univer-
sity of Iowa discussing just which spot
I could fill most successfully and satis-
factorily. It was from that university
office that I moved into the YWCA in
New Haven, Connecticut, as women’s
director of the Industrial Recreation
Federation of New Haven.

At that time, I didn’t quite realize
that I was moving right into the mid-
dle of things. The YWCA is a world-
wide membership organization which
seeks to build a world governed by
good will, justice and freedom. There-
fore, the things that are happening in
the world today are concerns of every
YWCA worker. When we meet and
talk with our foreign division directors
just hack from Korea, Turkey, Brazil
and the many other countries to which
they are sent, we realize that it is really
a small world in which we live.

The Industrial Recreation Federa-
tion of New Haven is a unique plan
and was formed to provide recreational
activities for the employees of New
Haven industries. It was through the
federation that industry affiliated with
the YWCA and YMCA to give their
employees an outlet for their desires to
participate in a competitive athletic
program. Since its creation, it has ex-
panded beyond the realms of basket-

MISS JOHNSON is director of women’s
activities of Industrial Recreation Fed-

eration, (Miliated with the YMCA and
YWCA of New Haven, Connecticut.

DECEMBER 1952

Jane Johnson

Job opportunities for trained recreation leaders include oppor-
tunities for service not only in public recreation, but in posi-
tions with private agencies as well—such as the YWCA, YMCA,
Scouts or in hospitals and settlements. This article, for example,
tells of the interesting work of the author in a YWCA program

of recreation with the employees of industry.

hall, softball and bowling leagues into
a broader program of recreation activ-
ities designed to meet the needs of all
people working in industry.

Within the last few years, we have
heard a great deal about the increased
life expectancy and the need for recre-
ation activities for older people. The
YWCA and the New Haven industries
with which they are affiliated launched
a program designed for the women and
girls over twenty-five working in the
New Haven industries. Many of the
women in this category are widows,
mothers whose sons are serving in the
armed forces or who have lost sons in
World War II; some are young women
who are not interested in participating
in athletic activities; some are factory
workers; others are office workers. But
all have a common interest—an inter-
esting, inexpensive way to enjoy off-
the-job living, with a planning commit-
tee to set up their program of trips,
tours, parties, and hobby groups and
help them carry out their wishes and
see their hopes fulfilled.

The girls who like sports have not
been forgotten. Again, it is a most
satisfying experience to see girls of all
races, religions, social and economic
backgrounds come together to play
without prejudice. At the present time
there are fifty-six girls’ bowling teams
in the YWCA sponsored bowling

league. This means approximately four

hundred girls each week doing a thing
they enjoy, making new friendships,
strengthening old ones and, most im-
portant, forgetting the insecurity, ten-
sion and turmoil in the world around
them. The YWCA is not just a wom-
en’s organization as so many believe it
to be. There are co-ed clubs and co-ed
activities, too. There are cooperative
projects with other organizations such
as the YMCA, and there are commu-
nity projects sponsored jointly with
other agencies.

Recently the director of men’s ac-
tivities, who is on the YMCA staff, and
I worked with our industrial board of
governors to give a party for thirty un-
der-privileged boys in New Haven. It
is hard to say who enjoyed the party
most—the boys or the adults who had
the satisfaction of doing something im-
portant for someone else and seeing the
fruit of their efforts in the happy faces
of the boys for whom the party was
given.

There is no end of variety in a
YWCA job, and never a dull moment,
to be sure. Whether your specialty is
physical education, recreation, group
work; whether you prefer to work
with adults, teen-agers, or children, it
presents a challenge to you with a
wide area in which to move and the
satisfaction of seeing the results of
helping people grow through working
and playing together.

4:27

Report of Subcommittee of National Advisory Committee on
Recruitment, Training and Placement of Recreation Personnel

THERE ts PERHAPS no better barom-

eter of the status and progress of
recreation in the United States today
than the extent to which the colleges
and universities have assumed increas-
ing responsibility for the professional
training of recreation personnel. The
academic expansion of resources for
this purpose has been particularly pro-
nounced since the end of World War
ll. That higher education has accepted
this responsibility is a tribute to the
pioneer training efforts of the Na-
tional Recreation Association and the
maturing stature of the recreation pro-
fession. But these devel0pments are.
at the same time, a challenge to the
recreation agencies and institutions of
higher learning to estahlish high train-
ing standards evaluated in terms of the
usefulness of such trained personnel to
society.

in a growing profession, such as Is
recreation, wisely planned and sound-
ly executed undergraduate education
is, or should be, the center of the train-
ing program. Practically all of the
training developments in recreation.

beginning with the preparation of the
first Normal Course in Play in 1907
and leading up to the National Con-
ference or: Undergraduate Preparation
for llealth Education, Physical Educa-
tion and llecreation in 1948. were
milestones in the advance of recreation
leadership training and the inevitabil-
ity of the colleges and universities in
accepting such training as a major re-
sponsibility.

The Jackson's Mill report provided
a solid foundation for the systematic
unfolding of undergraduate recreation
in its early stages. Many of its recom-
mendations have been and will con-
tinue to be applied wherever institu-
tions of higher learning are deter-
mined to provide undergraduate pro-
fessional preparation on a high plane.
l'iqually significant. the Jackson’s Mill

 

Cmauzs K. Bamurem. is director of
recreation training. University of NH-
nm': School of Physical Education.

128

report now serves as a springhoard to
refining, expanding, implementing and
improving these national findings es-
tablished a full college generation ago.

The many basic and technical prob-
lems involved in the undergraduate
training of recreation personnel are ac-
companied, and sometimes preceded
hy other significant and related tasks

few of the basic questions which must
be answered if the problem of under-
graduate training for recreation is to
be approached intelligently and with
satisfactory results.

As a preliminary step in organizing
the work of the Sub-Committee on Un-
dergraduate Training, National Advis-
ory Committee on Recruitment, Train-

UNDERGRADUATE

with which the planners of academic
preparation must deal. One of these
issues is the need for interpreting the
breadth, depth and seepe of recreation
in modern living to the public, the
educators, and to other related fields.
Unfortunately, in the minds of count-
less laymen, edueators, government
ollieials, health and medical authori-
ties and social workers. recreation is
still thought of mainly as physical ac-
tivities on a playground. Too many
communities are still employing the
local, popular athlete even though
trained personnel is available. Until
those who do the hiring in the public
and voluntary eonnnunity agencies. in
the hospitals. in the industries and elm-
where, can be convinced that trained
personnel should be employed. it will
matter little how many people are put
in the field. Secondly. there is need to
quickly and accurately determine the
status of undergraduate training re-
sources in the l'nited States. What in-
stitutions are providing these oppor-
tunities? How and to what extent is
the job being done? What are the
facts? What is the present and within
the predictable future situation with
respect to employment opportunities in
the recreation field? These are but a

ing and Placement of Recreation Per-
sonnel, the opinions of the Sub-Com-
mittee's members were sought with re-
spect to the range of problems in-
volved. Some idea of issues involved
can be secured from the types of ques-
tions raimd and the observations which
were made. These were as follows:

How can there be established a cen-
tral placement agency through which
professionally trained recreation peo-
ple can move progressively from one
level or type of responsibility to that
of greater responsibility? How can
placement, guidance and follow-up be
strengthened ?

llow can the methods of selecting
candidates to undertake undergraduate
recreation training be improved?
What devices. if any. can be used or
developed in the screening of poten-
tial recreation personnel? How may
methods and standards of selection, re-
cruitment and admissions be advanced
generally?

ls there a need for setting forth
clearly a set of principles, characteris-
ties and criteria for adequate recrea-
tion curricula? If so. how may such
factors be effectively determined? Can
and should the undergraduate curricu-
lum prepare the student for specializa-

liacamnos

tion, or must specialization be deferred
until graduate study is undertaken? Is
there wisdom in making recommenda-
tions on curriculum with regard to
specific course content? How much
credit (number of hours) should be
required for an undergraduate major
in recreation? In order to provide rec-
reation leadership, to what extent, if

TRAINING

any, should undergraduate training in
recreation be coupled with training in
allied fields, such as physical educa-
tion, and resulting in a composite ma-
jor? How great is the need to develop,
within the recreation curriculum,
courses which students in allied fields
(e.g. physical education, forestry, oc-
cupationa] therapy, and the like)
should take? How much emphasis
should bc given in undergraduate
training to hroad background and
general education? How' may “educa-
tion for leisure” for all students bc
most effectively included in under-
graduate study?

What criteria should be established
for judging the faculty and staff, the
facilities and cquipmcnt, the financial
resources, ahd sundry teaching aids of
collegcs and universities?

What steps should be taken in the
identification of recreation personnel?
How can ccrtification and licensing be
applied so as to assure the quality of
recreation service, provide protection
for the individual who has prepared
for the profession, conserve the invest-
ment and continuing interest of the
training institution and assist the em-
ployer in the procurement of qualified
recreation personnel?

DECEMBER 1952

How may campus resources be pro-
vided and used so as to provide a
maximum of recreation opportunities
for all students and a laboratory of
learning for recreation trainees? To
what extent can participation in cam-
pus recreation influence the attitude of
all students, after graduation, with re-
spect to the need for and importance of

 

by Charles K. Brightbill

recreation in their communities?

How can agencies and executives co-
operate with the cducational institu-
tions to strengthen training? What do
the consumer and employing agencies
expect of the recipient of the bachelor’s
degree in recreation? How may a
workablc system of internships and
“educational” leaves be established to
the satisfaction of the training institu-
tion and the operating agency? How
may opportunities for field experience
by undergraduate students be effective-
1y planned and conducted?

What guideposts can be established
in helping the studcnt “select” a school
or collegc for recreation training?
What media and plan of distribution
may best serve such purposes?

Is therc a currcnt need for accredit-
ing colleges and universities in the
field of recrcation? How may this best
be accomplished? Should institutions
of higher learning be encouraged to
specializc in some phase of recreation
training—pcrhaps on a regional basis?

What principlcs, findings, criteria,
and the like have application to gradu-
ate as well as undergraduate study in
recreation training?

The questions mentioned above,
then, are some—-—not all—of the prob-

Personnel

lems requiring exacting exploration in
undergraduate recreation training. It
will not be enough to find satisfactory
answers to them, or merely to agree
upon a plan of action. Once the ap-
proach and direction are determined,
it will be necessary for the entire rec-
reation profession and its supporters
to help realize and give actuality to
their highest hopes.

Committee Members

E. Dana Caulkins, White Plains,
New York

Charles B. Cranford, San Francisco
State College

Fred M. Coombs, Pennsylvania State
College

Leon Green, University of Idaho
Walter E. Hager, Wilson Teachers
College, D.C.

Edwin L. Haislet, University of
Minnesota

Thomas I. Hines, North Carolina
State College

Norman F. Kunde, University of
Washington

Thomas W. Lantz, Tacoma, Wash-
ington
Harold D. Meyer, Chapel Hill, North

Carolina

D. K. Stanley, University of Florida
Earl Kauffman, University of Ken-
tucky

C. K. Brightbill, University of 11-

linois (Chairman)

Help Fight TB

Christmas Greetings
© u SA

 

Buy Christmas Seals
429

 

Santa Claus in a Trailer

A large, new trailer in Court House
Square, in l’elrin, Illinois, was “home”
to Santa Claus for ten days last year,
prior to Christmas day. Sponsored by
the playground and recreation depart-
ment and merchants of the city, the
trailer was gay with Christmas deco-
rations, including a tree. About five
thousand children called on Santa
during his visit, made known their
Christmas wishes and received sacks
of candy and nuts. A mail drop was
installed in the trailer, where letters
to the old gentlemen could he posted
by those who arrived after his regular
visiting hours. In cooperation with
the local post ollice authorities, a
Santa Claus post olliee was also main-
tained, through which all letters to
Santa, arriving either from the trailer
or through the mails, were answered
with an especially printed Sautagram.

Wanted! Safe Sliding Areas
for Our Children

Public-minded firms of Portland,
.llaine, arranged for a full-page pres-
entation under this heading in the
Sunday Telegram and Sunday Press
Herald, last December, to publicize
the results of the study of street slid-
ing problems which had been con-
ducted by the park and recreation
department. A chart listed the sliding
areas proposed for the winter season

twenty-eight strecL-t in eleven neigh-
borhoody and showed the mnnber of
schools and children in each neighbor-

430

hood and the average number of chil-
dren who would be served by each
street. Servicing of the streets was de-
scribed: each street to have a deep
sand belt at least fifty feet long, and
to be closed at top and bottom by
wooden horses. bearing lanterns which
would be serviced daily. Safe sliding
rules for children, hints to parents and
hints to motorists were given. “Safe-
guard our children’s lives—they are
the citizens of tomorrow!” was the
slogan adopted for the program.

They’re Proud!

Glendale, California, of the fact that
its float has won an award in the
New Year’s Day Tournament of Roses
every year since 1920, including ten
sweepstakes. The floats have been built
under the supervision of the division
of parks and recreation.

Arlington County, Virginia, of the

year’s attendance record of 1,299,816
-——an increase of 292,187 over that of
1950-51.
‘ Kingtnan,Kansas (population 3,200),
that it has been able to employ its
first recreation director—the smallest
city in the Midwest to engage a year-
round executive.

Elmira, New York, of its successful
1952 swimming program—attendance,
120,052; total revenue, $11,480—one
of its best records in thirty years of
operation. Sanitary conditions and
purity of water in the two local pools
have been eonnnended by both the
regional director of the lled Cross
and the state department of health.

W illiston, North Dakota, of its new
canteen which, open only on Friday
and Saturday evenings, attracted in
its first year, over 9,000 participants
and over 250 in membership. It is
administered by a representative coun-
cil of tecn-agers.

Finance Note
Each of the ten playgrounds active
during the past summer in Highland
Park, Michigan, contributed toward
the costs of their weekly special proj-
ects by collecting and selling coat
hangers to cleaning firms.

Successful Hobby Program
More than 450 boys and girls were
registered last year in after-school

stamp collecting clubs conducted at
the ten public schools in lF’oalregan,
lllinois, in cooperation with the Lake
County Philatelic Society and local
stamp dealers. Exhibits were held in
all schools and the best frames were
featured at the county society’s exhibit.
Arrangements have now been com-
pleted by the playground and recrea-
tion board’s director, whereby high
school students may actively partici-
pate in the society’s regular meetings
and programs.

Safety Report

Figures released during the National
Safety Congress, which was held in
October in Chicago, indicate that in-
creased emphasis on safety education
should be a part of every program.
The nation’s traflic accident problem
was characterized as "America's public
enemy number one,” by Secretary of
Counnerce, Charles Sawyer, before the
annual meeting of the President’s Safe-
ty Conference. The latter was organ-
ized in 19-16 for the exchange of ideas
on how to prevent traflic fatalities.
Traflic accident losses totaled more
than 3.4 billion dollars in 1951. Esti-
mated firc losses in the United States
for September represented an increase
of 10.4 per cent over those of Septem-
ber, 1951. From a study of claim
records of children insured in its in-
dustrial department, the Metropolitan:
Life lusuraucc Company has found
that accidents claim about six thou-
sand lives annually among children
of from five to fourteen years of age.
Accidents involving motor vehicles are
the leading cause of death, drowning is
second, burns and conflagrations are
third and firearm accidents, falls,
strangulation and electric current are
additional means of injury (Statistical
llnlletin, September, 1952).

One step toward education was taken
by the Greater New York Safety Coun-
cil jointly with the National Safety
Council, in staging an hour-long pa-
rade of three thousand marchers, two
dozen elaborately decorated floats,
eighteen bands and representatives of
government, civic and safety organiza-
tions. The first such event ever held
in New York City. the parade was
witnessed by approxiumtely 100,000
persons.

R scenarios:

Decorations

Situp Iificd

05:55. H.553 Unoo~5:o:u

65:5 55:55 355355|W555 :5 55:55
W: :5 51mg: 5:: 5:: 55:." o: :5 :5-
5:5: 5::. o: :5 53:5. 5555 :5 m5?
5:. :5 55:55. 5::: 5 53. 55: 5:5: 9.
on5%5:. :55: 55.5mm; 3:5 5:5:m :5 55:-
o: :55 :zécmr 5: :5 5:55 o: 55:55 no
:55: :H :55 5:555m. OE 5:0:m :5 :55
5::. 5:55. 5:55.: 5555 5.:o<m:m 555::
E: 55 %o: 9: 5:5 8 z.

 

65:55:25.5: o... 59.5.. 55:55 «mammal:
€55 _:5:% 35::55: 5555 55 Ho _5 55.
5515 :5 £555 5: 55:55 :: 5 5:5 5 55::
:55 :55 535:5. 53:. 5 5:55 5555.

5:53 5:555 05: :5 55m:% 5:: 5:55:_% 5:: 5H
55 :55.

 

U555: HEBREW

355 mm 5 acmor 5:: 55:55 55:5: 5:. "55:55::m 5 55:55.: 5 5
55:9,... 5.5:. OH :55 5:. 5555.. U55. :5 :mmmm: 0: mi: 5555::
5:55 35:5? :5: 3. 5.53::m 555$. 9:5: 5:5:m :5 :55 0:. :5
:55: o: 5: 5::—555:5: 5:::m 55555 5.555 5: 55:55 o: :3.
3555. E55 :5 :55: 555: o: :5 53.59 5 :5 :55555: 5::. 5::—5
705:5 r :E:_% m: 5:55. 555:. 555 :5 55:5 @555: :55 5::: 5

ZWmOFM
n29 47:10.“. v

          

hOm ._. @NCM I

0....

8302

$0202“,

Omumnd 4.0 Wm
UHOOPP4MO

mo: 725:: cm 555 5: 05:5: :55: M: 5555 552:3 8. 5:55 :5
5:54:55: 55:55.55. :. :5 :55: mm 5 :5 3555555: 8 5 :m_: 55:55:
55.55:. :55 5555:55: 5555:. 55:3 55% :5 :5: 5555: 0:. 55—55:
702:5? .255 :55: 5555 55% :5 :5: 0:55 5:: 055 5m5m:..

(Fold Back)

0

5555.55 :3. Hi:

 mmE—o—mmmcn— 5559-5335
/

 

55555525 5 :53 S :5: :3

55:5 5.5 553 :5 0:5: 5 :55 55555::m 5:: 5:55:55 55:? $55 55
5 52 :55 5 555 ::5 5:: 5:0: :: 55:52.5::m 5:: 55::m :5 :5
HERBEmm 275:: 55 55 55535: 3 5 ro::5% S. 5 552% 55 mnemH::m mm
8 5 E3::5% 55:5. .255 55 5555 ::55m 5:55: 55% :5 :5: m: :58?
5::m 5H 5:% :55 o: :5 :55:

H: :5 E5555 mgmm

::::5_ 5:5::::m o: :5 :5555:o:m mm :55" :35 5::: 5 5:55: mnocw 05
55:55:55 5:5 59:: :5 5575: :5:5. :5 H55 5:: 5505:: 0:. :55-
55:55 5 .5 55:. 555155 5:: 5:55:53 59:5: 5:: :5 :55
5.55:: :55: :5 5:35: 5 m5: :5 mo: :55. 5:5 :35 55:55:55 :5
5:5 5:: 5:55 o: :5 55.: 5:: :5 5:55” %o: 5::: 5 55:55. 7:5: 55:
:5 :95 5::: :5555:o:m Ho. 5555 5: 5:55: o: m555~ 5::: m: 5
:5302 555. 55.55 5:::mm :: 5 Em: m5: 9. 55:55:55. 5 555%. ::-
35:5— 5::8155 :: 5 555. 255:" 75:. 5:: mo 5::... @555. 555-
TE% 35:5: 5:: 53.5:m5: :5505:o:m 55 :55 5:55:55 :5: 5 :0” 0:
55:55.55 5:: 55% 5:5 :55? 55:5 :55 5553:m :5 :5505:o:m 55
57:55: 55 :550355 55 :55 :9. 55::m :55 :5. m3 :5: 55555:
555:5:5 55% :5 5-55: 55:% :55. 0:5 :55 35:5 55 55:5. 5::
%o: 552 5:55. 5:5: 5:: :55. :5535:o:m 55 Ho :5 155:. :5 59:-
555 E5: 55% :5 5515: 3 :5 5:5 mac: 5:. :5555 5:: 5555.55
5535 cm :5 («our :55m55:.

mmnmm>._._02. 05535... Sun

Sing» lifted

"(moral ions

:10—0 5 :05: 0:05
:11: 150.50 5 1055; 0a .55 055E .0050: 5 0550 1505110
51: 5.5.— 91 5 50.1 mambo—5 15 :05... 10550 5 0055—0 10.5001
0:1 MES—05 .3 55m: 0.1 5 0.20 51 :0 9115501 5.55 5 0.55.
:0. 0: 50: 5:1 mm 05; 91 00.5 10:55 0: .55 555$ .50: 0.1

03.... 0:.
3.150000

“3.de ddal‘m

 

5 13:055.— 15 00%.: 0:0 5 501:0: 0.5 5:1 00 .55: 5 0550 51
05:033.. .05.: 0.1 :05 355 15 0:05— 5:55: 5 005.: 15 .50:
:11 .11: 5.5.. :05 :53 55.30 w:0_ 0:; 0.515030: 50,—. .395: z
15; 0. 1.50: .5 0005 x50.— 0 0. x :0: 1:: 020:0 10.5001 0.1 25 0:1:
:04030 0.1 1:0m .25; 15 .550: 5 50.1: :11: 105.50 0.1.: 000—020
5 :51 015: 0 910: 0105 0A x150 .50 55%: 00mm 090— 0:100.=m_

50150009 0350—.

50:0 10111 035000: 5 002w 0.1 .5 00m10 51 w:0_: 1 “5:5 5 52w
.51 :0 051 5 1 5.5201 1:: 5:350:00 500.5 10:51.: 0 01 .55.:
5 5:05: :55. 0 :m 005: :50 5 0.5135 0 9.100: 5— 015: 30::
0:00 5 50:00 5 0.3 £0251 :05: 00.: 5 :05: 00001 50.; 50 00.5:
.:0:... _1_.: 1055001 30.05: 05— 55 005153 .0500 0051: 0 .5.”—

.0550
1:00 .11: E 10:: 1:: 015 “.5355 E 10::
.50 :wmm01 01:50 0 .5 £000: 0: 05:. :wcmté
.50.; :wmm0ez 51:: 105.5001 051:0 10:011....
.5305: 901:0"... 0:1 50:: E0101 0.1 wcmai
._0._ .2550 .3 011:; 51 :0 1055..— ..9001 0.1
15 .:01:1: 0.1 5 015:0 51 :0 10:5 01 :05
5510; 10.1001 mm 50:0 155. 5 0515.: 151
.2100 0 :21: .515”.— 5 05505—0 .5._ 1.1550
1:: 0515055: 3.550100 3 03,—. .0550 5.5:
.11: 50.1 5.15:: 03 mm 0:015: 055001
5 0.5.: 01:50 1:: 00105:: 7.05 0.1 .5 0:0

.3055 4.000...
0300 .000 02...:30

aido. at: 022050

lam—E

 

0.5015.”

(Fold Alon; This Line)

0

.03 5. .25 50> 307: .0::0.»< .11."— _=. 5 30—001 0.0.50.5 1.00— 50: 050
-1001. .5558 051500552 0950.5 .3 10.3153 amaucum .8055 .00.:20k
00a 50.150002 50 5 1:00. 00 .55 5.03 501005 05:. .55 15. 0.1:...

 

A55 w555001 0.1 5 :5; 05 0.01

00550.1: 0.. 0013 1—0: 5 100: on :00 00.3 .5005 100:1.— .h155555m
50:5 5 2.5: :0100: :0 .05105001 5.55; .510 5 50:50:.“
5 5&5— 1050105 .11: m5...— 100 0.5.1... 0.1 155.5 10.1.: 5 10:5
35:0 01 :00 300.005 :01: 5 0&5? .— 50 25

“Hum 50 000......001 500 0.1.3 .5555; “005.1 0 5 :01...

M M500 .3: 5 050:0 :00 551 155.5 10:25.. 25:0;

.. 0.5... 0:5 :0.“ 0 6:00: 5:1,: 0 .5._ 5:030: 115.00

.1. w.“ng :3 050.: 0 5 0.550 0015— 55:.— _1_.: 105.5

.001 0; 50 :51 0.015% 05155...» 0 5._ 5005

0 m. \gN/Qw 51:.— 0.:100.=0 .30.» .5._ 05.. 21 5 0:0." 50

 5:1 35... 5050.: 0 5 n— .050__0m 0.50.5001 51
MSPMaU— J 5 5050010 0: 10.1.: 0._ :00 0.3: 1.5 05.5.

355 55 05:3

.52 0:: 0.1 15: 0. 5—00; 51 10:05
1:00.: 5:1 0.5 0.5: .5 015.— .0005 05_ 50105001 5 0:: 0.1 0&5 0.
0:1: 01 0:0; 35.5.50 .15 0—05— 0.1 51:: 50: 50 0:1: 01 2:..." .1
.5 1:0 £000 5 15; 000—5 .505: 0:0 10:05:50 mm 0.3.: £000 :01?
.0001: 0.1 :0 0001— :m 1015: 5
.10550 .1555 .3150 0: .:0: :00 50105002 .500: 0.1 $0.50 50115
51:10 5 10.1001 .5 00.1.: .505 .5 :00:< .0 050.— :0 1 050.00. 1::
5.301 0—0:; 15 a 005—: Q 0.5 0:050 55051 a: .10.: 010550 05 :0
U 050.— .51:: 15 500: 0.1 50:00 .1. .400; 001:: 15 :.:01 0—00..
.1 0.510 m 0:0 50:00 .5551 Q: 500.. 0.1 5 0110 0:0 :0 1. 050.—
50.; 0.1.: .5 0005 0 55 .20.:0_ 9.110.: 5015.500 0 5 5. .50: 0.1
5.0...— .00._ 0...: 50555055: #00: 0 00:5 .0.:.0 305.." £000 __50=._01:.J
50150001 .5.“ 550; 101001 0.1 5 500.. 0.1 .5 0011.... 51 w:05 :0.
0 5 00:0 30:00 000—; .001: 15 .0050; .005 30.5.." 5 01.: 0.1 .3 mm 55
.100 :53 ~11: 500.. 0 5 50105001 10015.5 5: 0: 5.: 01:50 <

 

.50250009 «5250

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP
Statement required by the act of August 24, 1912, as
amended by the acts of March 3, 1933, and July 2, 1946
(Title 39, United States Code Section 233) showing the
ownership, management, and circulation of
RECREATION, published monthly except July and August
at New York, N.Y., for October 1, 1952.

1. The names and addresses of the publisher, editor,

managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth
Avenue, New York 10, N.Y.

Editor-in-Chief: Joseph Prendergast, 315 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York 10, N.Y.

Editor: Dorothy Donaldson, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N.Y.

Business Manager: Rose J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York 10, N.Y. '

2. The owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name
and address must be stated and also immediately there-
under the names and addresses of stockholders owning or
holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not
owned by a corporation, the names and addresses of the
individual owners must be given. If owned by a partner-
ship or other unincorporated firm, its name and address,
as well as that of each individual member, must be given.|

National Recreation Association, Inc., 315 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York 10, N.Y., a non-profit organization. The
oflicers are: Otto T. Mallery, Chairman of the Board; Paul
Moore, Jr., First Vice-President; Mrs. Ogden L. Mills,
Second Vice-President; Susan M. Lee, Third Vice-Presi-
dent and Secretary of the Board; Adrian M. Massie, Treas-
urer; Gustavus T. Kirby, Treasurer Emeritus; Joseph
Prendergast, Secretary. (Addresses care of National Recre-
ation Association, as above.)

3. The known bondholders, mortgagees, and other se-
curity holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of
total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are:


"The Choice of those who play the Game”

@145ng

Sports Equrpment

CINCINNATI ° CHICAGO ° NEW YORK ° LOS ANGELES

 

DECEMBER 1952

(If there are none, so state.)

None (nonprofit organization).

4. Paragraphs 2 and 3 include, in cases where the stock-
holder or security holder appears upon the books of the
company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation. the
name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee
is acting; also the statements in the two paragraphs show
the afliant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circum-
stances and conditions under which stockholders and se-
curity holders who do not appear upon the books of the
company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capac-
ity other than that of a bona fide owner.

5. The average number of copies of each issue of this
publication sold or distributed, through the mails or other-
wise, to paid subscribers during the 12 months preceding
the date shown above was: This information is required
from daily, weekly, semiweekly, and triweekly newspapers
only.)

Dorothy Donaldson, Editor
Sworn to and subscribed before me this 10th day of

September, 1952
Miriam S.C. Dochtermann, Notary Public, State of 1New

York
No. 30-6043400
Qualified in Nassau County. Certificate filed with New

York County Clerk and Register. Term expires March 30,
1954.

FREE Table Tennis Information

Recreotion Directors, Cooches, Scout Leoders, Y Directors,
others. Nothing to buy. No entry Fee. Simply hold 0 Tobie
Tennis Tourney. We furnish owords, instructions, rules, etc.
FREE. Simply send 0 I cent postcord for informotion.
All-AMERICAN TABLE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
20 E. Jackson RM-7IIB Chicago 4, III.

Finest In the World
For The World's

Greatest Athletes

m: rials-r (H m: tuna .I
IINII'R E .I O COI'OH' a O'. S...‘ O I.

I L .
. ,’
,‘ a ,‘a i/
“ nu “311;,

 

433

 

Photomurals

New Photomurals for wall decorat-
ing, produced from a library of photo-
graphs taken by leading cameraman,
ofler a choice of many themes—moun-
tain scenes, rural scenes, city pano-
ramas, sport historic land-
marks, and so forth; or they can be
made from your own negative if it
is  by 3% inches or larger. These
murals come in black and white, sepia,

scenes,

or full color; ready for easy hang-
ing. For further information on scenes
available, sizes, and price data, write

Mr. Dale, HCS Studios, 123 North
Wacker Drive, Chicago 6, lllinois.

New Cub Engine For Radio
Control Flying

The number of devotees of radio
controlled model plane 'llying has
steadily increased since the Federal
Communications Commission estab-
lishcd a “citizens’ band” earlier this
year. Formerly, in order to fly radio
Controlled model planes, modelers had
to qualify as full-fledged “ham” opera-
tors by taking thorough tests in radio
theory and communications practice.
Now, however, any modeler is allowed
to fly his ship by radio control on
the citizens’ band (27 or 456 mega-
cyelcs) by filing a registration form
with Washington or a district chernl
Communications Commission ollice.

To meet the growing demand, ller-
kimcr Tool and Moch Works, lncor-
porated, llerkimcr, New York, are
manufacturing a new class "A" engine,
the 0K Cub .14, which weighs only
2% ounces [total load weight of en-
gine, receiver and batteries is 17
ounces) and has a superior powcr-to-
weight ratio. As a result, it delivers
excellent performance while carrying

431

sturdier radio equipment even in

bumpy air.

Little Kid Basketball Equipment

Here is good news for sports di-
rectors who have been looking for a
simple way to adapt regulation size
basketball facilities to the use of eight-
to twelve-year olds.

“Little Kid” is supplementary gym-
nasium equipment that converts exist-
ing indoor or outdoor basketball facili-
ties to youngsters’ specifications in
less than five minutes’ time, without
harm to the existing equipment. It has
been engineered to allow for all the
variables in regulation equipment, and
it is equally easy to install on fan-
shaped, glass, or wooden backboards.

 

The ball is 27 inches in circumference

and the hoop is reduced in scale to
16%: inches in diamctcr. Both the hoop
and the bracket fold neatly against the
backboard. It is adjustable in hcight,
at live 2%: inch intervals, from 8 feet
to 8 feet 10 inches from the floor (in
the picture, the hoop is at its highcst
cxtcnsion). it is portable and can be

carried in the trunk or back seat of
a car, and may be stored in a small
space when not in use. '

Cost of the adjustable model is
$175.00 a pair. Also available is a
non-adjustable model at $135.00 a
pair. For further information on this
practical, new gymnasium equipment,
write to Little Kid Basketball, Incor-
porated, Box 188, Ashland, Massachu-
sctts.

14th Annual Toy Yearbook

The 14th annual edition of the book-
let which Forbes Magazine (1950)
called “the social register of toyland,”
and which Colh'er's (May 1952) hailed
as “the bible of the industry,” is avail-
able without chargc through Toy Guid-
ance member stores from coast to
coast; or copies can be secured by
writing to Toy Guidance Council, 1124
Broadway, New York 10, New York,
and enclosing ten cents in stamps.

Presented in full color illustrations,
on sixty-four pages, are 250 toys—
each voted “an outstanding example
of its type” by educational and in-
dustry experts representing Toy Guid-
ance Council. Each toy is described,
classified by age suitability and ana-
lyzcd according to functional play
purposes.

The objective of Toy Guidance Coun-
eil is to direct the attcntion of parents
to better grade American-made toys
which will aid the development of
children.

This year, 873 manufacturers, rcp-
resenting the majority of the country’s
leading toy firms, submitted more than
3,000 difl'ercnt playtools for the Coun-
cil’s consideration. Toys were checked
for safety, and then during a three
day meeting. with open discussion and
voting. the list was pared down to
those 250 outstanding playtbings rep-
resented in the yearbook.

SnoboB

A new invention for sports fun all
winter long incorporates the best fea-
tures of the ski, the toboggan and
the regular stccl runnercd sled. Three
hard birch runncrs support the ma-
rine plywood riding platform and give
the SnoboB ample support for fast
riding in loose snow. Stccl guide rails
on the bottom of the skis keep it from

RECREATION

“side slipping” even on hard packed
snow or ice.

Although speedy, the SnoboB is de-
signed for complete safety. The plat-
form is equipped with a non-skid rub-
ber seat pad; and is ridden in a sit-
ting position with the feet tucked in
cutouts at the front of the riding
platform. The perfect balance of the

 

front ski plus a safety steering spring
adds to the ease and safety of steering.
Steering rope fastened to eyes in the
front ski makes the SnoboB respond
quickly to the slightest tug.

Available in three sizes: 36 inch
size is $19.95; 42 inch size is $24.95;
and the 48 inch size is $29.95. Sold
at hardware and department stores;
manufactured by SnoboB Manufactur-
ing Company, 138 Thirty-ninth Street,
Grand Rapids, Michigan.

TIPS FROM READERS
The True Glue Story

A craft expert has given us the fol-
lowing tips:

For gluing crepe paper twist to
metal, glass or china—use Styl-Craf
glue from Styl-Craf Studio, 1044 North
Curran Avenue, Hollywood, Califor-
nia.

For pasting crepe papcr (flat) to
other paper or cardboard—use Car-
ter’s White Paste.

For other uses—Bond Cement from
Bond Adhesives Company, 255 Wall-
about Street, Brooklyn 6, New York.
—TIIERESA BRUNGARDT, Director of
Recreation, Vermont.

Just Off Press! $1.00

STARTING A
RECREATION PROGRAM
IN A CIVILIAN HOSPITAL

by Beatrice H. Hill

National Recreation Association

DECEMBER 1952

 

   

It’s New!
ACTIVE GAMES
FOR LIVE WIRES

Fifty cents
National Recreation Association

Order Your Copy Now!

SIMPLE PUPPETRY
Fifty cents

National Recreation Association

America?! gineét
Athletic (Equipment

IS BUILT BY

®
FOR CATALOG WRITE: 7‘99- 

W. J. Voit Rubber Corp.
1600 East 25th Street

105 Angel“ "I cum New York 10, Chicago 10, los Angeles 11

Here’s an offer you
will want to accept

To let you become well acquainted with the N ation’s leading maga-
zines in maintenance for the park and recreation industry, we will
send you the next six issues for only one dollar. (Regular price is

$3.00 per year.)

Start now so you will receive the Buyers’ Guide
Directory of over 500 suppliers in our October
issue.

PARK MAINTENANCE

P. O. BOX 409 APPLETON, WISCONSIN

OVER 100 RECREATION
DEPARTMENTS USING
OUR PLASTIC TROPHYS

FREE SAMPLE

WRITE TODAY FOR

W. R. MOODY

704 N. MARIPOSA
BURBANK. CALIF.

Listening and Viewing

Action, last spring, of the Federal
Communications Commission in lift-
ing the three-year freeze on the con-
struetion of new television stations,
and its authorization of 242 ultra
high channels for the use of non-
connnercial educational Use, has stimu-
latcd discussion in print and at na-
tional conferences of the part televi-
sion should play in our daily lives. In-
evitabl y, these discussions have sparked
a rc-evalnation of the whole field of
audi-visual communication. Although
the following articles were not written
specifically for those in the recrea-
tion field, they may prove to be of
interest to the leader who is planning
an audio-visual program.

Education’s Fabulous Inheritance,
Paul A. Walker, NBA Journal, Septem-
ber, 1952. Mr. Walker is chairman,

Federal Communications Commission.
and his articler-thc first in the four-
nal's series on educational television——
is based on an address delivered be-
fore the National Association of l‘idu-
eational Broadcasters.

Toward Greater Maturity, llollis
A. Moore, Jr., The Nation's Schools,
October, 1952. Mr. Moore's title was
the theme of the ninth annual Confer-
ence of the Education Film Library
Association. one of the eight organi-
zations in the field of audio-visual
aids which met in Chicago from July
30 to August 5. The article reviews
the major issues discussed by the
various groUps.

Television: Problems and Possibil-
ties, Robert Lewis Shayon, National
Parent-Teacher, Octoher, 1952. Mr.
Shayon is radio and television critic
of the Christian Science Monitor, co-
editor of radio and television for the
Saturday Review and author of the
chapter on radio and television: in the
new edition of Chili/craft. llc is also
author of Television and Our Children
flnngmans, Green, $1.75 .

Mass Media and Children, an In-

temational View, Josette Frank. Child
Study. Fall. I932. This is a revicu

of the subjects discussed at a con-
gress, organized last spring by the
liniversity of Milan, sponsored by

436

UN ESCO and other agencies, on Press,
Cinema and Radio for the Young.

Safety Films

Safe on Two \Vheels, 10 minutes,
black and white, story of a boy and
his bicycle.

Friend or Foe, 17 minutes, color,
fire prevention.

Live—and Let Live. 10 minutes,
color, uses three-dimensional scale
model animation, filmed from ahove
to give panoramic effect.

Ski Tips, 22 minutes, color.

These are all 16 mm, sound films,
available free from Publication Educa-
tional Department. Actna Lilc Affili-
ated Companies, Hartford 5, Connecti-
cut. Young Folks Enjoy Learning Safe-
ty is the company’s booklet which lists
a number of other free safety films,
including several in color on sports.

Television Note

Designed as a public service to pro-
tect prospective purchasers of tele-
vision rcceivers from irresponsible op-
erators in the industry, is an eleven-
page booklet of basic information. Pub-
lished by the Radio-Television Manu-
facturers Association, in cooperation
with the Better Business Bureaus. lt
is available free from local hurcaus
or retail television dealers.

"The Jeffersonian Heritage"

The enduring ideas of our American
heritage. through the voice of Claude
liains as Thomas Jefferson, have been
presented from educational radio sta-
tions, in excellent, weekly prOgrams
since September 14. The series is pro-
(lnecd by the National Association of
Educational Broadcasters, under terms
of a grant from the Fund for Adult
Education. established by the Ford
Foundation. The research, writing aml
adxice of Professor Dumas Malone.
Department of History. Columbia Uni-
versity, have served us a basis for the
programs. l’ressings of the thirteen
hallohonr programs have now been
released to commercial broadcasting
stations. Recreation departments may
obtain the complete album of 33%

  

  

rpm, twelve-inch recordings for $25.
Write to Frank Schooley, University
of Illinois, Urbana.

“The People Act”

Recordings are also available of
the twenty-six programs in this series,
which were presented over the CBS
radio network hy the Ford Founda-
tion’s TV-Radio Workshop and the
Fund for Adult Education, terminat-
ing on June 29. The records are $1.85
each, or $24.85 for the series of thir-
teen. Order from The People Act
Center, State College, Pennsylvania.
They may be borrowed from the
Federal Radio Education Committee.
United States Office of Education.
Washington, D. C. Printed scripts of
each program and teaching materials
are available to aid in adapting the
recordings to discussion groups.

“Movies” and Children

Although the new edition of The
Children’s Filrn Library and Special
Children’s Programs will not be pub-
lished until next fall, a supplement
to the fourth edition of the pamphlet
has been issued and is available free,
as is the pamphlet, from the National
Children’s Film Library, 28 West 44th
Street. New York 18. When requesting
the pamphlet, ask to have your name
put on the mailing list to receive (also
free) the Joint Estimates of Current
Motion Pictures, a bulletin released
twice a month. The Lihrary’s purpose
is to provide fine films, suitable for
children between the ages of eight and
twelve, for special Saturday programs
in local theatres. The pamphlet con-
tains suggestions for organizing such
programs in your own community.
and lists selected films.

COSTUMES TO RENT

for

CONVENTIONS I PARADES o PAB‘EAN’TS
MINSTRPLS I PLAYS I OPERAS, ETC.

VAN HORN I 50!, "fill. 7, PA.

Conan-non - no.1": - 50nd for folder.

 

we TABLE TENNIS
:0 INSTRUCTIONS

 

“'ntten by Sharon Korhnke. International
Table Tennis Star. For Imitnter and ad-
vanced players-complete with pictures. Also

catalog on paddles. (able: and gift items.
Sent Free. “'rite today to SHARON KAT.
Box R2. Glen Ellyn. Ill.

 

Itacrnznzos'

    
           

 

Vacation ('9) Note
Correspondence with John MacPhee,
:1 RECREATION author, reveals that his
summer was spent in gathering data
from almost every college in the coun-
try which offers a recreation major.

This information is for his thesis,
“Field Work for Undergraduate Ma-
jors in Recreation,” the last require-
ment for his Doctor of Recreation de-
gree from Indiana University. The
project has required a twenty-thou-
sand mile trip from Canada to Louisi-
ana to Puget Sound. Mr. MacPhee
wrote “Seven Steps to Easy Camp
Cookery,” which appeared in the June
issue of the magazine.

A Successful Project

A special teen-age club in Utiea,
New York, all of whose members were
crippled by polio or cerebral palsy,
was organized last spring by Miss
Betty Robbins, as a part of the field
work of her junior year as a recrea-
tion major at State Teachers College,
Cortland, New York. Personal contact
was madc with each boy and girl whose
name appeared on the lists of the
Cerebral Palsy Clinic and the county
orthopedic nurse. To avoid stairs and
steps, thc weekly meetings of the club
were held in a room, on the first floor
of thc Conkling Recreation Center,
which was ncar a special entrance.
Activitics of a typical evening in-
cludcd simple crafts—flower making,
loom weaving—“easy games such as
checkch and puzzles, listening to pop-
ular records and refreshments, in—
cluding birthday cakes at appropriate
times. The club was proclaimed to be
a fine morale builder by the parcnts
of the young pe0ple, and the recrea-
tion department announced its inten-
tion to continue the meetings through
the summer despite cessation of other
community ccntcr activities at the close
of school.

DECEMBER 1952

In the Field

The services of the National Ree-
reation Association, which are availa-
ble to those in the profession, were
the subject of a talk by Waldo R.
Hainsworth to the senior recreation
students of Massachusetts University,
on October 22. As the New England
field representative of the association,
he extended an invitation to the stu-
dents to visit NRA headquarters. He
also addressed the junior students on
the subject of the philosOphy of recre-
ation. His visit to the university was
upon the invitation of Dr. William
Grimshaw, director of the recreation
curriculum.

Hockey

Wilson College, Chambersburg,
Pennsylvania, held its first hockey
camp on its own fields from Septem-
ber 15 to 20, with Miss Ethel Grant
of the Bryn Mawr faculty as coach.
Periods of stick work and technique,
tactics and games between class teams
filled thc daily schedules. The evening
sessions were dcvoted to lectures and
hockey films from the United States
Field Hockey Association.

Note for Travelers

Thirty-five educational and religious
groups, sponsoring student exchange
programs and promoting international
student travel, are members of the
Council on Studcnt Travel, which is
holding its annual conference this
month. Of interest to those seeking
information on programs, particularly
relating to educational opportunities,
is the Thirty-second Annual Report
of the Institute of International Edu-
cation, one of the member groups.
The report lists many free leaflets and
bulletins which are available from the
Institute, One East 67th Street, New
York 21.

PERFECT GIFT

for your friends who are
interested in recreation —-
a subscription to:

Rama/{60%

ONE YEAR —— $3.00
TWO YEARS — $5.50

FOREIGN AND CANADIAN —$3.50

To: NATIONAL RECREATION ASSN.

315 Fourth Avenue
New York l0, N.Y.

Please send gift subscriptions with
my personal greetings to:

Street '
City_____.________Zone_ __

State
El 1 year

[I 2 years

Check for $—

Please bill me

_ _ enclosed

Name
Street
City
State

 

GYM EQUIPMENT

0 Gymnasium Equipment

0 Telescopic Gym Seats
0 Basketball Scoreboards
e Basketball Baekstops

0 Steel Lockers, Loekerobes
and Grade-Robes

Wm {u M
FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,IIIc.

3566 DE KAI! ST. ST. lOUIS i8, M0.

For 78 Years
The Standard OI Quality

 

.‘h“ \l,l.o ‘SIEIII! ‘N

I.’II'.\'II' Iii-ll”.

 

it'stops in grillsl Positive six-way draft
eontroi provides faster, easier lire Itin-
dling. saves incl, guarantees tenderer,
juicier charcoaled steaks, chops and bar-
becues. Anterican's many plus-features
ensure perfect lifetime performance.

Shipped fully assembled.

     
    

STATIONARY PORTA BL}:
mum no lbs. Ram [60151.
cont I‘M-1TB COM I'LFZTFZ

s r- s r-
5351"  7"

IATINFO IINDINO

      

‘._l

0:» mm.- »- snonm em term

.‘Sllilili'.\.\

I’l.“ls“0l ‘D Iii-J" I! C 0.-
\‘0I!Il§0‘§. I‘IDI ‘\ S

438

Books Received

 

AMERICAN SCHOOL AND UNIvERSITv,
Volume twenty-four. American
School Publishing Corporation, New
York. $5.00.

BASKETBALL TECIINIQUES ILLUSTRAT-
ED, Forrest Anderson. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $1.50.

BETTER BOARD MEETINGS, Mary Swain
Routzahn. NationaI Publicity Coun-
cil for Health and WeIIare Services,
257 Fourth Avenue, New York 10.
$2.00.

BOOK OF HOBBY CRAFT, 'I‘IIE, Glenn A.
Wagner. Dodd, Mead and Company;
New York. $2.75.

EARLY AMERICAN DESIGN MOTIFS, Su-
zanne E. Chapman. Dover Publica-
tions, New York. $3.95.

EDUCATION THROUGII SCHOOL CAMP-
ING, Helen Manley and M. F. Drury.
The C. V. Mosby Company, St.
Louis. $4.50.

FIELD GUIDE TO SIIELLS, A, Percy A.
Morris. Houghton Mifiiin Company,
Boston. $3.75.

FIRST PERFORMANCE, edited by Nora
MacAIvay and Virginia Lee COIner.
Harcourt, Brace and Company, New
York. $3.50.

FOR BOYS ONLY, Frank Howard Rich-
ardson, M.D. Tupper and Love, At-
lanta, Georgia. $2.75.

GOLDEN TREASURY OF NATURAL IIIS-
TORY, THE, Bertha Morris Parker.
Simon and SeIIuster, New York.
35.00.

How TO IMPROVE YOUR CHESS: SEC-
OND STEPS, I. A. Horowitz and Fred

BeinIeId. E. P. Dutton and Com-

pany, Incorporated, N e w Yo r k.
$3.00.

IT’S FUN TO COOK, Adele de Leeuw.
The Macmillan Company, New York.

$2.75.
MANTY THE MANTIS, Captain Burr W.

Leyson. E. P. Dutton and Company,
Ineorporaled, New York. $2.50.

TIME FILLERS, Albert A. Ostrow. IIar-
per and Brothers, New York. $2.50.

CRAFT

"If

no PAOIS...Compiete
Craft Supplies. Tools. De-
signs. instruction Books -
from America's Most Com- '
plete Stock. includes
Leather Crei't. Glove Mek- 5
Int. Lamp Shades. Metal ‘ A,”
Tooling. Cork Crs t’t. Lliest " “F 11'”
Textile Peinte. Shell Creft. iiesltelry. Glass
Etching. RsITIs. Rubber Molds, Fsscinstinz
New i’ictun Crs l’t end Msny Others.

Send For Yew "If Copy NOW. . .

GRIFFIN CRAFT SUPPLIES

56264! Telegraph Ave. 0 Oakland 9, Calii.

   
 
 
 
      

'CATeth
. ‘

TREASURY OF SONGS FOR LITTLE ClllL-
DREN, A. Esther Botwin. Hart Puhli-
cations, New York. $2.00.

YOUR CHILD CAN BE HAPPY IN BED.
Cornelia Stratton Parker. Thomas
Y. CroweII Company, New York.

$2.95.

Pamphlets

FORTY \VAYS TO FUN AND SERvICE. Girl
Scouts of the U.S.A., 155 East 4-ith
Street, New York 17. $.25.

GUIDE FOR DAY CAMPING. Camp Fire
Girls, Incorporated, 16 East 48th
Street, New York. $.25.

NEw RESOURCES BRING NEw OPPOR-
TUNITIES, Director of Defense Mobi-
Iization. Superintendent of Docu-
ments, United States Government

Printing Oliice, \Vashington 25, D.C.
$.30.

, RESIDENT CAMP STANDARDS. Camp Fire

Girls, Incorporated, 16 East 48th
Street, New York. $.75.

ROCNEFELLER FOUNDATION, TIIE,
Chester I. Barnard. The BockeIeIIer
Foundation, 49 \Vest 49III Street,
New York City.

STATE PROVISIONS FOR SCIIOOL LUNCII
PROGRAMS, Murtis Keeis Jeiiers. Su-
perintendent of Documents, United
States Government Printing Olliee,
Washington 25, D.C. $.20.

SUGGESTED LAND SUBDIVISION REGULA-
TlONS. Superintendent of Documents,
United States Government Printing
Oiiicc, Washington 25, D.C. $.45.

YOUNG GERMANY. Superintendent of-
Documents, United States Govern-
ment Printing Oiiice, \Vashington
25, D.C. Department of State Pub-
Iication 4251, 3.35.

YOUR CHILDREN’S HEALTII, J. Bos-
weII Gallagher, M.I). Science Ile-
search Associates, 57 West Grand

Avenue, Chicago 10. $.40.

   

Magazines

AMERICAN CITY, October 1952
Practical Steps in the Planning of A
Successful Centennial Celebration,
Genevieve E. Swa rtIIout.
Pensacola Builds Recreation Pier As
Site for Municipal Auditorium,
Oliver .I. Sennncs, Jr.
BEACH AND POOL, October 1952
Availability of Chlorine, SanI Breed-
love.
liaising Funds for Pools and Pool
Equipment.
Choosing Your Pool Site.

RECREATION

 

Starting a Recreation Program
in a Civilian Hospital
Beatrice H. Hill. National Recreation

Association, New York. $1.00.

Here is a “first” in a new field in
recreation literature! To date there
have been no books or pamphlets in
this field, except those available to the
personnel in military or veterans’ hos-
pitals. This pamphlet is designed to
help the neophyte in a civilian hospital
understand and plan effectively for
hospital recreation.

As the author frankly states, it is
not a textbook but simply a manual
that indicates methods that have becn
used effectively, and which may be
successful in other hospital recreation
situations. The manual defines recrea-
tion, according to Webster, as “the re-
freshment of the spirit.” From this
broad definition the aims of hospital
recreation are stated, and the specific
objectives are defined in terms of the
needs and interests of different types
of paticnts. The necessary steps to meet
these specific objectives are then an-
alyzed in detail.

The hospital recreation program is
discussed from the standpoint of the
needs and interests of the tuberculosis,
ncuro-psychiatric, chronic, long-term,
child and rchabilitation patient. Pro-
gram suggestions are made for parties,
trips, entertainment, and hobby groups.
Emphasis is placed on the need to usc
patients in the organization of the pro-
gram through patients’ councils, and
as voluntccr leaders in the operation
of the program. The importance of
community voluntecrs and resources is
also stresscd.

This manual fills a real need in the
field of hospital recreation. It has no
prctcnsions, but it states its case clearly
and concisely, and will help the leader,

DECEMBER 1952

new Publications

Covering the

Leisure-time Field

in this relatively new and developing
field of recreation, to a better under-
standing of his job—Edith L. Ball,
Associate Professor in Education. In
charge of recreation curriculum at

New York University.

The’ Recreation Leader
E. O. Harbin. Abingdon-Cokesbury

Press, Nashville, Tennessee. 1952.

$1.50.

Mr. Harbin’s new book is based on
the three-fold premise that to provide
effective leisure time activities, a
church recreation program must:

1. Have a sound philosophy of rec-

reation.

2. Have a sound recreation program.

3. Have intelligent and skilled lead-

crship.

This book is designed as a text for
new, inexperienced leaders or organ-
izations interested in church and com-
munity recreation, and as a refresher
for those interested in doing a better
job in this field. It is simple in presen-
tation, and sound in philosophy. The
chapter on “Cultural and Creative Rec-
reation” is perhaps too simple, and we
wish that Mr. Harbin had expanded
this important area that is usually the
most neglected.

The chapter on “Community Recre-
ation” is only three and a half pages in
length, but strcsses the importance of
cooperation between churches and
other private and public agencies Spon-
soring and conducting recreation pro-
grams. The criteria in this chapter
surcly should read “Criteria for a
Community Recreation Program” in-
stead of Room, since no room could
possibly provide such services. Prob-
ably a typographical error—hit happens
to the best of publishers!

Mr. Harbin gives a great many ref-

erences to resource material, at chap-
ter ends and as a separate list near the
end of his book. He has neglected,
however, to include reference to the
many inexpensive helps published by
the National Recreation Association-—
booklets and books that are in wide
use by recreation leaders in churches
and communities throughout the coun-
try. We can’t help but feel that their
inclusion would have been helpful to
those who will use his book.-———Virginia
Musselman, Program Service, NRA.

Songs to Sing with Recreational
Instruments
lrving Cheyette and Albert Renna.

Theodore Presser Company, Bryn

Mawr, Pennsylvania. $.60.

Here is a publication which should
be a handy help in the organization of
small informal musical groups. It is
adapted particularly to those centering
about the so-called social or recre-
ational instruments. These include,
however, the more complicated types,
such as the piano, violin and flute, in
addition to the simpler instruments
such as the harmonica, banjo, ukelele
and rhythm instruments. All can be
used to accompany singing and thus to
extend participation and enjoyment.

The booklet contains the words and
melodies of thirty-six songs, of the
folk and old favorite variety, with
chords and fingering charts for the
piano, piano accordion, autoharp, uke-
lele, guitar, tenor banjo and harmonica
—in other words, props for players
who have not advanced beyond the
rudiment of study. Two pages are de-
voted to some of the Latin-American
rhythm instruments, with indications
of characteristic rhythms—Gertrude
Borchard, Correspondence and Consul-
tation Service, NRA.

439

RECREATION PUBLICATIONS

FOR RECREATION LEADERS

Material to aid you in your recreation planning, organization, admini-
stratian, facilities, leadership and program. Order the publications you

need from the National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New Yark 10, New York.

Facilities, Layout and Equipment

Unusual ideas in Playground Equipment (P 123) $.35
Suggestions on out-of-the-ordinary apparatus for the
budget-minded director.

Playground Surfacing'f—Two articles: Piayground
Accidents Prompt Surfacing Study, and Ettperlments
with Surfacing Under Apparatus . . . . . $.25

Schaai Grounds Designed for Community Usef—
Fundamental principles of pianning school grounds
to meet the needs of the various age levels, stand-
ards and planning suggestions . . . . . $.15

Surfacing Playground Areas (MP 219)'-An account
of experiments in a number of cities in developing
playground surfacing . . . . . . . . . $.35

Leadership

Group Worker in the Recreation Center, The, by
Dr.GroceLCoylef . . . . . . . . . $.10

Recreation Salaries 1952"l'—-A study based on in.
formation from 148 recreation departments repre-
senting more than 2,000 full-time workers. Results
analyzed by population and by geographic location.
Aiso information on car allowances, vacations, sick
leave and civil service status . . . . . . $.25

leadership Self-EvaluationL-A Checklist (P 95)‘ 5.25
(Issue No. 12 of the "Playground Summer Notebook"
for 1952)

Using Volunteers in a Recreation Program, by
Heien M. Dauncey‘f . . . . . . . . . $.10

Organization and Administration

Administrative Planning—its [Hective Use, by
Richard G Mitchellf . . . . . . . . . $.15

Conduct of School Community Centers-Organiza-
tion, facilities, equipment, staff, program and other
pertinent factors ore discussed. . . . . . 350

School Plant as a Community Recreation Center,
The, by George D. Butler*-A reprint from "The
American School and University” discussing trends,
program activities and cooperative agreements in the
recreationai use of school buildings . . . . $.25

Summaries of Questionnaires on Community
Sports and Athletics, prepared by Committee on

Community Sports and Athletics of the National Rec-
reation Association

Organization and Administration (P 15)

Reiations with Sports Governing Bodies (P 16)
Nationai, State and Regional Tournaments (P 17)
Set...............$1.00

Survey of Recreation Executives on Competi-
tion in Sports and Athletics for Boys Under
Twelve . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1.00

Philosophy of Recreation

Recreation's Part in Mental Health, by George E.
Gardner'f............$.10

Recreation for Special Groups

Importance of Recreation in Rehebiiitation, The,
by John H Waterman, M.D.‘I’ . . . . . . $.10

Value of Puppetry in o Neuropsychiotric Hos-
pital, The, by Anne Blood*f . . . . . . $.10

Camping and Nature

School Camping as Viewed by the Recreation
Director, by Julian W. Smlth'f . . . . . $.10

Drama

Community 'I'heotre in the Recreation Program,
   e e e e e o e e e e e e 

Planning and Producing a local Pageant (P 46) 5.35

' Material new or revised in 1952
*Material reprinted from RECREATION magazine.

itscnmnox

Recreation Leadership Courses

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

FRANK A. STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

Enterprise, Alabama
December 1-4

Columbiana, Alabama
December 8-11

Greenville, Alabama
December 15-18

Detroit, Michigan
January 6-7

Flint-Saginaw, Michigan
January 8-9

Grand Rapids, Michigan
January 12-13

State of North Carolina
January 12-29

Winston-Salem, NOrth Carolina
February 2-5

Salisbury, North Carolina
February 9-12

Winston County, Alabama
January 5-8

Marshall County, Alabama
January 12-15

Coosa County, Alabama
January 19-22

Washington County, Alabama
January 26-29

Chattanooga, Tennessee
January 5-29

Paducah, Kentucky
February 2-12

Louisville, Kentucky
February 16-26

Niagara Falls, New York
December 1—4

Ames, Iowa
February 16-19

December 1952, January and February 1953

J. R. Snellgrove, City Board of Education
W. W. Elliott, County Superintendent of Schools

Frank H. Echols, County Board of Education

Henry A. Lacy, Chairman, Program Committee, The Michigan
Association of Children’s Institutions, P. 0. Box 4746, Detroit

Henry A. Lacy, Chairman, Program Committee, The Michigan
Association of Children’s Institutions, P. 0. Box 4746, Detroit

Henry A. Lacy, Chairman, Program Committee, The Michigan
Association of Children’s Institutions, P. 0. Box 4746, Detroit

James S. Stevens, Jr., Acting Director, North Carolina Recreation
Commission, Education Building Annex, Room 134, Raleigh
Loyd B. Hathaway, Superintendent of Recreation

Miss Dorothy Morefield, Program Director, Recreation Commis-
sion, Community Building

C. B. Campbell, County Board of Education, Double Springs
M. G. Rains, County Board of Education, Guntersville
Hubert L. Street, County Board of Education, Rockford

T. B. Pearson, County Board of Education, Chatom

Francis A. BishOp, Director of Recreation, Department of Public
Utilities, Grounds and Buildings

S. R. Dunn, Director, McCracken County Recreation Association

Kirby M. Stoll, Supervisor, Special Activities, Department of
Public Parks and Recreation Central Park

Myron N. Hendrick, Director of Recreation

Mrs. Gertrude Skow Sanford, Extension Specialist in Recreation,
Agriculture and Home Economics, Iowa State College

Attendancc at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to at-
tend. For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with
thc sponsors of the courses as listed above.

2nd Lt.
Joseph  Rodriguez

U. SA rmy

Medal of Honor
f.

SIXTY YARDS T0 (:0. From atop
the hill, near Munye-ri, Korea, the enemy
suddenly opened up a withering barrage.
The squad was caught; Red mortars began
zero-ing for the kill. Lieutenant Rodriguez
(then l’ic., with only seven months service)
broke loose and dashed up the fire-swept
slope, throwing grenades. Disregarding
the lire concentrated on him, he wiped out
three foxholes and two gun emplacements.
Alone, he accounted for 15 encmy dead,
led the rout of the enemy, and saved the
lives of his squad.

“When you have to take chances to reach

an objective, that's 0.l\ ,” says Lieutenant
Rodriguez. “But when you can find a surer

 

way, so much the better. That’s why I was
glad when I heard that people like you own

nearly 50 billion dollars in U. 5. Defense
Bonds. I believe that a strong, peace/ul

America is our objective. And the sure way
to reach it is through backing our strength

with your strength by investing in United

States Defense Bonds now!”

* 1k *

Now E Bonds earn more! I) All Series E
llonds bought alter May 1, 1952 average 3% in-
lercsl, compounded semiannually! Interest now
starts alter 6 months and is higher in the early
years. 2) All maturing E Bonds automatically go
on earning after maturity—and at the new higher
interest! Today. star] investing in better-paying
Series E Bonds through the Payroll Savings l’lanl

Peace is For the slrongl For peace and prosperity
save with  Defense Bonds!

The U5. CONNIIIHII don not pay [or this advertisement. I: I: donated by Mu public-rim: in cooperation with the
Advertising Council and the Maniac Publishers 0] Andria.

 

