   
   

“noun Lit-3:, W. -.

2‘...

£41.11 .‘ml. #1,; .

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

Christmas Crafts and Decorations

Greeting Cards ' Ornaments ° Home Decorations Made With Your Own Hand:
Breathe the Real Spirit of Christmas

Stcp-by-step directions for making many different types of Christmas card]
ornaments for the tree, decorations for the home, have long been available from tlu
National Recreation Association, in mimeographed bulletin or reprint form on].
Now, this new, convenient, illustrated booklet brings them all together for the firs
time. It will be invaluable to recreation workers, teachers and individuals inter
ested in Christmas crafts. Many of the projects described are simple enough to b:
undertaken by small children; some may be either simple or complex, depending

upon the artistic ability and skill of the craftsman. None of them require hard-to
find or expensive equipment. Price 65¢.

Games for the Christmas Season

Mixers and Partner-Finders ° Active Games ° Quiet Games
Suggestions for Distributing Christmas Gifts

Last year you’d have had to buy a dozcn separate bulletins from the Nations
Recreation Association to get all these games. Now we’ve collected them for you
in one booklet! All the material you need, for not one but many parties, is here.
indexed and with suggested age ranges for each game. Whether your party is ts
be large or small, for little folks, teen-agers, adults or the whole community, this is
the Christmas game book for you. Just order your copy, decorate the hall, send
out the invitations——and your party is under way. Price 65¢.

Mixers to Music for Parties and Dances
Dozens of M ixers—That Will Start Your Party Off With a Bang!

These are the favorite mixers of the National Recreation Association’s training
specialists—and they’ll be your favorites, too! They’re made to order for breaking
ice, creating gaiety and getting parties and dances underway with a real swing.
There’s no age limit on this kind of fun! Price 65¢.

Table of Contents:

Musical Mixers— Getting Them Started
Game Type Getting Partners Tag Dances

Musical Mixers— Prearranged Dance Elimination Dances
Dance Type Orders Novelty Dances

Action Rounds Dance-With-A-Purpose

Plays, Pageants and Ceremonials for the Christmas Season

Are you looking for a play—a pageant—a tree-lighting service for your Christmas
entertainment? You’ll find it here.’

The Christmas drama material of the National Recreation Association, pre-
viously available only in mimeographed bulletins, is presented in one handy book.
let. Farce, pantomime, playlets with songs and dances, tableaux. Price 65¢.

Included in contents:

The St. George Play The Seven Gifts

The Case of the Misbehaving Toys Joy to the World

The Runaway Sled Christmas Old—Christmas New
Santa Claus Visits Mars A Candle-Lighting Service
Christmas in Other Lands All Indoor Tree-Lighting Service
The Christmas Book

Everyonc knows this beautiful booklet full of information about Chris
mas customs and legends, gifts, parties, carols. Pricc 50¢.

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue New York 10, N.

i: .

skating 5’

for health and
recreation

“E's-g- ‘* In x.
I

  

A WONDERFUL SPORT
at low cost and upkeep

It's easy to start a roller skating program!
It’s a healthful exercise and the popular
way to build strong bodies. A favorite
with boys and girls and budget planners,
too . . . roller skating makes a grand co-
recreational activity. Handles the largest
groups quickly and easily. Halls, gyms,
or any large floor area make line roller
rinks. Invest in health and fun this season.

---RulJlJer Tire Skates—--.
FOR USE ON WAXED FLOORS IN

Gyms, Ballrooms or Halls

    

ABSOLUTELY
GUARANTEED

' NOT TO MAR, SCRATCH OR DAMAGE-r

Rink clamp skates developed by
CHICAGO specially for skating on
waxed floors. The rubber wheels
are ideal for use on tile, ballroom ,
floors or any highly waxed surface.
Will not harm or mark.

Write Now to the Leader in Risk
Skates on How to Start

“CHICAG *~

ROLLER SKATE COMPANY

The Choice of Champions. . . for over 45 Years
4490 Wesl Lake Street—(hicago 24, lllinols

\TOVEMBER 1953

  

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

LOS ANGELES
SCOUT-O-RAMA
HUGE SUCCESS USING
MOODY AWARDS

LOS ANCELES COLISEUM

jUNE 5th 5. 5th. 1953 Yes, at the recent SCOUT-O-RAMA held

in Los Angeles over 1200 awards were
given to the Boy Scouts. We wish you
could have seen the ioy and proudness
registered on the faces of our young
Americans when they received an award
for some accomplishment . . . . . . You

too can make every boy or girl a winner
without b‘ending your award budget. All
we ask is that you write, on your letter-‘
head, for a free sample. There is no ob-
ligation and the few seconds it takes
may make it possible to register that joy
and proudness in the youth you are

helping to become better citixens through
RECREATION.

 

WRITE TODAY FOR FREE SAMPLE

702 N. MARIPOSA
BURBANK, CALIF.

it oorsnw IAKE‘A orrrcrmt
‘0 figure out that
“Bugging”

It“): HA!‘ 3126.
".5 'AT. OFF

WEPWGW ‘
makes mouldy, clingy shower

rooms and swimming pools
look sparkling clean!

 

 

 

IT'S NO SECRET thot Bull Frag Sof-T-Klenz removes rust and stains, lime deposits and
algae formations, leaving a clean, gleaming surface with floors and decks that are proc-
ticolly slip-proofl ,

THE SMART THING TO DO is to take us up on our offer of a generaus free sample.
yaurs far the asking, and see for yourself haw swimming pools and showers can be
sparkling bright in half the time and with half the effort the Saf-T-Klenz wayl It also
minimizes conditians that breed and spread infectious germs. Simply sprinkle a little
Sof-T-Klenz powder on the damp surface, mop lightly and then rinse with clear water.
No hard rubbing. It's odorless and harmless to hands, clothing, floors and drains.

Sold with a guarantee of satisfaction.

BERMAN CHEMICAL C OMPANY

719 Superior Street Toledo 4, Ohio

[3 Please send free sample of Saf-T-Klenz.

NA ME ................................................................................................................................................ ..
FIRM .................................................................................................................................................. ..
STREET .............................................................................................................................................. ..
CITY AND STATE ............................................................................................................................ ..

 

1] Please send quantity prices.

321

 

   

RECREATION - *

is one of the fields in which
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship
of Dr. Harry C. MeKown, well-known
authority on extracurricular activities,
this monthly magazine promotes the fol-

1
lowing interests: I
l

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS—Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES—An assembly program for each week of the school year.

i
.
CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.
CLASS ORGANIZATIONS—Directions for the successful guidance of school groups. ‘
FINANCING ACTIVITIES—Suggestions for fmancing student functions. |

ATHLETICS—News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports. I
DEBATE—Both sides of the current high school debate question. ‘
DEPARTMENT CLUBS—Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs‘ of all types. r
HOME ROOMS—Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS—Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS—Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS—Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.

STUDENT GOVERNMENT—Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES—Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Suhscrzptz'on Price  Suhscrz'he New

School Activities Publishing Co.

1041 NEW HAMPSHIRE LAWRENCE, KANSAS

322 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

NOVEMBER, 1953

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH Pnsuosncas'r
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

to]. XLVl-A Price 35 Cents No. 6

III the Cover

" Winter Invitation. Because winter is the most ex-
iting season out-of-doors, it is to this Season that we

Iledicate this issue of RECREATION. Photograph
conrtesy U. S. Forest Service.

Next lilonth

Over-all report of the 35th National Recreation
Congress, with pictures and other materials. More
liegestions for Christmas programs. Don’t miss
I'I‘ips on Telecasting,” giving the know-how Of pre-
Icnting recreation activities on TV. Among articles
ff special interest to executives: “Informal Obser-
vations on Board Meetings,” “Let Your Budget Help

You Plan,” “Wyandotte Gets Swimming Pool,” and
others.

Photo Credits

Pages 331, 332 (bottom), Lee-Evanson Studio, Grand
“irks; 333, Department of Parks and Recreation,
idland; 334, 335, Ormal I. Sprungman, San Diego;
336, George Rintamaki, San Diego; 338, 339, Depart-
ment Of Recreation,Merrill; 344, John A. Severance,
Carthage; 348, Department Of Parks and Recreation,
Twin Falls; 350, Harold C. Engelman, Mt. Clemens;
351, Ontario Department of Travel and Puhlicity,
Toronto; 352 (top), Suburban Recreation Associa-
tinn, Minneapolis; 352 (center), Recreation Com-
mission, San Gabriel; 352 (hottom left), U.S. Forest
Service; 352 (bottom right), Jim Freiberg, Merrill;
353 (top). Ontario Department of Travel and Pub-
licity, Toronto; 353 (bottom right), Chamber Of
Commerce, Lake Placid; 353 (hottom left), Steve
annagan, New York; 354, Ontario Department Of
gravel and Publicity, Toronto; 358, 359, Santelli
tudio, Lyons; 36], Park.Board, Minneapolis; 367,
3909 Air Base Group, England; 370, U.S. Navy; 371
lrigllt), Pierson Studio, Lake Placid: 371 (left),
Chamber Of Commerce, Lake Placid; 373, John
Cass. New York; 378, The World-Herald, Omaha.

 

RECREATION is bfublished montle except July and
August by the ational Recreation Association. a
service organization supported by voluntary contribu-
tions. at 315 Fourth Avenue. New York 10. New
York: is on file in public libraries and is indexed in
the Readerr' Guide. Subscriptions $3.00 a year.
Canadian and foreign subscription rate 33.50. Re-
entered as second-class matter April 25. 1950. at the
Posr Ofiice in New York, New York. under Ad of
March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate
of pOStage provided for in Secrion 1103. ACt of October
3. 1917. authorized May 1. 1924. Microfilms of cur-
rent issues available University Microfilms. 313 N. FirSt

Street. Ann Arbor. Michigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton. 141 EaSt
44th Street. New York 17. New York: Mark Minahan.
168 North Michigan Avenue. Chicago. Illinois: Keith
H. Evans. 3757 Wilshire Boulevard. Los Angeles 5. and

593 Market Street. Suite 304. San Francisco 5.
California.

Copyright. 1953. by the
National Recreation Association. Incorporated

Printed in the USA. £139 16
' Trade mark regiStered in the U. S. Patent Oliice.

NOVEMBER 1953

THE MAGAZINE

 

 

 
 
    

  

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Recreation in Today’s World (Editorial). . . . .Harolrl May/ield 325
Thanksgiving . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328

Winter—Our Favorite Season . . . . . . . . . . . .Homer D. Abbott 331

Filming Winter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0rmul I. Sprungntun 334

To Start from Scratch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richartl Lunglois 338

Today’s Winter Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352

Reading for Pleasure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Dr. Karl S. Bernhardt 356
ADMINISTRATION

Tohoggan Rnn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 333
Recreation—A Profession . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .D. K. Brace 340

Winter Care of the Outdoor Swimming Pool. . . . V. H. Krieser 34]
Preliminary Planning for a Good Leadership

Workshop . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jean Malone 342
Ski Tow for \Vatertown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1. Charles Neal 344
Ice Skating Rinks: Their Construction and Maintenance . . . . . 345

Outdoor Artificial Ihce Rinks—In Toronto . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
An Artificial IIill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ernie Craner 348
Strcct Sledding Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
Pct Ideas—In Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
PROGRADI .
Town and Country Winter Doings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350

“The Roarin’ Game” (Curling) . . . . . . . . . . C. Lorne Davidson 354

Skiing—As a Community Activity . . . . . . James F. Herrlic, Jr. 357

An lcc Revue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Charles Tintlall 358

Ice Broom-Ball Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 360

A Christmas Institute . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Eiviml Hoff, Jr. 361

The Art of Snow Sculpture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 363

Starting a Winter Sports Program . . . . . . . . . . . Jack Murray 366

Special Christmas Projects: Parcels for the Aging . . . . . . . . . . 367

The Shoe and Stocking Project. . . . , . .Robert A. Lobrlell 369
Winter Fun in Ontario . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
Problems in the Small Town Wintcr Program . . . Dan Reurtlon 371
Tips without a Tumblc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 372

IglOOS for Santa (Idea of the Month) . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . 373

Winter Camping Course . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Snow Snakc (Recipes for Fun) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Christmas Calendar (How to Do It!) . . . . . . .Frnnk A. Staples 380

REGULAR FEATURES

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377

People and Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 382

Books Receiver], Magazines, Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
Recipes for Fun, How to Do It!, Idea of the Month. . . .Sec Program
Recreation Leadership Courses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

323

324-

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

Great Lakes District

JAcstN M. AanRsON,
Purdue University
Lafayette, Indiana

CHARLss T. BvRNss,
Evanston, Illinois

C. C. CAss,

Two Rivers, Wisconsin

JaRoma T. Faun,
Bloomington, indiana

A. R. FLANNERY,
Battle Creek, Michigan

JoaN N. HICCINs,
Hammond, Indiana

ERNEST W. JOHNsON,
St. Paul, Minnesota

BUINEY MA'I'ICKA,
Pekin, Illinois

ARTHUR”G. MORss,
Toledo, Ohio

HAL MOIrsR,
Rockford, Illinois

HARnLn G. MvRON,
Highland Park, Michigan

MIss DORo-rasA NsLsON,
St. Louis Park, Minnesota

HnwARn RIcn.
Sheboygan, Wisc.onsin

C. W. ScuNAIut.
Canton, Ohio

RUPer J. TARvaR,
Galesburg, Illinois

Middle Atlantic District

Jnsarn CAVERLY,

Freeport, Long Island, New York

Jnssra E. CUM-Is.
Towson, Maryland

MvRON N. IIRNnRch
Niagara Falls, New York

Dwm M. LAchAMMItR,
Altoona, Pennsylvania

PHILIP LsaOU'rILuRR,
Irvington, New Jersey

I’m-RR J. MAYsst,
New Rochelle, New York

HARLAN G. Marcus,
State Teachers College,
Cortland, New York

RORERT A. Rats,
Pottstown, Pennsylvania

InRNs RIcrcER'r,
Wicomico County, Maryland

GI-zoscs T. SARCIssON,
Wilmington, Delaware

RoaRR'r D. SIsco,
Livingston, New Jersey

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

a

The following district advisory committees of the National Recreation Associa-
tion strengthen recreation work in each district through the cooperation of the
association and local recreation executives, bringing about an alertness to local
needs and problems, and to the most eflective use of the association’s resources.

DISTRICT ADVISORY COMMITTEES

MISS Rum Swazsv,
Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania

MIanRI. E. WARcO,
Clairton, Pennsylvania

MON'I'I-‘ORn B. Wasn,
Fair Lawn, New Jersey

FRANK Woon, '

Syracuse, New York

Midwest District

FRANK J. ANNnasRc,
Manhattan, Kansas

RoanRr L. BLACK,

Div. of Resources and Development,

Jefferson City, Missouri

RAYMOND FORsasRc,
Waterloo, Iowa

EUCItNa HANsaN,
Grand Junction, Colorado

MIss KATHRYN KRIsc,

Des Moines, Iowa
f

KsNNn'rn KUR'rz,
Casper, Wyoming

GEORGE L. MARKst,
St. Joseph, Missouri

RALr-n B. McCLIN'rocx,
Omaha, Nebraska

HARvsv McDANlnL,
Denver, Colorado

R083}?! A. NEW"),
Leavenworth, Kansas

CHARLss G. STONE,
Williston, North Dakota

HOMER B. THURSTON,
Sioux Falls, South Dakota

New England District

JOHN P. CRONIN,
Providence, RhOde Island

S'I'A'rON R. CnRrIs,
Brunswick, Maine

RoasR'r DONNELLY,
New Britain, Connecticut

JAMI-zs H. GROOMS,
WellesIey, Massachusetts

WILLIAM V. HAsstL,
Presque Isle, Maine

JAMEs F. HERDIC, JR.,
Rutland, Vermont

Rosco: M. MARKItR,
Whitinsville, Massachusetts

JACK PENNY,
BrattIeboro, Vermont

JAcstN J. PERRY,
Leominster, Massachusetts

1. RoarR'r M. SHUL'rz,
Bridgeport, Connecticut

DONALn F. SINN,
Concord, New Hampshire

RICHARn TAPPLY,
Bristol, New Hampshire

Joanne M. TRArAssO,
Branford, Connecticut

.JAMEs B. TvuR,

(Kingston) Peace Dale,
Rhode Island

W. NORMAN WA'rrs,
New Haven, Connecticut

Pacific Northwest District

RoasR-r E. BONNItv,
Klamath Falls, Oregon

BEN EVANs,
Seattle, Washington

WILLIAM E. EvaR'rs, JR.,
Boise, Idaho

KENNETH FowsLL,
Great Falls. Montana

THOMAs W. LAN'I'z,
Tacoma, Washington '

Miss DORO'I'nsA LaNscn,
Portland, Oregon

MRs. MARJORII: MILNs,
Vancouver, B. C., Canada

DR. GOLnsN ROMNR v,

The State College of Washington,

Pullman, Washington

S. G. WITTER,
Spokane, Washington

Pacific Southwest District

L. CEDRIC AverN,
Phoenix, Arizona

MAURIcs: BATEMAN,
Mesa, Arizona

W. C. HIcc1Ns,
Reno, Nevada

HowARn HOLMAN,
Fresno, California

GsORca HJnL'rs,
Los Angeles, California

DR. BEN MILLER,
University of California
Los Angeles, California

PAUL Ross,

Salt Lake County, Murray, Utah

WALTER L. SCOTT,
Long Beach, California

Southcrn District

J assrn Aus'rIN,
Gquport, Mississippi

T. A. BsLsRR,
Montgomery, Alabama

MIss NAN B. CROW,
Charlottesville, Virginia

HOMER FIsR,
Wheeling. West Virginia

MARION HALz,
Memphis, Tennessee

W. H. HARTN,
Columbia, South Carolina

LOYD HATHAWAY,
Winston-Salem, North Carolina

Wes-r J Acocxs,
Columbia, South Carolina

Curr KERaY.
LaGrange, Georgia

GEORGE T. Ken-rs,
Jackson, Mississippi

DR. RIanRn MOORE.
Bethune Cookrnaa College.
Daytona Beach, Florida

Jsss OcnsN,
University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia

JULIAN O. OLsRN,
Pensacola, Florida

MIss ANNA S. PaaRIcO,
Lexington, Kentucky

D. C. WINco.
Norfolk, Virginia

Southwest District

WILLIAM K. AMO,
Little Rock, Arkansas

JAMII: P. BONNItR,
Temple, Texas

VsRNON CaAManRs,
Houston, Texas

ALaI-JR'I' A. DOMINcna,
Lafayette, Louisiana

ALVIN R. ECGELINC,
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

RoaaRr FAIRcaILn,
Tulsa, Oklahoma

MIss MARCARIt'r FORn,
Roswell, New Mexico

0. D. JOHNsON.
Lake Charles, Louisiana

WILLIAM KnsLINc,
Dallas, Texas

ARNOLn MosER,
Houston, Texas

BEVERLY S. SHEFFIELD.
Austin, Texas

ROsER'r SasL'ION,
Tyler, Texas

RoasR'r Summer,
Santa Fe, New Mexico

WILLIAM P. Wrrr,
Corpus Christi, Texas

WILLIAM W. WsLLs,
Baton Rouge, Louisiana

For further information regarding the association’s services and membership, please write to the
Executive Director, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.

 

Vi

RECREATION

 

 

Man has been

on this planet a
million years.
Recently, he be-
gan building a
new civilization.
Today, while still
building, he is
trying to learn to

 

'in it.

he Industrial Age had its beginnings
two hundred years ago. And, for
t of us, who are just a generation off
’arm (the farm of the horse and the
, the Industrial Age is just begin-
'. For hundreds of millions in Asia
Africa, it is just around the corner.
his new civilization of ours has
Ight us more benefits than we can
it. To the humblest citizen, it has
rght comforts that the ancient lord
is drafty castle might have envied.
IS brought means of travel and com-
ications that hold distant promise
real-ting down the walls of misunder-
ding that have stood between men.
:he average person it has brought
.rc, which in earlier times was re-
ed to the few—not just a leisure of
's but a freedom from the exhaus-
of back-breaking toil.

'iencyh—at a Price

srt and parcel of our progress has
1 a growth in efficiency. Each decade
shown a measurable increase in the
is produced by a man-hour of work.
. has been accomplished, in part,
ugh steady improvement in our
hines. But it has also placed some
demands upon man.

ere we glimpse one aspect of per-
; the greatest problem of our day:
rcan man, who changes slowly, con-
e to live and to find personal fulfill-

 

MAYFIELD is assistant director
.ndastrial relations in the Owens-

Lois Class Company, Toledo, Ohio.

IEMBER 1953
l.

Harold Mayfield

ment in a rapidly changing world?
Higher efficiency has not been
achieved without our paying a price. As
efficiency has increased, certain human
satisfactions have gone out of our work.
f And, let us remember, work still fills
a major part of our lives.) The hours
have become shorter, but they have he-
come more intense. Much of the play
has been squeezed out, including a great
deal of sociability that human beings
crave. Some of us are paced by ma-
chines or isolated by the noise of them.
Many forces drive us to single-minded
attention to the task, a task that is not
always very rewarding in itself. And
even those of us who find great satisfac-
tions in our work and have much free-
dom in it, are under the pressure of the
clock, the calendar, and the telephone.

Play as a Part of Work

But is man so constituted that he will-
ingly lays aside, even for a few hours
each day, his desire for relaxation, fun,
and those other human satisfactions we
lump in the word “recreation”? Appar-
ently not. At least, he seems not to have
done so previously on earth.

Consider, for example, the earliest
man. He lived by hunting and fishing.
His life was not easy, but it had many
It had high moments—of
chase, of excitement, of triumph, of co-
operation, of sociability. Take the ele-
.ment of necessity from it and all that is
left is recreation. Ask any hunter or

rewards.

fisherman.

0r consider the earliest tiller of the
soil. His day was usually long and hard.
But there was fun sprinkled through it.
Did you ever know a farmer, even now,
who was too busy to talk with a passing
neighbor, chase a rabbit out of a brush
pile, or turn the hardest ob of the year
—the harvest—into a festival.

And in the recent past in the Medie-
val guilds and in the shops that pre-
ceded the machine, work was mixed

Editorial

Recreation In Today’s World

with fun. The pace was leisurely; chil-
dren ran in and out; the place buzzed
with song and conversation; and any
excitement in the street was a signal for
a recess.

Times have changed. And the nature
of work has changed. Yet, all is not
well. Elton Mayo, after many years of
study, concluded, “While material ef-
ficiency has been increasing for two
hundred years, the. human capacity for
working together has in the same period
continually diminished.” Sensing some-
thing like this, business managers say,
“Employees are not as easy to get along
with as they used to be.”

Human Values in the Job

Surely, there is much more involved
here than what we customarily mean by
recreation. Yet, in recreation we see
values that satisfy basic human needs—
needs intensified by modern industrial
life. So it is not surprising that, here
and there, a perceptive employer grop-
ing for a means of humanizing the
workplace, should cast an exploring
glance at recreation.

By making it easy for his employees
to play together, he hopes in some
measure to re-establish in the work at-
mosphere friendliness and good humor,
which the job itself may not encourage.
By giving employees a chance to know
each other better and to know their
supervisors away from the, pressure of
the job he hopes to establish a basis for
understanding that will carry over to
the work situation. Through play, most
of it necessarily off the job, he hopes to
bring back to the shop some of the
spirit of “Whistle While You Work.”

So in industrial recreation, I see
more than picnics and basketball
games; I see one little step, albeit a fal-
tering one, in modern man’s striving
for human values in a machine age—
not just in leisure hours but in working
hours as well.

' 325

man/we FOLDING BANQUET TABLES

    

   
    

    

If you are on the board of your school or
church, or on the house or purchasing .0011]-
' mittee of your ("1111) or lodge, you “111 he Inter-
(‘stui in this modern. Folding l’etlestaljtanquet
Table. ‘Write for t-atalog & special charonnts.

“30 "11' IBICHURCHST COZFAX IOWA

§%§%§%. £§3¢§3¢§2
You don’t have to be a
DIAGICIAN

   

I

 

 

to pick the ideal
CHRISTMAS GIFT

for your recreation-minded friends.

Let a subscription to

Emat‘c'au

bring them your good wishes

throughout the coming year.

ONE YEAR—$3.00 TWO YEARS—$5.50
FOREIGN AND CANADIAN—$3.50

I0: NATIONAL RECREATION ASSN.
315 Fourth Avenue
New York 10,  Y.

Please send gitt subscriptions with
my personal greetings to:

treet

 

City

 

 

Stote
E] I year

Check for $____..__

Pleose bill me

|Nome

|
I Street

: City

I State—

 

 

  
 

-=-_ . - . . . . . - --

- b - - . - - '-

' u - ‘ _ a - - . -—
--- .-

        

-' ” - - a — --
------- --

~9—
Good Suggestion
Sirs:

The modern playground is a well
supervised classroom with modern
equipment to establish a well-rounded
physical and mental basis for future
woman and manhood.

We all no doubt agree on the above
statement, but the average parents do
not realize the great part that the play-
ground plays in their child’s develop-
ment nor do they comprehend the
thought and preparation spent on the
operation of each playground.

My child has cerebral palsy (her only
handicap is speech) and cannot go to a
public school; but place her on a super-
vised playground with other children
and she is indeed a happy child.

My suggestion for a much needed
article in your fine magazine would be
one entitled “The Playground and Your
Child,” so many different phases could

be dwelt upon.
BILL HEARN, Ventura, California.

} Who will volunteer to write it? We
suggest, rather, that the article be
“What the Playground Can Do for the
Handicapped Child,” to be written
either by a parent, giving suggestions to
playground leaders, or by a playground
leader who has had experience with
handicapped children. Deadline for this
year’s Playground Issue of RECREATION
is February second.—Ed.

Locatcd
Sirs:

Father Link is at last located. Fr.
Reinold Link, O.F.M., joined the Fran-
ciscan Order and is teaching biology at
St. J oseph’s College, Westmont, Illinois.
He is also busy getting out a “nearly-
book-length” write-up on Trail Rang-
ers. I thought that readers attracted to

the “reminiscence” might wish to know.-

“CAP’N BILL” VINAL, Cohasset, Mas-
sachusetts.

) The sketch about Father Link ap-
peared in the May 1953 issue of REC-
REATION, on page 118. Another of
“Cap’n Bill’s” series, “Personalities I
Have Met—Stanton H. King,” was in

the October 1953 issue.—-Ed.

Church Recreation
Sirs:

I have always enjoyed RECREATION,
but I think I liked the articles of
Bishop Bayne and Dr. Anderson, in
the December issue last year, more than

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Latent

any others I had previously read.
You see—here at Highland we
lieve in recreation as a very neces:
part of the religious education 3
gram of the church. We have a re
ation building which contains a l:
basemcnt game room in which we ]
ping-pong, billiards, cue roque, Shl
board and other games; and we I
soon to have two bowling alleys d
there. On the main floor, we hat
recreation hall big enough for r:
skating and square dancing.
large room is also equipped wit
very complete stage for dramatic
ductions and pageants. We show
vies there, too. Then there is a t
floor room, which is really a sor
mezzanine to the recreation hall
which we will soon have small t
games, checkers, chess, and a TV
We are one of the all-too-few chu
es that go in for recreation on so
large scale. I am enclosing a sche
of ,our fall and winter program. Ir
dition to the listed activities we 1
a basketball team entered in the l
church league—and will have a mi
baseball team next summer.
VERNON W. JOHNSON, Directo.
Recreation, Highland Presbyte
Church, Fayetteville, North Caro

Square Dancing
Sirs:

You may be interested in some 0
reactions to “Square Dancing 011
Home Front,” in your March :
issue. My good friend, Ed Bossir
Chicago recreation leader, writes
that the article was copied and givt
each Chicago caller by the callers
sociation. Ed is very much distu
by the “new dance” and notes
alarm how it is killing social recrea

The Roundup for April 1953 the
the article pertinent, called it a “'
able treatise on what is wrong
square dancing today,” and indi(
where it was available. The May ‘
reprinted the article in condensed f
The June issue published a reply‘
that is symptomatic of the very t1-
it analyzed.

ARTHUR KATONA, Golden, Colo.

Outdoor Winter Sports

Sirs: ' .
Having skiing advantages wh1
doubt are surpassed by any compa

community in the nation, we wert
ticularly attracted by your Ja

RECRE

53 issue of RECREATION—its cover,
aski tow safety letter from Mr. Sicker,
d “Skiing Around New York.”
We hold slaloms for eight- to twelve-
ar-olds, thirteen- to sixteen-year-olds
d open competitions which not only
.ract the novice and expert alike, but
ovide interest and an outlet for the
rents and other enthusiasts who lack
3 energy or courage to compete, and
ult in their becoming “Sunday-ski-
t’—the winter counterpart of Sun-
'-golfers!
In addition to the Moore Park ski
which is three miles from the city-
Ier but inside the corporate limits,
includes a 1000-foot lift, we oper-
ha sled tow centrally located within
pcity which attracts not only sledders,
:t tobogganers and novice skiers, with
parate runs for each.

IOur by-word has become “We Ski in
ir Own Backyard.” The Northwest is
tied with line ski slopes and ski runs
Ii Klamath Falls has hers in the city
Hits. Hoodo Bowl, Timberline Lodge,
later Lake, Willamette Pass and many
her Oregon ski spots attract state and
itl'onal interest, but the Moore Park
i run is gaining prominence because
its accessibility and excellent snow
Inditions. Most of the others are some
stance from a population center and
“(hesitate travel time and overnight
commodations, which are fine for
age able to take advantage of them.
The modern ski concepts of tows,
)wn hill races, slaloms and grand sla-
ms are providing a new enthusiasm
Id appeal undreamed of in the past
rys when the cross country and the
sup were the main recreation aspects
iskiing. Being able to provide the
odern in our own backyard gives us a
“it deal of pride. For those prefer-
ring the old, we have all the natural ad-

tages and no special facility is nec-
Hry.
0ur.tows are fitted with automatic
ifety devices! With these and an out-
301‘ skating rink, which accommodates
30 people but is in constant demand
y 500 to 750 skaters, we feel we are
:tablishing a remarkable pattern for
inter sports for a commnuity of 15,000.
Population center of 30,000.)

BOB BONNEY, Superintendent of

Recreation, Klarnalh Falls, Oregon.

Change of Address
irs:

l have moved to Human Hill, here in
anl’rancisco, now have a grand pano-
irmc view of San Francisco Bay, the
lcean, Golden Gate Bridge, and so on.
Vould you put a brief item in the maga-

  

 

“THE SIIUARE DANBE”

1953 Revised Edition

e Recognized by the American
Library Association as the most au-
thentic book on Square Dancing.
288 pages of Squares, Round
Dances and Mixers, with Instruc-
tions and Diagrams.

Available from your favorite
Bookstore, Record Dealer, Maii
Order Catalog or order from

THE BEST-FORD CO.

6054 W. Peterson Avenue
Chicago 30, Illinois

$2.95 plus 20c. postage

 

CRAFT

     
 

120 PAGES. . . Complete
Craft Supplies, Tools, De-
signs, Instruction Books
from America’s Most Cam- r
ple te Stock. Includ es
Loather Craft, Glove Mak-
in g, Lamp Shades, Metal
Tooling, Cork Craft. Latest

Textile Paints, Shell Craft. Basketry, Glass
Etching, Rafiia, Rubber Molds, Fascinating

New Picture Craft and Many Others.
Send For Your FREE Copy NOW. . .

GRIFFIN CRAFT SUPPLIES
5626-R Telegraph Ave. 0 Oakland 9. Cal".

and mixers“‘

(wrm MUSiC)

brought to you by Ed Durlocher.

the floor.

ness in teaching."

. active participants in social activities.

fREE'CArgLR

""‘”
HE.

couple dances

instructional records

Another important "HONOR YOUR PARTNER“ teaching aid

In this album Ed presents his amazingly simple method of
teachrn Aomericon Couple Dances and Mixers. He gives aral
“walk-t rough” instruction in easy progressive steps.

You'll find instructions and music for the Patty Coke
Polka Mixer, Rochester Schottische, Tandem Rochester Schot-
tische, Five Foot Two Mixer, Narcissus and the Paul Jones.

The Top Hands play the music in their own inimitable style under the direction of Frank
Novok. Music that sets the tempo for good dancing and virtually lifts the dancers feet off

——--——--—--—---———

World’s Most
Complete Source
For Gym Apparatus

EDART

Cllrnblng Poles 8- ladders
Baxlng Rings 8- Bag Supports
Vault, Jump 8. Game Standards
Stall Bars

Physlcal Fitness Apparatus
Rowlng Mochlnes

Pulley Welghts

Mots 8- Mat Trucks

Physlcal Therapy Equlpment
Anthropometrlc Equlpment
Basketball Backstaps
Basketball Scoreboards
Football Scoreboards
Telescoplc Gym Seats

Steel Lockers 8. Lockerobes
Wire Baskets 8. Racks

. . . plus virtually any equipment

' 4m

3566 Delta“: St... St. leuls ll, Me.

 

     
 
          
             

educator applauds honor your partner albums

“Teachers are most impressed with the simplicity and clarity of lnstruc‘tlon, precise
timing, steady rhythmic music, durability of material and Ed Duriacher's friendii-

—C. G. FRANKLIN, Assistant Professor
Chairman, Department of Physical Education for Men, Southern Illinois University

All records are guaranteed against breakage

I OVER 10.000 SEHOOIS IN THE U. S. NOW USE HONOR YOUR PARTNER TEAEHING AIDS I

* "Mixers" are social activators. “Wollflowers” and timid souls of all ages are converted to

 

________________ __..l

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES, Dept. R-3, Freeport, N. Y.

Gentlemen: I want to learn more about the HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums. Please

i'
I
l
: send me a free descriptive folder.
I
l
I

inc about my new address. NAME .............................................................................................................................................. .. :
JAMES E. ROGERS, 1280 Lombard ADDRESS .......................................................................................................................................... .. I
Street, Apartment 203, San pram CITY ................................................................................  ......... .. STATE ...............................  ...... .. I

cfsco, California. L Canadian Distributors: Thomas Allen, ltd., 266 King Street West, Toronto 28, Ontario 1

Formosa 1953

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 327

 

328

For embers on the hearth, for songs;
For faith that triumphs over wrongs;
For laughter and remembered pranks;
For prayers at night—I give thee thanks!
—MAY CARLETON LORD

Dear the people coming home,
Dear glad faces long away,
Dear the merry cries, and dear
All the glad and happy play.

" Dear the thanks, too, that we give

For all of this Thanksgiving Day.
—HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD

For candlelight no wind could shake,
For sowing rooted far and near,
For men and dreams like these, we make
Thanksgiving every year!
—NANCY BYRD TURNER

I".

Heap high the farmer’s wintry hoard!
Heap high the golden corn!
No richer gift has Autumn poured
From out her lavish horn!
—JOHN CREENLEAF WHITTIER

He who thanks but with the lips
Thanks but in part;

The full, the true Thanksgiving
Comes from the heart.

—J. A. SHEDD

0 Lord! that lends me life,
Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness!

—SHAKESPEARE

THANKSGIVIN(

Thanksgiving is the holiday of peace, the celebration
of work and the simple life . . . a true folk-festival that
speaks the poetry of the turn of the seasons, the beauty
of seed-time and harvest, the ripe product of the year——
and the deep, deep connection of all these things with
God. —RAY STANNARD BAKER ( David Grayson)

Cive thanks for raiment, and a loaf of bread;
And for a good thatched roof above your head;
But most of all give thanks if you can say,
“Lord, I have courage on my pilgrim’s way!”
—CHARLES HANSON TOWNE

It is literally true, as the thankless say, that they have
nothing to be thankful for. He who sits by the fire,
thankless for the fire, is just as if he had no fire. Noth-
ing is possessed save in appreciation, of which thankful-
ness is the indispensable ingredient. But a thankful
heart hath a continual feast. —W. J. CAMERON

Thanksgiving Day comes, by statute, once a year; to
the honest man it comes as frequently as the heart of
gratitude will allow, which may mean every day, or

once in seven days, at least.
—EDWARD SANDFORD MARTIN

And be the future bright or dark, God grant we never

may
Forget the reverent spirit of that first Thanksgiving
Day! —J. J. MONTAGUE

Thanksgiving Day is a jewel, to set in the hearts of
honest men; but be careful that you do not take the day,
and leave out the gratitude. —E. P. POWELL

Thank Codievery morning when you get up that you
have something to do that day which must be done,
whether you like it or not. Being forced to work, and
forced to do your best, will breed in you temperance
and self-control, diligence and strength of will, cheer-
fulness and content, and a hundred virtues which the

idle never know. —CHARLES KINGSLEY

RECREATI

 

Editorially Speaking

 

Outdoor Winter Sports

In many ways, winter is the most ex-
I'ng season out-of-doors. The growth
: enthusiasm for outdoor winter sports
I; reached an all-time high, in Spite of

milder winters which have charac-
ited some of our northern areas dur-
the last few years. This has re-
cd in the increase of artificial ice
ces and sports facilities—evidence
pt city recreation and park depart-
mts across the country are taking
Lat steps they can to accommodate the
rests of local citizens.
in 1950, according to the most recent
acreation and Park Yearbook, pub-
lled by the National Recreation As-
liation in 1951, 3,274 ice-skating
eas were reported by 738 cities, with
:endance figures totaling 7,923,787;
4 ski umps were recorded by the 80
s reporting, with an attendance of

,399; and 268 winter toboggan
Hes were reported by 121 cities, with

attendance of 312,150. From infor-

Ition at hand, it is judged that these
;ures are higher today. Even in
uthern California, successful winter
arts programs have been promoted
ICC 1930.

The need of executives and program
lders for ideas as to facilities and
hiety in activities has prompted the
Plication of this issue of RECREATION.

Juvenile Delinquency

hay not our present-day society be
maring the ground for, if not actu-

sowing the seeds of, delinquency in
Fer ways than by failing to ensure the
ithy emotional adjustment of its
iltlren? An organized, civilized so-
lly such as ours depends for its pro-
r functioning, indeed for its very sur-
'al, on the possession by the majority
its members of a “social sense,” an
:eptance of what the Latins called
nmunitas. This implies not only a
.lingncss to impose restraints on in-
ridualistic impulses in the common
erest, but also a readiness to con-
bute a fair share in promoting the
nmon good. Living as a member of
'iety calls for a positive not a nega-
e attitude, it is an active not a passive
6. Now these attitudes do not come
nature. Although human beings may
Iscss gregarious instincts, every child
nevertheless born an individualist,
i if he is to acquire those habits of
[-denial, of seekingthe good of others

well as his own, he requires training
1 practice. . . .

iEMBER 1953

There is a danger that the advent of

the new social services will be marked
by the disappearance of social service.
We need to learn again the lesson that
the good things of life must be earned
before they can be enjoyed and that it
is better to give than to receive. We
must beware that a generation does not
grow up which looks to the State and its
welfare services to solve all their prob-
lems, to buttress them not only against
the normal risks of life but also against
the results of their own folly and ne-
glect. From such a soil the seeds of
emotional disturbance may be expected
to yield a richer harvest of delinquency
than would be otherwise forthcoming.
——E. Frank Candlin, in the London

School Government Chronicle, August
1953.

“The growth of interest in winter
sports has taught us many things.
If we expect our areas to be patron-
ized, much care and attention must
be given to first aid and to winter
sports bulletins giving depth of
snow, and weather and road condi-

tions. Ski runs must be kept well-
posted. Parking areas must be kept
free of snow. Policing must be pro-
vided for the purpose of protecting
the public against snowballing and
imprOpcr use of facilities.”—James

K. Reid, in RECREATION.

 

War Tensions

Specialists in work with youngsters
have become concerned about the ef-
fects on children of civil defense activi-
ties and the atmosphere which such
activities create. As a first step in study-

'ing the matter, they have organized a

group, teinporarily known as the Com-
mittee on War Tensions in Children.
As reported by Dorothy Barclay, in the
New Y ark Times, a preliminary discus-
sion was held by school principals, psy-
chologists and teachers, in which ten-
sion reactions were reported. It was
generally agreed, however, that the
problem of tensions in children was
basically that of the tension in adults
being communicated to children. Con-
cern was expressed over the kind of
moral values children will deveIOp in
situations where there is conflict be-
tween the teaching of brotherhood on
the one hand and the pointing out of
the peOple of certain other nations as
arch-villains on the other.

Muscular Dystrophy

Despite the many medical miracles in
our era there still exists among us a
deadly, crippling diseasc, muscular dys-
trophy by name, about which little is
known by scicnce,. Mysteriously, it
strikes at the muscles, which waste away
until the limbs are rendered useless. At
present, there is no known cause, no
known remedy for this disease; and
more than 200,000 Americans are its
victims—yet they live in hope.

Their faith lies in the work of Muscu-
lar Dystrophy Association of America
which, through public contributions,
carries on research and, wherever pos-
sible, offers help to needy patients. The
annual nation-wide appeal for funds is
being held this year from November 2
through Thanksgiving.

What better way to offer thanks dur-
ing the holiday season than by helping
those among our friends and neighbors,
who are less fortunate? Your gift may
help achieve yet another medical mir-
acle in our time. Send to your local
muscular dystrophy chapter today; or
to Muscular DystrOphy Association, 39
Broadway, New York 6, New York, to

be credited to your community.

Book Week

“Reading is Fun,” is again the slogan
for National Children’s Book Week,
November 15 to 21. In writing of read-
ing for pleasure, Dr. Karl S. Bernhardt
of the Institute of Child Study, Uni-
versity of Toronto, says: “In spite of
radio and television, movies and com-
mercial recreation, some families have
managed to retain that greatly reward-
ing eXperience of sharing their reading
with each other. Family reading takes
many forms, sometimes reading aloud,
sometimes discussing books read by all,
and sometimes describing what was dis-
covered in books. It is a fortunate child
who lives in a home where books yield
pleasure and the enjoyment is shared. . .

“Reading for pleasure can be a great
aid to personality develOpment if it
takes its place as one of the activities
of the child and later the adult. Such
activity makes life interesting to the in-
dividual and the individual interesting
to others. He has an activity which can
provide many hours of enjoyment,
which enables him to entertain himself,
and which has many valuable by-prod-
ucts. Happy is the child who has dis-

covered what treasure there is in
books.”*

Recreation Congress

The 1953 National Recreation Con-
gress, in Philadelphia, will be reported,

with pictures, in the December 1953
issue of RECREATION.

* See page 356.——Ed.

329

 

} AS ANNOUNCED BY MR. PRENDERGAST-

AT 35TH NATIONAL RECREATION CON-
GRESS in Philadelphia, the recreation
movement in this country will have a
home of its own in the spring of 1954,
when the National Recreation Associa-
tion moves into its new quarters. It is
the hOpe of the association that the

building may become a permanent cen-
ter for all the recreation interests of the
nation. A full article on this will ap-
pear in the January 1954 issue of REC-

REATION.

) PLEASE NOTE———THE RECREATION
SONG by Pheobe K. Higgins, Good Eve-
ning My Neighbor, appearing in the
September 1953 issue of RECREATION,
was copyrighted by Mrs. Higgins,
March 1953.

) TWO MAJOR CHANGES IN FIRST AID
CARE have been announced by the Red
Cross. The changes, dealing with in-
juries due to cold and application of
tourniquets, have been adopted by the
Red Cross on the basis of recommenda-
tions made by the Committee on Sur-
gery, Divison of Medical Sciences, N a-
tional Research Council. These are de-
scribed in a new supplement to the
American Red Cross First Aid Text-
book, which may be obtained free
through local Red Cross chapters.

) STATE PARKS AND THE WORLD OF
TOMORROW was the subject of the ad-
dress by Joseph Prendergast, at the N a-
tional Conference on State Parks on
October 13th. This year’s conference
was held from October 12 to 17, at
Georgia Veterans Memorial State Park,

Cordele, Georgia.

) THE NEw INTERNATIONAL OFFICE of
the National Recreation Association is
located adjacent to the oHices of the
United Nations, in Room 909 of the
Carnegie International Center on UN
Plaza at 46th Street, New York City.
Here the association will be working
closely with the UN and its specialized
agencies, and with the American For-
eign Operation Administraton (Point 4
Program) on recreation matters in var-
ious parts of the world.

) BOYS AND GIRLS OF EVERY COUNTRY
IN THE FREE WORLD are eager to have

330

74% @066 Sécwé'd Km .

 

pen friends in the United States.. The
International Friendship League at 40
Mount Vernon Street, Boston, Massa-
chusetts, has hundreds of thousands of
teacher-sponsored letters from them,
written in English in nearly every case.

The International Friendship League
has the endorsement of the Department
of State, the National Education Asso-
ciation and the U. S. OHice of Educa-
tion. It is also sponsored by the Minis-
tries of Education in these countries.

Send a self-addressed Stamped envel-
ope to the league for further informa-
tion.

) THE MID-CENTURY CONFERENCE ON
RESOURCES FOR THE FUTURE will be
held in Washington December 2 to 4.
A number of recreation and park lead-
ers are being invited, upon the sugges-
tion of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, to discuss the nation’s recrea-
tion resources'.

) ADDITIONAL INCOME TAX EXEMPTION
AND DEDUCTION for the permanently dis-
abled, and allowing additional income
tax exemptibns to taxpayers supporting
dependents who are physically disabled,
are items proposed by a new tax bill
which has been introduced in the House
of Representatives by Congressman
Rhodes of Pennsylvania and has been
referred to the Committee on Ways and

Means.
The number of the bill is H. R. 1725

and all people interested in seeing the

bill passed are asked to communicate.

their feelings to their local congress-
man and senator.

) PENDING LEGISLATION IN WASHING-
TON, being pushed by Postmaster Gen-
eral Summeriield, is bill H. R. 6052,
which would increase the present sec-
ond-class postal rates by a further 40
per cent—making a total increase of 67
per cent in about thirty-six months. This
stands a good chance of being enacted
into law, and is a matter of great con-
cern to all organizations whose service
involves large mailings of publications
and other printed materials. The bill
is scheduled for consideration by Con-
gress at its next session, in January.

) GOVERNOR HUGH GREGG HAS SIGNED

'1
legislation authorizing New Hampshil
schools to instrUct in the safe and pm
per use of firearms, the game laws an
proper hunting practices. The bill :
believed to be pioneer legislation of i1
kind in this country.

) LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS MUST BE L
CENSED in California, under a new la
passed at the last session of the stal
legislature. The law limits the use (
the title “landscape architect” to tho:
who are licensed. Ultimately licens:
will be issued only in the successfl
passage of prescribed examinations.

) THE MISSOURI LEGISLATURE this ye;
passed a law creating a bi-partisa
State Park Board. The purpose of ti
law is to remove state parks from pol
tics and to establish a citizen’s polic
forming group to manage the progran
Appointments to the board will be mad
by the governor.

) THE MIDWEST DISTRICT OFFICE (
the National Recreation Association :
now located on the 26th Hoor, City Hal
Kansas City, Missouri. Miss Margan
Lish is the ofiice secretary. OHice spec
and other assistance has been contril
uted by the Citizens Regional Plannin
Council of Greater Kansas City. Thi
arrangement makes possible more eliic
ency and better service by the associa
tion in this area.

 
    
 
 
    
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Assistant Service Club
Directors Needed In Europe

The army is seeking qualified
young women to serve as civilian
recreation workers in enlisted
men’s service clubs in Germany
and France. Immediate vacanciesll
exist for Assistant Service Club _
Directors, GS-5 (entrance salaryl
—$3,410). Young women who
are Single, college graduates be-
tween 24 and 35 years of age, with
recreation leadership background”
or who have participated in a
broad variety of recreational ac-
tivities may qualify for immedi-
ate appointment.

The need is urgent. For addi-
tional information write:

MRS. MARJORIE TIBBS, Special
Services R ec r u i t m e n t Section,

OAD, OHice of Civilian Person-
nel, Old Post OHice Building,
Washington 25, D. C.
or
RECREATIONAL PERSONNEL
SERVICE, National Recreation
Association.

Mrs. Tibbs will interview local appli-
cants November 9-18 at Department of

Army, Overseas Affairs Division, Room
505, 346 Broadway, New York City.

 
       
       
   
     
   
   
     

 .I _ o a .:I I. '
.. haw. y .z-T. inner.- iel-‘eiua- .- '
. I a I u"  f.\II.I'-  itrI'I‘I‘Ey'i‘I ' I_ ' I. I I I I‘; I

F ' I ~° ' ~ . liiiiiirii’r'ii "‘7‘ 311‘}; L:°“i-§"i‘ii‘i~ic,-' “t.
a D f 0.. . I I "-o  ti"): fII'.I-I, I ' “ gI .f;.QI,£‘
' ' ' ' an“ ‘r’.. 31‘" 1.” " ' a?! *1 .-' '33.. i
o-  ' 3' 2'3 "i," w‘ '2 ~. .ua '
. D  I e 1 59": wt; 16,1” kg)   i i. .‘i 
n r " ) ’011 Thalia! .il {31' J "i. .‘4 1‘ -" Aur"'."‘y'- ‘ ' ‘5‘.- -» I
 c ‘ E '35:? f“ \- ‘3 , ’*(IQII‘.II ‘I   {fa II I

  

     
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
     

I - - '9 r
. Io-.I I ‘ 'o t I... I. . . .'
.  .' e55 -“ .v‘ meg. a.” -' w“
I ." ’ a
I I'cU‘DI. 5“." ‘I' .- ‘ of. II. "' .'. I
a _. r I .‘3 ' ". a; ' “1% '4" 3 'Dt't .‘v'limn .3}. k‘ '. "
a":2"'3"?.=‘5;.:;:-fiath'nijtggka 1. ass-1:33.54’ Adina-j u
ray-'1'. :' .. 1' .-‘rs:;-«ii*.;2—"~.’z';"§i§‘-ek .7 §ff2~j .ijt'ivi-‘YI‘FIH 1‘? '
"4'" '. ' '-?-'-‘-€'.!°-""'°f"‘r" ‘3" I 'J “i' - ' 13“” " "*"a “ M 4'
0 .Do.   4‘ r.  a . '.C 'i.‘ "'°. .f'."':\h I  e’Q‘g  D. D" .
-  :ra;.‘;~‘.‘iifnz. {3 “pg-3:31:25 arkazagga ‘4ij a 33- 
.II ‘, C ‘I I c ' ' I ..I I I I o. J I. :-
44. mews; :3?“ flag!” - itfdi‘aiig. £6 3:213:31? '~ 55:01:39.
7’ I': a -€I:’ .Igi 'u! I mum a".  I: .. .‘t‘é‘, 2's.

 

'i . . .
E SHARE w1th our Canadlan ne1ghbors a love and en-

l-usiasm for winter Sports, in Grand Forks, North Dakota.
lie of the the first requests Santa gets from any youngster

 

re is for a pair of ice skates. The outdoor ice rinks, with I -
' . . . . . . Each park has a coasting ramp. Facilities make
1 muslc,11ghts and waltzes,1ntr1gue young and old alike. it possible for winter Sports to be enjoyed by
inter lasts a longtime but no one minds. Mostof our entire families in Grand Forks, North Dakota.
i .‘l citizens mourn the day when the sun becomes hot
I" gh to melt the ice. Those way-below temperatures,
a h wc have often during the winter, don’t st0p things a I
. it’s a busy time for all—from Mom and Dad to the by starting our meetings early in October, at the various
1 est child. schools, we are able to do a better job of team organization.
' r the boys, hockey is the sport; they play it six months For these we use the following age groups: Pee Wee Divi-
1 alk about it the other six. The girls skate for fun, and sion, ten years and under; Midget B, twelve years and
are instructors for the would-be figure skaters. Each under; Midget A, thirteen years and under; Junior, fifteen
«- has a toasty warming house, just to keep the frost from years and under; and, Intermediate, seventeen years and

    
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
 
   

II.
_'

  

~r: ng in too deep. under. Age grOUping results in a more even distribution of
t and Forks hasn’t many hills, so for skiing we’ve had to good skaters on the various teams. Occasionally we will find
1- a ski jump. For hardy souls there is a toboggan slide a group of boys banded together, from all sections of town,
oes out over the Red River, and each park has a coast- comprising the best skaters in that age group. This we do
n mp, not permit, as one superior team in a league, will do more
. key, as a park board activity, dates back to 1929 when harm than good. We have found through eXperience that by
. 3 key pen was provided for four teams of lads sixteen keeping boys in neighborhood teams we have a stronger
old and over. Today, with forty-one teams playing in league. We allow twelve boys per team, with two forward
' eagues, Grand Forks has five lighted hockey pens for lines, two sets of defense and two goalies-——with the stipula-
I oungsters, five lighted general skating rinks and un- tion that all boys play during any scheduled games. This
ed back yard skating areas. This impressive growth policy we enforce, and if the team captain will not substitute,
- e popularity of skating has been fostered and en- then the official in charge of the game has the right to substi-
ii'iged by Mrs. Frances Kannowski, Grand Forks super- tute players so that all receive equal playing time.
; ‘ dent of parks for the past twenty years. Before actual league play starts we schedule a “Knock
the organization of hockey leagues we have found that Out Tournament” during Christmas holidays. This gives
our hockey supervisor an opportunity to see each team in

'liileBBOTT is the director of recreation in Grand Forks. action. The round-robin type of tournament is best suited

i.

     
 

ER 1953 331

 

for this warm-up tourney. In this, the weaker teams are
spotted and efforts can be made to strengthen them by add-
ing players to their roster. It may be necessary to move boys
to either a lower or a higher bracket, depending upon their
ability to skate.

The hockey season is Opened officially with a series of
clinics conducted by our hockey supervisor, E. J. Bertsch,
formerly a hockey star with the Grand Forks amateur senior
teams. Bertsch is idolized by the youngsters, who pay close
attention to his instructions and demonstrations in right and
wrong ways of stick handling, passing, checking, and other
fundamentals. We are assisted in clinics by the University
of North Dakota coach, Cliff (Fido) Purpur, a former Chi-
cago Black Hawks and St. Louis Flyers star, and a veteran
of the Stanley Cup Team. Players from the University of
North Dakota’s highly rated varsity, and from the Redwings
senior amateur league team, also fill in as enthusiastic tutors,
referees, and critics for the eager park board youngsters.
Emphasis is placed upon good sportsmanship and game
fundamentals.

All of our rinks are of the outdoor type. We always prof-
fer our best respects to the weatherman, h0ping that his co-
Operation will enable us to start leagues the last week in
December, so that we can finish a double round-robin of play
by the end of February. If the weather is favorable, this
means that each team in the various leagues, with the excep-
tion of the Pee Wees, must play two games weekly. By
scheduling two a week, we have eliminated the problem of
playing without supervision—regardless of age groups.

Each boy is happy to furnish his own equipment, such as
skates, stick, gloves, head guard, and any other parapher-
nalia that he desires. The park board provides the goalie
with gloves, pads, chest protector and goalie stick. Each
rink is equipped with two sets of sleeveless playing jerseys
of contrasting colors. These are used during regular league
games. No sponsored teams play in the park board pro-
gram. The only awards are six-inch sweater emblems, pre-

sented to the league winners. Special events throughout the

332

 

A Grand Forks youth demonstrates hi
jumping skill for a group of younl
ladies at the Lincoln Park ski jump

hockey year include our annual Amateur Hockey Roundup
with the park board teams furnishing the competition. Thi:
game is scheduled at the University of North Dakota rink.

The year’s kid-hockey highlight is the annual series player
with our friendly Canadian neighbor, Winnipeg, Manitoba
Now in its sixth season, the Grand Forks Midget A Cham'
cross sticks with the Winnipeg champions in that class. The
series is growing in popularity, and each year the game alter-
nates between Grand Forks and Winnipeg. This year it will
be played in Winnipeg.

In the older age group, boys are scheduled with outsiizle
teams and participate in state and national play-offs.

While hockey is a tremendously popular sport it certain
isn’t the end of the trail in winter sports. Girls and b0
skate for fun, too. Classes in figure skating are conduc
every Saturday morning and afternoon by Miss J oar
Lang, an active member of the Grand Forks figure-skat
club. For those interested in skiing and ski umping, cla
are held on Saturday afternoon for beginners in downl
skiing, and are Open to all ages. Senior groups meet regu-

\

Tractor owned by park board removes snow from skating r'

 

RECREATIO

larly on Sunday for cross country or downhill skiing. As
the nature of our.valley is on the level side, it is necessary '
for the club to travel to established ski runs in North Dakota
and Minnesota. This phase of skiing—jumping—is making
a comeback in the Grand Forks area. For several years the
jumping program was just about non-existent. With the con-
struction of a thirty-foot junior jump, interest has hit a new
high among the younger skiers. We are fortunate in having
Mr. Alfred Lawonn, Class A jumper, as our instructor for the
junior jumpers. Invitational ski jumping events are sched-
uled throughout thc season.

Lighted skating rinks, with music and warming houses,
furnisll many hours of fun for the family; and the coasting
namp at each park is always full. Near the end of the winter
season a Little Olympic is held, with the children of the
valley representing all nations of the world.

Also popular among winter activities arc those of our
nature club. This group collects rocks, and studies trees,
birds and animals in all seasons. They make plaster of Paris
casts of tracks in the snow. This is accomplished by using
an atomizer and spraying water on the tracks to freeze them,
I then mixing the plaster of Paris and applying it to the prints.
‘Cookouts are not stopped by weather, with tinfoil cooking
I bcing the most popular.

For those who do not care to participate in outdoor sports,
the park board offers a variety of interest groups and hand-
craft activities.

Among the children’s activities, the game centers con-
ducted in the public schools seem to be the most p0pular.

  

Slarling rack made from steel
conveyers on slide number one.

These are Operated from October until March, meeting for
three hours each Saturday morning. A staff—a man and
woman—is employed at each center and conducts a variety
of games, square dancing, a story hour, group singing, and
so on. The junior stamp club meets regularly under the
competent leadership of Mr. K. L. Helper. For those chil-
dren interested in crafts, a craft center operates three days
weekly after school.

For the adult hobbiest the following clubs meet twice
monthly: camera, archery, astronomy, kennel, square danc-
ing, and modcl airplane.

In our handcraft classes we offer leather carving, metal
tooling, hooked rug making, textile painting, wooden-ware
decorating, and copper ena1neling. Owing to limited facili-
ties we are unable to provide a wider variety of projects. All
craft groups are limited to fifteen students per class, with
class schedules set on an eight-week period. The only excep-
tion is the leather carving group, which is scheduled for
fifteen weeks. A nominal fee is charged in all classes, and
the students furnish their own materials. The projects vary
in price from fifty cents to twenty-five dollars, depending
upon the desires and ability of the student in his chosen
craft. Instructors are, for the most part, interested persons
whose hobbies have become avocations and who are intcr-
ested in teaching others a special skill. At the Christmas
season, members of the art group lead the way in city-wide
window decorating.

The snows and ice of winter are welcome in Grand Forks.
From October to April, this is a winter land.

I

T aboggan Run

The slide of the toboggan run
in Midland, Michigan, is like a
railroad track, with vertical sides
which are nineteen inches across.
The ice level in the chute is kept
. about three inches below the top
of the chute. The latter is made of two-by-eight planks for

Toboggan slide number two at Midland, Mich-
igan, showing close resemblance to a railroad
lrack, affords lhe cnthusiasls of this popular
winter sporl a fast, eXciting downhill journey.

two-thirds the distance, and two-by-six planks for the last
third. The planks are rc-enforced every eight feet, at the
joints, with a four-by-four plank three feet long which is
embedded in the ground, leaving the full width of the plank
for the slide.

Two eight-foot sections of second-hand steel conveyors
are used successfully for each starting rack. They are ideal
for this purpose, as a slight push or pull by one of the riders
will start the toboggan.

 

-. EMBER 1953

 

How to Take Good Photographs

FROSTBITE and numb fingers await sportsmen who

venture out with their cameras when drifts are deep

and the weather nippy. But pictures with sparkle are
the reward to those who point their lenses into the wintry
blasts.

Wintertime, with its snow-crusted branches, woolly land-
scapes and rippled heaps, offers snapshot hunters unusual
opportunities for studies in black-and-white which are rarely
found at any other season of the year. Most cameramen are
quick to recognize the beauty of thick wet snow, weighing
down branches, piling up on cabin roofs and frosting rustic
fence posts. Too few see such a picture with “photographic”
eyes, nor are they able to record this scene from the proper
angle so that its composition may be enjoyed later by others
who see the finished print.

Remember that while winter light is variable and gener-
ally weaker, the ability of the white landscape to reflect light
often offsets this reduction. Exposures used in summer and
fall do not hold good in winter. Because of the bounce-back
characteristic of snow, this season is particularly well-suited
for shooting outdoor close-ups and other scenes where re-
Hected light helps to bring out detail in heavily shadowed

areas. Similar portraits in summer might require reflectors

or even flash, since there is no white-reflecting blanket to
aid the photographer in brightening shadows.
Snow Scenics

When shooting snow scenes, watch your backgrounds. A
small evergreen branch, heavy with snow and glittering with

 

MR. SPRUNGMAN, camera editor of SPORTS AFIELD since
1934, is the organizer of The Outdoor Photographers League.

334

Animal and bird tracks in freshly fallen l‘
snow make interesting studies. Here
is a closeup of deer trail through a
bruslly opening in the Black Hills of
South Dakota. Low lighting is neces-
sary to throw shadows in depressions.

FIJILMIJNC
WIJN‘FIEI

Ormal I. Sprungmaq'

sunlight, may present a striking contrast against the brigh
blue sky. But if you use ordinary film when you snap tllii-
scene, chances are that the excessive amount of blue wi
photograph nearly as white as the snow, thus destroying th
whole illusion in black-and-white. If you want your subject
to stand out in relief against a dark sky, slip a mediu
yellow filter, like the Wratten K2, over the sunshaded lenlI
and use a panchromatic film in the camera. The sky wil
then record as a darkish gray, while the snow will seem even
more brilliant than ever with illumination in the shadow?
greatly reduced. Try the orange filter to vary the contrast
or the red filter for overcorrection, and use the green filter
to improve rendition of trees, snow and sky. Infra-red film
will blacken the cold blues of winter, turning foliage white
and creating dense shadows having little or no detail.
Lighting for winter subjects should never be flat, with sun- 1
light coming from directly behind the camera, otherwisej
negatives and prints will lack the typical gem-like sparklei

 

Reprinted with permission from Photography Aneld by Ormal l.
Sprungman. The Staekpole Company, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
Pp. 449. $7.50.

RECREATION

of glittering snow crystals. If crosslighting or even back-
lighting is used, so that shadows fall towards you, subjects
will be rimmed with a halo-like glow, and the snow will have
a distinctive texture. For this reason, it is often best to
shoot in early morning when snow is fresh and untrampled,
or late afternoon when the rays of the sun slant low, never
on dull days unless absolutely necessary for record purposes.
In the Far North, of course, Old Sol rarely ever gets high
above the horizon, and then for only a very brief period.
When filming in the direction of the sun, be sure the lens is
shaded to insure crisp pictures.

If the ground is white with snow, and the brilliant glare
makes you squint, it’s an indication that you must use one
of the smaller f/ stops on your camera for open landscapes
or your scenics will be overexposed. When eyestrain is less
noticeable during an overcast, try a larger stOp or a slightly
longer exposure.

Human eyes sometimes make fairly good exposure meters
in determining the lens settings for certain types of shots,
but in other respects they are deceiving and should not be
trusted. You are apt, for instance, to misjudge the amount
of sunlight entering your cabin window and illuminating
the room as compared with the diffused and reflected light

 

Nighttime skiing shot on hilltop in below-freezing weather.
Strong backlighting used to silhouette figures. Graflex cam-
era mounted on tripod low on hill slope, lens closed down
to {/8, shutter opened for time exposure. Then on opposite

NOVEMBER 1953

found outdoors in winter. Similarly, it is common for begin-
ners to underexpose shots of tree-filtered sunlight in dense
woods where much of the light is absorbed by dark objects
and little is reflected. When a meter is used on scenics, point
it downward or come up within a few inches of the subject
on close-ups to insure an accurate reading.

Since black-and-white films are sensitive to blue, which
is ever-prevalent in winter, the need of a yellow or red filter
to bring out snow texture and tone down the light is imper-
ative. Of course, such filters cannot be used with color film
without upsetting the color balance. Thus, the haze filter,
which looks nearly transparent when viewed with the human
eye, is used to cut some of the haze in distant scenes.

Winter Subjects

Such winter pastimes as skiing, tobogganing, skating, ice-
boating and fishing furnish plenty of filming opportunities.
\Vhen shooting a skier in action, take a low camera position
on the side of the hill, focus on a predetermined point on the
slope where he will make the ump, set the shutter speed at
1/500 or 1,1000 second, and click the shutter as his skis
leave the ground. To catch the skier in mid-air calls for a
technique similar to that used in filming leaping fish. En-

side of ridge, out of camera View, I fired tray of flash-
powder. returned to camera and closed shutter. While photo-
tlash might have been used for illumination, flashpowder
dispersed light in all direetions, adding to artistic effect.

335

hance the jump by shooting from a low angle with sidelight-
ing to show flying snow against the filtered sky. Or tilt the
camera to make the hill look really steep.

Strive for simplicity in the composition of winter scenes.
Don’t crowd in too much detail, but eliminate all non-essen-
tials. Sometimes a ski trail or snowshoe path over the bar-
ren snowy wastes will help to lead the eye into the picture.
Here, again, you can frame the scene beneath white
branches. Shadows cast on the snow are clean-cut and

afford excellent subject matter.

if:  ’1‘  }

 

White sheet wrapped around body provides camouflage in
filminggwild game. Pictured on location is George Rintamaki
of Newberry, Michigan. Camera is hidden under fold of sheet.

Other popular sportsr'like rabbit hunting and ice fishing
provide fine wintertime camera subjects for both movie and
still pictures. During winter’s duller days, fit your camera
with synchronized flash, and let a midget flashbulb brighten
foreground action or supplement bright sunlight by provid-
a shadow fill-in.

Deer, elk and other game often can be surprised in winter
while feeding in open places. They will seem more curious,
with less tendency to run away, than in summer. If you
drape a white bed sheet about you, it is possible to sneak
11p within easy camera-clicking distance.

Some amateurs find that the practice of photographing

the tracks of animals and birds—even human footprints—-

after a fresh snow adds much to the enjoyment of picture
making. Choosing the proper camera angle, however, de-
pends on the size and nature of the tracks themselves. Never
shoot the paw marks so that they run horizontally or ver-
tically in the picture. Turn thei'c‘a'mara slightly so that the
tracks run diagonally from one clorner of the viewfinder to
the opposite corner, and the resulting picture will be much
more pleasing. Perhaps a bunny’s erratic trail into a brush-
pile haven will describe a typical S-curve and provide com-
position‘having rare beauty.

Bird tracks imprinted atop crusted snow seem to photo-

336

graph better when the sun is low enough to cast shadows
into the depressions. An ineXpensive portrait attachment
lens will enable you to bring the camera closer to the sub-
ject, while a yellow filter will cut down excessive light by
darkening depression shadows and emphasizing snow tex-
ture. In close work of this type, use a tape measure to de-
termine the exact distance, avoiding guesswork which can
only result in out-of-focus results.

Visit the outlying little brooks or ponds after a blizzard
and try photographing the ledges of drifted snow which
hang over the banks. The black water and leafless trees
jutting up out of the white covering will show extremes in
contrast. Or trek up behind a frozen waterfall when the sun

is right and frame a backlighted shot through the drippingl

icicles to the stream bed far below. .

You can film falling snow in action by using a slow shut-l
ter speed of around 1/10 second, but a dark background is
needed so that the white streaks will stand dut. Frost crystals
formed on window glass during cold spells are easily filmed
by placing a light source—photoflood or flash—behind and
to one side of the glass, or letting the sun itself backlight the
frosty pane while using a small lens st0p. Care must be takenl
not to place hot lights too close or the frost will melt. F ilm-
ing individual flakes with a microscope is an art in itself.
and is covered in Photography A field. Snowscapes are
easily photographed by the light of the moon with a lengthy
time exposure, while hoar frost in early morning is a cam-
eraman’s delight.

Camera Care

Cold weather shooting also creates problems in carner
operation. Pull-out lenses often freeze, curtain shutters slow.
down, and some even fail to operate. The worst bugaboo i
the frosty lens, which usually results from taking a chille
camera indoors where heat and humidity combine to caus
quick condensation. Such “sweating” may go on for hour
during the warming-up process. Accidentally breathin
on the cold lens or viewfinder may also cause frosting, re
sulting in pictures either lacking in definition or definitely
out-of-focus. Allow ample time for moisture to evaporat
before putting equipment back into use again.

Stiffness of operation comes from the hardening or con
gealing of oils and contraction of the metal working par
inside the camera, with the resultant slowing up of shutte
speeds. This can be corrected by having a reputable repair-
man winterize the camera with a low temperature lubricant
or by removing every trace of oil. Of course, such a camer

‘must be de-winterized for indoor or warm weather use.

otherwise undue wear will result. An unheated room in
your cabin or an outer hallway is the best location for stor-
ing camera gear which must be used repeatedly outdoors in
the cold. Always avoid sudden temperature changes, and
never force the camera mechanism with pressure to combat
cold-weather stiffness.

Motion picture film left in chilled 8mm and 16mm outfits
for some time will occasionally become brittle and even
break as it passes through the gate. Some World War ll l
aerial cameras featured electrically-heated film magazines. 

RECREATICII

V

camcra jackets, and special filter and shutter heaters to
cpmbat the cold. Less fortunate amateurs have few such re-
linements available, but they can use preventive measures
to protect equipment.

Keep the camera tucked away inside the jacket when not
in use so that body heat will warm it. Don’t stuff it in an
en pocket which might fill with snow. Use a field case, if
u own one, or a knapsack slung over the chest, instead of
e back, so that hands will be free and the camera easily
cessible and safe in case of a backward tumble.
Chemically-heated pads, charged by adding a small
ount of water or snow, may be strapped around the
nera for warmth while shooting outdoors. Such pads are
xpensive and can be recharged a number of times. Even
sh batteries, weakened by the cold, may fail to trip the
3 utter and set off the lamp, and cold bulbs have been known
do shatter when fired unless first cupped in the hands. Pads
31' this type may be used to heat up the flash outfit, and extra
batterics can be carried in warm inside pockets ready for
imtant use.

Filming in snow Hurries may produce startling results
iphotographically, but wct snow on camera lens and gear in
near-freezing weather can harm equipment if it is not wiped
dry immediately after use. Keep your lens shielded by a
ll'ns cap or filter in between exposures.

' Few sportsmen realize that films often lose speed at low
timperatures, such loss of speed sometimes amounting to
oucohalf stop or more in twenty below zero weather. On the
$er hand, cold does not seem to have injurious effects on
the sensitized film emulsion. In fact, wartime photogfaphic
boratories found that film as well as paper, refrigerator-
stored at very low temperatures, has its usefulness prolonged
bnsidcrably past its date of eXpiration. Outdated Kodao
chrome also can be “revived” by storage in the family re-
rigerator for a brief period prior to being exposed.

Cold produces another curious effect on film—static elec-
tricity. This is the same effect you get when you comb dry
air or walk over a bear rug and crackle and sparkle all
liver the place. The resulting spark unfortunately can be
ecorded on film when identical conditions are found inside
'our camera. Such discharges, resembling branches of
alack lightning, occur on movie film, and occasionally when
he tahs are pulled from a film pack too rapidly static marks
nay result or the film may tear.

  
 
  
  
  
    

 
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 

3"

Only the most rugged person would want to process his
hns under conditions simulating a remote Arctic outpost.
lowever, it may be of interest to know that, in the absence
f tap water, even melted snow may be used for souping and
insing both films and prints. Naturally, thc coldcr the
olution, the slower the development and the greater the
King and washing time. Even solutions which have been
rozen may be thawed and used again without greatly im-
airing their action.

The personal comfort of the photographer in cold weather
3 also essential to good picture-taking, since the cold may
LOW your reaction time in action-filming. Above all, keep
our hands and fingers warm for easy manipulation of the
butter specds and lens aperture settings. If a thin pair of

(:V’EMBER 1953

cotton or silk gloves is worn under a heavier pair, it is pos-
sible to set the camera after each exposure without numbing
the hands. Leather shooting-mittens with the split palm are
satisfactory if mitts must be worn. Remember that contact
of the lips or bare fingers with the cold metal parts of the
camera may cause painful frost burns. Dark glasses should
be worn to eliminate eyestrain just as the camera lens must
be “goggled” with a filter.

A Gcrman ski trooper’s jacket is probably the perfect
outfit for filming out-of—doors in summer and winter. It is
pale green on one side and can be reversed to the opposite
white side. It has extra large pockets which can carry a
number of holders, thus segregating color and black-and-
white film.

You can determine in advance exactly how your movie'
camera or still will behave under conditions of severe cold
by conducting tests on camera focus and shutter Operation
in a frozen food locker or any refrigerated room, for an
hour or more. Once you have become accustomed to your
outfit,.you can tell quickly by its sound whether or not it is
operating properly. When the camera is used in cold cli-
mates, click the shutter several times with the lens capped to
loosen the mechanism and insure accuracy.

Winter’s white light has such intensity that roll films may
be edge-fogged if loaded or unloaded outdoors. Find ample
shade, if at all possible. Nor are high-speed photographic
emulsions necessary, since medium-speed panchromatic
films will serve most purposes wellnin winter.

“(a-:9)

The. Importance of Recreation

“We must plan on a larger scale to give American children
a chance for healthful play and a worthwhile use of leisure.
I agree with you that a democratic government has a vital
interest in thcse matters.

“I earnestly hope that in each of our local communities
men and women interested in the public welfare will give
increasing thought and time to this great democratic method
of providing recreation for all the people untrammeled by
any motive except that of living fully and richly.

“The recreation movement in America is one of our rich-
est resources. It is not only a manifestation of our capacity
for finding life in the face of pressing problems, but it is an
example of how our normal forccs may be used in times of
emergency.

“. . . . Next to active military service itself, there is no
higher opportunity for serving our country than helping
youth to carry on in their efforts to make themselves physi-
cally strong, mentally awake and morally straight, and pre-
pare to help their country to the full in time of war, as well
as in time of peace.”—Frank1in D. Roosevelt

337

To Start

rum SCRATCH

Richard Langlois

Situated in the heart of north-
_ “ central Wisconsin’s vacation-
-"'.: land, Merrill is known as the
“City of Parks.” As if, to justify this
title, this strung-out city of 10,000 peo-
ple boasts of twelve parks, with facili-
ties f or almost everything from picnick-
ing and nature areas to sports fields and
scenic drives. Yet, with all these parks,
a few years ago there was virtually no
provision for any of the winter Sports.

Twenty miles south of the city lies
Rib Mountain, a huge quartzite mound
which thrusts itself almost a thousand
feet above the surrounding plains, and
the site of one of the finest ski runs in
the entire Great Lakes area. In con-
trast, Merrill’s winter-sports areas in-
cluded only several small neighborhood
rinks and a steep hill near the center of
the town. All of these rinks, however,
were on private property.

Then five years ago, the local Lions
Club decided to do something to reme-
dy the situation. 0n the banks of the
Prairie River and near the high school
lay eleven acres of undeveloped land,
bounded by the already popular hill on

 

MR. LANGLOIS, journalism instructor at
the senior high school, has written
much of the publicity for the rec-
reation department. He is a feature
writer and sports reporter for the
local newspaper in Merrill, Wisconsin.

338

the west, by a row of homes on the
south, and by the Prairie on the remain-
ing sides.

Acquiring this land for development
as a badly needed winter sports center
became one of the leading goals of the
Lions’ civic service program.

Numerous complications arose, how-
ever, to block them in their attempted
negotiations for the site. Legal techni-
calities in regard to the ownership, and
delays of all sorts beset the project from
the initial purchase in 1947. Neverthe-
less, the Lions went ahead with the con-
struction of a warming house and the
preparation of a rink. Volunteer crews
staffed the center and took care of the
rink, a terrific task for men with other
full-time responsibilities.

Finally, in November of 1952, the
acquisition of the area was completed.
Then, in a special ceremony at the city
hall, a permanent lease for the center
was handed over to the mayor by the
president of thc Lions Club. From there
on it became the ofhcial responsibility
of the newly appointed city recreation
director, Gerald Smith.

With the aid of business men in Mer-
rill, immediate, though necessarily limi-
ted, improvements were made in the
area already partially completed by the
Lions Club at a cost of several thousand
dollars.

The concrete block warming house,

 

Three Christmas-tree bonfires helped ttr
get the program publieity and impetu.

erected through the generosity of a lo-
cal manufacturer, was reconditione
An adequate heating system was i
stalled, additional lights for the hou
and rink were set in place, and a “can
bar” opened. Bill Natzke, a local c0
tractor and Lion, donated men and t
heavy machinery needed to level an
bank two new rinks.

The larger of the rinks, 150 feet by
280 feet, was to be used for free skat-
ing, figure skating, and speed racing.
It was so laid out that a one-eighth-
mile speed-skating course could be set
up. The smaller rink, 100 feet by 200
feet, was built as a regulation hockey
rink and reserved for that sport.

At the rear of the warming house, a
parking area for approximately fifty
cars was prepared by crews from the
city’s street department. And directly
to the north of the house, the long slope
of Wilson Hill was surveyed. Then

three separate runs were marked ofl.

 
   
 
  
 
    
   

one each for sledding, toboganning.
and skiing.

Although the final step in transfer-
ing the site occurred rather late in the
fall, Mr. Smith, with the avid coopera-
tion of local skating enthusiasts, was
able to plan and conduct an attractive
program. At an evening meeting, all 0
the suggestions of these men wer
pooled and a general outline of events
for both the Lions Center and the neigh

Recamno

ood rinks was drawn-up. Subse-
t get-to-gethers worked out the de-
s and arranged for volunteer help.
he unusually warm weather of late
4 and early winter added delay to
official opening of the winter pro-
. Not until the latter part of De-
er did the weather permit flooding
e rinks and packing on the SIOpes.
ree big Christmas tree bonfires
(l the program get publicity and

tus. People were invited to bring

[fir trees to the large flat area at the
ottom of Wilson Hill. There, in the
iskness of cold northern Wisconsin
'enings, the trees were lighted to form
huge crackling background for the
u dreds of onlookers.

ll] addition to the many hours of free
: ating, instructions for beginners were
'tien every Tuesday afternoon and eve-
'ng. A skiing clinic was scheduled for
'ur consecutive Saturday afternoons
lder the direction of a visitor to the
nited States, Mr. Tapio Tolisaari. A
tive of Helsinki, Finland, Mr. Toli-
l-ari very enthusiastically offered his
rvices.

One weekend featured the City Skat-
g Championships for boys and girls.
oth sprint and distance races were held

Ithe oval course. An ice carnival, the

ain attraction for another weekend,
i tertained more than six hundred spec-
l

 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 

tors with stunts, novelty races, and a

  

' (IJVEMBER 1953

_ '12:“ ! ,i-_
M pl 5 . . f 

'.- '- 4'" ' i
_  ‘1 1 v  - I . _ , _ ,.
hing first year over 11,000 persons joined in or stopped to watch goings-on.

barrel-stave race down the steepest run.

Figure skating lessons were arranged
for Saturday mornings by two local
skaters well known throughout the area
for their artistry on ice.

Regulation ice-hockey goals were

constructed and set in place on the
smaller of the rinks, and Sunday after-
Partici-
pation in hockey has been given a boost
this winter with the formation of young-
sters’ hockey teams into a league.

noon becanle “hockey day.”

 

The Sledding Jamboree, held in early

February, brought out fifty young dare-
devils. Races were held for distance
and against the stop watch. But a new
twist, sliding on the seat of the pants on
cardboard, turned out to be the hit of
the afternoon. The officials are proba-
bly still shuddering when they think
what the parents said when juniOr came
home after that event.

A loudspeaking system was installed
to provide skaters with music every
Friday night, Saturday and Sunday.
Records donated by a local music store
and by some of the teen-agers brought
out the high-stepping waltz bug.

Not of least importance to the Merrill
winter sports program has been the fact
that the public school system operates
a huge school forest only a half-hour
bus ride from the center. Frequent
trips gave both the grade school and

the high school students the opportunity

to study nature, winter style, and to
learn the tricks of the woodsman under
the guidance of qualified teachers.

After only one season, Merrill seems
to have taken a big step toward a well-
balanced outdoor winter program. Of
course, one successful year has meant
only a start.

With this idea in their minds, the
original committee met at the end of the
season to evaluate the results of their
work. The recommendations of this
group brought about a number of im-
provements in the area during the sum-
mer season.

Because the arrangement of runs on
the slope of Wilson Hill proved to be a
little hazardous, the entire hill was
smoothed over. Then early in the spring
the high school conservation classes and
their instructor planted five hundred
trees, dividing the runways and pro-
viding eventual shade protection for the
snow packs on the slides.

During the summer, water depart-
ment crews installed an inside drinking
fountain and special valves for the
flooding outlets. Late in July, further
work was done on the parking area,
almost doubling the capacity of the lot.
In time, the warming house at the Lions
Center, which can barely handle the
crowds of skaters, may have to be en-
larged and toilet facilties added.

As never before, local folks can look
forward to the coming of the winter
sports season.

Probably the greatest tribute to the
efforts of the many who pitched in was
the fact that, last year, the first in the
program, more than 11,000 people
either joined in the skating, partici-
pated in the special events, or just
stopped in to watch the goings-on.

Thanks to the civic ipterest of the
members of the Lions Club, to the will-
ing efforts of those who volunteered
when the call went out, and the hard
work of the city crews, the people of
Merrill can go on any evening or week-
end to see a goodly portion of their
town’s children happily and safely en-
gaged in good old-fashioned fun.

Detailed
winter activities may be obtained by
writing Mr. Gerald Smith who has had
the job of guiding Merrill’s first try at
a year-round recreation program.

information on Merrill’s

339

Personnel

 

gownsismauou

RECREATMN -,4 29me

HE RANGE of recreation activities in
Tthis country is astonishing. Partici-
pation in more than eighty activities is
reported by our municipal recreation
systems each year. Expenditures by
recreation and park agencies in 1950
totalled nearly 269 million dollars, of
which ninety per cent came from taxes
and other public funds. Recreation is
a great social undertaking for which
leadership is needed. Millions of peo-
ple use our recreation facilities each
year. Attendance at the forty-eight rec-
reation facilities in Austin, Texas, in
1952 alone, was estimated at over four
Much of the benefit
which our children, youths and adults
receive from our recreation facilities
and programs depends upon the leader-
ship provided; and the success of the
recreation movement depends upon our
recreation leaders. Our present need is
for better professionally-trained leaders.

The leadership employed is of many

million visits.

types, including: superintendents, as-
sistant superintendents, general super-
visors, special supervisors in charge of
special program phases, directors of
centers, assistant directors of centers,
recreation leaders, specialists for par-
ticular activities, managers of special
facilities", maintenance and ground
crews, and so on.

However, the heart of thc leadership
is the recreation leader who works di-
rectly with the people participating.
This is the leader that we must be most
concerned about. To be sure, for all of
these positions, we need men and
women with professional preparation

and know-how. However, the most im-

MR. BRACE is the vice-chairman, Park
and Recreation Board, Austin, Texas.

340

D. K. Brace

From a talk delivered at the Southwest Districi
Recreation Conference, Austin, Texas, April, 1953.

portant leader, the one who comes in
direct contact with the consumer, is the
one most in need of professional prepar-
anon.

Let us ask ourselves what is a pro-
fession? The word profession starts off
with profess, to declare, to express
openly. A profession is a body of per-
sons engaged in a calling. The ministry
is a profession, medicine is a profes-
sion, law is a profession, teaching is a
profession, and recreation leadership is
a profession. ,

What does it take to make a profes-
sion? A profession has a philosophy,
that is, a statement of beliefs; a profes-
sion has a code of ethics; a profession
has a set of principles, that is, beliefs
based upon facts; a profession has a
history. Real professions do not spring
up overnight; they grow. A profession
has a core of professional preparation,
a set of admission standards. A profes-
sion has standards for retention of its
members; those who violate the code
can be eXpelled.

I believe that recreation can meet
these criteria. Recreation does have a
philos0phy, a code of ethics, a set of
principles. Its beliefs are based upon
proven facts concerning the nature of
man, the nature of social forces, the
nature of the psychology of human ac-
tion. It does have a history, and a core
of desirable professional preparation.
But what about admission standards,
and what about the standards of reten-
tion in the profession? Some of our
recreation authorities feel that only
those who have had certain college
courses should be allowed to become

'I
This I do not be-

lieve. Recreation leadership is not a
matter of semester hours.

Now do not misunderstand me. Pro-
fessional preparation is essential for
those going into any profession, and
for those taking up recreation as a pro-
fession. However, recreation differs
somewhat from other professions. The
difference is because of the nature of
recreation. N 0 other profession is dedi
cated to the task of helping people to d
in their free time, those worthwhile a _

tivities which they wish to do of thei$

own volition.

recreation leaders.

The essence of the philosophy of thq
recreation profession in this country i
derived from our concept of democracy
and the American way of life. It is dedi
cated to a respect for the right of th
individual to develop initiative in p
suing his own interests so long as they
are not subversive to the welfare of
others.

Some sixteen years ago I observed
recreation activities in Moscow and
Leningrad. I saw boys and girls play-
ing volleyball and soccer, men playing
chess, and boys and girls swinging in
public parks. But underlying their rec- I
reation activities was a philosophy of
life vastly different from ours. Thei
activities were directed toward the we]-
fare of the state. Our activities are di-
rected at the welfare of the individual as
a free personality in a cooperative so-
ciety of free men.

In this matter of recreation as a pro-
fession there is a danger. The danger
here is the same danger that we see in
other fields of work for which profes-

RECREATION

pnally prepared leaders are needed——
'ch as medicine, law, and education.
is a profession or a field of work be-
omes recognized and important we
rish to improve the preparation of
lose going into it. We provide special
rograms of professional preparation.
Ve set up standards and try to raise
landards. We set up restrictions. We
nild a fence around the profession.
e cull out the mavericks. We insist
Fat only those who wear the profes-
ional brand can enter the chosen herd.
ll would not deny that there is some
ftification for these procedures and
pit the motives behind them are honest.
iowever, there is a danger in them;
nd this is especially true in the case of
i8 preparation of recreation leaders.

Recrcation activities are as varied as
1e interests of man. Any activity done
it its own sake alone may be recrea-
pm. There is no pattern which will fit

all people. Therefore, there is probably
no pattern of professional preparation
which will fit everyone for recreation
leadership. To be sure, there may be a
core of beliefs and competencies which
all professional training programs in
colleges ‘ and universities should pro-
vide, but it certainly will be a bad day
for recreation when all recreation lead-
ers must have the same undergraduate
curriculum.

To avoid the danger, I would suggest
the following guides in the professional
preparation of recreation leaders:

1. Select only those people (students)
who have well balanced personalities,
who like people, who have a humble
willingness to serve others, who love to
play, .and who have good health and
common sense.

2. See to it that prospective leaders can
come from any field of interest, such as
from art, music, drama, sociology, so-

I The swimming pool operator 'must‘ to prevent leaves from entering and

attend with winter maintenance
'(nlbles. These always bcgin when the
inner staff is dismissed and the main
ody of water drained from the swim-
ing pools. One of the first duties is to
l'nOVC all exposed light bulbs and fix-
rres. Unnecessary exposure to the ele-
tits will reduce the life of this equip-
1 t. Further, do not overlook the fact
1at these are tempting targets for the
ndmsiasts with slingshots and air
iii-s. The underwater lights are cov-
rdl with waterproof plywood and
ainted the same color as the walls of
no pool. All open exits and entrances
re closed with wooden panels.

frevention of Freezing-"In order to
revent damage from water freezing in
Iipes, faucets and valves, all valves are
ironed or, preferably, parts removed.
h'e grill at the bottom of the diving

oil is covered with a small mesh screen

 

_R. KRIESER is director of municipal
creation, Green Bay, Wisconsin. This
Element is taken from SWIMMING POOL
BERATORS’ SCHOOL MANUAL, 1952.

OVE—M BER 1953

clogging the drainage system. At the
first sign Of constant freezing tempera-
tures, the well is filled to a recom-
,mended height for protection against
frost damage around the footings and
pipes connecting the circulating sys-
tem. All the other water traps are
pumped dry with a small manual pump,
filled with kerosene and covered. The
diving boards should be removed and
placed in a level position for drying.

A check should be made for any
ma or repair work, for which there may
not be time in the spring prior to the
opening of the swimming season. This
should complete the outdoor work.
Inside Preparations—The chlorinator
is drained, cleaned and open parts cov-
ered. Any new parts necessary for the
chlorinator, or for any other equip-
n1ent, are purchased and replaced.
Bearings for pumps and motors are
cleaned, checked for proper operation
and oiled or repacked with grease.

The filter beds are backwashed and
well saturated with chlorinated water,
since there is less oxidization hy fol-

cial work, crafts, physical education,‘
athletics, and so on.

3. Retain only those students who can
grasp the real meaning of recreation.
4. See that all have a working knowl-
edge of human nature and social insti-
tutions, and field work experience in
working with groups.

5. Do not close the door of leadership
to those who are not professionally
trained but make wider use Of volunteer
and lay leadership when qualified by
a true Spirit of leadership and recrea-
tion skills of interest tO others.

Let us keep in mind that a true pro-
fession has a philosophy, 3 code of .
ethics, a set of fundamental principles,
and not merely a set of regulations dic-
tating to those who wish to enter it. Let
us keep the door open, so that we may
draw leadership from those with pro-
fessional preparation in many varicd
fields of human interests.

Winter Care of the (Dutcloor Swimming Pool

V. H. Krieser

lowing this method. Any protective
coating that could not he applied where
necessary during the summer months is
done during the months of September
and October. '
Temperature Problems—The oil-burn-
ing heating units are adjusted for cold-
weather operation in November. The
cost of heating the basement during the
winter months is approximately $255.

Maintaining a temperature above
freezing in the main portion of the
building eliminates considerable dan-
ger of frost damage and a great deal of
unnecessary work. On alternate days
during the winter months, a routine
check is made of the sump pump, which
carries off any seepage from the diving
well and drain tiles around the building
and pool. The heating unit and tem-
perature and depth of the water in the
diving well are checked at the same
time. This is done one day each week
by me'and two days each week by one
of our staff members.

341

This training course was reported by Mrs. Living-
ston as “one of the best-organized held in years.”

A.

 strainers-anon

 

Preliminary Planning

for a Good Leadership WorkshoP

IT Is DIFFICULT to know which is more important—the

groundwork before the opening date of a recreation
leadership course or the personality and ability of the. spe-
cialist who conducts it.

It is the belief of George F. Harris, J r., superintendent of
the Brunswick Recreation Department, Brunswick, Georgia,
that good organization and well-planned publicity assure
good attendance at a leadership worksh0p. 0n the other
hand, he is equally positive that consistent attendance and
enthusiasm at the workshop itself are dependent upon the
person who gives the course.

These ideas on planning and conducting a good training
program, as set forth here, are not fanciful theories, but
actual how-to-do procedures as performed by Mr. Harris in
Brunswick in the planning of the course held there in May
and conducted by Mrs. Anne Livingston of the National
Recreation Association staff.

There are many obvious reasons why a recreation depart-
ment sponsors leadership training institutes in its commu-
nity. A successful institute revitalizes the department’s own
programs" and stimulates its staff members; but even more
important, it establishes strong contacts for the department
with such community groups and institutions as churches,
schools, Parent-Teachers’ Associations, military service
clubs, Girl and Boy Scouts, YWCA and YMCA groups,
women’s and men’s civic clubs and industrial plants. For
each contact with adults in these groups, for each volunteer
leader trained, a recreation department gains community
strength. Therefore, a recreation superintendent must lay
careful plans to assure the community of a successful work-
shop.

Once the service of a specialist has been secured from the
National Recreation Association, and the date set for the
institute, the first step for the recreation superintendent is
to strategically choose individuals. active in community
groups and organize themiinto a steering-committee. The
first meeting of this nucleus group is held at the recreation
center one month in advance of the workshop.

 

MRS. MALONE, the author, is the publicity and program
chairman of the Brunswick Recreation Department, Georgia.

342

Jean Malone

At this first meeting the recreation superintendent outlines
the need of a leadership training course in the community,
describes the program to be offered, and discusses the per-
sonality and ability of the specialist his department has en-
gaged. He acquaints these people with the services of the
National Recreation Association which are available to the
groups they represent. He outlines to his committee its re-
sponsibility in securing good attendance by stimulating in-
terest and relaying information to the groups represented.

The recreation superintendent now starts his publicity.
The steering committee meeting is publicized through local
radio stations and in the local newspapers. Names make
news, so the releases contain the names of committee mem-
bers and their responsibilities in connection with the pro-
posed workshop. The superintendent tells the public that
his department is sponsoring the institute as a public serv-
ice. He describes the program and releases “teaser” infor-
mation about the experienced specialist who will teach the
course.

Next, he mails a supply of mimeographed application
blanks to his steering committee to be distributed to mem-
bers of the groups represented. Information sought through
these blanks includes the name of the person desirous of at-
tending the workshop, his address and telephone number.
whether of volunteer or professional status, and the agency
or group, if any, he represents. These blanks are returned to
the department by mail or presented by those taking the
course at the opening night of the worksh0p. The file thus
acquired becomes invaluable to the department for later
follow-up work with the adults who attend it.

Approximately three weeks now remain before the date of
the workshop. The recreation superintendent makes known
to friends in civic clubs that he is available for talks about
the leadership course. Within’a‘ few days his calendar is
filled with engagements through which he publicizes not
only the scheduled institute, but his own department. and
the services of the National Recreation Association.

During this three-week period, he secures time on the
radio and is heard in interviews, and on community service
programs, where he can use prepared scripts slanted for ef-
fective publicity. Concurrently, newspaper stories are re- ‘

RECREATION

eased each week,. which cover the steering-committee ac-
tivities, the nature of the leadership course, and its effect
ipon the community by the establishing of high leadership
standards for civic groups. Through these broadcasts and
lrticles people are repeatedly told how and where they may
'egistcr, and further information is released about the spe-
:ialist who will conduct the course.

If a recreation superintendent in a community encounters
lifliculty in securing time on the radio and space in a news-
paper, there are ways—at least in communities the size of
inrunswick which consists of some 29,000 people—of over-
'oniing this obstacle. Radio and newspaper people usually
Io not have time to do all the paper work required to cover
ivic projects. Therefore, if the superintendent prepares his
nwn material and presents it in a workmanlike manner, so
bet it can be used with very little editing, it is probable he
rill be granted all the space and cooperation he desires. For
he worksh0p in Brunswick, reporters on the local news-
nper, the Brunswick News, wrote attractive heads for arti-
ins submitted, and radio announcers on the two stations,
VMOC and WGIG, made spot broadcasts on their own.
.‘hey also gave time generously for programs about the
sadership course.

This constant neWSpaper and radio build-up regarding the
Iorkshop and the recreation specialist is bound to give ex-
ellent results. In the final week before the starting day, a
limatic story—with a previously secured newspaper mat
f a photograph—regarding the National Recreation Asso-
iation specialist is given to the paper. In Brunswick, sev-
ral people actually registered for the course on the strength
f Mrs. Livingston’s attractive photograph in the paper. All
lid in effect, “We just got interested in Mrs. Livingston and
hen when we saw her photo, there just seemed to be some-
hing in her face that made us want to take the course.”

‘Now the final week has arrived and all preliminary work
as been done, but it is no time for the recreation superin-
indent to rest on his laurels. He must triple his efforts hy
Bcepting last minute engagements before civic groups, for
:e workshop by now has become the community feature of
:6 week. He telephones members of his original steering
ommittee for last-minute urging that they register even
lOI'C individuals for the course. He makes up lists of other
dults in the community, such as well-known church work-
rs, clul) leaders and personnel heads of local industries, and
:lephones them personally to urge their attendance. He also
ails all ministers in the city, explains the services of the
lstitute and how it will benefit various church organizations
nd asks them to make pulpit announcements ahout it the
unday preceding the Opening date.

The recreation specialist arrives; and the superintendent
nds this person eager and willing to c00pcrate in any last-
linutc publicity plans. He has previously secured radio
me for her.

By this time the enthusiasm of the recreation staff is at a
ad-hot pitch. A fat file of registration blanks is evidence
Hit the first night of the workshop will be well attended and
rat organization and publicity have paid off. This enthusi-
sni is contagious and the specialist reaches the recreation

lOVEMBER 1953

 

Enthusiastic “Calliope” group at Brunswick, conducted by
Anne Livingston, social recreation specialist of the NRA.

center geared for top performance. The auditorium fills
quickly. The success of the course now is in her hands.

The personality of the leader and her know-how, acquired
through years of experience, catch the imaginations of the
pe0ple. They are reluctant to see the evening end. They
return for all the classes and bring others with them. At-
tendance and enthusiasm remain at a consistently high level
throughout the course. Attractive booklets, prepared by the
specialist to cover activities taught at the workshop and
mimeographed by the department, are issued to ,everyone.
Plans are made to organize a community recreation cluh
whereby principles of leadership, games, dances and stunts
learned during the course can be practiced and passed on to
the groups represented by the individuals who attended the
worksh0p.

So, the final night of the course, after the first meeting
date of the new recreation club has been set, the recreation
superintendent takes his key staff memhers and the recrea-
tion specialist somewhere for a well-earned late dinner.
There, they congratulate each other upon the success of the
just completed course. It gives immeasurable strength to its
Sponsoring agent, the community’s recreation department.

 

Winter Sports Articles in RECREATION

Winter Fishing, M. J. De Boer—JANUARY 1950

Unique Snowball Contest, A. J. Schara—FEBRUARY 1950
City Ski School—NOVEMBER 1950

Michigan’s Toboggan Run—DECEM BER 1950

City Ski Slope—DECEMBER 1950 ’

Skiing—Six F ahles and the Facts, In: H. Freeman—JANU-
ARY 1951

Now That Winter is Here—JANUARY 1951

A Big City Snowman Contest, Sidney Panzer, Justin Gilbert
—FEBRUARY 1951

Artificial Snow Event—DECEMBER 1951
Ice-Skating F acilities——DECEM BER 1951

Tobogganing is Where You Build It, James McConkey—
JANUARY 1952

Skiing Need Not Be Expensive, James F. Herdic, Jr.—
NOVEMBER 1952

Skiing Around New York, Stephen Baker—JANUARY 1953

343

SKI Tow for
WATERTIJWN

J. Charles Neal

Watertown, New York, is noted, among other things, for
sudden snow falls. Sudden snow, however, doesn’t always
last long enough for skiers tO enjoy it. It falls in heaps and
melts in a day or two. PeOple who make a business out Of
snowy winters are asking, with more than mild concern, if
snow is ever going tO return tO the eastern skiboard. Is there
reason tO believe that we can look tO other years as good as
1946-47 and 1947-48?

These two delightful seasons are vivid in memories, for
Watertown s10pes were abundant with lasting snow. The
municipal lepe’s tow was privately operated for these two
years with considerable success.

The length Of the gasoline-powered tow was five hundred
feet, with an elevation difference from tOp tO bottom of
ninety feet. For a normal Operation of four hours the
Chevrolet motor burned about seven gallons of gasoline.
Starting difficulty occurred frequently during extremely
cold weather, but anti-freeze protected the motor during
normal temperatures Of winter weather.

Seven to. ten persons on the tow were the normal load for
the motor; this spaced the riders about every ten feet. The
ride was Of approximately three-minute duration.

After the disappointing season Of 1948-49, the tow was
removed from the slopes in the municipal park by its owner,

 

MR. J. CHARLES NEAL is the director of athletics in the
city recreation department at W atertown, New York.

Motor is 25 h-p., 1200 r.p.m., operates on 60 eyeles. Drive-
power transmitted to wheel by belt drive and roller ehain.

 

 

Art-mingsrgmjlou

I

and installed in a new location some five miles outside the
city. The local recreation department, deciding that the only
assured way Of maintaining steady service was tO own their
own tow, commissioned a Carthage, New York, machine
firm tO build an electric ski-tow motor for them.

The project was begun in the spring of 1949 and was
ready for use in that winter. The bill for the motor and rOp
cost the city $2,000. The department feels that the eXpensl
is justifiable, considering the Operating conveniences. Elec-
tric power replaces gasoline and Oil and anti-freeze. Thii
convenience is perhaps the only superiority Of the electriq
tow over the gas tow, outside Of the quieter performance and-
better starting. It is, however, a superiority which pays in
Operating costs and service.

The engine has two shafts instead of the normal three 0"
most similar tows. In place of the third shaft, a live bearing
was used, cutting operating and construction eXpense.

Drive-power is transmitted from the motor tO the power-
wheel by belt drive and roller chain. The length of the toll
lepe is 550 feet, with an elevation difference Of 120 fee
from tOp to bottom. The engine runs the rOpe at 880 feet
per minute, or approximately ten miles per hour. The rOp'
is one-inch-diameter special manila tow rOpe. There has,‘
incidently, been placed on the market a newer ski-rope,
which is a manila rOpe with a jacket Of waterprOOf nylon
Moisture cannot collect, rotting cannot take place, ab'rasiOIli

is reduced tO a minimum, and the rOpe is always clean. It
has been tested for three years in the Laurentian town of SN...
Adeleen-haut, Quebec, and results have been satisfactory. ' _

As perhaps the reader noticed from the tow-slope length
and elevation, the electric tow was installed in a differem
location than the gas tow was. The department felt that tub
continue operation on the same slope would be tO invite
serious accidents. Located at the foot Of the gas-tow slope it
a municipal skating rink, and adjacent are tobogga11 arld
sled slides, thus congesting traffic at the bill’s bottom where
the tow-house was located.

Therefore the tow was moved a quarter Of a mile, to a
location Open and relatively free Of congestion. The Old ski
s10pes, as well as the new ones, can be reached with east:
from the tow’s summit.

Another factor advantageous in the new location is the
possibility of future eXpansion, both Of the town and Of the
ski area. Since the motor is at the tow’s summit, the rope
can be extended any distance down the hill. At present it
runs about half-way down the entire hill, servicing the steep-
est part Of the lepe. Work with a bulldozer can open more
ski area in the tow’s vicinity, for there are some gOOd hills-
not yet utilized.

The best feature Of the new location is that the skiing area
is distant enough from the skating and sliding area tO be
safe, yet all are within easy reach Of the children Of Water-
town. Thus, the winter sports arena is ready for thc public.
It remains up tO the weatherman tO cOOperate.

RECREATION

O The topic of ice skating was dis-
cussed at a meeting of the Maine
State Recreation Society and the
experience of recreation executives
in the construction and mainte-
nance of ice skating rinks was re-
ported. A number of these sugges-
tions are summarized as follows:

reliminary Construction—Blue clay is the best base ma-
|rial on which to build ice.

If you have a dark asphalt surface to flood, spread fine
pach sand on it before flooding. This will help reflect sun’s
lys and retard melting of the ice.

Sometimes, after a heavy snow, we plow out rinks on level
round, using snow banks for the sides. We ice the banks
ad then build ice if the weather is really cold. This is a
ood program to service areas which otherwise might have
0 rink.

If you have trouble with a spring-fed pond, put oil drums
|ver the spring holes and the ice will form.

Praying—The ground should be frozen before spraying,
nd spray coats of water should be applied to the surface
ntil the ice is clear, but black.

It takes a good man to handle the flooding or spraying.

Bulk flooding results in white and cracked ice.

Use an adjustable “fog nozzle” to spray water on surfaces.

A lIé-inch- to 21/2-inch-diameter, rubber covered hose
mens the freezing of the hose and is especially helpful if
idely separated surfaces are to be sprayed in one evening.

If the base surface and grade of a rink have a slope, build
re ice at the lowest end first, in layers, until you finally can
why one complete level surface.
laintenance of I ce—We use three maintenance men during
lenight at time-and-a-half pay.

Each evening, as soon as the crowd leaves, we clear pin-
10W (ice chips cut up by skates) before it freezes on the
lrfacc.

Our rinks have paid supervisors who get boys, as volun-
11s, to clear the snow-ice off with scoops each night.

W c use a Ford tractor with a scoop to clear rinks.

lce-planers assure smooth surfaces.

Neighborhood groups will cooperate in clearing snow off
to rinks.

Cinders from coal-burning trains passing outdoor rinks
ill cover an ice surface with pock holes.

-.We don’t clear rinks until after a snow storm stops com-
l‘etely.
’We clear rinks as soon as snow begins to fall; otherwise

r plows get stuck and then we have to open the dam gates,
t the water out and drop the snow and ice level, then close
e'gates and Hood again. .

The Maxim man-operated small snow-blower will cut an

' teen-inch-wide swath of snow and throw it fifty feet to

' side.

'VE-MBER 1953

I '\

 

THEIR CONSTRUCTION
AND MAINTENANCE
——IN MAINE

a

x
Ks.
\

R-

H ours of Operation—We have paid supervisors on our rinks
and their hours are:

Monday through Friday—3 :00 to 5:00 and 6:00 to 9:00 PM.
Saturday—9:00 A.M. to 12:00 N. .

1:00 to 5:00 and 6:00 to 9:00 PM.
Sunday—1:00 to 9:00 P.M.

Supervisors work forty hours per week.
Publicity—Methods of informing people of skating condi-
tions include radio station announcements, newspapers and
signs at rinks.

Costs—We spend $1,200 on two rinks, exclusive of plowing
costs, for a winter of skating.

Other cities reported spending from $300 to $800 per
year for skating rinks.

Shelters—We use camp-type clapboard shelters, heated with

_oil heating convexed to toilets. Two shelters have wooden

floors and a third a concrete floor.

The supervisor has a cage for his public address system.

The shelters have narrow seats and are heated only ten
degrees above outside temperature, which means that pe0ple
have to skate to keep warm.

Heated shelters usually have only wall-type cubbyholes
for storing shoes.

One Portland shelter has a checking system.
Others—We do not believe money spent for skating is
wasted, no matter how many skating days we have, as we
reach many adults and youngsters who love to skate on ice
and may have few preferences for other programs.

We have many people of French Canadian descent and to
them ice skating only is recreation. a

We require three to four inches of ice on our natural pond
so .that we can accommodate four hundred to five hundred
people on the surface. Two inches of ice will support a few
people, but the pond is kept closed until we can take care of
the maximum crowd under the best-skating conditions.

We have music and lights, installed by the city electrician.

We have bleachers at one rink.

The general consensus of opinion of nearly all the Maine
directors was that skating is a most worthwhile service,
despite few skating days, at any cost.

345 .

          
 

-. .-. . -..:-‘.-.-.-.-.‘:-'-'-‘-'-~: '.-'.-.--:-'.-.: . ..:-:. . '
. _ . . _. W .:.-\._&:._..l
. ' "3‘14- u'hfn'vn - - in: f‘.‘ '45-.
u .o '- . . u’pWhF- we.” .3’.’ " “‘3?
I 0. III III
.-' any. .- .:‘.:2:-.o ‘.-.
- I . I .o I'u
.IO'. '

_ 2:, 
. _. '52::‘3'3‘:

    
      

  
 

 

“The problem of winter recreation, com-
plicated by increasingly mild weather, may
well be solvcd by outdoor artificial rinks.”

NOBODY is more concerned about the changing weather

conditions in Toronto than the city’s 130,000 residents
of sixteen years of age and under. Consult any elder citizen
or the meteorological records and you come up with the in-
escapable conclusion that Toronto’s winters are milder than
once they were. Last year was typical. For just about
fifteen days the thermometer dipped low enough to give
youngsters a brief opportunity to try their skates on the
natural ice rinks that are set up throughout the city. Up-
wards of $200,000 a year was being spent by the parks de-
partment in a valiant attempt to provide skating, but the
mild weather defeated those efforts.

For several years the city council debated the proposal to

construct covered arenas to house artificial ice rinks. But
the quarter-of-a-million-dollar cost of each arena for the
hundred neighborhoods totalled a staggering figure and pre-
sented an insurmountable barrier.
Man with the Answer: A way out, however, was offered by
a Toronto consulting engineer, Clifford Austin Meadows,
who suggested the construction of artificial ice rinks in the
out-of-doors. Mr. Meadows had designed and supervised
the construction of the Riverdale Terrace outdoor rink for
private interests in Toronto, the success of which was noted
by city officials, and he was retained by the city to design
the first four rinks. The objective in Toronto is at least one
hundred outdoor artificial ice rinks.

During the 1951-52 winter season, a total of 1,100 hockey
permits were sold and general paid admissions aggregated
44,588 persons. The said paid admissions do not represent
the total attendance by pleasure skaters, as the rinks were
many times crowded to capacity during the free periods
provided. While no actual check was made of free attend-
ance, it is estimated this would total 256,000, or an aggre-
gate of 310,000 persons during the season.

It is fair to say the greatest problem confronting the de-
partment in the operation of the present rinks is the boy or
youth who is not associated with an organized hockey club
who desires and persists, to the detriment of others, in en-
gaging in that type of hockey referred to as shinny. The
necessity of bearing this in mind should be emphasized.

There are a number of factors which must be considered

346

OUTDOOR
ARTIFICIAL

ICE RINKS
—c'r¢ 7016mm

in the construction of additional outdoor artificial rinks.
Location of rinks to best serve the city’s needs, availability
of water and drainage facilities, proximity of existing field-
houses, or the erection of new buildings, size of the area,
permanent or partial temporary installations, summer use
of areas, cost and availability of steel, must be considered.
Cost: The cost of these four rinks approximated $125,000
each, which included the construction of a machine room.
refrigeration plant contained therein, floodlighting, erection
of the hockey cushion or dasher, with the refrigeration
being laid in a permanent concrete floor, together with a
chain-link fence to enclose the whole area. Operating costs
for the calendar year 1952 approximated $61,160.
Location and Size: The location of each rink was given
careful consideration and the Parks Committee decided
upon locations in the east, west, center and north, in par]!
lands where dressing room and toilet accommodations al|
ready existed. The rinks were located close to those build-
ings.. The size of each—120 feet by 178 feet—makes provi-
sion for a hockey rink 70 feet by 178 feet and a skating rink
50 feet by 178 feet; and also accommodates four standard
tennis courts in the summer.

Fenced for Control: The whole rink is fenced with chain
link, ten feet high, with two double gates for trucks and two
single gates for entrances.

Winter Use: The hockey cushion is leased to teams for half- '
hour and one-hour periods and the balance of the time is
used for “shinny” and for skating. The skating rink is
separated from the hockey rink by wood dasher boards
topped with chain-link fence. For certain periods hockey
and “shinny” are prohibited, and both rinks are used for
pleasure skating to music.

Summer Use: In summer, the dividing hockey dasher is re-
moved and “En-tous-ca” metal posts are inserted in special
sockets to support tennis nets. The concrete slab of the rink
is also used for dancing, roller skating, public meetings and
band concerts.

Design Features: The floor of the rink, 120 feet by 178 feet,
consists of a six-inch reinforced concrete slab, monolithic,
continuously poured without expansion joints, and is con-
structed on a specially prepared foundation. The vulnera-

RECREATION

rility of such a large slab to cracking and damage requires.

reat skill and experience in the design and construction.
The floor slab is chilled to produce the ice surface by a
stem of 11/4-inch steel pipes imbedded in the concrete on
pinch centers, through which the refrigerant is constantly
Iirculated. Special attention was given in the design to pro-
ide for the expansion and contraction due to the difference
temperature which otherwise would produce buckles and
racks in the concrete.
The direct expansion system of refrigeration is used and
ree 7-by-7 Inglis-Worthington ammonia compressors,
ectric driven with 75-horsepower motors, were installed.
he cold ammonia is delivered to the system of rink floor
pes through Sporlan thermostatic expansion valves and
stributors. Those valves and the main header pipes are
talled in a concrete tunnel below grade, which runs the
ll width of the rink alongside the machine room.
The cost of water in Toronto is high enough to justify the
e of evaporative condensers instead of the usual shell and

be type.

A receiver for the ammonia is large enough to pump down

 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  

e complete charge for the rink.

The machinery is fully automatically-controlled, and the
tors are started and stopped by the effect .of temperature
one thermostat imbedded in the rink surface and another
rmostat located on the south side of the machine room
ave lcvel.

At design conditions, 130 tons of refrigeration are de-
Oped—which corresponds to 165 square feet of ice sur-
e per ton.

The rink is Hoodlighted with twenty-four 1500-watt lamps,
unted fifty feet above ice surface, providing about 15
t-candles of light.

he dasher boards for the hockey cushion are four feet
h and constructed of 1Ag-inch weatherproof plywood
led to supportingmuprpights and horizontals of 2-by-6 fir.

ch protects the children and spectators from the puck.
0 players’ benches, with 'a penalty box between, are built
g the side of the dasher opposite the skating rink.

hockey cushion is some--
- leased to teams for
ice periods of one-half
to an hour. At other
.-.- it is used for “shin-
or pleasure skating.

 1953

c chain-link fence is constructed on.top of the dasher.

ADMINISTRATION

 

Music is provided by a system of loud speakers mounted
on the Hoodlight poles and beamed downwards. The speak-
ers have been modulated to limit the music to the rink, and
very few complaints from neighbors have been registered.
Snow and Rain. Removal: Each rink is provided with a
Massey-Harris combination tractor-snow-blower and it has
been found that a six-inch fall of snow may be removed in a
half-hour. Rain flows off the ice through four scupper open-
ings in the curb.

Accommodation: Each rink will accommodate comfortably
about eight hundred skaters at a time. On occasions, over
one thousand have been admitted, but ample promenade
space at the side of each rink provides for overflow and keeps
the crowd actually skating down to reasonable dimensions.
Ice Thickness: The operators endeavor to keep the ice to
from l-inch to 11/4-inches thick for the best skating. After a
heavy session the ice sometimes has to be rebuilt from 3/4-
inch in l-inch. Very little ice planing is required.

Comments by C. A. Meadows

1. I do not recommend direct eXpansion refrigeration sys-
tem for outdoor rinks except under the most favorable cir-
cumstances of construction and operation.

2. I do not recommend fully automatic control of machinery
if, as it turned out in Toronto, the union and government
restrictions require full-time attendance by an operator.

3. I believe that the cost of providing a concrete slab for
summer use is out of all proportion to the value received. A
“take-up rink,” such as I have designed for Detroit, Buffalo,
Rochester, Hamilton, and Montreal, which may be laid down
on a playfield or tennis court for the winter and taken up in
the spring, is the best for the municipally owned rink.

4. In Toronto we have felt the lack of accommodation for
“shinny” hockey for the boys during those times that the
hockey cushion is being used for a game, and the best ar-

 

rangement is to provide separate sections of the rink for
skating, hockey games and “shinny,” arranged so that on
occasions all three may be thrown open for pleasure-skating.

Take-up Rink

It is impractical to lay down a concrete slab on a rugby
field or a ball diamond, because that would ruin the area
for summer use; the high cost of the concrete slab is also a
deterring factor.

Those considerations prompted the invention of the
Meadows take-up rink, which may be laid down in the fall,
flooded and frozen for the winter, taken up in the spring and
placed in storage. It is adaptable to all types of playing
fields, tennis courts, and may even be placed in a wading
pool or a swimming tank.

The rink consists of a system of plastic pipes, which are
light in weight and practically indestructable, and through
which the freezing solution is constantly circulated. It
should be laid on a level surface. Ice forms around the pipes
and for about an inch above them and is kept frozen by the
mechanical refrigeration.

The system of floor pipes is fed by header-pipes located
at one end of the rink; and along one side, a tunnel is con-
structed in which the plastic pipes are stored in straight
lengths during the summer. The tunnels for the headers and

AN ARTIFICIAL IIILL "

Ernie Craner

Excess fill from the
street projects pro-
vided a hill twenty-five
feet high with :1 const-
ing slope for two run-
ways 150 feet long.

 

0 In the flat, irrigation-reclaimed, desert section where
Twin 'Falls, Idaho is located, there are no hills for sledding,
skiing or bicycle coasting within eighteen miles. What to
do'then, in the heart of a country dedicated to skiing, skat-
ing, dog sledding, and which has a climate suitable to all of
these activities?

We, of the parks and recreatibn department, came up with
the answer—an artificial hill. City trucks dumped. excess
“dirt and.rocks from street projects, housing projects, and
new water lines, into a remote section 9f one of the city’s

 

 

AUTHOR is superintendent of parks, recreption, Twin F ails.

348

 

storage so constructed form seats for the skaters. ‘

The refrigeration machinery is housed in a simple build-

ing or, as in the case of several of these rinks, may be in-
stalled on a large trailer.

The take-up rink costs about $1.50 per square foot and is
cheaper than the rink with a concrete floor.

TORONTO SCHEDULE
Period of Operation: November 15th to March 15th.

Pleasure Skating
F ree—-—Each week-day, Monday to Saturday, 9:30 A.M. to 5:00
PM. Each Friday from 6:30 to 10:45 PM.
The hockey cushion to be utilized for pleasure skating only
on Friday and Saturday evenings, Sunday afternoons.
Pay Periods—Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and
Saturday from 6:30 to 10:45 PM. Sundays, 1:30 to 6:00 PM.

Adults 25 cents—children up to sixteen years of age, 15 cents.

Hockey Games or Practices

Hours—~—Each week-day, except Friday and Saturday evenings:

9:30 A.M. to 10:45 AM.—11:00 AM. to 12:15 PM.

12:30 PM. to 1:45 P.M.-—- 2:00 PM. to 3:15 PM.

3:30 P.M. to 4:45 P.M.——- 5:00 PM. to 6:15 PM.

6:30 PM. to 7:45 P.M.— 8:00 PM. to 9:15 PM.

9:30 PM. to 10:45 PM.
Fees—$3.00 per 1124-hour period from 9:30 AM. to 6:15 P.M.
$5.00 per Pig-hour period from 6:30 to 10:45 PM.

seven parks. Eventually, the fill provided a hill twenty-two
feet high, with a coasting slope for two runways one hundred
and fifty feet long. These slopes face the north, as they must
in a section located geographically as we are in Idaho. Step
and guard rails were added on the short side of the hill and
at the top, for the protection of the smaller children. One
runway is straight with two large dips, the other is banked
and so constructed as to provide a curved run.

The boys and girls use the snowslide in the summer
months for bicycle and wagon coasting. In fact, I believe it
is more popular for that use, because they ride their bicycles
over the sides for the thrills. In the past year, we have
hauled two loads of dirt and dumped them fifty feet apart
at the base of the hill. The youngsters use the hill and the
two mounds of dirt as they would a roller coaster. No acci-

_ dents as yet.

We believe in a year-round program, both indoors and
outdoors. We have the help of the school authorities and
civic organizations; and we have a fine recreation commis-
sion which studies park and recreation problems and makes 1
recommendations. I

If a city does not have natural places for recreation, some-
times you have to make them. This hasproven a successful

undertaking for us.

RECREATION

 

ADMINISTRATION

E ECAUSE of its geographical setting, permitted are as follows: 3:00 P.M. to

Denver, Colorado, has hills with
Istreets of sufficient slope to permit sled-
Iling; however, the rapid growth of the
city, both in population and traffic ve-
hicles, has caused considerable street
overload. As a result of this, and
through the solving of the traffic engi-
neering program, many one-way streets
and arterial ones crossing town have
been developed, making it possible to
use neighborhood streets for sledding. '

Rather than be arbitrary in the selec-
tion of coasting hills, through an-
nouncelnent to PTA’s, neighborhood
papers, and the daily papers, it is made
known that certain streets may be
closed for sledding provided that the
following four tests can be met.

1. The hill cannot be on a through
street.

2. The hill to be barricaded must not
intersect a through street at the end of
a proposed run.

3. The street must not be on a known
police or fire run. '

4. The street must not be a bus run.

The petition attached is mailed to
any interested individual who then cir-
culates it. After the parks and recrea-
tion office has been notified that a street
lends itself to coasting, evaluation is
made on the basis of the above rules.

When the petitioners number seven-
ty-five per cent of the home owners
fronting the street, the petition is filed
in the recreation office. The highway
department is' then notified of the loca-
tions which it is desired be barricaded
and, following their approval, their men
deliver barricades and night lanterns to
’the originator of the petition who then
Lassumes responsibility for erecting and
tremoving before and after sledding.

The hours during which. sledding is

NOVEMBER 1953

9:00 P.M. on weekdays; weekends and
holidays 9:00 A.M. to 9:00 P.M. By us-
ing this control the night driving of cars
tends to pack the snow, making it more
ideal for sledding.

A very close liaison must exist be-
tween the traflic engineering depart-
ment, police department and the park
and recreation department. Once a hill
has been approved for sledding, it is re-
moved from the street-salting program
—a common technique used for effect-
ing the melting of the snow. i

These procedures for street closing
are quite sound. They put the respon-
sibility in the hands of the neighbor-
hood, and the petitions take the infor-
mation to neighborhood residents. Get-

3

ting this information into their hands
is necessary in order to obtain the co-
operation which tends to eliminate the
hazards of street sledding. We do not
permit, as a matter of unwritten policy,
the closing of any street that has
front drive garages; and once a street
has been approved there can be no park-
ing—as a safety measure—during the
hours of sledding. With these tech-
niques, we have used twenty-six streets,
varying in length from one block to
four blocks, and have had no major re-
portable accidents during the hours of
sledding operation.

We find that the individuals most
likely to circulate and complete the de-
tails for petitioning are members of
PTA’s, Boy Scouts, civic groups or sim-
ilar groups that have service in mind.

Before such a proceeding as outlined
has been initiated, be sure to check for
ordinances which will establish police
and court power for prosecution of
those who might violate the restricted
use of the streets.

 

In the City and County of Denver

Forms Used

 

Information To Those Interested In New
SLEDDING Areas

A street may not be petitioned for sledding
if it is: (1) a through street; (2) intersects
a through street; (3) a bus route; or (4) a
police and fire run.

A street petitioned for sledding must be ap-
proved by seventy-five per cent of the home
owners fronting it.

All sledding areas must be approved by the
Trafiic Engineering Department of the City
and County of Denver. Petitions are mailed

to those interested after this approval has
been made.

 

To Traffic Engineering Department

From J. Earl Schlupp, Director of
Recreation

Subject Request to Investigate Sledding
Area

Please investigate the following area to be

closed for sledding:

...................... ..Street between 
Avenue '
and ................................................................... ..

Sledding—Area Request
Date ...................................................................... ..

Name of person making the request ................ ..

O O o o o o O O O o O O a o O O O I O O O O O O O O a o O O O o O o o O o o o o o O O O O O O O o o o o o o o o o o t o o o o o o o O o o o o o o o u u O O O o .-

Address ................................ .. Telephone .......... ..

Area:
Street or Avenue ................................................ ..
(Indicate “west” or “east”)

Between what streets 01' avenues ...................... ..

o o o o o o o o I o o I o I I I o I o o o o o o I I I o o o o o o o o o o o I I o o o o o o o o o o n o o o o o o o o o o o o I I o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o.

O O O O o u o u o o o o o o o o O o o O O o o o o o o o O o O a O O o O O O O O n O O O O O a I O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O t O O O o o o o o O O O O O O O O so

ment

b. Action” taken by Traffic Engineering De-
artment .............................................................. ..
p Da'tc .

'i'XBLib'iSEE"3'E'"£i§§££§5}5;6£;ed.- If disapproved,
state reason.)

 

 

c. Petition Sent .......... ..'.‘...'. ...................  ...... ..
Date
Petition Received  ......................................... ..
Date
(1. Highway Department notified... ................... ..
Date
349

 

 

Winter fishing is popular. Ice-Fishing Derby on St. Clair MetrOpolitan Beach, Michigan.

7m meadow/WINTER MING

Help. yourself to an Idea!

Snow Frolic

UNIQUE FEATURE of this affair in Providence, Rhode

Island, last year was a snowball hunt—Open to all boys
and girls between the ages of five and ten years. Each con-
testant was required to look for hidden clues without assist-
ance. These were concealed in artificial and genuine snow-
balls—some clues being false and others true—to guide con-
testants to the “jack pot.” The course of the hunt was
marked with a Santa Claus, Christmas canes, wreaths, snow-
men, Christmas bells, reindeer and arrows.

A snow man contest went on simultaneously and a cen-
testant was not allowed to participate in both events. Classes
and rules were as follows: i
1. Midget Class, ages five to seven years—Parents may as-
sist their children as a team, that is—father and son, or
mother and daughter, form team. Team shall work together.
2. Junior Class, ages eight to ten years—Adults may not
help with actual modeling of snowman, but may give advice.
3. Intermediate Class, ages eleven to thirteen years—Con-
testants are forbidden to receive help or guidance from adults.
A. The contestants must bring their own tools, such as
wooden paddles, pieces of tin, pocket knives, decorative par-
aphernalia and any other tools necessary to fashion and
shape snowman. No shovels, forms or casts are permissible.
B. The department of recreation shall supply artificial snow,
if no snow is to be had, also shall provide water, water pails,
water barrels, colors and brushes to paint the snowmen.

Scoring basis: height—30 points; appearance and pro-
portions—40 points; design—20 points; originality—10
points.

Santa Claus was among the Snow Frolic guests, and pre-
sented a candy cane and a balloon to each boy and girl.

Prizes for all included a surprise for the winning dad and
mother who took part in the snowman contest.

Some Enchanted Evening

An outdoor winter carnival, accompanied by lights, music
and the ring of steel on ice—and you would hardly have

350

  
    
   
   
  
   
   
 
   
  
    
   
    
   
 
 
  

guessed that you were in the heart of New York City. Tb'
spectacle-under-the-stars was put on last year through tl
cooperation of a newspaper—New York Daily Mirror
and the department of parks, and could well serve as a pa
tern for other large communities. The Wolllnan Memori
Rink, scene of festivities, is an artificial rink, of cours
which was donated to the city by Miss Kate Wollman. (Se
page 538, March 1951 issue of RECREATION).

but dazzling performances by well-known skating star
Plenty of action was contributed, too, by the junior Range
and Rovers hockey teams. Prizes were given to the winne
of events, and for various categories of costumes.

Jack Frost Carnival

The park board in Fargo, North Dakota, issued a pamp
let on skating, last year, entitled To Your Health for t
New Year 1952, in which they they announced their annu
ice carnival, for February 7 to 11, as follows:

Few may realize that this production is under-written by the F
Junior Chamber-of Commerce. Last year, the first number in the p
gram incuded more than a hundred beginning skaters. Like
F argo-Moorhead Civic Orchestra, the F argo-Moorhead Commun
Theatre and the several choruses, citizens of the community are jo
ing in this ice revue to produce first class entertainment for many 0
of—town visitors and ourselves. Those who give of their time and sk
are blessed by rewards of generous cooperation. Such activities bu
a better city. . . .

Why not avail yourself of the chance to skate as you like it? If y I

are between the ages of three and eighty you are qualified. There s
provision for all tastes and all abilities.

\Vhite Falcon Ski School
If the head of the lakes does not produce an Olylnpt

skier or two within the next few years it will not be the fa l
of the recreation committee or the famous ski club of F o I
William. This district claims to have the finest skiing tel-
rain in Ontario. o

Last year the Civic Recreation Committee and the Fort

RECREATI

William Ski Club, with some assistance from the Community
Programmes Branch of the Department of Education, To-
ronto, cooperated to provide ski instruction for the city’s
school children on seven Saturday mornings.

Early in the year circulars with registration forms were
sent out to all_the city schools. Bus schedules were arranged
by the Civic Recreation Committce and the children were
picked up at various points. A mixed load of children and
skis is apt to be unmanageable so a parks board truck was
used to transport the skis. Each instruction period lasted
from three to three-and-a-half hours. In order to sustain
the initial interest throughout the course, a cup was given to
the school with the best aggregate attendance, in addition
to the individual proficiency awards.

Fort Williams’s fine ski club, on the wooded SIOpes of 1000-
foot Mount McKay, is an inSpiring locale for these classes.
The club is within a few minutes of the city limits and is
cquipped with tows and a modern clubhouse. Two of the
most successful Dominion Ski Championship meets have
been held there, 1939 and 1949. The club’s pro, Bob Mor-
gan, lent his talents to the school and eight of the members
served as voluntary instructors. About 150 boys and girls
attended the White Falcon Ski School last winter.—-Re-
printed from Community Courier, November 1952.

A New Wrinkle

A new wrinkle in tobogganing, in Minneapolis, Minne-
sota, is to use inner tubes which are inflated to near capacity.
This is a new, novel and safe way to have fun in the snow,
and the spinning motion of the tubes on the slick hill adds to
the thrill of sliding. (See picture on page 352.) The sport
is sponsored by the Suburban Recreation Association.

Operation Noranda

Nearly 500 miles north-west of Montreal, Quebec, in the
heart of Canada’s northland mining country, a novel experi-
ment is taking place which may set a new trend in the realm
of industrial recreation. Here, in the City of Noranda, is
situated one of the world’s greatest c0pper-producers,
Noranda Mines Ltd. Also in this district are some of Can-
ada’s most famous gold mines and a number of smaller min-
ing properties.

Over a period of years, Noranda Mines Ltd., has built
many recreation facilities for the citizens of Rouy'n-Nor-
anda. Early in 1950 work was commenced on the Noranda
Recreation Centre which is rated one of the finest in North
America. It contains a complete arena with artificial ice
and a seating capacity of 2500; a beautiful curling unit
with six lanes of artificial ice; a modern fully-equipped
gymnasium; and many other areas and facilities for social,
cultural, educational and recreational activities. The total
value of this immense recreational development is estimated
at more than two million dollars.

The Noranda Recreation Association was formed and in-
corporated as a non-profit-making service organization to
administer the affairs of the Noranda Recreation Centre.
The Centre as a whole, together with its various outdoor
extensions, was placed at the disposal of all citizens in the

NOVEMBER 1953

community with no distinction drawn between employees
and non-employees.

Ordinarily an industrial recreation department attempts
to serve only the recreational needs of employees or their
families. In the N oranda set-up it was felt that it was neces-
sary to serve the entire community in ordcr to effectively
serve any one part of it. Noranda Mine officials recognizcd
the fact that work alone divided employees from non-em-
ployees and that no boundaries existed in the social, cultural
and recreational life outside of working hours.

A highly qualified staff of experts was recruited to head
up the various major departments which were established.
The total full-time staff numbers twenty-one persons, and
many part-time helpers are employed. In addition, a _host of
volunteer leaders give assistance with the various aspects of
the diversified program.

A tremendous year-round indoor and outdoor program
has been organized, which i'eaches into every home in the
community and includes almost every phase of social, cul-
tural, and recreational life. The Centre operates year in and
year out, sixteen hours per day and seven days per week.

In order to finance this ambitious undertaking, basic
membership fees are charged to most individuals and groups
making use of the Centre facilities. Exceptions are made in
the case of certain charitable organizations and there are no
charges for a number of community-wide activities.

 

Ski-jor‘ing, carefully supervised, can he added to your fun.
Try out on snow-covered surface of frozen lake or along a
snow-packed country road. Scene is from ,Ontario, Canada.

The basic fees have been kept as low as possible to en-
courage maximum use of facilities and participation in ac-
tivities. Additional revenue is raised through the priomo-
tion of spectator-sports and other Special events on a com-
mercial basis and the Operation of snack bar concessions.

Revenues derived from the commercial enterprises go
toward meeting the deficits incurred in the promotion of
participant-activities. All remaining deficits are,covered by
Noranda Mines Ltd. ——Reprinted from the Community

Courier, February 1953.

351

7m¢ 2; Wm:

7m: ENFORCED idleness and indoor life of the “snow-
bound” communities of yesteryear are at an end, and
.outdoor winter sports activities have taken over. Skill.

 

variety, and health, have increased proportionately as,
today, these same communities boast of winter sports areas
Coasting is always enjoyed, be and facilities. “.Snowtrains,” bristling with.wi.nter equip-
it on till plates, inner tubes, ment and enthus1astlc weekenders and vacatlonlsts, unload
Steel "mum's 0" 0" ml’oggans' in the small mountain communities, and in state and national
parks and forests. Resorts, such as Sun Valley and Lake.
Placid, are well established; and winter sports have become I
“big business.” They are here to stay. When the snow-
flakes refuse to fall, activities are continued in new outdoor
and indoor rinks and ice palaces. City parks play areas are,
Wherever possible, taking steps to accommodate local en-

thusiasts.

On these pages appear a few of the many Sports that lure

Stunts and novclties arc a part of the ice carnival in Mer-
rill, Wisconsin. Sec story of this program on page 333...

our population into the winter out-of—doors.

Artificial snow is
supplied young-
sters by the San
Gabriel Recrea-
tion Department,
California, for
“real snow” event.

 

 

,_ Q, "N..." . ' ' .
if / lat: “Vt  .
Group in Wolf Creek Pass, Rio Grande National Forest,
Colorado. Shelter houses provided skiers in national parks.

352 -
q I

 

    

- " * -~* '  4’
W  .- M I;

Group skiing through the bush as practiced in Beaver Val-
ley, Ontario_ is a popular part of the northern season.

 

Snowman building contest in
Central Park, New York City.
This annual aetivity is spon-
sored hy the park department.
and New York Daily Illirror.

'he Dog Sled Derby in Manitowoe, Wis-

nus-in, brings out admiring spectators.

  

":-
q
".

A
how sculpture of pioneer eovered wagon, built at Sun Val- Sledding on Olympie Bobsled Run, Lake Placid. International
'y_where an unusual variety of outdoor Sports is offered. eompetition brings people from afar to watch the contests.

VEMBER 1953 353

 

Curling, which is a fine family game, probably attracts more
pants than any othcr winter sport in Canada. Note pebbled surface abovc.

THE ORIGIN OF CURLING is unknown. Many countries claim

credit for its creation. Chiefly among these are Scot-
land and Flanders. However, there is no evidence that this
sport was enjoyed in any part of the Netherlands before
Scotland had raised curling to a major sport. While work-
men were draining a pond near Dunbane about sixty years
ago they came upon a curling stone containing the date
1551.1 In the tongue of the Scotsmen the stone is referred
to as the “stane.” For some time it was customary to refer to
curling as “the game of lawn bowls played on ice.” Many
verses and songs have been written about it such as the
following:

THE MUSIC OF THE YEAR IS HUSHED

The music of the year is hushed
In bonny glen and Shaw, man,

An’ winter spreads, o’er nature dead,
A winding-sheet o’snaw, man;

O’er burn and loch the warlock, frost,
A crystal brig has laid, man,

The wild geese, screaming wi’ surprise,
The ice-bound wave ha’e fled, man.

Up, curler, leave your bed sae warm,
And leave your coaxing wife, man,
Gae, get your besom, trickers, stanes,
And join the friendly strife, man;
For on the water’s face are met,
Wi’ mony a merry joke, man,
The Tenant and his jolly laird,
Tbe pastor and his flock, man.

The rink is swept, the tees are marked,
The bonspeil is begun, man;

The ice is true, the stanes are keen;
Huzza, for glorious fun, man,

The skips are standing on the tee
To guide the eager game, man;

Hush, no a word—but mark the broom,
And take a steady aim, man. '

 

1 Encyclopedia of Sports by Frank G. Menke. Copyright 1944 by
A. S. Barnes & Company, Incorporated.

354-

partici- .
C. Lorne Davulson

Here draw a shot—there lay a guard,
And here beside him lie, man,

Now let him feel a gamester's hand,
Now in his bosom die, man.

There fill the port, and block the ice,
We sit upon the tee, man;

Now tak’ this inring sharp and neat,
And mak’ the winner flee, man.

How stands the game? It’s eight and eight:
Now for the winning shot, man,
Draw slow and sure, the ice is keen,
I’ll sweep you to the spot, man.
The stane is thrown, it glides alang,
The besoms ply it in, man,
Wi’ twisting back the players stand,
And eager, breathless grin, man.

A moment’s silence, still as death,
Pervades the anxious thrang, man,
Then sudden bursts the Victor's shout,
Wi’ hollas, loud and lang, man;

Triumphant besoms wave in air,
And friendly banters Hy, man,
Whilst, cauld and hungry, to the inn,
Wi’ eager steps, they hie, man.

Now fill ae bumper—fill but ane,
And drink wi' social glee, man.
May curlers on life’s slippery rink

Frae cruel rubs be free, man,

Or should a treacherous bias lead
Their erring steps a-jee, man,
Some friendly inring may they meet
To guide them to the tee, man.2

The standard stone used today weighs forty-four pounds,
is thirty-six inches in circumference and four-and-a-hali
inches in height (maximum measurements). If a stone is
broken during a game no substitute stone is permitted, the
largest fragment being used in its place. The stone is de-
livered by means of a handle, counter sunk in the top sur-
face of the stone.

2 Curling—The Ancient Scottish Game by James Taylor, D.D.
C0pyright 1884- by William Paterson, Edinburgh. Page 372.

.. RECREATION

The ganic is played on ice, thc total length of the rink
being forty-two yards. The ends of the rink are called hacks.
This name comes from the foot holds which are hacked out
of the ice.

The teams are made up of four members, and each player
curls two stones alternately with his opponent. The player
in position in the hack swings the stone back clear of the
ice and delivers it by a follow through, letting it skim the ice
surface. At the instant the player releases the stone, the
handle is allowed to take a slight turn, either an in-turn or
an out-turn; this imparts the curling action, which is a long
curve. The amount of force put into the shot depends upon
the orders of the “skip,” and the condition of the ice.

Each team consists of a lead man, usually the novice of
the team; No. 2 man who plays second; No. 3 who is next
-to the skip in proficiency; and the skip or captain of thc
team. The skip figures out the plays and designates with his
broom where he wants the stone laid. He calls for either an
in-turn or out-turn, a running shot, or a guard. He then
holds his broom on the ice for the player to shoot or aim at.
He will designate, by calling, what weight he thinks the play
needs, that is, the force the player is to put into the shot.

The broom, or besom, is an essential part of the game,
being used by the skip and also by the other players of the
team who sweep ahead of the stone upon orders from the
skip. This action is said to create a vacuum in front of the
moving stone, thus enabling the shot to travel a greater dis-
tance. This matter is sometimes disputed by players and
has even been scientifically experimented with. However,
there is no substantial evidence for or against the sweeping.
One thing thatiplayers are sure of is that it keeps them warm
and active when they are not actually making a shot.

Sixteen stones constitute an “end”; and after all sixteen
have been played the score is determined. The target is
called the “house,” and each stone laying within the house,
and not cancelled by an opponent’s stone laying closer to
the center, counts a point. A game consists of ten or twelve
ends. In the case of a tie score, an extra end is played to
determine the Winning team.

The ice is kept scrupulously clean, as level as possible.
and is pebbled. This latter process is very important. The
operation consists of spraying warm water on the ice sur-
face. The spray is put on with a pebbling can held by the
fice-maintenance man who walks backwards down the rink
swinging the pebbling can in wide, rhythmic arcs, thus
spreading the spray uniformly from side to side. The par-
ticles of spray contacting the ice form ice knobs or pebbles
on which the stone rides. This enables the player to control
his stone and imparts the necessary “curl” as it slides or
rides on the ice.

The game of curling came to the North American conti-
nent about 1807. It was most popular in the United States,
but soon caught on in Canada, where it now has a greater
following. Probably the most outstanding United States
I 'urling team is the Utica New York Curling Club who have

 

I R. C. LORNE DAVIDSON, the author, is superintendent of
ecreatt'on in the city of Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada.

TOVEMBER 1953

been winning since 1882. Curling is also widely popular in
the state of Minnesota, and is played by large numbers of
men and women.

The most outstanding Canadian teams are: Hamilton
Thistles; Torontos; Toronto Granites; Galt Curling Club;
Lindsay Curling Club; Montreal Thistles; Winnipeg Gran-
ites and Carleton Curling Club of New Brunswick. Women’s
teams noted for their curling are: Toronto Queen City Curl-
ing Club; Strathcomas of Winnipeg; and Dauphins of Dau-
phin, Manitoba. Since 1888, Canadian and United States
teams have been playing for the coveted Gordon Interna-
tional Medal. The Canadians have been more victorious
with a ratio of two-and-a-half victories for each defeat.l

Lethbridgeites are enthusiastic curlers and, prior to the
opening of the new lce Centre, in 1950, curlers could be seen
on natural ice sheets whenever weather permitted. Leth-
bridge, being situated in Southern Alberta, is subject to
very sudden and extreme changes in weather during the
winter months, thus natural ice could never be counted
upon to be available. Since 1950, with the use of the new
Ice Centre, the game has increased its following, with some
eight-hundred to nine-hundred boys, girls, men and women

 

ENLARGEMENT OF THE "HOUSE"OR"RINGE"

now playing. The game of curling is rated as the winter
sport having more players than any other, with some 1,500
clubs in Canada from coast to coast.

The word given to curling tournaments is “bonspeil” and
means good play or a good game.

The Shirtsleeve Bonspeil is one of the most popular events
of the winter season, with players from all over Southern
Alberta taking part. This is one of the largest bonspeils in
western Canada and is the only one where all of the players
are housed under one roof, as most large bonspeils are held
in a series of rinks throughout the town or city in which
they are being played.

In February 1951, the Twelfth Annual Shirtsleeve Bon-
speil was the first to be held in the new Ice Centre, ninety-

355

nine rinks taking part. Since then the thirteenth and four-
teenth annual ’speils have totaled 128 rinks each season. A
rink is comprised of four men, thus these events have at-
tracted 396 to 512 persons. The shirtsleeve event lasts for
six days, with play usually starting at eight o’clock each
morning and the last draw commencing about midnight.
Each draw takes approximately two hours to play, thus ac-
tivity during these six days averages about eighteen hours.

The ladies of the Lethbridge Curling Club hold an annual
bonspeil, and in the first season of the Ice Centre operation
held the largest of its kind in Southern Alberta, with thirty-
eight rinks participating. ln 1952 only thirty-five rinks en-
tered; however, in 1953 the all-time record of forty-six rinks
took part in the Sixth Annual Ladies ’Speil.

Another enthusiastic group of curlers is the junior club
of high school students. Their ’speil is usually held during
the Christmas holidays. Thus, other than the week of the
official opening of the Ice Centre, when the president of the
Lethbridge Curlers Club held the opening bonspeil, the
youngsters participated in the first ’speil ever held in the
new winter playhouse. The first junior three-day ’speil drew
forty-one rinks from Southern Alberta. Since then they have
had two more very successful ’speils. The junior event to
be played during the week of December 28 this year will be
the Seventh Annual Junior Event.

However, members of organized curling clubs are not the
only persons interested in the game. In some centres of
Southern Alberta curling is taught to the school children on

 29W

the outdoor playground rinks. For this purpose, a four-
pound jam can is filled three-quarters-full of concrete. This
is a good weight and is used in place of a curling stone. The
lip of the can is suitable for a grip. Using this equipment
and old brooms, or no brooms at all, the youngsters learn
the principles of the game. It is not necessary to paint the
ice for a mark to shoot at; but, as in lawn bowling, a jack
or can or any other marker can be used. The youngsters
form teams and play—usually on Saturday mornings. In
this way interest in the game is stimulated, and by the time
high school is reached the youngsters are well adapted to the
basic fundamentals and usually very enthusiastic. This com-
ing winter, five of Lethbridge’s nine playgrounds will be
sites of this type of activity.

Even though Lethbridge is a small city with a population
of twenty-five thousand, it is not to be outdone where recrea-
tion facilities are concerned. The new Ice Center is one of the
largest of its kind on the North American continent. The
ice palace has 38,000 square feet of ice surface or the equiva-
lent of sixteen curling sheets. It is a curlers’ and skaters’
dream, is equipped with dressing and locker rooms, lunch
counter, spacious heated lobbies and a mezzanine lounge.
The loud-speaker system will reach anyone in the building.
Curlers and skaters are assured of perfect ice, as automatic
equipment constantly keeps the ice temperature steady. Thus
it is little wonder that the citizens of Lethbridge, from Junior
to Grandad, are enthusiastic followers of the “Roarin’
Game.”

Karl S. Bernhardt

It’s amazing how .few adolescents
read books for pleasure. I haven’t any
reliable statistics to quote, but in inter-
viewing adolescents I have found a
large number who read books only be-
cause they are required to by their
teachers, and then most of them find it
a burden, not a pleasure. I can’t help
but think that there was something
wrong with their introduction to books.

Some children develop an abiding
love of books. These children are in-
troduced to books early. Their parents
usually love books, and long before the
children have learned to read, they ex-
perience the joy of owning and using
picture-books and of hearing stories
read to them. All children like stories,
and when they realize that most stories
come from books, they are ready to ex-
plore the wealth of fiction that books
will provide as soon as they can read
for themselves.

Some parents succumb to the tempta-

tion to exhort their children to read-

356 _

“good” literature and not “trash.” The
difficulty is that the children are enjoy-
ing what the adults label trash, and so
such exhortations succeed in making
the “good” literature forbidding. It
seems important for the child to sample
a variety of books so that he can gradu-
ally deve10p his own standards of taste
and preference. He may concentrate on
the comic book for a time, but if other
types of literature are readily available
he will try them too, and the chances
are that he will discover much of inter-
est and pleasure. Reading “good”
books should not be a duty or a burden
but a joy. Perhaps the greatest influence
in this regard is an atmosphere in which
books of all kinds are accepted as a
pleasant part of living.

While no other reason is needed for
helping the child to acquire a love of
reading than the pure joy and pleasure
he will receive, there are other values
which might be mentioned. Books help
to deve10p the imagination and widen

the horizons of the child beyond the

« seen and the heard. Books are a store-

house of knowledge and the child can-
learn much about the world and people'
from his reading. Reading can become
a very healthy form of relaxation, a
way of using part of his leisure time, a
habit which can be continued through-
out his life. Living can never become
dull and commonplace for the individ-
ual who can eXplore new realms of
human experience through the pages of
books. Reading stimulates intellectual
growth and provides material for
thought; it provides the material for
the building of ideals, ambitions, and
attitudes. Reading should make school-
work more interesting and richer in
content. These are some of the many
reasons why it is worth the time and
effort of parents to help their children
deve10p habits of reading for pleasure.

 

Excerpted from The Bulletin of the Insti-
tute of Child Study, University of Toronto.

RECREATION

FEW INTERESTED people gathered, in
A the early fall of 1951, to discuss the
possibility of having ski lessons for the
children in h0pe that some day Rutland,
Vermont, will be the most ski-minded
community in New England. We might
even produce another Andrea Mead,
who is the only woman to win two gold
medals in winter olympics. Anne and
Joe Jones, who have won many races
themselves, volunteered along with a
few others to instruct each Saturday.
Anne is best known for having come in
econd in the National Downhill at
Stowe, Vermont, and for being a mem-
ber of the international ski team for

 

four years. Joe, in addition to being ski
coach at Middlebury College for a num-
ber of years, was the fifth American in
|the National Giant Slalom last year.

Rutland, in the heart of the Green
Mountains of Vermont, is situated some
nine miles from Pico Peak, which until
three years ago created a transporta-
tion problem for the children of the
lommunity who wished to ski. It was
i-n the winter of 1951 that the recrea-
tion department secured permission
from thc Rutland Country Club to use
their property for skiing.

The first season was primarily de-
signed for beginners from the ages of
four through fifteen. As the season pro-
gressed the children were divided into
more advanced groups according to
their ability. The instruction took place
at the country club every Saturday
morning from ten to twelve, under the
ill-ble guidance of at least six volunteers.
2 With an enthusiastic beginning, it

as easy to arouse interest the follow-
ng fall. The advanced skiers were our

ajor problem as they had deve10ped

o a point where they were ready for the
ills of Pico. Andrea Mead and her

 

R. J. HERDIC, JR., is superintend-
nt of recreation, Rutland, Vermont.

OVEMBER 1953

husband, Dave Lawrence, another Olym-
pic skier, who are also the present own-
ers of Pico Peak, came to discuss how
they could help with the program. They
offered to instruct the advanced skiers
in racing techniques, at the same time
the beginners and intermediates were
being instructed at the country club.
Their classes would take place at Pico,
which again created the transportation
problem. A group of parents were or-
ganized to provide transportation each
Saturday morning.

Dave and Andrea felt that we could
add a little interest by showing movies
and having a well-known skier, besides

James F. Herdic, Jr.

themselves, give a talk on skiing. It
wasn’t more than a few days when Dave
called and said he had lined up Stein
Erickson, Olympic champion from N or-
way, and one of the top skiers in the
world, to show colored slides and give
a talk on the 1952 Olympics. So it was
the last week in November that the show
was put on in the high school auditor-
ium. There were over two hundred in
attendance at a cost of seventy-five cents
per adult and fifty cents per child.

It was here that the superintendent
announced our plan to have a series of
pre-season clinics to be conducted by
Andrea and Dave Lawrence, and Anne
and Joe Jones. These clinics were held
at the recreation center and attended by
over one hundred children. You may
wonder why we needed these clinics, but
the instructors wished to classify as
many children as possible and to teach
them how to care for their equipment.
Ski equipment is expensive, but will last
a long time if pr0per care is exercised.
A ski boot and ski exchange was estab-
lished by the recreation department
whereby the children who outgrew their
boots or skiis could turn them in, put a
price on them, and buy another used
pair that would fit them. The parents
were particularly happy to hear about

t‘ROGRAM

this as it has saved them many dollars.

We were very fortunate this past sea-
son that the snow came immediately
after the termination of the clinics, so
the children were raring to go. Our
first class for beginners and intermedi-
ates started on Saturday, December 11,
and continued regularly until the mid-
dle of January, when the snow left us.
Pico had skiing. until the middle of
March, so the advanced were fortunate.

The chamber of commerce has con-
ducted, for the past three years, a win-
ter carnival over Washington’s Birth-
day weekend. It is the climax of our
lessons. During this elaborate affair,
which includes college hockey, an ice
skating show under lights, a sugaring-
off party, torchlight skiing, carnival
ball and queen contest, our skiers com-
pete in the respective classifications.
The beginners have a very simple sla-
lom with only a few gates, the intermedi-
ates have a more advanced course, and
the advanced must compete over a very
difficult course at Pico. The advanced
skiers are also invited to participate in
the torchlight parade which is the open-
ing ceremony for the carnival.

We are proud. of the fact that our
rates are only ten cents a day for chil-
dren, and fifty cents for adults, and that
the tow is a self-supporting proposition.
This past season, for example, we took
in $102.50 and our eXpenses were
$96.50. These expenses included a new
rope and a general motor overhaul.

With all this skiing instruction, plus
the availability of the recreation depart-
ment’s ski tow at the country club, there
are many children who have deve10ped
into first-rate skiers. This may sound as
though our interest is to develop only
top-grade skiers, but it isn’t. What we
hope to accomplish here in Rutland is to,
interest as many children-as possible in
this activity, as it is one of the very few
sports in which families may participate.

If you are located in skiing country,
we suggest that you undertake a simi-
lar project, as it has proven one of our
most popular activities, and has created
a tremendous community interest.

   

357

Charles Tinda]

 

When local organizations alter the
schedules in order to avoid conflicts with
recreation event, then it might be said th:
the event is highly regarded in the comm]
nity. The third annual ice revue was :in an early stage 4
preparation when the Lyons Community Center, New Yori
began to receive inquiries concerning the scheduled dat
Upon reaching this point, we felt that the revue had (lei
nitely been established as a noteworthy annual affair.

The plans for the first show, in 1951, were made in a
attempt to present a particular event that would contain a

“Sombrero Senoritas,” of the
high-school group, begin one
of their colorful skating rou-
tines around a huge sombrero.

 

the essentials of a good recreation program. Creative recr
ation, participation by a large group, child-parent partic
pation (the making of costumes), cooperation and comm1
nity-wide interest were our aims. ,

The first one was hastily prep’ared, but the size of attem
ance marked its success. The show presented in 1952 w:
vastly improved, with better costumes, and with lighting an
precision accentuated. Entitled “Mardi Gras On Ice,”
dealt with various themes around New Orleans.

Preparation for the 1953 revue began last fall, when
was composed in its rough stages. Materials were collect:

Dutch girls perform a dimcuh wheel from any and every source. Organizations were solicite
which is Precision number of the show- for old sheets, lumber yards donated thin strips of wood 1

be used in the construction of props, construction cardboal

 

and poster paints were given to the cause, thus leaving but
few items to be purchased.

Casting time began in November, when an announcemeI
was made at the school for all youngsters to sign up. The:
was a place for every youngster in the production, regar:
less of ability. Armed with the list of youthful aspirants, v
then set about the task of assigning youngsters to certai
numbers, according to age and ability.

The ice revue of 1953 was composed of three mai
themes, Indian, Dutch, and Mexican. The tiny tots were a
signed to the Indian number, the twelve- to fourteen-yea
olds to the Dutch, and the high school group took part in tl
Mexican fantasy.

To give the performance a professional aspect, we ke]
the rink darkened before the Opening number and betwee
the acts. This facilitated the moving of pr0ps, and added a
extra touch when the lights came on, revealing a colorfI

panorama of prOps and skaters. Panel entrances, construe
_________________._________.___.——-

 

Matador taunts El Torro in bullfight on o O . Y
ice. EntrancemadctonlusicfromCarmen. MR, TINDALL Ls dzrector of recreatzon, Lyons, New on

353 RECREATIO

 

d of colored cardboard nailed over a wood frame, offered
he only illumination between acts. Indirect lighting was
chieved by placing strings of Christmas tree lights beind a
ardboard shield.

When all lights were turned on for the opening numbers,
icwers gazed at an Indian village, complete with wigwams,
otem poles, tom toms and, of course, Indians. The “danc-
ng totem poles” were made from large sheets of cardboard,
nabling a youngster inside the pole to move it about freely.
)ne of our top young figure skaters appeared, and after
making several graceful turns, retired to the side as Santa
Ilaus made his appearance. Santa pushed a huge giftbox,
mounted on a wooden sled. After much ado; he opened the
iox, and the twin Indian dolls within came to life. After
kating with Santa, they led the tribe to a corner of the rink
o await the entrance of the chief, who climaxed his rapid
taps and turns by leaping through a ceremonial mask.
Mask was twelve fcet high, made of cardboard.) After all
ndians had taken their original positions, the rink was
larkened and the prop men hastened to make the necessary
hanges for the Dutch village. A windmill and a well were
he main props here. The scene opened to find sixteen
)utcll girls assembled at various points in the village. One
kater was decked out with the traditional yoke and water
nuckets. At a certain cue they assembled in the center of
he rink and performed a Dutch folk dance on skates. (A
modified folk dance, of course, with some precision skating
marking the close of the number.)

A huge sombrero (brim diameter twelve feet) was the
coal point for the first part of the Mexican scene. “The
iombrero Senoritas,” attired in red and white costumes per-
ormed various formations around the hat before being
oined by a figure-skating couple doing the “Blue Tango.”
‘he senoritas formed a background of colorful movement

or the featured pair as they performed their flawless routine. "

When the couple made their exit, the girls picked up the
ombrero and found a pint-sized Gaucho under it. The
[owning and chasing supplied the comedy for the evening.
Vith appropriate recorded music from Carmen, the mata-
lor made her entrance. A bull stormed out and made several
menacing lunges at the pretty matador. After some comedy,
.nd some fine skating by the matadOr, they mended their
lifl'crences, and saluted the crowd as the lights were maneu-

ered to form a brilliant spectrum on the colored ice. (Ice
vas colored with poster paint.)

‘lOVEMBER 1953

 

Medicine Man in the Indian scene.

The day after the show, the community center received
many offers of help for next year’s production. One of-
ficial of a box factory has offered as much cardboard ma-
terial as will be needed for the next ice spectacle. The scope
of the affair has grown to such an extent that we are now
beginning the collection of materials and the construction of
props. Lighting, props, and costumes are far more impor-
tant than the ability of the skaters. To those who might be

interested in starting an ice show, the following outline is
submitted:

~ Assembling Cast and Advisory Staff

Both written and verbal notices will round up a large

' number of youngsters—far more than you think you can

use, but try to find a place for every one of them. The larger
the cast, the better the potential for a large number of inter-
ested adults.

Once the cast has been assembled, assign numbers accord-
ing to age and ability. Your outstanding skaters can be
worked into any group, however. You can now divide your
show into various themes, or else have one main theme for
the entire revue, and build the numbers around it.

Unsteady tots, attired in animal costumes or the like, will
always be wonderful entertainment, so don’t worry about a
spill or two during the performance.

Girls in their early teens show a marked preference for
precision numbers, thus military numbers are good. Solid
colors in percale are good sources for costume material.
Military hats may be made from construction cardboard,
covered with metallic paper in the right color. Metallic
paper is available at art school or supply houses. Plumes
can be made from tufted crepe paper. Our ’Dutch costumes
were fashioned from the military costumes used the previous
year. Sleeves were removed, thus making vests, and the
caps were made from old sheets, heavily starched.

The glamour spots are the proper place for the high school
girls. A square dance, a series of simple skating routines, or
even set-positions around colorful props will delight both
spectator and participant. It is impossible to over-stress
the “big three”—costumes, lighting, and props. The short-
comings in ability are helped immeasurably by a glittering
scene.

At this point, I definitely want to encourage recreation
leaders in the small communities. Don’t let the scope of this
event scare you. We too are faced with a very small budget,

359

and we actually don’t have any money to spend on our an-
nual revue. Each youngster must pay for the material for
his or her costume. PrOp materials, cardboard, strips of
wood, paint,_ and so on, can be obtained from merchants,
factories and the like. '

About the Rink

We operate and maintain our own ice rink, which is ad-
jacent to the community center. This makes it handy in
regard to our lighting effects and sound system. However,
any outdoor rink can easily be set up with sound and lights.
Your local fire department may have an emergency sound
truck. All you have to do is furnish the records.

Some municipal recreation groups in large cities have
access to indoor rinks, where artificial ice offers skating
throughout the winter season regardless of the temperature
outside. Having to depend on the weather is not the best
advantage, but our rehearsals are held indoors when warm
weather prevents skating. The indoor practice is a great
help in teaching the youngsters their numbers. As a result,
when they return to the rink, they have full knowledge of
what they are supposed to do; from then on, it’s a question
of timing. In one way, having to overcome the drawbacks
of an outdoor rink is a help. People expect perfection when
watching a revue on an indoor rink, for there’s nothing to
impair the performance. Your local p0pulace will be highly
appreciative of your efforts when you present some enter-
tainment that has had to overcome, among other things, the
weather.

About the Lights

You must have good lighting in order to insure any meas-
ure of success for your production, so canvass all possible
owners of Hoodlights, footlights, window display lights, and

lee Broom-Ball Rules

anything else that will help light your rink. If possible, try
to have two or three switches that can vary the amount of
light. This will give you those added effects. Light-masks,
made with colored ce110phane, can add some beautiful tones
to the ice. (Paste or staple cellophane on one end of a hol-
low tube of cardboard. Slip other end over brim of light,
taking care not to get the paper too close to the lights.

Try to have equal lighting around the rink, and avoid
dark spots. Qne big spotlight for solo skating can probath
be obtained from your lecal high school.

Acrobatic Stunts

Extreme care should be used here. Acrobatic stunts on
ice skates are always thrilling, and can be worked in nicely
with many themes, (for example, our Indian Chief last year
leaped through a ceremonial mask) but they can be dan-
gerous. Thus, anyone planning to perform any stunts should
be an excellent skater.

Publicity

You will probably want to rely on placing posters'in the
store windows, so why not ask the art class at school to make
them up for you? Try to have some photos available for the
pre-revue ballyhoo. A photo of one of the local youngsters-
in a dazzling costume always adds to the write-up. Radio
and TV, of course, can be used, so don’t hesitate to send an-
nouncements to all surrounding stations. 0n the night of
the show, have the sound truck go around town, an hour or
so before the revue, reminding the citizenry of the event.

Recreation pe0ple .are constantly searching for projects.
that will offer community cooperation, community partici-
pation and wide appeal. This revue is our number-one effort.
and will continue to be so, until we find something else thatI
will be talked about the year around.

The game is played on the hockey
rink, using the hockey goals to score in,
or an end line parallel to the goals.

Each. player is equipped with a
broom (an old broom is best). A vol-
leyball, basketball, or soccer ball may

be used.

No limit on the number of players on
each side, but eight make the best
contest.

The game may be played on skates or
without skates. (For bigger boys or

girls who are good skaters, it is a hetter
game on skates.)

If the regular hockey goal is used,
only one goal is necessary. If an end line
is used, half of the players are guards
and half are‘ forwards.

360 "

The Game:
The ball is placed in center of the ice

between two players, the same as in
hockey. Then all players try to drive
the ball to the opponent’s goal.

Each game is divided into three
periods of ten minutes each.

If the end line goal is used, the guards
at no time cross the center of the ice,
but may come up to the center, but when
the ball is in their half of the territory,
they draw back to their own goal line.
No player shall cross the opponent’s
goal line at any time. If this does hap-
pen, the opponents shall he awarded
one point.

If hockey goals are used, the one
guard is stationed at the goal, same
as in hockey. All other players may use

all of the rink, and players may skate
around their opponent’s goal as in

hockey. I

Scoring:

Each goal shall count one point; and
if the end line is crossed by an opponent
in an end-line goal-play, it shall count
one point.

There are no off-sides in the game:
but on any bunched-up play, the referee
stops the game and the hall is centered
——with all players being at least ten feet
away from the centering players.

Any rough playing may be penalized
by taking the guilty players out of the.
game for the period.

 

From the St. Paul Public Recreation Guide
and Program, F all-W inter 1953-54.

RECREATIO‘

 

PROGRAM

IT’S NOVEMBER. Let’s visit the Christmas Institute in Minneapolis where the
park board’s recreation division is staging its fifth annual workshop in advance
of next month’s holiday season.

A Unique Clinic is the
Answer to Many Requests

Group leaders are here from all over Minnesota; scoutmasters, recreation
leaders, school teachers and many more. There are even a few from Canada.

Some have brought their groups with them. All hope to take home some new
ideas for Christmas decorating.

This year’s clinic is so big and so popular that officials have scheduled it

 

Centerpieces hold attention of
fonr-year-old. Many children,
attending with parents, watch.

We’re in the Citizens Aid Building; and long work tables
Iank the walls of the main hall. 0n them are piled materials
pf all kinds. Behind them stand instructors ready to trans-
or1n the heaps of tinfoil, paper and sticks into attractive
Ihristmas decorations.

Each table features a different type of ornamentation. As
we stroll by, we see Christmas candles being decorated, and
ree ornaments in various stages of production.

Our llostess is Mrs. Alice Dietz, assistant director of recre-
.tion in Minneapolis, originator of the Christmas Institute
n this city.

“The chief value of these clinics lies in educating new
eaders and demonstrating new craft materials and new
echniques,” she says. “We believe this method the most
)ractical way to teach.”

Mrs. Dietz’s project grew out of a flood of requests di-
'ected to the park board in recent years to “send an in-
.tructor out to show us some Christmas craft work.” When
he calls for help reached major proportions in 1949, the
lecision was made to establish a clinic where everyone who
wanted assistance could obtain it simultaneously. It was
)elieved a mass get-together would be the best means of
lispensing the desired information.

Only a registration booth barred our path as we entered
he Institute. There is no cost to any visitor; nothing is for
aale here. It’s strictly a place to learn. Expenses for the
affair are borne three ways: the Minneapolis Park Board

 

.VIR. HOFF is a member of the Public Relations Sta§,
Board of Park Commissioners, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

NOVEMBER 1953

for five days. Last year’s three-day affair drew 1,352 persons. That was the
biggest institute to date but this year’s clinic looks like another record breaker.

emanate

Eivind Hoff, Jr.

furnishes the instructors to demonstrate and advise; Frank-
lin Cooperative Creamery, long a booster of service activi-
ties in the city, buys all the materials; and the city’s Volun-
teer Service Bureau of the Community Fund takes care of
invitations and registration, helping to build continued at-
tendance.

Mrs. Dietz explains the history of the Institute as we ap-
proach a long table behind which an instructor is tying a
dazzling bow on a gift-wrapped package. Soon a visitor is
invited to try it herself. She duplicates the instructor’s work
delightedly, tries it once more, and then makes a note of
the type of material.

“That’s a typical reaction,” says our hostess. “There were
only eighty-seven people at our first institute in 1949. We
held it in this room. By 1952 attendance had reached almost
1,400 and we expect even larger crowds at this year’s event.

“Last year’s crowd was so big we had to use this large
auditorium and two rooms besides.” She pointed to the ad-
joining cafeteria, “In fact, the fire department said the place
was too full and forced us to open this cafeteria so the crowd
could spill over into here.”

About ten instructors are on hand at a given time to re-
ceive visitors. All are park board personnel except two
special handcraft teachers from a Minneapolis craft shop,
who volunteer to assist since materials to make the favors
are being shown for sale at their shop.

Around the room we pass tables covered with finished
outside-the-door decorations, Christmas tree ornaments,
place mats, centerpieces, textile paintings, food decorations,
novelty gifts, costumes in construction, and we hear ex-

361

J—‘t—u—

planations of new Christmas games.

On our right an eight-year-old stares unbelieving as an
instructor carves an apple into a Santa Claus. This type of
favor has proved a favorite embellishment for party table
or mantle piece.

But the candle decorating table seems to be humming the
most. Off the “production line” come white candles sport-
ing green holly leaves, red berries and other gay ornaments.
More candle ideas on display are: sequin designs pin'ned on
a plump candle; foil fringes wrapped spirally around a tall
taper; and tulle and sequin-tiered petticoats pinned to a
candle. ..

Officials estimate that some fifty per cent of the visitors
try their hand at making things right at the Institute. Mrs.
Dietz emphasises the fact that the event is not an exhibit, but
is a workshop where people may learn by doing.

Another interesting table at this November session is at-
tracting visitors—making “Santa” favors from such com-
mon items as gumdrops, life savers, pipe cleaners, popcorn,
wood, and glass. On the next table are piles of metal foil
which are destined to become bird and butterfly figurines.
Next we see four-foot-high Santas and Christmas trees sawed
from workable sheets of the hardened chemical called styro-
foam.

Fresh ideas for the Institute come from the park instruc-
tors who are constantly on the alert for new material. Maga-
zines, newspapers, library books, and other printed materials
are thoroughly searched, and friends who “know a special
trick” often pass on valuable tips.

Shirley Hartfiel, a regular park board community center
supervisor, describes the Institute as “work, but it’s fun.”
Instructors, however, receive no pay for their extra effort.

Minnesota’s blustery November weather doesn’t seem to
bother visitors, either. Veteran instructor Mary McKnight
recalls the 1951 clinic which began in a snowstorm and yet
was packed with visitors minutes after the doors opened.
Keeping the scene of the Institute near the Minneapolis loop
district and good transportation helps, too.

We’re passing the stage now, where a half-dozen Christ-
mas trees are gaily displayed in varying themes. Some are
strung with fancy electronic devices, another has homemade
decorations, and a third is hung with all-nations doll orna-
ments. Three dozen Christmas cookies and strings of pop-
corn cover another.

From time to time general announcements ring out over
the public address system as our hostess directs visitors to a
certain tahle for a mass demonstration. “It’s impossible to
demonstrate to everyone individually how to make these
mctallic foil birds,” says Mrs. Dietz. ’

The Institute depends on the Twin City newspapers to
carry its advance stories to state-wide readers, and tcle-
vision demonstrations previous to opening day are ’a “nat-
ural” for this kind of event. Officials have learned from long
experience that you must advertise your project if it’s to be
a successful one. This must be done in addition to the mail-
ing lists maintained by the Volunteer Service Burcau.

The Bureau adds each visitor’s name to its list and sends
notification to that person calling attention to the ti1nc and

362

place of the next Institute. Visitors to other park-sponsored
clinics, such as Halloween and Naturecraft, are also invited.
keeping the mailing list long and assuring large attendance.

Franklin Creamery foots a bill approximating five hun-
dred dollars for materials used at the Institute each year.
However, Franklin is happy to help the park board with this
and many other projects since the company long ago adopted
a policy of turning its extra profits into a recreation spon-
sorship campaign for both youngsters and adults in the city.

Occasionally professional help is provided for the Insti-
tute by volunteer instructors from the University of Minne-
sota and the Minneapolis Art Institute.

Sessions run two-a-day (morning and evening). Some are
for group leaders only, but most are thrown open to the gen-
eral public. Also, one Saturday morning session is always
arranged for old folks. Instructors report seeing many
familiar faces at the Institute each year.

Gift ideas for people of all ages is a p0pular department.
Gifts for fathers. however, seem to present the knottiesl
problem, so those in charge at the gift table make it a poinl
to be especially helpful with hints for dad’s present. In-
structors find, too, that people like to learn about tree decor-
ations which children will be able to make themselves.

We’re back near the entrance, now. In fifty-eight minutes
we’ve circled the hall. We’ve glanced into the special candy
cup demonstration room, and looked at special Christmas
patterns in another adjoining room.

Our hostess hurries over to say goodbye with a free
Christmas craft book full of games, ideas for decorations,
and Christmas card suggestions. Each visitor receives one.
Further information is available at the Minneapolis Public
Library, which lists reference books for visitors.

Like the average visitor, we hurried home, anxious to
“try that paper Santa Claus ourselves.”

(Erppttng (Earns

Three years ago the UNICEF Greeting Card Fund
came into being; proceeds from the sale of the greet-
ing cards go towards UN ICEF’s efforts to help all the
world’s children. The 1953 designs were contributed
by the brilliant English team of Jan Lewitt and
George Him, and they show children at play in iivc
UNICEF-assisted countries or areas around the
world. Kite fiying in Peru, climbing the greased pole
in the Philippines, blind man’s buff in Greece, hide-
and-seek in the Middle East and hop-scotch in Pakis-
tan are shown in dramatic colors.

A box of ten cards—two each of the five designs—-
either with Season’s Greetings in the five official
languages of the United Nations or blank for use as

note cards, sells for $1.00 postpaid. Write to UNICEF
Greeting Card Fund, United Nations, New York.

§Z§§ZS¥ZI§ZJ§Z§§¢§Z§PZJ #XH
RECREATIC.

PROGRAM

FHE ART
)F SNOW
SCULPTURE

Snow sculpture has become increasingly
popular through the years, and much can
still he learned from the early experi-
ences of its pibneers at Dartmouth College.

T 15 HARD to guess when the invention of the primitive
snowman took place, but it is safe to say that after its in-
rntion there was but little improvement until a revolution-
‘3.’ innovation at Dartmouth College brought the art of
IOW sculpture to greater perfection.

1 refer to the ingenuity of some ambitious undergraduate
ho became tired of waiting for Mother Nature to produce
e right temperature for making sticky snow, and went out
ith a garden hose to make some for himself. Simple as it
as, this “invention” became the basis for what was soon to
:come an organized art, because this method allows the
rtist to manufacture material, much like plaster or clay,
hich goes by the name of slush. When you have access
v slush, you are presented with a medium that will easily
lapt itself to any subject that you wish to build, because it
In be handled like clay and allows the snow artist to use an
rmature, or framework, such as sculptors use in their clay
uodeling.

The art no doubt Hourished unrecognized for several
ears before the college took formal notice of it in 1927.
1 that year the Inter-fraternity Council offered a cup for
1e best work done for the carnival. In 1928, all the fraterni-
es were requested to submit entries. In 1929, the Outing
lub decided to make the statues a regular carnival feature.

That year also saw revolutionary deveIOpment in figure
'ork, for the fraternities decided that it was more fun to

take people and animals out of snow than it was to spend

M

Condensed from chapter eighteen, “The Art of Snow Sculpture,”
5? [)le Brooks, from The Dartmouth Book of W inter Sports. Copy-
gllt 1939 by A. S. Barnes and Company, Incorporated.

{oven BER 1953

 

Eleazar, a colossal snow-sculpture masterpiece at Dartmouth.

a week building a Grecian doorway. Along with the growth
in technical skill there came stronger competition, leading
quite naturally to closely-guarded secrets as to the best way
to build and preserve delicate works in snow and ice.

One of the earliest of these secrets was the idea of spray-
ing the statue while in process of construction so that the
finished work would be smoother and more solid. This was
followed by the plan of spraying the finished statue to give
it a glossy patina and to keep it from melting too easily.
Student sculptors soon learned that after a statue made of
slush was sprayed on a cold night it took on the appearance
of having been carved directly out of solid ice. Another
secret was a process of dyeing ice cakes for use as a color-
ful background or for the base of a panel in relief. By ap-
plying slush directly to the colored ice, interesting silhou-
ette reliefs could be made which gave a unique cameo effect
when lighted from the back.

Many people have inquired just how snow is made to be-
haveH—how it is made to stick. “let snow clings to wet snow
just as clay sticks to clay. When the slush is applied to the
statue it quickly freezes hard; providing, of course, the

363

temperature is low enough to ensure this freezing. The trick
is in moulding the wet snow before it has a chance to harden.
Snow is as soft and pliable as clay at this stage; and, more-

over, after it has frozen, it can easily be chipped, carved,
and smoothed.

METHODS OF BUILDING

The most common and easiest method of building is the
wet snow idea. It is by far the simplest to use because it
allows the artist to construct a solid prefabricated armature.

Some have had success using the method of piling up a
lot, of snow, wetting it, then letting it freeze until it becomes
a solid block of snowy ice, which they then attack vigorously
with an ax. The evident defect of this system is that therc
cannot be any armature for the support of the figure, and
so the statue must be planned to support its own weight.
Snow, especially after it has soaked up a lot of water, weighs
almost as much as water itself—a cubic foot of slushy snow
would weigh pretty close to sixty-two pounds. It can easily
be seen that the weight-distribution of a statue has a lot to
do with its success or downfall. That is why I am so strong
for the plan of applying slush to a sturdy armature to assure
good weight-distribution. «

Good work has also been done on a small scale carving
from cakes of solid ice, but this art requires considerable
skill and patience on the part of the cutter, because one slip
can ruin the work. Pure ice will split and crack very easily
and without warning, whereas frozen slush seems to take on
a very cloSe grain which simplifies the subsequent carving.

Snow relief against a background of ice has already been
mentioned. But what should be tried more often is the cut—
ting of high or low relief directly from the snow block. With
careful workmanship and proper lighting, unique and inter-
esting panels can be made on which the artist can express
himself with greater freedom than in full round figures.

CONSTRUCTING THE STATUE

In order to illustrate some of the difficulties of snow
sculpture, let me offer the story of the colossal “Eleazer
Wheelock” that was erected on the Dartmouth campus for
the Carnival of 1939.

It all began with the thought that we build a large, in fact
the largest, snow statue ever sculptured at Dartmouth and
perhaps in the world—a simple but memorable figure in the
center of the campus. Eleazar, the founder of the college,
seemed to be the most impressive single symbol of what we
might call the Dartmouth “spirit,” so we decided to glorify
him. My notebook was cluttered with drawings of the figure
from all angles. Gradually these rough sketches narrowed
down to one particular pose. Then this sketch was drawn
carefully to scale according to the size that we planned for
the actual statue.

The next step was to fit an imaginary armature into the
drawing. As shown in Figure I, this armature was to con-
sist of two four-inch pipes which would form the immovable
triangle necessary to keep the figure from falling to either
side. Then the boxes which were to make his rotund mid-
section hollow were fitted into the drawing, together with

364-

the extra pipe for his left arm. Without those boxes at the
point where the figure would be heaviest, the statue would
have been in danger of teetering either to the front or back.
Therefore, we kept the center of gravity as low as possible
for the sake of safety.

The boxes were planned on paper to give as much weight
to the front as the back, the final exact balance to be watched
for when we built the statue. The lattice work of the should
ers and head, and the extended arm, were then drawn in,
together with a sketch of the flour barrel we would use as a
base for the tankard which he was to hold aloft in a salute
to the visitors. The completed armature on the drawing

looked like Figure 2.

APPLYING THE SNOW i
Once the scale plan for this elaborate construction was
drawn out, it was followed very carefully on an actual small-

     

Fl-OUI? W861.

31001 Silut

 

FIGURE 1

FIGURE 2

size armature for the clay model. The clay was applied to
the model frame just as the snow would be to the full-sized
armature when the time came, and the figure was developed

.in its entirety to be sure that the armature was the right size

and exact shape to support the finished twenty-ton statue'.
Proportional measurements were taken from this clay model
and recorded on paper for use during the construction.

Let me again point up the importance of building an ac-
curate scale model. When you work in snow, you must work
fast and cannot afford to make mistakes. By constructin
this scale model out of clay, you can be sure that your arma-
ture will be suited to the statue that you plan to build, and
you can get a fairly accurate idea of what your statue 
look like. No matter how many good drawings you make oi
your statue, you cannot be sure how it will come out unlesl
you can see it in three dimensions. The model will reveal
the points where you will have the most difficulty when yon
get outside. My clay model of Eleazar was absolutely neces-
sary because I could point out to those working with me
just what they were doing and what the result was to be
like. If your helpers are given a clear idea of what they are
doing, there will be less time wasted hyounnecessary mis-
takes.

RECREATION
-

In building this scale model you first make a suitable base
Id then fabricate the armature from wire and wood, and
tach it to the base. Your drawing will have indicated the
'Ope of the armature necessary, but in its actual three di-
ensional construction you can visualize more accurately
e requirements for the adequate support of every detail of
le full scale statue. No rule can be laid down-except to
ake sure that no part of the statue shall be left to chance
r its support and balance. Once properly designed and
bricated, you can clothe this skeleton with modeling clay
Id be ready to go. '

The snow came the night before we planned to raise the
'affolding and start work on the figure. We had previ-
l-Sly erected the basic pipe armature and had frozen it
:lidly into a foundation of ice sixteen feet in diameter.
he pipes of the structure were joined together with U bolts,
hich make a fine joint when two pipes cross. Our wood
embers were held to the pipes by rcpe lashings, which
parne immovahle when cemented with snow and ice. A
gular carpentcr’s scaffold was constructed sixteen feet
:uare and thirty-two feet high with plenty of cross braces
l(l a large beam out over the top for hauling up snow. A

npe was run from the front bumper of a car through a pul-_

y at the bottom of the scaffold, up through another at the
p, and down to a large washtub at the base of the statue.
’hen the car backed away from the statue, up went a bucket
'slush.

CARVINC THE STATUE

We applied this first slush to the legs until they were built
} heavily to where the bottom of the torso boxes would
une. Then we set the boxes in place, together with all the
it of the armature, and were ready to work. Doing every-
rlg on a large scale, we used a three-inch fire hose instead
the conventional garden hose for our water supply. With
is and plenty of shovelers we kept a steady stream of wet
Ew going up in the bucket to the men on the scaffold.

n four days we had completed most of the work of apply-
. the snow and had a tremendous block of ice that showed
e general outlines of our figure. The hardest work was
I to come, for now this great hollow snowman, thirty-
ght feet high, must be carved into something that would

mble Eleazar Wheelock. ’
“We used small hatchets to do most of the cutting and iron
[rel staves as scrapers. On the whole, however, we left

statue with the original ax cuts on it because of the effect
'21] by the many small light-catching planes that resulted
III] the ax work. Also, the rough texture left by these cuts
hde the statue appear to have been hewn out of a block of
Ilid natural ice.

1 strongly recommend this plan to anyone, whether he is
)ing to work on a large or small scale, because once he
Irts to smooth the whole thing down, unless he does an
:pert job his work will lose all its vigor and strength.

Tm: FINISHING Toucaas

When we were through with this tedious but essential task
E finishing up, we sprayed the whole statue with a light

ol'EMBER 1953

stream so that the very final touches could be given to the
smooth finish. These being successfully completed, we took
down the scaffold and with pardonable lumps in our throats
chorused a lusty “Eleazar Wheelock” as the flood-lights il-
luminated our “masterpiece.” What greater thrill could any-
one desire than to be able to step back from the white and
glistening completed statue and be able to say that he had
made or helped to make such a beautiful piece of work?

Ten small spotlights placed around the statue gave this
ice a remarkable alabaster-like sparkle and addéd a great
deal to its-appearance.

The natural white brightness of snowy ice is very easily
lighted; but care must be taken, if you are to secure the right
effect, in exaggerating the various bumps and hollows of
your work. The face of Eleazar appeared even more gro-
tesque than we had molded it because the lights that shone
on it were placed quite close to the base of the statue so the
light directed up to his face gave the same effect that is
secured when you hold a flashlight directly beneath your
chin.

We have never regarded lighting as a serious problem.
If the statue is well made it will look well no matter how it
is lighted. In general, however, the strength of the lights
should depend on the size of the statue and the placing of the
lights should depend on the shape as well as the size of the
figure.

But I definitely oppose the use of color either in the lights
or the statues themselves. Snow is snow and it seems to lose
much of its natural beauty when lighted artificially or
stained with color.

Perhaps I can answer a few questions that might be asked
about why our statue was such a success. We were very care-
ful to keep the figure simple in every way and to concentrate
on the powerful effect of our line and the solidarity of the
mass rather than on the nice details that so often draw all the
attention of the workers. We placed a great amount of em-
phasis on the silhouette effect of the boundary lines of the
figure when viewed from the front, making sure that these
lines gave the correct life and expression to' the statue. It is
very difficult to keep away from the “snowman” effect with
the conventional telephone pole legs and no action at all to
the figure. ,

We were fortunate in having a natural dark background
in the broad expanse of the campus. I would suggest that
when no dark background is available the artist make one,
because when there are even a few lights behind the work
they will obliterate all the fine silhouette effect from the eyes
of the audience. Few more suggestions could be made. The

I rest must be left to the imagination and ability of the artist.

“The bad features of snow as a material for sculpter-

ing are that it isn’t always available when you want it,
and that often when it is, the weather isn’t cold enough

to freeze the modelled slush. The skier’s prayer to
Saint Peter should be extended for the benefit of the
growing fraternity of snow modellers.”——Dick Brooks.

 

365

WITHIN the past ten years, the interest in winter sports
has increased so rapidly, that today most northern com-

nlunities have some program of this nature in operation. If
your community lies in the snow region, and your terrain is
hilly, the people in your area can enjoy a season of skiing
and tobogganing. The following are some suggestions that
may help you set up your own program:

1. Find a slope that faces the north and has some trees (for
shade and protection from the wind, which could blow much
of the snow from the hill). This should start gradually at
the bottom, and increase in pitch so that the steep part of
the hill is at the top. This will enable the beginner to prac-
tice on the lower part of the hill.

2. After you pick your hill, find the owner and obtain his
permission to use it; or better yet, get him to sign a lease
for as long as you think you will want to use the area.

3. Organize a work project with help from the Boy Scouts
and local organizations. Tell them to bring their axes, saws,
hatchets, rakes and shovels, with which you can cut brush
and small trees (providing you have the owner’s consent),
pick stones, fill holes and rake the entire area smooth, so
that when the first snow arrives, you are in business. To
create more interest in the project, you might provide a hot
lunch, as we did with much success, having 140 children
turn out. We also provided transportation and had the local
newspaper take pictures.

4. Each year, plan on planting some type of grain on the
slope to prevent erosion and save work in the long run.

5. The next thing to consider is a ski tow. I would hesitate
to begin a program of this type without including one.

It is possible to buy portable ski tows today which come
complete with rope, necessary gear and safety devices. They
range in price from $300 to $600. For power, you may buy
them with five- to ten-horsepower motors. These can be set
up on a slope within one-half-hour and be ready to operate.
We purchased ours with donations from different organi-
zations that were interested in the project. During Decem-
ber, movies were shown of ski areas throughout the country,
and membership in the local ski club was the price of ad-
mission. This brought more money into our fund. These
movies, in color, are available to schools, recreation depart-
ments and ski clubs at very little cost, often for postage only.
6. After the hill is completed, with tow, and you receive
your first snowfall, it is necessary to pack the entire slope

MR. MURRAY is recreation director, Reedsburg, Wisconsin.

366

Starting a
Winter Sports Program

Jack Murray

with the help of your skiers. Have them ride up on the
tow, and after reaching the top, tramp down by placing their
skis parallel to the slope. This will pack the snow and make
it easier to slalom (transverse the slope from side to side)
and it holds the snow on the hill for a longer time.

7. If you want to light your hill for night skiing, which is
being done at most hills now, you can borrow two or three
lights from your local athletic fields, as we have done here.
The cost is low for both the installing and the power.

To help your program to be a success, organize a junior
ski club for the boys and girls in your area. Furnish, if pos-
sible, transportation to and from the hill, give them ski in-
structions, free use of the tow, and organize a ski patrol for
safety.

In return, they can pack the slope after each snowfall, fill
in the holes where someone has fallen and neglected to fill
up the hole, keep skiers in line on the tow, pack snow on bare
spots, and help you with many other things that will assure
a successful program. The juniors appreciate the responsi-
bility and will cooperate far better than older groups.

Your toboggan slide can be constructed easily enough by
digging a trench straight down your hill, a few inches wider
than your toboggan. Try and keep it as smooth as possible.
It should be deep enough to assure you that the toboggans_
will not jump out of the slide. When digging this, allow
enough room for the snow, which, when packed, will take'
up three or four inches. '

We built our slide by having a bull-dozer dig a trench
two feet deep. The dirt that piled up on each side was suf-
ficient to keep the toboggans inside the trench throughout
the winter’s use. Keep your slide straight if possible.

In the fall of 1952, Reedsburg, Wisconsin, had a skating
rink. This was the extent of its winter sports program. By
December of the same year, it had the following: BOO-foot
slalom ski slope; 600-foot rope ski tow; ski trails for ama-
teur and expert; portable shelter house; portable refresh-
ment stand; toboggan slide, 400 feet long; seven eight-foot
toboggans with pads.

This year’s facilities will be: l200-foot slalom ski s10pe;
lOOO-foot rope ski tow; more ski trails; permanent ski lodge
with fire place and lunch counter; toboggan tow on tobog-
gan slide; fifteen toboggans on hand.

It took plenty of work to obtain these things, but last year,
when there were between seventy-five and one hundred cars
at our hill—with people from six to sixty skiing and tobog-
ganing—we thought it was well worth the effort.

RECREATION

 

[‘HE APPROACH of the Christmas sea-
son brings the feeling of good will
n all men throughout the world. In
3eping with this thought, the person-
Bl of the Air Force at the Lakenheath
ase were desirous of spreading a bit of
hristmas joy and happiness into the
Miles of some pe0ple living in nearby
immunities. Their plan was to send
hristmas parcels to needy old-aged
:rsons who were living near the Laken-
3ath Base. They desired that these
i-rcels reach the homes of those most
Ilserving and who would accept their
EC in the kind spirit in which it was in-
nded. The parcels were delivered tr
1e household of the selected person or
arsons a few days before Christmas.
They called upon the oHicials of the
lomans Volunteer Service and the
lomans Institute, in approximately
nety communities throughout the
ea, by letter, with the result that their
roject for Old People” was well-
unchcd.
The preliminary planning was started
October 1952, several meetings being
ld with members of the above organ-
ntions and the British Legion. These
anizations immediately pledged
ir cooperation and the Womans Vol-
I teer Service led the way in the result-
1g action. They provided names of the
Post deserving old people; and all
lerchandise for the project was pur-
"lased through the English market.
Each parcel contained: tins of cher-
es, prunes, plums, steak and vegeta-
lts, chicken soup, jars of fruit salad,
larmalade, strawberry jam, pickles,
lince-meat, malted milk, boxes of dates,
gs, jellies, sixteen-ounce tin of ham,
\'¢l"I‘e-ounce pork luncheon meat, two-

WEMBER 1953

American Airbase in England

Parcels for the Aging

pound Christmas pudding, half-pound
of tea, one pound of biscuits, a bottle of
ginger wine, fresh oranges, apples and
walnuts.

Five hundred gift-hampers were pre-
parcd and delivered, with the following
enclosed card:

3909th Air Base Group
R.A.F Station Lakenheath
Suffolk

To You This Christmas,

The hearts of men throughout the
free world turn to spreading good cheer
at Christmas. In keeping with this
thought, the members of the American
Air Force at R.A.F. Station Lakenheath
wish you to accept this remembrance in
the spirit of good will toward men.

It has been an American custom, a

part of our English heritage, to eXpress

good will at Christmas by such a ges-
ture as this. We wish you to be one to
whom we eXpress gratitude for your
years of devotion to a free country.

May the blessings of Christmas and
the New Year be yours during the com-
ing year.

Sincerely,

gang  3306:3250):
Colonel, U.S.A.F.

Commanding

Christmas, 1952

British newspapers were enthusiastic
and gave high praise for American gen-
erosity in their write-ups:

American airmen at Lakenheath have
contributed so generously to their fund
to provide Christmas food parcels for

Parcels for needy British oldsters being prepared by the servieemen at Lakenheath.

 

367

old people . . . that today, on the eve of
delivery, the grand total stands at
£1,075.

Gestures of this kind are not confined
to American bases overseas. At airfields
in the United States, it is almost tradi-
tional for the men to take good cheer, at
Christmas, to children and old people
living in the area.—Cambridge Daily
News.

Bewildered, Mrs. S. Frost led the four
young American servicemen, with the
decorated box, into her small living room.

“This,” said Sgt. H. J. Quigley, of the
US. Air Police, “is a gift from the serv-
icemen at Lakenheath air base. And we
wish you a very happy Christmas!”

Mrs. Frost, eighty-two-years-old a-nd
white-haired, looked at the box lying on
her table. She saw the oranges, nuts,
the bottle of ginger wine, the ham and
preserves, botteld fruit salads, the large
Christmas pudding and other gifts.

“Is it all for me?” she whispered.

“All of it, ma’am," they told her.

She began to wipe her eyes with her
handkerchief. It was as much as she
could do to overcome her emotion and
murmur, “A very happy Christmas to
you—a very happy Christmas.”

This was only one of many similar epi-
sodes on Monday and yesterday. The
story of how it began is one which illus-
trates typically the generosity of Ameri-
can servicemen and their efforts to share
the good things of life at this season.

It is a custom with the American serv-
ices to reflect their own Christmas happi-

ness upon those who live near their bases.
——Bury Free Press.

The response to the Christmas parcel
project was most gratifying and in-
cluded scores of letters from the recipi-
ents themselves, sometimes hardly legi-
ble, but written painstakingly by
anxious hands, and always moving
pieces of correspondence. A few typical
excerpts follow:

“Words cannot express my thanks to
you and the airmen under your com-
mand for the lovely Xmas parcel which
you have so generously given to me. I
am a sick old-aged pensioner, so you
will know how I appreciate it. I only
wish that all my countrymen had spent
a few years of their life in the U.S. as l
have done and then they would appreci-
ate what fine fellows that you are.”

It i It

“I would just like to thank you for
this lovely box of all good things. I
was so done up I had to cry for joy.
I am nearly seventy-eight and never did
I have anything given me before; I
don’t know how to thank you enough.
Sir, I do pray you may live many years
and enjoy good health and happiness.”

# 1i i

g Christmas Gifts From Cotton Bags

——or other inexpensive cotton fabrics

Santa Claus is coming to town soon,
and most of us still have much to do to
get ready for that red letter day.

Why not help Santa out this year
with a bag of attractive gifts that can
be made easily and economically? Ex-
cellent things can be made from cotton
feed, flour, and fertilizer bags.

Dolls and stuffed animals made from
the colorful print bag fabric are cer-
tain to delight young hopefuls come
Christmas, and are exceptionally easy
on the budget. New prints are appro-
priate for making a wide variety of
items from baby bibs to party frocks,
while the fine white cambric of plain
cotton sacks can be used for embroid-
ered dish towels, pillow cases, place
mats, and luncheon sets. (Or of course,
these same things can be made of any
gay cotton fabric.)

368

The one-hundred-pound cotton feed
or fertilizer bag provides about one-
and-a-third yards of material, enough
for dozens of gift ideas. Clever items
can also be made from twenty-five.-
pound flour bags, available in print
patterns in many city grocery stores.
Ripped, this size bag measures about
26 by 26 inches.

Preparing the bags for sewing is a
simple process. The chain-stitched
seam rips out in a jiffy when the thread
is clipped in the corner. Band labels,
or trade names printcd in washout inks,
come off easily when the bag is soaked
in water.

Attractive Christmas stockings and
coolie hats are but two of the many
possible projects that can be completed
quickly by hand or machine.

Child’s Coolie H cut—Cut two circlcs of

“My husband and I are both ove
eighty-five and unable to get out at al
We have never had anything like it b:
fore and it caused great excitement i
our home. We wish you all a ver
Happy Xmas and may God bless yo
and keep you safe in this world (
trouble.”

# 1i #

“Will you kindly express our mo:
grateful thanks to the airmen of th
RAF Station at Lakenheath for the w01
derful parcels of this morning. It is th
best one we have ever had in the cours
of a long married life—sixty-one-am
a-half-years.

“We are eighty—seven- and eighty-fivc
years-old now. My husband has to us
two sticks and my sight is very din
May I wish you, Sir, the compliment
of the season and very sincere thanks t
those kind young men. With happ
landings.”

* 1i It

“I am writing to thank you for th
lovely parcel you sent me and my wif:
I will accept it in remembrance in th
the Spirit of good will toward men an

especially the men of the USAF wh

have done so much to help this coutr

through.”

cloth, 14 inches in diameter. Make twr
inch dart at edge and taper to cent!
to make hat pointed. Cut one 14«inc
circle from cardboard. Clip from edg
to center, and lap to make point.
circles together over c'ardboard, stretc
ing and pinning at edge to remo
slack cloth. Bind edge with bias ta
Tack bow made from tape at point
top. Fold 60-inch strip of bias tape t
gether, stitch, and tack center at insi
of point for tie.

Christmas Stockings—Use hose for pat
tern. Lay on printed or plain cotto:
bag material, double thickness. Allow
ing extra room for toys, cut to any de
sired length. Sew around, leaving to]
open, and turn. Cut plain colored cut
to fit t0p of stocking. Sew with righ
side to inside of stocking so that seen
will be underneath the cuff. Write ant
embroider child’s name on cuff. Add a
Christmas bell and a loop for hanging

RECREATI?

   
    

s- '5 I... . '. '
Ffrff". it"! -
.5.I “.dfstfs.

 (‘:'r.;." I y 4'-
n I U! - \n‘
«JJ:.I ‘Y’P‘x.
I.

   

 

L1,,

 

The Shoe and Stocking Project

‘HIS PROJECT was appr0priately
planned as a Christmas present to
use in need. As with most new ven-
es it started without much thought
en to ways of determining the true
:d of the recipients. As years went
however, better techniques were
reloped until, at the present, it is a
ll-organized activity closely coordi-
Ied with other agencies in the com-
nity that are in a position to lend
individual

‘

:fessional assistance in
e investigation.

What is it that holds a group together
Fr a long period of time? This ques-
n has come before us many times in
nking of clubs and other organiza-
is, and as to what can be done with-
B group to mold it into a closely knit
1t for accomplishment.

time and time again we all have sat
It meetings of various clubs where
Iprincipal subject of discussion has
In, “What can our grOUp do in the
y of projects to make our member-
p feel that it is performing a worth-
ile service to both the community
livits memhers?” You will agree that
r organization that is merely a talk-
; group has very little chance of long-
Ige success. An example of a project
ich has served to hold together such
,‘rOUp is the Shoe and Stocking Fund
the Downtown Kiwanis Club of
ansvillc, Indiana. This is not neces-
ily closely coordinated to recreation
ivities in a specific sense, but the phi-
ophy behind the project and its
thod of operation presents tech-
[ues of group organization which

 

:. LOBDELL is the superintendent
recreation in Evansville, Indiana.

slum? 1953

may readily be adapted to group opera-
tion in the recreation field.

Some twenty-four years ago a group
of the Kiwanis members were searching
for a long-range project in which all
members of the club could participate,
and one which would be of true service
to the community. After sifting through
many proposed ideas it was decided
that one of the major activities of the
club would be to sUpply shoes and stock-
ings to as many needy children in the
community as possible within the finan-
cial limits at their disposal.

Proof of the success of this venture
is evidenced by the fact that in the past
twenty-four years 8,930 pairs of shoes
and 17,860 pairs of stockings have been
distributed to needy children.

The method of obtaining names of
possible recipients begins in the Ki-
wanis club, where each member is given
an Opportunity to submit names of chil-
dren of grade school age whom they
feel are deserving of this help. These
names are turned over to a special com-
mittee of the club and further investi-
gation is made through the cooperation
of agencies such as the Red Cross, de-
partment of welfare, veterans organiza-
tions, Salvation Army, school teachers,
and churches.

It is very important that careful
scrutiny be given such a list to be sure
that no dUplication occurs and that the
family or children are still residents of
the community. An example of the im-
portance of accuracy in compiling the
list is shown where, in one case, a gift
certificate was sent to a family for a
child who had been deceased for two
years. Careful explanation must be
given to cooperating agencies to avert

Robert A. Lohdell

such embarrassing situations.

A program such as this must be flex-
ible enough to adapt itself to changing
conditions. During World War II, the
decrease of need for shoes and stock-
ings in the grade school age group
diminished considerably because of the
high employment rate in the city. Dur-
ing that period, assistance was given to
some of the aged who were in need, and
to specific family units who had experi-
enced a catas'trOphe of some kind. For
example, on a Christmas Eve a family
consisting of a man and wife and five
children had their home burn to the
ground with complete loss of all posses-
sions. The Kiwanis club, along with
other community organizations, gave
assistance to this family in re-establish-
ing a home and providing clothing for
all memhers. At the end of the war, as
employment became less, there again
appeared the need for carrying out the
original objective of the Shoe and
Stocking Fund.

One of the Kiwanis members, who is
also a past president of the club, is the
owner of a department store and, since
the inception of the project, has pro-
vided the shoes and stockings for the
children at cost. Perhaps the outstand-
ing factor in the program is the method
by which the child actually receives a
pair of shoes and stockings.

The technique used by the club serves
to eliminate any embarrassment on the
part of the individuals who receive the
gifts. After each name on the list has
been carefully screened, a Christmas
gift card is made up and delivered in
person by the Kiwanis member submit-
ting the name. This card entitles the

369

child or the parents of the child to go
to the department store and pick out
any pair of'shoes they desire and two
pairs of stockings, the only limitation
being that they shall not be patent
leather shoes or all-white shoes. The
personal contact with the family serves
to give a more personal aspect to the
gift.

Only members of the Kiwanis club
are permitted to participate in raising
money for this project. At a meeting,
usually in the middle of December, the
committee presents its request for funds
and a collection is made to finance the
project. The results obtained by this
method of contribution are surprising.
In 1952, with an attendance of approxi-

 

Wintertime brings a new series of
playtime activities to Ontario; for here,
as in most of Canada; the recreational
pursuits of pe0ple are governed to a
great extent by the weather. Not all of
this province will be dressed in the garb
of winter by Christmas. Much of the
winter activity depends not so much
upon man-made facilities as upon the
appearance of snow and the freezing of
ponds and streams. The pe0ple from
the southern part of the province, who
are enthusiastic, make regular tours to
the north in quest of regions favourable
to skis and the toboggan.

The irrepressible desire for skating
facilities where ice is only casually
available, however, has led to the pro-
duction of skating surfaces by artificial
means. There are now about two hun-
dred ice arenas in Ontario, many of
which have ice-making machinery and
operate continuously from September
to March. These community arenas are

MR. THOMPSON is adviser, Park and
Recreation Facilities, Community Pro-
grammes Branch of the Department of
Education, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

370

mately 175 Kiwanians, a total of $1,700
was collected at the meeting—in cash
gifts.

Another interesting point in the tech-
nique of Operation that is very impor-
tant, in considering a needy family, is
that all children of grade school age
be included. This alleviates any situa-
tion in which a child feels he has been
left .out if he does not receive the same
as his brothers or sisters. For the year
1952, 472 children were given a pair
of shoes and two pairs of stockings.

As a second part of the special Christ-
mas-fund program the shoe and stock-
ing fund committee has developed the
idea of a competition in decorating
small Christmas trees, with prizes given

Winter; 7% (a Oatmc'a

built at costs varying from $85,000 to
$350,000. Seating capacities range be-
tween two and five thousand so that
spectator events are an important part
of their operation. These buildings are
often planned as community centers,
with an auditorium included;
drama, dancing, and floor games are a
part of the program.

Curling, a fine game for teen-agers
and adults, which probably attracts
more participants than any other winter
sport, is becoming almost a national

and

winter pastime. This game requires a
specially prepared ice surface, and for
this reason curling rinks are deve10ped
as separate units, often having ice-mak-
ing plants to guarantee a long season of
good ice.

Figure skating has gained tremend-
ously in popularity since the arena has
become more common, and in many
cases a figure skating club has been or-
ganized, retaining a professional and
producing a local figure-skating “car-
This activity is particularly
p0pular with girls from the age of six

nival.”

and up; and afternoon periods are used
for it, when the demand for ice is not
usually high.

Nearly every northern community in
the province will have one or more out-
door skating and hockey rinks. These
must be close to a water supply and on
level land. They are constructed with

for the best. The ornaments are ml
of foil, tinsel, ce110phane, and cani
These are prepared by the wives of t
board of directors of the club, and 3
taken to needy families in the comm
nity—many of whom are also recipier
of shoes and stockings. Another part
the program includes the giving of a t
to every child up to six years of age w‘
is hospitalized in any city hospital
Christmas day.

From this type of club project we
see that activities such as these serv
hold a unit together and give them
cific objectives to strive for—w}
partially answers the beginning q
tion, “What is it that holds a group
gether over a long period of time?”

T. W. Thompa

boards four feet high on an area abc
185 by 85 feet. A “shack” for changi
shoes and clothing and warming up
usually to be found close by, and
many' cases the rinks are lighted even
only crudely. The artificial rinks in l
southern sections are out-of-doors sk
ing facilities with refrigerated ice 55
faces. The size of these is 178 by I
feet, allowing for a hockey rink 70

178 feet and a skating area 50 by 1'.
When skating is over, in March,-:l
hockey boards are removed and the

tire paved surface can be used for ro‘
skating, outdoor dancing and term
The rink area provides four ten]
courts.

The hilly nature of much of Ont
makes skiing a favorite sport. T
are seventeen well developed ski reso
offering trails, tow hills, and open I
ing, with hills from 175 to 750 fee
vertical dr0p. Toboggan slides and i
SIOpes are rarely prepared, but ra
adapted for use. Very little bob-sl
ding is done.

As the winters become milder, l
p0pularity of winter Sports increas:
and by means of modern engineeril
ice-—the most sought after surface 1
our best patronized sports—is bei
prepared regardless of climate, so t}
the pe0ple of Ontario will continue
enjoy the fun and competition of win!
activities.

RECREATII
-

 

Ir location, in the Adirondacks, offch
II advantages of downhill ski trails.

1n thinking of winter sports, it seems
though a recreation director is always
Lking the mistake of comparing his
arts and results with thosc of the
.ter known and more widely publi-
ed communities where, perchance,
.ny more factors can be called upon
help with the success of the program
111 would ever he possible in his par-
ular community.

We in the East have Lake Placid’s
:cllent winter carnival to compare
h our own. The famous upstate re-
t—with the New York State Conser-
ion Department maintaining its bob
:1 run, its ski slopes—is internation-
r' famous for its spectacular events.
has its Olympic Arena, now main-
ned as a separate branch of local gov-
:ment, as the scene of many indoor
ivities. It must by nature attract
elders.

rn Glens Falls we realize, however,
t our own winter carnival and pro-
LnI—though not on this scale—can
ng enjoyment to local residents at
ristmas time. The passage of the
11’s has built up our Glens Falls win-
carnival speed skating champion-
ps into not only the outstanding at-
ction of our events, but also to a
y respectable position in skating cir-
s in the eastern states. Our meet,
'ctioned hy the A.S.U., the national

 

. REARDON is the superintendent of
reation in Glens Falls, New York.

VEMBER 1953

 

PROGRAM

Problems in the Small Town

Winter Program

Dan Reardon

 

Lake Placid, widely publicized, can offer spectacular activities as dogsledding.

body which oversees all skating and is
responsible for the Olympic skating
team, has become recognized as one of
the best outdoor meets in the country,
attracting skaters from eastern Canada,
New England, the mid-Atlantic states,
as well as from New York and Ohio.

Naturally, as this event has grown,
so has its support. The chamber of
commerce, and the service clubs—-—Ki-
wanis, Exchange, Lions, Optimists,
Rotary, Elks, and Business and Profes-
sional Women—who carried the load
in the beginning, have continually
added to their donations for fees,
medals and prizes to make the expanded
event possible. And now, many others
are adding moral support where once it
looked like a Herculean task to stage
the first two or three meets. Today
crowds of 2,500 are small crowds at our
“big meet.”

To any community with adequate

skating space, and a group of persons
or clubs to make the necessary medals
and trophies possible, this skating pro-
gram can be a great interest-builder and
well worth while. But it must be done
in A-l fashion, if you’re going to do
it at all.

Naturally enough, Glens Falls’ win-
ter carnival races are preceded by local
races to build up interest—rand last year

the Exchange Club got behind'the locals

“and purchased no less than twenty uni-

forms for the skating team, making it
as attractively attired as any on the
skating circuit.

Certain r activities greatly depend
upon circumstances such as weather,
sufiicient interest, and permission to use
necessary facilities—such as skiing and
hockey, both of which have been tried
here and been moderately successful
under ideal circumstances. But lest the
program lose its over-all effectiveness,

371

these sports should not be forced unless
their success looks fairly certain.

Coming as it does at Christmas time,
activities of the seasonal program are a
part of our local event. Each ycar the
Girl Scouts handle the Christmas carol-
ing, Santa in a jeep makes a tour of the
city streets on Christmas Eve, making
sure that all the little ones are bedded
down early. Christmas decorations are
judged and given proper recognition in
the local press.

But where the Yuletide makes some
events possible, so also does it tend to
curtail other events of a winter-carnival
nature. In the early days of winter car-
nival, its program included a winter-
carnival dance, to provide social activ-
ity for the teen-agers. But in recent
years, each of the two local schools (one
high school and one parochial school),
have run dances during the holidays,
which have replaced the carnival dance.
They also have held the election of
kings and queens-——one set to each
school.

Snow or ice sculpture is always a
spectacular event which Glens Falls has
used, in years past, for ice thrones to be
used in the ceremony of_crowning its
kings and queens. Recently, concentra-
tion has been upon snow sculpture, and
several masterpieces have been forth-
coming when the conditions for such
were right. However, several recent
Christmas seasons have left us “dream-
ing of a White Christmas.”

Novelty features such as youngsters
playing broom hockey, girls playing
softball in a hockey box, rhythm skat-
ing, have been included.

In the past, Glens Falls had a real to-
boggan run which stimulated carnival
feeling whenever it was open and avail-
able to the public. This magnificent
means of' winter activity, built high
above the ground, was a source of pleas-
ure to many, but its usage depended
entirely on the weather—plenty of
freezing nights and manpower-plus.
Time came when winters seemed to
shorten, and manpower was'ext-remely
difficult to get; and after several years,
the seventeen-year-old landmark was
torn down.

Yet strangely, there has been little or
no resentment at the loss of the slide.
Those who once were devoted to the

372

sport have found other hills, or other
means of recreation in the out-of-doors,
until the new generation doesn’t even
remember it.

Briefly summarizing, each of the ac-
tivities needs a good sparkplug as a
committee head, and a working group
interested primarily in the particular
event. Too many people make snow-
balls for others to push along; and you
can’t push ’em all.

A good winter program depends
upon many things—facilities, weather,

and support from the people of the co:
munity itself. Do the youngsters wa
to do it? Do the adults want to do i
Not upon whether the youngsters wa
it done, whether the adults want it do:
-——or whether you want it done yourst
enough to do it almost alone.

Some communities respond easi
and tire easily. Some will continue
respond, and some just won’t resp01
at all. Don’t become discouraged! Jt
think of the number of communiti
which don’t have a winter program at a

TIPS without a Tumble

Artijicial Coasting Facilities—A slide
only a few feet high, erected on a play-
ground, will provide fun for hundreds
of children. Allow an incline three
times as long as the height of the start-
ing place. The slide should be at least
four- to six-feet-wide, and if boards are
used they are laid crosswise. Trestle
work underneath should support the
structure.

Tin Pan Slide—A tin pan, refuse or ash
can cover will provide a good ride down
many a well-packed snowbank.

Sliding Surfaces—The ice for the slid-
ing surface may be prepared in several
different ways. According to one
method, slush (made by mixing snow
and water) is spread over the entire
slide to a thickness of one inch. Follow-
ing a second method, the trough is
filled with snow beaten down into a two-
inch layer, then sprinkled with water.
Of course the best possible sliding sur-
face is freshly fallen snow packed in the
trough. The slide should be inspected
every night. Keep the ice in good con-
dition by patching with slush beaten
smoothly into any holes.

Coasting Safety—Use of a slide should
be permitted only when it is carefully
supervised. A starter should make sure
that toboggans are not overloaded and
that one toboggan does not start until
the one ahead has left the bottom of
the chute and can be unloaded before
the arrival of the next toboggan. If it
is absolutely impossible to get to a well-
designed slide, select a slope which is
not too steep and which has been

thoroughly cleared of all obstructions
Sled Parades—Decorated sleds ma
an effective and exciting parade, wi
the giving of small awards for the mt
elaborate, humorous, fantastic, a1
so on.

Trailing and Tracking—This should‘
played in a large area where the snt
is still fresh, and the night is bright wi
starlight. The first group, consisting
the “trail makers,” should have a te
to twenty-minute start, thus giving the
time to make interesting trails. Bli:

trails, a double trail which circles

,two directions, then merges again, are

few of many ideas that can be used.
Follow the Leader—This game can-l
adapted to a large or small area an
can be made amusing by a clever lead
who requires players to do stunts in t]
snow, step in his tracks, shake snc
from overhanging branches, pass sn0‘
balls down the line or turn somersaul
in the snow.

Snow Sculpture Contest—Everyo:

chooses some simple object to sculptu;
or group can work in teams of two *
three. Choices are kept secret. If pc
sible, some pieces of wood should 1
provided to be used as foundation f
the figures. Pile snow over this fram
work and cut away until figure appeal
If snow is not sufflciently plastic, moi:
en it with a little water. Simple pr
perties can be provided and used, suc
as stones, pipes, feathers. First of a
group must guess what the figure i
Prizes may be given for the funnie
and for the best.

.,MCREATIO

GLOOS FOR SANTA

Front section of igloo
was hinged to simplify
storage. The outside was
painted grey and white
to resemble ice blocks.

 

Christmas is a season of traditions. Every family has its
editions. Most churches and schools have traditions of
Ingeants, decorations, carol sings, midnight services, parties
Id the like. Many communities have developed traditions
’ community Christmas trees, ways of decorating the
reets, contests for decoration of doors and lawns.

Now, many recreation departments have developed Christ-
as traditions, too—ways of getting Santa into town, special
'ograms for all age groups, Santa Claus villages, carol
ags, workshops, Santa letter and telephone answering
rvice.

I t is always interesting to see a new tradition a-borning—
.pecially when its popularity greatly exceeds its cost. Would
Jtt believe that $27 could bring intense excitement and
leasure to 3,200 youngsters? Well, it did—and here’s how!
The recreation department of the village of Scarsdale,
I'estchester County, New York, with the cooperation of the
cal chamber of commerce and others, won many new
iends during Christmas week.

.The construction of a relatively simple structure—The
iloo—at a most reasonable cost was the main attraction in
hm, reports Sal Prezioso, superintendent of recreation.
The reason? Why, Santa was there in the igloo, talking
I children, distributing candy, giving assurance that he
ould be at their homes on Christmas Eve—providing that
.ey were good little girls and boys.

nmediate Objectives Attained

'. lgloos and Santa in town added to Christmas spirit.

,. Proved to be a convenience for busy parents, who were
ble to bring their children to a place close to home.

-.. Gave the children greater comfort and a closer feeling
i_“Santa.”

E. Children were able to spend more time and pay more
' an one visit.

pVEMBER 1953

 

Remote Objectives Attained

. . . Parents brought their children to town, parked their
cars, and after the visit sh0pped in town.

. . . The recreation department, by hinging the front faces of
the igloos, and using borrowed tarpaulins for the roof and
sides, could store the igloos easily for use next year.

Material Needed and Costs for Two Igloos ( 2 Faces)

AMOUNT DESCRIPTION COST
7 lengths 1” x 2" x 12' common pine $ 8.20
3 lengths 1” x 2" 8' clear white pine 1.92

(Substitute 10 lengths of common pine if you
want to cut the cost a little. Our carpenter was
fussy, and wanted knotless lengths for the side
braces.)
2 pieces 4' x 8' beaver board 9.60
1 gallon white outdoor paint
1%,; pint grey outdoor paint

4 strap hinges 7.27

 

1 pound fourpenny head nails
1 box 1A-inch screws
2 Boy Scout tents or tarpaulins (lent)
$26.99
Labor

One man for ten hours.

Locations

It was important to find spots which carried much trach
of children, that had parking accommodations and which
also were near enough to lavatory accommodations and a
well-heated building.

   

Blacks are 9" high. length varies
Stripes of grey 1" wide

373

-...—...-... al—_——__'.-:-'=

 

Our first spot was directly opposite the post office.
Our second location was in the lobby of the town theare.

Cooperating Agencies

Chamber of Commerce—Paid for materials and labor for
the igloos; purchased wigs and beards for Santa; purchased
candy which was given to children by Santa.

Salvation Army—Lent us Santa suits.

Construction Concern—-—-Lent us the tarpaulins and set up

the igloos.

Recreation Department—Organized and supervised project.
Theatre Management—Permitted the use of the theatre lob-

by and ran trailers advertising the project.

weeks.

Operating Schedule

Results

Local Newspaper—-—-Placed spotlight on project for three

. . . Four days—~Friday and Saturday—~—9 A.M.—7:00 P.M.
We used the two weekend dates before Christmas. _
Attendance——3,200 youngsters.

Laughter, tears, excitement and fun for the youngsters.

Convenience and pleasure for the parents.
lncreased b11siness for the merchants.

Satisfaction and appreciation from the community.

Winter Camping Course

How many times have we ridden over
a snow-encrusted highway with delight
at the wonders of the blanket of snow
before our eyes on every side? 0r laid
down the tracks of a pair of skiis, or
placed our feet in that soft, flawless
powder? The promise of such sur-
roundings has continually led more and
more of us to seek out the snowy slopes
each winter. But in most cases the fun
ends there; we hurry back to. our
homes, and never concern ourselves
with the possibility of camping in the
snow. Why deny ourselves the experi-
ence of this thrill during the winter?
We don’t! Under the guidance of far-
seeing instructors at the San Francisco
State College, students are being taught
winter camping as a regular course.

Long the dream of Vic York, recrea-
tion instructor at San Francisco State
College, this winter-camping course has
become a reality, and fills each session
to capacity. The school camp, used in
the summer months as a children’s
camp where recreation leaders receive
supervised training, lends itself well to
winter-camping activities. A fine ski
run right next to the lodge, complete
with rope tow, assures each camper of
an opportunity to acquire the fine art
of remaining erect on the slope. Courses
for credit are also offered in beginning,
intermediate, and advanced skiing
under the direction of college ski in-
structors and student assistants.

But what does winter camping in-

MISS WRIGHT is ski instructor at San
Francisco State College Winter Camp.

374

clude? First, and most practically, we
learn to sleep in the snow. To make a
comfortable nest for ourselves we used
the following tried and proven method.
We dug a hole in the snow about two
or three feet deep, covered the bottom

with white fir branches (made a fine-

mattress), inserted a groundcloth
(stopped the breezes and served as an
insulator) and then placed our sleeping
bag and blankets inside. We covered
the hole with a tarpaulin and packed it
around the edges with snow, leaving a
small area for the entrance. When we
finished skiing for the day, we dried off
our skiis and placed them crosswise
under the tarp for added support. Now
we were all set for our first night out in
the snow! We changed our clothes in
the lodge; put our ski boots on for
tramping out in the snow, also our ski
pants and for good measure added a
jackeL'

Have you ever tried to get ski boots
and pants off in an area six feet long and
three feet wide and three feet deep, with
skiis overhead and snow on all sides of
you? First, lie flat on your back, raise
one knee to your chest, and unfasten
one boot; take care not to hit the boot
against the snow or it’ll drop on your
bed. Repeat the procedure with the
other boot. Next go to the pants. For
this you remain on your back, unfasten
the belt and raise the hips at the same
time, taking care .not to hit the overhead
skiis with your knees. Wiggle the pants
down and off. The jacket is a cinch;
doff it deftly and head for the sleeping
bag. Hunch yourself up, knees under

Del Wright

your chin, and inch your way backward
until you can tuck your toes into the
top of the bag; slide slowly forward and
in—once you’re in, the exercise has so
exhausted you that you can’t help but
sleep well!

Evenings find us gathered around the
lodge fire singing songs, playing char.
ades or reflecting on the pleasures of the
day. Every day is filled to the brim with
skiing under the sun, games of follow
the leader over the flaky slopes, plying
our skill on our slalom course and add-
ing new ski techniques to our repertoire.I

Cooking is handled by the students.
The menu is planned by them in ad
vance and then they divide themselve
into groups of two or three to cook fo
each meal.

There is a waiting list for our winte
trips that supports our contention of its-
value. Through this experience we
learn the skills of skiing, the art of sur-"
viving in the snow and the manner 0
living together in a situation where
everyone’s fun depends on cooperation

There are three winter camps: on.
during Christmas vacation in Decem-
ber, one between semesters in February.
and another during Easter in April. We
can accommodate one hundred student.
in our new lodge and suspect that there
will be a demand in excess of this numl-
ber! Additional plans are being made
to lengthen our ski run and tow facili
ties. Pack trips over the snowy slopes
are now an actuality and who can tell
what new venture will be in our sights
next? I’m already polishing my skiis
for this winter!

RECREATIGI

Sports and Games

Snow Snake

..

3.55 5 :05m 5:55:35 5:55:: o: 5.5: 5:55: 5:5 :55: :5 :o5m:5. :5 55::5m
:025 :5 5::5:n 5 555:5:::5 :55: 5.55 :5:: 05 :5 :55:: 55:. .:.:5 55:55::5 o:
:5 :55: 5.55 553.5: 5:522: :5 55: :5 52555 52:55 5: :5 55:5
5::5:: $.55 5::m:5::. 555:5: Cu: . .:.:5 555:5 :55: :255: :5 :2555: 2.
:5 55:.

:5 5:55:55 :5 5555. 55:5 :5 :515: 5:55m :5 52:55 0: 5 5:5.5:m:5:
:5:: :5 :5 5555. :0: . .:.:::5 @625 :55 55:5 :3. :55:::5m 5 :om 955m: :5
552,. :5 5 53.2%: 522.55 2.3.. mo55::555 25:2. :5 525:5: 5:55 :5
52:555 0: :5 55:55:55 :5 :5:.:55 ::.

C.555:::. 5:5 :25: 5 :555 55: 55:: 25:2. 5:55 :o 555: :5 5595. 555:5
5:55m :5 :55: :5 @5552 ::5:5555. :5 :2.o£:5m. :5 :5:55 ::5m5:. :5
:5:: 55:55: :5 :5:: 55:. :5 :55: 55: 555:5:5m :255 ::5m55 :5:::5m
:5 5::5:: :5 5 :53:55:5: :55:::o5 :3 . .255 :55::5m :252: :5 5 55.55:?
:5m 52:55. :5 25:2. 5555 :5 35555.. 5:55: 2::: 5 :05m. 55:55:55:

555555: C : .
m.:5:.®:.05=: 95:. 95:55

> 5:5:mr: :2.555::. :55 2. :52. :55: :55M 55: 055 55: 055.:5:: 2. :55
:55:55 :5:5:h. :5 55:. .25 :51: 5:55:: :5 55:5: 55: :5 :55 €:::::5: 5o
:5: :: :55 5555:: 55: :5:5:5: :::5 :5 :55: o: 5 555:5. .:.:5 0:5: 55:
5:55:: :5 555:5:. >5 555 5555:: o: 555:. :5 5:555 55: 55:5: :25.
.25 5555. 555:5 :5 :5:: :555 55: 5:5: :2.€5:.: :2. ::5:5555.

5 3.25 :5 35:25. 02:55:: 0.55.5555: ©555w555555lgam. :93. :86. 65555:.
555: o: H.515 55: $555555. 0:3. o: 555 5:55:55.

 

«50:55 >5 0:55 055035: «12.. 5:555:50 0025: 055655

A:anan $335

52:25 m.::::..|:wa5::5555: 52:5: :2. :55 @555
:5 5 :5::. 5 ::5 555. 55: 5 :5on5 0:: 55:52:53.
:52: 2. 05 55:5 :55 5 5:55 o: :55 2. 2:5 5:: :o.
.:.:5 :5: 5:55: :5 555:: 552%: :0 mo 555:::. :55 :5 :5
555 55: :5 :53: :5:.®5 5525:: :0 mo 25:. ::. .:.:5 555

:5 555:: :55 :5 m555: 5::m:5::. 2. £5:mr:5: 5.::: 5
55:: :o :55: :: :55 55::5m 2. :::.:..::5m. H55: 255:.
:5 :25 5555 :5 :5:: 55: :55 :5 :52. 5: :5 555.
0525:: :5 :5:: :55 :5 555 2. 5:5m:5m :5 555 5.::: :5
:52: 50555 :45 :5:55. :: :5 25:2. 55 :5 :5: :5
:5 555 55: :5 :55 5555: :: 05 :5 5555 :55. :5
52.55 :::555 5:55.

 

-—————————————————_—_—————————_—_———————————————————————————

O

    

mama—.55 :3. 5.:-

micaa. min-.55

M525 M55w5lu>5 55:55:55: 555: :5 5
22:: >55:.:555 :5::55 M555 :5 :5 :35:
o: 5 5:5? 2. .5555... 55:5: :55: :o5m.
:o :5 :5:5: 5:55m :55 2. 5552:. m555:.
IQ5$5I5 258 5:532:55: 6:255-
53.. 555: 5::::o5. 555:2::®5:. 053..
5.:m::: How? 0. 55: 0. 355.55: 055555?

I

mag... m=5:55 :5 05:55.5.

@525 55:55.: m055:5 :::5 555:5:5m :5555: 5:5 :3. 3555555551.
2. :5 :5: :5:55 5:55: a.:55.5.2.55... 2::5 2:55: o::.::555 :5 :5 >525
555 m555:5:.55.

:5: 5 2552:. 55:5: :5 55:55:::. 5 55<55-:oo:.:o5m :5::5:5: 255:.:::5
:::5:5:.:. 2. 55:55 5:55::. 55 :55:: on 555 :5 ::555:2.. 2::5 5 5555.5 :55:
553.5: 5: :5 :55: 55:. >5: :55£:5m :5 25:55 5502 55:5 :5 5 :555.
:2. 55: 55::5m 5:22. 5:52.: 255: :3. 055555 5:55 55 :5 m:x
25:05 55555. 555:. :w:.55::oH:. 05:55.5.

2:555:85: :.:55.:.w2::.. :5 5:55 5:55: 55 :5:. :5555:: :5::. 5552
555:55 5:55m 52.55. 5555. :55mr5 555:5:5:5m :555mr :5 55:. 52.2.5:
::5::5 55:5: :55 :5 5:5 555 555. 2:55:85: :5 :o 5555. 55:55 2:5:
:55: :5 5 m0::5:.5. d5:5:. ::55: 555:: 55: 5.55:5: 55::::o55 55 55:55:
25:2. 555 55: 5 5555. 55:5 5551:. 5 5:5 5:55m :5 52.55.. :5:. 5:5555:.
> 955552.55 55::5 ::.:<5 :5 555.5%. :: :5 :2:2:5: :: 55:.$.:5:.5 :5 :5
5.2:: :55 :5 5 55:55::5 2.25:5: 55:5::. :5:. 555.5 :55: :5: mo55 55 :55.

55: 55 :55: 55 5 :5525 5505. 55:5.

:5 :5 2:555. 55 555 55 :5 5555. :5 :55: 552$? :5::555 05 :5 5.5.
52.5 5: :w:.55::2.: 25:55 :5::. 55025555 2:55:53 :5:. :a5mm:5m 55
5:m:::.:55:: :55 5.55:: 55555 :5 :5::5. :55 :25:5m 5 E5: 5: 55m:
:55m:. .:.:55 :5 5.55. :5 r5::: 5:: 5:55: :555 :55: Em: 55 555:: 5::5. 2::5

: 055:555: :55: :m5 .255 m5... 95:55 05:: 3. 253.555: :5... N555? 5555::
55:55.3. 5: En: 5.5.5 :EquQSJSW 5:55:55.

Sports and Games

Snow Snake

.omQH £00? 307: .000QE00
00300002 0:0 0n: 00:02:00 .00m00m 50030—5 0n: 3‘39 0.00002 0000: 0.000100% 0

 

h00:000 3000...... 0:? 00.003 00 $003300: 0n: 00%03 0: 3000 00:0 050m
00053 0 003 3:9 00003 0: 00003 0E0m 0:00:00: 00 003 0:000 300m

«QHH—Go mmcnumuchh dn<lnwv~m=m 3°:m

.0005 O

v—HOKW 05.02 Cm WET»: midwmmunw wQOmuwz  QJH m0 mgamou  JOHN“: Qv—msw
u>wOCw TwQOmu—NQHQU—Cm Cm Human Qv—wu— OH HowHOQ 0H: mmOHO Hawk JUMQ wHOmu—Qwhm

0000 00300300000 0:0 500.: 000000 00:03 00: h0000000:0 3002000000: 00

00: 00:0 0E0m 0:0 :00 h003000 0m00: 0000000 00:0005 03000000000: 0: E

.0000 03:3 0:0 w0 m0m~000 0:0 000:0: m00_ 0m 0000::
0002.0: 0:... :w00::0 h00.000mwm00 0E0m 0:... 30: 300: 00 000000 000 0 Z

00:0003 E00 00:0 0: 000000: 0_0>000 0:000 0:0 00m .0:0000 300:0:0 00
000300003 h3000 003 h3000 000300 h00m h00030000 00:00.03 w0100> 00w
00:mm03 000 0000:0 000003: 00w000w 00E00m000 0:000-3000 005:0 0: H

00.00 0000.00... 0<

Mm<$ Own—230m >4 #10: w

.MJZZW >/OZm

 

.0::.0m= 3m050000 0m “000:0 0: H :96: 0000 0:0
:0: 00 530% 0030 0: a: m0m>0~0 000000 0:000 0:0 000m :00050 rw0m~0000
000:0 30: 00:3 00:0 h00000—0: 0:0:0 0:0 000 03000020: 0m .0>000m 00m0:
0 0m 000:0 :00 m0m300:0 0:0 0< :0m0000E 0500 0:0 :33 @00:mm03 mm @003

O

O

 

.0000: 00:0:00: m0 :0m00: 003000000 00:0 :0 0000 0:0 :00 000: m0 m0? 0 :03
00000: 0: 000 000$ 0:0 00 000: 0.0:000 0: E .000 000000 0 000 w0m:0m0:
+000 w0m>000 0: H .:0 0: 0000 “000:0: 00 03000 h0003000: 0: 00:0 :0m:3
h£0:0 000003 0:0 000000 20:3 0 00 n: 20:000.. 000% 0 0000000 00 00000:
030 00:00 0: 0:0:0 030 0:: 0:05 00 0003 Show 00EE0:0 0 mm 00 :0000
I033 0:: 0000000 00:00 00003 000000 0:0 :0m:3 0m 0E0m 000 0: 0m:.H

00:00000 0:000 3000 0:0:0 w0mm000 00:3
m0 0: 000:3 3000000 000200: 0: E .:00000E00 0030 00000 h=00 000:00
m0m000 0:0 0300: w0mm§0 0h: a:w000:0 30:0? 0000000 $00320: 000:0
n00>030E .300:0 0m: 0030: 030:... 00m 00 000 000:0 0 00:00 0:3 0000::
0:0 00:00 000000 00 2:00:: 0 h00:00 0:0:mz0 0m :0m:3 :0000 0:0 :0 :00
m0m00000 0:0 0:0 $000,500 w0m=00 0 000:00 “WEE? 0 0030: 0.00003 050m

.000: 00:000_ 0 00000: 00 0300: 000: 00: 000000 00: 00000 3:00
.0000: 00: 00:0 0:000 0 00301— 000000: 00: 00: 0000m 0:0 0m 0000000000 0:0
m0mw0m~0000|0m0 0:0 000m 000m 0303 0:00 0000 00:0 :00 000 0: 000050: 00:0
00:3 .:m0000 0:0 0000.: 0000 000:000: 0:0 .0: 03:0: 0000.: :0000 000 0:
000:0 : .:0w00000 :0 0000000 Em? 0:0 000.: 000 00000 00300:0 0:000 3000
0:0 h00:000 00 00:30: 000000 0:0 0:5 00007: 0:0 :03 0000 0:003:00 :00
000000 00: h00000000000 0:0 :0 0000 0:0 00 5:0 000300 00.0 0:00 0000m 0: H

.0000 0000000 0 E 000:0 00 00:0 00 000 00>000 0:0 :0 050m
$03000 0030 :00 w0m0m0 .mEmmmw 0005 00 h030: :0>0: 000000 030: 00:
000 :::0300 0 000 0: :0000 0:0 0:0 0: 030:000000 0000: 0:0 :0 0m :0000:0
0m:0 m00:0 £00,000 0:000 3000 0:0 :0m:3 00 @0000 0: H .000: 030.» 0000000:
0: 000000: 0: 00:3 00:0 00 h00003 :03 0033000 0000:0050 :00 0300
00:80:00 000 :0000 0:0 :0 0030 0: E .0308 0:0 0: :0000:0 00>000w 0:0

Listening and Viewing

Films and Filmstrips

I Water Safety—TVA’S water-safety
ilm Water Wisdom is now showing.
I'he film, in color or black and white;
5 16mm and runs for twenty minutes.
[he plot together with sound tract vivid-
y and dramatically portrays some of
he everyday situations on our lakes
which contribute to the many accidents
md unnecessary loss of life by drown-
ng. The TVA Information Office at
(noxville, Tennessee will provide fur-
her details on borrowing the film.

I Filmstrip on Swimming Pool Sanita-
ion—May be obtained through your
State Health Department, on free indefi-
Iite loan. The filmstrip, F-133, is also
tvailable from the Communicable Dis-
Iase Center, Public Health Service of
he Federal Security Agency, 50 Sev-
:nth Street, NE., Atlanta 5, Georgia.
t delineates some of the physical char-
lcteristics and the operating procedures
Iasic t0 swimming-pool sanitation.

| Children’s Fairy Tales Filmstrip
ieries—A delightful filmstrip series de-
igned for use with the primary ond in-
ermediate grades has just been released
1y the Society for Visual Education, In-
'orporated, Chicago. Titles are: “Cin-
lerella,” “Snow White and the Seven
)warfs,” “Jack and the Beanstalk,”
‘Sleeping Beauty,” “The Little Engine
i'hat Could,” and “Rackety Rabbit and
he Runaway Easter Eggs.” Each strip
5 in color, captioned, and averages
hirty-sex frames in length. Each lists
It $5.00 with the complete set of 6
trips, No. AIIIS, at $28.50. All are
Lvailable from S.V.E. Dealers or by
rriting S.V.E., 1345 Diversey Parkway,
:hicago 14, Illinois, for additional in-
ormation.

I Adolescent Development—A series of
ive new movies, correlated with the
:ollege text Adolescent Development,
)y Dr. Elizabeth Hurlock, associate
irofessor of child psychology, Univer-
ity of Pennsylvania, have been made
)y Crawley Films, Ltd., and released by
he Text-Film Department of the Mc-
iraw-Hill Book Company. These films
[hould be excellent discussion stimulat-
>rs with adult groups. Write for rental
pformation to McGraw-Hill Text-
"ilms, 330 West 42nd Street, New York
56, New York.

\IOVEMBER 1953

0 Selected Motion Pictures—This is
the title of the new film catalog of
Association Films, Incorporated, 347
Madison Avenue, New York 17, New
York. More than 1,400 subjects are de-
scribed, including 140 industrially-
sponsored free-loan films. Association
Films has, by the way, packaged out-
standing .Walt Disney subjects, under
the title Packages for M ickey, in honor
of the twenty-fifth birthday of Mickey
Mouse. These may be rented separ-
ately, or grouped as the user wishes.

o Annual-Rent-To-Own-Plan—Indiana
University films can now be obtained
on this new plan, which leads to owner-
ship. Write to the university Audio-
Visual Center, Bloomington, Indiana,
for details and list of films.

Leads to Listening

A guide, Leads to Listening, has been
prepared by Dr. Helen McCracken Car-
penter for each of the new titles in the
ENRICHMENT RECORDS series. (See List-
ening and Viewing, RECREATION, Octo-
ber 1953.) These will be supplied with-
out charge to schools and libraries
ordering the records. Write Huddles-
ton, Enrichment Records, Incorporated,

246 Fifth Avenue, New York I, New
York.

Book Week

For use during Book Week, Novem-
ber 15 to 21:
Records—Transcriptions from thirteen
children’s books are available for sale

on 78 R.P.M.; twenty on L.P., from
Chandler Records,277 West 12th Street,
New York 14, New York.

F ilmstrip—A color film strip, entitled
Make Friends Through Books, is avail-
able free of charge from CARE Film
Unit, 600 First Avenue, New York 16,
New York.

Exhibit and Films

Youth on the Campus—An exhibit of
forty pictures taken on the campuses of
almost as many colleges and universi-
ties. Each photo is mounted on white
art board, sixteen by twenty inches.

Write Perry A. Ball, Exhibits Bureau,
Public Service Office, Chicago Tribune.

Free F ilms—Write Chicago Tribune

Film Bureau, 33 West Madison Street, I

Chicago, Illinois, for list of 16 mm
sound films on all-star football games,
boxing and other subjects.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

NE‘V ALL-ABIBIIICAN

PICNIC GRILL

 

It’s tops in grills! Positive six-way dralt
control provides faster, easier fire kin-
dling, saves fuel, guarantees tenderer,
juieier charcoalcd steaks, chops and bar-
bccues. American’s many plus-features

assure perfect lifetime performance.
Shipped fully assembled.

. «-

  
   
    
      
    
 
   

STATIONARY 1’0 RTA B LE
Weight 160 lbs. Weight 185 lbs.
COMPLETE COBIPLETE

r
$3575 $437»

PATENTS PENDING

k“-
Order Your All-American Grlll TODAY!

ADIERICAN

mun'onovsn m;va (:0.
Awnnnsos, INDIANA

Pendants
Coasters
Book Ends
Medallions
Bracelets

Plaques
Trays

How to create beauti-
ful metal items for
gifts or income

You’ll find it'a fun — and can be profit-
able. You can make many different
and attractive metal items following
theae easy inatructiona, using our
aimple, inexpensive materials. Mail cou-
pon now for your free copy of inatruc-
tiona, catalog. and price liat.

"Headquarters for tlje nation's
finest craft metals since 1935"

    

l..—
l I  Croft Division I
| Metal Goods Corporation
I 626 Rose-dole Ave. I
I (Plea_se type St. louis 12. M0. |
I or print) I
INAME :
: ADDRESS |
|
| CITY

ZONE____STATE____J

 

Mrs. Paul Gallagher

Citation Presented

Mrs. Paul Gallagher, member of the
board of directors of the National Rec-
reation Association, has recently been
presented with the following citation by
the Junior League of Omaha: “The
Junior Le3gue of Omaha confers this
citation upon a charter member, past
president and most distinguished citi-
zen, Mrs. Paul Gallagher, in recogni-
tion of her outstanding contributions
to the health, welfare and cultural in-
terests of this community, and in appre-
ciation of her acceptance of the chair-
manship of Women’s Participation in
Omaha’s Centennial Celebration.”

Mrs. Gallagher is indeed one of the
outstanding women of Omaha, and her
limitless energy and interest on behalf
of the community have won her a place
of great respect and admiration in the
eyes of Omaha’s citizens.

In 1945 she became a member of the
mayor’s city-wide planning commission,
which group undertook the tremendous
task of planning five city commissions,
a ten-year improvement plan for
Omaha, and a $12,000,000 bond issue.
Mrs. Gallagher served as chairman of
the section that planned the parks and
recreation commission. After this com-
mission was accepted, along with the
others, she became a member, and
eventually its chairman. The accom-
plishments since then have been many,
among which are such completed proj-
ects as three swimming pools, six base-
ball fields and grandstands, a park pa-
vilion, and Frederick J. Adams Park.

At present, Mrs. Gallagher is a mem-
ber of the board of directors of the
United Community Services and chair-

378

—-—People

 

 

and Events

 

man of the Senior Citizens Program, in
addition to her chairmanship for Wom-
en’s Participation in the Omaha Centen-
nial celebration, the city’s coming ma or
event. '

Comin g Events

November 9—Annual Meeting of the
Play Schools Association, New York.

November 9-11—2nd Annual Tennes-
see Recreation Conference, Memphis.

November 12-14 — Annual Conven-

tion of the National Society for Crippled
Children and Adults, Chicago.

November 13-20—36th Annual Con-
ference of the American Occupational
Therapy Association, Houston, Texas.

Recent Appointments

Harry Van Bellem, superintendent of
recreation, Torrance, California; Archie
Cardillo, gym director, Benefit Street
Recreation Center, Providence, Rhode
Island; A. E. Champion, director of
parks, East Baton Rouge, Louisiana;
Carol J. Christensen, recreational ther-
apist, Rosewood State Training School,
Owings Mills, Maryland; Howard Co-
val, assistant superintendent of recrea-
tion, Shelton, Connecticut; Robert J.
Carry, recreation assistant, Stuyvesant
Town, New York; James J. Donahue,
president, Recreation Commission, Lin-
den, New Jersey; Paul Dresha, director,
Teen-Age Center, Westbury, Long Is-
land; James D. Duffy, chairman, Board
of Recreation Commissioners, Hillside,
New Jersey; Karl F. Edler, Jr., super-
visor, recreation for older adults, United
Community Services, Omaha, Nebra-
ska; Mildred Elhins, recreation di-
rector, Veterans Hospital, Durham,
North Carolina; V. Spate Felton, rec-
reation director, Carolina Beach, North
Carolina; Martha L. Fuller, recreation
worker, Community Center, Callaway
Mills, La Grange, Georgia; Gordon J.
Cuetzlaf], superintendent of recreation,
Atchison, Kansas; Joseph Halper, area
recreation supervisor, Prince Georges
County, Riverdale, Maryland; Wayne
Hauser, recreation program specialist,

Yuma, Arizona; Gwendolyn Hawkins
girls’ worker, Crispus Attucks Center
Lancaster, Pennsylvania; Clesson Hen
ningsen, group leader, Lewis Stree
Center, Rochester, New York; H. M
heaman, chairman, Recreation Com
mission, Whiteville, North Carolina
Maurie Luxford, president, Los Angels:
Recreation and Park Commission, Lo:
Angeles, California; William A. Moore
superintendent of city parks and recre
ation, Louisville, Kentucky; Richard L
Pasvolshy, superintendent of recrea
tion, Montpelier,Vermont; Ruth Peeler
curator, Ginko State Park, Washing
ton; Henry K. Perry, assistant directOJ
of recreation, Burlington, North Caro
lina; James A. Peterson, superintenden
of recreation, Emporia, Kansas; Her
bert Rathner, area recreation super
visor, Prince Georges County, River
dale, Maryland; Doris J. Rauti, recre
ation assistant, Peter Cooper Village
New York, New York; Mary L. Robin
son, program worker, Booker Washing
ton Center; Rockford, Illinois; Emsy L
Rubin, service club director, Shepparc
Air Force Base, Wichita Falls, Texas:
Mrs. Holly Tracy, director of special ac
tivities, Playground and Recreation De
partment, Iowa City, Iowa; Patricit
V eisen, recreation worker, Bellevut

Hospital, New York, New York.

' Retired

Mrs. Agnes Henagan, superintendem
of the women’s department of the parl
and recreation board in Birmingham
Alabama, started a well-earned retire
ment in July. After forty years of teach
ing Birmingham how to play, Mrs
Henagan is going to do just that herself

Her resourceful and fun-filled child‘
hood, together with her talents for arts
and crafts, dralnatics, dancing, garden
ing and many other creative endeavors.
could lead only to her successful and
happy career in recreation—a caree1
which has brought enrichment to count
less numbers of Birmingham’s citizens.

We congratulate Agnes Henagan for
the splendid work she has done in Bir-

RECREATION
I

lingham and extend hest wishes for
er happiness.

In Memo riunl

Mrs. Edith Costello Cheney of Corn-

1g, New York, former assemblywoman
nd active member of the State Federa-
on of Women’s Clubs, died in her
ome on September 1, after a two-
Ionth illness. Mrs. Cheney, who was
ppointcd hy Governor Dewey as field
3'presentative of the State Youth Com-
Iission, helped to establish fifty local
outh recreation bureaus. She also was
n active participant, for a good part of
pr life, in the Girl Scouts.

Miss Elisabeth Berkley Crimball, who

)nie years ago did field service for the
'ational Recreation Association con-
ucting drama leadership workshops,
lssed away on August 30 in Charles-
Jn, South Carolina.

After graduating from the Boston
rhool of Expression, Miss Grimhall
:ught dramatics at Converse College in
partanburg. She was also a student of
lornlan Bel Geddes, the famous stage
Fsigncr. For she

lped to produce and direct plays at
’oodstock, NewYork, and Brattleboro,
krmont. Before 1938, when Hitler

sed Austria to foreign groups, she

d directed an American Theatre Sem-

r as a branch of the Salzburg Drama

d Music Festival. Miss Grimball had

0 been the founder of both the New

rk School of the Theatre and the

ildren’s Theatre in Charleston.

John P. M ccoorty. The Chicago Rec-

ation Commission has suffered a
eat loss with the passing of their

iend and leader, Judge John P. Mc-
orty.

many summers,

Because of his own enthusiastic in-

est in sports, he was interested in the
Freation movement as a whole, and
Fame associated with the Chicago
I-ereation Commission when it was es-
Hilished in 1934. In addition to many
lilier civic enterprises and a very active
professional life, Judge McGoorty un-
Iertook the responsibilities of chairman
If the commission with high purpose
1nd sincerity. He died in Chicago
\ugust 23, after a lingering illness.

Dr. Lee M. Thurston, United States

sommissioner of Education, died Sep-

{VEMBER 1953

tember 4 from a heart ailment. He was
fifty-eight.

Dr. Thurston began his career as a
high school science teacher in Manistee,
Michigan, thirty-three years ago. Six
years later he was appointed superin-
tendent of schools for Perry, a position
he held for five years. In 1931 he be-
came assistant superintendent for Ann
Arbor and, after four years, was named
state deputy superintendent of public
instruction. In 1938 he became profes-
sor of education at the University of
Pittsburgh, remaining at this post for
six years, after which he returned to his
job in Michigan as deputy superintend-
ent of public instruction.

Dr. Thurston was a member of many
educational organizations, including
the Educational Policies Commission of
the National Education Association. He
was a believer in progressive education
and thought that the responsibility for
good schools lay with the community,
rather than with the federal govern-
ment. Dr. Thurston took ofiice as United
States Commissioner of Education on
the second of July this year.

Kenneth V. C. Wallace, secretary of
the Essex County Park Commission and
director of the park police, died on
August 10. Mr. Wallace was born in
Newark in 1889 and, at the age of seven-
teen, went to work for the commission
as an engineer’s helper. He served in
various engineering capacities, finally
becoming principal assistant engineer.
He was appointed deputy secretary in
1933, and then secretary of the commis-
sion April 15, 1936, at which post he
remained until his untimely death.

Mr. Wallace devoted his adult life
entirely to the peeple of Essex County
through his park work, and rendered
invaluable service to many civic organi-
zations.

J 01) Opportunities

Recreation Director—
Oahland, California

The Oakland Recreation Department
is seeking qualified and promising
young men in all parts of the country to
fill entrance professional positions of
recreation directors to conduct and di-
rect activities at a public recreation cen-
ter or playground, under supervision.

Salary scale is $315 to $375 per

month, depending on assignment, with
living quarters included in compensa-
tion for some.

Requirements include U. S. citizen-
ship (but not state residency), and col-
lege graduation, plus at least two years
of part-time experience as a recreation
or group worker. "

Applications must be filed by Thurs-
day, Novembcr 5, 1953. For applica-
tions and announcements, write: Civil
Service Board, Room 323, City Hall,
Oakland 12, California. Examination
at a convenient civil service office may
be arranged f or interested candidates.

Recreation Supervisor—
Phoenix, Arizona

Men interested in recreation as a
career service are sought by the City of
Phoenix to apply for the position of ree-
reation supervisor. Salary range for
this position is $330 to $420 per month,
and a qualified applicant may expect to
begin at $360 per month.

College graduation with specializa-
tion in recreation or physical education
is required, plus considerable recrea-
tion supervisory experience in both in-
door and outdoor programs. The job
requires administrative work in coor-
dinating a city-wide program, and par-
ticipation in an expanding recreation
program for city residents.

Men between 21 and 45 who are in-
terested in a challenging opportunity
are encouraged to communicate im-
mediately with L. J. Brenneman, Pcr-
sonnel Director, City Hall, Phoenix,
Arizona, about opening and examina-
tion. State residence is not required.

This is worth investigating. . . .

Graduate Scholarship—
Mississippi Southern College

Through the Graduate School of Edu-
cation, Mississippi Southern College, a
graduate scholarship is Open to a quali-
fied woman. Stipend is $375 for the
academic year, with opportunity for ad-
ditional Candidates should
have broad recreational talents, and
background in physical education.

Applications are now being received
for the position, with the appointment
eHective December 1, 1953 (winter
quarter). Write Dean, Graduate School
of Education, Mississippi Southern Col-
lege, Hattiesburg, Mississippi.

income.

379

How To Do lTO”

380

 

A CHRlSTMAS CALENDAR

HATERlALS

While Cardboard, Consl‘rucl’ion Paper, Paglia,
Tissue. Paper,Wal’e.r Color Painl’s .

METHOD

l.Draw house shaped calendar on cardboard and
Gui/our. See skel’ch A —For suqqesliwl sige ol"
house and windows. However any desired 5/93
can be made. Keep I}? mind #mf fhe wr'na’aoyj can—-
no!“ be #90 5ma// or Me px'cfarej painted in déem, wi// be 'fao Jam/A

2.Cul’ ou’r windows wi’rh ragor blade . See Skelch B.
3. Make blinds~ase redor green coanc/‘fon
paper. See Shel/ch C.

4.Pasle blinds in place as
shown in SkElEh D.

Maia: #f Me beg/J70th

and end of eac/v row

of w/ha’acw a jag/e z’a/x'na/ fype of Cansfmc/Vbn
is needed. 14” offer b/x‘na’ pas/790275 used are

a doab/e [av/[00’ @pe of can set/chem .
5.Pasl'e whll'e l’issue paper
on back of house shape
so lha’r all windows are

covered. .
Bend  g ‘
/ .alé." SKETCH C_ ‘lhe blinds solha’rlhe dal’e

fer-+1 single Bighd‘mpe shows when blind is closed.

2 Painl' approprialé picl’ures in each wlndow space
[2 l’or each dag ol’ J{he m n’l'h.
_l_ \ \
N0/’e.’//aue @M’J/me f/yroagb flame park/ed r
w/ha’ocw #29”; #56: baa/r ofce/ena/an 5782M (0/76 25/;de

 

)5”

  
   
 
   

 
 

SKETCH A.
(9. Painl’da’re Jfor each dad on

  

Double Blind Tape

b Melee

RECREATIO]

ET IDEAS—in Alaintenance

From the Great Lakes District Recreation Conference

A REPAIR RECORD
iRAND FORKS, NORTII DAKOTA

t the office of the Board of Park

missioners a complete repair rec-
on all equipment is used. Origin-
intended for trucks and power ma-
cry, the record now lists all major
plnent, giving the date of purchase,
nal cost including freight, the se-
and model number, and so on. All
irs and additional parts are listed
Ie record sheet so that at a glance
lepartment can tell when the ma-
ery has begun to cost too much in
irs and should be replaced. It is

 

0

also a most convenient record to refer
to when any question arises concerning
dates when repairs or new parts were
purchased, coét, and so on.

STANDARDIZATION OF MATERIALS AND
EQUIPMENT
CIIICAGO PARK DISTRICT

The Chicago Park District has stand-

ardization on materials and equipment.
They attempt to use non-caustic mate-
rials. Soaps are the vegetable oil vari-
ety; wax and seals are devoid of any
material that would be injurious to
floors. Products that are bought are

sent to their own chemist for analysis
to establish their efficiency, and so on.
The two principal advantages gained by
this standardization of equipment and
materials is greater efficiency of opera-
tion and economy of purchases. It can
readily be seen that the transferring of
an employee from one park to another
poses no problem since the same equip-
ment and materials are used in each of.
the park buildings.

YOUTH CENTER WALLS
BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA

Teen-age figures have been painted
on the Youth Center walls in Blooming-
ton—to eliminate writing on the walls
throughout the building—artists are en-
couraged to utilize the figures for this
purpose.

AMERICAN SQUARES BOOK 8: RECORD SERVICE
1159 Brood Street, Newark 5, N. J.

Complete Stock of Folk 8: SquareoDance Records and Books

OFFlClAL SUPPLIERS TO
CITY RECREATION DEPARTMENTS 8. COLLEGES

Send for Free Catalogs 8. A Somplo Copy of
AMERICAN SQUARES—The Magazine of American Falk Dancing

BINDERS

 

° Heavy simulated leather

   
  

° Cold Stamped
° Opens flat for changes

' Holds one year’s issues

  
 

FOR quick and easy
reference—to keep
your magazines in
convenient form

for future use.

NOW 

is no longer possible to order back-dated binders; however.
Idated binders may be ordered and stamped by the individual.

MAIL THIS COUPON NOW

CREATION MAGAZINE PLEASE FILL IN

OSBORN OFFERS YOU . . .
BIG ILLUSTRATED SUPPLY FOLDER

Shows mony eosy-to-make proiects for club,
school and ploygraund groups. Beoutiful,
ready to put together items include belts.
bags, purses, cigarette cases, wallets. etc.

"LOUNGING" MOCCASIN

Genuine leather with composition
sales. All sizes for 0” ages. Ideal
for relaxing after such winter sports
as skating, sleighing, skiing. Suil—
able for outside weor, too.

Per Pair—$3.25

$3.00 in 6 poir lots
$2.75 in 12 poir lots

|
| at: 68-PAGE LEATHERCRAFT SUPPLY CATALOG #20—ONLY 25¢
|

 

   

 

 

  

" Y r N b C '
5 fourth Ave" New York 10’ N' Y‘ N um er 0, 0pm which will be credited to your first order.
 """"""""""""""""""" " I Illustrates all types of leather items of interest the1 whole year ’round—educ;
i“ i ' t'onal ro'ects for self-use or ideal for gifts. Cats og also lists modeling too .
"a '5 my order for """" "I """ "(Eoples 1954 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii H I licingsl: iristruction books for handicraft purposes. etc. No experience needed.
the RECREATION magazine bmder. Leave blank .............. .. |
I CLIP AND MAIL NOW!
I
lme .................................................................................................... .. I i    co" I
ldress 223 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago 6, III. I
I ................................................................................................ .. I I “use mall D Free Illustrated Supply Folder: D Idem
't I I packed 68-page Leathercraft Supplies Catalog for which I
. y ...................................................................................................... .. I I. I I enclose 250 in ro'n' I
.ll ....................................................................................................... .. | - | NAME I
I if ADDRESS I
| | CITY____.______STATE______ I
I. — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — ——-1 In — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —-l

EMBER 1953 -

MIARKE‘E‘ NEW§

Patch Kit

The Sportsman’s Patch Kit, a com-
plete kit for patching and repairing a
' wide variety of torn and broken items”
sports equipment, craft articles, and so

 

on——containing assorted patching ma-
terials, buffer, and cement is a worthy
product now available on the market.

The Hughes Company, 8 West 40th
Street, New York 18. -

Bird Call Record

Songs and calls of forty-nine species
of birds—all on one long-playing mi-
crogroove record-—-—have been recorded
by Columbia Records, Inc., and endors-
ed by National Audubon Society. “Bird
Songs of Dooryard, Field and Forest”
should prove a boon to nature study

programs. Jerry E. Stillwell, R.F.D. 2,
Fayetteville, Arkansas. I

Snow Plow
Jari Champion Rotary Snow Plow is
a new self-propelled maintenance unit
to simplify the winter care of outside
areas—and sickle and mower attach-

 

ments are available for conversion to
other seasonal uses. J ari Products Com-
pany, Inc., Minneapolis 8, Minnesota.

Artificial Ice Rink
An artificial ice rink, the Beltemp,

382

Model 66——-—portable icemaker and pack-
age ice-skating rink—was put into oper-
ation on an experimental basis in May
in Detroit. The rink was laid on the
tennis court and measured 70 by 140
feet. It was designed for 50 degrees
outside temperature and 10,000 square
feet of ice surface, and was completely
constructed for less than $4.00 per
square foot of ice surface. For infor-
mation write to Charles R. Beltz and
Company, 11029 Whittier Avenue, De-
troit 29, Michigan.

Booklet Covers
Those looking for ways to make their
reports, presentations, manuals, and
other literature more attractive will be
interested in the line of stock covers
recently introduced. Designed specifi-
cally for use with plastic binding equip-

 

ment, the covers provide a system for
assembling loose pages into attractive
booklets easily in a matter of seconds.
General Binding Corporation, 812 West
Belmont Avenue, Chicago 14, Illinois.

Novel Oil Pen

Designed to the shape and the size of
a regular fountain pen, the new, leak-
proof, fool-proof, OILette is the ideal
answer to those diflicult oiling prob-
lems according to the manufacturer. It
can be used to get into most hard-to-get-
at places in maintenance equipment,

When writing to these manufacturers, please mention RECREATION.

typewriters, sports equipment, an
forth—not to mention hard-to-oil
cision instrum
Autopoint Company, 1801 Foster

nue, Chicago 40, Illinois.

Rolling Folding Table
A new rolling folding table, desi
without benches for economy in:

machinery and

tional seating has been announced

 

national manufacturer of school
industrial seating equipment. I
nated the Sico L-B Table, it will se
to 14 persons around its entire
meter, yet will fold down for stora
an area of only 7.3 square feet.

ing, Inc., Department KP, 6045
bury Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnt

Equipment Catalog
A. new Game-time play and gyI
ium equipment catalog showing ap
tus with “built-in safety” is ava.
by writing the company: Game-

Inc., Litchfield, Michigan.

New Rubber-Cement Dispen
A new rubber cement dispense
been specially designed to over
the major drawbacks of old-fash
dispensers which have plagued a
hobbyists, craftsmen, editors, pri

 

and other users for year. Hab
Box P-737, Norwalk, Connecticu
you’re not familiar with rubber c:
for pasting jobs on scrap books
ters, and so on, try it——-—you’ll like

RECRE

GOLF AS I PLAY IT, Ronnie White. The can Baseball Congress, P. O. Box 44,
British Book Center Inc., 122 East Battle Creek, Mich. Pp. 16. 3.25.
55th Street, New York 22. Pp. 160. IDEAS FOR BOOKCASES AND BOOK.

33-50. SIIELVES. Lane Publishing Co., Menlo
GOLF MADE EASY, J. E. Kavanagh. The Park, Calif. Pp. 80. $1.00.

IZER THE BEAR, Robert V. Masters William-Frederick P less, New York IMPROVING CHILDREN’S LEARNING ABIL-
nd Fred Reinfeld. Sterling Publish- 1- PP- 62- 32-00- ITY, Harry N. Rivlin. Science Re-

g Co., New York 16. Pp. 60. $2.00. GROUP WORK WITH THE AGED, Susan H. search Associates, 57 West Grand

K 0,;- GAMES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS, Kubie and Gertrude Landau. Inter- Avenue, Chicago 10, Ill. Pp. 48. $.40.

IE, Evelyne Borst. A. S. Barnes national Universities Press, Inc., 227 JOURNAL 01:- SOCIAL WORK pROCESS_
d Co., NrewYork    West  Street, New York 11. Pp. College Offset Press,  North

, OF LITTLE CRAFTS A Margaret 214- 33-50- . 6th Street, Philadelphia 6. Pa. Pp.
wers. Chas. A. Beniiett CO. Inc. GUIDE FOR GAMES’ A, D' Cyrll Joynsom 45- 31-00-

Oria 3,1“ Pp_ 114. $295 The British Book Center, 1110-, New MAKING FOREIGN POLICY, USA, Anne

r F S York 22. Pp. 294. $3.25. Hartwell Johnstone and Georgianna
91,1 “$0RMOO'EBgLLJ AND 113,1”: T I?” HANDCRAFTS FOR E L E M E N T A R v F. Mitchell. Carrie Chapman Catt
WarrénAIEOGieseamngm  B30115: SCHOOLS, Frank C. Moore, Carl H. Memorial Fund, Inc., 461 Fourth
.,Dubuque, Iowa. Pp. 277. $3.75. Hamburger, Anna-Laura Kingzett. Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 43. $.25.

D. C. Heath and Co., New York 14. PLANNING YOUR J03 FUTURE, Emery
D PSYCHOLOGY, Lester D. Crow

d \l. C B & N bl P P- 316- 35-00- Stoops and Lucile Rosenheim. Sci-
: ice row. arnes o e, . h A . t h.
c" New York 3. Pp. 267. $1.50. HEART FOR BASEBALL, TIIE, Marion ence Researc ssocia es, C icago

Renick. Charles Scribners Sons, 597 10. Pp. 40. 3.40.
ESBURY STUNT BOOK, TIIE, A. M.

looks Received

  

 

   
  
    
   
 
  
    
  

. O . . Fifth Avenue, New York 17. Pp.234. SARGENT GUIDE To SUMMER CAMPS,
pew. ReVISed Edition. Abingdon- $2.25, THE. Porter Sargent, 11 Beacon

kesbury Press, 150 Fifth Avenue, , _ _ St t B t 8 M O P . 111.
Im York 11. Pp. 391. $2.95. MY SWIM: Henry Cotton. The Brltlsll roe... os on , ass to

Book Center, Inc., New York 22. Pp. $1.10.

IUNITY ORGANIZATION FOR NEIGH- 144. $3.95. SWIMMING POOL DATA & REFERENCE
RIIOOD DEVELOPMENT—PAST AND

. . . PASTIMES FOR TWO, Albert A. Ostrow. ANNIJAL—" 1953 EDITION‘ Hogmano
, SENT, Sidney Dllllek- The WOm- Harper and Bros” New York 16. pp_ Harris, Inc., 425 Fourth. Avenue,
p 5 Press, 425 Fourth Avenue, New 144. $2.50. New York 16_ Pp, 154, $3.00,
ork16. Pp. 198. $4.00.

PLAY Foo-[BALL SAFE“, George E. WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT COM-

' ' . ' MUNISM, Alfred G. Me er. Science
thiasen. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 210 Koontz. The Wllllam FredeUCk y

Research Associates, Chicago 10. Pp.
ison Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 553:3’3g60‘3 York 1' Pp. 47' Paper 4.8. $.40.
3. $3.50. ' '

RACIAL AND CULTURAL MINORITIES, WORKSIIOP HANDBOOK, THE, Walter A.
ATORS GUIDE To FREE FILMS, com-

. G E t S' d _ M'}, Anderson, Rollin P. Baldwin and
d and edited by Mary Foley Hork- Yfgégf gagerlggscéjfsn Nlew 3:02? Mary Beauchamp. Bureau of Publi-
mer and John W. Diffor. Thir- ' "

ERIA FOR RETIREMENT, Geneva

. . 16. Pp. 773. $6.00. cations, Teachers College, Columbia

tli An al Edit , 1953. Ed - ' ' . . .

ors Prdlguress Seigiize, Randolpli, REHABILITATION OF THE PHYSICALLY glnbgermy’ New York 27 P P 65
is. Pp. 516, $6.00 HANDICAPPED, Henry H. Kessler. Re- ' '

Tons GUIDE To FREE SLIDEFILMS vised Edition. Columbia University YEAR BOOK 1951-52, PART I—JEWISH

T COMMUNITY CENTER FIELD. The Na-
npiled and edited by Mary Foley Press, l\ew York 27. Pp. 275. $4.00.

. tional Jewish Welfare Board, 145
rkheimer and JOhn Wo DiHOT- SUCCUIIENT PLANTS’ A' Bertrand' Phllo' East 32nd Street, New York 16. Pp.
Gators Progress Service, Ram sophical Library, 15 East 40th Street, 98. $1.00.
0 ha Wis_ Pp. 185. $4_00_ New York 16. Pp. 112. $4.75.

YOUR OWN BOOK OF CAMPCRAFT, Cath-
fERY SCIENCE, George A. Rounsefell

. erine T. Hammett. Pocket Books,
I1 W. Harry Everhart- John Wiley Inc., New York 20. Pp. 197. $.35.
Sons, Inc., 440 Fourth Avenue,
P. 143. 3450. AND COLLEGE. The Fund for the Ad-

York 16. Pp. 444. $7.50. P amphlets
Magazines l
vancement of Education, 575 Madi-

'5 AND GARDENING, VOLUME
son Avenue, New York 22. Pp. 127. BEACH AND POOL: september 1953

   
   
    
 
 
    
   
 
  
 

 

-—ROCK, WALL AND WATER '
. . . ' BRIDGING THE GAP BETWEEN SCH 0L
tudio Publications, New York 0

 

  

  

BUILDING AMERICA’S HEALTH. Health The P001 Filter SYStem’ Welding En‘
I . . .
r Your copy NOW' Publications Institute, Inc., 216 gmeermg Corporauon' . _
3 PROCEEDING North Dawson Street, Raleigh, N. C. Underwater Vacuum Cleaning, Wil-
f n, P P- 143- $1.50. liam Berens.
0 e o o o
' - a DOING SOMETIIING FOR THE DISABLED, A Community SWllemg P Tograma
Iona] Recreauon conbress Mary E. Switzer and Howard A. Refimte corporauou-
I $2.25 Rusk. Public Affairs Committee, Inc., Design Portfolio. XV: Miscellan-
Madame in December 22 East 38th Street, New York 16. eous Equipment.
HONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION PP' 28' 3'25' PARK MAINTENANCE, August 1953
L5 Fourth Avenue. New York 10. N. Y. How TO ORGANIZE A BASEBALL LEAGUE. Watering Correctly is an Art, Leo J.
Little-Bigger League and the Ameri- Feser.

383
I

 

American School and University

American School Publishing Cor-
poration, 470 Fourth Avenue, New

York 16. Pp. 1,060. $5.00.

The 1953-54 edition (25th volume)
of this Annual, maintains the high
standards set in earlies issues. It is an
indispensable source for all who are
concerned with the planning and opera-
tion of educational buildings and also
contains information of great value to
persons concerned with the field of rec-
reation. A significant emphasisi in the
current valume is the relationship be-
tween school planning and planning for
the entire community or region. Espe-
cially useful for reference purposes is
the index of articles that have appeared
in pervious volumes.

Among the many articles in the cur-
rent volume that merit study by recrea-
rent valume that merit study by recrea-
tion authorities are, “School Auditori-
um, Its Purpose and Design,” “Cali-
fornia All-Weather Pool,” “The Arts
and Crafts Shop,” “Planning a Ceram-
ics Shop,” and “Good Maintenance
Practices: a Symposium.” One en-
titled, “Shrubbery in School Sites,”
with plans for the progressive develop-
ment of a school area, offers valuable
suggestions that are equally applicable
to other types of recreation areas.

The many illustrations and plans that
accompany various articles add to the
appearance and usefulness of the vol«
ume, and the comprehensive listing of
manufacturers of equipment affords a
valuable reference source—George D.
Butler, Research Department, National
Recreation Association.

Modern Music-Makers

Madeleine Goss. E. P. Dutton and
Company, Incorporated, New York 10.
Pp. 499. $10.00.

Those enlisted in the cause of Amer-
ican music will find in this book mate-
rial to aid their campaign. The author
stresses the more serious contemporary
music makers like Howard Hanson,

Deems Taylor, John Alden Carpenter,
Aaron Copland, Roger Sessions and
Leo Sowerby, but almost half of the

384

new
Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

thirty-seven composers represented
have contributed lighter and even popu-
lar pieces, including songs, dances,
hymns, ballads, operas and other music
for the stage.

In each case Miss Goss supplies photo-
graphs and biographical data, the latter
not only in factual listing form but en-
livened with backgrounds of heredity
and environment, and with quotable
anecdotes. Thus, she sketches in the
series of meetings and debates which
Virgil .Thomson had with Gertrude
Stein, and their part in the writing of
his music-drama, “Four Saints in Three
Acts.”

The appreciation of unfamiliar. music
is stimulated by associations of this
kind. However, the same is true even
for such better known works as Roy
Harris’ “When Johnny Comes March-
ing Home,” Morton Gould’s “Cowboy
Rhapsody” and Leonard Bernstein’s

ballad “Fancy Free.”

Music and Your Emotions

Emil A. Gutheil, M.D., Jay T. Wright,
Ph.D., Vincent R. Fisichelli, Ph. D.,
Frances Paperte, Alexander Capurso,
Ph.D. Liveright Publishing Corpora-
tion, 386 Fourth Avenue, New York 16.
Pp. 128. Paper $2.00, Cloth $3.00.

Several doctors, psychologists and
researchers in the use of music as an aid
in therapy have collaborated in assem»
bling the material for this little book,
which has been prepared for the Music
Research Foundation Incorporated. Its
purpose is to serve as a practical guide
to music selections associated with de-
sired emotional responses.

Based on two studies—one with pa-
tients at the Walter Reed Hospital in
Washington and the other with normal
college students, the book lists a num-
ber of compositions, mostly of the more
familiar type, classified according to
such mood categories as happy, gay,
nostalgic, sentimental, stimulating,
eerie, and so on. The authors’ conclu-
sions are often tentative, and reflect
only their own and the listeners’ opin-
ions on the emotional strength and ef-
fectiveness of the music. Nevertheless

there is a place for such guidance,
not only in hospitals and mental i

tutions.
There are brief chapters on the

tory of research in music therapy=
evaluation of music as a therapt
agent, and the work of the Music
search Foundation—Gertrude BC
ard, Correspondence and Consulta
Service, National Recreation Asst
tion.

g FOR CHRISTMAS Ti

Planning a little Christmas play

Don’t fail to look up “Christmas E\
the Deep Forest.” It’s in The Ch
mas Book. Available for fifty-cents f
the National Recreation Associal

315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,]

Characters—nine children

Gnome Brother Pig Chick Cl
Roo Duck Duck Rabbit
Kanga Buggsy Bear Santa

Plus—any other animals, or ani
families.

Short, easy to stage, amusing—
different!

Christmas Toys

In the November Popular Scie
Mrs. Rowena Shoemaker, assistanl
rector of Play Schools Association,
how to build safe, sturdy, enjoy
toys for children.

Mrs. Shoemaker, who collabor.
on her article with Martin Mann, spe
assignment editor for Popular Scic
sets forth all details for building
complete constructive play outfits.
signed for years of use and mad
durable materials, they can easily
altered to suit the different interest
various age levels. Don’t miss
feature!

fight
tuberculosis

 

Recreation Leadership Courses

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

   
   
   
  

FRANK A. STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

RACE WALKER
eative Recreation

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

November and December 1953

Bay Minette. Alabama
November 25

Greensboro, Alabama
N ovembcr 16-19

Galvcston, Texas
November 2-5

Temple, Texas
November 9-12

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
November 16-19

Portales, New Mexico
November 30—December 3

Sumter, South Carolina
December 8-11

Marietta, Georgia
November 25

Columbus, Georgia
November 9-12

Tifton, Georgia
November 16-19

Moscow, Idaho
November 2-5

Salt Lake County, Utah
November 16-19

Rochester, New York
December 9-11

NAlRO Conference
Minneapolis, Minnesota
November 212

C. F. Taylor, Supervisor of Instruction, Baldwin County Schools

Robert E. Ranley, Superintendent, llale County Schools

William Schuler, Superintendent of Rccreation, 2119 Twenty-seventh
Street

Jamie Bonner, Director of Parks and Recreation, Recreation Center

Alvin Eggeling, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

Joseph F. Dickson, Chairman of the Division of Health and Physical
Education, Eastern New Mexico University

Harry R. Bryan, City Recreation Director, Recreation Department

Dr. J. Eugene Welden, Coordinator Special Services, University of
Georgia, Division of General Extension, Athens

Dr. J. Eugene Welden, Coordinator Spccial Services, University of
Georgia, Division of General Extension, Athens

Dr. J. Eugene Welden, Coordinator Special Services, University of
Georgia, Division of General Extension, Athens

Frank J. Reich, Director of Recreation

John J. McCurk, Superintendent, Dcpartnlent of Recreation, City
llall, Salt Lake City

I

Rex M. Johnson, Secretary Character Building Division, 70 North
Water Street, Council of Social Agencies, Inc.

Mrs. Helen Mudgett, University Extcnsion Division, University of
Minnesota

%%

endance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to at-
. For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with
- sponsor of the course as listed above.

RECREATION
315 Fourth Ave., New York 10, N. Y.

 

RETURN Pos'rAcE GUARANTEED
Entered as seeond elass matter

 

Out of the Dark, a Red Grenade

Gogoom/
Duane Eat/gar Dewey, [/6711 CR

Alecia! of 1%»:0)‘

 

IT WAS AN APRIL NIGHT and the Marines, near
Panrnunjorn, were under heavy attack. In one
of E Company’s machine gun emplacements,
Corporal Duane Dewey and his assistant gun-
ner lay on the ground, wounded. A Navy Med-
ical corpsman was giving them aid. Out of the
darkness, and into the group, lobbed a live Red
grenade.

Although he was already seriously wounded,
and in intense pain, Corporal Dewey pulled
the aid man to the ground, shouted a warning
to the other Marine and threw himself over
the missile.

“I’ve got it in my hip pocket, Doc!” he
yelled. Then it eXploded.

By smothering the blast with his own body,
:- Corporal Dewey had saved his comrades” lives.

“Now that I’m back in civilian life,” says
Corporal Dewey, “I sometimes hear people talk .
,1 as though stopping Communism is a job only
 for our armed forces and the government. Be-
‘ lievc me, it’s our job, too. And one way we can
both do that job is through saving and invest-
ing in United States Defense Bonds.”

* 1k 1k

 

Now E Bonds pay 3%! Now, improved Series E
Bonds start paying interest after 6 months. And
average 3% interest, compounded semiannually

' - ’ 7 or the strand!
when held to maturity. Also, all maturmg E Bonds Peace 13 f c

automatically go on earning—at the new rate—for For peace and prosperity save with
10 more years. Today, start investing in Series E , , ;
Bonds through the Payroll Savings Plan; you ean   Defensc Balzds'

sign up to save as little as $2.00 a payday if you wish.

77w U. 5. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in cooperation
with. the Advertising C ouncii and the Magazine Publishers of America.

 

