.MQ

 

E .4669}?! on Acfiuih'ed

/0I” young Aalu/fd

RECREATION ACTIVITIES FOR ADULTS .................. .. $3.00

Covers a wide range of activities such as games,
dramatics, music, hobbies and water sports.

“GOOD MORNING” ....................  ........................... .. 1.25
Old-time dances with music, calls and figures.

DANCES AND THEIR MANAGEMENT (P 81) .......... .. .15

Suggestions for conducting community or
public dances or small group dances. Includes
dance games and stunts.

WATER COLOR PAINTING IS FUN ........................ .. 4.00

Perfect book for starting a new hobby. Four
full-colored illustrations and over 100 pen and

pencil sketches.

PLASTICS FOR TIIE BEGINNER ............................ .. 1.50
Directions for carrying out a variety of projects.

PLANNING FOR SUCCESS (P 66) ............................ .. .25

Suggestions for organizing and conducting
many types of hobby shows.

PARTIES—A TO Z .................................................. .. .75
A party for every letter of the alphabet.

The Party Booklets

PARTIES-*«PLANS AND PROGRAMS .................... .. .50
PARTIES FOR SPECIAL DAYS OF TIIE YEAR ...... .. .50
PARTIES—MUSICAL MIXERS AND SIMPLE
SQUARE DANCES ............................................ .. .50
Parties Plus Series
STUNTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS ........................ .. .50
LET’S PLAN A PARTY ........................................ .. .50
FUN FOR TIIREESOMES .................................... .. .50
MIXERS TO MUSIC FOR PARTIES AND DANCES
(P 193) .......................................................... .. .65
Selected by NRA training specialists.
MONEY-RAISING STUNTS (P 106) ...................... .. .25
For fun and funds.
INDOOR CARNIVAL (P 121) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

Contest evening for any season, for fun and
profit. Reprinted from RECREATION magazine.

GAY NINETIES (P 71) ........................................ .. .35
Back to the recreation of the horse-and-buggy
days.

PROGRESSIVE PARTIES (MP 166) ...................... ..

Equipment game parties and puzzle parties.

THE COMMUNITY THEATRE IN THE RECREATION
PROGRAM (P 63) .......................................... ..

Fundamental essentials of organization, equip-
ment, financing, objectives and personnel.

EASY STUNTS AND SKITS (P 169) ........................ ..

Sixteen brief stunts and skits of various types,
easy to produce.

HOW TO PRODUCE A PLAY ................................... ..

Steps in play production from choosing the play
to the final check-up, with suggestions for
make-up, costuming, lighting and scenery.

PLANNING AND PRODUCING A LOCAL PAGEANT
(P 46) .......................................................... ..

With an outline of how it was done in three
different communities.

PLAY PRODUCTION MADE EASY .......................... ..

Guide for the inexperienced play producer.
Includes pantomimes, skits, and very short

plays.

SIX MORE DRAMATIC STUNTS (P 87) 

Require few properties and easily improvised
costumes. Production notes are included.

SIX NEW DRAMATIC STUNTS (P 122)    ..
More of the same.

COMMUNITY AND ASSEMBLY SINGING .................. ..

A 64-page guide for those conducting com-
munity singing.

FORTY APPROACHES TO INFORMAL SINGING ........ ..

Suggestions for making group singing a
pleasurable event.

SINGING AMERICA .................................................. ..

Collection of 120 folk songs, old-timers and ever
popular songs from North, Central and South
America. Vocal parts and explanatory notes,
too. Accompaniment book available at $2.00.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 Fourth Avenue

 

New York 10, New York

.25

.25

.50

.50

.35

.50

.50

.50

.75

.35

.50

or

C.

C

QAA‘

        

lnr play capacity and SAFETY . . . house

 

Reg. U. 5. Pat. 05.

Climbing structure

0 No other playground device provides so

much play capacity per square foot of ground
area and per dollar of cost as jUNGLEGYM!

That plus jUNGLEGYM’S safety record

of more than one hundred million child-play»
hours without one single serious accident
are two reasons Why you should give

the children of your playground the advantage
of jUNGLEGYM.

Write for Illustrated Bulletin on PORTER'S Streamlined line that will Save You Money . . . Time

You can rely on PORTER for the basic units you need
for your playground . . .

   

No. 136 Stratosphere See-Sow Na. 38 Combination Set
Sensotionolly new. Gives "ups-o-daisy” Campact, economical unit that's ideal
ride 331/396 higher than canventional far limited ground areas. Six varieties
see-sow, but with greater safety. af funful, healthful activity.

No. SB-F Playground Basketball Backstap
All-steel fan-shaped bank rigidly maunt-

‘ imn- -

 

ed an steel mast and broced far per- NO. 240 erry_G°_Raund
No. 105 Six-Swing Set "mnem ‘°""°‘ Will safely accommadate 30 children at
Sturdy 12-ft. frame held rigidly tageth- ane time. Naiseless, no-wabble, na-
er with exclusive Porter fittings make sway aperotion. An en-
this a permanent, safe unit. gineering marvel.  ‘

CORPORATION

OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

MANUFACIURERS 0F PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

 

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* ga’f’z'ru‘il:

Reg. U. S. Pot. Off.

 

JANUARY 1954 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

A c TUAL PA TIENT DEMONS TRA TIONS!

DISCUSSIONS]

PA NELS!

Lectures by outstanding lead-
crs in hospital administra-
tion, recreation, philosophy,
medicine, education and hos-

pi tal recreation.

 

AT THE COMING —

99

Picture of a “live demonstration of hospital recreation, taken in
meeting at the National Recreation Congress held in September 1953.
Patient Lorraine Sietz from Goldwater Memorial HOSpital, New York.

#W 2W 7W
January 25-26-27, 1954

5W @— School of Education, NEW YORKUNIVERSITY

and the

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

Place—School of Education Auditorium, Registration .......................................... ..$5.00

New York University—West Fourth and
Greene Streets, New York City.

Advance registration necessary.

Sessions limited to 200 delegates.

\

For Further Information

l

Write or phone: Mrs. Beatrice H. Hill, Hospital Recreation Consultant

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York ° Phone: Gramercy 5-7100

RECREATIO

JANUARY, 1954

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY Donswson
| Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

ol. XLVll Price 50 Cents No. 1

On the Cover

The Carnegie Endowment International Center,
which houses the new oflice of the International
Service of the National Recreation Association.

ignificantly, this faces the United Nations, on U.N.

laza in New York, and looks out over the East

iver—busy channel of foreign trade. For further

ctails, see the editorial in this issue, by Joseph E.
ohnson, president of the Carnegie Endowment for

ternational Peace, and Joseph Prendergast’s
Irticle on page 8.

icxt Month

' We present the first of a series of thi'ee talks by
top planning experts on Planning for the Modern
silty—from one of the Best meetings at the 35th
ational Recreation Congress. Hugh Pomeroy,
Iuthor of the February article, is director of thc
Westchester County Planning Commission, New
h’ork, and planning instructor at Columbia Univer-
'ty. Recreation in the Educational Process, by Paul
Eonglass and John L. Hutchinson, deals with on-
anipus leisure. Among other articles: a story of
Iccreation developments in Providence, Rhode
Island; articles on hospital recreation, recreation

in the aging, model-plane programs, recreation for
Ire-school children, dancing, and others.

hoto Credits

age 26, Jack Pelletier, Los Angeles; 31 (right,
upper and lower). Pvt. John Kinsey, Fort Baker,
alifornia; 31 (left), Mr. Woods, San Francisco;
2 (top), Neal Douglass, Austin, Texas; 32 (lowcr
ft. ccntcr left, lower center) and 33 (right, Upper
I‘nd lower), Bill Smith, Bridgewater, Virginia;
‘7. Wallace Danley, Tennessee Conservation
Pepartment.

RECREATION is §ublisbcd monthly except July and
Angus: by the . ational Recreation Association, a
sennce organization supported by voluntary contribu-
tions. at 315 Feunh Avenue, New York 10, New
York; is on file in public libraries and is indexed in
the Readers' Guido. Subscriptions $4.00 a year.
Canadian and foreign subscription rate 34.50. Re-
entered as second-class matter April 25, 1.950, at the
Post Office in New York, New York, under Act of
March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate
of postage provided for in Seetion 1103. Act of October
3. 1Q17, authorized May 1, 1924. Microtilms of cur-
rent :ssues available University Microfilms, 313 N. First
Street, Ann Arbor. Michigan.

Space Representatives: l-I. 'I'hayer Heaton, 141 East
44th Street, New York 17, New York: Mark Minahan,
168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois; Keith
H. Evans, 3757 Wilsbire Boulevard, Los Angeles 5, and

593 Market Street, Suite 304. San Francisco 5.
California.

. Copyright, 1954, by tbe
National ReCreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A.  

O 1 a 

‘- ‘\
(.I"

' Trade mark registered in U. 5. Patent Omce.

 

iIANUARY 1954

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

To Help Brothers Dwell in Unity (Editorial) Joseph E. Johnson 6
The International Recreation Service and

the United Nations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joseph Prendergast 8
Tcen-Agers and Young Adults in Today’s

World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Prcparcd by lllnrion Robinson 14
Accent on Young Adults . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sinione C. Picartl 17
New Young Adult Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Let’s Use College Volunteers

(Personnel) . . . . .John A. MacPhee and Vincent L. Fowler 19
The St. Paul Playground Youth Association. . . .Glotlys Barchus 22
Recreation and Research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lntlier Culick 24
The Story of Scout-O-Rama . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mary Ann Keene 26
PROGRAIII
Gay Twenties Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lilly Ruth Hanson 27

Thirty-Forty Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Florence Birkliead 29

Mobile Madness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gertrmle C. lllcConnell 30

Social Games for Young Adults . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

. . . And More Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Let’s Take a Look at Winter . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Rutlierford Platt 35

Make a Lamp (How To Do It!) . . . . . . . . . .Frank A. Staples 36

Cinderellas of the Riding Path (Idea of the Month) . . . . . . . . . . 37

Choral Speaking (Recipes for Fun) . . . . . . . James F. Penney 39
How to Form a Junior Symphony

Orchestra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Koitli A. Mactlonaltl 41
ADDIINISTRATION
Recreational Interests and Needs of High School Youth

(A Study) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43

Lewishurg Recreation Center . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47

Seven Million Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

Neighborhood Parks through C00peration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

NRA 1954 District Conference Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .r. . . . . . . . . . . 11

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . . . . W. C. Sutherland 51

Reporter’s Note Book . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

People and Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

On the Campus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Books Received, Pamphlets, Magazines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ; . . . . . . 62

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63

Calendar of Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Recipes for Fun, How to Do It!, Idea of the Month . . . .See Program
Recreation Leadership Courses . . . . . . . . . . . . .Insidc Back Cover

3

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

 

RECRUITMENT,

Recruitment

MRS. VERNA RENSVOIJ), Chairman
Kansas City, Missouri

JAY M. VER LEE. Vlce-Chairman
{Oakland, CaliforniE

DAVID M. LANCKAMMER, Secretary

Altoona, Pennsylvania

MILD F. CHRISTIANSEN
Washington. D. C.

CHASE HAMMOND
Muskegon, Michigan

MES. ELLEN HARVEY
University of Maryland
College Park, Maryland

LAWRENCE HEED
Lawrence, Kansas

J. BERTRAM KESSEL
AAHPER

Washington, D. C.

MRS. ROSALIND T. MACAnCEE
Decatur, Georgia

HENRY J. McFARLAND. JR..

State Dept. of Civil Service
Albany. New York

ANNA S. PHERICO
Lexington, Kentucky

ALICE S. SUITER
Girl Scout Council

Greensboro, North Carolina

LILLIAN SUMMERS '
American Red Cross
Washington, D. C.

CHARLES VETTINER
IeHerson County
Louisville, Kentucky

WILLIAM P. WITT
Corpus Christi, Texas

Undergraduate Education

CHARLES K. BRICHTRILL, Chairman

University of Illinois
Urhana. Illinois

FRED M. COOMns. Vice-Chairman
Pennsylvania State College
State College. PeDnsylvaDia

NORMAN F. KUNOE. Secretary
University of Washington
Seattle, Washington

MISS E. COHYN BOWERS
Texas State College for Women
Denton. Texas

i

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

The following national advisory committee of the National Recreation Associa-
tion has been Set up to strengthen personnel work in the recreation Held through
the cooperation of the association and recreation executives and leaders throughout
the country, bringing about an alertness not only to local needs but to the needs of
the recreation profession and to the best use of the association’s resources and services.

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE

ON

SUBCOMMITTEES

E. DANA CA ULKINS

Westchester County
White Plains. New York

CHARLES B. CRANFORD
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

MI_SS PERCY M. GtLL
Oregon State College
Corvallis, Oregon

LEON GREEN
University of Idaho
Moscow, Idaho

WALTER E. HACER
Wilson Teachers College
WashiDgtOD. D. C.

EDWIN L. HAiSLET
University of Minnesota
Minneapolis, Minnesota

THOMAS I. HINES
North Carolina State College
REleigh, North Carolina

EARL KAUEEMAN. JR.
University of Kentucky
Lexington, Kentucky

THOMAS W. LANTz
Tacoma, WashiDgton

HAROLD D. MEYER

University of North Carolina
Chapel Hill. North Carolina

D. K. STANLEY
University of Florida
Gainesville. Florida

Graduate Education

GERALD B. FITZGERALD. Chairman
University of Minnesota
Minneapolis. Minnesota

JACKSON M. ANDERSON
Purdue University
Lalayette, Indiana

EDITH BALL

New York University
New York, N. Y.

W. C. BATCIIELOR
Ohio State University

Columbus. Ohio

FRED M. CIIAPMAN
University of Minnesota
MinneEpolis, MinnesotE

H. D. EDCREN
George Williams College
Chicago. lllinois

FRANCIS W. HARTzELL
Kansas City, Missouri

WILLIAM J. TAtT

Florida State University
Tallahassee. Florida

A. E. WEATHEREORO
North Carolina State College
Durham, North CaroliDa

CHARLES F. WECKWERTH
Springfield College
SpriDglield. Massachusetts

STERLINC F. WINANS
State Recreation Commission
SacrameDto, California

In-Service Training

GARRETT G. EPPLEY. Chairman
lndiana University
Bloomington, IndiaDa

DON DYER. Vice-Chairman
Milwaukee. Wisconsin

W. H. ORION. Secretary

Veterans Administration
Washington. D. C.

MRS. ALTA S. BUNKER\
Oakland. Caliiornia

K. R. COUCILL

State Department of Conservation
Indianapolis. Indiana

HOWARD G. DANFORD
Florida State University
Tallahassee. Florida

RanRT W. EVERLY
Glencoe, Illinois

RAY FDRSIIERC
Waterloo, Iowa

JAMES H. GROOMS
Wellesley, Massachusetts

FOREST V. D. GUSTATSON
Rockville, Maryland

LEE HELSEL

State Department of Mental Hygiene

Sacramento, California

STEPHEN H. MAHONEY
Cambridge. Massachusetts

EARL H. RECNIER
University of Illinois
Urbana, Illinois

JOHN G. SCIIERLACIIER
West Virginia University
Morgantown. West Virginia

TRAINING AND PLACEMENT OF RECREATION PERSONNEL

BEVERLY S. SHEFFIELD
Austin. Texas

MRS. BETH W. YATES
Sylacauga. Alabama

Placement

RUSSELL FOVAL. Chairman
Decatur, Illinois

 

 

E. STUART RICHTER, Vice-Chairman

Colorado SpriDgs, Colorado

DOROTHEA LENSCH, Secretary

Portland, Oregon

GERALO P. BURNS
New York University

New York. N. Y.

R. WAYNE CUNNINCHAM
Hammond, Indiana

MRS. PAULINE DES GRANCES

San Diego. California

KENNETH FOWELL
Great Falls. Montana

ALAN L. IIEIL
Montclair. New Jersey

L. B. HOUSTON
Dallas. Texas

RALPH B. MCCLINTOCK
Omaha. Nebraska

BEN W. MtLLER
University of California
Los ADgeles, CElifornia

WILLIAM P. MOTT, JR.
Oakland. CaliforniE

JOSEPH D. OWENS
Kansas City, Missouri

WALTER ROY
Chicago, Illinois

WILLARD B. STONE

State Youth Commission
AlbaDy, New York

ALFRED P. STRozDAs
Paducah, Kentucky

CLARENCE L. THOMAS

Linden Community Center

Dayton, Ohio

RanRT TURNER

West Point Manufacturing Company

Lanett, Alabama

HAROLO S. WAGNER

Summit County
AkrOD. Ohio

“W
M

RECREATIOI

 

|
' WITH TIIIS ISSUE, the new subscrip-
' on price for RECREATION goes into
I Ilflect. (See RECREATION, Octoher, 1953,
1 age 264.) All persons entering a sub-
cription after December 31, 1953 will
ay $4.00 per year; $7.25 two years;
3.70 library subscriptions; $3.50 cluh
ubscriptions. Steadily rising produc-
ion costs have made this slight increase

11 absolute must. However, memher-
hip in the National Recreation Associa-
tion still includes, among other benefits,
a free subscription to the magazine.

} A RUMOR WAS STARTED at the Phila-
delphia Recreation Congress, which
-reated considerable confusion among
.lelegates, the implication being that the
federal government is reclassifying rec-
reation as a trade. Investigation in
Washington has brought forth the fol-
lowing report:

“No change in classifications Of rec-
reation workers has been made since
February 1951, and no immediate
change is contemplated. The ‘United
States Civil Service Commission, Class

pecifications, Recreation Series GS-
F88-0,’ dated February 1951, describes
lall federal recreation positions from the
. lowest to the highest. GS means General
Eclredule—which includes many other

ypes of federal positions. The salaries
range from $2,500 to $14,800.

“Prior to the adoption of the schedule
lrefcrred to above, there were several
.other schedules which were abolished.
One of those abolished was ‘P’, meaning
‘Professional.’ GS now includes many
positions ordinarily considered ‘Pro-
Iessional,’ such as those of: architects,
physicists, social psychologists, engi-
neers, librarians, teachers, and minis-
lers. Apparently, GS also includes some

positions that may be considered
trades.”

) A DIRECTORY OF CALIFORNIA REC-
REATION ADMINISTRATORS AND COMMIS-
SION CI—IAIRMEN for recreation depart-
ments and agencies in that state, with
addresses and phone numbers included,
has been puhlished by the California
Recreation Commission as of October
1953. Also listed are state recreation
Officials, directors Of undergraduate or
graduate major curricula in California
colleges and universities and California
4officials of federal agencies and volun-

[JANUARY 1954

tary service organizations, national and
state.

} PRINTED COPIES OF HEARINGS CON-
DUCTED on general revision of the In-
ternal Revenue Code by the Committee
on Ways and Means of the House of
Representatives this summer are avail-
able from your congressman. Ask for
Hearing Before the Committee on Ways
and Means, House 'of Representatives,
83rd Congress on Topics Pertaining to
the General Revision of the Internal
Revenue Code, Part 4 (TOpic 40).
Ninety-three pages of the 545-page
document are concerned with revisions
in the federal admissions tax. Ten of
these pages are devoted to a statement
by Joseph Prendergast urging a revision
in the law to correct inequities, an analy-
sis of the law as it affects community
recreation agencies and a digest of the
letters from recreation executives to the
National Recreation Association ex-
plaining how the present law adversely
affects their community recreation pro-
gram.

) HELPFUL TO AGENCIES RESPONSIBLE
FOR RECREATION FIELD WORK OF STU-
DENTS is a mimeographed “Guide for
the Initiation, Supervision and Evalua-
tion of Field Experiences in Recreation”
prepared by J. Bertram Kessel. This is
available from the AAHPER, 1201 16th
Street, Northwest, Washington 6, D. C.,
at thirty-five cents per c0py.

Errata

o The first sentence of paragraph three,
Howard G. Danford’s editorial, My
Philosophy of Recreation, page 389 in
the December 1953 issue of RECREA-
TION, should read: “Many of the values
we 'consider important have their origin
in the nature and meaning of democracy
which, in turn, derives many of its
concepts from Christian ethics.”

0 The last sentence of Outdoor Artifi-
cial Ice Rinks—in Toronto, pages 346
to 348 in our November 1953 issue,
should read: “The cost of the take-up
rink is about $1.50 per square foot
less than the concrete slab type of
rink.” Mr. Meadows writes: “The esti-
mated cost of a take-up rink runs from
$3.50 per square foot to about $5.00
per square foot, depending Upon the
length of season and to what extent

water supply, sewerage, fencing, flood-
lights, and buildings, have to be in-
cluded with 'the project.”

Conference On Resources
For The Future

The importance of recreation in
.the over-all economy of our country
was highlighted at the White House
Conference on Resources for the
Future, held in Washington, De-
cember 2 to 4. This theme was in-
troduced early in the large meeting
with the reading of a paper en-
titled, “A Mid-Century Look at Our
Resources,” prepared by the Brook-
ings Institution. It stated, in part:

“The extent to which American
standards of living will continue to
be measured in material terms
rather than in cultural activities is
one of the areas of study to which
the efforts of the social scientists
need to be directed . . .

“Will rising standards of living
in the future require a greatly in-
creased use of materials, or will
education, medical care, recreation,
the arts and leisure time hecome
relatively more important after
adequate physical standards of
comfort and convenience become
general?”

The park and recreation field
was well represented at the con-
ference; and the concern of rec-
reation leaders, for the preserva-
tion and development of our natural
resources for recreation and lei-
sure-time purposes was registered
by them in the records of many of
the sessions. Among those attend-
ing were Joseph Prendergast,
NRA; George Butler, NRA;
George Dickie, Executive Secre-
tary, Federal Interagency Commit-
tee on Recreation; E. Dana Caul-
kins, Superintendent of Recreation,
White Plains, New York; V. W.
Flickinger, President, National Con-
ference of State Parks, Chief,
Division of Parks, Columbus,
Ohio; R. B. McClintock, Superin-
tendent of Recreation, Omaha,
Nebraska; Mrs. Theresa S. Brun-
gardt, Director, State Board of
Recreation, Montpelier, Vermont;
Robert W. Crawford, Deputy Com-
missioner and Superintendent of
Recreation, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania; George T. Sargisson, Execu-
tive Director, Recreation Promo-
tion Service, Wilmington, Dela-
ware; R. R. Murphy, President
American Institute of Park Execu-
tives, and Superintendent of Parks,

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

To Help Brothers Dwell in Unity

From all appearances, the Carnegie
Endowment International Center, which
you see on the cover of this issue of
RECREATION, could be a new office
building in any part of the country,
for the construction gives no clue to its

unusual character. However, this build- .

ing, which was erected by the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace,
has two specific distinctions: it is the
first to be erected near the United
Nations to bring organizations con-
cerned with human welfare and world
affairs in closer proximity to the inter-
national organization for a more effec-
tive relationship, and it houses the
largest number of such organizations——
thirty-eight—ever to be under one roof.
Both facts, I think, indicate an im-
portant milestone in the history of
international cooperation.

In addition to providing facilities for
the administrative offices of these na-
tional and international agencies, the
Center Offers a series of public rooms
which can be used individually or as a
unit by organizations sponsoring events
on world affairs. The atmosphere is not
that of the Grand Hotel, as it may
sound, but rather one which reflects the
fact that the Center is planned and
used for conferences and special pro-
grams which make the building a focal
point for organizations and individuals
from every part of the free world to
exchange ideas and information perti-
nent to their mutual goals.

For example, highlighting the events
held recently was a conference of
Institute of World Affairs leaders from
nineteen countries, convening under the
sponsorship of the Carnegie Endow-

MR. JOHNSON is president of Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace.

6

ment for International Peace, the

Foreign Policy Association, Woodrow
Wilson Foundation and World Peace
Foundation to examine mutual prob-
lems, particularly in relation to the
United Nations. During the two-week
conference, the delegates paid frequent
visits to the United Nations, and in
turn, officials of the United Nations sat
in on the discussions and spoke about
the intricate workings and problems of
the General Assembly and Specialized
Agencies. "

Another highlight was the Philippine
Cultural Exhibition of painting, handi-
crafts, folk musiciand dancing, as well
as films and lectures on the life of the
Filipinos. In one month, over 4,500
persons saw the exhibition which was
sponsored by the Philippine Mission to
the United Nations in cooperation with
the Philippine Art Gallery and Filipino
artists in New York.

One late September afternoon, the
thirty-eight organizations in the build-
ing held Open House, so that the eight
hundred staff members, as well as in-
vited guests, could become better ac-
quainted with the personnel and prob-
lems‘ of agencies other than their own.
The Open House brought the partici-
pants one step closer to realizing the
tremendous opportunities for accom-
plishment which lie in keeping informed
about the work of allied groups and
making an effort to work together. The
funds of non-profit organizations such
as these are limited. Therefore, the
pr0grams are often modest; but with
unity, their effectiveness can be
strengthened in a way that will be felt
in all the remote parts of the world to
which their work extends.

Consequently, the new Center not
only has significance for the people who

Joseph E. Johnson‘

work and convene there, but also fo
the millions of persons whose lives ar
touched by the efforts of these organi
zations. But a new twelve-story buildin
alone is not enough to make them suc
cessful. They, and scores of others lik
them, as well as the United Nationsl
need your help. ' I

National and international leaders ar
becoming ever more aware of the im
portance of public opinion in shapin
foreign policy. This recognition of th
importance of the voice of the peopl
increases their responsibilities. It is t
the interest of every person, young 0
old, not only to keep informed on cur
rent events and elect the representative
most suited to meet the challengin
crises, but also to take an active han
in keeping his neighbor informed an
helping him make a contribution towar
overcoming the many obstacles in th
road to international peace and under
standing.

Our neighbors are many. Techno
logical achievements of the twentiet
century have placed us within a fer
hours of any part of the world. W
must, therefore, learn to live togethe
harmoniously lest we drift into dif
ferences which may unnecessarily ex
plode into another war and its resultin
devastation.

In our present age of mass coml
munication,when there is more inform '
tion about more subjects poured into
more newspapers, magazines, movi
and broadcasts than any one human
being can possibly absorb, we tend to
become jaded at the sight and sound
of oft-repeated phrases and frequently
feel that since the words are worn, so isl
the subject.

We must fight continually againsl
being drugged with platitudes and strivel

RECREATION

for a sharper focus on issues at stake.
Apathy is a costly and treacherous in-
dulgence which has in a measure been
the cause of rough waters for the United
Nations in the past few years. The pub-
lic’s great enthusiasm for the organiza-
tion eight years ago, waned when it was
evident that it would ‘not operate like
a beautiful new Its fair-
weather friends lost interest,’ failing to
look more closely and thereby realize
that “the price of peace is eternal

machine.

negotiation.”

Secretary General Hammarskj old re-
cently put the situation very well when
he said: “On the seas we sail we have
to face all the storms and stresses
created by the ideological, economic
and social conditions of our world.
Aboard this new Santa Maria we have
to meet the impatience of those sailors
who expect land on the horizon tomor-
row, also the cynicism or sense of
futility of those who would give up and
leave us drifting impotently. 0n the
shores we have all those who are against
the whole expedition, who seem to take
a special delight in blaming the storms
on the ship instead of the weather.”

It is true that the United Nations is
not a perfect instrument and its ardent
friends do it a disservice when they
claim perfection for it. When reviewed
in relation to the history of the develop-
ment of international organization,
however, the United Nations has made
remarkable strides.

The fact that thirty-four years after
the Paris Peace Conference of 1919
there has been in existence for eight
years an international organization

composed of sixty member nations——

which, among many other accomplish-
ments, is the first such organization in
history to stop an aggressor which had
attacked a small, defenseless country—-
is enough to give heart to those who
are sincerely striving for a lasting
peace.

In addition, the specialized agencies
of the United Nations have a record of
outstanding achievement. For example,
technical assistance has been given to
over ninety countries and territories.
More than 561 experts on food and
agriculture have been sent out to in-
crease production and distribution and
raise levels of nutrition. The World

JANUARY 1954.

 

 

Health Organization has given penicil-
lin treatment to almost two million per-
sons, fought malaria around the world,
stopped a cholera plague, and set up
anti-TB stations; and the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment has lent more than $1,500,000,000

to twenty-eight countries.

For non-governmental organizations
like those in the Carnegie Endowment
International Center, which are con-
cerned with the development of world
peace and understanding, the United
Nations has several constructive chan-
nels into which they can direct their
energies. These organizations, in turn,
help citizens channel their own indi-
vidual and group efforts. In the Inter-
national Center alone there are many
such agencies.

The opportunities for service are
particularly rich in the world today.
The sooner each man and woman ac-
cepts the challenge to help, in the shap-
ing of the world into a better place for
all men to live, the sooner we will re-
alize “how good and pleasant it is when
brothers dwell in unity.”

CRAFT

FRE

120 PAGES. .. Complete

Craft Supplies, Tools, De-

signs, Instruction Books

from America's Most Com-

plete Stock. Includes

Leather Craft. Glove Mak-

ing, Lamp Shades. Metal

Tooling. Cork Craft. Latest .
Textile Paints. Shell Craft, Basketry. Glass
Etching, Rania, Rubber Molds. Fascinating
New Picture Craft and Many Others.

Send For Your FREE Copy NOW. . .

GRIFFIN CRAFT SUPPLIES
5626-! Telegraph Ave. 0 Oakland 9. Calif.

7164:
SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Effective January 1, 1954, sub-
scription rates for RECREATION
magazine are:

1 year . . . . . . . . . . . . $4.00
7.50
4.50
3.70
Club subscriptions. . 3.50

(Ten or more individuals Subscribing
at one time)

Single issues . . . . . . .50

2 years . . . . . . . . . . .
Foreign . . . . . . . . . .

Library subscriptions

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

(VWé‘é

DOING BUSINESS WITH
A M E R I C A N

Since 1911 the finest Park, Playground
and Swimming Pool Equipment built,
unsurpassed in strength, durability and
safety, and backed by lifetime guarantee
against defective materials and construc-
tion . . . low, nationally advertised prices
which today average but little above pre-
war 1941 . . . highly personalized service
on both your problems and orders . . .
prompt, friendly adjustments to your
complete satisfaction . . . these are just
a few of many reasons we believe you’ll

enjoy doing business with ANIERICAN.

 

    

American Strcanllincd

Extra lIcavy Duty
Park Bcnch

All—American Picnic Grill

Portablc or Stationary

 

Official chuiation Onc-l‘ietcr Unit

<3: WRITE FOR LITERATURE

H" "

AMERICAN

r-C

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA U.S.A.

WORLD’S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PLAYGROUND 8. SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

 

The International Recreation Serviee

OOKING out over United Nations
Plaza in New York, and facing the
dramatically striking buildings'of the
U.N.-——monument to man’s quest for
international peace—stands the Car-
negie Endowment International Center
which houses the new office of the
International Recreation Service of the
National Recreation Association. Only
non-profit organizations interested in
international affairs and human wel-
fare are housed here. [See‘ithe photo-
graph on our cover and the Editorial
in this issue.] You are all cordially in-
vited to visit the office on your next
trip to New York.

In the October, 1952, issue of REC-
REATION, I had the opportunity of re-
viewing the Association’s long-term
interest in recreation throughout the
world and of formally announcing the
establishment of its International Rec-
reation Service to make possible an
interchange of the knowledge and ex-
perience,‘ the help and the advice of
recreation leaders, organizations and
agencies in all the countries of the
world; and to help bring together the
recreation forces of the world to pro-
mote a richer, more abundant leisure.

life for all.

The work of the International Rec-
reation Service is headed by Thomas E.
Rivers, assistant executive director
of the National Recreation Associa-
tion, and is being guided by the advice
of two committees. One is a National
Advisory Committee, made up of rec-
reation leaders who have had experi-
ence and a special interest in inter-
national recreation, with Austin E.
Welch as its chairman,.Tom Lantz and
Harold Meyer as its vice-chairmen and
T. E. Rivers as its secretary. Later,,an

International

 

MR. PRENDERGAST is the executive direc-
tor of the National Recreation Associa-

tion.

8

Advisory Committee

and the

United Nations

 

made up of outstanding lay and pro-
fessional recreation leaders from vari-
ous countries of the world will be ap-
pointed. It is hoped to hold an Inter-
national Recreation Congress, similar
to the one held in 1932 in Los Angeles,
in the near future.

A year’s successful experience is
now behind us and I would like to
report on what has already transpired
and on our plans for the future. This
first article is concerned with the
present and future relations between the
International Recreation Service and
the United Nations. Later articles in
RECREATION will deal with the Service’s
relationship with private agencies, na-
tional, regional and world-wide, con-
cerned with the international aspects of
recreation and with similar national
and regional governmental agencies.

The United Nations
and. Recreation

The Preamble of the Charter of the
United Nations states that: “We the
PeOples of the United Nations deter-
mined . . . to promote social progress
and better standards of living in larger
freedom, and for these ends . . . to em-
ploy international machinery for the
promotion of the economic and social
advancement of all peoples, have re-
solved to combine our efforts to this
end.”

Article I of the Charter lists the four
purposes for which the United Nations
Organization was established, the third

J. Prcndergast, r, and T. E. Rivers in
Association’s new

international office.

Joseph Prendergast

being “ . to achieve internation:
cooperation in solving internation:
problems of an economic, social, cu
tural or humanitarian character.” 1

fourth purpose is “ . . . _to be a cent:
for harmonizing the actions of nati01
in the attainment of these commc
ends.”

At the very outset, the United N
tions was faced. with a fundamenl
problem: It had no agreed definitic
of the term “social,” nor even any gui
ance as to the sense in which it was en
ployed in the Charter. The first task
the social field, therefore, was to frai
such a definition, which would in eff:
outline for the United Nations its pro;
sphere of activity.

At the first session, the Economic a
Social Council appointed a tempora
Social Commission to act as a spec
advisory body to it in determining I

status of international organization

 

RECREAT

 

: social field, with particular refer-
::e to the proper futurc function of
2 United Nations in it.

ln framing a definition for the word
Jcial” as used in the Charter, the
Inmission came to the conclusion
it its future social policy must be
ncerned with the life of the whole
nmunity and not only with particular
'tions of it, and that its object should
to insure for all a satisfactory stand-
1 of living.

By way of defining the specific con-
'ns of this policy, the Commission
dcrtook to analyze those elements
ich make up the standard of living
[I in respect of which that standard is
aged—namely, food and nutrition,
Ithing, housing, health and medical
'e, employment and recreation.

The Commission also included among
:proper concerns of a comprehensive
:ial policy such matters as social
'vices for special groups within the
nmunity (e.g., children, the aged
II the handicapped), the prevention
crime and treatment of offenders, as
ll as the special problems of under-
Ieloped areas.

Having outlined a general policy, the
Irmnission consulted with the Spe-
.lizcd Agencies of the United Nations
ling an interest in the social field
.1 as the International Labor Office
LO), the Food and Agriculture Or-
nization (FAO), the World Health
Enization (WHO), and the United
tions Educational, Scientific and
Rural Organization (UNESCO), to
lumine which functions or services
those areas were already being per-

HUARY 1954

formed by them so that overlapping of
their activities with those of the United
Nations might be avoided.

As a result of this consultation the
Commission recommended close co-
Operation with the Specialized Agencies
as being essential to the success of the
United Nations activity in the social
field, and recommended that the United
Nations assume direct responsibility
itself for any social activities not falling

within the scope of the Specialized
Agencies.

The major fields of social activity
falling within the, competence of the
United Nations itself are those pertain-
ing to (a) the advisory social welfare
services, (b) family and child welfare,
(c) the prevention of crime and treat-
ment of offenders, (d) rehabilitation of
the handicapped, (e) community or-
ganization and deveIOpment, and (f)
housing and town and country plan-
ning. The United Nations activities in
these fields have been progressively
concentrated within the framework of
a closely coordinated United Nations
pr0gram of direct assistance to govern-
ments, implemented in cooperation
with the Specialized Agencies and in-
terested non-governmental organiza-
tions.

The actual carrying out of the activ-
ities of the United Nations and the
Specialized Agencies in the social field,
so far as we in the field of recreation
are concerned, has been the respon-
sibility of (1) the Secretariat of the
United Nations through its Technical
Assistance Administration, the Social
Welfare Division of the Department of
Social Affairs and the United Nations
International Children’s Emergency
Fund, (2) the International Labor
Office, (3) the Food and Agriculture
Organization, (4) the World Health
Organization and (5) the United Na-
tions Educational, Scientific and Cul-
tural Organization. It is, therefore, with
and through these agencies that the
International Recreation Service of the
National Recreation
working to promote and serve the
world recreation movement.

Association is

The United Nations provides assist-
ance to governments in the social field

at their request. This is provided in.

three general ways:

1) Expert Advice

Expert advice is furnished to govern-
ments in the fields of social welfare,
economic develOpment, and public ad-
ministration. Major subjects dealt with
include, in the economic fields, the use
of natural resources; in the public ad-
ministration field, the organization and
coordination of central and local ad-
ministrative services; and in the social
field, community effort and services,
housing and town planning, rehabili-
tation of the handicapped, social wel-
fare training, and welfare services. In
1952, thirty governments asked for the
help of experts.

2) Fellowships and Scholarships

Fellowships and scholarships are pro-
vided. The purpose of fellowships is to
enable governments to send suitable,
qualified senior personnel to countries
where apprOpriate facilities exist for
observation, higher training or ad-
vanced study of a kind which would
promote the economic deveIOpment of
the public administration or the social
develOpment of the country of the fel-
lowship holder on his return home.

The purpose of the scholarship is to
enable governments to send their most
promising junior technical personnel
or members of their civil service to
study abroad in technical training in-
stitutes, universities or other institutes
of higher learning providing training
in fields important in the development
of recipient countries.

In 1952, the United Nations received
1,680 nominations for fellowships and
scholarships for 1952 and 1953 from
sixty governments. During 1952, 729
fellows and scholars went into the field;
of these, 280 studied in the field of
social welfare, 153 in the field of public
administration and 296 observed and
studied in the field of economic devel-
opment. ’

3) Conferences, Seminars, Training
Centers, Demonstration Projects and
Technical Information

The exchange of information among,
and group training of, administrative,
technical and professional personnel in
various aspects of social welfare, pub-
lic administration and economic devel-

opment form an important part of the
technical assistance program.

Group training methods are used for

9

personnel from one or several coun-
tries. The exchange and dissemination
of technical information is promoted
through the organization of regional
conferences, seminars or small groups
of experts. Such group activities have
included during 1952 seven seminars
on social welfare and two training and
demonstration centers in social welfare.
Plans for 1953 included two confer-
ences on social welfare and one train-
ing and demonstration center in social
welfare.

Technical literature, films and equip-
ment are supplied in connection with
training programs and development
projects; and the United Nations Secre-
tariat’s Technical Assistance Adminis-
tration also serves as a clearing-house
for booklets, bibliographies and other
technical information relating to social
deve10pment.

International Recreation Service

In assisting the United Nations to
carry out the recreation aspects of the
programs of assistance to national gov-
ernments, as outlined above, the Inter-
national Recreation Service is working
closely with the Technical Assistance
Administration and the Division of
Social Welfare of the Department of
Social Affairs of the United Nations
Secretariat.

The Service is also working closely
with UNICEF which was brought into
being in 1946 to meet the emergency
needs of children, particularly in the
war-devastated countries, and at the
same time, to further child health pur-
poses generally. The aid in all instances
is used to fill the need in such a manner
as to reach the largest possible number
of children in ways that will be of last-
ing benefit to the whole structure of
child health and welfare services within
the assisted countries.

The International Recreation Ser-
vice is also working closely with such
Specialized Agencies as the ILO, the
FAO, the WHO and the UNESCO so

far as those agencies may be concerned
with one or more phases of recreation.

_For example, the ILO which was es-
tablished in 1919 is the international
agency concerned' with international
labor matters. In 1944, the Interna-
tional Labor Conference, the ILO’S

10

governing body, adopted a resolution
which declared, among other things,
the obligation of the ILO to further
among the nations of the world pro-
grams to achieve a series of social ob-
jectives, including adequate recreation.

In this connection it should be noted
that John G. Winant, former governor
of New Hampshire who served for
several years as head of the ILO, was a
long-time member of the board of direc-
tors and first vice-president of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. It should
also be noted that George D. Butler,
director of the association’s research
department, replaced the late Howard
Braucher as a member of the ILO’s
Correspondence Committee on Recrea-
tion and that Dr. Harold Meyer, pro-
fessor of sociology at the University of
North Carolina and an active associate
member of the association, served as
the chairman of the committee at its
meeting in Geneva in November 1949.
Two reports have been issued by the
ILO, one of which revieWed the activ-
ities of the ILO in the field of workers’
recreation and the other dealt with
facilities for young workers’ leisure
and holidays.

So far as any of the work of the ILO

concerns any phase of recreation the
Association’s International Recreation
Service will assist in every way possible.
The FAO, founded in 1945, is con-
cerned with bettering the conditions of
rural pe0ple and helping nations raise
the standard of living. It collects basic
information and makes it available in
useful form, publishing yearbooks and
periodicals and preparing special
studies, and it gives technical assistance
to member countries requesting it.
Since the association believes that
the provision of a sufficient number of
the pr0per kind of recreation 0ppor-
tunities would help to better the con-
ditions of rural people, the Inter-
national Recreation Service is assist-
ing the FAO in every way possible with
reference to rural recreation matters.

The WHO works for the “attainment
by all pe0ple of the highest possible
level of health.” Established in 1948,
its Constitution declares that by
“health” is meant “a state of complete
physical, mental and social well-being
and not merely the absence of disease or

inferiority.” Special attentlon 1s g1v:
to the health needs of children, tl
development of preventive menl
health work and the provision
services for occupational health a1
medical rehabilitation. Because of i
.belief that recreation can make a gre
contribution to both the physical a1
mental health of the pe0ple of the wor
the Association’s new service is c
operating closely with WHO.

UNESCO’s constitution states th
the purpose of the organization “is
contribute to peace and security by pr
moting collaboration among the n
tions through education, science a1
culture in order to further univers
respect for justice, for the rule of la

and for the human rights and fund

- mental freedoms which are affirm:

for the pe0ples of the world, witho
distinction of race, sex, language I
religion, by the Charter of the Unit:

Nations.”

In the field of education, UNESC
is giving special emphasis to what
called fundamental education. In t]
social sciences, it seeks to apply scie
tilic knowledge to human relationshi;

UNESCO’s program of cultural a
tivities seeks to create favorable'co
ditions intellectual cooperati:
among artists, musicians, philos0phe
and men of letters. Its Department
Exchange of Persons provides inform

for

tion on world-wide opportunities f
study, travel and work abroad for ed
cational purposes. It also administe
a number of fellowships. One of t]
dominant features of all its works
the emphasis placed on the free inte
change between nations of ideas, expel
ences and cultures. The task of stim
Ilating a flow of knowledge and intere
between nations is being tackled in
number of ways.

Since we believe that the recreati<
movement can make a unique a1
valuable contribution to world pea
and international understanding tl
International Recreation Associatit
will be working closely with UNESC
as it does with the other specializ:
agencies and the United Nations itse
“to promote social progress and bett'
standards of living in larger freedom
Your support and c00peration in th
endeavor is most earnestly solicite

RECREATIO

Editorially Speaking

 

Young Adults Issue

A special emphasis in this issue of
ECREATION is dedicated to the subject
f “young adults.” The term, as used
ere, covers young people in their
vcnties and thirties, and includes
:en-agers as well. Because program
lggestions, for the former groups par-
cularly, do not seem to be readily
railable, we hope that this issue will
rove to be a helpful resource in future
'.anning. If you of our readers, from
hom we have not heard, have further
)od ideas and successful program ex-
:riences with these age-groups which
iifer from those presented in these
ages, RECREATION magazine will ap-
'eciate hearing from you. We would
3 pleased indeed if your contributions
)Uld make possible a series of good
'ticles or letters on this subject

roughout the coming year.

Co-Recreation a Preventative

According to Paul Cieruzo, director
' intramural sports at the University of
hode Island, “co-recreation,” a term
'ought into intramural terminology
include both sexes, may offer a solu-
)n to the increasing divorce rate in
e United States. “Divorce and mari-
1 statistics prove the need for men
Id women to learn to play together,”
: told representatives of ten colleges
Id universities gathered together for
air annual convention. He considers
e leader of the intramural program
the key to the program. He said,
[‘here is a need for a live, dynamic
dividual who has a sincere apprecia-
)n of work to be done in this field.
1c desk administrator from nine to
'e is out of place here.”

Girls Are Welcome

The “Men Only” sign is down at the
Jung Men’s Christian Association.
ilIord M. Carey, of New York, editor

the YMCA Yearbook, told the or-

.nization’s national council at its
enty-seventh annual meeting that 15
r cent of the YMCA membership now
nsists of the fair sex. Girl member-
ip in the YMCA has increased 10.7
r cent since 1950, while general
lelCA membership has gone up 1.9 per
nt. And this letting in of female mem-
rs has worked out right well. Carey
id: “We have found that women and
rls have a happy influence on our
embers, causing them to dress better,

.INUARY 1954

behave better, and be more tractable.”
——From North Carolina Recreation
Review.

Poor Sports?

Have you seen the article, “Are
Young Americans Poor Sports?” by
Jack Harrison Pollack in the November
1953 issue of Parents magazine? He
cites instances to prove that a wave
of poor sportsmanship is sweeping our
country, and he says, “Every expert I
interviewed agreed that never before
in US. history has there been a greater
need for teaching good sportsmanship.
Obviously a child who isn’t a good sport
can hardly grow into a good citizen.”

Individuality

The modern tendency, not only for
the child but also for the adult, is to
be allowed to be swallowed up in a
maze of activities and things that, to a
degree, cause him to lose his indi-
viduality. Becoming part of a group is
good socially, but the allegiance to the

group often causes mass thinking and
action that destroys the personal initia-
tive so valuable.

Much of our rugged individuality of
former days is lost in this controlled
group action. While many of our ac-
tivities are on the group level, to teach
the child the value of a cooperative
effort and social responsibility, a large
part of our program is in the field of
developing the individual skills and ap-
preciation of artistic accomplishment
with one’s own hands and mind. Very
few activities develop the ego and pride
in personal accomplishment in the
young child like the ability and skill to
actually create something which has
beauty and utility.

Comenius, a 17th century educator
said, “An individual who works with
materials not only makes things, but
makes himself.”

Through wholesome recreation our
individual frequently finds himself as
he discovers something he can do well.
This may develop into a valuable hobby
or leisure-time interest. Recreation that
does not have a by-product of personal
development in some phase of human
interest and improvement, is time
wasted.

-—Grant D. Brandon, in the 1952
Annual Report of the Lancaster Recrea-
tion Association.

 

. . . . H - - - H . . . . . . . H - - - H H H D . . . . - . H H - H . . H . . . . . - - - H . . . . . . - ’ H H . . H - - - H H . . . . . . . H H . - - - - H . . . . . . . . . --

7mtée7¢ewzm

The following statement by Kenneth Holmes, pastor of Westfir Community
Church, Westfir, Oregon, has appeared in This Week, The Readers Digest,
the Milwaukee Journal, is copyrighted 1953 by the United Newspapers
Magazine Corporation, and is used here by special permission.

 

Words to Live By

JUST FOR TODAY I will try to live through this day only, and not tackle my whole
life problem at once.

JUST FOR TODAY I will try to strengthen my mind. I will study. I will learn some-

thing useful. I will not be a mental loafer. I will read something that requires
effort, thought and concentration.

JUST FOR TODAY I will adjust myself to what is, and not try to adjust everything
to my own desires. I will take my “luck” as it comes, and fit myself to it.

JUST FOR TODAY I will exercise my soul in three ways: I will do somebody a good
turn, and not get found out. I will do at least two things I don’t want to do—just
for exercise. I will not show that my feelings are hurt; they may be hurt, but
today I will not show it.

JUST FOR TODAY I will be agreeable. I will look as well as I can, dress becomingly,
talk low, act courteously, criticize not one bit, not find fault with anything and
not try to improve or regulate anybody except myself.

JUST FOR TODAY I will have a program. I may not follow it exactly, but I will have
it. I will save myself from two pests: hurry and indecision.

JUST FOR TODAY I will have a quiet half hour all by myself and relax. During this
half hour, sometime, I will try to get a better perspective of my life.

JUST FOR TODAY I will be unafraid. Especially I will not be afraid to enjoy what
is beautiful, and to believe that as I give to the world, so the world will give to me.

 

........................................................................................ --

 

 

Professional Personnel

Sirs:
Dr. Brace’s article, “Recreation—A
Profession,” [November, 1953] is

thought producing. He says a true pro-
fession has a philosophy, a code of
ethics, a set of fundamental principles.
Yet he says we should keep the door
open to any field of interest———art,
music, drama, sociology, social work,
crafts, physical education and athletics.
I should like to ask Dr. Brace where and
when do the people from those fields
get a recreation philos0phy?

We all know that the recreation
movement has been hindered by the
specialist who promotes his speciality
instead of a well-balanced recreation
program. In many communities, the
specialist promotes a ninety per cent
sports program. In our after-school
play sessions the program in a vast
majority of our schools is devoted
entirely to competitive sports. In some
communities other special interests re-
ceive major attention. We need stand-
ards in recreation as well as in the
teaching profession. I doubt if Dr.
Brace would favor the lowering of the
teaching standards to permit some
high school graduate who is especially
skilled in shop work to teach such a
course in high school.

We need a core curriculum for -rec-
reation which will permit the student
to be instilled in the philosophy of rec-
reation, to learn recreation techniques
and acquire a variety of recreation
skills. '

The “ recreation curriculum might
well include courses in supervised field
experiences, recreation theory, com-
munity recreation, group work, arts
and crafts, camping, nature study,
music, dramatics, social recreation.
sports, low organized games, safety,
government, sociology, speech, office
management, English, ournalism, pub-
lic relations, audio-visual materials and
psychology. The courses in recreation
should be related to actual situations.
Only faculty members with adequate
recreation eXperience can effect these
relationships. Through the use of ap-
proximately twenty-hours of electives,

students can become more proficient in I

one of the skill areas.
I feel that if Dr. Brace compared

the recreation work of recent graduates
who have majored in recreation with

12

those who have majored in other
areas he will see the value of the recrea-
tion curriculum. Before making his
comparison he should take into con-
sideration the quality and extent of
the recreation course-offering and the
qualifications of the recreation faculty.

Dr. Brace is correct in recommending
the use of volunteers. More effort
should be made to encourage the recrea-
tion participant to assist in program
planning and leadership. Advisory
committees should be formed to aid
the recreation staff and the recreation
board in furthering the program and
in interpreting recreation to the gen-
eral public. Those persons who have
prepared themselves most thoroughly
for recreation leadership are the ones
who are most likely to utilize volunteer
leadership effectively.

I note that the California State Em-
ployment Service will register no one
who has not majored in recreation. In
my contacts as a field consultant I find
that most of the local communities re-
quest applicants who have an M.S. de-
gree, with a major in recreation.

We are making progress.

GARRETT G. EPPLEY, Chairman, De-

partment of Recreation, Indiana U ni-

varsity.

Baseball School
Sirs: '

In your column of letters to the
editor last June, I noticed that you
were interested in learning about com-
munity sponsored baseball schools.
Our own successful Concord effort has
now gone on for two seasons.

Our recreation commission co-
sponsors our Community Boys9 Base-
ball School with the Concord Lions
Club and in cooperation with the Cin-
cinnati Reds of the National Profes-
sional League. The personnel of this
school comes from the athletic depart-
ment of the recreation commission,
our Little League coaching staff, the
Lions Club and the Cincinnati Reds
scouting organization.

Publicity is developed through the
schools, radio stations and local news-
paper. What little money is required
is furnished by the Lions Club. Usually
this is for small bronze medallions
which are awarded to the boys who
take part in the demonstration games
or who show the most improvement in
the school period. All equipment is

either furnished by the boys thcmselvc
or the recreation commission. A nun
ber of our old time baseball stars volu1
tecr their services to the faculty. All i
all, it is a fine community cooperatii
effort, well supervised by the recre.
tion commission so that all is in kee]
ing with proper standards of compel
tion for boys between the ages of cigl
and seventeen. It might be of intere
to you to know that we also condw
clinics in basketball, wrestling an
tennis.

WILLIAM H. RIDINGER, Director <

Recreation, Concord, N. C.

Winterizing Outdoor Pools

Sirs:

I found the article “Winter Care 1
the Outdoor Pool” by V. H. Krieser i
the :November issue of RECREATION i1
formative. However, I do feel that t}
many readers of the magazine shou]
be advised of an alternate and cve
more successful procedure for the do
ing of the outdoor pools for the seasor
namely, that of keeping the pool full 1
water and logs throughout the fall an
winter periods.

Naturally, the first concern in keepir
the pool full of water in the wintertin
is the possible damage and crackin
resulting from freezing weather. In tl
winter care of outdoor pools, we als
must give equal consideration to tl
freezing of the moisture in the groun
surrounding the pool, because the it
expansion in the ground around tl
pool exerts a pressure against the wal
and floor of the pool, which oftentim:
causes severe cracks and buckling.

Pool experts have found throug
many years of eXperience that in ord<
to neutralize these pressures. partic1
larly for newly constructed outd0(
pools, the pools must be kept fills
with water to a level of about one far
below the pool inlets or to a level I
about eighteen inches below the SCH]
gutters. Thus, the pressure of the watt
in the pool will tend to offset the pre
sures against the sides and floor.

In winterizing your pool in this 11131
ner, it is extremely important in free
ing climates to place logs around tl‘
periphery of the water filled pool I
absorb, in the event of freezing, son
of the pressures developed by the e:
panding ice in the pool. Empty drnn
half-filled with kerosene may also i
used in place of the logs. The logs (
drums should be placed along all (
the sides of the pool, wired in place, an
then anchored from above so that the
will not move about or float to the can
ter of the pool. If logs are used, the
should be tied securely to stakes beyon
the pool’s edge so that if they becom
water logged they will not sink.

RECREATIO

However, in order to prevent the
vater from freezing in pipes, wate_r
raps, faucets and valves, tanks and
Jiping leading to the pool, they should
Ill be pumped dry with a small manual
Jump, then filled with kerosene, and
:overed as suggested by Mr. Krieser.
’ools kept full of water throughout the
vinter should be completely drained and
efillcd with fresh water in the spring.

When Winterizing in this manner,
Iowever, there is some danger that
omeone might fall into the pool and,
herefore, safeguards, such as gal-
anized chicken wire or rope netting,
hould be erected—preferably in sec-
ions for easy dismantling and storage.

Thc Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds
n Staten Island, which I direct, has
ust completed the construction of a
argc concrete outdoor pool, one hun-
[red feet by forty feet, and many of
he experts of successful pool manage-
ment have concurred with this pro-
edure.

'MONTE MELAMED, Director, Henry

Kan/moan Campgrounds, Inc., Sta-

ten Island, New York.

Suggestions
Firs:

I like page 324 of November, 1953,
lECREATION, which gives the members
I NRA District Advisory Committees.
iut I think we need also in every issue
I the magazine the page like number
:60 of October, 1953, RECREATION,
vhich has been used for a long time
Illt is not in the November copy. It
rould be very helpful to have the mail-
ng addrcss of each district representa-
ive on this page.

I also think it would be a fine service
or NRA to send reprints of the ex-
ellent articles by Mr. Reed, Mr. Butler,
nrl Mr. Sutherland in the October,
953, issue to all members of recrea-
ion boards and other recreation ad-
1inistering authorities on your mail-
ng list.

Miss MINNIE SELLERS, Superinten-

dent of Recreation, Tuscaloosa,

Alabama.

peed.“

ALL MANUSCRIPTS sub-
milled for publication in
RECREATION should be
DOUBLE-SPACED, have
GOOD MARGINS, and

should be a first copy
NOT a carbon!

 

'ANUARY 1954

    

Vocmom: ,
TRAINING

For complete details,
write to Dept. FA-7.

THE MOST

v E n s An I. E
SOUND SYSTEM

EVER DESIGNED

EXPRESSLY FOR

ACT ITIES

 

//

with I tempo CONTROL

The Rhythmaster is the most unique instrument of its kind. With one
easy movement, the teacher, the director, or the coach, can slow down
a phonograph record to as little as 1/3 its normal tempo or speed it up
as much as 300 percent to suit the rhythm requirements of any activity.
This is because the Rhythmaster is the only instrument in which the
speed is continuously variable over the entire range from 25 to 100 rpm.
Moreover, only with the Rhythmaster can the speed be varied without
the need for resetting or stopping. It is designed for all records: 33-1 / 3,
45, and 78 rpm, up to and including 16 inches in diameter.

The Rhythmaster is a practical and effective public address loudspeaker
system as well. . . for indoors and outdoors. By simply connecting a
micrOphone, large as well as small groups can be addressed and directed,
even while the record is being played. In fact, the Rhythmaster is a
complete, self-contained high fidelity sound system which also serves as
a radio when connected to a tuner.

There isn’t a single activity . . . educational or recreational . . . which
cannot be more effectively conducted with the REX-O-KUT Rhythmaster.
It is portable, and readily lends itself to any location . . . the class room,

the assembly hall, the gymnasium, the athletic field. . . indoors or
outdoors.

REK-O-KUT is world famous as a maker of professional disc recorders,
turntables, and phonographs. These products are used by broadcast
and recording studios, and among the nation’s leading schools and
recreation centers.

    
   

Available In single -- and
twin-speaker models, prired from $269.95

  

RE(REATIONAL
ACTIVITIES

 

TWINJPEAKER
Model RT-43-VC

nu: REK-O-KU'I‘ COMPANY

38-01 Queens Boulevard, Long Island City 1, New York

Export Division: 458 Broadway, New York 13, U. S. A. o Cables: Morhanett
In Canada: Atlas Radio Corp.’. Ltd.. 560 King Street W.. Toronto 23

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

  

13

This digest of a report* on the exchange of ideas, observation and
information of a group of national youtli agency representatives,
social scientists and youth educators, in a two-day consultation on
Current Social Factors Affecting Teen-Age Youth and Young Adults,
sponsored by National Social Welfare Assembly Education-Recrea-
tion Division, presents pertinent and thought-provoking material

for all leaders of modern youth.

Growing Up In Our Times

THE TURBULENT emotions, baHling be-
havior and insistent searching of the
adolescent years do not constitute a new
phenomenon. On the contrary, they are
old in human experience and in human
nature itself. But their expression and
intensity are influenced by the times in
which young people are growing up.
To understand our young people today,
we need to take stock of what we have

learned about the way human beings
grow and develop, and set this knowl-
edge against our insights into the time
of conflict in which we live.

The job of our boys and girls in these
years is to make the last long pull
towards becoming independent, useful,
productive adults, each according to his
own capacity. They must grow away—
or break away—from the family roof-
tree, end their schooling years and be-
gin their working years, learn to relate
to the opposite sex, and to grow into
more mature relationships of all kinds.
They must establish a self that can
live with itself, with other people, with
the times; that can go as far as possible
toward becoming a reliable mate, an
adequate parent, an acceptable social
being, a responsible citizen. This is a
large order, but life itself makes the

* Full report, Teen-Age Youth and Young
Adults in Today’s World, prepared by Marion
Robinson, available from National Social

Welfare Assembly Education -Recreation
Division, 345 E. 46th Street, New York 17.
Ten cents.

14»

Teen-Agers and Young Adult:
in Today’s Worlt

Prepared by Marion Robinson

assignment and the mysterious force of
growth within the human being under-

takes it. ,

This period of change and growth is
also a time of conflict, both within
young people and between them and
the world around them. This is as it
should be. A law of human develop-
ment is that the best preparation for
tomorrow is to live fully today. Baby-
hood, childhood, adolescence—each
period of deve10p1nent must be eXperi-
enced to its fullest as a prerequisite for
handling the next stage successfully,
and finally for fulfilling individual cap-
acities in adult maturity as completely
as possible. Only by living out the
normal conflicting forces fully will the
adolescent be able to resolve them and
grow into maturity.

If this is a large order for young
pe0ple, so is it for the adult community
into which they are growing. The job
of adults during these years, whether
as parents, teachers, leaders, counsel-
ors, family members, neighbors or
friends, is to help young people do their
job of achieving maturity. They must
be prepared to inform, teach, guide,
inspire, challenge, support and some-
times restrain, to varying degrees and
under varying circumstances. A deli-
cate balance of judgment and self-
discipline is called for in the interests
of growth for the young person.

Both young people and adults are
doing their traditional “jobs” today in

a world that is as confused, chaoti:
conflicted as any other in human hi:
tory. Empires, cultures, social system
are crumbling, being rejected by people
around the globe. Mass communic:
tion, global travel and internation:
activity convey the facts swiftly. Dail
we are torn between the need f0
change, doubt about the way it can 0
should come about, and its painfulnes:
in behalf of millions of human being:

In our own culture, we are exper:
encing a gigantic conflict. Our preciou
heritage of belief in the worth of huma
personality and the dignity of the ind
vidual, which we have nurtured an
cultivated, is at odds with the technc
Logical civilization we have created
with its inevitable values of possession:
power and aggressiveness. We believ
one way and, in order to survive, fee
we are forced to behave another way
We find it difficult, too, to aliirm thi
belief, to give it sc0pe and opportunit
for growth in an industrial CiViliZEltiO]
of mass production, mass consumption
mass communication,’ standardizatiot
in many aspects of living. How to fin:
those values which will work best fo
the individual and for the group?

The searching for a solution to con
flict within our own culture and in th
world community means that codes
creeds and beliefs which we have live
by are in a ferment of change. The fac
of life plus the deep human need f0
unchanging truths means that confu

RECREATIOI‘

sion, anxiety and even loss of morale
are the common lot of the youth and
adults of our times. But the history of
human development testifies to the
great potentialities and resiliency of
human nature. The striving to make of
existence a way of life with purpose
and goal, has continually evolved and
changed, chiefly because new know-
ledge and understanding suggests new
and more meaningful patterns of life.

There are, however, assets in our
present situation. Today we know more
about society, about human behavior

nd human problems. We know more
about how children and young people
|develop. And we still have the great
conviction about the worth of the indi-
vidual personality and belief in human
dignity. We see now that this begins
at birth, not at voting age or marriage
age. We know we must help children
'and young people get a sense of this
for themselves, solid enough not to be
' undermined or corroded by ideas, both
told and new, which run counter to
belief in man’s dignity. We know that
if they have it, they will' grow to feel
it for others, and will gain some measure
of the kind of personal ethics and re-
sponsibility that are necessary in a
free society.

Today our youth-serving agencies,
educators and workers in special fields
observe differences in behavior atti-
tudes and interests of teen-age youth
and young adults as compared with
those of preceding decades.

Teen-age employment is high. Two
Imillion youngsters, aged twelve to
seventeen, are working—three million
in summer.

Teen-agers have more home respon-
sibilities because of working parents.
Parents take less responsibility for
children, and children have less respect
for home discipline. Urban young folks
show a lessened sense of family life,
perhaps because of crowded apartment
living. Farm youth tend to establish
themselves independently at an earlier
age. Family tensions in general seem to
be higher.

A rise in delinquency rates is noted,
particularly for cases of rape, robbery,
burglary. Vandalism has increased.

A stepped-up social development
among teen-agers has led to a shift in

JANUARY 1954

codes of conduct and conflict with the
adult community. There appears to be
a teen-age “culture,” marked by the
need to be alike and to set themselves
away from adults.

Physical health of younger teen-agers
is better. Tests show health is a subject
of general interest—gaining and losing
weight, wanting to know about the right
foods—girls interested in improving
figures, boys in good body builds.

Youth-serving agencies, though re-
porting no dramatic change in num-
bers, feel a general decline in youth
interest in their programs. There is
over-organization of school youth, with
competition for their time. Youngsters
are gravitating toward mass soeial ac-
tivities, away from clubs and small
groups. Girls show greatly increased
interest in co-ed social activities. There
is less interest in community serviee
projects, a marked apathy toward social
action, though fine participation among
a minority of older youth.

Agencies want to know more about
the diiiering needs of married, single,
employed and student young adults.
Some are marrying earlier. Others ex-
press great frustration because military
service disrupts personal plans—mar-
riage, vocation, edueation. For many
the gap between high school and mili-
tary service is a meaningless hiatus.
In service, there are special problems
of the inductee, on and OH post, the re-
jected man, the wounded, the dis-
charged.

Agencies are feeling pressure for
more individual guidance and coun-
seling, for “concrete” serviees such as
planning a home-coming rather than
holding a diseussion group. They are
tending to offer more opportunity for
participation in planning program and
capitalizing on what interest there is
for educational projects, civil rights,
citizenship, human relations, national
and international affairs, 'moral and
spiritual values. Young people resist
participation in groups with strong
adult control.

The Agcney Feels Its Way

Our social agencies are instruments
for meeting 'certain goals of society.
They too are subject to the conflicts of
our changing society. Like any indi-

vidual or group in our turbulent, evolv-
ing culture, they must solve the prob-
lem of remaining constant to our deep-
est goal values while adapting to the
demands of a changing world.

Today the outstanding need in these
agencies is for mature leadership, both
professional and volunteer. The mature
leader must have a perSpective on youth
itself. Time was when adults considered
young peOple an unimportant quantity
in our society. Then came a period
when we tended to feel that life ended
with the end of youth. Now we accept
the fact that youth is part of a person’s
development, with a special contribu-
tion of energy, vitality and enthusiasm
which society can draw on to its benefit.

The genius of adult leadership for
young pe0ple lies in the judgment
needed to evaluate youthful capacities
and willingness to use young pe0ple’s
strengths. Youth is a time of great
aspiration and altruism. It can be an
enormous resouree in coming closer to
a better social order. It is well to remem-
ber that, as tomorrow’s citizens, youth
is soon to be handed a good deal of
unfinished business in the form of
problems whose solutions have been
postponed or evaded. They should be
encouraged to work on things that mat-
ter, should be helped to realize, within
the scope of their abilities and capaci-
ties, the satisfaction of making their
speeial contribution to our society.

The tendency to reject adult cynicism
and compromise and to be skeptical of
adult wisdom is a natural concomitant
of youth’s search for truth. It can be
both an asset to them and a challenge
to adults. The successful adult leader
is honest and unpatronizing, and offers
the results of adult eXperience to be
helpful, not to be discouraging or over-
protecting. Such a leader knows too that
resistance to adult leadership may come
from youth’s frustration at not being
able to get a hearing for their questions.
When young peOple are not listened to,
their alternative is to resort to “bull
sessions” which are helpful in some
ways, but which can become an ex-
change of ignorance.

A Special responsibility of the adult
leader is to be able to say, at least

tentatively, what he believes and what
his belief is based on. This calls for

15

his having made reasonable progress
in clarifying his own values and con-
victions. Young pe0ple can use such
formulations by an adult leader most
constructively if they are permitted to
test their own evolving ideas against
them freely, through disagreement or
non-acceptance. Leaders who deve10p
increasing skill in this area are less
apt to project anxious confusion on
young people. They are better able, too,
to take in stride the ideas, behavior and
preoccupations of young people which
seem different, sometimes alarming, as
compared with those of their own
earlier days,

In programming, oar agencies need
to take full account of the characteristic
needs of people at di§erent stages of
development. The accumulated body
of knowledge about how human beings
grow and deve10p, plus the willingness
to listen closely as young people ex-
press their needs and interests, can help
maintain a sensible balance with the
special interests which represent an
agency’s particular stake in youth.

It should be kept in mind that teen-
age yoath and young adults are in dif-
ferent stages of personal development.
Teen-agers, because of physiological
and other changes, are preoccupied with
personal matters. Because they are tak-
ing beginning steps from family pro-
tection into independence, their need
of support from a group is great. Their
tendency to conformity is a way of sur-
vival. The wise lcader helps them to be
as flexible as possible, but accepts their
conformity as necessary just as protec-
tive coloration is necessary to some
animals.

It is important to distinguish bctwcen

the more mature young adult and the
person of this chron010gical age who
is living through a prolonged adoles-
cence. Young adults who are maturing
normally are gaining individuality and
may for a time wish to be independent
of organized influence. Belonging to a
group which demands such conformity
may run counter to their need to de-
ve10p as individuals and to establish
themselves in the adult world.

There is a close link between teen-age
youth and young adults. Culture is
passed on to teen-agers, less hy adults
than by young adults. Older youth are
psychoIOgically natural leaders for
younger ones. Agencies can profitably
experiment with their own programs
and with other community agencies in
bringing the two groups together so
that this natural relationship can assert
itself constructively.

Teenagers can be helped to develop
inner resources to stand them in good
stead as they move into the more indi-
vidual period. Young adults should be
helped to move out into the community
as they mature. There will be great
benefit to the community if agencies
help young pe0ple keep their hand in
as they progress in skills, interests and
experience.

It almost goes without saying that
while meeting today’s needs, agency
leadership must be alert for the gradual
appearance of what will be tomorrow’s
needs. Readiness to meet these emerg-
ing interests with shifts in program
helps insure a desirable combination of
continuity and flexibility for growing
young peOple.

Steps should be taken to learn more
about the needs of young adults in our

 

 

REMINDER . . .

America?! gineét
athletic aquipment

IS BUILT BY

FOR CATALOG WRITE:
W. J. Volt Rubber Corp.
1600 Eost 25th S‘treet

Los Angoles 'l'l, Colif.

®
9‘99 W

New York 10, Chicago 10, Los Angeles 11

 

16 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

communities. It must not be presume
that young pe0ple who are not con
nected with youth agencies are un01
ganized, for there are countless othe
associations through which they fint
group experience. Agencies could mak
a real contribution by being increas
ingly more flexible and willing to extent
services to groups not identified a
agency members.

It may be that there are new area
of service for youth agencies in helf
ing young GI’s who are feeling th
impact of new contacts, interruption (1
family life, edu’cation, marriage an
career plans, the effects of intenéiv
army group life and the necessity t
adapt to authority.

Young adult workers may be helpe
to learn more about employer-employe
relations, union participation and othe
problems which concern them. Sine
this is a highly mobile group, perhap
they could make use of agency facilitie
for social and other functions not pe1
mitted in crowded or temporary livin
quarters. '

There is a time-tested value in ou
agencies’ programs which has to d
with creating a climate of freedor
where convictions may clash withoL
disaster, where young people can lear
to take the clashes in their stride. Th
reported apathy toward social actio
needs closer examination. Experienc
shows that many youth are interested i
social action, beginning with neighbm
hood or community affairs and gradl
ally developing to an interest in nation:
and world affairs. If they are not ei
pressing this through agency progran
why not? Perhaps they lack interest i
what we think should interest then
Perhaps what is called youth’s apath
could more precisely be labeled adu
fears.

A good agency should maintain a
atmosphere of healthy growth, activel
helping and encouraging youngsters a
they grow from one stage to anothet
seeing to it that there is always som:
thing they can “grow up to” until the
are ready to take their places in th
community as full-fledged adult citizen:
ching to this line is a powcrful an
living demonstration of our belief i
the worth and dignity of the individua
an enduring value of our civilizatior

RECREATIOI

A few highlights on the WHY, WHEN and
IIOW of the United States Assembly of Youth.

ACCENT 0N YIIUNG ADULTS

FOR the first time in American history,’ a national assembly
of young adults, United States Assembly of Youth, was
convened at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Sep-
tember 3-8, 1953. This assembly consisted of participants
who were invited through a broadly representative group
of national organizations and was a significant event in
many ways:

It brought together young adults (ranging in age from
18 to 30) from rural and urban areas, points east, west,
south and north in the United States, and from a few coun-
tries around the world, to explore the subject “The World
We Want.”

lt developed this challenging theme through keynote ad-
dresses by such eminent speakers as Governor G. Mennen
Williams, Mr. Walter Reuther, Dr. Mordecai Johnson, Dr.
Henry Steele Commager and others.

It presented an opportunity for continuous discussion and
exchange of ideas in the three general program areas:
“American Heritage,” “Human Rights,” and “The United
States In The World Today.” Through informal discussions
and a group consensus method rather than formal resolu-
tions, searching and very specific questions were explored
under each of these general areas. Truly, this was “demo-
cracy in action.”

It opened doors to intercultural learning through such
recreational activities as group singing and folk dancing.

lt revealed, through a process of evaluation, some of the
principal concerns which brought these young people of
all races, creeds and religions to the United States Assembly
of Youth. Some of these included: wanting to do something
about such national problems as the need for more young
adult participation in community action, political action,
- and so on; wanting to do something about the world situa-
tion; wanting to learn about techniques on how to develop
better programs (i.e., recreational facilities in underprivi-
leged areas) at home.

It enabled some participants to gain greater confidence

 

MISS PICARD, executive assistant, Public Education Section,
American Cancer Society, was a participant at the United
States Assembly of Youth in Ann Arbor, Michigan. She is
co-chairman on public relations for the Young Adults
Council of the National Social Welfare Assembly.

JANUARY 1954

Collegiate Council for the United

Simone C. Picard

in presenting their ideas and opinions; others were able to
clarify their thinking on such vital issues as our basic free-
doms, citizen participation regarding health and welfare
needs, recreation and housing needs, United States foreign
policy, and so on; and it was also possible for some partici-
pants to find that their attitudes on civil rights, civil liberties,
race relations, and so on, had broadened by the time the
conference ended and that the result was a realization of
greater understanding.

It concluded on a very positive note, voiced by the vast
majority of those present, through the enthusiastic recom-
mendations for future assemblies such as this one, on na-
tional, regional and local levels.

The United States Assembly of Youth was sponsored by
the Young Adult Council (YAC) of the National Social
Welfare Assembly. YAC, as you probably know, is the
central coordinating council of fifteen major youth and
young adult organizations in the United States. These or-
ganizations are:

Rural Youth of the U.S.A.
Students for Democratic Action

United Christian Youth
Movement

United States National
Student Association

United World federalists,
Student Divislon

Universalist Youth Fellowship

National Council, Young Men's
Christian Association

National Board, Young Women’s '
Christian Association

American Unitarian Youth
American Youth Hostels

Nations

National Association for the
Advancement of Colored
People—Youth Division

National Catholic Welfare Con-
ference, Youth Department

National Jewish Youth
Conference

North American Student
Cooperative League

With the cooperation of these member ,organizations, the
Young Adult Council has undertaken, among others, such
projects as:

0 Sponsoring a study to assess the opportunities for citizen-
ship education and young adult participation in public
afiairs. This was done ointly with the Education-Recreation
Division of the National Social Welfare Assembly and a
report of this study is available (see page 18).

0 Providing the setting for eleven member organizations of
YAC to draft a statement on Human Rights, which was
submitted to the platform committees of the 1952 Demo-
cratic and Republican Conventions.

17

o Encouraging the observance of United Nations Day by
preparing a program aid to promote the 1953 observance.
oTaking an active role in the activities of the World
Assembly of Youth.

To explore the latter a bit further, WAY (as the World
Assembly of Youth is called) is the international equiva-
lent of our own Young Adult Council, WAY came into being
as a result of plans which were formulated in 1948 at the
International Conference of Youth in London, England.
Since that time meetings have been held in Brussels, Istan-
bul, Ithaca and Dakar, for the purpose of enabling young
pe0ple of established youth organizations to meet and con-
sider common problems and to contribute to their solutions.
The first General Assembly of WAY was held at Cornell
University in Ithaca, New York, in August 1950, and plans
are now being made for the 1954 General Assembly in
Singapore. It is anticipated that the 1954 delegation repre-
senting the United States at Singapore will be comprised
of young adult leadership from the broadly representative
national organizations afiiliated with YAC and all geo-
graphic areas in our country. At these meetings the program
of WAY is set into motion through such projects as youth
teams in underdeveIOped areas, international understanding
through the exchange of persons and special conferences,
technical assistance by supporting government and United
Nations programs. The WAY program in general seeks “to

extend, strengthen and enrich youth work and youth move-
ments throughout the world.” As recently as October 1953,
the first issue of the new WAY monthly publication, WAY
Forum, was released and now affords even greater avenues
for the exchange of ideas. National committees made'up
of the major national youth organizations from forty-four
countries of the non-Soviet world are affiliated with WAY.
In this manner, the United States is actively represented by
the Young Adult Council delegation.

The pattern of cooperation which has been achieved
nationally through the Young Adult Council and the United
States Assembly of Youth, and internationally through the
World Assembly of Youth, is indicative certainly of what
might readily be termed a blueprint for action in local com-
munities everywhere. The strength of this pattern, estab-
lished by young pebple who have assumed leadership roles
in great part with the c00peration of adult organizations,
must be maintained and encouraged in our local com-
munities, in the United States as a whole, and in the entire
world.

This is only the beginning of a significant chapter in our
history. The outline for the initial stepping stones has been
drawn by the activities set forth in this brief report. It is
indeed up to us to set these stepping stones firmly in the

ground in order to help in building a solid foundation for
tomorrow.

New Young Adult Study

The interesting new study of young
adults, from teens through their thirties,
has just been published by the National
Social Welfare Assembly, as a part of
their “Young Pe0ple and Citizenship”
project, and is now available.* It rep-
resents the c00perative effort of many
national organizations, social workers,
educators, social scientists and young
adult themselves, and was made pos-
sible by a grant from the Fund for
_ Adult Education.

Quoting from its pages: “At a time of
change in the social order and its values,
anxiety about young people may be in-
terpreted as concern about the future
and the sort of world we shall have.”
The study is therefore concerned with
the manner in which young pe0ple are
prepared for responsible citizenship,
and its report attempts analysis of some
of their basic needs and interests and
description of educational programs

 

* National Social Welfare Assembly, 345
E. 46 Street, New York 17. $1.50.

18

designed for them by a number of na-
tional youth organizations. The under-
lying assumption is that education for
citizenship will not only help to make
democracy more effective and dynamic,
but will provide. young pe0ple with
valuable group experiences and an
opportunity to relate their personal
needs and interests to broader social
goals. Within this frame of reference the
task was twofold: to find out what a
number of adult-sponsored youth or-
ganizations are doing in the way of
programs, and to describe certain fea-
tures of the young-adult age group that
pertain to its members’ actual and po-
tential roles as citizens.

The study is placed in the growing
area of common ground between social
work and adult education. On the one
hand, programs in adult education have
recently begun to stress community
needs, as well as individual training;
and in the second place, community
service organizations, devoted to group
goals from their earliest days, are

. stitute

searching' for ways to improve and
broaden the educational content of
their programs.

Since many of the programs of aduli
education and youth organizations con
thei1
problem is how to use leisure time con

leisure-time activities,
structively and meaningfully, that is
not only by providing recreation o:
vocational courses, but by giving young
pe0ple a greater sense of communitj
and helping them to develop into mort
mature and responsible citizens.

The purpose of this study was no
merely to describe characteristics 0
young people and programs designer
for them, but to arrive at conclusion:
and make recommendations for pro
grams and further research. Accord
ingly, an outline of recommendation:
is included.

The findings of this study not onl]
make interesting reading, but an
thought provoking, suggestive of man]
program ideas and should not b:
missed by any leader of young adults

RECREATIOD

   

THE student stopped Mr. MacPhee in the hall and ex-
claimed, “Did you hear about the Playground Dramatics
Program? We had two hundred enthusiastic children with
parents, costumes, and pets.” This was part of the special
playground program conducted by Mr. Vincent Fowler,
superintendent of recreation in Cortland, New York, under
the co-sponsorship of the Cortland Recreation Commission
and Mr. John MacPhee’s class from the Recreation Educa-
tion Division of the State Teachers College in Cortland.
College recreation educators, do you know that your
recreation classes can have laboratories similar to those in
biology and chemistry? The most Hp-to-date educational
procedures recommend the “doing” experience as part of
each course, rather than theory alone. Activity classes need
not be limited to typical college surroundings. Every college
has, in its adjacent community, a living, dynamic laboratory
for all types of recreational activities. Don’t hesitate. Use
these community resources.

Perhaps, recreation directors, educators alone are not
guilty in overlooking them! Have you recreation executives
taken steps to realize the volunteer potential of the college
campus in or nearby your community?

In our town, we are fortunate to have a philanthropic
citizenry and alert ofiicials who are aware of the positive
values and objectives derived from organized community
recreation. This healthy attitude has prompted our modest
community of approximately 17,000 to expand its public
recreation facilities to include Dexter Park (5.5 acres),
Suggett Park (11.5 acres and C. C. Wickwire Pool), and
Beaudry Park (14.5 acres). Two of these areas are equipped
for indoor use. All three have playground areas equipped
with the conventional facilities such as swings, teeter-totters
and climbing devices. In addition, our Cortland education

 

MR. NIACPHEE is assistant professor in the Department of
Recreation Education, State Teachers College, and MR.
FOWLER is director of recreation, Cortland, New York.

JANUARY 1954

LET’S USE-

COLLEGE
VOLUNTEERS

John A. M aclee

and Vincent L. Fowler

department is generous in making available to our city rec-
reation commission the facilities under its jurisdiction.
Thus, it becomes apparent that our specific problem may
be similar to one of yours: a definite lack of full-time em-
ployed personnel to advantageously utilize existing physical
properties and facilities. If. so, perhaps you may solve the
dilemma as we did through the medium of college siudent
volunteers.

Before our own Playground Activities Class was or-
ganized, Mr. Fowler, city recreation director, and Mr. Mac-
Phee, recreation education field work supervisor of the
college agreed to collaborate in a program of varied
character for the city playgrounds.

The course was scheduled over eight weeks (one-half
semester), for three fifty-minute periods weekly in April
and May for college credit. Its basic objectives: (1) to orient
the class to the broadness and variety of a good playground
program, and (2) organize the class to plan, practice, con-
duct, and evaluate programs on city playgrounds.

First weekmOrientation, theory and analysis of the many
aspects of a good playground program. This presentation
included—in addition to active games and sports—-—arts
and crafts, dancing, drama, music, nature, special events,
and so on. An amusing incident happened here. One
student, from a very heavily populated urban area com-
mented in class: “I never heard of such a playground
program! All we ever had, where I come from, were
games.” The college instructor explained that this was
one of the reasons that a laboratory course, such as this,
was necessary: After two periods of analysis through dis-
cussion, the class began considering the best way to or-

ganize itself to conduct the various programs.

Second weekahe class was divided into five committees,
each being responsible for conducting duplicate programs
on two diiierent days on city playgrounds. The committees
met in different parts of the room during class time, and

19

started their planning. The instructor moved from com-
mittee to committee, offering assistance as needed. Previ-
ously all members had turned in a library bibliography of
possible books that could be used for such planning. The
last meeting of the week was not held in order to give all
members opportunity for research and collection of materi-
als. Plans for each committee included a rainy-day alternate
program.

Third week—The recreation executive met with the stu-
dent volunteers in class discussions. All aspects of a play-
ground program were analyzed. The emphasis was cen-
tered on advance planning or preliminary work completed
prior to actual operation, spot planning or alteration of
original plans if necessary, and emergency planning or
provisions for unscheduled events. The thoroughness of
advance planning, as to material and personnel, often serves
to eliminate extensive spot and emergency planning. The
recreation executive informed the student volunteers of the
prOcedures and publicity mediums related to public relations
and promotion. The vital importance and use of safety pre-
cautions were emphasized and accident procedures ex-
plained. In short, the recreation executive oriented the stu-

dents to the objectives and philosophy forming the basis of
his recreation program.

Fourth week—This week and_part of the next were used
for drfess rehearsals. Each committee used other members
of class as typical playground participants. The final fifteen
minutes of each session were devoted to class analysis of
the committee’s presentation of its program.

Fifth, sixth, and seventh weeks were the periods of actual
program presentation. Here, the students had unique flexi-
bility of movement; that is, they were able to work at vari-
ous play areas presenting recreation activities to small neigh-
borhood groups throughout the community. This factor
results in virtually individual attention to participants. The
recreation executive made pertinent evaluations with con-
structive suggestions. In this three-week period, it is im-
perative that the recreation executive closely observe and
supervise all projects. This must be done in a discreet man-
ner, allowing students both sufficient time and freedom to
solve problems that arise. Such observation was supple-
mented by additional critique sessions in the classroom.
Success and failure were similarly discussed and situations
analyzed to determine why results of a particular activity
were either good or unfavorable.

We are sure you will find, in a cooperative venture of
this sort, that the community will benefit in pr0portion to
the ability of the recreation executive to utilize the student
volunteers. You, as an executive, are exposed to new meth-
ods and fresh techniques that may be well adapted to your
program. The field laboratory program is justifiable on a
basis of providing a variety of recreational activities other-
wise physically and financially improbable.

Eighth week—In addition to the Friday evaluation of the
previous sessions,. the final week included a period of evalu-
ation of the entire course. Each committee chairman turned

20

in a report and an evaluation which included: preliminary
plans, dress rehearsal, analysis and revision, promotion and
publicity materials (pictures, newspaper clippings, Hyers,
and the like), details of the execution of the programs, and
final evaluation by the committee. In the last period theo-
retical knowledge was tested by a written examination on
the two texts, 88 Successful Play Activities, and The Con-
duct of Playgrounds, both published by the National Recre-
ation Association. These books are a good combination for
source material at a reasonable cost.

There were some striking reactions from all of the people
involved, from administrative personnel to the playground
participants. The class instructor was particularly pleased
because, instead of being merely theoretical, the course was
a guided, practical, professional-type experience in actual
leadership, where the students were participating in virtu-

One of the student lead-
ers assists a youngster
through final step in the
assembling of his kite.

 

ally all phases of a living, functional program of commu-
nity recreation.

The students reactions are best analyzed by a series of
anecdotes and incidents. All were impressed by the enthu-
siastic and boisterous response of the youngsters. It was
extremely gratifying to have an average attendance of
seventy children at each of the eight sessions, with a high of
two hundred participants. The dramatics group used a cir-
cus theme, as they felt it would not scare the children away
as would perhaps the use of such a word as “dramatics”
(an awe-inspiring word for “grammar-school kids”). One
member of the class stated that, as far as he was concerned,
“This class was more valuable than some giving much more
college credit.” Mute evidence of their favorable reaction
was the extra time and even money which they put in to
make their committee’s work successful. They had news-
paper photographs, made “Hyers,” took their own pictures
(plain and flash), and even begged, borrowed, and bought
many of the supplies.

Why don’t you try it! You too will find that the advan-
tages derived from the field laboratory service are mani-
fold'. The college students have been presented with oppor-
tunities to demonstrate their theoretical knowledge in prac-
tical situations. They have learned to profit from their
varied experiences. Field laboratory students are assigned
duties to promote their activity programs by utilizing the

RECREATION

varied medium of public relations. They write newspaper
and radio articles and announcements, and make advance
contact with the particular group with which they plan to
work. Self analysis is stressed by the college professor and
the recreation executive while the program is in operation.
This encourages the exploitation of strong individual char-
acteristics and the self awareness of weaker characteristics.

You will find that the community will give wholehearted
cooperation. School administrators will contribute space,
time, and advice and permit inter-class communication an-
nouncements as well as classroom visits. The local papers
will give adequate space for news material and pictures.
Finally, the local youngsters will participate in numerical
abundance, with parental interest indicating complete satis-
faction. It is the college-student volunteers who make pos-
sible the maximum use of community recreation facilities
at a minimum expense, thus simultaneously assuring the rec-

reation profession of well trained, qualified leaders in the
future.

A Few Learnings

(As Excerpted from Students’ Reports)

Games—“We, as the committee, had a very good time or-
ganizing this program and presenting it. We felt that more
helpers could have aided us because there were only five
of us and over 120 children . . . ”

“We wanted a kick ball game but we forgot the rubber
balls so this had to be diSpensed with. We also wanted to
teach them a new game but the time limit had us stopped;
also they were so lively we had all we could do to keep them
quiet enough to explain and start a game . . . ”

“They didn’t need any mixers because the boys strictly
wanted to play with boys and the girls the same. They did
mix fairly well in the relays however . . . ”

“It was a great experience for us and we learned a great
deal from it. We were all bushed by the time five o’clock
came, but we enjoyed it immensely.”

Arts and Crafts—“The program as a whole went off very
successfully. The making of a lie detector had been de-
cided upon, in advance planning, to motivate the youngsters
to take an active part in the main project (kite making) by
creating an interest in crafts. However, the lie detector

 

JANUARY 1954

became more of a project 1n itself than a means of motiva-
tion. Because of the great number of children (seventy)
they were doubled up on the kite project. Owing to the
dangers of using a knife, all lie detectors had to be notched
by the instructor. The use of sharp articles should have
been taken into consideration beforehand. We didn’t have
enough materials or time. Exact lengths of string, and so

John Macl’hee instructs
his Playground Activi-
ties Class in the theo-
retical part of cooliera-
tive leadership program.

 

99

on, should have been prepared ahead of time . . .

“The most distressing factor of the program at Beaudry
Park, was the poor scheduling of the maintenance crew who
were to cut the grass at the park. The committee was inter-
rupted when the grass cutter made it necessary for the kites
to be moved from one area to another, thus holding up the
program tremendously. All in all, however, it was a large
success for the children attending and this was the most
important factor.” °

“I believe that we improved greatly on the second pro-
gram. We we're beginning to get the feel of the operation and
to find the best methods of working together. It was a very
valuable experience and one which will prove to be a good
background for future work.”

Music and Dancing—“We were assured of our success
when the children asked, ‘Will you be back again next
week?’ To start, we used music playing over a loud speaker
as an attention-getting device. We played a rhythm game
first, and then conducted dancing—square and round—
until the children were tired. This led into singing, and
they sang a lot of songs with motions because they were the
most popular. Then we strayed a little from our schedule
and had a couple of group relays. These went over in a
big way.”

Dramatic Group—“Our circus was planned in such a
way as to bring into it dancing, singing, $its, monologues,
stunts. This event was promoted in each classroom in Pom-
eroy School—which seemed to be worth our while as two
hundred enthusiastic kids showed up. About half of them
didn’t get into the act, but were satisfied to watch. If we
had had more workers, more could have participated. There
were several remarks made by mothers about the need for
more special events at the park . . . ”

“The next week it rained, but the children had heard about
the circus at Dexter Park, and they came—pets, costumes

and all. The fieldhouse was filled. This time, all of them
got into the act even if only to help with props.”

21

Tho St. Paul Playground
Youth Association

Gladys Barchus

THE TEEN-AGE young people of today are spoken of as the
problem group. However, recreation people through-
out the country are quite sane in their thinking that it is
not such a serious problem with a great majority of those
young people between the ages of fourteen and eighteen.

Let us give a moment of sound, sober thought to it. Let
us think of what we were at that tender age. Let us open up
our minds to the desires of the teen-ager and recognize the
alertness, the ingenuity, the ability, and the craving “to do
something now.” i

We have, in St. Paul, teen-age youth clubs organized at
the eighteen year-round play centers. The local organizations
vary in membership from 20 up to 350 boys and girls who
attend the business meetings to plan weekly dances, socials,
tournaments in co-recreational volleyball, tennis, ping
pong and horseshoes. From these clubs, groups are or-
ganized to take part in city-wide events. Each local club
elects a delegate to represent its group at a steering-club
meeting. These representatives meet every month with their
advisors and help plan city-wide events to be voted on at
the city-wide Youth Association meeting. The four youth
advisors are chosen by the delegates of the association and
the staff of playground directors. First the youth vote
for the two directors they want; then the staff names two
directors to complete the advisory group.

The local clubs also elect six voting delegates to attend
the city-wide Youth Association meetings. More members
from the local clubs may attend, but the registered delegates
are the only ones who can vote. At these meetings, held
once a month, plans are made and committees are named
for all city-wide events. They plan for such events as a
monthly dance, tournament play-offs, roller skating parties,
pow-wows and socials. The group works out in detail the

 

MRS. GLADYS BARCHUS, the director of playgrounds in St.
Paul, Minnesota, is the St. Paul Youth Advisor.

22

 

St.

royalty group includes the prime min-
ister, king, queen, and lady-in-waiting.

Paul’s Winter Carnival junior

annual youth conference and the city-wide coronation of
the junior king and queen in connection with the St. Paul
Winter Carnival.

The meetings are held at a different center each month
to acquaint the young people with facilities in the various
parts of the city and to give them ideas on decorations of
club rooms and activities. The host group plans the social
hour which follows the business meeting. Lunch is served,
for which there is a small contribution. The host club may
either use the money to defray the expenses or turn it over
to the' treasurer of the city—wide Youth Association. The
money raised by the association is used for the expenses
of the annual conference, to send delegates to the Governor’s

Conference, and to meet the expenses of the junior corona-
tion ball.

A one-page paper entitled, “Highlights for Youth,” is
printed after each business meeting. It lists a calendar of
events for the coming month for the association and for
the local clubs. There is a summary of the business meeting
and an article on the special event of the month. The paper
is mailed to all play center directors, delegates of the associa-
tion, and to teen-agers whose names have been submitted
to the. secretary as those interested in joining a local club.

The Annual Youth Conference is so planned that a local
club may send as many delegates as it wishes to finance.
An average of eight delegates from each center attend. The
meetings are held in the Coffman Memorial Union on the
University of Minnesota campus. An important event of
this day is a tour of one of the university units. The Science
Museum was last year’s choice, and students from the uni-
versity served as guides.

A committee of teen-agers is selected to plan the con-
ference, carry out the details, and serve as panel chairmen.
It requires many extra meetings to make these plans, work
out arrangements with the University of Minnesota, prepare
for the noon luncheon, and obtain guest speakers. The topics

0

RECREATION

chosen for panel discussions at the last conference were:

1. The value of the Youth Association to the local club
and to the individual teen-ager.

2. Should the coronation ball be formal or informal?

3. What should the attitude of the teen-ager be toward
his play center?
4. As a director of a center, how would you set up a pro-

gram to bctter serve the community? Keep in mind the
existing facilities you have to work with.

5. The debate: The Curfew—Be It Resolved That the Cur-
few Law Is a Good One.

The gucst speaker at the luncheon was Richard Mulcrone,
a charter nlemher of the St. Paul Youth Association. He
volunteered at his local center at the age of twelve. For
many years he was a member of the Junior Service Corps
and assisted the director with activities for smaller boys.
Later he served as a junior coach and referee. He is now
a student at St. Thomas College and is also a big-time
umpire with the St. Paul Playground Department and the
Catholic Athletic Association. His topic at the luncheon
meeting was “The Youth Organization in the Community.”

 

Boys from Palace Center in St. Paul build a dark-room in
a corner of the cluhroom for their photography groups.

The highlights of his address will give you an idea of what
the organization meant to a member and what he h0pes
the present and future members will gain by belonging to
a local and a city-wide youth association group. He

elaborated on six items which the organization accomplishes
for its members.

1. It gives a member prestige. The eyes of the adult mem-
bers of the center are always upon the teen-ager. When
they see a group of them conducting meetings and working

out playground problems, they respect them and help them
to carry out good ideas.

2. It gives an individual self-assurance and poise. He learns
the proper procedure of a business meeting, and acquires

3. It gives him the feeling of belonging. Teen-agers like
to belong to clubs. They like to brag about belonging to
organizations, and when one is a member of a local or
the City-Wide Youth Association, he has something to
brag about. He becomes civic-minded when he joins a play-
ground youth club.

.L

4. It gives him a voice in the play center activities. Here
is one of the few places where teen-agers can go to air

their problems, he heard, and know that someone will think
about these problems and help them.

5. It gives a teen-ager something to do. The teen-ager who
is too young to get work can find plenty to do when he
joins an organized youth group at his local center. The
Junior Service Corps needs willing assistants to help the
director with the smaller children. There is always a group
painting or working on other projects to better conditions
at the center or helping with games. One can join an
athletic group and play volleyball, tennis, ping pong, horse-
shoes or golf; and there are social activities for those who
are not athletically inclined.

6. It gives him an idea of the aims and the interests of
teen-agers at other play centers.

The Speaker suggested three things a teen-ager should
do for his youth organization: (1) Be an active member.
(2) Attend the meetings and enter the discussions. (3)
Publicize the organization of which he is a member. His
closing quotation was: “Recreation is like an industrial
product; it should be constantly improved.”

The St. Paul Youth Association sends delegates every
year to the Governor’s Conference. These members are
chosen by the city-wide group, and their expenses are taken
care of by the association.

The most elaborate event of the year is the coronation
of the junior king and queen, the lady-in-waiting, and the
election of the prime minister for the winter carnival. All
the local youth groups conduct coronation parties at their
centers. Here a junior prince and princess are chosen,
crowned and feted. These young people become candidates
for the junior king and queen and a lady-in-waiting. The
prime minister is chosen on the basis of personality, Speak-
ing ability, and alertness. He often uses his own ideas to
meet circumstances as they arise during carnival week, and
he attends the junior royalty at all meetings and events
and introduces them at all occasions.

The junior king and queen and the lady-in-waiting are
chosen from the princes and princesses of the eighteen local
play centers. A formal dance and a pageant precede the
coronation. During carnival week the junior royalty attend
all functions connected with the winter carnival, and visit
hospitals, schools and institutions for children. The junior
royalty serve the entire year or until their successors are
named.

The attendance at youth activities during the past year
has greatly increased; and throughout the planning, there
is evidence of great enthusiasm and “willingness to do,”

j the ability to stand on his feet, think and talk before a
' group.

which to us means that these young people desire the reSpon-
sibility of such planning and doing.

I JANUARY 1954 23

From address given at the Thirty-Fifth
National Recreation Congress in Philadelphia

It has been fashionable over the past dec-
ades to make sport of the great, overgrown
metropolitan centers, particularly those of the New World.
Philosophers and city planners alike have not only wept
over the ugliness and dirtiness of the great American cities,
and over their seemingly insoluble traffic congestion, their
slums and technological obsolescence, but have insisted
that the great cities are the centers of political and social
disintegration, of crime, of cultural decay. Oswald Spengler
not only saw in the cities the excesses and weaknesses which
would destroy them, but the disease which would pull down
to destruction and oblivion the whole edifice of Western
culture with its, to him, fatally degenerate system of
democracy and Christianity.

Our own prophet of urban doom is Lewis Mumford.
Though he has done a great deal to shock us into better
planning, Mumford, whom I admire greatly, has, I fear,
fallen into the error of applying to cities the laws of the
individual biological life cycle. This leads him by the logic
of his own simile to predict the death of the great cities,
when they have passed through the various stages of growth,
disease, and disintegration.

There is plenty of anguish in the present time of urban
adjustment. If any growing boy had all the aches and pains,
unsolved problems, split mentality, unfulfilled drives, and
damaged organs which we find in every large city, and in
most small ones too, that “organism” would certainly
end up in the sanatorium and in complete disintegration.
But a city is not a boy; it is not a single biologic organism;
it is not a chemical compound. A city is a city and nothing
else, and those who try to understand a city by.turning to
analogies from mechanics, or chemistry, or biology, had
better watch their step.

I am not under-rating what needs to be done to make the
cities better for men to live and work in. Not more than
ten days ago, in northern Vermont, I found a strange and
beautiful and what I thought was a new birdi. . . He was
cheerful, not too shy, and decorated with rich browns, white
bars and a distinguished black vest. After sonie research,
1 “discovered this was the clean country example of the
Passer domesticus, or English sparrow, minus his city
grime. Not even a cat can keep clean in the modern city
without help.

Most people think that the great need of the big cities

 

DR. GULICK, president of the Institute of Public Administra-
tion and chairman of the National Council on Research in
Recreation of the National Recreation Association, is also
city administrator designate of New York City.

24

RECREATION

and

RESEARCH

Luther Gulick

 

is to “solve the traffic problem,” forgetting that traffic con-
gestion is just a derivative ill, and is a symptom of many
difficult underlying problems having to do with housing,
work space, land utilization, technological change and the
new realization of recreational desires by city populations.
Traffic congestion is actually a dramatic mark of tech-
nological and social progress, though its pains today are
pretty bad and draw attention away from the underlying
factors. '

While a great deal needs to be done to make the great
cities more congenial, efficient, and esthetically satisfying,
let me say that the great cities are here to stay; they will
not wither and fade away: They will not destroy the culture
of which they are the capstone. And what is more, they will
continue to be the centers of power, wealth, leadership and
social and cultural advance except, of course, where they
are destroyed by war or by deeper economic causes. While
I say this as a matter of faith. 1 think I could marshal a good
deal of evidence on my side. However, this is not the place
for such an undertaking.

What I want to do here is state a thesis and show how
and why we may test and prove this hypothesis to the great
benefit of mankind.

This is the thesis: Great cities and great cultures must
have great plans and opportunities for human re-creation.
The greater the pressures and pace of work and life, the
broader and bolder must be the recreational program. This
is necessary, not to save the cities, but to make life richer and
better balanced for the people who will live in the cities.

In this statement two things need special comment: Rec-
reation as thus viewed embraces the full breadth of the
modern concept of recreation. It includes everything which
man needs or wants in his environment of life and in his
leisure time to give new life to his soul, mind and body,

.everything which serves to re-create his being. Second,

while 1 have here thrown the emphasis on the recreational
needs of metropolitan man, this is suggested merely as one

RECREATION

approach, and does not exclude the needs of rural and
suburban man, most of which are the same, though their
realization may call for important differences.

There are many ways of testing the hypothesis that men,
especially modern urbanized men, need and want recreation,
and that societies which have such programs are better than
those which lack them. While we have a right to state these
hypotheses on the basis of our own limited experience and
as matters of faith, we have the obligation to test the
assumptions with rigorous scientific honesty.

And this is where the new National Advisory Committee
on Recreation Research will endeavor to make its contri-
bution. Drawing on the advice of men and women from
various walks of life and various backgrounds of specialized
knowledge, we will endeavor to become familiar with the
research which is now going on which bears directly or
indirectly on recreation; next we will try to see what tenets
and practices of recreation require more scientific study,
and finally we will suggest lines of inquiry which seem to
us promising, Ltogether with some indication of fruitful
priorities. It is not our plan to do the research directly, but
rather to suggest lines of inquiry which will encourage and
stimulate others, and will tend to prevent the under-emphasis
of important elements in the total picture.

As the first step, with the assistance of the staff of the
Association, we are gathering a list of researches now going
on. This endeavor has already disclosed hundreds of
valuable projects, but it has also indicated further lines of
needed inquiry.

'Fortunately we do not need to do any pioneer work in
defining recreation, though the research which lies ahead
will surely draw the lines more tightly and scientifically for
us. The broad, humanistic, pragmatic definition presented
by Dana Caulkins in the June 1953 RECREATION is a good
starting place. It falls directly
in line with the earlier state-
ments of Luther Halsey
Gulick' and Howard Brau-
cher. These definitions en-
compass certain elements of
faith, and thus present cer-
tain challenges for explora-
tion and research.

 

As we view the situation
now, there would seem to be five categories of research in
the field of recreation:

First, we need to know more about human needs for the
healthy and happy life. This will involve both an application
to recreation of what is already known about human be-
havior, and a collaboration in the discovery of factors
which have not yet been laid bare. While we are, naturally,
especially concerned with the recreational use of “free
time,” we must not overlook the recreational aspect of other
factors such as the work environment.

Second, we need to know more about the measured suc—
cesses and failures of various programs in fulfilling these
human needs for recreation.

* The author’s uncle.

- JANUARY 1954

Third, we need more analysis of commun1ty support for
validated recreation programs, and a better understanding
of the relation of recreation to the economic well-being of
the community and to its power to support recreation,
whether through taxation or through voluntary means.
Fourth, we need to explore and understand the institutional
factors, that is, the complex of public and private, formal
and informal, organized and unorganized, in-the-home_and
outside-the-home, commercial and non-commercial, rec-
reation, and the several successful patterns which may
evolve in a free society.

Finally, we must not overlook the many internal and profes-
sional problems having to do with standards, personnel,
facilities, education, groups, and activities.

I cannot at this stage limit the lines of interest of the new
committee, and there may well be other major categories
which will grow out of discussions and suggestions and the
deliberations of the committee itself.

We stand at a time in American development when more
and more people are attracted to the urban areas, away
from the rural life. This is only partly the result of high
income possibilities in the industrialized cities. It is equally
the result of increased mechanization and efliciency on the
soil and in the extractive industries, which make it un-
necessary to have as many people there as in the past. We
are also in the midst 'of a period of marked changes in
working conditions which afford most workers extended
periods of free time each day, each week-end, each year with
the vacation periods, and each lifetime. These free periods
have been introduced along with higher incomes in the
main. We have also seen in the past generation a pheno-
menal increase in free mobility, particularly through the
development of hard-surfaced roads and universal auto-
mobile ownership. I do not need to call attention to the
other technological developments of our generation such
as the radio and television; and I should not fail to list the
important new knowledge which is being accumulated by
social scientists about human behavior and human needs.

Fortunately we stand also on the threshold of a new age
of reconstruction and social understanding, unless we are
engulfed in another world war. There are signs of this new
age on every hand, particularly in the rising attention to
city and country planning and redevelopment both here and
abroad. I need only cite Christopher Tunnard’s recent vol-
ume, The City of Man, to show that we are passing from
the sterile two-dimensional,planning to a multi-dimensional
planning, which, without autocratic controls, may still
reach for beauty, and happiness, and life. You will find in
Tunnard a new appreciation of what we mean by recreation
as an element of the city plan, as well as other keen observa-
tions on cities designed to make possible the fulfillment of
man in the world of everyday life.

Recreation belongs in this picture, not solely as a field of
professional activity, not solely as a service to the com-
munity, but also as a field of scientific inquiry. This is the
justification for the setting up of the National Advisory
Committee on Recreation Research, and this is the challenge
we shall try to meet.

25

 

H over-all View of the very colorful booths and tents
which filled the Los Angeles Coliseum for Scout-O-Rama.

400KB like a merry country fair! But the barkers are
Boy Scouts and the aisle after aisle of booths are
demonstrating Indian crafts, boat building, foil cooking
and hundreds of other_practical skills. These sights greeted
the more than 50,000 visitors to the Scout-O-Rama show
of 1953 in the Los Angeles Coliseum where 15,000 Cubs,
Scouts and Explorers, representing the sixteen districts of
the Los Angeles Boy Scout Council, participated in this
grand show. 1)

Its main purpose, and that of all Scout-O-Rama’s, is to
bring together the efforts and ideas of boys in Scouting,
at one time and one place. Highlighted are present and past
achievements and ideas for enriching the entire Scouting
program for the coming year. Moreover, it gives recogni-
tion and awards to those Scout units which present examples
of outstanding work done. And, very important, this
panorama gives Scouts a perfect chance to get together for
recreation, fellowship, laughter and a whirlwind of fun
for all.

This big show is staged in three parts: vivid booth demon-
strations, big stage shows, and outdoor camping. How p0p-
ular these are! All old participation records were broken.
More than 625 colorful booths covered the entire ground
space of the Coliseum. Each district set up their own booths,
planning and decorating them; each booth was manned by
units from the same district. Boy Scout barkers sang out
the wonder of their exhibits, _featuring such diversified
demonstrations as tent pitching, conservation, home repairs,
black-smithing and other fascinating skills. Eight and nine-
year-old Cubs manned their booths showing first aid care,
soap carvings and the like. Other Scouts dared the audience
to “join the fun” and try their skill at archery, astronomy,
bird identification and other events. The biggest part of the
booth activities is the judging. Judges, comprising key
Scouters from each district, rate the booths on quality of
activity and materials, method of operation and general

MISS MARY ANN KEEVE is a member of the Los Angeles
Area Council staff of the Boy Scouts of America.

26

Big Doings in Los Angeles

746 Storm of
SCOUT— O - RAMA

Mary Ann Keeve

public interest. Each booth is inspected and judged several
times during the two-day show.

Action-packed stage shows were a featured part of this
Scout-O-Rama. Indian pow-wows, brilliant pageantry and
special “Scouting skill” acts were presented in three huge
shows on the central stage. All Scouts are given a chance
to participate and recognition awards are given to outstand-
ing groups. Such stage shows are built around a broad
theme. “Citizenship” was the emphasis last year and a
moving, four-act pageant was presented.

Overnight camping at the show site is a wonderful ad-
venture. Tents are pitched by the Scouts. Here they cook,
wash and make final plans for the next show. Camping
methods are noted, and recognition given to the outstanding
campers.

The Los Angeles Scout-O-Rama ranks as one of the best
in the nation. Sponsored by the Los Angeles Newspaper
Publishers Association, it has become an integral part of
the community. The enthusiasm and interest shown are
reflected in the tremendous ticket sales, attendance records
and the generous coverage by newspapers, radio and TV.
The total success of S-O-R is owing, in large part, to the
volunteers, civic and business leaders, who work in coopera-
tion with the Los Angeles Boy Scout Council. They put in
three or four active months of work, helping with show
planning, ticket selling and publicity.

An important by-product of Scout-O-Rama is the financial
'aspect. Scouts were taught the essence of good salesmanship
by the Advertising Club, who handled distribution and
promotion of ticket sales. Cubs, Scouts and Explorers sold
fifty-cent tickets throughout the area. Part of the proceeds
went into the unit treasuries of the Scout salesmen and were
used to purchase-camping equipment and handcraft materi-
als and to sponsor camping activities.

With the full cooperation of professional and volunteer
workers, business men and organizations, and general com-
munity interest and spirit, this event has come to stand as

one of the most successful and best-loved projects in
Scouting!

RECREATION

Single Folks Over Twenty Make. History on Oak Park Playgrounds

 

ccGay Twenties” Club

.2...

.I“

"ll

II'
I

I-I
‘:

at .. '
1"“r '
-“ ii "'If

 


r'h
-I
' I'

Members of the Gay Twenties Club give out with a bit of close har-
mony at one of their get-togethers. Twenty-five is the average age.

A western suburb of Chicago, well-

known as the largest village in the
world, Oak Park, Illinois, has of today
a p0pulation of 66,000. Recreation for
adults has proven of paramount im-
portance as a part of its recreation pro-
gram. As the village is “club conscious,”
therefore, it is little wonder that the
playgrounds organized two more clubs,
namely, the Gay Twenties Club for
young adults and the Senior Recreation
Club for oldsters.

The Gay Twenties Club, as the name
implies, is strictly for young adults with
twenty-five as the average age of its
members. The Senior Recreation Club
includes recreation outdoors as well as
indoors for the older adults. The two
clubs were organized approximately at
the same time in the spring of 1953,

MISS LILLY RUTH HANSON is director
of recreation in Oak Park, Illinois.

JANUARY 1954

under the auspices of the Oak Park
Playground and Recreation Board. The
need for recreation for adults was
evidenced by the rapid growth of these
clubs in a few months.

“How, exactly, did the Gay Twenties
Club get started?” is a most frequent
question. Someone voices an idea in the
beginning of all things or they would
never happen. A social recreation insti-
tute, conducted by Mildred Scanlon of
the National Recreation Association,
was sponsored by the Oak Park Play-
ground and Recreation Board in March,
and was attended with an exuberance
that surpassed all expectations. There
was a marked fellowship noticeable
which made the last day of farewell one
of regrets. The fun was over and folks
who attended the institute had played
and danced together for three days.
“Do you plan to continue with this so-
cial recreation?” or “When do we meet

Lilly Ruth Hanson

again?” were some of the questions
asked. It had not occurred to anyone
that the recreation department should
continue to sponsor social recreation
for this particular group. The purpose
of the institute had been to offer tech-
niques and games for social recreation
to leaders and teachers. But with such
marked enthusiasm displayed at a
demonstration of social recreation and
the apparent new movement that was
sweeping the country, it was clear that
social recreation for adults could be a
recreation department goal. The board

agreed that it be initiated as one of the
activities.

The first step taken was the employ-
ment of a director to conduct social
recreation for adults. From the group
of enthusiasts at the institute a particu-
lar person, Mrs. Jo Drake, was chosen
as director and leader of one of the
playgrounds. Mrs. Drake had shown
unusual interest and possessed all the
qualities that were desired for such a
position. She had conducted recreation
in church, at PTA, as well as at her
own dance studio, and also was an adept
caller for square dancing.

The next step necessary was the se-
lection of a planning committee, which
was made up of representatives from
'difierent organizations. This was read-
ily accomplished as planning meetings
for the institute had recently been held.
Thus the new committee included
those who had shown the greatest in-
terest in the planning of meetings for
the institute, men and women from two
churches, YMCA, Kiwanis Club, the

library, and staff members from the

27

At the first
planning meeting a lengthy discussion
ensued, problems solved by the com-
mittee were:

recreation department.

QUESTIONS

Whom should this adult group include?
Should it include only young married
people? Should it mix married cou-
ples and unmarried people? Should it
mix parents and children? What ages

should be included?

ANSWERS

It is not healthy to mix married couples
and unmarried people in a social recre-

 

Social dancing is one of the activities
which appeals to the young adults who
belong to Oak Park’s popular club.

ation group that will continue with
meetings over a period of time. Young
single men and women over twenty
years of age, however, have need of
social opportunities for, as they come
out of high school, their high school
social ties are often dissolved.

With these definite view points in
mind it was decided that the recreation
department should establish a social
group for young single people, ranging
from voting age and above. Now that
the foundation was laid, the ball‘started
rolling. Planning meetings followed,
with more single peOple being added to
the committee. Meetings were sched-

uled bi-monthly, on one Wednesday for.
social recreation and on the alternate'

Wednesday for the planning meetings
—at Carroll Playground.

Enthusiasm had been aroused and
Oak Park buzzed about the new club
that was being formed. Newspapers
and the local broadcasting station car-
ried news; a hundred posters and flyers

28

were placed in churches, hotels and
stores; and the name “Gay Twenties”
had been selected for the club after
many names had been submitted. An

admission charge of tifty cents would
be made per person.

The tirst meeting was held on May 6
with an attendance of twenty men and
twenty women. The evening had been
planned so that every minute was
“chuck-full” of mixers, get acquainted
games, pre-party games, square danc-
ing, and social dancing. At the close of
the evening the group met in the Coke
Room for soft drinks and potato chips.
It was gratifying to look around this
room of gay and happy young pe0ple
who were strangers to one another in
the early part of the evening and now,
through recreation, had been brought
together.

The following Wednesday was set for
planning the next party, with several
new volunteers added to the committee
to help promote the new club. The at-
tendance grew gradually and at present
the enrollment has mounted to 237 with
an average attendance of sixty to
eighty-five.

Other activities that have been suc-
cessfully conducted by this group are
a bus trip and picnic on a Sunday, and
an evening in the forest preserves,
roasting wieners. One outstanding
event which has already made history
for the group is the marriage of a couple
who formed a friendship at the club
gatherings. Married couples remain in
the club as honorary members.

A special event that deserves men-
tion is the carnival which was con-
ducted outdoors on the lawn with at-
tractive booths and indoors with for-
tune tellers and taxi dances. Its pur-
pose was to raise funds for a Christmas
party. Members cooperated in decor-
ating and constructing the booths the
afternoon of the affair.

On Playground
through a gate, one visaged_the color-
ful Sidewalk Cafe where pretty girls

entering Carroll

acted as waitresses, serving soft drinks
and salted nuts, and soft music over a
public address system served as a ro-
mantic background. Other interesting
features of the carnival were: a toy
basketball game with leis as prizes;
horse racing game; darts and balloons;

a clown toss; extinguishing candles
with a squirt gun; guessing the number
of beans in a jar; miniature golf game;
and a gorgeous girl who meandered
through the crowd selling hand-made
flowers.

The climax of the evening was boom-
ed out as a Crazy Auction where they
sold such items as a “diamond pin”—
dime and pin—and many other articles
with double meanings. Occasionally, a
worthwhile thing was auctioned to fur-
nish encouragement.

Within the past month the group has
organized with ofiicers, and plans to
set up a constitution and by-laws. The

recreation and playground board serves
as a backbone for the club and em-

ploys a director who makes plans, with
the aid of a committee, and conducts the
program. The director stands in ac-
cordance with the president to promote
a program which will supply the needs
of single people. The position of di-
rector, upon the resignation of Mrs.
Drake on September 1, was filled by

Mr. Rosskamp Bush Vollman, the new
groom in the club.

Quoting a few excerpts from a solil-
oquy by a member on the Gay Twen-
ties: “I have memberships in young
adult groups in churches and these
friendships too are wonderful to have!
I belong to a lodge and have pursued
it to ith maximum. But none of these
give the sociability, dancing, and vari-
ous diversions that are possible in a
group such as the Gay Twenties. This
group brings people together from vari-
ous walks of life who have a thirst for

good fellowship. The Village of Oak
Park is fulfilling a need that is basi-

cally vital to the after-school age.”

Pleade

ALL MANUSCRIPTS sub-
mitted for publication in

RECREATION should be

DOUBLE-SPACED,
GOOD MARGINS,
should be a first copy NOT

a carbon!

have

and

 

RECREATION

F OLLOWING upon the popularity of its

two Senior Citizens’ Clubs—or-
ganized in 1951 and now having a joint
membership of 1,500, the Oakland,
California, recreation department set up
a Thirty-Forty Club last January as a
direct result of inquiries and requests
from this age group for a similar social
recreation program.

For ten months, meetings were held
twice monthly from eight until mid-
night at the popular Lake Merritt Club-
house. By mid-October it was found
necessary to move club quarters to the
more spacious North Oakland Recrea-
tion Center where there are separate
rooms for card games and dancing, and
a good-sized parking area.

At first, members found folk and
social dancing, game mixers, cards and
spccial theme parties good fun, but

MISS FLORENCE BIRKHEAD is attached
to the publicity staf] of the recreation
department in Oakland, California.

 

tll'l

 

JANUARY 1954.

Thirty
Forty

n

soon many were requesting additional
and more frequent gatherings. Special
interest groups were organized in golf,
bowling, hiking and bridge on week-
ends and additional evenings. One club
member serves as chairman for each
division.

The club is open to single and mar-
ried men and women. There are no dues
and the fifty cents admission at each
meeting takes care of refreshments,
game supplies, records and operational
costs. Also, there are no oflicers; but a
steering committee, on a rotating basis
of two replacements monthly, handles
the finances, program and organiza-
tional matters. Members are asked to
serve one month out of every six on
a committee (committees are kept to
a minimum).

Two recreation directors serve as ad-
visors to the membership, which at
present numbers one hundred and
twenty-five. For special outings, trans-
portation pools are arranged.

On the evening of the change of head-
quarters, in order to make it a really
festive affair, a name trio from a local
hotel played for two hours of dancing.

With the Thirty-Forty Club well
underway, another batch of inquiries
came into the recreation department
office. In general the statement was,
“You have programs for seniors and for
the thirty-to-forty-year-olds but what
about us in-betweeners?” To answer
these demands a Forty-Fifty Club got
underway the last week in October,
meeting on the first Saturday and third
Friday of each month. This Operates the
same as the Thirty-Forty Club.

PROGRA

 Club

. Florence Birkhead

The North Oakland Recreation Cen-

ter now is the headquarters for the three
age groups, with the other senior citi-
zens group meeting at the Park Boule-
vard Clubhouse. This center is equipped
with a. large lounge with a fireplace,
large and small clubrooms, an outdoor
patio for festivals and shufiieboard,

 

Thirty-Forty Clubbers in Oakland find

eongo line lot of fun. Their elub is
Open to both single and married people.

and a barbecue and dining area outside.
Here too is the Costume Service with
its 12,000 costumes available for rental
to civic, school and recreation groups
at a small fee. On the second floor is
Studio One, the city’s arts and crafts
center, where classes for adults and
children alike are held the year around.
Senior citizens have been avid in their
painting, wood carving, ceramics, draw-
ing, metal work, and going on art ex-
ploration trips. The center is accessible
by bus from every section of the city.

Jay M. Ver Lee is city recreation
superintendent.

29

  
 
 
   
 
    
   
     
     
   
   
   

  
 

“Pleasure in movement is as great in our "daily lives as
is our delight in color or sound . . . A mohile is created
for the sake of movement . . . As an art form mobiles are
related to sculpture, painting, drawing and design . . .
They are suspended in the air and, as they turn, present
many combinations of form simultaneously.”—-JOHN

Incorporated, and Thomas Y. Crowell Company. (See
page 319, RECREATION, October 1953.)

HILE working on a plan for the service club’s sum-
iner decorations, and also trying to give impetus
to our crafts program, we came up with the idea of making
large mobiles—which seemed to be a happy solution for both
problems. The first move was to obtain some source material,
with the help of the Sixth Army crafts director. This con-
sisted of magazine articles and illustrations, primarily con-
cerning Alexander Calder, the originator of mobiles and
stabiles.

Next, Master Sergeant Payne, our handcrafts man here
at Fort Baker, spearheaded the project in many ways, such
as gathering scrap materials for use, and helping the men to
get ideas and to carry them out in constructing their mobiles.
We also made mobiles for demonstration.

PUBLICITY AND PROMOTION

The biggest diHiculties to overcome in putting over the
idea of mobiles were:

1. Explaining and showing the men just what mobiles are,

and how they move.
2. Getting across to them that it’s easy and doesn’t require

any previous art work or special ability.

We stressed the idea that their mobiles could be com-
pletely abstract or that they could have a theme. Chief
mediums of publicity were:

1. Wednesday night craft class devoted to collecting ma-
terials and making mobiles.

MISS CERTRUDE-MCCONNELL is service club director at the
Fort Baker Service Club in Sausalito, California.

30

LYNCH, How To Make Mobiies, The Studio Publications.

A successful service club
project which can provide
a riot of fun among other
young adult groups.

Gertrudc C. McConnell

2. A big table of scrap materials near entrance of club am
available for use at all times—source material was kept 0]
this table.

3. Large poster on stage announcing Mobile Contest (re

ferred to later).
4. Use of theatre mats, and announcements at service clul

events.
5. Weekly program bulletins.

MATERIALS USED:

It is interesting to note that no materials were purchase
for use in this project. In fact, it was a good way to clea
out supply cupboards of excess “junk.” Sergeant Payn
gathered scrap materials frome all areas of the Post incluc
ing the junk heaps. Some of the materials used were: wire
ping pong balls, plywood, branches, screening, metalli
paper dishes, metal stripping, aluminum foil, candy wra}
pers, rubber rings, rubber bands, empty film reels, and, c
course, construction paper, and water and Oil colors of a

shades.

THE CONTEST

In order to focus more interest and attention on the prt
ject, we held a contest covering a little more than thre
weeks and climaxed the event with our weekly post danc
which was called “Mobile Madness.” A first prize was give
to the winner at this time, along with two honorable met
tion awards. The judging for the mobiles was done b
two Marin County artists, Mrs. Elsie Pomeroy and Mr:
Mary Engelhart. The mobiles were judged on the basis I
Originality and interest, mobility, and color. The winnel

RECREATIO

were: First—Corporal George Punches for "The Thing”
——an abstract mobile'. Honorable mention—to Private
Denny Bennisen and Private Wally Brandenberger for their
mobile entitled “A Night Out.” Honorable mention‘ to
Private Dick Engelman for “The Acrobat.”

INTERESTING SIDELICHTS

We’ve never undertaken a project that turned out to be
so much fun and so full of surprises, once the idea got into
full swing. The first item of note was this: the men had
to be convinced that it was easy to do—and usually we had
to give them an idea to start with. Secondly, the most un-
likely people (in our Opinion) came up with excellent
mobiles. For example, our prize winner, Corporal Punches,
until the time of this project, had taken no active part in
any club activities—and when he first became interested- in
this art, he had no idea of what a mobile was. He made
three Of them, all excellent, and the men even dubbed him
"Mr. Mobile.” This project seemed to mark the opening of
new interests for him, because since that time he has taken
up ballroom dancing, along with square dancing, and now
is interested in being in a play.

Another feature that deveIOped spontaneously was the'

naming Of the mobiles. This brought a lot Of laughs in
many cases. One maze of tin, rubber rings and wires was

 

Mobilcers cheek scrap table with the assistant service efub
director, Rita Ringwood, for materials for their creations.

called “The Frustrated Ford.” Another monstrosity of
hranchcs, red cloth and several unidentified parts was

dubbed “The Sick Duck.”

CONCLUSIONS AND ANALYSIS OF PROJECT

It is our hope that every service club will have a mobile
project, not only because it is fun, and easy to.do, but both
from the club operation standpoint and from the service-

men’s view, we believe it tO be valuable for these reasons:
Service club operation—

1. Mobiles were made large and suspended from the ceiling
-—therefore they are excellent decorations because they arc

JANUARY 1954

 

varied and colorful, and are a continual source of comment
among visitors.

2. The project is a budget saver: our only expense was that
of the prize offered, the materials were all scrap.

3. No “expert crafts instructor” is needed since the idea
just grew froin picking up a piece of material and beginning
to doodle with it. A director can get someone started, but
need not be confined to the project all evening.

4. More men participated in this crafts project than in any
previous idea we had used. There are about fifteen mobiles
in the club display, but there were approximately thirty to

 

Servicemen building their mobiles of wire and screening.
“The Acrobat” figure is being attaehed to eircular wire frame.

 

Corporal George Punches proudly displays his prize winning
mobile made from an abstract design using plywood pieces.

thirty-five men who had a hand in working on these and on
a few that were mere attempts. PlusYthis, there was much

“coaching” from the sidelines.

Enlisted man’s view— » 

1. No special techniques or previous artistic ability is
needed.

2. Chance to compete for a prize, or to work just for the
fun Of it.

3. Mobiles on display for all to see. (Whenever visitors
comment, we make sure that they know who made the mobile,
if the man is present in the club.)

Ir

 

A “Program Aids” bulletin with instructions on how to make these
mobiles will be published by NRA later this year. Other information
on mobile construction appeared in the December 1953 RECREATION
on page 433.

31

_ i .
TOOTHPICK AND MINT RELAY. This requires
coordination. Players, each with a toothpick, are
lined up in teams. The first person in each team is
given a candy mint, with a hole in the center, which
he places on the toothpick held in his teeth. He then
passes it to the second player’s toothpick (no hands,
pleasel). Team getting mint down line first wins.

 

MUFFIN TIN BOUNCE. A game requiring the

simple equipment of ping pong balls and muffin tins,
and having many scoring varieties. Players stand
behind a throwing line and toss five balls (one at
a time) at the two tins placed on a table——-the first
one flat and the second one tilted. Players may be
required to bounce the ball in one of the sections
of the first tin before it lands in the second tin in
order to score; or each section may have a different
scoring value, with those hardest to achieve having
highest value; or balls landing in the first tin
may count a minus score against those landing
in the second tin; and so on. Ball must remain in
section in which it lands in order to count at all.

32

 

 

RING TOSS. Rubber jar-rings and an

overturned chair are the essential props
for this game. Each player in turn receives

five

rings and scores ten points

for

each “ringer” he makes on a chair leg.

FIND THE LEADER. An often-

mirth-provoking circle game for
any number of players. “It” is
selected and leaves the room while
the other players choose a leader.
Then “It” is recalled and steps
into the center of the circle. The
leader inconspicuously starts a
motion—-—-such as patting the top
of his head, tapping his foot, fold-
ing his arms, and so on—unseen
by “It.” All the other players im-
mediately imitate the leader, who
changes the motions as soon and
as often as possible, without letting
“It” discover who is the leader.

 

HAN DCUFFS. I

arrivals. One en
four feet long,
another piece of
first piece and I
second player.

separate themse]
untying the knol
the center of his
one of the other p:

RECREATION

cccss of the games and mixers which are illustrated and described

as been attested to and proved many times over. All of them re-

a minimum of equipment—the manner in which they are

tcd and the care taken to adapt them to the particular group,

nd placc are the important factors. Shown in the pictures on

ge are young adults in action at recreation laboratories held at

watcr College, Virginia, and Brethcrn Service Center, New
ior, Maryland, and at social clubs in Houston and Austin, Texas.

   
   

using mixer for early
ing or ribbon, about
vrist of one player;
5 looped through the
to the wrists of the
the couple to try to
'ing the strings or

if one player takes
J through the loop on
*er and down his hand.

  

 

ANUARY 1954

 

spectators many laughs as the blindfolded couples
attempt to feed each other a bowl of popcorn.
Winners are the couple who do the best and
speediest job of it. This game is also fun—but
messier 4 when ice cream or pie are used.

CORKER. For the alert players who don’t mind

getting down on the floor. Equipment consists of
a pan lid and pair of dice for one player and a cork
tied to a two-foot piece of string for each of the
others—plus beans for counters for all. Each
player puts his cork in the center of the circle and
holds the other end of the string in his hand. Player
with the dice rolls them as he holds the cover a
foot above corks. If a seven or eleven turns up, he
bangs the cover down, trying to catch the corks
before the other players can jerk them out of the
way. If any other number turns up, he re-rolls the
dice, and players must not move their corks in any
way. If they do they pay a line of three beans.
Cover banger collects three beans from each player
whose cork he catches, pays three beans to those
who get their corks away in time. Each person has
five turns to roll the dice, then passes dice to left.

 

TURTLE RACE. A little prior

preparation is needed to make
the turtles, which are cut from
wood or heavy cardboard. A
hole large enough for a cord
to slip through easily is made
in the turtle’s heads. It is a
good idea to also put adhesive
tape strips on the feet of the
turtle to keep it from slipping
or skidding. One end of a long
cord is fastened to the rungs of
a chair or to a table leg, about
as high from the floor as the
turtle’s height. Each turtle is
strung on one of these cords
with the feet resting on the floor.
Each player holds cord and, on
“Go” signal, moves his turtle
toward the attached end of
the cord—the finish line—
by gently jiggling the cord.

 

GEOGRAPHY RELAY. This game requires a large outline

map of the United States, with state borders, major rivers
and cities indicated but not titled (these may be purchased
in school-supply stores or traced from other maps), a large
box or tray with slips of paper containing the names of the
various places—a different color and names of different
places for each team—and straight pins or thumbtacks.
Each player on a team— in turn—-——runs up and selects a slip
in his team’s color and pins it in the proper place on the map.
If he can’t correctly locate the place, he returns the slip to
the box and draws again—until he draws one he can place.
First team to have every player correctly locate a place wins.
This can also be played using a map of the local area, city
or state, or with a world map, instead of the United States.

+

BLOW POLO. For equipment, a large square or round pan,
tub or dish, with the sides marked off into four equal sec-
tions (use nail polish for marking), and a ping pong ball.
Fill the pan half-full of water. The pan is placed on the
floor or on a table, and four players participate at a time,
each guarding one section of the pan. (If pan is on the floor,
players will have to get down on hands and knees; if it’s on
a table they can sit on chairs or stand.) The ping pong
ball is dr0pped into the center of the pan and players try
to blow it so that it strikes against the side of the pan in
a section one of the others is guarding. Each player is elimi-
nated as soon as the ball strikes his section. The ball is
centered again and play resumes until just one player re-
mains. As a relay, four teams may be used, with one player
from each team competing in each set and the winner scor-
ing one point for his team.
+

HARPOON. This also requires a pan of water, needles on
yard-long pieces of thread (knotted on both ends), and cran-
berries. A number of cranberries are floated in the pan, and
each player, in turn, tries to harpoon and retrieve one with
his needle. Play continues until all the berries have been
caught and person with the most wins. This game may also
be played as a relay or progressive game by having a limi-
ted number of players compete (one member of each team
or one progressing group) for a set number of minutes.

_._¢_
PAPER PLATE PASSING RELAY. For each team, a pa-

per plate and two ping pong balls are needed. Each team
forms a circle and each leader places the ping pong balls on
the plate. On the “Go” signal the teams start passing the
plate from player to player around the circle—-—using only
the index fingers of both hands to balance it. Player dr0p-
ing plate or balls must pick them up and continue the pas-
sing. First team to get plate around circle three times wins.

34

PROVERBlAL ARTISTS RELAY. Equipment consists (

box containing slips of paper with proverbs written 0
them and a blackboard or large sheets of paper. First perso
on each team takes a proverb from the box and, on paper c
blackboard, illustrates the proverb so his team can gues
what it is. As soon as team guesses correctly, second perso

takes his turn. First team to guess all the proverbs illustrate

by players wins.
—¢—A-- .

BALLOON FREE THROW. Make a hoop of wire (a coz

hanger can be quickly and easily bent into a circle—leavin
the book as is for hanging the h00p) and fasten it in a
open space, about ten feet above the floor. Mark a throwin
line a few feet away from the hoop. Players, standing at th
throwing line, take turns trying to toss a balloon (one the
is smaller than the hoop) through the hoop.

'_¢,__.
HOW’S YOUR HUMOR? Select several cartoons from 01'
issues of magazines or newspapers. Cut off the captions
mount the cartoons on pieces of paper and number then“
Place them on a table or hang them on the wall. Give eacl
player (or couple) pencil and paper and have them writ
down cartoon numbers and what they think would be ap

propriate captions. Read off all the captions and let th
whole group choose the best ones.

_¢—_
LILLlPUTIAN GOLF. Make a very miniature golf cours

on the top of a table, using paper circles half-an-inch i1
diameter, pasted to tables, for holes and small boxes, ja
rings, buttons, and so on, for hazards. Dried peas are use:
for golf balls and toothpicks for clubs. Each participan
counts the strokes required to make each hole.

__¢—..
WORD BUILDER RELAY. Equipment consists of a set 0

lettered cards for each team (one letter on a card, one can
for each team member), and pins to fasten cards with
Letters used are those in a word with as many letters a:
there are players on a team—for holiday or special occasior
parties use pertinent words such as Valentine, Hallowe’en
St. Patrick, and so on——and each team has the same word
Each person wears his card and, on the starting signal, eacl
team forms as many words as possible of three letters 01
more. As each word is decided upon, the players witl
letters comprising it must run forward in proper sequenct
to a game leader, at the front of the room, who records tht
word. They then return to their team and compose anothel
word. Team which earns the most points, on the basis of
one point for each letter in each word spelled, wins.

RECREATION

Rutherford Plait

Let’s
Take a Look

at Winter

a

WHEN winter overwhelms the coun-

tryside, plant life appears to van-
isll. We think that nature has lost all
its charm of color. This is an illusion.
Many plants are alive and flourishing
and all the colors can be seen if you
look closely.

All kinds of trees and woody shrubs
are alive, not only evergreens but also
those that have lost their leaves. The
so-called stark “skeleton” of a tree
without leaves is very much alive. It’s
covered with living buds—seven mil-
lion of them 011 a mature elm tree for
example. Moreover, when a tree is with-
out organs for losing water vapor into
the air (leaves do that) the roots are
still taking in water, and the water con-
tent is constantly increased in winter
until it becomes virtually a living stand-
pipe of sap.

But to see the great variety of living
plants in winter, you have to change
your perspective and look for small
plants. You find them near the bases of
trees, in hollows, beside rocks, along
streams or low down in the grass. The
small size of these plants gives protec-
tion from winter killing.

Most primitive plants are alive in
winter. These are the hardy pioneers
which pre-dated in geologic history the
flowering plants identified with sum-
mer. These primitive plants never have

flowers but reproduce from microscopic
cells called spores.

FUNCI. The commonest winter
fungi are the “brackets” or shelf fungi.

IJANUARY 1954

They are related to mushrooms, but
they are tough and woody. Many have
rich colors. They are built with con-
centric rings—like the annual rings
in wood.

ALGAE. Seaweed is the most con-

spicuous form of alga. But a small rela-
tive of seaweed is found on inland
ponds and on trees. A woodman’s tra-
dition is that “moss” grows on the north
side of a tree and this fact can he used
as a compass if you’re lost in the woods.
This is not a “moss” but a colony of
bright green algae—and it grows on the
north side of a tree because that is the
dampest side.

LICHENS. Curious and mysterious
plants compounded by the merging of
the bodies of a fungus and an alga.
Probably the hardiest plant that grows.
It is entirely individual, resembles
neither of its components, is easy to
find in winter, usually in very dry
places. Appears silvery gray, sometimes
green or yellow in color but often with
brilliant red spots. Fantastic shapes:
wine glasses, coral, pagodas or sprawl-
ing flat like a spilled liquid across rocks
and trees. “Reindeer moss” of Green-
land is a lichen.

‘ MOSSES. All are green and flourish-

in g in winter.

FERNS. Some are evergreen. The
Christmas fern is most famous and
common in the woods. Polypody ferns
cover rocks. Shield ferns fill hollows
and woods as in summer.

 

CLUB

winter decorations.

MOSSES. Often used for

Also known as
ground pine. But club mosses are
neither “moss” nor “pine”———they are
very beautiful green plants that cover
the floor of woods especially in hem-
lock forests. Three entirely different
forms may be found growing side by
side: one a long, round garland, about
an inch in diameter, trails over the
ground; another is like little fans four
or five inches tall; a third is a slender
column, six or eight inches tall, like
a miniature reproduction of a pine tree.
These club mosses are “living fossils.”
They are the remnants of huge pre-
historic plants whose bodies make up
the bulk of our coal. They became
buried in the earth and turned into al-
most pure carbon.

Besides these primitive plants, the
flower-like forms of seed pods are vivid
in winter. Also many berries abound

in blue, red, orange—the cafeterias of
winter resident birds.

Even flowering plants are frequently
found. Some of these are “evergreen”
in the sense that they don’t lose their
leaves. They keep right on living al-
though their leaves toughen and take
on bright hues. The pitcller plants and
wintergreen are good examples.

So take a walk in winter. There’s
much life and color to see.

Reprinted from The Camp Fire Girl,
December 1952.

35

l'lowTO Do lT .0 a b 

36

 

MAKE A LAMP

MATERlALS “
Rope,Tin Cans ,Tacks ,Wood,Driiiwood 510in
Copper Pipe,Plasler of Paris ,GlueSandpaperMire

Clolh,Coa’rHanqers,0il PainlNarnisbParcbmenl Paper
orWall Paper or Clolh,50lder, Elec’l’ric le’rures and

Wire,Wasl1ers, and Bipdinq'lape.

METHOD
l. Rope Lamp: (1 .Cu’r wood base desiEedasi3e

and shape wilb bole and groove larg- pipe.

b.5’rain base and polish. Hal/Egg
Groove

c.3elecl one large round
'l‘in can and one small can and cul' lnole in
bo‘l‘lbm ol’ eaeln for 'l‘abe 'l’o do lbrouqh. al.Tacl< larqe Can +0 wood base.

9. Cul’copper pipe required lenqlln and lil’ inlo hole in base.
1°. Mix plasler oi’ paris and pour inlb can-fill abou’r i‘lull, lhen
pul’ small can in place and fill bo’rb large and small
cans will: plas’rer oi paris . Lel’ se’r anh'l hard .
g.Couer bo’rh cans bid winding r0pe around ’l’iiem .

 

   
 

Base, (“a/7
and/04w

  

 

A/de: (’ 0 var 5w7’a (e of can: cuff/7 q/ue 7’0 Ado/rope imp/ace «grip/f more? rope afba/fom.

h.Nexl’ make lamp shade. For wire l’rame use old lamp shade or make frame 001” 019'

coal hanger. l1c coal“ hanqer is used cul’ wire lenqlhs needed and solder pieces lEadlier.
Nofé: 14/6929 ever pox/16A? bend wire of come/:5 4’6 e/x'm/nafé unnecesxa rg so/a’er/hg.

Nex’r cover wire frame wilh wire clo’rb ~llnen cover wire clo’rh willn paper 0r clo’rln and

560w”? dxhdhy bind edges wi+la binding 'lape.

70’???“ r . T.‘ . 2.Pdmled Lampta.l"lake wood base as described
W/re " a . '

C/OM _ ' m Rape lamp. b. Use one or more rhn cans and.

c/of/7:llH[ al’lach 'l’o base and pipe and Fill willq plasler 0F
000’ paris. Make lamp shade "SQ/ecf’proper 5/39 and

  

ska/Dede go cuff/7 /0mp base. C.Pain+ can and
base wilh J? la’t’ enamel ~decorall'e w'iiln arlis’r oil
painl’s and cover willa clear uarnisln . A/afe'dffézcéxhg cam/a [awe e/c. and/A9 meek/27g
of Me Adm/0 5/700? use some C0}?§/'FUCf/'b/7 as dresser/bed in making Me fade [amp .

.5. Drill” wood Base Lamp: a .Seleel’irrl’eresli/na shape and drain orl’woodo sand paper smoo’rh.
b.LeUel area {'0an can (can now/way: necevary) c.l)rill ‘3; hole {or pipe and assemble base ..

d.Decora’re lin can areaolf used. e.l"lal<e lamp shade. «9. Shin and polish ’l’lne base .

RECREATIO

CINDERELLAS

 

of the RIDING PATH

 

IIMMIE was ten years old, and “just folks.” He had a paper
route. Up and down Main Street, five nights a week,
limmy sold the latest editions. But on Saturday afternoon,
rvithout fail, he took in a picture show—at any theatre that
.vas showing a Western. For Jimmie had a crush on horses.
311ce each week that leather-covered seat in the balcony was
ransformed into a saddle in Jimmy’s facile imagination,
1nd he galloped over the Western landscape, happy as a
:arefree colt. The thought that he would ever actually have
[chance to learn to ride a horse never entered Jimmie’s mind.

Then came the day. Jimmie opened his roll of papers, and
here, on the front page, a startling announcement greeted
1is eyes: CITY RECREATION DEPARTMENT To START RIDING
:LUB! Within five minutes Jimmie was talking to the rec-
'eation director. He learned that transportation to the
=tables, supervision, and riding instruction would be fur-
wished by the recreation department free of charge, the
)nly cost to him would be the $1.00 (club rate) which he
would. have to pay the stable man for the rental1 of the
horse. Jimmie’s name led all the rest on the riding club
hist. The next Saturday morning he'had first pick of the
‘beginners’ ” horses; and his long-dreamed-of career as a
horseman had begun.

Now let us leave Jimmie for a few minutes . . . As an old
cavalryman and riding enthusiast, I see many attractive
Features about a Recreation Riding Club. One of the greatest
is this: It can bring this “sport of kings,” this rich man’s
pastime, within reach of the kid next door, the boy and
girl who have dreamed, but never expected the dream to
be realized—the Cinderellas of the riding path.

Of course there are many practical details to be worked
out in each instance, but to do this in connection with a
desired activity is “duck soup” for any recreation person.

IANUARY 1954

Public recreation departments must, of course, provide for as wide a coverage of
programs for every age group as possible. In doing so, however, sometimes it’s
easy to forget or to neglect to provide some of the “extras”——activities for certain
smaller interest groups (such as those among young adults ) and with certain elements
of adventure and glamor. Such programs need not be expensive, and they fill a
a real need, particularly when they may be the beginning of a lifetime interest.

Bangor, M aine—a city of around 35,000 population—found that horseback riding
was such an activity. In the middle of its biggest and most successful city-wide
program, it found time to provide an opportunity for children and adults to learn
and to enjoy riding. Ben Campbell, director of recreation, tells the story in such
a way that will make your city wish to try his plan.

In the first place, you must provide real, live horses to
ride; which means that you must make a deal with a riding-
stable man. Any stable man will give you special rates,
for you will have an organized and supervised group, and
will bring him business in sizeable bunches. In addition,
an organized group will bring the horses back in good con-
dition—no abuse, no running the legs off them. That, too,
will be appreciated.

Rental rates? You may have a choice of stables. If you
ride from a stable which has better horses and equipment,
it will cost the club members more money. This may make
it impossible for youngsters like Jimmie to ride. The other
kind of stable will “have run-of-the-mill horses, including
plugs, and will have mediocre tack, but will provide the
advantage of lower rates. We use two stables, thus satis-
factorily taking care of two economic groups.

Supervision-instruction is of course a must. If you have
someone in your departmnet who can handle this, so much
the better, and you will save money. If not, there is always
an enthusiast in every community who will be ready to
instruct—for expenses. It requires a thorough knowledge of
horses and horsemanship, and a good sense bf responsibility.
In the ring, where the new riders start, safety and control
factors are not great problems—the instruction is the thing.
Out on the trail, however, the situation is reversed. But
don’t let the element of danger scare you. In the six years
of the operation of our club, we have had no accidents
serious enough to require the services of a doctor. On a
trail ride, a rider of some expcrience is placed out front
on a horse which will lead (like people, some horses are
leaders, other followers) while I bring up the rear. I can
then see what is going on at all times, and can act as trouble-
shooter. Usually, any trouble consists of such things as a

37

loose cinch, a broken strap, a drOpped rein which the rider
can’t recover, a stubborn horse. All are easily handled.
A number of things which may help to guide you::-

0 Get parents’ written permission to take their children
riding. Point out calmly that, while the danger is small, the
youngsters will ride at their own risk.

0 You—the leader—should try out the horses first, so that

you will know them. \

0 Advise on proper clothes. Riding costumes are fine, but
so are dungarees and flannel shirts. No sneakers or sandals.
Lacking boots, sturdy leather shoes with heels will do.

0 Discipline is even more important here than in other
activities. Keep your riders grouped closely together, insist
on strict obedience, the riders must be kept under control,
else the horses can’t be.

0 As soon as possible, promote'novices from the ring to
the trail: ring riding becomes monotonous for those who are
riding just for pleasure. .

o (Westerners, skip this!) Here in the East where horses
step high at the trot, teach your riders early to post, instead
of taking the bumps. It will save their upper,insides and
their lower outsides a lot of punishment, and the majority
will prefer it.

0 Picnic rides are very pOpular. A moonlight ride once
a season—thrilling and romantic! I am speaking only 0!
romance between horse and rider—-—of course!

Don’t ever be surprised at what a horse may do to I
‘rider. I don’t mean that a knowing horse will take ad
vantage of a new rider, though that is perfectly true. But tha
bold rascal of a boy on foot may be a Milquetoast on 1
horse, while that meek and mild one, once in the saddle

may want to yell like a Comanche and race for the othe1
side of the county!

0 Dues and membership cards and oflicers if they wan
them. Winter meetings to keep up interest. And you wil
find that while some, who knew that they would just low

riding, are easily discouraged, the ones who really go fo:
it are gone for keeps.

And now, let us return to Jimmie. He graduated from hij
paper route to a part-time job in a neighborhood garagU
and he saved his money. He now has over $300 in the bank
Says Jimmie: “I’m not quite ready just yet, but I will b:
soon. Then I’m going to have a horse of my own—and :
good one too!”

Then Jimmie will be a horse owner in his own right. Ant
the Recreation Riding Club will carry on for those th
started as Jimmie did—the Cinderellas of the riding path

 

Ideas That Click

These were listed in the Pet Ideas
session at the Governor’s Conference on

Recreation, State Teachers College,
Towson, Maryland, in March 1953.

1. Subscribe to publications that have
pet idea sections.

2. Get on the mailing lists of organiza-
tions and groups with unique ideas.

3. Paint moving apparatus on play-
grounds and in gyms a bright color as a
safety measure.

4. Serve coffee and pie during direc-
tors’ and board meetings.

5. Organize groups for “BB” gun in-
struction.

a. Local rod and gun club might
assist.

b. Safety council support is helpful.
6. Tips for trips—ideas and sugges-

tions for groups and individuals to use
while traveling.

7. Secure calendar of municipal events

from chamber of commerce. Supple-

ment your program with this informa-

tion.

8. Prepare “Coming Events” schedule.
a. Serves as “tickler” to staff.

b. Shows good organization.

9. Award certificates of achievement

38

to citizens and lay groups who assist
with the program.

10. Let your stationery advertise your

agency or program. Use pictures or
maps and so on, on cover or on back.

11. Use waste products of local in~
dustries for craft materials.

12. Establish a baby-sitters, school.

13. Put out a playground newspaper.

14. Party lists—admit free:
a. Everyone with blue eyes.

b. Those weighing an exact multi-
ple of ten pounds.

15. Try a school for training athletic
officials, among your volunteers.

16. Give credit to all individual groups
or organizations assisting with a pro-
ject or program. Don’t overlook anyone.

Pamphlets on the Teen-Ager

A partial list of the many good pub-
lished materials available at small cost.
Write for prices to addresses given.

UNDERSTANDING THE ADOLESCENT,
Smiley Blanton. American Medical
Association, 535 North Dearborn
Street, Chicago 10, Illinois.

GUIDING THE ADOLESCENT, (Catalog
No. FS3.209,'225). Children’s Bu-

reau, Superintendent of Documents,

UNDERSTANDING

Washington 25, D. C.

KEEPING UP WITH TEEN-AGERS, Evelyr

Millis Duvall. Also other pamphlet
on this subject. Public Affairs Com

mittee 22 East 38th Street, Nev
York 16, New York.

LET’S LISTEN To YOUTH, H. C. Rem

mers and C. C. Hachett. EMOTIONA]
PROBLEMS OF GROWING UP, 0. Spur
geon English, M.D., and Stuart M
Finch, M.D. FACTS ABOUT J UVENILI
DELINQUENCY, Ruth Strang. Scieno
Research Associates, 228 Soutl
Wabash Avenue, Chicago 4, Illinois

YOUR TEEN-AGER
Metropolitan Life Insurance Com

pany, 1 Madison Avenue, New Yorl
10, New York:

MAKING TEEN CENTERS SUCCEED. New

York State Youth Commission, A]
bany, New York.

YOUTH CENTERS AND COUNCILS. Cali

fornia Youth Authority, Sacramento
California.

YOUTII PARTICIPATION IN ADULT-SPON

SORED YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS.

YOUTH UNITED FOR A BETTER HOM

TOWN.

NEW STUDY OF YOUNG ADULTS. (Se

Page 18) .

National Social Welfare Assembly, 34

East 46th Street, New York 17.

RECREATIO]

Part I

Choral Speaking

072.2 mw02mm=M “Wm—2.02.0.2...
wOONm

2.0.00. 30...... 000 0000002.... >220. 0 .0003. 00000.00. 0030-
00.8.. 0.000. :7 022000.00 020.000... W00.00. Howw.

02702.00. 000.00. 2072.2 m00050m 00 .70 002007 002.00... F032...
.2 510.002.. 0\ 0000002230. 500. 000 0022.02 ~.~\II~..WE V030.
H25. w0r2..0 E020. w00.00 000 700 >0M0000.

503...... a. m... .000 032.02 000300.. 00 00002 00000000.. 02.
2.000000 0200.00... w00.00. .95.

0000.22. 2.2.... 00.0. 0.0002 00022.00. 0200000000 02000000... 000.00.
.03.

0.2.0.22. 3000020. 0.00 00000.. 070?. 30:02. 000 w..0.72.0. Z0...
<27. Howq.

3.200. 32.02 0.. :0 0000.00. 0002...... 20700 000 20700. 20....
<00... Home.

70...... 7.. 2 2.. V0.00 000 b.0022. E02000... 00.00.000-327 000..
20.... #2010. Homo.

$0022.. 3. >2 60020.00 Q00 0x 002 ~0.0J.w202.00. 00% 0.0002
0.000000%. w~000.30€0..0. 07.00M0. Homw.

.322002. 2.0202 0.. 000 0.0.0.0002. M0000: H... 0003. 02000.00.
‘00 .70 00000.00...“ 002.0. 0200000000 020000.... w00.00. Homo.

m0:000. 32.2.0 0.... 0.00100 0000....” > 30007007 0m 072.2 W000.
00m. H70 00.2.0.0.0 0.00.2.0 000 00770720. 500.20. 270000. 50.0.

wmw—OUHPELm

$0202.. I. 0.. 20002007.. 072.200.0050m 000000.... x0502 0\
0003003.. 20.00.72. 50.0. 00M0 wwu. .

300000. 02...; 00020.. 2070.2 m000rm0m 000 0.0 <0000... ©2201».
.3502 0\ 0.00007. >002 Homo. 0.000 mwm.

902000002. 23022;. 2072.2 m00050m... 000.2010. ~0=w02 0..
00000... .._000 How“... 00M0 00..

€00.00... 00000. 2072.2 9.007.000 00 ..0 “#2000007... .0 300.00
C..00..0.0007.m... 02202.00. 20.2072. .00.}? 00% .01...

littln-h‘e’l‘ '1’" III '1'...

. Q2... M 2.0.0

~00... — H0500 mu $2.53.

     

 

 

II

0.70 0.3. 0\ :00 020000.. 00 07002 000030..“ 0.. 0 «00002.00. 002.2...)
0.00 000000 0 x 30 0010.. 20.: 0022.0 00000.02 02000000.. 000 008-820....
2203.2 \00 000002.. 870 02.0 00. 000205... 03.00 0002.. 00022.0.“ 2.3
2.2.0 0002001000 0 0...: 0‘. 0200.000...

H70 00000707.... 2. 00000 072.2 00.00500 2. 0.05. 0000.0.000 00 00
07.00.70 00002 000000.000 00.70.... 0300.005. 700 00. 7000 02000000..
0222.00lm0. .70 7.000.000. 00 .70 00002 000000.02. 7000 020.2000 0
Murmmgiwm 0.00m..«..0...... w0mwcw0 00000..“ 70.7 0700000g0d0w0wg010
0.0 0000.00.00. 00 .70 0007-00. 0.0.. 00.... 000 000002 5000 00. 00000.
00.02.00. .70.. 0.0.. 70 00.200.00 00 072.2 0000rm0m 00 0 00.000 2.7.07

20: 02.02 .0 «000.0 0m 2000:. <0300m 0m00. 00000 000 000.002.0000.

“.070. 00 070.12 00002.00... 0. 00. P0. 00. 0:. 0 00000. 00.70.... 70000
00 .70 000.0 00000020 00 WEE. 000202107272. 0000000. .0200.
2.07. .00.0....0..r. 072.2 0000rm0m 00.57.00 .70 000000m 2. 0000.00m 0m
2.000 2. 0000.3. 7.. «.0000 0000.. 0 00002. 2.7000 00.720... ..00.0 00
070:. 2.2.000 000 003.0... 20.7..70 00000..

4.2000

.9 02072. 0* 00000700 <2000 0.0... 000.00 0.0... .700 .500 0* 000000
00.70.... 00000103. 07000.. .0 0000000. .70 0200000 *2. 0.000. 000.
000.700. 000020.000 000 000.... 0.0 007200. 00 000 00 00 .70 0.72..
w0w.000 .70.. 072.2 00.0050m 0.0.. 03.02 .0 0 $002. 000%. 0* 7.00.
20020. 00000 .7000 0.0.... 270 0.000 000000020 2700 00..m.0m..l.70 2.000.
000*: 000 .70 2—-000.702.322.00000070070... .2000'000 00700.0 .70
000.0 00000 0m 0000000 20.7 0 M02... 020m... 000000m 000 0000.000...
7000000 0. 00:0 0.0.. 0.2.0 0002 000 2.0.. 0007 0 002.0000 700 000.010
070:0 2. .70 .002 072.00. H7000 00 .70 00000707.... .00. .70. 07002
00002200 .00... 70 0.07000 00 0 0.0000 0m 7000000000 00002 000000.000.
00m 000 00200000.... 70020002. 000 000.000.0300 0. 2.000 000 0000.00
52.0.2.0.

Part I

Choral S leakin

 

.838 8888 88888 85 888 :15 83% 8:388
8:8 88:88 8:83.888 85 E8 :1: 8888: .8 3:888:88 “8:8 8:83
-3388 8:85:88 .8 8:88 :3 88:8: 85:3: 8:8 $888 .8 8m: 8%
.58 8.8883 8:: $8888 8883 88:88 5% 5888 :0 888885 .88
3 m:m888u8 8.8 85 8A3 w:888w:: 3 “8:8 £88m 8 88 m:m88
88 >85 8:888 85 .88; 3 £8 8: 8:8 88:88:85 85 .3 88:88
oh .5838 harm :88 :m 88.88m Ev— EB ~81?» 2:898:08 388w:
85 .8 8m8w 8f 38 :3 8: ow 8888: 85 85 8.2888 mm :

88:8: 85 8 3:8 8:8_ @888 8:: 8:8» :8: 088 8
88: 88 .883 85 888888 .8 88:3 8808 :H A808 88:? 85 Ho
8883 8888 85 3 8:888:88 888: 83 85 88 48:88:88 :8 3 88:m88
:8A3Im:om88:w 888:: 8a b8m88am8li8>288m8 8.8 8:: 08m

8:888:88.
:8888 8:388, 8:8 38: 088 mo 88: 8F: .83 @888: 8o— %88 88m:
.8888 8883 838 838.88: 8 :m 888888 8588mm 858: 3 8
6:888: 888 888m8 8a 88: 88:8: .883 8:8 85mm: 85 its 8W8:
8:838 85 3 m8:mmm8 $8288 .8 8888888 8838:5888 88A 3
8: 3:95 8888 8888 38388.: < .8888: 32 .8888: 8:838
.8888» amElmQEZW 88.8: ET: 3888 88 2:88 E8888 :88
8888888988: .m:m::mm8n 85 .8838; 88:88:88.8 .8 88888
8 .8 m:mw:83 8:58 85 :3 88 88 888888888: 8885 .3888 Z

$.88
85 .8 888:: :83888: 8 888888 8;: 8a 528:: 8:3me 0

$88 85 .8 888:8 8 8:88.88: 88.8wa .8 883885 0
88:88 83588.: 85 :m 888 “8:8 5883’ o

8:88 .8 8838:: :m 58:85 0

8::8 .8 88:8: m::8.5:ou o

“8838 383:8 8:8 88:88 85 83.: 8888
-8888: 8888883 83* 88 88:8 .885 m:m888m 8 888.898 8 mm
3:08 888888: 8 888 88.8: :3 8m: 8% 888888 m:mm:8.:<

8.:888w:8.8<

.8888 85 51:
8888898 .8 88888 8 88:8 98% 8f 8 88223888: 858 88
.33:me 8 385 58.8.5 88858 8.88:: 8 8:8 888388 85
@888. 888% mm 883:8 8f :88» 88808 88118833: 8 888% 0

3:5...— muhwgmum— HO =OHHMU mmngH *0 “my: mm. mmhvb mSOHOEH—m I

O

3 88388885: ~83 880m 8.888808% :8: mna8:8m 8 58:8 .8880: 88m 0

@5888
88:8 3 838838 88 .388 8.880 8.8.sz 88 8:8 h88::88 38w < o

.m::m :85 .858: M88: 8: 2
8880: 88 M88: 8: 3:08 mm:88 m:m888 “8:8 £88.88 888 .mwmzmm o

.8888: 3 mm 888mg: 88:88.28? 8 .3 8:88 28
:88: 8: 3:88 n8:: 8;: 8:8 .888 8988M 888m .38.: 88 8>8_
8:8m88:w8 .8m< 88888 83 88888 8: 8 m:o:m mm: 8 88:88:88
8:: 3 833888 8: 8:8 .888: 8:8 88:98 838830 38$ 8 88:
88 8881898 .8 58883:: 8 2 8888 2:88 8888 28:888m

muncmuUO—Om

.885 A8:
388:8: #88 3888 8888:8888 3 #88 h"88.88m w:8 3:88 :33
Q:o:m 8F: 8:38m 3 838 8: 8:8 8; £8883 8:388:88: :8 ET: 8: o

28:88 858 m: 8 88888 8888.: 3 m:o:m
8f 838:8 :8» H83»: 8888: .8 8:38:83 8838 3 5:38 85 88:
8:8 nm88¢8 8::8 3 8:38:88 8: .888: m:88 85 8:8 8 8888 83 c

88888 8 .8 8888 8.88 8 88888: i
m:m:8~ 6:8 88:8 3 88888 85 m888“ .8 £m8~ 8:: 3 om 3 88:8
85 :88: 8: 8» 88 .F888: 8: 3 8838888 8888 8 8888: 85 .8
38:8 83888 :8 SE :88 83 8888MB 3 838 83 E88 8m 0

.888 8:8
m:m:888 :o 88: 8:8 838 8888 o: 888 mm :83 888% 85 833 3
8888888 8:88 :ommm888m .8 88888: 85 :m E88858: £883
.888: 838 :8 83 3:88 @288 m888mm 8.88 8 .8 .8883 8:8

3:88—8an

48:88:08 88:3 888 m: :m 8
88:88:38: F888“:88.::8&8:8a 8.88 48:38 883 85 :m 8888888
8:8 8 :838 :88 3:30 .5838 @888 :om8888: 8888 h88.8.8m
85 mm 8:3 8:888:8m 8:0 8:8 h8888.88: 8o— :88 883388 :88
833 8 m8>8_ .8883 8:8 :m .88 885. 888.8888 88 88:38:88
88 8e 8 8.838 8x a.» 8.88 :88 8.888.888.8883: 88 8888888
bcmmc 2:»: 8e 8 a 8x 888: 888 c: an: 888 £88888: 8 8.8:
-888 88 888k 88:8:88 8:88: 8 :8 8888.888: :85 m:m.8888
3:08 M858: .w8_:v8-%EmE w:m:m:v8: 88a 88 :8 8n 3 M88388
38%;: mm .3 85 8888585 m:m88mm 888 m:m888 8.888“: 858

5388.88m 888m 3 wEV—womm 8.8:0 m—~mamw<

glow to 7mm
a. yam

SYMPHIINY 0RCIIESTRA

Keith A. Macdonald

 

7F your city does not have a junior symphony and it’s
impossible to start one—read no further.

For those who have read this far, and for recreation '

directors who are willing to give any good idea a trial—
read further. The following information concerning the
junior symphony might help those interested in forming one.

Here’s the picture in Vallejo, California. We have a
Senior Symphony Association which has been established
for a good number of years; although, until three years ago,
[he only way in which the recreation district was contribut-
ing to the senior symphony was through our summer band
program. However, this past year, about a month after school
started, each music director in the elementary, unior high,
and high schools, and surrounding communities, was con-
tacted and informed that the recreation district desired
to establish a unior symphony orchestra. Each director was
asked to present the names of some of his outstanding
rnusicians who, in turn, were sent letters by our department.
The two co-directors, secured by the recreation district, set
up the following list of instrumental distribution, which
.hey felt would lill out a good junior symphony orchestra:

Z4 violins 1 alto saxophone 2 Hutes 4 drums
5 trombones 6 string basses 6 cellos 2 oboes
5 clarinets 3 bass clarinets 1 tuba 1 piano
5 trumpets l tenor saxaphone 1 harp 4- horns

l’lR. KEITH A. MACDONALD is the executive director of
’he Greater Vallejo Recreation District in California.

 

At a given date, all interested musicians appeared for
try-outs. This gave the co-directors not only an opportunity
to determine the calibre of the musicians but also to weed
out those who could not play the required music. The fee
for the total series was only $3.00 (for twenty rehearsals and
the concerts) which, in comparison, is about the cost of one
private lesson. We were able to obtain the use of the Vallejo
College music room, and rehearsals were held every Satur-
day morning from 9:30 to 11:30. Three concerts were held
during the course of the year, spaced midway between the
senior sypmphony concerts. Through the cooperation of the
Vallejo Uniiied School District board of directors, we were
able to use some of their instruments on a loan basis, at no
cost. Soloists for each concert were some of the outstanding
teen-age musicians in our own schools. All soloists were
presented with twelve beautiful roses at the conclusion of
their numbers. Through the efforts of KVON, the local
radio station, the concert was broadcast, and the only charge
to our department was the wire rental.

In a recent news article, the San Francisco Chronicle
stated in its report of the First Annual Symphony Orchestra
Conference: “The situation in Vallejo seems particularly
progressive and mature, because Vallejo has established a
junior orchestra to feed its big orchestra, which has re-
sulted in high praise for local efforts.”

An interesting factor on costs to conduct the junior sym-
phony is that the total cost for conductors and music totalled
$550 and total income was $170, or a net cost of $380. The
average participant attendance averages forty-live per week,
from mid-November to mid-May. This means that the cost
per participant is twenty-three cents. I felt that for the iirst
year’s experience, this was a reasonable amount, but next
year we’ll try to lower the cost by increasing the fee from
$3.00 to $5.00. Recreation departments who can draw from
the schools within their city and surrounding communities
should not iind it too diHicult to start this very line recrea-
tion activity for young adults.

It isn’t necessary to know how to play an instrument in
order to appreciate music. My bagpipe playing is deiinitely
off-key, yet I enjoy symphonies very much.

[unior Symphony Orchestra, sponsored bx Greater Vallejo Recreation District, presents first season’s Opening concert.

 

lANUARY 1954

l

41

WWW/émmm

Maintenance Needs

A local superintendent of recreation
writes: “We are dependent upon the
parks department to assume the respon-
sibility of maintaining our recreation
facilities.

“I have definitely experienced con-
siderable difficulty in having our main-
tenance and improvement needs ful-
filled. I believe an excellent example has
been evidenced here where we submitted
a total of thirty work orders between
January 15 and February 6, 1953, re-
questing some of this work to be effected
by April 15, thus giving the parks de-
partment two months to effect this work.
To date (May 5) only three have been
fulfilled.

“Of course, we must not lose sight of
the varied responsibilities of a depart-
ment or agency responsible for property
maintenance, nor must we lose sight of
the fact that it is human nature for ad-
ministrators of parks departments to
give major preference to their own re-
quirements and needs. I have found
that many parks executives do not work
with community groups in relation to
the parks and recreation programs and
consequently, do not understand the di-
versified maintenance requirements
pertaining to the development of a com-
munity recreation program.

“After conversations with other rec-
reation superintendents, I find that they

have unanimously encountered similar
difficulties. In fact, I have not been able
to find a single community which finds
that the aforementioned arrangement
is satisfactory. However, on a local
basis, I am determined to work out the
problems involved so as to give it a
thorough trial. One of the greatest
difficulties involved is that of creating
an interest on the part of the staff when

necessary maintenance work is not ful-

filled.”

42

* * *

An example of city school coopera-
tion is cited in the report of the Parks,
Playgrounds and Recreational Board of
Phoenix, Arizona, for the year ending
June 30, 1951. Cooperation was extend-
ed the department by the Phoenix Tech-
nical School which assisted with repairs
and fabrication of structures. Students
of the Technical School used as projects
tennis stands, diving towers, backstops,
light towers, and similar steelwork, as
well as repair of mechanical apparatus.
The report includes a photograph show-
ing the use of a diving tower framework
as a class project.

In Brief . . .

0 Recreation facilities for the use of
employees have been liberally provided
in the new home office building for the
Pheonix Insurance Company in Hart-
ford, Connecticut. Among these facili-
ties are a recreation lounge, four bowl-
ing alleys, auditorium and men’s and
women’s lounges.

0 From the 1951 report of the president
of the Board of Park Commissioners,
Minneapolis, Minnesota: “As I look
back over the history of our park board
and the eighteen years I have served
as commissioner, one of the main con-
tributing factors to the rec0gnized suc-
cessful, usable park system we have is
that the board has been a policy-making
board, reviewing the recommendations
of the skilled technically-trained staff
and adopting or rejecting the projects
submitted, making sure they best serve
the people of our city.”

0 The city council of Fullerton, Cali-
fornia, has passed a trailer park ordi-
nance which provides that adequate
space shall be provided for playgrounds
in trailer parks. The city has no trailer
parks at present; nor have play space
standards been ad0pted for them.

County Recreation Development

0 The North Carolina Recreation Re
view for May-June 1953 contains a de
tailed report of recreation legislati01
introduced and passed in that state du1
ing latest biennial meeting of the legis
lature. One of the bills, ratified on Apri
7, is of unusual interest:

970—An act permitting Granvill
County to acquire, for recreational pu1
poses, lands located outside said count
and the State of North Carolina. Citin,
portions of land in Virginia and i.
Vance County which are accessible t
Granville County for recreational put
poses, and which Army Engineer Corp
is willing to lease to county for suc?
purposes, it authorizes county commis
sioners to enter into long-term leas
for such lands; commissioners or cour
ty recreation commission (there is
legal
spend, for development of such land

recreation commission) ma
funds which could be legally spent fo
Granvill
County. Net profits from Operation 0
property are to be used (1) to repa
county commissioners for acquisitio
and development and (2) for reinves1

ment by commissioners of recreatio

recreational purposes in

commission for recreational purpose:

0 According to a report entitled “Puf
lic Recreation as a Municipal Servic
in Alabama,” issued in June 1953 b
the University of Alabama and the Al:
bama League of Municipalities, “A fan
sighted provision of the state’s recrea

tion law passed in 1945 authorizes cc
operation between cities and countie

in providing recreation programs. On
example of governmental cooperatio
under this act is the case of Covingto
County’s approximation of four citie
of that county. A single appropriatio
of the county was pro-rated among t11
four cities according to their popula
tion. These cities in turn provided
county-wide recreation service.”

RECREATIO]

 

A recreation program, in order to successfully serve
oung people, must be based upon their needs and desires.”

Recreational Interests and

Needs of High School Youth

Resumé of Study Conducted in Schenectady, New York

THE need for an intensive study of recreation facilities
for teen-age youth in the city of Schenectady had long
een evident to many of those adults concerned with at-
lmpts to help the city’s young people find wholesome use
lpf their leisure time. Frequent indications by the young
EOple that they needed more adequate recreation facilities
gave rise to such questions as: Does such a need actually
:xist? What facilities are available? How good are they?
lre they being used? What additional facilities are needed?

In an attempt to find answers to these questions, a study
>f the interests and needs of teen-age youth of Schenectady

'yas conducted by the Neighborhood Activities Committee
)f the Character Building Division of the Related Activities

Sound], in collaboration with the Division of Research of
.lhe Schenectady Public Schools. Because the group did
not have the resources with which to carry on a compre-
aensive city-wide study, it decided to limit its study to the
'ollowing activities:

1. To survey a representative group of junior and senior
high school students and determine what they like to do
Ln their spare time.

2. To survey representative junior and senior high school
students as to what they are doing in their spare time.
3. To survey representative junior and senior high school
rtudents and determine what additional recreational facil-
Lties they feel are needed.

I. To survey one area of the city and determine what rec-
rcation facilities are available.

The Committee on Neighborhood Problems spent many
weeks in direct interviews with clergymen, school men,
organization leaders and others to learn what was being
done for youth in a wide area of the city. The School Divi-
tion of Research, using a carefully prepared questionnaire,
gathered a large body of information from junior and
senior high school students. Final tabulations and sum-
[naries of the report were made by the division.

The published report contains information that has in-
terest and value to all who are concerned with the leisure of
youth. It is divided "into three main sections.‘0ne is based
upon the survey of high school students and describes the
recreation facilities they particularly enjoy, the activities in
which they have participated during a one-week period, and
the additional facilities they feel are needed. The second
part is a survey of the facilities available in a downtown

JANUARY 1954

area of the city. The appendix presents the statistical data
upon which the report is based.

Questionnaires distributed in four junior high schools
and three senior high’- schools were completed by 1,252
students, 725 boys and 527 girls. These represented 25.6
per cent of the total junior and senior high school enroll-
ment. Age groups included were from eleven through
twenty, but a large percentage of the returns was submitted
by the age group twelve through seventeen.

The questionnaire listed thirty-seven activities, and
students were asked to check those which they “particularly
enjoy.” The accompanying Table A summarizes the replies.
The raw data have been weighed so that the responses are
given in terms of 1,000 boys, 1,000 girls, and 1,000 evenly
divided boys and girls, for both junior and senior high
school levels. The report points out that certain activities
included in the list are not essentially recreational, but were
included because they help round out the picture of the use
young people make of their leisure time. It also urges cau-
tion in interpreting the figures in Table A because the
activities vary widely in type, purpose and value. Reading
interests, for example, extend all the way from the comics
to serious literature and there is no way of knowing what
the respondents had in mind when they checked this activity.
Scouting, on the other hand, is a fairly fixed program and
and responses to this item indicate a specific interest.

The data in Table A may be interpreted profitably in
three ways. (1) The responses given may be compared with
the total group, that is, the proportion of 1,000 who par-
ticularly enjoy a given activity. Moving the decimal one
place to the left expresses the proportion in terms of per-
centages. (2) The “particular enjoyment” of a given activity
may be compared between boys and girls of the same school
level. (3) The responses of junior high may be compared
with those of senior high youth.

The report includes the following comments with refer-
ence to various activities:

Television is enjoyed by nine out of ten junior and senior
high school youths. The interest is about equal among boys
and girls in junior high school, but falls off slightly for boys
in senior high school. Senior high school girls on the other
hand show a slightly greater enjoyment of television than
do junior high school girls.

Radio does not rate quite as high as television. Enjoyment

4-3

of radio increases for both boys and girls as they go from
junior high age levels to senior high levels.

Movies in comparison with radio and television have the
highest appeal among senior high school boys and girls.
On the junior high level television has top place. Enjoyment
of movies declines slightly among boys as they reach
senior high ages, but increases among girls.

Round dancing is more particularly enjoyed among girls
than among boys. Both boys and girls show a higher enjoy-
ment of this on the senior high school level.

Square dancing received about the same response among
junior high school girls as did round dancing. However,
whereas round dancing received a higher reSponse by girls
on the senior high level than on the junior high level, square
dancing remained the same. Junior high boys show less
enjoyment of square dancing than round dancing and senior
high boys show less enjoyment of square dancing than is
shown by junior high boys.

Dating shows a very large increase between junior and
senior high school levels for both boys and girls. Junior
high boys are somewhat more interested in dating than jun-
ior high girls, but the reverse is true on the senior high level.

Hobbies are stronger with junior high boys thamgirls.
However, this interest decreases considerably for boys in
senior high, but increases with senior high girls.

Reading received considerably more response from girls
than from boys. The senior high response is lower for both
boys and girls than the junior high response.

Scouting is enjoyed by more boys than girls. Both boys
and girls of senior high school have considerably less interest
in it than do boys and girls. of the junior high.

“Y” activities seem to have equal appeal to boys and
girls of junior high school ages. Enjoyment of these is con-
siderably less in senior high school, with the senior high
girls having less interest than the senior high boys.

Fraternities and sororities do not have a strong appeal
for either junior high boys or girls. Senior high interest
is greater than that of junior high, and there is much-more
interest in sororities than fraternities at this level.

School clubs rate higher for girls than boys on both
levels of the high school. Interest decreases between junior
and senior high, with the decrease among the boys larger
than among the girls.

Church clubs, on the other hand, show an increase in
senior high over junior high for both boys and girls. The
increase is larger among the girls.

Other clubs is probably a poor classification and does
not have much meaning because it is too general. Interest
is stronger among the girls than boys and is less for .senior
high than junior high in both cases.

Hiking is a strong interest among boys; but it rates less
at the senior high level. On the other hand the interest of
girls increases in senior high over junior high.

Fishing and hunting are also strong interests for boys
and considerably less so for girls. The hunting interest is
about the same for junior and senior high boys, but the fish-
ing interest is smaller among senior high boys than among
junior high boys. Enjoyment of both hunting and fishing

44

is higher among senior high than among junior high girls1

Swimming is particularly enjoyed by both boys and girls,
with the girls showing a greater response.The senior hig
response was higher for both boys and girls than the junio
high response.

School athletics drop in enjoyment for both boys and
girls between the junior and senior high levels. The res-
ponse of senior high boys was less than that of senior girls.

Ping Pong is of about equal interest to junior high boy
and girls. However, it is less for senior high boys than junio
high boys, and greater for senior than junior high girls.

Shufleboard Iinds greater response among boys thar‘
girls. Both boys and girls show an increase in enjoymen
on the senior high level over that of junior high, but thI
increase for boys is greater than for girls.

Roller skating has a stronger appeal for girls on bot
levels than for boys. Senior high interest is larger tha
junior high interest for both boys and girls.

Bowling also shows an increase in senior high over junior
high for both boys and girls. Whereas junior high boys givq
a larger response to bowling than junior high girls, senior
high girls give a larger response than senior high boys.

Horseback riding is a stronger interest among boys than
girls on the junior high level, but stronger among girls than
boys on the senior high level.

Other athletics show a loss between junior and senior high
among boys and an increase among girls.

Riding a bicycle is a strong interest-of both junior high
boys and girls. However, the interest of senior high boys is
much less than the interest among junior high boys, while
the decline between junior and senior high girls is slight.

Driving a car shows a very large increase for both boys
and girls between junior and senior high age levels. Boys
express a greater interest than do girls.

Church is a strong interest of both boys and girls, with
the appeal for girls being higher than for boys. Interest
decreases between junior and senior high for both groups.

Sunday school, on the other hand, is not enjoyed as much
as church, and interest in it declines as the boys and girls
reach senior high school age. Interest is about equal for
boys and girls in junior high school, but higher among girls
in senior high.

Visiting friends is a moderate interest of boys and a
strong interest of girls. The increase from junior to senior
high levels is slight among boys, but large among girls.

Dramatics is not an activity of particular enjoyment for
either boys or girls, although it does rate higher among
girls than among boys. It is a stronger interest for junior
high youth than for senior high youth.

Singing is about twice as popular among girls as among
boys. It is less popular among senior high boys and girls
than among those in junior high school.

Painting rates higher with girls than boys and higher
among junior high youngsters than those in senior high.

Meeting at a sweet shop is particularly enjoyed by about
one-third of the boys of junior high school and a smaller
proportion of girls at this age. However, the interest of senior
high girls is higher than senior high boys, and both have

RECREATION

l

greater interest than junior high boys and girls.

Jam sessions in taverns receive very little response among

unior high youth, but nearly live times as much response
Inong senior high youth. Although the proportion of
enior high youth who particularly enjoy jam sessions in
averns is not large, the increase in participation over that
f junior high youth is not healthy.
- Wandering through downtown stores is particularly en-
oyed by about one-half of the girls and from one-quarter
b one-third of the boys. While among the boys the interest
11 the senior high level is less than on the unior high level,
he reverse is true among the girls.

The report classes as “primary recreation activities” those

tivities which forty percent or more of the reSpondents
ndicated that they particularly enjoyed. These are the activ-
ties that in Table A appear as enjoyed by four hundred
r more students. The live activities which received the
ighest response and which consistently rated high with
0th boys and girls are television, movies, radio, swimming
nd church. It is noted that girls of both junior and senior

°gh school have a somewhat greater variety of interests
ban do the boys.

TABLE A

RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES PARTICULARLY ENJOYED 8Y JUNIOR
AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL 8OYS AND GIRLS OF SCHENECTADY

 

Eniayed

Among

1,000

Evenly

Divided

Recreational Activities Eniayed Among Eniayed Among Boys and

Porticuloriy Enloyed 1,000 Boys 1,000 Girls Girls

.lr. Sr. Jr. Sr. Jr. Sr.
School Level High High High High High High
Television ...................... -. 910 814 899 919 905 867
Radio .............................. -- 765 808 783 895 774 852
Movies .......................... -. 907 865 887 938 897 904
Round Doncing .............. -. 382 468 591 694 487 581
Square Doncing .............. -- 344 324 594 593 469 459
Dating ............................ -- 298 619 264 746 281 683
Hobbies .......................... -. 528 365 333 426 431 396
Reoding .......................... -. 475 442 638 603 557 523
Scauts  276 73 160 57 218 65
"Y" . .............................. -. 302 228 302 I87 302 208
Sororities ................................... .. 44 201 .... _-
Fraternities ...................... -- 36 99 - .-  - - _ 
Schaol Clubs .................. .. 421 151 579 455 500 303
Church Clubs .................. -. 152 173 252 364 202 269
Other Clubs  ............... -. I91 179 220 206 206 193
Hiking  617 510 333 488 475 499
Fishing ............................ .- 704 622 278 301 491 462
Hunting .......................... -. 622 619 148 177 385 398
Swimming ...................... -- 704 747 714 870 709 809
School Athletics .............. -. 630 436 613 545 622 491
Ping Pong ....................... .. 412 369 428 449 420 409
Shut-'Hebaard .................. .. 261 401 198 210 230 306
RaIIer Skoting ................ .. 400 439 579 608 490 524
8owling .......................... -. 346 426 252 517 299 472
HOrseback Riding ............ -- 494 433 437 536 466 485
Other Athletics .............. -. 545 442 447 541 496 492
Riding a Bike ................. -. 722 410 664 651 693 531
Drive 0 Car ...... .-‘. ........... -. 286 699 I45 531 216 615
Church ......................... .. 571 612 660 789 616 701
Sundoy School ................ .. 402 179 425 282 414 231
Visiting Friends .............. .. 358 362 582 737 470 550
Dromatics ........................ .. 104 87 201 182 153 135
Singing .......................... .. 274 221 525 488 ‘ 400 355
Painting ......................... .. 208 199 283 268 246 234
Meet at Sweet Shop ........ -. 337 410 289 431 313 421
Jam Sessions ot Toverns  44 228 38 129 41 179
Wandering Through Stores 349 253 497 550 423 402

Number of Pupils

Respanding ................ .. 413 312 318 209 731 521

JANUARY 1954

In an attempt to gain an insight into the activities in which
the teen-age youth actually participate, the young people
were asked to record those activities in which they had
taken part during the .previous seven days. The returns.
weighted to a base of 1,000 as was done in Table A, are
summarized in Table B. Study of this table will afford a
basis for comparing the participation of boys and girls in
various activities as was done in detail for Table A. It _is
to be noted that far fewer activities are listed as “engaged
in” than were recorded as “particularly enjoyed.” Tele-
vision, radio, movies and church are among the first five
activities in “participation” as they were in “enjoyment.”
Reading replaces swimming, however, as the fifth of these

activities in the “participation” list.

TABLE B

RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES ENGAGED IN DURING ONE WEEK
8‘! JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL 8OYS AND GIRLS OF

 

 

SCHENECTADY

Particlpa-
Porticipotion Participation tian Among
Recreational Activities Among, 1,000 Among, 1,000 1,000 Bays
Engaged In Boys Girls and Girls
Jr. Sr. Jr. Sr. Jr. Sr.
School Level High High High High High High
________.__—..__.____—.—
Television ...................... .. 883 782 884 789 884 786
Radio   734 785 764 818 749 802
Movies .......................... .- 676 683 626 655 651 669
Round Doncing ............. -- 172 144 321 249 247 197
Square Dancing .............. -- 56 99 82 129 69 114
Doting ............................ .- I31 369 88 455 109 412
Hobbies .......................... -. 383 231 245 230 314 231
Reading ....  ................... -- 542 410 641 608 592 509
Scouts ............................ .. 184 67 88 10 136 39
"Y" . ............................. -- 155 87 145 38 150 63
Sororities .................................... -- 16 I67 .......... .-
Fraternities 17 51 .... -.  . . . . . . _ . . -_
Schaol Clubs .................. -- 356 96 535 225 446 161
Church Clubs .-   90 115 164 239 127 177
Other Clubs .................... -- 102 61 132 77 117 69
Hiking ............................ -- 169 157 38 115 104 136
Fishing ............................ -- 128 243 25 48 77 146
Hunting .......................... -. 160 128 19 14 89 71
Swimming ...................... .. 130 I34 113 139 122 137
School Athletics .............. -- 441 240 469 364 455 302
Ping Pong ...................... -. 165 131 94 91 130 111
Shumeboord .................... -- 73 I73 22 67 48 120
Roller Skating ................ .- 104 151 138 153 121 152
8owling .......................... -. 131 125 47 62 89 94
Horseback Riding ............ -. 56 83 53 96 55 90
Other Athletics  387 295 164 249 276 272
Riding a 8ike ................ -- 506 330 '248 301 377 316
Drive a Car  ............... -- - 109 500 60 301 85 401
Church ............................ .. 479 529 597 636 538 583
Sunday School ................ -- 293 131 393 211 343 171
Visiting Friends .............. -- 276 333 462 545 369 439
Dromotics ......................... -- 58 42 82 81 70 62
Singing .......................... -. 240 154 409 316 - 325 235
Painting .......................... -. 121 119 138 139 129 129
Meet at Sweet Shop 232 288 145 278 189 283
Jam Sessions at Toverns .... -. 17 144 22 81 20 113
Wandering Through Stores 234 173 384 325 309 249

Number of Pupils
Responding ................ -. 413 312 318 209 731 521

A comparison between the “activities enjoyed” and
“activities engaged in” shows which of the activities young
people like they actually participate in. A table in the report
affording such a comparison clearly indicated that tele-
vision, radio, movies, reading, and church are activities
both enjoyed and engaged in. However, dancing, both round
and square, hiking, swimming, ping pong, roller skating,

45

horse-back riding, and other athletics are enjoyed by a large
proportion of boys and girls, but are not participated in
by a correspondingly large portion. Hunting and fishing,
major interests of boys, are not engaged in in proportion to
their interest. Junior high boys and girls have a major
interest in school athletics and actually participate. Senior
high boys and girls express the same interest in school
athletics, but do not participate to the same degree. Senior
high boys and girls like to bowl, but do not participate in
proportion to their interest. Girls of both the junior high
and senior high, and boys of high school do not drive a
car as much as their interest would indicate. Junior high
boys and girls have an interest in Sunday School, but many
of them do not attend. Girls particularly enjoy visiting
friends and they do visit them. They also enjoy wandering
through downtown stores, but they do not do it as much
as their interest would indicate. Senior high school boys
and girls enjoy meeting at sweet shops. They do not do it
as much as they would like. It might be assumed that their
primary interest is “meeting the gang” rather than the
locale of the sweet shop.

The wide difference between what the young people in
Schenectady said they enjoyed and what they actually do
was explained in part by their answers to the questions as
to what additional recreational facilities they felt were
needed. Since this was a fill-in question and no items were
suggested, the returns indicate what the young people
themselves felt to be needed. Table C summarizes the
answers to these questions. The report points out that it is
difficult to express the felt needs of young people by means
of a table, but that from the tabulation of the replies and
the tenor of the comments accompanying many of them, the
felt recreational needs of Schenectady’s teen-age youth
appeared to be:

1. Youth centers or canteens where young people can
bring their dates, dance, have cokes and sandwiches, and
enjoy the company of other boys and girls in a well-
organized wholesome atmOSphere.

2. Centrally located, well-supervised roller skating rink.

3. Adequate swimming facilities, indoors and outdoors.

4. Additional parks and playgrounds with adequate
facilities for baseball, football, tennis, fishing, horseback
riding, ice skating, and other athletics. The girls, as well
as boys, would like most of these organized athletics.

5. A need which could not be tabulated, but which was
expressed in various ways by many, was for leadership.
Most young people want well-organized wholesome activities
which come only as the result of planning and promotion by
adults of character, ability, and understanding.

In summarizing the findings of the teen-age study, the
report points out that the typical teen-ager is a myth, for
teen-age youngsters are indiviuals and as such they all differ
from one another. However, there are interests which are
common to a large number of them. This part of the study,
largely statistical in nature, has placed emphasis on the
body of common interests. It should not be assumed that
these are “the important interests.” Interests which received
small response may be highly significant to the group that

46

 

pursues them. The study has not attempted to consider th
“importance” of any activity, for it is felt that all activitie
which contribute to mental, moral, and physical growth ar
important.

Stimulation of interest is greatly needed by many young
sters as was evident from the many respondents who liste
only a few activities which they particularly enjoyed a
participated in. Some interests such as dramatics, painting
hobbies, and others of a creative nature urgently need sp01
sorship because they have so much to contribute to i1
dividual development. Other interests of a social and athleti
nature have set their spark in many young people, bl
facilities for exercising these interests are not availabl:
The problem of all persons concerned with the developmel
of youth is to awaken wholesome recreation interests an
foster those interests which have been aroused. 0

Available recreation facilities in a downtown area (
Schenectady were. also studied with a view to determinin
inadequacies and needs. The findings were summarized 2
follows:

1. With few exceptions, churches are not meeting recre:
tional needs of children except on.a strictly membershi
basis. This, in many cases, results from a lack of spac
money, and leadership; but, also, there is an apparent lac
of responsibility of parishioners for area children.

2. Schools are doing very well considering the space an
facilities available, and in most schools there is a fine spir

of cooperation with outside agencies.

. 3. No conclusions could be drawn as to the effectivene
of the program of character building organizations becau:
of the impossibility of determining the membershi;

4. Except for planned organization activities, there a1
only two places in the downtown area where a young persc
can take a date, dance, and spend an inexpensive evening
the alternative is to go to a tavern or sweet shop where tl
surroundings are not always of a desirable nature.

5. There are many more recreation opportunities offers
in this area for boys than for girls.

TABLE C

RECOMMENDED RECREATIONAL FACILITIES FOR SCHENECTAD‘!
TEEN-AGE YOUTHS

RECOMMENDED Junior Senior TOTAI

FACILITIES High High
Roller Skating .......................... -- 54 15 69
Youth Centers ......................... -- 54 95 149
Tennis Courts .....  ..................... .- 16 26 42
Ice Skoting .............................. -- 43  43
Swimming Pools ........................ __ 165 97 262
Playgrounds ........................... -- 72 17 89
Doncing ............  ................. -- 24 37 61
Horsebock Riding .................... -- 26 8 34
Bowling ................................... -- 8 6 14
Bosketboll .............................. .. 20 18 38
Footboll .................................. -- 12  12
Boseboll ............................... .:- 16  16
Gyms ...................................... -- 19 49 68
Porks ................................... .- 40 30 70
Hunting ond Fishing ................ -. 14  14
More TV Chonnels .................. .. 16  16

Note: Only those recommendotions which were Indicated six
or more times are shown.

RECREATIC

 

A Fine Example of What

Communities With Local
initiative Can Do For
Their Citizens.

N Lewisburg and Marshall County,

Tennessee, everybody is a member
of the “public” country club. And it
isn’t the sort of community boasted of
by some Texans where only the poor
people wash their own Cadillacs, either.

But residents of Lewisburg, Marshall
County and those of surrounding
towns and counties are members of a
swank country club plant valued, by
conservative estimates, at a quarter of
a million dollars. They play golf on a
new nine-holc course, swim in a tree
shaded 60- by 135-foot pool, watch
and participate in baseball games, pic-
mic and attend county fairs on the
grounds, and party at the huge club-
house.

Lewisburg’s remarkable country club
came about in a remarkable manner. It
grew out of the aborted plans for a
private country club and out of the

public spirit of the whole community.

How Project Started

The project, which opened June 1,
really got under way in January, 1952,

Reprinted from The Tennessee Con,-
servationist, August, 1953.

JANUARY 1954

There’s plenty of space in the club-
house for members to meet and relax
in comfortable, attractive surroundings.

Lewisburg
Recreation Center

 

Lewisburg Community Center with modern swimming pool, bathhouscs, spacious
clubhouse and parking lot, also boasts baseball diamond, golf course and picnic area.

when fifteen members of the Chamber
of Commerce met and elected a new
president. His name was Ewell Butler,
a tall, soft-spoken furniture dealer.
Butler wanted a project that would cap-
ture the imagination of the members,
something that would put some new life
into the organization which had been
largely a “meetin’ and eatin’ ” group.
The day after his election, Butler
called Preston Hopkins, a young Lewis-

burg feed manufacturer, and asked him

to head a Chamber of Commercc rec-
reation committee. Hopkins hesitated.
He had been a member of the chamber
for ten years but rarely went to meet-
ings because nothing much ever hap-
pened at them. But he decided Butler
might have an idea worth developing.

He sat down at his desk and jotted
down the names of twenty-eight Mar-
shall County residents he felt should
be good for $1,000 each toward a rec-

reation project. Each time he wrote

47

down a name, he carefully considered
whether he would definitely be a $1,000
man; he purposely omitted several he
knew were easily able to donate that
amount but whom he feared he would
be unable to sell. The next day he called
on the first man on his list. He got his

$1,000 check.

Money Is Raised

In the weeks that followed, Hopkins
called on each of the twenty-eight men
on the list, refusing to go to the next
man until his current contact had given
him a $1,000 check. He got twenty-eight
of these checks.

That started _the ball rolling; dona-
tions to the project became the talk of
the county. Other Chamber of Com-
merce members, even non-members,
citizens interested in the project, began

solicitations. Banks, businesses and in-
dustries, and then civic clubs and other
organizations like the Farm Bureau
were targets of the enthusiasm for the
recreation center. The Lewisburg VFW

post voted a $2,000 donation to set the
pattern for organizations.

In all, $130,000 in cash was donated.
But besides cash, there were equally
valuable gifts. Stockholders in the
stalled private country club project
gave eighty acres of land they had
bought, and turned over almost $20,000
to the new project. A Lewisburg con-
tractor, Howard Woodward, offered his
services, without fee, for the building.
Architects Howard Hickerson and Jor-
dan were generous in an arrangement to
draw plans. Almost all materials were
bought for wholesale or less. Workers
in Lewisburg industries donated days’

pay and days of work.

What Others Think

“Everybody is Open-mouthed in
amazement when they see our new rec-
reation center,” Hopkins said.

A man from a neighboring town, a
leader in his community’s private coun
try club, visited Lewisburg’s new pub-
lic country club recently. It made him
feel a little sick, he said, that the same
thing hadn’t been done in his town.

“In a lot of towns,” Hopkins said'
“the people who run the community get
together and build themselves a private
country club and let the rest of the
people, the people who can’t afford it,
do without. Here, we decided to do
something for all the people.”

And that’s the public spirit of the
Lewisburg community.

SEVEN MILLION CI‘IILDDEN 

Against the challenging background
of a growth in school population of
seven million during the next five years
and a need for 770,000 more classrooms
at a cost of 34 billion dollars, the
editors of Architectural Forum recently
invited a group of distinguished school-
men, administrators, architects, con-
sultants and engineers to explore every
avenue of schoolhouse economy.

The stature of the men who partici-
pated in this forum and the urgency of
the problem they discussed commend
their findings to every school board—
and to all others concerned with the
future of America, which lies in the
future of her children.

The forum members agree unani-
mously that' schoolbuilding economy
has become urgent because of what
is called a great “wave” of children.
They now eXpect the new higher birth
rate to be less like a moving wave than
a permanent new high plateau. This
year some elementary schools suddenly
found their enrollment tripled by chil-

dren born in 1946-47. Between 1953
and 1959 the United States school plant

must care for an expected increase of
seven million pupils, with no slack-off
in sight.

48

Their report goes on to say, “It would
be most wise to start with a construc-
tive approach, seeking full utilization
of all available resources and combina-
tions through better brainwork, better
programming, better administration
and better planning. Indeed, the great-
est economies will be effected before
the school architect even touches pencil
to paper.

“These opportunities involve a whole
series of people and agencies: the school
board, superintendent, principals and

teachers; local, state and federal of-
ficials and legislators, educational con-
architects
builders and manufacturers in the build-
ing industry; code officials and even
insurance underwriters.” [See George
Butler’s series of articles, School-City
Cooperation in the Planning of Recrea-
tion Areas and Facilities, in RECREA-
TION, April, May, June, 1953. These
are now available from the National
Recreation Association in booklet form

sultants; and engineers,

for seventy-five cents.]

 

RECREATION

ADMINISTRATION

NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS
THROUGH COOPERATION

 

WHAT does a city do when thcrc is

nced for neighborhood parks and
hch is no vacant land available? Thc
ity of Compton, California, has solved
he problem by c00peration with the
lcmcntary school district. The results
nf the cooperation were seen on Sun-
lay, April 19, when the new Colin P.
Celly Park was officially opened.

Like so many other cities during the
period of rapid growth, Compton had
raid little attention to the need for
parks. However, the citizens realized the
ICBd for parks whcn they adopted a new
ity charter, which granted the city
ouncil the right to levy a tcn-cent tax
0 bc used for capital outlay for parks
ind recreation for a period of ten years.

Funds were available for the con-
truction of parks but the question was:
Where was the land on which to build
hc parks? The park and recreation
:ommission favored a program of con-
.truction of neighborhood parks. A sur-
rcy of the city was made but only one
racant area was found which could be
)urchased for a park. During the survey
t came to the attention of the park and
'ccreation commission that in some
:ascs, in order to acquire enough land
for an elementary school, the elemen-

lANUARY 1954

tary school board had been required
to purchase more land than was needed.

Good planning locates parks and
playgrounds adjacent to elementary
schools. With this thought in mind the
city council and the elcmcntary school
board were approached with the idea
that a-c00pcrativc program could be
workcd out to mutual advantage. Both
authorities signified an interest in such
a program and requested additional in-
formation on how it could legally be
worked out. No information was ob-
tained, however, as to where such a
project had actually been carried out.
Thcrc had been many cases where thc
city used the school grounds for play-
grounds but no case where the city had
spent city tax money to construct a park
on school property.

Chapter 4 of Division 12 (Section
24401, et seq.) of the Education Codc
authorizes counties, cities and school
districts to cooperate with'each other in
the development and execution of ade-
quate programs of community recrea-
tion. Chapter 5, Article 3.5 (Section
18661) of the Education Code au-
thorizes the school district to lease for
a term not exceeding ninety-nine years,
to any county, city and county, city or

An example of city-school joint-planning.

to any other school district, except as
provided in Article 3, any real property
belonging to the school district, and
which is not or will not at the time of
possession be needed for school class-
room buildings by the district own-
ing it.

Using the Education Code as a basis
for legal authority, the Compton Ele-
mentary School District leased to the
City of Compton 3.8 acres of land
located at the Colin P. Kclly School.
This lease gave the city the right to
construct a park on the school property,
and provided that all facilities and
equipment installed by the city are to
remain its property. The park is to be
maintained by the city.

What facilities should bc placed in
the park? How best to take advantage
of the existing school facilities? Where
should the park facilities be placed so
they could be used during school hours
and still not interfere with school ac-
tivities? How should the park be laid
out so that it could be used by the school
for playground purposes? These were
some of the questions confronting Har-
land D. King, director of parks and
recreation, when he was directed to

draw up plans for the park.

49

Carrying out the plan for coopera-
tion, the director consulted with the
superintendent of schools and the direc-
tor of physical education and recreation
in the development of the design which
has been carried out in the Colin P.
Kelly Park.

The only athletic facility in the park
is a baseball diamond. Although this
dUplicates the school baseball dia-
monds, it was placed in the park for a
definite reason. The school baseball
diamonds are surfaced with decomposed
granite while the park is in turf. Boys
would rather play ball on a turf area
than on decomposed granite. Thus a
ball diamond was constructed, located
at the north end of the park which is
closest to the school playground area.

At the south end of the park, further
from the, school, is located the picnic
shelter house, a building twenty-four
feet by twenty-four feet. One room of
the shelter house, equipped with five
gas plates and a sink with hot and cold
water, has two sides open. Rest rooms

and an equipment room for park main-
tenance equipment are also in the
structure.

Adjacent to the shelter house is the
picnic area with fifteen picnic tables,
constructed with steel frames and set
in concrete. Each table will accommo-
date ten people. To add color to the
park, the picnic tables have been painted
red, yellow, blue, green and brown.
There is a double barbecue pit along-
side of the picnic tables.

Playground apparatus for the school
children was provided on the school
grounds but no apparatus was available
for the pre-school children. The south-
east corner of the park has, therefore,
been set aside as a pre-school children’s
area with swings, slides, merry-go-
round, climbing apparatus and sand-
box. Benches are set around this area
so that the mothers may sit and watch
their children.

The entire park of 3.8 acres has been
landscaped with grass, trees and shrubs.
The plantings are located at the south

end and around the sides of the par]
leaving a large grassed area in the cel
ter for free play. The entire park '
serviced with an underground sprink
ing system.

This neighborhood park has bee
constructed at a cost of $12,000. If lan
had been purchased the cost would ha
been over $25,000. Through cooper.
tion, the City of Compton has a neigl
borhood park and the elementary schou
has additional facilities, all at a gre.
saving to the taxpayers.

A lease has been signed for the secor
such park and its development is unde
way. The plan has been received s
well that a survey is being made to s:
if other school areas can be develope
in the same way. This plan is only po
sible where the city council, the pa]
and recreation commission, the eleme:
tary school board and everyone co
cerned is willing to cooperate. Comptc
has such boards and the taXpayers a‘
benefiting from such cooperation.

#—

 

 

 

NRA 1954 DISTRICT CONFERENCE SCHEDULE

District

Pacific Sauthwest

location

Municipal Auditorium

Dates

Santa Rasa, Califarnia

Middle Atlantic The Inn March 17-20
(including New Buck Hill Falls, Pennsylvania
York State)
Sautheast Ralstan Hatel March 17-19
Calumbus, Geargia
Sauthwest Baker Hatel March 25-27
Dallas, Texas
Pacific Narthwest Davenpart Hatel March 29-31

Spokane, Washingtan

Great Lakes

Hatel Leamingtan

Minneapalis, Min nesata

February 14-17

March 30-April 2

District
Representatives

Radney

Fa ust—Westgate

Van Fleet
Van Arsdale

Shumard

Callier—Harney

Midwest Baker Hatel March 31-April 3 Tadd !
Hutchinsan, Kansas '
Sauthern Hatel Patten April 21-23 Preece I
ChaHanaaga, 1
Tennessee !

New England To be annaunced May 11-14 Hainswarth

Massachusetts

 

___'.._____—_———————-——————————-————-—-—————‘—'——————
——_“___——_—____——____——_n

50

RECREATIO

P E It 50 N N E L

 

In-Scrvice Training Report
Available

Just off the press, the committee re-
aort, I n-Service Training For Parks and
iecreation, Objectives and Resources,
vill have wide distribution. Recreation
ind park executives, supervisors and
ndividuals responsible for in-service
raining should order their copies
10W. The National Recreation Associa-
ion has two thousand copies available
mmediately for fifty-cents each.

The report deals with objectives,
:ssential elcments, and methods of in-
iervice training. It lists organizations
.0 get in touch with for service or in-
Formation helpful in develoPing in-ser-
ticc training programs. Also, films and
raining institutes are identified and
isted for the training of park and rec-
The bibliography
ists books, articles and magazines as
an aid to those responsible for in-ser-
vice training programs.

reation workers.

The material for the publication was
prcpared by the two in-service train-
ing committees of the American Insti-
tutc of Park Executives and the Na-
tional Recreation Association. As a co-
operative project it represents the views
of leaders in park and recreation ser-
vices. John Considine, superintendent
of parks and recreation in Detroit,
Michigan, and Garrett G. Eppley, chair-
man of the department of recreation at
lndiana University, Bloomington, In-
diana, are chairmen of the two com-
mittees respectively. Undoubtedly there

MR. SUTIIERLAND is the director of the
Recreation Personnel Service of the
National Recreation Association.

JANUARY 1954-

F

is much additional material that each
group might have included had it been
working independently. Likewise, com-
promises had to be made as opinions
diffei'ed. It is a compliment to both
grOUps that there could be general
agreement and acceptance of various
points of view to the extent that such
a joint publication could be made pos-
sible. As a result, park and recreation
workers alike may be exposed to ideas
and points of view that otherwise might
have escaped them had the work not
been undertaken as a c00perative
project.

The association’s in-service training
committee has just undertaken two
other projects. Don Dyer in charge of
recreation for Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
has accepted the responsibility for
preparing material for the training of
community center personnel. Ray Fors-
berg, superintendent of recreation for
Waterloo, Iowa, has accepted a similar
task for the training of playground
leaders. Both publications are badly
needed and will serve an important
purpose as cities throughout the coun-
try move forward in the development
of leaders to serve more adequately on
the playgrounds and in the community
centers.

Other Committee Activities

Other sub-committees of the Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Recruit-
menl;, Training and Placement of Rec-
reation Personnel are busy also. The
Committee on Undergraduate Educa-
tion, under the leadership of Charles
K. Brightbill, University of Illinois,

has reports in rough draft form on
such subjects as “Student Field Work,”

W. C. Sutherland

“How to Select A College for Profes-

’ and

“Campus Recreation.” The Committee
on Placement with Russell Foval of
Decatur, Illinois, as chairman, has
about completed statements on “Per-
sonnel Policies and Practices,” and
“Essentials of a Good Recreation De-
partment” and is exploring other issues
related to “Civil Service, Certification
and Qualifications for Recreation Ex-
ecutives.” The Graduate Education
Committee, chaired by Gerald Fitz-
gerald of the University of Minnesota,
has work underway for a “Recreation
Leader’s Attitude Inventory,” which, if
developed, may become a helpful instru-

sional Recreation

0 o ,
Tralnlng,

ment in the wise selection of students
for professional recreation training.
Mrs. Verna Rensvold has organized the
Committee on Recruitment into work-
ing units, and attention is being given
to various types of recruiting materials,
literature, brochures, bulletins, visual
aids and films. Special meetings are
being considered for vocational guid-
ance people and counselors who are
advising young folks regarding their
vocations. It is h0ped that some might
be held in conjunction with the district
conferences. In any event, there is need
for interpreting more effectively the
story of recreation as a career, to high
school students and to college students
who have not yet made up their minds
about their life work.

are as
strong and as good as their personnel.

Recreation organizations

Observations of the present status of
recreation and its leadership indicate
that the Personnel Advisory Committee
has plenty to challenge it. Because of
low salaries in far too many places,

51

individuals are being “employed who
are not sufficiently competent and who
do not have the capacity to develop
into top-flight leaders, directors, super-
visors, and executives. This means that,
when vacancies occur, the recreation
department must go outside the city
for its replacements, which frequently
creates ill-will, or promote workers who
do not qualify and are frustrated in
the higher positions of supervisory and
administrative responsibility. Further
concerns have to do with the scarcity
of professionally trained and qualified
personnel, the rapid rate of turnover
and the number of workers leaving the

field. Effective plans for making in-

service training opportunities more-

available to present workers are on the
minds of many officials and it is hoped
that the in-service training publication
mentioned above, and those that are
expected to follow, will be of value. The
competition for the best leaders gradu-
ating from high schools and colleges
will continue and in all probability
will increase. The Council on Social
Work Education has just announced
that 150,000 new social workers will
be needed in the next ten years for re-
placements and to fill newly created
positions. The National League for

0W¢

Nursing and the Committee on Caree
in Nursing have intensified their 11
tional recruiting programs. The Pres
dent’s Commission on Higher Educ
tion reported that one million teache
should be trained for elementary ed'
cation and high schools between 195
and 1960, and so it goes. The mov
ment that does not recruit its own mer
bership is doomed and the recreatic
forces must get busy. The study of re
reation leadership and training neet
now underway in the Southern Regic
is beginning to reveal what the nee:
are likely to be in that part of the cow
try in the immediate years ahead.

A Chance to Share

Here is an opportunity for recreation people to share in
the preparation of a training manual scheduled for publi-

cation in the near future. The following types of material
are needed from both large and small communities.

0 Sample of institute training schedules showing days,
hours, subject headings, and so on.

0 Minimum requirements, educational and others, for play-
ground leaders.

0 Samples of screening tests used in qualifying playground
leaders.

0 Follow-up in-service training schedules used during the
playground season proper.

0 Training sites—advantages of some facilities over other

types.
0 Area-wide institutes—joining a number of communities

together has proven successful in some areas.
0 Samples of reference reading lists and bibliographies.
0 Special training aids—movies, slides, and so on.

0 Evaluation techniques applied to playground training
courses.

0 Any other types of material or techniques that have
proved successful in training summer playground leaders.

If you have any of these materials which you would like
to contribute to this publication—and any ideas about
what kinds of material should be included to help you—send
them, before February 15, 1954, to: Raymond T. Forsberg,
Superintendent of Recreation, 1419 East Fourth Strect.
Waterloo, Iowa.

Don Dyer, assistant superintendent of schools, in charge
of recreation and adult education, Department of Municipal
Recreation and Adult Education, Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin,
is preparing a manual for the training of community center
directors. We are sure that Don, too, would appreciate
materials and suggestions that might help him with his
special project.

In addition to Messrs. Forsberg and Dyer who are work-
ing on major in-service training projects, other members
of the ln-Service Training Committee are contributing in
different ways. For instance, Mr. James Mahoney, superin-

52

tendent of parks and recreation in Cambridge, Mass.
chusetts, is writing an article for the February issue 1
RECREATION on “Orientation as a Phase of In-Servit
Training.” Another member of the Sub-Committee on 11
Service Training of the National Advisory Committee 0
Recruitment, Training and Placement, James Groom
superintendent of recreation in Wellesley, Massachusetts,
in the process of writing an article on “In-Service Trainin
for the Small Town Recreation Department.”

Studies that are underway in one large section of tl.
country are revealing tremendous gaps in education.
very large body of present workers were never able to con
plete their formal education. They are holding importal
recreation positions but, with family responsihilities, wi
never be able to return to the college campus. Consequentlj
their only opportunity to add to their professional prepar:
tion will be through well-planned in-service and on-the-jo
training. Attention is being focused more and more 0
this urgent need and it is believed that administratOI
generally are giving more attention to in-service trainin
as a means toward develOping present staff members.

Job Openings

0 Huntington Beach, California, has an opening for
sports director in the recreation department. Details abor
qualifications, salary, and so on may be obtained by writin
to Mr. William J. Proctor, Superintendent of Recreatior
City Hall, Huntington Beach.

0 The Wisconsin Home for Women, the state penal inst
tution for women, will have an opening on May 1, 195
for a woman teacher with a major in physical educatio
and a music background or music major and physicz
education background. Write to Mrs. Marcia Simpsor
Superintendent, Wisconsin Home for Women, Taycheedal
Wisconsin.

0 There are two interesting recreation positions for wome
open in Vermont. One position requires 'a person wit
experience to act as program director for a recreatio
center. The other is a beginning position affording a goon
opportunity for someone to gain valuable experience a
assistant to the director of a community center. Write t
Theresa S. Brungarclt, Vermont Director of Recreatior

State House, Montpelier, Vermont.

RECREATIO]

 

Neighborhood Study

A study of the neighborhood sur-
rounding the Hudson Guild Neighbor-

hood House in New York City has been
undertaken by New York University’s

Center for Human Relations and
Studies. Agencies working in the neigh-
horhood will be able to use the facts dis-
covered by the survey to help them in
meeting the needs of neighborhood
people. Looming large are the problems
of newly arrived Puerto Ricans, now
about twenty-five per cent of the popu-
lation of the area.

The middle class is being squeezed
out of the area, going to the suburbs
for the services they desire. Only by
providing them with good schools, parks
health centers and recreational facilities
can these people be made happy in a
city neighborhood.

. Study Club

As you plan your club programs for
the coming year perhaps Miss Eunice
Ware’s experience in Memphis may give
you an idea. This club became a real
study club, though it started ust to give
something to do to women who brought
their children to dancing classes. Here
is the story:

The first tentative program “Christ-
mas Classics,” was early in December,
and this was so well received that the
club became a regular feature of the
community center program. Only the
best speakers in Memphis were asked to
appear before the club and the response
of these busy men and women who were
invited was encouraging.

The highlights of the season were

"Pictures a Child Should Know,” “Let’s
Look at Thornton Wilder,” “The Holy
Year” by a Roman Catholic Monsignor
with technicolor movies, “Steps to the

Ballet,” an Encyclopedia Brittanica film

of Sadler’s Well’s Ballet, a review of
“One God, The Ways Men Worship

Him” by a Jewish Rabbi in connectipp
a» p} -

JANUARY 1954

with Brotherhood Week, and “Behind
the Scenes in Radio and Television”
by a member of WMC staff. Alternating
with these subjects were book reviews.
To mention only one, “The Peabody
Sisters” was quite entertaining, as the
reviewer traced the connection between
the original Peabodys and the family
for whom so many buildings in Mem-
phis are named.

As the season ended, the women sent
a request to the recreation office that
the club be incorporated as a perma-
nent feature of the center. We hope that
next year the members can formulate
their own programs, and surprise them-
selves and the director by getting on the
floor and giving their own book reviews.

Levies, Bond Issues, Referendums

Norwalk, Ohio—Citizens voted 3 re-
newal of the park and recreation levy
which passed by more than two to one
margin.

Cayahoga Falls, Ohio—A community
which has grown from 10,000 popula-
tion ten years ago to present popula-
tion of 37,000 passed a five-year levy
for recreation which will produce $60,-
000 annually.

Youngstown, Ohio—$330,000 for
capital improvements and parks and
playgrounds.

Shaker Heights, Ohio—$300,000 for
a swimming pool.

Painesville, Ohio—Voted one-half-
mill renewal for recreation by a sixty-
six per cent majority. This means ap-
proximately 312,000 for the recreation
‘budget.

Fort Atkinson, Wisconsin—Passed a
referendum for the construction of a
swimming pool in a city park. The pool
recommendation was originally made
by NRA district representative, Robert
L. Horney.

St. Paul, Minnesota—Voted thirty-
nine million dollars for capital improve-
ments of which over one million will
be spent for parks and recreation.

Springfield, Vermont—At a special
town meeting recently, citizcns voted
approval of a bond issue of $100,000
for construction of a new swimming
pooL

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania—Voted
bond issue for threc and one-half million
dollars for increased recreation facili-
ties.

Pasadena, Texas—A community of
approximately 23,000 population, voted

$240,000 in bonds for park and recrea-
tion‘ facilities.

Fiftieth Anniversary

Rochester, New York, has celebrated
its fiftieth anniversary of recreation.
The first idea of recreation was con-
ceived in 1902 and, after much bicker-

ing by the Council and neighbors, a site
was selected on which to establish the
first playground.

This, which is known as Brown
Square and is approximately five acres,
has been operated continuously since
that time. In 1936 the wading pool was
remodeled and enlarged at a cost of
approximately $75,000 and, in 1950, the
old shelter house was remodeled and
reconditioned.

Rochester has designated one week
of the year as Youth \Veek and this
year, to open this event, planned a gala
celebration with games, folk dances and
entertainment. There was a band con-
cert by the regular park band at which
the dedication service was held. After
the hand concert an orchestra was pro-
vided through the courtesy of the
musicians union for a street dance——
RAYMOND G. SLATTERY, associate sa-

perintendent of recreation.

Do You Believe It?

Softball Field Costs $1.19—Alturas,
California, has a lighted softball field

that was really built by volunteer labor
and materials. The field, one of the

finest in Northern California, has a
grass outfield, bleachers, and is fenced
all the way around as well as being

lighted. When Dick Wakefield, direc-

.tor of recreation, was asked what the

$1.19 was for, he said that he needed
a lock and hasp for the gates.

Briefs

0 Prime Minister Louis St. Laurent
recently announced federal government
support for an $800,000 recreation cen-
ter for all federal government employees
in Ottawa. The center will receive a
$500,000 long-term loan from the

government, provided federal civil ser-
vants pledge $300,000.

0 The McMillen Park addition of forty

acres in Fort Wayne, Indiana, was
dedicated last June with a large square
dance and appropriate ceremony. This
was the first time the newly-completed
square dance area was used. The park
system can now boast of having the only
fluorescent-lighted square-dance area in
the country, as far as we have been able
to determine. The hard-surfacing of the

100-by 200-feet area was done by the
park department.

0 In a recent survey of nearly 500 re-
tired teachers, plus other municipal em-
ployees, the New York Times reported
that “among those who reported ‘many’
(five to nine) leisure-time activities,
seventy-one per cent found retirement
satisfactory; whereas among those who
reported ‘few’ (one to four—on the
average no more than two) leisure
time activities, only fifty-two per cent
found retirement satisfactory.”

53

People

 

 

and Events

 

Award

Grant D. Brandon, director of Rec-
reation in Lancaster, Pennsylvania,
was named Lancaster’s Outstanding
Citizen of the Year at the annual Armi-
stice Day Banquet sponsored by Ameri-
can Legion Post 34.

Mr. Brandon was presented with a
plaque by the chairman of the Out-
standing Citizen Committee, Joseph
LaMonaca, who cited the recipient’s
many accomplishments in providing
recreation for the young and old in
Lancaster. He said, “It would be hard
for us to evaluate the good that has
come from his activities during the past
third of a century . . . His work has
been directly concerned with combat-
ting delinquency in our community . . .
He has been responsible for our super'-
vised playgrounds, our boys’ and girls’
clubs, the local hiking clubs, the drama
clubs, the old folks’ club, the whole-
some play centers he planned for zest-
ful fun to build the bodies and alert the
minds of our people during their leisure
hours. Lancaster has indeed been for-
tunate in having a man of his devotion
to help to provide a better place for
families in which to live.”

Grant Brandon is proud of the rec-
reation facilities made possible by the
people of Lancaster~—and the people of
Lancaster are proud of their recreation
program, made possible by him.

Random Notes

0 At the meeting of the United States
Assembly of Youth in September, two
NRA training specialists made inter-
esting contributions. Grace Walker, di-
rected an impressive dramatic presenta-

tion of the World Assembly of Youth;
and Anne Livingston helped to or-
ganize a iield day and other activities

to make the brief periods of leisure en-
joyable.

0 Louis E. Means, consultant in rec-
reation for the California State Depart-

54

ment of Education, has been selected
to become chief of the newly created
Section of Supplemental Education for
the State ,Department of Education.
Mr. Means will have administrative re-
sponsibility over live existing bureaus
in the department—Adult Education,
Audio-Visual Education, Special Educa-
tion, Guidance, and Health Education,
Physical Education and Recreation.

0 The recreation commission of Man-
hattan, Kansas, received praise recently
from the Washington, D.C., Weekly
News Review. The article cited Man-
hattan’s recreation activities as an
example of the kind of success a com-
munity-sponsored program may have in
combating juvenile delinquency.

0 Speaking of law breaking ( or facility
breaking) by minors, we have word
that the resourceful director of recrea-
tion in Winnipeg, Canada, has had the
city’s playgrounds equipped with chain
swings that are made of a metal that
can’t be cut. "

o The people of Greenwich, Connecti-
cut, recently presented to James S.
Stevens, superintendent of recreation,
a beautifully illuminated resolution in
appreciation of his service over a
twenty-year period.

0 Dr. G. Kerry Smith, president of the
Educational Press Association, has
been appointed as executive secretary of
the Association of Higher Education.
His duties will include the editorship
of College and University Bulletin and
Current Issues in Higher Education,
regular publications of the Association.
Dr. Smith will also direct the National
Conference on Higher Education, which
is the largest annual gathering of col-

lege and university representatives in
the United States.

0 Ten prominent American were chosen
to select the United States Junior
Chamber of Commerce “Ten Outstand-
ing Young Men of 1953.” The winners

are ten young men between the ages
twenty-one and thirty-six who ha
done the most for their profession a1
nation. This event is sponsored annual
by members of the U.S. Jaycees a1
will be held this year in Seattle 1
January 23.

Coming Events

January 29~—Local and national civ
leaders concerned with communi
health, welfare and recreation are co
dially invited to attend the twenty-fir
birthday of the national Advisory Cor
mittee on Citizen Participation whit
will be celebrated in the Hotel Jefferso
St. Louis, at the Biennial Conventic
Dinner of Community Chests and Cou:
cils of America.

February 14-16—-—The Eighth Annu.
Industrial Recreation Conference wi
be held at Purdue University. Reserv;
tions may be made or information o]
tained by writing to: Industrial Re
reation Conference, Division of Adu
Education, Purdue University, Lafa]
ette, Indiana.

February 1 7-1 8~—International Sle
Dog Derby, Lake Placid, New Yorl
An estimated twenty-five teams are e)
pected to participate in the two-day
forty-mile race.

February 20 — Registration fo
spring courses at the Cooperative Rec

reation Workshop, 184 Eldridge Streel
New York City.

Recent Appointments

Patricia L. Barheld, recreation tech
nician, Veterans Hospital, Lebanon
Pennsylvania; Joan Bernard, super
visor girls’ and women’s activities, rec
reation department, Evanston, Illinois
R. Foster Blaisdell, superintendent o
recreation, Topeka, Kansas; C. R
Bowers, recreation consultant, State
Division of Public Assistance, Madison
Wisconsin; Herb Brackney, Park De
partment, Kansas City, Missouri;
Charles S. Brand, superintendent oi
recreation, Conshohocken,_ Pennsyl-
vania; Alice Burhhardt, director oi
recreation, Seton Hospital, New York;
Leroy M. Cantrell, superintendent oi
recreation, Stillwater, Oklahoma.

Joyce Chalmers, First Army Special
Services; Carol J. Christiansen, recrea-
tion therapist, Rosewood State Train-

ing School, Maryland; Alphonse Culti-

RECREATION

rshi, superintendent of recreation,
ynbrook, New York; Joseph P. David-
son, recreation worker, Parkchester,
New York; Del Dey, superintendent of
rccreation, Kingman, Kansas; Patrick
[J. Dugan, recreation director, St.
iAgatha’s School, Nanuett, New York;
'William H. Dunlevy, director, Nesha-
miny Valley Youth Center, Newtown,
Pennsylvania; H. Aubrey Elliott, spe-
cial assistant on juvenilc delinquency,
Children’s Bureau, Austin, Texas.
Richard Ferguson, recreation direc-
tor, Leadville, Colorado; Clif French,
program director of the student union,
University of Minnesota; Gwendolyn
Hawkins, girls’ worker, Crispus Attucks
Association, Lancaster, Pennsylvania;
Larry H eeb, state recreation consultant,
Kansas; Jane Heinemann, Army Spe-
cial Services, Europe; Nancy L. Hol-
land, director, teen-age activities, Rec-
rcation Department, Fort Lauderdale,
Florida; Don Jolly, director of recrea-
tion, Kansas City, Kansas; Richard
P.A.L. Center,
Queens, New York; Joe T. Leszcynshi,
director of parks and recreation, Su-
Bret McGinnis,
superintendent of parks and recreation,
POplar Bluff, Missouri; Floyd Mc-
Kenna, superintendent of parks and
recreation, Lynchburg, Virginia; John
T. M oahe, superintendent of recreation,
Carbondale, Illinois; James W. Nealy,
superintendent of recreation, Shades
Valley, Alabama; John C. Newton,
boys’ worker, Dixwell House, New
Haven, Connecticut; George Pardoe,
superintendent of parks, Fargo, North
Dakota; Binnion D. Parsons, superin-
tendent of recreation, Alice, Texas;
George Peebler, director, Youth Center,
Ottumwa, Iowa; Thomas Radic, assist-
ant director, Riverdale Neighborhood
and Library Association, New York.
Mary Robinson, program worker,
Booker T. Washington Center, Rock-
ford, Illinois; Theodora Robinson,
director, Emma S. Webb Community
Center, Hot Springs, Arkansas; Con-
stance Rollison, supervisor, special ac-
tivities, Danville, Virginia; G. 0tt
Romney, chief civilian staff advisor
for morale and welfare, Far East Joint
Service Command; Richard Rugg, su-
perintendent of recreation, Delmar,
New York; Vivian K. Sand, executive

Leighton, director,

perior, Wisconsin;

JANUARY 1954

director, House of Good Shepherd,
Utica, New York; William R. Seirup,
superintendent of recreation, Hemp-
field Township, Pennsylvania; Betty
Slaughter, supervisor, arts and crafts,
Waterloo, Iowa.

International Notes

0 The Japanese Recreation Association
held its Seventh National Convention
recently. Like our own, it lasted five
days and featured lectures, reports on
researches, various exhibits, folk danc-
ing and singing, and work and fun for
all. The convention was held in Nikko,
just north of Tokyo.

0 Did you know that Tokyo boasts a
population of over seven million, has
233 parks and open spaces and is sur-
rounded by green belts covering a

30,301-acre area?

0 The Christian Science Monitor, in a
recent article entitled, “Hands Across
the Sea,” has lauded the work done by
the group of girls and boys, from
America’s schools, known as the Winant
Volunteers. These young pe0ple serve
in clubs in understaffed, over-popu-
lated areas in London. They contribute
their summer vacations, usually at their
own expense, to help with whatever
jobs they can.

The movement was started by the late
John G. Winant, then United States
Ambassador to Britain, who saw boys
and girls on the streets of Dockside,
London with nothing to do and no one
to care for them. He wanted to enlist
the help of American youth. In 1948,
the project got under way and, to
honor the man who thought it Up, the
gI‘OUP was called the Winant Volunteers.

The name of John Winant is well
known to recreation pe0ple for his
twenty-one-year participation as mem-
ber of the board of directors and, later,
as first vice-president of the National
Recreation Association.

As Thomas E. Rivers, executive sec-
retary of the NRA International Rec-
reation Service, has said in response to
thesarticle: “John G. Winant would be
very happy to know of the recreation
services being performed in his name
in London by the Winant Volunteers.
This is a fitting memorial to his own
vision and leadership.”

In Memorium

Albert B. Hines, executive director
of the Madison Square Boys’ Club in
New York, died September 26. Mr.
Hines, who had been a member of the
board of directors of Boys’ Clubs of
America, began his career in 1904 as
assistant director of the Associated
Charities Children’s Camp in Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania. After this, he
joined the staff of the Sarah Heinz
House in Pittsburgh and remained with
this organization for a number of years.
He then became director of the Henry
Street Settlement in New York for a
brief period before becoming the execu-
tive director of the Madison Square
Boys’ Club which, under his leadership,
came to be one of the great boys’ clubs
in the country.

Among other awards, he was granted
the Catholic Youth Organization Medal
of Champions and the Boys’ Clubs of
America Bronze Keystone, in recogni-
tion of his unending efforts on behalf
of the welfare of youth.

Albert B. Hines will be missed much
by the boys’ club movement and by all

who are concerned with youth work.

 

Whatever the craft
you are teaching: woodworking, model
building, leather, metal, plastics, ceramics

x-acto knives,
tools 8: sets

designed by craftsmen and precision-mode
for fine craftsmanship

will help you
do a better iob

by helping your students get better results
and more creative satisfaction.

Try Whittling: send for 40 page Whit-
tling baaklet with detailed instructians and
plans far 34 projects-25¢.

Complete X-acto 28 page catalog-20¢
dept. NO. R-l.

x-acto‘? W.

48-41 Van Dam Street

tang island City 1, N. Y.

 

55

Listening and Viewing

Non-Commercial Television

Pioneering in the field of non-com-
mercial television, the Los Angeles
ultra-high frequency station, KTHE,
began telecasting ofIicially on Novem-
ber 29, 1953. This, the nation’s second
educational ‘television station, built
with funds contributed by the Allan
Hancock Foundation, had been hroad-
casting test patterns since August.
(KUHT, the University of Houston’s
educational TV station, was the first on
the air, and Opened in May.)

Captain Allan Hancock, director Of
the Foundation, announced that the
station is designed to serve all recog-
nized educational institutions and com-
munity-service organizations in the
Greater Los Angeles Area.

* * Il-

Editors of educational magazines
agree that the top educational event of
1952 was the reservation of 242 tele-
vision channels for exclusive use by
schools and colleges. This has been
compared in importance to the Ordi-
nance of 1788, which made available

public lands for public school systems.
'II' 'II' 'II'

The first newsletter, Educational
Television News, was mailed by the
National Committee for Educational
Television to six hundred early leaders
in educational television on March 2,
1953. The September 15 issue went to
about 16,000 individuals, including
leaders in all the 245 areas where chan-
nels are reserved.

The mailing list includes members of
state and local educational TV commit-
tees, civic and educational leaders in
the arcas, newSpaper editors, heads Of
foundations, national magazines, na-
. tional organizations, and so on.

The newsletter features success
stories, the news of fund-raising drives,
program planning, publicity drives,
FCC decisions—any information that
will help peOple to organize, finance,
and Operate non-commercial stations.
For further information, write to the
Committee at the Ring Building, 1200
18th Street, N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

* 'Il' ‘ll'

A full article on educational tele-
vision will appear in an early issue of
RECREATION.

Films
0 A new Sports instruction slide film,
Beginning Softball, is being offered
by The Athletic Institute. This is the
tenth in the institute’s “Beginning
Sports Series.” It consists of eight, full-
color units totalling 390 frames, an

accompanying 33 1/3 RPM recorded

56

commentary, the Softball Instructors’
Guide and a copy Of “How to Improve

Your Softball”——student’s handbook.
The guide and handbook are includcd
in every kit, but are also being distri-
buted separately for $2.00 and $.50
respectively. The film is being offered
at cost. $64.25 for the sound version
and $48.25 for the silent kit (without
records). Other sports in the series are
archery, badminton, baseball, basket-
ball, bowling, golf, tennis, tumbling and
volleyball. Write Film Department, The
Athletic Institute, 209 South State
Street, Chicago 4, Illinois.

0 The Highway Safety Division Of the
North Carolina Highway Patrol in
Raleigh has free films on safety, avail-
able for your use. Write for their Free
Film Catalogue.

0 An up-tO-the-minute supplement to
the Youth Commission Film Catalogue
of New York State, is now available to
interested organizations and indi-
viduals. Films summarized in the sup-
plement are in the areas of youth

guidance and protection, vandalism, ,
prevention of juvenile delinquency.

recreation and family life. Addition Of
fifteen new films during the last year
brings the total number of films‘avail-
able through the Film Library to sixty-
two. The Film Catalogue and/or Sup-
plement will be sent free upon request
to thc New York State Youth Commis-
sion, 66 Beaver Street, Albany 7, N. Y.

0 British Information Services an-
nounces as available (in 16mm, sound,
color) a new film entitled “Coronation
Day.” From the procession to West-
minster Abbey through the ritual in-
side the Abbey and the return proces-
sion, all the highlights Of this “event
Of the year” are beautifully photo-
graphed in full color. In addition to
commentary spoken by James Mc-
Kechnie, there are excerpts Of the actual
music played during the ceremony.
Prints are available from British In-
formation Service, 30 Rockefeller
Plaza, New York 20, N. Y., or any
of its regional Offices. For rent only, at

$5.00 per day.

Audio-Visual Briefs

0 A national program center for edu-
cational television stations, the Educa-
tional Television and Radio Center, will
be Operated under a Ford Foundation
grant in Chicago, to serve as a clearing-
house for, and later originate, filmed
programs, and to circulate educational
films now available.

0 Cinelast, a solution said to protect
films, slides, prints against scratches,

 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  

brittleness, static electricity, and to e
tend the life of color material, is sold b
Cinelac Company, 610 Fifth Avenu
New York. Two ounces $1.98, will tre
500 slides or 4000 feet of 8mm fil
Please mention RECREATION when wri
ing to them.

0 A series of remote control filmstri
projectors which allow teachers, i
structors, lecturers, and leaders com
plete control of their presentations fro
any point in the room is available i
500-, 750-, and 1000-watt models. Th
user advances the picture by merel
pressing a push-hutton on the end
a ten and a half-foot cord which ma
be lengthened by adding one or mor
35-foot extensions which are availabl
as accessory items. The remote contro
advance completely climinates the nee
for a projectionist, embarrassing de
lays, annoying hand signals, bells,
crickcts, lights, and other cues. Both
35mm filmstrips and 2 by 2-inch slides
may be projected.

More detailed information is con-
tained in an illustrated folder available
from the Society for Visual Education,
Inc., 1345 Diversey, Chicago 14, or
DuKane Corporation, St. Charles, Ill.

0 A completely new and revised Edu-
cational Catalog listing all the film-
strips, 2-by-2 slides, and color slide.-
sets for the school market, as well as a
section devoted exclusively to equip-
ment and accessories, has just been re-
leased by the Society for Visual Educa-
tion, Incorporated. The catalog is
available from any S.V.E. dealer or by
writing direct to S.V.E.

o The Princeton Film Center, In-
corporated, national film distributors.
Offers, to sponsors Of 16mm promotion
films, a new study of Opportunities in
television showings of their films on
free “public service” TV prOgrams.
Brochure free. Inquiries should be ad-
dressed to Sherman 'Price, Director
of Distribution, The Princeton Film
Center, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey.

0 A musical show, “Stump the Band,”
has been presented from the Dodge
City, Kansas, recreation center every
Tuesday night. Following the broadcast.
the center program has included danc-
ing and games for the whole family.

0 In San Angelo, Texas, a half-hour
teen-age program, “Greetings and Gos-
sip,” has been broadcast from station
KGKL on five days a week. Commitlec
teams of the young folks plan the pro-
grams and promotion. Another half-
hour program, “Youth Summer Talent
Show,” was broadcast from station
KTXL each Tuesday, Wednesday and
Friday during last season and attend-
ance was excellent.

RECREATION

CHANGE OF ADDRESS

If you are planning to move, notify us at least thirty

I days before the date of the issue with which it is to take

I effect, if possible, in order to receive your magazines

I without interruption. Send both your old and new ad-
dresses by letter, card or post office form 225 to:

SUBSCRIPTION DEPARTMENT
RECREATION MAGAZINE
315 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK 10, N. Y.

The post office will not forward copies unless you pro-
vide extra postage. Duplicate copes cannot be sent.

f

g;
,‘g‘f ‘w

"The Choice of those who play the Game”

h.

 

 

Wig/{.702

Sports EqUIpment

AMERICAN SQUARES BOOK 8:. RECORD SERVICE
1159 Brood Street, Neworlc 5, N. J.

Complete Stock of Folk 8. Square Dance Records and Books

OFFICIAl SUPPLIERS TO
CITY RECREATION DEPARTMENTS 8. COLLEGES

Send for Free Cotologs 8- A Sample CODY of
AMERICAN SQUARES—The Magazine of American Folk Dancing

 

CINCINNATI - CHICAGO - NEW YORK - lOS ANGELES

   

 

0 Heavy simulated leather

 
 
 
 

 

' Gold stamped

. Opens flat for changes 704; gm SW pmaaxg
° Holds one year's issues
MN

Back issues of RECREATION for April, May and June

s FOR quiCk and 6383’ 1952, containing a wealth of summer program ideas,
reference—t0 keep are available in lots of five, ten, or twenty copies
Your magazmes in of the same issue at a special price.
convenient form
for future use. Five COPIES ...... .. 
Ten copies ........ .. $2.50
Twent co ies  $4.50
Now $3.00 3’ p

An excellent source of material for the new recreation

workers, summer playground leaders, student leaders,
ll 1:: nu longer possible In nnler hack-dated binders; however. volunteers, on your staff,

undated hinders may be ordered and stamped by the individual. Thé supply is limited so ORDER NO IV,

 

 

MAIL THIS COUPON NOW I- l
r ------------------------ —— I I RECREATION MAGAZINE, 315 Fourth Ave.. New York 10. N. Y. |
l RECREATION MAGAZ'NE PLEASE FILL IN I I Please send me the RECREATION issues in the quantitics |
l 315 Fourth Ave., New York 10, N. Y. Year Number of Copies I | I have checked. |
: 1953 ............................ .. I | APRIL “.5 (a   e‘   (o  |
- - - 1954 ............................ .. I MAY  5 (a - —— I” - —~——- (4'?- ° --- l
'l IP13;SHEETS;§°§;;;;;;;;;;;"g‘§2§1fi um... .................... .. l I JUNE - 5 «*- 51-4°—~ ‘0 (‘1 32-5°——— 2° m 54-5°—-— :
| . l
.  .................................................................................................... .. : :  ............................................... .- :
1' Address ................................................................................................ .. | : A ddre” ° ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
'l City ...................................................................................................... .. : I City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I
:  ....................................................................................................... .. . I  ................................................. .. I
I I ' . l I
...................................................... ..; or  I |  Endosef””'“”'” I
 ________________________ ___| l _________________________ __l

JANUARY  When writing to our advertisers nlease mention RECREATION. 

MEARKE‘H‘ NEW§

 

Bingo Cards

The new Bingomaster is made of
heavy durable cardboard in assorted
colors, sturdily lockstitched along the
edges, and has a metal frame-shutter

 

which slides into place to mark a called
number but still leaves the number
visible—which facilitates more accurate
play and faster checking. Military Ser-

vice Company, 1261 Broadway, New
York 1.

Catalogs

0A new catalog of soap dispensers,
tanks, valves, and so on, has been pub-
lished by Bobrick Manufacturing

Corporation, 1214 Nostrand Avenue,
Brooklyn 25, New York.

0 The Industrial Bench and Equipment
Manufacturing Company, 89 South
Street, New Britain, Connecticut, has
issued a new catalog (No. 653) des-
scribing steel s110p-equipment.

oSteel and aluminum equipment——
shelving, folding tables, cabinets, stor-
age bins, lockers, waste receptacles, and
so forth~—is featured in the catalog
offered by the Precision Equipment

Company, 3714 Milwaukee Avenue,
Chicago 41.

58 When writing to these manufacturers please mention RECREATION.

Craft Inventory Sheets

Cleveland Crafts Company has free
Craft Inventory Control Sheets for
craft shops, camps, and so forth. 4705
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland 20. Craft
catalogs are also available from this
company.

Educational Card Games

A set of five card-games which enable

players—children and adults—to learn,

Spanish while they play is the product
of Language Institute, Inc., 502 Allen
Street, Allentown, Pennsylvania. ,The
institute also has a game which teaches

players French.

Portable Wide Screen

Wide screen motion picture projec-
tion now enters the 16mm field with the
advent of the Radient Curvex Screen.
The picture is projected on this highly
reflective, curved, portable screen-—
which is two and one-half times as wide
as it is high——with an anamorphic
(squeeze) lens that ’shows an image

 

which approximates the wide eXpanse
of normal vision. Milt Sherman, Radient
Manufacturing Corporation, 2627 West
Roosevelt, Chicago 8.

“Rol-Bac” Basketball

This new device, bringing individual
basketball games to bedridden and
wheelchair patients, consists of an iron
hoop, which attaches to a wall or end
of a bed, and a net on the sides and
beneath the h00p to automatically re-
turn the ball to the player. Jay Archer,
Brooks Building, Scranton, Pennsyl-
vania.

Gym Lighting Fixtures

Improved, modern fixtures in a wide
variety of sizes, styles, and models ta
fit all gym lighting requirements have
been developed by Edwin F. Cutli
Company of St. Louis. Information
from H. George Block Advertising
Company, 101 South Meramec, Clayton,
St. Louis 5, Missouri.

All-Purpose Floor Machine

A new floor machine designed for
heavy duty use on all types of floors
has been announced by a national
manufacturer of industrial, commer-
cial and school maintenance equipment.
The Premier All-Purpose Floor Ma-
chine adapts quickly with accessory
brushes and pads for scrubbing, wax-
ing, polishing, shampooing, buffing,
dry cleaning, grinding, sanding, and
other maintenance jobs on all types of
floors, including linoleum, wood, as-
phalt tile, terrazzo, rubber and con-
crete. Department KP, Premier Com-
pany, 755 Woodlawn Avenue, St. Paul

1, Minnesota.

New Voit Rubber Balls

A new line of improved-in-appear-
ance, rubber-covered athletic equipment
has been introduced by Voit for 1954.
The balls are enhanced by Protector-
Kote which guards against checkering
and weathering caused by heat, sun,
oxygen and ozone, and resists scratch-
ing and scuffing. Catalog available from

 

W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation, 1600
East 25th Street, Los Angeles 10.

RECREATION

World’s Most
Complete Source
For Gym Apparatus

Wow
SUBSCRIPTION RATES ED UCA TIONAL

Effective January 1, 1954, sub-  NG

scription rates for RECREATION .
magazine are: wlth

lyear . . . . . . . . . . .. $4.00  

2 years . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50

Foreign . o o o _ 450 MAKE POT HOLDERS, RUGS,
. D o . HOT PADS, ETC. LOTTA FUN AND
Library subscriptlons 3.70 PROHTABLE 100 Cl '
. . l mblng Pa es 8: ladders
Club Subscnptlons ‘ '  l6 Beautiful Colors to Choose Baxlng Rings 8. Bay Supports

(Ten or more individuals subscribing

Vault. Jump 8. Game Standards
at one time) '- -

from or Assorted Mixed Colors

Physlcal Fltness Apparatus
Rewlng Mechlnes "
Pulley Welghts

Mats I: Met Trucks
Physlcal Therapy Equlpment
Anthropametrlc Equlpment
Basketball Backsteps
Basketball Scoreboards
Football Scoreboard:
Telescoplc Gym Seats
Steel Lockers 8. Lockerabes
ere Baskets 8. Racks

. . . plus virtually any equipment

'IO# PACKAGE, $4.50
Postpaid Anywhere in U.S.A.

“PLAY SAFE"——-BE SURE IT'S A °

FlEXl SWING SEAT LARGE OUANTITIES FOR THE
mm "mm RECREATION DEPARTMENTS

$3.95 ARE CHEAPER.
(Factory)

Single issues . . . . . . . .50

       
   
    
 
 
  
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Write for Folder and Prices

IIIIII I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I IIIIIIIIIIIIIII I I I I I I I I I III I I I I I I I I I It

HOME CRAFTS

 

P. O. Box 621
CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT, INC. KERNERSVILLE, N. C.
Ptayground & Gymnasium Consultants
P. o.     I I I I I I III I I I I I I I I I I I I I I III I I I I I I I I I I I IIIII I I I I I I I I I IIIIIIIIII

 

 

‘0 {guts out that
“Bud am”

Ital” HAIK IKG
I! 5. FAT. OFF.

5339330 [130.3018

makes mouldy, dingy shower

  
 
  
   
 
   
    
 
 
   
   

 

Coasters

33 ll End e e

Meilalllonss . rooms and sWImmIng pools
Bracelets How to create beauti- . I
"m" fut metal items for l°°k sparklmg (leun'

Trays . .
gifts or income

You'll find it's fun -- and can be profit-
able. You can make many different
and attractive metal items following
these easy instructions. using our
simple, inexpensive materials. Mail cou-
pon now for your free copy of instruc-
tions, catalog. and price list.

"Headquarters for the nation ’3
finest craft metals since 1935”

IT’S NO SECRET that Bull Frog Saf-T-Klenz removes rust and stains, lime deposits and
algae formatians. leaving a clean, gleaming surface with floors and decks that are proc-
ticolly slip-proofl

THE SMART THING TO D0 is to toke us Up on our Offer Of a generOus free sample.
yours for the asking. and see for yourself how swimming pools and showers can be
sparkling bright in half the time and with half the effort the Sof-T-Klenz wayl It also
minimizes conditians that breed and spread infectiaus germs. Simply sprinkle a little
saf-T-Klenz powder on the damp surface, mop lightly and then rinse with clear water.
No hard rubbing. It's odorless and harmless to hands. clothing. floors and drains.

Sold with a guarantee of satisfactian.

  

 

. gun-1.
goit?i\gsiandc t. I   
e o oo 5 Of oro Ion .
626 Rasedale Aveop | 719 Superrar Street Toledo 4. Ohio
:lgfisrwype 5" lau's 12: Ma- : E] Please send free sample of Saf—T-Klenz. E] Please send quantity prices.

NAME I NAME ................................................................................................................................................. ..
| FIRM .................................................................................................................................................. ..
ADDRESS | STREET ................................................................................... .i .......................................................... ..
cm, ZONE—STATE J CITY AND STATE ............................................................................................................................ ..

JANUARY 1954 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 59

V 05:656 We

 

“Squcck I”

Highlighting the junior year for rec-
reation students at the Wisconsin State
College, La Crosse, is a card party held
each year in mid-April. Under the
leadership of Miss Alice DeBower, in-
structor and advisor of recreation at
the college, last year’s party theme was
“April Showers.” Proceeds were used
to send two students to Ihduhapi Rec-
reation Leader’s Laboratory, Minne-
sota. Delegates were Gloria Olson, Be-
loit, and Ronald Friberg, Janesville.
The skills learned and the inspiration
gained were carried back for all to
share.

It is just another “squeek” but con-
tributing to a successful recreation

tune—Ronald Friberg.

Military Recreation

Resume of Pr0posal For Cooperation

Between Carswell Air Force Base And

Texas State Teachers College For
Women

1. Texas State College for Women at
Denton, Texas, is interested in develop-
ing information on careers in military
recreation for its students.

2. Beginning in January 1954, person-
nel from Carswell Air Force Base will
visit the college to help orient the stu-
dents to facets of military recreation.
3. Internships in the Carswell AFB
service club will be offered to those stu-
dents who show an interest in this as-
pect of the recreation profession. At
the beginning, this phase will take two
weeks including week-ends. In coopera-
tion with the club director, the students
will be given an opportunity to under-
take a particular project paralleling
their major interest (i.e., arts and crafts,
dancing, theater, and so on). They will
also get an opportunity to learn some-
thing of routine matters including bud-
geting, reports, planning of over-all
program, and so on.

4. If the plans succeed, it is hoped that
the course will become a standard part
of the curriculum at the college and
will be listed in the catalog. The base
plans to cooperate on certain expenses,
such as meals, through the expenditure
of central welfare funds.

New Appointments

Two new assistant professors of rec-
reation have been added to the staff of
the School of Health, Physical Educa-

60

tion and Recreation of Indiana Uni-
versity—Theodore Deppe and Robert
Tully. Mr. Deppe, now completing his
doctorate of recreation, was formerly
superintendent of recreation in Su-
perior, Wisconsin. Mr. Tully has been
visiting lecturer in recreation at In-
diana University for three years. He
will serve as director of the Bradford
Woods 2200-acre camping, outdoor
education and recreation area. Mr.
Deppe was the recipient of the Lebert
Weir Plaque.

The recreation faculty will consist of
five full-time members, one part-time
member and two part-time visiting lec-
turers. In addition, the department em-
ploys a full time campus recreation
director during'the summer months.
Garrett H. Eppley is chairman of the

department of recreation.
it- it- it-

Irwin Saulsbury, recreation graduate,
Pennsylvania State College, 1951, re-
cently released from the armed forces,
has heen appointed assistant director of
recreation in York, Pennsylvania.

College Volunteers

The Geneva, New York, Youth Cen-
ter has developed a splendid source of
volunteer help in the local colleges. An
arrangement was made with Hobart and
William Smith Colleges to give labora-
tory credit to students. Projects offered
included art, journalism, puppetry,
crafts, physical education, quiet games,
free-time survey, sewing, radio club,
music, junior clubs and photography.
Each aide chose his own project and
planned his own approach. “Lesson
plans” were discussed and guidance
given during the planning period.
Twelve students participated during the
first term and both sponsors and aides
seem delighted with the pilot project.

Empire Village

The University of British Columbia,
with one of the world’s most beautiful
locations, has been selected to house
“Empire Village” for the 1954 British
Empire and Commonwealth Games.
The third largest university in Canada
has all modern buildings, spacious
grounds, and numerous sport facilities.
Locatcd seven miles from downtown
Vancouver and occupying 548 acres, it
provides privacy without being too far
removed from stadia where numerous
athletic contests are scheduled.

 

Hospital Recreation

In March of 1950 the University 0
Minnesota inaugurated a graduate prc

gram in hospital recreation. Currier
lum requirements of forty-five colleg
credits, in which an interneship is it
cluded, constitute the academic wor
and field practice for which is awarde
the Master of Education degree in hos
pital recreation. This development ha
resulted from the increased needs fc
trained personnel in this specialize
field.

The program is under the directio
of Dr. Gerald B. Fitzgerald. Mr. Fre
M. Chapman was appointed in Septen
ber 1953 as assistant professor. He r:
ceived his master’s degree in recreatio
from the University of Minnesota and
currently a candidate for the doctoral
in recreation at Indiana University. H
has been affiliated for the past sever:
years with the Minnesota Departmel
of Public Welfare as state supervisor 1
patients’ program services, is current]
vice-chairman of the Standards an
Training Committee of the America
Recreation Society Hospital Sectio

The curriculum in the hospital recre
tion includes specific courses in t1
University of Minnesota School :
Medicine.

Upon the heginning of this progra
in 1950, the University of Minnesot
in cooperation with national hospit
and professional agencies, sponsort
the first National Institute in Hospit
Recreation. During May 26-29 of 19E
another four-day Institute in Hospit
Recreation will be held at the Unive
sity of Minnesota Center for Continu
tion Study. Details to be puhlished late

* 'II- *-

Springfield College is now official
affiliated with the U. S. Veterans” A

ministration for the clinical training
physical educators for work in hospit:
and institutions for the handicappe
Thirty graduate students majoring
the field hegan resident work in h(
pitals in June.

Scholarships

The University of Louisville, Allen
R. Hite Art Institute, offers four to five
scholarships, for students entering in
February, covering full tuition and
fees. Major fields: painting, sculpture,
history of art; program in design;
courses in printmaking," ceramics,
crafts, art education. Only group of
scholarships for art majors in a liberal
arts college; programs combine art
studies and broader education in either
1:2 or 1 :1 proportions. For application,
due January 6, write Dean Hilda Threl-
keld, University of Louisville, Louis-
ville 8, Kentucky.

RECREATI

 

row. Harper Si Bros., New York 16.
Pp. 392. $4.50.

  WEB OF LIFE, TIIE, John H. Storer.

Devin-Adair Co., 23 East 26th Street,
New York 10. Pp. 144. $3.00.

YOUR SCIIOOL CLUBS, Nellie _ Zetta
Thompson. E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc.,

 

Dodd,
Mead 81 Co., New York 16. Pp. 215.

CE PITCIIER, John Gartner.

 

$2'50' New York 10. Pp. 317. $3.50.
ODY ALIGNMENT IN FUNDAMENTAL
MOTOR SKILLS, Ivalclare Sprow

Howland, Ed. D. Exposition Press,
Inc., 386 Fourth Avenue, New York
16. Pp. 192. $4.00.

ONSERVATION YEARBOOK 1953, THE.
Edited by Erle Kaufiman. The Con-
servation Yearbook, 1740 K Street,
N.W., Washington 6, D. C. Pp. 320.
$5.50.

3 T0 18,” J. Wesley McVicar. The
Physical Education Departm nt, Na-
tional Council of the YM A’s of
Canada, 15 Spadina Road, Toronto
4. Pp. 196. Single copies $3.00, two
c0pies $5.00.

'ILMS IN PSYCIIIATRY, PSYCHOLOGY
AND MENTAL HEALTH, Adolf Nich-

tenhauscr, M.C., Marie L. Coleman
and David S. Ruhe, M.D. Health

Education Council, 10 Downing

Street, New York 14. Pp. 269. $6.00.

:OLDEN BOOKS: BABY FARM ANI-

MALS, Garth Williams. Unpaged.
$1.00. DOG STORIES, Elizabeth Coats-
worth. Pp. 66. $1.95. GOLDEN FUN
BOOK, TIIE, Bonnie and Bill Ruther-

ford. Pp. 88. $.50. GOLDEN BOOK
OF TRAINS, TIIE, Jane Werner. Pp.

88. 8.50. Simon and Schuster, Inc.,
New York 20.

}ROUP DYNAMICS. Edited by Dorwin
Cartwright and Alvin Zander. Row,
Peterson and Co., Evanston, Ill. Pp.

642. $6.00.

-IANDBOOK FOR GROUP LEADERS, Ann

Curphcy Brown and Sally Brown
Geis. The Woman’s Press, 425 Fourth

Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 212. $3.00.

‘IOW TO BE A BOARD OR COMMITTEE
MEMBER, Roy Sorenson. Association

Press. New York 7. Pp. 64. $1.00.

Flow TO HELP PEOPLE, Rudolph M.
Wittenberg. Association Press, New

York 7. Pp. 64. $1.00.

HUMAN FIGURE, TIIE, David K. Rubins.

Studio Crowell, New York 16. Pp.
94. $3.95.

MCCALL’S GIANT GOLDEN MAKE-IT

BOOK. Simon and Schuster, Inc.,
New York 20. Pp. 256. $2.95.

SOCCER FROM THE INSIDE, Jimmy Seed.

Soccer Associates, 10 Overlook Ter-
race, New York 33. Pp. 112. $1.00.

TIIEY LEARN WHAT THEY LIVE, Helen
G. Trager and Marian Radke Yar-

Pamphlets

 

ACCOUNT OF A COOPERATIVE VENTURE‘
IN STATE GOVERNMENT IN THE IN-
TEREST OF BETTER RECREATION, AN.
The Michigan Inter-Agency Council
for Rccreation, Lansing, Mich. Pp.

5. Free.

CARVING ANIMAL CARICATURES, Elma
Waltner. McKnight 8' McKnight
Publishing Co., 109-111 N. Market
Street, Bloomington, Ill. Pp. 104.
$1.50.

COMPARATIVE DATA ON FINANCES AND
PERSONNEL OF PUBLIC RECREATION
AGENCIES, 1953-54. State Recreation
Commission, 721 Capitol Ave., Sac-

ramento 14, Calif. Pp. 41. Free.

DECADE OF YMCA PHYSICAL EDUCA-
TION LEADERSIIIP, May 1943-May

1953. National Council of the
YMCA, 291 Broadway, New York 7.

Pp. 48. $1.00.

DIRECTORY OF PUBLIC RECREATION AND
PARK AGENCIES PROVIDING YEAR-
ROUND SERVICES. Documents Sec-
tion, State Printing OHice, 11th and
O Street, Sacramento, Calif. Pp. 15.

3.50 (plus $.02 tax for California
addresses).

ENRICHING TIIE YEARS. State Senator
Thomas C. Desmond, Chairman,
New York State Joint Legislative

. Committee on Problems of the Aging,
94 Broadway, Newburgh, N. Y. Pp.
199. Free.

FOLK DANCE SYLLABUS NUMBER ONE.
Edited by Michael Herman. Folk
Dance House, 108 West 16th Street,
New York 11. Pp. 82. $.75.

FROM SCHOOL TO JOB, Ann Tanneyhill.
Public Affairs Committee, Inc., 22
East 38th Street, New York 16. Pp.
28. $.25. -

FRONTIERS FUN WITII SCIENCE FOR

CAMP FIRE GIRLS. Camp Fire Girls,
Inc., 16 East 48th Street, New York
17. Pp. 119. $1.00.

GOING AIIEAD TOWARD BETTER HEALTH
AND LONGER LIFE. Metropolitan Life
Insurance Co., 1 Madison Avenue,

New York 10. Pp. 24. Free.
FANUARY 1954

HELPING CHILDREN DEVELOP MORAL

VALUES, Ashley Montagu. Science Re-
search Association, Inc., 57 West

Grand Avenue, Chicago 10. Pp. 49.
$.40.

How CAN CITIZENS HELP TIIEIR
SCHOOLS. National Citizens Commis-
sion for the Public Schools, 2 West
45th Street, New York 36. Pp. 36.
$.20.

How TO START A CRAFT ROOM AND
How TO BUILD A KILN, Margaret
Holt. Margaret Holt, 45 Ingleside
Drive, Concord, N. C., Pp. 32. $1.00.

PLANNING FOR RECREATION: A GUIDE
FOR TENNESSEE COMMUNITIES. Ten-
nessee Planning Commission, 517
Commerce Street, Nashville 3, Pp.

35. $1.00.

Magazines

BEACH AND POOL, October 1953

A New Pool for Oakland, California,
Florence VanEck Birkhead.

Chicago: An Amphibious City, H. H.
Slawson.

A Community Swimming Program:
V. Sizing the Pool.

Design Portfolio. Pool Purification
Equipment.

The Pool Recirculation System.

JOURNAL OF HEALTH, PIIYSICAL EDUCA-
TION AND RECREATION, November
1953
Florida’s Summer Program, Zollie

Maynard.
-Recreation Helps Tuberculous Chil-

dren, Richard B. Jansen.

A Sane Competitive Program for
Junior High School Boys, J. Holley
Ashcraft.

PARKS AND RECREATION, May 1953
Swimming Pool Layout—Construc-
tion, Design, Use. C. P. L. Nicholls.

“Horse Scnse” in Interprctation, Paul

E. Schulz.

PARK MAINTENANCE, May 1953

Treeless Parkways.
Get It Piecemeal . . . If Money is Not

AVailable.
Give Them Beauty, Alfred L. Boern-

er.
Fighting “Car-thritis” is Task if
Parks Are to be Spared.
June 1953

Canada Takes to the Air.
Fungicides—Where and How to Ap-

ply Them.
Crowd Buffers, Conrad L. Wirth.

New Maintenance Building.

61

 

Understanding Boys

Clarence G. Moser. Association

Press, New York 1. Pp. 190. $2.50.

Recreation leaders who sometimes
shake their heads in sorrow, frustration
or futility at the action of boys of all
ages will get some of the answers to
the question “Why do they act that
way?” in this excellent new book by a
boys’ leader with more than thirty years
of experience.

The normal behavior patterns that
boys commonly display at different
stages of growth are clearly outlined.
Step by step the author traces their
physical, emotional and mental growth
and indicates the importance of suc-
cess to the boy at each stage of growth.

Visual charts in the text indicate that
the pressures and expectancies of home,
church, school and community sup-
port or conflict with the pressures of
the boy’s peers who at middle child-
hood (six to eight) are his friends and
playmates and as he grows older
gradually include acquaintances, gang,
teammates, clubs, boy chums and girl
chums. The kind of impact the boy re-
ceives from the interaction of these
pressures makes him eager, willing or
reluctant to accept new responsibilities
and challenges.

Realization by the parent and adult
leader of the force of the pressure for
acceptance by the boy’s peers will help
to lead to better understanding. The
constant struggle of the boy to estab-
lish his worth and independence as an
individual and a male and the result-
ing conflict with authority is clearly
pointed out.

Mr. Moser has some excellent ideas
on how parents and adult leaders can
best work with boys and give them the
maximum amount of guidance. He lists
ten basic problems every boy faces and
points out how adults can be helpful in
meeting these problems. They are: (1)
How he can develop an image of him-
self he can respect. (2) How he can
develop a normal pattern of affection.

62

new
Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

(3) How he can achieve independence
and self-management. (4) How he can
join successfully with his social group.
(5) How he can learn his sex role. (6)
How he can develop and accept his
body. ( 7) How he can accept and meet
society’s demand for acceptance. ( 8)
How he can find his place in work. (9)
How he can find adventure and joy in
living. (10) How he can develop a
sound set of values.

Understanding Boys is an informa-

tive and inspiring book which should,

be read by all adults working with
recreation programs for boys of all
ages.——David I. DuBois. Research De-
partment, National Recreation Associa-
tlon.

The Encyclopedia of Sports

Frank J. Menke. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York 16. Pp. 1018.
$10.00.

New and revised, this edition of a
well-known sports reference book is
most complete, containing new ma-
terial and covering a broad range of
sports activities from archery to yacht-
ing. The sports enthusiast and sports
leader will find it interesting as well
as informative. It is indeed his en-
cyclopedia of sports.——A rthur Williams,
Assistant Executive Director, National
Recreation Association.

You Can Teach Music

Paul Wentworth Mathews. E. P.
Dutton and Company, Incorporated,
New York 10. Pp. 178. $3.75.

The recreation leader without much
musical training, who is called upon
to supervise or conduct children’s
classes in singing, rhythmic activities
or appreciation, will find reassurance
and assistance in this little volume.
Though prepared as a handbook for
the grade school classroom teacher, it
applies almost equally in many respects
to the situation in the play center.

Singing, as the group activity capahlq
of engaging the largest number 0
children, is given the main attention
Sevéral chapters are devoted to method
of enlisting interest and participation
achieving such aims as enjoyment am
good tone quality, song selection f0
different age groups, how to teach :
rote song, how to use a pitch pipe, am
building chords for part singing an:
accompaniment. The question of wha
to do about popular songs is treated it
a common sense way that takes int(
account both psychological and musica
principles.

The author believes that rhythmit
activities are for everyone and give:
practical points on the use of fret
rhythms, interpretive rhythms, drama
tization (rowing a boat, raising the flag
triumphal marches, and subjects t(
challenge the imagination of oldel
children), singing games, folk dance:
and handling of rhythm bands. There
are helpful lists of books and record.
ings in this section and in one or
listening headed “Listening Can Be
Fun For All.”

For those interested in promoting
self-expression through the simple]
instruments not regularly used in or-
chestras and bands, there are sugges-
tions on the place of the fife, harmonica.
autoharp, recorder and melody bellsE
and on the playing of simple tunes on
the piano.

The “creative” side is treated in a
chapter entitled “Make a Song—or
Make a Drum.” Though the treatmenl
is brief, it includes a few fattractive
melodic lines as ideas for the songs,
caution on the limits of homemade in-
struments and references to' more ex.
tensive help on the subject.

The last section of the book indicates
possible correlation of music with other
activities and hints for selecting equip-
ment.——Gertrude Borchard, Corres-
pondence and Consultation Service,
National Recreation Association.

The Burl Ives Song Book

Ballantine Books, 404 Fifth Avenue,
New York 18. Hardbound edition, pp.
320. $5.00. Paperbound edition, pp.
288. $.50.

Published in pocket-book size, and
available at your corner news-stand,
the paperbound volume of this collec-
tion of 115 American songs should be
examined by every recreation leader.
Complete with piano arrangements and
guitar chords, these are selections from
the repertoire which has made Burl
Ives one of America’s popular folk
singers. Each is accompanied by his
own comments; -for those who want to
hear how he sings them, his records,

RECREATION

 
    
  
  
 
   
 
   
   
  
    
    
   
  
   
    
   
 

vering most of the songs in the book,
e listed. According to the New York
mes, “Like Carl Sandburg’s American
ngbag, this is a book every American
11 want to own.”

The Book of Arts and Crafts

Marguerite Ickis and Reba Selden
11. Association Press, New York 7.

. 275. $4.95.

Here is an amazing book—just in
ne for planning the craft programs
1‘ summer playgrounds and camps. It
ntains over a thousand craft projects,
ch one fully described, with directions
1d clear illustrations of techniques.
e major mediums—wood, leather,
etal, plastics, paper, textiles and clay
involve a minimum of equipment and
st.
The book is divided roughly into six
rts. Part One sets the stage, giving
ackground material on value, phil-
ophy, care of material, and design.
Part Two groups projects around the
ome, and includes such crafts as wood-
orking, metal, stencils, mobiles, drift-
ood, pottery, tin, and so on.
Part Three groups crafts for personal
ornment—sandals, bracelets, sequin
welry, seed jewelry, belts, buttons, and
on. Many of these would please teen-
gers and young adults.
Part Four concentrates on crafts for
amps and playgrounds. It includes
any Indian crafts, puppets, bulioons,
usical instruments, corn husk craft,
lt-o-grams, lanterns.
Part Five is full of simple projects for
ery young children—dolls, paper bag
rojects, play store, gifts, and so on.
Part Six groups craft projects around
ecial needs. It includes poster ideas,
arty decorations, ornaments, trays,
naper tricks, chair caning and many
thers.
The projects in this book represent
ears of experience of two skilled craft
structors. The book is made even
ore valuable by a functional index as
ell as an alphabetical one. Highly
ecommended. —— Virginia M usselman,
rogram Service, National Recreation
ssociation.

High, Low—Togcth er Go !

Edna M. Ruff. Hall & McCreary Com-
any, 434 S. Wabash Avenue, Chicago
, lllinois. Pp. 96. $.60.

This little book of eighty-six songs
or children was prepared to aid in the
ntroduction of harmony in group sing-
ng, on the principle that this is a natural
ollow-up to the melody experience of
lnison singing, and is also more fun.
he content ranges rather widely over

e fields of activities appealing to

snrrsnv 1 (ICC/I.

youngsters, folk songs of America and
other countries, holidays, humor, na-
ture, historical figures and incidents,
and a few rounds and sacred songs. The
material has been tested out in chil-
dren’s classes, and has been kept within
the capacity of the child voice and his
ability to experiment with singing at
sight both upper and lower parts.

To read at sight even simple music
is an accomplishment well worth culti-
vating. It is of special help to those
who join glee clubs and choruses. Like
other skills it grows with practice, and
that practice may well start before
adolescence. Hence, guidance of the
kind given in this booklet is welcome.

There is available also a teacher’s
edition, with procedure for teaching
two-part sight singing successfully. The
manual includes all the numbers in the
song book, plus piano accompaniment
for many of them and piano, chord and
autoharp chord indications for others.

Price is $1.50 for this edition.

'Add Life To Their Years

Catherine Lee Wahlstrom. Depart-
ment of Social Welfare, National Coun-

cil of Churches. Pp. 75. $1.00.

A new book on work with older
people which is designed as a manual to
be useful to those who work with the
aged in institutions or in their homes,
to educational and recreational groups,
in fact to all concerned with the happi-
ness and usefulness of older people.

The Congregation Serves

Older People

Department of Social Welfare, Na-

tional Council of Churches Publica-
tion, 120 East 23rd Street, New York

10. $3.75 for 100 copies.

A practical outline for providing
recreation and new interests for our
elders.

United Nations Bulletin

“Our time is one of two historic move-
ments of change and progress—one in-
volving equal rights for nations, the
other equal rights for individuals.

“The United Nations exists because
a shrinking world, in which no nation
or group of nations can live any more
unto itself alone, has made world or-
ganizations necessary for the purposes
expressed in the Charter.”

These words by Mr. Dag Hammars-
kjold, Secretary-General of the United
Nations, were among the key points he
outlined in the introduction to the
eighth annual report prepared for the
eighth regular session of the General
Assembly which opened in New York on

September 15, 1953.

The United Nations Bulletin, the oili-
cial fortnightly news magazine of the
United Nations, provides this informa-
tion. “World conscious” readers depend
upon its impartial reporting—its maps
and pictures of important events and
key areas—its exclusive articles by
world leaders.

Because of the particular importance
of United Nations events in the coming
weeks, you are invited to receive (at
a special introductory rate of $2.00)
twelve copies of this authoritative news
magazine plus a free copy of an inter-
esting United Nations book just puh-
lished—United Nations Pictorial. Write
to U.S.A. Sales Agent for United Na-
tions Publications: The International
Documents Service, Columbia Univer-

sity Press, 2960 Broadway, New York
27, N. Y.

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

American Playground Device Company-____-_._ 7
American Squares Book and Record Service 57
Berman Chemical Company..______-_.,__---_..--“. 59
Champion Recreation Equipment Company..__ 59
Griffin Craft Supplies___....--_.-________---_-_-__--___ 7
Home Crafts .-__..__.._  59
MacGregor Sports Equipment-.. .....-_ 57
Medart. Fred, Products, Incorporated _.  59

Metal Goods Corporations--,._1_.__.....___ - 59
' Porter. .l. E... Corporation. The"... _. .   1
RekO-Kut. Company. The“-.. _- . __ 13
Sax Brothers, Incorporated___._._- ._ _ . 63
Voit. W. 1.. Rubber Corporation _. . . _-_ 16

X-acto. Inc. -__...--..--s-_-__.__-..-._  -. 55

MW?

Yes! And allled crafts, as well! One

of the largest selections of leather-
craft supplies, kits, praiects, accessarles in the cauntryl
A leather headquarters since 1910, with a wealth af
experience in meeting the needs af schaals, clubs, mu-
nicipal craft groups. Camplete supplies and kits far
felt, metal, waadenware, beadwark, etc.

 

 

 

SEND FOR FREE CATALOG!

Write today for your copyl 52
fascinating pages packed with
useful ideas, projects, informa-
tion. Thousands of itemsl
Reasonable pricesl

'— l
I SAX BROTHERS, NC. I
l 1111 ll. 3rd St. Dept. R-t Milwaukee. Wis. I
| RUSH ME YOUR FREE All CRAFTS CATALOG! I

9" I01!“ I13
\

 

I Name ............................................................... .. |
1 Address ........................................................... .. l
I City .......................................... ..State ............. .. I
L ______________ ___I

EUMINB EVENTS
1954

“The tugging ship is unnloored; her sails are filling with the breeze; she sniffs the spray in
her nostrils; her rigging grows taut like giant muscles; the course is set; the pilot is at the

helm—the New Year is outward bound!”—W. W. W. Argow
From Quotations for Special Occasions, Maud Van Burcn. The H. W. Wilson Company, New York, 1938.

January

Q The first day of many new years has seen the advent of countless memorable occasions. On this day President
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation (1863); the United States parcel post system was inaugurated
(1913); and Betsy Ross (1752) and Paul Revere (1735) were among the American patriots who claimed it as their
natal day. In this modern age, the day is annually celebrated with special events of renown—the Mummers’
Parade in Philadelphia, major “Bowl” football games, and the Tournament of Roses in Pasadena.

After this auspicious start, the rest of the month follows through with several other occasions to add spice and
theme to the recreation program planner’s schedule of events. Twelfth Night offers an occasion for a merry cele-
bration based on the traditional “Burning of the Greens.” National Thrift Week has as its purpose the encourage-
ment of thrift—and prudent spending. The March of Dimes furnishes an opportunity for community cooperation

in a nation-wide cause. These are but a few of the dates to circle on your calendar and build into your plans for
January.

1 New Year’s Day 17 Birthday of Benjamin Franklin
2-31 Mareh of Dimes (1706)

3-10 Universal Week of Prayer 17-23 ' National Thrift Week

6 Twelfth Night . 19 Birthday of Robert E. Lee (1807)
13 - Stephen F099" Memorial Day 3I-Feb. 7 Youth Week (Christian Endeavor

16-Feb. 16 Jewish Music Festival Month Week)

February

w This month has long been called “the party month” for programmers as it’s literally jam-packed with days
and weeks to celebrate. Occasions—both serious and light-hearted ones—to lend variety to a program. In your
Valentine craft corner this year, why not include a few sessions on making Mobile Valentine cards (looks like
a mobile year ahead after the sudden surge in popularity of these fascinating gadgets during the past holiday sea-
son), and it’s time to get out costumes again for a parade or masquerade for the Mardi Cras early next month.

1 National Freedom Day 12-22 Americanism Week

1-28 American Heart Month 12-22 National Defense Week

2 Ground Hog Day 14 Raee Relations Day

7-13 Boy Scout Week 14 Valentine’s Day

8-14 National Table Tennis Week 14-20 National Crime Prevention Week

11 Thomas A. Edison’s Birthday (1847) 21-28 Brotherhood Week

12 Abraham Lincoln’s Birthday (1809) 22 George Washington’s Birthday (1732)

March

tn%3 March, with its proverbial lion-like ferocity and lamb-like meekness in weather, marks the end of winter—the
start of spring. Now's the time to buckle down and really get those spring and summer programs lined up—but
take time along the way to plan special events for this month too. There are several days of great religious sig-
nificance to consider, a week to emphasize the conservation of our natural resources, and St. Patrick’s Day for a

rollicking party with shamroeks, blarney, and all the green of Erin. *fm
1-31 Red Cross Fund 17 St. Patriek’s Day

2 Mardi Gras (Shrove THOSJ‘IY) 18-April 18 Easter Seal Appeal

3 Ash Wednesday—beginning of Lent 19 Purim—Jewish Religious Festival

5 World Day of Prayer 21 F. D f S .

6-14 National 4-11 Club Week "St ay 0 prmg

12 Girl Scout Birthday 21-27 National Wildlife Week

14-20 Camp Fire Girl’s Birthday Week 29-April 4 National Boys Club Week

DEIO== omo=== O mo=== omo==omo==omo==omor=

RECREATIC

Recreation Leadership Courses

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK A. STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

January, February and March 1954

Greenville, South Carolina
January 11-14

Cleveland. Tennessee
January 18-21

Cleveland, Ohio
February 15-18

Pacific Northwest District
March 1-April 15

Wilmington, North Carolina
Ja nuary 25-28

Fayetteville, North Carolina
February 1-4

Mooresville, North Carolina
February 8-11

State of Vermont
January 4-8

Crecnville, Pennsylvania
January 11-14

St. Petersburg, Florida
February 1-4

Dade County, Florida
February 8-12

West Palm Beach, Florida
February 15-19

Tampa, Florida
February 22-26

Long Beach, California
March 8-11

Hayward, California
March 15-18

Pacific Southwest District
March 22-April 1

Williamston, North Carolina
March 22-25

Halifax, North Carolina
March 29-April 1

Pacific Southwest and
Pacific Northwest Districts
February 15-April 30

H. F. A. Lange, Superintendent of Parks 8: Recreation, 16 Park
Avenue

Warren F. Magee, General Secretary, Young Men’s Christian
Association, 363 Spring

Henry B. Ollendorfl, Executive Director, The Neighborhood Set-
tlemeut Association, 3754 Woodland Avenue

W. H. SlIumard, NRA District Representative, 2864 30th Avenue,
West, Seattle, Washington

Arnold Peterson, Superintendent, Parks and Recreation Department,
Community Building, Second and Orange Streets

Selwyn Orcutt, Superintendent, Recreation and Parks Department,
212 City Hall

Miss Mae Crandall, Superintendent, Recreation Commission, War
Memorial Community Building

Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation, Montpelier

DunllanI V. Reinig, Director, Riverside Recreation Center

Dr. Robert L. Fairing, Head, Department of Citizenship Training,
General Extension Division of Florida, University of Florida.
Cainesville

Dr. Robert L. Fairing, Head, Department of Citizenship Training,
General Extension Division of Florida, University of Florida,
Gainesville

Dr. Robert L. Fairing, Head, Department of Citizenship Training,
General Extension Division of Florida, University of Florida,
Gainesville

Dr. Robert L. Fairing, Head, Department of Citizenship Training,
General Extension Division of Florida, University of Florida,
Gainesville

Walter L. Scott, Director of Municipal and School Recreation, Long
Beach Recreation Commission, 235 E. 8th Street

Harold L. Teel, Superintendent, Park, Recreation and Parkway,
1015 E Street

Lynn S. Rodney, NRA District Representative, 606 S. Hill Street,
Room 1009, Los Angeles, California

,-

W. A. Holmes, Principal, E. J. Hayes School, Box 111

Mrs. Bessye S. Wilder, Supervisor, Halifax County Schools

Lynn S. Rodney, NRA District Representative, 606 S. Hill Street,
Room 1009, Los Angeles, California, and
W. H. Shumard, NRA District Representative, 2864 30th Avenue,

West, Seattle, Washington

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsor

of the course as listed above.

f—

 

RECREATION
315 Fourth Ave” New York 10, N. Y.

 

RETURN POSTAGE GUARANTEED
Entered as second class matter

 

Before ever he speaks a word, he asks your love.
In it begins the security he will need forever.

' - SOV' fo sec 'i ' eas ! Here’s
The whimper when he’s hungry, the sigh of peace "'9 r U" Y '5 Y

a savings system that really works—

when he’s fed and warm, the cuddle of his sleepy the Paymn Savings man for invest-
body—all these tell a need that never ends. ing in United States Savings Bonds.

The need that none of us outgrows: to be safe This is all you do_ Go to your com
and secure in body and heart as long as we live. pany’s pay omce, choose the amount
That each of us is free to make secure the lives you Want to save—a couple 0f donars

a payday, or as much as you wish.That

of those we love, 18 our peculiar pr1v11ege. money will be set aside for you before

As we take care of our own, we also take care you even draw your pay. And auto-
of America. Out of the security of each home matieallr_invested in Series E Savings
rises the security of our country_ Bonds which are turned over to you.

Your security and your country’s begin in If You Can save only $3-75 a week

on the Plan, in 9 years and 8 months
you will have $2,137.30. For your sake
and your family’s, too, how about sign-
ing up today?

your home.

 

The U. 8'. Government does not pay for this advertiscmcnt. I t is donated by this publication in cooperation
with the Advertising Cauncil and the Magazine Publishers of America.

 

