 

 

 

JUST OFF PRESS

 

 

LARGE AND SMALL GROUPS

AND COMMUNITY-WIDE CELEBRATIONS
(P 208)

mnqu 
O

The Table of Contents includes

PART 1: THE SMALL PARTY

0 Games 0 Stunts o Fortunetelling

0 A Playlet with Danee Interludes

0 Special Features and Effects

. PART II: THE LARGE GROUP OR COMMUNITY-WIDE CELEBRATION

0 Planning the Community Halloween Program 0 Program Features for Halloween

0 The Indoor Halloween Party 0 Boniires 0 Window Painting Contests

0 The Community Halloween Program in Aetion

Material from the Association's bulletins, RECREATION magazine, and Recreation Program

Aids all eombined in one BIG book of ideas and suggestions for every type of Halloween eele-
bration.

ORDER YOUR COPY NOW
65¢

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue
New York 10

 

F I L M S T R I P S
for the storytelling Ilour

Superior Bv Every Comparison!

 

NEW VISUAL Ams

* add greater enjoyment
* stimulate playground dramaties,

music and creative arts
*suceessfully tested on the playground

Now Available _at $6.00 each:
(10% discount to NRA Agiliate .Members)

“The Ant and the Grasshopper”
“The Crab and the Monkey”

“Monkey See, Monkey Do”
“The Night Before Christmas” . VOLLEY BALLS

o aasxsraaus '  "7446 764m:
0 SOCCER BALLS ' 47"  7W!»

0 FOOTBALLS

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
  

ATHLETIC BALLS

So sensationally better are they on
every count—design, construction, -

quality, durability and play-ability-

that Rawl-ings HERCU LITE

Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls

have established a new high

standard. They're in a class

by themselves—they’re . . .

All lilmstrips can be ordered either with or
without captions. Please specify when ordering.

NATIONM RECREATION ASSOCIATION. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York 11

   

 

RAWLIIIOS SPORTING GOODS (O. 0 ST. LOUIS 8: LOS ANGELES

   
 
     
  
   
   
 
     
 
  

  

Acclaimed Fail?
DETROIT’S  5hr;

14 and Under

  

best. . . 
One of the country's most popular '

Hare: TULLER

800 ROOMS

 

. . . featuring convenience, comfort.  

quality! A costnopoiitan atmosphere in o

home-like setting. In I{The center of all from s 3 5 l

downtown activities. ewly decorated.

Ultra modern. comfortable guest rooms . . . A  UNIT"
excellent food at moderate prices in  and

PARKING L0]- NOthing else to buy. Ruggedly built of prefabricated,
welded-steel panels-safety engineered-weather proofed
for minimum maintenance. You need no expensive
foundations, can easily install this American-Universal
skid-mounted Bleacher with unskilled help. A complete
package-unit—at lo_we5t possible cosn

our modern coffee shop and cafeteria.

Radio and Television in room.
Air Conditioned rooms in season.

 
 
     
   

FACING GRAND CIRCUS PARK

 u IIMICHIGAN 

Harry E. Partisan
Centre! Manager

Basic 5-raw unit seats 50. Unlimited combina-
tions for up io l0 and l5-raw insiallaiions.

Write for new catalog

 

DCTOBER 1954 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 449

    
 
     
   
     
    
        
   
     
 
   
    

Both Golf Club and Bat
M1 Catalogs in full color
H  will be sent on

J 

cuffsan

Golf Clubs

._ lF-ln

Sold by Sporting
Goods Dealers

' GOLF CLUBS

  

Choice of the
l Champions in

Baseball and
Softball

Sold in IPro
Shops only

my '-

'I'II

lllllEllllZHlllllAIISBYl?-I

r [QUINN-39"

f HIllERICH & BRADSBY co.

louisvillc, Kentucky

__4.. ._ .» .__._._-- .__...._.__n....., a __ _.s a...“ K. .1 .. , _... __....... . . __‘__A,_
4—“ -_- A." _J ._y—~- _' .- —c

   

 

450 W hen writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATIOI

OCTOBER, 1954:

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERCAST
Editor, DOROTHY Donswsos’
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MusscLMAN

 

Vol. XLVll Price 50 Cents No. 8

 

l 0n the Cover

Crisp autunm weather means that fun-loving
young folks like this one, old folks, family groups,
set forth to enjoy themselves at state fairs across
the land. More and more, municipal recreation:
departments are cooperating with these long estab-
lished state-wide projects, or are using them as a
pattern for some of their own special events. Photo
courtesy of Ralph Morrissey, Nashville, Tennessee.

Next Diontll

Our November issue will include a concise ex-
planation of successful “Intcrracial Swimming Pool
Operation.” hy William H. Gremley, executive sec-
retary of the Commission on Human Relations,
Kansas City, Missouri; “Folk Dancers, We’re Over-
looking Our American Jazz Tradition,” hy Dr.
Katona; “Remedial Recreation in a Child-Care In-
stitution” by Charles Baker of the Pleasantville
Cottage School, New York; articles to help you with
your Christmas planning; and others.

Photo Credits

Page 454, Pvt. Picker, U. S. Army; 456. National
News and Illustration Service, Inc., New York; 461.
S. 0. Fisher Studio, Lynchburg; 464, 465, 466, Amer-
ican City, New York; 469, Clement Lemire, Frank-
lin; 470, 471. National Institutes of Health, Bet-
hesda; 472, L. Marinol’f, New York City Housing
Authority; 474, N. Y. State Division of Housing,
New York; 476, Duke Photo Co., Charlotte; 478.
Antcrican Playground Device Co., Nahanla; 488.

Walter White, Sentinel. Grand Junction; 497, Rec-

reation Commission, Long Beach, 500, 50], Parents’
Magazine. New York.

RECREATION is ublished moothly except July aod
August by the ational Recreatioo Associatioo. a
service organizatioo supported by voluotary contribu-
tions. at 315 Fourth Aveoue. New York 10. New
York: is 00 tile in public libraries and is iodexed 10
the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions 34.00 a year.
Canadian and foreign subscription rate 34.50. Rob
eotered as second-class matter April 25. 1950. at the
Post Ofiice in New York. New York. under Aer of
March 3. 1879. Acceptaoce for mailtog at specual rate
of posmge provided for io Section 1103. Act of October
5. 1917. autborized May 1. 1924. Microfilms of c_ur-
rent issoes available University Microfilm. 313 N. First
Street. Ann Arbor. Micbigao.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heatoo. 14.1 East
44th Street. New York 17. New York: Mark Mmaban.
168 North Michi an Aveoue. Chicago. lllzoons; Ketth
H. Evans. 3757 ilshire Boulevard. Los Angeles 5. and
593 Market _ Street. Suite 304, Sao Francisco 5.
California.

Copyright. 1954. by the
National Recreation Association. Iocorpotated

PriOted io tbe U.S.A.

@016

’ Trade mark registered io U. 8. Patent Ofiice.

OCTOBER 1954

 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Why Are ‘We in the Business of Recreation? "

(Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .H. Clifton Hutchins 453
Volunteer Service Corps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454
Fundamentals of a Growing Recreation

Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .James E. Rogers 460
Recreation in Correctional Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 462
Beware! The Witches Ride Again. . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jolm Drury 463
Montevideo—~A Case Study of Recreation

Planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anatole A. Solow 464
Holiday Facilities for Workers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Recreation Wives-——Unpaid Staff Members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469
A Unique Activity Program in a Clinical

Center  . . . . . . .......June L. Maser 470
Industry Appreciates the Value of Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 475
PROGRADI
Sparkin’ Up that Workshop Program . . . . . . .M. Jerry Weiss 494
IIallowesta in Nebraska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .John Dyson 479
Originality in Christmas Decorations . . . . . . . . . . .Jessie Torltl 480
Teen-Agers Take to Verse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 483
Do Your Play For—Not to—the

Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Etlwin Strawbrirlge 484
Teens Serve Teens (Idea of the Month). . . .Jesse L. Mathews 487
Ilalloween Treats Go Abroad . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 488
Old Games Are New . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490
Carnival Cantos for Halloween. . . . . . . . . . . . .Ralpll Borelli 492
Make a Model Map (How to Do It!) . . . . . . .Frank A. Staples 493
ADEIINISTRATION
Land for Recreation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ceorge I). Butler 472
Recreation Facilities and Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 476
Athletics—Problems and Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 496
Promotion of at Mill Levy. . . . . . . . . . . .Ceorge Sellaumberg 499
Play Sculpture for Playgrounds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500
Your Annual Report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Howartl R. Rich 502
REGULAR FEATURES
Letters .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .. 455

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 457

Things You Should Know.................... . . . . . . .. 458

Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .W. C. Sutherland 504 '

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . .  . . . . ...........506

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 508

Market News  . . . . .  509

Books Received, Magazines, Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 510

New Publications . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  511

Advertisers’ Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 512

Idea of the Month, llow to Do It! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sec Program

Recreation Leadership Training Courses . . . . . .Insitle Back Cover
. 451

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL

The National Advisory Council tO the Board Of Directors Of the
National Recreation Association is made up Of the chairmen or rep-

resentatives Of the Association’s district advisory committees.

   

GEORcE HJEL'rE—Chairman

National Advisory Committee on Recreation Ad-
ministration

General Manager

Department of Recreation and Parks

Los Angeles, California

ROBERT W. CRAWFORD—~Vice-Chairman

National Advisory Committee on Defense Related
Services

Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent

Department of Recreation

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

ARTHUR WILLIA Ms—Secretary

Assistant Executive Director
National Recreation Association

New York, New York '
ROBERT L. BLACK HAROLD MYRON
Midwest District Advisory Committee Great Lakes District Advisory Committee
Community Recreation Assistant Director of Recreation
Resources and Development Commission Highland Park, Michigan

Jefferson City, Missouri
ANNA S. PHERIGO

JOHN CRONIN Southern District Advisory Committee

New England District Advisory Committee Execgtlgepmiecéor . i r
Director of Recreation oar 0 ar ommms one 5

Providence, Rhode Island LCXingtons KentUCkY

JESSE A. REYNOLDS

PAUL H- DOUGLASS National Advisory Committee on Recreation

National Advisory Committee on the Re- Research
cruitment, Training and Placement of superintendent
Recreation Personnel Recreation Board
Grand View Farm Greenwich, Connecticut

Granville, New York
BEN H. THOMPSON

ALVIN R. EGCELING National Advisory Committee on Federal
Southwest District Advisory Committee Recreation , .

Director of Recreation Chief of RecreationoPlanmng

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma National Park Servme

Washington, D. C.

BENOEVANS . o . MICHAEL E. WARCO
PaggfeeNonhwe“ Dun-“'1 Advisory com' Middle Atlantic District Advisory Commit-

tee
Director of Recreation
Bureau of Recreation
Clairton, Pennsylvania

Director of Recreation
Department of Parks
Seattle, Washington

HOWARD B. HOLMAN AUSTIN WELCH

PaCifl-C Southwest DiSm-Ct Advisory Com' National Advisory Committee for the inter-
mince national Recreation Service of the Nation-

Direcmr 0f Recreation al Recreation Association

J0th Recreation Board National Catholic Community Service

Fresno, California Washington, D. C.

DOROTHEA LENsca STERLING S. WINANS

National Advisory Committee On Recreation National Advisory Committee on State Rec- -
Programs and Activities reation

Director of Recreation Director of Recreation

Bureau of Parks and Public Recreation California Recreation Commission

Portland, Oregon Sacramento, California

 

452 ‘ RECREATION

H. Clifton Hutchins

WéemeWeéat‘éegmmagzec/LW?

7” E WHO serve the recreational needs

of people are in this profession
because we are conservationists at
heart. By conservation 1 mean the wise
use of resources; by resources I mean
Iboth human and natural wealth: the
precious youngsters who irritate and
amaze us with their energies; the old-
sters who have so much to give of their
long and often rich experience; the
adult at the peak of his powers; the soil,
the waters, the forests and wildlife from
which our material and spiritual sub-
stance comes.

Whether our immediate concern is
the management of parks or the more
direct services to people that we call
recreation leadership, it seems to me
that the points of focus are ultimately
the same, namely, the enrichment of
human lives. Some of us choose one
path to the goal and some choose an-
other. Some of us arc more' directly
concerned with conservation of human
resources and others with helping hu-
man beings in the conservation of na-
tural resources. The goal that we seek
is development to the point of useful-
ness of the many and varied potentiali-
ties that exist in every individual. This
is a goal that we share with other pro-
fessions which are educational in char-
acter. We in recreation are not con-
cerned with productive effort in an eco-
nomic sense, but rather we are con-
cerned with helping to attain the state
of well-being and the balanced perspec-
tive that foster productive effort.

I believe that each and every one of
us directly concerned with recreation
leadership experiences a spiritual com-
pulsion to help make the lives of our
fellow men richer, and thereby happier,

DR. HUTCHINS, recently on the planning
staff of NRA, is now assistant professor
of education and coordinator of the rec-
reation curriculum, University of Wis-
consin. This editorial is from a paper
he presented at the 1954 annual meet-
ing of the Wisconsin Park and Recrea-
tion Society in Madison, Wisconsin.

I OCTOBER 1954

by making it possible for these people
to do those wholesome things they want
to do for their recreation.

This statement has several implica-
tions. First of all, it implies that we are
primarily concerned with people—or
more explicitly with the individual per-
son. We believe in the J udaic-Christian
principle which provides the foundation
stone for our democratic way of life:
that the individual human personality
is the least unit of measure in our
standard of values, and whatever is fine
and clean and good for the individual
is beneficial to our society. And more
than this, we believe that one indivi-
dual, regardless of his race, creed or
socio-economic background, is just as
important as any other individual. “In-
as much as ye have done it unto the
least of these, my brethren, ye have
done it unto me” is the way it is ex-
pressed in the Bible.

I often think of the definition of a
gentleman which I heard years ago: “A
gentleman is one who is courteous and
gracious to another who cannot pos-
sibly do him any good.” The quotation
is not exact, but seems to me to describe,
in part, the people who devote their lives
to what we call recreation.

A second implication is that we are
in business, in the profession of recrea-
tion, because most of the pe0ple in these
United States are unable to provide for
themselves some of the wholesome rec-
reations they want or which are so
much a part of their heritage that they
should want them. ‘Recreation is a ve-
hicle for realizing some of the basic sat-
isfactions in life. If you look at the
people about you, it is not hard to re-
alize that the kind of recreation these
people choose for themselves, and the
recreation they might be interested in
chposing for themselves if once exposed
to the opportunity, are almost infinite
in their variety. We all learned in
school, or have since learned from ex-
perience, that each individual possesses
a combination of traits different from

all others. Also, the environment in

which the one is nurturcd is different
often in small, but nevertheless signifi-
cant, respects from the environment of
any other individual. Thc result is that
each of us has different preferences, dif-
ferent interests, different potentialities
in his recreation just as in the other as-
pects of his daily life.

Just stop to think for a moment of
the favorite recreation of the people you
know best. The professional man who
tinkers with antique clocks for his rec-
reation doesn’t quite fit within the
building-centered or park-centered con-
cept of recreation that some of us have.
Nor does the editor who relaxes at bed-
time by working out a problem in ge-
ometry. We accept, in our patterns of
professional thinking, the pe0ple who
want to walk, go camping, read, weave,
dance, play softball or listen to a band
concert. But it is sometimes hard for
us to conceive that the housewife who
serves as a volunteer leader for a group
of teen-age girls or the farmer who is
inspired to poetry by the quiet beauty
of a sunrise are just as completely with-
in the sc0pe of our professional respon-
sibility.

We need to bring within our profes-
sional purview the kinds of experiences
that give recreational values even
though primarily non-recreational in
nature, as well as those experiences
which are considered primarily recrea-
tional because they fit within the hours
of leisure. Recreation is not an all or
none proposition. These recreational
values are quite as important in the de-
velopment of individual capacities or
in the release of latent energies as the
activities that are principally recrea-
tional in themselves. By utilizing op-
portunities to realize such values we are
conserving human resources through
making wise use of the potentialities in
each person—in the manner and at the
time he can take advantage of them.

This thought presents a very consi-
derable challenge to those of us who
choose the field of recreation for a ca-
reer. We are not in the business of rec-

453

reation solely for the purpose of man-
aging a park or leading a group or ad—
ministering a program in a community
center—these are but a means to an
end. The end that we seek is the enrich-
ment of human lives through making
it possible for individual personalities
to do those things, for their recreation,
that will bring the basic satisfactions

needed by that personality at a particu- '

lar' time and place. Organizing the nec-
essary resources for the person who
knows what recreation he wants is but
one part of the task; this is easy com-
pared with the task of awakening or
cultivating new recreation interests that
seem likely to bring the needed satisfac-
tions to particular individuals. This
calls for the broadest kind of personal
and professional background on the
part of those who are diagnosing indi-
vidual needs, as well as a high degree
of skill in motivating the explOration
of new interests.

If, then, we accept the premise that

recreation is a means of conserving hu-
man resources through further develop-
ment and use of individual potentiali-
ties, it follows that recreation is not an
end in itself, not a form of amusement
undertaken wholly for the'inimediate
satisfactions obtained. It is an integral
and necessary aspect of human deveIOp-
ment. The child is principally occupied
with play, not as an end in itself, but
for the reason that use of his strength,
his coordination and his reasoning pow-
er is essential to orderly growth. The
process and the results are not greatly
different in the adult: you and I must
use our mental, physical and spiritual
powers or they become dormant and
sometimes unusable. Recreation helps
to balance out the routine tasks into
which our minds and bodies become
channeled, and thus plays a part in our
continuing growth and development.
This places recreation among the ma-
jor functions in our social pattern be-
cause of its great contribution to the

 

Volunteer Service Corps

Volunteer Service Corps is the new
name for thirty thousand volunteers
who help provide recreation programs
for military personnel at First Army
installations. The prize-winning name
for the “What’s Our Name?” contest
was suggested by Joan Schulte of the
Buffalo Catholic Youth Organization
who serves as a volunteer at the service
club at Fort Niagara, New York. Pic-
tured are judges of the contest which
was conducted by First Army Special
Scrviccs Office. They are, left to right,
Miss Helen G. Cahalan, staff service
club director; Mr. Joseph Prendergast,
executive director of the National Rec-

454

reation Association; Captain R. W.
Marden, First Army Public Informa-
tion Office; Lt. Col. Dwight H. Sloan,
chief of First Army Special Services;
Miss Mildred Cribby, staff arts and
crafts director; and Mrs. Doris Cor-
weth, supervisor of public affairs pro-

grams, NBC.

The new name‘will describe the vol-
unteers who range from junior hostes-
ses to entertainers and instructors in
various recreation skills. Individuals
will be awarded a pin after serving as a
member of the Volunteer Service Corps
for two years. After five years service
they will be given a gold star pin.

development and wise use of human re-
sources. We are in the business of rec-
reation because there is a unique func-
tion to be performed; one which dif-
fers substantially from that of any
other agency of society in terms of thc
breadth of its approach to human needs,
the times at which its services are re11-
dered and the essential qualities of the
experiences which it makes possible.

No less important to society is the
need for conservation of natural resour-
ces to which we are dedicated. Every
acre of parks set aside for the recrea-
tional uses of people is taken off the
market and made a public trust. Park
acreage contributes directly to the satis-
faction of human needs, and thereby
conserves by making wise use of both
human and natural resources.

Our concern as a profession is not
so much with the economics of our na-
tural resources as it is with the intan-
gibles or spiritual values that our soil,
water, forests and wildlife can bring to
man. These values are not easily meas-
ured in quantitative terms; indeed there
seem to be few who have even attempted
to define and measure the effects of the
wilderness or contact with the soil upon
the lives of people.

I believe, for instance, that the per-
son who has lain down to sleep in the
open and watched with unobstructed
view the stars wheeling across the vast-
ness of the heavens, or who has seen
the awesome majesty of a summer thun-
derstorm sweeping up the valley, has
gained something that man-made civili-
zation cannot give. This is a compelling
reason for conserving the resources thal
make such eXperience possible.

We are also in the business of rec-
reation to conserve our heritage—om
heritage being the resources inherent ir
the human organism and the resources
in the natural environment. We are ar
rayed against the destructive forces of
urbanization which limit the normal de
velopment of human resources, againsi
the despoilers of natural beauty, agains1
the polluters of waters, against the wast
ers of soil, forests, water and wildlife
We are arrayed alongside the other pro
fessions which are equally dedicated t(
the wise use of our human and natura
resources. There is enough for all oi
us to do. '

RECREATIOI‘

 

The Magazine Overseas
Sirs:

Congratulations on the excellent
standard of your magazine. In Austra-
lia literature in the recreation field is
vcry limited and some of your articlcs,
particularly those dealing with pro-
gramme and physical recreation, have
proved most stimulating. . . .

R. G. PHILLIPS, National Fitness 0}-
ficer, The National Fitness Council
of Victoria, Melbourne C1, Austra-
lia.

Day Camping Issue
Sirs:

I would like to compliment you and
your organization on an excellent issue
on the subject of day camping (March,
1954 issue). The material included is
a storehouse of valuable reference in-
formation for those wishing to establish
day camps and for those who are oper-
ating day camps.

DANIEL E. WAGNER, Superintend-
ent, Division of Recreation, Dayton,

Ohio.

Source of Ideas
Sirs:

As the newly appointed recreation di-
rector here in Berlin, New Hampshire,
I have been helped considerably by
reading your magazine, RECREATION.
It stirs me up with ideas that I feel are
a necessity for the promotion of whole-
some recreation.

My main reason for writing is to have
the magazine sent to the commissioners
of our recreation department. I know
it will be helpful to them and to our de-
partment. . . .

JIM BARNETT, Recreation Director,
Berlin, New Hampshire.

Crafts for AduIts
Sirs:

A decision made by the recreation
department of Hollywood, Florida,
headed by Mr. Pat Heneghan, was the
step toward an exciting new hobby for
me and my family, as it was also for
the other members of my class.

A week prior to the start of this class
I had purchased a shellcraft book,
tweezers and a few other basic neces-
sities of equipment but I Spent several
hours completing my first pair of ear-
rings. I very much wanted to learn but
found glue, tweezers and shells all
mixed up in my fingers.

OCTOBER 1954

Mrs. Mildred Mom soon straightened
me out in handling materials and lcarn-
ing the first steps of shellcraft. Results
are so much quicker than in the usual
handcrafts, and there are untold num-
bers of ways to express one’s own indi-
vidual taste through diffcrent shapes
and colors. Beginners can start with a
kit that comes 'as low as two dollars.
For advanced students there is plenty
of challenge to working with baby cups,
wire work and branching off into fish-
scale crafts.

Hats off to the Hollywood recreation
department in offering an inexpensive
flexible hobby that can be used by
young or old, the well or ill, to aid peo-
ple in much more interesting and hap-
pier living.

MRS. JANET A. MAY, Hollywood,
Florida.

A Challenge to Recreation”

Sirs:

The letter from Mr. Morris“ is one
of those which leave you in a very un-
settled frame of mind. It is full of sub-
tle, partial truths that cause you to dis-
agree emphatically.

Criticism of an individual or a move-
ment is not difficult to give; but con-
structive criticism leading to correction
should not be left entirely to implica-
tion.

The reference to grass roots growth
fostered by local needs is corrcct, but
our great movement would never havc
reached the proportion it has without
the inspiration and direction from our
parent body, the National Recreation
Association. The rccords in my own
city prove that, after thc first need was
felt, direct contact was made with the
national association as early as 1909 for
assistance and counsel, and the presi-
dent of our association attended the Na-
tional Congress in Rochester in 1910
in order “. . . that the local organiza-
tion might receive some of the enthusi-
asm and impetus of that great gather-
ing.,,

Mr. Morris’ criticism of the collcge
training was true several years ago; but
I feel that much of that criticism is no
longer valid. I am afraid it is still true
in many areas that we mistake skills for

* Lellers, March 1954, page 134. Other an-
swers 10 Mr. Morris’ leller appeared in the
March, April, May, June and Seplember
issues.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

WORLD’S FINEST
CHARCOAL GRILL
for World’s Finest
Outdoor Cooking

  
 
   
   

ALL-AMERICAN
EXTRA HEAVY DUTY

PICNI—C .GRILL

 
  
   
  
  
    
   

* Adjustable 6-
Way Draft Control
for faster kindling
and intense, even
heat that grills
juicier, tenderer
steaks, chops and
barbecued meats.

*Manyfine“PLUS"
features not found
on any other grill.

* Top Turns to any
position for cooking
Into wind, regard-
less of its direction.

PENDING

  

PATENT

0 Designed on same principle as large
grills used by professional chefs—a com-
plete charcoal range built to provide
uniformly even heat, controlled at exact
intensity desired. Has two waffle type
grids giving 25% x 24—inch grilling and
warming area and massive one-piece
oven for baking. Grill is extra heavy
stove iron, support is cast stecl—built to
last a lifetime. Grill is easily removed
from support for carrying or storage.
Shipped fully assembled, ready to use.

Portable model illuslrotod: 

Weight 185 lbs. Complete

Stallonary style for'Pemw- $35.75

nont lnstallalion. Wt. 160 lbs.

it WRlTE FOR LITERATURE

aria—nichn

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WQP'N’t LARGE" MANI'H'”“'€ERS GP FINF

.0... 0 ‘? I\ + J-— ‘0 ‘ ‘ "h‘N N"
3'99 5“. Ditto; N! isqu EQU'PMENI

skating

for health and
recreatl

A WONDERFUL SPORT
at low cost and upkeep

It’s easy to start a roller skating program!
It’s a healthful exercise and the popular
way to build strong bodies. A favorite
with boys and girls and budget planners,
too . . . roller skating makes a grand co-
recreational activity. Handles the largest
groups quickly and easily. Halls, gyms,
or any large floor area make fine roller
rinks. Invest in health and fun this season.

'.---Ruhher Tire Skates—--.

FOR USE ON WAXED FLOORS IN
Gyms, Ballrooms orHalls

t"

 
  

 

 

' '  "   ABSOLUTELY- "
, GUARANTEED
- NOT To MAR,SCRATCH OR DAMAGE-

Rink clamp skates developed by
CHICAGO specially for skating on
waxcd floors. The rubber wheels
are ideal for use on tile, ballroom _
fioors or any highly waxed surface.
Willnot harm or mark.

Write Now to the leader in Rink
Skates on How to Start

‘CI-IICAGO’

ROLLER SKATE COMPANY

456

 

leadership and often mistake leadership
for character. We place them in value
relationship as skills, leadership and
character, instead of character, leader-
ship and skills. Our recruiting undoubt-
edly has been weak.

I must take vigorous exception to the
statement Mr. Morris has made regard-
ing industrial recreation. I interviewed
three industries showing considerable
diversity of product with employment
loads of 5,500, 3,000 and 3,000 em-
ployees, respectively, for my data.

The recreation leadership in these
plants does not come from t0p sport
pages, but from the personnel depart-
ment. No longer is athletics the major
field in employees’ activities. The plants
interviewed listed from twenty-five to
thirty-three different types of recrea-
tional activities participated in by their
employees, such as bowling, dancing,
family nights, choral groups, dramatics,
with particular emphasis on activities
that relax and prepare employees for the
coming day. Granted many plants
started with an athletic program, ath-
letics are now secondary and varsity
games no longer in vogue.

If industry has failed in an individual
town, in my Opinion it is the fault of the
local recreation department and not of
the'NRA, whose major work is inter-
national in s00pe and purely of an in-
spirational and guidance nature.

Industrial recreation is soundly
founded as an employee-controlled and
directed organization on a voluntary
membership basis, for all those who care
to join, with activities limited only by
the desires of the group.

As to the present emphasis on juve-
nile delinquency, to judge the National
Recreation Association for failure on
that score is rather premature. I feel
confident that the association will take
its place at the proper time.

Ks to local publicity during the Con-
gress in Philadelphia, I find no excuse
for such neglect and misinterpretation
of the value of the events transpiring at
that time. Granted we came out of the
Congress without any definite resolu-
tions or trends, it means more to me
that 1,700 delegates came away with
new inspirations and a strong feeling
of fellowship, in a movement that is
filling such a need in our modern life,
and a deepening of resolves to put more
into the task of overcoming some of the
deficiencies our friend finds so very
numerous.

None would judge from the concerted
effort displayed at the Congress that the
group assembled were resting on their
past laurels and expecting to gather
manna from a generous public without
putting forth a supreme effort to hold

. and increase our place in the interest of

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

  

the citizens we are endeavoring to serve.

Just criticism, and careful analysis of
our progress, local and national, is
always a helpful sign of growth. We
must be prepared continually to defend
our position and warrant our place in
the sun. «When we fail to meet a defi-
nite public need we are through.

I have great faith, not only in the in-
spiring leadership-that started the great
recreation movement, but in the grow-
ing army of youthful leaders now sharp-
ening their swords in a cause worth de-
fending. Let us meet criticism, just and
unjust, prepared not only to defend our
position but to correct our faults. From
one who would hesitate to think his life
has been wasted.

GRANT D.BRANDON,Direcror of Rec-
reation, Lancaster, Pennsylvania

BIG SAVINGS LEATHER

Naw, for first time, you can buy full sides at
tap grain cawhide at our special, amazingly
law "Tonnery-to-yau" prices. For details,
write Dept. 6, W. D. Byran & Sons, Williams-
pOrt, Md. Fine cowhide tanners since 1832.

BASKETBALL

    

Jar/fro

STEEL
CHAIN
NETS

The Only Net

GUARANTEED
for 3 YEARSl

outdoors or indoors '

 
   
      

 

 
   
 

good for Free Catalog
JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.

 
     
 

Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

  

1:1
a
,

k 1"

‘7 UNITED" m
I /-” I‘m My

  o
EFENSE U

   

GIVE... the united way!

RECREATION

Editorially Speaking

 

Swimming Pool Boom

The significance to industry of the
current boom in swimming pool con-
struction across the nation, evidence of
which has appeared in the pages of
RECREATION from time to time, has been
written up in an excellent article full of
facts and figures, by Kenneth S. Smith,
in the September first issue of the Wall
Street Journal. He says, “Participants
in this aquatic free-for-all may include
the general building contractor in your
neighborhood, who builds maybe a pool
or two. Also enjoying the boom are
ahout four hundred manufacturers and
distributors of pool equipment, sup-
plies, and raw materials. Their ranks
include such concerns as United States
Steel, Celanese Corporation, Pittsburgh
Plate Glass. Mathieson Chemical, Johns-
Manville, Hercules Powder, and Fuller
Brush.”

Just how many pools are being con-
structed this year is hard to pin down,
but speakers for industry are unani-
mous in stating that the volume is way
up from 1953 and that was no mean
year. Herman Silverman, president of
Sylvan Pools, lnc., at Doylestown,
Pennsylvania, reports, “We expect to
build at least fifty per cent more pools
than last year,” while Philip lsley, presi-
dent of the Paddock Pool Equipment
Company of Los Angeles, on the other
hand, predicts that U. S. pool building
this year will top the 1953 record by
thirty to forty per cent.

Children’s Book ‘Veek

It happens, sometimes, that recrea-
tion program leaders overlook the pos-
sihilitics of reading as a recreation ac-
tivity in itself, or as a contribution to
programs generally. It is well to be re-
minded, therefore, that the promotion
of reading for pleasure can not only
stimulate the enjoyment of many rec-
reation hours and extend the horizons
of the individual, but it can enrich the
program of other activities such as
drama. art, discussion sessions, music.
and so on, or contribute to the forma—
tion of reading clubs, writing clubs,
poetry clubs.

If you have neglected to give books
a place in your program, use Children’s
Book Week, November 14- to 20 as a
springboard for the launching of some
activities closely tied in with reading.
“Let’s Read,” is the slogan for this
year’s 36th Annual Celebration. The
free 1954 Manual of Book Week Aids,
and other materials are available from
the Children’s Book Council. 50 West
53rd Street, New. York 19, New York.

OCTOBER 1954.

If you want plays suitable for Book
Week, or other productions, write stat-
ing your requirements to Plays, lnc., 3
Arlington Street, Boston 16, Massachu-
setts, or to H. W. Wilson Company, 950-
972 University Avenue, New York 52,
New York.

Remember, too, that among out-
standing fall events for children, par-
ents, and all groups concerned with
young people, are a number of larger,
metropolitan children’s hook fairs to be
held in difierent parts of the country
during or close to this week. All will
have special daily programs for chil-
dren. Check in your area, and if you
can, use the book fair to introduce your
children’s groups to the miracle of

books.
Do-It-Yourself Books

A report in the Publishers’ Weekly
of August 7, a magazine for the book
trade, announces heavy promotion of
do-it-yourself books during October,
which is being sponsored as Do-lt-Your-
self Month by the National Retail Hard-
ware Association. Home handymen will
be on the receiving end of this promo-
tion, and many of them will be needing
new books to use with the new gadgets
and materials they buy. Writes the
Weekly, “The month’s promotion be-
gins with an eight—page section of ads
in the October 2 Saturday Evening
Post. Some forty-four brand-name
manufacturers are taking part and
about 23,000 hardware stores will push
the campaign locally, according to Tide,
July 23. Meanwhile, Orkin Manage-
ment’s Do-It-Yourself Shows will be
held in several cities in the fall.

“Time. August 2, devoted its front
cover and thirteen columns to the do-

it-vourself industry and says that this

$6,000,000,000 annual business is ex-
pected to gross 310,000,000,000 by
1960. Some trend indicators, quoted by
Time: New York Public Library has
3,500 how-to-hoo‘ks including 250 on
cooking; Easi-Built Patterns has sold
250,000 copies of build-your-own-house
plans since the war: a Manhattan hard-
ware merchant, Patterson Brothers,
stocks 60,000 different items for retail
customers: McVicar Hardware Com-
pany in Seattle holds a do-it-yourself
clinic every Friday night for one hun-
dred customers; U. S. Plywood esti-
mates that fifteen per cent of its 3124-.-
000.000 sales in 1953 were made ulti-

mately to home craftsmen.”

Interracial

The organization of a successful
change-over to interracial swimming

pool operation in Kansas City, Missouri,
this summer—following the recent Su-
preme Court decision—is described in
a clear and concise article by William
H. Cremley, executive secretary of the
Kansas City Commission on Human
Relations. This is scheduled for publi-
cation in the November 1954 issue of
RECREATION.

Atlanta, Georgia, was ordered by a
federal judge in August to open its
seven city golf courses to Negro golfers.
In New Orleans certain days are set
aside for colored players at the two city
park courses. However, in Houston,
Texas, the city council decided that it is
operationally impossible to operate the
public courses on a segregation basis
and has thrown open its links “without
restrictions” as to race or color.

American Education Week

Cooperate with the schools in your
community in the observance of Ameri-
can Education Week—which will be
November 7 to 13. Use it to open the
doors to good public relations and as a
beginning of closer cooperation in the
provision of good local recreation serv-
ices, remembering always that the scope
or character of such services are deter-
mined locally, and are very much your
business. Consult the September 1954
special school issue of RECREATION for
leads. Some typical activities for the
observance of this week are: a parade;
special ' athletic contests; special fea-
tures in local newspapers; musical pro-
grams; special assemblies in the schools
and other special school events; special
PTA meetings; radio or TV programs;
window displays; library and museum
exhibits; community forums, and so on.
The central theme of this year’s observ-

ance: “Good Schools Are Your Busi-
,9
ness.

Clubmobile Girls Needed

The Department of Defense has again
asked the American National Red Cross
to furnish clubmobile personnel in the
Far East. Since the end of hostilities in
the Far East, leisure-time activities for
servicemen are more vital than ever.
Red Cross now is recruiting a limited
number of young women to carry on a
diversified recreation program. They
must be between 23-28 years of age,
have a college hackground and special
aptitude for group recreation in such
fields as music, dramatics, or art. Sal-
aries begin at approximately $230
monthly. Maintenance and travel are
furnished. A training period of two
weeks is held at national headquarters.

Write to Personnel Service, Ameri-

can National Red Cross, National I'lead-

ouarters. Washington 13, D. C., men-
tioning the NRA as source of informa-
tion.

457

 

) PICTURES OF YOUR DEPARTMENT LI-
BRARY showing the recreation books
used as tools and background reading
for the recreation job—or pictures of
your own individual working library
——are WANTED by RECREATION, for
possible use as illustrations for a forth-
coming article on “Building Your Own
Individual or Department Library.”
Any details about your own experiences
along these lines will also be welcome.

) BRIEF ITEMS ABOUT ANY UNUSUAL OR
EXCITING CLUB in your department will
also be welcomed by RECREATION for
use in a future article on the subject.
Give us the sort of information you
yourself would want, if you were going
to start one, and don’t leave out the
“color.” Send picture illustrating its
activities if you can. i

) A JOINT CONFERENCE on Cooperation
with the Public Housing Administra-
tion was held by the National Recrea-
tion Association and the Public Hous-
ing Administration in June 1954, at
the request of Benjamin H. Ritter, di-
rector of Management Branch, Pro-
grams Division, Public Housing Admin-
istration. Its purpose was to exchange
information on the services of NRA,
and the problems of PHA, to determine
how the former could help housing au-
thorities face these problems in local
communities. Present at this meeting,
in addition to Mr. Ritter who presided,
were sixteen other staff members of the
central office of PHA and from its
Washington field office, plus Marion
Preece and C. E. Reed from NRA.
Among 'the key public housing repre-
sentatives present were CharleS'L. Levy,
director of the Washington field office,
Orvil R. Olmstead, assistant commis-
sioner for programs and the chiefs of
architecture and engineering, project
planning and management.

Mr. Ritter explained that PHA and
local housing authorities are very much
in need of the kinds of assistance with
their recreation problems which NRA
can give. He pointed out that PHA now

458

745m 20% 55W Km .

 

has in actual Operation 576,000 low-
rent housing units and that 198,000 of
these are war-housing units. These
units house two and a quarter million
people. In addition, there are now in
the preconstruction stage 45,000 units
and an additional 47,000 units actually
under construction—or a total of 92,-
000. Mr. Ritter stated that his chief
interest in soliciting NRA help is for the
improvement of recreation services to
residents in the housing projects now
in actual operation.

It was suggested by NRA representa-
tives that it was of utmost importance
for the Federal Housing Authorities, in
planning recreation facilities, to ap-
proach local recreation, park, and
school or planning authorities just as
soon as decision has been reached to
promote a new housing project. Much
of the lack of cooperation by local rec-
reation departments with housing au-
thorities in the earlier years was be-
cause the local recreation authorities,
in particular, were not involved in the
initial planning.

The question was asked,“How should
the local housing authorities and the
PHA field staff proceed in planning at
the right time for recreation in a com-
munity which has no established public
recreation department?” Miss Preece
outlined the steps which should be taken
and recommended that the local author-
ity get in touch with the mayor, city
manager, school and civic groups, as
well as with key private agencies inter-
ested, and endeavor to get a group meet-
ing at which the housing authority
could present its needs.

Mr. Ritter indicated that he would
like to place a set of NRA printed ma-
terials in the hands of every local hous-
ing authority, and that he would like
to have a meeting of the PHA field and
administrative staff in each region with
the NRA district representative to re-
view local recreation problems and ex-
plore cooperative procedures.

} DEVELOPERS HAVE BEEN REQUIRED to
dedicate five per cent of their gross sub-
division area for park purposes —in Cor-

pus Christi, Texas, since 1939. In the
itbeginning this system resulted In the
dedication of a large number of small
areas unsatisfactory from a recreation
standpoint. Recently, however, the city
has devised a plan whereby the develop:
er may make a monetary contribution
to. a special parkland acquisition fund
instead of dedicating the actual park
area. This contribution is not manda-
tory, but it is offered as an alternative
to the five per cent land dedication. In
this manner the city has obtained more
satisfactory parks in location and size.

) A SCENT GARDEN FOR THE BLIND will
be an interesting new project in South
Bend, Indiana, where the board of park
commissioners has voted to set aside a
portion of Leeper Park for 'its develop-
ment. A series of paths flanked by rail-
ings will lead past the flowers and
shrubs. Placards in braille will be lo—
cated at intervals along the rail to de-
scribe the displays.

) AMONC CASES ON RACIAL SECRECA-
TION handed down by the U. S. Supreme
Court in May 1954, were those involv-
ing Houston, Texas, and Louisville,
Kentucky. The Court upheld a decision
of a federal circuit court that Houston
must allow Negroes to use municipal
golf courses. The lower court ruling
had been appealed on the contention
that the city was providing separate hut
equal, if not superior, recreation facili-
ties for Negroes.

The Court overruled a decision of a
Kentucky court that a private corpora-
tion leasing a city-owned park and am-
pllitheatre could refuse to admit Ne-
groes. The Court held that the leasing
of the park from the city of Louisville
made the private corporation subject
to the “equal protection clause” of the
Fourteenth Amendment. See Editori-
ally Speaking, page 457, for other inter-

racial items.

) LEGAL BARRIERS that have long pre-
vented residents of Westchester County,
New York, from obtaining preferential
treatment at its county parks were eli-
minated as a result of two recent de- -
cisions of the N. Y. Court of Appeals,
according to the New York Times for
July 27, 1954. For thirty years the resi-
dents of the county have demanded that

.they, as taxpayers who finance the sixty

million dollars’ worth of beaches, pools,
golf courses, picnic areas, and wood-
land reservations, which are heavily
used by New York City residents,
should receive special rights to these
properties. The two decisions placed
a new interpretation on the Constitution-
a1 rights of the county residents, and

RECREATION

make possible preferential rates and ad-
mittance for them at the county parks.
One decision of the state’s highest court
gave a Long Island community the right
to condemn a real estate developer’s
land for the exclusive recreation use of
its residents. The other gave a West-
chester County community the right to
restrict a depot parking lot to local resi-
dents.

Westchester County officials and the
park commission are restudying the
question of park regulations and
charges, looking forward to their appli-
cation in 1955.

) HAVE YOU EVER WANTED A COPY OF
TIIE RULES for a certain sport and didn’t
know where to get them? A list of the
sources and cost of more than fifty sport
activities has been prepared by The
Athletic Institute. A free copy of this
list may be had by sending a stamped,

self-addressed envelope to: “Ollicial

Rules,” The Athletic Institute, 209
South State St., Chicago 4, Ill.

) A $1,500 AWARD IIAS JUST BEEN AN-

NOUNCED by Association Press, 291'

Broadway, New York 7, New York, for
the best book-length manuscript in the
broad field of leadership. The press
will pay $500 outright and $1,000 ad-
vance on royalties for the most useful
manuscript of one hunderd and fifty or
more typewritten pages dealing with
any aspects of professional or volunteer
service in the fields of recreation, social
work, social group work, community
organization, counseling, youth leader-
ship, and so on. Deadline for manu-
scripts is June 1, 1955. Write to
Association Press for manuscript prep-
aration instructions. Future Associa-
tion Press advertising in RECREATION
will be including reference to this
award.

) BY POPULAR REQUEST, BIBLIOGRA-
PIIIES OF RECREATION MAGAZINE ARTI-
CLES which have appeared during the
last few years on the topics to be dis-
cussed at the 36th National Recreation
Congress in St. Louis will again be dis-
tributed at each congress discussion
session this year and, as a new feature,
similar bibliographies of other NRA
publications will be included. Some
few complete sets of the magazine bibli-
ographies, on all topics, will be avail-
able at the Consultation Center, upon
request.

I p A DETAILED REPORT of the Red Cross
training course for hospital recreation
workers in the Eastern Area held at
Valley Forge Army Hospital in Phoen-
ixville, Pennsylvania, last January, ap-

OCTOBER 1954

pears in the July 1954 issue of Inter-
com (Eastern Area Edition). This
publication provides subscribers with a
number of good hospital recreation ac-
tivities in detail, as a monthly program
service. Address: Services to the Armed
Forces 8: Veterans. The American Na-

tional Red Cross, Washington, D. C.

) AN EXCELLENT ARTICLE in the August
1954 issue of The Reader’s Digest has
been called to our attention by Mr. Mal-
lcry, chairman of the NRA Board of
Directors. Because space is not avail-
able in RECREATION for the reprinting
of “Breathe Easier,” by W. P. Knowles,

we are passing on to you Mi. Mallery’s
comment, “I think Knowles has some-
thing of great value to physical educa-
tion and health, with far-reaching im-
plications.”

) USED BY THE VOICE OF AMERICA: the
article, “Camp Kno-Koma,” by Dana

E. Harlow, from the April 1954 issue
of RECREATION.

) SOCIAL WORKERS INTERESTED IN Go-
ING 0vERSEAS for work or study will find
helpful the Preliminary Directory of Ur-
ganizations A fjording Foreign Oppor-
tunities for Social Welfare Personnel,
published in May by the American As-
sociation of Social Workers. This mim-
eographed directory, listing sixty-two
organizations and the opportunities
they offer, is available from the publish-
er at One, Park Avenue, New York 16,
for fifty cents a copy.

) ACCORDING TO NEW YORK STATE MU-
NICIPAL LAW, #2443, dealing with

joint playgrounds or neighborhood rec-
rcation ccntcrs:

Any two or more such municipalities may
jointly acquire property for and operate and
maintain playgrounds or neighborhood recrea-
tion centers and may make the perform agree-
ments in connection therewith. Any school
(board or ) district shall have power to join
with any such municipality in equipping,
Operating, and maintaining playgrounds and
neighborhood recreation centers, (and) may
appropriate money therefore and may make
and perform agreements in connection there-
with. Such agreements between municipali-
ties or a school district and a municipality
shall include provisions for the proportion-
ate cost to be borne by each municipality
or school district and the manner of employ-
ment or personnel and may provide that a
fiscal officer of one such municipality shall
be the custodian of the moneys made avail-
able for expenditure for such purposes and
that such fiscal oilicer may make payments
therefrom upon audit of the appmpriate audit-

ing body or officer of his municipality.
(Signed by Governor Dewey on April 7. 1954.)

) INTERESTING FIGURES ON INJURIES IN
SPORTS are given in “Hazards in Com-
petitive Athletics,” the lead arttcle 1n

the June 1954 issue of the Statistical
Bulletin published by the MetrOpolitan
Life Insurance Company of New York

City, at 1 Madison Avenue, New York
10, New York.

) IF YOU CONDUCT A BOWLING PROGRAM
at a commercial bowling alley, or go
there to do some bowling yourself,
you’ll want to read the article on pin-
boys, “The Sport that Ruins Young-
sters,” by Edith M. Stern, which ap-

pears in the October 1954 issue of Red-
book.

) MORE PLAY AREAS are being planned
for public housing projects in New
York City, as a part of the current city
drive against delinquency. The pro-
gram for expansion of facilities will be
worked out by the New York City Hous-
ing Authority and the Board of Edu-
cation. Additional housing authority
workch will be assigned to supplement
the work of private social agencies at
six developments, and the board of ed-
ucation will have full responsibility for
operation of community centers at
housing projects where there are no
recreation programs. Board of educa-
tion workers will be added to recreation

ostaffs at projects where litnitcd pro-

grams are in effect. Most of the pro-
jects are adacent to slum areas. School
gyninasiums and auditoriums will be

used by some projects to further the
new program.

} HIGH SCIIOOL GUIDANCE COUNSELORS
who subscribe to Chronicle Occupation-
al Briefs received in September a four-
page brief describing the position of
the recreation director. Recreation lead-
ers will also find this useful in coun-
scling high school students. It describes
one position and outlines others in the
field. indicates working conditions, typ-
ical tasks, training and personal quali-
ties needed, opportunities, and methods
of entering the occupations. The Na-
tional Recreation Association cooper-
atcd in preparing the brief, which is
available from Chronicle Guidance
Publications, Moravia, New York, at
fifty cents per single copy or twenty-five
cents per c0py in quantities over ten.

New Address of NRA

After November 1, 1954, the
new address of the National
Recreation Association will be

8 West Eighth Street
New York 'I 'l , New York

 

FUNDAMENTALS of a
GROWING RECREATION PROGRAM

The purpose here is to state briefly eleven fundamental factors necessary
to assure a permanent and growing recreation system. All of them are es-
sential for success and none can be neglected or forgotten if a balanced
program is to be maintained. Here are the specihcations that seem to be

basic and important.

1. The Survey. Every community
should have a careful study made of its
recreation resources and needs with
suggestions and recommendations
based on expert knowledge and experi-
ence. This survey should cover the
specifications named below. Ideally, it
is best to have such a survey at the start
of any recreation effort. In this way,
.long-range planning can he focused
from the start. If none has been made,
a study at any time is invaluable, the
sooner, the better, This should indicate
past successes and failures, statei pres-
ent needs and problems and outline fu-
ture growth and deveIOpment.

2. A Plan. Somewhere at sometime, a
comprehensive plan, predicated on the
above survey, must be charted and re-
alized. Professional advice and guid-
ance is needed. The plan must be feas-
ible, practical and adaptable. It must
be challenging. In addition to present
problems and programs, it should give
a long range plan for the next five, ten
or fifteen years. Long-rangc planning
is most necessary to meet the demands
of future progress and ,development as
outlined in the specifications below.

3. Basic Law. Proper and adequate
legislation is .a must, on all levels of
government, in order to guarantee per-
manency and growth. Some states have
broad comprehensive laws and ena-
bling acts, which are organic law de-

JAMES E. ROGERS, now retired, has been
in the recreation movement for hfty years
and a staff member of National Recre-
ation Association for thirty-eight years.

460

fining recreation as a proper function
of government. Counties, park and rec-
reation districts, schools, and munici-
pal governments should have modern
up-to-date laws to meet present and fu-
ture demands. Recreation charter pro-
visions should be broad and fundamen-
tal. Local departments, created by local
ordinances, should be founded on suf-
ficient state law. Good law is vital to
any good plan and program.

4. A Program. The program is the

” thin'ngll other specificationsvareraimed

to develop and make possible an ade-
quate and effective program that will
serve all the pe0ple, young and old, the
year round. It is not possible here to
present a scorecard or an inventory
sheet of all the activities essential for
a well-balanced program, for all ages,
neighborhoods, and seasons. This has
been well done many times. The Na-
tional Recreation Association has sev-
eral excellent scorecards or inventory
sheets to measure an adequate program
for a community of any size.

The activities should be varied and
adapted, in all forms of recreation:
games, Sports, arts, crafts, music, dra-
ma, nature lore, social recreation,
dance, camping and the many forms of
leisure time pursuits and pastimes. A
program should reach all ages and
groups—senior citizens, adults, young
people, teen—agers, youth, children and
family groups, minority and other
groups. None should be neglected. In
brief, an all-round program through the
four seasons must be comprehensive,

adequate and balanced.

James E. Rogers

5. Ample Areas and Facilities. Areas
and facilities of many kinds and sizes,
for young and old, indoor and outdoor,
and for a variety of purposes, must be
provided if the program is to be effec-
tive and dynamic. Here again, such
survey studies and inventories can be
found in professional recreation litera-
ture. It cannot be overstressed that, in
in order to meet the needs and the prob-
lems of an up-to-date modern recreation
program for our community, facilities

0 must be of the type, size, kind and pur-

pose that will be the best to sufficiently
meet the needs. They must meet rec-
ognized national standards and require-
ments. These standards have been pub-
lished by national recreation organi-
zations. The areas and facilities used
must come from our “master survey
and long-range plan,” based on pro-
gram needs and the nationally accepted

standards.

6. Adequate Budget. Money is not ev-
erything but it is necessary. Every com-
munity should have an ample base for
financial support and a budget system
that will assure a growing plan and pro-
gram. Again, the budget should meet
the nationally known standards and re-
quirements. Consult the literature and
studies of the National Recreation As-
sociation and the American Recreation
Society. Good bookkeeping, careful ac-
counting and accepted financial pro:
cedures are essential for efliciency and
public support. City officials and citi-
zens will back your plans and recom-
mendations when there is no waste, neg-
lect or faulty business methods. This
is most important to win pnublic confi-
dence and good will. A hundred per
cent service 011 the tax dollar is the best
publicity. Good financial proeedurcs
help the program and the budget.

7. Proper Organization. The right ad-

RECREATION

ministrative set-Up is basic for the op-
eration of any recreation project. Good
administration depends on proper or-
ganization. A faulty set-up impedes ef-
ficiency, productivity, and responsibi-
lity. Again many forms and kinds of
organization and administrative plans
are available in professional literature.
Certain principles are basic. Recrea-
tion should not be secondary or sub-
servient to any other government serv-
ice. It should be recognized as an
essential public service. Recreation
should stand on its own feet as an en-
tity. It can be a part of many public
and private services but, if it is to sur-
vive and function properly, it should
have an organization set-up that will
guarantee the most effective service,
good organization plan that places re-
sponsibility, fixes control and gives
freedoin without hinderance, helps to
operate the program and administer the
budget.

8. Personnel Stuff. A trained experi-
enced staff is essential if'the plan, pro-
gram, areas, facilities and budget are
to be efliciently used and wisely admin-
istered. Recreation is now recognized
as a profession. Our educational insti-
tutions provide for undergraduate and
graduate training and degrees. Civil

I

service and recreation groups have set
up and adopted standards and ethical
codes. Employing agencies are accept-
ing national training, eXperience re-
quirements and salary standards. To
get public recognition and support you
must have a trained eXperienced staff
in order to attain the best results. The
program, administration, organization
and budget depends for proper opera-
tion upon adequate, trained leadership.

9. Public Relations and Publicity. It
is in this field that we often fail through
neglect or ignorance. Yet good public
relations‘is vital to our success, plans
and services. Frequently, the commu-
nities that achieve incrcased budgets
and votes for bond issues are those
where recreation has won public sup-
port and favor because of good public-
ity and effective public relations. If we
are to safeguard against depression,
economy cuts and decreased budgets,
we must enhance our public relations
and increase our publicity. Fortunately,
we have good texts in this field. The
relation of human relations to public
relations is most important. We must
work with and through people: those
we serve and work with. Some recrea-
tion leaders are weak in this specifica-
tion, and yet it is our salvation when

 

Ample areas and facilities of many kinds and sizes are a necessity for an effective
program. Above, a general View of a modern recreation area in Lynehburg, Virginia.

OCTOBER 1954

crises come or when we need support
most. We must cultivate and work
closely with government officials, tax-
payers associations, our board, our co-
operating agencies— in fact, with all
who contribute to the success of our
plans and work.

10. Community Cooperation. Recrea-
tion is such a broad field of human in-
terest and endeavor, almost all public
and private organizations and grOUps
contribute to the total community rec-
reation program. Recreation depart-
ments, park boards, schools, and other
municipal agencies should cooperate
and work togeiher for the over-all com-
munity recreation program. Many pri-
vate agencies have facilities, programs
and leadership that contribute much to
the whole community recreation effort.
All this demands generous cooperation
and intelligent leadership. It is most
encouraging to see the many examples
of all-out community-wide recreation
cooperation between schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation centers, and
public and private groups.This ex-
change of areas, programs, and leader-
ship for the common good of all is the
only way to get full use of all programs

and the confidence of the people—our
public.

11. Public Opinion and Support. In the
last analysis no program, organization
or budget can exist for long without
active favorable public Opinion and sup-
port. All our public relations, publicity,
community cOOperation, effective pro-
grams contribute to public support. Fa-
vorahle public Opinion depends upon
people having faith and confidence in
you and what you are doing. Without
this, we will not get the money, the fa-
cilities, the staff, the salaries and the
rccognition we need—all essential to
the growth and de’veIOpment we seek.
In those communities where public
opinion is solidly hack of public recrea-
tion, it is accepted, as is public edu-
cation, health or welfare, as an essential
government function and service, to bc
supported by public taxes. Hence, if we
carry out the previous ten specifica-
tions, and remember our human rela-
tions with the people, we should eventu-
ally win the community’s good will,

understanding and loyalty. m—r

461

Reading List

ganization, Administration, Program. 5.00
Introduction to Community Recreation

Recreation for Your Community
25 copies .............................................. .. 4.00

. Blbllggraphles 0f RECREATION. maga- (Revised Edition) .............................. .. 5.75 schootcny cooperation in the plan-
zme artlcles for further readlng in each New Neighbors in Your Community II.ng of Recreation Areas and F acili-
Of the eleven fundamental areas men. each ...................................................... .. .10 tles (P 136) ........................................ ,_ .75
. d . D R 9 o 1 .1 per .................................................. ..  School Grounds Designed for Commu-
tlone In 1‘. Ogers artlc ‘3 are 3V3] " Pelrzonnel Standards in Recreation nity Use ................................................ .. 15
-. d h' .......................................... .. . '
ab]? up?“ request qther NRA Plell Planii::s {3; Girls in the Community 50 Some Leadership”Do’s” (MP 389) ...... .. .25
canons m these areas melude: Recreztion Program (P 200) ............ .. .65 Standards for MuniCiDal Recreation
The ABC’s of Public Relations for Areas .................................................... .. .50

Recreation ............................................ .. $ .85

A Bibliography for the Recreation
Library (P 75) .................................... .. .25

Bibliography on the Design and Equip-
ment of Recreation Areas and Struc-

tures (P 185) ...................................... .. .20
Community Sports and Athletics—Or-

Recreation in Correctional Institutions

Something for every inmate to do, the skilled and the un-
skilled, the extrovert and the introvert, low organized
games and team games, hobbies, crafts and clubs. Such a
program was advocated—and in many cases reported as
under way—at the Conference on Recreation in Correctional
Institutions held in May 1953, at Roanoke, Virginia, under
the Sponsorship of the National Recreation Association.
The conference was significant in that it indicated a trend
in the thinking of institution authorities and of recreation
leaders. It will be followed by two other such meetings——
this time at the 36th National Congress where an all-day
meeting on September 27 and one session on September 28
are planned.

In Roanoke the importance of recreation in the rehabili-
tation program of the correctional institution was empha—
sized and clarified. It was felt that if many of the inmates
reached the institution because of a wrong use of leisure
time, it follows that they should be helped while there to
find its wiser uses. Recreation can do much to straighten
out the warped minds and alleviate bitterness.

In pursuit of this ideal, Opportunities should be provided
and much thought given to ways of attracting the interest
of the inmates. In one prison an art club grew out of a con-
test for a cover design for the prison magazine. Elsewhere,
from a simple demonstration of hand weaving the ravelings
of old potato bags came a weaving studio with looms and
attractive equipment. In one prison women beautified their
quarters in a home arts project. They embroidered bed
Spreads, ruffled curtains and framed magazine pictures.
One group won third prize for a float in the community
Christmas parade; another dressed dolls for a welfare proj-
ect. Another prison sends its choir to sing at local churches.

Such were the heartening reports of work going on. One
prison has subscriptions to thirty magazines for the reading
room; another provides band instruments for all interested.

4-62

Playgrounds——-Their Administration

and Operation ...................................... .. 4.00 What Can We Do in Our Town?

Recreation Activities for Adults .......... ..

Recreation Areas——-Their Design and
Equipment ............ ..

o o o o o I I - I I o I I o I 0 o o o o o o o o o o I O .0

Recreation Department Budget Making
and Administration (P 189) .........  .15

Recreation for the Aging ...................... .. 3.00

3.00 (P 176) ................................................ .. .15

6.00 These materials may be ordered from

the National Recreation Association,
315 Fourth Avenue, New York 11.

Recreation areas, facilities, equipment and supplies were
discussed and delegates were referred to “Minimum Rec-
reation Equipment Requirements,” Chapter XII, page 3, in
Manual of Suggested Standards for a State Correctional In-
stitrttion, published by the American Prison Association,

135 East Fifteenth Street, New York 3, New York. 1946.

A problem clinic tackled such questions as: what to in-
clude in an adequate recreation program; 110w to get better
trained leadership for the institutional program; 110w to
motivate activities that are considered desirable; and 110w
to get more budget for the program.

The final session included a brief review of the standards
necessary for the conduct of a recreation program.

Among administrators recognition of the need and value
of recreation is advancing, but not sufficiently so that the
budget is adequate. Recreation leaders need to educate the
budget makers and the general public to this essential need.
There should be one full-time leader in each institution, as-
sisted by carefully chosen part-time and volunteer workers.
The full-timec leader, or director, should be a professionally
trained skilled recreation worker with understanding of the
application of the leisure time program of inmates to their
moral, social, mental, and physical rehabilitation, their ad-
justment to the institution and their preparation for release.
Part-time leaders must have an understanding of the prison
program and be unquestionably reliable. ‘

All agreed that it is important to evaluate the program
periodically. Each activity needs to be constantly analyzed
as to its worth to the inmates and to the institution. Has it
a socializing influence for more wholesome relationships?
Does it help promote self-respect, self-reliance and initia-
tive? Is it helping the inmate to make progress in his own
rehabilitation and preparing him for his release and for a
good adjustment to his family and community?

RECREATION

 

TRICKS on TREATS! When you hear
that demand at your doorstep on
Halloween, and a troop of small gob-
lins, ghosts, elves and animated skele-
tons waits in the misty autumn night,
you are listening to a challenge believed
to have been made first more than two
thousand years ago.

It is a challenge, too, that originated
in good old Ireland, the same country
that gave us St. Patrick’s Day.

Not generally known is the fact that
Halloween, especially in its prankish
and mischief-making aspects, was first
brought to America by Irish immigrants
over a century ago.

A frosty 'fall night, when ghosts are
abroad in the land, when strange things
happen, when macabre jack-o’-lanterns
grin down 011 apple-ducking parties,
Halloween dates back to the mysterious
and primitive era of the sun-worship-
ping Druids.

Long, long ago, on the night of 0c-
tober 31, the Druid medicine men lit
great bonfires which reflected redly in
the night sky over the mist-covered Irish
hills and vales.

As Ireland was the last stronghold of
the Druid priests, who practiced their
rituals in the oak forests of the Gaelic
countryside, it was there that the bon-
fires burned brightest on the eve of the
Day of the Dead. Known as the Vigil
' of Samhain, this primitive Celtic festi-

val, associated with the dying of the

summer season, seems, however, to have
E served a variety of purposes.
I

 

The Druidie bonfires paid tribute to
Samhain, who on the night of October
I! 31 sent the souls of many of the de-

Condensed and reprinted with permission
from Home and Highway, Autumn 1953.

r OCTOBER 1954

 

J 01m Dru ry

parted into a Druidic heaven. These
same bonfires also honored an all-pow-
erful sun god—one who was now being
thanked for a bountiful autumn harvest.

But the bonfires served still another
purpose—they helped to ward off evil
spirits that might be abroad.

Although evil spirits were supposed
to come from the flames of hell, yct, ac-
cording to Celtic belief, they were more
afraid of man-made fire than any flames
in Hades. In keeping with this belief,
many peasants of Ireland and Scotland
followed the Halloween custom, at a
later time, of waving pitchforks-full of
burning straw in the air, hoping to
chase away evil spirits and to set on fire
the brooms of any witches flying past.

In common with other European
races, the Irish believed strongly in
witches. The peasantry of Ireland,
Scotland and Wales continued for gen-
erations afterward to tell their children
how witches, mounted on brooms with
black cats behind them, would some-
times fly through the night to a“witch-
es’ sabbath,” or rcvel.

And so, witches, warlocks, fairies and
good and evil spirits were practically
running riot over the world on Hallow-
een. All of them were supposed to be
able to foretell future events, so it was
natural that divination games should
early become a part of Halloween fes-
tivities among Irish cottagers, as well as
among Scottish highlanders. It was in
Scotland, we recall, that Bobby Burns
wrote two of his most popular poems,
Tam O’Shanter and Halloween, both
dealing with Halloween customs.

Another belief held by the ancient
Celts was that the Sidhe, or fairies, held
their big fall meeting or carnival on

i

t

f.‘
0

November Eve. Sometimes friendly to-
wards human beings, and sometimes
hostile, the invisible fairies at first were
bigger, handsomer and nobler than real
men and women. With the coming of
Christianity, they gradually dwindled
in size and finally became the “little
people” of the Emerald Isle, tiny, prank-
ish folk who did their greatest mischief
on Halloween.

‘Vhen most of us older folk were
“little people,” Hallowcen was one night
of the year in which we really created
mischief, often to the point of vandal-
ism. Although there were plenty of
Irish cops in our cities and towns then,
they somehow seemed to avoid the “lit-
tle people” on Halloween. So we, in our
masks and robes, ran riot—blowing
beans at windows, pushing over sheds,
carrying away gates, soaping store
fronts, scattering flour on porches, turn-
ing in false fire alarms, ringing door-
bells, knocking off men’s hats with a
string across the sidewalk, placing an
old wagon on the streetcar track and
lighting bonfires.

Such violent Halloween activities,
however, are largely a thing of the past.
They have been replaced by supervised
parties and celebrations in homes,
schools, halls, parks and playgrounds——
festivities in which, among other things,
many traditional Irish and Scottish for-
tune-telling games are played with ap-
ples, nuts and other products of the
harvest season.

In one, the apple you finally secure,
by “ducking,” will have the name of
your future wife or husband on it. An-
other old Irish frolic is the nut-roasting
game, in which pairs of nuts are placed
on the bar of the grate in the fireplace
and named after supposed lovers. If
one of the nuts cracks and jumps, it
means unfaithfulness; a nut that burns
quietly indicates sincerity of affection;
if the nuts burn together, the youth and
maid whose names they bear will soon
be married.

Older than any of the Halloween
prophecy games, however, is the “tricks
or treats” custom. It seems this custom
had its origin among some of the early
Celtic peasants of Ireland, who, on the
eve of Samhain, went about the coun-
tryside demanding contributions in the

name of “Muck Olla,” thought to have
been one of the Druid gods.

3.;

r l 463

A plan that might well serve as an example
to many cities in the United States

 

MONTEVIDEO

A fine example of the “domestic” scalc garden-parks
within a residential district of Uruguay’s capital city.

 

The recreation needs
of hundreds of chil-
dren are mct daily in
the Parque Rodo by a
“Children’s Corncr,”
with vcry fine equip-
ment and play facilities.

“Stagc Coach,” a work
by Uruguayan sculptor
Jose Bclloni hclps to
make history a living
nlcmory. It is sct up
to makc ideal use of
thc superb landscape.

 

—A Case Study

of Recreational

Planning

Anatole A. SoIow

URUGUAY, small in size as comparec
to its neighbors Argentina and Bra
zil, is universally recognized to bt
among the most progressive countric:
of South America. Its health standards
its low illiteracy rate, its high level 0'
living and its well-developed public in
stitutions and traditions all support thi:
opinion. But there is perhaps nothing
that reflects more vividly and more pro
foundly the high achievements of thi:
democratic society than the way i1
which Montevideo, Uruguay’s capital
plans for the recreation of its 900,00(
people. Here, indeed, is a program 0
parks, playgrounds, public recreatiol
facilities and open Spaces well-conceive:
in plan and brilliantly executed, whicl
could well serve as an example to man]
cities in the United States.

Comprehensive Plan

It was during thc Fourth Pan Ameri
can Congress of Municipalities that
had occasion to visit Montevideo’s par]
system, in the company of Juan Scasso
brilliant city planner and landscap:
architect, director of parks of the mu

Reprinted with permission from The Amer
ican City, February‘ 1954-.

nicipality, and father of the capital’s
recreation system.

According to Mr. Scasso, the recog-
nition and acceptance of certain basic
principles underlies the successful de-
velopment_of Montevideo's plan. Mr.
Seasso never talks about parks but rath-
er about recreation, in the firm belief
that only by integral planning of all rec-
reation facilities, whether outdoors or
indoors, whether for active or passive
recreation, whether for children or
adults, can the true needs of a contem-
porary community be met for the lei-
sure-time activities of its citizens.

Accordingly, the municipality of
Montevideo has approached the prob-
lem from an over-all planning point-of-
view, into which all details fit and to
which all elements are subordinated.
Thus, a thorough study has been made
of the leisure-time activities and needs
of all age groups, considering all daily,
weekend, or seasonal loads and taking
into account the time as well as space
and location factors.

Mr. Scasso is convinced, even more
profoundly, that all people, without ex-
ception, must be able to benefit from
recreation facilities and that it is a
sacred obligation of the community to
provide them publicly for those who
cannot afford them privately. Accord-
ingly, he advocates the concept, if not
the slogan, that “the publie’parks of
Montcvideo must be private gardens of
its citizens (especially of the poor
ones) .”

A social conscience prevails in Mon-
tevideo at all levels of the population as

a result of a genuine respect for the hu-
man being. This is illustrated through-
out the city, shown vividly by the parks
of Carraseo, an important and well laid-

 

out residential district. Here is an ex-
ample of many small gardens and parks
designed at a “domestic” scale and with
such intimacy that the man from the
street can feel as if the park were de-
signed for his exclusive personal use.

Public Beaches

It is this same social conscience and
sincere concern for the common man’s
welfare that has made Montevideo’s
heach deveIOpment the envy of water-
front cities the world over. Yet, ap-
parently, it was only a question of fore-
sight and a matter of sticking to prin-
ciples.

Wherc other cities have permitted un-
controlled industrial development with
consequent pollution along their water-
fronts, instead of utilizing them for the
people’s recreational benefits, Monte-
video has prcserved and consciously de-
veloped its beaches along its extensivc
waterfronts on the Rio Plata within city
limits.

Other towns have permitted the cheap
sale of public beachland to private own-
ers and subsequently tried to repurchase
it for the community at heavy costs to
the taxpayer. Montevideo has from the
beginning maintained puhlic ownership
of all beaches on the grounds that they
are essential to public welfare. This has
paid huge dividends.

The twelve public beaches, with a
combined length of approximately sev-
en miles within city limits, are the lungs
of the city. They are accessible to all;
and a short walk even from the central
and densely built-up districts brings the
resident to the beach where he can free-
ly enjoy fresh air, sparkling sand and
clean water, such as at the Ramirez
Beach (shown in an accompanying pho-

Montcvidco's parks are
designed for cultural
activities as well as
for the usnal sports.
This pavilion is used
for o pen-air concerts
which are very popular.

tograph) near famous Rodo Park. In
the hackground can be seen the Faculty
of Engineering designed by Julio Villa-
majo, one of South America’s most dis-
tinguished architects, who died only a
few years ago. Beyond may be noted
the trees of the municipal golf course,
which overlooks the sea and is only five
minutes from Montevideo’s busy down-
town center.

It may be said that each residential
district has its own beach within walk-
ing distance.

Parks and squares occupy an area of
3,193 acres within and around the city.
This is over twenty-five per cent of the
city’s total 13,175 acres; but still more
important is their planned distribution.
By providing these public beaches and
other ample Open spaces in locations
where they are needed and easily aeces-
sible, Montevideo has been able to de-
vc10p economically its residential dis-
tricts with apartments at relatively high,
net residential density and yet elimi-
nate, or at least minimize, the disadvan-
tages of apartment living. "

Perhaps one of the most significant
concepts that has guided Montevideo is
the Spiritual values to be derived from
recreation and the importance of aesthe-
tic satisfaction. It is believed that beau-
tiful environment has a significant and
almost measurable effect upon people.
Mr. Scasso's argument runs somewhat
like this: The modern city, gray, agitat-
ed and ugly, needs the landscape archi-
teet to cheer it up with color, to provide
it with quiet open spaces destined for
rest and pleasure, and to embellish it
with trees, plants, and flowers. N 0 other
element can contribute as much as vege-
tation towards humanizing thc city and
making it more pleasant. Its monoto-
nous and repetitive landscape changes
radically with the appearance of the
green shrubbery and with the colors of
flowers and plants.

Public Gardens

Nothing delights the mind more than
the view of a fresh and brilliant strip of
color, of a small square or publie place
that can be seen from an office window.

Nothing cheers up the spirit more
and prepares citizens for daily work
than a walk among the Flowers on

the way to the office, factory or store.
These principles are artistically and

465

lovingly applied to even the smallest
available open space which is utilized
to create public gardens.

Sculpture is used as an element of
design, and the locations of monuments
are blended with the landscape, thc
surrounding trees and shrubs, and with
the t0pography after the most minute
study of every detail. The “Stage
Coach” by the Uruguayan sculptor,
Jose Belloni, like the other famous Mon-
tevidean monument, the “Ox-Cart,”
tries quite consciously to keep alive
for coming generations the memory and
knowledge of the traditional elements
which have contributed to the progress
of the city and country.

The parks of Montevideo are special-
ly planned for cultural activities in ad-
dition to the usual sports and recrea-
tion facilities; pavilions for music,
open-air theatres, outdoor band stands,
and so on, permit popular outdoor en-
tertainment in all parts of the city. It
is interesting to note that the munici-
pality and the national government have
many cultural institutes with orches-
tras, popular bands, theatrical com-
panies and ballets. At performances it
is quite common to see the highest so-
ciety people intermingle with the poor-
est people from the street.

Children receive special attention,
and large play areas are reserved and
well equipped for them in all parks.
The variety of play facilities in the
“Children’s Corner” of Parque Rodo
meets the recreation needs of hundreds
of children at all times of day. The city
employs many recreation leaders and
play supervisors as an essential part of
its program. Particular care is taken

 

466

Ramirez Beach, one of
twelve public beaches
inside of city limits,
is walking distance from
the business district.
Trees at left outline
the city golf course.

in the landscaping to screen play areas
by trees and shrubs to give them privacy
and to locate play equipment so as not
to disturb the harmony and aesthetic
appearance of the park. .

Soccer is Uruguay’s national sport
and the Estadio Centenario was de-
signed by Mr. Scasso in 1930 with am-
ple approaches and parking spaces to
meet the needs of Montevideo’s sports
enthusiasts. It is interesting to note
that this stadium is part of a group of
installations that includes a velodrome,
an athletic field, and other facilities
in a large park, Jose Batalla y Ordonez,
so that it forms a real campus of sports
facilities.

Citizen Participation

The park department under Mr. Scas-
so’s inspired leadership soon recognized
that the best use of the parks, their
maintenance and, in short, a continuing
program depends upon the citizens
themselves. From the beginning many
steps were taken to educate citizens, to
arouse their interest and love for the

Scattered everywhere are small colorful
public gardens giving the city its 3pc-
cial charm, distinction, and beauty.

 

' .
humus-354:? :2 ’L I—

gardens of the city and for landscaping
in general, and to make them partici-
pants in the beautification of their city.
Various techniques were employed to
this effect. For example, Montevideo
has one of the largest nurseries in the
world and offers free-of-charge seeds,
shrubs, and flowers to residents who
wish to improve their gardens. Every
detail has been studied. Flowers are
planted in such a way as to minimize
vandalism and to appeal to the pride of
the citizens.

Parks and the Master Plan

The park system forms part of Monte-
video’s master plan, which is carried
forward by the municipality’s city plan-
ning office. For example, along the
coast, but situated so as not to disturb
the beaches, runs a wide, beautifully
landscaped boulevard, the United Na-
tions Avenue, which forms a parkway
and which is continuously being ex-
tended and improved.

Finally, it is worth noting that a wise
and foresighted policy of land acquisi-
tion, many years ahead of anticipated
needs, insures that Montevideo’s public
open spaces will never be forgotten in
any urban redevelopment or expansion.

“Like mighty altars of the Master stand our
parks——mastcrpieces of creation and the
crowning glory of our land; rich storehouses
of memories and reveries; guides and counsels
to the weary and faltering in spirit; bearers of
wonderful tales to him who will listen; a
solace to the aged and an inspiration to the
young. Let us so keep them as a sacred inheri-
tance, and so transmit them to future genera-
tions.”——RICIIARD LIEBER in America’s Natural

Wealth, page 194. Harper 8; Brothers, 1942.

RECREATION

To know your neighbor is to understand him better.

National United Nations Day—October 24, 1954.

WWay 7m6€étde¢

 

In a report entitled Holidays with Pay,1 the International
Labour Office, at Geneva, has summarized replies to a ques-
tionnaire, from the governments of forty countries. The
questionnaire related to provisions for the grant of holidays
with pay and to holiday facilities provided for workers in
these countries.

The report contains the comments submitted on the series
of questions, by the various governments, and sheds an in-
teresting light on their attitudes with respect to their respon-
sibility for the welfare of workers. The following are ex-
cerpts from the replies from several countries:

Denmark—The Danish workers’ organizations have taken

the initiative for the establishment of holiday centers. In ,

principle, however, these facilities arc open to anybody. The
same is generally true of other similar facilities. Thus,
there is no essential difference between the leisure-time and
holiday activities of the workers and of the other population
groups. A Holiday Committee set up by the Government
coordinates the most important factors in the field of spe-

cial vacation services and advises the Government on ques-,

tions of principle. On the other hand, it is not considered
the business of the public authorities to offer assistance or
advice to individual persons regarding the utilization of
their holidays.

Ireland—It appears to the Irish Government that the sug-
gested approach to this subject carries the implication that
it should become the duty of the State to organizc holidays
for workers.——Tliere are in Ireland plentiful facilitics for
holidays and the various information, transport and other
services which the workers need for holiday purposes arc

1International Labour Office, Geneva, Switzerland, 1953. 104

pages. A more recent edition of this varies in content, and covers
other matters of concern in 1954.

OCTOBER 1954

- WWW

frecly at their disposal. Thc idea of reginientation or even
of benevolent supervision of holidays is cntirely foreign
to the Irish workers’ outlook, and the Irish Governmcnt
would not consider influencing them in their completc free-
dom of choice.

Netherlands—The Netherlands Government takes the view
that as much as possible must always be left to privatc or-
ganizations; public authorities may offer moral and finan-
cial backing. An account should be taken of religious and
political ideas, the special requirements of the feminine ele-
lnent and local and regional needs. Information should be
obtained on existing recreational facilities; price rcductions
for concerts, theatres, film shows, sports, and so on, should
be encouraged by subsidies; assistance should be givcn in
tlic organization of events of this kind and also of traveling
exhibitions, libraries, instructional meetings for technical
recreation, and so on.

Swedenty decision of Parliament, adopted in 1939, an
Opcn-Air Fund was cstablished with the special function
of providing resources which would enable the peOple’s need
for Open-air life to be satisfied. In order to provide the
Crown with the appropriatc administrative machinery a
Spare-Time Activities Board was appointed with effect from
January 1, 1940. This body has the status of official-advisory
organ for questions regarding the usc of leisure in the open
air and related matters. Special attention is directed to thc
establishment of holiday estates, llikers’ hostels and holiday
homes for mothers of families. About seventy per cent of
all available funds are earmarked for these facilities, the
money being used chiefly to assist in the work of voluntary
organizations. Three of thesc are thc Swedish Tourist As-
sociation, the Association for Promotion of Skiing and
Open-Air Life, and the People’s Holiday Organization.

State funds have also been uscd to acquire “open-air re-
serves,” particularly in the neighborhood of densely popu-
lated places. The State has also made grants in support
of opcn-air bathing facilitics, particularly if operated by
local authorities. Contributions are also made to the scout
organizations in respect to their camps and training of lead-
ers and to various open-air organizations, particularly for
the training of youth lcaders.

Two recent devel0pments are the establishment of “holi-
day villages” and financial aid to enable inhabitants of
sparsely p0pulated areas, suitable for holidays, to equip

4‘67

their homes so that visitors from elsewhere may be received.

The Swedish Government would add a warning that due
regard should be given to the danger of over-organizing
holiday activities. This may not only unduly increase their
cost, but even counteract their true purpose.

United Kingdom—The organization and provision of facili-
ties are, in general, left to non-governmental bodies and to
voluntary effort of various kinds although, in some in-
stances, this action is supported by financial and other

 

practical assistance by the Government.

As regards the suggestion that provision should be made
for “relaxation,” it is suggested that “recreation” would
be a more appropriate term. (For instance, in many cases
the need is not for physical relaxation, but for greater phy-
sical activity.) The principle here suggested might indeed
be better expressed by reference to the desirability of facili-
ties for recreation (or restoration) and development of
the physical and mental faculties of the workers and their
families.

The Government does, in fact, offer financial assistance

to a number of bodies providing holiday facilities, though
such assistance is in respect of facilities available to the
public generally, and is not exclusively related to workers
enjoying holidays with pay.
Greece—A welfare organization under the title Ergatiki Es-
tia (Workers’ Home) has been functioning in this country
for a long time. The aims of this organization include the
organization of travel, camping, and so on. Ergatiki Estia
is managed by a board of directors on which employers and
workers are represented.

Italy—The National Workers’ Assistance Office (E.N.A.L.) 2
was created in May 1937. The Government made E.N.A.L.
responsible for leisure and recreation services and it has
among its aims the healthful and profitable utilization of
workers’ free time. It carries out its program both by uti-
lizing facilities of its regional and provincial offices to co-
ordinate, from a technical point of view, the activities of
the workers’ recreation and assistance clubs and by directly
performing functions in the fields of popular education and
culture, workers’ travel and holidays, and sports.

The Commissariat for Tourism, which is directly under
the authority of the Office of the Prime Minister, is attempt-
ing to stimulate the development of institutions and associa-
tions the purpose of which is to help the workers to make use
of their holidays with pay.

Poland—Here, the workers may spend their holidays in holi-
day homes designed exclusively for this end, or they may
take part in traveling holidays (excursions, tourist travel,

2See “ENAL—Italy’s National Recreation Association” in the May
1951 issue of RECREATION.—Ed.

468

touring by bicycle or by small boat), holidays on board ship,
either at sea or on inland waterways, or sporting holidays
(skiing, ice-sailing).

Experience has shown that many workers are reluctant
to leave their normal place of residence. Adequate recrea-
tional resources such as club houses, weekend centers, and
so on, should be established for such workers, particularly
in the neighborhoods of localities in which the working pop—
ulation is heavily concentrated.

SwitzerlandHWe are against Government measures being
taken with regard to holidays-with-pay facilities. The in-
dependent and individualistic attitude of the Swiss worker,
combined with his relatively high standard of living, does
not lend itself to any sort of State planning of holiday facili-
ties. Workers in our country wish to follow their own de-
sires, with, of course, the possibility of making arrange-
ments with their trade union organizations which often

possess holiday homes, or with travel agencies or other pri-
vate institutions.

India—Most of the workers in India prefer to go to their
village homes during annual leave. They take their leaves
during harvesting or when they have marriages or other
ceremonies to perform at home. These do provide some
change of surroundings and interests. Moreover, holiday
travel away from home involves additional cost which the
workers are not in a position to incur.

Yugoslavia—Measures should be taken to enable workers
to go to winter and summer sports centers (tennis, swim-
ming, fishing, mountain sports, visits to parks, historical
monuments, concerts, exhibitions, festivals, and so on,) dur-
ing their holidays, either at or near their places of residence.
A number of holiday homes have been established in the
mountains and on the Adriatic coast by trade unions f01
workers and salaried employees.

Finland—In this country there is a special association called
the Union for the Utilization of Leisure; it receives a sub‘
sidy from the State and its task is to promote the pr0pe1
utilization of holidays. This Union comprises representa
tives of public authorities, certain communes, employers
and workers’ organizations, cooperative associations, youtl
and sports organizations and certain other interested bodies

Czechoslovakia—The single trade union organization organ
izes holidays with pay for workers on a large scale. In ever}
rest home, or recreation center, there is a cultural worke:
who is responsible for the organization and the proper utili
zation of the time of workers on leave, while reSpecting thc
principle that participation in all events organized in thi:
way is entirely voluntary. Leisure consists of the organi
zation of amusing or instructive events, film shows made 11]
of short or full-length films, concerts, theatre shows, the pres
entation of the best solo performers and choirs and the bes
cultural groups in undertakings, interviews with famou
artists and writers, and so on. Often, workers on holidaj
themselves organize excellent programs, which are botl
amusing and instructive.

Another part of holiday rest is physical training, f0
which eSpecially trained instructors are responsible. Everj
rest home has gymnastic equipment; rest homes in th

RECREATIO]

mountains are equipped with adequate supplies of skis,

sports shoes and sledges. Sports competitions between work-
ers on holiday are extremely popular.

In addition, certain centers have well-stocked libraries
containing both technical books and light reading. In all
cases, participation in cultural, physical and social events
is entirely voluntary; every worker is free to choose what
he prefers.

The organization of special holiday courses during holi-
days is not recommended unless the workers desire of their
own free will to spend their leisure time at such courses.

Federaf Republic of Germany—The organization of facili-
ties for recreation, education, amusement and sports in the
places which the workers have selected for holidays should
be encouraged. However, there should be no infringement
of the individual freedom of the workers; they should be
able to do exactly as they wish. Consequently, the State
should not bring any direct or indirect pressure to bear
upon the worker to induce him to participate in certain ac-
tivities.

The recruitment of instructors, trainers, game leaders or
social workers specializing in the organization of recreation
should as a general rule be left to the private organizations
or services dealing with the utilization of holidays with pay.

France—Although the organization of facilities for recrea-
tion, education, amusement and sports which the workers,
particularly the young workers, can use if they wish is highly
desirable; the same cannot be said of the recruitment of
organizers, instructors and trainers to organize leisure. Part
of the beneficial effect of holidays lies in the feeling of
complete freedom which the worker has during his holidays.
Moreover, it is difficult to imagine how instructors, specially
trained for the organization of workers’ leisure during holi-
days, would live during the rest of the year.

Befgium—National cooperation and the harmonization of
the efforts of all groups interested in workers’ travel have
existed in Belgium since 1937 through the good offices of
the Superior Council for Workers’ Holidays and Popular
Travel, an advisory body attached to the General Commis-
sariat for Tourism, which is a Government Department un-
der the authority of the Ministry of Communications.

The report ends with a set of broad principles which are
proposed as a guide and incentive for action in providing
holiday facilities. The conclusion is reached that wherever
such facilities do not exist or are clearly inadequate, approp-
riate measures should be taken by public or voluntary ac-
tion or by a combination of public and voluntary action
to develop them.

 

RECREATION
WIVES

Unpaid Staff Members

Panel members—left to right in the photograph—
Virginia Perry, wife of Jackson Perry, director of
recreation, Leominster, Massachusetts; Tillie
Marker, chairwoman, wife of Roscoe Marker,
superintendent of recreation, Whitinsville, Massa-
chusetts; and Evelyn Sinn, wife of Donald Sinn,
director of recreation, Concord, New Hampshire.
William Suchs, superintendent of recreation, Rut-
land, Vermont, was summarizer for the discussion.

 

“Recreation Wives: Unpaid Staff
Members” was the topic of a novel and
enlightening discussion at the 1954 New
England District Recreation Conference.

Some of the points brought out.

0 Recreation wives can assist their hus-
bands in establishing good public rela-
tions through helping on worthwhile
community projects and drives—and at
the same time be constructively active
while their husbands are working.

I A husband should sUpply his wife
with an up-to-date schedule of events
for the recreation department so that
she knows what is going on and can
give intelligent answers to telephone
queries received at home.

OCTOBER 1954-

. Wives should attend the various rec-
reation conferences in order to under-
stand more fully the importance of the
recreation program. and what the peo-
ple in this field are trying to accom-
plish. Conferences also afford oppor-
tunities for them to meet new friends
with similar interests.

0 Wives should realize that husbands
who are just starting-out to gain a place
in this rapidly expanding profession
must work long and hard to be suc-
cessful.

o Husbands should consider the impor-
tance of recreation for their own fami-
lies and set aside some time for their
own social life.

0 Wives should be able to accept sud-
den changes in plans for, in recrea-
tion work, many unforeseen schedule
changes occur.

There was difference of Opinion as to
how much a wife should share her hus-
band’s problems on the job. Some hus-
bands considered their wives’ advice
indispensable, others wanted to forget
their work while at home. Some wives
wanted to share in their husbands’ tribu-
lations and triumphs, while others felt
that their husbands’ work problems be-
long to their office life.

In the final analysis, the wives agreed
that men in the recreation field make
excellent husbands.

469

A UNIQUE
PROGRAM
ACTIVITY

—In a Clinical Center

WHEN THE United States Public Health Service opened

its new Clinical Center for Medical Research summer
before last, a whole new vista of research opportunities be-

came available, not only for doctors and nurses but for all
of us in the ancillary medical helds.

The center, a modern fourteen-floor structure, comprising
a suberbly equipped five-hundred-bed hospital literally sur-
rounded by research laboratories, is part of the National
Institutes of Health, the research branch of the Public Health
Service. Founded in 1887, the National Institutes of Health
is now one of the largest institutions in the world devoted
entirely to research in the medical and related sciences
and has a long and proud record of medical discoveries.
There are now seven research institutes:

The hospital auditorium is equipped with a projection room. 
separate, many-purpose assembly room has removable chairs.

 

 

June L. Maze]

National Institute of Arthritis and Metabolic Diseases; Nationa
Cancer Institute; National Institute of Dental Research; Nationa
Heart Institute; National Institute of Mental Health; National Micro

biological Institute; National Institute of Neurological Diseases an:
Blindness.

All of these are seeking, through research, to find bette
methods of preventing, diagnosing, and treating most 0
the major diseases of man. The clinical center develope<
from the logical need to take the research to the clinica
level. Public benefit from research has often been delayet
because findings made in the laboratories could not receiv:
rapid clinical evaluation.

When a committee was appointed in 1947 to formulatt
principles and establish guide lines as a basis for futuru
clinical research, actual planning for the center started
The committee stated that its objective would be: “To bring
together in close physical and intellectual proximity the ful
array of high caliber laboratory and clinical investigator:
required for a broad attack on medical and related prob
lems.”1 The clinical center has made this goal a reality

Though the purpose of the clinical center is primarily
that of research, everyone concerned emphatically believe:
that the welfare of human beings takes precedence ove1
every other consideration. This makes the role of all 0:
the ancillary services a particularly challenging and impor

1Topping, Norman IL, “The United States Public Health Service’:
Clinical Center for Medical Research.” J.A.M.A. 150:54-2, Octobel
11, 1952.

MISS MAZER is occupational and recreational therapist, Clin
ical Center, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Mary
land. She has also done therapy at Johns Hopkins Hospital

 

hove, bedrooms for ambulatory patients have outlets for
atlio, lelevision, telephone and space for hobby activities.

eft, one of two sumlecks on the fourteenth floor is off the
assembly hall, the other is near the central area gymnasium.

tant one. For success of the program the patient must be
willing and able to cooperate fully in the research program.
He must be willing to stay the full time necessary to com-
plete the research design. It is the role of everyone con-
cerned with patient care, and of the rehabilitation depart-
ment in particular, to make the patient as comfortable, hap-
py and secure as possible in this setting so that he can co-
Operate to the fullest and receive the maximum benefit.

The building itself is ideally designed for the comfort
of the patient and at the same time is an activity therapist’s
dream come true. A typical nursing unit consists of thirteen
two-bed rooms, each with bathroom facilities. The patients’
rooms are of two types. One 'is equipped for patients need-
ing bedside care. The other is a studio-type room with
Hollywood beds, desks and lounge chairs for patients who
can be up and about. Each room is painted in decorator
colors and has attractive spreads with matching draperies.
There are outlets for radios, television sets and telephones,
a centralized oxygen and vacuum system and two-way in-
tercommunication between patients’ rooms and nurses’ sta-
tions. The entire building is air-conditioned.

Each floor has a solarium with a television set and a ree-
reation room. In addition, there is a central recreation area
consisting of a gymnasium, an assembly roof with a com-
pletely equipped stage and backstage area, sun decks on
the fourteenth floor, an outdoor sports enclosure and out-
door garden space. One whole wing of 5,300 square feet
has been allotted to occupational therapy and is in the
process of being equipped for arts and crafts rooms, a game
room, music room and childrens’ playroom, in addition to
staff offices.

The rehabilitation department is interested in the total
treatment and research program of the patient and what he
does or can do with all his waking hours. Activities are
planned to assist in his recovery or adjustment to the hospi-
tal. Similarities in problems and approach among different

OCTOBER 1954

institutes, differences among patients’ requirements within
one institute and mutually felt hospital needs have led us.
to think of our program in three major categories:

1. Kinetic or functional occupational and recreational
therapy with physical disabilities.

2. Psychiatric, occupational and recreational therapy.

3. General hospital-wide recreational programing. This
includes over-all programing for all of the adults and chil-
dren in the hospital, including the patients seen in the first
two categories. .

ln'sueh a setting an activity therapist has a many-sided
function. He must never forget that the research program
is the core of all activities.

1. He must be concerned for the patient in a research
setting. He must help the patient to utilize his time con-
structively and satisfyingly, at the same time working to-
ward the goals of Specific medical prescription.

It is vastly important that the patient be comfortable and
happy enough to remain in the hospital for the full term of
the research project. All patient facilities have been de-
signed with this consideration in mind and the activity ther-
apist must provide treatment and recreation to hold the at-
tention and cooperation of the patient.

In many cases the amount or type of activity may have
a direct bearing on the research in progress. Therefore the
therapist must be able to follow directions eXplicitly, to re-
cord observations objectively and to give clear, understand-
able instructions to the patient. Only persons interested in
research methods and who fully realize the need for atten-
tion to detail will prove increasingly useful in such a re-
search set-up.2

2. He participates in research programs being conducted
in the various institutes by medical and nursing staffs.

3. He will have an Opportunity and an obligation to par-
ticipate as an investigator in the wide Open field of activity
research.

Activity therapists are breaking off into so many separate
professional groups and disciplines with separate titles it
is very difiicult to know how to refer to them. But here at
the center we hOpe to break through the walls of semantics.
We will utilize any and all techniques and tools and have
well qualified individuals with varied backgrounds and
trainings to provide the necessary therapeutic milieu and
research facilities. We hope to use the best occupational,
recreation, music and art therapy and group techniques. We
h0pe to eXplore further techniques and theories to find new
ways and means of aiding the physician’in treating the pa-
tient. We are one of many teams working toward the same
ultimate goal here at the clinical center, as stated by the
original planning committee:

“To help provide the practicing physicians of this nation

'-——-and of the world—with better means for ameliorating
physical suffering and emotional imbalance, for prolonging
human life and for making all the years of that span more
useful both to the individual and society.”3

2Johnson, Dilworth and Fagin, “Nursing in a Clinical Center for
Medical Research," American Journal of Nursing, VI, 53, November

1953.
3Topping, Norman, op. cit., p. 545.

471

 

THE IMPORTANCE of acquiring land for recreation in ad-
vance of area development was recently stressed by
Major General U. S. Grant, III, in a session on “Problems
of Large Metropolitan Regions” at the Fifth Annual Con-
ference of the Greater Philadelphia-Delaware-South Jersey
Council. General Grant stated: “As a metropolitan area
grows larger, the country is pushed farther and farther
away. In his plan for Philadelphia, William Penn wisely
provided for your four in-town parks. It is necessary for
you to see that equally foresighted and even more anlple
provision is made for parks and playgrounds in the outer
parts of your metr0politan area before the ground is covered
with houses. Perhaps no problem is more urgent just now
and requires more attention and citizen support than this.
The traffic problem has its innate imperious necessity, which
will bring a solution by economic and p0pular pressure,
but the reservation of open spaces when they can still be
acquired at reasonable cost is apparently the concern of
only a few foresighted and socially minded people in each
community. Schools, yes, are also urgently needed, but you
can demolish houses for a school, if your city was not wise
enough to plan for it in advance whereas the larger space
needed for parks and playgrounds can very rarely be ac-
quired after it has been cluttered with so-called improve-
ments. If we are to reduce juvenile delinquency, which is
costing our cities so much already, and ensure the health
of our growing citizens, we must remember Lloyd George’s
dictum that every child is entitled to a place to play safely
and honestly.”

Recreation in Housing Developments

The continuing relationship between the planning of pub-

MR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

472

Windbrook Apartments in White Plains
Ncw York, offcrs some eharacteristics 0
larger city housing and community facil.
ties for neighborhood living and aetivitic:

lic housing developments and local recreation areas and ser‘
ices is clearly illustrated in the 1953 report of the Ne
York State commissioner of housing. An illustrated set
tion describing the James Weldon Johnson Houses in Ne
York City shows the amount set aside for playground us:
lists the Special activities carried on in the community cel
ter and the various clubs and adult groups meeting in i
facilities. Brief reports from other cities throughout tl.
state show how local housing authorities are cooperatin
with recreation agencies. ‘

Buffalo: A redevelopment site of approximately fix
acres, to be cleared under the state program, will be the fir:
stage of a fourteen-acre park to be completed and develope
by the city. The protection afforded by the large park area
will aid in creating a stable residential atmosphere for tl
two low-rent public housing projects to be constructed 0
either side of the park.

Syracuse: Using three hundred and ten thousand dolla1
in clearance funds from two state-aided projects, Syracus
proposes to clear forty-seven substandard structures fr01
four and one-tenth acres of slum land to be ceded to tl
city and develOped as much-needed playgrounds.

The city’s first state-aided housing project is serving a
the center for a mothers’ club and a play group sponsore
by the city recreation department.

Utica: Redevelopment planning for the clearance area it
cludes the construction of a large playground in the neigl
borhood of an elementary school, a recreation area badl
needed by the children in this section of the city.

M ount Vernon: Conferences are being held with the re:
reation commission to provide suitable recreation facilitit
for the outdoor play area and social rooms at a new stat:
aided project.

New Rochelle: Arrangements are being made to provid

RECREATIO

Recreation in Housing Developments

{ECREAT ION

|
L

George D. Butler

the recreation commission with basement space for super-
vised programs, to include sewing instruction, housekeep-
ing, woodworking, airplane modeling, radio, dancing and
bands.

White Plains: It was determined that the interests of the
nearly one thousand children living in an apartment pro-
ject, and of the community as a whole, could best be served
by having the recreation department maintain and operate
a playground in the development. An area of approximately
twenty-five thousand square feet will be ceded to the city
in the near future and it is anticipated that a city-operated
playground will be functioning within the development.

Park Areas in Subdivisions

o The board of aldermen of Wichita Falls, Texas, adopted
the following resolution on February 26, 1951:

That from and after this date before any plat or subdivision shall
be approved by the city for filing of record, that the same shall meet
the following requirements with reference to parks and/or play-
grounds in such subdivisions.

Single Family Units: For each thirty units one acre of land should
be reserved for park use; this land to be centrally located so that,
if possible, all units to he served will be within one-quarter mile
of this park, and in no case should the distance be greater than one
mile.

In the event that the subdivision is of such size to cause a park site
to be reserved with a total acreage less than two and a half acres,
the plot of land should be located on the perimeter of the suhdivi-
sion, so that this land may be integrated with any possible lands
given by further subdividing.

illultiple Dwelling Units: 0n duplexes, row houses. and apartment
houses. park sites should be reserved in proportion to the population
with a basis of one acre of land for each one hundred population.

in the event the subdivision is of a composite nature having both
single family dwellings and multiple dwellings, that portion developed
as single family dwellings will be counted on the basis of one acre
for thirty units, and that portion having multiple dwellings will be
counted on the basis of one acre per hundred people.

This resolution is passed for the purpose of setting a definite policy
on the matters herein declared upon and this resolution is furnished
for the further guidance of the engineering department and the

OCTOBER 1954

parks and recreation department of the city of Wichita Falls; and
each of them, by an approved agent, its director, or the city engineer

shall approve any plat or subdivision before the same is presented
to the board of aldermen for its approval.

By the end of 1952 the city had acquired six recreation
areas averaging about ten acres each as a result of this reso-
lution. It is able to enforce this compulsory dedication pro-
gram because the state laws stipulate that the city has juris-
diction over plattings which fall within five miles of the
city limits. The city council must approve the plat before
it is filed with the council. City expansion is further con-
trolled by the fact that the city furnishes water, sewage and
other utilities to the outlying areas.

According to a local official the park requirement is
viewed much as a street requirement, in that streets must
be curbed with proper base and surface in order for the
subdivision to be taken into city limits. It is likewise felt
that a subdivision should provide some park area before
it is taken into the city. The resolution assures a properly
located park of reasonable size in outlying subdivisions even
though several years may elapse before they come into city
limits.

A proposed revision would provide that small subdivi-
sions which give less than two and a half acres would be
required to give instead the money equivalent of the ap-
praised value of the raw property that would otherwise be
dedicated. This procedure has already been followed but
has not been made compulsory.

:- Property owners in three adjoining subdivisions in
Bethesda, Maryland, have formed an organization known
as the Cedarbrook Club and have purchased a property of
some two and a half acres located adjacent to the three sub-
divisions. Plans call for the construction of a fan-shaped
swimming pool, bathhouse and parking area for one hun-
dred cars on the property. The population of the commu-
nity is approximately twelve hundred and the membership
in the club will be. limited to three hundred fifty families.
An appeal has been made to the authorities to grant per-
mission for the construction of the pool which will be located
in a residential zone.

0 Recreation has received significant consideration in a
subdivision ordinance adopted by Colorado Springs, Colo-
rado. The general principles of acceptability for a subdivi-
sion include: Particular attention to specific requirements
for parks, playgrounds, school sites and public building
sites. Provisions relating to the setting aside of land for rec-
reation merit careful consideration by other cities. The sec-
tion relating to public spaces states: .

Allocation of land for public spaces. The owner of the land in each
subdivision shall allocate and convey five per cent of the area of the
land in his subdivision, exclusive of streets and alleys, for park, play-
grounds, school, reereational or similar public purposes, at such
location as designated by the city or at the option of the city. Said
owner shall, in lieu of such conveyance of land in kind, pay to the
city in cash an amount equal to five per cent of the value of the
land. If the city and the owner fail to agree on the value of said
land, such value shall be fixed and established by the Real Estate Ap-
praisal Committee of the Colorado Springs Board of Realtors. The
proceeds of said payments shall be deposited in a separate city ac-
count and shall be used only for the acquisition of land for parks,
playgrounds, schools, recreational or similar public purposes.

Reservation of public land. In the event a park, recreation area.
playground, school site or other public space, as included in and
ad0pted under the development plan of Colorado Springs, is located

473

in whole or in part within a subdivision, and if the owner of the land
in the subdivision does not convey land for such public use, the city
may at its Option acquire the land for all said purposes, or for any
of them. If the owner and the city shall not agree upon the value of
said land,‘the value thereof shall be fixed by the Real Estate Appraisal
Committee of the Colorado Springs Board of Realtors.

High density or multiple family areas. If an area is to be developed
or subdivided as a high density or multiple family area, the planning
commission, upon recommendation of the park board, shall require,
in addition to the five per cent area allocated as herein provided,
0pen spaces suitably located and of an adequate size for parks, play-
grounds and recreational purposes in said subdivision. Said spaces
may be dedicated for the common use of all inhabitants in the sub-
division or established by covenants or other conditions in deed or

deeds. ’

Natural features. Outstanding natural and cultural features, such
as scenic spots, water courses and historic sites, shall be reserved
insofar as possible.

Easement along streams. Whenever any stream or important surface
water course is located in a subdivision, the subdivider, at his expense,
shall make provision, according to specifications and standards es-
tablished by the city, for straightening or widening the channel to
carry the surface water and shall also provide and dedicate ease-
ments along the stream in such width determined by the city for
the purposes of widening, improving or protecting the stream and
for recreational uses.

Influence of Public Improvements on Area Value

According to Robert Moses in the October, 1953 issue of
The American City, the assessed valuation of an area within
two blocks of the Grand Central Parkway increased 2,038
per cent between 1925 and 1953, while increase of the whole
of the third ward through which it passes was 501 per cent.

Following up the statement that by a sound program of
public works millions of dollars are added to tax rolls and
private property becomes income-producing, he said: “Simi-
larly, the area of influence of the Shore Parkway, part of
the Belt System, shows an increase of 76 per cent in the
period 1939 to 1953 against a normal increase; of 19 per
cent, and the area of influence of Flushing Meadow Park an
increase of 937 per cent in the period 1935 to 1953 against
a normal increase of 158 per cent. When adequate recrea-
'tion facilities are installed on the east side of this park to
accommodate a clamoring new population this will be a
flourishing suburb. Incidentally, revenues in the develOped
westerly section of this park derived from skating, swim-
ming, and an aquashow are increasing.

“A trip over the Belt Parkway north of Jamaica Bay today
reveals vast developments of meadow lands, previously inac-
cessible, untouched since the days of the Indian tribes, at-
tributing almost wholly to the influence of the Parkway.
Prior to the construction of the Henry Hudson Parkway
and the Henry Hudson Bridge, the ridge known as River-
dale was pre-empted by large estates assessed by the acre and
yielding only a modest revenue to the city. Today, property
values have Spiraled. This ridge is now the site of numerous
suburban homes and large garden-apartment houses which
have enormously increased values . . . .

“The most suitable use of land adjacent to parks and park-
ways is residential.” '

Beaches—City and Suburban Beaches

“Nowhere are prudence, foresight and imagination in
the conservation and improvement of natural resources bet-
ter illustrated than in the case of city and suburban beaches.
The value of our beaches and boardwalks is still incalculable

474

and can be increased rather than diminished by forthrigl
and intelligent action.”

Urban Redevelopment

The report of the President’s Advisory Committee 0
Government Housing Policies and Programs was submitte
in December, 1953. One of the subcommittees made recon
mendations with reference to urban redevelopment, reha
bilitation and conservation. In a statement preliminary t
its recommendations the subcommittee stated: “Althoug’
parks and recreation areas are essential to the maintenanc
of healthy neighborhoods and are provided for that pul
pose in newer areas, few cities bother to provide them i
older crowded areas where the need is greatest.”

The subcommittee estimated that the total cost of clearin,
five million sub-standard units—the number that probabl
require demolition—to be fifteen billion dollars. It furthe
estimated the cost of necessary spot clearance, street clos

 

Modern playground in a New York City development f0]
low-income familics is for use of the entire neighborhood

ings and widenings, parks, recreation areas and other publir
public improvements at nine billion dollars.

Professor Robert B. Mitchell of the University of Penn
sylvania submitted to the subcommittee a report dealing
with “National Objectives for Housing and Urban Renewal3
in which the importance of recreation was recognized. Pro
fessor Mitchell, in discussing urban community renewal pro
grams, stated: “We want to be sure that all parts of thesr
areas are well and efficiently served by systems of facilities
for transportation, communication, water supply, sanitation
power, education, recreation, and welfare . . . .

“We must improve the conditions of life in all urban resi‘
dential areas through rebuilding those parts which can nc
longer serve their inhabitants usefully, through improve-
ment, rehabilitation and adequate maintenance of struc-
tures with a remaining useful life, through protection of
all homes from adverse influences, through rearrangement
of streets as necessary to reroute through-traffic away from
residences, through Opening up spaces for parks, recrea-

RECREATION

tion grounds, and schools, through provision of needed com-
nlon services and facilities and through community organi-
zation to build morale and instill a resurgence of pride and
confidence .

“Beyond this we must systematically introduce parks,
playgrounds, and other community facilities into all areas
and to the extent possible separate through traffic from resi-
dential streets . .

“In all these areas, however, the replanning and renewal
process should provide the neighborhood safety and amen-
ity which can be achieved through opening of park and play-
ground areas, street rearrangement and provision of com-
munity facitities. On all of them, re-zoning and other feas-
ible controls of land use should be employed . . . .

“The objectives are positive. They are for creation of
a suitable environment for urban life, not merely for the
elimination of structures or slums.”

o The Build America Better Council of the National As-
sociation of Real Estate Boards has issued a publication,

Blueprint for Neighborhood Conservation, in which it pre- '

sents a program for large-scale elimination of sluni, blight
and unfit housing conditions. Emphasis of the program is
upon rehabilitation rather than total clearance.

The report recognizes that inadequately equipped and
maintained parks, play areas and recreation centers, or the
lack of such facilities, are factors contributing to the need
for neighborhood rehabilitation. Improvements to parks

and recreation centers are listed as one of the items in a
conservation plan within the neighborhood boundaries. The
council recognizes that school boards and city authorities
already have ample authority for acquiring sites for school
and parks. Its program, therefore, does not include pro-
posed additional authority to acquire property for these
purposes. It does provide, however, for the issuing of neigh-
horhood conservation bonds and the levying of benefit as-
sessments to meet the cost of public improvements and the
acquisition of needed public property. The plan calls for
close cooperation between the neighborhood conservation
authority, school boards, park, recreation and other mu-

 

to the Middle Atlantic District Recreation Conference in
March, 1954, dealing with the acquisition and development
of recreation areas. It presented the following as a guide
to the appraisal of property under consideration as a neigh-
borhood recreation area:

POINTS
1. Does size meet the National Recreation Association
standards of:

Popatation of Size of Playground

Neighborhood Needed
2000 3.25 acres
3000 4.00 “
4000 5.00 “
5000 6.00 “

2. Cost of preperty is “in line" with present day real
estate values in surrounding areas. (For donation use
ten points.)

3. Area is located in proximity to center of population of
neighborhood.

4. Pr0pcrty can be deve10ped with a reasonable expendi-
turc for renovation, excavation, demolishing of huild-
ings or drainage problems.

5. Property is so located as to present a minimum amount
of “border irritation problems" with adjoining pr0p-
erty. owners.

6. Property is located in accordance with master-plan of
community.

7. Location-and use of property does not conflict with any
existing zoning ordinances or use restrictions.

8. Property can reasonably be converted to meet the lei-

sure time needs of all groups the area is intended to
serve.

9. Area is needed immediately or in the near future for
recreation purposes.

10. Hazards can he removed or protected at a minimum of
cost.

11. Property is easily accessible to persons for whom it is
intended.

12. Drinking water and sewer connection are available at
minimum cost.

13. Property can be designed so that maintenance will be
simplified.

14. Preperty is to be permanently acquired for recreation.
(No leases, or so forth.)

15. Sufiicient area is available for landscape planting.
16. Neighborhood residents have been consulted.

I I I I I I I o I I I I I I OI

o I I I o o o o O I I o o o I.

O I I I I I I I I l l l I l I.

D o O O O o o o o o o o o o O.

a a o o o I I I o o o I o I o.

I I I I O I I I I I I I I O I.

O O I O o o o o o o o o o o 0.

o o I o o o o o I o I I I o o.

a o o o o I o I o o I o o o o.

a o o I o I I I o o o o o o o.

I I I I I I l l I I I I o O O.

j I I l I l l l l o l o l o I.
o o o I o o O o o I I O a o .0

Each answer is to be graded on the basis of zero to ten
and the total score rates the suitability of the property as
follows:

 

nicipa] agencies. 110-160 Good proposition '
, 85-110 Area requires further study before final
Guide to Acquiring Areas for Recreation Purposes decision
A committee of recreation executives with Robert Cisco 60-85 Doubtful value
of Livingston, New Jersey, chairman, submitted a report 0-60 Poor pr0position
Industry Appreciates the Value of Recreation ,

The importance of recreation and other contributions to
good living were pointed out in an article, “The Economy
of Foresight in Community Development” by William R.
Ewald, Jr., of the Baltimore Association of Commerce, in
American City, November, 1952. In commenting on what
some plant-location executives have to say, he states: “One
of the larger tractor manufacturers says they picked their
present location near a superior neighborhood. ‘They [the
workers] have fine living and all this shows.up in their
work. . . . Taxes take so much of a man’s wages that it’s
the way he feels about his work and the recreation that
comes along with it that is vital. . . The quality of labor
and the amount, the supply of good._homes, right site,

OCTOBER 1954

recreation and good living are major factors for industry.’

“Plant-location executives of one of the world’s largest
manufacturers have this to say: ‘Our company is putting
more and more emphasis on keeping production up by
keeping its pe0ple happy. This very definitely enters as a
factor in selecting a community for a new plant. We know
well that the location of a plant and the success of a com-
munity is vitally affected by planning and zoning.’ ”

He continues, “The opinion grows more and more firm
that there are some things for the good of industry and
everyone that only the community can do for itself, such as

a carefully predetermined land use guide, proper facilities,
and corresponding zoning.”

475

m

These inexpensive picnic and cooking
units in Charlotte, North Carolina,
proved to be a practical experiment.

4-76

.\

Recreation '
Facilities
and
Equipment

!'|
-1,

FRONT VIEW

SERVICE. TA. LE

SIDE VIEW

Pill CRATE

 

s
s
§
§
.\
s

 

Many communities now developing new recreation areas
are turning to the National Recreation Association for in-
formation regarding construction of various facilities and
equipment. Descriptions, plans and illustrations of several
types that have proved effective and popular are presented
here, through the courtesy of local recreation and park
authorities who have deve10ped them.

Picnic Units in Charlotte, North Carolina

After a year of experimentation, the Charlotte Park and
Recreation Commission has constructed a number of at-
tractive and practical picnic units designed by Mr. R. L.
Barnett, the department’s maintenance engineer. Each unit
consists of one outdoor fireplace and two tables. These facil-
ities seem to serve all practical purposes for the average
picnic group and have proved very popular. The approxi-
mate cost of the unit, including materials and labor, was
$325 in 1951. The photograph above shows the type of con-
struction of the unit; and the plan and elevation drawings
at the left give construction details for the outdoor oven.

Picnic Units in Passaic County, New Jersey

The Passaic County Park Commission, after using vari-
ous types of wooden picnic tables, has developed a concrete
table which minimizes maintenance costs_ and has proved
satisfactory. Unlike the Charlotte table, the top and seats
of which rest on cement blocks, these tables in Passaic
County have two end sections, which support the seats and
t0p. The t0p is two-and-one-half-feet wide and eight-feet
long; the seats, one-foot wide and eight-feet long. The
table is clearly portrayed in theJaccompanying illustration.
The method of_its construction is described as follows by
Mr. Ralph Gray, superintendent and assistant engineer:

1- RECREATION

“The forms consist of wooden bases and structural iron
sides. Three-inch channel iron is used for the seats and
top and four-inch channel iron for the ends, as these are
the respective thicknesses of these scctions. The ends and
seats are reinforced with bars put in the table top; both
bars and mesh are used. The vertical bars in the end sec-
tions project about eight inches, in order to achieve a morc
solid job when the sections are concreted into the ground.

“Sections are made in a heated garage during the winter,
when more labor is available. Two men do the job, using
a very small mixer run by an electric motor. A 1-2-3 mix,
the course aggregate being pea gravel, is used, with an early
setting cement, so that the sections can be removed from the
forms quickly. The table t0p is finished with a steel trowel,
in order to get a smooth and waterproof surface. The cost
of these tables has nevcr been determined because these sec-
tions are poured at the same time as are park signs and posts,
bench supports of two varieties, posts for traffic separation
in parking areas and rail posts.

“The disadvantage of these tables is their weight in set-
ting. There is approximately a half-cubie-yard of concrete
in the whole assembly, and the top weighs about seven hun-
dred pounds. At the time of installation, the two end sec-
tions are set first. Two holes are dug and then the ends

 

Passaic, New Jersey, uses concrete tables which minimize
maintenance costs. Note economical steel fireplaces at left.

 

These all-weather pienie units in_Tennessee have eonerete
bases, legs of heavy metal tubing‘hnd polished plank tops.

OCTOBER 1954

 

ADMINISTRATIO

are set on a templet, which is adjusted until the ends are
at the required height and are level, after which they are
concreted into the ground. The seats are placed by hand,
but the top is placed with a winch truck. There are no
bolts'or screws holding these tables together, but matching
holes are cast in the sections. When the sections are set so
that the holes line up, a piece of reinforcing steel is put into
the hole, connecting the two sections, and the hole is then
grouted full. To date, none of the sections has been pulled
apart.”

The commission, after experimentation with masonry fire-
places, has designed a type shown in the illustration below,
as also described by Mr. Gray:

“We had a sheet metal shop roll one-quarter-inch plate
into a cylinder, after which we welded the joint and cut (in
the side) the semi-circular hole with a five-inch radius for
firing. For the top, we found sOmc old rotary stone screens
with one and one-half holes. From these we cut discs the
right size for the tops, flattened them with a sledge hammer
and welded them on the cylinders. The stoves are held in
place by a three-eighth-inch hairpin through the firing open-
ing and concreted into the base. The rod is loose so that
the stone can be moved for cleaning also to get the breeze
for proper draft.

“The stoves are standing up very well and the people seem
to like them better than the larger fireplaces. One reason
is that they are small enough to make the use of charcoal
practical. Wood also can be cut quite small and the quan-
tity used is much less than with the older type of fireplace.
We like them because of low maintenance cost.”

Picnic Tables in the Tennessee State Parks

In 1947 the design and maintenance secti'q’n‘lof the Divi-
sion of State Parks in Tennessee constructed a new type
of picnic table that has proved economical and'satisfactory.
It is totally different from the two types previously 1ncn-
tioned. This construction was described in The Tennessee
Conservationist:

“Concrete slabs were poured as bases for the new tables.
lnto the concrete went heavy metal tubing to form three
pairs of legs for the table top and three pairs of legs for
each of two benches—-—the stationary part of the table. Table
and bench tops Bf polished planking were bolted on . . .
and it’s a vast improvement over the old one-piece, movable-
type tables in use for so many years. Here’s why: Concretc
eliminates erosion around tables; tables are usable in all
weather; the storage and hauling problem is lessened con-
siderably; cost of utility layouts is reduced; permanent
picnic areas are established with water, sewerage and light-
ing located permanently; there is low upkeep; vandalism
and promiscuous moving of tables is eliminated.”

Table-Tennis Tables

The recreation and civic affairs unit of the General Elec-
tric Company in Richland, Washington, reports many in-
quiries concerning its table-tennis table, a photograph of
ivhich appeared on page 27 of the May 1954- issue of REC-
REATION and is reproduced here. The accompanying sketch
gives details of'its construction. "1 ’3' I 5'“

4-77

   
  

     
  
  
    
   

H

*5 5fee/ P/afe

v: 

5?. Hole linC/eamnce
around Cap

     

1+
T      

CI. Cap

4FGG/V. Pipe

Concrete ping-pong tables in Richland, Washington, offer no
maintenance costs, no warping, storing or levelling problems.

Several tables were constructed in 1950 at a cost per table
of twenty dollars for labor and forty dollars for material.
Mr. R. E. Anderson writes: “This is the fourth year of op-
eration and no maintenance costs whatsoever have resulted.
The tables are indestructible unless one is so moved as to
utilize a sledge hammer. Misuse of paddles has no observ-
able eifect on the concrete tables. Actual play is not too
different from that on wooden tables, according to t0p play-
ers in our adult table-tennis league who play indoors on
wooden tables, the main difference being that spins are
slightly exaggerated and bounces are higher.

“Our outdoor tables are flood-lighted for night play and
players do have some (lifliculty in following the white ball
against the concrete coloring. If we were to construct more
tables, we would color the concrete to contrast with the
ball. We are going to attempt to either buy colored balls
or experiment with a stain in order to correct this situation.

“Manufactured tennis brackets are not wide enough to
fit the three-inch table t0ps, so the thickness should _be less
at the point where the brackets are attached.”

478

' o.
' 4 r . r '55.. n"-
.r" 3 e-iixi iris.“ .49. “3-5 ._.._--—

A steel ping-pong table is a trouble-free addition to any
playground, according to Bert M. Trubody, superintendent
of maintenance and construction in the recreation depart-
ment of Oakland, California. He says: “The vandals have
not been able to make any impression on this table to date

- (three years). It is excellent for the game. We don’t at-

tempt to paint the t0p which turns dark brown, almost black,
and stays smooth and more or less polished. Rust polishes
smooth with use. The table receives no attention except
that the underside is painted once in a while. The t0p plate
(5’ x 9" x 1A’ mild steel) costs us twenty-five dollars; for

the rest we use scrap pipe, making the total cost well under
forty dollars.”

Oakland’s Baseball Backstop

The Oakland Recreation Department has devised a base-
ball backst0p for use at fields where control of foul balls is
essential and where baseball cannot be played unless batted
balls are prevented from entering a busy street or adjoining
properties. Mr. Trubody of the department has commented
on the backst0p as follows:

“Fences help, but they fall far short of the mark (we have
some forty-foot fences and the balls sail one hundred feet
over the top of these). Home plate is set in six feet under
the backstOp cover, to stop those straight-up pop fouls that
the wind takes and lands anywhere. Setting it in six feet
forestalls the batter who stands ahead of the plate and leads
the ball with his bat. Then, for the drive other than fair,
the wings come into play. We swing these wings over until
they are on the foul line. There is a seven-foot clearance
under them where base runners can pass unobstructed. This
wing somewhat handicaps the third baseman’s throw home.
From the top of the wing, starting at the edge over the base
line, we cover this triangle with fencing which st0ps high
fouls.

“The only spot left where a stray ball can go foul is under
the wing (seven feet). we plot a strike zone and assume
that the lowest ball which the average batter would hit is
twenty inches off the ground. Making a profile drawing,
starting line twenty inches over home plate and seven-feet
high at the wing, we find where this drive would clear the
fence and locate a baffle fence at the most practical point.
Incorporated in our foul-line guard fence and players’ bench
set-up, and extending approximately halfway between the
home plate and first base, about six feet to eight feet from
the base line, this baHle stops those low drives that other-
wise might get under the wing which is part of the backstop.
The players at first thought this was too restrictive, but
now the baseball association, which did the most kicking
to begin with, has been asking us to convert our other instal-
lations throughout the city because they have found that it
does not bother their play and it saves them hundreds of
baseballs yearly.

“This wing, by the way, is chain-link fencing hanging
loose, can be rolled up like a shade from the bottom and
wired at any height. We thought we would have a vandalism
problem with this wing—swinging and so on— but in two

years none has been called to my attention.”
(To be continued in a future issue of RECREATION.)

RECREATION

HALLOWESTAI—You never heard of

it? Ask any northeast Nebraskan,
he can tell you. He’s probably been
there or his kids have. \Vateh the smile
of pleasure creep across his face as he

relates his experiences as one of the
many who lined the streets in Norfolk
(pOpulation 11,335) for the Hallowesta
evening parade. This is one of the many
events for youngsters and oldsters, alike,
in this day-long extravaganza. Over
25,000 persons in northeastern Nebras-
ka forget their troubles on October 31
each year as Jaycees of Norfolk rope
off the streets, roll up the rugs-and open
the town to over four hundred children
of the area for the affair.

Idea for the day was advanced by
.1 aycee Howard Murphy back in 1945 as
a combination good-will builder and
Halloween vandalism safety valve. Based
on the premise that everybody likes to
let his hair down and have fun, the
proposal was favored by a segment of
the Junior Chamber, but was frowned
upon by many reserved businessmen
who declared northeast Nebraskans
were too conservative for such an event.

It took a lot of selling and when the
selling was done, there was still plenty
of hard work and planning ahead. 0c-
tober 31, 1946 was set as the date for
the first attempt. The weather was good,
the crowd numbered over 20,000 and
the event was acclaimed a smashing suc-
cess. Efforts of Murphy, who spent the
final weeks holed up in an office double-
checking and outlining projects as the
event’s general chairman, and the ef-
forts of Dr. E. C. Surber, parade mar-

OCTOBER 1954

 

shal, paid off in smooth operations.
They, and the Jaycees who worked with
them, had earned' the credit for bring-
ing a new era to Norfolk. The ice was
broken, the way was open and enthusi-
asni was rampant.

Police records in 1948 gave a graphic
picture of the import of Hallowesta as
a vandalism check. Halloween fell on
Sunday that year and the event was not
held. In all, forty-two separate reports
of vandalism were received in Norfolk
compared with one the previous year.
Although records from surrounding
towns were not available, townspeople
there reported a sharp increase in pranks
for the year Hallowesta was not held.

A record of over four hundred and
fifty boys and girls at the afternoon
parades for costumed children was set
in 1949 when more than 20,000 attend-
ed the event. Ideal weather, coupled
with giant halloon floats brought in es-
pecially for the evening parade, attract-
ed a crowd of 30,000 in 1950. Another
popular event was added to the sched-
ule in 1951—the store-window painting
contest in which teams of children from
first grade through college enter in com-
petition in four age divisions, each with
cash awards. More than two hundred
enrolled for the first contest.

For the Norfolk Jaycees, Hallowesta
is a total effort with no stone left un-

turned. Take the 1952 Hallowesta for

example. After co-chairmen, parade
marshal and the planners had done their
work, groups of Jaycees trucked corn
shocks to town for the lamp posts; oth-

ers poured paints for the window paint-

 

J 01111 Dyson

ers and still others worked over assorted
spooks for street lamps. By dawn of the
big day, Jayeees had completely redone
the town. Eight blocks of the main busi-
ness section were blocked off and 00111-
pletely decorated for the Halloween fi-
esta.

Streets thickened with all manner of
creatures in strange array. Keystone
Kops were on their beats, the jail was
in operation and a “judge” was hand-
ing down decisions. Window painters,
seventy teams of them, began their art-
istry at 12 :30 P.M. under guidance from
Chairman Robert Phillips; free movies
were shown for the kids; walking and
riding parades were held; and the an-
nouncement of window winners was
made at 4:30 P.M., followed by the nam-
ing of adult costume winners; and,
through it all, a half-dozen carnival
rides whirled kids for free.

By 7:00 P.M. the streets were clogged
with a sea of faces. As the hour-long
parade ended, the mob converged on
the reviewing stand for the winners.
Thousands flocked to watch the football
battle which followed and hundreds
headed for the city auditorium where a
teen-age dance was in progress, fol-
lowed at 10:30 P.M. by a public dance.

When it was all over, northeast Ne-
braskans realized they had had a full
day’s escape from their problems.
They’d been different people for a day
and were all the better for it.

Condensed and reprinted with permission
from Future, October 1953, published by the
United States Junior Chamber of Commerce.

479

m

 

All children are original. However,
it takes guidance to bring out that‘origi-
nality.

Children often like to start with a
common denominator and vie with one
another to make clever Christmas tree
ornaments. In the Laboratory School,
University of Chicago, we used the lit-
tle cardboard folders which contain
postage stamps, reinforced the folded
edges with gummed labels and tied a
string on each to hold it on the tree
(Illustration 2 ). From that point on it
was up to each child to see what he

When he finished, he

pinned his ornament on the bulletin

could create.

board in the classroom.

Colored paper was pasted on the gray
stamp folders. Some children used
many of the red-and-white gummed la-
bels as a decorative design; some added
scraps of silver ribbon. Others pleated
strips of red-and-white construction pa-
per and pasted them on the little stamp
folders so they rose up or hung down;
or they fringed pieces of paper and
curled the fringes by rubbing them with

MISS TODD is on the faculty of the Lab-
oratory School, University of Chicago.

“W7 hen originality is the aim, Christmas decorations must he made early.”

originality in

a scissors. Some stretched paper across
so that the ornament made a triangular
shape. Some used several stamp fold-
ers and added so many kinds of paper
in different shapes and colors that one
forgot that the ornaments were origi-
nally stamp folders (Illustration 3 ).

Someone might say, “Why begin with
the stamp folder?” In answer: (1)
Here was free material all cut and ready
to use. (2) The stiffness of the little
cardboard pieces was very practical as
a beginning. (3) Some children need
a push-off to do original work. When
left with a pile of waste material, plus
new material, they do not seem to know
where to start. (4) It was easy to tie
the string on the stamp folder.

The ornaments were very interesting
and every child achieved an original
result. We found an abundance of an-
other kind of cardboard material—the
cylinders which come inside of paper
toweling and other household items.
Here again was free material. We used
the electric saw in the shop to slice the
rolls into ringlets of one-half-inch,
three-quarter-inch, and one-inch widths.

The one-inch-wide rings were used
for napkin holders. We sandpapered

Christmas Decorations

Jessie Todd

the edges, and painted them white in-
side and red outside, using rather thick
tempera paint so that the cardboard
would not bend too much. When the
paint was dry the children carefully
added flowers, dots, zigzags or stripes
of yellow, green, blue, orange, pink,
black, violet and magenta. Some made
more napkin rings and painted them
black. They liked these because they
could add many bright colors for trim-
ming. Three children used red, green
and white. They painted designs of
holly, bells, stars and wreaths on the
rings so they could use them to hold
the paper napkins at their Christmas
party.

We used some of the ringlets for
Christmas tree ornaments. Some were
wrapped with tin foil and the silver and
gold paper that comes around pieces of
candy. Others were wrapped with
scraps of brilliant ribbon left over from
Christmas gift wrappings. Not a piece
of shiny ribbon was thrown away, for
the rings were wound with many short
pieces of different kinds. Some of the
rings, one-inch-wide, were wrapped
with cotton batting and tied with red
ribbons. All these bits of shining bril-

 

liant color looked like jewels on the
Christmas tree.

The originality of the tree decorations
depended greatly on the choice of mate-
rials. Each child had the chance to look
over the scraps and decide how he want-
ed to wrap his ringlets; and some fas-
tened several ringlets together.

In the upper right corner of Illustra-
tion 1 is a ball made by wrapping bright
pink tissue paper around a wad of pa-
per toweling, tying it with a string at
the top, and decorating it with bands
of brightly colored metallic paper. In
the lower right of the picture, notice the
candle which one child invented and
everyone liked. This, the ornament
above it and the one to the right of the
candle were made of circles, triangles
and squares cut around and around
with the resulting spiral helping to
make the ornament.

Some children pleated four or five
inches of the long strip by pressing it
with their fingers. They would leave
six or seven inches unpleated and then
pleat a section again; some pleated the
whole strip. Brass fasteners turned the
strips into many fantastic shapes (Illus-
tration 4). We called them third di-
mensional abstracts. Some called them
mobiles, for when a thread was added
at the top they whirled around on the
tree. We used some white paper in each
ornament for we wanted white on our
tree. The children chose many color
combinations and many shapes; and
each ornament was original.

A few of the children made dangling
ornaments which were almost two and
one-half feet long; however, we could
not use them on our tree and so had to
plan them on a smaller scale.

As children make things for a defi-
nite purpose, as in this case, to trim
a tree, they learn to face restrictions.
They found that they could use small
round boxes and little rectangular ones
if they were lightweight. Even soiled
boxes could be used, for they were
covered with paint, gay ribbons or pa-
per. The children found that most
plaster ornaments and all clay orna-
nicnls were too heavy. \Ve also gave up
tin-can ornalnents because the children
cut themselves working with the tin.

A few children made snowflake orna-
ments. We found that too many of
these smothered the other ornaments.

Since snowflake designs must have six
outstanding points, some found the cut-
ting of them too difficult. We used very
white paper but it could not be too stiff.
The children enjoycd cutting holes of
many shapes in the snowflakes. Each
design was original within the six-point
limitations.

A Christmas tree without an angel on
top is no Christmas tree to our children.
Gigi made the angel this Christmas.
She used a flash bulb for the head and
neck and painted it with thick tempera
paint. A father who manufactures
match folders donated lovely metallic
cardboards in red, green, blue, gold,
turquoise, white, silver and pink, out of
which Gigi made a cone-shaped skirt.
On top of this she put a sort of cape
made of another cone shape and joined
the two with brass paper fasteners. Then
she added more paper fasteners for
trimming and tied colored velvet rib-
bons to the paper fasteners for more

' decoration. The wings were plain gold

cardboard; and she used the most bril-
liant silver-colored tinsel for hair.

Some children invented ornaments
out of fine basket reed. Maggy is show-
ing hers to an interested friend_in Illus-
tration 5. Maggy later added ornaments
to the ribbon in the center and placed
a white bar below the two lower circles.

Kay made a beautiful orchid-colored
ornament of reed framework covered
with orchid-colored tissue paper. Past-
ed on the orchid paper are tiny scraps
of metallic paper of many colors. The
little metallic-colored pieces looked like
precious jewels.

W'heri' originality is the aim, Christ-
mas decorations must be done early so
that the children do not feel rushed.
Before the green tree arrived they
pinned decorations on a flat paper tree
on our art room bulletin board. Thcse
dccorations were left there for a day;
then other children decorated the bul-
letin-board trec in another way (Illus-
tration 6). Judy, age nine, cut the row
of joined angels in two minutes. Below
the top center star are two ornaments
made of white lilies-of-the-valley which
werc on a mother’s old hat. Bctween
them is a painted gingerbread man. On
thc lower left and lower right hand cor-
ners of the trec are reed ornaments.
Below the tree are clay objects painted

with tempera. m

 

 

In Illustration 7 we show how we be-

gan our tray mats for hospitalized sol-
diers. Making these was a labor of love.
Desks were kept very clean so that the
bright red paper would have no soiled
spot on it. Each child made a tray mat
using a design of white snowflakes. The
white tempera paint had to be just right.
If too thin, it would not look white
enough. If too thick, the brush strokes
looked ragged. We would send no slip-
shod work to the sick soldiers. David
is putting a circular line around each
snowflake. Owen, in the foreground, is
making a large snowflake. When the
tray mats were finished, Owen had a
few smaller snowflakes around the big
one and David’s no longer resembled
snowflakes, but our aim was to make
an interesting design.

After each child had made a tray mat
of white on red and a matching menu
card, we made more designs, this time
on dark green paper. David is making

a very nice design of a tree on his mat
in Illustration 8.

When we had finished seventy place
mats that we considered very beautiful,
we brought out a pile of paper—red,
orange, purple, two shades of green,
turquoise, yellow, pink, light blue and
royal blue. The paint table had over a
hundred bottles of paint and empty
bottles to be used in mixing more paint.
Many choices could be made now. The
background color and the paint colors
together offered unlimited possibilities.

Whenever many choices are permit-
ted, it soon becomes necessary to make
a few restrictions. Some children chose
gray, brown and other dull colors. We

talked of our aim: to brighten the trays
for sick soldiers. We discarded the dull
efforts. .Some children forgot the sol-
diers and made scratchy sorts of car-

482

toony scribbles with words coming out
of the mouths of the characters. No
soldier would think them funny, inter-
esting or gay, so these were discarded.
After discussing appropriate kinds of
designs, we succeeded in getting many
gay, beautiful tray mats, each with a
matching menu card.

In Illustration 9, we see a hall bulle-
tin board. The design in thc upper left
was cut out of gummed paper of several
colors and gold and silver.* The tree
design to the right was made out of
scraps of colored construction paper.
Ordinary paste was used. The Christ-
mas tree_and the wreath to the right
were painted on corrugated paper. This
paper cost nothing; pe0ple donated it
instead of throwing it away. Many chil-
drcn were inspired by it—the ridges
fascinated them. Paint needs to be thick
when it is put on corrugated paper. If
it is too thin the abundance of water
warps the paper and makes it curl up
on the corners.

There is always a corner on a shelf
or tablc in a home, school, gift shop,
office or hospital for a jolly clay Santa
Claus. Children like moist clay—the
kind that hardens when dry. Illustra-
tion 10 shows Neddy making his Santa.
There is a little elf on Santa’s pack. In
Illustration 1] Betty is modeling a San-
ta in a sleigh. Betty displayed original-
ity in another way. She requested per-
mission to go to the sh0p next door to
ask for a board for the base of her
model, and painted the board white.

Children’s creative expressions often
reflect their home lives. It was not un-
usual to see Michael modeling angels.

I"Gummed paper was bought from a school
supply house, in handy nine- by twelve-inch
sheets.

His father Michael
thought of the idea of using wire for the
halos and wings ( Illustration 12). He
made more angels playing different mu-
sical instruments.

Eric, Cass and Lynn made a clay
tree. We stuffed the center with paper
toweling this year. Last year we made a
solid clay tree and it was too heavy to
move about. The children painted the

is a minister.

'tree green while it was still wet, and in-

serted green wire loops. Through these
100ps thcy strung many ornaments af-
tcr the tree had dried.

Childrcn often like to make a jolly
couple out of clay and give them inter-
esting names ( I llustration 13 This
time they began with the woman. She
had straw hair and wires rising up out
of her hat. She had bright magenta-
colored collar and cuffs, pinned onto the
clay while it was still wet. A package
tied with silver ribbon was placed in
her arms. She was painted in many gay
colors. Snowflakes were painted on her
skirt and tiny ones cut out of white pa-
per were sewed to the wires coming out
of her hat. The snowflake lady was now
complete. ‘

Thorsten, David and Rayda modeled
her snowman husband. When finished,
he had many thumb tacks in his funny
round hat with its brilliant paper band.
Rayda painted his shoes. This jolly
couple decorated the main office of our
Laboratory School during the weeks be-
fore Christmas vacation.

The originality the children devel-
Oped at Christmas time grew in the fol-
lowing months. Even those who don’t
celebrate Christmas in their places of
worship often feel inspired to make
gayer things in December. The color-
ful stofe windows and street decorations
makc it a creative season for all.

RECREATION

t'

Lively and natural poetry by high school students,
woven out of their own (lay-to-day experiences.

7em7a9m¢ 7m to Wme

0 Mrs. Miriam S. Cox is a teacher Of English in the Compton, California, senior
high school. As she describes her efforts to interest teen-agers in poetry, she ap-

proaches them “like a crafty hunter stalking his prey.”

Since her sophomore

class produced a collection of original poems, Teen-age Capers, written, illus-
trated and typed by the youngsters themselves, we’d say her prey wanted to be
caught! (A wonderful idea for some creative teen-age recreation groups.) The
original poems printed here are not only interesting and fun to read, but also give
a very good insight into teen-age feelings and emotions. And isn’t it reassuring
to find that it’s youngsters like these who are treading on our heels?

Serious Verse

THE TOUCH OF GOD’S HAND
This beloved land Of ours:

Misty fragrance Of rare flowers,
Snow-capped mountains towering high
Framed against an azure sky,
Roaming sea and descrt sand,

Show the Touch Of God’s Own Hand.

Rippling murmur Of woodland streams
Lingering fondly in our dreams,

Blue Of water in the lakes,

All thcse things and more God makes.
Whercver you look you see the brand

And feel thc Touch of God’s Own Hand.

——R0salie Whitman

THE SEA

The waves are frilly, lacy collars that
decorate the sand;

They fondle smooth and silver rocks
like fingers of a hand.

We love to come and watch the sea as
dancing on it goes;
lt shimmers in the moon’s pale light
upon its nimble toes.
—Virginia Woods

MY MOTHER

My mother is eternally
Composing lines Of poetry
Making rhymes all over the place
With Odd expressions on her face.

The things she writes are never seen

By publisher or magazine;

We beg and plead with all our might,

But she just says, “They aren’t quite
right.”

OCTOBER 1954

Her rhymes remain upon the shelf
SO I’ll just have to writc myself!
My Odes and sonnets you will hcar,

And this one starts my new career!
—Ka£hleen Ketcham

AUTUMN

lt’s autumn in the north woods now

And leaves are crimson-gold;

The birds are on their southbound
wings

And nights are biting cold.

The crispness Of the morning air,

The sparkle Of the star,

Puts starch in dcar Old Autumn’s
dress—

The fairest one by far.

—fennie Stillwagon

LOVE

Sometimes love is like a brand new
coat Of paint

At first it’s bright and shining
then it gradually grows faint.

But our love is proud and stately,
like a redwood tree

Through the years it grows more beau-
tiful—for you and for me.

——Patricia Flinn

THE MAN IN THE MOON

I watched the moon the other night

It stood up there so radiantly bright;

When I looked very hard I could see

The man in the moon smiling down on
me:

Wouldn’t you like to take his place
And ust roll around all over space?

——Kay C [ark

Humorous Verse

VIEWPOINT

Mirrpr, Mirror, on the wall
Should my hat be flat or tall?
Should I get a vivid red,

Or perhaps a pink instead?

In the store I always see

In the glass a lovely me:
There’s a hat will look divine
Placed upon this dome Of minc.

But at home I am dejected
At the one I have sclected:
Magic Mirror in the store,
You have lied to me once more.

-—Bertha Hayes

0
A MODERN PAINTING

Some people say, “It’s beautiful!”
Others sit and sigh, ‘
But for me it does not a single thing
Except to strain my eye.
I study it for hours on end,
But I haven’t found out yet
Whether it’s a fallen tree
Or a king-sizcd cigarctte.
—Carole Breitwieser

GROWING PAINS

When a girl reaches fourteen the going
gets tough;

Shc needs rouge and lipstick and a
powder puff.

Instead Of having dimplcs,
All she gcts is pimples.
Growing up is really very rough!

—Margaret Lyle

GIRLS

Girls can be so aggravating;
Count on them to keep you waiting!
Your date is at scven—you’re ready to

go:
But what on earth makes her so slow?

Shc changes her dress and flufls her
hair,

Sometimcs forgetting you’re cven
there!

At last she’s ready—you start out the
door.

Oh, wait . .

lIlOl‘C.

. she's forgotten one thing

Back she goes—you wait again;
Half-past nine and almost ten;
Girls can be so aggravating
Why did I go in for dating?
—M ac M cC reary

'483

Do Your Play {of

not to

the Children

Edwin Strawbridge

IN THESE days children’s theatre is becoming recognized

as one of the important mediums of educating children
to the finer things while providing good, constructive fun.
Therefore, naturally, there is much discussion about whether
to play “down” to child audiences or “up” to them,

Of course, there are right moments for both in any single
play. In generalizing all children’s needs, reactions, under-
standing and perception into any one position on the “up”
or “down” scale, we are apt to become bogged down in
theory. We are apt to lose sight of the major aim of chil-
dren’s theatre: the fostering of children’s interest in artistic
entertainment of all kinds, at the same timemotivating their
growing thoughts toward the ideality of moral values.

In order to accomplish these aims, and at the same time
give young audiences a lot of sheer enjoyment, we must first
understand what children like and comprehend generally.
Then, within this very elastic framework, we must create
a production to really entertain them and keep their interest
sharp, while they are unconsciously exposed to the moral
hidden beneath the surface of the dialogue and action.

And well hidden your moral must be, or children will feel
uncomfortable in the knowledge that you are “teaching them
something.” Juvenile playgoers are amazingly adult when
the chips are down. They are certainly the most candid of
audiences—quick to applaud if they like something, and
equally quick to become restless or even let out a catcall
if they don’t!

So, like a young mother getting ready-to feed a baby, we
must find out how to get our “baby” to eat as much as pos-
sible without a lot of waste time and motion. In children’s
theatre this may not be too easy—but it can be real fun.

Youngsters are not as easy to categorize or predict as
adults. They come in different sizes and shapes— and have

MR. STRAWBRIDCE is on Professional Standards Panel of

Children’s Theatre Conference. Edwin Strawbridge Produc- 

tions, (LT-touring children’s theatre, uses professional cast.

484

not yet become part of our convention-conscious adult world.
When you find, through the many different reactions of
your young audiences, a few rules which apply to the ma-
jority, you can feel mighty proud of yourself. It has taken
the writer thirteen years of studying young audiences-——and
learning a,lot from them—to come up with the following
rules. I would stake my reputation on the success of your
play if you follow closely as many of these as you can.

How To Choose Your Play

Action—that’s the keynote! The next consideration is to
make the action utterly simple. Your hero, whether he be
one of the thousands on the library shelf or an entirely new
creation, must be of epic proportions, afraid of nothing,
hurt by nothing. Your heroine, be she fabled or invented
tomorrow, must be beautiful, helpless (almost), and beau-
tifully dressed at least once in the play, even if she begins
in rags. Your villain, be he dragon, witch, wollipog or the
tough boy down the street, must be villain all the way
through.

‘ The conflict in your play must be tremendous, almost in-
surmountable. It can whiz out past limits adults would find
laughable. Children’s imaginations go right along to the
peak of improbability, and if your play doesn’t take them
there, they will be disappointed. The ending must be happy,
with a capital H. Otherwise the theatre will echo with the
sobs of little girls long after the curtain has fallen, and their
mothers will be backstage looking for you. The sherifir may
even be called. Avoid trouble! Make your ending excru-
ciatingly happy! Every single problem, every wicked deed
must have its denouement or punishment. Every single act
of righteousness must have its just reward. If one small
thing is unresolved at the end of your play, at least five or
ten youngsters with hurt and puzzled expressions will be
backstage to ask you why. It may take eXplaining to their
mothers too. Next time you’ll checklist your solutions
against your problems before the play goes on.

' mTiECREATION

 

Talk right to the children at
times. They’ll really love it!

Animals, above all! A four-foot animal, in any form
whatever, will make your play! In fact, you’re almost lost
without at least one. Children love them. That is why most
nursery rhymes and fables have them to profusion. Some-
where you’ve got to have a cuddly, fat pig, a dancing cow,
a Puss-in-Boots, Red Riding Hood’s wolf, a Frog Prince,
or some other four-footed member in the cast. And don’t
restrict the animals to standing around stifily. They come
in mighty handy—especially if you’re going to have chil-
dren actually playing in your show. Suppose, for instance,
that there may be a few weak spots in the play as it ap-
proaches dress rehearsal. Maybe the “Little Princess,” try
as she may, is dull in spots. Take your lion, wolf, pig, cow
or animal star aside. These dull spots in the action are pre-
cisely thc right time for the dog to develop a flea which he
must scratch; the wolf to get a thorn in his tail which could
be gotten out if he could just reach his tail; the cow to dis-
cover that there is something wrong with her bell which
must be fixed immcdiately; the pig to sneeze; and so on.
These things must not distract from important story action,
of course, but they’ll stop the show—and save it—in the
very spots which would otherwise be boring to the young
critics out front.

Find bright, colorful costumes! In choosing your play,
bear in mind that it should lend itself to bright, colorful
costumes, with some poSsibilities for “funny” costumes, to,o,
(perhaps one of the period costumes which look funny to
even us oldsters now). Always remember that no costume
can be too outlandish or too improbable for a child’s ima-
gination. If you have some modern characters in your play,
beware! Be absolutely authentic whenever possible with
thcse. They can still be colorful, and should be, but they
must be authentic!

Subject Acting Is Out!

When playing for children, disregard all scruples you’ve
cultivated against asides (those “old-fashioned” things) and
looking directly at your audiences (“unforgivable” in our
modern theatre). The toughest lesson for actors and di-
i rectors to learn when they turn to children’s theatre is that

Oc‘I’oBER 1954

Children insist on absolute authenticity. Cowboys
must dance in boots not ordinary dance shoes.

For assured success your play must have
animals above all. Children adore them!

youngsters like to be brought closer to the action and dia-
logue by being talked to occasionally. They prefer this
to merely being permitted to watch something on stage that
“other people” are doing. When the dialoguc allows, come
right down to the footlights as you ponder a problem alone,
question a villain, console an unhappy animal, and so on.
Don’t encourage your audience too far into the scene with
you, but make them feel that the action is happening as
close to them as possible.

Don’t, for one second, make the mistake of undcracting.
For your specialized audience, play whatever you are or
whatever you are supposed to be feeling to the llilt. Children
love circuses principally because they epitomize excitement
and wonder, clowns because they epitomize comedy and
so on. You must do the same. Whatever you are supposed
to do, be the epitome of it. The Italian Commedia dell’Artc,
which flourished in the late fifteen and early sixteen hun-
dreds and which gives us much of the action of our modern
opera, ballet, musical revue and circus, is exactly the showy
style of acting you must cultivatc and excel in, if you in-
tend to entertain children successfully. You must do what-
ever you do to the nth degree.

Audience Participation?

There are excessive pro’s and con’s about whether a young
audience should be allowed to participate in any physical
or vocal way in the play they are watching. One school of
thought maintains that it excites them’too much. Another
says it is not teaching them correct social demeanor as fu-
ture theatregoers. Of course, both are right. But isn’t it
thrilling when your actors on stage are clapping in time to
a dance to have the whole young audience begin clapping
with them? I’ve noticed that they always stop the minute
it appears that they should, so there is nothing dangerously
disorganized or overstimulating about this kind of partici-
pation in the stage fun. When a “petulant little girl” in the
play says to a’ friend, “There’s no such thing as horse lan-
guage,” and the little boy in the back row of the audience
shouts back at her, “There is too!” he is certainly-not hurt-
ing ariybody, including himself. He merely proves how

4-85

deeply engrossed he is in the play and gives the rest of the
audience a little extra chuckle without delaying matters.

The real danger in encouraging any participation is, of
course, that some of the audience, if encouraged too far,
or even at all, may become boisterous and set up a steady
stream of annoyance which will destroy the enjoyment of
tl’re‘rest of the audience. I once attended a performance
where such was the case. The pretty princess of the play,
after having given it some desperate thought, climbed down
from her balcony and came directly down to the footlights
with her hands raised for silence. Immediately there was
silence. After commenting on the noise, but not mentioning
the offenders personally in any way, she asked the audience
to take a raised-hand vote as to whether the play should con-
tinue. Hands flew up and a mighty shout of “yes” carried
the vote, of course. The princess thanked them, climbed to
her balcony again, and the play continued before a politer
and even more responsive audience.

Every Scene is Important!

Most plays have three acts and most individual scenes
within the acts have three definite parts too. This is espe-
cially true of plays for children, where it is important that
you definitely break down each scene and make sure before-
hand that action and direction adhere to this pattern:

Opening—As the curtain opens, you must allow the chil-
dren time to study details of scenery and get thoroughly
acquainted with where they are supposed to be. Music and
dancing will fill in this moment of orientation, or use some
simple movement with as few characters as possible, pre-
ferably only one or two, on stage at curtain. Movement
helps set the scene, through such actions as going through
a door, watering the flowers, getting a drink from the well,
looking out of a window. Then, after the scene is impressed
upon the audience, and it is ready for the story to be picked
up again, the movement (whether it be dance or mere mov-
ing about) can st0p. An abrupt end is good, because it
focuses the children’s attention on the character, who in turn
should then introduce, through line or movement, the fact
that something is about to happen. This brings us to the
next probable step.

Introduction of neiv characters—Before a new character
arrives on the scene the children should be told that (1)
something or someone is coming; (2) which side of the
stage it is coming from; (3) what or who it seems to be,
if possible, before it arrives. Otherwise, every new entrance
is going to be accompanied by a whispered chorus, from
child to child in the audience, that will drown out the first
lines Spoken after the entrance. In other words, if the play-
wright has not supplied this identification in his dialogue,
and the foresighted director has not added it, the children
certainly will!

When the character does arrive on the scene, he must not,
in his first appearance on the stage, jump right into action.
First he must, through word or action, let the children know
who or what he is, where he has just come from, what he
is doing here, and whether he is to be trusted, liked, dis-
trusted and feared, or just laughed at as a pure comedy
character. This may take a very few moments but don’t

4-86

make the mistake of not doing it! Once the character is
fully identified and understood, the children are ready for
the dialogue or restlmption of action.

The foregoing, of course, sounds very pat and stiff, but
the importance of properly introducing new characters can-
not be too strongly emphasized. Such introductions move
much faster on stage than they sound from our description.

Closing of the scene—Whether it be the final curtain of
your play, the end of an act, or merely the exit of an impor-
tant character, give the children something succinct and
positive at each scene-closing. Make them laugh, inch for-
ward to the edge of their seate at a villain’s threat, cheer
as a hero goes off to right a wrong somewhere or rescue
the captive princess, or in some other way end your scene
strongly. The only thing that will create more restlessness
and disinterest with youngsters than a long string of action-

less dialogue is a scene ending which is indefinite or seems
unimportant.

Go To It . . . And Enjoy Yourself!

In pointing out what a specialized audience you are do-
ing your play for, and in itemizing the many definite ways
in which you must adapt good theatre practices to their
particular tastes, I certainly don’t want to leave you with
the misconception that children are so extra special that they
will laugh uproariously at something in which you yourself
can’t find some humor, nor will they fear a villain who
doesn’t terrify you a little bit too. Your own ability and in-
stinct as a director, the spontaneous reactions of other cast
members, and the appreciative giggles of visitors at rehears-
als will tell you, just as in any production for any adult
audience, whether something is good or bad. The degree
and type of reaction varies, of course, between children and
adults, but the essence is either good or bad.

Don’t be afraid to tackle the job because you think you
may not understand it well enough. Wade right in. Enjoy do-
ing it. Get the cast, too, to revel in this new, special kind of
acting experience; but be sure that everybody connected
with the show bears in mind, always, that audience out front
they are doing it for—wand not to—the children.

Rest assured that by the time the play is over your young
audiences will have taught you nearly everything you didn’t
know about children’s theatre—and you will have enjoyed
every minute of it.

The Drama Committee of the National Advisory
Committee on Recreation Programs and Activities
wishes to call your special attention to this article, and
to invite your comments. If you’d like an extra c0py,
a limited number are available on a “first come, first
served” basis.

It also asks that you be on the lookout for another

.interesting article, this time on a worksh0p plan for
creative dramatics, to appear in a forthcoming issue.

Through bringing such articles to your attention,
the Drama Committee and RECREATION hope that your
drama programs will grow in scope and effectiveness.

 

RECREATION

...“'b

h_;"-ru .
::::r "-1":- i " «treat.
15%.“-
y‘cv~:: hm
Ill-'— -""""""" .
--—"" s l DE A u"!
m“ 9 or rm: 0*

&” MON

.-
y i '

  
  

In these days when teen-agers so of-
ten get “the back of the hand” in criti-
cism and the words “irresponsible,”
“lazy,” and so on, are bandied about, it
is refreshing to be able to pass along
the story of the Pard Vol-Teens in An-
niston, Alabama. This group of teen-
agers plans its own program—but is ex-
panding into planning for all teen-agers
in the community. It is a good lesson
in adult guidance and teen leadership.

 wens FORTUNATE enough to have

a secretary, Mrs. Roxie Hall, whose
background is in the field of Speech
and drama. Someone mentioned the
possibility of a radio show and Mrs.
l'lall immediately began to work with
the teen-agers, to see if they were inter-
ested. With a small beginning and a
few faithful boys and girls, she began
her first radio show. One of the local
radio stations contributed fifteen min-
utes a week.

Fortunately, a high-school boy was
an announcer at this station and he
joined the group. He and six other teen-
agers formed the nucleus of the “Pard
Players.”
when the members could get together
and the show was underway, beginning
with a series of Edgar Allan Poe mys-
tery stories.

Each Tuesday night, the night of the

Rehearsals were arranged

broadcast by tape recordings, the group '

gathered at the director’s house to lis-
ten to the program, start the new show,
drink coffee and discuss activities. The
Tuesday night meeting became so pop-
ular that the municipal golf course club-
house was brought into service to take
care of the ever increasing numbers of
young peOple. Record players, records,
and refreshments were furnished by the
members. They asked the director to ap-

MR. JESSE L. MATHEWS is superintend-
ent of parks and recreation in Anniston.

OCTOBER 1954

 

pnoen.

Teens Serve Teens ~

point a teen-age executive board which
would in turn appoint new board mem-
bers every four weeks. The members
delegated to the board the powers of
setting up governing rules, planning
and executive activities.

Circumstances resulted in the loss of
the radio time; so the group reorgan-
ized as the “Pard Vol-Teens” (Park
and Recreation Department Volunteer
Teens) with the stipulation that each
member must perform various volun-
teer duties for the recreation depart-
1nent. This requirement replaced the
previous one requiring each teen-ager
to participate in a radio show when
asked. Radio became ‘a branch activity
to be resumed in September.

Friday guest nights were soon started
to meet the growing demand and Sat-
urday night open-house plans were for-
mulated. The adults in charge, known
as advisors, are strictly volunteer and
are parents and young married cou-
ples, with Lt. and Mrs. Richard Hall as
head advisors. The supervision of the
group does not come under the duties of
Mrs. Hall, but she and her husband,
who is stationed at nearby Ft. McClel-
lan, are giving their time to this project
because they enjoy it so much.

Each person attending the meetings
donates to the “kitty” to provide an op-
crating fund. The board of directors,
or the group-at-large, set up all rules
and regulations which deal with mcm-
bcrship limitations, absences, residence,
powers of directors, new members, re-
freshments and behavior. This has
has proved a most effective governing
and operating procedure, and the udg-
ment .of the teen directors has been su-
perb beyond expectations.

Such momentum has gathered that
Florida trips, a band, barbecues, fishing
trips, square dancing, juke-box dances
and group home activities are in the

Jesse L. Mathews

oiling. This seems to indicate the be-
ginning of a full-scale teen center.

Annistonians have forgotten how or
when the Pard Players started. Maybe
they didn’t even know of their exist-
ence; but the “Vol-Teen” results are
such that citizens are rapidly becoming
quite aware of the existence of a group
of teen-agers who absolutely will not
cease in their attempts to have whole-
some recrcation.

Some of the volunteer duties which
the group has worked on to date are
publicity, oflicc assistance, movie pro-
jector Operation, ticket taking and reg-
istration for various activities. Prospec-
tive duties anticipated, other than the
continuation of the above, are summer
playground assistance, promotion of
square dancing and areawide juke-hox
dances, parent volunteer work, and any
other activity in which teen-agers can
prove useful.

At the moment they are planning the
organization of a parents’ hoard, to be
composed of six sets of parents, which
will-rotate every four weeks. At the end
of this period, .thc existing board of
parents will appoint five new couples
with one set from the old board to act
as chairmen of the incoming board. At
each parents’ board meeting, two teen-
agers on the current teen executive
board, but not having parents on the
parents’ board, will be present. The
duties of the parents’ board will be to
support, give advice and supervise ac-
t1v1ties.

They h0pe eventually to sponsor so
many activities that any teen-ager in
Anniston will be able to participate in
one or more phases of the program.
The democratic feeling of these young
pe0ple will help them to be instrumental
in creating ever-growing citywide rec-
reation for all teen-agers in the commu-
nity, whatever their interests.

4-87

 

Costumed children in Grand Junction, Colorado, re-
quest “Tricks or treats for all the world's chil-
dren" and hold out their containers for pennies.

Q. MERICAN CHILDREN will again share the results of their
Halloween celebrations with less fortunate children in

other lands as communities across the country pool their
efforts to give an old custom a new, humanitarian twist.
Early in the evening of October 31, in traditional Ameri-
can fashion, thousands of hobgoblins, in all manner of fan-
tastic garb, will be calling out the familiar phrase, “Tricks
or Treats?” and most of them will add, “for UNICEF.”

It started back in 1950 when a church group pioneered
the idea of collecting coins for the United Nations Children’s
Fund on Halloween—an idea that rapidly swept across the
country. Last year hundreds of groups—in every state and
the District ,of Columbia, in Canada, Hawaii and the Canal
Zone—participated in the UNICEF program, and from all
appearances, this year’s pr0gram will be bigger and better
than ever. i

A Community-Wide Plan

To help individual groups and communities in planning
their programs, the United Nations Committee for UNICEF
has compiled an outline of suggestions for local organiza-
tions. Here are some of their suggestions for a community-
wide program:

1. In the initial organization, present a plan to the town
council or'ministerial alliance. Form a committee with
representation from as many local civic and religious groups
as possible. Make sure the program conforms to local regu-
lations. Approach public, parochial, and Sunday school
principals for endorsement of the program. Get coopera-
tion of newspapers, radio, and TV stations for publicity.

Resolve the financing, which should be n01nina1——a small

* “Trick or Treat” Kits contain complete suggested organization
plans, party suggestions, UNICEF educational material, posters,
armbands, stickers, and so on. Order from “Tricks or Treat,” U. S.

Committee for UNICEF, United Nations, New York, N. Y. $1.00.

488

Halloween Treats

contribution from each group to cover the cost of kits*
and other materials.

2. Emphasize the importance of a pre-Halloween educa-
tional program. Have a meeting of youth leaders and teach-
ers to discuss UNICEF and the “trick or treat” program so
that they, in turn, can work out effective educational pro-
grams for their youngsters. Stress the voluntary aspect of
the program—no child should be made to feel that he must
take part, nor should he participate without parental ap-
proval.

3. Plan the collection of funds carefully. Remember that
this involves a public trust. Make plans to account for every
coin collected—and publicize the results as soon as possible.

Precollection arrangements: Have collection centers
wherever your after-collection parties are being held. Set a
limit for the length of time the collection is to continue. The
general trend is two or three hours. Announce the start of

the collection by the ringing of church bells, fire sirens, and

' so on. Publicize this well so that pe0ple will know what is

being signalled.

Obtain police c00peration. This can range from prowl
cars bringing in the collections to central points to patrol-
ing the streets to protect and aid small children. Check with
the banks to see how they want the money turned in. They
may aid in the final counting.

Preparation of material: Ask milk companies to donate
unused milk cartons. (If unused cartons are not obtainable,
be sure used ones are clean. It’s a chore to wash and dry
thousands of pennies—as some groups discovered last year.)
Write or stamp the name of the Sponsoring committee on
armbands and stickers for cartons. Label and seal cartons
and cut slots in the tops. (A good project for young volun-
teers.) Number the cartons and get a c0pybook in which
contributions can be recorded. Mimeograph handbills for
identification.

Collection period: Have children assemble at preap-
pointed time and place in traditional costumes. Make sure
they all know about UNICEF and are prepared to tell why
they want to share their Halloween with “all the world’s
children.”

Give out armbands, collection cartons, and handbills.
Record distribution of numbered cartons. Have older chil-
dren accompany the smaller ones. Make sure no‘ home will

be deluged with UNICEF “spooks.” Suggest that children

.RECREATION

Go Abroad.

stay within their own areas. In sparsely settled areas, ar-
range for groups to go in cars with adult drivers.

Counting the coins: Arrange to have the coins counted
while the party is going on, if possible. Competition on size
of individual collections is not advisable; every child should
receive praise for his effort.

Enthusiastic Reception

Reports and letters about last year’s community UNICEF
Halloween programs told of the cooperation given by mu-
nicipal authorities, local business, newspapers and radio
stations, church, school and youth organizations. They also
told of the enthusiastic reception Mr. and Mrs. America and
their offspring gave to the program of “tricks or treats for
all the world’s children” and the parties, parades and other
activities that followed the collecting.

In Melrose, Massachusetts, a milk company donated 3,500
ice-cream cartons, a paper dealer gave orange paper cut to
size for armbands and for stickers for the cartons, the local
newspaper printed the armbands and stickers without
charge, volunteers numbered the cartons and registered
names and numbers as they passed them out to the children
in the school rooms. “Tricks or treats” was an afternoon
activity, followed by an evening program featuring a cos-
tume parade, movies and a magic show for youngsters, and
an outdoor dance in a parking area for teen-agers. An edi-
torial in a Melrose newspaper stated: “In expressing their
approval of the project, community leaders stressed two
values. First, it would provide a way for children to par-
ticipate in the constructive work of the United Nations while
broadening their horizons to the needs of their generation in
other countries. And, secondly, it would provide a way to
channel the energies of Halloween pranksters into construc-
tive fun.”

A novel idea for a float for the Westmont, New Jersey,
annual Halloween parade was carried out by a church youth
group. The float, decorated with straw and corn shocks,
carried a live cow and the minister of the church who was
dressed as a farmer. A group of the young people walked
ahead of the float carrying a huge sign bearing the slogan,
“Give—Help a Child Live,” while other teen-agers made
collections along the line of march.

The Ministerial Alliance in El Dorado Springs, Missouri,
sponsored the program with financial aid from several or-
ganizations in town. In Clarksburg, West Virginia, seven-

OCTOBER 1954

 

In far-off Palestine, 3 small Aral) child
smiles a “Thank You” for the milk she is
getting as a result of the UNICEF collec-
tion on Halloween by American youngsters.

. teen churches, representing six denominations, participated

in the city-wide affair. The simultaneous ringing of church
bells all over the city announced the beginning of the two-
hour collection, which was followed by a party for all. Stu-
dents from a nearby college provided the party entertain-
ment, local milk and biscuit companies furnished chocolate
drinks and cookies for refreshments.

Madison, Wisconsin, after a successful first venture last
year, started early on an even more concerted and intensi-
fied program for 1954-. Said the treasurer of the Madison
Council of Churches after last year’s drive: “Turning the
imps and goblins of Halloween night into little angels of
good will, to aid in the relief of hungry children through-
out the world, has been a satisfying experience for the adults
and children who participated in this program.”

In Glasgow, Montana, the campaign was sponsorcd by
the Council of Church Women, and the children turned in
their milk-container collection boxes at the annual Hallow-
en party run by the J aycees. The principal of one Glasgow

school expressed the Opinion that this was. the most quiet,
civilized Halloween he had known and the children were
happy to be having a part in helping to feed “hungry chil-
dren overseas.”

Last year the program more than tripled the amount of
money collected in 1952. The largest collection, represent-
ing a county-wide effort, was $4,423.37 from the towns and
cities of Westchester County, New York. The largest single
check was for $2,341.28 from the “United Women of Co-
lumbus and Franklin Counties and the Children of Colum-
bus, Ohio.” Right after Halloween letters and checks began
pouring into the United Nations office. Children from near-
by communities turned up with pockets, boxes, and paper
bags full of pennies and coins.

Fort Collins, Colorado, in forwarding its contribution,
summed up the feeling of the communities throughout the
nation when it stated that, “Our children enjoyed doing it
and are happy to know that it is going to such a worthy
cause.”

489

Two ancient games have as much appeal for our youngsters today

as they have had for centuries among people around the world.

0L!) GAMES ARE NEW

KALAH

Kalah, a game currently gaining in popularity in recrea—
tion centers from coast to coast, is based on an ancient
game, probably of Egyptian origin, still widely played in
many countries throughout the world. Tribesmen in the
heart of Africa and New Guinea, potentates and beggars in
Asia have been included among the devotees of this intrigu-
ing “thinking game.” The numerous playing boards pre-
served in museums are similar only in that they all contain
two rows of “pits,” for they vary from crudely carved pieces
of wood to elaborate ivory and jewel inlaid masterpieces,
many of them in the shape of boats. Playing pieces, too,
run the gamut from stones, seeds and shells to the most pre-
cious gems and metals. The game, which has many differ-
ent titles and rule variations, is basically a counting game
played by distributing playing pieces into the pits.

A board, with twelve small pits and two large ones and
playing pieces or counters, eighteen or more for each player,
is used. The number of counters needed depends upon the
playing time available and the age of the players. For a
short game, or for young players, three counters are placed
in each pit. Older players use four, five or six counters——
with six making the most interesting and time-consuming
game.

Although it may be played by as many as six persons,

 

the rules given here are for two players. The board is placed
crosswise between the players, and each one controls the row
of round pits on his side and the oval-shaped kalah pit to
his right. Each player tries to get as many counters as he
can into his own kalah. First move is decided by lot or
agreement for the first game and then alternates between
players for succeeding games.

Players each put an equal number of counters into their
own pits. The starting player then takes all the counters
from any one of his own pits and distributes them to the
right, dropping one into each pit (including his own kalah
and his opponent’s pits) as .far as they will go. The only

490

 

Players and onlookers alike concentrate closely on a move
during a close game of Kalah. This ancient game is growing
in popularity among youngsters in play centers and clubs.

place skipped is his opponent’s kalah. Counters once placed
in a kalah remain there until the end of the game.

If the last counter lands in the player’s own kalah he
gets another turn. By planning to have the right number
of counters in two or more pits, it is possible for a player
to have several turns in succession.

If the last counter lands in an empty pit on his own side,
the player captures all the counters in his Opponent’s pit
directly opposite. These, together with the counter making
the capture, are placed in his kalah. A capture ends his
turn, as does a play ending anywhere except in his own
kalah.

The game ends when all the pits on one side are empty.
Counters remaining in pits on the opposite side go into the
kalah and count for the player on that side. The winner is
the player who has captured the most counters. The score
is figured by the winner replacing the original number of
counters in each of his pits. The number of counters left in
his kalah after this has been done becomes his score. For
example, if each player has eighteen counters to start with
(three 'in each pit) and one player has four counters left in
his kalah after replacing three in each of his pits, that player
wins by a score of four to nothing. A series of games ends
when one player reaches a score of forty.

Further information about Kalah rules and equipment
may be obtained from the Mystic Game Company, Mystic,
Connecticut.

RECREATION

Go

Go, one of the oldest games known to man, originated in
the Orient and has been played, with few changes, by chil-
dren and adults for centuries. In Japan and China today
players are ranked according to ability and master players
painstakingly train their proteges for the rigid compctitions.

The following description of a simplified version of the
game, using casily constructed equipment, was written and
illustrated by Patricia Strauss while she was an art student
at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, New York.

The equipment for the game consists of a playing board
and markers. For a quickly-made set, the bottom of a card-
board box or piece of corrugated cardboard can he used for
the board and thumbtacks for markers. If a cardboard box
is used, it should be a sturdy one; if corrugated cardboard
is the choice, it should be at least a quarter-inch thick. The
playing surface should be eight by twelve inches, covered
with plain whitc paper. With pencil and ruler mark off a
one-inch border around the edge of the paper; and, along
those lines, mark dots every half-inch. Go over the border
lines with ink and then rule horizontal and vertical lines,
using the dots as guide, to make half-inch squares (Fig-
ure 1).

For each player, fifty thumbtacks with colored heads (a
different color for each player) and two small ashtrays or
boxes, to hold the tacks to be played and those which are
captured, are needed.

Since the game is best played by two, although as many
as four may play, reference to “White” and “Black” in the
following directions denotes two opponents.

The game begins with one player placing a tack at any
intersection on the board, and turns then alternate, with each
player placing one tack at a time. Tacks must always be
placed at the intersecting lines. Each player tries to sur-
round, and thus capture, his opponent’s men with his own.
In Figure 2, White has surrounded and captured Black.
White removes all the surrounded Black tacks and keeps
them to be scored later. The captured player cannot have
any “breathing spaces.” In Figure 3, Black cannot take any
of White’s men because White still has a few breathing
spaces. A player may put his tack anywhere he desires ex-
cept in the situation such as shown in Figure 4 where a White
tack has been captured; in this case, White may not move
into that same vacant space on his next turn but must wait a

 

OCTOBER 1954

turn. If White did move in he could take a Black tack and
in the next turn Black could take White, and so on.

The border is neutral until it is touched by a tack, which
becomes a dominating power. In Figure 5, White, who sur-
rounds Black, has control of the border even though Black’s
markers are actually on the border. There are no avenues
of escape by the lines for Black—his markers are captured.

The games goes on, each player taking his turn _alternately
unless one refuses his play, which he may do as often as he

 

advantageous to stop quite early in the game because, in
scoring, a player’s controlled areas are counted. Controlled

-—-—————_—____.___________
Columbus Day—October 12

He gained a world; he gave that world
Its grandest lesson: “0n! sail on!”

—Joaquin M iller
—————_______________

areas are those with vacant holes surrounded completcly by
the tacks of one player. If the games goes on too long these
areas may be lost.

To score, each player adds the number of his opponcnt’s
captured tacks to the number of holes controlled by his own
tacks on the board. For example, suppose White has ten
of Black’s tacks and Black has fifteen of White’s tacks and,
in the score for the board, White has thirty controlled holes
and Black has thirty-eight. White’s total is forty and Black’s
is fifty-three.

If the whole board is used a game will probably last more
than one hour. For shorter games only a small portion of
the board should be played. In any' case, if the game is not
finished, Co may be set aside and resumed later from that
point. Using the cardboard playing area with thumbtacks
for markers makes this an ideal game for traveling.

Although Co has few rules, it offers a continuing chal-
lenge to children as well as to adults. The game involves
forethought, strategy and a certain amount of imagination.
The degree to which these qualities are possessed by the
players determines the intensity of the competition.

For detailed rules, playing tactics and strategy of other
versions of this game, read Edward Lasker’s Co and Co-

M oku, published by Alfred A. Knopf, 1934.

 
 

  
 

   

       

IIIIIIIIIIII III
EEEE$$I€=EEE EEE
lllyo’ 0‘01.- III
III! III
ii: :E:
III III

   

 

491

Carnival Games

in the Halloween Program

0

Ralph Borrelli

The recreation and park department
in Los Angeles, after twenty-seven years
of community Halloween celebrations,
last year provided an evening of activ-
ity for approximately 250,000 merry-
makers of all ages.

In the earliest celebrations only a few
playgrounds planned Halloween pro-
grams; and these consisted of bonfires,
costume parades, and a few simple
games and stunts. Today, civic and
service organizations cooperate with all
the centers in staging celebrations in
which the entire family takes part. Ac-
tivities begin with the traditional bon-
fires, followed by costume parades, plat-
form stunts, carnival games, side shows,
vaudeville shows, dancing and many
other events.

Over the years perhaps the most at-
tractive features of the celebrations
have been the p0pular carnival games
of skill.

Making use of old tires, bottles,
plates, barrels, wheels, fish bowls, hat
racks, animal cutouts, dime store gadg-

RALPH BORRELLI is the director of spe-
cial events for the Los Angeles Recrea-
tion and Park Department.

Painter puts final touches on “Bean-0,”
a game supplied by recreation depart-
ment for the annual Halloween program.

 

492

ets, and the play equipment atltheir fa-
cilities, directors have developed ingen-
ious targets at which contestants toss,
throw or shoot bean bags, balls, water
pistols, darts, fish lines, rubber jar
rings, broken bats, and even old hats.

The department’s 'annual bulletin,
Halloween Community Program Sug-
gestions, shows more than seventeen
games to construct from the materials
mentioned above. It also describes more
than twenty-seven target games which
are supplied to directors by the depart-
ment. In all, more than eight hundred
of these games are available—all made
to fit the standard carnival game booths
which are also supplied by the depart-
ment. Each year, as the games are
depleted by breakage and usage, they
are replaced with newer ones that have
been suggested and developed by the
Recreation Equipment Improvement
Committee. This committee, formed for
the purpose of studying and developing
new ideas in recreation equipment and
facilities, is composed of employees of
the department. They consider the mer-
its of every new game submitted and
select the best.

The games are designed to attract the
interest of various age levels. The age
classifications to be used depend largely
upon the neighborhood and the adapta-
bility of playground facilities. We have
found that some games should be ar-
ranged to attract father and son and
mother and daughter groups.

Some of the games supplied by the

department are:

Bean-0, shown at the bottom of the page,
a large, clown-face target with Openings
through which contestants try to toss bean
bags or softballs.

A “shooting” game consisting of a wooden
pumpkin—man target having lighted candles
in the eye openings. Contestants try to put
out the candles with water pistols.

A target with a witch on a broom. Con-
testants throw darts at a real apple in the
witch’s mouth.

 

“The Goofs,” a bean-bag tossing game
for small fry, designed by Ray Stalmack,
recreation director at Wilmington Play-
ground, intrigues the young contestants.

A wooden barrel decorated with pumpkin
and owl designs. Contestants try to throw
footballs into the barrel which is fastened in
a tilted position to a heavy wooden base.

Examples of games developed by rec-

reation directors:

A hat toss game using an old-fashioned hat
rack and assorted old hats which c0ntestants
try to “hang” on the rack from a distance.

A small clown’s-head target with mouth
cut out. Contestants attempt to get wooden
matches into the clown's mouth by blowing
them thIOUgh soda straws.

A cat’s head, made of Celotex, on a wooden
pendulum. Contestants throw darts at the
swinging head.

Small celluloid fish and ducks, each with

a number painted on the bottom, are fioated
in a washtub filled with water. Tiny tots try
to catch them with a long—handled sieve or
net. The numbers indicate the prizes they
receive.

Charges of a penny or two are some-
times made for the various games to
help defray the cost of prizes. How-
ever, where possible, games should be
free to children of ten years and under.

Contestants scoring bullseyes on the
various targets are awarded tickets
which are exchanged for prizes at a spe-
cial” booth. Rubber balloons, finger
traps, paper blowouts, squawkers,
shimmering skeletons, feathered hats,
assorted noisemakers,* horns, masks,
jewelry, candy kisses and suckers, candy
bars, and many other novelty store
items make good, inexpensive prizes.

Carnival games of skill have certainly
been a big factor in changing the pat-
tern of behavior of our youth on Hal-
loween; and the imaginative ability of
recreation directors in creating new and
attractive activities has resulted in safe,
sane and enjoyable community celebra—
tions for the people of Los Angeles.

*See “Masks and Noisemakers,” RECREA-
TION, October 1953.—Ed.

RECREATION

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

ALLHou need

Larqe piece of plgwoool.
1“ i” ne sawdusl’, wallpaper
pasl’e,qlue,brush,painl,dge,
sandpaper, cellulose sponge,
Twigs, sand, cardboard.

 

of area on pquUood Make models
.. " of buildinqs in area
How To MAKE. SAWDUST MIXTURE (use saweézs/M/M/re).

0r) Z/a’ea/ 0700/6/le maker/W #0 we in 2%e 6/6755 room, Acme, or cra/f group .
LMix wallpaper pasl'e l’o ponslsl’encg of lhick cream.
2.Adol fine sawdus’r l’o pas’re unlil mlx’rure is consis’rencg of heavg dough.

6) How lb make ---

    
 
 

Q

. GRASS moo/e (xx/V76. sou/,0qu

Tree»qmssah9dq9,el’0. r '  "  'o’g/ec/ green. {fh/n Mm ofé/ae
TREE made “my, on p/ywooa’ Iva/d5 Mm pit: _j
fwf and .5 n e. «a... «vs-“533%.; ,. 
9 pa 9 J 777/}? bqer of £53" 53:5:

g/ae covered 5017/7 
makes bare gnarl/7d.

 ~33?" '5' Hausa moo/é
Lei/h ce//u/05e sponge . ‘ In
Cardboard can be used /29 make fenceJP/C - - 0 fl
G/ue box/whgsjwa’qes, fences, e/c. /a p/z/waaa’base 4177/ Ao/e 172 base 7%; bo/d #685,,005/5‘, efc .

   

OCTOBER 1954 493

 

MRS. JONES opened the letter and let

out a sigh which signified, “Oh,
not that again!” It was the annual an-
nouncement of a workshOp program
which all staff members were expected
to attend. It stated that Mrs. X would
be the resource-person to “aid us in be-
coming more effective in our program-
ming and evaluating.” Mrs. Jones had
attended several of these so-called work-
shops and the programs to her were
the same everyday theories rehashed
by a different person. A “Question Pe-
riod” would follow, and after the ap-
plause died down, refreshments would
be served.

Many people feel this way when it
comes to workshop programs. However,
there is nothing more remote from re-
ality than this narrow concept. A vital
program has four major steps 5

The first step is the planning stage.
The person arranging for the workshop
should take a survey and find out from
those who are to attend what they feel
should be the agenda for the program.
For example, let us look at the work-
shop survey conducted by Mrs. L, a

DB. M. JERRY WEISS is on the staff of
the Guidance Division of the New York
City Board of Education, and is author
of Guidance Through Drama, published

by Wm.Morrow & Co., New York. $3.95.
494

M. Jerry Weiss

\ SPARKING UP
THAT WORKSHOP
PROGRAM

teacher who was in charge of a meeting
of county first- and second-grade teach-
ers. She sent a letter to all members
who were to attend and asked them to
assist her in mapping out the program.
What would they like to have as the
theme or focal point for the program?
What were their chief problems? About
three-fourths of the group answered and
Mrs. L tabulated the results. From these
she was able to develop three major di-
visions in which the interested teachers
could share. She selected leaders in
each field from the vicinity and asked
them to serve as resource people, not as
authorities, on these problem areas.

You can imagine the interest shown
by the teachers attending. From the
start they were participating in the pro-
gram. Their interests and needs had
been polled. The chairman knew that
for the maximum benefit to all attend-
ing she had to capitalize on'these inter-
ests and needs.

The second step is the selection of
the resource persons. What is the real
function of a resource person? Is he
an expert invited to come and speak on
a topic and then try to answer many of
the questions raised by his audience?
Or is he one who tries to clarify some
of the issues and by using good group
procedures, elicits from his audience

suggestions and ideas regarding the

questions and problems raised by other
members of the audience?

In reality, the workshop program
should use to good advantage all the
attending members. Everyone should
participate. The real resource person
is one who draws on the experiences
and abilities of his audience to share in
the solution of problems and in the de-
velopment of ideas. The workshop is
not the place for a lecture but for crea-
tive opportunity in cooperative plan-
ning and discussion. Every participant
in a workshop program should contrib-
ute—thus putting the “work” into work-
shop.

Let us look at a college course in rec-
reation skills taught by Professor K.
The teacher knows the chief objective
of most students in his course is to de-
velop sound recreation and social pro-
grams for specific organizations. What
better idea could there be than to have
them design specific programs for their
organizations and then try them out?
For instance, Mary is interested in de-
ve10ping a program for a teen-age can-
teen. She would like to learn some new
games for teen-agers that could be per-
formed within the facilities available.
She has looked up some games and now
she wants to test them. The other mem-
bers in the class become her “guinea
pigs.” They assume the roles of teen-

q

RECREATION

agers and Mary tries out her games and
ideas on this group.

Afterwards Professor K holds an
evaluation period for Mary’s benefit.
The members of the class discuss her
program, evaluating her techniques
and ideas, and offer constructive criti-

cism. In this way Mary gains the benc-o

fit of the help of many instead of one
so-called “expert.” Professor K also
expresses his ideas, but he realizes that
the group can often contribute much
more than he can. Isn’t-he an excellent
resource person? He’s really using all
of his resources, his entire class, to help
meet the problem at hand.

Of course, someone raises the inevi-
table question, “But suppose there are
too many people at the workshop?
What then?” The answer is quite sim-
ple: divide them into small, workable
groups. Try to put people of similar
interests and problems together. Eight
is a good number for a workable group.
By so dividing, more people are en-
couraged to participate _fully and, by
so participating, can gain much more
from the workshop experience.

The third step has already been men-
tioned, to keep in mind that all who at-
tend the workshop should be encour-
aged to participate fully. This means
that apprOpriate facilities should be ar-
ranged for beforehand in accordance
with the number attending and their
needs. The chairman should notify the
participants in advance as to the place
and time of their respective meetings.
The chairman should have set up suf-
flcicnt meeting places. Each group lead-
er, or resource person, should be noti-
fied ahead of time as to who is par-
ticipating in his group, the background
and experience and interest of each
member of that group. This enables
him to plan his approach wisely and to
prepare an interesting agenda that will
meet the needs of those in his group.
The leader could also make-name tags
for his members and save time other-
wise spent in getting-to-know-you chit-
chat. This does not mean that there
should be a formal atmOSphere about
the entire program. But if it is to be
a work session, schedule it as such. The
social hour can come at an appropriate
time for all.

The fourth and final step is the evalu-

OCTOBER 1954,

ation period. Each group can hold its
own evaluation and a summary of this
evaluation can be passed on to the over-
all chairman to profit by. It is from
such evaluations that the following
year’s program can be developed.

In the evaluation there should be a
report by the individual participants
as to what they got out of the experi-
ence. What was lacking? What could
have been improved upon? What was
the most successful item at the work-
shop? How were the resource people?
How were the individual group mem-
bers with their ideas and shared experi-
ences? Was there real cooperation?
Was it valuable learning eXperience?

There is very little doubt that the
workshop experience can be one of the
most en oyable learning experiences for
all participants; but its success depends
entirely upon how well it is planned.
It is important to see that the plans are
executed fully to the maximum benefit
of all. It takes a good chairman to do all
this———but even the workshop chairman
must work.

In using the workshop technique in

an English class, one of the students I

had this to say about the experience:
“You know, I never knew that so many
people could have so many different
ideas about some things. In fact, I can
honestly say that for the first time I
have really learned something.” Well,
that teacher found out that many more
students expressed the same surprise

and delight in the experience. The stu-
dents wanted more projects in which
they could share ideas and plans and
actions in working out common prob-
lems. The teacher set up a full semes-
ter’s program in workshop fashion and
felt that the students probably learned
more and enjoyed it more than if he
had lectured every day.

Once the idea of full participation be-
comes the keynote of the workshop pro-
gram, the more meaningful the pro-
gram will be. No matter what the theme
of the workshop, it must meet the in-
terests of those expected to participate.
Use these participants as the real re-
source peOple-——all planning, working
and sharing ideas together. Let the lead-
er be one skilled in group procedures,
knowing how to draw all of the mem-
bers into activity, an activity which will
Spark up the workshop program, mak-
ing all work instead of just one lecturer.
Then maybe you’ll hear this:

“You know, Myrtle, I really got some-
thing out of this. There‘ were several
there who had been faced with the same
problems that I was and they had some
splendid ideas. I even had a chance to
try out some of these ideas with the
group and, you know, they worked. I
can hardly wait to try them in my pro-
gram. Boy, what a difference there was
in this year’s workshop and the one they
had last year. I hope they keep it up
every year. Who knows, maybe I’ll
learn something next year, too!”

 

UNICEF GREETING CARDS

“Fun for the World’s Children,” a series of gay and colorful greeting cards
depicting the amusements of boys and girls in five different countries, will be sold
this year for the benefit of underprivileged children throughout the world by the
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF).

The designs by Swiss-born Roger Duvoisin, American illustrator of children’s

 

books, reflect the spirit of the holiday season in
their simple, appealing porlrayal of children of
widely varying cultures joined in a common
bond of youthful excitement and joy. In the
design shown here a blindfolded Mexican boy
tries to strike down a candy-filled figure that
hangs from a tree in the popular Christmas
game, La Pinata.

The cards cost one dollar for a box of ten— .
two of each design—either with greetings im-
printed in festive red and green in the five of-
ficial United Nations languages or blank for
use as notecards or holiday gifts. They may be
obtained by sending a check or money order to

the UNICEF Greeting Card Fund, United
Nations, New York.

495

New Statement of the NEA Educational Policies Commission.

ATHLETICS Pwééem cum! Paécdw

 

 

HE WIDESPREAD popularity of athletics is indicated by the
T generous publicity accorded games and sports in the
American press. The value of participation in athletic ac-
tivities and the enjoyment large numbers of people gain in
watching athletic events cannot be questioned. No phase
of the community recreation program is more popular. This
very fact may account for the tendency of questionable
practices to creep into the administration of sports and for
more serious problems to arise in relation to athletic poli-
cies than is true of other aspects of the recreation program.

The NEA Educational Policies Commission has made a
valuable contribution to the literature relating to athletics in
the publication of its recent report entitled School Athletics
—Pr0blems and Policies.* Individuals and agencies con-
cerned with community athletic programs will find this re-
port exceedingly useful even though its major emphasis is
upon school-centered athletics. The following excerpts from
the publication make it clear that the volume merits careful
study by all individuals concerned with the organization
and conduct of community sports programs.

Values and Goals

Participation in sound athletic programs, we believe, con-
tributes to health and happiness, physical skill and emotional
maturity, social competence and moral values.

We believe that cooperation and competition are both
important components of American life. Athletic participa-
tion can help teach the values of cooperation as well as the
spirit of competition.

Playing hard and playing to win can help to build charac-
ter. So also do learning to “take it” in the rough and tumble
of vigorous play, eXperiencing defeat without whimpering
and victory without gloating, and disciplining oneself to
comply with rules of games and “of good sportsmanship.

Athletics may also exemplify the value of the democratic
process and of fair play. Through team play the student

'“Available from the Educational Policies Commission, 1201 Six-
teenth Street, N.W., Washington 6, D. C. $1.00. Digested here.

496

athlete often learns how to work with others for the achieve-
ment of group goals. Athletic competition can be a whole-
some equalizer. Individuals on the playing field are judged
for what they are and for what they can do, not on the basis
of the social ethnic, or economic group to which their fami-
lies belong.

Leaders who value educational outcomes above victories
will see to it that players have opportunity to plan, to make
mistakes and profif from them, to grow in self-reliance.

One can learn from athletics not only about other people
but also how to get along with them. One learns to take
turns, to respect the rights of others, and to judge others
for what they can do. The playing field should become a
living laboratory of democracy in action, where all players
are treated without favor or prejudice.

Both competition and cooperation are prized in our Amer-
ican culture. Both values are fostered by well-conducted
athletic games for children and youth. Athletics are com-
petitive by definition and they are cooperative by necessity.
In team games, athletic competition teaches the individual
how to work with others for group goals.

More youth today should have eXperience in playing
games in which fellow players and leaders encourage a spirit
of fairness, observance of the rules, sporting attitudes to-
ward teammates and opponents and ability to “take it” in
defeat or disappointment.

Principles

All children and youth should have opportunities to de-
velop skill in a variety of athletic activities. Young'children
need chances to play games that involve few rules and small
numbers of players. For children in the Upper elementary
grades there should be limited eXperiences in team games
suited to their needs, interests and stage of development.
As they progress through school, boys and girls become in-
terested in the more highly organized individual, dual and
team sports.

There should be dual sports and team sports, easy sports
and hard ones, indoor and outdoor, common games and
unusual ones, some for boys alone, some for girls alone and
some for boys and girls together. There should be activi-
ties suitable for children with physical handicaps, some for
small and delicate children, some to test the mettle of the
larger and stronger ones.

During his twelve years from first grade to high school
graduation the child changes continuously in needs, inter-
ests, and capacities for athletic experience. Pressure to
involve younger children, below grade ten, in highly or-

RECREATION

ganized competition of a varsity type must be resisted.

Good programs of athletics—like all other kinds of good
education—are not to be had at the bargain counter. Such
programs can function at full efiectiveness only when the
school plant contains ample indoor and outdoor Space, safe
equipment in good condition, sufficient in supply for a va-
riety of sports that all pupils can play, and a professional
stafir that is large enough to give leadership to a broad pro-
gram of activities.

Athletic games, in all cases, should be played with em-
phasis on fun, physical deveIOpment, skill and strategy, so-
cial experience, and good sportsmanship. High-pressure
competition, with overemphasis on the importance of win-
ning, should not be sanctioned in any part of the school pro-
gram. When such competition is promoted for children and
youth outside the school’s jurisdiction, school personnel
should not only refuse to give it their sanction but should
also exert leadership in the community to bring about better
understanding of what constitutes desirable athletic experi-
ence for young people.

Elementary School Age Children

Athletics—that is, organized competitive physical sports
-—-have less to contribute to growth and health in the early
school years than is the ease later on. For children in grades
one through six, deve10pmental needs will be met most ade-
quately if physical activities are largely informal and non.
competitive. Athletic competition should be introduced
gradually, with simple relays, tag games, and team games
involving simple rules and relatively few players.

Providing suitable games for children of elementary
school age requires understanding of their needs and in-

Children of elementary-school age require games that are
suited to their needs, interests and their varying limitations.

 

OCTOBER 1954

 

ADMINISTRATIO

terests and the limitations of their varying degrees of im-
maturity. It is not achieved by cutting adult sports down to
size by simply reducing playing time or playing areas. And
it is not achieved by having children stage miniature pro-
ductions of “big time” sports for the amusement of adult
spectators.

Above all, children should learn to play for the fun of
playing. If sports activities are so organized that great
stress is placed on “making the team,” the few who succeed
may gain personal satisfactions, but others may deve10p
aversions to athletic participation. If adults place great em-
phasis on winning, children will do the same, with the result
that victory becomes so grim an objective that defeat may
bring emotional upset.

Children of elementary school age should not engage in
boxing, ice hockey, tackle football, or other sports involving
serious risk of injury from body contact. Although ice
hockey and tackle football are permissible for boys in senior
high school, boxing has no legitimate place in educational
programs. Injuries received from boxing are apt to be dis-
figuring, and damage to brain tissue from repeated blows
may be cumulative and serious.

The promotional efforts of some adult organizations and
business firms to involve boys from eight to twelve years of
age in highly organized competition constitute a serious
problem. Practices resulting from such efforts are fairly
widespread and appear to be on the increase. C0ping with
this problem is particularly difficult for school personnel
because it lies largely beyond the normal jurisdiction of the
schools. Many such promotional activities are motivated by
the desire to provide adult entertainment, to secure pres-
tige or advertising for commercial enterprises or to gain in-
come from gate receipts. Mixed with such incentives are
the good intentions of over-enthusiastic adults who believe
that such activities for children are good for the community
and beneficial to the participants.

Junior High School Age Pupils

Junior high school pupils are eager to participate in all
sorts of activities, but they are not yet physically ready for
sports that call for much endurance and strength or for
vigorous body contact. Skeletal structure during the early
adolescent period undergoes rapid growth with a corres-
ponding increase in weight. Muscles, however, are not de-
veloped fully enough for the youngster to handle his body
with facility. Maturation of the heart and lungs has not
kept pace with growth in height and weight.

Tests of endurance at this stage of develoliment may over-
tax body organs. Vigorous activities are harmful if they
cause unhealthy fatigue. Levels of maturation among junior
high school children vary greatly—even among those of
similar age and size. Since bone growth is not yet complete,
body-contact sports can be dangerous.

Boxing, ice hockey, and tackle football are not recom-
mended for the athletic program of junior high schools.
Boxing should certainly be prohibited. Concerning tackle
football for junior high school boys, however, there are dif-
ferences of opinion. Thus, the most practical, as well as
safest, policy is to limit junior high school boys to touch

49?

football or flag football, postponing tackle football- until

senior high school. .
It is often said that boys want to play only football, bas-

ketball, and baseball. This may be because they have never
had suitable opportunities to learn other sports. Most boys
or girls of unior high school age develop interests in many
activities when they have chances to learn them.

The junior high school boy needs opportunities for wide
participation in athletic activities of his own choosing and
his own pace. He needs protection from overstimulation.
This is especially true of the boy who shows early promise
as an athlete. He needs careful guidance and may need to
be deliberately restricted as far as intense competition is
concerned, so that he may do himself justice as an athlete
when he reaches fuller maturity.

Most junior high school girls are growing rapidly. They
tend to mature earlier than boys. At this age, distinctly
feminine interests are becoming manifest. Although girls
want to run, jump, do acrobatics, dance, and participate
in team and individual sports, they tire easily and should
not be stimulated to engage in prolonged strenuous activity.
Leaders with understanding and patience can help each girl
select activities that will give her satisfaction, help her main-
tain fitness and gain poise.

Senior High School Students

With the increase in community recreation facilities the
school has a responsibility for giving all students oppor-
tunities to deve10p suHicient skill and interest in a variety
of activities to make playing enjoyable. Youth—in and out
of school, as well as adults, can find opportunities to main-
tain fitness, enjoy recreation games together and extend
friendship. Playing in a friendly atmosphere of unpressured
competition in which they choose their own partners satis-
lies many. In the glamour of the spectacular highly organ-
ized competitive sports, the social values of the less dramatic
but more functional or less pressured competitive activities
are often forgotten.

There is little satisfaction in learning the skills and tech-
niques of a game unless there is opportunity to use thosc
skills in meaningful competition. In the atmosphere of con-
test some vital lessons of the game acquire their greatest
educational values. Every competitor should have an op-
portunity to compete when there are approximately equal
chances to win or lose and when some significance is at-
tached to the outcome.

All program planning for physical activities must con-
sider the wide disparity of physiological differences among
high school students of the same chronological ages. Thus,
competition should be organized among adolescents of com-
parable height, weight, and skill.

Emphasis should be placed upon Sports that not only are
of interest during school years, but may also be played in
adulthood: volleyball, badminton, bowling, archery, tahle
tennis, handball, squash, paddleball, tennis, golf, horse-
shoes, shuffleboard, softball, skating and water activities,
for example.

Each sex needs some sports in separate groups. Each sex
also needs frequent periods when appropriate sports can be

4-98

enjoyed together. Each sex must learn all through school
years to respect and understand the capability and interests
of the other. Among athletic activities, several sports are
liked by hoys and girls almost equally well and they con-
stitute a fine medium for friendly participation. Appropri-
ate activities are: golf tournaments and events such as the
mixed two-ball foursome, flag tourney, driving, putting, and
clock golf, or mixed bowling' teams and leagues, archery,
tennis, volleyball, swimming, dancing, shuffleboard, table
tennis, hiking and many more.

Girls run, jump, throw, catch, kick, dodge and hit as na-
turally as boys do. They may not be able to run as fast or

. throw as far. They may not be able to hit as hard or endure

as long. But within the limits of their own capacities they
can derive the same educational outcomes from sports that
boys do.

The basic question is: In what ways and under what con-
ditions shall girls participate in athletics in order to insure
maximum benefits? The problem is not how to adapt the
girls to a sports program dominated by men and boys, but
how to adapt the sports program itself to the needs, inter-
ests and abilities of girls and women who are—-—and'want
to remain—feminine beings in modern society.

The potential educational outcomes can be realized when
suitable and ample facilities are available regularly: The
practice of giving boys priority on athletic play areas and
gymnasiums and assigning the girls to the left-overs or the
facilities in the “off—season” is indefensible.

The employment of well-trained coaches with high ideals
is one of the surest ways to prevent the development of bad
practices in athletics. A coach brings to his boys expert
knowledge of the skills of the sport he teaches. He usually
is a skillful performer. His attitudes and actions, at or away
from the athletic contests, receive much notice.

These are some principles that good coaches observe:

1. They recognize that coaching is teaching.

2. They make their work an integral part of the school program.
giving spccial attention to its educational contribution.

3. They insist on the enforcement of all rules of athletic eligility
and seek no favors for athletes.

4. They are fair and unprejudiced in relationships with students.

5. They pay careful attention to the physical condition of players
at all times.

6. They .see to it that only competent game oHicials are selccted
and support their decisions.

7. They teach students to use only legitimate and ethical means
in trying to win.

8. They counteract rumors of questionable practices by opponents.

9. They seek to prevent gambling, ohscene language and other
offenses against honesty and decency.

10. They set good examples for boys to follow.

11. They help student athletes to understand that they are neither
more nor less important than their fellow students.

A coach must realize that his prominence comes as a part
of the job rather than as a personal tribute, and he must
govern his conduct accordingly. At an athletic contest the
coach on the sidelines can have more influence on players
and Spectators than any other person present. This is re-
sponsibility the right coach will not try to escape.

In the appendix to the volume is a check list on school
athletics consisting of one hundred questions relating to
phases of the athletic program. The appendix also contains
a section quoting standards and recommendations adopted
by various groups concerned withmathletics in the schools.

RECREATION

 

BISMARCK again takes the lead among

North Dakota towns in providing
means for the development of recrea-
tion facilities. On April 6, 1954, the
people of Bismarck voted on a special
issue which would allow the Board of
Park Commissioners, which also servcs
as the Board of Recreation, to levy up
to five mills per year for the construc-
tion and maintcnance of recreation fa-
cilities. The proposal passed by a ma-
jority of about sixty-eight per cent,
although only a fifty per cent vote was
required.

This city of about 22,000 already has
a four-mill levy for park purposes and
a two-and-one-half-mill tax for recrea-
tion purposes. With its new funds thc
expansion of the city’s recreation areas
and facilities is assured.

 
 
 
 
  
   

-'.‘ u‘

3' gas-"aesm

| OCTOBER 1954

 

 .. . .. Wam-  .. 
525; :' .’. l§-IH_E_MUCH.|§EEP£I§ j j -  . 

The first project to be undertaken
with thc funds from the new levy is a
swimming pool and interest in the con-
struction of a new pool was an impor-
tant factor in the favorable referendum.
As a means of arousing intercst in the
need of additional recreation facilities,
including a new pool, the superintend-
ent of parks and recreation mailed let-
ters to seventy-five local clubs and or-
ganizations, inviting them to send a
representative to a meeting to discuss
the problem. Members of virtually all
of the organizations appeared and, after
the needs were pointed out, the group
decided unanimously that a new pool
should be constructed.

The group was organized under thc
name of “The New Swimming Pool

SteeriniClr Committee.” Officers were
D

1.1  . '570FSB"; " 
' ' . :I-. .' '. *"f'L-é' I I 

   
 

5.

    
     
  
 

- -

     

  

 

ADMINISTRATIO

PROMOTION OF A MILL LEVY

George Sclnaumbcrg

elected and committees were appointed
to consider such items as location, pub-
licity, finance and membership. Mem-
hers were encouraged to inform their
respective organizations about develop-
ments and everyone in town began talk-
ing about the prOposed new pool.
Minute details for the referendum
campaign werc developed during the
fall and winter, but there was little pub-
licity other than a short news story tell-
ing about the meetings of thc group. A
month before the election an intensive
campaign got under way. Thc president
of the steering committee arranged talks
with thc various local organizations;
in fact, whenever he heard of a group
meeting he arranged for someone to
talk on the proposed pool. No informa-
tion was withheld from the public and
the facts, including the costs to the tax-
payers, were presented openly. A mime-
ographed statement presenting the need
for a new pool and describing how thc
new levy would affect the tax rate was

issued and distributed at all the meet-
ings. A brochurc, from which the ac-

companying illustrations are taken, was
distrihuted to all grade-school young-
sters in the first six grades. Unknown
to the department of recreation, the
members of the junior high school as-
sembled a makeshift band, banners, a
truck and bicycles and paraded through-
out the city asking the peOple to vote
for the new pool.

The residents of Bismarck are look-
ing forward to the construction of their
new ‘pool which will relieve the heavy
load upon the other municipal pool

which was built in 1920.

 

GEORGE SCIIAUMBERG is superintendent
of parks and recreation in Bismarck.

4-99

The first prize of $1,000 went to Virginia
Dorteh Dorazio, a painter from New York
City. Her “Fantastic Village,” above, of
houses five feet tall, offcrs ladders, elintbing
ropes, a “broken window” of rubber to elimb
through, peep holes, attractive eolor sehcme.

Play sculpture is new but where it
is in use children and the public are
delighted with it. Sweden, Den-
mark and India each have at least
one example; Oakland, California,
is proud of its piece designed by

Bob Winston; Philadelphia, Penn-

sylvania, recently acquired one.

 

500

 

Prize Winning Models

PLAY SCULPTUIH

The Nationwide Play Sculpture Compctition

Play equipment designed to stimulate and exercise the imagination
of children, opening doors to their favorite world of make-believe,
was the object of the recent Play Sculpture Competition sponsored
by Parents’ Magazine, the Museum of Modern Art and Creative Play-
things, Inc. The judges, including Joseph Prendergast of the National
Recreation Association, made their selection of the prize-winning
models from a really exciting array of new ideas which were incor-
porated in thc over three hundred entries submitted by artists from
all over the country. Final decisions were determined by four basic
considerations—aesthetic quality, play value, safety factors and manu-
facturability.

Photographs of some of the models which won prizes or honorable
mention are shown on these pages. Pipe-cleaner figures indicate the
relative size of each structure and suggest the kind of fun youngsters

Photos and eaptions reprinted courtesy Parents’ Magazine, July 1954; contest
winners photographed by Ralph Steiner.

 

RECREATION

 
    
    
     

ADMINISTRATIO

Seeond prize of $500 was given to artist-designer
Ilobert (.‘argiule of Plainfield, New Jersey. IIis group
of column and spool-like forms, above left, some two
feet, some six feet high, make a labyrinth of spaces
and shapes; youngsters can run, crawl or sit and talk.

The third prize of $200 was won by Sidney Cordin,
a sculptor front New York City, for a low-lying tun-
nel maze, below left. Resembling rolling hills, its
rounded surfaces are fine for running, jumping, slid-
ing, and children can also erawl or hide in the tunnels.

 

U

=3!

*-

  

   

 r P L  G R 0 U N I] 8 Play Seulptnre in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

could have with them. These models, and about thirty-five of the
most interesting runners-up, were exhibited at the Museum of Modern
Art in New York City during July and August. Such imaginative
play structures‘are beginning to give a new dimension and an intrigu-
ing look to the playgrounds of today and may, perhaps, do the same
for your own backyard in the near future.

The Play Sculpture Division of Creative Playthings, Inc, is one of
the exhibitors at the 36th National Recreation Congress in St. Louis.

 

Honorable Mention Was Awarded to Three Artists for Models Below may sculpture in Oi'klimd" califoruia

Sculptnred forms in a sand area by Colored, movable panels by Joseph Tunnels for young children designed
Dean Latourell of Seattle, Washington: A. Maxwell, Jr. of Anbnrn, Alabama by Julia Pearl, Minneapolis, Minnesota

     

When Uncle Silas told the story about
the cow getting into the petunias, every-

Howard R. Rich

one laughed uproariously. When Aunt
Martha told the same story it wasn’t
funny at all. Why? It was the same
cow; and surely the petunias were just
as trampled in either case. Mother, who
always knew all the answers, explained
it this way, “Your Uncle Silas is a
natural born story teller. Your Aunt
Martha is a good woman, but she’s all
tied up with facts and figures. Comes
of being a bookkeeper beforc she was
married.”

I think some of our recreation annual
reports could stand a great deal less of
Aunt Martha and much more of Uncle
Silas. Cold figures need to be warmed
up. The driest annual report is alive
and throbbing with interest only to the
person intimately concerned with it.
The director, who takes a last look at
his report before it leaves for printing,
sees not a long list of figures but a glow-
ing account of cooperative effort in pub-
lic service.

He sees a whole town of boys divided
into different baseball teams, friendly
competition and good sportsmanship,
and warm summer nights with neigh-
borhood crowds cheering their favorite
team. That figure of $432.45 for craft
material conjures up a picture of Mrs.
Smith, a housewife, having fun learning
to tie flies. He sees Mrs. Jones” pride in

MR. RICH is director, Sheboygan, Wis-
consin, public recreation department.

502

 

the beautiful bracelet made in metal-
work class. He sees pavement dances
and whirling square dancers answering
to the the calls of “dosey do.” He re-
members classes in basketball, swim-
ming, tennis; picnics on hot Sunday
afternoons and fine community plays
with grateful audiences applauding
while a proud and'happy cast takes just
one more curtain call.

These are certainly far from cold fig-
ures but they present a cold picture, if
any, to the general public. It’s an inter-
esting story, so why not make that re-
port a cheerful, even humorous, ac-
count of human endeavor? Tell it with
enthusiasm, thcreby reporting to the
public on your wise use of their funds,
and at the same time interesting more
pe0ple in. a personal recreation pro-
gram so much needed today. '

How do we go about stirring up this
interest? Here are just a few of many
ways:

1. We must have a well-organized
story to tell. The collection of material
begins with the first day of the year and
ends with the last. It is impossible to
sit down at the end of the year to gather
the threads of events without missing a
great many. Your file should contain a
folder marked “Annual Report.” Every
day that you start a new class, every
big event, many notes, clippings, let-
ters, writc-ups, pictures, and even sta-
tistics should go into this folder. A
copy of your budget should also be
there, along with notes on attendance,
interesting happenings, contests, names
of contestants, winners of contests,
notcs on new equipment, staff and per-
sonnel who have made outstanding con-
tributions and benefactors whose help
gave a lift to your program. It would
also be well to add an outline of future
plans.

With such a file started and kept up
daily, you will be amazed at how rapidly
your report will grow before your eyes.

2. You will find a bulletin board a

great enthusiasm builder. Your staff
and even the class itself will enjoy help-
ing with this feature.

3. One picture is worth a thousand
words. Most of us are eye-minded and
the importance of telling your story
with plenty of eye- and attention-hold-
ing pictures cannot be overstressed. A
good camera stands high on the list of
necessary equipment. Train one of your
staff in its proper use and take a picture
of each activity. Try for interesting
pictures that tell the story.

4. Collect cartoons, illustrations, and
cuts from newsPapers and re-adapt
them to fit your purpose in an imagi-
native way. If you use the photo offset
process, all these can be reproduced
quite reasonably and without cuts.
Have students in art or sketching classes
contribute something toward your re-
port. Their pen and ink and sometimes
pencil drawings will reproduce well.

5. Orient your story to your audi-
ence, which is large, diverse in interests,
and mostly very busy. Think of the
printed material bidding for attention
each day. In self preservation, we must
automatically screen it and focus on
only the most interesting.

The recreation director is a lot likc
the man who st0pped in the middle of
planting grass seed because he thought
of all the mowing to come. “I’m just
fighting myself,” he said. It is the duty
of the recreation department to interest
as many pe0ple as possible in their
program. This job of re-creating and
rebuilding enthusiasm for the daily
grind is one that is never quite done.
However, the more pe0ple you interest
in your program, the more money you
are going to need. Unless the taxpayers
realize how important this work is and
where your money goes, they will be
loathe to give you larger appropria-
tions. Your best bet for focusing all
these divergent viewpoints on your de-
partment is a'bang-up annual report.

Yours is one of the most interesting
jobs in the world. Tell the world about
it not as one social worker to another,
but as a fellow mighty excited about his
very interesting job would tell it to the
friend who didn’t know the first thing
about it. Beam it to the guy you would
like to find in the front row of your

class next year.

RECREATION

THEY'RE MISSING PLENTY

Your board members
Your mayor, city manager
Your recreation supervisors

Your leaders—both paid and volunteer

Your maintenance supervisor
Your purchasing agent
Your library

Localvocational guidance counselors _ . _   doni‘l' have

their own copy of 0

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

With its help you can provide a con-
tinuous program of local education-
for-recreation . . . help young peaple
get into recreation work, recruit great-
ly needed leaders far your own field.
Enter a subscription for these people,

be suprised how reading about what
other communities are doing in recrea-
tion facilities, leadership, program ac-
tivities, will spark a new interest and
make everyone more receptive to sound
recreation thinking in solving local

a legitimate budget charge and you'll problems.

$4.00 one yr. (Remember, a subscription is included in membership) $7.25 twa yrs.

|‘————————————————-————---------——-—--—-——0

A

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N.

Send genocide” to:

 

NAME NAME

 

 

——_—__._ _..—-.

DEPARTMENT OR ORGANIZATION DER:R'TMENT‘ORbRGANIZITION—

 

 

 

 

 

 

503

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I W FIRE
I
I STREET ADTTESS STREET—ADDRESS
' thi -_____  ______-__
Pm EXIEO caples Of 5 I CITY ZONE STATE CITY ZONE STATE
Recreation tool to work I -
FOR ,YOU I PLEASE ENTER [:1 SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR:
Make your local iob easier far I N—IEWW-T— D one year 34.00 CI Two years 5725
yourself and your staFf . . . and I  I enclose s .
help people who are on their way | H __ ON _ "—
up by seeing that they have THEIR I DEPARTMENT 0R ORGANIZATI
OWN COPY af RECREATION! Just I My mm.
use the handy coupon and we'll I TITLE — '
' or our de art- _____________. E.____
be grid to b'” you y p I ________ ___ _______ _ DEPARTMENT 0R ORGANIZATION
- me" ' l STREET ADDRESS
° An ATTRACTIVE CARD will be sent to I _
| announce your gift. I TITLE
.. u . | CITY ZONE STATE
3‘ it. | STREET ADDRESS
2* '. .__.__..__.. ___....__.
to, , ,.~° I CITY ZONE" STATE
I
I
I

II OCTOBER 1954-
I

l

P E B S 0 N N E L

The present status of some of the es-
sential elements that make the “person-
nel wheel” spin are:

Recruitment: The number one prob-
lem. At long last we are beginning to
break into the “awareness” stage of
realizing that a recruiting problem ac-
tually exists, and that the responsibility
belongs to every one identified with the
recreation profession. This dawning
consciousness makes the situation more
hopeful. Recruiting, not only to fill cur-
rent positions but also recruiting for the
profession and to increase enrollment in
our professional recreation curricula, is
mostly a local reSponsibility and should
be practiced in communities nation-
wide. How can we talk about “selec-
tion” unless we have a broad, continu-
ous, permanent recruiting program suf-
ficiently productive to give us pools of

A

prOSpects from which to select?

Selection: Like its cousin, “recruit-
ing,” this phase of the recreation pic-
ture is beginning to be recognized as
worthy of deep concern. Selection is
nigh impossible unless cousin “recruit-
ing” does its job effectively. There must
be at least a few more candidates than
places to he filled whether selecting for
positions or for admission into the pro-
fessional curriculum. Good selection is
the “cornerstone” and the entire move-
ment depends upon it. lnadequately
prepared and incompetent leaders, ac-
cepted at the entrance level and ad-
vanced to supervisory and administra-
tive responsibility because they are the
only ones meeting experience require-
ments, should be viewed with alarm.
lt makes no difference whether they are
legally eligible or not, for the results
will be the same. Likewise, “profes-
sional education” will make a paltry
contribution to recreation unless selec-

MR. SUTIIERLAND is the director of the
Recreation Personnel Service of NRA.

504-

tion receives more than lip service. Bas-
ically, selection should be tied to indi-
vidual growth potential.

Professional Education: The key to
the strength of any profession may be
found in large measure in the quality of
the institutions preparing its members.
The profession needs to be discriminat-
ing in putting its stamp of approval up-
on institutions conducting major recre-
ation curricula. Also, the profession
should do what it can to help recruit
students in order that enrollment in the
recreation curricula may be maintained
at a level that will assure an adequate
flow of professionally prepared leaders
to meet the needs of the recreation
movement. As yet, the profession has
not met these two obligations and the
schools have been forced to carry more
than their share of responsibility. The
enrollment in professional recreation
curricula in 1954 is adequate to meet
about one-half of the present-day needs.

Placement: Conditions surrounding
placement continue to improve. Posi-
tions are being defined more adequate-
ly, salaries continue to show increases
and other benefits are becoming more
attractive. An estimated turnover of six-
teen per cent, however, is still too high
and indicates much room for improve—
ment. Probably 1,500 reasonably good
recreation positions will be filled in
1954. Many of these will he filled by
individuals without adequate profes-
'sional education and experience, which
leads us into our next item and gives
support to those who have constantly
and rightly advocated “in-service train-
ing” and stressed its importance.

lit—Service Training: Voices from the
field keep calling, “training, training,
and more training.” This in spite of
the fact that the opportunities for it
have increased in manifold forms. The
association’s district field representa-

tives, in most of their annual reports

W. C. Sutherlant

have urged more and specialized train
ing for (1) supervisors, (2) seasona
and part-time personnel and (3) boar:
members, city officials and civic leaders
The above five major points hav.
been singled out by the profession in
1954 for special treatment. For exam
ple, thirty-five sessions hearing on thesl
subjects were held at the district con
fcrences this year. Others' are being
held at the National Recreation Con
gress and by state and local agencies
There must be many good leaders an:
a sizable number of good executive:
operating throughout the country be
cause these things do not just happen.
Back of this widespread movemen
for the development of leadership art
men and women of strong faith, pro
found convictions, rare courage, tre
mendous energy and action. Are yor
one of these? People follow a leadel
willingly—a dictator grudgingly. A
leader does things that make people re
spect and admire him, look up to bin
and come to him. Are you a leader?

A good executive delegates jobs, re
sponsibility and authority. To do tha1
he must select capable teammates, trair
them and trust them. A good executive
has: ability to lead and develop others;
ability' to win their respect and full
knowledge of their jobs; he has skill ir.
carrying out policies; administratin
ability; emotional control and capacity
for constructive and original thinking.
Are you a good executive?

Some people pretend to have all the
answers and to be always right. They
think those who disagree with them are
queer. No one can always be right, and
if he could be, he would be unbearable.
Keep an open mind and leave a.chanee
for someone to drop a worthwhile
thought into it. The best leaders and
executives are politely brief, tactfully
aggressive, pleasantly emphatic, diplo-
matically positive, and gracefully right.
Are you one of these?

RECREArrgN

Recent Appointments

Robert A. Bauman, superintendent -

of recreation, Columbia Heights, Min-
nesota; Edward I. Bender, area recre-
ation supervisor, Baltimore County,
Maryland; Charles 5. Brand, superin-
tendent of recreation, Painesville, Ohio;
John A. Clark, superintendent of parks
and recreation, Benton County, Wash-
ington; F. Lucille Davis, executive di-
rector, Y.W.C.A., Bayonne, New Jer-
sey; Frank H. Dearborn, superintend-
ent of recreation, Fairport, New York;
James L. Datton, assistant director,
Community Center, Newark, N. J.

Kittye C. Gilmore, girls’ worker,
Bradfield Community Center, Lima,
Ohio; Doxie Hoover, girls’ worker,
Recreation Department, Sioux City,
Iowa; Gene Landy, director, youth cen-
ter, La Canada, California; James
M alico, recreation supervisor, Purchase,
New York; Marion Martin, health and
physical education director, Y.W.C.A.,
Waterbury, Connecticut; Edward Mc-
Cardle, director, youth center, Dolge-
ville, New York; Reid L. Mittan, high
school recreation director, Shades Val-
ley, Alabama.

Frances M. Roasli, girls’ worker, Rec-
reation Department, Leominster, Mas-
sachusetts; Bernard Sadowslri, assist-
ant superintendent of recreation, Cen-
ter Line, Michigan; Arnold Spaan, rec-
reation supervisor, Albion, Michigan;
Anna M. Uttrup, program director,
West End Neighborhood House, Wil-
ntington, Delaware; Arthur D. Wed-
dington, director of special activities,

Neighborhood House, Rochester, N. Y.

 

Father and son share the fun at a !
crafts program at Kennedy Memorial -

Park in Hempstead, New York. Many

airmen and their families from nearby

Mitchell Field use the facilities and serv- }

ices of the Hempstead Recreation Cont-
mission.

Making recreation opportunities like
this available to military personnel is a
basic objective of the defense related

services of the National Recreation As- '

sociation, a member agency of the
United Defense Fund. The UDF is fi-
nanced through Community Chests and
other united community campaigns.

OCTOBER 1954

I over 10,000
1 schools in the
U. 5. now use

Gymnasium .3.

0 Gymnasium Equipment

0 Telescoplc Gym Seats
0 Basketball Scoreboards
0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

Ware to» W9
, RED MEDART PRODUCTS,IN(.

3566 DE KAlB ST. ST. IOUIS 18, MO.

For 78 Years
The Standard Of QUality

 

Iii

 

Honor Your
Partner
teaching aids

  

Square Dance Associates

Gentlemen: I wont to learn more about the HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums. Please send me
a free descriptive folder. '

NAME
ADDRESS... _......._.......______ __
CITY

-—-—..—-—
---—---l

I.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

 

_._...._..___.. ...._._.ZONE
Canadian Distributors: Thomas Allen, ltd., 266 King Street West, Toronto 28, Ontario

    

Whatever the craft

you are teaching: woodworking, model
building, leather, metal, plastics, ceramics

x-acto knives,
tools 8. sets

designed by craftsmen and precision-mode.
for fine craftsmanship

will help you
do a better iob

by helping your students get better results
and more creative satisfaction.

Explore lndioncrofts— send for Beodcroft
booklet: detailed instructions, full color de-
sign, patterns—25¢.

Complete X-octo 28 page catalog—FREE
dept. R.-TO.

X'CIO‘I'OG: In c .

48-41 Van Dam Street

long Island City 1, N. Y.

 

thy—thinsfnr children

Another

important

Honor Your Partner
teaching aid by

Ed Durlacher

Here is an album presented eXpressly to aid those who teach
rhythms and musical appreciation to the youngest in schools,
recreation departments and day schools. This is the only available
rhythm recording using Ed Durlacher's simplified system of
teaching, coupled with a full orchestral background. The perfect
rhythm beat and tempo of the music by the Tap Hands and

Ed Durlocher's clear and concise instructions‘are combined to
make this the ideal teaching aid for rhythms.

All records are pressed on pure vinylite and are
guaranteed against breakage.

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

Dept. R-2, Freeport, N. Y.

STATE-

 

‘-------

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 505

 
 

O W. H. Orion recently accepted'the
position of area management supervisor
with the Department of Veterans Bene-
fits. His former position, as chief of
recreation division, Special Services,
Department of Medicine and Surgery,
Veterans Administration, will be filled
by C. C. Bream, Jr., who has been as-
sociated with the VA.hospital recrea-
tion program sincc 1945.

Q Jackson M. Anderson has succeeded
.l. Bertram Kessel as consultant in rec-
reation and outdoor education for the
American Association for Health, Phy-
sical Education, and Recreation. Mr.
Kessel has joined the staff of Sargent
College, Boston University.

9 Fred W. Roewekamp has been ap-
pointed the Los Angeles City Recrea-
tion and Park Department’s first super-
intendent of park development. This ap-
pointment rounds out the department’s
top-level administrative staff and com-
pletes the integration which was launch-
ed by the 1947 charter amendment ap-
proving consolidation of the former
playground and recreation and park de-
partments.

0 Motion picture star and Academy
Award winner William Holden has been
appointed to the Los Angeles City Rec-
reation and Park Commission. Mr.
Holden succeeds former councilman,
George P. Cronk who resigned recently.

9 At a recent convention of the Utah
Recreation Society, Charlotte Stewart
was honored with a distinguished serv-
ice award for her outstanding contribu-
tion to recreation in Salt Lake City and
the State of Utah. As the first super-
visor of physical education and the first
superintendent of recreation in Salt
Lake City, she planned the facilities for
health and recreation for thousands of
children. For fifty years she has heen
the pivot of recreation progress in her
community.

In Memoriam

James Bent Taylor, associate director
of Community Chests and Councils of
America, died in August. Mr. Taylor
began his social work career in 1923.:
and through the years held positions
with'community fund and social welfare
agencies, joining the executive staff of
Community Chests and Councils in

1938. During World War II, he served

506

Reporter’s
N otehook

as associate director of public relations
for the National War Fund, and in 1950
he became executive director of the
United Defense Fund, a position he re-
signed only recently to return to Com-
munity Chests and Councils.

Here and There

9 In his report to the New York State
Public Recreation Society at its annual
meeting, presidcnt Sal Prezioso stated
that the society needs “. to alert
manufacturers and dealers of recreation
equipment, and others so associated, to
the necessity of their support—not only
at convention time but throughout the
year. Last year (1953), 135 communi-
ties spent $24,881,353.17 on recreation.
Recreation is big business and it de-
mands the support of those who profit
from it.”

Q Representatives of eleven official and

non-official metropolitan regional plan-
ning bodies met in Columbus, Ohio,
during May to consider a new Associa-
tion of Metr0politan Regional Planning
Organizations to represent the interests
and activities of metropolitan regional
planning throughout the United States.
All present voted to constitute them-
selves an organizing committee with T.
Ledyard Blakeman, director of the De-
troit Metropolitan Area Planning Com-
mission, as provisional president.

The purposes of the new association
will be: (1) to act as a national clear-
ing house in the field of metropolitan
regional planning; (2) to sponsor and
conduct periodic conferences for citi-
zens and professionals in this field; (3)
to initiate or coordinate research'on
problems of metr0politan areas and to
make the findings available in suitable
form to persons and agencies holding
membership in the association; and (4)
to assist in the creation of metropolitan
regional bodies, both official and unof-
ficial, in areas where there are now none
and to help strengthen the programs of
existing agencies.

9 The playground system in Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania, has been eXpanding
rapidly. The city is opening new areas
at the rate of almost one a week, accord-
ing to an article, profusely illustrated,
in Life magazine of September 13. A

new $750,000 community recreation
center is namcd in honor of world-
famous contralto Marian Anderson,

  

who was born and raised within the
shadows of the McCoach playgroune
where the new center is erected.

This building is complete with audi
torium, stage, club rooms, meeting
rooms, lounge room, kitchen, an excen
tionally large gymnasium with portable
grandstands, locker and shower rooms
A free-form swimming pool has under
water lighting for night swimming am
a spacious lawn sundeck. The rede
veloped playground has functiona
areas ranging from a tanbark play lo
for tiny tots to an area set aside f0]
senior citizens who prefer passive rec
reation and quiet games. Brilliant flood
lights permit activities to continue afte1

dark.

9 The Playground Commission of Jef
ferson Parish, Louisiana, also dedi
cated a new community center and play
ground during the summer. The com
munity building has a seating capacity
of two thousand for assembly purposes
and one thousand for basketball games
It also has facilities for recreation ac
tivities, a stage, four meeting rooms. ar
office, and dressing rooms. According
to playground director David Scher
man, the outdoor area consists of regu
lation baseball and softball diamonds
eight Little League size baseball dia
monds, six hard-top basketball courts
a football field and a quarter-mile cinu
der track.

0 Six hOSpital recreation specialists
met in New Orleans this summer at the
new six-million-dollar Veterans Admin
istration Hospital to draft a proposed
constitution for the formation of a hos
pital and institutional section of the
Louisiana Recreation Association. The
proposed draft will be mailed to all in-
terested persons active in hOSpital and
institutional recreation for study and
review, according to What’s Nu, the
Louisiana Recreation Association bul-
letin. Any suggestions are welcome and
will be referred to the committee for
consideration prior to another meeting
in November when the pr0posed con-
stitution will be presented for final
adoption.

9 This year’s annual issue of Football
Magazine contains much material on
recreation football. Included are arti-
cles on Los Angeles playground skills
contests, the recreation touch-football
program in El Monte, California, and
recreation football in Kansas. The
magazine’s editor is Kurt W. Lenser,
supervisor of playgrounds for the Al-
hambra, California, Department of Rec-
reation. C0pies of the magazine may be
obtained for one dollar each. Address
all orders and correspondence to Mr.
Lenser, 701 Irving Street, Alhambra,
California. -

RECREATION

0 An outstanding job with a camping
and summer recreation program is be-
ing done by Southern Illinois Univers-
ity. An excellent article about this, “Out-
door Education in Southern Illinois”
by William H. Freeberg, appeared in
the April 1953 issue of the Journal 0/
the American Association [or Health,
Physical Education, and Recreation.

0 The development of three new rec-
reation sites along the St. Lawrence
River has been recommended by the
New York State Power Authority to
care for the influx of visitors expected
after the completion of the Long Sault
and the Barnhart Island Powerhouse
Dams, northcast of Massena on the New
York Side. Two of these sites would be
established in the immediate vicinity of
the big dams. The third area would be
a park facility, similar to the other state
parks, to be built and administered by
the Thousands Islands State Park Com-
mission, at Waddington, fifteen miles
upstream from Massena. This park, to
include a beach, picnic ground, boat
basin, and camping facilities, would in-
sure that a sizable part of the new lake
created by the dams would remain pub-
lic pr0perty.

The New York Authority, of which
Robert Moses is chairman, plans to buy
all of Barnhart Island, a thousand acres
of which will remain after the project
is complete. Acccss to the island will be
via a permanent bridge. On the south
shore, across from Barnhart Island, the
authority plans to obtain an additional
thousand acres of elevated "land to fur-
nish a setting for the completed dam
and powerhouse. Also under consider-
ation is construction of a scenic park-
way to run along at least a part of the
twenty-nine-mile Iake. This would be a
controllcd-access roadway to prohibit
billhoards and roadside stands.

9 It is a known fact that Army ser-
geants can hark; but can they sing? In
the hope of uncovering such talents the
Army, for the second year, is carrying
on an all-Army Soldier Singing Contest
from October 1954 through January
1955. There will be ten classes of com-
petition, and preliminary elimination
contests will be held at installation and
major command level prior to the grand
finals at the Department of the Army.
Tape recordings of the two selections
sung by the winner in each of the major
command contests will be forwarded for
judging in the finals. The Adjutant
General of the Army has asked the N a-
tional Recreation Association to judge
the category of the singing platoon
(twenty-five to forty singers). The two
judges in behalf of the association will
be composer Clarence Cameron White,

former NRA staff member, and Geof-

frey O’Hara, composer, lecturer, and

OCTOBER 1954

writer, who has been interested in prob-
Iems of music in the Army since World

‘War I.

0 New York City recently took some
major steps in its all-out war on the ma-
jor problem of crime and juvenile de-
linquency. This fight received great
impetus when the Brownsville Boys
Club of Brooklyn offered the city its
$1,500,000 clubhouse and equipment,
as well as a cash fund of at least $100,-
000, for operation by the park depart-
ment as a weapon against juvenile de-
linquency. The club is located in one
of the problem areas of the city.

0 A miniature, but nonetheless honest-
to-goodness, U. S. post office opencd “re-
cently in Children’s Fairyland at Lake
side Park, Oakland, California. The
Fairyland Post Office is the gift of the
Oakland Post Office employees, who
constructed the little building in their
off-hours for display at the 1954 Cali-
fornia Spring Garden Show and then
moved it to the present location. It is
the only post oiIice of its kind in the
entire U. S. postal system and does a
man-sized job, handling the giant-sized
Fairyland postcards. The little post of-
fice building was designed by W. Rus-
sell Everritt, who designed and made
the models for the original Fairyland
sets. It is approximately sixtcen-feet

 

high and twelve-feet wide. The outside
ofthe circular dome has been painted
with colorful murals by Ted Lewy, San

o 0 {3|
Franc1sco cable car artist. ...

Q In Portland, Indiana (p0pulati‘pn
7,000) the park and recreation commis-
sion recently dccided to extend .thefq‘p-
portunity to play organized baseba‘ll'to
all boys not making a team in the'est'ab-
lishcd leagues operated by Junior Base-
ball of Portland for the past five years.
This new “C League” offers the handi-
capped, the smaller, and the less adept

youth the experiences formerly reserved
for “real ball players,” and superin-

tendent H. Eugene Chubb and other

commission oiIicials believe it is already
the most beneficial of the three leagues.

“PLAY SAFE".— BE SURE IT’S A

EIEXI
SWING SEAI

marked "FLEXI"

   
     

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT. INC.

Playground 8. Gymnasium Consultants
P. O. 474 Highland Park, III.

 

Visit Our Booth at the

Write for FREE
Catalog of

 

LINES OFFERED INCLUDE: ART SUPPLIES

RICK-RACK CRAFT ° WOODEN PLATES & TRAYS lfor decorating) '
PAINT SETS & FRAMES

CRAFTS CO. 23:32.33? 3.115;

I CLEVELAND

National Recreation Congress

Pick up your FREE copy of our latest catalog of
Handicraft Supplies. If you don't make the Congress

HANDICRIIFT SUPPLIES

INDIAN CRAFT
NUMBERED

.. METAL ETCHING '

 

REMINDER... ,

aimericait gineét
ah/Lletic (Squipment

IS BUILT BY

FOR CATALOG WRITE:
W. J. Volt Rubber Corp.
1600 East 25th Street
Los Angeles 11, Callt.

(E

New York IO, Chicago 10, Los Angeles I I

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

507

FOLKWAYS RECORDS

World's leading producer of AUTHENTIC folk music
on RECORDS including THE ETHNIC FOLKWAYS
LIBRARY which contoins on unusuol selection of the
music of over 1.50 cultures: recorded on locotion by
native orchestros ond vocol groups; each Long
Ploy Record is occomponled by extensive notes by
fomous collectors and recognized outhorities.

And the ion-nous SONGS TO CROW ON series for
children. ANTHOLOGY OF JAZZ ond AMERICAN
FOLK MUSIC. INTERNATIONAL SCIENCE AND
lITERATURE SERIES.

Mony of the issues are original recordings on

HIGH FIDELITY—4048.000 cycles. All FOLK-
WAYS RECORDS ore guoronteed for quolity of re-
production and content. '

For complete catalogue write to:

FOLKWAYS RECORDS 8. SERVICE CORP.
117 W. 46th St., New York 36, N. Y.

 

10th Anniversary

"NATIONAL EMPLOY THE
PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED WEEK"

October 3-9, 1954
HIRE THE HANDICAPPED

 

 

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

Complete line of playground,
home, playschool play devices.

9

exidiiiss VVrite for
* HOBBY'HORSE special literature cat-
: 233‘ng : alag, price list, book-
ROUND let “Planning Your

Playground"ar speci-
ficatians.

H301

THEJ.E.BURKE
PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT CO.

Factories at «~-

   

FOND DU LAC, WISCONSIN
80X 986, NEW BRUNSWICK, N. J.

 

Listening and Viewing

A Reader Tells of Recreation in 3-D

Three-dimensional slides showing the
many phases of our recreation program
have proven to be a public relations
measure with an impact. We have pre-
pared a series of some seventy pictures
ranging from chess club to basketball.
These pictures are projected on a screen
for showing to PTA groups, service
clubs, and so on. The viewers look at
the slides through polaroid glasses just
as in the movies. Coupling your recre-
ation talks with 3-D dramatization
leaves your group with the feeling of
actually having been there; your pro-
gram becomes a reality.

Preparation of slides costs about ten
cents per picture for outdoor pictures
and flash bulbs for indoor shots add
about eleven cents. A stereo camera,
projector, screen, and carrying case will
cost about 3450. Where departments
don’t'care to invest this much they will
find that projector and screen may be
purchased for about $220 and that com-
mercial photographers are usually set
up to prepare the slides for them.
Classes cost ten cents each.

Readymade slides of subjects inter-
esting to children may be purchased
very reasonably and will permit addi-
tional use of the projection equipment
at special children’s programs. In
Belleville, we intend to use our 3-D
projector to amuse the youngsters in-
doors on rainy days during our play-
ground season.

However, the real value of 3-D in a
recreation department is its force in
selling recreation to the community.—
BOB COOK, superintendent of recreci-
tion, Belleville, New Jersey.

Enrichment Records
The 2,500,000 boys and girls who

own Landmark books, the American
historical series published by Random
House, can hear sixteen of their favor-
ites on records with the four new re-
cordings issued late this summer by En-
richment Materials, Inc. These latest
recordings are based on Pocahontas and
Captain John Smith by Marie Lawson,
Daniel Boone by John Mason Brown,
The Winter at Valley Forge by Van
Wyck Mason, and Sam Houston, The
Tallest Texan by William Johnson.

Just as Landmark books are authen-
tic portraits of famous people and
events in history, written by renowned
authors, the four new Enrichment rec—
ords, like the previous twelve, are com-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

plete dramatizations, authentically re-
produced in every detail, including dia-
logue, sound effects and music of the
various historical periods, with well-
known Broadway and radio actors play-
ing the parts.

Information about the records may
be obtained from Martha Huddleston,

Director, Enrichment Records, lnc., 246
Fifth Avenue, New York 1, New York.

Song Birds of America

Song Birds of America, by Dr. Arthur
A. Allen and Dr. Peter P. Kellogg, a

book with an accompanying long-play-
ing record, was deve10ped and pub-
lished in cooperation with the Cornell
University Press by Book Records, Inc.

Here is the first see and hear sound-
book on our songbirds, in color, sound
and story. The attractive, spiral-bound
book is illustrated by twenty-four beau-
tiful full-color photographs and con-
tains excellent chapters giving full in-
formation about each of the birds, bird
migration, attracting the birds, their
value, and so on.

The record is either 33 1/3 or 45
rpm, with commentary. The extraneous
woodland noises in the original Cornell
bird recordings have been eliminated,
and the birdsongs are given in groups of
three, with a brief pause to make it easy
to go back to repeat any particular song.

The compact nature of this new idea
in book-record combination eliminates
the necessity of consulting several
books and encourages identification by
both eye and ear. It forms a wonder-
ful way to interest any individual or
group in learning to know these Ameri-
can song-birds, and this volume should
be added to any camp or club library.
We hope it will be followed by other
volumes on birds and other nature sub-
jects. Incidentally, this book would

make a fine Christmas gift! Book Rec-
ords, lnc., 680 Fifth Avenue, New York.

Price $4.95.

Audio Fair

The largest assembly of high-fidelity
enthusiasts ever to gather for a single

event are expected to attend the 1954
Audio’Fair. Scheduled for four days

beginning October 14 at the Hotel New
Yorker, the Fair will play host to an
estimated 30,000 visitors who will come
to view the latest hi-fi developments as
displayed by virtually every leading
manufacturer of audio equipment. No
entrance fee!

RECREATION

  
 
 

0 New Craftool carving and modeling
tools for ceramics and sculpturing have

heads made of hardened high-tempered

 
 
 

"AIME IND
‘I‘IMPIILD S‘lil

      

t (8'00? Loom

steel, ground to a double knife edge for
detailed carving, minute modeling and
use on a potter’s wheel. Craftools, Inc.,

401 Broadway, New York 19.
0 World Wide Games, Radnor Road,

Delaware, Ohio, distributes a free fold-
er describing ten sturdily constructed
puzzles and games, based on ancient and
traditional games from other countries,
which are available from the company.
These include Korean 'Yoot, Chinese
Friends, Box Hockey, Kichet, Balero,
and others. Write to the address above
for this folder if you are interested in
some good indoor games for your
groups.

0 Nu Media is the name of a screen
printing kit which offers an easy method
of reproduction for greeting cards, pro-
gram covers, posters, and so on. Wilson
Arts 8: Crafts, Fairbault, Minnesota.

9 A new, complete enamel-on-c0pper
craft set for making jewelry, ashtrays,
boxes, and so on, features an electric
firing kiln with a pyrex t0p which en-

  

:NrH

ables the enamelist to watch his work

during the firing process. Gem-Craft,
1812 East Thirteen Street, Dept. EN,

Cleveland 14.

9 Word Rummy, a game that can be
used for “learn and play” periods, was

OCTOBER 1954

mamms msws

 

exhibited at the National Education As-
sociation Convention in July. The game,
which consists of a set of alphabet cards,
is played like regular rummy except
that players meld words instead of runs.
It is excellent for children or adults.

Educational Cards, Inc., Industrial
Bank Building, Detroit 26.

Q The J ayfro Athletic Supply Co., P.O.
Box 1065, New London, Connecticut, is
introducing a new steel chain net espe-

 

cially designed to fit all models of Little
Kid goals. This net is guaranteed for
three years of either indoor or outdoor
use.

9 Helping to keep Canasta inthe fore-
front of p0pular card games have been
the many variations developed on the
original game such as Samba, Chile,
and so on. In response to many hun-
dreds of requests, the Association of
American Playing Card Manufacturers
has just published a pocket-sized, six-
teen page leaflet containing the official
rules for six Canasta variants. In addi-
tion, the new leaflet also contains the
Official Canasta Rules, a condensation
of the International Code, Laws of Can-
asta, compiled and promulgated in 1951
by the National Canasta Laws Commis-
sions of the United States and Argen-
tma.

Free copies of this leaflet may be
obtained by writing to the Playing Card
Association, 420 Lexington Avenue,

New York 17.

TIPS FROM OUR READERS

Teleguard

Two practical methods of providing
distress alarms for swimming pools
have been devised since September
1952, and ten demonstrations have
heen given in New York, Philadelphia,
Washington, Palm Beach and Miami.

The Teleguard system extends and in-
tensifies the alertness of those directly
responsible for the guarding of pools of
water. One of these, type “A,” signals
trespass by persons into an unattended
or unoccupied pit or pool. The second,
type “B,” reports the continued pres-
ence of persons in the deeper parts of an
attended pool. Both systems work on
the sonic transmission or echo princi-
ple. Prototypes are to be installed in
Miami and Los Angeles, and manu-
facture in quantity has been arranged,
for this year by the Electromedical Cor-
poration, 1021 Biarritz Drive, Miami
Beach, Florida.

The guarded pool problem is to de-
tect any over-long submersion of per-
sons while eliminating the short time—-
five- to ten-second—activity of normal
visits to the bottom. This discrimina-
tion is accomplished by time-delay de-
vices which ignore the short-time visits
and report continued proximity of a
person or persons in deep water. The
probability that a continued submer-
sion is a true emergency increases with
its duration. An approximate schedule
of submersion fatality probabilities is:
50, 75, 87, 94, 97 per cent in one, two,
three, four, and five minutes respec-
tively. The automatic timer of Tele-
guard “B” measures and can be ad-
justed to react to submersions of a
quarter- to half-minute duration.

Florida, among other states, has nu-
merous unattended private pools and
rock pits. In February 1954 Dade
County sought to meet this hazard to
children with a fencing ordinance. A
California manufacturer has recently
made available a roll-up type of plastic
sheet pool cover. A Teleguard trespass
alarm of type “A” is, in effect, an alert
surface fence which reports instantly
the entry of a small body. The cost of
sheet or line barrier fences and live
fences is now similar. As to efficiency,
drownings in wire-fenced rock pits and
vandalism at city pools prove that a pas-
sive barrier fence is not one hundred
per cent life and property protection.

Teleguard systems have been devel-
oped because death by drowning is a
manageable risk that increases rapidly
with submersion time. Teleguard acts
in this precious interval to call for ac,-
tion by at least one responsible guard
who is by definition able and duty
bound to intervene in an emergency.—
CARL C. LIENAU, Electrical Engineer,

Miami Beach, Florida.
509

Books & Pamphlets

ADMINISTRATION OF PHYSICAL EDUCA-
TION FOR SCIIOOLS AND COLLEGES,
THE, Hughes and French. A. S.
Barnes 8: Company, 230 Madison
Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 383.
$4.50. .

BIRDS 0F LASSEN’S LANDSCAPE, Paul E.
Schulz. Edwards Brothers, Inc., Ann
Arbor, Michigan. Pp. 98. $ .55.

CHOOSING THE PRESIDENT OF THE USA,
Kathryn H. Stone. Carrie Chapman
Catt Memorial Fund, Inc., 461
Fourth Avenue, Room 810, New
York 16. Pp. 31. $1.00.

DATE DATA, Beverly Brandow. Banks
Upshaw and Company, 703 Browder
Street, Dallas 1, Texas. Pp. 234.
$3.00.

FACTS ABOUT OIL. American Petroleum
Institute, Department of Informa-
tion, 50 West 50th Street, New York
20. Pp. 32. Single copy free. $.20
per hundred. a, _

FISH AND FISIIING IN LASSEN VOLCANIC
NATIONAL PARK, Merlin K. Potts.
Loomis Museum Association, Min-
eral, California. Pp. 61. $.40.

FOLLOW THE LEADER—A COLLECTION
OF CIRCLE DANCES, Olga Kulbitsky
and Frank L. Kaltman. American
Squares, 1159 Broad Street, Newark
5, New Jersey. Pp. 13. $.35.

GEOLOGY OF LASSEN’S LANDSCAPE, Paul
E. Schulz. Edwards Brothers, Inc.,
Ann Arbor, Michigan. Pp. 110. $.75.

GUIDE TO COMMUNITY ACTION, Mark S.
Matthews. Harper & Brothers, 49
East 33rd Street, New York 16, Pp.
434. $4.00.

HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS. Por-
ter Sargent, 11 Beacon Street, Boston
8, Mass. Pp. 1232. -. $8.00.

HANDBOOK OF SCIIOOL LAW, Lee 0.
Garber. National Foremen’s Insti-
tute, Inc., Bureau of Business Prac-
tice, Arthur C. Croft Publications,
100 Garfield Avenue, New London,
Connecticut. Pp. 165. $3.50.

How TO MAKE COWBOY HORSE GEAR,
Bruce Grant. Cornell Maritime Press,
Cambridge, Maryland. Pp. 108.
$2.00.

INNOCENT ON EVEREST, AN, Ralph Iz-
zard. E. P. Dutton & Company, Inc.,
300 Fourth Avenue, New York 10.
.Pp. 319. $3.75.

INTERMEDIATE S C IIO O L PORTFOLIO:
THE 9’s T0 12’s. Association for
Childhood Education International,
1200 15th Street, NW, Washington
5, D. C. Set of twelve leaflets in port-
"folio, $.75. Individual leaflets $.10
each; discounts On quantity orders.

J WB YEAR BOOK, Vol. III, 1952-53. Na-
tional Jewish Welfare Board, 145

510

   

East 32nd Street, New York 16. Pp.
31._ $1.00.

MINIATURE PLAYS V91. 1, Madge Miller.
The Children’s Theatre Press, Clover-
lot, Anchorage, Kentucky. Pp. 150.
$3.00.

MULTIPLE COUNSELING, Helen Irene
Driver. Monona Publications, 803
Maygara Road, Madison 4, Wiscon-
sin. Pp. 280. $5.00.

MUNICIPAL YEAR BOOK 1954, THE. In-
ternational City Managers’ Associa-
tion, 1313 East 16th Street, Chicago,
Ill. Pp. 613. $10.00.

MY LIFE IN THE MAINE WOODS, Annette
Jackson. W. W. Norton & Company,
Inc., 105 Fifth Avenue, New York
3. Pp. 236. $3.50.

OFFICIAL ENCYCLOPEDIA OF LITTLE
LEAGUE BASEBALL, THE. A. S. Barnes

& Company, 232 Madison Avenue,
New York 16. Pp. 238. $2.75.

OUTDOOR PICTURE COOKBOOK, THE,
Bob Jones. Hawthorne Books, Inc.,
70 Fifth Avenue, New York 11. Pp.
126. $2.95.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND HEALTHFUL
LIVING, Fraley, Johnson and Massey.
Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Avenue,
New York 11. Pp. 198. $3.55..

PICTORIAL HISTORY OF LASSEN VOL-
CANO, A, B. F. Loomis. Edwards
Brothers, Inc., Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Pp. 110. $.75.

PLAYS FOR CHILDREN. The Children’s
Theatre Press, Cloverlot, Anchorage,
Kentucky. Pp. 69. Free to the 1953
mailing list. Additional copies avail-
able at $.10 per copy.

PRINCIPLES OF EXERCISE THERAPY,
THE, M. Dena Gardiner. The Mac-

millan Company, 60 Fifth Avenue,
New York 11. Pp. 260. $4.00.

PROGRAM OF THE MODERN CAMP, Ger-
ald P. Burns. Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70
Fifth Avenue, New York 11. Pp. 320.
$5.65.

REACHING TEEN-AGERS THROUGH
GROUP-WORK AND RECREATION PRO-
GRAMS. New York City Youth Board,
500 Park Avenue, New York 22. Pp.
43. $.50.

SARGENT GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS FOR
BOYS AND GIRLS. Porter Sargent Pub-
lishers, 11 Beacon Street, Boston 8,

Mass. Pp. 127. $1.10.

SHALLow WATER DIVING AND SPEAR-
FISIIING, Hilbert Schenck, Jr. and
Henry Kendall. Cornell Maritime
Press, Cambridge, Maryland. Pp.

1 10. $3.00.

SPIN-FISIIING, Hal Sharp. Sterling Pub-
lishing Company, 215 East 37th
Street, New York 16. Pp. 128. $1.50.

YOUR DATING DAYS: LOOKING FORWARD
TO HAPPY MARRIAGE, Paul H. Landis.
McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.,
330 West 42nd Street, New York.
Pp. 151. $2.50.

New NRA Service

Now you can obtain all of your
recreation and related books from
one source. The National Recrea-
tion Association has completed ar-
rangements to handle the sale of
publications of the following book
publishers:

ABINGDON PRESS

ANTIOCH PRESS
ASSOCIATION PRESS

THE ATHLETIC INSTITUTE
A. S. BARNES & Co.
CHILDREN’S THEATRE PRESS
COOPERATIVE RECREATION SERVICE
COWARD-MCCANN, INC.
THOMAS Y. CROWELL Co.
DOUBLEDAY 8: COMPANY, INC.
E. P. DUTTON & Co., INC.
FRIENDSHIP PRESS

GINN & COMPANY

HARPER 81 BROTHERS
HOUGHTON-MIFFLIN CO.
THE JOHN DAY CO.

ALFRED A. KNOPF, INC.

J. B. LIPPINCOTT Co.
LITTLE, BROWN 8: Co.

TIIE MACMILLAN CO.
MCGRAw-HILL BOOK Co., INC.
PRENTICE-HALL, INC.

G. P. PUTNAM’S SONS

THE RONALD PRESS

Row, PETERSON 8: CO.

W. B. SAUNDERS CO.
SCOTT, FORESMAN 8: CO.
SIMON AND SCHUSTER, INC.
THE VIKING PRESS, INC.
WIIITESIDE PRESS, INC.
WIIITTLESEY HOUSE

THE JOHN C. WINSTON CO.
A. A. WYN, INC.

Watch the book columns appear-
ing monthly in RECREATION. Books
will be available through the As-
sociation at list price, plus fifteen
cents for each book ordered to
cover postage and handling. Active
Associate and A [mime Members re-
ceive a ten per cent discount on. the
list price. Remittances should ac-
company orders from individuals.
Organizations and recreation de-
partments will be billed on their
oflicial orders.

NATIONAL
RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 Fourth Avenue
New York 10, N. Y.

RECREATION

 

Twenty-One Years
With Children’s Theatre

Charlotte B..Chorpenning. The Chil-
dren’s Theatre Press, Anchorage, Ken-

tucky. Pp. 112. $3.50.

This book ruined my day! I picked it
up to glance through it——and couldn’t
put it down! Phones rang, people in-
terrupted, letters arrived—but back to
the book I had to come.

It’s about Miss Chorpenning’s experi-
ence in the Goodman Theatre—but it’s
much more. Through it all runs thc
most explicit techniques developed over
many years, all tried, all workable. And
through it runs a deep feeling of hu-
mility and humor, two priceless re-
quirements for those who work with,
or for children. With it is also the ac-
knowledgement not only of the art of
the theatre, but the deeper responsibil-
ity toward the children. This quotation
will speak for itself, and give an idea
of the graphic, flowing style that makes
the book a delight to read:

“At a given moment in any play each
child in any audience is a record of all
his yesterdays, conscious or uncon-

a relatively stable pattern for interact-
ing with the world around him. In
watching a play he will hide under the
seat in front of him, or try to rush onto
the stage to help, according to the sense
of security included in his pattern. Thus
he interacts to the world around him
with fair consistency. . . . In life the final
outcome of a definite experience may
take an hour, a day, years or ages; a
play can give the child an immediate
experience in the final outcome of some-
thing he just saw happen. . . . When a
child from four to forty watches a play,
the whole orchestra of his self is play-
ing——senscs, nerves, glands, muscles,
memories, intelligence, intellect, spirit.
The experience builds into him dreams,
desires, urges, new memories, percep-
tions —— conscious and unconscious —
that may flower in the next hour or in
the far future.”

Such an account of years of rich ex-
periences is rewarding rcading. But

OCTOBER 1954

new
Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

give yourself time! You won’t be ablc
to stop, once you startl—Virginia Mus-
selman, NRA Program Service.

Building a Better Home Town

H. Clay Tatc. Harper 8: Brothers, 4-9
East 33rd Street, New York 16. Pp. 236.
$3.50.

In this book, a successful newspaper
editor in Bloomington, Illinois, ana-
lyzes the weaknesses of our urban civili-
zation and presents a program of com-
munity self-analysis and self-help for
the small town. He urges young people
to return to the small communities of
the nation and to revitalize them.
Written with a journalistic vigor and
a delightful human touch, the book re-
veals the author’s thorough understand-
ing of the small community and its
problems and the share which he has
had in the development of experiments
in the improvement of community life.

The survival of small communities is
the central theme and Mr. Tate believes
this can be accomplished through local
initiative by abandoning the tendency
to imitate the way of living in metro-
politan areas. “Go home, young man,
and build a better community” may bc
called the theme of the book.

The chapter “Small Communities
Have Recreation” is of special interest
to readers of RECREATION. In it the au-
thor decribes life in the small communi-
ty in which he was raised and points
out the close relationship between work,
worship and play in the small town of
his generation. He admits “there is
nothing better to offer,” but he believes
small communities afford opportunities
for a variety of wholesome and satis-
fying recreation activities. He pays a
sp‘écial tribute to the work of the 4H
Clubs. He admits that adult recrcation
is an important factor in the well-
rounded community and cites many ex-
amples of ways in which family rccrea-
tion contributes to small-town life.

In view of the author’s dislike for
some aspects of city life, it is not sur-
prising to read: “There is pleasurc and
great recreative value in doing .nothing
regularly. Perplexing problems have a

way of coming into focus if one can put
his body in neutral, sit quietly on the
terrace or under a tree, and do a bit
of mental free-wheeling. The soothing
sound of the leaves in the breeze, the
song of the birds, the beauty of flowers
and shrubs nearby, the moist caress of
a playful puppy’s tongue on thc hand,
the splendor of the endless sky-blue
canopy overhead, the complete absence
of man-made noises—all thesc create
a Spirit of calmness and reverence and
well-being. And that is recreation. It
is hard to find in thc crashing, crush-
ing, ear-splitting whirlpool of man and
machincs in the big city. The person
who has not learned to be happy and
content while completely alone for an
hour, a day, or a week has missed life’s
greatest serenity.”

This small book mcrits reading from
cover to cover. Special mention might
be made of the chapter “What is
Good?” which contains a check list of
essential elements of the good communi-
ty, including a section devoted to rec-
reation and entertainment. An account
of the Bloomington experiment indi-
cates why “Bloomington has not been
sold on the philosophy of community-
wide tax-supported recreation.”

Mr. Tate makes a special appeal for
attractiveness. Whereas most small
communities, according to him, fail
miserably in the aesthetic department,
they have all the essentials of a garden
spot. A number of suggestions are of-
fered as to ways in which communities
could be made more attractive.

The book concludes with a six-point
plan of action for accomplishing the ob-
jectives of building a better home town.

The Community Music Association

Principles and Practices Suggested
by a Study of the Flint, Michigan, Com-
munity Music Association. By David
Messner Smith, Ed. D. Bureau of Pub-
lications, Teachcrs’ College, Columbia

University, New York. Pp. 108. $3.25.

This is a detailed study of a musical
organization which the author believes
is probably the oldest and most out-
standing example of community
planned music in America, perhaps in
the world. His thought in preparing the
treatise was that the Flint development
offered an opportunity to understand
some of the important functions of mu-
sical activity in a free democratic so-
ciety; also that it is a “shining example
of how the people in one American com-
munity have made music an integral
part of their community life.” The book
considers such subjects as the origin of
the Association, its form of organiza’
tion sponsored activities, related com-
munity services, appraisal of past and
present activities, values and adapta-
bility. It is a remarkable story. m

511

Conditions may be favorable in but
few places for the establishment of so
comprehensive a community music as-
sociation as that in Flint, but there are
aspects of the work there which could
undoubtedly be copied to advantage in
other cities where there is growing in-
terest in music under the auspices of
recreation departments and civic
groups. —- Gertrude Borchard, Corre-
spondence and Consultation Service,
National Recreation Association.

Dressing the Play

Norah Lambourne. How To Do It
Series #48. Studio Publications, 432
Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 98.
$4.50.

The author has worked with many
distinguished British producers, and is
currently tutor with the British Drama
League. The practical, yet imaginative
suggestions she describes cover such
points as the importance of shape, fab-
rics and surface decoration, stage jewel-
ry, masks and costume accessories,
dress rehearsals and costuming the mod-
ern play, costumes from contemporary
painting. Her ideas are presented with
infectious enthusiasm and a sense of
humor. Any drama group should add
this book to its library, although it will
never sit quietly on a shelf. Someone
will always be using it!

Arts and crafts leaders will find it
full of ingenious instructions for mak-
ing masks, jewelry, and many other in-
teresting projects. The drawings and
photographs are valuable aids.

Dorothy L. Sayers (why won’t she
write another detective story?) has
written a most delightful preface. We
must quote a few of her “personal”
tips:

“Start in good time. Even the world’s
fastest worker must wait for the paste
to dry. (Mem: objects dried violently
by fierce artificial heat do things you
would scarcely believe possible.)

“A brush left in enamel or varnish
overnight never smiles again.

“A bowl of warm water and a rag
kept handy will often save you from
pasting yourself up in your own con-
trivance.” Highly recommended.

Peepshow Into Paradise

Lesley Gordon. John de Graff, Inc.,
64 West 23rd Street, New York 10. Pp.
265. $6.00.

As a vacation from strictly profes-
sional literature, and as a special treat
for yourself, do read this interesting
and entertaining history of toys through
the ages. Styles may come and go, but
children’s love for toys remains con-
stant—and curiously unchanged for
over two thousand years.

Part one of this fascinating book cov-
ers the history of toys from primitive

512

toys and games through the medieval
period, the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries, the Victorian age, up to to-
day, and includes a splendid chapter
on festival toys that, incidently, will
give the reader some new ideas for holi-
day crafts.

Part two takes up toys and games by
types and regions, and will make the
reader feel nostalgic. Dolls, toy soldiers,
construction and assembly toys, balls,
t0ps, kites, sound-toys, wheel-toys, pa-
per-toys, water-toys—they’re all here,
alive through the ages! A survey of
toys by nations is good material to make
any nationality program authentic.

The book has a listing of museums in
Great Britain and Europe where toys
may be seen. We wish Miss Gordon
had included the United States, even
though her book was published in Eng-
land. For research workers, her bibliog-
raphy will be exciting.

Aside from the fascinating story of
toys and games throughout the world
and down through the ages, any alert
leader will find many interesting pro-
jects, designs and game ideas from both
the text and the many illustrations. A
truly delightful book. Don’t miss it!

Sportbauten

Rudolf Ortner. Georg D. W. Callwey,
Miinchen, Germany. Pp. 309.

This volume, dealing with sports
structures, is the first comprehensive
German publication on this subject. It
contains relatively little text, but nearly
200 pages are devoted to illustrations
and the balance of the book consists of
diagrams and sketches relating to the
design, construction and equipment of
indoor and outdoor sports facilities.

The material is drawn from a wide
variety of sources and whereas most of
the facilities pictured are in Germany,
many illustrations are drawn from other
countries.

Beautifully and clearly portraved are
examples of stadiums, fieldhouses,
sports halls, bathhouses, boathouses,
gymnasiums and special sports build-
ings. Many of the photographs 'show
construction details. Other sections of
the book are devoted to field layouts,
running tracks, outdoor swimming
pools, roller and ice skating rinks, win-
ter sports facilities and children’s play
areas. Track and stadium construction.
surfacing, game courts, playing field
and sport park layouts and a wealth
of, other facilities are included in the
excellent diagrams.

The text is entirely in German, but
the pictures and drawings speak for
themselves. A table at the end of the
volume lists the English, French and
Spanish counterparts for many of the
German technical terms appearing in

the book.

A comparable American volume
would be a great boon to the recreation
movement in this country—George D.
Butler, Research Department, NRA.

Recreation in California

State of California Recreation Com-
mission, 721 Capitol Avenue, Room
609, Sacramento 14, California. Pp. 41. '

Free.

This compilation of data on finances
and personnel of local public recreation
agencies will be of interest to all who
are concerned with the development of
municipal recreation services. Prepared
at the request of local recreation au-
thorities, it affords information as to
major trends in the establishment of
local recreation agencies, the employ-
ment of leadership personnel and the
salaries paid park and recreation work-
ers in California.

The report is limited to agencies em-
ploying an administrator and providing
year-round service. In the 1953-54 fis-
cal year, one hundred and eighty—one
such agencies will spend approximately
$31.500,000 for park and recreation
services. During the fiscal year 1952-
53, fourteen communities established a
public recreation service employing a
year-round administrator for the first
time. Presentation of the data accord-
ing to population groups affords com-
munities the basis for comparing thcir
own expenditures. personnel and salary
range with those in other localities.

 

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

American Playground Device Company _._____455

 

 

 

Burke. 1 E.. Company.-______..__,-._1____s_______-__508
Byron. W. D.. 8. Sons   456
Champion Recreation Equipment. Inc. _..__-_ 507
Chicago Roller Skate Company  456
Cleveland Crafts Company ......s.. ._ .:___-_... 507
Folkways Records 8. Service Corp. - -._... _ 508
Hillerich 8. Bradsby -__._.._-450
Hotel Tuller -_-.-..______.-_- .___._--_.-______ _________449
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company- _. __- _ 456
Medart. Fred. Products. Incorporated _..____.507
Rawlings Manufacturing Company _-_-.__-__._-_449
Square Dance Associates _..._....___._...__.-.____'_-507
Universal Manufacturing Corp. .449
Voit Rubbef Company --..__-_._._-......._-____507
X-acto. Inc. ._.-...___...__._._.-__...___.__.___....507

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK A. STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

October, November and December 1954-

Alexandria, Virginia
October 11-14

Cleveland. Tennessee
October 18-21

Birmingham, Alabama
October 25-28

Haynesville, Alabama
November 15-18

State of Vermont
November 29-December 9

Tepeka, Kansas
October 11-14

New Orleans. Louisiana
November 2-5

St. Louis, Missouri
November 15-18

Prince Georges and Mont-
gomery Counties, Maryland
November 29-December 2

Portales, New Mexico
October 18-21

Lubbock, Texas
November 14

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
November 15-18

Texas State Teachers Associa-

tion, Fort Worth. Texas
November 26 and 27

State of Oklahoma
December 6-16

Williamstou, North Carolina
November 1-4

St. Louis. Missouri
October 4-7

Grand Junction, Colorado
October 11-21

Eugene L. BarIIwcll, Director of Recreation

Warren E. Magee. General Secretary, Young Men’s Christian As-
sociation, 363 Spring

Earl Cartman, Head, Department of Physical Education, Howard
College

Miss Hulda Coleman, Superintendent of Education, Lowudcs County

Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation, Montpelier

R. Foster Blaisdell, Superintendent, TOpeka Recreation Commis-
sion, Room 258, Municipal Building

Mrs. Permelia M. Dunn, Special Assistant in Charge of Cultural
Activities, Department of Recreation, 1000 South Rampart Strect

John A. Turner, Recreation Superintendent, Municipal Courts
Building

Mrs. Ellen E. Linson, Recreation Director, Prince Georges County,
4811 Riverdale Road, Riverdale

Joseph F. Dickson. Chairman, Division of Health and Physical
Education, Eastern New Mexico University

A. C. Hamilton, Superintendent of City Recreation

Alvin R. Eggeling, Director of Recreation

Miss Mary Buice, Vice-President. Recreation Section, TAllPER,
University of Texas, College of Education, Austin

George E. llull. Assistant 4-” Club Leader, Extension Service
County Agent Work, Stillwater

W. A. Holmes, Principal, E. J. llaycs School, Box 111

John A. Turner, Recreation Superintendent, Municipal Courts
Building

Eugene llansen, Director, Recreation Commission, 728% North 9th
Street

Members of the training staff will be in attendance at the National Recreation Congress, St. Louis, September 27 - October 1, 1954.

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate With the sponsor

of the course as listed above.

Qt

RECREATION
' 15 Fourth Ave., New York 10, N. Y.

 

RETURN POSTAGE GUARANTEED
Entered as second class matter

 

new mother

The love that makes a doll her baby is the beginning
of motherhood for a little girl . . . the start of love-

giving that will make her strive and fight for the
security of those she loves as long as she lives.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

Take care of your doll-baby, little girl. It is one of
the world’s most precious playthings.

The security that springs from
love is the very heart of our living.
It is a privilege known only in a
country such as ours, where men and
women are free to work for it.

And when we live up to the privilege
of taking care of our own, we also best
take care of our country. For the
strength of America is in its secure
homes all joined in a common security.

Let America’s security be found in
your home!

   

Saving for security is easy—on the Payroll Savings If you ean save only $3.75 a week on the Plan,

Plan for investing in United States Savings in 9 Years and 8 months YOU Will have $3.137-30-

BOHdS- U.S. Series “E” Savings Bonds earn interest
This is all you do. Go to your eompany’s pay at an average 0f 3‘7? per Year; eompounded semi-

ofliee, ehoose the amount you want to save—a 311111131137: When held to maturity! Alld they can

eouple of dollars a payday, or as mueh as you wish. go 0“ Parning‘ interest for as long as 19 Years and

That money will be set aside for you before you 8 months if You WiSh-

Seven (draw your pay: And antomatleally inveSted If you want interest as current income ask your

In United States Serles “E” Sav1ngs Bonds whieh banker about 39; series H Bonds which pay in-

are turned over to you. terest Bemiannually by Treasury check.

The U. S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in.
cooperation With the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.

 

