 

l——*—*'—l'0-—i-'—II~—_**X-Jf*
PUMCATIJONS
*
711? N E W 7%
MANUAL ON RECORDING SERVICES OF PUBLIC RECREATION DEPARTMENTS
. i This manual on the statistical recording of serviccs provided by public recreation departments Was
developed by the Committee on Statistics for Public Recreation, appointcd jointly by the National
Recreation Association, American Recreation Society, and Community Chests and Councils of
America, Incorporated, through its Social Statistics Project. The manual contains a monthly report
form for public recreation serviccs and instructions for its usc and also suggested report and record
forms and procedure for playgrounds, recreation buildings, indoor centcrs and special facilities.
FIFTY CENTS
RECREATION MAGAZINE REPRINTS
BAND SIIELL CONSTRUCTION AND ACOUSTICS—April 1948 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$.10

BLACKTOP FOR APPARATUS AREAS?—April I952 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION—January and February 1946 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .25

THE GROUP WORKER IN TIIE RECREATION CENTER—March I951 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

THE IMPORTANCE OF RECREATION IN REIIABILITATION—November 1951 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

IN-SERVICE TRAINING FOR PARK EMPLOYEES—*Oewber I950 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25

PLAYGROUND SURFACING—November 1951 and February 1952 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25

TIIE RECREATION MOVEMENT IN AMERICA—November I946 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

RECREATION’S PART IN MENTAL HEALTH—January 1952 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
SCHOOL-CITY COOPERATION IN THE PLANNING OF RECREATION AREAS AND F ACILITIES—April, May
and June 1953 ....‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75

SCIIOOL GROUNDS DESIGNED FOR COMMUNITY USE—January I949 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

STANDARDS FOR MUNICIPAL RECREATION AREAS—July and August 1948 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

STUDY FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF A NEIGIIBORHOOD PLAYGROUND—April I948 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

A STUDY OF PUBLIC GOLF COURSE OPERATION May 1952 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
SUGGESTIONS FOR RECREATION TRAINING PROGRAMS IN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES—May I951 . . . . .10
THE USE OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS FOR RECREATION—November and December 1950 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
USING VOLUNTEERS IN A RECREATION PROGRAM—December 1951 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

 

 

       
     
   
   
     
   
 

  

 

HOW TO DO IT

P 175—ARTS AND CRAFTS PROJECTS FOR THE RECREATION PROGRAM

Twenty-six “How To DO It” pages by Frank A. Staples, reproduced from RECREATION magazine.

$1.00

AVAILABLE SOON

The series of articles, “Planning for Recreation in the Modern City” by Hugh R.
Pomeroy, Henry Fagin, and John T. Howard, which appeared in the February,
March, April and May 1954 issues of RECREATION, with additional new material,
will be available in booklet form this fall. Date and price to be announced.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, Ncw York

L ._____

 

The same critical attention to
design and balance that has made
Louisville Slugger Bats famous for

performance since 1884 goes into
the manufacture of Louisville Grand

Slam Golf Clubs. Write for free
full-color catalogs. Address Dept. R-

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY COMPANY

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY

 

UNE 1954 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 321

 

PORTABLE BASEBALL
BATTING CAGE

o EXCEPTIONALLY STABLE
o EASILY MANEUVERABLE
 , o DURABLE NET and owns
‘7'  o MINIMUM STORAGE SPAcE

 
   
   
   
    

Heavy steel tubing frame, engineered for maximdm
strength and rigidity. Heavy°tarred twisted-twine
net. Durable white canvas apron (to reinforce net).
10” diam. rubber-tired ball bearing wheels. Wells
adjustable guide wheel provides automatic anchor.

illustrated : Wells Batting Cage No. C3989

9'9" high, 9' wide, 8' canopy (folds
to 8'6" high, 9' wide, 5' deep).
Knocks down compactly for shipping
—shipping weight: 315 lbs.

WE  673B Lankershim Blvd. (P.O. Box I92)
, North HOLLYWOOD, California
I Since I924

  
 
 
 
    

 

 

 
 

IIOW IT’S EASY TO KEEP
SHOWERS AND POOLS
SPARKLING
CLEAN!

rubbing and scrubbing. Simply sprinkle a little 

“Bull Frog" SAF-T-KLENZ

powder on the damp surtace, mop lightty, then

 
  
 
  
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

    

it's no longer necessary to

  
  

spend tong hours at hard

 

rinse with clear water Atgae iormatlons, time
deposits, soap oil, body grease, rust and other
stains disappear like magic.

Sai-T-lttenz also minimizes conditions that
breed and spread lntectlous germs. Leaves
ttoors and decks practically sttp-proot. lt's odor-

tess and harmless to hands, ctothlng, tloors and
drains, Sotd with a guarantee oi satlsiactlon.
Send today ior LIBERAL FREE SAMPLE.

BERMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY

719 Superior Street Toledo 4, Ohio
Please send free sample, literature and quantity prices on Sat-T-Ktenz.

NAME
STREET
CITY AND STATE

 

 

322 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

F I L M S T B I P S
for the storytelling hour

 

NEW VISUAL AIDS

* add greater enjoyment
* stimulate playground dramatics,
music and creative arts

*successfully tested on the playground

Now Available at $6.00 each:
(10% discount to NRA Affiliate Members)

“The Ant and the Grasshopper”
“The Crab and the Monkey”
“Monkey See, Monkey Do”

Other filmstrips of children’s classics are
in production and will be available shortly.

All hlmstrips can be ordered either with or
without captions. Please specify when ordering.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION, 315 Fourth Avenue. New York It

 

HANDBOOK
OF
PRIVATE SCHOOLS

35th ed., 1954, 1216 pp.
red silk cloth, $8.00

The 35th edition includes more than 4500 schools!

0 Extensive new data concerning the scope of
private education throughout the United States,
Canada, and South America is given in 600,000
words. Facts and statistics comprise complete in—
formation for each school.

0 The GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS, 9th ed., 112
pages, paper, $1.10; cloth, $2.20, offers listings
including features, enrollment, tuition, summer
and winter addresses of directors for boys, girls,
coeducational and travel and exploration groups,
summer study and special Opportunities, etc. A
helpful guide to find the wider horizon for the

boy or girl. Most useful!

PORTER SARGENT

11 Beacon Street, Boston 8,. Mass.

RECREATIOI

IUNE, 1954

 

THE

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

fol. XLVlI Price 50 Cents No. 6

tn the Cover
GOIN’ FISHIN’! These days small fry can be very

mall and still go angling. This picture was taken at
he Torrington, Connecticut, Huck Finn and Becky
['hatcher Fish Dcr'by. Ponds, lakes and streams will
we the scene of many such dcrhies in the months to
-omc. Photo courtesy of Miller-Martin Studio, Tore
"ington.

text Month

Our next issue, in September, will follow the sea-
on and feature an emphasis on city-school cooperao
ion in the providing of community recreation serv-
ces, showing ways in which the recreation leader
:an relate his work to the schools and cooperation
=an strengthen a community-wide job. Among other
Irticlcs, don’t miss Dr. Edith Ball’s excellent “Pro-
essional Leadership in Hospital Recreation,” which
he presented at the NRA’s Hospital Recreation In-
titute, New York University, in January.

Photo Credits

’ages 328, 335, U.S. Forest Service; 337, Forde Pho-
ographers, Seattle; 339, Orren Jack Turner, Prince-
on; 340, Jim Miller Studios, Torrington; 341,
liller-Martin Studio, Torrington; 345, Herb Topy
’hoto Service, Columhus; 349, News-Press, Santa
larbara; 350, Stcve Stone, Santa Barbara; 352 (top
cit and right), Photochrome Studio; 352 (center
cit), Robert Benainous, Tunis; 352 (center right),
'apan National Volleyball Association; 352 (hot-
om), Sedley-Hopkins, Tuscon; 354, US. Volleyball
\ssociation; 355, Gazette and Daily, York; 358, 359,
Iarold Evans, Lancaster County; 360, 361, Resort
ilaaagement, Memphis; 370, Kachmor’s Photo, Har-
ison City.

RECREATION is ublished monthly except July and
August by the ational Recreation Association, a
service organization supported by voluntary contribu-
tions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New
York; is on die in public libraries and is indexed in
the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year.
Canadian and foreign subscription rate 34.50. Re-
entered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the
Post Office in New York, New York, nnder ACt of
March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate
of postage provided for in Secrion 1103, Act of October
3, 1917. authorized May 1, 1924. Micronlms of cur-
rent issues available University Microtilms. 313 N. First
Street, Ann Arbor, Micbigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 141 East
44th Street, New York 17, New York; Mark Minahan.
168 North Michigan Avenue, Cbicago, Illinois; Keith
H. Evans, 3757 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles 5. and
593 Market Street. Suite 304, San Francisco 5,
California.

Copyright. 1954, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in tbe U.S.A. gym;
-16 to _ xi:

9. ..‘

' Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent Office.

 

MAGAZINE OF THE

 

RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Opportunity Unlimited . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joseph Prendergast 326

Just Fishing (Poem) . . . . . . . . . . . . .Evaugeline S. dIcAllister 328

Here Today—Where Tomorrow? . . . . . . . . . . .Charles E. Reed 330

On Seeing a Sign (Poem) . . . . . . . . . . . . .Rev. H. Victor Kane 332

A Research Clearing House . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .George D. Butler 333
Municipal Picnic Areas and the Tourist. . . . .David J. DuBois 334
Making Community Public Service Television

Programs Practical . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ruth Pike 336
Meet Me in St. Louis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339
Section Meeting Topics for the 1954 NationaI

Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Volleyball for Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . .Harold T. Friermoorl 353
Recreation Leadership Training Opportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
PROGRANI
Musical Fireworks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nellie Sullivan 340

Theatre in-the-Round We Go . . . . . . . . . . . .Bette Buttenvorth 342

Preparing a Summer Pageant . . . . . . . . . . . .Margaret Blichle 344

After the Senior Prom—Wat? . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jean Wolcott 347

Puppetry is Fun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Gardiner 349

The Traveling Trading Post . . . . . . . . . . . .Sylvia C. Neweombe 355
Children’s Summer Camps: Creative or

Custodial? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Janet Nichelsburg 356

The “How-To” of Mineral Collecting. .Gerry and Will Shulman 358
Pre-Sehool Classes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Elizabcth G. Leighton 359
Aquaball—A Recreation Innovation . . . . . . . . . .Nelson Bryant 360
Loop Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Howard G. Dauford 362
Baton Twirling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .K. Mark Cowcn 363
Dogs Have Their Day (Idea of the Month) . .F. Sylvia Fulwiler 364
ADIIHNISTRATION ‘
Detroit’s Youngsters Win Playgrounds. . . . .James McConltey 366
Wrap Your Wading P00] in Canvas . . . . . . . . . .Ben Campbell 367
Camp Planning (Personnel). . . .M. R. Garret and W. M. Keith 368
How Not to Build :1 Swimming Pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
Selling a Donor on the Idea of a Playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
“Putting” Across the U. S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Horacc’ W. Peaslee 371
Short Golf for Community Recreation Centers .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Geoffrey S. Cornish. 372
Better Service Records . . . . . . . . . . . . . . James S. Stevens, Sr. 374
REGULAR FEATURES
Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 325
Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Pcrsonncl—In-Servicc Training for the One-Man

Department . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .James H. Grooms 376

Reporters Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380

Index to Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

Books Received, Magazines, Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384

Idea of the Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .See Program

Recreation Leadership Courses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Insidc Back Cover

323

324

NATIONAL "RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

 

PAULINE oss GRANcEs—Vice-Cbairman
Superintendent of Recreation
San Diego, California

RALPH J. ANORews

Director, North Carolina Recreation
Commission

Raleigh, North Carolina

FRANIc J. ANNEaaRe
Recreation Director
Manhattan, Kansas

T. A. BELSER

Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation

Montgomery, Alabama

BoanRT F. BlGaY
Ithaca College
Ithaca, New York

CHARLES K. BRIGHTalLL
University of Illinois
Urbana, Illinois

MRS. THERESA S. BRUNOAROT

Vermont Director of Recreation,
Board of Recreation

Montpelier, Vermont

HARRY R. BRYAN

City Recreation Director, Recreation
Department

Sumter, South Carolina

ALI'Rao P. CAPPIO

Superintendent of Recreation
Paterson, New Jersey

VIRGINIA CARMICHARL '
Director of Recreation, Department

of Parks, Recreation Division
Atlanta, Georgia

MILO F. CHRISTIANSBN

Superintendent of Recreation
Washington, D. C.

GRORce E. DchIn

Executive Secretary, Federal Inter-

Agency Committee on Recreation
Washington, D. C.

BEN EVANS
Director of Recreation
Seattle, Washington

JAMES C. EvANs

Civilian Assistant, Office of Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense

Washington, D. C.

RUSSELL J. FOVAL
Director of Recreation
Decatur, Illinois

DR. SHERWOOD GATES

Chief, Ofice of Community Serv-
ices, Department of the Air Force

Washington, D. C.

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE

ON

DEFENSE RELATED SERVICES

RanRT W. CRAWFORD—Chairman

Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent,

Department of Recreation
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

ARTHUR WILLIAMS-Secretary

Assistant Executive Director, National

Recreation Association

New York, New York

B. P. GRUENOYKE
Superintendent, County of Los An-

geies, Department of Parks' and
Recreation

Los Angeles, California

I
FOREST V. GUSTAI-‘SON
Director of Recreation, Montgom-

ery County
Rockville, Maryland

L. B. HousTON

Director of Parks and Recreation
Dallas, Texas

TEMPLE R. JARRELL
Superintendent of Recreation, Rec-
reation Department

Fort Lauderdale, Florida

CLIFF KnRaIr

Recreation Supervisor, Callaway
Milts Company

LaGrange, Georgia

J. BERTRAM Kassnt.

Consultant in Recreation and Out-
door Education, American Asso-
ciation for Health, Physical Edu-

cation, Recreation
Washington, D. C.

RAY KOOI

Supervisor, Recreation Section.‘
Ford Motor Company

Dearborn, Michigan

THOMAS W. LANTz
Superintendent of Public Recreation
Tacoma, Washington

JAMES C. LEWIS
Director of Recreation
Lincoln, Nebraska

KEITH A. MACOONALo
Executive Director, Greater Vallejo
Recreation District

Vallejo, California

MR5. MARTHA B. MAITRE

Superintendent of Recreation
Mobile, Alabama

NATHAN L. MALLISON
Superintendent of Recreation
Jacksonville, Florida

WILLIAM A. MOOth

General Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation

Louisville, Kentucky

R. R. MURPHY
Superintendent of Parks
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

SELWYN ORCUTT

Superintendent of Recreation and
Parks

Fayetteville, North Carolina

WILLIAM B. PONO

Supervisor, Recreotion Division,
State Parks and Recreation
Commission

Seattle, Wasbington

CHARLEs J. REITZ

Superintendent of Parks and Rec-
reation

Yuma, Arizona

J. A. REYNOLDS
Director, Department of Recreation

and Parks
Richmond, Virginia

E. STUART RICHTER
Superintendent of Recreation
Colorado Springs, Colorado

GEORGE T. SAROISSON

Executive Director, Recreation and
Promotion Service, Inc.

Wilmington, Delaware

ARTHUR D. SCOTT

Director of Recreation, Boeing
Airplane Company

Seattle, Washington

ALFREO P. STROZOAs

Community Relations Adviser, U.S.
Atomic Energy Commission

Paducah, Kentucky

CLAReNca L. THoMAs

Executive Director, Linden Corn-
munity Center

Dayton, Ohio

JAY M. VII-IR LEE .
Superintendent of Recreation
Oakland, California

STERLING S. WINANa

Director of Recreation, California
Recreation Commission

Sacramento, California

WILLIAM P. WITI'
Director of Parks and Recreation

Corpus Christi, Texas

BERNARO YORK
Superintendent of Recreation
West Palm Beach, Florida

 

The National Advisory Committee on Defense Related Services, composed of outstanding leaders in defense and recre-
ation, was appointed to help the National Recreation Association to develop special defense recreation services designed
to bring our country’s local, state and national resources to bear on the recreation needs created by the impact of the
national defense program.

RECREATlol

 

b A CITY-WIDE CAMPAIGN AGAINST LIT-
I‘ERBUCS AND VANDALBUCS, which could
be a pattern for other communities, is
being promoted by the Portland Chap-
ter of the Isaak Walton League of
America in an attempt to do something
about this twin menace. They already
have distributed hundreds of pamphlets,
and samples" of some of these may be

available (address: 800 Pittock Block,
Portland 5, Oregon). School children,
with the help of their teachers in art and
English, are busily turning out posters,
cartoons, jingles and slogans. “Don’t
be a litterbug,” scotch-lite decals for
carS are being sold to spread public con-
sciousneSS of the project. The whole
town is humming, and they are wonder-
ing now whether it would be possible
to organize such a campaign to work
indefinitely.

} SURVEYS 0F OUTDOOR. RECREATION
NEEDS in selected communities in the
Texas-Oklahoma and New England-
New York areas, conducted by the Na-
tional Recreation Association at the re-
quest of the National Park Service,
show a strong similarity in recreation
interests by individuals and families de-
spite differences in recreation oppor-
:unities and geographic locations.

In general, the most p0pular forms of
recreation outside towns were those in
which the entire family could partici-
aate, relatively inexpensive and which
required areas or facilities most fami-
ies could not provide for themselves.
The importance of water areas devel-
oped for recreation use was repeatedly
indicated in both regions.

Among the recommendations made
by the association: DevelOp existing
lreas for more effective diversified rec-
reation use, with Special consideration
F0 facilities for use by the entire family.

cquire, or obtain permission to use,
dditional pr0perties within travel diS-
ances, and develop them in the light of
nmet recreation needs. Study possi-
ilities for additional water areas and

ake more effective use of existing wa-
rfront properties. Expand overnight
ccommodationS at areas distant from

e city, especially where the recreation

NE 1954

facilities are such as to invite a visit of
more than one day. Provide the public
with more and better information on
available facilities and services. Estab-
lish methods of assuring cooperation of
all interested agencies in making plans
to acquire, improve, and operate recrea-
tion areas and facilities; and enlist the
cooperation of local school and recrea-
tion authorities and agencies in a lei-
sure education program that will assure
wider enjoyment and use of extra-urban
recreation areas and programs.

The survey will not be published, but
its findings will be incorporated in the
reports, scheduled for June 1955.

) TIIERE HAS BEEN A VERY coon RE-
SPONSE to the Hospital Recreation Con-
sultation Service of the National Recre-
ation Association; and an increasing
number of requests are coming in from
cities throughout the country, for help
in establishing and extending such
services.

In New York City recommendations
to waive the residency.requirement for
hospital recreation leaders were made
recently by Dr. Morris Jacobs, general
medical superintendent, after a confer-
ence with Beatrice H. Hill, NRA hos-
pital consultant. Arrangements were

also made for the use of students from
recreation curricula, on a twenty-hour

scholarship basis, in hospitals having a
recreation program. Students will re-
ceive free room and board.

) RECREATION SURVEYS INCLUDING
LONG-RANGE PLANS have been recently
completed bythe NRA Survey and Plan-
ning Service for the following commu-
nities: Weymouth, Massachusetts;
Rochester, New Hampshire; Tusca-
loosa, Alabama; Kenosha, Wisconsin;
Royal Oak, Michigan; Warren, Penn-
sylvania. Studies are now underway in
Lincoln Park, Michigan; South Bend,
Indiana; St. Louis County, Missouri;
DeSMoineS, Iowa; and Paramus, New
Jersey.

) THE SPRING ISSUE of Child Study, a
quarterly journal of parent education,

published by the Child Study Associa- ,

tion, is an especially good one and in-
cludes, among others, several good arti-
cles on recreation subjects. They are:
“Fun Without Tears” by Ruth E. Hart-
ley; “Framework for Fun” (the place
of play in family life) by Robert M.
Goldenson; “Competitive Sports and
the Awkward Child”* by Lawrence S.
Kubie; “Choosing a Camp” by Alethea
T. Backhard.

The magazine costS $2.50 per year,
Sixty-five cents per copy and may be
ordered from the'association at 132

East 74th Street, New York 21, New
York.

For Summer Planning

Program Planning for Bus Trips, a
guide to safety and play activities in
transporting groups of children, has
'just been published by the Jewish As-
sociation for Neighborhood Centers
and the Play Schools Association, at
119 West 57th Street, New York 19, N.
Y. Copies of the thirty-two-page pam-
phlet are Sixty cents each.

Available to Groups
The Free-Loan Exhibit Collection of

reproductions of paintings, as an-
nounced on this page in May, iS collec-
ted solely in an effort to contribute to
the art appreciation courseS of schools,
churches and similar groups. The loan
collection is not available to any private
individual. This additional announce-
ment is made at the request of Mr.
Edward M. Oestreicher, director.

Pardon Us . . .

o In our May 1954 issue, the sentence
in the first paragraph of “Playground
Safety in the Atom City” Should read:
BoyS and girls in southeastern Wash-
ington atom city are taught the safe way
to play in the same manner their par-
ents are taught the safe way to handle
radioactive isotopes at Hanford Atomic
Products Operation. SayS Miss Miller,
the author, “The possibility of Richland
children coming in contact with any-
thing hotter than the radium dial of a
watch is extremely remote.” Also, at
the top of page 310, Burton Pierard is
twelve yearS old.

0 Director of Picnic Services, John E.
Shallcross, iS on the staff of the Divi-
sion of Recreation, Cleveland, rather
than-that of Akron, Ohio, as stated in
the review of hiS book—The Complete
Picnic Book **———on page 320 of our
May 1954 issue.

* Watch for “The Problem Child in a Child

Care Institution,” in a forthcoming issue of
RECREATION.

 

** A. S. Barnes and Company, 232 Madison
Avenue, New York 16. $3.00.

325

O

OPPORTUNITY UNLIMITED
74726601Méattée 2mm mm

SINCE the beginning of the twentieth century there has
been a series of social, economic and political develop-
ments which have acted as catalytic agents in creating great
surges of activity in community recreation. I need mention
only the two World Wars and the depression of the early
thirties as three of the most prominent events which have
led to the establishment of community recreation depart—
ments in most communities of more than ten thousand popu-
lation and in many smaller communities in this country.

Today we are in the midst of what has been termed a
second industrial revolution. The implications of the result-
ing changes in the leisure life of America have already be-
come clear in rough form. They go far beyond anything
that we have experienced before. We know that in the years
ahead individuals will spend more time, more energy, and
more money on leisure living.

The opportunities for the community recreation move-
ment in this changing era are so great that we can only guess
at what new recreation developments may be brought about
in the next five, ten or fifteen years.

If these opportunities are identified, if plans of action are
developed and if all of the resources of the recreation move-
ment for leadership, ideas and vision are brought together
in a united effort, the future contribution of community rec-
reation to the American way of life will be great beyond
description.

What the national recreation movement will do with these
new opportunities, what impact it will have on democratic
community living, depends upon the ability of the movement
to develop its leadership and its ideas.

As I emphasized at the National Recreation Congress in
Philadelphia, the national recreation movement is not the
same as the National Recreation Association, rather it is the
hundreds, the thousands of recreation workers, professional
and volunteer, and lay citizens interested in recreation. . . .
Such a movement is apt to lack form and substance because
it is made up of innumerable individual elements, each pri-
marily concerned with a particular phase of recreation and
a specific community.

However, it is from the movement as a whole that the
needs and ideas, the leadership and the vision must come.

Meeting at district conferences and annual congresses, serv-
ing together on committees of one kind or another, learning
by doing in the individual community, reading and studying
and thinking in solitude—in all these ways, policies and pro-

 

MR. PRENDERGAST is the executive director of the NRA.

326

Joseph Prendergast

grams, research surveys and projects have their beginning:
—and frequently have their ends—because there is no read]

way to carry them to fulfillment.

Here is where the second important function of the As
sociation comes into being, the first being its service func
tion to individual recreation leaders and agencies. We hav:
all served on voluntary committees with other. busy peopl:
and have found that while we all could give the necessarj
time to meetings and discussions, none of us could providu
the day-to—day follow-up or provide the secretarial, clerica
and other administrative services needed to bring our recom
mendations to fruition.

It is, in my opinion, the responsibility of the Nations
Recreation Association to provide these continuing stat
services on a national, regional and state level which wi
make it possible for the national recreation movement t
build a well-planned, sound structure Floor by floor. . . .

The National Recreation Association is only one part c
the national recreation movement, but I believe a very in:
portant part. It is, for example, the one national civic 01
ganization devoting its full time exclusively to serving th
national recreation movement. Working together with o:
ganized recreation professional groups, interested and inflt
ential citizens, and with other special agencies that are co}
tributing effectively to the movement, it is helping to git
united leadership to a very important movement. It
through the further development of this cooperation, I b
lieve, that the needs and ideas, the leadership and the visic
of the movement as a whole can be given vitality, purpo:
and achievement. 0

I believe that it is the responsibility of the National Re
reation Association to provide the mechanics through Whit
the thinking and experience and vision of the leaders of ti
movement can be channelled for cooperative planning, a1
service can be successfully developed and maintained.

I believe that the Association has already made sever
real strides forward in meeting this part of its responsibili
to the national recreation movement through the establis
ment of district advisory committees and such national a
visory committees as those on personnel, defense relat:
services, and recreation research. National advisory co}
mittees on administration, program, state, federal and intt
national recreation are now being established. To comple
the picture a National Advisory Council to the Board
Directors of the National Recreation Association is now l

ing formed.

RECREATIG

National Advisory Council

The Council will be made up of the chairmen (with their
vice-chairmen as alternates) of national committees and of
the chairmen or representatives of district committees listed
below:

National Advisory Committee on Recreation Administra-
tion—George Hjelte, general manager, Department of Rec-
reation and Parks, Los Angeles. n

National Advisory Committee on Recreation Programs
and Activities—Dorothea Lensch, director of recreation,
Bureau of Parks and Public Recreation, Portland, Oregon.

National Advisory Committee on Recreation Research——
James Stevens, Sr., superintendent, Recreation Board,
Greenwich, Connecticut.

National Advisory Committee on the Recruitment, Train-
ing and Placement of Recreation Personnel—Dr. Paul H.
Douglass, Grand View Farm, Granville, New York.

National Advisory Committee on the Special Defense Re-
lated Services of the National Recreation Association—
Robert W. Crawford, deputy commissioner and superinten-
dent, Department of Recreation, Philadelphia.

National Advisory Committee on State Recreation—Ster-
ling S. Winans, director of recreation, California Recreation
Commission, Sacramento, California.

National Advisory Committee on Federal Recreation—
Ben H. Thompson, chief of recreation planning, National
Park Service, W’ashington, D. C.

National Advisory Committee for the International Rec-
reation Service of the National Recreation Association—
Xustin Welch, National Catholic Community Service, Wash-
ngton, D. C.

New England District Advisory Committee—John Cro-
1in, director of recreation, Providence, Rhode Island.

Middle Atlantic District Advisory Committee— Michael
E. Wargo, director of recreation, Bureau of Recreation
:lairton, Pennsylvania.

Southern District Advisory Committee—Anne S. Pherigo,

:xecutive director, Board of Park Commissioners, Lexing-
on, Kentucky.

9

 

NATIONAL" RECREATION ASSOCIATION
ADVISORY COUNCIL AND COMMITTEES

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
of the
NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

NotianoI Advisory Council
Composed of
Choirmen at Notianol and District Committees

 

DISTRICT ADVISORY NATIONAL ADVISORY

COMMITTEES COMMITTEES
New Englond Administration
MiddIe Atlontic Pragrom
Southern Reseorch
Greot lokes Personnel
Midwest Defense
Southwest State Recreation

PaciRc Northwest
Pacific Southwest

Federal Recreotian
International

——._._________________________
'UNE 1954

Great Lakes District Advisory Committee—Harold My-
ron, director of recreation, Highland Park, Michigan.

Midwest District Advisory Committee—Robert L. Black,
community recreation assistant, Resources and Development
Commission, J efferson City, Missouri.

Southwest District Advisory Committee—Alvin R. Egge-
ling, director of recreation, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Pacilic Northwest District Advisory Committee—Ben

' Evans, director of recreation, Department of Parks, Seattle.

Pacific Southwest District Advisory Committee—Howard

B. Holman, director of recreation, Joint Recreation Board,
Fresno, California.

The chairman of the National Advisory Committee on
Recreation Administration will be the chairman of the Coun-
cil; and Arthur Williams, assistant executive director of the

National Recreation Association will be the secretary of the
Council.

Sccretariat Scrvices

Secretariat service will be provided the national commit-

tees by the following staff members of the National Recrea-
tion Association:

Administration—Charles E. Reed, director of the Field
Department.

Program-Virginia Musselman, director of the Recrea-
tion Program Service.

Research—George D. Butler, director of Research.

Personnel—Willard C. Sutherland, director of the Recre-
ation Personnel Service.

Defense—Arthur Williams, assistant executive director.

State—Robert Gamble, assistant director of the Field De-
partment.

Federal—George E. Dickie, associate executive director,
on loan to the Federal Inter-Agency Committee on Recrea-
tlon.

International-Thomas E. Rivers, assistant executive
director.
Secretariat service will be provided the district commit-

tees by the following district representatives of the National
Recreation Association: '

New England—Waldo R. Hainsworth. ,
Middle Atlantic—Richard S. Westgate and John W. Faust.
Southern—Ralph B. Van Fleet and Marion Preece.

Great Lakes—John J. Collier and Robert Horney.
Midwest—Arthur Todd.

Southwest—Harold Van Arsdale.
Pacific Northwest—Willard H. Shumard.
Pacific Southwest—Lynn S. Rodney.

The secretariat services of the Association as outlined
above have for their purpose the smooth and eliicient work-
ing of the national and district advisory committees and the
National Advisory Council. Generally, the Association staff
member assigned to a particular committee is eXpected to
perform any or all of the following duties:

f

' To prepare or coordinate the preparation of the provi-
sional agenda for all meetings;

' To prepare or arrange the preparation of such substan-
tive studies and working papers as may be required and to

327

handle the distribution of any material submitted by a mem-
ber of the committee;

' To maintain liaison with the chairman of the body and
undertake for him the work of initiating or responding to
correspondence, notifying members of the committee of
time, place and subject matter ,of meetings, ensuring provi-

sion to the members of appropriate documents and other
background material;

' To make the physical arrangements for all meetings, take '

. care of verbatim reporting or summary recording and pre-
pare or review reports and records to ensure substantive
accuracy;

' To, prepare draft reports on the work of the body for
approval by the body;

' To certify, in appropriate cases, that the expenditures
arising from the meeting are in accordance with existing
regulations of the Association and are reasonable and in

accord with the purposes of the committee;

' To prepare annual budget estimates for the committee for
submission to the executive director;

' To advise the executive director on all matters with refer-
ence to the committee, to assist him on correspondence with
the committee and its members and to represent him, when
appropriate, at the meetings of the committee.

As of May 1, 1954, there were 1052 recreation agencies
and 21 professional recreation societies or associations of-
ficially afiiliated for service and 2119 recreation workers ac-
tively associated for service with the Association. It is my
sincere hope that before long all recreation agencies and so-
cieties will be aHiliated for service and all recreation lead-
ers, professional and volunteer,‘ will be associated for serv-
ice. Only if the entire national recreation movement acts to-
gether can the promise of American life—happiness for all
—be achieved.

 

JUST FISHING

I can’t figure out what it does to his soul
When a man stands for'hours hanging on to a pole
With a line and a hook dangling down in a hole.

It must be that angling is truly his dish
For I can’t think he really is mad at the fish,
Or even that dinner is simply his wish.

No, there’s something more here than, at first, meets the eye,
Some deep-seated reason why strong men will ply
Their skill and their patience just Hipping a Hy—

 

With never a sigh
As the hours pass by—
Yes, there must be a reason,

But I don’t know why.

Not for minnow nor whale

Or to eat or, for sale

Would I seven hours of ozone inhale

Just to lure a slim trout

Who is swimming about

To insert a sharp hook in his unwary snout. ’

But a man will! He’ll stand

(Though the Turks take the Land)

In a blistering sun, with his shoes full of sand,
And just dangle a pole

In an Old Fishing Hole—
80 it must be that fishing is good for his soul!

EVANGELINE SHORTALL MCALLISTER

(The Sage Hen)
Bayard, Nebraska

RECREATION

 
  
   
     
 

    
 

a.
. - a - 5-.
--‘-

‘3-..
--~
.5
q.-
_ '5"
- -q.
: a.
-5-
a.
'5
“a.-.
-~--~
-~--~
.--q.q.
q-..
.u
\

A

A Challenge to Recreation

Sirs:

I have read, with interest, the letter
to the editor by Mr. Mortimer H. Mor-
ris, in the March issue of RECREATION.
I am sure that Mr. Morris meant it to
be provocative. . . . Certainly, some of
the things that he has said are incon-
testable and he has done a service in
raising these issues. However, I find my-
self in disagreement with many of the
viewpoints he has expressed and feel so
deeply about the matter that I am com-
pelled to write a few comments of my
own. '

I agree with Mr. Morris that recrea-
tion is in need of inspiring leadership,
and I think that this is true of every pro-
fession, including education, industry
and government. Most of the profes-
sions have many more peOple than we
do and, as a result of the large numbers,
they have a greater opportunity for de-
veloping inspiring leaders.

I do not agree completely with him
that all of our peeple have been naive
and overly cautious in their efforts to
sell recreation to the American public.
This may be true in some areas, but
there are numerous towns and cities
that have had vigorous and dynamic
leadership, where great progress has
been made in securing appropriate capi-
tal funds as well as operating funds.
These things do not happen unless some-
one has vision and courage. Mr. Mor-
ris should look over the field before
any general indictment of all the lead-
ers is made.

As to the training in colleges, I find
the situation quite different from that
which Mr. Morris presented. I have
found the universities very sympathetic
and concerned as to the type of leader-
ship that should evolve from their cur-
riculums. I have knowledge that the
universities have made every attempt to
discuss the curriculum content with the
recreation leaders and have asked for
constructive criticism. After all, we are
the ones who hire their products. We
set the standards and, in order for them
to qualify, they must meet these stand-
ards. If the prOper skills and leader-
ship techniques are not being taught, we
are not blameless.

Mr. Morris states that those who are
handling the school-camping program
have not had the necessary training. I
find, however, that schools which have

JUNE 1954

accident;

 

inaugurated camping prOgrams, on the
whole, have had competent personnel to
handle this aspect of their programs.
Most of the schools do not consider it
camping but outdoor education, which
seems to be a much more appropriate
name.

As to the poor recruiting job that is
being done, it seems to me that there
are other basic reasons why our profes-
sion has not been more attractive to
those choosing a vocation. I refer to
the working hours, salaries and job
stability.

Mr. Morris also refers to the amount
of publicity that was given the National
Recreation Congress when they met in
Philadelphia last October. Naturally,
none of us is ever satisfied with the
publicity. However, I would like to
point out that in 1953 there were one
hundred and fifty-eight conventions in
Philadelpllia———approximately three con-
ventions a week—and, naturally, each
of the conventions would like to have
newspaper space. Sixty percent of the
space is already devoted to advertising
and the activities of an area of, roughly,
five million peOple. Placing myself in
the position of the city editor, I would
say that the Congress received its share
of valuable news space.

The objective of our public relations
should be to call attention to the pro—
gram itself and make clear the thinking
which lies behind it. How well we do
this depends upon how effective the pro-
gram is. The truth has a way of making
itself known without TV, and, while a
good selling job is one of our aims, we
are primarily concerned with, the pack-
age and not the wrapper. I would re-
mind Mr. Morris that happiness does
not make headlines.

I feel that we have accomplished a
great deal and will go on to greater
things in recreation, without high pres-
sure techniques, without resorting to
Madison Avenue gimmicks of canned
conformity or production-line pleasure.
We must be more imaginative than that,
and more sensible.

There is no doubt, however, that Mr.
Morris’ object is commendable—to
further recreation in this country—but
I think he tends, like all partisans, to
lose the larger perspective where rec-
reation is one part of government, one
part of life, and one of many interests.
Because of that, he perhaps emphasizes

too much thc negative over the positive
aspects of the field of recreation.

In many areas, a good job is being
done and a better one is in the making.
Certainly, we should not rest on minor
gains or even large gains.

I was surprised that Mr. Morris said
the speeches at the Recreation Confer-
ence in Philadelphia were political in
content. Nothing could be further from
the truth. If we talk about selling recre-
ation, who is more important to sell than
those of the legislative and executive
branches of our government on all
levels? These men must be sold on rec-
reation and if what the Mayor of Phila-
delphia and the Governor of Pennsyl-
vania said was political, then let’s have
more political speeches, as they both
pledged themselves to the furtherance
and promotion of public recreation.

I would like to know what program
Mr. Morris has in mind. What does he
propose? How does he plan to develop
leadership? How do we attract compe-
tent people? What needs to be done?
We must crawl before we walk. It is
easy to criticize but let’s have construc-
tive criticism. Let us be frank and can-
did with each other. Let us have a posi-
t1ve program.

Many executives are thinking along
these lines and are doing something
about it. All of us could have a part if
we put our shoulders to the wheel and
join forces with those who want to carry
the torch for a more meaningful and
wholesome recreation for America.

ROBERT W. CRAWFORD, Deputy Com-
missioner and Superintendent, De-

partment of Recreation, Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania.

Coming Events

Sirs:

On page 122 of the February issue of
RECREATION you list coming events.
You list only those for the month of
February. These make sense; however,
would it not be of real service if you
went a step further and also put down
the events coming up for the next two
or three months, so that those who may
want to attend may be reminded well in
advance? I feel that you should have,
as a part of your service, a minimum of
a three-month evcnt schedule.

GEORGE T. SARGISSON, Executive Di-
rector,” Recreation Promotion and
Service, I nc., Wilmington, Delaware.

0 We usually try to cover events for
two months ahead, but very often in-
formation regarding these is not re-
ceived in time, for the magazine is
made up two months in advance of
publication date. We shall appreciate
receiving dates as far in advance as
possible.—Ed.

329

- “Here Today—
WHERE TOMORROW?”

WHAT HAS occurred in the first fifty

years of the recreation movement
in our country may prove to be as chal-
lenging relatively as the Colonial and
Charles E. Reed other early American settlements them-

  

selves. It has definitely fired the imagi-.

nation and interest of the American pe0ple.

Certain economic and social changes during the past dec-
ade help us to foresee some of the recreation problems and
potentials of the next quarter- or half-century.

Briefly, the record shows: (1) The 1950 total population
of the United States was not expected before 1980. The out-
look now indicates a population range of 198 to 221 million
by 1975. (2) The nation’s birth rate climbed. (3) The
death rate declined to an all-time low by 1950. (4) Within
the past decade, life expectancy was pushed upward by
nearly four years.

This impressive increase in the number of people who
now need and want recreation services has been accom-
panied by steady expansion of the non-working time of the
American public. Today, children and youth have more
free time to use as they desire. Increasing numbers of work-
ing pe0ple are taking more frequent and longer vacations.
Most labor contracts in 1953 included paid vacations of
some duration. More workers are now able to take vaca-
tions without pay. Growing numbers of persons are retiring
from work earlier in their lives owing to the increase in re-
tirement and pension plans, puhlic and private. Current and
expanding uses of mechanical devices promise a still greater
national volume of leisure.

Simultaneously, with more people who have more and
more free time, has also come greater purchasing power. Ac-
cording to a statement attributed to the United States Depart-
ment of Commerce, the average American family had an in-
come in 1950 of $4,460, and‘ Twentieth Century Fund pre-
dicts a thirty per cent increase in real wages during the next
decade. All of these challenging changes readily indicate
that social planning for the future, including provision for
recreation, must he harnessed to the idea of growth and
expansion.

 

MR. REED is the director of the Field Department of the
National Recreation Association.

330

Charles E. Reed

What communities in the United States were providing in
terms of programs of recreation and park services for their
pe0ple at the close of this first half-century, is reflected sub-
stantially in the Mid-Century Edition of the Recreation and
Park Year Book issued in 1950 by the“ National Recreation
Association. This, along 'with other available sources, pro-
vides the record of past progress. We are now concerned
with the present and the years ahead.

lnevitably, the all-pervading question that arises as we
look ahead is, “Do we have the professional leadership, both
in number and competence, to do the job?” The stupendous
challenge we face imposes several rather specific demands
011 the recreation profession, including:

1. A more adequate knowledge and understanding of the
people to be served, their number, their environment, their
recreation interests and needs.

2. The working out of a long-range plan for the acquisition
and development of facilities that will meet the estimated
needs of the population for the indehnite future. This needs
to be an early and searching calculation of required outside
spaces in particular. Many communities, not only in metro-
politan sections, have already lost forever the chance to
secure difiereut types of play spaces essential for adequate
recreation services to the public.

In 1953 there was evidence of greater interest by locali-
ties in community planning for recreation and parks and in
the pr0per functional design of areas and structures. It was
another “boom” year for the acquisition and deve10pment
of new recreation and park areas, for the construction of
new buildings and facilities, and for reconditioning' many
old areas and pr0perties. Few local departments failed to
add some new or improved facility during the year. Swim-
ming pools, bath-houses and bathing beaches t0pped the list
of new facilities, with many localities constructing two or
more.

3. A more comprehensive plan of program services: one that
is also long-ranged in concept and designed to meet the in-
terests and needs of all of the peOple rather than a program
just for certain age-groups. In discussing, quite recently,
the ways in which people are now using their Spare time in
America, a well-known periodical in the field of business
stressed the fact that there was a major trend away from
passive crowd amusements and toward active pursuits that

RECREATION

people can carry on independently. The article included also
the arresting observation that much of this desire for indi-
vidual pursuits and participation is for the very kind of ac-
tivity and satisfaction that a public recreation service is
designed to provide, if its program is really keyed to these
interests. '

Two or three developments suggest what localities are
currently doing to meet these demands:

Reports from recreation park authorities all over the coun-
try last year indicated that there was more awareness of
recreation needs of women and girls, but that many more
trained leaders to direct this phase of the program are re-
quired. Strengthening this phase of municipal recreation
services is important in light of the fact that, for the first
time, the number of women in 1950 exceeded the number of
men by over a million. Due possibly to the increasing rate of
juvenile delinquency, the past year showed a revival of the
special wartime attention to the recreation needs of the
family as a unit. The concern for older adults continued to
grow all over the country with new and expanded programs
and a marked improvement of quality of services. It is evi-
dent that comlnunities everywhere are challenged by the
presence of over thirteen million persons over sixty-five
years old.

Reports from the various districts served. by the NRA
through its field staff showed some important weaknesses
and needs in many of our public recreation programs. The
following needs were mentioned most frequently:

a. Qualified leadership in greater numbers is the para-

mount requirement.

b. Better trained new executives entering the field.

0. Improved professional growth on the part of many

incumbent executives.

d. More opportunities for subordinate staff members to

observe and receive training.

e. More and better training opportunities for both paid

staff and volunteers.

f. More adequate programs of cultural activities, drama,

music, and arts and crafts.

g. Greater coverage of most age groups, especially out-

of-scllool youth, family units and shut-ins.

h. Fuller understanding of program fundamentals by

local recreation boards and other governing authorities.

4. Greater financial resources for recreation—both capital
and operating funds more nearly in line with the public’s
interests in and demand for added recreation opportunities.
Although appropriations of tax funds for public services
and community-wide giving for private agency services have
greatly increased, the gains have not kept pace with the
growing needs and the higher costs of meeting them. Thus
we find ourselves working in an atmosphere of “close-fit”
financing. This is pointed up by another significant fact.
At the Recreation Congress in Philadelphia last September,
there was much interest among recreation and park admin-
istrators in determining what a community would need to
spend per capita today to provide an adequate program of
public recreation. The answer inevitably involves consid-
ration of the standards for community recreation and park
reas, facilities, leadership, activities and services which

UNE 1954

have been developed over the years on the bas1s of experi-
ence, and which have gained a wide acceptance.

In the light of these standards, any municipality that
wishes to provide adequate recreation and park opportuni-
ties for its people would need to spend about six dollars
per capita annually for this purpose. Regardless of fund
sources, this would cover total current expenditures for
such items as leadership, Operation and maintenance. It
does not include capital items. This total represents the
approximate amount a city would need to spend in order
to meet the widely accepted standards for community rec-
reation and park services referred to above. A number of
cities are spending more than six dollars per capita.

It is estimated that one-half of this amount, or three
dollars per capita, would be for organized recreation. This
would include the cost of leadership, supplies and other ex-
penses incidental to the program conducted at playgrounds,
playfields, buildings and indoor centers and for maintaining
and operating these facilities as well as golf courses, picnic
centers, swimming pools, tennis courts and other pr0perties
used for active recreation. Of this three dollars per capita
about one-half, or one dollar and fifty cents per capita,
would be needed annually for professional recreation lead-
ership, salaries and wages.

 

“Every great and commanding movement in the annals
of the world is the triumph of enthusiasm. Nothing great
was ever achieved without it.”

—-—RALPH WALno EMERSON

The remaining three dollars per capita would be spent
for other forms of recreation and park service, including
many traditional park department services. Among them
are the maintenance of such features as zoolOgical parks,
botanical gardens and museums and the provision of spec-
ial activities such as hand concerts.

5. More adequate public understanding of recreation and
its mounting importance in community and national life.
An official of the Community Chests and Councils stated
recently to representatives of several national field service
agencies that, by and large, people look favorably on health
and welfare services but they lack understanding of the
basic specifics. This is particularly true, he said, in respect
to “why qualified leadership is important and why more
is needed.” His plea was for more exposure of our citizens
to community problems and services just as national ad-
vertising today exposes people more intensively to the values
of commercial products. The same lack of understanding
applies also to the operation of a public recreation service.
6. More awareness of today’s widening horizon of coopera-
tive relationships. Many of you know that your responsi-
bilities for leadership do not end with your own department
or agency, and that the service you provide cannot be con-
fined within the actual borders of the political unit you rep-
resent. There are mounting numbers of unincorporated areas
on the fringes of your cities. In many cases, these are ne-
glected neighborhoods which want recreation and other

331'-

community services many of which they will not have, at
least in the terms of opportunities for recreation, except
as your leadership in the larger community setting helps
to bring it about. Likewise, neighboring small towns and
rural areas are looking increasingly for nearby professional
leadership to help them in their planning.

Other important problems and challenges could be listed,
but these suggest the demands upon us. Indicative, par-
tially, of the progress we are making in professional leader-
ship, municipalities found it increasingly diflicult during
1953 to recruit qualified workers, partly because of the com-
petition for the best recreation leadership and the increased
demand for recreation personnel in state mental hospitals
and other newer areas of recreation service. An appreci-
able number of leaders went into business or industry. Fre-
quently the positions are more adequately defined, working
conditions more attractive and salaries higher in these re-
lated fields. The number of students graduating from pro-
fessional recreation curriculums decreased, adding further
to the difficulty.

The number of positions which became available last year,
in tax-supported agencies, indicates that the increase in full-
time, year-round personnel was owing to the addition of
staff workers in existing departments, as well as to the es-
tablishment of new services in communities not yet organ-
ized for the employment of professional park and recreation
leaders. On the favorable side, total leadership personnel
increased during 1953, as did salaries. ‘ In-service training
continued to advance.

As in recent years, the majority of executive positions
filled last year were in the smaller communities: fifty-one
per cent were in cities of ten thousand p0pulati0n or less;
sixty-nine per cent in cities of fifteen thousand or less;
eighty-eight per cent in cities of twenty-five thousand p0pu-
lation or less and only eight per cent of the executive johs
filled were in cities of fifty thousand or over. It is encour-
aging that more liberal policies were practiced with refer-
ence to resident requirements.

Until the Southern Regional Study was started in 1952,
there had been no basic investigation of recreation personnel

that would provide the information which would help in
answering the vital question of total leadership needs for
the future. This study represents the first step toward a plan
for a regional education program at the college level for
professional training of recreation leaders. It is the first
such comprehensive investigation for any large area of the
country, and leaders in the southern section are to be com-
mended for taking this initiative. Much helpful information,
favorable as well as otherwise, will become available when
the final report of the study appears in the fall.

Finally, one other factor in the long look ahead deserves
t0p recognition. More and more communities are asking,
“Is our program of public recreation and park services what
it should be?” “What should we be planning for the future?”
“Are we making satisfactory progress?”

Fortunately, as most of you know, there are available
important national standards for community recreation and
park facilities, leadership, activities and services which have
been developed over the years from national experience.
Fuller knowledge and use of these yardsticks will do much
to insure sounder planning and surer progress.

When we talk about where we are today, about the chal-
lenges of the years ahead and what must be done to meet
them, it is natural and proper that we ask, occasionally:
“How important is this job I’m doing?” “Is it worth the
sweat and tears, professionally speaking?”

On every front we hear the plea for better understanding
among people—in America, and in all the countries of the
world. We know that in our respective communities good
programs of recreation service do help people to understand
and'respect each other, to c00perate more fully, and to sense
more deeply the true meaning and value of a democratic
mode of living. Never before have so many leaders from
so many nations come to our shores to study our national
recreation movement, its values and significance for their
own people. That is why 1 stated at the outset that the first
fifty years of our recreation movement may prove to he so
far-reaching in ultimate implications. S0, certainly, we
can well contemplate the challenging question: What of the
next quarter- and half-century?

On Seeing A Sign

Rev. H. Victor Kane, Pastor of First Baptist Church, Niagara Falls, New York

0 God, You gave to earth this mantle green,

These blades of beauty where no foot may pass—
Forgive us for the wrong You must have seen

When jealous guardians sin against the grass.
Why must the games of youth be here unknown,
And these forbidding boundaries always drawn?
For boys and girls such verdure should be grown,
Instead of warning them, “Keep Off The Lawn”!

I wonder if You sometimes think it odd

That children play in streets and alleys bare,
When they might know the thrill of soft rich sod,
When grass can spread its magic anywhere?

O Gentle Gardener, help us bring to pass

More playgrounds bright with sun and fresh with dew—
Which say to barefoot boy and carefree lass,

“Come In! This luxury is here for you!”

From A Bit 0’ Green, compiled by The King’s Daughters Class, First Baptist Church, Ni-
agara Falls, 1951. Submitted by Myron Hendrick, Director of Recreation, Niagara Falls.

332

RECREATION

THE NEED for a national clearing

house for information on research
in the field of recreation has long been
recognized. At the National Recreation
Congress in 1928 such a center was
discussed and the Russell Sage Foun-
dation agreed to collect and tabulate
reports of completed research. This was
done for a brief period but the results
were never published or made generally
available. From time to time the sug-
gestion has been made that the National
Recreation Association should itself es-
tablish such a center.

At the first meeting of the National
Advisory Committee on Recreation Re-
search appointed by the Association in
1952, one of the three pr0posals sug-
gested was that a clearing house on
research in recreation be established.
Since a subsequent poll of the forty-
eight members indicated that this proj-
ect merited the first priority, the Asso-
ciation with the advice of the Commit-
tee undertook to put the proposal into
effect.

Operation of the clearing house over
a period of years and cooperation of
the various national, state and local
agencies interested in recreation and
sngagcd in recreation research were
recognized as essential to the success
of the project. Endorsement of the clear-
Eng house by several national recreation
organizations and the wide represen-
:ation of the committee memhership
afforded evidence that it would receive
genuine cooperation.

The individuals who express a desire
’or the center point to the increasing
rolume of research in the field of rec-
'eation, and the growing importance of
'esearch to the recreation movement.
Fhey believe there should be one place
vhere information concerning com-
)leted and ongoing research projects
I] recreation is assembled, classified,
Ippraised, tabulated and made available
0 all. The Association is crcating the
:learing house in an attempt to meet
his need.

The general plan of operation was
lrawn up by a subcommittce appointcd
1y the chairman, James S. Stevens, Sr.,
uperintendent of recreation in Green-

 

VIR. BUTLER is director of research for
he National Recreation Association,
'erves as secretary of the Committee.

lUNE 1954

A RESEARCH
. CLEARING HOUSE

Established by

National Recreation Association

George D. Butler

wich, Connecticut, and approved with
minor changes by the National Advis-
ory Committee on Recreation Research.
The range of subject matter to be cov-
ered initially was limited as follows:

Only items relating to the field of recreation,
and including parks, will be recorded, pri-
marily those of interest and value to persons
concerned with community recreation.

The interpretation of the recreation field
will be rather broad and include special
phases, such as hospital, industrial or church
recreation, even though the major interest cen-
ters about community recreation.

No attempt will be made to include studies
in such fields as physical education and group

work, except as they specifically relate to rec-
reation.

The clearing house will not be concerncd
with studies of only local interest or of activity

techniques relating to the dance, basketball,
and so on.

To the extent that research information on
an area like camping is assembled by another
organization, no attempt will be made to
gather similar information, but mutual ar-
rangements will be made for the sharing of
data, so research of special significance to the

recreation field will be recorded in thc clear-
ing house.

At least for the present, records will
be kept not only of the results of sci-
entifically-organized research, but of
studies involving the tabulation and
analysis of recreation data. Completed
research will be recorded even though
it has not been appraised as to quality,
because there is value in noting that
someone has conducted the specific
piece of research. Reports will be tabu-
lated according to a dozen area sub-
jects, but no attempt will be made to
classify research according to the re-
search method used.

An editorial subcommittee will be
appointed to advise the National Rec-

reation Association in the operation of
the clearing house and to help determine
research reports that merit special re-
view and comment. Abstracts or re-
views will be prepared by Advisory
Committee members. Research reports
will be publicized through: (1) an an-
nual publication listing all research re-
ported during the year, either completed
or in process; and (2) the regular pub-
lication of summaries or reviews of sig-
nificant research in RECREATIbN.

Some two hundred national and state
organizations have been invited to par-
ticipate in the clearing house. In coop-
eration with the College Recreation
Association and the American Recrea-
tion Society, a request has been sent to
colleges and universities for informa-
tion as to recreation research carried
on by faculty members and graduate
students. In order to secure information
for the clearing house, the Association
will not only circularize annually a
large number of"organizations and in-
stitutions, but will carefully study lists
of newly published materials, to dis-
cover reports of completed research in
this field.

The success of the clearing house will
depend in large measure on the readi-
ness with which individuals and organi-
zations notify the Association of re-
search which they have undertaken or
which has come to their attention. All
readers of RECREATION are urged to co-
operate with the Association in this way,
to the end that the clearing house for
research may render a valuable service
to the recreation field.

333

MUNICIPAL PICNIC AREA;

SUPPOSE, this summer, you are planning to spend all or
part of your vacation in a state or national park, or to
travel some distance to visit relatives, to see a historic site,
or ust to eXperience a change of scenery. If you travel by
car, as some sixty million Americans will, you will spend
one or more days on the open highway, and if you have an
eye for economy, or are traveling with your children, or
enjoy eating out-of-doors, you will probably want to pre-
pare some of your own meals, picnic or camp style.

A minimum average expenditure for meals at a restaurant
for a family of four will run around twelve dollars a day.
One picnic lunch will save about two dollars, a breakfast
another two, and dinner about three. If the children in
the family are at the wiggly age, an opportunity to jump,
run, leap and shout is always a welcome outlet for c00ped-
up energies.

Within the past ten years, state after state has inaugu-
rated a program of installing a network of roadside picnic
parks to afford the motorist just such Opportunities to drive
off the highway, relax and lunch. Most of these thousands
of new picnic areas consist of less than two acres. Some
of them provide no more than a picnic table and a receptacle
for trash; although many of them have more elaborate
facilities including water, toilets, and fireplaces.

These public areas and facilities represent an important
travel resource for the motoring tourist. Unfortunately, the
completion of a network of such highway stops on all main
highways lies some years in the future. Even though some
of the states my wife and I with our two small children
crossed, on a ten-thousand-mile transcontinental tour, had
a total of as many as three or four hundred such stopping
points, their location along the main highways we werc
traveling was extremely spotty. We could never be certain
that we would reach a highway picnic spot within an hour

DAVID J. DUBOIS is director of Research and Publication of
the Defense Related Services of the National Recreation As-
sociation.

334

or so of the time we would like to eat.

After a few days on the road we began to realize tha
the municipal parkiis fully as important as the roadsid
picnic park for the vacationing motorist. Highway drive
off areas sometimes are available and sometimes not, bu
almost every community of any size has a municipal par
with picnic tables and, frequently, picnic stoves. We wer
amazed to find picnic and playground facilities in even th
smallest communities.

Late one day, after crossing magnificent Trail Ridge Roa
in the high Rockies, we reached the small community 0
Craig, Colorado. It was getting dark and the nearest stat
or national recreation area was at least six hours’ drivin
time ahead, over a road under construction. Hesitating fo
a moment to decide whether or not to eat in a restauran
and stop for the night in a motel, we suddenly spotted
small sign saying “Picnic Park” with an arrow pointin
down one of the side streets. A block. off the main highwa
we reached a community park with picnic tables, firewood,
fireplaces, toilet facilities and water. A wooded grove pro-
vided an ideal place for overnight camping. Our neighbors
at adjoining fireplaces that night came from Illinois and
Wisconsin. They joined with us in complimenting the small
town of Craig on its excellent recreation facilities.

01] another occasion we drove into a small community in
southern Utah at noon and found, right off the main high-l
way, a well-kept park with picnic facilities. In half an hour,
a dozen or so out-of-state cars were parked alongside of
ours and their occupants were using the picnic tables and
fireplaces provided.

We might have used municipal picnicking facilities more
frequently instead of stopping by the side of the road for
a light snack as we did on several occasions, but many com-
munities have their parks well-hidden off the main high-
ways. Some have no provisions for cooking, and a few have
only the mammoth community kitchens that too often have
nothing but huge iron ovens requiring stacks of firewood
to heat.

RECREATION

nd the TOURIST

David J. DuBois

 

Manilou Park Campground, Pike National Forest, Colorado.
Unfortunately such stops aren’t always nearby when needed.

The first responsibility of any municipal recreation or
park department, of course, is to provide the recreation areas
and programs which will meet the needs of its citizens.
State and national agencies naturally assume an obligation
for meeting the needs of out-of-town and out-of-state motor-
ists. And yet those municipalities located on the major state
and national highways are in a position to perform a real
service to the motorist, as well as to their own citizens.

Millions of dollars are spent every year by several thou-
sand communities to promote their particular city as a good
place for business, for vacation, for living. The printing
bill for chamber of commerce promotion pamphlets alone
rmust reach astronomical figures. Picnicking and recreation
facilities made easily available to the tourist are no substi-
'tute for the printed leaflet and other publicity and public
relations measures, but they certainly are a substantial indi-
cation of a city’s friendliness. Memories of a picnic in

JUNE 1954

Macon, Missouri, will last a lot longer than a promotion
leaflet glanced at during a service station stop.

Anyone who has traveled with a family for a number of
days by automomile knows that the more stops made the
fewer the miles driven each day, and the opportunities for
stopping are numerous. The novice tourist soon learns to
make each stop an occasion for taking care of as many needs
as possible. When meal stops are made at municipal parks,
it is logical that the local merchants benefit from purchases
at the filling station, the drug store and the grocery store.
Although the added number of vacation dollars spent in
a small community may not be great, it certainly would be
even less if no picnic stops were made.

Some communities, of course, are not located on prin-
cipal highways, and therefore have few tourist visitors. But
hundreds of towns and cities which straddle transcontinental
highways have a steady flow of out-of—city and out-of-state
traffic passing through their borders. Most of these cities
already have picnic facilities which are not now being used
to peak capacities and could be used by out-of-town resi-
dents at no additional expense to the city.

The biggest reason why municipal parks are not now
being used by greater numbers of tourists in the same man-
ner as state highway roadside picnic areas is because there
are no highway signs identifying them, and no directional
signs indicating a park a short distance off the main high-
way. Anyone who has traveled with pre-school or elemen-
tary school children will gladly detour off the highway a
mile or two for a picnic lunch at a public park. The chances
are the food will be better than at a roadside snack bar,
and the surroundings, particularly for the children, a hun-
dred per cent better.

The lack of signs even within some of the larger munici-
pal and state parks is often astounding. Directional signs
for picnic areas, water and toilets are most important. In
one great historical park in Pennsylvania we almost decided
to light pigeon-fashion on one of the stone memorials to
eat our lunch before we were able to locate, by chance, the
picnic and camping areas.

A word needs to be said about the abuse of picnicking
and camping facilities by tourists. The strong impression
we carried away after five weeks on the road was that, by
and large, touring campers are the cleanest, most consid-
erate people in the world. Certainly there is a very tiny
minority of the people who commit acts of vandalism in
public parks. Local residents should have’no fear that en-
couraging the use of their parks by out-of-towners will re-
sult in depredations to property.

The local recreation and park director who can point
to clean, neat picnic areas is performing a real recreation
service for the people of his community. If he also can
say, “We have received many compliments from tourists
who,” at no additional expense to the taxpayer, stop to use
our facilities,” he is securing valuable public relations for
his community. The tourist who has pleasant experiences
with municipal picnic areas in the cities he travels through
also will be a stronger partisan for community recreation
when he returns home.

335

p

Making Community Public Serum
Television Programs Practioa

To ASSIST those who produce public ser-
vice and educational programs on com-

mercial television stations——and looking
forward to the time (1954) when the
city of Seattle will have its own educational television sta-

 

tion—an invitation was extended last summer to about two
hundred persons to attend a week-long educational tele-
vision institute, sponsored and financed by what was then
Seattle’s only commercial television station, KING-TV.
Sessions were held at the Administrative Service Center
of the Seattle public schools. In addition, each of the sep-
arate workshop groups went to KlNG-TV’s new studios one
day during the week to observe rehearsal and production
of one of the daily Community Workshop programs. This
half-hour educational public service telecast presents a wide
variety of community activities dealing with all phases of
community life—health, welfare, music, hooks, and so on.

KING-TV Institute—True Public Service

In sponsoring this institute, KING-TV performed an out-
standing off-camera public service unique in the annals of
commercial telecasting. No institute fees were charged;
admittance was by invitation only. Although registrants
primarily represented the schools, they also came from com-
munity agencies, including those in recreation. They had
opportunity throughout the week to learn first-hand how to
plan and produce television programs and how to improve
any already underway.

The institute quickly dispelled the idea that television is
an unapproachable medium beyond the understanding of
lay people, substituting instead the feeling that TV prOgram
directors are interested in getting new suggestions and are
willing to accept these suggestions within the limits of what
is practical for production. The term, “practical,” was de-
fined fully and carefully. Workshop groups were established
on the following topics: (1) programs for elementary and
high school students; (2) programs for pre-school and pri-
mary children; (3) programs for children’s leisure time

MRS. PIKE is the recreation specialist, for the Washington
State Parks and Recreation Commission.

336

Ruth Pike

viewing; (4) programs for interpreting community ar
educational agencies; and (5) programs in formal ed
cation.

Each registrant at the institute signed up for one of t]
five workshop groups. These groups met twice each da
the afternoon session starting off with a critical viewing I
that day’s Community Workshop program as it came :
over. television sets installed in group meeting rooms. Ge
eral sessions started and ended the day’s meetings. Eat
evening registrants returned to view and discuss successf
and prize-winning kinescopes.

Faculty Members Outstanding

An outstanding faculty, with many members who we:
national authorities and/ or producers of national awarl
winning programs, was assembled for the institute. Son
members spoke at the general sessions; others led worksht
groups. The faculty included: Mrs. Gertrude Broderic
radio-television specialist, U. S. Office of Education; Bet
Girling, director of Minnesota’s School of the Air; MI
Kathleen Lardie, manager of Station WDTR and direct:
of radio-TV education, Detroit Public Schools: Willia
Sener, director of telecommunications, Allen Hancock Fou
dation, Los Angeles; Ray Stewart, executive producer, St
tion \VOl-TV, lowa State College, Ames, Iowa; Judil
Waller, long-time director of public affairs and educatic
for NBC in the midwest, but known now in television CifClt
as producer of the popular television program, Ding-Dor
School; Dr. I. Keith Tyler, director of the Institute ft
Education by Radio and director of radio education, Obi
State University; and others. In addition to financing tl
institute, King Broadcasting Company officials, includir.
Mrs. A. Scott Bullitt, president, and Otto P. Brandt, vie
president and general manager also contributed generousl
of their time and talent. A number of KING-TV’s sta

members also served on the faculty.

Community agency representatives attended the workshc
sessions dealing with programs interpreting community ar
educational agencies. The leader was Ray Stewart, execl
tive producer at WOI-TV, and also producer of a docume:
tary series on state institutions in Iowa, “In Our Care.

RECREATIO

vhich won the 1952 Sylvania Telcvision Award. WOI-TV,

rperating under a commercial license and owned by Iowa
State College, has been on the air for a number of years.

.’r0grams Must Be Practical

Throughout the institute stress was put on the fact that
he community service program must be practical. It must
generate viewer interest and be technically adapted to tele-
'ision production and equipment.

Part of .being practical is keeping in mind the cost of pro-
luction to the station. Television is big business, and the
elecasting of any show, no matter how simple, costs a great
leal of money. Although many community agency pro-
grams have been presented as a public service on the station’s
ustaining time1 there is no reason why a public service
irogram cannot have a commercial sponsor, provided, of
ourse, that the program is of high enough quality. Agencies
hat can go to stations with suggestions for technically pos-
ible public service programs, and with a commercial spon-
or who is willing to pay the bill, have the best chance of
taying on the air.

Television program directors stress, however, that agency
epresentatives are not considered as beggars if they go to
he station asking for a program. Their ideas may well be
nf such nature that they can be commercially sponsored and
he station can get paid for them. Also, contacts with com-
nunity agency representatives help the station get new ideas
.nd enable it to provide variety in television programs on
ustaining time even if no commercial sponsor is immedi-
.tely available.

Do not be bashful about suggesting television programs
0 directors, but approach them with humility. Don’t insist
in having things done your way. Maybe there is a good
echnical reason why your suggestions cannot be followed.
'he director knows the limitations of television production;
In his judgment rests the success or failure of the show.

i’ractical Hints for Improving Programs

I have mentioned previously that those of us attending
he institute received many practical suggestions to assist
s in planning and producing shows. Space does not permit
.sting all or enlarging upon them, but here are a few:

. Colors reproduce in gradations of gray, ranging from
lack at one end of the scale to white at the other. Be sure to
ave contrast in using color against color.

I. Television camer’as cannot produce details in a mass.
f a special object in a mass is to be shown, it must be
xtracted and held up so that the viewer can see it as a
eparate entity.

. Simple background sets and a minimum of appropriate
rops are most effective and save time for the sponsoring

 

1 Sustaining time on a television station is that time not sold to com-

Iercial sponsors. It may be used for public service programs’ or not,
5 the station plcases. Also, public service programs may be com-
Iercially sponsored. Contrary to p0pular Opinion, the Federal Com-
Iunications Commission has never specified a certain percentage of
me that must be devoted to either sustaining or public service pro-
rams. Percentage of time devoted to suslaining programs depends on
ation policy, although a. “magic figure" of twenty per cent seems to
ave attached itself to the amount of sustaining program time which
105! stations are using when the time allotment is figured for national
:port purposes.

UNE 1954

recreation department which has only a small amount of
time to spend on each production. For example, for a pro-
gram series, one group used three flats—one having a door,
one a window, the third an arch, all interchangeable with
draperies.
4. If you use a blackboard, try a green one and use yellow
chalk that will make a wide, clear mark.
5. Do not show too many people or too many situations.
Simple demonstrations are good, provided the viewer can
see step-by-step exactly what is done.
6. Do not include contrived situations, visuals or back-
ground music, unless they fit in naturally. It is not neces-
sary to make a noise during all the program.
7. If music is to be used, be sure that it complies with
c0pyright and union regulations. This is very important.
8. During the live show, for technical reasons, either the
camera or the performer must always be in motion.

9. Pictures, if used on the live show, must be dull-finish
and in the proportion (size ratio) of three-to-four and large
enough to show clearly on the screen. A good size is eleven

 

Dr. Stanley Chapple, head of ‘Vashington U. musie depart-
ment, addresses TV institute on Showmanship in Education.

He represents expert who can carry the show on his own.

by fourteen inches. The same goes for charts and diagrams,
which should be drawn with heavy black lines on dull-finish
cardboard.

10. If the station has the necessary projection slide room
equipment, balop cards and 35mm slides can he used as well
as 16mm movie film.

Balop cards, known generally as ba10ps, are used in the
bal-optican, a projection device for transmitting transpar-
encies or opaque written or picture material. The size of
the picture image these will handle may vary somewhat from
station to station, so it is well to find out what the station’s
projection equipment will do before any transparencies or
opaque materials are presented for use in a program.

Since the two- by two-inch (35mm) slides are not in the
necessary three-to-four proportion, be sure that the slides

337

used have anything the viewer should see placed well to,the
center of the slide. Slides can also be used for titles intro-
ducing shows and for placards of an informational nature.
11: Film clips are good, and since many departments take
their own movies, film provides a comparatively inexpensive
means of showing the recreation program in action to the
television audience. Certain technical requirements must
be observed, however, if the film is to be telecast. For
example, the film must be 16mm, twenty-four-frame, silent,
and preferably black and white, although some stations do
prefer and use color. With silent film, an off-screen nar-
rator can be used to tell the viewer what to notice.

12. Be sure to get. releases for television use for all photo-
graphs, film, and studio kinescopes from everyone con-
cerned. Get these releases from all persons recognizable in
the pictures as well as from persons taking the pictures if
the work is commercially done. Having releases for other
uses does not cover, and the rights of all must be protected.

What About Scripts?

It is not the practice to prepare a word-for-word script
for home-talent television shows as must be done for radio.
Rather, the agency prepares an action sequence of “scenes”
for the station program director. This sequence gives a
descriptive gist of each scene, and provides a “sponge” at
the end to take up whatever small amount of time may be
left over if the program comes up short. This material is
the program director’s guide. He records it on whatever
kind of working sheet the station customarily uses for relat-
ing sound with video directives.

The program is rehearsed on the basis of sequences, let-
ting performers make whatever pertinent remarks they have
to make in the time allotted without referring to notes, tele-
prompter, or any other device that takes away spontaneity.
Once performers realize they are not supposed to be finished
actors or public speakers, they do not find it too difficult
to ad-lib, provided, of course, they do not “freeze” with
fright just looking at a camera. If such tendencies appear,
it is the business of the master of ceremonies, who is gener-
ally a station staff member, to “hold up the person and the
scene.” MC’s become very proficient at this. Also, if per—
formers are selected for their naturalness, sincerity, and
knowledge of subject matter, they will generally do a very
creditable job. Many successful shows depend almost en-
tirely on the personality of one performer and his knowledge
of his subject for the live part of the show. Film and slides
can be used for the remainder.

Use Minimum Equipment and Rehearsal Time

Try to use a minimum of equipment and rehearsal time,
for both are expensive. Minimum rehearsal time considered
possible is in a two-to-one ratio, that is, two practice periods
for one show.

Because of production expense involved, many non-
commercial public service telecasts are one-camera shows.
For these, a combination of narrator, film, pictures, slides,
and live show is indicated in each program, thus providing
suflicient variety at minimum expense without any screen

blank spots.
338

Need Series of Shows

A single program by an agency or group is not sufficien‘
to build an audience. A series of ten to thirteen shows ap
pearing once a week on the same day and at the same
hour has the best chance of accumulating “fans.” Eacl
unit show should accomplish something in relation to thu
over-all purpose of the series. The agency producing th:
series should also make it a point to use all possible medi:

in keeping members and friends informed about when th:
shows are being telecast. '

Human Interest Drama

It was mentioned at the institute that telecasts havin;
good human interest drama are best; also, that the five part
of any good vaudeville bill are adaptable to television shows
Start with an attention-getter, follow with a let-down; the]
present the serious message, after that another let-down
all leading to the finale and presentation of the star in th
best act. This technique gives the viewer a chance to rela:
at intervals and keeps his interest. It is almost psychologi
cally impossible to maintain the same intensity of attenti01
over any length of time.

Once both planners and performers have mastered when
is practical for television production, and have obtained th
interest and confidence of the station’s program direct01
the “show can go on.”

Seattle Gets Permit for New
Educational Television Station

On December 24, 1953, the Federal Communication
Commission granted Seattle a construction permit for a:
educational television station on Channel 9. Call letter
are KUOW—TV; licensee is the University of Washingtor
Partners with the University in the venture are the Seattl
public schools, King County public schools, Seattle publi
library, Seattle University, and Seattle Pacific College. Plan
are to have the station on the air in September, 1954, wit'
about twenty hours of programs a week.

Initial cost of equipment is estimated at approximatel
$314,000. Of this amount, $182,000 came in the form of
gift from Mrs. A. Scott Bullitt, owner of commercial stati0‘
KING-TV in Seattle. Other funds have been committed b
the University of Washington, the Seattle public school:
supplemented from the fund for adult education, and by
public fund drive which netted approximately $50,000.

Under the plan, the University of Washington is provié
ing the studios; the Seattle public schools space for trans
mitter, tower, antenna, and related equipment, as well a
the technical crew for Operation of the transmitter. A
annual operating budget of $183,164 has been agreed upo
by the partners. Of this amount, $54,500 will he spent 0
salaries for operating personnel. An advisory board, con
posed of representatives of the sponsoring organization
and two members at large, has selected Loren Stone of Bren
erton, long identified with northwest broadcasting, a
station manager. Other personnel will be selected late]
Supplementary help will come from students in training an
from contributed time of persons from many different ager
cies that will be telecasting specific programs.

RECREATIO

 

Doak S. Campbell

0 Plans have been completed
for the St. Louis Congress
general sessions on Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday
mornings. Tuesday morning’s
session, September 28, will be
chaired by Joseph Prender-
gast, executive director of the
National Recreation Associa-

  

/i‘\ r
J tion. Following Mr. Prender-

ast’s report on the recreation movement and National Rec-
3ation Association projects, George Hjelte will address the
ongress as chairman of the National Advisory Committee
[1 Administration and chairman of the Association’s Na-
onal Advisory Council. Mr. Hjelte is general manager of
1e Los Angeles Recreation and Park Department.

On Wednesday, September 29, the morning general ses-
.on will receive a report on “Recreation Leadership and
'raining Needs in the Southern Region” from W. J. Mc-
xlothlin of the Southern Regional Education Board and
Ioak S. Campbell, president of Florida State University.
'his study was made by the National Recreation Association
t the request of the Southern Regional Education Board.
Ir. McGlothlin has been associated with the Board since
948 and is consultant for professional programs. Previ-
usly he was chief of the training and educational relations
ranch of the Tennessee Valley Authority.

Dr. Campbell, one of the nation’s outstanding educators,
ecame president of Florida State College for Women in
941. This institution has subsequently become a great co-
ducational university with an enrollment of six thousand
nd a faculty of more than five hundred. Before going to
'lorida, Dr. Campbell was dean of the Graduate School and
enior College of George Peabody College in Nashville,
'ennessee.

The Southern Regional Study is the first regional study of
ecreation personnel ever made in the United States, and
elegates from all parts of the country will be interested in
report of the findings and in an analysis of the implica-

 

UNE 1954

    

   

George Hjelte \Villiam G. McGlothlin

Joseph Brown

tions of the study. A follow-up section meeting will also be
arranged if desired to discuss the study in more detail.

The morning general session on Thursday, September 30,
will be devoted to creative recreation program planning Iand
the speaker will be Joseph Brown of Princeton University.
Mr. Brown is associate professor in the School of Architec-
ture and boxing instructor in the Department of Physical
Education and Athletics.* Mr. Brown’s hobby has, for some
time, been creative playground apparatus. He has developed
a philosophy of recreation which should prove interesting
to all Congress delegates. He will bring with him models of
some of the apparatus he has designed, and he will be avail-
able on Thursday afternoon with his models for conference
with those interested in further information and discussion.

Plans are moving ahead for the evening general sessions
of the Congress. The morning sessions are already indica-
tive of the high quality of the programs which delegates can
expect to enjoy.

The Congress preliminary pamphlet has been printed, and
many copies have already been mailed. If you have not
received yours, please send a post card to NBA requesting
one. The preliminary pamphlet outlines the general plans
for the Congress week and helps all delegates plan, well in
advance, which meetings to select from the many possibili-
ties which the program always affords.**

In addition to other committees listed in the May issue of
RECREATION magazine, the following have agreed to serve
on the Town-Country Advisory Committee to help with the
planning of this series of meetings for the St. Louis Con-
gress: Mrs. Gertrude S. Sanford, Ames, Iowa; F. L. McRey-
nolds, Lafayette, Indiana; Wib J usti, Washington, D. C.
Mr. J usti is youth deputy of the National Grange, and Mrs.
Sanford and Mr. McReynolds have each had many years of

service with the Agricultural Extension Service in their
respective states.

 

’ Joseph Brown was a student and later an associate for ten years
of R. Tait McKenzie—a great sculptor of recreation figures and a
philosopher of the recreation movement in its early days in America.

 

” See list of Congress section meeting topies on page 351.

339

 

Frosty’s frame was twenty feet high.

Carl Bozenski, the activities di-
rector of the Tarringtoh, Connecti-
cut, Park and Recreatian Commis-
iion. doesn't like pragrams that
peaple iust look at; he prefers—
and plans—programs thot empho-
size families doing things tagether.
Still, everybody likes firewarksl So
he gove the idea some thought, and
came up with o new slant. Why not

combine fireworks with a big cam-

munity sing? This is itl

 

In most communities, at some time or other, a night of
hreworlcs is planned. Sometimes it’s .luly Fourth, sometimes
Army and Navy Day, sometimes Christmas. In many com-
munities, individual use or sale of hreworlcs is prohibitcd
by law, but public displays may be run by iesponsible agcn-
cies, such as the recreation department, volunteer hre de-
partment, and so on. If your community program ever in-
cludes a fireworks display, you’ll get a good idea from this
story from Torrington, Connecticut—a city famous for the
originality of its recreation program. ( Remember its Christ-

mas Village, now a tradition in New England? See RECREA-
TION, November 1949.)

 

NELLIE SULLIVAN is a Torrington high school teacher, a for-
mer playground supervisor, and is active as a volunteer for
the city recreation department.

340

 

Rudolph the Reindeer had red nose.

MUSICAL
FIREWORKS

Nellie Sullive

PERSONALIZED and musical fireworks? Sounds drearj

doesn’t it, like balanced budgets or enzyme inhibit01
or incentive bonuses? But take two ounces of imaginatim
add the skilled carpentry of two loyal workmen, dilute wit
the supplies of a local fireworks company, mix thorough]
with the enthusiasm of five thousand people, and you hav
an evening of ,pleasure that is original and exciting.

All this happened in Torrington, Connecticut, when
crowd of local people, ranging from one to scventy year
old, overflowed the bleachers of the park to watch and pan
ticipate in the climax of the week-long program that marke:
Founders’ and Donors9 Week, and commemorated Josepl
Lee, founder of the playground movement in the Unit
States. If you had walked into the park that evening, yo:
would have seen, out on tllc baseball outfield, a series 0
thin wooden frames that looked like the futuristic carving
of an architect of the modernistic school. But these framq
had their purpose, as you will see.

Things got underway at seven-thirty on a warm Augus

,evening when the city band began proceedings with somt
stirring tunes. Then teams from the various playground:
put on a ropeskipping exhibition in which everything got
tangled up but the rope. This was followed by a set of foul
couples from one of the granges who square-danced to the
music of an accordion and drew tumultuous applause from
the spectators.

And then came the climax!

When the huge park lights were turned out, and only a
full moon defied the darkness, the master of ceremonies
announced that all were to join in the singing of “Let Me
Call You Sweetheart.” The crowd had come to look, not
to sing; but the band played, and suddenly out in deep

RECREATION

nter field there flashed in fireworks a huge red heart with
green arrow through it. A gasp went up—and then the
ultitude roared into song. Next came the playing and
aging of “Shine On, Harvest Moon”—this time with har-
ony—and there'appeared a huge moon complete with eyes,
)se and mouth. Then came the harmonizing of “Four
:af Clover,” and as it terminated a huge green clover lit
) the field. And so it went, with singing such as never
:fore had been heard in Torringtonl

To give the voices of the participants a rest, huge spark-
rs were ignited, making a waterfall of silver and then
:lden sprays. Several sky pieces were set off, cascading
mm in showers of rose and blue and green, thundering
ith the deafening noise that delights children of all ages.
The audience was completely rested by now, and three
ore songs were played, sung and silhouetted in fireworks:
’m Dreaming of a White Christmas” with a Christmas
ee complete with a silver star and falling snow; “Frosty,
e Snowman” with a fat snowman sporting a t0p hat, red
lttons and a green cane; and “Rudolph, the Red-Nosed
Bindeer” featuring a reindeer with bulbous scarlet nose.
gain came the thunder of shells, and showers of colored
Iray high above the park.

A recording of “Little Boy Blues” by Bruce Wilde was
en played over the loudspeaker system—and silence de-
ended upon the park as everyone hung on to each hum-
'ous line. At the conclusion of this, a red and green seesaw
ith two figures, one seated at each end, sprang into fire-

 

-owd ranged in age from one to seventy years; overflowed
e bleachers for the big event commemorating Joseph Lee.

gllted glory and to the delighted surprise of all, it went
) and down, up and down—what a fairyland fantasy!

In the hush that followed, the recorded voice of Clem
cCarthy, veteran horserace broadcaster, could be heard
rer the loudspeaker announcing the. start of a race. As
s voice uttered the words “They’re off!” two fireworks
)rses appeared—complete with jockeys. Slowly they took
f, then gathered speed as they raced around a small track,
1e finally forging ahead of the other to win the race.

Still another surprise awaited the audience. Two cars
ere outlined in fireworks, one a sleek, low-slung sports

JNE 1954

PROGRAM

car, and the other an angular Model-T. As the auto race
started, the Model-T developed engine trouble and smoke
streamed out from the hood; but then, with a kind of shim-
my, it sputtered and then settled down to overtake the smug
sports car in a finish that drew shouts of glee from the
crowd.

Time now for more aerial pieces and more songs. The
Spectators put their hearts into singing “How Much is That
Doggie in the Window?” while a frame of light picked out
the silhouette of a small dog with a wagging tail. A show-
piece, a masterpiece of fireworks skill, came next. A hun-
dred-foot Niagara Falls lighted up the park in a glorious
cascade of sparks that turned from gold to silver. Then
from the loudspeaker came a recording of “God Bless Us
All” while 3 Madonna and Child were shown in blue and
silver. When the audience joined in “Let’s Go to Church
on Sunday Morning,” a church with steeple and ringing
bell was outlined.

As the climax of the evening, everyone joined in the sing-
ing of “God Bless America,” while those three words, out-
lined in silver, supported a huge flag of red, white, and
blue. Placed on either side of this centerpiece were two
tanks that waged a battle of lights and shells which lighted
up the entire place.

This was Torrington’s personalized and musical fireworks
program. How was it done? Many months prior to the
event, arrangements were made with the fire department
to have its equipment on hand at one side of the park; the
recreation director and his loyal workmen consulted with
a local fireworks company and experimented with powder
and shells and pulleys, worried over wheels and bells, chose
songs and scenes that would delight the children, narrowed
the program down to one hour of fireworks, prayed for
good weather, and took the plunge!

Aside from the obvious novelty of the program, what
delighted the spectators most of all was the fact that they
took part, they sang their hearts out. Five thousand peeple
singing Christmas songs with such zest on a hot August
night is surely proof enough of the community esprit de
corps; and every family group was humming or singing
as it climbed into the family car and left for home.

Suggested Songs and Frames
for “Fireworks-To-Music”

Song Frame

“Let Me Call You Sweetheart”
“Shine On, Harvest Moon”
“Anchors Away”

“Jingle Bells”

“When You Wore a Tulip”
“Bicycle Built for Two”

“Take Me Out to the Ball Game”
“Down By the Old Mill Stream”

“Four Leaf Clover”
“What Is a Boy?”

Heart (red)

Moon (yelldw)

Anchor (white and blue)

Sleigh (white and red)

Tulip (yellow)-

Old-fashioned bicycle (white
and colors)

Pitcher or Batter (various
colors)

Water wheel (white and green)

Clover (green)

Boys on seesaw (various
colors)

Christmas tree (green with
colored decorations)

Snowman (white and colored)

Reindeer (yellow with red
nose)

‘ Flag, or words “God Bless

America” (red, white and
blue)

~ 341

“White Christmas”

“Frosty, the Snowman”
“Rudolph, the Red-Nosed Reindeer”

“God Bless America”

r

Theat’ze in—

we

ROUND things seem to belong to a
child’s world — balloons, balls,
merry-go-rounds, anything that rolls on
wheels; so theatre in-the-round for chil-
dren seems the most natural thing in the
world.

The story of Westchester County’s
experiments in dramatics in-the-round
is in two parts—with a third to come.
Early in June, 1951, Miss Vivian Wills
of the Westchester County Recreation
Commission requested that Children’s
World Theatre do a dramatic program
for the children of the parks and play-
grounds as a part of its summer field
It was Miss Wills’ desire to
provide a program with a stimulus
which would carry over into the dra-
matic play of the children.

service.

There are two kinds of drama in-the-
round. It may be entertainment by a
trained group, or it may be an activity
with group participation by the children
—usually led by a storyteller or drama
Specialist. Westchester has used both
kinds and plans, next year, to further
integrate these activities by using the
Drama and Dance Center as a base for
the coaching. of young people’s groups
in plays in-the-round for recreation-area
performances. In an effort to do this
and to meet the low-budget require-
ments, 3 program was worked out which
met with unprecedented success in West-

 

MISS BUTTERWORTH was a member of
Children’s World Theatre and is now
director of the Drama and Dance Center

in Westchester County.

342

‘ V

the—Round
(U

chester—and in Philadelphia the £01.
lowing summer. This type of program
should definitely start new trends in

Bette Butterworth

formal drama in-the-round for play-
grounds.

As long, heavy productions are nei-
ther desirable nor financially feasible
for playground use, it was decided to
do half-hour plays in the round style.
Theatre in-the-round has many advan-
tages. The “stage” need only be a Flat
grassy or asphalt area about sixteen feet
square. The children, as many as five
hundred of them, can easily sit around
the play area, not more than six feet
from the stage. One word of advice
about location. Try to pick a spot in
the shade! A little, emptied wading
pool in White Plains, New York, looked
ideal for a central stage. The day of thc
play, the temperature soared to ninety-
eight degrees—and the wading pool be-
came hotter than a griddle. In a haze
of heat and glare, we managed to stum-
ble through our parts, but one actor
succumbed at the close.

Before the play started, I came out in
costume to explain the props and intro-
duce the cast. The children were de-
lighted to imagine the doors and win-
dows as I placed them. Costumes and
props were full-scale as they should be
in a formal production.

In Captain Kidd, a genuine seven-
teenth-century pirate pistol made a spe-

cial hit—because this style of theatre .'

is so intimate that everyone could see
that the gun was “real.” But realism
got a bit out-of-hand one evening at

Hastings-on-Hudson when we playec
Dick Whittington and His Remarkablt
Cat. A professional actor prides him
self on audience control whether he i
performing in a theatre or on a play
ground; and much laughter at a seriou
moment in the play warned us tha
somebody must be trying to “get inti
the act.” It turned out to be a live ca
that had wandered onto the playing are
and was gazing calmly around at he
'gleeful audience. Nothing to do but ha]
ness such talent! So she became Dick’
cat, and the play continued, with Dic
depositing the cat in the arms of a nea}
by recreation director when he mad
his exit.

Dogs also are an occupational hazart
We would, therefore, be happier if th
children checked the livestock at th
gate before curtain time. Of course,
rain drives us into an auditorium u
must suddenly stage our play in cor
ventional style. Other problems (
drama in-the-round include, on occ:
sion, trying to be heard above the nea
by ball game, maneuvering our mov:
ments to keep from trampling a tin
four-year-old so engrossed in the pla
he has wandered onto the stage, and si
at our feet gazing at us with adoratic
(it seems hours before a recreation a
sistant removes him). We have di
covered that concentration and autho
ity are the two things most needed 1
actors in-the-round, in addition
stamina under the hot sun and a dc:
devotion to children, for there is no pr
tection from the audience or the el

ments here.

A professional production in-th
round can be an educational spriu
board for all fields of creative endeavc
At the Glen Park Playground in Y0
kers all the children came dressed
paper pirate hats which they had mai
to wear to the production of Capta
Kidd. Pre-educational and follow-I
units based on the plays utilizing fol
lore, songs, arts and crafts, as well
creative dramatics itself, aid in spa
taneous group activity and growth

social group cooperation.

A deceptive element in this form
presentation is that it looks so easy
do. Adult amateurs will find it difficu
but for children working with a train
leader, it is an excellent stimulus f

RECREATII

urther dramatic work. Once the chil-
lren have seen a play done in this way,
hey are no longer dazzled by theatrical
:ffects, and they are sure they can do it,
vhich is half of the battle. When they
tart rehearsing, their movements can
re entirely natural—no worry about
picturization in stage terms, or stand-
ng in front of other cast members-—
ind there is less worry about projection
or the audience is only a few feet away.

Scenery is out of the question and cos-

having the children wear “magic spec-
tacles” to see what they could find in an
imaginary grab bag, thus stimulating
the imaginations and sharpening the
senses. I proceeded on through group
pantomime and rhythms, gradually uni-
fying the group and breaking down in-
dividual shyness until they were all
ready to act out a story.

Why is this form of drama considered
a valuablc asset to the playground? Be-
cause, aside from its obvious “no bud-

 

‘Captain Kidd’s Return,” drama in-the-ronnd presented by the Children’s \Vorld
l'heatre, played to 8,907 children on the playgrounds of Westcllester County.

umes are used only if there is a budget.
\nd they can have all the fun of mak-
lng “props” in craft groups.

.It isn’t the magic of the lights, the
hake-up, the scenery, or even the cos-
mes, but a strong honest story, truth-
lly told with love and respect for the
udience, that holds five hundred chil-
ren spellbound or makes them squeal
*ith delight. (More than eight thou-
nd children saw the plays presented
-the-round, including the children at
unshine Cottage, Grasslands, and the
laylands Park.) And it can be done in
e parks and playgrounds throughout
merica just as it was done five cen-
ries ago in the old English inn yards.
The second part of the Westchester
ory deals with working with the chil-
en themselves.

  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
   

In the summer of
52, I was employed as the creative
amatics specialist to give demonstra-
)ns and training wherever possible.
y approach was fairly conventional,

INE 1954

get” requirement, it compels the child
to think for himself “on his feet.” It
allows him the choice of what to do,
how, and where. It teaches him how to
put himself in others’ places, and how
to share his ideas with them. It pro-

vides a controlled emotional outlet, and .

introduces basic democratic principles
of compromise, of expansive, organized
thinking, with the concept of group
unity, without which the story will fall
apart. And of course it's fun! Children
naturally like it.

In short, creative dramatics can, in
one hour, often accomplish an impor-
tant goal of recreation—transforming
a mixed group of children into a happy
active unit with a part for each which
suits his particular need and skill, re-
moving the emphasis entirely from the
tension of playing to win. The real
winners are those who forget themselves
in the joy of participation, and a good
leader quickly sees that this is accom-

plished.

Our main difficulty was that so few
members of the staff were acquainted
withcreative dramatics and, although
instructions were sent in advance, I
could never be sure when I arrived
whether I would be met by a group of
eight or one hundred and eight children
assembledrto take part in the demonstra-
tion; so it was necessary to have a vari-
ety of approaches available, adjustable
to sex and number of children, and an
appeal for a wide range of ages. More'-
over, my visit was in no way to be in-
terpreted as entertainment only, for I
also had to temper my approach to suit
that of the group leaders so that they
could continue the work after I left. I
held frequent conferences with each
staff member to suggest suitable mate-
rial to make their work more successful.
Sometimes I even gave them a creative
dramatics demonstration so that they’d
have the “feel” of it. There is great
need for better college training of rec-
rcation leaders, physical education di-
rectors and teachers in this form of the-
ater, as it is ideal hot weathcr or rainy
day activity, requiring very little space
and no equipment—but it does require
an imaginative leader with a child’s
point of view.

Three books most helpful for refer-
ence on the subject are Winifred Ward’s
Plug/making with Children and Stories
to Dramatize, and Isabelle Burger’s
Creative Play Acting.

At the close of the 1952 season we had
a drama festival in which eight com-
munities participated. Groups presented
formal plays on a stage, informal plays
on the gym floor, and several truly cre-
ative groups did their work under the
trees on the playground. Unquestion-
ably, these last groups were the most
successful. It is this technique that our
1953 Drama and Dance Center employ-
ed, integrating crcative drama with
dance techniques, proving that it is
easily possible to get a formal play to-
gether in two weeks without tears. Be-
sides continuing through the winter, for
the summer we plan to have these

trained young people touring the play-

, grounds, presenting formal plays in-the-

round for other children’s delight. Thus
we will have completed the cycle of dra-
matics in-the-round for the playground.

343

Preparing a
Summer

Pageant

Margaret Blickle

 

Preparing one of the big props, a dragon for the smaller
of two stages in the Columbus, Ohio, cooperative pageant.

344

ONE WAY to present a résumé of the summer’s program to
the public is to combine all of the playground activities
at the end of the season and to present them dramatically as
one big show or pageant. The Columbus, Ohio, Recreation
Department has presented just such a show as a wind-up
project for each of the past five years. It is a cooperative
affair in which the whole department becomes involved:
executives, secretaries, maintenance crew, supervisors and
children.

Although one of its purposes is to more fully acquaint
the public with recreation activities, its primary purpose is
to encourage the children to create scenes in an imaginative
way, to prepare for and to act in a super production. It
is the one time that many of these children have the thrill
of performing in public.

We use the large stage in a high school, and scenery is
kept to a minimum. Wooden legs and a blue cyclorama
are used; and lights are utilized to their fullest extent. Cen-
tered upstage is a much smaller stage that is used for “still-
pictures” or tableaus portraying various activities. This
small “stage is complete in itself, having its own curtains.
lights, backdrops, and so on. Using these two stages, and the
apron as well as the orchestra pit, the balcony, and the aisles
of the auditorium, the production can be continuous.

Since it is important that the show last only two hours,
in spite of the fact that it has a cast of two thousand chil-
dren, representing fifty—six playgrounds, scenes must be
pyramided. That is, exits and entrances are planned so that
while one act is leaving the stage, another act is coming on.
Some acts enter from the audience, and part of the “Finale,”
cast parades down the aisles of the auditorium. A chorus
sings accompaniment from the balcony for one or two of the
scenes taking place on the stage.

Still-pictures are used to fill in action gaps or to climax
scenes. (Scenery can be changed on the small stage while an
act is taking place on the larger stage.) Still—pictures are
also sometimes used to strengthen weak scenes.

A great many parade-type acts are used; and, because
these are so varied, they do not become monotonous. 50-
called variety acts (solo dances and songs by children
trained by professional teachers) are not included because
they do not allow the maximum number of children to par-
ticipate, for they are geared to only those with special talents
or training.

Planning the Script

The first job of the director is to find a workable, playable

theme idea. The next is to write out a plan or a format for

 

MRS. BLICKLE is the supervisor of special activities, De-
partment of Public Recreation, Columbus, Ohio.

RECREATION

 

"" J

Playground rehearsal is exciting part of summer fun. Acts
are planned to include largest possible number of children.

the show. Naturally, our themes have changed each year
and we have had a good deal of variation. Last year the
director chose the National Recreation Association theme,
“Recreation for a Strong America.”
Using this theme for a dramatic production presented dif-
ficulties. The director did not want to make it a patriotic
lhistorical pageant (as the theme seemed to suggest) because,
in the first place, pageants of this type present very difficult
|and expensive costuming problems (in the Columbus pro-
ductions, costumes are kept as simple and colorful as possi-
l‘ble) ; second, the children could not be as imaginative when
lworking out the scene projects in historic sequence; third,
the production itself would not have as much variety; and
last, the purpose—to present the various recreation activities
to the public—would be lost.
It was eventually decided to use a narrator in the role of
:Ian astrologer. He would see the future in the stars and pro-
phesy a stronger America through recreation. His prophe-
cies would be shown through the scenes, which would por-
tray the development of such characteristics as imagination,
Sportsmanship, poise, kindness, and so on.
The astrologer idea made possible the use of simple basic
scenery—the wooden legs and the blue cyclorama. From
the stage loft, glittering silver and gold stars, several blue
I and green moons, and a number of various-colored planets
(made by painting old volley balls and soft balls with rings
1fitted around them) were hung against the cyclorama. This
' scenery was very effective.

Selection of the Scenes

After the director visualizes the show as a whole, he breaks
it down into smaller scenes. 'A list of these scenes is given
to each playground supervisor, who is asked to study it and,

I with the director’s help, pick a scene which would best suit
his playground.

The first list handed out is rather general and might in-
pclude the categories:

'r

llmagination Sportsmanship Respect for Tradition
Mother Goose Swimming Valentine’s Day
Fairy Tales Tennis Fourth of July
Fairy Dance Baseball Easter
Classics Horseshoes Thanksgiving

ll UNE 1954

The plan works very well. One leader might choose a
Mother Goose rhyme and, although there are innumerable
possibilities, he may decide on “Peter, Peter, Pumpkin
Eater” or “The Old Woman Who Lived in the Shoe.” He
presents his scene—it may be a choral group chanting the
theme, using as a prop a tremendous pumpkin (which the
children have enjoyed making out of chicken wire and paper
on the playground) ; or a shoe-house may be carried across
the stage by the children. Another leader may pick “Swim-
ming,” choosing to burlesque an incident at a swimming

pooL

The leaders and the children are urged to use their imagi-
nations in deve10ping their scenes. This leeway results in a
much more varied and picturesque show than would be pos-
sible if it were planned by one person. The director becomes
mainly a coordinator and, as the leaders pick their scenes, it
is up to him to develop and maintain unity in the show.

The supervisors are given the stage dimensions and the
time limitations for their scenes. They are advised to select
an act which will be within the limits of their own abilities
and their children’s talents. They are cautioned to keep in
mind their facilities, because each playground is responsible
for its own costumes and props (the material, however, is
furnished by the department). Some playgrounds are large,
others are small; some parents are especially helpful in cos-
tuming, others are too busy or too disinterested. Some play-
grounds have workshops and inside facilities; others have
nothing but tables under the trees. All of these factors must
be taken into consideration in choosing a scene.

Some supervisors have their own ideas for their scenes.
If these can be worked into the script in any way, they are

included. Many of the best scenes come from such sugges-
tions.

Some leaders are at a complete loss in choosing a scene.
The director talks over possibilities with them, mentioning a

number of ideas. Quite often the supervisor adds some ideas
of his own.

Other supervisors, especially those who are alone on a
playground or those whose interests lean toward athletics
rather than dramatics, are assigned to the simpler tasks in
the show. Their children carry signs, participate in the par-
ades, or become a group picture. Sometimes such super-
visors become interested in their hit parts and work out
some very original ideas.

The children on one small playground were assigned to
carry the letters spelling “Wisdom.” The supervisor enlisted
the parents’ help. They made purple robes for their children,
the traditional graduation hats, and the youngsters made
their own hornrimmed glasses and long impressive beards—
with the result that their hit part was very outstanding. An-
other playground, responsible for the sign “Indian Village
Camp,” worked on a month-long Indian craft project, with
the children spending their craft hours making Indian props
and their story hours listening to Indian lore. These children
had a wonderful time preparing for their two minutes on the
stage. Their act was memorable both to themselves and to

their audience and they are probably still having a good time
talking about it. ")

345

Some leaders, who have been with the department for
several years, have their scenes approved early in the season
and start rehearsing their children for the pageant two or
three weeks after summer playgrounds Open. These are usu-
ally the more complicated and finished scenes.

Actually, the SUpervisors are advised not to start rehears-
als much more than two or three weeks prior to the pageant.
(Generally, they pick their scenes about six weeks before
the production date.) While it is reCOgnized that practice
makes a scene perfect, the attendance on summer play-
grounds changes and the children lose interest in a project
if it is carried on too long.

Leaders are urged to keep their acts simple and flexible
so that children can be replaced at the last minute if it be-
comes necessary.

The Finished Script

After the leaders have chosen their scenes, they consult
the director about their plans or their problems. The di«
rector okays each scene, being sure that it fits into the plan
of production, and then he draws up the final script with the
narration, incorporating all the scenes, all the music (an
orchestra is furnished through the courtesy of the musicians’
union), and all the directions for exits and entrances. C0pies
of the completed script are then passed out to the leaders so
that'they can get some idea of the show as a whole.

It is the director’s  ob to write the script so that it includes
all the scenes in such a way that the action is continuous.

The Scenery

The large pr0ps are made by the leaders, the art super-
visor, the director and the maintenance department. The
older children sometimes help. Tremendous hearts, stained
glass windows, snowmen, wagons, and so on, are all created
to supplement the many smaller pr0ps made on the indi-
vidual playgrounds. Most of the big pr0p pieces are used on
the small stage where the curtain is often drawn and, conse-
quently, the changing of scenery presents no problem.
Smaller props are used on the big stage, and the children are
responsible for getting them on and off during their scenes.
The main curtain is seldom drawn, so there are no big scene
changes on this main stage.

Two balloon trees, the symbols of our pageant, are used
on the apron at either side of the stage. They are made of
wood, chicken wire and papier-mz’iché, painted white and
glittered. (A great deal of glitter is used on both props and
costumes to glamorize the production for the children.)
The night of the pageant the trees bear balloon fruit of all
colors and shapes. The effect is really startling.

Dress Rehearsal

Dress rehearsal, the only rehearsal of the show as a whole
is completely chaotic. It is an all-day affair. Scenes are sched
uled for definite times so that the children will not have tc
sit around too long. Each scene is rehearsed several times
(with the orchestra if necessary), and the children are
thoroughly instructed in their exits and entrances.

The Production

Before the show, signs with entrance and exit informatior
are placed along the walls of the wings. Stage manager:
(playground supervisors) are stationed in both wings. It is
their job, with the help of the call boys, to keep the act:
lined up on both sides, five- to seven-deep, so that the show
can move rapidly, because once it starts it must keep going
Each leader has the responsibility for his scene and his
children. In the gym near the stage, a movie is run for [ht
actors waiting to go on stage.

Just before the curtain goes up, the director has a panickj
feeling—with the hubbub and confusion of such a tremen
dous cast—that the Show will never go on; but when light:
are out backstage, the noise quiets and, amazingly, the chil
dren get on stage at the appointed time. From backstage i
seems a miracle that a production can emerge from sucl
chaos.

The audience is unaware of the confusion and worry, be
cause from its viewpoint the show runs smoothly and beau
tifully. Obviously the cast is having a good time and putting
on a very entertaining show. The audience applauds vigor
ously and enthusiastically for each scene—what a thrill fo:
the children!

This has proved to be a very successful method for putting
on a show—a production that has tremendous participation
color, variety, and an amazing tempo and smoothness.

 

POLIO PRECAUTIONS

Although a polio vaccine is being tested, and gamma glo-
bulin will be available in increased amounts this year, we
must expect polio cases again in 1954. Here is what you can
do if polio comes to your community:

1. Keep children with their usual companions; don’t take
them where there are crowds.
2. Avoid fatigue and chilling. This means adults, too.

3. Follow your doctor’s advice about mouth and throat
operations.

4. Teach children to wash hands carefully before eating and
after going to the toilet. Don’t let them use another’s soiled
towels, dishes or tableware.

5. Tell your doctor if these symptoms appear: headache,
fever, sore throat, upset stomach, stiff neck or back. Put
sick person to bed promptly.

346

6. Remember—at least half of all polio patients get we]
without any crippling.

7. Get in touch with your local chapter of the Nationa
Foundation for Infantile Paralysis if you need help for :
polio patient.

Remember—gamma globulin is not a vaccine. It can givl
only temporary protection against polio. Scientific test
have shown that it is eighty per cent effective when give]
sufficiently early to all children in an area where an epidemil
has started. Until the effectiveness of the vaccine has bee]
proved, CC is the only available protection against polio.

It is officially recommended that CG be used only in groag
inoculations in places where polio is occurring. This mean
groups such as neighborhoods, schools and camps. You

State Public Health Officer will decide when, where and t:
what groups it shall be given.

RECREATIOI

l

 

Midway, a slight pause for a nap after returning from the
movie. Parent chaperones in background enjoy themselves.

\

For those communities facing the growing problem of wild,
all-night teen-ager sprees, with tragedy the morning after -—-

, 5 far back as we can remember there

have been senior proms. As far as
we can think ahead there probably will
be senior proms. Senior prom night is
a history-making night in the lives of
the teen-agers.

Decision as to what, when and how
they will celebrate their senior prom
is usually left to the high school author-
ities and administrations; but the high
school’s supervision ends when the or-
chestra finishes playing the last dance
number, usually around midnight.

If your community is lucky, the next
day your local paper will carry a glow-
ing report of the fun. If your communi-
ty is not so lucky, you may be faced
the following morning with screaming
headlines that “A car with a group of
lsenior prom young people was going
eighty miles an hour and. . . .”

Here is a problem that educators and
parents face every year. What is the
teen-ager going to do after the senior

 

54155 J EAN WOLCOTT is the assistant in
like Program Service Department of the
National Recreation Association.

:fJUNE 1954
l

prom? He’s going to want to stay up
all night! But what will he be doing?
Can a recreation department, or a
school, offer any solution?

Mrs. Opal Corkery, principal of the
Anacostia High School in Washington,
D. C., handled it, and her solution might
help your community. Her first step
was to say, “Well, the students are going
to stay up all night anyway, so I’m go-
ing to stay up with them.” That started
her all-night experiment and the entire
community joined in on the idea.

To arrange an all-night entertainment
is no easy job. It takes a great deal of
planning and organizing for any age-
group. You can multiply that a few
hundred times when it comes to plan-
ning activities for the Eddie Fisher
crowd and the future Joe DiMaggios.
They’ve got more pep, stamina and en-
thusiasm than all the rest of the com-
munity put together—that’s what we’ve
always thought anyhow. Let’s take a
look at Mrs. Corkery’s program plans
for her graduating class and then ask
her how her teen-agers weathered the
all-night allair.

C

 

After the
Senior Prom—

WHAT?

Jean Woleott

Following the customary pattern of
most proms, the All-Night Prom started
off to the music of an orchestra. The
young people began to arrive at eight-
thirty but, in this case, they arrived
carrying overnight bags containing the
changes of wearing apparel which
would be necessary for this all-night
party. The music played for the next
four hours.

At twelve-thirty the young peeple,
still in formal attire, boarded chartered
buses and were taken to the nearest
movie house where they saw a thus-far
unreleased movie. At two-thirty A. M.
everyone was returned to the high
school and, after changing into bathing
suits and trunks, attended a “splash
party.” (There was miniature golf for
those who did not want to swim.) The
swimming and golf activities ended at
four-thirty A.M. giving the youngsters
time to get dressed in their everyday
clothes' and return to the school cafe-
teria for breakfast, which was served
from five to six AM.

There was a total of nine and a half
hours of steady fun! Many more hours
of planning and organizing were re-
quired to make those nine and a half
hours successful. Here’s the general
plan:

347

First of all, the executive committee
of the high school Home and School
Association and the principal talked
over the idea of having an all-night pro-
gram of activities. Everyone liked the
idea; but all agreed that there were
bound to be repercussions from some
people in the community—mostly from
those who did not realize that this was
an attempt to solve a problem. They
decided to discuss the idea with several
neighborhood groups and found that
some thought it might work, some
thought it wouldn’t work, and then there
were some who thought the whole idea
was absolutely foolish. There was a fac-
tion in the community that thought the
high school was butting into the par-
ents’ business.

The Home and School Executive
Committee unanimously decided to
back the school administration—and
not only to back them but also to help
in any way possible to make the cele-
bration a success.

The youngsters were consulted about
the idea and it was put up to a vote to
see how many of the one hundred and
eighty-three in the graduating class
would be in favor of this kind of sen-
ior prom. When the vote was counted,
it was found that one hundred and
seventy-nine were in favor of the affair.

Only four had voted against it.

The next step in planning, now that
the administration had the stamp of ap-
proval from the young people, was to
send out letters containing the entire
plan to the parents.

The letters asked the parents if they
would allow their graduating boy or
girl to attend the activities described.
A return postal card was included and
the parents were asked to check on this
card whether they would help supervise
at least one of the activities and if so
which one or ones. It was also possible
for parents to check the activity or com-
hination of activities in which they
would permit their teen-ager to partici-
pate.

When it was evident by the replies
that at least two-thirds of the parcnts
approved the idea, the administration,
class sponsors, and class officers made
the decisions as to what activities should
go into the “all-nighter.” Blocks of
tickets to all events were prepared and

348

sold. These tickets were numbered and
a record was kept of the boy or girl who
purchased each ticket. Tickets were col-
lected at the entrance to each event.

Neighborhood would-be complainers
were stopped before they had a chance
to complain. 0n the day of the big party
seven hundred and fifty fliers were
handed out in the neighborhood by the

lower-semester boys. The fliers read:

“Dear Friends and Neighbors: Friday,
June 12, is Senior Prom Night at Ana-
costia High School. In keeping with
modern times, there will he gala, all-
night activity . . . . a dance in the Girls3
Gym, converted into an outdoor garden
by professional decorations, a movie
at the theatre, a splash party in the pool,
followed by an early breakfast in the
school cafeteria.“ Will. it be noisy? We
hope not too noisy, but . . . . it comes
once a year and the graduates are young
and enthusiastic. We Ask Your Indul-

gence and Cooperation!”

Then meetings with the police took
place. The planning committee asked
the police department for protection
against gate-crashers and hoodlums.
The boys in the class,who might have
caused disturbances were put on the
committee with the police captain. It
was decided by this committee that
those graduates who drove cars were
to park them on the football field. Thc
field was locked and no cars were al-
lowed out until six A.M. unless a parent
wanted his boy or girl to leave earlier,
in which case he had to send written
permission. One hundred and two cars
were parked on the football field, and
only two drivers had special permission
to leave early.

The chaperones for the various ac-
tivities were selected by the class officers
from among the teachers and parents
who had volunteered for such assign-
ments.

The first activity planned was thc
dance. It took place in the two gyms,

with two orchestras, one “sweet” and
one “hot.” Teachers chaperoned this
group. They had been given a form
and on it they were asked to check
which activity they wanted to supervise.
Some parents also helped to chaperone
the dance. The decision as to the chap-

eroning assignments was left up to the
class officers. The assignments were
sent to the parents along with letters
thanking them for their generous offers
to help.

The movie came next. The committee
got in touch with the local movie mana-
ger about this activity. He was all in
favor of the all-night program and of-
fered to make arrangements for a spec-
ial showing of a new movie at his 1novic
house. He and his wife were also in the
receiving line along with teachers and
parents when the youngsters arrived.
The title of the movie was kept a secret
until the day before the party.

Since the community recreation
building was only a short distance from
the high school, the committee decided
to make use of it—so a “splash party”
after the movie was planned. The young
people changed their formal wear for
beach wear and then made their way,
chaperoned, to the recreation building
and its floodlighted outside pool. Some
thought it too chilly for swimming, so
they played golf on the miniature golf
course. Those who did not want to
swim or play golf stayed in the game
room of the school building, where they
played games, sang, and listencd to
someone play a “hot piano.”

The physical education department
of the school was responsible for the
swimming activity. Chaperoning teach-
ers and parents were on hand at the
golf course and in the game room.

, The five A.M. breakfast was the re-
sponsibility of the school cafeteria staff
which was assisted by members of the
Home and School Association. They
served four hundred and twenty break-
fasts of hot biscuits, scrambled eggs,
bacon and toast to the members of the
class, and to all the grownups who had

helped.

The big party broke up at six-thirty
A.M. According to Mrs. Corkery, some
teen-agers were yawning around six
A.M.; but they all admitted that they had
a “terrific” time. The graduates had
loved it. They had had an evening of
fun with something p0pping every min-
ute—minus any drinking, riding around
in “hot rods,” visiting night Spots, or
having any accidents. It may not be the
only solution to prom night—but Ana-
costia felt it had been well worth trying.

RECREATION

 

lnside view of Santa Barbara Recreation Department hand
puppet stage during presentation of “Three Little Pigs.”

,4 CHILDREN’S puppetry workshop has been conducted
by the Santa Barbara Recreation Department for many
years. Some 4,500 puppets have gone home with children
for play and for shows in their own backyards and living-
rooms. During W.P.A. days we had a very extensive six-
day-a-week program; and during that time a backlog of
puppets and scenery was made for us. Since then the work-
shop has been conducted on a twice-weekly schedule. '

An ideal setup for such a program should include work
tables, drying racks or shelves where clay and papier-m'aché
work may be left between meetings, storage facilities for
each individual’s work, cupboards for supplies and for
paints, a work bench and tools, a sewing machine, an iron
and ironing board, a sink and running water, and space for
both marionette and hand puppet rehearsal stages (pre-
ferably in another room).

We have, however, approximated this ideal only very oc-
casionally. Other times we have conducted puppetry work-
shops under all sorts of conditions: meeting in a room from
which everything must be removed and which must be left
clean for the next group using it; working from cardboard
cartons in the back of the car at a playground or park, often
without drying space at the area, doing all the sewing by
hand. *

The craft end has been the emphasis for most of the par-
, ticipants in our project. We make various types of puppets
l—hand, string, cloth, papier-miiché or wooden. Characters

 

MISS CARDINER is the supervisor of special activities in the
Santa Barbara, California, Recreation Department.

JUNE 1954

 

Joyce Gardiner

range from classic to comic strip, movie and TV characters.
We have had rashes of Donald Duck, Mickey Mouse, Super-
man, Snow White and the dwarfs, Cinderella, Peter Pan,
Santa Claus, Beanie and Cecil, along with ballet, family and
storybook favorites. Often a clubnor school group will come
in with its leader to do a certain project, such as a Colon-
ial period play, or Westward Ho, or a Santa’s workshop.

Some of these puppets strut their stuff on shows we pre-
sent; but all go home (after payment of a small fee of ten
or twelve cents) to be used for backyard shows, entertain-
ment for the family, as decorations for children’s rooms, or
as Christmas gifts. Some return for repairs after little broth-
er has pulled off the legs or hair, or after the pet pooch has
chewed up the head. i

We have tried to emphasize that, as soon as a youngster
has done a fairly good job in modeling, papier-maché work,
painting, putting a puppet together or stringing it up, he
should help a beginner. It is rewarding»to see a former
“I-don’t-know-how” whiner proudly showing a visitor
around, explaining the process.

The recreation department pays for the basic supplies,
such as unbleached muslin, thread, pins, needles, clay, dry
paper-hanger’s paste, glue, paints, and tools. Wood for
control sticks and props comes from the wood yard’s scrap
pile. Mothers and friends unload scrap bags and costume
jewelry on us for ladies, kings, and other dressy characters.
The ten cents for hand puppets and the twelve cents for

marionettes, paid by the children, goes for special oddments
from the five- and ten-cent stores, for emergency items or
for things that cannot be requisitioned. “H

349

PROGRAM

We use dry modeling clay, making it up as needed. Also,
the old clay heads are pounded up and the clay used again.
The smashing and pounding of the heads to produce smooth
dry powdered clay has a great attraction for some of the
youngsters, especially when they get tired of some tedious
job indoors. Our papier-miiché process is the usual pro-
cedure. This consists of putting five alternating layers
of paper towel and newspaper strips or patches with paste
(made from dry paper-hanger’s paste with a “spot” of glue
added and powdered alum as preservative) over the greased,
dry clay model. When the pasted paper is dry, one of the
older boys or I cut the heads open with a razor blade or
sharp knife; the screw eyes are then added and anchored
if it is a marionette; the halves are glued together and
the crack is neatly covered with patches “so that no one
will know that it has been cut 0pen”— a result not always
achieved!

For the bodies we use mostly the rag doll type; but we
have made wooden marionettes, wood and cloth combina-
tions for both hand and string puppets, and sawdust and
paste heads, hands and feet. We’ll experiment with anything
new anyone brings in! The youngsters choose a cardboard
pattern suitable for the size of the head and for the character
of the puppet and then draw around it on the cloth. We’ve
almost always had a sewing machine, and find that the stuf-
fing' stays in better if the stitching is done by machine instead
of by hand. Also, it gets the boys over the hump with the
least amount of sewing. We use medium-fine chick gravel
for weighting the bodies and feet of the marionettes and
cotton or scraps of cloth cut up for the rest. Clothes are
either machine-stitched or made by hand. Sometimes a
mother stitches for us, or a youngster becomes sufiiciently
proficient to help out.

For painting, we use dry tempera or poster paints, shel-
lacking it to prevent chippihg or being licked off by the baby
or dog at home. Yarn is the usual material for hair, although
we have used cotton and paste, colored suitably, to model
hair and hairdos.

The dramatic production phase of this activity has had
two main outlets. One is the weekly puppet show from May
through October as part of the family picnic program at one
of our parks on Sunday afternoon. The other is public or
school appearances, such as at the PTA carnivals or the
organization’s children’s parties. We always present these
performances without charge.

The shows are given by children from the Puppet Shop
who have shown an aptitude for such presentations. Usually

there is a stand-by group of those who help year after year,
i but we work in new participants all of the time. They even-
tually take over as the older ones drop out. During the last
year we had an unusually large number; of the thirty-five
children participating, twenty-five were new. Fifty-seven
shows were given from July 1, 1952 to June 30, 1953 with
an audience total of 4,924.

Our repertoire consists of some twenty-one different plays
including: “Jack and the Beanstalk,” “The Fisherman and
the Genie,” “Punch’s Sausage Factory” and “Robinson
Crusoe” from R. Bruce Inverarity’s Playable Puppet Plays;

“The Adventures of Betty” and “The Wishing Fairy” from

350

FPUPPET TH EATER ‘

Edith Flack Ackley’s M arionettes; “Little Red Riding Hood”
from F. J. McIsaac’s Tony Sarg’s Marionette Book; “Pick-
lenose and Susie” from Frances Lester Warner’s The Raga-
mafiin M art'onettes; “Goldilocks and the Three Bears” and
an adaptation of “Three Little Pigs” from A Book of Puppets
by M. P. Munger and A. L. Elder; “The Golden Cockerel,”
based on NéndonPogany’s story of that name, but rewritten
with some changes in plot and adapted to puppet needs by
the group. “Peter Rabbit,” “Hansel and Gretel,” “The En-
chanted Frog,” “Casper’s ’Adventures,” “Serenade,” “Fi-
esta Marionettes,” “Robin Hood,” “Pinocchio” and school
projects have been original concoctions. “Rumpelstiltskin,”
from a stage play by Helen Cotts Bennet, and “Cinderella,”
from a stage play by Alice D’Arcy, need more adaptation .

 

Caught in the act! Puppeteers enjoy this as much as the ll
enthusiastic. audience. The play, “The Golden Cockerel.”

to puppet needs to go smoothly. The librarians in the chil-
ren’s room of the public library have been most helpful in
producing source material.

Our most sure-fire hits have been “The Three Little Pigs,”
in which the houses blew down; “Jack and the Beanstalk,”
with the part of the giant played by a masked person;
“Peter Rabbit,” with Farmer MacGregor’s chase of Peter.
These are hand puppet shows and are comparatively easy
to give. “The Golden Cockerel” is our most elaborate mari-
onette show, running forty-five minutes and consisting of
five scenes with musical background, an exciting dragon
fight and colorful, costumes. Most of our shows run an
average of twenty minutes and are geared to the eight- to
ten-year-old group.

The weekly shows, part of the Oak Park family picnic
program, are staged within a puppet theater shell, built by
the recreation and’park departments for our use five years
ago. This shell is a small open-faced building approximately
fourteen feet wide, five feet deep, and nine feet high. There
are closets at each end of the stage, which leaves a front
opening ,of slightly less than eleven by seven feet. Curtains
are hung at this opening to make the stage usable for either

RECREATION

hand puppets or marionettes. The stage curtains, on traverse
runners, are mounted on strips of wood that have holes in
them so that they can be easily fastened into place with
bolts. A crossbar, dropped into slots at either end of the
front opening, becomes the hand puppet stage floor, with a
contraption bolted to it to serve as shelf and script holder;
or, at a different height, the crossbar serves as the frame
to which marionette stage curtain strips are bolted. Strips
of wood, to which other pieces are locked into place, swing
from the ceiling to hold scenery for the hand puppet stage.
For the marionette stage, wooden horses, eighteen inches
high, support the flooring for players and marionettes; and
the backboard for scenery is bolted with angle irons to this
floor. Ventilation openings in the back wall are needed.

To our dismay, we found that as five-footers grew into
six-footers, the backstage became very cramped; so take
heed if you’re building a puppet theatreli Storage space
in the closets and under the building also proved a tight fit
for the stage boards, curtains, and loud speaker equipment.

At the shows, the spectators—children and adults—sit
on the sand in front of the stage or on stationary benches.
Sometimes the children don’t stay seated——'—they crawl under
the curtains and onto the stage to see what makes things
tick. Attendance per show averages one hundred twenty-
seven, and runs as high as one hundred seventy-five,
depending on the weather and, we hope, the play. Our popu-
larity rating seems to remain high even with the repetition
of our repertoire year after year.

For request programs at PTA carnivals, school and play-
ground programs and rehearsals, we have two portable hand
puppet stages and one portable marionette stage. These are
approximately of the same measurements as the stage in the
puppet theater shell, so that all scenery is interchangeable.

Section Meeting Topics for the 1954 National Recreation Congress

ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS of Chief Executives of Local Recreation
and Park Agencies (three sessions)

Problems of Recreation BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS (two sessions)
Recreation for BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL WORKERS (three sessions)

CAMPING in the Recreation Program (sections in Day Camping and
Resident Camping)

Recreation in CHURCHES

CONSOLIDATION 0F REcREATION AND PARK Functions—How Has It
Stood the Test of Time?

Recreation in CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIONS (four sessions)

How to Determine a Reasonable Standard for Municipal Recreation
and Park EXPENDITURES

GIRLS AND WOMEN in Competitive Sports

Recreation in HOSPITALS (four sessions)

Operation of INDOOR REcREATION CENTERS

IN-SERVICE TRAINING—Audio-Visual Aids for Recreation Leaders
JOB ANALYSES for Recreation Positions

Reducing JUVENILE DELINQUENCY—HOW Does Recreation Leadership
Help?

LAND FOR RECREATION—How to Secure It

Serving Community MUSIC Needs More Eerctively

Administration Workshop for NEW EXECUTIVES
PET IDEAS

JUNE 1954

F or e§ective puppet shows:

1. Plays should have action in them, not just lots of words.
2. There should be no long waits between scenes.
3. Voice amplification equipment should be used if the per-
formance is out-of-doors so that actors can be heard.
4. Good backstage management is essential.
5. The audience should be comfortable.

F or effective participation:
1. Adequate rehearsal is necessary.
2. Keep in mind the span of interest of the age-group con-
cerned.

3. Encourage as much creative and original work as pos-

sible.

4. Remember that satisfaction comes from the response of
the audience.

Puppetry is a fine creative outlet for any age-group from
both the craft or the dramatic standpoint. Adults, and even
grandmothers, have joined us. A shy child can forget him-
self in manipulating and speaking for a puppet. One of
my stand-by helpers for a number of years was a boy who
stuttered badly, except when he was in a play, and then his
enunciation was clear and very good. Many mothers have
been grateful for the backyard puppet theaters, concocted
by their children, which have kept the neighborhood chil-
dren occupied on summer afternoons.

As a summer playground activity, it has had wide appeal.
We had the activity once a week on five playgrounds last
summer, and on each one it developed in a different way.
One playground worked out a circus, one used a fiesta theme,
another developed farmyard adventures, and two did regular
plays, “Hansel and Gretel” and “Cinderella.”

As an individual hobby or as a group activity, nothing is
more fun than puppetry!

U

PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE Problems (two ses-
sions)

New Techniques in PUBLIC RELATIONS (two sessions)
Making Our Recreation RESEARCH More Effective
Relationship of Recreation to SCHOOLS

Helping SENIOR CITIZENS Help Themselves
Conducting a Community SPORTS CLINIC

SPORTS PROBLEMS

STATE Recreation Services to CommunitieS

Workshop for SUPERVISORS (three sessions)

’

SWIMMING POOL Design and Construction for Effective Operation

Recreation for TEEN-AGERS—Program Content
Technique

and Leadership

What is the TOTAL J OB 0F TIIE MUNICIPAL RECREATION DEPARTMENT?
TOWN-COUNTRY Recreation (four sessions)
How to Get and Use TV Time for Recreation Services

Planning and Evaluating the UNDERGRADUATE RECREATION CUR-
RICULUIM

URBAN REDEVELOPMENT—Rehabilitating Our Neighborhoods
VOLUNTEERS for Recreation Service
What Constitutes a WELL-ROUNDED PROGRAM of Recreation Activities?

Recreation-Education Values of Zoos AND BOTANIc GARDENS

351

 

a...

Houston Eagles block Los Angelcs Voit team at U.S.A. Volleyball offers a challenge to performing skill. Omaha
women’s championships, Omaha 1953. Match won by Voit. team coordinates at net against Florida State University.

Good Form is Demonstrated by Experts

 

A world-wide sport, volleyball is rated more popular than bas-
ketball in Japan. Above, agile player makes remarkable “save.”

 

U.S. players bloek tricky left-handed spiker
during outdoor play in Tunis, North Africa.

(Right) In Tucson, Arizona, all the “fly boys”
need for a good game is a landing strip, a
net, a ball and, of course, a dozen huskies.

 

352 RECREATION

PEOPLE PLAY for many reasons. Some engage in activity

for relaxation from nervous tension, others for compan-
ionship and identification with a group, while excitement,
competition, improvement of physical condition and the op-
portunity to meet new people attract additional participants.
Volleyball, an all-American game, and now an international
sport, ranks high on the recreational scale because it offers
so much to so many for so little investment.

When Dr. Lu Hui-Ching made her study on Volleyball
Around the World, for her doctorate at Teachers College,
Columbia University, she found that recreation directors
and educators as well as administrators and sports leaders
were in substantial agreement as to the values of the game.
There is an appeal to both sexes, and to persons of all ages
(similar to swimming in this regard). Little equipment is
needed and relatively little space is required for an official
court—thirty by sixty feet, plus a sufficient border around
the court to provide safety and an opportunity to recover
playable balls. The fundamentals of the game lend them-
selves to mass instruction and are both interesting and
challenging.

Players can quickly “plow back” much of what they learn
by helping to teach others, taking turns in officiating, help-
ing with demonstrations and assisting in developing better
understanding of skillful play and good sportsmanship. One
of the traditions of the game, developing as it did in the
Holyoke, Massachusetts, YMCA in 1895, is that of personal
responsibility and integrity in calling fouls—even when the
referee, umpire, or linesmen fail to see violations. From
this standpoint, it is truly a players’ sport and incidents in
the topfiight national competitions are on record where play-
ers have called their own fouls, missed by the officials, at
times when it meant the difference between winning or los-
ing a game and the match.

This characteristic of the game is something that must be
taught continually and is a typically American tradition that
lovers of volleyball all over the world admire and find worth
emulating. For all of these reasons, which Dr. Lu’s study
pointed up, the modern game of volleyball offers recreation,
a challenge to performing skill, development of volunteer
lcadership, and opportunity for further study and research.

The game is played in parks, on playgrounds and beaches,
in camps, in schools and colleges, in the armed forces, and

 

MR. F RIERMOOD is president of the United States Volleyball
Association and secretary for health and physical education

for the National Council of the YMCA.

JUNE 1954

           
    
 

"hul-
f
,t

 
        

 

- '5'-'3'-':'a'-':"i3?&...

, . a... I
-'.-"-‘:-::;. °,.:I'I"I":-a.
u'l'g - I ' '
' a 0 . o
«3: 3'"  . ' f}.-
:.;f . If. .I I ‘I I ." I:.

. I . .
«t -'.- 
a"... c. L". '
.14" £5133: .1-'
‘0' 0'“ '0.
o" ' 00..
.5. "Jun
.'..=,'_ ‘5.

. I...
' 2 
u '. . u .0.
. a .1 'ao.
e    
‘ 'v': 52‘:
.- , 5.3:
.gl Q

I. I.
.‘ f,
_' 0’...‘
:3
‘5?
".-.-‘r?'°=.c'"-'  -.~- . - :- . 9-.
0“, ..'.I' I " l 0- .0
 .. .1: .' Inga}. 1::
I ‘ I I .
o . .‘ . or.

  
 
 

    

    

   
 

   

   
     

  
  

    

       
  

 
     
 

 

  
  

    
    

      

 
    

:3’; I "n ".- I. lug”: ‘, .| . . .
w» '=a*§aseri~ -- u. away
0'." 0' 'I I .".'"- .‘f I 0' at I
1", 'Q'Q 13:53.5- " .31" .2- ~'- in ' - :zi'c'th-v.--'-.-‘-"7i'-'-'«'l
.‘u"u?c0".t:.‘l....=.:l:u..:" ‘.' '0 '1' ' . a In"...'-' . 30.0.:‘0? .' '0. Iv“! if}. H." '.‘.:..'I'.::'.=o?"' 2.4.12;
_.-- ' $252'it- a:::.'.-.-.-.r-.o3::~..‘.::-: ‘.-  7' Jam-22...... - - . -.: -:  - 5-- 9.  ' «10.3.! I
    size-2b":   
-_: I I... ' "l c.
“m ’-  .)
NI .

     
    

Harold T. Friermood

all around the world. Men and women, boys and girls, all
ages from eight to eighty, play and enjoy the game.

The Oklahoma City Times carried a story, a short time
ago, about Elmer Klein who was celebrating his seventy-
ninth birthday with one of his triweekly workouts on the
volleyball court of his local YMCA. He has been doing this
for years and claims, “ . it’s better than liniment for
warding off cricks and kinks.”

A recent visit to the campus of the university at Tucson,
revealed four hundred co-eds playing simultaneously on
thirty outdoor courts. They were developing effective pat-
terns of play——passing, setting, spiking, serves with curves——
in the Arizona sunshine.

Beach volleyball in Southern California attracts thousands
of players and some of the outstanding national tournament
players, both men and women, are developed there. The
Hollywood team has won the US. open championships for
the past three years and most of its players spend some time
training on the beaches.

Topflight play in the United States is conductcd on in-
door playing fioors; but in other countries, where such facili-
ties are not available, outdoor courts are used to stage tour-
nament as well as informal play. The first women’s and the
second men’s world championships were conducted on out-
door courts before forty thousand spectators in Moscow,

two weeks after the close of the Helsinki Olympic Games
in 1952.

Like basketball, volleyball was originated in the Unitcd
States (basketball in 1891 at the Springfield College YMCA,
and volleyball in 1895 at the Holyoke, Massachusetts,
YMCA) and quickly introduced around the world by recre-
ation and sports leaders: by Hopkins in South America,
Hanson in Mexico, Ellwood Brown in the Philippines, Frank-
lin Brown in Japan, Gray in India and China, Malcolm in

353

Egypt, and several US. leaders in Europe. However it was
not until 1947 that an International Volleyball Federation
was formed in Paris with the US. being one of a dozen

 

1954 certifi-

receiving

(center right)
eate, “Leader in Volleyball,” from Harold T. Friermood
while Prof. ElliS‘H. Champlin (right), physical education
director at Springfield College, Massachusetts, and Robert
Yoho (left), staff member of the State Department of Edu-
cation, look on. Mr. Rogers is former NRA staff member.

James E. Rogers

countries included as charter members (this number has

now grown to forty countries).
The past three Central American Games have included vol-

leyball and this sport is scheduled to be in the regular pro- .

gram of the 1955 Pan American Games to be held in Mexico
City next March. The United States Volleyball Association,
being affiliated with the International Volleyball F edera-
tion and a member of the U.S. Olympic Association, will be
expected to form thc committee, select the team members,
and help finance the trip south of the border. U.S. teams
have made two good will European tours-—the first in 1948

and the more recent in 1953. These did much to bring about
new friendships and stimulate further deveIOpment of the
game. International rules govern such play and are con-
tained in the 1954 official guide1 of the US. Volleyball As-
sociation along with the US. rules for. men and women.
Volleyball in the U.S.A. represents a cooperative effort of
individuals and organizations, including as it does in the
U.S. Volleyball Association, now twenty-six years old, of-
ficial representatives of: National Recreation Association,
National Council of Young Men’s Christian Associations,
American Association for Health, Physical Education and
Recreation, National Section on Girls’ and Women’s Sports
(which issues a Guide every two years for its own members),
American Turners, armed forces: Air Force, Army and

1 1954 Reference Guide and Official Rules of the United States Vol-
leyball Association, U.S.V.B.A. Printer, Box 109, Berne, Indiana.

Navy, Boys’ Clubs of America, Boy Scouts of America, Na-
tional Amateur Athletic Union, National Collegiate Athletic
Association, National Federation of State High School Ath-
letic Associations, National Jewish Welfare Board, The
Physical Education Society of YMCA’s, and representative
players elected by the players themselves.

Through this Association the rules are established and
published each year, officials are certified, the game is pro-
moted through the related groups, experimentation is en-
couraged, and national championships are conducted for
American Turners, Amateur Athletic Union, National Jew-
ish Welfare Board, armed forces, collegiate groups, women’s
division, YMCA, senior and veterans’ groups, and the US
open division teams. The 1954 championships were ju
concluded in Tucson, Arizona, and the 1955 U.S.V.B.
championships will be conducted by the Oklahoma Ci
YMCA using naval air force facilities at Norman, Oklahom
with the COOperation of all groups making up the U.S.V.B.

There are no paid ofiicials or professional players
volleyball for it is an amateur sport that is played, officiate
and managed for the love of the game. But volunteer effor
are appropriately recognized, through a plan instituted i
1946 by Dr. George J. Fisher who was then president
the U.S.V.B.A. Each year special recognition is given t
a group of not more than six persons who have maintaine
a relationship with volleyball for at least twenty yea
rendered significant service in advancing the game, an
achieved national recognition because of their Contributions
Among those so honored this year was James E. Rogers,
staff member of the National Recreation Association for
thirty-nine years, who has continued to be a great booster
for volleyball even though he is now on “retired” status.
When he received the U.S.V.B.A. certificate, “1954 Leader
in Volleyball,” this sentence appeared in his citation: “. . . .
believer in youth, leader of youth, worker throughout the
nation for wholesome recreational opportunities for all.
Dr. James E. Rogers is recognized because of his unselfish
efforts to advance the great American and the world wide
game of volleyball.”

Because of the work of men like these, park and play-
ground leaders, industrial groups and the armed forces,
school and agency peeple, local, regional and national rep-
resentatives of the U.S.V.B.A., and the twenty million play-
ers in this country, of all ages, both sexes, and varying
degrees of ability—volleyball continues to grow and develop
because of its inherent values. But its greatest growth lies
in the future when all groups in every section of the country
take it out of doors, where gym space is unlimited. Volley-

_ball for recreation presents a continuing challenge.

Hometown Ideas That Clicked
(From the 1954 Middle Atlantic District Conference)

A chart was made showing the amount of newspaper pub-
licity each playground received. It was an added incentive

to the playgrounds to promote activities in the papers.
-——STUART MOYER, Reading, Pennsylvania

354

New adult classes were instituted with the help of local
merchants. The demonstration-type classes were on useful

hints for home owners.
—FRANK KRYSIAK, Linden, New Jersey

RECREATION

A Unique Idea

 

The TRAVELING TRADING POST

 

roriginal wagon was found standing in a field“ on a
sylvania farm, and was purchased for ten dollars.

 

Now, brightly renovated and surrounded by youngsters anx-
ious to swap wares, it has beeome a popular activity eenter.

MRS. SYLVIA C. NEWCOMBE is the superintendent of rec-
reation, in York, Pennsylvania.

JUNE 1954

Mrs. Sylvia C. Newcombe

HE playgrounds in York, Pennsylvania, have had travel-
ing theaters, puppet shows, storytellers and novelty
events of all types in their program history, but the traveling
trading post is a “natural.” The idea appeals to all age
groups. It needs no selling or eXplanations. Children knew
from the start what [it was for and what to do about it. .

Mrs. Emory Frigm, the “wagon boss,” who is both police-
woman and part-time recreation worker, had watched her
own children trade trinkets. The desire to exchange toys
and games that had lost their glamour and appeal, for an
object of fresher interest, was natural to children. Thus,
the trading post was born.

It began with an old farm wagon, standing in a field.
This was purchased by the recreation commission for ten
dollars and converted into a covered wagon. The additional
cost was negligible. One firm painted it bright orange and
another furnished the awning for the top. The original
wooden wheels were retained and some bells arid a hurricane
lamp were added for Western effect. The state highway
department issued a free trailer license. Toys, games and
trinkets to start it off were all donated.

It was named the Bar-None Trading Post and was drawn
by the recreation department truck, visiting the city play-
grounds on a pre-planned schedule, for a two-hour stay at
each ground. It frequently also added to the playground
attractions for community nights, block “parties and special
events. Mrs. Frigm and her teen-age daughter, Peggy,
dressed in Western costume and carried with them a phono-
graph and records for square dancing. However, from the
start, business was so brisk that the square dancing was
put in charge of the directors of the playgrounds.

When the trading post rolls onto the playground, the “chil-
dren greet it with cries of delight. There is a short wait
until the side flaps are rolled up and wares laid out. Comic
book traders queue-up on one side and traders of miscel-
laneous goods. crowd around the other. Everything from
scrub-buckets to bubble bath passes through the hands of

the wagon boss. “You name it, we’ve got it,” laughs Mrs.
Frigm. W

355

“What can I trade for this?” calls some barterer. She
immediately swings into action. Articles must be of equal
value, not necessarily in money, but in condition, in order
to be traded. Two comic books with covers off can be traded
for one good one. Any articles that are new or exceptionally
valuable require a note of permission from parents.

Children are sharp traders. The deal, of course, must sat-
isfy both sides. One little four year old boy wanted to trade
a fire engine for a truck. In discussing the trade he admitted
that he wanted the truck because it had more mechanical
parts. “Well then,” said Mrs. Frigm, “the truck is more
valuable than the fire engine.” The four-year-old would not
accept this. “There is a gear missing on the truck,” he said
and pointed this out. Mrs. Frigm had not noticed. The
little boy understood the mechanics of the little car and
knew exactly what he was giving and getting.

One little girl of six years wanted to trade her neatly
dressed pretty baby doll for a soiled frayed baby doll that
had been tossed into the center of the wagon. Mrs. Frigm
appraised the dolls and said, “But your dolly is much better
than that one, pick a nicer one.” But she would not be per-
suaded. She ran home and brought a permission note from
her mother. The trade was made; and an hour later she
returned with the bedraggled doll transformed and out-
shining the doll she had just traded. Mrs. Frigm could hardly
believe her eyes. A little girl knows what soap and water,

a new dress and a little motherly love can do for a baby’s
appearance.

The youngsters know their merchandise, enjoy the barter-
ing and recognize a fair trade. Its educational value to the
children depends on this. It is not a sentimental project.
In some areas additional help was required to take care of
the crowding little customers. We found we had to select
our assistants carefully and eliminate helpers who were in‘
clined to be too generous in trading with the children. Mrs.
F rigm loves children but realizes that in teaching fair values
one is giving them a great deal more than “things.”

In poorer sections, the playground directors helped the
children make craft articles to trade. The trading post load
was made up to suit the customers. Some areas had “runs”
on costume jewelry, wallets, balls and certain games. The
variety of stock grew, as the sumnier progressed, to include
tricycles and full-size doll houses. For lack of space, the
line was drawn at children’s furniture.

As an attraction to draw parents to the playground, the
Bar-None also carried some costume jewelry, books, maga-
zines, and so on, for adults. We were not equipped however
for a lady who wanted to trade a valuable antique clock.

The Bar-None Traveling Trading Post 'will be on the road
again this summer. As it passes through the city streets
smiles will spread on the faces of watching adults who know
that the children are having fun.

Janet Nickelshurg

CHILDREN’S SUMMER CAMPS:

Wm eddladéag?

 

I HAVE VISITED over fifty camps and welfare of camper and counselor as well.
have worked in more than forty of This entails a good deal of time spent in

 

356

these. As I go from camp to camp I
find, for the most part, smoothly operat-
ing dining areas, food well prepared
and served, sleeping accommodations
adequately set up and a standard of
cleanliness and orderliness maintained.
I find counselors eager to give their
charges a happy summer and camp di-
rectors conscientiously concerned with
the smooth operation of their camps.
This concern extends not only to such
physical requirements as food, health,
safety and such, but to the behavior and

*This philosophy is further expanded in
The Camp Program Book, by Catherine Ham-
mett and Virginia Mussclman, Association
Press. Order from National Recreation Asso-

ciation, $5.00.—Ed.

coordinating and planning programs;
and the regular routine programing is
left in the hands of specialists engaged
to take over the various departments,
such as craft, swimming, nature, and so
on. This division of labor would be al-
together excellent, were it not for the
fact that the department heads all too
often arrive in camp with their bags of

 

MRS. NICKELSBURC has had many years
of experience in the nature-study field
with national organizations; and also
authored the NBC radio program,
“Signposts for Young Scientists,” and
produced and directed the TV program,
“Stop, Look and Listen.”

RECREATION

tricks which bear little relation to a well-
thought-out philos0phy of camping.
What, then, are the main objectives
of a camping experience for children?
Primarily, to give them a happy, hcalth-
ful experience away from home; but
what such an experience can include
and what it does include are by no
means the same. Many camps are but
summer resorts cut to the pattern of
childhood. True, in a camp the children
live together, usually in tents, making
their own beds and keeping their quar-
ters tidy. In many camps, they help
with the serving of meals, with clearing

l

away and sometimes with preparation.
Such cooking as the children do is done
over a campfire; and in the majority of
the camps that I visited the children
roasted wienies and marshmallows or
prepared pre-packaged meals. All these
activities might be done at home, how-
ever, and none of them have much to do
with this exciting new experience the
children are having in the out-of-doors.

I envisage an adequate camp pro-
gram as one that makes the child less
dependent upon adults, upon the prod-
ucts of factories, upon the comforts of
city life. It should also he one that en-
riches him by acquainting him with the
out-of—doors, not merely as a spot in
which to loaf, but as a source of con-
tinued interest. It should be an avenue
of discovery that will stimulate his
mind, an introduction to new materials
for creative activities. Swimming, hoat-
ing, hiking and riding will help him to
know better the country in which he
finds himself, and should teach him
how, where and when such sports may
be safely pursued.

The games he plays should open new
vistas in his environment. They should
he planned for competitive teams whosc
points are reckoned on the basis of
speed, accuracy and ability to orient
oneself to the surrounding country.**
Such games are not bookish ones, such
as the naming of fifty hirds or the iden-
tifying of twenty trees, nor are they the
gaining of mastery in some athletic con-
test—city occupations, the formcr a task
for school science groups and the latter
an activity for the playground or school
teams.

"See “The Sport of Orienteering" RECREA-
‘rlox, March 1954, page 170.

JUNE 1954

The camp grounds offer a world of
exploration to those who know how to
use their senses and how to discover
what creatures besides themselves are
living upon the campsitc. The finding
of the case of a caddis fly in the brook,
or the discovering of the different ways
in which spiders of various sorts build
their webs, can make the campsite a
world full of exciting adventures.

The core of a camping eXperience,
then, is in helping the child to adapt
himself better to his environment. This
means, first, that he is aided in the me-

Jonet Nickelsburg originated o
unique service to comp directors
colled Earth, Sea 8. Sky. In this she
works with the counselors, during
their pre-comp training, to shaw
them that teaching noture study is
nat a mysterious ond weighty mot-
ter predicated upon knowing the
names at innumerable animals, in-
sects, birds ond flowers; that it hos
little to da with identifying and
classifying; but that it is primarily
concerned with making us oll more

at home in the aut-of-doors.

 

chanics of adaptation to group living,
or living with his own kind. Second, it
means learning to live in an outdoor en-
vironment without missing the so-called
refinements of civilization. Third, it
means deriving absorbing experiences
without having to borrow from city oc-
cupations, such as movies, radio, tele-
vision, comic books, and so on. Fourth,
it means a stretching of horizons so that
the countryside becomes the pivot point
around which the program revolvcs.

I should like to discuss in more detail
than space permits, the building of such
a program and how each activity, by
planning day-by-day progress, will add
to the skills needed for better orienta-
tion. For I see this progression in every
field. I see it in the acquired ability to
huild, as a start, the necessities for out-
door living and progressing to some of
the comforts that make camping less of
a chore. I see cooking skills widening
as the campers learn to build themselves
fireplaces and cooking equipment, then
develop a more extensive and varied
menu, and even learn how to hecome

more self-sufficient through finding
some of their own food in the wilds.

I see riding and swimming in terms
of mastery of the skills so that the child
becomes ahle to engage safely in either
pursuit. From this mastery he should

progress to the knowledge of how to
care for himself in relation to the ac-

tivity, how to care for his horse as well;
how to feed, water, saddle and stake
him out; and he should know what to do
in case of accidents.

His craft work should provide him-
with the things he needs for his camp-
ing activities. If he fishes, he should
learn how to tie flies, how to care for his

' pole and line, as well as how to catch

fish and carry them safely back.
Archery should provide him with the
tracker’s skill in stalking; and once he
has learned the rudiments of the skill,
llis targets should carry him into the
woods, not to kill, but to find prcar-
ranged, hidden bulls-eyes for his ar-
rows. He should learn at least to make
his own arrows—and his bow as well if
he has the time and requisite skill. ln-
stead of useless tooled leather objects
to take home, or purses and key cases,
he might make his arm guard and qui-
ver. He should learn the beauty of na-
ture’s manifold forms for decorating his
work and he should be encouraged to
draw, write about and photograph what
he sees. He should learn to stalk wild
creatures, to ohserve them as they live,
not to kill. Then he will be eager to
relate his adventures and to dramatize
what he discovers. All the raw material
of the out-of-doors that he sees can,
through the alchemy of his personality,
be distilled into the most precious pos-
session known to man—aesthetic appre-

ciation and its offspring, creative ac-
tivity.

 

FLAG DAY—JUNE 14

White is for purity; red, for valor;
blue for; justice. And altogether, bunt-
ing, stripes, stars, and colors, blazing in
the sky, make the flag of our country,
to be cherished by all our hearts, to be
upheld by all our hands.

-—-Charles Sumner

357

This activity can be an adventure in. friendship.

The “How-T0”
of MINERAL COLLEC’I‘ING

 

Young members of Mineralogical Society of Pennsylvania.
l’ictln-e was takcn while they were collccting spceimcns at
the 1953 annual meeting in lilncball, Lancaster County.

I’)

o:
cational and adventurous. The person of any age who

is bitten by the mineral bug is destined to enjoy a lifetime
of recreational pursuit. The fact that minerals are tangible,
durable and easily acquired, makes them a wonderful in-
troduction to nature and creates an appreciation of the out-
of-doors.

THE study and collecting of minerals is fascinatintr edu-

Becoming acquainted with several select books and min-
eral magazines will teach a beginner discrimination and will
give him a basic knowledge of how and what to collect. Vis-
iting a local museum is a further aid in learning what to

_____________._____.,________________
MR. AND MRS. SHULMAN are members of the Newark Min-

eralogical Society and (he Mineralogical Society of Pennsyl-
vania.

358

Gerry and \V ill Shulman

look for, and the use of geodetic survey maps will help t
locate the areas in which minerals are found. Generall)
the best places to find specimens are in mines, quarries, roar
cuts, excavations of any kind, outcrops of rocks, boulders
and stones deposited on beaches. Permission should alway
be obtained from the owners before collecting on privat
property.

To be comfortable in the field one should wear.sturd’
shoes, snag-resistant outer clothes, grinder’s goggles to kee]
flying chips out of the eyes and a pair of horse-hide worl
gloves.

A steel hammer of the mason or geologist type and sev
eral’sharp cold Chisels will help to break specimens from th
rocks. We find a three- or four-pound hammer and a one
inch cold chisel an excellent combination. An eight- or ten
pound sledge hammer, a crowbar, a magnifying glass, ;
notebook and pencil and a small first aid kit are also useful

If possible, the first few collecting trips should be mad:
with an eXperienced collector or group of collectors. Area
abounding in rocks are always potentially dangerous, sq
watch overhangs in quarries, look out for shafts in mine
and don’t climb difficult places. Remember that it is easie
to get up than to get down. Safety always pays.

Before starting to chop, look around the area; there maj
be many beautiful minerals lying in plain sight.

Specimens should be carefully wrapped in newspaper be
fore being put in a sturdy knapsack. We learned this througl
heartbreaking experience. On our first collecting trip w:
found some beautiful crystals and in our ignorance put then
in the bag without wrapping them. Upon arriving home ant
opening our bag, we found, not the beauties we had collected
but powder and fragments. They had rubbed each other H
pieces.

After getting specimens home, dust and dirt should .bt
removed by washing them in warm water to which a smal
amount of household detergent has been added. If they art

RECREATIOE

 

Author and mineralogist “rill Shulman gives a few tips on
finding specimens to a young protege at Blueball meeting.

delicate crystals they should be just swished through the
water. If they are hard, a discarded tooth brush can be
used to clean them. Some specimens, such as salt, which are
soluble in water may be washed in alcohol. Some may not be
washed at all; these should be delicately dusted with a
camel’s-hair brush.

The clean specimens, ranging in size from a thumb nail
to a fist, are now ready for further processing. A swatch
of quick-drying refrigerator touch-up enamel should be
placed in an inconspicuous Spot on the specimen. An India-
ink number should then be written on the dry background
and a quick stroke of clear fingernail polish brushed on the
dry number to preserve it indefinitely. We give each species
a different number; thus in our collection, quartz is number
one. calcite is number two, and so on, and each specimen
is numbered in decimals of its given Specie number, for
example: 1.1, 1.2, 1.3.

A three- by five-inch catalogue card should be made out
for each specimen. The upper left hand corner should have
the specimen number, and the upper right hand corner the

PIKE - SCIIO0L

date acquired. Next should come the name and variety of
the mineral and the size of the specimen. The line below
this should tell how it was acquired: collected by, swapped
with, gift of, or purchased. Any other information which
the collector considers pertinent should also appear on the
card.

To cross index this catalogue, a file of cards should be
kept in alphabetical order giving the name of the mineral
and its number.

The exact locality of the specimen is the most important
single piece of information, as some specimens have been
identified as long as a hundred years after they' were found.
A dense black mineral specimen whose locality was noted,
but which had lain in a collector’s drawer for many years
awaiting identification, turned out to be pitchblende, the
most important ore of uranium. This led to one of the most
exciting mineral discoveries the world has ever known.

Minerals should be stored and exhibited in dust-proof
drawers and well-lighted, glass-fronted cabinets. The sur-
plus ones should be given away or swapped with other col-
lectors, thus trading a rock for a friend.

As members of the Newark Mineralogical Society and the
Mineralogical Society of Pennsylvania we have had an ad-
venturous time. In our peregrinating vacations around the
country, we have found the name “mineral collector” a key
to hospitality. Fellow collectors Open their homes, their
refrigerators, their duplicate boxes of specimens and their
hearts, going all out to entertain visiting members of this
friendly fraternity.

A suggested list of books and magazines for the beginning

mineral collector:

BOOKS

How To Collect Minerals, Peter Zodac, editor of Rocks and Minerals
Magazine. $1.00.

Mineral Collectors Guide, David E. Jensen, Ward’s Natural Science
Establishment, $1.00.

Getting Acquainted with Minerals, Charles Letchworth English, $5.00.
A Field Guide to Racks and Minerals, Frederick H. Pough, $3.75.
Rocks and Their Stories, Carrol] Lane Fenton and Mildred Adams
Fenton, $2.75. .

A Textbook of Mineralogy, Fourth Edition, Edward Salisbury and
William Ford, $7.00.

MAGAZINES

Racks and Minerals, 157 Wells Street, Peekskill, N. Y., $3.00 per year.
Gems and Minerals, Palmdale, California, $3.00 per year.
The Lapidary Journal, Palm Desert, California, $2.00 per year.

CLASSES

A rhythm band was started in Nor-
walk Park, Norwalk, California, as part
of the recreation program: a rhythm
band which grew from twenty to over
one hundred and fifty pre-sehool mem-
bers, from one class to four large classes
—-and all within a year.

Up until four years ago, the sports
program was almost the only phase of
recreation deveIOped at Norwalk Park.
Then subdivisions were rapidly built-—
and more subdivisions. The character
of the community changed tremendous-

ly; so the recreation program has been
changed to meet the local needs.
The pre-school phase of the reerea-

JUNE 1954

tion program started with the rhythm
band and then developed into general
activity classes which meet once a week
for an hour and a half. The mothers
bring the children and stay for the en-
tire period. Attention is focused on the
children for the first forty-five minutes,
which are spent indoors, and activities
include rhythm band eXperience, learn-
ing songs, playing games, finger-paint-
ing, and clay modeling.

Then we all go outside to a play yard.
While the children are playing, the
mothers have a discussion group, guid-
ed by the recreation director, for thirty
minutes. Some of the subjects eovered

have been: various phases of child de-
veIOpment, reviews,of books on child
study and psychology, magazine arti-
cles pertaining to children, and so on.
Following this half-hour of play and
discussion, the children are served rc-
freshments, and then class is over.
These pre-school classes and mothers’
groups have many wonderful possibili-
ties for any recreation director who
wishes to deveIOp this area of recrea-
tion.*—ELIZABETII Gnoor LEIGIITON,
district recreation director, Norwalk
Park and Recreation District, California.

‘ See also “Idea of the Month,” May 1954,
RECREATION.

359

     

_____‘*.  ' . N _., _ on”  u v -. _ 1- . '

After hit to kit field, battcr is in mid-air on hcr way
to first; runner on second splashes his way to third;
catcher is on home plate. “Dugout” in right foreground.

If you’re looking for a water Sport to put a little more
life into your recreation program, and you have the body
of water for it, you’ll be interested in the new game intro-
duced last summer at Split Rock Lodge on Lake Harmony
in Pennsylvania’s Pocono Mountains.

They call it “aquaball” . . . and as the name suggests
. . . it combines the thrills and excitement of baseball with
the cooling comfort of swimming.

The main difference between aquaball and its pattern,
baseball, is that aquaball eliminates the shortst0p. The rea-
son is obvious. Inasmuch as the basemen all position them-
selves on the floating bases, the addition of a shortst0p
would put another float in the infield (and still another if
the second baseman were then moved to the usual position
between first and second). This would confuse the issue,
as well as create an additional expense.

Originally, the game’s inventors did away with the center
fielder and positioned the left and right fielder’s floats about
half-way between the bases. But when enough games were
played, it was found that this idea put considerable strain
on the two outfielders, so the middle gardener was replaced.

There are several available Options . . . and the game can
be tailored nicely to fit whatever situation exists in the way
of playing space. The possibilities of the sport are endless.

Split Rock stationed the floats out in deeper water and
hatted toward shore. This meant that the base swimmers
would be diving into deep enough water to avoid hitting
bottom. They had no roped-off area for outfield fences,
and thus no automatic home runs. This, however, appears
to be a possibility well worth consideration, which might
even add additional flavor to the game. Of course, the ball
would have to clear the area on the fly to be an automatic
home run.

They found that base-floats from thirty to forty feet apart,
with the left and right fielders hetween sixty and seventy
feet from home plate and the center fielder about eighty

Condensed from “Aquaball . . . A Recreation Innovation!” by Nel-
son Bryant, Resort Management, June 1953.

360

An Aquatic Variation of Baseball

AQUABALL...

to ninety feet away, proved quite satisfactory. Here again,
you can decide what’s best for your area.

Still another Option is the special float for the catcher. If
used, it should be lashed to the home plate float at right
angles. If not used, the catcher can position himself behind
the batter on the home plate float.

Three officials are recommended, but if only one is avail-
able, it is suggested he be stationed in a boat behind the
pitcher. An alternative position is the pitcher’s floating sta-
tion. "i

An additional float of some kind near home plate for the
members of the team at bat is also good. It saves consid-
erable time, and much wear and tear on the batters.

The ball is made of rubber and is of the same size and
outward appearance as a regulation softball. This type is
available in most sporting goods stores. The bat is flat-
sided—like a fraternity initiation paddle—with a flat hit-
ting surface about twelve inches long and three and a half
inches wide. The handle is rounded and large enough for

.a two-handed grip. These bats can be easily fashioned by

cutting down a regulation cricket bat to the proper length.
This length was found to be the best after actual trial, since
the longer bat allowed the batsman to hit the ball too far.

To huild their floats, Split Rock Lodge: (1) obtained
the five- by ten-foot rafts from a war-surplus store; (2)
equipped the rafts with wooden platforms for the players to
stand on; (3) covered the rafts, using canvas on some and
cocoa matting on others (cocoa matting was found to be
preferable) ; and (4) painted the floats with marine water-
resistant paints.

The floats are anchored by means of standard concrete
blocks to which are attached buoys, six inches in diameter
and two inches thick, to which the floats are hooked. This
arrangement permits the floats to be easily detached from
the anchors, thus making them readily available for general
use by swimmers. The batter’s and catcher’s floats should
have two anchors to keep them from rotating. All other
floats can rotate.

The Rule Variations of Aquahall from Baseball

Aquaball is a variation of baseball played in water with
floating bases and stations for all members of the defensive

team.

There usually arc eight players on each side, consisting of
catcher, pitcher, first baseman, second baseman, third base-
man, rightfielder, centerfielder, and leftfielder. It is recom-

__________________________.__..__——————

NELSON BRYANT is editor of Resort Management magazine

RECREATIOI‘

a recreation [KHUleial/l

Nelson Bryant

mended that one to three umpires officiate and that if only
one is available he be stationed behind the pitcher in a
boat

The common characteristics of baseball are applicable with
respect to innings, strikes, balls, outs, runs, and so on, ex-
cept as hereinafter especially provided. The game is limited
to three innings unless extra innings are required to break
a tie score.

Official Equipment and Field Layout

Each player shall be provided with a floating station in
accordance with the official diagram.

The bat shall be the officially recognized “aquaball” bat;
the ball should be the officially recognized “aquaball” ball.
No gloves are necessary in playing the game. It is per-
missible to use elementary swimming aids which contribute
to the buoyancy of the players. Propulsive swimming aids
attached to the feet, commonly called “frog pads,” are per-
mitted to be used by outfielders, but may not be used by
other players except as mutually agreed between the teams.

Base Swimming

ln swimming from one base to the next, it is necessary,
during the last ten feet prior to reaching a base, that some

Center Field

Left Field Right Field

80-90 feet—C)

2nd. Base

AQUABALL can»:

_/ n agitate? [in-m 9/. badcdallr

 

JUNE 1954

 

Batter beats catcher-’5 throw to first base
by a stroke as next batter leaps to position.

portion of the swimmer’s body be above the surface of the
water. In swimming the bases, it is not necessary to mount
each base. It is permissible to steal a base. In order to
reach a base, it is necessary only that the swimmer touch
the base above the surface of the water. Touching the base
underwater is not considered reaching the base. The “base-
runner” may advance only one base on a wild throw by
a fielder or on a wild pitch.

qul Ball

The batted fair ball must remain within the exterior base
lines and their projections. A batted ball may strike any
floating station except home station and still be considered
a fair ball if it'remains within the lines of play. Any batted
ball which strikes the home station is a foul ball. Foul lines
are indicated by buoys.

Pitching

The ball shall be pitched underhand as required in softball
rules. The striking of a batter by a pitched ball does not
entitle the batter to go to first base.

Interference and Fair Play

It is not permissible for players to deliberately and unneces-
sarily interfere with play of opposing players. A catcher
who improperly affects the equilibrium of the home station
to the disadvantage of the batter shall be penalized by the
batter being advanced to first base. Any offensive player
who unnecessarily unbalances a floating base and thereby
affects the defensive play of any player shall be penalized
by being ruled “out.” Similar penalties shall be applicable
to any unsportsmanlike interference with play, such as
splashing water in the face of a player for the purpose of
affecting his play. It is recognized, however, that in the
normal course of play unavoidable instances may occur
which may or may not affect the play of opposing players,
and penalties are applicable only in those cases of unneces-
sary or deliberate interference, which is in the sole discre-
tion of the umpire. No defensive player shall secure any
unsportsmanlike advantage by unreasonably obstructing the
view of the ball by hiding it behind a floating station, hold-
ing it under the water, or by any similar means.

361

A Champion of Games

' 106% 7%

[GOP tennis is one of the most popu-

lar games ever played on the play-
grounds of Americauand one of the
least known. I have seen long lines of
children file past supply rooms, when
the playgrounds opened in the morning,
to sign up for a chance to play the game
sometime during the day. I have visited
playgrounds on hot summer days when
it seemed that all activities had been
suspended temporarily——-but the loop
tennis set was never idle.

Loop tennis was originated by G. E.
Macy, an engineer in the street traflic
department of the city of Chicago. The
first model, constructed by hand in
1928, was a table model of the old
game of tether hall. The scoring system
proved too complicated, however, and
eventually the' idea of placing goals on
either side of the pole suggested itself.

A larger outdoor model was built
for the Macy family’s Fourth of July
picnic; and fireworks were forgotten as
the game completely captured their in-
terest.

L00p tennis borrows its features from
three other games: tennis, tether ball,
and basketball. The equipment con-
sists of a rubber ball attached by a cord
to a swivel at the top of a two-section,
tubular steel, nine-foot pole, two spring
steel 100ps (six feet on either side of
the center pole and four feet high), a
double-diamond-shaped wooden frame
which serves as a foul territory and as
a support for the center pole and the
end goals. Four paddles complete the
equipment.

The object of the game is to hit the
ball with a paddle into either goal.
Singles or doubles may be played, with
partners in doubles playing on the same
side of the equipment. A point is scored
by the team which last hits the hall
before it enters the goal. Ten points
constitute a game.

DR. HOWARD G. DANFORD is director of
physical education at The Florida State
University, Tallahassee.

362

Howard G. Danford

The game begins, as in tennis, with
a serve. The player serving stands mid-
way between the goals and must hit the
ball in such manner that it touches nei-
ther the pole nor the goals until it passes
over into the opponent’s court. The op-
ponent attempts to drive the ball into
either goal; if he fails, the serving team
receives a similar opportunity. Play
continues after the serve until a point
has been scored. When the total score
of both teams is five, or a multiple there-
of, the serve is transferred to the oppos-
ing side. The serve and positions rotate
between members of a team as in tennis.

Defensive play is featured chiefly by two

techniques: (1) striking the cord to
which the ball is attached; and (2)
holding the paddle across and in front

of a goal on the opponent’s side of the
equipment so as to make it extremely
diflicult to drive the ball into the goal.

bined with accuracy and clever defen-
sive play.

The outstanding characteristics of
loop tennis are:

1. Only natural movements are involved. Hit-
ting something has been a natural act of man
down through the centuries, repeated by so
many thousands of generations mainly for sur-
vival reasons that today the mere act of hit-
ting, dissociated from any survival purposes,
givcs deep satisfaction.

2. It appeals to all ages.

3. The skilled and the unskilled alike are
fascinated by it.

4. Both organic and social values may be de-
rived from it—v—suflicient exercise as well as
Opportunities for deveIOpment of cooperation,
fair play, obedience to rules, and honesty.

5. It is an excellent family game.
6. It can be played either indoors or out.

7. Only a small playing space is required,
eighteen by twenty feet with an eighteen-foot
ceiling. The average backyard has ample
space for loop tennis.

8. It is safe. Children can hit a ball but do
not have to run into the street to retrieve it.

9. Very little time (about five minutes) or
effort is required to set up or take down the
equipment. t.

10. It is relatively inexpensive, is not easily
damaged, and will last for years. The only re-
placement items are balls; but these can be
purchased in quantity for about thirty-five
cents each. Our experience over a period of
several years indicates that a playground
using a set constantly will need two new balls
each week.

 

Loop tennis is a fine game for family or playground use, either indoors or out.

When a player, in obstructing passage
of the ball into a goal by means of his
paddle, touches the goal of foul terri-
tory, a foul is declared and a free serve,
somewhat similar to a free throw in
basketball, is allowed.

The major emphasis in 100p tcnnis,
for beginners is upon hitting a ball;
for advanced players, it is hitting com-

Playground directors who are desi-
rous of enriching their programs with
a game that requires no promotion, at-
tracts children and adults as a magnet
attracts steel filings, and possesses val-
ues equal or superior to any sports ac-
tivity they now direct, will welcomc loop
tennis into the family of recreation
games.

RECREATION

 

Allhough baton twirling appeals especially to girls,
small boys are sometimes willing to give it a try.

VARIETY of programs on the summer playgrounds of Elk-
hart, Indiana, is one of the local traditions. Because
the community is surrounded by many lakes, with water ac-
tivities near at hand, the department of parks and recrea-
tion must offer programs that appeal to the children to keep
them attending the playgrounds. Acting on the premise
that it is always a good idea to offer something new along
with the old stand-by activities, we inaugurated baton twirl-
ing last year.

The idea was suggested to us by a local manufacturer
who is a baton twirling enthusiast. We accepted his pro-
posal with some misgivings, for at that time we weren’t
aware of the tremendous appeal of this activity, particularly
among young girls. We have since learned that it is one
of the most popular of all activities for girls of school age.

This wide appeal means that there is no apathy to over-
come in order to get the program started. As we discovered
to our surprise, in the beginning we had only to announce
that the twirling classes would be given and the response
took care of itself. These announcements were confined to
one small story in the local newspaper, and bulletins posted
in the parks where the classes were scheduled.

The value of such classes depends largely upon the skill
of the teachers selected. If you wish to start such a pro-
gram, the National Baton Twirling Association,* or the
International Baton Twirling Foundation, both of which
maintain very complete lists of baton twirling experts, will
supply you with the names of the best local twirlers.

Since even nationally famous baton twirlers are seldom
beyond high school age, they present no problem in the mat-
ter of pay. We paid ours a nominal hourly fee, but you
may find that the best twirlers in your town are so enthusi-
astic they will be delighted to teach the youngsters without
charge.

Your only other investment will be for batons. We found
it best to have a supply of these for use by the children, at
least at the beginning of the season. Later, many of them
may buy their own. Even this is not a large expense; how-
ever, do not buy batons that are too cheap. The latter are
usually not well-constructed or well-balanced, and not only
bend easily when they are dropped by the beginners, but
are actually much harder for them to twirl successfully.

 

"' J anesvi] 1e, Wisconsin.

JUNE 1954

PROGRAM

BA TON T WIRLIN G

K. Mark Cowen

Incidentally, these batons should be equipped with rubber
ball and tip, not with metal. The ground outdoors is hard
on the metal balls, and they in turn are hard on the floor,
if the children twirl indoors.

In Elkhart, classes were held in each of the seven city
parks in turn, one weekly two-hour session for each park.
This rotating schedule made it unnecessary to buy a large
number of batons, since they could be carried from park
to park.

We learned, after some experience, that two-hour ses-
sions were a little too long——-not for the students, but for
the teachers. More careful planning of the class work can
correct this.

In our first summer, we found that it appealed particu-
larly to girls from six to fourteen. Of these, the majority
were probably under eleven years of age. Not one boy
volunteered to join a class, but we found that a little coaxing
at the park, especially during the classes, was enough to
get at least the younger boys to try. Undoubtedly, care-
fully planned publicity at the beginning of the summer
would succeed in getting more boys into twirling groups.
Perhaps it would attract more into the program if special
classes were held for them.

We were happy to find that interest among the children
did not wane toward the end of each class, or toward the
end of the summer. This may be partly explained by the
spirit of competition among them. At the beginning, we
announced that the best twirlers from each group would ap-
pear in the annual Elkhart water festival, Sponsored by the
park and recreation department. At the end of the summer,
three of the best twirlers were selected from each of the
seven parks, and the twenty-one children had two rehearsal
periods in which to prepare a program. ’Each child chosen
for the actual performance received a free baton, donated
by the local manufacturer who had originally suggested
the program.

Baton twirling combines physical activity with musical
rhythm and includes the acquiring of the skills of showman-
ship. The youngsters had a glorious good time; and because
it was one of the finest group ventures of the entire program,
Elkhart plans for another this year.

MR. COWEN is the superintendent of the Board of Parks and
Recreation in Elkhart, Indiana.

363

 

In many cities, dogs are not allowed in city parks and playgrounds,

and must be kept leashed and curbed. They can be a problem to
families and neighbors, especially those with gardens. The Payallup
Recreation Commission met the problem head-on and gave a valuable
service to dogs and their owners. Maybe your department could plan

a similar service.

THERE IS an old well-known expres-
sion, “A man’s best friend is his
dog.” Many recreation leaders have
trouble with the neighborhood canines
that areicontinually running loose on
their outdoor play areas; however, very
few recreation leaders have considered
bringing both the dog and his master
into their program. This is possible
and, by offering dog obedience training
as an activity, you can solve one of your
headaches as a leader and at the same
time enlarge your summer or year-
round program. We have had a very
pleasant experience with this activity in
Puyallup, Washington.

Many complaints of dog disturbances
in all sections of our city led to our
local police spending a large number of
their working hours in answering such
complaints. Many of these complaints
were activated, apparently, because of
the owner’s lack of knowledge as to
what was expected of a dog and of his
owner in an urban area. These situa-
tions, plus many others, brought a city
dog ordinance to the agenda of the city

MR. FULWILER is the director of rec-
reation, Payallap Recreation Commis-
sion, Payallap, Washington.

364.

council. As in all cities, the people own-
ing dogs desired the best possible or-
dinance to control the dogs, yet not to
have the restrictions so severe that a
child could not have a pet.

The city council was desirous of
achieving the full cooperation of the
interested dog owners, breeders and
trainers and turned to the director of
recreation for help. With the coopera-
tion of an active group of volunteers,
we worked out a twelve-week summer
program for dog training.

Our first step was to get the full co-
operation of the city council, the city
manager, the chief of police, local news-
papers, radio stations, dog experts, and
veterinarians. We also made contacts
with many national dog food compan-
ies. Then we were ready to see what
the reaction of the children would be
to the obedience course. We wanted a
pre-registration to gauge interest, and
were able to get this through the coop-
eration of the school administration.
We sent registration forms to each
classroom in the schools, and received
one hundred and ninety applications.
This was indeed a worthwhile number
of possible participants and, upon this
expression of interest, we laid our plans

DOGS HAVE
THEIR DAY

F. Sylvin Fulwiler

for the actual mechanics of the activity.

The objective of our dog obedience
training was to teach the children about
the proper care and training of their
dogs. We wanted the program to be
a workshop where the dog and the mas-
ter would work together and become
better acquainted with dog etiquette.
Therefore, we planned an introductory
program consisting of people in our
area who had show dogs and could dem-
onstrate obedience training. We also
showed two dogs with absolutely no
training whatsoever so that the children
could make a comparison.

At this meeting we introduced a song
that was to become the theme song of
the dog training course:

There was never a hole in the rug before,

Our drapes never looked this way,

There was never much wear

On the old leather chair

Till that dog came here to play.
Let the rain pour down,

Let the world be dark,

Let all friends turn away;

For the joy that we found

Will forever abound,

Since that dog came here to stay.1

To conclude the opening evening, we
held our final registration. We used our
regular registration cards, but asked
further information such as: name, age,
and kind of dog; previous training; and
kind of shots the dog had received. Our
final registration of eighty-nine was di-
vided into groups of not more than fif-
teen. We had six groups, and each met
once a week for twelve weeks.

1 Words taken from a Kellogg Dog Food

Company pamphlet. Reprinted by permission.

RECREATION

The first two meetings were spent in-
structing the youngsters how to make
rawhide leads to be used when the dogs
were brought to class. The balance of
the time was spent in getting the dogs
acquainted with each other and teach-
ing them the meaning of the word “sit.”
By the end of the fourth meeting there
seemed to be a feeling of security. The
dogs were beginning to accept the feel
of being on choke-chains and leads, and
thc presence of the other dogs no longer
caused unrest. From this point on, the
volunteer leaders stressed the training
of the master and his pet in the funda-
mcntals of commands for obedience——
heel, sit, stay, sit stay, down, and recall
———-and the meetings were spent in de-
vcloping skills in these. The masters
would lead their dogs around the train-
ing area in single file and would carry
out the command given by the instruc-
tor. Several of the dogs took pride in
their actions and naturally that same
feeling was carried over to the child
owner.

We arranged for a panel of veterina-
rians to discuss such t0pics as dog
foods, diseases and medicines. This was
an open meeting for all who were in-
tcrested. The panel members each dis-
cusscd a phase of these subjects and
then questions were asked from the
floor. This part of the program proved
most successful as several people other
than those in the dog obedience classes
attended. There were many questions
asked of the panel and the group had
an opportunity to receive a greater un-
derstanding of the value and the need
of taking care of their pets.

The final meeting was planned as a
demonstration of accomplishment, and
registered American Kennel Club judg-
es were present to see the dogs perform

and to offer suggcstions to each child.

With the training over, the time had
come to show the results of the training
to the fathers and mothers. To do this,
a show was held in an out-of-doors area
whcre the spectators were seated in the
grandstand to prevent nervousness
among the dogs. The children were di-
vided into age groups: thirteen-and-
over, ten-to-thirteen, and seven-to~ten.
Three judges were invited to be the
oflicials of the special event and to put
each dog and his owner through the
routine obedience commands. The chil-
dren went through the routine in good
style and thcre was a general feeling of
amazement among the adults as they
watched thc so-called “mutts” behaving
like aristocrats.

Several national dog food companies
and local merchants made it possible
for each child to have an award for his
efforts. These awards were dog items
such as food, collars, wipe-down-cloths,
baths, and rubber balls. Five gold
choke-chains and leads were presented
—one to the winner in each age-group.
A special award was added for one little
girl who attended not only her own
scheduled meetings but all other meet-
ings as well. Another award was given
to a boy and his dog for their appear-
ance at all their scheduled classes. Be-
cause of their interest and ability to lead
and work with dogs, both children be-
came junior leaders.

After the summer program had
ended, we were invited to participate
on two TV programs. The children
showed the TV audience what their dogs
had learned and also answered many
questions from the master of ceremon-
ies regarding the training of their pets.
The opportunity to be on TV was an
experience which gave them a thrill just

 

as great as thc results of their training
program during the summer did.

The dog obedience training program
has now interested adult dog owncrs
and we have two groups a week putting
their pets through a twelve-week course.
We have asked Mrs. Harold McCor-
mack, the woman who donated her time
all this past summer to give the children
the dog training, to be the instructor.
The adults pay a small fee to cover her
expenses.

It is not uncommon to ride around
Puyallup and see a child putting his
dog through obedience commands. The'
pets are receiving more attention than
ever before and the dog complaints havc
dropped considerably as an outcome of
this recreation activity.2 We feel that
the recreation commission and the vol-
unteers have performed a useful service
in helping to solve a problem and have
at the same time given the case for dogs
in Puyallup a much needed shot in the
arm.

We’ve Been Walking Beside -~Y011

Poem for the children’s dog training course

We’ve been walking beside you this whole
summer through,

We’ve liked walking beside you, we’re much
happier too,

So please don’t forget us, though school’s on
your mind,

Keep us walking beside you, not sneaking

behind!
——Mns. HAROLD MCCORMACK.

2 Dog complaints received during 1952
totaled 445; from January 1953 to December
f1953 there were only 23], almost fifty per cent

ewer.

 

Although we have already mentioned
the January 1954 issue of the A architec-
tural Record, which is devoted to the
planning and construction of social and
recreation buildings, we specifically
want to say, don’t miss the article, “Try
Imagination; Don’t Forget Diversion,”
by John E. Burchard! Mr. Burchard is
dean of humanities and social studies,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
and his approach to this subject ofiers

JUNE 1954

Food For Thought

freshness and many ideas to extend the
horizons of the recreation leader’s think-
ing. He says, for instance: “Great paint-
ings could do no harm at Jones Beach
and I mean great painting, not some-
thing dreamed up for the assumed taste
of a beachcomber. The guy in the swim
suit accumulating a burn may be al-
ready interested in painting, but if he
isn’t this is the place to catch him and
not in the Metropolitan. By the same

’

token it ought to be possible to have
more fun in a museum, even to the ex-
tent of having a pleasurable lunch and
some sense of intimacy with paintings
which were never intended to be laid
out in rows competing with each other
all over the place.”

We would like to quote from some of
the other excellent articles, too. Look
for good imaginative ideas for play-
ground facilities I—Ed.

365

SIX years ago [1946], when Detroit
stopped being an arsenal, its kids
became an irresistibly powerful pres-
sure group for more park space.
Through their chosen emissaries, their
elders, the youngsters stormed the City
Hall, “made” or rejected politicians,
and shook down the budget-makers.

Detroit took a look at' itself and
found that it was not all good. The
city that had once been a park with
houses in it had become an industrial
jungle. The city’s face was pocked by
makeshift factories, and by sprawling,
j erry-built housing. In congested areas,
prospective park sites had been crowded
out by trucking companies. Even at the
city’s fringe, machine shops were feed-
ing on land suitable for playgrounds.

Two “Park” Problems

From a planning point of view there
r~ were two problems. The city was badly
in need of playgrounds, but there was
also need for an extensive beautification
program. The once breathtakingly beau-
tiful line of the Detroit River had be-
come a smoggy shambles. Millions of
dollars and many years would be re-
quired to relocate warehouses and fac-
tories and railroads, or to build a river-
front parkway that could even rival the
beauty of the old Detroit.

It was the youngsters who won out in
this decision after a kind of mutual-
assistance pact with the parks and rec-

MR. MCCONKEY was formerly attached

to the sta}? of the Department of Parks
and Recreation in Detroit, Michigan.

DETROIT’S YOUNGSTERS
WIN PLAYGROUNDS

reation commission. The kids needed
playgrounds, the commission needed
playgrounds; the commission—and
other city departments as well—were
willing to go slow on the prettying-up
project.

“The choice was not too hard to
make,” recalls John J. Considine, gen-
eral superintendent of the department.
“We knew there would always be time
for the long-range park program, but
only immediate action could assure us
of a well-planned system of play areas.
The land we needed was rapidly being
built up; every delay was costing us
money. We had to have playgrounds

before the kids grew chin whiskers.”

The Fight for Play Space

During the land-acquisition program
that followed, nobody had much time
for self-congratulation. Fighting for

play space was a tiring, nerve-wracking,

day-by-day business.

Somebody got

 

As soon as the playgrounds were provided, the children of Detroit swarmed over
them and quickly put the swings, slides and all other equipment to good use.

366

James McConkey

hurt—-—or thought he got hurt—every
time the city moved to condemn prop-
erty.

Every pressure bloc had its war cry
and its seemingly incontrovertible ar-
gument. And some of the arguments
were incontrovertible. Undeniably
there were a few prospective play-
ground sites that were not suitably lo-
cated; and the city planners consulted
endlessly with community organiza-
tions as the program went forward.

'Naturally, everyone loved children;
everyone was against juvenile delin-
quency. But one of the remarks most
often heard about the City Hall corri-
dors was: “Sure, I’m in favor of play-
grounds, but I don’t want one right at
my back door! 1”

Plans and Model Play Areas Help

50 a little propoganda was called for.
Homeowners had to be assured that the
new tot-lots and playgrounds and play-
fields would not become eyesores; that
the city was not, in fact, buying up a
well-planned system of dust bowls. To
show what could and would be done,
the department barraged Detroiters
with information, sketches, and mock-
ups. Model play areas of all types—
fully equipped and neatly landscaped—
were placed in operation. Specifically,
the department wanted one large play-
field and four smaller play areas for
each square mile of Detroit.

At first, progress was measured in
terms of vacant or built-up land ac-
quired. Then, as the land was de-
veloped, there was the crack of bat on

 

Condensed from “Detroit’s Youngsters Win
Playground Space and Equipment,” The
American City, June 1952.

RECREATIOIV

Iball; there was a sudden squall of
noises from a football field. There were
.childish ivoices gleaming like silver
'skates across a newly flodded rink. Here
was progress that needed no advertis-

mg.

Goal Reached Sooner Than
Originally Planned

Originally it was estimated that the
kind-acquisition program would take at
,ast fourteen years. At a recent confer-
1C8, however, department executives
athered about a playground map and
niliscovered that, allowing for certain

.\
J

properties that could not be condemned
for years to come, the goal had already
been reached. Certain prOperties could
not be taken because of the housing
shortage. Relocation of families would
be a lengthy procedure and one that was
interrelated with the national defense
prOgram.

Statistically, the playground project
has been sufliciently impressive. It
raised Detroit, with respect to play-
ground acreage, to the second-ranking
city in the nation. At present, accord-
ing to a departmental survey, only New
York City, with 3,891 playground acres,
tops the Detroit play area total of 1,019

 

acres. New York ranks fifth, however,
on a per capita basis.

The high point of the acquisition
program, of course, was reached in
1948 and 1949. Following the peak,
expenditures were tailored to a grad-
ually decelerating rate of condemna-
tion. . . .

As the acquisition program slowed,
the city stepped up appropriations for
development of the new play areas. Dur-
ing the six-year period, expenditures
for playground deve10pment totaled
$2,843,000. Appropriations for de-
ve10pment are expected to continue at
a million-dollars-a-year clip.

 

.WRAP YOUR WADING POOL IN CANVAS

o This is what we did in Bangor—and
lit worked. Of course, there is a story
behind this stunt. And you know what
is behind the story. Yes, budget!

You can’t overlook the way we feel
about pools, either. We go for them!

 

anvas wading pool at the Fifth Street
'laygronnd in city of Bangor, Maine,
'demonstrates its popularity and utility.

And for you more southern ladies and
gcntlenien: even in Maine the sun comes
down mighty hot in July. On these hot
Idays the wading pool is the center of
E activities.

So we are wading-pool conscious, and
the count is as follows: four play-
grounds with, and four playgrounds
without pools. Since all of the grounds
are well-equipped otherwise, it is time

[we provided more pools.
I

 

 

Let’s see what our engineer says: “A
cement wading pool will cost you about

$5,000.” H’m-m. What does the finance
committee say? “A new pool would be

 

§EN CAMPBELL is the director of the rec-
ireation department in Bangor, Maine.

“JUNE 1954

fine, but with two new schools a-build-
ing, no $5,000.” H’m-m.

So, you can’t have a cement pool. It
costs too much. But you still want a
pool. What is the answer?

Find a cheaper kind of a pool!

You mull the matter over. The wheels
go round and round. You remember
having seen a backyard pool, about six
by four feet, made of canvas. How
about one of playground size? Would
it work? Let’s find out. You figure out
some tentative specifications. Then you
go into a huddle with the canvas peOple
across the river. It seems feasible! You
go to your young engineer for help in
drawing plans and specifications for a
supporting frame for the canvas: This
seems workable, too. The estimated

cost? Eight hundred dollars. The city
exchequer can stand that, so you go

ahead.

And what comes out of the hepper?
A pool thirty feet long by twenty feet
wide and two feet deep, made of heavy
(No. 6) waterproof and mildew-proof
canvas, pre-shrunk, sewed and cement-
ed with a two and one-half-inch open-
ing in the bottom at one end for drain-
age. A twelve-thread hemp rope runs
through the hem all around the top of
the canvas. Grommetéi arq spaced one
foot apart all around. i ’ fr '

l t

The wooden frame is made up of five-
inch matched Spruce tied up with two-
by-four spruce. Each side of the pool
consists of three ten-foot sections; each

Ben Campbell

end is made of four five-foot sections.
The floor, to give support and keep the
canvas off the ground, is made of ten-
by five-foot sections. All sections are
bolted together with one-half- by five-
inch carriage bolts, for easy take-down.
Lag screws, three-eighths by two and a
half inches, are inserted around the top
of the frame, one foot apart, the ends
cut off. The grommets fit over these. A
board strip, screwed on, completely
covers the grommets and pins, so there
is nothing for the kids to play with. A
five-inch strip of wood runs around the
t0p of the pool, flat, which covers and
protects everything. This is painted
bright red to contrast with the gray
pool, as are the two sets of steps.

Water is fed to the pool, over the top,
through galvanized pipe. There is a
gate valve to control the outlet, with
surface pipe running to a catch-basin.
The pool is emptied each night, an oper-
ation that takes about one and a half
hours. Each morning it is cleaned and
refilled with chlorinated city water, and
fresh water is kept ru’nning through it
all day. Once set up, the canvas pool
and wooden frame are one tightly-fit-
ting unit. '

At the end of last season, the canvas
was cleaned and dried and put away. It
was as good as new. There was no van-
dalism. And another pool, a duplicate
of the first, is now being built.

All of which brings us back to the be-
ginning. If your budget is limited—
WRAP YOUR POOL IN CANVAS!

367

ADMINI TRA 0

Camp

[Hanning

M. R. Garret and W. M. Keith

LEARNING has ever been the chief ac-
tivity of man, and each succeeding
generation sees the activity becoming
larger and more important. There are,
however, differences of Opinion on how
learning takes place, and on the best
means of engineering it. In every field,
eXperiments are constantly being con-
ducted to improve teaching and learn-
ing methods. One such eXperiment,
regarding camping and its related prob-
lems, was recently performed at the
University of Illinois.

During the fall semester of 1951, over
a score of students enrolled in a camp
counseling course had never been camp-
ing, indeed, had never seen a camp of
any kind. Since the textbook has always
been the chief method of instruction in
the schools of the United States, it has
largely determined the content and the
method of instruction.

However, this method could obvi-
ously not be the sole means in arriving
at the solution to the problems of Rec-
reation 174A (the camp counseling
course) —- problems such as familiar-
izing the students with camps and
camping, problems of programing, ad-
ministration, and personnel.

Through the processes of group inter-
action and “learning by doing” in the
construction of the various camp mod-
els, several concomitant objectives were

established :

1. Recognition of the importance of

MR. GARRET is assistant professor of
physical education, and MR. KEITH is
assistant professor of landscape archi-
tecture, University of Illinois.

368

 

Model of camp layout, joint project of camp counseling class

and landscape architectural class during 1953 spring semester

camp planning and the responsibility of
camp leaders to develop their areas ef-
fectively.
2. Recognition of the various aspects
of camping: camping standards; legal
restrictions; the given t0pography; the
devel0pments necessary, such as roads,
water supply, waste disposal, drainage,
soil erosion, housing, wild life, safety,
sanitation, health, the recreational area,
and the program. Therefore, prior to
model production, the above-related
planning problems must be considered
through research and the use of work-
ing drawings.
3. Synthesis of the final research notes,
with a social environment to add con-
tent and color to the general processes
of group interaction.
4. Another means of influencing and ac-
centuating the great principle of “learn-
ing by doing.”

To fulfill the necessary ohjectives on
a professional level, guidance and con-
sultation was given in the first year by
the University Landscape Architectural
Department; and then the camp coun-
seling class and the landscape architec-
tural class collaborated on deve10ping
the models during the fall and the
spring semesters of the second year.

This collaboration in programing,
planning, and designing of camps and
camp facilities is the type of activity
needed to insure comprehensive, work-
able results in our age of specialization.

The danger of such specialization is
that a man may become narrow in his
viewpoint and oblivious of what other
specialists are doing and how their ef-
forts afiect what he is doing. The more

specialized we become, the more de
pendent we become upon others for th:
complete solution of a given problem
This is why collaboration is necessary
—and the problem of camp layout wa:
based upon this theory in this schoo
project.

The joint problem brought together
the students majoring in recreation, anc
those whose chosen field was landscapa
architecture. A local site was selected
in Kickapoo State Park, near Urbana
Illinois, to he developed as a camp.

The landscape architectural student:
prepared an analysis of the site. Wit}
this analysis as a guide, the recreati01
students prepared an ideal progran
with activities which suggested certair
facilities and layout arrangements. Th:
landscape architectural students thel
prepared a site-develOpment which tool
into consideration the modifications im
posed by t0pography and vegetation.

The two groups then brought their
ideas together and by a give-and-takt
compromise arrangement, evolved a fi
nal plan. A model was prepared undel
the direction of the landscape arcllitec
tural students, but with the recreatior
students helping in its construction.

The result was a compromise of the
ideal in camp programing, layout, and
design, and the practical considerations
of an actual site. The students learned
the value of the contributions of eacl
other’s vocational disciplines, thercb)
broadening their own experience. The
final plan, program, and design were
well-integrated solutions to the over-all
problems of a camp layout, of areas and
facilities.

RECREATIOD

How NOT to Build a Swimming Pool

The following “letter” appeared sometime ago in an issue of
The New Swimmin’ Hole, published by the Department of Public
Health, State of Illinois, and has been resurrected here as an eii- .
cellent summing up of important points on this subject.

Serior Elmer Jerque 5. Water Supply. Sometimes it is almost impossible to
Feelthy Lagoon locate the pool where it can be refilled with nice fresh muddy
Upper Slobovia water during each rainstorm. This is eSpecially true of in-

door pools, although a number of such pools, located in

DEAR ER E: .
J QU dimly-lit basements have taken advantage of surcharglng

I got your letter asking my advice on how not to design (backing-up) direct-sewer connections for an adequate li-
Ithe new pool you’re planning. We have a number of hor- quid supply. The next best procedure is to pump. from the
rible examples in this area, so I feel I can give you the nearest swamp or algal lagoon. The pool water is nice and
latest d0pe. Here goes: hot, and the abundant growth of green algae will serve

1. Design your own pool! By all means don’t let a com- to hide any mud or bodies on the bottom of the pool. If {

petent consulting engineer or architect have anything to do all else fails, use the city water supply. Connect it directly ,
.with the plans. They would probably want five to ten per to the pool or to the filtration pipe lines. Then, when thc
cent of the total cost of the pool for surveying the pool site, city pressure is low (or negative), you can supply the city
dcvcloping modern plans, and inspecting the construction with water! Right out of the pool! (NOTE: When the epi-
|to make sure the pool lasts for twenty or thirty years, or demic of intestinal disease breaks out among the citizens
llongcr. Who wants to swim in an old pool? Why not build a short time later, it may be necessary for you to seek a
a new one each ycar? A good consultant-probably couldn’t new location. But that’s OK—genius is never appreciated.)
usave you over fifty per ccnt on a pool job, anyway. 6. Pool Details. Make the pool as large as possible. The
2. Copy other pools! First of all, pick the oldest pool in bigger the better!! Never build a pool smaller than two
'your vicinity. A pool good enough for your grandpa is OK hundred feet by five hundred feet. Most of the water should
:for your grandchildren, isn’t it? That way, all the defects he from six to eighteen inches deep. That will allow people
that get pool sanitarians and swimming coaches (and, inci- to wade quite a long distance in a straight line. Water
dentally, the swimmers) so red in the face can be perpetu- under the diving boards should be exactly five feet nine
ated. This will make more work for everyone and help and a half inches deep, so that a person can perform a dive

  
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  

relieve the unemployment problem. and a hand-stand at the same time. This will attract lots
3. Shh! Don’t tell the Health Department! They would of spectators, including doctors and lawyers.
just want to poke their nose into your business and help 7. Overflow Trough. This is simply a concoction some-

you, for nothing too. Let the state pool inspcctor look at one figured out to drain off the scummy water on t0p of
it when you’ve finished—surprise ’em! It’s a free country, the pool. Think of the waste of water! Do not fall for this
ain’t it? Why should you take advantage of their years of gadget!
lexperiencc on hundrcds of pools? Espccially when it 8. Diving Equipment. Put in the highest and shakiest
'doesn’t cost you anything! diving tower that you can afford. Place it about four feet
4. Location. It is of prime importance that the pool be from a side wall. Then the divers can see how close they
located where plenty of surface water will get into it during can miss the wall. Thrills and excitement for everyone!
a rainstorm. This will effect a slight saving in the cost of 9. Pool Walks. If you have to put in walks, make sure they
filling the pool, and is sure to keep everyone busy getting are as narrow as possible (two feet or less). Keep ’em swim-
lithe mud out after the rain. To make-the setting as natural ming! If you put in wide walks and some low, wooden
as possible, have plenty of trees overhanging the pool— sunbathing racks, probably most of the folks would spend
'especially cottonwoods. The leaves, branches, and seeds very little time in the water. How would they learn to
on the water take away that artificial appearance! Addi- swim that way?
tional “atmosphere” can be added by nearby railroads, 10. Walk Drainage. Slope the walks to the pool, so that
dusty roads, and factories. If it is necessary to pump the water splashed out won’t get wasted. Better still, make the

a 00] dry instead of emptying it by gravity, that helps keep walks flat as possible. Dirty slippery puddles will soon de-
the Power company SOlvent! -, . velop, and you can make bets with the lifeguard that you

‘*:

JUNE 1954 369
I .

can walk through the puddles without falling down. (CAU-
TION: Don’t bet too much; you may lose. Maybe you had
better bet the lifeguard he can’t do it!)

11. Sand Beach. Haul plenty of sand from the nearest
sand bank and dump it right next to the pool. Don’t waste
time washing it; it will get dirty right away, anyhow. Dump
some of the same into the pool, too—save the swimmers
the trouble!

12. Bathhouse. This is a luxury, and should be either en-
tirely eliminated or made as small as possible. Let the peo-
ple bathe at their cave, and change clothes behind a bush.
The money saved in this way can go to make the pool larger.
Many pools have made the mistake of providing toilets and
warm-water showers. These dangerous contrivances have
absolutely no function at your pool. If the citizens demand
a bathhouse, make sure there are no floor drains, hose con-
nections, lights or ventilation. That’ll teach ’em a lesson!

13. Water Treatment Equipment. It is easily demonstra-
ble that it is cheaper to buy good city water (with chlorine
residual, even) to fill the pool several times in one season,
than it is to provide recirculation-treatment equipment
such as a pump, filters, and chemical feeders. Since the
pool is to run for only one season, it is best just to forget
this subject. As discussed under “Bathhouse” above, the
money saved can be best applied to make the pool larger.

14. Operation. This information is primarily on how not
to design the pool. However, in ‘order to use my new flat
rock stationery, here are just a few pointers on how not
to operate the pool:

a) Don’t let anyone take a shower in the bathhouse—
wastes water. They’re going swimming anyway. Let ’em
bathe in the pool!

b) Never maintain strict rules over the swimmers—they
may not come back again. They came to have fun—let 3em
have it!

0) Don’t put chlorine in the water. This might upset the
biological balance! Conserve wild life—especially E. typh-
osa, N. catarrahlis, D. synedra, Chlamydomonas, and Strep-
tococcus faecalis. .

d) Keep the water as murky as possible. Hide that mud
and those bodies!

e) Remove bodies from the pool about once a week. To
do so oftener may result in poor publicity.

Well, I guess that’s all for now. If you follow the abOve
rules the undertaking should flourish—it sure does around

here.

Your friend 
DREDGE FORUM

[NOTEz They found this on the bottom of a flat rock the other day
while excavating for a new Class “AA” pool—Ed]

Selling A Donor on the Idea of a Playground

0 An ingenious plan for selling an industry'on the idea of donating a
playground to the community' has been worked out by Wallace J . Kal-
laugher, recreation director at Jeannette, Pennsylvania, a town of 18,000
inhabitants. Several local industries owned plots of land which might
be suitable for recreation. With the help of an architect, therefore, Mr.
Kallaugher designed these areas on paper, as they might be utilized for
playground purposes. Then, following a systematic approach to ana-
lyzing and evaluating this design, as to site, function, arrangement and
problems, he sold his idea on paper. As a selling technique, this proved
highly successful and resulted in his landing four large playgrounds
from four industries within three months. Mr. Kallaugher, incidentally,
has mimeographed his plan, including a step-by-step analysis of prob-
lems. If you write to him directly, he might be persuaded to let you
have a copy.

 

Unused area was donated for playground use.

{2

a _ ....t_.u.‘ Wlk-M";

 

A playground comes into being as the apparatus is set up. A plot of the pr0perty before deveIOpment of playground.

370 RECREATION
I

4 New Idea for a Park
or Playground Project

2%

 

Horace W. Peaslee

.RECREATION project has been launched in the National
Capital, as a memorial to planner Frederic A. Delano,
which might be developed advantageously in any commu-
nity. It is an outgrowth of something that Mr. Delano
originally devised for the entertainment of his grandchild-
ren and later projected for public use. _

On his country place, “Algonac,” at Newburgh on the Hud-

son, Mr. Delano shaped a large lawn corresponding to the
outline of the United States. At the scale of one foot to
twenty miles, the map was about one hundred and fifty
feet from ocean to ocean. On this map, were shown the
Great Lakes, the Mississippi River and the principal cities;
and the locations of the latter were marked with putting-
green cups. The children putted enthusiastically from city
to city across the Great Plains, and from the Northwest to
the Gulf, learning a game of skill and picking up geography
Ienroute—which was the objective of the project.

Mr. Delano was so impressed with the results of his ex-
eriment that he became interested in an expansion of thc
dea for more studied development and wider application. He
roposed that the size of the map be enlarged and “the
ay of the land” indicated. After consultation with the Geo-
ogical Survey, it was decided that a map at the scale of
ne foot to four miles—seven hundred and fifty feet from
cean to ocean——could find a place in almost any park
ystem; that a layout of this size would permit the indication
if mountains and river valleys; and that a park-playground
'etting would be ideal for maintenance and operation.

In cfiect, this would be a great outdoor relief map of the

 

:IORACE W. PEASLEE, architect, is chairman. of the Wash-
ngton Committee of One Hundred of the American Plan-
ting and Civic Association.

UNE 1954

#W

 

“Putting” Across the US

United States; not something to set apart for observation
from the outside with trespassing forbidden, but a play-
ground with every inducement for its use. The many mini-
ature golf courses in successful operation are sufficient
evidence of the game’s appeal to young and old alike. It
is needless to cite the advantages of qualifying in this an-
cient and honorable game, and these advantagés‘would be
greatly increased by the tie-in with the setting. The great
majority of children who have not traveled outside of their
own locality have no real conception of the length and
breadth of the land; and, to many, a map is but a patch-
work of vari-colored areas. With this combination of serious

.play in an educational and_ understandable setting, the

country-wide course becomes an extension of the school sys-
tem and, as such, of interest to educators as well as play-
ground promoters.

The construction of such a project will intrigue the ima-
gination of any designer—there is such a wide range of
possibilities. A beginning may be made, as Mr. Delano made
it, with merely a cut-out fiat map; or it may be built up
with exaggerated contours to indicate irregular terrain, and
the various mountain ranges. At the scale mentioned, the
highest peaks might be six or eight feet above “sea levcl.”
Of course the curvature of the earth would have to be ig-
nored—if the balance of the players and waterfalls. and
flowing rivers is to be regarded. Miniature plant material
and ground covers, and state lines are elements to be con-
sidered. Perhaps the simplest procedure to get the project
underway would be for park and/or school authorities to
organize a juvenile work project under the sponsorship of
an adult group—to include a golf enthusiast and a land-
scape architect or engineer.

The Capital project is promoted by the Washington Com-
mittee of One Hundred of the American Planning and Civic
Association, but there is no reason why any other commu-
nity should not proceed independently. The parent com-

mittee will be glad to advise any other group interested
in making a start. '

371

ADMINISTRATION

Short Golf

for Community Recreation Centers

SHORT golf courses constructed on limited areas are proving
amazingly popular with all age groups, golfers and non-

golfers alike. With grass fairways, sand traps and regula-
tion putting greens, these courses are becoming important
recreational facilities in many communities, in parks, on in-
dustrial sites, at summer resorts and under private owner-
ship. With interest growing yearly in this royal and ancient
game, but with new subdivisions and other developments
engulfing course after course, these shorter layouts deserve
close attention in future planning of community recreation
throughout the nation.

To illustrate acreages involved, the yardages of four short”

courses are listed below:

Little Saint Andrews — eighteen-hole floodlit course at
Shrewsbury, Massachusetts, on three and one-half acres.

 

 

 

Hole # Yardage Hole # Yardage
1 30 10 40
2 25 11 30
3 25 12 20
4 ‘ 20 13 20
5 40 14 35
6 20 15 35
7 60 16 40
8 20 17 45
9 30 18 45

270 In 310
Out 270
Total 580

The Midway — nine-hole
floodlit course at Groton,
Massachusetts, on two and
one-half acres.

Short Course—nine-hole
course, for day-play only,
in South Lee, Massachu-
setts, on thirteen acres.

 

 

Hole # Yardage Hole # Yardage
1 34 1 70
2 38 2 160
3 46 3 140
4 17 4 80
5 20 5 100
6 50 6 180
7 30 7 35
8 42 8 125
9 30 9 1 10
‘ |
Total 307 E Total 1000
3 72

Geoffrey S. Cornish

Short Course—eighteen-hole, floodlit course {now under
construction on seven acres in East Paterson, New Jersey.

 

 

 

Hole # Yardage Hole # Yardage
1 50 10 45
2 75 1 1 50
3 45 12 80
4 60 13 70
5 45 , 14 40
6 40 15 50
7 60 16 40
8 50 17 60
9 60 18 50

485 In 485
Out 485
Total 970

It will be noted that the equipment required to play the
three floodlighted courses consists of a number nine iron
and a putter. The huge crowds playing these courses show
that these short holes are not without interest. On the con-
trary each hole requires skillful chipping and putting to se-
cure the par of three, and surprisingly few players achieve
par for the entire course. Although no wood shots have
been incorporated in these layouts, it is possible to include
one or two on non-floodlighted short courses, when the addi-
tional acreage is available. It is doubtful, however, if the
higher lighting costs would be justifiable on floodlighted
courses.

Depending upon available acreage, it has been proven
that iron courses of supreme interest can be designed with
holes averaging anywhere from thirty yards to over one
hundred yards. For example, Walter M. Keith, writing in
Colfdom in July 1953, describes a short nine-hole course
near the center of Taunton in England with holes varying
from one hundred to one hundred and ninety yards. He

MR. CORNISII, whose hobby of designing golf courses de-
veloped into his occupation in 1952, has recently designed
a number of short golf courses on limited areas. He is the
author of Your Guide to a Greener Lawn (Massachusetts
Horticulture Society) and several recent articles in news-
papers and trade magazines.

RECREATION

l

states that even without wood shots many pleasant hours
can be spent on the course, with the skill in iron play offered
as a test. Likewise, “Tracydale,” an eighteen-hole par fifty-
four floodlighted short course in Erie, Pennsylvania, has
holes from fifty to one hundred and ten yards. Herman E.
Lee rcports in Colfdom, September 1952, that of a quarter
of a million people who have played “Tracydale” only two
have shot as low as fifty.

A short course designed correctly will continue to attract
.he same players season after season. Varying lengths of
"roles within the circuit, orientation and utilization of dif-
ferent levels are all important in design. Interest can be
iurther increased and greater skill called for by addition of
lazards including shallow sand traps, ponds, low shrubs and
gentle grassy humps and hollows. Because excellent putting
:onditions are as important in short golf as in the longer
game, the greens should be comparatively large and well-
naintained, and for further interest some should be raised
ibove the general fairway level and others should be gently
'olling, requiring greater putting skill.

Major items of cost in building a short course include

l7o‘
$26.29*- .  

H/llSGROI/E
601 FM/VD

SHORT 9 HOLE
Fl OODLI 7' COL F COURSE
HILL SGROVE, RJ.

 
 
  
 
 
  
    

(a  6y -'
a. GEOFFREY  WRNISN

é, MHz-Rs; HA :3.

 

 

i— L

Aerial photograph of two-and-a-half-aere, nine-hole golf
eourse, designed by author Cornish, at Sea View Village.

 

greens and fairway construction, water system, fencing,
cabin, parking lot, playing and maintenance equipment.
Floodlighting, too, is a big cost item on courses open for
night play. Experience has shown, however, that a return
on this form of investment can soon be realized and a short
golf course can be a money-maker to finance less lucrative
features within a community recreation program. Maint-
enance costs are but a fraction of those on standard layouts.

It is of particular interest to observe how quickly begin-
ners take to the game. lndeed, short courses can become
the “sand lot” for golf because playing on a crowded full-
length nine- or eighteen-hole course without previous in-
struction and no one to help can be embarrassing and
bewildering to many people. On the other hand, shorter
distances give the beginner confidence. He need not feel
that he is holding up experienced players unduly, and with
an instructor ranging the limited area to help those in dif-
ficulties, the beginner’s interest in golf is soon aroused. Clubs
and balls are provided at most short courses. This is an-
other factor in the p0pularity of short golf with beginners. .

With people of all ages and all degrees of golfing ability
interested in short golf, we can expect the development of
many of these attractive landscape features throughout the
nation within the next few years. Probably every community
has several excellent locations.

 

ADMINISTRATION

Boys” Clubs of America Junior Book Awards »

The five winners of the 1954 Junior
iook Awards announced by Boys’ Clubs
)f America are: . . . And Now Miguel
)y Joseph Krumgold (Crowell); Fast
rron by Victor Mays (Houghton, Mif-
lin); Fast Is Not a Ladybug by Mir-
am Schlein (Scott); The Golden Geo-
graphy by Elsa Jane Werner with pic-
ures by Cornelius DeWitt (Simon 8:
Schuster); and Mr. Revere and I by
iobert Lawson (Little, Brown).

lUNE 1954

Runners-up are: All Alone by Claire
Huchet Bishop (Viking) ; Corporal
Bess by Walter D. Edmonds (Dodd,
Mead) ; and The School Train by Helen

Acker ( Abelard) .

Grosset 8r Dunlap, publishers, re-
ceived a special award for their “Signa-
ture Books,” a series of life stories of
famous men and women for readers
eight through twelve years’ old. These
books have continued to be unusually

popular for the second year with boy
readers in Boys’ Clubs all over the coun-
try. The recommendations included all
titles and boy readers ranged in age
from seven to fourteen and fifteen.
Selection was made by an Adult
Awards Committee which chose the
winners from the eight books recom-
mended for awards by members of
Boys’ Clubs throughout the United
States.

373

BETTER SERVICE RECORDS

THE PUBLICATION of a manual on the recording of serv-
ices of public recreation departments is an event of inter-
est to all who are concerned with public recreation services.
Recreation agencies have always kept some form of attend-
ance records at their centers and have used attendance
figures to justify their requests for appropriations or con-
tributed funds. Too often, however, recreation authorities
have given little attention to the type of service records that
are of the most value, the methods of keeping such records
and the uses to which they may be put. The wide variation
in the services rendered by recreation agencies and in the
facilities they operate has tended to discourage any attempt
to suggest a standardized record system.

As recreation areas, facilities and programs have ex-
panded and as costs'have risen, the need for accurate at-
tendance data has become increasingly apparent. This was
pointed out by George B. Caskey, secretary-superintendent
of the Winnetka, Illinois, Park District in a paper on “The
Use and Abuse of Records” as follows: “Probably the most
important records of any agency, dealing with people as we
do in the park and recreational field, are the attendance rec-
ords. These records are to a park and recreation department
what a sales record is to a business or corporation.” The
new manual, prepared by a national committee, proposes a
method of record keeping that can be widely adopted and
that affords some basis for comparison between recreation
agencies.

The desirability of keeping uniform records of certain
types of service rendered by public recreation departments
was brought to the attention of the recreation field in 1949
by the Community Chests and Councils of America, Incor-
porated. For many years this organization had been collect-
ing records of group work and related services rendered by
local voluntary agencies, and reported on forms developed
by its Social Statistics Project. At its suggestion a Commit-
tee on Statistics for Public Recreation was established, most
of whose thirty-six members were appointed jointly by the
American Recreation Society and the National Recreation

 

MR. JAMES S. STEVENS, SR., served as chairman of the Com-
mittee on Statistics for Public Recreation which prepared
the report on which this article is based.

374

James S. Stevens, Sr.

Association. Because of my interest in the project and my
conviction that it would serve a useful purpose, I agreed to
accept the chairmanship of the committee, which included in
its membership a number of outstanding recreation leaders.

The importance of keeping accurate service records and
the values to be derived from the reporting of public recrea—
tion services were given early consideration. Among the:
aspects of the recreation department’s work for which record
keeping is essential, agreement was reached on the following:

1. Planning: The recreation department cannot plan its own
services effectively or cooperate intelligently in planning
with other community recreation agencies unless it has a
good statistical report system. Effective coordinated plan-
ning requires a knowledge of the services provided and of
the people served.

2. Finance: The public recreation department is account-
able to the governing anthorities and the public for thq
authorized and sound expenditure of the funds allocated tol
its use. It can meet this responsibility only if it keeps both
financial and service records based on a sound reporting
system. Accurate reports afford most useful evidence in
support of budget requests.

3. Interpretation: The recreation department must have a
knowledge of the extent to which its areas, facilities and
services are used by the public in order that it may interpretl
the value of its services and the public’s response to them.
Participation and attendance records properly interpreted
have great publicity value.

4. Administration: Statistical record keeping is necessary
for the proper administration of the public recreation de-
partment. It is also valuable as a tool in the supervision of
professional staff and any analysis of program strengths
and weaknesses.

5. Standards: Progress in the development of valid na-
tional standards for recreation programs and services can he
achieved only if standardized reporting of local services
affords the data necessary for the formulation of such
standards.

The kinds of records that should be kept by most recrea-l
tion departments and the forms that would facilitate the
keeping of these records were studied thoroughly by the

RECREATIOh‘

ommittee. After considerable discussion an experimental
ionthly report form for a recreation department was de-
eloped and it was tried out in 1952 by a number of depart-
1ents. Experience in the use of this report form indicated
he desirability of certain changes and largely determined
he items that were included in the monthly form adopted
.y the committee. This form is not intended to cover all
ypes of service rcndered by public recreation dcpartments,
nut it includes items considered to he of primary impor-
ance and common to most departments. A set of instructions
or use in recording the data called for by the form was also
dopted by the committee. (The monthly form is repro-
uced herewith.)

Compilation of the department’s monthly report based
pon the monthly form necessarily involves the recording
If attendance and related data at the various indoor and
utdoor centers Operated by the department. Therefore, the
arms used at the various centers must include the items to
e reported on the monthly form. The committee recog-
izes that each recreation department keeps some form of
teekly or monthly report of attendance and service at each
If its centers, but the nature of these forms varies widely
rom city to city and many of them do not include items on
he monthly form. As an aid to recreation authorities in
abulating its records, the committee has drawn Up suggested

PUBLIC RECREATION SERVICES
{Monthly Report)

Department or agency
City- Month I9

Attendance

A—SCHEDULED PROGRAMS 5.3:“ m Spectators

l. Regularly scheduled activities 
a. Arts and crafts ............................... ... ..... ..

 

1:. Drama .................................................. .. -——
c. Games. athletics and sports . .................. .. 
d. Informal educatiun ................................. .. 
.. Music ..................................................... .. -__
f. Nature and outing ................................. .. 
3. Quiet games . .... ... .... ... ..... ... .................. .. 
h. Social activities and dancing  
i. Hobbies (no: previously reported! ......... .. 
3. Others: (tpecibi ..... ..........................  
1:. Total ..................................................... .... - -
2. Special events ( not rebel-Id at Iear! mentbbl 
a. Indoor .......m...".......................................
1:. Outdoor ................................................ .. __
c. Total ...................................................... ..

_—_
Art - ce

B—TOTAI. USE OF AREAS AND FACILITIES.
WHEN SUPERVISED {irrespective all other reports)

a. Boating areas ........................................................ ..

Spectators
It Visitors

b. Camps ........  ......  .....  ...........  

c. Games and sports areas (“dude monorail)..."

a. Golf courses ....................................................... .. _—

e. Picnic areas ............... ............................................. 

f. Playgrounds’ ...... ......... ...... .................................. .. 

3. Swimming areas ............................................... .. 

h. Theatres and band shells .... .... ... .......................... .. —

i. Winter sports areas ...... .... .................................. .. 

i. Other iipecib'i .................................................... .. 

 __

It. TOtal .............. ..... ................ ........................... .. 

4. Indoor facilities

a. Recreationqbuildings ........ ..m................-.............

b. School buildings .......................................-........... -—

c. om“ ftpecibl .................................................. .. -—

a. Total .........  ......................... -... ...................... .. —_
__

’Pieate indicate Sari: [or cafe-faring playground attendance 1! N R A {armada it no! and.

y'- aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa eua aaaaaaaaaaaa asaauanuumeaeum ssssss eu- aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa .-

R I n n n I I I I o n I I n I I I I I n o o o n o I I o I I I I I I I o a I o I I n I I I O I n I I I I O I n I O O O O O O n n I I I I I O n n O O O a l n l n O l a n l O O O O n l n n n I I I o o I I I I I I I I I I I I n O n O I I O n O I I n I I I O I n O O I I O O O I I O O n OOGOHMOO

(ovrrJ

lUNE 1954

 

 

weekly and monthly forins for local use at playgrounds, rec-
reation buildings and other centers. It h0pes that recreation
executives will review the forms in current use and, insofar
as practicable, modify them or incorporate in them any ad-
ditional items so that they will furnish the data needed on
the monthly form.

In the preparation of these forms an attempt was made to
minimize the amount of time and effort that workers at the
various centers would need to spend in supplying the infor-
mation. Suggestions are also made as to the procedure for
recording the data. The committee realizes that no stand-
ardized form will fully satisfy the needs of every depart-
ment and that local variations are often essential. In all
probability, changes in the monthly form will prove desir-
able in the light of experience in its use.

The twenty-one page report of the Committee on Statistics
for Public Recreation contains the monthly form with in-
structions for its use and the suggested sapplementary forms
and procedure. Entitled Manual on. Recording Services of
Public Recreation Departments, the report is available from
the National Recreation Association at fifty cents per copy.
I heartily recommend that all recreation executives study the
report and adopt the form insofar as it is practicable for
their use. Comments and suggestions as to desirable changes
will be welcomed by the committee and the association.

CCC. Inc.
Social Statistics Prniect
for- GR. 193 5

Number Attendne

5. Outside groups using department's facilities
(all uses whether reported under 3 or 4 nr not)

Number of Registrants

At end of Added or Total at
previous new this end of

month month month

C—REGISTRATION‘ (cumuidis'e.
noradrtpiicariag record}

6. Male
a. under ltl years ......... ... ...................................... ..
b. [8 years and oyer_ .......................... ...... ............ ..

7. Female
a. under [8 years ............................................ ......

b. 18 years and over ... ........ ... .............................. ..

D—ENROLLMENTS IN GROUPS OR
FOR SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

Number of
enrollments

H. a. Arts and crafts ..................................................................... .... ..... ..
bl  l O O O '0'”... C O O O O O O O O O I O ll. O O l O '0. I I 0 O O I I I I I l O O O O I I l l l I ll. O O O O O O U I... C C C O O O O O O I O O I O O O O O I O l O I O O .0.

c. Games. athletics and sports .......................  .................... ................
d.   "sen-a-anuuaoee'eeu-aasana"nauseous-"nuance

e. Music ......” ....................................................... ... ............................ ..
I. Nature and outing .......... ........ .................................................. ... ..... ..
it. Quiet games ..................................................................................... ..
h. Social atrivities and dancing ................ "......m ..... “...... .................... ...

i. Hobbies (Ila! prel'ilultib‘ reported} ................................... ... ............... ..

p

i. Others: {specify} .... ... ................................................................ 

'H trot [or (dealer year indicate mt December report the Segiaitiag regiurarioa late.
Do no: i1! is safer: a central rorrer or registration intent it utilldild.

Date...,................. ...... ...Reported and approved  

 

ADMINISTRATION

l
P E R s 0 N N E L

 

IN-SERVICE TRAINING FOR THE ONE-MAN DEPARTMENT

First let’s get together on what we
mean by “in-service training” and then
on what is meant by “the one-man de-
partment.”

“In-service training” is defined as
those planncd activities and experiences
which enable and equip the employee to
do a more effective job through acquir-
ing knowledge, understanding, skills,
and attitudes. ln-service training sup-
plements and adapts the pre-service
training of the individual to the job and
to the organization of which he is a
member.” *

Every department is more or less a
one-man department. The fundamentals
of any department of recreation, if it is
basically sound, are the same, with
healthy and understandable definitions
of recreation, parks, objectives, pur-
poses and functions. It has taken a long
time; and much more can and will be
done on the common c00perative un-
derstandings of our profession. Too
often one thinks of the one-man depart-
nient as being in charge of an inexperi-
enced, low-salaried individual who has
been either fortunate or unfortunate in
obtaining the job of starting a recrea-
tion program in a very small commu-
nity. From the other viewpoint, the so-
called one-man departments feel that
they are, themselves, so small, so unim-
portant to the profession that many
times they are hesitant in bringing their
problems to the attention of the “big
wigs.” Nothing could be further from
the truth than this attitude. One of the
important reasons why our profession
has not been upgraded more might be
our inability or unwillingness to place

* In-service Training for Parks and Recrea-
tion—Objectives and Resources, prepared
jointly by the National Recreation Association
and the American Institute of Park Execu-
tives.

MR. GROOMS is the superintendent of
the Parks and Recreation Commission
in Wellesley, Massachusetts.

376

ourselves in the other fellows’ shoes,
or our selfishness, if you please, in not
sharing with others our eXperiences, our
materials, our methods, our plans, our
activities. Do we not have a responsibil-
ity to all who are engaged in our pro-
fession?

Looking back over the years, I can
well remember visiting more experi-
enced members of our profession, eager
and willing to learn, anxious and puz-
zled almost to the point of frustration
over a local problem. Upon entering
their offices, 1 was pleased to see charts,
graphs, reports, mimeographed materi-
al, budget material, and seemingly a
thousand ways and means of doing
things. In many cases, what did I re-
ceive? What in-service training did I
get from these workers in my own pro-
fession? You’ve guessed it! Either be-
cause of fear, insecurity, politics, bluf-
fing, and/ or lack of education, I re-
ceived mere crumbs of recreation in-
formation. For these, however, I was
very grateful. I feel that in our field
many have had the same experience and,
as a result of this, have made and kept
a promise of having an “Open-door pol-
icy” toward all those in our profession
who come to them for in-servicc train-
ing. If we will not help othcrs, thcn
how can we eXpect others to help us?

And

why not start this training ourselves—

With in-service training—yes!

on the one-man ob?

There are various problems that come
to mind when one faces this in a one-
nian department. The foremost, in my
own case, is leadership, i.e., gathering
about me individuals who are talented
in the different activities that makc up
the community program. Thc director
of a one-man department has to spend
the bulk of his time soliciting volunteer
or part-time leadership and can spend
very little time conducting activities
himself. This fact must be faced by the

director at the beginning, for sooner or

James H. Grooms

later it will have to be faced when his
ability and strength have been taxed to
their utmost. If a community demands
that activities be conducted by one man,
the fundamental setup is headed for
failure. So, come to an understandingil
locally, interpret your needs to the peo-
ple with whom you work—start right. I
Where can your leadership come1
from? Look around you. Who, for in-l
stance, might be better equipped to lead
a discussion on safety or health than
some one of your health authorities,
nurses, doctors, or members of the fire
or police department? How about the
lady who for years has been admired
because of her beautiful crochetingj
knittihg, rug hooking, braiding and
quilting? How about Joe Brown wh
makes things out of wood as a hobby
and has equipped a shop in his cellar?
Does your police station have a pistol
range? We use ours for boys’ and girls”!
riflery classes. The hobby-shOp marl
who sells model airplanes sometim
makes a good hobby director. Hox
about “Dad,” who used to play pretty
good ball for the county team years
ago? From the public school can come
a wealth of leadership if the subject is
properly approached. Some of the above
are not and never will be leaders; but
by use of good common sense, the
“wheat can be separated from the

chaff.” l
o

Fortunate, indeed, is the director wh

throughout his career has been a search-
er, an eXperimenter, who has utilizedI
good recreation. Here in Wellesley we
have a collection of- mimeographed!
helps and hints which we have gathered
over a period of years, from our own
thoughts and from all parts of the coun-
try. This is really what we call our
“Recreation Bible.” We add and sub-
tract as new approaches and conclu-
sions are made and activities are born.
Are you in touch with sources of infor-

mation as to what is being done in other

RECREATION]

communities concerning recreation?
Have you subscribed to RECREATION?
If not, how can you afford not to? Many
of the ideas contained in our bible come
not only from such periodicals hut from
the trainees themselves, our leaders.
Many have come from the experiences
of the girls and boys or others partici-
pating in the programs. This bible is
compiled and given out to each person
taking our in-service training. Our part-

time personnel consists of both volun- -

teer and paid workers.

Our first in-service training period
comes the week preceding the opening
of our summer playgrounds. Every
worker—volunteer or paid, supervisor,
playground director, assistant, and so
on-——is required to take one week’s train-
ing, or approximately thirty hours,
without monetary reward, as a prere-
quisite for staff placement. This in itself
calls for careful planning so that, re-
gardless of the experience of the leader,
it will further his education in the rec-
reation field and what that implies. The
training is composed of both indoor and
outdoor work, organization, administra-
tion, orientation and policy. Neverthe-
less, its most important part is what we
call a program workshop. In other
words, it includes not only talking about
it but actually doing the activity, as well
as learning how to create an interest in
it. Leadership (influencership) and pro-
gram are stressed throughout the train-
ing period, for without these we would
be lost. Weekly in-service training peri-
ods stress up-to-the-minute problems
throughout the summer, fall, winter and
spring programs.

When one has a full pocket from
which to draw funds, it is often a very
simple matter to obtain the leaders one
desires and needs for community rec-
reation. On the other hand, one-man
departments usually have very lean
pockets, if any pockets at all, or they
wouldn’t be one-man departments. But
look around you—~we have found, and
you will find, some departments with
plenty to spend whose programs have
failed, primarily because the needs of
the community and the participants
were forgotten. Monies are important,
but wise dircction and leadership are
more important.

Full value will be obtained only when
you have applied what is good based on

JUNE 1954

the needs, desires and resources in your
own community. The following helps
and hints in review may make this road
a little easier.

1. Get together with other community
leaders and develop some organization.

2. Find out what your community
needs and what its economic and legal
ability is to meet those needs.

3. Prepare to dramatize the benefits of
good recreation.

4. Interpret the findings and recom-
mendations to the whole community.

5. Write to the National Recreation As-
sociation. Explain your needs and ask
for assistance.

6. Write to federal and state depart-
ments that are interested in recreation.

7. Invite recreation leaders from neigh-
boring communities to come, to discuss
and participate in the program.

8. Be a constant collector of printed
materials on the subject. Study these
with an eye to your own situation.

9. Enlist pe0ple who will give you
sound advice, true facts, and legal meth-
ods. They must he enthusiastic, never-
say-die workers who are willing and
able to do a good job of publicity.

10. Orient all concerned with facts
about (a) organization and background
of the department, (b) facilities, and
(0) activities.

11. Take and show movies (in color)
and/or 35mm slides to any and all
groups at every opportunity. Let them
see what is happening.

12. Set an example. Be a living dynamo,
a real spark plug for the recreation ma-
chine.

However, let me leave this thought
with you. If you are spending more
than approximately forty hours per
week on your job, shouldn’t you ex-
amine it carefully to find out why?

RECENT APPOINTMENTS

Elmer A. Anderson, recreation spe-
cialist,Washington State Parks and Rec-
reation Commission; Clare .l. Clapsad-
dle, Jr., assistant director of recreation
and adult education, Whitefish Bay
Schools, Milwaukee, Wis.; Sanford E.
Gregg, assistant superintendent of rec-
reation, Rutland, Vt.; Bill Luther, city
athletic director, Danville, Va.

Bill Mann, superintendent of rccrea-
tion, Milledgeville, Ga.; Roy W. Mann,
superintendent of recreation, Cuyahoga
Falls, Ohio; Edward W. Martin, Jr.,
superintendent of recreation, Borger,
Tex.; Alvin Mason, assistant superin-
tendent of recreation, Concord, N. H.;
Cirdler M. M atlack, recreation director,
A.R.O., lnc., Tullahoma, Tenn.

Claude E. Parr, .lr., director of parks
and recreation, Orange, Tex.; Albert
Phillips, superintendent of recreation,
Neosho, Mo.; V ernel Smith, recreation
director in Recreation Department,
Oakland, Calif.; Harry G. Stoll, di-
rector, Youth Center, Phillipsburg,
N. J .; Ann Truman, recreation worker,
Department of Recreation, Green Bay,
Wisconsin.

“PLAY SAFE"—BE SURE IT'S A

FlElll SWING SEAT

marked “FLEXI”

$3.95

(Factory)

         
 

CHAMPION RECREAIION EQUIPMENI. INC.

Playground 8. Gymnasium Consultants

P. O. 474 Highland Park, III.

USE TOP SPINNING IN YOUR
PROGRAM

Write for Free Booklet

A Top Spinning Contest makes an
ideal youth activity for Boys’ Clubs.
Veterans’ Organizations. Fraternal
Orders. Industrial Firms, Schools.
Outing Clubs. Churches. Newspapers.
Playgrounds. Civic Groups, Business
Clubs and others. Mail coupon for
Free Booklet published by the menu-'-
facturer of Gropper Official Wood
Spinning Tops.

I The Jerome Gropper Co.

I H E. 22nd St, New York If). N. Y.

I Please send FREE copy of "Organizing l
I A Top Spinning Contest.” I
I NAME ......................................................... .. I

I ORGANIZATION ........................................ .. :
| ADDRESS ..................................................... ..

 

***

AMERICAN

 

EXTRA HEAVY DUTY

PARK, PICNIC
E Q ll I PM E N 'I"

Unsurpassed in design
strength and durability

 

American Extra Heavy Duty Picnic Table
8 feet long, occommodates I2 persons.

  
   
     
 
    
   

AMERICAN
APPROVED

HeGVy Duty
Streamlined
Pork Bench
for lifetime
performance.

World’s Finest
PICNIC GRILL

Massively built for
extra heavy duty . . .
cast of heovy stove
Iran, with strong
cost steel support.
6-way draft cantrol
ond other features
not found in any
other outdoor grill.

 

AMERICN

 

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD'S lAIOISf MANUFACTURERS OI "NI
PAIR, PICNIC. PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOI. AND DIISSINO IOOM IODIPMINY

\ _~ ,_ ./
378

 

Hats Off Department

0 James E. Rogers, NRA’s widely-
known former staff member, returned to
New York City in April to visit his many
friends and to receive numerous honors:
the honor 'citation from the US. Volley-
ball Association [see page 354]; the
famous Anderson Award for 1954 in
recognition of his long years of service,
presented at the general session of the
national conference of the American
Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation; the Creative
Award for 1954, presented at the an-
nual banquet of the American Academy
of Physical Education; and a certificate-
scroll in recognition of his work as a
pioneer in the profession, presented by
the Society of State Directors of Health,
Physical Education and Recreation.

0 Dr. Sherwood Gates, chief of the Of-
fice of Community Services of the US.
Air Force, received the Meritorious
Achievement Award—the second high-
est civilian award granted by the Air
Force—at a recent ceremony in the 0f-
fice of Major General John H. McCor-
mick, director of military personnel,
Department of the Air Force.

0 Shreveport, Louisiana, is building a
$100,000 fieldhouse at Princess Park,
which will also be the headquarters for
the recreation department. Superinten-
dent C. Stallcup states it will house three
basketball courts, ‘ locker rooms with
showers, offices and meeting rooms.

6 In Cincinnati, Ohio, two new com-
munity buildings have been built on
playgrounds adjacent to pools, the Cor-
ryville building at a cost of $85,078 and
the Mount Washington Playground

Building at $77,965.

0 Fourteen California towns establish-
ed recreation service during the year
ending June 30, 1953. The towns are
Azusa, Chino, Gilroy, Lindsay, Madera,
Monterey Park, Ohrange, Glendora, Ar-
den-Carmichael, Decoto, Montebello,
Rodeo, and the southwest district of

Norwalk and Lakewood.

6 According to the Michigan Munici-
pal Review, March, 1954, construction
of twenty-five new outdoor swimming

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

pools, each within walking distance of
every home in the neighborhood, will be

n Dearborn’s number one recreation proj-

ect for 1954.

6 All of the various-sized picnic tables
in South Gate Park, South Gate, Cali-
fornia, are now being painted bright
colors. Garbage and refuse cans are
also being painted. It is anticipated
that, as the various buildings need to be
repainted, they will also be decked out
in bright greens, reds, yellows and
browns. South Gate Park is a unique
and beautiful small-town park.

0 Akron, Ohio, again has a municipal
recreation program! The city council,
on April 1, passed a budget which in-
cluded $75,000 for the operation of a

municipal recreation department.

In December, 1952, the municipal
recreation department was disbanded
and the promotion of recreational ac-
tivities became a part of the responsi-
bilities of the superintendent of park
properties. During the summer of 1952
six playgrounds were operated with
trained leadership paid for by neigh-
borhood groups interested in providing
recreational opportunities for their
community. During the winter months,
three teen-age centers were also in Oper-
ation under trained leadership, again
financed by neighborhood groups.

Walter Lipps, for ten years the di-
rector of men’s and boys’ activities in
the recreation department and last year
the superintendent of park properties,
has been appointed as superintendent of
recreation for the newly created de-
partment.

Many organizations expressed an in-
terest in recreation and have worked
actively to encourage the return of the
municipal program. The group spear-
heading this movement was the Rec'rea-
ti011 Committee of the Group Work and
Recreation Division of the United Com-
munity Council. Under the leadership
of the chairman, William Palmer, this
committee, which consisted of repre-
sentatives of the various civic organi-
zations, urged the city administration
to make recreation a part of the regular
budget of the city. The committee will
continue to function as a citizen’s advis-

ory group.

RECREATION

Good Ideas
9 Members of the Golden-Age Club in

Revere, Massachusetts, receive a mem-
bership card. By showing it, they can
get into two local theatres, the old-tim-
crs’ night or the dance hall, the drive-
in theatre, the weekly wrestling show,
the weekly boxing bouts, the golf driv-
ing range—and the local bus—for half
price!

0 The greens fees on four days a week
at the golf course under the supervision
of the Union County (New Jersey) Park
Commission have been reduced to sev-
enty-five cents for persons sixty-live and
older, effective May l—the only restric-
tions being that play be confined to
Mondays,Tuesdays,Thursdays and Fri-
days and that these older citizens tee off
in the mornings before eleven-thirty.

O The stories of volunteer assistance,
coming from Millinocket, Maine, are
fabulous. The most recent is the con-
struction of their future swimming pool.
The Great Northern Paper Company
has drawn the plans and will furnish all
material. The cost to the company will
be $15,000 for the 120 x 85 concrete
pool. The chlorination and filtration
plant will be donated by an individual.
The community has a promise of one
thousand man-hours of volunteer labor
to help in its construction.

 

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

Complete line of playground,
home, playschaal play devices.

BURKE e
EXCLUSIVES Write for

’l’ HOBBY‘HORSE special literature cat-
* GLIDER I . rt bu k
* cumming o ag, price IS , a -
ROUND let “Planning Yaur
PlaygraundHar speci-

ficalians.

   

mas

THE .l. E. BURKE

Announcing

CHILDREN IN FOCUS

Their Health and Activity

 

A NEW BOOK

on Health Education, Physical

Education and Recreation

in the

ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

For—The Classroom Teacher
The Specialist

The Administrator

Unique in its field
Mcets a real need in education

Points the way to tomorrow

T954 Yearbook Cloth $3.50

'Order now

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEAlTH,
PHYSICAl EDUCATION AND RECREATION

lZOl—léth Street NW

 

'Whatever the craft

you are teaching: woodworking, model
building, leather, metal, plastics, ceramics

x-ucto knives,
tools 8. sets

designed by craftsmen and precision-made
for fine craftsmanship

will help you
do a better iob

by helping your students get better results
and mare creative satisfaction.

Send for T6 page booklet “Helpful
Hints" on use of modeling tools—FREE.

Complete X-acta 28 page catalog—20¢I

dept. R-6.

@X'GOTOQ: Inc.

48-41 Van Dam Street
.Long Island City 1, N. Y.

   
 
   

‘ W FOLDING BANQUET TABLES

 

 
  
  
 
 

if you are on the board of your school or '
church, or on the house or purchasing mm- |
mittee of ypur club or lodge, you will be inter-
ested 111 this modern, Foidin Pedestal Banquet
Tahle. Write for catalog v special discounts.

 

Yesl And allied crafts, as weltl One
of the largest selections of leather-
craft supplies, kits, praiects, accessories in the cauntryt
A leather headquarters since 1.910, with a Wealth of
experience in meeting the needs of schools, clubs, mu-

nicipal craft groups. Complete supplies and kits for
felt, metal, waadenware, beadwark, etc.

SEND FOR FREE CATALOGI

Write today for your capyl 52
fascinating pages packed with
useful ideas, praiects, informa-
tion. Thousands of itemsl
Reasonable pricesl

 

I SAX BROTHERS, INC. :
I Hit N. 3rd St., Dept. R-6, Milwaukee, Wis. I
I RUSH ME YOUR FREE All CRAFTS CATALOG! I

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT (0' I Name ............................................................... .. |
Factorle at Washin tan 6 D. C. l

POND Du me. w'scomm 9 r I Address ............................................  ............. .. I

sax 986, new enunswrcx, N. .l. I City .......................................... ..State ............. .. l

LJUNE 1954 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 379

 

 

MARK-A-ZONE line marker simpli-
fies the laying out and striping of game
courts and other areas. This marker has
five wheels for easier guiding on either
straight lines or curves. It is available
in four-and-a-half- or six-quart capacity
and spreads a line of paint two inches
or wider. Manufactured by S. B. Beug-
ler, 3665 Tracy Street, Los Angeles 39.

Home Movie Title Kit

 

The Preview Title Lettering Kit
makes it easy to have attractive titles in
color or black and white for home mov-
ies and slides. The kit includes an easel,
on which titles are mounted, and more
than four hundred re-usable plastic let-
ters and numbers which adhere to any
smooth, glossy surface without the use

of adhesives. Photo Materials Com-
pany, 334. North Bell Avenue, Chicago.

Model Home Kit

A new model-home construction kit
makes it easy for anyone to build an
actual replica, on a scale of one quarter-
inch to a foot, of any home and sur-
rounding landscaping from architect or
stock plans. The kit includes scale fur-
niture plans as well as building and

landscaping materials. Cleveland Crafts
Company, 4705 Euclid Avenue, Cleve-

land 3.
380

Barbecue Spit

 

Roto Spit, a new product designed
for multi-purpose indoor or outdoor bar-
becuing, holds eight frankfurters, or a
small roast or chicken, or a like quan-
tity of any other barbecue foods. It has
a unique releasable mechanism for use
with frankfurters, and so on, which
turns each skewer separately as the
whole unit revolves over the fire. The
spit is available with a motor for auto-
matic operation or without the motor
for hand Operation. Wade Manufactur—
ing Corporation, 3011 Newport Boule~
vard, Newport Beach, California.

Photo Flash Gun

 

Photography enthusiasts will likely
welcome the Preston BC Roto Flash, a
new flash gun which holds five bulbs in
a revolving, interchangeable magazine,
and makes possible the shooting of five
pictures without reloading. It fits all
cameras with pre-synchronized shutters
and has an adjustable reflector for dif-
ferent-size bulbs. An Adaptor Unit with
a special reduction sleeve to fit either
screw-type or bayonet-type vertical
socket Hash guns is also available. In-
contra, Dept. DN, 1220 South Maple

Avenue, Los Angeles 5.

Sports Equipment Catalogs
0 Voit 1954 catalog of rubber and rub-

ber-covered athletic equipment is a
thirty-two-page booklet which illus-

When writing to these manufacturers please mention RECREATION.

trates and describes approximately one
hundred items. Available free: Adver-
tising Department, W. J. Voit Rubber

Corporation, 1600 East 25th Street, Los
Angeles.

a Two Hillerich and Bradsby 1954 full-

color catalogs describe in detail each
item in the Louisville Slugger Bat and
the Louisville Grand Slam (golf club)
lines. Free from Dept. R, Hillerich
and Bradsby Company, Louisville, Ken-
tucky.

0 Rawlings Advance Football and Bas-
ketball Catalog for 1954-1955 includes
their new lines of football shoes, hel-
mets, and shoulder pads. Available free
from Rawlings dealers or Sales Promo-
tion Department, Rawlings Sporting
Goods Company, 2307 Lucas Avenue,
St. Louis 3, Missouri.

Tackle Kit

 

The new Sportsmaster Tackle Kit is
a compact and convenient miniature
tackle box which attaches to the fisher
man’s belt. Fly and Spin fisherme
should be interested in this handsom
sturdy case which can be Opened an
closed with one hand. Ehrler Product
Inc., 332 East Valencia, Burbank, Cali

fornia.

  
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
   

Crayon Bulletin Board

 

A new low-cost crayon bulletin boa
of unlimited usage has been announc
by Ken-Ross Products Company. T
surface of this green-tinted sight-ea
board, which measures eighteen
twenty-four inches, is specially pr
pared for writing with colored wax
grease drawing or marking crayo
which can be easily erased; bulleti
and so on, can be attached with tllum
tacks, staples, or pressure sensitive tap
Manufacturer’s address is Fidelit

Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

RECREATI

Date
June 7—August 28
July 3—September 2
July 5—17
July 13- -August 1
August 1—14
July 25—31 }
August 1—8
July 31—August 7
August 8—18

August 13—28

August 14- —21
August 15—27

August 16—429

August l9-—24

August 29—September 4-
Septemher 3—6
September 9—19 "
September 19—25

RECREATION LEADERSHIP TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES

Location

Penland School of Handicrafts, Penland, North
Carolina

Perry-Mansfield Camp and School of the Theatre and
Dance, Steamboat Springs, Colorado

Huckleberry Mountain Workshop Camp, Henderson-
ville. North Carolina

Folk Dance Camp, College of the Pacific, Stockton,
California

Green Lake Recreation Leaders’ Laboratory. American
Baptist Assembly Grounds, Green Lake, Wisconsin

Wisconsin Recreation Leaders’ Laboratory, Chippewa
Falls, Wisconsin

Workshop in Maintenance of Park and Recreation
Facilities, Bradford Woods Camping, Outdoor Edu-
cation and Recreation Area, Indiana-

Religious Drama Workshop, Green Lake, Wisconsin

The Third Western Training Laboratory in Group
Development, Idyllwild, California

Eastern Cooperative Recreation School, State Teachers
College, East Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania.

Leadership Conference on Christian Recreation,Ridge-
crest Baptist Assembly, Ridgecrest, North Carolina

Third Annual Down East Recreation Laboratory,
Stockton Springs, Maine

New England Recreation Leaders’ Laboratory, Sharon,
Vermont

Eastern Cooperative Recreation School, Hudson Guild
Farm, Netcong, New Jersey

Great Lakes Rccreation Leaders’ Laboratory, Twin
Lakes 4-H Club Camp, Travcrse City, Michigan

For Further Information

Miss Lucy C. Morgan, Director, Penland School of Handi-
crafts, Penland, North Carolina
Miss Portia Mansfield, 15 West 67th Street, New York, New

York. After June lst: Steamboat Springs, Colorado

Miss Evelyn G. Haynes, Director, Huckleberry Mountain
Workshop Camp, Inc., Hendersonville, North Carolina

Mr. Lawton D. Harris, California Folk Dance Camp, College
of the Pacific, Stockton, California
Mr. Eher Bowles, PO. Box 1056, Huntington 13, Wisconsin

Mr. Bruce L. Carter, Room 314-, Agriculture Hall, College of
Agriculture, University of Wisconsin, Madison,Wisconsin

Dr. Garrett G. Eppley, Department of Recreation, Indiana
University, Bloomington, Indiana

Miss Helen Spaulding, National Council of Churches, 79
East Adams, Chicago, lllinois

Laboratory Administrator, Department of Conferences and
Special Activitics, University Extension, University of
California. Los Angeles 24-, California

Mr. Irving Elson, 1569 Ocean Avenue, Brooklyn 30, New
York -

Mr. Willard K. Weeks, Ridgecrest Baptist Assembly, Ridge-
crest, North Carolina

Mrs. Fred B. Crawford, Gentle Memorial Building, Main
Street, Houlton, Maine

Mr. Lawrence V. Loy, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, Massachusetts

Mr. Woodie Corfman, Young Cooperator Service, Dairy-
men’s League, 100 Park Avenue, New York 17, New York

Mr. Arden M. Peterson, 4H Club Department, Michigan
State College, East Lansing, Michigan

All those who wish to have their workshops, institutes, and conferences included should send the information to NRA Personnel Serv-
ice by the dates indicated: January, February and March programs will be listed in December—information should reach us by October 15.
April, May and June will be listed in March—deadline for information is January 15. July, August and September will be listed in June—
rleadline for information is April 15. October, November and December will be listed in September—deadline for information is July 15.

for the Gym!
Physical Training Apparatus

MEDAR'I'

Telescopic Gym Seats

MEDAR'I'

Basketball Scoreboards
And Backstops

MEDAR'I'

Steel lockers 8. lockerobes

O

/

I

rate--

120 PAGES. .. Complete
Craft Supplies, Tools, De-
signs, Instruction Books
from America’s Most Com-
plete Stock. Includes
Leather Craft, Glove Mak-
ing. lamp Shades, Metal *
Tooling, Cork Craft, Latest

MEDAR'I'

' Wm7aceatala94

3566 DoKaII: St. 0 St. look It, Mo.

1

.
'UNE 1954

 

W. J. Volt Rubber Corp.
1600 East 25th Street
los Angeles 11, Calif.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

CRAFT

     
 

Textile Paints, Shell Craft, Basketry, Glass
Etching, Rama, Rubber Molds, Fascinating
New Picture Craft and Many Others.

Send For Your FREE Copy NOW. . .

GRIFFIN CRAFT SUPPLIES

5626-1! Telegraph Ave. 0 Oakland 9, Calif. I

The Only Not

GUARANTEED
for 3 YEARS I

outdoors or Indoors 0

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

Sand for Free Catalog

 

 

REMINDER... »

America?! gineét
Gilt/cloth (Squipment

IS BUILT BY

®
roe CATALOG WRITE: 99—) W

New York 10, Chicago 10, Los Angeles 1 1

381

 

Leading Educators Agree . . .

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES
MAGAZINE

is a valuable asset to every school.

“Every issue is full of good ideas.”—GERAI;D M. VAN
POOL, National Education Association. '

“SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Magazine should be in the library
of every high school in the country.”—E. A. THOMAS,

Commissioner, Kansas State High School Activities
Association.

And Here’s Why . . .°

In monthly issues during the school year, SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Magazine tells
you the all-important “how-to-do-it” of successful school programs. Outstanding contribu-

tors give suggestions for planning activities, and articles from schools over the entire
United States tell you how THEIR school handled a particular event. In your school

library, it will be invaluable to student leaders and faculty sponsors.

 

The contents cover activity programs, school assemblies, class plays, clubs, athletics,
student publications, student government, debate, financing activities, homerooms, pep

o I o I 0
clubs, muSIc, commencement, partles and banquets, and other mlscellaneous extracurric-
ular activities.

SUBSCRIBE NOW!

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Publishing Company
1041 New Hampshire

Lawrence, Kansas

Please enter my subscription to SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Magazine.
One Year at $3.50 I] Two Years at $6.25 I]

Name
Street

City________.___________________State___

382 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATloi

  

Books Received

  

ARCIIERY HANDBOOK, Edmund H.

' Burke. Arco Publishing Company,

480 Lexington Avenue, New York 17.
Pp. 142. $2.00.

BADMINTON, Noel Radford. Pitman Pub-
lishing Corporation, 2 West- 45th
Street, New York 36. Pp. 148. $2.95.

BASEBALL: FROM BACK YARD To BIG
LEAGUE, George Toparcer. Sterling

Publishing Company, Inc., 215 East
37th Street, New York 16. Pp. 160.

$2.50.

GOLDEN BOOKS: AMERICAN HISTORY
STAMPS, Jean Cushman. Pp. 48. $.50.
GOLDEN ANIMAL ABC, TIIE, Garth
Williams. Unpaged. $1.00. INDIAN
STAMPS, Sonia Bleeker. Pp. 48. 3.50.
INSECT STAMPS, Howard Curran. Pp.
48. 8.50. WONDERS OF THE WORLD
STAMPS, Hubert Bernhard. Pp. 48.
$.50. Simon and Schuster, Inc., Rock-
efeller Center, 630 Fifth Avenue, New
York 20, New York.

GROUP WORK IN THE INSTITUTION— A
MODERN CHALLENGE, Gisela Konop-
ka. A Whiteside Book distributed
by William Morrow 8r Company, 425
Fourth Avenue, New York, New
York. Pp. 304. 34.50.

How To USE PORTABLE POWER TOOLS,
Maurice H. Reid. Thomas Y. Crow-

ell Company, 432 Fourth Avenue,
New York 16. Pp. 210. $2.95.

INGVILD’S DIARY, Ingvild Schartum-
Hansen. Lothrop, Lee 8: Shepard,

Company, Inc., 419 Fourth Avenue,
New York 16. Pp. 144. $2.50.

LITTLE LEAGUE CHAMPIONS, Joseph 01-

gin. E. P. Dutton 8r Company, Inc.,

300 Fourth Avenue, New York 10.
Pp. 189. $2.50.

.VIAJOR SPORTS TECHNIQUES: “Base-‘

ball,” Ethan Allen; “Football,” Jim
Moore; “Basketball,” Forrest Ander-
son; “Track and Field,” Don Can-

ham. A. S. Barnes and Company, 232

Madison Avenue, New York 16. Pp.
470. $5.00.

101 BEST STUNTS AND NOVELTY GAMES,

Peggy and Robert Masters. Sterling
Publishing Company, 215 East 37th
Street, New York 16. Pp. 127. $2.00.

SIIORT CUT TO PIIOTOGRAPIIY, Godfrey
Frankel. Sterling Publishing Com-
pany, 215 East 37th Street, New York
16. Pp. 128. $2.50.

SOCIAL SERVICE AND TIIE STANDARDS OF
LIVING. The South-East Asia Re-

gional Office, International Confer-
ence of Social Work, Bombay, India.
Pp. 357. $3.00 to members of the

[UNE 1954

Conference; $4.00 to non-members.
(Order from the United States Com-
mittee of the International Confer-
ence, 345 East 46th Street, New York

17.)

STERLING GUIDE TO SUMMER JOBS, il-
lustrated by Doug Anderson. Sterling
Publishing Company, 215 East 37th
Street, New York 16. Pp. 128. $2.50.

Pamphlets

BASEBALL RULES AND DECISIONS BOOK,
Martin Rothan. Baseball Decisions
Company, Box 517, Lexington, Ken-

tucky. Pp. 59. $1.00.

CAMP REFERENCE AND BUYING GUIDE
—1954 (Camping Magazine). Gallo-
way Publishing Company, 705 Park
Avenue, Plainfield, New Jersey. Pp.
138. $2.00.

FIRST ON THE AGENDA. Advisory Com-
mittee On Citizen Participation of
Community Chests & Councils of
{America and the National Social Wel-
fare Assembly. Pp. 30. $.50.

How To PLAN AND BUILD A FAMILY-
CLUB SWIMMING POOL. Family Cir-
cle, Dept. AG, Box 1379, Grand
Central Station, New York 17. Single

cOpies $1.00 each; five of more $.75
each; ten or more $.50 each.

ILLINOIS LIBRARY ASSOCIATION—CON-
FERENCE MANUAL, Marguerite Giez-
entanner, Ruth W. Gregory, Gertrude
Gscheidle, Eleanor Plain. Gregg-
Moore Company, 322 West Washing-

ton Street, Chicago 6, Illinois. Pp.
231. $1.25.

IT’S FUN To GIVE A PAGEANT, Clara J.
Anderson. Educational Publishers,
Inc., 122 North Seventh Street, St.
Louis 1, Missouri. Pp. 16. $1.00.

NATIONAL CAMP DIRECTORS GUIDE
(1954 Edition). Publisher, Alden
Getz, 480 Lexington Avenue, New
York 17. Published annually; sub-
scription rates $1.00 year; $2.00 for
three years.

PLEXIGLAS—CRAPTSMAN’S HANDBOOK.
Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 432
Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Pp.
33. $1.50.

“QUOTES” FOR YOUTH LEADERS, collect-

ed by Ben Solomon. Youth Service,
Inc.,, Putnam Valley, New York. Un-

paged. $1.00.

RAINY DAY ACTIVITIES, Gladys Cox

Lewis. California Education Press,

612 South Figueroa Street, Los An-
geles 17, California. Pp. 47. Single
copies $1.25; 25 to 99 c0pies $1.00
each; 100 or more copies $.80 each.

SINGLE STROKE DRAFTING LETTERING,
A. K. Rigast. The Bruce Publishing
Company, 400 North Broadway, Mil-
waukee 1, Wisconsin. Pp. 96. 3.64.

SO, YOU’VE BEEN ELECTED PUBLICITY
CIIAIRMAN. Occidental Life Insurance
Company of California, 1151 South

Broadway, Los Angeles 15, Califor-
nia. Pp. 21. Free.

Magazines

CAMPING MAGAZINE, March 1954
Your Camp Rillery Program, George
Frenault.
Method of Teaching Sailing, Irv Si-
mone.

How Camps ' Spend Their Money
(III), Elizabeth R. Frank and Nor-

man P. Miller.

PARK MAINTENANCE, March 1954
Three P’s Mean Recreation.
Landscaping—Foreign and Friendly,

Jennie A. Russ.

PARKS AND RECREATION, March 1954
Park Concessions, Maxine T. Gray.
Rules and Regulations for Protecting

Parks (Racine, Wisconsin).
Outdoor Education in Chicago.
Maintenance Mart.

Baseball and Softball Annuals

The 1954 editions of the popular

Hillerich and Bradsby Famous Slugger
Year Book and Oflcial Softball Rules

may now be obtained free of cost from
sporting goods dealers throughout the
country. These two annual books, as
usual, are well illustrated and packed
with items of interest.

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

American Association for Health. Physical

Education and Recreation ____________ __379
American Playground Device Company.___378
Berman Chemical Company.__._ __________ ___322
Burke. J. E.. Company..._-.._.:_--_.___.__________.379
Champion Recreation Equipment. lnc.______._3'l'l
Griffin Craft Supplies _..._..__-.....--_.._......__381
Gropper Company. The Jerome--.” .- .-_._.._3Tl
Hillerich 8. Bradsby _..._...___.-___  ,_.____321
layfro Athletic Supply Company__.-._.-,_....._381
Medart. Fred. Products. Incorporated. .--_.381
Monroe. Company. The__.-__________________._-,3'l9
Porter Sargent '.._,.---..._..__..._-..______-_______.._322
Sax Brothers. lnc. a. .... . .. ... .--..__-_._._379

School Activities Publishing Company-._...__382
Voit Rubber Company--.__._.._._z......-._._._381
Wells All-Steel Products Corporation- -..__322

X-acto. lnc. _--_..__-.__.._ .._....__._._..379

 

383

 

Program Planning for Bus Trips

Bernard Warach and Rowena Shoe-
maker. Published jointly by Jewish As-
sociation for Neighborhood Centers,
1391 Lexington Avenue, New York 28,
and Play Schools Association, 119 West
57th Street, New York 19. Pp. 32. $.60.

This booklet fills a real need for a

guide to safety and play activities in
transporting groups of children by bus.
Information on selecting a bus com-
pany, organizing the bus service, rules
of conduct, motion sickness, fatigue
and accident prevention is practical and
concise. Suggestions on types of recre-
ation programs suitable for bus trips,
and specific games, music, song and
storytelling suggestions are included,
along with clever ideas for special pro-
grams. A carefully selected and anno-
tated bibliography of resource materials
adds to its value. The illustrations are
clever and the anonymous artist de-
serves credit.

How Children Play
For Fun and Learning

Jean Schick Grossman and Eda J. Le-
Shan. Science Research Associates, lnc.,
57 West Grand Avenue, Chicago 10.
Pp. 48. $.40. ii

Mrs. Schick of the Play Schools As-
sociation and Mrs. LeShan, clinical and
child psychologist, are well-equipped to
prepare this excellent booklet which
would be very helpful in leadership
training. Written in an informal style,
the booklet covers the values of play,
characteristics of play in terms of chil-
dren’s ages, problems of TV, comics,
and the ill child, as well as family and
community responsibility.

An excellent, annotated reading list
and the clever illustrations of Winnie
Fitch are additional reasons for order-
ing this booklet. °

Building the Board

Harleigh B. Trecker. National Publi-
eity Council for Health and Welfare
Services, 257 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. Pp. 109. $2.00.

384

Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

Funday Book (4-7 ) 1.00
Secret Club Book (8-14) .25
Secret Code Book (8-14) .25
How to Plan a Successful

Children’s Party (6-14) .25

Order from your bookseller, or The Sea-
horse Press, Pelham, New York.

Guide to Standards for Resident
Camps for Crippled Children

National Society for Crippled Chil-
dren and Adults, 11 South La Salle
Street, Chicago 3, Illinois. Pp. 32. $1.50.

The organization, clarity and general
“tone” of these standards can serve as
a model for any statement on standards.
The standards have been prepared by
Mrs. Eveline E. Jacobs, program ana-
lyst and consultant in camping, in co-
operation with the counselors of The
National Society for Crippled Children
and Adults. They have been reviewed
and endorsed by leading experts and
organizations, including the American
Red Cross, American Camping Asso-
ciation and American Academy of Pedi-
atrics.

The standards cover in detail the

This very readable little volume is a
practical guide in developing well-func-
tioning citizens’ boards for organiza-
tions in the general field of community
service.

Clearly and concisely the book dis-
cusses: (1) important criteria for de-
termining the qualifications of a good
board member; (2) sources of poten-
tial members in the community; (3)
the important steps in their selection
and training for the particular agency
task; and (4) board and staff respon-
sibilities in terms of a leadership team.

The seetiens Of the manual dealing seven factors of camp planning: physi‘
 the areas in  new board mem- ea] plant and equipment; admissior
bers HCCd training and the content 0f  and procedures; health and
the orientation program CODtain many sanitation; safety; administration; pro
valuable suggestions. gram; and personnel.

The closing chapter is a challenging Three appendices give additional he];
Plea for a ieng'ienge Program 0i bliiid' on such topics as: cooperating agencies
ing better boardsa and it outlines ten national, state and local authorities ant
SpCClBC tasks as vital steps in the reali- resources; and legal and insuraneq
zation of the over-all goal. problems.

Because the subject matter presented A great need is met beautifully b
in this bOOk is based on the experience this publication. Any individual or Oi
Of a great many agencies, both Plibiie ganization planning on conductin;
and Private, board members and staff camping for crippled children, whethe
Persons alike Wiii iind its contents use' for recreation, therapeutics, or both
Mir—Charles E- Reed, Director: Field should study these standards carefully
Department, NRA- It is an outstanding contribution to th

Fun B oaks professional field. Agencies and deparl

_ _ ments with camping programs for non
Now that vacatlons and travel t1me :handicapped children will find very e,

are fit hands weiti like to call Your fit' cellent ideas for improving the effici
tentlon once agaln to the good ser1es ency, appearance, health and safety 0

of Seahorse Fun Books for boys. and their camps. Highly recommended
girls. One or two have been publlshed

each year since 1948. These are handy,
paper-backed books that can be carried
on trains, planes, and in the car, and
are filled with imaginative things for
children to do. The most recent, pub-

lished in 1953, is The Toy Fun Book.
Price $1.00. Additional titles:

Family Camping

The George T. Wilsons. The l:
Laacke Company, 1025 West Walnu
Milwaukee 5, Wisconsin. Pp. 46. $.35

How nice it is to see material writte
by someone in a public recreation (in

Ages Price partment (Milwaukee) and based upo
Play-A-Bed Book #1 (7-13),$1.00 practicing what he preaches! He an
Play-A-Bed Book # 2 (7-13) 1.00 his family have lived this booklet—an
Play-A-Bed Book #3 (7-13) 1.00 its enthusiasm, as well as its detaile
Pencil Fun Book (8-14) 1.00 information, will make other familit
Travel Fun Book (all) 1.00 go trekking in the family car. It’s i1
Bible Play Book (7-13) 1.00 formal, amusing—and good! If yc
Hobby Fun Book (8-14) 1.00 haven’t planned your vacation yet, rea
Catholic Bible Play Book (7-13) 1.00 this booklet before you do.

RECREATIC

Recreation Leadership Courses

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Playground Leadership

RUTH G. EHLERS
Playground Leadership

ANNE LIVINGSTON

Playground Leadership
and
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Playground Leadership

GRACE WALKER

Creative Recreation
and
Playground Leadership

FRANK A. STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

 

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

June, July and September, 1954

St. Cloud, Minnesota
June 1-4

Austin, Minnesota
June 8-11

I"Duluth, Minnesota

June 14 and 15

Dubuquc, Iowa
June 17 and 18

Elizabeth, New Jersey
June 28-July 1
Pittsfield, Massachusetts
June 14-17

Elmira, New York
June 1-4

Altoona, Pennsylvania
June 10-12

Long Island, New York
June 14-17

Syracuse, New York
June 21-24

Sea Cliff, New York
June 28 and 29

Shepherdstown, West Virginia

July 26-29

Missouri Recreation Workshop

May 29-June 4

Aiken, South Carolina
June 7-10

Sheboygan, Wisconsin
June 15-18

Flint, Michigan
June 21-24

Bergen County, New Jersey

June 28-July 1

Providence, Rhode Island
July 12-15

New York, New York
June 3

Youngstown, Ohio
June 17 and 18

Westchester County, New York

June 23-25

Missouri Recreation Workshop

May 29-June 4
Niagara Falls, New York
June 8-17

Poughkeepsie, New York
June 21 and 22

Fairlee, Vermont
June 23

New England Recreation
Leaders Laboratory
September 4 and 5

West Point, Georgia
September 13-23

Loren Tllorson, Director of Recreation, City Hall

llarry Strong, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation
Miss Myrtle Larson, Director of Recreation, Public Schools
Nicholas J. Sutton, Director of Recreation

Miss Charlotte Hamill, Bayway Community Center

Vincent J. llebcrt, Department of Parks and Recreation, 52 School

Allie P. Quatrano, Assistant Recreation Director

David M. Langkammer, Superintendent of Recreation, Lexington
Avenue and Tenth Street

Morton K. Tllau, Secretary-Treasurer, Long Island Recreation As-
sociation, Baldwin High School, Baldwin

Miss Nicoletta Urciuoli, Recreation Director, 215 E. Water Street
F. R. Furlong, Supervising Principal, Central School District #1
Joe C. Humphrey, Deau, Shepherd College

Robert L. Black, Community Recreation Assistant, Missouri Division
of Resources and Development, Jefferson Building, Jefferson City

William R. Sl1eehan, Director, National Catholic Community Serv-
ice, 1922 Park Avenue

Howard Rich, Superintendent of Recreation

Miss Lina W. Tyler, Director of Recreation, 3300 North Saginaw
Street

Richard Rodda, Superintendent of Recreation, Teaneck
John Cronin, Superintendent of Recreation

Miss Eugenie d’Arsi, Recreation Services for Older People, Federa-
tion of Protestant Welfare Agencies, lne., 207 Fourth Avenue

0. S. Ellis, Director-Treasurer, The Youngstown Playground Asso-
ciation, 2218 Ohio Avenue

Miss Vivian 0. Wills, Assistant Superintendent, Westcllester County
Recreation Commission, County Office Building, White Plains

Rohert L. Black, Community Recreation Assistant, Missouri Division
of Resources and Development, Jefferson Building, Jefferson City

Myron N. Hendrick, Director of Recreation, Department of Recrea-
tion, Hyde Park ..

William G. Beal, Superintendent, Recreation Commission, 39 Mar-
ket Street

Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation, Montpelier

Lawrence V. Loy, Extension Service, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst

Robert A. Turner, Co-Ordinator, Department of Community Recre-
ation, West Point Manufacturing Company

* Sponsored cooperatively by School and Park Departments of Duluth and Recreation Departments of Superior, Wiscunsin and Cloquet, Minnesota.

Attendance at training courses conducted by the National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to
attend. For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, eommumcate With the

sponsor of the course as listed above.

 

RECREATION
315 Fourth Ave., New York 10, N. Y.

 

RETURN Posmcs GUARANTEED
Entered as second class matter

“men the dragon came...”

Nobody tells a story like Daddy. The
everyday world fades away as his words
lead you into a new and shining land.

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

And what if the Dragon is a bit scary?
You need only climb into Daddy’s arms
to be safe and secure again before
it’s time to sleep.

To make those we love safe and secure
is the very core of homeniaking. It is a
privilege known only in a country such
as ours, where men and women are
free to work for it.

And taking care of our own is also the
way we best take care of our country.
For the strength of America is simply the
strength of one secure home touching
that of another.

The U. 8. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in
sooneration with the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.

Saving for security is easy! Here’s a sav-
ings system that really works—the Payroll
Savings Plan for investing in United
States Savings Bonds.

This is all you do. Go to your company’s
pay oilice, choose the amount you want to
save—a couple of dollars a payday, or as
much as you wish. That money will be set
aside for you before you even draw your
pay. And automatically invested in United
States Series “E” Savings Bonds which
are turned over to you.

If you can save only $3.75 a week on thé'
Plan, in 9 years and 8 months you will have

‘ $2,137.30.

U.S. Series “E” Savings Bonds earn in-

terest at an average of 3% per year, com-
pounded semiannually, when held to

maturity! And they can go on earning in-
terest for as long as 19 years and 8 months
if you wish, giving you back 80% more than
you put in!

For your sake, and your family’s, too,
how about signing up today?

 

