‘21 ' 001‘s, 

' Q .
-'o mh‘ I" %

JUN " 7 1955

H.

F

o . h, . o o ' , . ~ .
‘ -' n 1. a: . ‘ -. ' - ' .
, x 1-, ‘ - r . .
O. ' a ‘ - . ‘I . _
. .4 - ' ‘ ' - -o .
. . q 9 - . ‘ ~ . . _
_ I . o u , . ‘ ' . . Q . _ _ .. _
* . x ' t ' _" - - -- f O ‘ , o ' ' .., o ,. I r .
.o' I‘ . ~ _ _ j} e; . o t i,
- ~ :. o o - 4 , ‘ ' . ' a .__‘

 

53 ESSENTIAL PUBLICATIONS

for Every Recreation Library

* In-Service Education for Eommunitg Center Leadership (225) . . . $ .85

Life, enthusiasm, skill, and understanding brought by recreation leaders to their daily work make
the community center a real asset to its neighborhood. Skilled use of every available means to improve
leadership is the responsibility of each recreation supervisor and executive. A good in-service educa-
tion program is essential. This book is a guide to such a program for all recreation leaders. It includes
material on philosophy and practice, procedures and methods, outlines of sample meetings, materials
and services for the program, and bibliography. Prepared by Donald B. Dyer and staff of the Depart-
ment of Municipal Recreation and Adult Education, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for the Committee on
In-Service Training of the National Advisory Committee on Recruitment, Training, and Placement of
Recreation Personnel.

1k Plagground Leaders—Their Selection and Training . . . . $ .85

A practical guide for everyone concerned with better playground programs. Why are playgrounds
so important? Where do we find good leaders? How do we select them? Exactly what should be
covered in pre-service training courses? How can we judge whether leaders are doing a good job?
Answers to these and other questions are found in this book. Included are sections on: playground lead-
ership—what to look for and where to look; preparing a pre-service training program for playground
leaders; content of a pre-service training program; in-service training for better service. Prepared by
Raymond T. Forsberg, superintendent ot recreation in Waterloo, Iowa, for the Committee on In-Service
Training of the National Advisory Committee on Recruitment, Training and Placement of Recreation

Personnel.

* Recreation as a Profession in the Southern Region . . . . $3.75

A report of the study by the National Recreation Association and the Southern Regional Education
Board. This l60-page book analyzes the full-time recreation leader and his employment in community
recreation departments, hospitals and correctional institutions, churches, camps, industry, voluntary
youth-serving agencies, professional education for the field, defense agencies, and state, regional and
national agencies giving special services in recreation. The volume reviews the present status as well as -
the history of recreation leadership in the region, and forecasts a growth which will require two and
one-half times as many full-time recreation leaders as now are employed. Every recreation leader will
be interested in the major findings concerning needs for recruitment and for undergraduate and gradu-
ate professional education.

* Outdoor Swimming Pools (P 228) . . . . . . . $ .75

This series of articles by George D. Butler (reprinted from the January, February, March, and April
1955 issues of RECREATION, covers considerations in pool planning, basic design features, and pool con-
struction factors. The advantages and disadvantages of various pool shapes are discussed in detail, and
the study also includes remarks on bathhouses, wading pools, construction, and operating costs and
income, as well as a selected bibliography. When these articles appeared in RECREATION they attracted
widespread attention and were highly praised; they will be useful to any recreation or park executive
who is considering the construction of a swimming pool.

* Surfacing Plagground Areas (MP 219) . . . . . . $ .35

The question of long-lasting, economical and safe materials for playground surfacing is of continu-
ing interest to those charged with the responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of play-
grounds. This manual (a supplement to a committee report) is an account of experiments in a number
of cities1 in developing playground surfacing. It includes a discussion of cork-asphalt and rubberized
materia 5.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York

.- i
J. t
'D

.4 .

"Ia

 

Bring your young /e tterm en along faster
— and safer— wit/7 balls “BUILT TO SIZE”

Use the right-size balls for the right-size boys. Watch young interest and performance im-
Young hands hold these Seamless Balls bet- prove with Seamless Basketballs and Foot-
ter, pass and shoot easier—with less chance balls built to size. Here are three outstanding
for sprains and nail injuries. balls to consider, today. See your Dealer.

       

SEAMLESS 587-5 Football SEAMLESS 580-] Basketball SEAMLESS 507-5 Football

Perfectly balanced Kolite- This is an exact junior Marvelous value in a rug— 
Covered Football. Features version of the Seamless 580, ged, "hard-performing ball.
specially-processed Nylon the famous “torture test” Cover built for hard-surface

Winding, Butyl Bladder, ball used in leading wear. With Butyl Bladder

Kantleek Valve. colleges. and Kantleek Valve.

 l .I  ‘ ATHLETIC~GOODNS DIVISION -  -' . _
THE SEAMIEES RUBBER [DMFAHV "

NEW HAVEN 3, CONN.

   

" -4- ----- mfs ' '  "  L “MW - “ ' emacwh-baww-MWWTbwmzw~m““WW~W:$“'W:‘WstE-"e‘rwerc‘r’r:““-“zmww&

 

 

 

JUNE 1955 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 249

250

r

 

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE

ON
RECREATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES

 

The National Recreation Association, realizing that the backbone of the recreation movement is the provision of
programs and activities that meet the needs and interests of all people, has established a National Advisory Committee
on Recreation Programs and Activities. Subcommittees on Drama, Arts and Crafts, and Dance have been formed, and
others are in the making. It is our hope that through these committees increased interest can be stimulated, new tech-
niques developed, standards raised, trained leadership developed, and new material prepared and dIstnbuted.

MISS DORoTHEA LENSCH—Chairman
Bureau of Parks and Public Recreation

Portland, Oregon

ARTS AND CRAFTS

RAYMOND FORSBERc—Chairman
Waterloo Recreation Commission
Waterloo, Iowa

A. COOPER BALLENTINE
Camp Kehonka
Wolfeboro, New Hampshire

KENNETH R. BENSON

New York University
New York, New York

MISS HELEN COOVER
Recreation Department
Kalamazoo, Michigan

ERNEST CSOLKOVITS

Playground and.Recreation Board
Peoria, Illinois

MRS. LOIS DELANO

Long Beach Recreation Department
Long Beach, Caliiornia

MISS KATHERINE DOUGLAS

Department of Recreation and Parks
Baltimore, Maryland

MRS. PERMELIA M. DUNN
Department of Recreation
New Orleans, Louisiana

MRs. MARY ALICE GARONER
Junior Museum
Portland, Oregon

D ALE 0033

Seattle Public Schools
Seattle, Washington

LESTER CRISWOLD
Park and Recreation Board
Colorado Springs, Colorado

JOHN MAIIAN
Board of Park Commissioners
Wichita, Kansas

MRS. CHESTER MARSH
Jefferson, North Carolina

MRS. XENIA B. NAIL
Camp Fire Girls
Spokane, Washington

MISS EUCENIA NOWLIN

Department of the Army
Washington, D. C.

MRS. LILLIAN ScnwznT-z
Park Department
Dallas, Texas

MISS VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN—Secretary

National Recreation Association
New York, New York

SUBCOMMITTEES

MISS SHIRLEY SILaERT

New York Society of Craftsmen
New York, New York

MRS. FRANCES WEHSCHKUL

Bureau of Parks and Public
Recreation

Portland, Oregon

DANCE

MIss RUTH EVANs—Chairman
Springjield College
Springfield, Massachusetts

MISS CLADYS ANOREWS
New York University
New York, New York

MISS MARJORIE CHURCH

Bureau of Parks and Public
Recreation

Portland, Oregon

MISS ANN SCHLEY DUCCAN
Texas State College for Women
Denton, Texas

ED DURLACHER
Square Dance Associates
Freeport, New York

MISS LOIS E. ELLFELDT
University of Southern California
Los Angeles, California

MISS JANE A. HARRIS

State College of Washington
Pullman, Washington

MISS HELEN HARTWIC
University City Public Schools
University City, Missouri

MISS ELIZABETH R. HAYES
University of Utah
Salt Lake City, Utah

E. S. HENDERSON
Spokane Public Schools
Spokane, Washington

MICIIAEL HERMAN
Flushing, New York

MRS. JANE FARWELL IIINRICHS
Spekandorf, Ogenbargen
Ostlriesland, Germany

ARTIIUR KA'IONA
Golden, Colorado

RICHARO KRAUS

Columbia University
New York, New York

MISS PEARL POWELL
Department of Parks
Seattle, Washington

MISS MARY JO SCHROEDER
Public Recreation Commission
Cincinnati, Ohio

TEo SHAWN
Becket, Massachusetts

MISS JEAN SMITH

Central Michigan College of
Education

Mount Pleasant, Michigan

MISS MALVINA TAIz
University of Pennsylvania
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

DRAMA

.
RanRT E. FREIoEL—Chairman
Municipal Recreation and Adult
Education
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

MISS JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK
Fairfax, Caliiornia

MISS RUTH ANN BODWELL
Community Children's Theatre
Park Forest, Illinois

MRS. JANE BROWN
County Playgrounds and Recreation
Louisville, Kentucky

MISS BETTE BUTTERWOIITH

Westchester Recreation Commission
White Plains, New York

BERNARD CAMPBELL
Recreation Department
Bangor, Maine

MRS. VIRGINIA CLARIc
Recreation Commission
Long Beach, Caliiornia

JOIIN CRAIN, JR. _
Granville Lee Recreation Center
Portland, Maine

WILLIAM DERWIN
Board of Park Commissioners
Waterbury, Connecticut

MRS. ALICE DIETZ
Board of Park Commissioners
Minneapolis, Minnesota

MISS MARY EVA DUTIIIE
Cornell University

Ithaca, New York

MISS JOYCE GARDINER
Department of Recreation
Santa Barbara, California

MISS AGNES HAACA
University of Washington
Seattle, Washington

MISS FRANCES HAIRE
Board of Recreation Commissioners
East Orange, New Jersey

MISS LILLY RUTH HANSON

Playground and Recreation Board
Oak Park, Illinois

EREN C. HENSON
Kentucky Pioneer Playhouse
Danville, Kentucky

MRS. EDNA KENNEDY

Bureau of Parks and Public
Recreation

Portland, Oregon

ALVIN G. KENNEY
Community Recreation Service
Boston, Massachusetts

JAY KOCAN
Department of Recreation
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

MRS. JANET R. MACLEAN
Indiana University
Bloomington, Indiana

MRS. DORIS PIERCE
Lincoln Recreation Board
Lincoln, Nebraska

GILBERT SANDERS
Division of Recreation
Kansas City, Missouri

MRS. CERTRUDE SANFORD
Ames, Iowa

EVERETT R. SCIIERICII
Jackson Recreation Department
Jackson, Michigan

MRS. MARY LOWE SMITH
Recreation Commission
Frederick, Maryland

MISS SARA SPENCER
Children's Theatre Press
Anchorage, Kentucky

MISS GRACE STANIsTREaT
Adelphi College
Garden City, New York

MRS. ANNE P. TOLIVItR
Asheville. North Carolina

RECREATION

 

JUNE 1955

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

V01. XLVllI Price 50 Cents ' No. 6

0n the Cover

White sails in the sunshine, making a clear mark
against the blue of sky and water, the green of trees
and bushes, will be a familiar scene in many camps
this summer. What better way. to spend a hot, lazy
day? Photo by courtesy of the Missouri Resources

Division.
Next lilontll

The September issue will have a special section
carrying articles about Denver and last minute in-
formation about the Congress. Further emphasis
will be placed 0n school-community cooperation for
over-all recreation service. Two interesting articles
on the subject of recreation education will be in
this issue: one by Dr. Charles Brightbill, professor
of recreation at the University of Illinois, and the
other by Harlan G. Metcalf, chairman of the Depart-
ment of Recreation Education, State Teachers Col-

lege, Cortland, New York.

Photo Credits

Page 252, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indi-
ana; 260-261, Barbara Silverstone, S'carsdale, New
York; 266, Missouri Resources Division; 268, Daily
Intelligencer Journal, Lancaster, Pennsylvania; 273-
274, Recreation Department, St. Petersburg, Flor-
ida; 275, U.S.D.A. Extension Service, photo by G. W.
Ackerman; 282, Department of Recreation and
Parks, Concord, New Hampshire; 284-285, Division
of Recreation, Cleveland, Ohio; 288, University of
Illinois.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a
serv1ce organization Supported by voluntary contribu-
tions, at 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New
York; 13 on die in public libraries and is indexed in
the Readers" Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year.
Canadian and foreign subscription rate $4.50. Re~
entered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the
Post Ofiice in New York, New York, under Act of
March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate
of postage provided for in Section 1 103, Act of October
5, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microlilms of cur-
rent lssues available University Microfilms, 313 N. First
Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 141 East
44th Street, New York 17, New York; Mark Minahan,
168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois; Keith
H. Evans, 3757 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles 5, and

593' Market Street, Suite 304, San Francisco 5,
California.

_ Copyright, 1955. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

“0..

Printed in the USA. so.
1%” 

JUNE 1955

THE MAGAZINE

 

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Camping—an American Adventure (Editorial)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Reynold E. Carlson 252
Recreation Leadership Training Opportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
Needs of Present Day Children—How Can Camps

Meet Them? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jean A. Thompson 258
Boys and Girls Together—Handicapped and

Able-bodied . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .John D. Herzog 260
Howdy Pardner (1955 National Recreation Congress) . . . . . . . 262
Creating An Art-Minded Community—at Oglebay

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . Edwin M. Steckel 264
Outdoor Recreation and An Adventure . . . . . . .Ernest Bu 1?, Jr. 266
New Camp in Colorado Springs . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lester Griswold 270
Arts and Crafts Are Terrific Success . . . . . . .Mary E. L. Sawyer 273
The Enchanted World of Out-of-Doors

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Dorothy Edwards Shuttlesworth 280
ADDIINISTRATION
“Walk-To” Pools Are Worth a Million

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William A. Silverman, Jr. 284

Feet On The Shower Room Floor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286

Naming the Recreation Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Family Camps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Research Reviews and Abstracts. . . . . . . . . . .George D. Butler 289

Baseball Practice Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mickey AlcConnell 290
PROGRADI
Evening Programs in Camp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gerald P. Burns 275
New Horizons in Camp Fires . . . . . . . . . . . . .Justt'ne IIIilgrom 277
Use An Autoharp on the Playground . . . . . . . . . . .Betty Burton 279
How About 3 Peanut Carnival? . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Sayward 281
Enameling on Copper—Earrings and Pins

(How To Do It) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Frank A. Staples 283

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268

How To Do It! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .See Program

News of Affiliated Societies . . . . . . . . . . . .r . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Hospital Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Beatrice H. Hill 291

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 292

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 293
Personnel—Exnanding the Recreation Profession '
in the South . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .W. C. Sutherland 294

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . 295

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 296

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 296

Recreation Leadership Training Courses . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

'251

Reynold E. Carlson

CAMPING-

an American Adventure

Throughout
early American
history, thought

 

and culture were
influenced by the

Reynold Carlson

existence of an ever-present wilderness
on the western frontier, beckoning those
who sought a new life and adventure in
a new world. Perhaps it is more than
mere coincidence that, as the frontier
filled in, the organized camping move-
ment took hold and began to flourish.
It may be that the camps met a need, in
the lives of children, which increased as
the wilderness dwindled. From a small
beginning less than ninety years ago the
camping movement grew, slowly at
first, but gaining momentum with the
twentieth century. Today, about four
million children attend twelve thousand
camps in our country each year.

The impact of the frontier is felt in
many realms of American life, but in no
other is it felt more directly than in the
Camping is an
American institution with no European
precedents. Through it our children
may relive in their imagination the stir-
ring drama of the western movement
and the conquering of the wilderness,
and may enter into the adventures of
the early explorers, the fur traders, the
Indians, the cowboys of the plains, and
the lumbermen of the north woods.

The enjoyment of the out-of-doors is
the birthright of every child. It is not

camping movement.

REYNOLD E. CARLSON is professor of
education at Indiana University, Bloom-
ington, Indiana.

252

M

J7—

/.  ’ . ,"16’ .l
4’!» 4" “LQQQZ'MJLHJJ'” " ~--

“1-... -1'-——"-—-un—n.-"- "-'—-—-_-—

Editorial

 

*--—-- 
R—

meet that all of childhood should be

spent on pavements, in the crowded cor-
ridors of schools, or amidst the sights
and sounds of modern mechanized
civilization. Something within us calls
for the open, for sunshine and rain,
for a chance to paddle a canoe, to swim,
to fish, and to enjoy the beauty of lake,
field, stream, or sunset. It is as though
something from out of man’s past calls
back his children to renew their ac-
quaintanceship with a world long left
behind in the ascent to the comforts and
conveniences of modern city living.
We Americans have a great heritage
——-a tradition of self-reliance, of initia-
tive that conquered the wilderness, of
democratic living, of respect for one
another, of tolerance, of divergent view-
points, of recognition of the rights of
both majorities and minorities, of
action to accomplish our ends through
democratic procedures. This is the heri-
tage which camp seeks to perpetuate.
We have, however, inherited not only
a way of thinking and doing. We have
also inherited a land. Where better than
in camp can children learn to love the
land and the life that dwells thereon?
Where better than at camp can they
learn the need for wise and proper use
of resources in order that those who
come later will have unspoiled areas in
which to live? Where better than at
camp can vital lessons for conservation
be learned, lessons on which the sur-
vival of our country may depend?
Camps today range from the high
mountains to the seashores, from the
Poconos of Pennsylvania to the Cas-

cades of Oregon. Camping has now be-
come a part of the program of almost
every educational, religious, and recre-
ational agency. Each camp has its own
unique flavor. Most of them try to re-
late their programs both to the needs
of children and to the lore and lure of
the land on which they are located.

It has been said that the organized
camp is “the wedding of recreation and
education.” It provides an almost ideal
learning situation and yet abounds with
joyful adventure. Camp is group living.
Real problems of food, shelter, personal
care, and program planning must be
solved. Campers learn through adven-
turous doing; they learn to swim by
swimming, to paddle a canoe by pad-
dling, to build fires by building fires.
They learn to live with others and to
solve problems on a group basis while,
at the same time, they consider indi-
vidual needs within the group. Their
close and informal relationships with
good counselors can influence them
deeply and can guide them toward
richer personalities and more abundant
living.

For a child, camping means friends,
activity, and adventure. From the wash-
ing of dishes on a cookout and the con-
struction of a check dam to the holding
of an outdoor vesper service on a Sun-
day evening, camp is filled with oppor-
tunities for learning, sharing, and en-
joying. Truly the camp experience can
be a highlight in growing up and can
serve to orient children to the physical
world, to their individual purposes, and
to group living. m

RECREATION

aUIswy/e

——_-

13m 31m

The same critical attention to
design and balance that has made
Louisville Slugger Bats famous for

performance since 1884 goes into

the manufacture of Louisville Grand
Slam Golf Clubs. Write for free
full-color catalogs. Address Dept. R.

HILLERICCH & ,BRADSBY. COMPANY

LOUISVILLE, Kim-uch - 5*

O

 

JUNE 1955 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 253

 

O
O
O

) AMERICA’S TWENTY-SIX MILLION CON-
TRIBUTORS to local community chests
and united campaigns are being asked
again this year to support the National
Recreation Association’s special serv-
ices for men in the armed forces.

For five years the National Recrea-
tion Association’s special defense serv-
ices have been a part Of the United De-
fense Fund which in turn was supported
by chests and united campaigns. This
year, local campaigns are being asked to
give directly to the National Recreation
Association.

}THE 8TH ANNUAL CONFERENCE ON
AGING, at the University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, will be held June 27-30
this year. It is a how-tO-dO-it confer-
ence, offering to experienced leaders
and newcomersralike the opportunity
to learn more about principles and tech-
niquesrfor developing many kinds of
programs and services for the aging.
For further information write to Divi-
sion of Gerontology, University of

Michigan, 1510 Rackham Building, Ann
Arbor.

) POTENTIAL RECREATION USE OF MAN-
MADE LAKES AND WATER RESERVOIRS is
highlighted in the seventh annual re-
port to the governor by the California
State Recreation Commission. The re-
port has been released in Sacramento to
recreation OH‘lCialS of state and local
government by Mrs. Rollin Brown of
Los Angeles, commission chairman and
board member of the National Recrea-
tion Association. The accomplishments
in recreation services by over 240 juris-
dictions, referred to for the 1953-54
fiscal year, provide a key to enrichment
of community living in California. A
limited number of copies of the report
are available upon request at the office
of State Director Of Recreation, 721
Capitol Avenue, Room 609, Sacramento.

} T 1113 SEPTEMBER, 1955 ISSUE OF REC-
REATION MAGAZINE will be the National
Recreation Congress Issue carrying a
Congress section which will include an
article on what to see and do in the city
of Denver—and on the way there; last
minute news about the big meeting; a
list of commercial exhibitors, and so on.

254

7W @im 54m: Km,

 

} ACCORDING TO FIGURES JUST RELEASED
by Great Smoky Mountains National

Park oHicials, in Asheville, North Caro-
lina, estimated travel in the park dur-

ing March 1955 totaled 84,122 persons.

}QUICK-THINKING RECREATION EXECU-
TIVES are ordering the 1955 community
recreation salary report for their board
and commission members as well as
for themselves. Copies, under the title,
Community Recreation Salaries, 1955,
are available from the National Recre-
ation Association for one dollar.

)READERS SENDING PHOTOGRAPHS TO
Us: please have prOper credit line on
each one. Also be sure to attach a line
or two of descriptive information about
the subject.

}A NEW ACTION PROGRAM this spring
has been announced by the American
Council to Improve Our Neighborhoods
—a non-profit, non-political organiza-
tion established to implement the con-
servation and improvement of existing
housing and the clearance of Slums. AC-
TION was formed by leading citizens
throughout the country representing
every segment of the population, and
its program was nationally launched
when President Eisenhower addressed
the inaugural meeting.

Two officers, David C. Slipher and
Martin Meyerson, head its field service
and research divisions. Mr. Meyerson
says, “The main key to the accomplish-
ment of the ACTION program lies in
effectively analyzing housing and com-
munity problems and evaluating suc-
cesses and failures of the conservation
and rebuilding programs throughout the
country. ACTION’S research division
will assemble materials on proved tech-
niques and methods required to main-
tain and improve living conditions in
American cities and towns. In addition
the division will develop a long-range
program to encourage needed studies in
neglected fields of research on housing
and city planning.” ACTION’s head-
quarters are 2 West 46th Street, New
York City.

) PLEASURE BOATING, according to the
New Y ork Times report of the January

Motor Boat Show in New York City,_kis
not only a Sport and recreation, but “an
attitude, a joy, a frame of mind.” It
goes on to say that last year, 20,000,000
Americans were owners, crews, or pas-
sengers on the country’s 5,250,000 pleas-
ure craft of all sizes—of which 4,500
are outboards.

The phenomenal rise of pleasure boat-
ing as a participant’s sport has resulted
in a new documentary film, The Big
Change, produced by Evinrude (393
Fourth Avenue, New York, New York).
It traces a six-year social and economic
evolution in the way Americans spend
their leisure time.

} A NEW 1955 EDITION of the state-wide
Directory of Social Service Resources
in Massachusetts has just come off the
press. Listing 3,400 tax-supported and
voluntary agencies covering all 351
towns and cities of the state, it not only
locates these agencies but describes their
program. It is published jointly by
Massachusetts Community Organization
Service and United Community Services
of Metropolitan Boston, and sells for
$2.50 per single copy or $2.00 per copy
on orders of five or more c0pies. Orders
should be sent and checks made out to
the United Community Services Direc-
tory, 14 Somerset Street, Boston 8,
Massachusetts.

bA PROGRESS REPORT of the Comics
Magazine Association of America is
presented in a “Comics Fact Kit,” just
published by the association (41 East
42nd Street, New York 17) in limited
quantity. Every effort will be made to
fill any requests for this. The kit has
been printed for groups or individuals
interested in the comic book industry’s
program for self-regulation.
Cleaned-up comics sporting the seal
of approval of the newly formed Comics
Code Authority are now on the news-

stands.

AII Appeal

In attempting to conduct a recrea-
tional activity in Germany for a commu-
nity of 1,200 American school children,
there are many problems. I have lately
been loaned a file (two years) of your
publication and was able to use much of
the material presented. Could you in-
terest your readers in coming to our as-
sistance via letter? The address is:

Frances X. Huey, Director, Nurnberg

American Youth Center, APO 696, New
York, New York.

Apologies

The name of Allen E. Risedorph, co-

author with Robert J. Templeton, of
“Parklets in Pittsburgh,” was mis-

spelled in the May 1955 issue of REC-
REATION. Sorry!

RECREATION

an.
n
o . ' ' I I I ' . _

-¢-.'
a u
. , ' . ' . I , I I ' - I n-

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11—30 that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.

Interracial Article I
Sirs:

In the November 1954 issue of REC-
REATION, an article, “Interracial Pool
Operation” by William H. Gremley, has
come to our attention. The clear and
thoughtful coverage of the processes in-
volved in opening a restricted swim-
ming program to all community mem-
bers is excellent; and a careful reading
of this article will be a great help to
many organizations facing situations
similar to the one mentioned. Would
it be possible to obtain reprints?

DOROTHY TAKECHI, Leadership Serv-
ices, YWCA, New York, New York.

Baseball for Boys
Sirs:

“Baseball for Boys,” RECREATION.
March 1955 has resulted in letters and
cards from twenty-seven sources repre-
senting sixteen different states.

VINCENT L. FOWLER, Director of
Recreation, Cortland, New York.

Creative Arts
Sirs:

Grace Stanistreet’s article, “The Case
for Creative Arts in Recreation,” in
your March 1955 issue, made me wish
that I might have heard the whole ad-
dress from which it was taken. It con-
cerns a vital aspect of recreation—one
that channels imagination and emotion
into constructive and satisfying uses.

Miss Stanistreet’s philoSOphy is
sound and her way of expressing it ex-
tremely good.

WINIFRED WARD, 1600 H inman

Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.

How Magazine is Used
Sirs:

I thought you might be interested in
knowing of the use we put RECREATION
magazine to here in Oceanside. In ad-
dition to my own personal subscription
to the magazine, our advisory commit-
tee on recreation subscribes to another
copy as well. When this copy arrives, I
screen it and make a series of notations
in the index alongside of interesting ar-

JUNE 1&955

—The Editors.

ticles and features. I then pass the
magazine on to a member of the advis-
ory committee. Each month the mem-
ber receiving the magazine is a differ-
ent one, appointed by the chairman.

At the next advisory committee meet-
ing, the member who has received the
magazine gives a detailed report on in-
teresting items, controversies, new ideas
and other pertinent data from the issue.
The results have been most heartening.
Not only do many of our members come
up with new ideas but they are con-
stantly making comparisons between
what we are doing here and elsewhere in
the nation. This use alone makes REC-
REATION magazine, in my estimation, an
invaluable tool.

JOSEPH E. CURTIS, Director of Rec-
reation, Oceanside, New York.
'3' * 'Ii' *
Sirs:

Our recreation department, which re-
ceives three copies of the RECREATION
magazine each month, has been putting
all copies to what we feel is the most
maximum use.

About six months back we made ar-
rangements with the city library and the
high school library to have our addi-
tional copies placed in their depart-
ments. Since that time the magazines
have been used extensively by students,
both for reading purposes and reference
material. The interest in recreation was
created to a point where panel discus-
sions on recreation were held by both
the junior and senior high students at
PTA meetings.

This proves to be a good public rela-
tions move, besides helping to inform
many more persons on the workings of
community recreation programs
throughout the country.

RED HALPERN, Director of Recrea-
tion, Coeur d’Alene, Idaho.

Outdoor Swimming Pools
Sirs:
I notice in the March issue of RECRE-
ATION the third part of the article by

George D. Butler on outdoor swimming
pools. From time to time we receive in-

 

 

AMERICAN
dammed

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPME NT

0 It’s the plus factor that makes
American the most respected name
in Playground Equipment . . . Plus
in design—American leads the field.
. . .Plus in performance—Approved
Equipment stronger, more ruggedly
built to assure a lifetime of perfect
repair-free service . . . Plus in safety-
for American craftsmen are aware of
their responsibility for the safety of
your'children. Thus, with American
you receive far superior design and
performance and unmatched safety._

Send for New Catalog

4):- write for literature featuring
ameritan approved iim patterson

LIFETIME Aluminum
DIVING BOARD

world’s finest official board

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK, PICNIC, PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 255

 

“PLAY SAFE"-—BE SURE IT’S A

EIEXI
SWING SEAT

marked "FLEXI"

     
 

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT. th.

Playground 8. Gymnasium Consultants
P. O. 474 Highland Park, Ill.

 

quiries from our various local chapters
pertaining to the design, methods of
maintenance, and the actual construc-
tion of swimming pools.

I would like to have, if possible, a
supply of all four parts of this article to
use in mailings whenever requests are
received. I think this is one of the finest
articles I have yet seen and, somehow,
I would like to make this available to the

Jayeees throughout the country who
write us for information on pools.
JERRY BRENNAN, Director, Sports

and Recreation, Jaycees, Tulsa, 0k-
lahoma.

'I' * * *
Sirs:
My congratulations upon the com-

mencement of the series on planning
and construction of swimming pools

(January 1955) . Out here in Australia,

the post-war growth of outdoor pools is
most marked. In this country, almost
the area of the United States of America,
but with a population of nine million,
we cannot count our new pools in the
thousands but in hundreds. Most pools
are being built by public authorities
and are partly subsidized by the govern-
ment in the interests of national health.
We have a mere handful of indoor heat-
ed pools, a factor militating against con-
tinuous training for competition, but
our climate is exceptionally kind to the
growth of outdoor pools.

In my part of the State of New South
Wales, the boom is in full progress.
This region, known as the New England-
North West, has twelve major towns.
Six of these towns are now building or
raising funds for town pools. The
twelve pools will serve a total of 70,000
rural dwellers, or one pool per 5,800
people. The area of the region is 41,000
square miles.

Most pools are being built to Olympic
standards. Indeed this is the only size
that the government will partly finance.
The State Education Department of
New South Wales has completed its
first two pools of school size (33
yards by 15 yards) and more are plan-
ned in stages. The cement spray-gun
method is now being used on school
pools, a new pool method out here.

Most pools have open~topped bath
houses (or dressing rooms) with lock-
ers and pegs, plus ablutions. New pools

are including special diving pools in
addition to the traditional wading and
swimming pools. One new Olympic
pool has just opened .at a cost of 220,-
000 dollars (U.S.A.) and is considered
the most modern in the state. Other
Olympic pools are being largely built
by skilled voluntary labour (week-ends)
for a cost of about 140,000 dollars (U.
S.A.). Admissions to public pools in-
cluding a locker average of about 10-15
cents (U.S.A.) for adults while school
children often are admitted for one cent.

G. W. WALKER, Regional Physical

Education 065cc, Public School

Building, New South Wales, Aus-

tralia.
' * * * *
Sirs:
We are very interested in securing
your “How To Plan an Outdoor Swim-
ming Pool.” We would like all three
articles on this topic by Mr. George D.
Butler, and we shall appreciate your
advising us how we may secure them.
JACK BOXLEY, Manager, Sewerage
and Water Works Commission of
H opkinsville, H opkinsville, K e n -
tucky.

o This series, “Outdoor Swimming Pools
——Their Planning and Construction,"
in four parts, has been reprinted and is
now available in collated form from
the NRA. Price seventy-five cents per
single copy, or write for quantity rates.

—Ed.

 

RECREATION LEADERSHIP TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES

Date Location For F urther Information

July 1-28 National Camp June Institute and Advanced Leader- Dr. L. B. Sharp, Outdoor Education Association, 369 Lex-
ship Training, National Camp, Matamoras, ington Avenue, New York 17, New York
Pennsylvania

August 8-13 Lloyd Shaw Square Dance and Round Dance Institute, Lloyd Shaw, 1527 Winfield Avenue, Colorado Springs,
Cheyenne Mountain School, Colorado Springs, Colorado
Colorado

June 15-August 15 Training Center for Outdoor Living, Derrybrook, South Catherine T. Hammett. Box 97, Pleasantville, New York

Londonderry, Vermont

Dr. Garrett G. Eppley, Department of Recreation, Univer-
sity of Indiana, Bloomington, Indiana

June 15-August11 Planning and Administration of Social Recreation;

Camp Administration; Outdoor Recreation; Semi-

nar on Conducting a Day Camp (four courses),
Bradford Woods, Martinsville, Indiana

Courses in Recreation, University of Colorado, Boul- Clifford Houston, Social Recreation, University of Colorado,

June 17-July 22 }

July 25-August 26 der, Colorado Boulder, Colorado

July 2-10 Geneva Folk and Country Dance School, George Wil- Hugh D. Allen, George Williams College, 5315 Drexcl Ave-
liams College Camp, Wisconsin nue, Chicago 15, Illinois

July 4-August 13 New York UniversityrGraduate Camp, Sloatsburg, Daun E. Keith, New York University Camp, Sloatsburg,
New York New York

July 17-23 Danebod Recreation Institute, Tyler, Minnesota Enok Mortensen, Tyler, Minnesota

July 25-August6 Church Recreation Conference and Folk Dance Camp, Lawton Harris, College of the Pacific, Stockton, California
College of the Pacific, Stockton, California

July 30-August6 Green Lake Recreation Leaders’ Laboratory, Green Eber Bowles, P. O. Box 1056, Huntington 13, West Virginia
Lake, Wisconsin

August 7-13 Wisconsin Recreation Leader’s Laboratory,Kamp Ken- Bruce L. Cartter, 314 Agriculture Hall, College of Agricul-
wood, Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin ture, Madison 6, Wisconsin

September 18-24 Great Lakes Recreation Leaders’ Laboratory, Twin Arden M. Peterson, Michigan State College, East Lansing,

Lakes 4-H Club Camp, Traverse City, Michigan Michigan

256 RECREATION

Editorially Speaking

 

Popular Appeal

Popular magazines are paying more
attention to community recreation and
to the enrichment of living through lei-
sure-time activities than ever before.
Watch for such articles. And have you
ever considered what you, yourself,
might be able to contribute to this wide
interpretation of our field to the gen-
eral public? Some few of the many
recent articles are:

Los Angeles Times Home Magazine,
April 3, 1955: “Can You Have a Pool?”
——A whole section devoted to building
and care of private pools.

Ladies Home Journal, April 1955:

“Recreation Center for a California
Town”—the development of a neigh—
hood park and community center by
volunteers, at no cost to the city.

Woman’s Day, May 1955—Two arti-
cles, one on the operation of Little
League as typified in the small town of

Wakefield, Rhode Island; the other on
a “Child’s Bill of Rights,” with explana-

tory anecdotes.

McCall’s. March 1955: “We Visit A
Boys’ Cooking School” ——~ a picture-
story of the city’s recreation depart-
ment cooking classes for boys in Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

Woman’s Home Companion, March
1955: “Everybody Here Cares About
Kids”—the first of a series against ju-
venile delinquency, tells how a city es-
tablished a community recreation pro-
gram to stop delinquency before the
latter got started.

For further listings, watch your NRA
A Jpiliate and Associate Membership

Newsletters.
* * * *

Examples of community volunteer or-
chestras in the Middle West, South and
Far West have been requested from
NRA by a national magazine for a pos-

sible feature story. Suggestions from‘

afliliate members will be welcome . . .
send to Public Information and Educa-

tion, NRA.

Teens Offer Views on Delinquency

Curbs

According to Newark (N. J News of
March 28, 1955, a symposium—spon-
sored by the Greater Newark Women’s
Division, American Jewish Congress—
in which high school students and
adults took part, brought forth some in-
teresting observations on causes of de-
linquency. The president of one high
school student council pointed up: ( 1)

JUNE 1955

the increased “temptations put before
youth by grown-ups. (“I personally
know of beer-j oints which welcome kids.
Then there are the dope pushers—I
have a friend who is serving time for a
$120-a-week drug habit. He was sev-
enteen when he was caught”) (2)
comic books and horror magazines;
and (3) “worst of all,” newspapers
which overplay small acts of delin-
quency to boost their sales, and do not
mention the hundreds of students “who
didn’t fight.”

Another student told of the formation
of a teen council to draw up a code of
ethics to replace the lawless gang codes,
and to discuss problems with grown-

ups so each group would understand
the other’s point of view. He said that
teen-agers don’t like to be handed any-
thing, that all the recreation facilities in
the world are useless if youngsters don’t
have the right attitude, that youth wants
to help plan its own activities and to
help combat “what are, after all, our
own problems.”

Student Reaction to Recreation
Curriculums

The following brief comments have
been gleaned, from reports of personal
visits to a number of colleges and uni-
versities conducting major recreation
curriculums, by representatives of the
NRA Personnel Service. They come
from students interviewed, from alumni,
and from conferences and special meet-
ings during the past year.

In general, the students feel that they
are getting good training; but they,
along with older workers, are giving
the matter serious thought. They say:

0 A wide variety of skill courses is not re-
quired; too much left to own choice.

0 Administrative courses are too general,
problems are not worked out in detail.

0 A greater variety of field experience is de‘
sirable. Paid field work may be better than
unpaid—employees are more interested than
are supervisors of voluntary field work. Also,
the paid job is both broader and more inten-
sive than field work on a voluntary basis.

0 Theory courses tend to overlap too much.

0 Would like to see more emphasis on the
individual.

0 Advanced courses are not
enough.

0 Required education courses for the most
part do not relate to recreation leadership.

0 Need more work in interpretation.

0 Too little work required in certain courses
—-not hard enough—mo stimulation.

0 Programming courses too general.

“advanced”

O No music course really applicable to rec-
reation.

0 Need improved courses, added courses in
recreation rather than related fields, and

courses where “you do things.”

0 Many directors of recreation curriculums
do not know students. The assistant professors
who are less qualified spend more time with
them and are doing most of the advising.

The college educators probably real-
ize the weaknesses of their own pro-
grams more than anyone else. The oper-
ating agencies and the recreation pro-
fession should be understanding and
ever ready to help these people who are
in many instances operating under ser-
ious handicaps. Our college recreation
educators are important members of
the recreation team and deserve help

from the field.
What more each can do individually
or collectively to help:

0 Recruit promising young pe0ple for the rec-
reation curriculum.

0 Advise with school authorities on ways and
means of strengthening the recreatlon cur-

riculum.

0 Provide more and better student field ex-
perience.

0 Promote scholarships and internships for
recreation students.

0 Establish more effective relationships be-
tween the colleges and operating agenc1es.

WHY RECREATION DEMAND WILL GROW FROM 1950 to 1975

   
     

o
O O O
O O O O O O O C

..........0.0.0.0 9

Population

:0:.:9:...:0:.:.
O O O O O

Goods and services

0 00......

C
C
O
C
C
O
C
O

O

O.
O.
O.
0.
0.0.
O.
O.

Income per capita

O

O

0‘0‘0‘9’0’0’o’o'o‘o’o’o'o'0’0'° .0 0°00 0.0.0.30
0000000000-000990090000000
e‘, e er“ 0 e .3¢¢§¢3§¢¢¢3§¢§¢¢¢¢¢§§§§ff§
0000000000000 0 0.0.9.9099.

§r0°0° I'D... 0'. 'O‘O'O-O-O- .'.'.'.'.;O'O~" 0... 0'0'01
O O

O O
L. 9.9.0.... 3.. .0.‘ .0 .9...0.......0.0.0.0.0 3.. .0 .0.

.0...........
g. 0.0.0....OOQO...

O
QOQOOOQQOQOQO
Av e to g e w o r kwe e k 

VO'Q‘O‘O‘O‘O'O‘O'O'O'O']

9'..." Q‘ 0‘." 0' 0' mm? 0' V." 0'0' 0'0' 0' O '9'.‘
00¢¢¢;§a¢§:¢¢¢avcav§¢¢¢~%.::
0

O O .
O
P ° d h o l | d a s :1"'1'14‘1‘1'1’1‘3’3’.‘1’1‘:‘:‘:°:‘:':°:':‘: 0
GI y 00‘0000 o000009900-0099900

;...0.0.9.x.0...9...0.0.9.;.0.:‘0.0.......0.0.......0.0.0.0... .
Q...O....9...’Ol.l....9909900.9.

00......O...O...0.00.00.00.0000000000090 ..
IOOQOQOOOO90......9......0.0.0.0...0000000000
.0.0.0.0...U...........0.0.0.0...0...0.0.0.....................0.0.0.0.0.......O...0.0.0
5.....OJ3.0.0.0.....0.........0...............I..3....333.033.....E...-........

Paid vacations

. - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I

. ‘0.0;¢‘.0;0.0‘.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0;0.0 0 0'0'0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.0. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.

OOOOOOOOOOOOO0.00.00 O

.0... .0.0.0.0.0.0‘C’.’O‘O’O’O‘O’O’O’O‘O O

.. O... 9.9.0.900990090099

- -0.0.o.0.0.9.0.0.0.0. . .0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0...0.0.0.0.0.o_ _ .0- _ - _ .0.0-0.o.0_0.0.0.o.0.0.03.0.03.0;
0

‘0'030'0‘0'0'0'0‘ ' ' ' '

9.0.0.0...

O O 9'
0.0.0.9.?

. . . . . . . 9.9.0.03333.039.051.3020:

O O O 9 9.0.9.0...

O

.0.......: .09009.......
0......
.0.......

0'0' WM‘M‘I'W'W'O’O‘O'O‘O‘O'O'
O O O O O

.
..:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:..... . . . 0
. . . . .
9.0.0.03.0.020.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0_0.0.o.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0_o.9.0!0.0.0.0:010520:02020305320202020!

Up 27%

0
009.000.
. ° .0.0§0°0°0.o.0 0°9.9.0.0:0:ozoz0tot0z0tozo
o o o 0:9:0:o°o°0°0°o°o°o’o‘o‘o’o’o’o’0’0’0’0’0‘

Up 100%

0.000.009...-

Up 40%
Up 32%
Down 15%

.I.09..09..9 .6

up so %

O ........O.....O.:...O

ro‘0'0'0'0'r0-0‘0g

50% longer

9

mop-01‘.- 0'0‘0‘0'0'0' 0‘0‘0'0‘ 0‘0‘ 0'0‘0'0' 0‘0‘o‘o' 0‘0'0‘0‘0‘0'0'0‘0'0'0'0' 0‘0'0‘0‘ ' '0'.0;0' 0'0‘0‘o'0‘h‘0'0'0‘0‘0‘0'0‘0‘0'0‘0‘0‘ 0'0‘0‘0'0' 0"

9..0.00QOOOQOQOQOQOOOQOOOQOOOO... O

O O O O O O
C.O.......................0.0.0.0.0.0...0.0.0.0...0.0.0.0.....0.0...0.0.0 .0 .
O O

O O
O
O O O ‘
A U l’ O m 0 b I le 0 w n e I' S $010101.2.1.1.}???'1'???3'9}:'2':'I°Z°Z°I':°.°1°Z°Z°1°1°1°: . 1°: I°1°Z'.°I°'.°1".°.-Z'I$933331°:'3'1'1°:°1-1°:°2'1'1°1'2°:3-
50 3.0.0 .0.0 .0.0 3.9.0.0153.0.0.0.9.9.0.0.0.0 .0.0.0 .0.0.0.0 .0.0.0.0.0 .0.0 .0.0.0 .0.0 3.0.0.... 3.03.0.9: 3.0.0.0.... 9.0 .0 3.03.0.0: .03 3.0....

O O
Q 0.90.. 0.0...’.........0...OOOOIQ
. O 0 O 0.... O O 0:0...0.....0.......O.I.0.0.......O.Q.0.0.0.0.0.0.Q.‘
0

Up 100%

Reprinted with permission from “Can We Predict Recreation’s Future?” by John Ken-
neth Decker, Journal of Health, Physical Education and Recreation, March 1955.

f

257

Needs 0 Present My Children—
HOW CAN CAMPS MEET THEM?

IN THE KIND of world we have asked
our children to face—ea world that is
crowded; a world where people are con-
fused about moral values, where chil-
dren are confused about adult behavior
which at times seems inconsistent; a
world where the institution of the fam-
ily is changing, where parents, some-
times unwittingly, hurt or retard' their
children’s personality development; a
world where untoward outside influ-
ences press upon the child with a weight
equal or more than equal to that of
family inHuences—what do today’s chil-
dren need? They need a better world
and, while waiting for that to come, they
need help in attaining the stamina and
the stability that comes with maturity,
real maturity of personality, if they are
to survive in this kind of world.

What is our responsibility as adults
to these children? We must try to make
a better world. We must get behind
movements and budget pleas for better
legislation and for more facilities for
helping children. We must do our own
job well. This means that we must know
more about children and we must see to
it that those who work under us, who
are closer perhaps to the children, know
about children’s needs and have help
in meeting them.

Has a camp program or camp experi-
ence anything to offer beyond a chance
to get away from the crowded city, good
nourishment for a few weeks, and vita-
mins from the sun’s rays? Obviously,

 

DR. THOMPSON, psychiatrist, has been
acting director of the Bureau of Child
Guidance, Board of Education, New
York City, since 1949, and has three
children 0/ her own who have gone
regularly to camp.

258

Jean A. Thompson

camping cannot fill all the needs that we
have described as being peculiar to the
children of today. Yet, if we remember
that, ideally, all the experiences of a
child’s life should help to advance him
along the road to maturity, we realize
that the camp has a big part to play in
this advancement. It provides experi-
ences of many types and in many areas
through which the child must pass on
the road to maturity.

Let us examine some of these areas.
There is, first of all, eXperience in rela-
tion to authority. There are adults
whose job it is to enforce necessary
rules. The manner in which this is done
has much to do with whether the camp
advances the child’s progress toward
maturity or retards it. One young coun-
selor was having trouble with a group
of thirteen-year-old girls. They were
trying the counselor out as young peo-
ple are apt to do. She sat down with
them and discussed the matter of rules.
She explained that there were not a
great many rules at camp but there were
reasons for the rules that did exist. She
then drew them out in discussion so that
the reasons for the rules were finally ex-
pressed by the girls themselves. From
then on, the rules had more meaning
for them.

It is in the area of learning to live
with other children and get along with
them that camp has perhaps the most to
oiier. The child at camp becomes aware
quickly of the attitudes of other children
toward him. It is, however, sometimcs
necessary to help him to an awareness
of his attitude toward other children.
Sometimes by trial and error he learns
what other children will take from him
and what they like best in him. He has
a chance to choose his friends quite in-

dependently. Unconsciously, he shapes
his personality to fit the needs of other
people. He has a chance to measure
himself and his strength and his skill
against others. He learns to give and
take in play. If he is old enough, he
takes over and makes a part of himself
the best that he sees in others, both
adults and children. With this kind of
identification, he adds to his ideal of
the adult he wants to be.

There is a possibility that at camp the
child may have more opportunity to
make decisions. He is away from his
family and it is rather expected that he
is on his own to some extent. His family
has trusted him to go away without
them. At the same time there is at camp
help and guidance in making decisions.
It is important, however, that camp
workers know their children well enough
and be astute enough to know when the
child wants a little guidance and when
he needs to make the decision himself.

The duties that a camp imposes play
their part in the child’s personality de-
velopment. As everyone knows, a child
makes ‘a real step toward maturity when
he achieves the self-discipline needed to
complete his regular chores. This kind
of self-discipline comes slowly, for, as
one young adolescent said, “I have so
much on my mind.” The adults must,
therefore, acquire the self-discipline of
patience.

In addition to the development of at-
titudes toward adults and toward other
children to which camp life contributes,
there is another area where the camp

Condensed and reprinted, with permission,
from a talk given at the Annual Conference of
the Camping Section of the Group Work and
Recreation Division of the Welfare and Health

Council of New York City, November 13-14,
1954-.

RECREATION

has opportunity to add a great deal to
the inner resources of the child. This
is the area of cultural values and spir-
itual values. There is a chance to help
the child toward an appreciation of
beauty, toward a feeling of awe at the
wonders of nature, and through this to a
kind of Spiritual experience, the kind
of feeling that made the psalmist ex-
claim, “The heavens declare the glory
of God; and the firmament showeth his
handiwork.”

Learning in all these areas goes on
at camp in an atmosphere comparatively
In. schools, the

teacher knows that the principal expects

free from pressure.

certain results. The principal knows
that the assistant superintendent ex-
pects certain results, and all know that
there will be city-wide tests of achieve-
ment which will be compared with the
results of tests throughout the country.
At camp, there is none of this. This is
vacation. Yet the child is learning in
a sort of ideal atmosphere. He is learn-
ing how to take his place in a world full
of other pe0ple and is enjoying the
learning process, so that there is every
incentive to learn. There is no need to
hold back. He would not gain anything
(as he sometimes may gain at home) by
being a baby. Everyone else is going
toward maturity and having a rare time
doing it, so he may as well do it too.

This, it seems to me, is what the camp
has to offer, help toward real maturity
of personality. But it is not as easy as
it sounds, for camps receive children in
all different stages of maturity. Even
though all children in a camp are of the
same chronological age, there are still
differences in their emotional maturity.
The challenge to the camp then is to
meet the needs of these different chil-
dren. To do this, there must be suffi-
cient understanding on the part of the
staff that much of children’s behavior
is their way of trying to fill their per-
sonality needs and there must be a flexi-
ble program.

Take the girl of thirteen who at camp
worried excessively about her health.
She discussed it and ran to the infirm-
ary frequently. The physician’s exami-
nation was negative. A wise counselor
recognized that this girl avoided all ath-
letic activities. She sensed that the child
was using her complaints about health

JUNE 1955

to gain recognition and perhaps to
make a plausible peg on which to hang
her anxiety. The counselor noted that
this girl had considerable talent in Eng-
lish eXpression. Opportunities were
made for her to use this talent. Their
tent composed a song for a particular
occasion and she had a big part in the
endeavor. The girl was given a job on
the camp newspaper. The physical com-
plaints and the worrying disappeared.

In the fall, this girl went into high
school. She wrote her counselor an en-
thusiastic thank-you letter, telling that
for the first time in her life, she felt con-
fident in making friends. She was get-
ting a great deal out of her schoolwork
and was much happier than ever before.

There are many problems camping
cannot solve. Take the child who ran
away from camp to get back to a home
that was literally falling apart. She had
an idea that if she was there, her parents
would remain together. There are chil-
dren for whom we do not recommend
camp. Often one finds a child who is
not at all sure of the love of his parents.
Such a child is apt to interpret a camp
placement as a further rejection by the
parents. If it does seem best for mother
and child to have little respite from each
other, then there must be a period of
preparation of the child so that he does
not feel more rejected.

For the“ child who has built up no
inner controls, who always must be con-
trolled fromooutside, a camp may be too
free. There may not be the facilities for
the care and the control that such a
child needs. On the other hand, if a
camp does have enough help, such chil-
dren have been known to make great
strides in maturity. Away from the ir-
ritants within the home, the child finds
himself in an atmosphere of greater
freedom and flexibility. He is under
less strain, therefore, and so can use his
potential for a good adjustment. This
must be what happens, for we of the
child guidance clinic, who think of a
camp placement as part of the therapy,
see the benefits as the children return
and we get the reports from the camps.
If the child just has a good time, it is
important and perhaps the first step
toward the acceptance of adults as
kindly, sympathetic helpers.

What are the implications of all this

for camp workers? If they are to do a
good job of helping children along the
road to maturity, they must utilize every
means possible for good selection and
training of staff. There should be care-
ful investigation of applicants. There
should be recognition of the fact that
immaturities persist in the older ado-
lescents and in young adults, immaturi-
ties which may eventually disappear as
the individual gets more eXperience.
Sibling rivalry may be evident in the
young counselor who treats his charges
with the roughness with which he treats
his own younger brothers. The need to
exert power over the weak may cause a
young man to be quite punitive.

With good leadership, the staff con-
ference can become a teaching medium
which should benefit not only the camp-
ers but also the counselor. If it is used
for discussion of problems in the chil-
dren, and if help and understanding
can be given to the counselors in the
handling of the problems, then all will
benefit. Thus a camp can be a source
of pre-parent education. Most young
peOple enter parenthood with very little
education in bringing up children. Here
at camps there is a natural schoolroom
for learning about children.

If the camps are to be helpful to the
children of today, both the intake policy
and the program have to be kept flexi-
ble, for so many children are troubled
and camp can help many of the troubled
children.« Restrictions concerning LQ.
can deprive a child of camp who might
very well have profited from it. We know
that a child who is burdened with anxi-
ety will often test lower, so that the ob-
tained LQ. is not a measure of his
ability. We know that many retarded
children, if not pressed beyond their
capacity, do well in camp. Those chil-
dren who are on the edge of delin-
quency, who may have even had a first
appearance in court, may respond well
to the atmosphere and conditions of
camp life.

To meet the challenge of today’s chil-
dren, both camps and sending agencies
need close 000peration. Planning to-
gether for the child means the free ex-
change of information before the child
goes to camp and after he returns, for
only as we really know our children can
we fit our programs to their needs. m

259

Boys and Girls Together—
“ Handicapped and Able-bodied

John D. Herzog

A report of experiences in the successful
Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund summer

camp where these groups intermingle.

THE DISTINGUISHED doctor of physical medicine was ad-
dressing the counselors of Camp Hidden Valley at the
close of a pre-camp training period; and he was strongly
advocating that its handicapped children participate ac-
tively, and in every possible way, with the able-bodied
youngsters who make up the majority of the campers. “We
are apt to have at least four or five broken braces here this
summer,” he said. His remark sounds rather drastic, but
in a way was an apt expression of Hidden Valley’s philoso-
phy concerning the physically handicapped youngsters who
attend it.

This camp offers its disabled children a wide variety of
“normal” activities from which to choose, and it places them
in living units with able-bodied companions. It permits
them to engage in active physical sports as much as they
wish. The fact that there are “two kinds” of children at
camp is virtually forgotten. As a result, handicapped boys
and girls do things and acquire abilities which amaze coun-
selors, parents, and the children themselves.

Camp Hidden Valley, operated by the Herald Tribune
Fresh Air Fund of New York City, is located in Ridgelield,

Connecticut. There is very little out of the ordinary about
the site or staff of the camp, except for the presence of a
swimming pool in place of the usual lake or stream water-
front. Fresh Air Fund officials were surprised and skeptical
four summers ago when a local polio group asked for per-
mission to use the camp for disabled children at the close
of the regular camping season. They were further astonished
and excited, in the same way that present visitors to camp
are, when they saw the polio children “take over” the camp.
Then and there they were determined to initiate a similar
venture during the entire camping season.

The Fresh Air Fund is an organization ‘set up to provide
country vacations to the underprivileged children of New
York City, regardless of race, religion, or national back-
ground. The Fund believed that a large number of handi-
capped children of modest means in the city were unable
to find a summer camp other than a “treatment center”
which would accept them. These beliefs were soon verilied
in discussions with local medical authorities. For three
years now an integrated program has been operated suc-

cessfully at Hidden Valley.
The great problems and emergencies, which some people

JOHN D. HERZOG is director of Camp Hidden Valley in
Ridgefield, Connecticut.

260

in the camping field predicted would plague the camp, sim-
ply did not appear. Hidden Valley continued on its previous
course, almost unaffected by the addition of the new type
of camper. A few minor changes included: ramps to help
handicapped children enter buildings; a medical advisory
board to select the handicapped campers; counselors’ orien-
tation on the nature of the handicaps and their effects on
the children; special care to provide a wide variety of in-
formal and simply organized activities for campers to choose
from. This was the extent of the “reorganization.”

The Camp Program

What activities are most important? How are the braces
broken? Only an incomplete answer can be given here.

The center of physical activities at Hidden Valley is the
concrete swimming pool. As at many camps which handle
the eight- to eleven-year-old group, the waterfront is a mecca
for the campers all day long. The children can never get
their fill of swimming and diving. This is particularly ad-
vantageous to a camp such as Hidden Valley, since physical
handicaps are often minimized in the water, and many crip-
pled children have had extensive training in swimming as
part of their rehabilitation. Moreover, a pool area is more
easily supervised than is a beach or dock.

A morning half-hour of individual ‘iinstruction for each
child is followed in the afternoon by an hour-long recrea-
tional swim. At the conclusion of the two-week camping
period; a water carnival of stunts and races is held. Through-
out the period, all campers have an opportunity to earn Red
Cross swimming cards or Hidden Valley cards for effort and
achievement in swimming. Almost every camper receives
one of these awards, or enjoys one of the prizes from the
carnival. It has been noted that handicapped campers re-
ceive considerably more than their proportionate share of
the rewards. The only Red Cross Swimmer’s Award issued
at camp in three years was given to a severely cerebral-
palsied boy whose gait on land was considerably hampered.

Both handicapped and able-bodied children profit from

“Come one, come all. Try your luck!” A country
carnival or circus is a sure hit in camp of any kind.

 

the arts and crafts program at the camp. In keeping with
the age and often meager background of the children, activi-
ties offered are simple, yet diverse. Claywork, painting of
all kinds, leatherwork, papier-méiché, simple woodworking,
and other crafts can be enjoyed by both types {of children.
The joy of a spastic cerebral-palsied child in creating some-
thing attractive is a wonder to behold, not only to the adults
but to amazed and attentive tentmates as well.

Advantages of Small Group Living

“Let ’em loose!” was the gist of the doctor’s directions to
the camp staff, and the staff takes the doctor’s advice to
heart. Disabled children are not treated roughly or ex-
pected to do things beyond their actual capacities, or 'de-
prived of the understanding counsel of an adult when they
need it. But they are treated as much like able-bodied kids
their age as is possible. Many of them come to Hidden Val-
ley directly from a hospital or long clinical treatment. Even
more come from homes in which they are overprotected, in
which the parents do not believe that their children can per-
form many of the physical or social activities of a normal
child, and in which they are pampered and deprived of con-
tact with normal children their own age. The doctors recom-
mend encouraging these children to do everything they can
for themselves, and the camp follows this prescription.

It is in this respect that Hidden Valley’s program of out»
door living, of emphasis on hiking and camping out, and of
insistence that the tent group of five children and a coun-
selor be the basic unit of camp life, makes its greatest con-
tribution. All the children live in tents spread out over the
camp grounds, and each group is responsible for the care
and maintenance of its own tent and the area around it.
Each group plans the biggest part of its own day to use the
facilities of the camp and surrounding area in a way which
fits its interests and abilities. In such planning, the inter-
ests and occasional limitations of the handicapped children
must be recognized by the group. On the other hand, the
handicapped children cannot voluntarily withdraw them-
selves from activities in which they lack the confidence, but
not the ability, to participate. The strong ties of the group
keep the able-bodied children aware of the needs and capaci-
ties of each of its members, and stimulate the handicapped
children to attempt feats heretofore not considered.

Thus it is not unusual to observe a group planning a hike,
or an overnight trip to the Poundridge Reservation, discus-
sing the physical obstacles of the trip and the ability of each
member to overcome them. Arrangements are made for an

Concrete pool is a popular center of activities, espe-
cially when a gala water carnival is on the program.

 

equitable sharing of the Supplies to be carried, for the selec-
tion of an appropriate route to follow, and, rarely, for spe-
cial transportation of a particular handicapped child.

In the same way, softball or volleyball teams are picked,
and rules ai-e altered to permit specific individuals to par-
ticipate fairly. In all of these activities, an arm or a leg
brace may be scraped, but no serious injuries to handi-
capped campers have occurred in three years of Hidden Val-
ley experience. It seems clear that handicapped children are
no more fragile, nor more susceptible to injuries or illnesses,
than are able-bodied children of the same age.

In all of this group planning and “creative bargaining,”
the importance of the counselor must not be minimized. Boys
and girls between eight and eleven are not able to manage
such affairs without the aid of an adult; but within each
child are potentialities for cooperation and consideration
for others, even in the unusual circumstances imposed by the
presence of handicapped children in the group. The coun-
selor must draw upon these capacities to help his children
profit to the fullest from their two weeks at camp.

The Goals of the Integrated Program

What does Hidden Valley hope to accomplish by mixing
the handicapped and able-bodied children? Certainly no
physical or occupational therapy is attempted. Rather, the
two-week experience is seen as an aid in social rehabilita-
tion, as an education for handicapped children in how to get
along with “normal” contemporaries and in the contribu-
tions they can make to a normal society, and as an experience
for able-bodied youngsters in getting to know children whose
handicaps appear strange to them.

About eighty boys and girls are accommodated at the
camp for four two-week periods each summer. In order to
insure that the tone and pace of the camp be that of a normal
one, a limit of thirty per cent or forty per cent of handi-
capped children in each encampment is aimed for. Handi-
capped children who are accepted must have developed sta-
mina sufficient to allow them to go through their two-week
experience without undue fatigue or recurrent illness, and
must be able to perform their personal toilet functions as
well as other children their age. With the aid of the fund’s
medical advisory board, virtually all those finally accepted
have been able to stay for the full two-week period, and
almost all have apparently benefited from the experience.

Hidden Valley conceives of itself as a pioneer in provid-
ing social rehabilitation for physically handicapped chil-
dren. Few camps operate a like program on a regular basis.
Certainly the need of these children for a supervised yet
vigorous program of recreation with normal peers is obvi-
ous. The enthusiastic support of many rehabilitation ex-
perts for the Hidden Valley idea of integrated camping
makes the Fresh Aid Fund believe that it is doing a neces-
sary, important piece of work.

It is to be hoped that this incomplete report of experi-
ences in one summer camp may persuade directors and exec-
utives of other camps to attempt an “experiment” of their
own in admitting handicapped children. They will find that
careful planning in advance will avoid confusion and diffi-
culties, as it has at Hidden Valley. on

261

 

EDGAR ANSEL MOWRER, often called the most distinguished
and best qualified of all reporters on world affairs, will
address the evening general session of the National Recrea-
tion Congress on Thursday, September 29, 1955. Mr.
Mowrer will speak on the importance of the self-reliant in-
dividual who finds both stability and initiative in himself,
thereby making himself capable both of providing and of

making the most of his recreation.

Mr. Mowrer has been a contributor to American and for-
eign journals for many years. He won the Pulitzer Prize in
1933 for a series of articles on Germany. His best known
books are Germany Puts Back the Clock, The Nightmare of
American Foreign Policy, and Challenge and Decision. He
has visited Russia and has made three prolonged trips to the
Far East. His columns, “Edgar Ansel Mowrer on World
Affairs” and “What’s Your Question?” appear in leading
journals throughout the country.

Joseph Prendergast, executive director of the National
Recreation Association, will address the Wednesday morn-
ing general session of the Congress. As reported last month
in RECREATION, Dr. A. S. Raubenheimer, educational vice-
president of the University of Southern California, will ad-
dress the Tuesday evening session on creative aspects of our
recreation programs.

More and more details of the Congress program are be-
coming definite, including the outline of the whole week’s
program on the opposite page.

Delegates will note a slight change on the opening day of
the Congress—Tuesday instead of Monday,
this year—-when there will be a general con-
vening session at 10:00 A.M. This session
will be followed for the balance of the morn-
ing and all afternoon by the all-day sessions
which have become traditional on the first
day of the Congress.

Climax of the Congress will be the Buffalo
Bar-B-Q, now being planned by Denverites.
It will be held in the Red Rocks Mountain
Park, sixteen miles southwest of Denver, on
Friday evening following the afternoon tour
of recreation points of interest in and around
the city.

262

 

Edgar Ansel Mowrer,
noted atuber-journalist,
to he Congress speaker.

706%: to Dermot

Hope you’re looking forward to our
Buffalo Bar-B-Q. Not to brag, but we

dish up a friendly mess of vittles OH a
chuck wagon. Folks like it real good.

Demonstrations

Interest in demonstrations was so great at St. Louis last
year that special efforts are being made to make the Denver
program also outstanding in this regard. In addition to Dr.
Frederick Hall, who will conduct demonstrations involving
music (see RECREATION, May, 1955) , Bob Smith, Denver’s
coordinator of music (see RECREATION, May, 1955), will
also help in this field. Lester Griswold of nearby Colorado
Springs, a noted craftsman and author (see page 270, this
issue of RECREATION), will lead in the field of arts and crafts.
Helen Dauncey and Anne Livingston of the National Rec-
reation Association training staff will be on hand to help with
social recreation. The American Junior Bowling Congress
will conduct a bowling clinic through special arrangements
with a bowling alley, located near the Congress, which has
the latest equipment, including automatic pinsetters. Plans
are also under way for demonstrations in several other fields,

Special Features

A Western square dance for all Congress delegates will
follow Dr. Raubenheimer’s Tuesday evening address and
social dancing will be featured after Mr. Mowrer’s address
on Thursday evening. Instead of a general session on Wed-
nesday evening, the Congress will follow the plan used at
St. Louis last year and schedule instead several special fea-
tures, as indicated on the chart.

Accommodations

As reported in RECREATION for April, all hotel reserva-
tions will be handled this year by the Denver
Convention and Visitors Bureau, 225 West
Colfax. Congress headquarters will be the
Hotel Shirley-Savoy, and meetings will also
be held at the CosmOpolitan and Brown Palace
Hotels. All three hotels are within a block of
each other. If your reservations have not yet
been made you should get in touch with the
Bureau.

Pamphlet Ready

The Congress Preliminary Pamphlet is
available. If you have not received a copy
you can get one by requesting it. The official
program will not be available until the Con-

RECREATION

gress registration desk opens at Denver on September 26.
Many delegates find the preliminary pamphlet most impor-
tant in planning in advance of the Congress ust which meet-
ings and special features they will attend. It also makes it
possible for several delegates from the same city to plan in
advance to divide up certain meetings so that the important
ones will all be covered.

Training Values

The value of a congress or conference to staff develop-
ment and stimulation of thinking is illustrated by the follow-
ing few quotes from letters of delegates who attended the
National Recreation Congress in St. Louis:

“Recreation leaders in the city, after having an Opportunity for
contact with other recreationists throughout the country, developed a
much more favorable attitude toward their work and their responsi-
bilities. They found that the recreation field was filled with outstand-
ing people and learned that competition for positions of recreation
leadership is becoming increasingly severe.”

“This contact with others in the field, added incentive to improve-
ment both in quality of leadership and in program content. Our peo-
ple had an opportunity to comprehend the importance of recreation
work. They felt a renewed pride in being recreation leaders and as a

result their esprit de corps became much more highly developed.”

“Enclosed is a clipping from our local paper explaining a program
which was inspired at the St. Louis national conference. After listen-
ing to Dr. D. N. Campbell’s talk, which so forcibly brought home the
fact that something should be done to meet existing needs, we set in
motion the organizing of the senior citizens’ group—as thirty per cent
of our population are senior citizens.”

“As a church worker I found a lot of ideas that can be used in
youth programs.”

“To me it was a great time and I, especially, am going to be a better
worker because of it. Everybody helped everybody.”

“I found many things in the commercial exhibits that I have been
wanting, and was able to place orders for them. I thought an espe-
cially fine part of the commercial setup was the arrangement for the
display of publications and the Opportunity to order publications from
a National Recreation Association representative at the Congress.”

Tentative Congress Week Outline

  

 

DAY 9:00—10:30 AM. “:00 A.M.—l2:30 P.M. I LUNCHEON 2:30—4:00 PM. 4:15—5:45 PM. EVENING
Administrative Problems of Chief Executives GENERAL
CONVENING Recreation for Business and Industrial Workers SESSION
OF Recreation in Correctional Institutions 8:30 PM.
TUESDAY CONGRESS ALL-DAY Recreation in Hospitals
Se 1. 21 10:00 A-M- MEETINGS Town-Country Recreation
p ' Senior Citizens (afternoon only) 
Servicemen—Programs for Servicemen's Recreation Centers (morning only)
K Social Recreation Training Session
SECTION MEETINGS SECTION MEETINGS SPECIAL FEATURES SPECIAL FEATURES
Families at Play Legislation National Committees 8:00 — 9:30 PM.
Financing Expanding Neighborhood and Bowling Clinic Recreation in Hospitals
Programs Community Councils Pet Ideas Problems of Volunteers
WEDNESDAY Graduate Education GENERAL GROUP Playgrounds | Activity Demonstrations National Committees
Sept. 28 Program Clinic SESSION LUNCHEONS Recreation Research 8. Workshops Social Recreation
School-Recreation Salaries Recreation in Hospitals Training Session
Relationships Supervisors Workshop II Activity Demonstrations
Supervisors Workshop I Teen-Agers 8. Workshops
Swimming Pools
SECTION MEETINGS . SPECIAL FEATURES SECTION MEETINGS SPECIAL FEATURES GENERAL
Areas and Facilities , Boards and Commissions |I Public Relations SESSION
Workshop Old T'mers R°und Table Desegration Decisions (continued) 8:30 PM.
Boards and Commissions I National committees of the Courts Baseball-Softball __
THURSDAY Church Recreation Fringe Areas Insurance Problems
Sept, 29 Playgrounds ll ACliVilV Dem°nmali°ns Girls and Women Maintenance Swapshop DANCING
Pro-Teen Sports & lNOTkShDPS In-Service Training National Committees
Public Relations National and State Activity Demonstrations
State Recreation Services Recreation Areas 8. Workshops
I Recreation Buildings l
SECTION MEETINGS Buffa|o Baum
International Recreation at
Juvenile Delinquency Red Rocks
' Long-Range Planning GENERAL GROUP - Tour of Recreation Points of Interest In And Near Mountain Park
Recreation Buildings |I SESSION LUNCHEONS i Denver.

Recreation-Park Depts.
Small Town Problems
Sports

SPECIAL FEATURES
Tour to Colorado Springs Spot Tours in Denver

Arrangements will be made for workshops l
through noon at the request of delegates. a

SATURDAY
Oct. 1

 

 

JUNE 1955

 

DenVer Show

NOTE: Topics are abbreviated on this chart. For full wording write to T. E. Rivers,

Congress Secretary, for a copy of the preliminary pamphlet.

263

Art" Minded 

K.

\
w:

______ I’
______ --
,, .u-ff‘" '1' A

Edwin M. Steckel

The community service program at Ogle-
bay Institute, Wheeling, West Virginia,
exposes participants to the cultural arts

Er»,
W3“?

:35" 2  i
"7.;

.
l
o-

  . if

 

w“;

W?

in intriguing and irresistible ways.

ACASUAL SUMMER visitOr to Oglebay

Park might easily wander down to
the lake and find a group of youngsters
eagerly sketching ducks. Beyond, over
the next hill, a complacent group of
ladies in large sun hats might stand be-
fore easels, their brushes reproducing
the contours of the children’s story-
telling tower. And on the very top of a
hill, the visitor quite naturally would
be lured to the old red brick carriage
barn. It dates from 1845, but its pres-
ent day contents are contemporary
paintings and sculpture. An art exhibit
is always under way in this charming
old building.

Our Oglebay Institute art department
serves a large tri-state area with an
art program and exhibitions in a city
that does not support an art gallery.
We function as both a gallery and an
art institute. During the summer months
our carriage barn gallery is sometimes
shared with a theatre group, but the
walls are never barren.

Our summer gallery possesses all the

charm of a New England barn, and our
work is definitely avant-garde. One-man
shows of sculpture, painting, and ce-
ramics and jewelry change weekly.
Each Sunday afternoon features a for-
mal opening and the serving of punch
for the visiting artists, patrons, and
art lovers. Some Sundays we present a
portrait 'painting demonstration or the
fascinating assemblage of a mobile. Ex-
hibitors are invited by the art commit-
tee and include both local and nation-
ally famous artists.

The month of September gives way to
the Annual Regional Artists’ Show, at
which time both the carriage barn and
the historic Mansion Museum yield
their walls for this big event. The com-
petitive show is open to all painters from
“rest Virginia and eastern Ohio, and
former West Virginia residents. An
entry fee is required and cash prizes
are awarded. A well-known artist and
critic is selected for the one-man jury.

On lovely evenings, when music lov-
ers come for an outdoor concert in the

“1955 brings us to the 25th year of Oglebay Institute’s existence as a
community service organization. We are very mindful of the fine coopera-
tion which the National Recreation Association made in helping us all

through these years beginning with L. H. Weir and coming right on down
through the line to the present administration, Mr. Prendergast.”
-—EDW1N M. STECKEL.

 

264

_..I .__H 

“Regularly scheduled art classes, leadership training,
lectures, and special events build art-minded communi-
ties,” declares the Oglebay Institute’s art committee.

amphitheater, they see a painting ex-
hibit in the Oglebay Park formal gar-
dens. Placed among trees and by the
side of a pool, and highly dramatized by
artificial lighting, this show is warme
received by the audience, both before
the performance and at intermission.

Art for children is one of our pet
projects. We have incorporated an art
program into the Oglebay Institute Day
Camp which runs for an eight-week pe-
riod during the summer. At least three
hundred children receive art instruction
and are able to benefit from experimen-
tation in various media.

"A novel spring event is the special
exhibition held for children. The rus-
tic setting of the children’s center for an
outdoor display delights children and
adults alike. Paintings, ceramic sculp—
ture, and other creative media are se-
lected largely from the institute’s win-
ter art classes.

Each June, for just one day, we tear
ourselves away from the idyllic setting
of the hills and move en masse to a
quaint old market place in South Wheel-
ing. A Parisian Left-Bank flavor
hovers over the fruit and vegetable
stalls which provide a decorative set-
ting for the canvasses of hundreds of

MR. STECKEL is the executive director
of Oglebay Institute.

RECREATION

 

 

 

Successful special events include art shows for chil—
dren and adults, one-man shows, evenings of lecture-
demonstrations, noted guest artists, and art auctions.

painters. All local artists respond en-
thusiastically to this annual “Bohem-
ian” art show. It is the day for painters
—amateurs and professionals. Two
years ago, not a few civic-minded folk
were horrified at the idea of an exhibit
in an old market in a none-too-elegant
section of the city. Now the colorful
event is anticipated by the whole city.

In winter our exhibition walls are the
mezzanine of the town’s largest hotel. A
small downtown center for arts and
crafts provides facilities and space for
capacity-filled classes. The art depart-
ment must concentrate on the tremen«
dous demand for painting inSpired by
the summer exhibition series. The crafts
department offers adult classes in enam-
el on COpper, basketry, ceramics, jewel-
ry, and leather. On Saturdays, art
classes are given for children from six
to twelve years old. Adult classes in
charcoal drawing and oil painting are
conducted in the evenings for beginning
and advanced students.

During our winter season, which of-
ficially begins in October and ends in
March, at least two weekly art programs
are presented before community groups.
We use the media of television and il-
lustrated lectures. Our programs are
built around “Art in Everyday Life”
with the purpose of making art under-
standable and to awaken the public to

JUNE 1955

the importance of aesthetic satisfaction.
We are especially devoted to contem-
porary art and its counterparts, and
have met a real challenge: to convey its
significance to an industrial community
also steeped in tradition.

Opera Program

A student at the Oglebay opera Work-
shop is literally saturated with all
phases of opera from morning until
night for fourteen days. The period of
two weeks was selected principally with
the idea of accommodating singers who
are engaged in other work througliout
the year and want to spend their two-
week vacations in ideal surroundings
and live opera. .

The workshop provides an Opportu-
nity for study of all phases of opera
under noted artists and teachers in one
of nature’s best-equipped beauty spots.
Two weeks in this environment provides
inspiration to young singers, as well as
to experienced artists wishing to re-
fresh their technique vocally, musically
and dramatically. Teachers in other
opera workshops who wish to derive in-
spiration and acquire the latest meth-
ods are also invited to enroll.

Workshop students in 1955 will be
given an opportunity to appear in an
“Opera Night” and in an “Oratorio
Night” featuring selections from stand-

ard oratorios. In addition to the public
performances on the outdoor stage,
“Workshop Recitals,” based on the ma-
terial used from standard Operas, will
be given in the more intimate Carriage
House Theatre.

Boris Coldovsky, founder and direc-
tor of the Opera Workshop, will again
serve as artistic director this year from
August 22 through September 5. In ad-
dition to his duties as director of the
opera department of the New England
Conservatory of Music, director of the
Berkshire Festival Operatic produc-
tions at Tanglewood for several years,
and as a regular participant in the Sat-
urday afternoon Metropolitan Opera
broadcasts, Mr. Goldovsky is artistic
director of the New England Opera
Theater.

Leonard W. Treash, director of the

opera department of the Eastman School
of Music will serve as associate director.
During the summers of 1953-54, Mr.
Treash produced the opera series for
the famed Rochester “Opera Under the
Stars” program. He is founder and di-
rector of the Buffalo, New York, opera
workshop. In addition to Mr. Goldov—
sky and Mr. Treash, the opera work-
shop’s staff of instructors will be aug-
mented by several vocal coaches.

Besides its diversified program of
formal entertainment, Oglebay Park
provides all the features normally ex-
pected of a park: picnic sites, an arch-
ery range, horseback riding, golf, ten-
nis, swimming, nature trails, a garden
center, arzoo. Oglebay Institute pro-
vides leadership and opportunities in
arts and crafts, drama and children’s
theatre, nature education, radio, audio-
visual aids, museums, hobby clubs, ves-
pers, summer concerts, and camps (in-
cluding folk dance, nature, and drum
major). In 1954 more than 200,000
people participated in institute-spon-
sored programs.

The 1954 opera workshop drew par-

“ticipants from fifteen states. Registra-

tion is limited to thirty-five full-time stu-
dents, in order to insure maximum indi-
vidual attention. Students are housed
in rustic log cabins with all modern
conveniences. Applications may be ob-
tained by writing Opera Workshop,
Oglebay Park, Wheeling, West Vir-
ginia. m

265

 

Outdoor Recreation

and an Adventure

Near New Jersey’s Large Metropolitan Areas

UNUSUAL ADVANTAGES and Opportuni-

ties for healthful, outdoor recrea-
tion are available a surprisingly short
distance from the densely populated
metropolitan areas of New York City
and Philadelphia.

New Jersey, although far better
known for its seashore resorts, is bound-
ed by rivers, and offers many fresh
water lakes generously sprinkled across
the state. The challenge of the woods
and waterways in spring, summer, and
fall awaits those who appreciate the
generosity of nature in providing such
ample resources so close at hand. The
state’s fine highways make distances
seem even shorter for transportation of
hiker, camper, skier, canoeist, small-
boat sailor, or just picnicker, with all of
the paraphernalia necessary for his par-
ticular recreation.

Each year, at the end of May, the

MR. BUFF, a landscape architect and
park planner, has worked extensively
with both federal and state agencies and
commissions on the planning and de-
vel0pment of equipment, facilities, and
areas for recreation on both public and
private prOperties.

266

Ernest Bug, Jr.

Delaware River, above Port Jervis, New
York (just over the New Jersey border)
is visited by hundreds of canoe and fold-
boat enthusiasts, bent on their annual
downstream cruise over this beautiful
waterway. From Hancock,New York,to
Port Jervis, a distance of eighty and a
half miles by water, there is a series of
sixteen major and thirty-five minor
rapids. The challenge of turbulent
“white waters” rushing through rocks
and boulders, with long, connecting
stretches of blackwater snaking quietly
but swiftly between green-clad hills,
past miles of forest covered shore,
where azalea and rhododendron in all
their spring glory abound, is inviting to
the canoeist. At this time of year, the
waters of the Delaware are at their best,
with sullicient depth and flow to afford
passage over all the rapids, providing
the proper course is followed and nat-
ural obstacles avoided.

The Trip

This was the trip a group of men and
boys from Bernardsville, New Jersey,
made over a recent Memorial Day week-
end. Plans for the trek were formu-
lated during the winter months. Actual

preparation began in the YMCA swim-
ming pool at nearby Morristown, where
each of the boys was required to pass a
rigid swimming test, includinga demon-
stration of his ability to swim a speci-

fied distance fully clothed.

Menus were planned; and lists of
clothing (a minimum of three changes),
bedding, tenting, and other necessary
equipment were prepared. A map of
the river section to be navigated was
delineated to the scale of one inch to
the mile, and photostat copies were
made for each member of the party.

Several Weeks before the scheduled
date, an overnight campout was obn-
ducted for the review and practice of
camping skills, and to give instruction
in canoe handling in rapids, as the ma-
jority of the party had had little or no
previous experience in this activity. The
small lake near which the practice camp
was made had no rapids, so rock obsta-
cles and “white waters” were simulated
simply by throwing bits of grass and
dandelions on the water and plying the
canoes between them.

Arrangements were made to borrow
live aluminum canoes from the local
Boy Scout council. However, canoes
can be rented for such eXpeditions from

several sports equipment stores in the
state.

At last the grand day arrived. The
party of seven boys (ages fourteen
through fifteen) and five adults with
canoes and camp gear were transported
across state in four automobiles, canoes
lashed carefully on carrying racks t0p-
side. By eleven o’clock the canoes were
at the water’s edge, ready for the jour-
ney’s start. Permission to embark had,
of course, been obtained from the local
constabulary. I

The four car operators then drove
automobiles to Callicoon, New York,
twenty-four miles to the south, where
the first evening’s camp was to be made.
Arrangements were made for the use
of the campsite, and, following this,
three of the drivers left their cars and
returned in the automobile of the fourth
driver to Hancock. The one-man “land
party” for that day then returned to
Callicoon to set up camp and await the
arrival of the party by canoe.

All equipment to be taken in the
canoes, including canteens, sponge rub-

RECREATION

 

ber kneeling pads, cellulose bailing
sponges, extra paddles, and cameras,
were secured to thwarts and gunwales,
in the event of a capsize. Nylon para-
chute cord was used for this purpose.
Cameras, wallets, and other valuables
were carefully wrapped and bound in
sheets of water-proof plastic.

A packaged lunch was hastily eaten,
and the crews manned their canoes for
the downstream journey. The lead
canoe was manned by two adults, one
of whom was an experienced paddler
and familiar with the course. Following
came canoes two, three, and four (all
identified by large numerals of adhesive
strips on bow and stern), with the re—
maining two adult leaders at the rear
of the procession, to keep a semblance
of a line and to encourage the laggards.

By pre-arrangement, and in the fash-
ion of the earlier woodsmen and exPlor-
ers, the signal that rapids were being
approached was to be given by the ex-
perienced helmsman in the lead canoe.
Direction signals were also to be given
by him with his paddle. Allowing ample
Space between, the other canoes follow-
ed the course set by the leader.

This stretch of the Delaware seems
ideal for trips of this kind, with a series
of minor rapids—sufficiently spaced to
allow for the recovery of composure
and the regrouping of the canoes in the
quieter waters between—~during the
earlier stages of the journey, the more
difiicult rapids coming later. After a
few scrapings of canoe bottoms and
other slight mishaps, in the preliminary
engagements with the moderate rapids
first encountered, the boys soon ac-
quired some water sense, and filed
through the swiftly rushing waters be-
tween the rocks with little disturbance.

The first major rapids, encountered
at Hankins, toward the end of the ini-
tial day’s run, were successfully but
thrillingly navigated by all. A few miles
further camp was reached, where the
canoes were lifted from the water and
placed, bottoms up, on shore. Wet
sneakers and other clothing were chang-
ed for dry apparel, and after a hearty,
hot meal, principal preparations for
which had been made by the one-man

land party, everyone retired for a well-
'earned rest.

0n the second day, the auto drivers

JUNE 1955

proceeded to Lackawaxen, Pennsyl-
vania, with the tents and other weighty
camp equipment. Repeating the previ-
ous day’s performance, but with a dif-
ferent adult taking his turn at land party
operations, the men returned in one car
to Callicoon, where embarkation was
made for the second leg of the journey,
and an exciting day it was.

At Skinner’s Falls the group met with
what are probably considered the most
challenging and exciting rapids of the
entire course. Here the canoes were
beached above the rapids, in order that
the crews might reconnoiter afoot and
observe other canoes. and foldboats
making the hazardous passage. Several
of these craft swamped and even over-
turned in the turbulent, churning tor-
rents, but without mishap to the occu-
pants who prudently hung to the sides
of their boats until more placid waters
were reached. After rigid instructions
regarding the course to be followed, and
other last minute admonitions, the
leader with his partner made a demon-
stration descent of the rapids, the re-
mainder of the exPedition watching
carefully from shore. Then, one after
another, the canoes manned by the boys
and other adults shot through without
mishap. Paddling to the shore below,
the boys were so thrilled by their ex~
periences that they wanted to try again.
Lifting their light aluminum canoes
over the boulder-strewn shore line to a
point above the rapids, one crew soon
shot out into the fast moving current
for a second try. In a bold but more
careless mood, and contrary to the lead-
er’s instructions, they veered too far
into the center of the river where the
water was far more turbulent than near
the shore. Their recent but limited ex-
perience was not sufficient for them to
cope with the predicament in which
suddenly they found themselves. Their
canoe shipped splashing water and turn-
ed broadside to the current. The boys
soon lost control as the torrents poured
into the now listing, rolling and sluggish
Amid shouts filled more with

glee than despair, the canoe swamped

craft.

beneath the foaming waters as they con-
tinued their wet passage downriver.
Within seconds the leader’s canoe
sprang across the stream to their rescue,
and soon many hands from the crafts

 

Delaware River above Port Jervis of-
fers canoeist “white water” challenge.

waiting in the more still water below
were assisting the boys. Soon they were
on shore, damp but undaunted. In ac-
cordance with previous and emphatic
ruling by the chief of the party, the boys
were returned to camp by the driver on
shore duty, who had come to watch the
fun. Dry clothes but no more paddling
for the capsizers was the law that day.

Several of the other crews shot the
rapids repeatedly, without apparent dif-
ficulty, but always in the course des-
cribed by the leader. With two-thirds
of the day’s journey ahead, the trip was
now resumed. By use of a two-blade
paddle, fashioned by lashing the shafts
of two single—blade paddles together,
one adult in the canoe vacated by the
absent boys easily kept pace with the
party for the balance of the distance
to camp.

0n the third day, many more major
rapids were passed; however, although
they extended over longer lengths, none
were considered as dangerous as the one
at Skinner’s Falls. The higher altitude
of the surrounding hills afforded more
magnificent and climatic scenery for
this last stage of a wonderful and never-
to-be-forgotten trip.

A sandy beach had been selected as
the point for the disembarkation at Port
Jervis, near where the automobiles had
been parked in the morning. The little
flotilla landed on schedule, and after
dry apparel had been donned, and ca-
noes slung and secured to car racks, the
party proceeded to a restaurant for their
evening meal before traveling home-
ward. The over-all charges of the en-
tire trip had not exceeded five dollars
per person, which included the cost of
gasoline and food. on

267

 

 

 

Ruby Cook —
Distinguished Citizen

 

Mrs. Ruby Cook receives the Distin-
guished Citizen Award from Miss
Shirley Twyford, toastmistress, at
the Venture Club Award dinner.

The Distinguished Citizen A w a r d

from the Venture Club of Lancaster
County, Pennsylvania, was awarded to
Mrs. Ruby Cook, executive director of
the Crispus Attucks Community Center.
The award was presented to Mrs. Cook
for her outstanding work at the Center
and for her promotion of greater under-
standing among the religious and racial
groups of Lancaster. Readers of REC-
REATION will remember the article, “A
Volunteer Success Story,” about Mrs.
Cook’s excellent use of, volunteers, in

the May, 1950 issue. 9

Julian O. Olsen Honored

The award of a gold key has been
made to Mr. Julian 0. Olsen, superin-
tendent of recreation, Pensacola, Flori-
da, for meritorious service to recreation
in the five-state Southeastern Recrea-
tion Association area. Mr. Olsen was
appointed as Pensacola’s first full-time
city recreation director in 1945, and has
been in recreation work since 1914.

268

Ernest W. Johnson to Retire

After thirty-six years of work in the
recreation movement, Ernest W. J ohn-
son is retiring as director of public rec-
reation in St. Paul, Minnesota. During
his years of service, Mr. Johnson helped
St. Paul grow from seven playground
areas to fifty-eight. The staff of the rec-
reation department has grown from
three people to its present size of seven.
ty. Mr. Robert Lobdell of Evansville,

Indiana, has been appointed to succeed

Mr. Johnson.

Constructive Teen-Age Activity

Sponsoring of a Korean boy to enable
him to attend Central Oregon Commu-
nity College, at Bend, Oregon, has been
decided on by Bend’s Teen-Age Recrea-
tion Council. A scholarship was se-
cured, a home with free board and
lodging found, and $150 toward trans-
portation has been raised by various
projects.

Family Swimming Pool Clubs

Small, intimate family clubs center-
ing around swimming pools are a recent
development in Houston, Texas. Often
children are left at the pools during the
day and wives return later with their
husbands for an evening dip. Family
membership through October 1 is $65
and membership is limited to three hun-
dred families. Hamilton H. Anderson,
a swimming pool contractor, said that
each year contractors are building
about three times as many pools as the
previous year.

Does Your Town Want A Pool?

If so, you will be interested in the
way Millinocket, Maine, went about get-
ting one. First of all, the citizens had
to want a pool enough to pitch in and
work for one. A local factory supplied
machinery free of charge, and men of
the community Worked evenings on the

 

excavation. Concrete pouring was done
by local men, who do this for each other
when building new houses. The piping
was done by plumbers from the factory.
The total cost of the project to taxpayers
of Millinocket was $4,323.16 or $2.88

per taxpayer. ..

a.

Hans Christian Anderson
Anniversary

One hundred and fifty years ago,
April 2, 1805, the beloved author was
born in Odense, Denmark. Among cele-.
brations in his honor are: an exhibit
in the Library of Congress, April 2——
July 31, exhibits and story hours in all
New York Public Library branches, a
Hans Christian Anderson statue and
story-telling center scheduled for pre-
sentation next October. This bronze
statue, designed by Georg Lober, is the
gift of the children of Denmark to the
children of America and will be in New

York City’s Central Park.

American Baseball Big Hit
' in Saigon

The people of Saigon, Indochina,
have been introduced to American base-
ball. The introduction included play-
by-play announcements in Vietnamese
and French and mimeographed expla-
nations of the game in these languages.
The US. Information Agency supplied
the details to the local population in re-
sponse to newspaper requests for infor-
mation about how this “great American
game” is played. Great interest built up
and there was a large crowd when the
first game got under way. Spectator re-
sponse was spirited but lagged behind
sometimes after a play until the watch-
ers checked their programs or were told

“Yes—hut what could we play?”

Cartoon by Corks. Reprinted with permission
from T oday’s Health, August 1954.

RECREATION

 

Outstanding
Student

George Wilson,
left, accepts c 0 n -
gratulations from
Bob Abbuehl, ban-
(1 u e t toastmaster,
o n receiving t h e

1955 Weir Award.

George Wilson, doctoral candidate in recreation at Indiana University, has
received the L. H. Weir Award for being the outstanding graduate student at the
university. Mr. Wilson is president of the Graduate Recreation Society. He serves
on the administrative staff of the Milwaukee Recreation Department.

in Vietnamese what had happened. The
game was played between officers and
men of the U.S.S. Estes and staff mem-
bers of the Military Assistance Advisory
Group (MAAG) . About $228 was

raised for Vietnamese refugees.

1955 Intergroup and Human
Relations Workshops

The National Conference of Chris-
tians and Jews will cooperate, through
the Commission on Educational Organi-
zations, with thirty-six colleges and uni-
versities in various states in the con-
ducting of intergroup and human
relations education workshops this Slim-
mer. Since 1941 the National Confer-
ence has worked with more than two
hundred workshops. For full informa-
tion, write nearest National Conference
office or communicate with Dr. Herbert
L. Seamans, 381 Fourth Avenue, New
York 16, New York.

Facts and Figures

Wisconsin: Columbus voters have ap-
proved council action to build a $60,000
swimming pool, and a $300,000 bond
issue to build a swimming pool has been
approved by Menasha voters. Linden
voters have authorized an issuance of
bonds for a village community building.

Illinois: Evanston voters have ap-
proved a $425,000 issuance of bonds

for construction of a community build-
ing.

West Virginia: A $2,500,000 pro-
gram of development for state parks and
forests will start now that the state leg-

islature has passed a bill legalizing the
issuance of a revenue bond issue.

Minnesota: Bloomington approved a
$450,000 bond issue for acquisition of

park and recreation lands; and a swim-

JUNE 1955

ming pool bond issue was approved at
Appleton. Circle Pines has agreed to a
$100,000 issue for a community build-
ing.

Indiana: A bond ordinance of $165,-

000 for capital improvements of the La
Porte park system has passed.

Alabama: 1,700 acres for new park
development have been given to the

state.

California: A $32,500,000 bond issue
has been approved for schools. Of this,

several millions will be used for gym-
nasiums, swimming pools, and other
recreational facilities.

Iowa: Sioux City Recreation Depart-
ment made available public address sys-
tems, program materials, movie projec-
tors, handcraft and picnic equipment,
costumes, books and records to public
and private organizations. These serv-
ices reached 292 organizations, 44,120
participants, 16,380 spectators.

Cooperation for Recreation
The East Orange, New Jersey, Board

of Recreation Commissioners, realizing
that the city has few suitable proper-
ties available for playground or park

use, has adopted a policy of cooperating
with the East Orange Board of Educa-
tion to develop existing recreation prop-
erty. Several such areas have already
been completed with facilities that can
be used for both summer and winter ac-
tivities. Many more areas are planned
to provide playing fields, roller skating
and younger children’s apparatus.

Safety Pamphlet

A pamphlet on safety in sports and
other recreational activities, with con-
tributions from leading athletes and au-
thorities on sports, is now available. For
copies write to: Johnson 81 Johnson,
New Brunswick, New Jersey.

An Excellent Report

The fiftieth anniversary booklet of
the Winnetka, Illinois, Park District
contains fine illustrations and good pre-
sentation. Entitled “This is Yours . . .,”
the brochure shows townspeople enj oy-
ing the various facilities available to
them, gives information about the parks
and lists plans for future projects.

How To Make It Pamphlet

The revised edition of How To Make
It, a bibliography of free and inexpen-

sive booklets on arts and crafts, is avail-
able for fifty cents. Copies may be ob-
tained by writin g to: Curriculum
Laboratory, Temple University, Phila-
delphia 22, Pennsylvania.

Vina] Book Again Available

Nature Recreation by William G.
(Cap’n Bill) Vinal, out of print for
some time, is now available from Amer-
ican Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Massa-
chusetts. The price is $3.50.

 

REMINDER . . .

almericaé gineét
athletic equipment

'5 BUILT BY

FOR CATALOG WRITE:
W. J. Voit Rubber Corp.
2945 East 12th Street
Los Angela: 11, Calif.

® .
9‘99 {W

New York 'I 1, Chicago 10, Los Angeles 'I 'l

 

269

“An instrument for the future”

 

The campsite provides a panorama of mountain and plain. Entrance portal donated by Kiwanis.

NEW CAMP in Colorado Springs

This is the story of a youth service project achieved by a
community through the joint efforts of twenty service clubs
and civic organizations cooperating to provide a campsite
equipped with facilities for overnight camping. Located
within a few miles of Colorado Springs, it is readily acces-
sible to local groups and convenient for sightseeing visitors.

The development of a suitable site for overnight camp-
ing in the Pikes Peak region had long been desired by the
leaders of youth-serving agencies in the community to
meet the needs of local boys and girls and to provide es-
sential facilities for visiting youth, traveling with their own
equipment on educational or pioneering trips.

It was recognized that preparedness for outdoor living,
as taught and practiced by scouting and other youth or-
ganizations throughout the free world, develops both self-
reliance and concepts of cooperation for the good of all—
which later determines attitudes of citizenship. In addi-
tion to acquisition of camping Skills and the adjustments
of team work, boys and girls are entitled, according to all
good leaders of youth, to the lasting satisfactions of the
experience of group associations in a natural environ-
ment, where the sharing of responsibility and the recog-
nition of the abilities of each camper—regardless of his

LESTER GRISWOLD is a member of the park and recreation
board in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and the author of
arts and crafts publications. He was active in the initial pro-
motion and support of this community project.

270

Lester Griswold

home background—has a character-building value inher-
ent in no other activity.

The youth-serving agencies of Colorado Springs heartily
supported the Palmer Park plan as a means of bringing
camping experience within reach of many youth who could
not attend the seasonal camps of the region because of
limited means, family responsibilities, or other reasons.

Prior to 1954, camping in any of the municipal parks of
Colorado Springs was forbidden. The nearest public camp-
ground was at Manitou Park, fifteen miles distant, in the
Pike National Forest where available space is always
crowded. Annually, for several years, Boy Scout troops,
traveling by bus to Philmont, the National Boy Scout ranch
at Cimarron, New Mexico, were unable to spend planned
time in the Pikes Peak region because of the necessity of
camping at Manitou Park or going forty-two miles to the
Pikes Peak Council’s Camp Alexander at Lake George.
For many youth groups limited time prevented use of either
site and the local YMCA and YWCA provided gymnasium
space where bedrolls and sleeping bags could be used. Only
very limited shower and toilet facilities were available be-
yond the normal requirements of these buildings for their
members and visitors.

The camping committee of the Pikes Peak Council Boy
Scouts made a prolonged search for a suitable campsite
accessible to Colorado Springs. Many privately-owned sites
were considered and rejected because of various inadequa-
cies or prohibitive cost. Finally the committee decided to
seek the approval of the city council for the development

RECREATION

 

of an area in Palmer Park, a natural woodland situated in
the foothills known as Austin Bluffs five miles east of the
city. They prepared a statement of the need for a youth
camp and referred it to the park and recreation board. On
the recommendation of this board the city council approv-
ed the committee’s development plan and amended the city
ordinance to permit this restricted type of overnight camp-
ing in the designated area of about fifty acres.

This park consists of over seven hundred acres of wood-
ed mesa land broken with spectacular rock formations—
geological remnants of the sedimentary formation (Daw-
son Arcose Sandstone) which existed before the upthrust
of the mountains. General Palmer, founder of Colorado
Springs, who gave the park to the city, had constructed
twenty-three miles of trails for hiking or horseback riding.
With an unsurpassed view of the Rampart Range of the
Rocky Mountains, a part of the Front Range, dominated
by Pikes Peak, Palmer Park provides a panorama of moun-
tain and plain which extends nearly one hundred miles in
each direction, north and south.

With the approval of the city council for the over-all
plan, the committee was then reorganized to include repre-
sentatives from the six women’s service clubs and the four-
teen men’s service clubs, the recreation and leisure-time
division (youth-serving agencies) of the Community Coun-
cil, the American Legion, Junior Chamber of Commerce
and the park and recreation board. With their enthusiastic
support, the development plan was undertaken and the
Palmer Park Youth Camp became a community-sponsored
project. Initial construction was started in May, 1953.

At the dedication 011 February 14, 1954, Mayor Harry
C. Blunt said in part, in accepting the camp for the city,
“This camp is unique in many respects, especially for the
fine opportunities it offers for youth and for its strategic
location . . . and will make Colorado Springs a scheduled
stop on most camping itineraries. Interest in travel for youth
groups sponsored by community organizations is national
in scope. This camp is only the beginning of a facility for
youth service which is destined to grow, not only in this
community but throughout the country.”

Mr. William 1. Lucas of the Community Council ex-
pressed the appreciation of the youth-serving agencies, re-
ferring to the campership fund program of this division of

The kitchen and dining pavilion, seen from the hill-
side, is centrally located. Low wall serves as seat.
Eaves extend to form a protection for the open sides.

the council and their objective of a camping experience
for every teen-age boy and girl during at least one summer
of their school days. “The provision of this camp,” he said,
“will now enable our agencies to plan a much more exten-
sive program of camping. We anticipate deve10ping a plan
to acquire a number of camping equipment units, including
bedrolls and cooking utensils which can be made available
for groups or individuals who cannot afford to own them.
In this plan we shall also invite the cooperation of the serv-
ice clubs which have made this camp possible.”

City Manager John M. Biery, commenting on the citations
for service contributed to the camp, said, “The value of this
physical plant is immeasurably greater than the actual finan-
cial outlay because so much individual service, besides the
actual dollars contributed, has gone into the planning and
construction of the accommodations, all donated cheerfully
by many citizens and organizations concerned for the im-
provement of our environment for youth.”

The contributions from the service clubs, Junior Chamber
of Commerce, American Legion, and Community Founda-
tions totaled $12,750, which was used to buy materials and
to pay for contract labor. The two-inch waterline was ex-
tended five hundred feet from the park main as the contri-
bution of a local contractor member of the committee. Vol-
unteer members of the plumbers’ union installed the plumb-
ing fixtures in the service building. The painters” union
finished all the exterior woodwork and painted the interior
of the service building, using materials donated by the paint
and supply dealers. The outstanding labor contribution was
six hundred man-hours on construction furnished by mem-
bers of the Exchange Club. They dug the foundations, laid
the pumice blocks, and erected the roof rafters.

The committee considers the first year’s deve10pment as
the initial phase of a long-range plan in which the camping
facilities can be extended as use justifies and finances are
available. Now provided are four Adirondack shelters, a
dining-cooking pavilion, and the service building. The shel-
ters, as the name indicates, have one side open and are ori-
ented to provide protection from the wind, rain, or snow.

The kitchen and dining pavilion are centrally located.
The concrete floor space is enclosed by a low wall which is
capped by a parapet that serves as a seat. The tables are
four feet square with space for eight campers. The diagonal

Hi-Y chefs prepare their eats. Since official opening
in 1954 some seventy-five youth groups or organiza-
tions have been listed among the many camp visitors.

 

braces of the table legs, placed one foot above the floor,
provide a shelf convenient for storing hats, cameras, and
other duffel during a meal.

The cooking units, or stoves, have top cooking surfaces
22 by 44 inches, and independently-fired baking or barbecu-
ing ovens 16 by 16 by 40 inches. The fire chambers for the
surface and oven units are connected to separate chimneys
with damper controls and may be used independently. The
ovens are operated on the principle of the adobe bake-ovens
found in the Indian pueblos along the Rio Grande River, as
they are preheated by fires built about an hour in advance
and the cooking done by the stored residual heat. Bread,
pastries, potatoes, apples, and meats may be cooked per-
fectly in this way. These stoves in the dining pavilion, also
the one in the Rotary shelter, were improvised from artificial
ice freezer cans. They are mounted upon bases of firebrick.

The winterized service building has every facility for
“clean-ups” which are as important as satisfying food for
the campers. This heated building, with duplicate equip-
ment on opposite sides for boys and girls, provides a supply
of hot and cold water for lavatory sinks and shower baths
which can be maintained all the year around. Adequate
toilet facilities are likewise available at all times. Bottled
gas is used to heat the building and as fuel for the water
heater. A telephone is located near the service building, and
electricity for lighting all the buildings is provided by the
city from nearby power lines.

The activity area and woodlot is located adjacent to the
kitchen. Sections of logs imbedded in the ground and sur-
rounded by seats of smaller sections afford tables for hand-
craft projects, letter writing, notebook work, or table games.
Here also is plenty of material for the whittlers and wood-
carvers as well as for the kitchen firewood supply, which is
kept replenished by the park department from dead trees
removed from city property. The campers assigned to split-
ting the trunks and branches for firewood usually compete
with zeal in this activity.

Applications for “use permits” are made to the Colorado
Springs Park Department, and the responsibility for making
space assignments and enforcing the regulations is assigned
to the Palmer Park caretaker who said, in reporting the
record for the first season, “The groups using the camp have

Bunks in each shelter can accommo- ~ .
date ten or twelve campers, are filled .9,
with clean sand. Floors are concrete.

3" “""' \

Shelters equipped with cooking units
are much in demand for winter camping
and, in particular, for scout patrol use.

.1“. 4'

r - 1.
Q r I '
I I l I

‘.

 

been very cooperative in cleaning up. It is estimated that
they do seventy-five per cent of the general clean-up in the
camp and immediate area, and the remaining twenty-five per
cent is done by the park caretaker.”

Since February 14, 1954 when the camp was officially pre-
sented to the park department, seventy-five youth organi-
zations or groups have been guests there. Included in the

list kept by the park superintendent, Willard Russell, were
the local Boy and Girl Scouts, the YMCA Hi-Y Clubs,

YWCA Y-Teens, Boys’ Club, groups from the Salvation
Army and the Colorado School for the Deaf and Blind, and

also various church and neighborhood groups. In addition
to visiting Scouts, there were the Normal Girls of Wiscon-
sin, tour parties of the See America First organization, and
the Future Farmers of America. Altogether twenty-two
states were represented and 1,949 individual campers were
listed in the use permits. More than half the number re-
quested permission to remain three or four nights in order
to visit the scenic points of interest in the Pikes Peak region.
The camp development, with many services donated and
material purchased at cost, was achieved with a financial
expenditure of $12,654.56. The plan proposed by the camp
committee to clear a small indebtedness and provide funds
for the development of additional facilities as need arises,
calls for annual contributions from the service clubs and
civic organizations pledged to support this youth project.
The committee was gratified to receive an evaluation of
the camp from Arthur Todd, field representative for the
National Recreation Association, in which he said, “The
camp represents an extremely useful and desirable service
by the community to its own youth and the young people of
other states and communities. Organized youth groups of
all kinds find here the facilities that they require, arranged
in such a way that they can enjoy the greatest satisfaction
of outdoor living. The provision of these facilities requir-
ing only custodial care makes possible this excellent serv-

ice at a minimum cost. . . . The financing of the camp by‘

service clubs and other'organizations is most commendable.
It is difficult to conceive of any projects or expenditure of
funds that would give more satisfaction to those who have
shared in it or would be a greater investment in the future

of the community.” w

   
  
 
  

_ The cooking unit in Rotary shelter is
similar to those in dining pavilion. All
are enclosed, wood-burning, have ovens.

.- rap—

    

Artsst Ora ts Are Terri is Sussess

How a dramatic hobby school, set up by the city recre-
ation department, adds charm to St. Petersburg, Florida

0 ELABORATE festivals are needed to
N entertain visitors in St. Petersburg.
Art for fun, and not “for art’s sake,” has
taken over. The community has observ-
ed that the average tourist of modest
means can become bored quickly, and
that people who have retired need a pur-
pose in life; and it has proceeded to do
something about these facts.

This civic attitude has resulted ,in a
new and exciting activity. Hundreds of
men and women, many of them elderly,
are discovering fun, satisfaction, and
social contacts every week in fifty dif-
ferent class groups in arts and crafts.

The St. Petersburg Recreation De-
partment Adult Arts and Crafts Center
was established April, 1952. It has
grown by leaps and bounds and has
been moved to larger quarters for the
third time. Since November, 1954, it
has formed the foundation of “The Sun-
shine University,” located at the city’s
old Maritime Base, formerly a Marine
training station.

There is always much in crafts to
keep one mentally alive. It is stimulat-
ing to eXperiment with new materials
and create new uses for old materials.
Every day craftsmen and “will-be”
craftsmen of the adult group find out
that this is a very important aspect of
keeping mentally ,fit. This busy, happy
center fills a need, gives these people a
feeling of personal growth. They be-
come more interesting to themselves
and thus to others.

The staff of the center report wonder-
ful development among the elderly
craftsmen, of coordination of mind-and
muscle and relaxed working procedures
which make their work a lot of fun.

 

MARY E. L. SAWYER is senior supervisor
of recreation in St. Petersburg, Florida.

JUNE 1955

 

 

Proud craftsman at hobby school
shows technique of “throwing the
wheel,” a satisfying and glamorous
part of the art of pottery-making.

The classes are taught advanced pro-
cedures and techniques in loom weav-
ing, woodworking, basketry, ceramics
and pottery, art in metal,‘enamel on
copper, leather work, puppets and mar-
ionettes, and doll making. Advanced
work is also promoted in the art groups:
painting in oils, water color, pastels,
and in the sculpturing group. A center
of this type must be set up to encourage
the creative and social recreation phases
Then the rewards
are twofold—for participants and for

of such activities.

the recreation department. Each re-
ceives satisfaction in giving and in re-
ceiving.

Going through the arts and crafts di-
vision, which is housed in the adminis-
tration buildings of the old base on
Tampa Bay, next door to the U.S. Coast
Guard, one sees subjects for the artists
to paint close at hand—boats, docks,
landed buoys, and many waterfront

Mary E. L. Sawyer

activities, all colorful and stimulating.

The Weavers Guild, consisting of a
large group of elderly ladies, takes up
a huge room, with forty looms. Some
of these weavers took up the craft as a
profession. years ago; others took it up
as a hobby. They all say that they were
attracted primarily by its soothing re-
laxing aspects. Early American pat-
terns from coverlets are reproduced on
the 24-6-8-harness looms. One weaver
makes unbelievable patterns On a 34-
harness loom. New and original de-
signs areqconstantly being made up for
group use. They invent new uses for
metallic gold, silver, and bronze nylon
threads in weaving stoles, evening wear,
and purses.

Have you ever heard the “Weaver’s
Rhythmic Song”? 0n the wall of the
weavers” room is a plaque with these
words: “One—throw and catch; two—-
firmly beat; three—hold the beater;
four—change the feet.” New weavers
are supposed to chant these four steps
to make a weave right.

“One evening last winter,” said the
director, “I was at the far end of the
building from the weavers’ room. I
could hear the weavers at work on their
looms; it was a very homey and indus-
trious sound, pleasing and rhythmic.
It was the sound of the craftsman at
work. A.

“I have gone into the center and
heard the beating on metal, perhaps
loud and disturbing, but to the other
craftsmen intent on their own work in
other rooms, this noise meant the mak-
ing of beautiful handwrought bowls,
cups, trays, jewelry, and pieces of cop-
per to enamel.

“In a sunlit room a group of forty
elderly men and women were painting
in oils. I watched a lady of seventy

273

  

. ‘. I
. ,4. , - - ‘ 1"
13.: ‘U I ‘6‘? 3":
1 “, ‘~

    

          
  

   
   

   
 
   

Z i ‘ *» J‘W '-"" .‘V“'*“ "
   a.  
4 ‘ ~ . 3%" gr, ; .I 1’ I: w
 r (“it ‘v g. was ‘12».
*’ t . I- h J,  “‘ ‘ ~65“

. » t f t

, ,7 a ;

 
 
 
    
 
 
 

.J‘ a" ’"
m

” ski-"’9‘ 3“
5f

in
n

     
  
 

   

    
      

. f i v , ’5
.'g‘i'?‘i€x “3* N". "3%,
,r ,V w? “:34.-  oi ~ xiii.)
._ .m  ~.: . .  n
I ' %'§#Jh.r in“: «3.3.-  JB‘W- $515!» 

 
 
   

A. -

 
    
 

   
 

Headquarters at old maritime training station provides ideal
scenes for outdoor painters: boats, docks, waterfront activity.

painting her first picture, a scene of the
lighthouse where she lived. I watched
a retired doctor intent on his work. He
said to me, ‘You know, this is wonder-
ful. I’ve always wanted to try this, but
never had the time or opportunity.’ I
stopped to watch another woman, hands
drawn with arthritis, making a pine-
needle tray, happy with her work, de-
lighted that her hands were working
again, and enjoying the social atmos-
phere with all the others around her.

“I edged my way into another room
to watch the excitement of these elderly
people taking pieces of enamel on cop-
per out of the kiln, amazed at the glazes
taking on brilliance as the pieces
cooled.”

These people have gone all out for
ceramics. Some of the reasons are the
excellent specialists in ceramics, the
opportunities to make something useful,
and to create something in a cool sooth-
ing medium. It has been estimated that
over 9,500 pieces have been completed
here in a year’s time.

The Adult Arts and Crafts Center is

Firing enamel on copper and silver is exciting and a source
of wonder at the high brilliance of the pieces as they cool.

.unique in its operation and conduct. A
registration membership fee of one dol-
lar per year is paid by each person en-
rolling in courses. The courses are set
up on a basis of four weeks, two classes
per week, for three dollars plus cost of
materials. The instructors receive two
dollars per person, and the one dollar
membership fee and other dollar from
the course fee go into the city’s funds
for operation, maintenance, and equip-
ment. Attendance averages one hundred

persons a day. The division is in oper-

ation daily, 9 :30 to 11:30, 2 :00 to 4:00,
and 7:30 to 9:30, Monday through Fri-
day. There have been as many as fifty
classes scheduled per week. Four full-
time workers and a maintenance man
are paid by the recreation department.
During the height of the season for visit-
ors, there are as many as thirty«two
instructors.

The instructors come to the center of
their own accord; but the requirements
are high. In addition to having back-
grounds of training and experience in
their field of arts and crafts, they must

like to teach techniques and procedures.
These fine instructors all believe that

this is a way of giving instead of re-

ceiving; and they also believe that they,
too, receive much beyond the twenty-

five cents per person compensation.

The department staff members are
amazed at the talent, experience, and
ability of these instructors. Among
them are: a retired silversmith from
England, who studied under old mas-
ters from boyhood, and who is famous
for the hand-wrought gold cup and
saucer he makes for an annual handi-
cap race in Canada; well-known art—
ists; retired businessmen, retired school
teachers and college professors; and re-
tired people who always worked in arts
and crafts as a profession or a hobby.
A few of the instructors are young
adults, well-trained and entirely inter-
ested in the arts and crafts division and
its interesting people.

An arts and crafts center is a place
offering the freedom to keep busy, it’s
a friendly place, it’s education on an in-
formal recreation basis. People help
each other. They enjoy working to-
They leave their
troubles behind them, or solve them

gether in groups.

here in doing constructive work and
what they most want to do with their
time. They are always proud to show
the results of their work. Compliments
and constructive criticism are offered
and accepted. Many have entered their
work in exhibitions and received recog-
nition and reward.

When one hears an elderly person
say with so much pride and satisfaction,
“Look what I made!” that’s enough re-
ward and reason for operating a golden-
aae arts and crafts center in anybody’s
town. on

One of the forty looms of the Weavers Quild. Constant ex-
periment creates original designs using new metallic threads.

 

Evening
Programs
in Camp

Gerald P. Burns

ANY A CAMPER will, in after years, look back upon his
M camp’ experience and recall the evening program with
pleasant memories. This particular time of day, just prior
to bedtime, presents an unusual opportunity for activities
quite different than those offered throughout the day. Their
strategic occurrence at the close of the day enshrines them
vividly in the impressionable minds of campers. The salient
features of evening programs are unlike those of the school,
the home, or the church. In fact, they provide a significant
adjunct to educational implications of total camp program.

General Principles. Varieties of the evening program are
endless but, like other activities of the camp, they require
alignment with the objectives of the total program. For ex-
ample, a short-term camp (one or two weeks) should favor
a different type than does a long-term camp, since programs
of prolonged and recurrent nature might easily consume
too great a proportion of the short-term camp period. How-
ever, the long-term camp (one or two months) profits by
stressing a continuous or connected program of related and
integrated evening activities. Then too, the nature of the
evening program must conform in general to the remainder
of the camp program. For example, if primitive living is the
core of the camp program and philosophy, then it should be
continued in the evening.

Certain general principles apply to the majority of eve-
ning programs despite their highly variable character. The
following are a few which are relative to all. Evening
programs should:

1. Taper off and prepare the camper for bed. PrOperly
planned they can work toward a quiet closing note that is
inducive to repose.

2. Be planned in the light of the total camp program; if
the day has been physically strenuous, the evening program
should be less active. It may also set the stage for coming
events and help dramatize various other aspects of the camp
program.

3. Be democratically planned. Impromptu or surprise
programs planned by the director, the staff, or the campers
are desirable at intervals, but all three should cooperate in

DR. BURNS, former executive director of the American
Camping Association, is now vice-chancellor of New York
University.

JUNE 1955

 

planning the greater part of the camp’s twilight activities.

4—. Provide opportunities for wide participation. One
method of achieving maximum participation is to schedule
the evening activities on the four functional levels or oper-
ating groupings of camp: the intimate living group of the
tent or cabin; that of several cabins or tents, usually of simi-
lar age groups; the interest or activity group; the total
camp, including all units and the complete staff. Here is a
spot for everyone to get into the act. Those proficient in
particular fields should have opportunity to shine, but not
dominate the limelight or deny opportunity to those less
gifted. It is at this point that the skillful counselor plays the
role of a diplomat-administrator in uncovering hidden tal-
ents, drawing out shy individuals, developing cooperative
undertakings, and promoting such matters as need the em-
phasis that evening programs provide.

5. Be as much outdoor-centered as possible. Various
phases, including pioneer living, Indian lore, and the like,
should be continuously stressed. The unique outdoor en-
vironment of the camp should be utilized, thus providing a
theme different from anything urban environment offers.

6. Be largely informal and simple in structure. Long
preparation for dramatic perfection can usurp so much time
as to preclude opportunities for participation in other more
desirable pursuits. Complex scenery and staging may be
questioned in most camps. Simple camp-constructed staging
usually has more personalized value than elaborate materi-
als imported from the city.

7. Provide opportunities for ingenuity and creativeness.
Few situations equal the camp in its facility to develop cre-
ative activities. The camp, incorporating all the elements
of a community and blending the various groups into a
structural entity, provides for improvisation and creativity.

8. Offer a wide variety of activities that include some
items of interest for every camper. The bounds of the im-
agination are the only limitations in the evening program
of the modern camp. As in the day’s activities, care must
be taken that balance is maintained. This balance concerns
itself with such matters as the length of the program, the
nature of the groups participating, the activity or passivity
involved, and the supplement it provides for the ongoing
theme of the total camp program.

9. Avoid embarrassing any person in camp. After the

275

 

strenuous program of the daylight hours, a more subdued
and friendly spirit is invoked at evening. Good natured fun
is encouraged, but horseplay that embarrasses or pokes fun
at any member of the camp should not be tolerated.

10. Utilize the best possible sites available. Many speci-
ally designated areas are better suited to evening and noc-
turnal activities than to daytime pursuits. The site, equip-
ment, and facilities should be as carefully chosen for eve-
ning programs as for their daytime counterparts.

Variety, the Spice of Program. The best entertainers un-
derstand that a show replete with a variety of acts gains
audience appreciation more readily than a presentation that
drags along on a single theme. Successful teachers know
that a curriculum rich in content and delivered by different
methods catches and holds the interest of pupils, thus per-
mitting rapid learning. Camp directors appreciate the un-
ending possibilities for variation and extension of the camp
program in the evenings. The long summer evening is look-
0 ed upon as a time for adding an appropriate climax, active
or passive, as a fitting supplement to the day’s activity.

Why do evening programs vary so markedly from their
daytime counterparts? There are several reasons. First,
dusk is falling and the quiet solitude of night is descending.
Many activities can be sponsored in the dusk that are im-
possible in the brightness of day. One illustration of this
is the magic that transforms the simple cooking fire of the
day into the symbolic campfire of the night. Then too, a
story of romance and adventure soars to unimagined heights
on the wings of darkness and mysterious night sounds.

A second reason for this difference lies in the particular
purpose of the evening program—to close the day on a high
level of participation. A friendly circle can be formed at
high noon, but in the twilight it is vastly more effective.
Square dancing is fun at any time, but always best in the
evening. Programs designed to supplement the day’s activi-
ties and send the campers to bed with new attitudes, deeper
insights, and wider understandings are a vital element in
the program of the modern camp.

Third, evening programs differ from daily activities in
that the former seek to develop that part of the camper’s
personality which is but lightly touched upon during the
day. Most of the morning and afternoon pursuits encourage
active and sometimes strenuous physical participation. In
contrast, the evening festivities are primarily directed along
mental and emotional lines; they form the more passive
portion of the camper’s waking hours. In the still of the
night, when mental attention and emotional focus are riveted
on a particular thought, deed, or plan, concentration occurs
and teachable moments present themselves. It-is in this
wonderful environment that maximum effort should be made
to present programs and activities of spiritual and moral
value.

Evening Programs as Supplement to a Full Day. In some
ways the evening is, and in some ways it is not, a definite
extension of the daily program. Activities of the twilight
hours are a part of the day’s program in that they continue
to some extent the theme of the day and help achieve desir-
able goals. Evening activities are not a true part of the day’s

276

activities in that their purpose, method of presentation, and
sometimes their content are quite different. One way of ex-
pressing their relationships is to say that evening activities
are supplementary to the activities of daylight hours.

Evening activities are supplementary also in that they
taper off the earlier activities. They provide opportunity
for putting across ideas not possible during the day. These
ideas may be as subtle as a parable or obvious as a general
administrative announcement. The evening is a time to sum
up the program that has gone before, to bestow recognition,
to answer questions, and to bring the day to a happy close.
As a proper conclusion is essential to a well-developed re-
port, so, too, is a well-devised evening program essential to
the smoothly functioning and expertly balanced program
of the modern camp.

Role of the Staff. The counselors and director should take
an active part in the various evening programs, The role
of the staff in the usual daytime program is to guide the
planning, render necessary leadership, and facilitate maxi-
mum participation by the campers. In the evening, the staff
participates with greater frequency in the actual program.

Sometimes campers desire—and with reason—to be en-
tertained at the close of the day. If such a desire is manifest
on occasion, there is no reason why the staff should not step
into a more active role by putting on a show, engaging in a
contest, or in other ways providing an interesting and en-
joyable finale to the day’s program.

Obviously, all evening programs should not be limited to
staff participation. The guiding principle here should be
that the evening program include the proper combination of
staff and campers to promote the best balance.

Planned and Unplanned. As in the case of the daytime
programs, a certain amount of spontaneous activity is desir-
able. There must be opportunity for the individual camper
to be on his own. There must be time for interaction be-
tween campers, not scheduled as a formal affair.

Sound planning allows for some unscheduled evenings.
This should be true on all three levels—cabin, unit, and
camp. If campers desire to change to a planned program on
a semispontaneous basis, this should be permitted. Capable
counselors and administrators recognize, in the unplanned
or spontaneous evening programs, a fruitful opportunity to
achieve important objectives, particularly on the mental,
emotional, and spiritual planes. '

Whether on a planned or unscheduled basis, the evening
offers an ideal time for a quiet “retreat” of small groups or
individuals. An extension of the retreat on a large scale
is the vespers program used by so many camps. Nature has
lavishly endowed most camps. There are few camps that
cannot find or develop a “natural cathedral” in which in-
spirational meetings can be held.

Among other types of evening activities are evening
singing, storytelling, games, campfire programs, nocturnal
nature activities, evening trips and excursions which include
star jaunts, moonlight walks, night-sounds trips, dark night
trips, evening cook-outs, and so on. w

Condensed and reprinted, with permission of publishers, from Pro-
gram Of The Modern Camp, by Dr. Gerald Burns. Copyright, 1954,
by Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Avenue, New York 11, New York.

RECREATION

m‘vn' _ 4

NEW Hallows
lll
CAMP FIRES

Justine Milgrom

Drawings by Harry Milgrom

HAT ARE THE ingredients for a successful campfire ex-
W perience? We all know what they are—--—camper partici-
pation, motivation, a well organized program, color, and
memorable dramatic highlights.

Last summer, we decided to utilize a modern theme in
keeping with the present-day interests of our youngsters;
so our high-point fire was based on “Space Adventures.”

Preparation began almost as soon as we arrived at camp.

MRS. MILGROM has been a crafts director at summer camps
for the past fifteen years, and has her own crafts studio
specializing in. jewelry and MR. MILGROM is supervisor of
science in the elementary schools in New Y ork City.

THE ROCKET SHIP
Mer‘u/vé'chm/-

    
   
  
   

8‘ 797.311 42/4!" W" 5 rang/'17
56679013  Jim/(hf all; 760%;
heavy/vow? o’r/Yka’ Aa/es.

f0 7%: dowel:
Klom
2/ in citing/e;- poms/5 anhca’al
[25 /b - r 119 60/: 7520761" A7

’--—--—-—I—-—

Mr Maren/'7‘:
beard 7"”:5.

40/1,.

5'51.

73%: as he" 3’;

C I? 119/“ It? a _

I?” 
rant-37' 4/0»:th (ca/07233.

JUNE 1955 v

A number of boys were recruited to work on what we mys-
teriously called “Operation Z.” This involved the construc-
tion of a very large model rocketship capable of housing a 
child. It was so built that it later became a piece of perma-
nent play equipment. The entire project was considered a
top secret known only to those involved. It aroused a great
deal of speculation and interest.

The ship was completed about a week before the campfire
date. When the camp was otherwise occupied it was finally
assembled and made part of a space travel agency that was
set up on the main lawn. Each child came over and indicated
the planet he wished to visit. His name was entered on a
list. He operated the controls, flashed a message to the “cen-
tral dispatching office” on Mars and received a ticket for
his passage. The children were introduced to the “Lan-
guage of the Universe”—pig Latin to ordinary mortals.

A call went out to the campers for skits and songs suit-
able for the occasion. By this time the imaginations had been
so fired that a tremendous amount of original material was
forthcoming.

The crafts department with the cooperation of another
group of campers produced a space helmet for each child.

It was decided that a special word should be used to sig-
nify approval. One of the leaders wore an illuminated sign
on his chest with the letters ZYX. When the light flashed
on, the campers shouted “ZYX” instead of applauding. “The
Song of Space” was written to the tune of “The Marines’
Hymn.” All the youngsters learned it in advance and it
became the theme song.

THE SPACE HELMET

734‘? 0'2. wréé' w}: I}: pancake/d _
57%;: signed 76/“ Mama/aa/ Aradaze.

 

  
   
       
       
 

   

it? EH
:1" RECORDED FOR ALL TIME

A ND GEN ERATIONS TO com E
i’ THAT «—

" successmuir 'TOOK
PART IN A SPACE
* ADVENTUQE‘.

/ , ,__, .... --
//// W“ _ at

   

277

The Song of Space

From the good old earth we blast away,
On a journey bold and new.

As we zoom along, we shout and say,
“Outer space we’re coming through.”

Chorus

Hail to Venus, Pluto, and to Mars!

Hail to each Saturnian!

Hang the banners from the twinkling stars
For the Eight of the Earthman.

The ( camp name ) rocket travels straight
To each planet in its place.

Every space man soon will learn his fate
And the mysteries of solar space.

Chorus

Hail to Juppey, Merc, and Uranus!

Hail to all Neptuniersl

There are none who can compare with us,
For we’re space adventurers.

—Justine and Harry Milgrom

After dinner, on the night of the fire, each child got his
headdress and had pinned to his shoulders a towel which
served as a flowing space travel cape.

The actual program events followed:

0 At the bugle call all campers with their counselors as-
sembled at the flagpole.

o The head counselor announced that a messenger from
outer space was expected. At that moment, signals and swish-
ing noises went out over the public address system. The

messenger appeared running towards the group across the
fields. He carried a large beam light.

0 The messenger explained that he would lead the group

to the launching platform. (Campfire site where the rocket
ship was now set up.) All proceeded there by groups.

0 Campers were seated. They were introduced to the
“space guide” who eXplained their various travels.

o The fire had been built with a pathway of sparklers lead-
ing to it. The messenger lit the fire by placing a match to
the sparklers. When the last one burned to the end, the fire
burst into flames, blasting us off into Space.

0 The space guide went into a running commentary about
fastening safety belts, a description of outer space, traveling
speed, and so on. This was an opportunity to impart a bit
of scientific information.

0 En route the group sang its space theme song.

0 Venus was sighted. On it was seen a group of space girls.
The ship landed and the passengers were entertained by
one of the younger girls groups. They had written an origi-
nal story which they acted out using a narrator and panto-
mime action.

0 The ship took off again and sighted Pluto where a group
of boys entertained with an original song.

0 We then had some music on the guitar.

0 The space guide told a “Fantastic Story.”

0 Another grouP sang an original song.

0 The space guide sighted Saturn and went into a de-
scription of its rings. He announced that some of the Sa-
turnian rings were among us to be distributed. They turned
out to be doughnuts, the refreshments for the evening. At
this time, also, each child received a space certificate.

0 All sang taps in pig Latin and a happy evening ended. our

 

LEADERS!—
ADD NEW FUN

TO Y9!_I_R cam!

 

An easy to understand 144 page book
with 86 illustrations, teaching you how
to use a map and compass confidently

. and how to instruct others. There
are many suggestions for instructive
and fun exercises and games.

YOU GET WITH THIS BOOK:
0 A genuine topographic map (20 m. long)
e A Plastic practising compass

e A special practising protractor

e Post cards addressed to sources for
films, teaching aids, etc. n

ORDER YOUR COPY TODAY!

American Orienteering Service

       
   
      

 
 

      

I 220 Fifth Ave., New York I, N.Y. I
I Gentlemen: Please send me my copy at I
I "The Orienteering Handbook" I
I :1 Check (No H
I (O!
IEnclosed pease find D MD. for $2.00 pica“) I
I Name I
I Address___________________ I
I City ‘- Stole I
278

Recently revised by BARBARA ELLEN JOY .
books and pamphlets in the areas of

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

AGAIN AVAILABLE

“ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY

0N CAMPING"

. 36 PAGES, listing

Administration and Organization
Church Camping

General Camping Out and Woods Lore
Health, Safety, Sanitation

Leadership

Outdoor Cookery

Program Activities

School Camping

Standards ‘

50¢ - PER COPY - 50¢

AMERICAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION

343 So. Dearborn Street
Chicago 4, III.

WRITE FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF ALL ACA PUBLICATIONS

RECREATION

 

4"
.
I.

  Mr
t;  .‘rr- » 4

Playground leader Marcia Lane il—
lustrates effective use of the autoharp
which “anyone can play right off.”

HE AUTOHARP has solved a number

of the problems of music for play-
grounds in Colorado Springs, for it is a
portable, low-cost, adaptable instru-
ment easily played by a person who has
had no training in music.

Dating back several hundred years,
and well known in Europe, the auto-
harp has only recently been popularized
in this country and is just beginning to
be used in recreation activities. In ap-
pearance, it is similar to a zither, with
thirty-seven strings across a sounding
box; however, unlike the zither which
must be played by plucking strings (and
knowing which string to use), the auto-
harp has twelve chord bars, each let-
tered with the chord that it produces. In
order to get a perfect C-chord of three
octaves, the player simply presses down
on the C-chord bar and strums the
strings. It is small enough to carry
around, weighs less than eight pounds,
and rests on the table, or in the player’s
lap when being played.

The problem of what to use for a mu-
sical background, where a piano is not
available, came up at a recreation meet-

BETTY BURTON is activities supervisor
for Department of Parks and Recrea-
tion in Colorado Springs. Colorado.

JUNE 1955

Betty Burton

 

Use An AUTOHARP
on the Playground

ing in Denver; and Art Todd, Midwest
representative of the National Recre-
ation Association, told us about the
autoharp. Soon afterward, a local man,
Mr. diSessa, appeared at a club meeting,
using the instrument as an accompani-
ment for singing ballads. A talented
musician who plays the violin and piano
as well, he likes the autoharp for re-
laxation, and he showed us that it could
be played by anyone. The leaders were
interested, but somewhat skeptical about
their own ability. Finally a boys’ gym
teacher said, “Well, that’s all right for
you, but how do I go about trying to
play the thing?” Mr. diSessa showed
him how to hold the F-chord bar down
with one finger of one hand, and how to
strum the strings with the other, after
a COUple of tries the teacher accom-
panied “Old McDonald Had a Farm”
—with everyone singing. This piece
could be done with only the one chord.
After that, there were no more questions
about need for musical ability. The
meeting went overtime while everyone
experimented enthusiastically.

The first summer that we used the
autoharp (two years ago), we simply
took it out, at a scheduled time, to each
playground and started using it with
the singing. Since the chords are the
same as for guitars, we bought two
books of music for group singing which
were marked with letters corresponding
to the chord bars. With these it was
simple to know which chord to play.

We still felt, however, that we were
short of music activities on our four-

teen playgrounds. Last summer, there-
fore, we hired a specialist—a play-
ground leader with a background of
She introduced
rhythm bands, singing games, puppets,
and plays. Where youngsters had for-

music and drama.

merly been hesitant about singing, the
constant use of the autoharp has condi-
tioned them and they now sing out
happily.

Used with the tom-toms, bells, tri-
angles, sticks, and ocarinas in the
rhythm bands, the autoharp added the
much needed chords to tie the other in-
struments together. In the little plays
and puppet shows, it added sound ef-
fects and accompaniment.

To provide music for all the grounds,
we mimeographed a booklet of forty
common songs, double-Spaced with the
chord letter written above the words.
Youngsters and the leader also worked
out the chords for other songs.

Although there are twelve chord bars
on the harp, they provide eight chords
related to the key of C, eight related
to F, six related to G, and three main
chords in the keys of A and D minor.
A booklet which comes with the harp
contains instructions for playing it, a
few pieces to experiment on, informa-
tion on relation of chords and about
transposing from one key to another;
also a rack that fits onto the, instrument
to hold the music, felt_and plastic picks
(a rubber eraser works quite well, too),
and a key to tighten or loosen strings
for tuning. The instrument holds its
tuning well and is simple to tune by

279

 

checking with a piano. A person who
knows music can do a pretty good job
just by ear.

While the autoharp will produce
chords easily, that is not the limit of its
usefulness. With a little practice and
experimenting, the player soon learns
that full three-octave chords may be
played, or that only the bass strings may
be strummed for different effects, that
different rhythms can be worked out,
and that going up the strings and then
down provides an interesting result.
Also the strings are all labeled at one
end of the instrument so that it is pos-
sible to pick out one note alone.

One person may hold down the chord
bar, while a small child plucks the
strings, and a youngster seven years old
can learn to play the instrument alone.
I know this sounds too good to be true,
and readers will say, “There must be a

catch somewhere.” There is one small
one—a chord bar must be pressed down
to make a chord; strumming the instru-
ment without pressing a chord bar can
rapidly drive a leader crazy, so the in-
strument does need to be used by a
leader or with the leader’s supervision.
The cost of the autoharp will depend
on where you purchase it. Although it
is made in this country by only one
manufacturer and the name is copy-
righted by them, we found that a local
music store wanted thirty-five dollars
for the instrument, while the identical
instrument could be bought from Mont-
gomery Ward for $19.50 (that was two
years ago; the price is now $22.98) .
Our latest discovery about the auto-
harp is that, when used with a contact
microphone and amplifying set, it is
loud enough to provide background for
singing for a room of fifty people. We

have bought the contact mike and are
planning to make arrangements so that
an amplifying set and battery can be
carried in the department car for use
on playgrounds with no electrical out-
lets. This adds to the equipment being
carried around, but it also increases the
use of the harp and is not much trouble
since the amplifying equipment does not
have to be taken out of the car. The
first time that I heard the autoharp am-
plified, I was astounded at the similar-
ity in sound to that of a large harp, and
the excellent tone of the music.

Since most of our playgrounds have
limited storage space, and none of them
have a piano available, and since most
playground leaders are not accomplish-
ed musicians, this instrument has really
given pur playground program a boost
and helped music to have a real place
among our activities. cw

The Enchanted World of (Dubai-Doors

Dorothy Edwards Shuttlesworth

The out of doors is a world of wonder to children. Every-
where lie possibilities for discovery and adventure; and to
a child Whose parents explore with him, these possibilities
may be richly fulfilled. Happily, nature exploring does not
necessitate a trek to Mongolian deserts or to African jun-
gles; it can take place in your own backyard, or in a city
park. It can add zest to a hike in the country and provide

endless activity during vacations near woodland, lake, or
seashore.

Children are curious as to why stars disappear in the day-
time and what makes rain. They wonder how birds fly, why
tree foliage changes color and how flowers make seeds.
Their inquisitive and eager minds are always ready to in-
vestigate the ways of animals and the wonders of plants. The
parent who does not guide his own child along nature’s

ways misses a priceless opportunity. Shared adventures of .

discovery bring parents and children closer together, and
they can develop a bond that will remain strong through-
out a lifetime.

There is no set pattern to be followed for nature exPlor-
ing. Children are individual in their approach to nature’s
activities. Basically, however, a sure way to further a child’s
love of nature is for parents themselves to be aware of
natural wonders, to encourage youthful inquisitiveness as
to why animals, plants, and the elements behave as they do,
and to provide some opportunity for the child to satisfy his
curiosity as it is aroused.

“Exploring” may consist of as simple a pastime as watch-
ing a spider manufacture its silken trap or a squirrel board
a nut by burying it underground. On the other hand, it may
lead into absorbing hobbies. But whether the explorations

280

are merely observations shared and talked over or extensive
activities, they provide a lively and very real basis for com-
panionship between you and your children.

One delightful, yet extremely simple, hobby is attracting
birds to your home. In winter, the most effective lure for
them is a feeding station. When usual food supplies are
scarce, your feeding station may not only be a source of
pleasure to your family, but may help birds survive.

Many children are fascinated by insects. Of all these six-
legged creatures, perhaps top place of interest is held by
ants. There is almost never a problem in finding them dur-
ing mild seasons of the year—they flourish about city pave-
ments as well as in pastures and forests.

Tracking animals is a perfect hobby to enjoy with a child
whose sleuthing instincts are strong. When a walk takes
you near marshy mud or soft river banks or you hike across
snowy fields, you will discover tracks of animals that were
in those places before you. What kind were they? Were
they hunting for food or running for their lives?

Pressing flowers, feeding birds, tracking animals, and a
vast variety of other nature exploring activities may seem
no more than pleasant pastimes. But they scrve a far deeper
purpose. As a child becomes acquainted with the ways of
nature—with the harmony that exists between all living
things so long as man does not disturb them—he gains a
sense of inner security. As he matures, something of this
understanding may give him perspective and faith when he
comes to face the problems of this anxious world. And par-
ents who give their children a love of nature as a precious
heritage find themselves enriched in the proccss. ow

 

1;.—

Excerpted with permission from Parents Magazine, April 1954 issue.

RECREATION

 

IT WAS LATE in Concord’s 1954 play-
ground season and time to plan our
“top-them-all” special event. In talking
over some of the possibilities, our rec-
reation director, Don Sinn, casually
suggested a “Peanut Carnival.”

At first thought, it sounded like a
silly idea but the more I questioned the
implications of such an event, the better
it sounded. This led to a quick confer-
ence with my co-worker, the girls’ play-
ground director, Lucille Lord; we both
agreed that it held promise, and began
to formulate plans.

The general idea was to hold a Coney
Island type of carnival, using peanuts
as the medium of exchange. Admittance
would be a five-cent bag of peanuts,
sold at the gate. The peanuts would
then be used as “money” to visit the
side shows and other attractions, and
play the various games of skill, winning
peanuts in return if they were success-
ful. Operators of the concessions would
be allowed to keep the peanuts collected
in operating their booths.

The next step was to sell the idea to
the children and arouse their interest.

Author DAVID SAYWARD and Lucille
Lord are both school teachers who were
playground directors at White Park,
Concord, New Hampshire. Donald F.
Sinn is director of the Concord Depart-
ment of Recreation and Parks.

JUNE 1955

David Sayward

The initial reaction was somewhat luke-
warm. Mrs. Lord and I had to outline
details, not quite sure ourselves just
what it was all about. Seeds of interest
were sown among the more active play-
ground participants, and the idea buzz-
ed around the park for several days.
Meanwhile, a general story in the news-
paper and on the local radio spread the
idea and set children thinking.

We, the playground directors, soon
found ourselves all wrapped up in the
project. We drew up more specific plans,
including use of the floodlighted out-
door park hockey area for the site, a
“floor plan” for the booths, and eye-
catching posters urging boys and girls
to sign up for a space to build a booth.
Increased activity in the woodworking
shop soon gave evidence that the idea
was catching on. Questions came from
all directions. Certain self-styled play-
ground “toughies,” who had scoffed at
the sissy idea of the Peanut Carnival,
got more curious by the day and were
soon inquiring, “Could we have a

booth?”
were given suggestions to mull over and

Less enterprising children

an idea or two as to how a booth might
be handled.

As enthusiasm spread and we lost

- some of our apprehension about plan-

ning such an event, the recreation di-
rector put new ideas into our heads,
including inviting Clarence Huggins,

 

local auto dealer and collector of an-

tique vehicles, to offer rides around the
park in his ancient Arhens-Fox fire-
truck which he had purchased from the
city fire department as a collector’s
item. Another idea was having gondola
rides around the park duckpond—using
a rowboat on loan from the state fish
and game department, with a member
of the park maintenance crew as a gui-
tar-playing gondolier. One of the city’s
prominent husband-and-wife drama
teams, Mr. and Mrs. Winslow Osborne,
were invited to play their well-known
“Swami and the Princess” fortune-tell-
ing act in a tent set up on the midway
for that purpose. As a climax to the
carnival, a marshmallow roast, followed
by a family folk and square dance on
the asphalt multiple-use court nearby
under colored lights, was arranged. The
Peanut Carnival idea was now growing
like wildfire.

In the days following, orange crates,
mattress cartons, bailing wire, tin cans,
crepe paper, paint, and rope were at a
premium. In cellars and garages
throughout the city, busy little carpen-
ters were taxing dad’s experience (and
sometimes -his patience) in.fabricating
novel booths and sideshows to enter in
the contest for the best booths, for
which simple prizes were offered.

The more difficult lighting and sound
arrangements puzzled us until we ap-

281

, tact—PEANIES”

 

The facts of supply and demand, learned
in a realistic setting, did not stand in
the path of a rousing good time for all.

proached the department maintenance
supervisor, “Pat” Lachance. He eased
our minds with sketches of how his crew
could handle floodlighting, sound sys-
tem, and crowd control.

We found it hard to estimate the
quantity of peanuts to order. We were
operating on a shoestring budget and
finally decided that twenty pounds
would be about right. The wholesale
dealer agreed to reimburse us for left-
over peanuts from the minimum-sized
eighty-five-pound bag we had to buy.

Finally came the big day, a Friday.
Soon after breakfast, boys and girls
were hard at work at their assigned
areas hammering, sawing, painting and
digging. From all parts of the city came
boxes, barrels, signs, wagons, and partly
finished booths. The hockey rink area
took on the appearance of Ringling
Brothers Circus erecting the big top.
Even at that late hour, new booths were
being assigned as timid boys and girls
could contain their ambition no longer
and feverishly made plans for building
their own concessions. Late in the after-
noon Mrs. Lord and I finished bagging
the twenty pounds of peanuts, answered

282

a “thousand” questions, checked on last-
minute details, and finally went home
for a nervous bite of supper prior to the
announced starting time of 6:30 P.M.

At six o’clock, a line of men, women,
and children waited at the gate to buy
their tickets of admission—the five-cent
bags of peanuts. In ten minutes, we
were sold out and all available hands
hastily ran to the park administration
building to bag more peanuts. As fast
as runners could carry them to the gate
we were sold out. Next, we ran out of
paper bags. Three cars headed for stores
to beg more bags—with success.

And still we sold peanuts. To our
amazement, we soon ran out of them—
all eighty-five pounds were sold. A
maintenance man knew a wholesaler
and made one of the fastest purchases
of sixty pounds of peanuts ever known.
Meanwhile, the children operating the
booths, knowing about the shortage, of-
fered the peanuts they had received
from patrons, to keep things humming.
These were accepted gratefully on loan,
with a promise to repay them next day.

Inside the Peanut Carnival every-
thing was going fine. For their five-cent
bags of peanuts, mom, dad, and the kids
could spill the milk, putt a golf ball, hit
a tin can, toss darts, guess how many
beans, see a live alligator or a two-head-
ed girl (twin sisters in one dress), shoot
archery, toss rings, drive nails, drop
Clothespins, visit the Swami fortune-
teller, take a gondola ride—yes, and
even have a never-to-be-forgotten turn
on the firetruck, with sirens wailing and
bells clanging.

In the background, the department
amplifier was playing calliope music.
But, not to be outdone, one booth fur-
nished its own entertainment to draw
the crowd: an accordian player and a
girl vocalist. Barkers competed with
each other in style and volume.

As play continued—with strangers,
local parents, and children all joining
in the spirit of the affair—signs adver-
tising “peanut prices” began to change.
In some instances the price of playing a
game was too low, the game too easy,
and the proprietor found himself or her-
self going bankrupt. On the other hand,
when the game was found to be difficult
and the price of peanuts too high, bark-
ers would quickly make the rules easier,

cut the rates, to prevent being priced
“out of the market.” Wonderful lessons
of supply and demand were being learn-
ed in a realistic setting. But, above the
business end of it all, a refreshing spirit
of sportsmanship prevailed. The chil-
dren proprietors were anxious to have
everyone patronize their booth and
rarely let lack of peanuts stand in the
way as fun for all prevailed as the theme
of the evening.

The fruit juice refreshment stand
operated by an eight-year-old girl did
a sellout business, and then shifted to
marshmallows as the scheduled roast
was already overdue. with all booths
still going strong. A bonfire nearby at-
tracted fathers and mothers who were
expected to help their children toast
marshmallows. Soon, these were sold
out, and the scene shifted to the dancing
area. Within minutes, several hundred
people were whirling to the call of Paul
Frost, local square dance caller, who
had singing games, circle and square
dances for all. Under the stars and the
colored lights, a gay ending was pro-
vided for the Peanut Carnival. As danc-
ers heard the strains of “Goodnight,
Ladies,” the gondolier and rower could
be seen down on the pond wearily trying
to take care of their last few customers.
The antique firetruck hauled its last
load and the Swami and Princess closed
up shop for the season. Concord’s first

Peanut Carnival was over.

From the playground directorsa point
of View, this was an interesting and
worthwhile experience. The affair was
almost completely conducted by the
children who planned, constructed, and
operated their carnival booths and side-
shows. What better motivation in the
use of tools, design, decorating, busi-
ness, promotion and advertising could
be found? We knew where the credit
for the success lay—with the enthusi-
astic boys and girls who pitched in with
typical American‘ initiative and ingenu-
ity. Mrs. Lord and I went to our re-
spective homes that night thoroughly
exhausted. But could you blame us for
having a warm feeling of satisfaction
in knowing that our playground leader-
ship had stimulated the best qualitics
in our children of today, the citizens of
tomorrow, resulting in their own pri-
vate enterprise—a Peanut Carnival? cw

RECREATION

 

HowTo Do lT.” b 

ENAMELlNG ON COPPER ~ EARRiNes AND PINS.

MATERlALS ~

Kiln — inexpensive kilns are available at
COpper— Band 20 qauqe f Cleaner r
Sleel Wool- medium :c Traqacanl'h r
Earring Backs 2* Household Cemenlf
Brush or A‘l’omiger r Wood alcohol-F
Three or more 2o3. bol‘lles of”
Opaque and ’l‘ran5parenl' enamels 5
Paper Towels #5 Tin Snips F Files 7‘
Brass wire screen, 80 mesh.

 

   
    
   

l. Cull copper plale desired shape.

3.5praq or painl’on ’l’raqacaMh . , '
ll/ofé: Fayacanfh so/w‘ibn—l feaspoon

2.File edges and clean Surlace.

 4.Place spraqed copper on paper

’15:.“V’rbwel- dust on even coa‘l‘ o-i-

 
   

      
 

of powdered Wed/21V? aqa’ / 161549300027 dark enamel. En amex‘

of wood alcohol I?) Quart/0r, ska/re and Dusk; nq screen. P

dissolve, fW/jar wr'f/I wafer and shake.  T232?“

- /-~ N H ld ' m "l l
5qu 'lhorouthq and ngégl , ,_. //
'l'hen place in kiln . posil'ion  ‘ -
Nofe: #1717 is prewbas/q when spraginq . " ' ' 
C0pper sha

beefed 7‘0 /650 V:- and
heal!" held '/6 £550 ‘76 #507?

Average 76mg 76m 22% Jib/hw/Ps.

Q

 

6.\l/hen fullq Jfirecl remove from kiln ~cool slowqunamel looks mirrorlike when ’F'ired.

7Clean 'lhorouthq and Spraq. 8. Place on paper lowel and dusl’ on second

A ~ A coal' ofenamel ~ use lighl’ opaque color.
Q.qu litre clean as before . We: 75,3 min may be dysfea/egm/y ore/-
 QCh earring bQCk surface or p/acea’ I}? cerv’a/h area-5.

or pin back wil'ln «c  

Wane I‘n cenfer

 
    
 
  

1 .
household eme ‘ of bane of
    ‘*  edema/ea! . ’
\ I H°useh°l°l  Earrin Back ' rag; as; e
Cement  q ' " y'

JUNE 1955 283

“WALK-TO” POOLS
Are Worth a Million

The Cleveland Experiment

MORE THAN 400,000 Cleveland children swam, splashed,
and floated in style last summer when city ofhcials in
the Ohio metropolis did something without precedent in
municipal affairs—simultaneously opened ten new ultra-
modern neighborhood swimming pools. Their cost: one
million dollars.

When one takes into consideration that Cleveland lies
smack on Lake Erie, one of the world’s largest land-locked
bodies of water, where nice sandy beaches sprawl for miles,
one’s first comment is likely to be an amazed, “WOW!”
But before jumping to any hasty conclusions, take a look
at the facts.

First of all, Lake Erie may be beautiful to behold, but its
water has been polluted by waste and refuse from hun-
dreds of industrial plants and raw sewage from scores of
little cities that rim the shore near Cleveland. Second, it
would be impossible to guard the many miles of shoreline
where Clevelanders are tempted to go to beat the hot-
weather crowds. Third, even if the water were clean and
guardable, there would always be the problem of transport-
ing small children to it. Mom and dad are much too busy to
trot off to the lake during the heat of the day. (The tem-
perature hit the 90’s twenty-two times last year.)

The answer to all this proved to be a simple, if quite
daring, municipal project. Under the direction of recrea-

WILLIAM A. SILVERMAN, JR., was formerly a reporter for
the Cleveland News, is now in Seoul, Korea, completing two
years of military service.

William A. Silverman, Jr.

tion commissioner John S. Nagy,'the city constructed ten
neighborhood, or walk-to, pools. There were placed in the
hearts of various neighborhoods, practically in the back
yards of thousands of children who previously never had a
chance to swim.

Area residents can reach them simply by walking to them
in their bathing suits—so strategically are they located.
For the first time, therefore, more people used city pools
than nearby Lake Erie. With ten new additions, the city
now has sixteen pools.

Drownings in Cuyahoga County'were slashed in half, not
one was recorded at the pools. A total of 434,249 used the
new pools, scorning the beaches. Beach attendance dropped
from 791,850 the year before to 362,630, while pool at-
tendance swelled from 291,515 to 620,228. In all, Cleve-

land’s pool and beaches served more than a million during
the summer.

Another boon afforded by the new pools was noted in the
jump in numbers of those who learned to swim. Attend-
ance at free swimming classes doubled, leaping from the
previous year’s 23,507 to 53,183. One of the new pools,
located at Halloran Park, instructed close to 10,000 young-
sters in the three-month period. The classes were held Mon-
day through Friday from nine until noon. All pools re-
mained open until nine in the evening.

Costing $100,000 each—a real bargain, the small fry will
tell you—these modern seventy-five- by forty-two-foot pools
have a depth range of three to five feet. Done in colorful
pastel shades of green and brown, each pool is adjoined

Life Saving. This, as well as swimming, was taught free to 53,183 youngsters last summer at
Cleveland’s sixteen poolsmwhich include ten new ultra-modern ones. These new “walk-to” pools
rocketed the attendance at swimming classes 29,676 over the previous year’s high, cut drownings.

 

 

Ready for Business. Brand new Puritas Pool is filled

for the first time. Each of these “neighborhood” pools
cost $100,000, measures 75 by 42 feet, has a depth

range of three to live feet. In the background are facili-
ties, for taking showers plus a first-aid room. Note the
Space at sides of the pool, ample room for sunbaskers.

by a first-aid room, twelve showers (six for the boys and
six for the girls), bicycle racks, and plenty of space around
the pool’s edge for the sunbathers.

But the real beauty of the pools lies in the fact that the
water level, chlorine count, and the water’s purity is kept
constant around the clock without the lifting of a single
finger. Beneath each of the pools is a compact little mechan-
ical pixie that does everything to the 97,000 gallons of
water. The huge turnover of swimmers constantly lowers
the chlorine count, their suits absorbing much of it. How-
ever, says Jack Pearl, pool and beaches supervisor, “The
automatic Slurry feeder pump,~ never allows the chlorine
count to drop below .6 parts per million. The state specifies
a minimum requirement of from .4 to .6 parts per million.

“ ‘Pur 0 Cell’ filters, using diatamaceous earth in place
of the sand filter method, checks impurities practically be-
fore they start. The water is changed constantly. Pumping
375 gallons a minute, a sparkling fresh 97,000 gallons is
pumped into the pool every four hours. When the sun and
absorbent bathing suits lower the water level So much as
an inch, a sump-type drain pump goes into action and fills
the void.”

The fenced-in patio around the pool takes up an area of

No Help Wanted! This bit of machinery does everything
necessary to the 97,000 gallons of water the pools hold.
Chlorine count, water level, and the water’s purity are
maintained around the clock without a single finger ever
being lifted. Tank on left is chlorinator. Large tank in
the foreground mixes the water, maintains water level.

102 to 180 feet, plenty of space for three hundred children
to romp in safety. The pools are eSpecially appreciated by
the mothers who can stop worrying about where junior is,
and whether or not he’ll be home for lunch. (The pools close
from noon to one.) “If we didn’t close,” laughed one of
the guards, “I think most of those kids wouldn’t even go
home to eat.”

Anxious to keep the slate clean, foot and body inspections
were held by officials who were extra careful and didn’t
allow children with suspicious looking rashes or suspected
cases of athlete’s foot to use the pools (3,043 were rejected,
forty-two of them later returned with notes from their doc-
tors giving them clean bills of health). Only sixty-eight
accidents serious enough to warrant the services of a physi-
cian occurred at the pools, and the greater majority of these
cases were treated and released on the spot.

Looking at the complete picture, Commissioner Nagy
says: “We now have five of these new pools on both the east
and west side. After only one season, it is obvious that they
are the answer to one of the most pressing problems every
large city faces—how to keep children off the streets when
school’s out. _I feel that many other cities could benefit
from the Cleveland experiment.” on

 

News of Affiliated Societies“

The Illinois Recreation Association
has thoughtfully included in its Pro-
ceedings of the Annual Meeting (held
November 1954) a list and abstracts of
recent graduate recreation theses com-
pleted at the University of Illinois, thus
making available to its members valu-
able material that might not otherwise
be accessible. While many of the theses
pertain particularly to recreation in Il-
linois, others are national and even in-
ternational in scope. Of special interest

is “A Glossary of Selected Public Rec-
reation Terms.” The well-presented Pro-

 

*AHiliated for service with the National
Recreation Association.

JUNE 1955

ceedings were edited by Dr: Allan V.
Sapora, professor of recreation at the
University of Illinois, and Freda S.
Combs, conference chairman, and su-
pervisor of the playground and recrea-
tion department in Decatur, Illinois.
The Arizona Recreation Association
tackled the knotty problem of city-coun-
ty cooperation at its fifth annual confer-
ence (held in December 1954) . Experi-
ence indicates that county supervisors
usually feel they represent the less pop-
ulated areas of the county and the in-
corporated cities should take care of
their own responsibilities. However,
most of the tax money spent by county

supervisors comes from the more popu-
lated areas. The conference studied with
particular attention California’s recent-
ly enacted County Service Area Law.

The Wisconsin Recreation Associa-
tion, in its Bulletin for April 1, 1955,
offers an interesting article about color
in playgrounds, with suggestions for
painting specific pieces of equipment.
The association states that attractive
eye-appealing equipment makes an area
brighter and more cheerful, contributes
to safety, cuts down on vandalism, pre-
serves wood and metal, curtails litter
and trash being thrown about and pro-
motes neighborhood pride.

285

  
 

I I . . '-
nu.-
. . u . I.
O I . I '.

.

I

THE TIME-HONORED rituals of curtail-
ing athlete’s foot by wading through
antiseptic foot baths, dousing floors
with disinfectants, sterilizing bath mats,
towels, slippers, and socks may be well
and good for keeping areas in and
around swimming pools, gymnasiums,
and shower rooms clean. But as far as
killing off athlete’s foot is concerned,
they are as ineffective as sulphur and
molasses.
This, at least, is one expert medical
For the
months, a group of investigators at New

York University Post-Graduate Medi-
cal School have been exploring ways to

opinion. past twenty-two

wipe out that pesky fungus that feasts
on the toes. While their research, fi-
nanced by the Army, is only partially
completed, they have turned up some
heartening—- if not startling—news for
feet on the shower room floor.

For many years most everyone has
believed or been warned that athlete’s

This idea
that you “catch” the itching, burning

foot is highly contagious.

infection directly from another person’s
infected feet is behind the maze of reg-
ulations which city and state health de-
partments have set up to restrict the
spread of the disease. But the New York
University group and a number of other
dermatologists over the past twenty-five
years have never gone along with this
theory. In their opinion, flare-ups of
athlete’s foot rarely result from a new,
outside

infection. Almost everyone,

they believe, picks up the fungus in
childhood and, like the bacteria which

causes boils, it lives harmlessly on the

Reprinted with permission from Sports Il-
lustrated, November 1954.

286

B u falo.

skin for years. Only when an individ-
ual’s resistance ,becomes lowered can
the fungus, already on the feet, get a
toehold.

To prove the point, the New York
University team ran a series of tests on
more than one hundred doctors, nurses,
and technicians who served as guinea
pigs. In one experiment, they selected
a group of volunteers known to be free
of athlete’s foot fungi, then deliber-
ately tried to give them an acute infec-
tion. For thirty minutes the subjects
each bathed one foot in a pan of water
containing 100,000 times the amount of
fungi they could possibly pick up from
a shower room floor. Following this
exposure they were re-examined once
weekly. At the end of six weeks, the re-
searchers found that while moré than
half of the exposed feet harbored fungi,
not one had developed an infection.

From all the evidence collected, the
investigators have concluded, most of
the measures commonly used today to
prevent athlete’s foot are not only in-
effective but are potentially harmful

and should be discarded.

o It is useless to douse areas around
bathrooms, showers, and swimming
pools with fungicidal agents since there
is no proof whatsoever that these are
breeding grounds for the fungus. '
o It is equally useless to attempt to
sterilize shoes and socks. While they
may contain fungi, sterilization does
nothing to the feet, which continue to
carry the microbes. In fact, it is likely
to do more harm than good; chemicals
used in sterilizing may irritate the skin
to such an extent that dormant fungi
can stage a full-scale invasion.

Feet on the
2 Shower Room Floor

The latest study of athlete’s foot shows that
the rule book on how to prevent the pesky
fungus infection should be rewritten. This
report is based on a paper read before the
American Public Health Association, in

o It is naive to expect that wading for
a few seconds through a basin (if anti-
septic solution will help ward off the
disease. These stagnant, unhygienic
puddles should be abandoned.
0 There is no reason to exclude persons
with athlete’s foot from public facilities
since the relatively small number of
fungus particles they might drop is un-
likely to cause trouble.

What then can be done to guard
against athlete’s foot? Six suggestions:

1. Wear perforated shoes whenever
possible, to allow perspiration to evap-
orate. Moisture makes the skin between

 

the toes soggy and the chemical skin
reaction, normally acid, becomes neuv

Either of these condi-
tions lowers resistance to the fungus.

tral or alkaline.

2. Wear wool or cotton socks which
will absorb moisture, rather than nylon,
rayon or other nonabsorbing fabrics.

3. Regularly use a dry, mild foot
powder that contains a fatty acid.

4. Insert lamb’s wool between the
toes if the web of skin tends to be soft
and moist.

5. Carefully (lry feet and toes after
bathing and change footgear whenever
the socks and shoes become wet.

6. Use nonalkaline soapless deter-
gents when washing the feet rather than
ordinary toilet or other soap. one

RECREATION

 

Naming the
Recreation Area

Is it important to establish a pro-
cedure to guide city authorities?

THE QUESTION of suitable names for recreation and park
areas is of increasing concern to the executives and
others whose work is centered around these areas. Should
their names indicate their location, honor someone of local
or national importance, commemorate a person or family
notable for advancing local recreation—or simply be ap-
propriate and euphonious?

This problem was the subject of a letter sent to the Na-
tional Recreation Association by Walter L. Scott, director
of municipal and school recreation in Long Beach, Cali-
fornia. Mr. Scott eXpressed concern over the fact that no
standard procedure has been adopted to guide city authori-
ties in choosing names for the recreation areas under their
jurisdiction. He pointed out that these areas should have
meaningful names to which everyone can respond happily,
but that busy city officials seldom have time to give much
thought to their selection. He therefore asked whether a
study of beautiful or appealing names had even been made,
and if not, if a list of such names could be compiled.

As a result, query was sent in an Association newsletter
to recreation and park executives across the country asking
for a list of local recreation areas with particularly appro-
priate names. Considerable interest was shown by the fact
that replies were received from ninety-two cities, four coun-
ties, and other state agencies in thirty-five states, the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and Canada. Some replies consisted
merely of a list of park names, while others indicated how
or why the names were chosen; a few merely expressed
their opinion on the general problem of park nomenclature.

The most significant fact disclosed by the replies was that
very few municipalities seem to have any established policy
to guide them in the selection of appropriate or appealing
names, or any committee or other group specifically charged
with the responsibility for making suggestions or evaluat-
ing suggestions presented to them. This may explain why
recreation and park areas in many of the responding cities
bear a heterogeneous collection of names selected for vari-
ous reasons. Few cities have been able (and there was no
indication that many have attempted) to set up and adhere
to a city-wide pattern of nomenclature. .

Even though not all respondents indicated the significance
of the names they listed, all of the names mentioned seemed
to fall into one or another of the following six categories:

1. Names commemorating individuals.
2. Names honoring special groups.

3. Names indicating location.

4. Names indicating scenic features.
5. Names with historical significance.
6. Names with special connotations.

JUNE 1955

(The list of names sent in can be provided to interested
readers requesting it.—Ed.)

Policies for Selecting Park Names

The Park Naming Committee of the Chicago Park Dis-
trict has drawn up the following policy statement:

1. The names of local communities shall be given prefer-
ence in the naming of parks, except where the public might
confuse such a name with the name of the community itself
or with that of another park.

2. When the name of a neighborhood or a public insti-
tution within a community has gained a city-wide distinc-
tion, then such a name may also be considered as a name for
a park serving that neighborhood.

3. When an individual of a neighborhood or a commu-
nity retains, even after his demise, a reputation for out-
standing contributions not only to his local community but
to city-wide welfare, then his or her name, if not represent-
ing merely sectarian or sectional interests, may also be con-
sidered as a name for a park.

4. Names of persons who have made outstanding contri-
butions to the welfare of the city or nation should likewise
be considered for park names, but without limits as to their
dwelling places.

5. The naming of a park for any individual shall be con-
sidered only after he is deceased.

Before the committee arrived at these suggested formula-
tions of policy, it first undertook an extended study of how
the parks now in the system were named in the past.

The Special Committee on Nomenclature of the Minne-
apolis Board of Park Commissioners recommended the adop-
tion of this policy:

In the naming of city streets, the city council has perpetu-
ated the names of the presidents of the United States, of ex-
plorers of local importance as well as international fame,
of statesmen, men of science and the arts of world-wide im-
portance; and the board of education in the naming of its
schools has honored famous men and women in the field of
arts, literature and science, statesmen and heroes, all of
which the committee believes to be most commendable.

Some official body should lay particular emphasis on per-
petuating legendary and place names of local significance
and the names of those of our own citizens who from time
to time have played important parts in the molding of our
city—its physical structure, its artistic and spiritual back-
ground. Our parks are admirably suited for such purpose,
and such a purpose most admirably furthers the work of
this board in instilling in the minds of the youth who fre-
quent our parks the ideals of useful citizenship.

Each park so named, equipped with a suitable tablet on
which is engraved the name of the honored citizen and a
record of his work for the common good, would be an in-
spiration to all who read it.

The committee recommends that, in naming the parks of
this city, the board restrict the names to those commemorat-
ing men and women of local civic achievement and histori-
cal importance, and legendary and place names of local sig-
nificance. It hOpes that funds can be provided for the plac-

287

 

ing of a tablet in each of the parks so named, giving the name
of the park and the accomplishments of the person for whom
the park is named, for the inspiration of our citizens—and
especially our youth—to hold fast to the ideals which make
for a better, happier, and more beautiful social community.

A Plea for Originality

One response to the newsletter was an earnest protest
against any furthering of the trend toward standardization
w——in park naming or any other phase of recreation. The
writer said, in part:

“I am disturbed because it is my observation that in
everything we do we are being asked to provide blueprints,
examples, standards, and manuals, which in effect suggest
patterns of thinking which are being carbon-copied all over
the country, with little or no regard for the elementary needs
of the community. This does not mean that time and thought
should not be given to naming areas, but I am very sure
that local and original naming is much to be preferred to
copying a name that has already been used to excess.

“If I were to suggest a name for a park I know that is
now nameless, I would call it Sunshine Park, not because
the sun shines in abundance in that area, but rather because

a well-conceived program, administered by suitably-trained
and dynamic leaders, offers people of all ages, creeds, and
colors a satisfying challenge, the accomplishment of which
warms their hearts and is expressed visibly by the sunshine
in their smiles.”

The fact that many of those replying to the newsletter ex-
pressed dissatisfaction with the names of their local recrea-
tion areas proves the necessity for-giving more attention to
the selection of such names. The appointment of a commit-
tee on nomenclature and the formulation of definite policies
for choosing park names should help to insure the selection
of attractive names that are pleasing to a majority of the
citizens who use the area. (.142

Let Us Hear From You

Readers are invited to comment on the relative
importance of this whole problem and to tell us their

own practices if they seem good. Address letters to
Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New York
11--and keep them as brief as possible, so that they
may be published on our Letters page.———Ed.

 

Family Camps

DISTRICT 4-H CAMPS for farm families are being estab-

lished in several areas of Illinois, after experimenta-
tion last year. Families who attended the “trial” camps are
taking the lead in their communities and are assuming the
responsibility for the initial planning.

The 4-H Memorial Camp, Allerton Park, Monticello,
proved to be an ideal spot for! one project. The twenty cabins
made it possible for each family to be housed as a family
unit. The regular camp staff took care of the food service,
and the counselors assisted with the program.

“Family camp objectives were three,” said E. H. (Duke)
Regnier, extension recreationist, University of Illinois Col-

lege of Agriculture. “We wanted the families to learn to'

play together as a family, to learn through observing other
families, and to have a worth-while recreation experience.

“We operated on the theory that if you plan a program
that is basically sound, get folks acquainted, and start activi-
ties, you’ll have leadership. We were not disappointed.”

Specific families were assigned to each day’s program.
Evensong was a family responsibility, too. During the fore-
noon, mother and dad teams took over the nursery school
while other parents attended discussion groups on family
relations problems, family library planning, and family
recreation.

 

Each family ate as a group.
Guests by invitation only. An
hour’s rest in the cabin came
just after the luncheon period.

Discussion helps in unraveling 

problems. At left, Marguerite -
Briggs, parent education spe- "
cialist, University of Illinois.

Kindergarten prospects enjoyed storybook time which was
closely correlated with nature lore. Seven- to ten-year-olds
were interested in leather tooling, the making of enameled
jewelry, and wood carving.

An hour “in cabin” for complete rest and relaxation came
immediately after lunch. “Family choice time” followed,
with each family selecting an activity in which every mem-
ber had a special interest.

Camp ended oflicially Saturday noon, with more than half
of the families voting to stay another day, knowing full well
that they would be on their own. Nor was leadership and
resourcefulness lacking. A cookout was planned for eve-
ning with each dad preparing the food for his family.
Mothers staged a treasure hunt for the children.

Why is family camp counted important? It is easy to
evaluate it in terms of learning to swim, in developing skill
in a craft or a game; but the intangibles, those values far
out on the fringe of things, are difficult to measure. It is
such comments as, “I wish I knew how to tell my neighbors
how much fun a family can have together,” or, “I can see
that my child has lost a lot of fear of other children since
we’ve been here,” or “This is the first vacation we’ve had
since we were married.”—JESSIE E. HEATHMAN, Assistant

Extension Editor, University of Illinois. m

 
  

a»

RESEARCH

Enjoying Better Housing

Individuals interested in leisure time problems of hous-
ing projects will find the subject interestingly and efEciently
presented in a study, Enjoying Better Housing, prepared
by Council of Community Agencies, Nashville, Tennessee.

“The Nashville Housing Authority requested that the
council study the situation and make recommendations to
bring about the greatest use of the authority’s facilities and
the establishment of programs suited to needs of residents
of housing projects.” The study committee was made up of
representatives of twenty-seven agencies which were con-
cerned directly with the problem. They set two goals: to
determine “specific needs of each project and prepare per-
tinent recommendations,” and to consider “the areas of
policies which needed evaluation.”

The committee working on determination of policies pre-
sented three major recommendations: (1) that a coordi-
nator be employed by the housing authority; (2) that an
advisory committee to the board of commissioners be estab-
lished; and (3) that tenant committees be formed in each
project. Sub-committees studied coordination, tenant rela-
tionship, private agencies and housing authority relation-
ships, and finance. They developed policies which describe
the manner in which agencies shall work together in using
the authority’s facilities and in working with tenants. These
policies should serve as an excellent guide to help overcome
situations arising from joint operation of program where
agency jurisdiction and competition for participation from
the same individuals is so likely to develop.

The committee on policies pointed out to the city park
board that there was a limit to the extent to which volunteer
agencies could continue to accept functions that in most cases
were the city’s responsibility. Here the committee placed a
great responsibility on the public recreation program. The
same committee challenged the Nashville school system to
open schools to private and city agencies for recreation in
addition to developing after-school programs themselves.

The committee prepared recommendations to meet the
needs of pre-school, elementary, and secondary school chil-
dren, adults, the needs of the facility. A list of principles,
which demonstrates the orderliness of this study, was pre-
pared to guide the work of the committee. These principles
are well worked dut and a professional recreation Worker
would be interested in further study of these as well as the
policies worked out by the policy committee—BEVERLY S.
SHEFFIELD, Director, Recreation Department, Austin, Texas.

 

MR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

JUNE 1955

  

George D. Butler

Recreation and School Areas

A bulletin, entitled 1954 Inventory Public Recreation and
School Areas, issued by the Delaware County Planning Com-
mission in Media, Pennsylvania, presents the report of a
study of recreation and school areas in the county. It offers
suggestions for expanding the areas and establishes goals
for public recreation areas according to types for which
desirable standards are presented. A few findings:

0 Open land and natural countryside are rapidly disappear-
ing in Delaware County. Bold plans are required to pre-
serve open space and scenic charm for the enjoyment of the
county’s growing population.

0 Currently, Delaware County is adding approximately 15,-
000 persons to its population each year.

0 Each year, about two square miles of the county’s fields
and farms are being built up in new houses.

0 Golf courses available for public use have declined from
seven to three since 1945.

0 Minimum standards developed for Delaware County in—
dicate that for every one thousand persons of the population
there should be ten acres of local recreation and school lands.
In addition, there should be approximately ten to fifteen
acres per one thousand persons in regional recreation facili-
ties such as golf courses, large parks, reservations.

0 Over half the existing public school sites should be en-

larged to provide adequate play space.

0 The county’s scenic creek valleys should be protected and
developed as a major asset in the county’s recreational
system and as natural channels for storm drainage.

The report comments on the shrinking potential recrea-
tion area in the county:

“Large population increases inevitably mean the gradual
disappearance of open fields, woods and streams which have
long been available for informal recreational use and en-
joyment. Since 1951, subdivisions of land covering six and
a half square miles have been approved by the Delaware
County Planning Commission. Numerous formerly open
lots in older subdivisons have also been built up.

“In addition, many acres are each year absorbed for in-
stitutional, commercial, and industrial use, highway and
public utility construction. . . .

“The net result is that,'in many sections of the county,
open lands which have been available or potentially avail-
able for recreational use have disappeared or are about to
disappear. Within the last ten years, five golf courses in
the most built-up portions of the county have been put into
residential or other development. There are strong indica-

 tions that, in time, the remaining three courses will be used

for residential or other development. Many ‘sandlot’ ball
fields and ‘picnic groves’ have doubtless met a similar fate
with no one to record their passing.” an

289

 

A Baseball Practice Area

BASIC FUNDAMENTALS are extremely
important to baseball players since
they serve the double purpose of form-
ing correct habit patterns and eliminat-
ing the possibility of injury which might
come from not knowing how to slide,
throw, or bat.

To give the boys good training con-
ditions and facilities, I recommend the
construction of a practice area approxi-
mately seventy feet square, adjacent to
the regular field. If such an area is not
available, the training aids may be set
up down the foul lines or scattered
around the outside of the field.

The larger central area is recom-
mended because it simplifies the prob-
lem of supervision and instruction. The
facilities described here have been ade-
quately tested by the Brooklyn Dodgers,
Pittsburgh Pirates, Boston Braves, St.
Louis Cardinals, and other professional,
college, and high school ofiicials.

Of prime importance is a sliding pit
—six feet wide and twelve feet long,
filled with sand, should be adequate.
Players should be taught to slide with
their feet and arms up in the air, their
eyes on the bag. To get into this posi-
tion, it is necessary to land on the but-
tocks where the body provides the most
natural padding. Getting the arms and
legs into the air prevents possible
breaks, sprains, and chipped bones.

The boys should stay low when going
into the slide and should always keep
in mind that it isn’t a jump, but a slide .’
Every boy who is physically fit should
spend some time in the sliding pit at
every practice session. Once the player
learns the desired position, he can work
on the hook slide and other refinements.

The second practice area, for pitch-
ers, consists of a unique device known
as “pitching strings.” Introduced to
professional baseball by Branch Rickey,
they provide a target for a pitcher. Two

MICKEY MCCONNELL, former scouting
director for the Brooklyn Dodgers, now
coordinates youth activities for the U.
S. Rubber Company.

290

Mickey McConnell

strike zones are recommended. They
are erected over home plates, which can
be built of scrap lumber, painted white,
and anchored to the ground with
wooden pegs.

Two-by-four poles can be stuck into
the ground approximately ten feet apart
with four-inch sides parallel to the
pitching mounds. The poles should be
lined up so that cords strung between
them will be directly above the front
of each home plate. One string should
be at average knee-high level and the
other at average armpit height.

The strings should be of strong white
cord, similar to a carpenter’s marking
line, and can be obtained in hardware
stores. Once the cross-strings have been
stretched, up-and-down strings the
width of each home plate should be
strung between the cross-strings directly
above the sides of the plate to complete
the strike zone.

Practice pitching mounds can be
erected the proper distance (601/2 feet)
from the strike zones, and practice pitch-
ing slabs can be built from scrap lum-
ber, painted white, and anchored to the
ground with wooden pegs.

When the practice pitching area is
completed, pitchers can warm up at reg-
ular intervals, using the strike zone for
a target. This practice can be made
more realistic by having a batter stand
in the batter’s box. In this way the bat-
ter has a chance to judge strikes and
balls and become familiar with the
pitched ball, and the pitcher gets used
to pitching to a batter.

After a few sessions, the batter can
start his swing and then pull back to
get the practice of checking his swing
when the pitch is bad. This is a good
drill for the batter, but he should never
go through with the swing. It would
break the strings and might injure
someone working on another assign-
ment in the practice area.

The third sectioh of the practice area
is the batting-tee range. A net or can-
vas can be strung between poles or
buildings. The size of the area isn’t too

 

TRAINING AREA

HIGHEST III/M [4' WM MW

L\ 1W 5mm: Mt: my
‘0' \k Iii/inc“ MING! Alf WIDTH 0F
10‘... .1, your Furs

  
     

’IFCNIN‘ M"

T\ 60'6" " - "  i;
PITCHING TARGET N "-'

BATTING RANGE

 

to'

W IN DIRECTION
OF ARROW

important, but an area from eight to ten
feet high and thirty feet wide is recom-
mended. This 'would take care of three
batting tees and batters at one time.

By using a woolen practice ball, the
batting-tee area could be set up beside
a building or any other barrier. This
ball will carry far enough in flight to
determine whether the batter is hitting
line drives, grounders, or high flies, and
will eliminate the breaking of windows
If no area
is available, tees can be set up behind
the regular field backstop and balls hit
against the backstop.

The tees, which can be purchased or
built, should be placed about ten to
twelve feet from the barrier so that the
batter can determine by the flight of the
ball whether he’s hitting on a line——

and other similar hazards.

which should be.his aim—or over or
under it; and also whether he’s hitting
to the opposite field, pulling the ball, or
hitting straightaway.

Each of these aids can be constructed
at very little cost and should provide
many more practice Opportunities for
every player. m

Condensed and reprinted with permission
from the January 1954- issue of Scholastic

Coach.

RECREATION

@mo'mé Mexico

Miss Doris Berryman, recreation di-
rector at Memorial Hospital for Cancer
and Allied Diseases, briefly summarizes
the Second Southern Regional Confer-
ence on Hospital Recreation, held at the
University of North Carolina:

The conference got under way with
one of the most challenging and thought
provoking speeches I have ever heard,
when Alexander Reid Martin, M.D., of
New York, representing the American
Psychiatric Association, spoke on “A

Philosophy of Recreation for the Men-
tally and Physically Ill.”

In the sessions chaired by lrma
Davis, recreation director at James
Ewing Hospital, New York, we dis-
cussed similarities and differences in
programs for children, tubercular,
chronic, and short-term patients—and
also pointed out patients’ anxieties and
fears and how a recreation worker can
help allay them.

The discussions on research, by Dr.
Edith Ball, School of Education, New
York University, led to the conclusions
that studies could be divided into four
categories ranging from the simple sur-
vey done by senior students up to the
complex studies done for doctoral the-
ses or by highly trained research teams.
Contributions are needed on all levels.
Biggest problem is lack of money, so
the group voted to request The Council
for the Advancement of Hospital Rec-
reation—at their next meeting, June 3
———to appoint a committee to outline, in
the next six months, at least one study
to be presented to those foundations
which have money available.

The group on in-service training, led
by Russell G. Ramage, chief of recrea-
tion, Veterans Administration Hospital,
Salisbury, North Carolina, discussed
the value of training ward aides‘to help
in the recreation program, and how best
to train them. There was also discus-
sion on the importance of training and
orienting volunteers, and an exchange

 

Mas. BEATRICE HILL is consultant on

hospital recreation for the National
Recreation Association.

JUNE 1955

 

Beatrice H. Hill

of ideas and experiences in handling
this problem.

The panel on mental and emotional
ills, chaired by Paul Haun, M.D., as-
sistant professor of psychiatry, Bowman
Gray School of Medicine, Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, discussed seven
important questions: (1) Is the recre-
ation worker a therapist? (2) What are
the desirable personality traits in a rec-
reation worker? (3) What information
about the clinical status of the patient
does the recreation worker need? (4)
Should the physician prescribe recrea-
tion activity? (5) Do recreation ac-
tivities afford a means for the eXpres-
sion of feelings? (6) What techniques
are useful in selecting recreation work-
ers? (7) What recreation programs
are particularly adapted to patients who
are mentally ill? .

The aim of the panel was not to find
specific answers for these questions, but
to stimulate interest in the problems and
to exchange ideas based on each work-
er’s experiences. They also pointed out
that each of these questions had rami-
fications that needed exploring and the
danger in coming to hasty conclusions.

The final meeting on Tuesday after-
noon was divided into three groups:
military hospitals; Veterans Adminis-
tration hospitals; and state, municipal,

Each

group discussed problems pertinent to

county and private hospitals.

their own situation.

In addition to these workshops, there
were patient demonstrations of recrea-
tion for cerebral palsy children, the

 

FREE!

1955 catalogs now available. Please
specify “Leathercraft” or “Arts and
Crafts.” Note: If you’ve been hunting
for a source of Indian Craft Supplies
send for our new Indian Craft Bulle-
tin.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

blind, and the mentally ill. SpeCIal
meetings included: a speech by Bernath
E. Phillips, Ph.D., Veterans Adminis-
tration, on work simplifications; a dis-
cussion and demonstration on music in
hospitals led by Carl Myers, chief, Spe-
cial Services, Veterans Administration,
Oteen; and a party demonstration given
by Miss Ruth McCall, field director, _
American Red Cross, Fort Bragg.

I believe all who attended the confer-
ence will unanimously agree it proved
to be most stimulating and informative.
Due credit must be given to all who as-
sisted in and with the program, particu-
larly to the genial and gracious host
Harold D. Meyer, who was responsible
for creating another milestone towards
the advancement of hospital recreation.

Change of Address

If you are planning to move, notify us
at least thirty days before the date of
the issue with which it is to take effect,
if possible, in order to receive your
magazines without interruption. Send
both your old and new addresses by let-
ter, card or post ofiice form 228 to:
Subscription Department RECREATION

Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11, N. Y.

 

NETS

The Only Net

GUARANTEED
for 3 YEARS !

outdoors or indoors 0 Send for Free Catalog

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

 

 

 

ORDER YOUR COMPLETE CRAFT SUPPLIES
FROM ONE SOURCE—THE EASY WAY!

LeisureCrafts has served the handicraft recreation
field for over 50 yearsand draws on this valuable ex-
perience to offer quality craft material at the most
competitive prices. Complete stocks of leathercraft,
craftstrip, woodcraft, beadcraft, paints, brushes, etc.

are available. Try LeisureCrafts’, “Craft Headquar—
ters”———you’11 be glad you did!

Misu‘gggra s

los Angeles 13 California

 

291

 

 

NEWS

T

I f you are interested in any of
these products, write directly to
the manufacturer at the address
given. PLEASE mention that you
read about it on RECREATION
magazine’s Market News page.

 

“A, O A new, colorful plastic life-
. line with all-plastic Hoats,
suitable for either life lines or
- race lanes, has been intro-
»‘v‘ _ duced by Ocean Pool Supply
” " Co., which claims that the

' unit will last a lifetime. Avail-
able in a red and white rope-
, like twist of spun polyethe-
«,3 lent, it will not absorb water
and is unaffected by salts,
chemicals or oils. Since it is

lighter and «floats above water, fewer buoys are required.
erte to the company, 866 Sixth Avenue, New York City.

  

O Accidents resulting from slipping on wet swimming pool
decks can now be largely prevented by a new rubber runner
mat, known as DO-ALL, which has ribs running parallel to
the length. It is available in black, red, green, blue, and
mosaic, 23 inches wide in rolls 50 feet long, and 34 inches
wide by 38 feet long. Sides and edges are beveled. Free lit-

erature and prices may be obtained from American Mat
Corporation, 2307 Adams Street, Toledo 2, Ohio.

, a... . ,~.ww?'&um,  “
. .—'¢Ar“‘4 mum fire but} m am!) hi paves: the any tat a.
~  sum; win the was an! mm.

9 Two photo-lesson
golf charts (17 by 22
inches) are available
without charge from
MacGregor, 4861
Spring Grove, Cincin-
nati 32, Ohio. One, by
Bob Toski, demon-
strates use of a short
iron; the other, by
George Bayer, gives in-
struction on the driver.
Both charts show and
eXplain the swing from
beginning to the final follow-through. The speed photos in
the charts show the action stopped at all important points of
the swing.

 

IS I. 26 I!» mm :3 tie—gums“ m m an m‘l" ms fathwmg the am»
you of mm mm new new to tum am a a norm! ’ mo: " a calm ‘
arm at the me am as mom: 3 5mm: in Body I: tum:

I: be! the m w! "tm and as shit "Mum anti m 1mm

9 Practice golf balls molded
of Tenite polyethylene pro-
vide an economical means of
improving strokes. These
lightweight balls consist of
identical hollow hemispheres,
patterned with openings, and
sealed permanently together.
The tough, resilient material
takes impact without denting
and has enough “give” to forestall cuts and abrasions.
Manufactured by Tigrett Enterprises, 66 East Walton Place,
Chicago 11, Illinois.

 

292 When writing to these manufacturers please mention RECREATION.

O The 1955 Famous Slugger Year Book, packed with in-
teresting baseball information and highlights of 1954 season,
and the 1955 edition of Opfcial Softball Rules may be ob-
tained from sporting goods dealers throughout the country,
or direct from Hillerich & Bradsby Company, Dept. R,
434-436 Finzer Street, Louisville 2, Kentucky. Also avail-
able from the company are two catalogs: one on Louisville
Slugger baseball and softball bats and the other ori Grand
Slam golf clubs.

9 A new, fully illustrated sixty-page catalog just released
by American Playground Device Company shows play-
ground, park-picnic, dressing room, and outdoor gymnasium
equipment, and so on. An interesting section is devoted to
planning of playground areas, utilization of ground space,
safety considerations, and proper installation including a
reference table giving number of workmen, hours of labor,
and materials required. For your copy write to the company
at Anderson, Indiana.

Handweaving

—— for better recreation programs

America’s recreation leaders are recognizing the grow-
ing appeal for handweaving, by organizing and expand-
ing weaving programs. To help them plan better weaving
programs they rely on Handweaver & Craftsman for in-

formation about:

WEAVING DESIGNS 8. TECHNIQUES 0 MATERIALS 8. EQUIPMENT
METHODS OF TEACHING WEAVING 0 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY PROJECTS

Articles written by noted
handweavers of interest to: 
Er Craftsman

Recreation Center Directors
Camp & YWCA Directors
Occupational Therapists

    

Craft Instructors
Adult Education Directors

Read by more than 8000

handweavers in 48 states
and 36 foreign countries. _,..

PUBLISHED QUARTERLY
— 64 PAGES

Send today for free index page

Handweaver & C °aftsman
DEPT. R, 246 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 1, NEW YORK
Single copy 31,1 yr 34, 2 yrs $7.50, 3 yrs $10, 5 yrs 315

Canadian postage 50c your extra, Pan-American & foreign $1

RECREATION

 

Recreation Activities on Radio

and TV

0 Radio and TV stations are continu-
ally discovering that local recreation ac-
tivities are a rich source of program ma-
terial. In Mobile, Alabama, “The Play-
ground Reporter,” a weekly radio show
is in its twelfth year on the air. Semi-
monthly TV shows are also produced
using local amateur talent discovered
on the playgrounds through glee-club
activities, hobby shows, talent week,
arts and crafts, and dancing groups.
The programs are presented over

WALA and WALA-TV.

0 Public and private recreation agen-
cies in the Seattle, Washington area,
recently helped produce a thirteen-week
series, “Family Fun,” over the new ed-
ucational TV station, KCTS. The series
covered such home-centered activities
as games, play, music, story-telling, and
party planning. Among agencies repre-
sented were. the public recreation de-
partments of King County, Seattle, Ta-
coma, Puyallup, and Kirkland.

Films

0 Recreation leaders who arrange
swimming competitions will be inter-
ested in the new Training the Diving
Judge, which helps judges develop skills
and a sound philosophy about tech-
niques and methods of judging diving
performances. Six introductory dives
and twenty-one additional dives are in-
cluded. The film was developed and is
sponsored by the Conference for Na-
tional Cooperation in Aquatics, repre-
senting twenty-one national organiza-
tions active in aquatics. For information

write Phil Moriarty, Department of
Physical Education, Yale University,
New Haven, Connecticut.

0 The sixth in the “Water World Se-

ries” of color films produced for the N a-
tional Association of Engine and Boat
Manufacturers, School for Skippers,
follows the exploits of a novice in boat-
ing as he buys his first cruiser and takes
his family out for a ride. The 13% min-
ute, color, free-loan film is available
from the association at 420 Lexington

Avenue, New York 17, New York.

0 Four films dealing directly with var-
ious phases of recreation won recogni-
tion of merit awards at the 1955 Golden
Reel Film Festival in New York City.
These included Dearborn Holiday by
the Ford Motor Company, Learning to
Run by Lighthouse Films, The Rules of
Golf Etiquette, sponsored by the United
States Golf Association, and The Fan-
tastic 500 by Dynamic Films. In the
sound slidefilm competition one of the
winners was Balance and Blend spon-
sored by The Society for the Preserva-
tion and Encouragement of Barber
Shop Quartet Singing in America (see
RECREATION, November 1954) .

Filmstrips

A series of six filmstrips on national
parks has been produced by Haeseler
Pictures with the collaboration of Rich-
ard A. Pough, chairman of the depart-
ment of conservation of the American
Museum of Natural History and the N a-
tional Parks Service. Write to Haeseler
Pictures, Amity Road, Woodbridge,
New Haven 15, Connecticut.-

Do you work with children? With parents? With both?

If your answer is YES, you will want

CHILD STUDY magazine

0 For more than 25 years, CHILD STUDY, the quarterly iournal of the Child Study
Association of America, has oFlered guidance on parent-child relations . . .

O A reliable source of up-to-date information on all phases of child development
with articles by outstanding authorities in the fields of child care, psychiatry, education,
sociology, psychology and medicine—a valuable permanent reference . . .

0 Group workers, recreation leaders. teachers, parents and all others who work and
live with children will find a subscription to CHILD STUDY invaluable—start subscribing

today . . .
$2.50 per year

Order from:

CHILD STUDY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA
132 East 74th Street, New York 21

JUNE 1955

 

65¢ per copy

' t

I i‘lmm no.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

my IVA-I

Whatever the trait

you are teaching: woodworking, model
building, leather, metal, plastics, ceramics

x-acto knives,
tools & sets

designed by craftsmen and precision-made
for fine craftsmanship

will help you
do a better iob

by helping your students get better results
and more creative satisfaction.

 

Explore lndiancralts— send for Beadcraft
booklet: detailed instructions, full color de-
sign, patterns—25¢.

Complete X-octo 28 page catalog—FREE

No. 62 X-ACIO
DOUBLE KNIFE SET—$2.50

x-octo"

KNIVES 0 10015
HANDICRAF‘I’ KITS

    

X-ACIO, IIIC.,
48-99 Van Dam St., long Island City I, N. Y.

_ a...”

 THE FIRST AND
STILL THE LEADER
IN PERIOD cosrumas
roe m: AMERICAN
THEATER SINCE1852

OPERAS
PAGEANTS
MINSTRELS
OPERETTAS
TELEVISION

MOTION PICTURES

“win-HM.

mm." Authorities

on

Period

Speciol Service to Cosmme 
Little and Community 
s s
Theaters, Schools 5 

a .48

and Colleges.

Van Horn & .Son, Inc.

THEATRICAL AND HISTORICAL COSTUMERS

811-13-15 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia 7, Pa.

Gei‘hard Weidler

Etieculive Vice-President

Rollin W. Van Horn

President

293

I
P E B s 0 N N E L

 

EXPANDING THE RECREATION PROFESSION

IN THE SOUTH

Those findings of the Southern Regional Study (which
has just been published by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation with the title Recreation As A Profession in the
Southern Region) and conclusions of the regional confer-
ence which pertain to the need for and supply of skilled rec-
reation leaders are presented in a brochure published by the
Southern Regional Education Board. Some of them are:

The Need for Recreation Personnel

The South is a vast region,1 marked by increasing change.
Its industries and cities have grown rapidly, and recreation
programs have developed accordingly. Increased income
has supported trained leaders, better facilities, organization,
and administration.

The study made by the National Recreation Association
and the Southern Regional Education Board shows that or-
ganized recreation programs in the South center, for the
most part, upon communities and in institutions, and that
the growth of the profession since 1940, and even more par-
ticularly since 1950, has been phenomenal. It also shows
that the recreation profession will continue to expand
rapidly. In 1952, executives of recreation programs esti-
mated that by 1957 their agencies will have added three full-
time workers for every four then employed. If these esti-
mates are correct, the total of professional recreation work-
ers will grow from 4,200 to over 7,000. Through a very con-
servative estimate of possible development in recreation, the
study projects a need for 10,675 full-time workers. This
estimate ignores expected population increases, growth of
cities, addition of new community programs, and eXpan-
sions of voluntary agencies beyond 1957.

Resources for Training Leaders

Most agencies employing recreation leaders require col-
lege graduation for new employees, and it is likely that this
requirement eventually will include a major in recreation.
An annual need for about 1,000 college graduates with rec-
reation majors for the next several years is indicated. South-
ern colleges and universities offering recreation curriculums
are graduating only a fraction of this number. Such facts
point to broad lacks of: (I) trained people at present, and
for eXpansion; (2) a sufficient number of graduates enter-
ing to maintain, much less to eXpand, the profession; and
(3) with few exceptions, enough students to justify adequate
faculty.

More students must be found, students whose chances of
completing the curriculum are good. Selection among stu-

r;—

_1 States included: Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky,
Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South
Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia.

294-

W. C. Sutherland

dents is difficult if not impossible if the total number pre-
senting themselves is too small to meet the needs of the pro-

fession.

Proposals for Recruitment and Strengthening

The above facts and conclusions, reported in the study,
were considered by the Southern Regional Conference on
Recreation Education in February 1955. With regard to
recruitment it was decided that:

1. Recruitment of students is a responsibility of the pro-
fession as well as of the colleges and universities.

2. Regional efforts should be related to and should inten-
sify national efforts.

3. Recreation leaders and their agencies should assume
responsibility for intensive recruitment efforts in local com-
munities by jointly planning formal recruitment efforts
which should include: (a) contacts with all local student
counselors, guidance personnel, and appropriate employ:-
ment agencies; (b) personal appearances before local adult
and student organizations; and (c) use of mass communi-
cation media for special occasions to advertise the attractive-
ness of recreation as a profession.

4. State recreation. societies and district organizations of
the National Recreation Association should establish re-
cruitment committees.

That such committees, among other things, should: (a)
hold state conferences; (b) seek scholarship funds; and (c)
secure support of the state departments of education and all
other state and regional agencies of government concerned
with recreation to send out recruitment information, with
special emphasis to rural areas.

With regard to the professional preparation of recrea-
tion personnel it was concluded that:

1. Efforts to enlarge and strengthen recreation education
should be developed on a regional basis through the joint
planning of colleges and universities, agencies employing
recreation graduates, the National Recreation Association,
and the Southern Regional Education Board.

2. The deve10pment of recreation education will be hast-
ened if recreation instruction is organized in each college or
university as a separate department, division, or curriculum
under the full-time supervision of a qualified educator.

3. Education for recreation be more closely related to
needs of agencies employing recreation graduates, particu-
larly through requirement of full-time field eXperience for
graduation, with both agencies and educational institutions
determining standards and nature of field work.

 

MR. SUTIIERLAND is the director of the NRA Recreation
Personnel Service.

RECREATION

Beaks & Pamphlets
Received

ADMINISTRATION OF SCHOOL HEALTH
AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS,
Charles A. Bucher. The C. V. Mosby
Company, 3207 Washington Boule-
vard, St. Louis 3, Missouri. Pp. 424.
$5.50.*

AIDS FOR HEALTH TEACHING. Metropoli-
tan Life Insurance Company, One

Madison Avenue, New York 10. Pp.
8. Free.

ANSWERS, THE, Darius Leander Swann.
Friendship Press, 257 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York 10. Pp. 15. $1.25,

package of 10.*

    

BUILT-INS FOR HOME IMPROVEMENT,
Robert Oakes Jordon. Frederick J.

Drake and Company, 117 Green Bay,
Wilmette, Illinois. Pp. 137. $2.00.

CABINBUILDING ANNUAL—1955 Edition.
Sports Afield, 250 West 55th Street,
New York 19. Pp. 120. $.75. ($.85

in Canada.)

CAMPING ANNUAL—1955 Edition.
Sports Afield, 250 West 55th Street,
New York 19. Pp. 120. $.75. ($.85

in Canada.)

CRY, THE BELOVED COUNTRY—A Verse
Drama, Felicia Komai. Friendship

Press, 257 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. Pp. 79. $1.50.*

DAY CENTERS FOR OLDER PEOPLE, Henry
L. McCarthy. American Public Wel-
fare Association, 1313 East 60th
Street, Chicago 37. Pp. 15. $.30.

DO YOU KNOW YOUR BASEBALL? Hy
Gittlitz. The Grosby Press, 30 Ferry
Street, New York 38. Pp. 205. Soft-
bound, $1.75; hardbound, $2.75.

GEORGIA’S HERITAGE OF SONG, Henri-

etta Collings. University of Georgia
Press, Athens, Georgia. Pp. 87. $1.50.

GOOD COUNSELORS MAKE GOOD CAMPS.
Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., 155 East
44th Street, New York 17. Pp. 40.
$.35.

HEALTH GOALS FOR YOUTH. Metropoli-
tan Life Insurance Company, One

Madison Avenue, New York 10. Pp.
14. Free. "

IS THIS YOU? Ruth Krauss and Cro-
ckett Johnson. \Villiam R. Scott,
Inc., 8 West 13th Street, New York
11. Unpaged. $1.50.

LAND OF PRETEND, THE, Eloise Lisle
Johnson. C. C. Birchard & Company,
285 Columbus Avenue, Boston 16.
Pp. 60. $1.00.

JUNE 1955

LATIN AMERICAN SONGS, David Stevens.
C. C. Birchard & Company, 285 Co-
lumbus Avenue, Boston 16. Pp. 46.
$.75.

MAKE IT WITH ALUMINUM. Fawcett

Publications, Greenwich, Connecti-
cut. Pp. 144. $.75.

MUNICIPAL GOLF COURSE—ORGANIZING
AND OPERATING GUIDE. National Golf

Foundation, 407 South Dearborn
Street, Chicago 5. Pp. 128. $3.00.

OFFICIAL SOFTBALL-TRACK AND FIELD
GUIDE—Ianuary 1955-56. American
Association fOr Health, Physical Ed-
ucation. and Recreation, 1201 Six-
teenth Street, N.W., Washington 6,
D. C. Pp. 150. $.50.

OUTBOARD BOATING HANDBOOK. Hank
Wieand Bowman. Fawcett Publica-
tions, Greenwich, Connecticut. Pp.

146. $.75.

PATHWAYS. James Carl Crowson. The
Christooher Publishing House. 1140
Columbus Avenue, Boston 20. Pp.
204. $3.00.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION SYLLABUS, James
W. Long, Harold M. Barrow. and
Marjorie Crisp. Burgess Publishing
Company, 426 South Sixth Street.
Minneapolis 15, Minnesota. Pp. 168.
$1.75.

PLAYGROUND FACILITIES — FOR RURAL

AND SMALL ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS,_

Harold J. Cornacchia and John E.
Nixon. Stanford University Press,

Stanford, California. Pp. 43. $1.50.

RECREATION FOR THE HANDICAPPED,
Valerie V. Hunt. Prentice-Hall, Inc.,
70 Fifth Avenue, New York 11. Pp.
340. $6.65.*

RECREATION LEADER’S H A N D B O O K ,
Richard Kraus. McGraw-Hill Book
Company, Inc., 330 West 42nd Street,
New York 36. Pp. 299. $4.75.*

SELECTED ’VOLLEYBALL ARTICLES.
American Association for Health,
Physical Education, and Recreation,

1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Wash-
ington 6, D. C. Pp. 66. $1.00.

SING—THE ALL PURPOSE SONG BOOK,

David Stevens. C. C. Birchard &
Company, 285 Columbus Avenue,
Boston 16. Pp. 144. $.50.

SO YOU WANT TO BE A PLAYWRIGHT,

Betty Scheyer. Exposition Press, 386

Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Pp.
61. $3.00.

TEACH YOURSELF TO SWIM, Gene Stein-
ken. Weldon Mail Service, Box 232,
Lake Zurich, Illinois. Pp. 23. $1.00.

TOURNAMENT MANAGEMENT AND OPER-
ATION. The American Baseball Con-
gress, Youth Building, 115 West
Street, Battle Creek, Michigan. Pp.
37. $.60.

UMPIRE’S HANDBOOK OF THE AMERICAN
BASEBALL CONGRESS—1955 Edition.
The American Baseball Congress,

Youth Building, 115 West Street,
Battle Creek, Michigan. Pp. 50. $.75.

YOUR VOICE IS YOU, Myrtle Helmer
Cannon. Exposition Press, Inc., 386

Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 47.
$2.50.

Magazine Articles

BEACH AND POOL, April 1955
Synchronized Swimming in Austral-
ia, Henry Gundling.
New-world Adventure.
New Construction Method, Arnold

Sheldon.
Ten New Pools for Cleveland.
The Prefabricated Steel-Reinforced

Concrete Pool.
Sound Conditioning Indoor Pools.

JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIA-
TION FOR HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCA-
TION, AND RECREATION, April 1955.
Equipping Our Play Areas—A Sym-
posium.

Racial Integration in High School
Interscholastic Sports, John Brog—
neaux.

Playground On Wheels, Nevin
Nichols.

Playground Surfaces —— A Symposi-
um.

PARK MAINTENANCE, April 1955
How Austria Equips Its Children’s
Playgrounds, Reg Butler.
Breakwaters . . . Costly If Not Pro—
perly Engineered.
Worker Gripes . . . Should Be Fer-
reted Out and Thoroughly Aired.

PARKS AND RECREATION, April 1955
A New Light for Recreation, Dewey
R. Kruckberg.

Design of Park and Recreation Areas
of Approximately 10 Acres,

Alfred B. LaGrasse.
Industrial Recreation—What It Is—

and What It Isn’t, A. H. Spinner.
Filters and Chlorinators, L. B. H ous-

ton.
Concrete Swimming Pools Are Sound

Investment in Community Health.

RAWLINGS ROUNDUP—Vol. 1955 No. 2
In Decatur, Too, They Have Places

to Play.

 

* These publications are available from the
National Recreation Association at list price
plus fifteen cents for each book ordered to
cover postage and handling. Active Associate
and ABiliate Members of the ASsociation re-
ceive a ten per cent discount on list price.
Remittances should accompany orders from
individuals; organizations and recreation de-
partments will be billed on their OHicial orders.
Address orders tO Combined Book Service,
National Recreation Association, 8 West

Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.
295

 

Worship Ways for Camp

Clarice M. Bowman. Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7,
N. Y. Pp. I82. $3.00.*

Last year the Association Press pub-
lished Miss Bowman’s Spiritual Values
in Camping, setting forth the ways in
which camping experience can provide
the maximum in spiritual values. The
present volume follows up the idea with
actual resource material. Basic to the
approach is the idea of worship as fre-
quently a spontaneous, unplanned lift
of the spirit aroused by sunset flaming
or dawn brightening or the sight of a
tiny almost hidden violet. The author
envisions a leader able to catch such
exalted moments and wordlessly, or
articulately with just the right word, to
weave an awareness of God into the,
very fabric of living.

While many pages are devoted to the
difficult task of building such aware-
ness, there are also chapters of prayers
and rituals and other inspirational sug-
gestions. Many of these lay no claim
to literary expression, often being group
effort to make permanent a high ex-
perience. Others, from well-known in-
spirational writers or from the Bible,
are exalted both in thought and word-
ing. Brotherhood in its widest meaning
is stressed in many of the selections——
“a street-urchin standing in a doorway
in Naples, a farmer on the western plains
of Canada, a soldier in the Palestine
hills, a steelworker in Pittsburgh, a fish-
erman on the upper Yangtze, a young
mother in Bombay.” One prayer is en-
titled, “Save Me From Hating People.”

A number of the Graces are memor-
able, notably: “Great Giver of every
good and perfect gift, give us just one
more gift—-—the gift of thankful hearts.”
—Edna V. Braucher, National Recrea-
tion Association.

Individual and Team Sports
for Women

Donna Mae Miller and Katherine L.
Ley. Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Ave-
nue, New York I I. Pp. 502. $7.35.*

Although written for teachers of
physical education, this can be a valu-
able handbook for recreation leaders of
women’s sports. Its wide variety of
practical material, with helpful illus-

296

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

trations, provides scores of new ideas,
novel games and contests to improve
skills, suggestions for evaluating de-
vices, audio-visual aids, tournaments.

Program of the Modern Camp

Gerald P. Burns. Prentice-Hall, Inc.,
70 Fifth Avenue, New York II. Pp.
320. $5.65.*

This book, which was published in

the late spring last year, was edited by
Dr. Gerald P. Burns, former executive
director of the American Camping As-
sociation, and compiled by a distin-
guished group of camping experts. It
should not be overlooked by anyone
who is planning a camp, directing a
camp, or participating in camp leader-
ship. It is not only a report on present
camping practices, but covers the phi-
losophy of camping, program planning.
activities, points out new trends, and
gives thirteen examples of balanced
camp programs. A portion of its chap-
ter on “Evening Programs in Camp” is
reprinted on page 275 of this issue of
RECREATION.

Ceramics

Harry Zarchy. Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.,
501 Madison Avenue, New York 22.
Pp. I71. $3.00.

A concise, reasonably-priced guide
for beginners in a craft which now tops
the hit parade of creative hobbies. (See
“Adult Arts and Crafts Are Terrific
Success,” page 273.) Ceramics appeal
to young and old alike, and this clear
outline of each step with sketches and
photographs should be helpful to both.
The book is not intended to be an ad-
vanced technical manual, but is for
those who would like to get started in
this craft and don’t know how to begin.

Children in Focus—Their Health
and Activity

American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation.

National Education Association of the
United States. Pp. 277. $3.50.

This is the 1954 Year Book of the
American Association of Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation. It is a

 

"' See footnote on page 295.

joint effort of some twenty-four writers
to bring to bear on the elementary-age
youngsters their various special areas
of competence and understandings re-
lated to individual growth and develop-
ment.

The book is divided into six parts
covering: (1) understanding of the
child in relation to the world in which
he lives; (2) application of current
knowledge of child growth and develop-
ment; (3) content of a program in
health, physical education and recrea-
tion adapted to the needs, interests and
maturation level of this age group; (4)
evaluation in terms of what happens to
children as persons; (5) out' of school
and after school experiences which will
make for fuller and enriched lives for
every child; and (6) future preparation
of teachers and leaders in these fields.

The real contribution of this book is
that, in one volume, you have the many
facets of the health, physical and recre-
ation needs of the elementary youngster
and how they may be met. Some of these
authors have made similar points in
other writings but never in the collec-
tive fashion found in this book. Here
all of their strengths are brought to-
gether in focus on the grade school boy
and girl.

This publication should be of special
interest in teacher training programs,
and will be helpful to the active teacher
of health and physical education and
recreation leader in bringing to them
an up to date account of the current
thinking in these areas for this age
group—John I. Collier, Great Lakes
District Representative, National Rec-
reation Association.

 

 

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

American Camping Association, Inc. __u___ 278

'American Orienteering Service __ _________ __ 278

American Playground Device Company .... _- ‘255

 

 

Champion Recreation Equipment, Inc. _____ 256
Child Study Association of America, ..... m- 293
Handweaver 8. Craftsman _....___... _______ ____ 292
Hillerich 8. Bradsby ._ ..................... _- 253
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company .. ...... ..-._ 291
leisureCratts  . -. M 291
The Seamless Rubber Company. -_ 249
Van Horn 8. Son, Inc.  ......... -- 293
W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation. -. .. 269
X-acto, Inc.   -_.-. 293

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Playground Leadership

RUTH G. EHLERs
Playground Leadership

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Playground Leadership

MILDRED SCANLON
Playground Leadership

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK A. STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

June and July, 1955

Missouri Recreation Workshop

May 28-June 3

Altoona, Pennsylvania
June 6 and 7

Berks County, Pennsylvania
June 8-10

Lancaster, Pennsylvania
June 13 and 14

Youngstown, Ohio
June 16 and 17

Danville, Virginia
June 20-23

Fitchburg, Massachusetts
June 27-30

Vineland, New Jersey
June 9 and 10

*Greensburg, Pennsylvania

June 13-16

Upper Darby, Pennsylvania
June 20-22

Shepherdstown, West Virginia
July 5-8

4-H Club Round-Up
Stillwater, Oklahoma

May 31-June 3

New Ulm, Minnesota
June 6 and 7

Owatonna, Minnesota
June 8-11

Fergus Falls, Minnesota
June 13 and 14

Pittslield, Massachusetts
June 20-23

Decatur, Illinois

June 9 and 10

Toledo, Ohio
June 13-16

Westehester County, New York

June 22-24

Winona Lake, Indiana
June 9

Toledo, Ohio
June 13-16

Robert L. Black, Missouri Division of Resources and Development,
Jefferson City

David M. Langkammer, Superintendent of Recreation
Lloyd H. Miller, Director, Recreation Board of Berks County,
Reading

Albert E. Reese, J r., Director of Recreation, 135 N. Lime Street

0. S. Ellis, Director-Treasurer, The Youngstown Playground Asso-

' eiation, 2218 Ohio Avenue

Miss Constance Rollison, Supervisor of Special Activities, Recrea-
tion Department

Miss Mary C. Kielty, Park Department

Jack A. Claes, Supervisor of Recreation, Recreation Commission.

City Hall

Othmar B. Wuensehel, Recreation Director, Greensburg Recreation

Board, 305 S. Maple

Herbert S. Herzog, Director of Health, Physical Education and
Recreation, Upper Darby School District

Dr. O. S. Ikenberry, President, Shepherd College

George E. Hull, Assistant State 4-H Club Leader, Extension Service
County Agent Work

Joseph Harmon, Director of Recreation
Edward Brandeen, Director of Recreation

Odis LeGrand, Supervisor, Department of Elementary Physical
Education, Fergus Falls Public Schools

Miss Marilyn J. Thompson, Supervisor of Recreation, 52 School
Street

Russell J. F oval, Superintendent of Recreation, 243 S. Water Street

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor, Division of Recreation, 214-18 Safety
Building

Miss Vivian 0. Wills, Assistant Superintendent, Westehester County
Recreation Commission, County Office Building, White Plains

Floyd M. Todd, Free Methodist Church of North America

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor, Division of Recreation, 214-18 Safety
Building

* In cooperation with Latrobe, Jeannette and Hempfield Township.

 

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend. For
details as to location of course, content of course, registration procedure and the like, please communicate with the sponsor of the

course listed above.

 

R E C R E A T I o N
8 West Eighth Street’, New York 11, N. Y.

 

RETURN POSTAGE GUARANTEED
Entered as second class matter

 

It’s actually easy to save money—when you
buy United States Series E Savings Bonds
through the automatic Payroll Savings Plan
where you work! You just sign an application
at your pay ofiice; after that your saving is
done for you. And the Bonds you receive will
pay you interest at the rate of 3% per year, com-
pounded semiannually, for as long as 19 years
and 8 months if you wish! Sign up today! Or,
if you’re self-employed. invest in Bonds regu-
larly where you hank. There’s no surer place to
put your money. for United States Savings
Bonds are as safe as America!

Safe as America—

U. S. Savings Bonds

 

 

A red-nosed Fokker

slowly spun to earth

 

AT 4:35 P.M., on October 30, 1918, a lone
Spad biplane, marked with the symbol of
the “Hat-in-the-Ring” Squadron, hawked
down through the quiet skies over Grande
Pré. Seconds later, a twenty-round burst of
its guns smashed full into the center of a low-
flying Fokker and sent the German plane
swirling earthward like an autumn leaf.

The squadron C.0., Captain Eddie Ricken-

backer, had downed his last enemy plane of
the war, setting a record for aerial combat
never equaled: 26 victories in 7 months. It
made him the American ace of aces.

A year earlier, his mother had written, “fly
slowly and close to the ground”; but it was
advice that Eddie Rickenbacker—like many
of his fellow Americans—has never been able
to take. His calculating courage, ingenuity
and drive are typical of our greatest asset.

Which is not simply factories, farms, or
gold—but millions of a particular kind of
people called Americans. And it is these
people—people like yourself—who stand be-
hind what is probably the world’s finest in-
vestment: U. S. Series E Savings Bonds.

To buy these Bonds is to join them in their
proud confidence of their country and its
future—and to protect your own personal
security as well.

The U.S. Government does not pnv ,for this advertisement. It is donated by this Publication in “operation With the
Advertising Cannon! and the Magazine Publisher: of America.

