 

Center-Powered
to give you FOLLOW—THE“ Feel

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

You‘re looking at the ultranew Center-
Powered iron in which is achieved great concentration
of weight directly in back of the hitting area.
Adtoit designing, for appearance as well as for weight
displacement, imparts to this club that rare
combination of beaut)r and power. What’s more,
the new Grand Slams are
forged from STAINLESS——
the premier metal for
iron golf heads.

 
   
   
   
   
   

Brand new for 1957, these
confidence-inspiring wood
beauties have in good share
that head-power-feel for which
H 8: B woods have long
been noted.

It's Icahn/eel, and performance that count with golfers-m
the new (Jrand Slams have everything.

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY CO., Louisville, Kentucky
Also Makers of Famous Louisville Slugger Bats

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION

+~++-r-I-+'-_l—l—I-++++-I-+H- +4— '
. '9‘;- H+wam
TOUR TABLE TENNIS TOURNAMENT NIT

. '+-|-
+ H++++ .
hq-H Mr 7- 1-+-lv-++-ln-++~I-n
+H+4-l—H—k-¢-+—H—L 1.... -g 1-4- +-+—i- ole—t-1-+-t—- v ++—+--o—I—I-
H-l-+++++-Iw t ' ti' - - I ti H+¥++o+'++++—o—4—l—++.
- ++ae-++H+-++ oi++—o—++—ld—t—I—§—o--l—I—t-++-4—|—¢—l—J
++++H1+¢ $+4+qdd4+h+~H—§—+—H—l—H—l—|—b—+—g—H+

 

HARVARD TABLE TENNIS TOURNAMENT

I.

HERE’S WHAT YOU GET . . . The Harvard Tournament Kit crammed
with everything to run a full participation, outstanding athletic event
. in less space and at lower cost than most other sports. You get two
colorful Harvard Table Tennis Teachers with instructions and tips from
champions; action photos of game-winning techniques,- official U.S.T.T.A.
rules and sections 0n leagues and tournaments. Also 3 Tournament
Charts, a complete publicity program and tournament tally sheet.

 

HERE'S WHAT WINNERS GET . . . Valuable Harvard Gold Medals

and Award Certificates for winners of your men's and women's singles.
They are sent FREE when you complete tally sheet. Mail coupon below.

 

‘E   

mu “u i... _ ... .u r__.w,.u.w_...rw.... ,7 u n... Ana-nun..- "&..q-W’€w"u.-w-Lu“w."M\w-4m¢"u-‘T- ~

 

—-———u——mmm__ —_—__ —_———_—_—___u————_

HARVARD TABLE TENNIS COMPANY
60 State St., Boston 9, Mass. RM-S

  
      
 
  

We plan to start our tournament on_._________.
(DAY, MONTH, YEAR)

 

 

Gentlemen: There will be approximately_______participants.
. (NUMBER)
In order to run a table tennis tournament please we do I do not offer table tennis 0" year.

(CHECK ONE)
Table Tennis is part of our athletic_._, recreation__

send us the FREE Harvard Tournament Kit.
SCHOOL on one. '

 

 

283:0” program. (CHECK one:
STREET 8- NO- There.are' approximately_______in our school or
organization. (NUMBER)

l CITY_________ZONE__STATE

‘ I I . r:
‘EPTEMBER 1956 When writing to our advertlsers please mention RECREATION. 3L-

314

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported 'by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

   

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RECREATION RESEARCH

The National Advisory Committee on Recreation Research, composed of ogtstiindilngi lfgdtill'jslliégs
recreation and park fields, the field of recreation education and tralnmga an Te ‘i‘te d e S t,o
established to afford a liaison between the many agencies conducting research re ate to rectr.ea 1 11’
focus attention upon fundamental and realistic recreation needs, encourage and aSSist driacrEa iOibie 111':
search projects, and help the recreation movement and indiv1dual recreation agencies an ea ers

fit from the results of research in recreation and in related fields.

FRED M. COOMBS—-Vice-Chairman

In charge RecreatiOn Education Curriculum,
Pennsylvania State University

University Park, Pennsylvania

DAVID M. ABBOTT

Deputy Director of Parks and
Recreation
Denver, Colorado

FERDINAND BAIIR
Recreation Specialist, California
State Recreation Commission

Los Angeles, California

W. C. BATGHELOR

Professor of Social Administration,

Ohio State University
Columbus, Ohio

ROBERT L. BLACK

Community Recreation Assistant,
Missouri Division of Resources
and Development

J eiIerson City, Missouri

CHARLES K. BRIGIITBILL

Director of Recreation Training,
University of Illinois

Urbana, Illinois

REYNOLD CARLSON

Assistant Professor of Recreation,
Indiana University

Bloomington, Indiana

E. DANA CAULKINS

Associate Consultant, Education-
Recreation Division, Health and
Welfare Council of Delaware,

Montgomery and Philadelphia
Counties

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

MILO F. CIIRisriANSEN
Superintendent of Recreation

Washington, D. C.

HOWARD G. DANTORB

Director of Physical Education,
Florida State University
Tallahassee, Florida

PAT DAWSON

Director of Public Schools Recreation
Jancsvillc, Wisconsin

FELIx K. DiIAININ

Landscape A rchitect-A dministrativc,
Board of Park Commissioners

Minneapolis, Minnesota

FRANCE; DONNON

Supervisor of Municipal Assistance
Service, Institute of Local and
State Government, University
of Pennsylvania

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

JESSE A. REYNOLDS—Chairman
Director of Recreation and Parks
Richmond, Virginia

GERALD B. FITZGERALD

Director of Recreation Training,
University of Minnesota

Minneapolis, Minnesota

FOREST V. D. GUSTAFSON
Director of Recreation,

Montgomery County
Rockville, Maryland

FRANK HARNETT

Long Beach Recreation Commission
Long Beach, California

ALAN L. HEIL

Superintendent of Recreation and Parks

Montclair, New Jersey
RALPH M. HILEMAN

Superintendent of Recreation and Parks,

East Baton Rouge Parish
Baton Rouge, Louisiana

GEORGE HJELTE

General Manager, Department of
Recreation and Parks

Los Angeles, California

H. C. HUTCHINS

Assistant Professor of Education and
Coordinator of the Recreation

Curriculum, University of
Wisconsin

Madison, Wisconsin

JOIIN L. HUTCHINSON
Professor of Education, Teachers

College, Columbia University
New York, New York

RAY C. KOOI

Employee Services Department,
Ford Motor Company
Detroit, Michigan

MARTIN NADING

Superintendent of Recreation
Fort Wayne, Indiana

RIIODELL E. OWENS
Director of Parks
Peoria, Illinois

WEAVER W. I’ANGBURN
Recreation Consultant

Upper Moutclair, New Jersey

B. E. PHILLIPS

Recreation and Entertainment

’Service, Veterans Administration
Washington, I). C.

GEORGE D. BUTLER—Secretary
Director of Research, . .
National Recreation Assoczatton

New York, New York

SAL PREZIOSO .
Westchester County Recreation
Commission

White Plains, New York

LORNE C. RICKERT
Superintendent of Recreation
Salisbury, Maryland

LYNN RODNEY

Chairman, Recreation and OutdoOr
Education Curriculum, University
of Oregon

Eugene, Oregon

REX SETTLEMIRE

Director of Parks and Recreation,
High School

Lima, Ohio
BEVERLY S. SHEFFIELD

Director of Recreation
Austin, Texas

I. ROBERT M. SHULTz
Superintendent of Recreation
Bridgeport, Connecticut

JOHN SIEKER
Chief, Division of Recreation and

Land Uses, U. S. Forest Service
Washington, D. C.

ROBERT D. Sisco

Superintendent of Recreation and Parks

Livingston, New Jersey

BEN H. THOMPSON
Chief of Cooperative Activities,
National Park Service

Washington, D. C.
W. R. TRACY

Engineer and Secretary, Union
County Park Commission
Elizabeth, New Jersey

JAY M. VER LEE

Superintendent of Recreation

Oakland, California

MICHAEL E. WARGO
Director of Recreation
Greensburg, Pennsylvania

A. E. WEATHERFORD, II

Chairman, Department of Physical
Education and Recreation,

North Carolina College
Durham, North Carolina

CHARLES F. WEGKWERTH

Director of Recreation and Camping,
Springfield College
Springfield, Massachusetts

RECREATIO]

SEPTEMBER 1956

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
’ Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLIX Price 50 Cents No. 7

0n the Cover

Autumn weather, a quiet spot by a calm lake, and
time for meditation—or just plain day dreaming——
supply the necessary requirements for relaxation for
this young cyclist. Photo through the courtesy of
Reeva Schmidt, Portland, Oregon.

Next Month

United Nations Day is in October and two timely
articles, “Recreation Activities in Israel” and “So-
cial Education in India,” olIer an Opportunity to
learn more about our neighbors to the east; “Plan-
ning, Acquiring, and Building Chicago Parks” tells
how this Illinois city is providing adequate recrea-
tion facilities; recreation for two special groups,
the homebound and the mentally retarded; skin
diving, archery, and Halloween ideasw-these, and
many more, make the October issue one you won’t
want to miss.

Photo Credits

Page 323 (top), Bond-McCarry Studios, Phila-
delphia; 324 (bottom right), Blackstone Studios
Inc., New York City; 333 (upper left), Owen Ro-
gofi; 336-7, (Arabia) T. F. Walters; (Austria)
Austria State Tourist Department, New York City;
,(Czechoslovakia) Ministry of Hygiene and Physi-
'cal Education, Czechoslovakia; (India) UNICEF,
New York City; (Lapland) Swedish Travel Infor-
mation Bureau, Inc., New YOrk City; (Roumania)
National Office of Physical Education, Roumania;

(Sweden) K. Kostich, courtesy Swedish National
Travel Office, New York City; 343, Pirkle Jones,

San Francisco.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York, is on
lilc in public libraries and is indexed in the Reader:’
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
cign subscription rate $4.50. Re-entered as second-class
matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York,
New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance
for wiling at special rate of postage provided for in
Section 1103, Act of OCtober 3, 1917, authorized May
1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-

versity Microfilms, 515 N. FirSt Street, Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space Representatives.- H. Thayer Heaton, 141 East
44th Street, New York 17, New York; Mark Minahan,
168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

Copyright, 1956, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 

@16

' Trade mark regiStered in U. S. Patent OB‘ice.

SEPTEMBER 1956

 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Recreation and the American Heritage (Editorial)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  T.E.Rivers 316
A New Look for Philadelphia. . . . . . . . . .Robert W. Crawford 322
It’s Time to Take Off for the International

Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 324
Cooperative Community Exchange Project. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326
Public Recreation EXpands in New Mexico

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Dorothy I. Cline and Armand H. Seidler 327
Square Dancing Under the Stars . . . . . . . . . . .Harry S. Grabner 329
Integrated City Planning in Action . . . . . . . . . Mavis W. Renter 330
Recreation—a Common Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 336
PROGRAM
The Use of Folklore in Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .llIara 332
Festival Time at Halloween. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Patricia Burton 334
Careful Planning Pays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 335
So, You’re Going to Run 3 Basketball Tournament! . . . . . . . . . 348
Call Them Squares (Idea of the Month). . . . .Edith Brockway 351
Paper Cut-Out Pictures (How To Do It!) . . . .Frank A. Staples 353
ADMINISTRATION
FeesandCharges . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . ..340
Use of Indoor Facilities for Recreation—

Advantages of a Separate Recreation

Building . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Robert A. Lee 342
Advantages of a School Comunity Recreation
Center................ . . . . . . . ..HaroldG.IVIyron 343

Research Reviews and Abstracts . . . . . . . . . . .'George D. Butler 346
REGULAR FEATURES
Letters . . . . . . . . .  . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..318

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 321

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 333

' On the Campus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Alfred B. Jensen 354

Personnel—College Analysis. . . . . . . . . . . . . W. C. Sutherland 356

.Hospital Capsules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Beatrice H. Hill 358
Books and Pamphlets Received, Periodicals, I
Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 359
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 360
Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 360
Idca of the Month, How to Do It! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .See Program

Recreation Leadership Training Courses. . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

315

 

Recreation Editorial
and t/ae American Heritage T. E. Riv...

' I ‘m: ROOTS of the American people run deep into the soil of many natlons. Into

America’s bloodstream has {lowed that of nearly all mankind.
In the ferment of the seventeenth and eighteenth centurles, men and women who

loved liberty and aspired to a richer life turned to the New World with hope. Thelr hope
encompassed freedom from back-breaking toil, and opportunity to express and utihze
the Cod-given creative capacities inherent in us all. .

They brought with them the experience, the thought, the vismn of the great teach-
ers, leaders, prophets, and organizers of numerous peoples—thus bequeathlng t0 thls
new nation a spiritual heritage broad and deep, free and forward lookmg.

They brought with them also the songs, dances, customs, colors, music and drama,
sports, and love of nature which had brightened their lives in harsher lands.

On these shores, fired by a common purpose and blessed with a land rich in natural
resources, these travelers from afar and their descendants are building, in unity, a new
nation—a new people—one made from many. I

Here they also are building a new life in which leisure is the portion of every one.
A leisure which is the product of freedom and economic security. For the first time
in history the dream of freedom for all from soul-killing labor is being realized.

That this leisure may be a blessing and not a curse has been the concern of many.
This concern, over a period of fifty years, has resulted in giving recreation a high
priority in American life. But although resources in land, facilities, and leadership are
being devoted to it, they are far from adequate.

Today, human progress is not for one nation only, but for all peoples. Problems
of using leisure for enriching the human spirit are the problems of mankind. Their
. solution should know no barriers.

That is why those of us in the recreation movement, locally and nationally, in public
and private agencies, have joined wholeheartedly in projects to bring the recreation ,
leaders of the world closer together. We rejoice in the recognition the United States
State Department has accorded recreation in the Exchange of Persons Program. We
are proud that recreation departments in some sixty-five American communities were
hosts to recreation leaders from some twenty nations this summer. We congratulate
those nations which have established central recreation agencies, comparable to our
own National Recreation Association, which are working to provide recreation serv-
ices for their people. These are excellent units for world-wide cooperation.

The increasing number of recreation leaders going and coming from abroad on
special recreation missions is heartening indeed. Mrs. Rivers and I remember, with l
gratitude, the warmth of our own reception in countries all around the world as we
talked of recreation and how its leaders in all lands, working together, could contribute
to international understanding and a richer life for all.

And now, on the eve of the International Recreation Congress—one of a number of
projects of the International Recreation Service of the National Recreation Associa-
tion—we welcome those who are coming from the many lands whose nationals helped
to build America, whose games, music, dances, sports, and crafts are the foundation of
our recreation program. . ‘

Share with us what you have. Take from us what you will.

We are on the threshold of an era when leisure, as we know it here, can be for all
nations. Its use is a common human problem. Its solution will mean a richer life for
all. The International Recreation Congress can be an historic milepost to that end.

I Let us work on it cooperatively. in unity and brotherhood, I

MR. RIVERS is the secretary-general a
the International Recreation Congres

3m RECREATIO

First Choice of Over 80 Rinks and Clubs

  
  

 

-

en-

‘ Engineered
  . Refrigeration
for dependable, low

:URLING is becoming an all-winter sport for clubs who are install-

ng CP ENGINEERED REFRIGERATION in their rinks. The Indian Hill t ' k'
Jountry Club, Wilmette,«IIlinOis, and the Maple Creek Curling  '  
Ilub, Maple Creek, Sask., are two Of 11 curling clubs that are get-
ing CP ENGINEERED REFRIGERATION this year.

Thanks to GP refrigerated ice, over 80 clubs and
rinks in the United States and Canada are en-
joying all-season curling, skating and hockey.
Schedules are free from the threat of cancellation
due to unseasonable weather; seasons are now
longer; more fun for participants and more profit-
able for clubs and rink owners.

The trend to GP ENGINEERED REFRIGERATION
is increasing. Some sixteen new rinks were re-

frigerated by GP in 1954 alone.

There are several good reasons why: CP takes
complete responsibility for the refrigeration job
—from planning to final inspection. With their
specialized experience in rink refrigeration, CP
engineers can bring you—as they have others—
a refrigeration system that Operates at lowest
cost and gives years Of dependable service.

IOCKEY games and practice sessions can be held as scheduled when Find how little a CP ENGINEERED REFRIGER-

he rink is refrigerated by GP. One of the organizations that is get- ATION System would cost for your club or rink.
ing these advantages with a recently installed CP ENGINEERED Fill out and mail coupon

LEFRIGERATION System, similar to this, is Middlebury College,

VIiddlebury, Vermont.  THE gateway Pecéage MFG. COMPANY

 

THE CREAMERY PACKAGE MFG. COMPANY
Mfrs. of Refrigerating Machinery for Over 60 years

1243 West Washington Blvd., Chicago 7, Illinois
(/0 Rink Refrigeration Division

We're interested in artificial ice for:

Curling- E] Hockey I] Skating |:|

Street—m;___________ .. _.

City_______Zone State or Province- .. _.

 

 

Signed by____..._________—______._.—___.

,,I

" T. 61

IN CANADA—write to

CREAMERY PACKAGE MFG. COMPANY

EJBLIC SKATING is attracting larger crowds than ever before.
267 King St. Toronto 2, Ont.

. unicipalities are installing CP refrigeration to meet the growing
emand for all-season ice. Recently, CP completed an outdoor
ublic skating rink for Jersey City, N. J. I —————— ——————————————————

i-
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
: Club or Organization
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

1_____________________

:PTEMBER 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 317

“3*”!- NEW! 2. ,0

.aa l—ll Mehi-Purji/oig.

M" ' lb“ AlUHINUH
STANDARD

"we |—
Wit
renew!

Hm-dOvH-mm

0 vocm IA.“ 0 IADHINTON
0 mu 0 PM! YINle
0 W m 0 Will“.

J Official specifications

.‘ Lightweight

J Easy to install and move
,1 No maintenance

J Six different models

High Jump
Slide -

Adiustablo
Erobolts

 

BASKETBAll
STEEl CHAIN
NETS

3 Yea rs Guarantee!
outdoors or indoors

 ./°9”'°

g
I - I ‘r
f .4

Alto Featuring Jay/ro': Carton: Built
New and Improved!

1/ PADDLE TETHERBALL SETS

Revolutionary and Exciting New!

1/ SHUFFLEBOARD SETS
with "cum: CUSHIONED“ DISCS

0 Sand for Free Catalog 0

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. RC, Box 1065. NEW lONDON, CONN.

 

The big book
with hundreds
of answers to:

"WHAT (All WE
00 FOR FUN!”

Fun and
Games

By Margaret E. Mulac

Games, stunts, tricks, songs,
dances—hundreds of wonderful
ways to have fun at: parties, pic-
nics, outings and get-togethcrs of
every sort. Comical races and
competitions that are real mixer-
uppers, and all kinds of new ideas,
from word games to dramatic
stunts. Complete index. $3.95

A! bookstores or from

HARPER In
BROTHERS

49 E. 33 St.
New York 16

 

 

318

_
—_

to.
I'-
''''''' -o

_.'-o
a
4 ' o o a . o I

'''''''''' .-

  

 

q‘  I Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New

Y ark 11—s0 that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Name Choosing
Sirs:

The letter from M. C. Thiltgen [June
1956] touches upon a subject of inter-
est to all who are concerned with aiding
the professional growth of the recrea-
tion field. In the states of North Caro-
lina, Virginia, Vermont, South Caro-
lina, and others we find an increasing
acceptance of the term “recreator” as
that which best describes the profes-
sional person engaged in recreation
work. It is euphonic, dignified, de-
scriptive, convenient of use, and is com-
parable to doctor, legislator or educator
in its professional designation of a
person who has qualified as a member
of a respected field of human service.

When the Southern Regional Educa-
tion Board and the National Recreation
Association sponsored a report confer-
ence, for their jointly developed study
on Recreation as a Profession in the
Southern Region,* action was taken by
the delegates to approve of the use of
“recreator.” It was found, also to be
of practical help in the discussions and
was used in the Southern Region Edu-
cation Board’s report of this meeting.

In North Carolina the first certifica-
tion eflorts resulted in the North Caro-
lina Recreator Certihcate, first issued
in July of 1954.

Mr. Thiltgen, f‘the ball” is rolling.
We feel sure, with your interest and
because of the thinking you have ex-
pressed, you will help to keep it roll-
ing. Let’s hope, sir, that in this effort
we can have some other reactions to
your letter, and to this one.

RALPH J. ANDREWS, Director, North
Carolina Recreation Commission,

Raleigh, North Carolina.

* it it «it
Sirs:

Since the National Recreation Assoc-
iation is now celebrating its Golden
Anniversary, I feel that the letter of
M. C. Thiltgen is quite timely. The time

N
_ Axailnlile "I book form; National Recrea-
Imn \ssocinlion, $3.75.

When writing to our EldVPI'llwlbI'.‘ please mention RECREATION

—-The Editors.

is ripe to choose a name applicable to
all recreation personnel.

Education and recreation go hand in
hand to mold human character. If a
worker in education is termed an “edu-
cator,” would it not be equally fitting
to term a worker in recreation a “rec-
reator”?

It is my suggestion then, that all ree-
reation personnel become nationally
as well as internationally known as
“recreators”!

NORMA RECORDS, an educator equal-
ly interested in becoming a recre-
ator, Modesto, California.

The Tree of Liberty
Sirs:

The question posed by Mr. Mowrer
in “Recreation—for What?”, in the
last December issue, lay bare what I be-
lieve to be the most fundamental evil of
our times—our addiction to soul-de-
stroying conformity. I call it funda-
mental because I agree with Psychia-
trist Robert Lindner that the Eleventh
Commandment, “Thou shalt adjust,”
is at the root of the senseless violence
of the age, juvenile delinquency being
one of its manifestations. Deplore its
increase as we may, it at least demon;-
strates a protest, albeit a destructive
one, against the straightjaeket as our
national uniform.

Parents, teachers, and other forces of
authority in their united efforts to “in-
tegrate the child with his age-group”
have made a mockery of his integrity—:-
and their own. When we deny our
children the priceless boon of solitude
where the great choices of life are made,
we are building in some an underground-
of hostility that breaks out in crimei
and in others an underground of feat
that breaks out in mental disease.

Happily, as Mr. Mowrer suggests
there is, among the unadjusted, a mi
nority who put their “un000perative
ness” to a constructive use. To Beetho
ven, Pasteur, and Einstein, whom h
mentions, might be added Columbus
loan of Arc, Semmelweiss, Freud, Ga

RECREATIOI

dhi, and many others, who have opened
the gates of freedom and truth and
mercy. To the flowering of their genius
and of humbler gifts, loneliness is, as
Mr. Mowrer says, often a necessity.

It is this saving stubbornness, that
confounds the monstrous lie of adjust-
ment in even the best Babbitt, among us,
that recreation can recognize and en-
courage. F or the pre-school child,
whose imagination is king, there are the
old fairy stories and myths and legends
in which some unadjusted Jack climbs
the beanstalk, and the ugly duckling,
after sufferings known to the uninte-
grated, achieves swandom. What a leg-
up for the non-standardized child is
this treasury of the centuries to draw
upon for companionship. For youth of
all ages there are dramatics which may
help the player to find his role on the
world stage; there are classes in paint-
ing and modeling, workshops for free
experimenting. And parks, if not play-
grounds, can have shrubbery in which a
child can escape to his own self-com-
munings, and hide for the duration.

The tree which the Founding Fathers
planted on our soil was the tree of
liberty. If we cut it down to warm and
shelter ourselves in the Cold War, it
will make no difference who wins it.

MARGARET LEE SOUTHARD, Hing»
ham, Massachusetts.

Our Magazine Abroad

Sirs:

I noted in the March issue of RECRE-
ATION comments on the new leaflet Rec-
reation—An Essential Part of the City
Plan. I would be most grateful if you
could forward a copy of this as soon as
possible. I feel it appropriate also to
express my appreciation of your maga-
zine. Working in a city of some fifteen
thousand people, I have found its prac-

W

FOLDING
BANQUET

 
       
 
          
       
   
   

If you are on the
Board of your
Church. Lodge,
Club. School“ etc..
you Will be inter-
ested in this mod-
crn Folding Ban-
quet Table.

Completely fin-
ished tops, re-
sistant to most
serving hazards.
Used with or with-
out table cloths.

       
   
   

'h': v . ‘ x J
wacwhav

Wag...“ ~

      
     

Write for Table and

Truck Catalog and special

price discounts to institutions
and organizations.

Monroe Co.. 181 Church St.. Colfax. Ia.

 
  

SEPTEMBER 1956

tical suggestions extremely useful and
its articles on the philosophy of recrea-
tion a considerable help in keeping in
touch with the basic purpose of this
type of work.

I find that even in another country
the program ideas are in many cases
readily adaptable to our own situation.
The recent series of articles on the con-
struction, maintenance and operation
of a community swimming pool has
been most useful to us and my copies of
the issues of RECREATION in which these
articles appeared are at present held by
the local swimming pool committee
which is finding them most valuable.

Thanks for some most excellent pub-
lications and best wishes for the future.

IAN FRENCHAM, General Secretary,
Young Men’s Christian Association,
Port Pirie,'South Australia.

Inspired Leadership

Sirs:
The editorial by Dr. Douglass enti-
tled “Inspired Leadership,” which ap-

   
    

AMERICA'S OLDEST AND LARGEST IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF

FENCING EQUIPMENT

30 EAST 10th STREET, N. Y.3, N.Y.' GRamercy 7-5790

I

l.
5'77"

peared in the March 1956 issue of REC-
REA'l‘ION, is one of the finest articles on
this subject we have ever read. Would
it be possible to obtain about twenty-
five reprints of this editorial?

JULIET R. BRUSSEL, Organization
and Management Department, Girl
Scouts of the United States of
America.

    

-. u.» r,

"a!" PM _/ h” -.- .
 was arc/49 «w ,

 I‘ make - L» '- fr»;
gig  HOBBY TOOLS ? 

  "fTT-“T’K‘K’IF “5.1?- '.:.<<::--».~.-.::sc=2am "  

   

'l.

c,
g).-

  
   

"I-IOBBY TOOLS 8; HOW TO
USE THEM." the new 96-pg.
X-acto manual, gives the an-
swers — interestingly and au-
thoritatively. Shows in easy
steps what to make and
how to make it— proiects
in whittling, scale model-
ing, Ieathercraft, metalwork,
block printing, etc.

3-.
it?
/
I.

“,3? only

- I c At hobby stores or Write direct.
 48-99 Van Dam St, L. I.City I,N. Y.

A FENCING:
PROGRAM:

For 2 or 200. Requires minimum space and simpie inex-
pensive equipment.

We design and manufacture the .
best and least expensive
weapons and accessories .
for beginners and ex-
perts. Let us help you .
set up a fencing activity
or deveIOp the one you .
have. Consultations free.

/

Write Dept. R for .
FREE CATALOG.
O

THE MODERN APPROACH
TO RECREATION . . .

 

 

"I! nuts can

“‘Sal'ellite

PLAY SCULPTURE

see on display

INTERNATIONAL
RECREATION CONGRESS

October 1 thru 5
BOOTH 76

 

SATELLITE DIVISION
MIDWEST POOL AND COURT COMPANY

I206 North Rock Hill Road

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

St. louis 17, Missouri

 

319

 

) RECREATION MAGAZINE COMES TO
YOU IN TWO PARTS THIS LIONTH, and
we’re sure you will find Part II—Cuide
to Books on Recreation—a most valu-
able addition to your recreation library.
Now, for the first time, recreation lead-
ers have at their fingertips one cata-
logue listing 750 significant books in
this field and will be able to purchase
all of them through the National Recre-
ation Association Book Center.

) SEPTEMBER 26 is the date for the
official opening of the Recreation Book
Center in the National Recreation As-
sociation headquarters building,8West
Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.
The new book center, a permanent book
service, has been established by the
Association with the help of its new
Publishers’ Advisory Committee and
ninety-one cooperating publishing
houses. It will be under the manage-
ment of Alfred B. Jensen of the NRA
staff, author of our “On the Campus”
page. All titles in Guide to Books on
Recreation will be available at the book
center.

) PLEASE NOTE: “CLASSIFIED ADVER-
TISING” IS A NEw REGULAR FEATURE in
the planning stage for RECREATION at
this time. This new service will enable
agencies, individuals, departments to
publish notices about recreation posi-
tions open or wanted, equipment want-
ed or for sale, and so on, for a small
Charge. “Classified Advertising” is
scheduled to start with our January
issue.

) 'I‘IIE NEEDS AND PROSPECTS OF TIIE
NATION'S SENIOR CITIZENS have been
the subject of “Threescore and Five,”
11 series of six half-hour radio pro-
grams on Wednesday evenings on the
NRC network from July 25 through
August 2‘). News commentator If. V.
Kaltenhorn. a senior citizen of seventy-
eight. narrated the series. Tape-record-
ed interviews with older persons and
with authorities in the field personal-
ized the major problems. NRA’S Joseph
l’rendergast appeared as guest author-
?h on the Augu—t '22 program.

>"ltlt '1‘

NEWSPAPER I’RHDU‘THN'Z
v M moting Into the biggest.

320

745.9. easmz’mu

 

r

broadest, most magnificent leisure-time
business boom in all history. Sales of
goods identified with the leisure mar-
ket in 1956 will topple every record set
in 1955—and 1955’s records were fan-
tastic. . . . There is no place for the
luxury leisure-time market in our na-
tion to go except UP.”—Sylvia F. Por-
ter, columnist, New York Post, April
3, 1956.

b A NATIONAL AWARDS COMPETITION
for salaried employees or unpaid vol-
unteer workers in any social welfare
agency, public or private, has been de-
signed by the Foundation for Volun-
tary Welfare. Cash awards totaling
$13,250 will be presented in this na-
tion-wide essay contest to welfare work-
ers with the best ideas on “A Way to
Extend Voluntary Activities and Or-
ganization in Social Welfare.” Special
fields of welfare work suggested as
tOpics include, among others, juvenile
delinquency, the aging, and recreation.
Entrants are urged to cite practical
methods, to detail personal experiences
and those of other persons and agen-
cies with similar objectives. The essays
will be judged only upon their content,
not their literary style. Closing date
of the competition is November 15,
1956.

For complete rules and information,
write to the National Awards Competi-

tion, Foundation for Voluntary Wel-
fare, Post Office Box #2609, San Fran-

cisco, California.

bHONORARY MEMBERS OF THE NA-
TIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION, elect-
ed in May, are:

New England: Senator Benton H.
Grant, Stamford, Connecticut (2);
Mrs. John Grew, Dover, Massachusetts
(14); Donald R. Hyde, Greenwich,

Connecticut (3); Arthur T. Lyman,
Boston, Massachusetts (3) .

Middle Atlantic: Bruce Bedford,
Trenton, New Jersey (12); Mrs. Per-
cival F. Brundage, Washington, D. C.
17); C. Sewall Clark, Philadelphia,
l.’ennsylvania (19); F. Trubee Davi-
son, New York, New York (32) ; James
Rerney, Jr., Trenton, New Jersey (2) ;
Mrs. Charles F. Wallace, Westfield,
New JeI'sev l13).

Great Int/res .' Dr. 15:. O. Barstow, Mid-

land, Michigan; Charles F. Burke,
Akron, Ohio (2); Mrs. Frank Peavey
Heffelfinger, Minneapolis, Minnesota
(2) ; Mrs. Siegel Judd, Grand Rapids,
Michigan (18); Mrs. James A. Ken-
nedy, Ann Arbor, Michigan (7);
Arthur G. Stangel, Manitowoc, Wiscon-
sin (16) ; Mayor Charles Taft, Cincin-

nati, Ohio.
Midwest: Thomas Woods, Lincoln,

Nebraska (2).
Pacijic Southwest: W. Herbert Allen,

Los Angeles, California (5); Senator
Harold Giss, Yuma, Arizona (1) ; Mrs.
Bartlett Heard, Berkeley, California
(5); Lt. General Leo D. Hermle, San
Diego, California (4); Mrs. John D.
Jameson, Tucson, Arizona; Samuel
Makoff, Salt Lake City, Utah (2) ; Wal-
ter May, Beverly Hills, California (3) ;
Richard -Raou1-Duval, San Francisco,
California (5) ; Fred Stofft, Tucson,
Arizona (10).

Figures in parenthesis denote num-
ber of years of service as an NRA spon-
sor. Mrs. Jameson has been a member

of the NRA Board of Directors for

eighteen years.

) PROCEEDINGS OF THE SECOND HOS-
PITAL RECREATION INSTITUTE are now

available from the National Recreation
Association for one dollar a copy. The
106-page mimeographed publication
covers the sessions of the institute, “Rec-
reation for Senior Citizens in Hospitals,
Nursing Homes, and Institutions,”
sponsored by New York University

School of Education and the NRA last
January 18-20.

) IN A CONGRESSIONAL STUDY OF REC-
REATIONAL BOATING, public hearings
were begun on July 2, 1956 to deter-
mine the necessity or desirability of
additional federal legislation to regu-,
late pleasure boating in the United "

States. Early in May, Ralph G. Klie-i
forth of Oshkosh, Wisconsin, president

of the National Association of Engine "
and Boat Manufacturers, proposed the-
hearings to Representative Herbert C.
Bonner, North Carolina, chairman off
the House of Representatives Committee; '
on Merchant Marine and Fisheries.

The hearings mark the opening off
the studies which the committee is un--
dertaking, in advance of any specific'
legislation being introduced, to ex-
amine problems raised by the phenom-
enal growth of pleasure boating on the
navigable waters of the United States.
(Approximately twenty-five million
Americans “go afloat” each year.) ”

For information on the scheduling of
such hearings, write to John M. Drewry,
Counsel, Committee on Merchant Ma-
rine and Fisheries, House Oflice Build-
ing, Washington, D. C. l

RECREATION

Editorially Speaking

 

Welcome Delegates!

A warm greeting is extended to all
delegates to the Second International
Recreation Congress * by the National
Recreation Association and by the city
of Philadelphia. It is a great pleasure
and privilege to have so many visitors
from other lands with us. We hope all
American delegates will join us in
making these friends feel at home, and
in helping them to get and give the most
at all Congress sessions.

Not since 1932 have recreation lead-
ers of many nations had an opportu-
nity to meet and discuss the subject of
top concern to all—recreation in its
many aspects. Today’s increasing lei-
sure and mechanization make this op-
portunity extremely timely. The Phil-
adelphia meeting promises to be of
unusual interest.

In writing of that First International
Congress, Howard Braucher said:
“After all, the language of the heart’s
desire, the language of play and recrea-
tion, seemed much the same among the
nations.

“Know you one another and thus you
fulfill the law of! peace. Share your
songs, your music, your art, your
sports, your ‘heart’s desire,’ and you

know you have shared what has great-7‘

est lasting value. Begin with what we
have in common and the rest seems less
important.

“One international recreation con-
ference has more value for world peace
than ten disarmament conferences.”

United Nations

The eleventh anniversary of the
United Nations is being celebrated on
October 24« this year, by proclamation
of President Eisenhower. It is urged
that steps be taken locally to form UN
Day committees. We hope recreation
people will' cooperate in forming such
committees and in planning special UN

* See “It’s Time to Take Off for the Inter-
national Recreation Congress,” page 324.

SEPTEMBER 1956

Day activities of their own—as a part
of the over-all town celebration. If your
mayor does not issue a proclamation,
or if your community is one of less than
twenty-five hundred population, take
the initiative and form a committee of
your own. Hold a kick-off meeting as
early in September as possible. Send
to the U.S. Committee for the United
Nations, 816 2lst Street, N.W., Wash-

ington 6, D.C., for the helpful leaders’
guide, The UN is Your Business.

Recreation Services for the

Mentally Retarded
In a 1956 Newsletter, the National

Recreation Association enclosed a short
questionnaire asking what recreation
services are being given the mentally
retarded. The following is a brief out-
line of results of this inquiry. A total

of forty—nine replies were received; out
of these:

0 Twenty—four reported a playground
program or programs, all but one sup-
ported by tax funds. Two replies came
from state schools; the other twenty-
two were from public recreation de-
partments. The “oldest,” in point of
starting date, was Portland, Oregon—
1949. The number of individuals served
ranged from ten to nineteen hundred,
the latter reported by a state school.
The youngest age grOUp started at four
years, but most age groups were around
seven to seventeen.

0 Only four resident camp programs
were reported, and two of these were
state schools.

0 Eight indicated day camp programs,
six were tax supported. One was a state
school, one sponsored by an associa-
tion for retarded children, and two
were operated in cooperation with a
local organization for retarded chil-
dren. Number served ranged from
thirty to a hundred and fifty, and the
age range was three on up.

0 Nineteen indicated a swimming pro-
gram, all but one tax-supported. Two
were state schools, one a private agency
for retarded children. The number

served ranged from six to twelve hun--
dred, the latter from a state school. The
age range was from six up, the school
ages being in the majority. The earliest
date for such a program was 1951

(Norwood, Ohio).

0 Nineteen indicated indoor recrea-
tion programs; two in state schools, all
tax-supported. The number served
ranged from six to twelve hundred
(the latter a state school). Ages ranged
from three up, with school ages in the
majority.

0 Fourteen replies indicated “other”
types of recreation program, twelve
tax-supported, including two state
schools. The number served ranged
from six to nineteen hundred, but six
replies gave no figures. All ages were
reported. Activities included .crafts,
social recreation, play groups, tours,
drama, folk dancing, picnics, and out-
door winter activities.

While it is encouraging to find so
In a n y recreation departments p r o -
viding some type of recreation program
for the mentally retarded, it is obvious
that actually this area of work has been
scarcely scratched. The figures for the
number of participants show that most

_ of the groups are very small, and prob-

ably many are on a one-time or short-
time basis.

The last Park and Recreation Year-
book (1950) listed 2,277 recreation
and park agencies. Roughly, then, only
about one out of every fifty has pro-
vided any type of recreation program
for this group—not a very good aver-
age at all.

If there is any organization for the
mentally retarded in your community,
explore the possibility of working with
it to provide recreation. * * Perhaps your
department could provide facilities, or
leadership training, or parent-educa-
tion, or could organize specific play
groups. If there is no such organiza-
tion, you still can organize special pro-
grams for the mentally retarded and
can make an effort to integrate them
into some of your existing programs.
There’s a real service you can give your
community—a rewarding one. I

** See “Happiness Through Recreation—
The Detroit Plan for the Retarded Child,”

RECREATION, May 1955, pages 230-1; “Play-
nround Plan for the Mentally Retarded
Youngster” (Boston), April 1955, pages 166-
7; “Swimming for Handicapped Children,"
including the mentally retarded (Manches-
ter, Connecticut), February 1955, pages 84-5.

321

 

Robert W. Crawford

 

IT Is NEVER EASY to discard tradition. However, those of
us in the recreation field who are charged with the re-
sponsibility of planning and administering recreation pro-
grams must keep pace with the times and streamline our
facilities so that they can serve our twentieth century atomic
age more effectively. We must constantly search for new
avenues of approach, for a “new look” in our construction
work, and ever strive to Uplift our performance level.

Critics who claim that those of us in recreation have re-
mained static, that we are unimaginative and that there is
nothing new under the sun, are not conversant with the
transformation that has taken place in Philadelphia’s rec-
reation department. The changes that have been accom-
plished in the past four years are little short of astounding.
From the old idea that a boy, a ball, and a bat were prac-
tically all that were needed to turn a piece of ground into a
playground has come a new concept of recreation, a con-
cept of playgrounds to serve the entire family—from pre-
school tot to senior citizen-—-with imaginative yet func~
tional equipment and facilities so designed and constructed
that they improve the tone of the neighborhood.

Four years ago, Philadelphia’s recreation department
launched“ one of the most impressive recreation programs in
United States municipal history. For this capital improve-
ment program of construction and redevelopment of rec-
reation facilities, Philadelphia has spent approximately
$15,000,000 in the last four years. An additional $10,000,-
000 is scheduled for the next four years.

With vision and imagination, the department embarked
upon a plan which would sUpplernent the usual playground
equipment of a swing. slide, see-saw and jungle gym with
colorful and creative apparatlis designed to challenge the
skill and resourcefulness of children of all ages. Although

time of the apparatus is revolutionary in design, most of
has rapidly won the stamp of approval of the children,

 

MM. 1 i- m ‘i-M) 11.5 n-ueulmn eumrmaswner in Philadelphia.

322

 

Many exciting things have transpired within the recreation
department since the last recreation congress in this City.
There will be much for International Congress delegates to see.

i and the department is experimenting with a number of new

creations. The development of playgrounds and recreation
centers has all begun to pay big dividends.

Accurate records have been kept of those areas where
conventional type playgrounds were replaced by new,
modern and functional facilities. These records show that
the newer facilities are attracting an eight hundred per cent
increase in participation.

Designed to be pleasing in line, safe to use, and stimulat-
ing to the imagination, the exciting play devices are a
youngster’s dream come true. They cater to the natural in-
clination of children to climb and romp over objects, de-
velop basic skills, and present alluring unpredictability.

From January 1952 to June 1956, sixty recreation cen-
ters, playgrounds, parks, and squares were constructed or
completely redeveloped along modern .functional lines.
Twenty others are now under construction.

Each playground is designed as an asset to the commu-
nity and is tailored to the needs and desires of the neighbor-
hood. A recreation facility is not merely imposed upon a
community. Meetings are held with community groups and
leaders, thus giving those people who will use the facility a
hand in planning it. The buildings range from split-level
and ranch type structures to spacious two- and three-story
buildings with modern lines.

Some of the buildings are constructed of fieldstone, others
of red brick, and some of the buildings boast multi-col’ored
plexiglass windows covering entire walls from ceiling to
floor, filtering the light and adding warmth to the interiors.
Emphasis has been placed upon color and landscaping, con-
tributing both physically and psychologically to the enjoy-
ment of the facilities.

Tremendous strides have been made in construction;
however, there has been no lag in program either. Keeping
pace with the construction of new facilities, the recreation
program has placed emphasis on reaching groups and gangs
that normally do not gravitate to recreation centers, on de-

RECREATION

velopment of senior citizen groups, overnight and day
camping programs, theatre workshops, and opportunities
for eXpression through arts and crafts. A much needed pro-
gram has been developed for the physically and mentally
retarded, and an excellent start has been made in providing
recreation services for institutions. These activities have
proved a boon to morale in hospitals and prisons.

The departmentP of recreation recognizes, however, that
no matter how interesting the physical facility may be, it
fails to achieve its purpose unless the program is accom-
panied by concerned and dedicated leadership that under-
stands the dignity of each individual and makes every
effort to provide opportunity for expression of the innate

potentials of each participant.

In addition to normally accepted recreation programs, a
number of innovations have been introduced: toy-lending
libraries; play streets; teen-age dances with live music; in-

,door tennis facilities; picnic kits for issue to schools,

churches, industrial outfits, as well as other groups; permits
for over six hundred street showers; and a variety of other
activities too numerous to list.

To make play areas more alluring, different themes were
developed and found to be very effective. At Nelson Play-
ground the tot-lot was designed to simulate a seaport com-
plete with a concrete ship which doubles as a sandbox, a
wharf, and a giant porpoise climbing and sliding device.

To youngsters using the facilities of the Simpson Me-
morial Playground, dedicated May 3, 1956, the tot-lot is
the old Wild West transplanted. Many an imaginary Indian
has been felled in his tracks by the'Davy Crocketts who have
fought the battle of the Alamo in the unique log stockade.

The Myers Playground is a model facility with outstand-
ing play sculpture added to standard play equipment. Very
popular among the youngsters is a grazing giraer cast in
bronze, with legs and neck polished to a satiny smoothness,
that can be used as a climbing and sliding device.

The facilities include areas for small children, teen-agers,
parents, and senior citizens. The entire area is attractively
planted and landscaped. The senior citizens’ area is on a
lower level, almost independent of the rest of the grounds.

The Marion Anderson and Fredric R. Mann Recreation
Centers were dedicated in July 1955 and January 1956 re-
spectively. These large centers cost in the neighborhood of
$800,000 each, excluding the land. Each has a full size,
attractively colored modern gymnasium which can seat eight
hundred people, and an auditorium, with a well-designed,
functional stage, which seats three hundred people. There
are clubrooms, active and quiet game rooms, exercise rooms,
lounge and television rooms, craftrooms, staff lounging
quarters, and complete kitchen facilities.

The Mann Center has a complete neighborhood health

clinic with a separate entrance. With the exception of the
one room in which the medical equipment is housed, this
space also can be utilized for the recreation program.

At both centers the outdoor facilities include a modern
swimming pool with ample deck space for lounging, a
small tot area, children’s playground equipment, space for

basketball, volleyball, baseball, football, handball, badmin-

SEPTEMBER 1956

ton, shufHeboard, horseshoes, and a spray pool—providing
vast opportunities for a variety of activities for all ages.

Recreation in Philadelphia has come of age. The Phila-
delphia Inquirer recently summed it up neatly when it said,
“The youngster who doesn’t have fun at one of the ‘new
look’ playgrounds simply isn’t trying.” I

I?“

. V ‘ :  .- 4 ( J
. dig‘ 23,12: . . ’
-f . 3%?
s t “is! , . w . 
r win-

I.‘

- I-

it; i.‘ ‘ -._  " _' "

Q-

In“.
E _
-I ‘

, --‘¢

 

Buildings range from split-level and ranch types to spa-
cious two- and three-story structures, no two the same.

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Youngsters’ dreams be-
come reality! Exciting
new play devices, cater-
ing to the child’s natural
inclination, are favorites.

All ages are offered op-
portunities for expres-
sion through arts and
crafts. The program
keeps pace with the new
and expanding facilities.

One of the many new modern recreation centers now
dotting the city, operated by the recreation department.

323

 

H's Time To Take Off for—

The INTERNATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

   

Philadelphia’s famous string
bands will help to make the
Congress week memorable.

Eugene Ormandy will conduct
the Philadelphia Orchestra

in a concert for the Inter-
national Recreation Congress.

The city of Philadelphia is ready to welcome you with
warm hospitality, special plans, and surprises. Delegates
from other countries. many of whom came to the United
States last spring I see “Cooperative Community Exchange
Project,” page 326), are now gathering-for the meeting.
Response from American delegates is also exceedingly
gratifying. .

F or the first time since 1932, the National Recreation
Association is calling together representatives from around
the world to discuss a common concern—recreation. De-
tails of the outstanding program of five general sessions,
sixty section meetings, tours and field trips, the interna-
tional banquet, demonstration and workshop sessions, edu-
cational and commercial exhibits are described in a bro-
chure, available from International Recreation Congress,
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York. The com-
plete Congress program will be available when the registra-
tion desk opens on Sunday, September 30, at the Bellevue
Stratlord.

Since publication of the Congress brochure, important
changes have been made allecting evening sessions. The
Philadelphia Orchestra, originally scheduled for Monday
evening, will present its concert on Wednesday evening.
'Iln opening ceremony of the international meeting, in Mon-
day evening’s general session, will be presented at the Belle-
.uc- ‘tratfm‘d. Tuesday evening will feature the colorful
and interesting «ntdoor program at lleyhurn Park Plaza.

II run I. all the activities this year, recreation deli-gates
t n o be making new friends, but will he met-ting

DIN ‘ 'I' ' mm all parts ol the world. May this Interna-

324

tional Recreation Congress illustrate the power of recrea-
tion to draw closer together the peoples of the world.

International Congress Advisory Committee

In addition to those previously mentioned (RECREATION,
May and June issues), the following have accepted mem-
bership in this committee of which former President Her-

bert Hoover is honorary chairman:

E. A. SCHUTTENHELM, head of the de-
partment of youth and adult education
of the Netherlands Ministry of Educa-
tion, Arts and Sciences, has been inter-
ested in youth leadership and leadership
training since 1932. He has served as
secretary to the Netherlands Youth Com-
munity and secretary of the National Boy
Scout Council.

    

Schiittenheim

N. H. KHANDKER was born in East Pak-
istan and now is an official of the Pak-
istan Government with headquarters in
Karachi. He is active in many athletic
and sport organizations in Pakistan, both
as participant and as organizer and offi-
cial. Before the creation of Pakistan, he
was also active in India. With the gov-
ernment of Pakistan he is controller of
printing and stationery.

GABRIEL RAMIREZ, program director of
the Voice of Latin America in Mexico,
is prominent in social welfare activities
in his native country. A radio executive
and writer, he has also been active in or-

ganization of festivals in all parts of
Mexico.

DR. GUIDo VIANELLO is national'secre-
tary of ENAL, Italy’s National Associa-
tion for the Welfare of Workers, an
organization with over two million mem-
bers. He is editor of various publications
in Italy and an expert on economic, social
welfare, and sport problems. He is presi-
dent of a number of sport clubs and na-

tional technical director of the National
Sports Center.

TIIABET NAZIF KHALIDI of Jordan is his
country’s deputy permanent representa-
tive to the United Nations. He is a grad-
uate of the American University of Bei-
rut and has served in the Jordan Govern-
ment as director of press for thelministry
of foreign affairs, as director of broad-

casting and as chief of protocol at the
royal palace.

 

Khalidi

RECREATION

DIRECTORY OF EXHIBRITS

Many new exhibitors will be with us this year. Their dis-
plays will be presented in three sections: one on the ballroom
floor; one on the eighteenth floor, and one will be an out-
door display at the Reyburn Park Plaza. Demonstrations of
equipment are scheduled for Tuesday evening at the plaza
exhibit, to be preceded by a parade from the hotel to the
park. The occasion will be a festive one, with gay decor-
ations, a concert by a famous string band, and folk dancing.

An “equipment workshop,” in which the eithibitors will
participate, is planned as a part of the Congress program.
Another “first” this year will be the Recreation Book Cen-
ter, which will display all of the recreation books listed in
Guide to Books on Recreatiom-Part II of this (Septem-

ber) issue of RECREATION. This book center will be staffed

with personnel to help you select the books you want.

The Department of the Army, the Air Force, and the
American Red Cross will have display and recruiting booths
on the eighteenth floor. Other educational exhibitors will
include the Federal Inter-Agency Committee for Recreation,
Education-Recreation Conference of the National Social
Work Assembly, the American Recreation Society, the Fed-
eration of National Professional Organizations for Recrea-
tlon.

The following countries have thus far indicated that they
will provide exhibits: Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan,
Sweden, Yugoslavia, Australia, Austria, Colombia, Cuba,
Egypt, England, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, and
Malaya.

EXHIBIT

Ballroom Floor

WILSON SPORTING GOODS COMPANY 1
Chicago, Illinois

BOLCO ATHLETIC COMPANY 2
Los Angeles, California

NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF

AMERICA 3
Washington, D. C.
DAISY MANUFACTURING COMPANY 4.

Plymouth, Michigan

PEPSI-COLA COMPANY 5—6
New York, New York

HANNA MANUFACTURING COMPANY 7
Athens, Georgia

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES 8
Freeport, New York

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 9

SUN AIRED BAG COMPANY 10
Sunland, California
NATIONAL PARK AND RECREATION 11

SUPPLY COMPANY
South Haven, Michigan

CLEVELAND CRAFTS COMPANY 12
Cleveland, Ohio’ I
HILLERICH & BRADSBY COMPANY“ 13

Louisville, Kentucky

THE SEVEN-UP COMPANY 14—15

St. Louis, Missouri

CHICAGO ROLLER SKATE COMPANY 16
Chicago, Illinois

KALAH GAME COMPANY" 17
South Chelmsford, Massachusetts

CASTELLO FENCING EQUIPMENT 18
COMPANY
New York, New York

THE J. E. BURKE COMPANY“ 19
New Brunswick, New Jersey

THE DINGMAN COMPANY 20
Sioux City, Iowa

RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS CO.* 21
St. Louis, Missouri

J. C. LARSON COMPANY, INC. 22

Chicago, Illinois

PLAYGROUND ASSOCIATES, INC. 23
New York, New York

MAGNUS BRUSH & CRAFT MATERIALS 24
New York, New York

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY 25
'New York, New York

BOOTH

EXHIBIT

PIONEER- PLAYGROUND - PARK - 26
GYMNASIUM EQUIPMENT

Litchlield, Michigan

THE MACGREGOR COMPANY 27
Cincinnati, Ohio

ARMSTRONG HARRIS COMPANY 28
Oak Ridge, Tennessee

PERIPOLE PRODUCTS, INC. 29
Brooklyn, New York

THE FELT CRAFTERS 30
Plaistow, New Hampshire

A. G. SPALDING 8: BROTHERS, INC. 31
New York, New York

RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA 32

Camden, New Jersey

DENNISON MANUFACTURING CO. 33—34

' Framingham, Massachusetts

PLAY SCULPTURE COMPANY 35
A Division of Creative
Playthings, Inc.
New York, New York

PYROTEX LEATHER COMPANY 36—37
Leominster, Massachusetts

THE PROGRAM AIDS COMPANY 38
New York, New York

DEWALT, INC. 39—40

Lancaster, Pennsylvania

AMERICAN JUNIOR BOWLING CONGRESS 41
Chicago, Illinois

AMERICAN PLAYGROUND DEVICE 42
COMPANY*
Anderson, Indiana

MIRACLE EOUIPMENT COMPANY 43-44—45
Grinnell, Iowa 46—47

Eighteenth Floor

AMERICAN SHUFFLEBOARD COMPANY 51
‘ Union City, New Jersey

EARL H. HURLEY ASSOCIATES 52
Corry, Pennsylvania

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY* 53
Cedar Rapids, Iowa

GAME-TIME, INCORPORATED 54
Litchfield, Michigan

NUPRODUCTS CORPORATION 55
Cambridge, Massachusetts

PHILADELPHIA TORO COMPANY 56
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA 56—A
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania I

EDUCATIONAL 57

BOOTH

       
   
       
       
   
   
   
   
   
    

EXHIBIT

 

BOOTH

THE MEXICO FORGE 57-A—58

Mexico, Pennsylvania

EDUCATIONAL 58—A

,PENNSYLVANIA ATHLETIC PRODUCTS 59
Division of General Tire and

Rubber Company
Akron, Ohio

PLUME TRADING AND SALES 60

COMPANY, INC.
Monroe, New York

THE QUAKER OATS COMPANY
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

60—~A

EDUCATIONAL

  
 
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

  

EDUCATIONAL

FROST WOVEN WIRE COMPANY , 62

Washington, D. C.
EDUCATIONAL 62—A

ALLAN HERSCHELL COMPANY, INC. 63
.North Tonawanda, New York

CARPENTER MONOLITHIC ICE
RINK FLOOR

Cleveland, Ohio '4

W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORPORATION“ 64
New York, New York

INTERNATIONAL

63—A

  

INTERNATIONAL

  

  

INTERNATIONAL

  

INTERNATIONAL

PHILADELPHIA INFORMATION 69-70
INTERNATIONAL 71
INTERNATIONAL 72
INTERNATIONAL 73
CENTRAL TEXAS IRON WORKS 74
Waco, Texas
RECREATION BOOK CENTER '75
MIDWEST POOL AND COURT 76
COMPANY“
St. Louis, Missouri
WORLD WIDE GAMES" 77
Delaware, Ohio
EDUCATIONAL '78
EDUCATIONAL 78—A
EDUCATIONAL 79
EDUCATIONAL 79—A
EDUCATIONAL 80
EDUCATIONAL 80—A
EDUCATIONAL

* See advertisement in this issue, Index of Advertisers on page 360.

SEPTEMBER 1956

 

Cooperative Community Exchange Project

Nineteen national leaders in recreation, from fourteen
nations, have been participating this summer in the first
“Cooperative Community Recreation Project.” This pro-
ject, conceived by the International Recreation Service of
the National Recreation Association, is being carried out
through the United States Department of State and the Na-
tional Recreation School, with the assistance of scores of
cooperating American cities.

One of many exchange programs made possible by the
United States Government in several fields, this particular
program is unique in the part which American cities have
played in it. The cooperating cities have served as hosts in
the fullest meaning of the word, by providing room, board,
and incidental expenses for their guests from all parts of
the world. This represents a major contribution in money,
in addition to the administrative and staff time which has
been given to make the field visits valuable experiences for
these recreation leaders from other countries. A later re-
port on the program will give more details, but tribute to
the participation of American cities is in order at this time.

The plan for the project included several different phases.
After a brief period of interviews at the National Recrea-
tion School in New York, the leaders spent a week in Wash-
ington for‘orientation at the Washington International Cen-

K A L A H —- An American adaptation of an

ancient game of skill requiring neither dice,
spinner nor cards. Recreation Directors find it
the most alluring game used on their play-

grounds. Has such an interest span that it is
the only game played by the hour, day after

day without supervision. Featured in UNICEF
Recreation Kit.

Simple uniform rules in use in schools and on
playgrounds from coast to coast.

KALAH GAME 00.

P. O. Box 21 1, Dorchester 24, Mass.

 

320

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

ter. Then followed ten days at the National Recreation
Association in New York for general background lectures
and discussion on recreation in the United States, com-
bined with a full schedule of field visits to many different
kinds of recreation programs and facilities in the New York
metr0politan area. At the end of June the leaders left for
twelve weeks of visits to American cities, each leader visit-
ing six cities for periods of one to four weeks each. In mid-
September the group reconvenes in New York for another
ten-day series of lecture and discussion sessions on specific
aspects of recreation in the United States—administration,
finance, planning, program. The International Recreation
Congress will complete the program, except for a final week
of ’reports and evaluation.

Participants in this first cooPerative exchange program
are outstanding leaders in their own countries; and it has
been helpful that their knowledge of English has proved to
be excellent. Plans are already under way for another ex-
change program in 1957, and it is hoped that such projects
will become annual events.

Those from other lands who are participating this year
are: Australia, Miss Margaret Wiseman, crafts director in
secondary and private schools in New South Wales; Egypt,
Adel Taher, general secretary of the Supreme Council of
Youth Welfare, Cairo; France, Robert Cransac, physical
education professor, Orleans; Greece, Dimitrios Lezos, di-
rector of recreation, Athens, and Otto Szymiczek, coach of
the Greek Olympic Team (track and field), Athens; Haiti,
Clovis Bonhomme, director of the Lycee Antenor Firmin
and an ofiicial of the bureau of sports of the National De-
partment of Education, Port-au-Prince; Iran, Ahmad Izad-
Panah, physical educator and vice-president, Track and
Field Federation, Ahmad Moallemian, secretary of Iranian
Track and Field Federation, and Kazem Rahbary, physical,
education and athletic director of secondary schools, all:
from Tehran; Iraq, Abbas Khudier Shyjah, director, Tel,
Mohamad Community Center, Baghdad; Israel, Yehuda
Erel, superintendent of recreation and education, Tel-Aviv;
Italy, Paolo Vinci, chief of press and public relations office,
ENAL (National Association for the Welfare of Workers),
Rome; Japan, Gpichi Matsubara, executive director of the
National Recreation Association of Japan, Yokohama, and
Taisuke Nishida, social education inspector, National Min-
istry of Education, Tokyo; The Netherlands, Mrs. Hendrikar'
Boersma-Smit, organizer of youth activities for “Hervormde
.leugdraad” of the Dutch Reformed Church, Amsterdam,
and Antonius van Baars, secretary general, Catholic Youth
Council, Utrecht; Pakistan, Wadood Ahmad Jilani, general
secretary, Pakistan Association of Social Workers, Karachi;
Union of South Africa, Rudolf W. J. Opperman, senior pro-
fessional officer and organizer of physical education and
recreation, Johannesburg; Uruguay, Homero Balbino Cab-

arrot Abreu, professor of physical education, National Com-
missmn of Physical Education, Carmelo. I

RECREATION

F

Public Recreation
Expands in New Mexico

Dorothy I. Cline and Armond H. Seidler «

Governor John F. Simms
speaks up for recreation at
his state’s first conference.

    

John F. Simms

Governor

I IISTORIC SANTA FE, oldest and one of the most colorful

state capitals in the United States, was the scene of New
Mexico’s first state recreation conference, called by Gov-
ernor John F. Simms, March 17, 1956. The one-day meet-
ing was the culmination of the efforts of a few individuals
over many years to focus attention on the rapidly expand-
ing field of public recreation in New Mexico.

The urgent need for such an all-state meeting was the
direct outgrowth of the passage of a cigarette tax law by the
1955 legislature, with a cent-a-package tax earmarked for
recreation purposes. The conference was called to con-
sider and discuss “uses of the cigarette tax money for recv
reation; state statutes affecting recreation, and the respon-
sibility of state government in recreation.”

The cigarette tax law established the County and Mu-
nicipality Recreation Fund in the state treasurer’s office,
and provided for distribution of money from this fund to
governing bodies of incorporated areas and counties in ac-
cordance with the proportionate rate of sales in each city
or county to total state sales. Local governing bodies are
responsible for establishing a Juvenile Recreational Fund,
and for spending money for construction and operation of
recreation facilities and for personnel. The facilities and
programs must be suitable primarily for juveniles, but
adults may not be excluded from facilities equally suitable
for juveniles and adults. The act authorized cities and

.counties to issue revenue bonds, pledging cigarette tax

funds, for the acquisition, construction, repair, extension,
improvement of any recreation facility.

 

MISS CLINE is director of health, physical education and

, recreation of the New Mexico State Department of Educa--

tion, and MR. SEIDLER is head of the department of health
and physical education at Highlands University, Las Vegas.

SEPTEMBER 1956

q;

 

This state, famed for its scenic beauty, now turns
. its attention to the developing of public recreation.

The first funds were distributed to cities and counties in
August 1955, and during the succeeding months scores of
questions poured into various state oflices relating to the
intent of the legislature, fiscal procedures, duties of city and
county officials, organization of local park-recreation com-
missions, and the position of the schools. Although a 1945
statute enabled cities, counties, and school districts to estab-
lish and maintain separate or joint programs, the cigarette
tax act did not specifically authorize schools to receive or
expend the cigarette tax funds. Conflicting opinions from
state and local officials and delays in formulating policies
for the expenditure of recreation funds prompted state of-
ficials to arrange the conference. The planning committee
consisted of co-chairmen, Dorothy I. Cline and Larry Wa-
terman, acting president of the New Mexico Recreation As-
sociation; Dr. Joe F. Dickson, director of health and physi-
cal education, Eastern New Mexico University, and presi-
dent of the New Mexico Association of Health, Physical
Education and Recreation; Lee Robinson, director of the
state park commission; Robert Wistrand, public relations.

Governor Simms, one of the youngest governors in the
United States today, reflected a broad and informed interest
in all forms of recreation in his opening remarks to the
three hundred conferees:

“Most of the cost of a pack of cigarettes goes up in smoke.
But as a result of our recreational fund, thousands of people
who smoke will leave something more tangible all over the
state than cellophane wrappers and crushed-out cigarette
butts. They will leave a tangible memorial—a recreational
program, and it’s going to be very important! The recre-
ational funds can be used for various community projects,
such as painting, tennis courts, woodcarving, crafts, swim-
ming, square dancing and music. . . . The money can be
used for physical plants, for projects, for professional

327

leadership, for promotion. Any individual who finds per-
sonal satisfaction in one or more hobbies seldom has the
time or the inclination to get bored, to drink excessively,
and to engage in what the professionals call anti-social be-
havior. He, or she, is less likely to join gangs, to wind up
in a mental hospital, or in a . . . state penitentiary.”

The concept of recreation planning predominated
throughout the conference. According to Governor Simms,
“The Civil War general was correct when he said that the
only thing that is worse than a poor plan is no plan-at all. . . .
It becomes increasingly obvious . . . that we have to de-
vote more and more attention to the planning of state and
local recreation policies and programs. . . . We ought to
plan today on how we are going to use all our resources;
how we are going to use our funds; what we are going to
develop; what we are going to emphasize. . . .”

Since $600,000 will be distributed to seventy-three cities
and thirty-two counties during the first year’s operation of
the program, State Comptroller Dan M. Smith said he would
attempt to “stimulate planning at the county and municipal
level by requiring specific items in the budget of each gov-
ernmental unit for salaries, construction, bonds, equipment,
supplies and services.” He urged every official and citizen
interested in recreation to actively participate in planning
by attending the state tax commission budget hearings.

There are a lot of people in every state who still cling to
the idea that public recreation is a luxury program, a frill,
certainly not a necessity. Governor Simms knocked this
old-fashioned concept into a cocked hat when he elaborated

on the economics of recreation, “. . . Every taxpayer and

every businessman has an economic stake in this recrea-
tional development program because if it does what we think
it will do, it will save lots of money, as well as cost lots of
money. Good recreational facilities and services attract tour-
ists; they attract business; they attract new industry. From
a very practical point of View, then, our businessmen, civic
leaders, taxpayers and voters, in general, should be con-
cerned about local and state parks, roadways, parkways,
scenic and historical areas, and the protection of all of our
physical assets that can be used for recreational programs.
. . . Certainly the healthy economic growth of New Mexico
depends as much on land use, acquisition of playgrounds,
employment of trained recreation workers, and the build-
ing of craftshops as it does upon garbage collection, street
paving, traflic control, public utility development, or other
problems we face in many fast-growing communities today.”

The state recreation conference was a bench mark in the
development of local and state recreation in New Mexico.
Cigarette tax funds will be used more effectively at the local
level because individuals representing forty-one cities, thir-
teen villages, eight counties, eleven park-recreation commis-
sions, and seventy-seven schools received first-hand infor-
mation on recreation essentials. The state program moved
forward when the governor stated he would shortly appoint
a state recreation advisory committee to study all phases of
recreation, including any form of legislation that might be
presented to the 1957 legislature. A full-fledged recreation

program, encompassing all types of government units, has
come into existence in the land of the conquistadors. l

 

 

328

When writing to our advertis

era please mention RECREATION.

AIR CONDITIONED

Newly decorated Guest Rooms:
TV and Radio in every room. Single

from $8.00,- Double from $12.00

DELIGHTFUL

COCKTAIL LOUNGES: The Hunt
Room, The Viennese Room

SUPERB FOOD

And Surroundings: The Stratford

Garden; Dancing Friday and Sat-
urday Evenings

AIR CONDITIONED

Function Rooms, Spacious, Quiet,
20 Rooms for 10 to 2000.

 

i
:

Square Dancing Under the Stars

The par}; board in Fort Wayne,
Indiana, has done much to stimu-
late local square dancing among
both youngsters and adults. Danc-
ing in the park is a pleasant ac-
tivity on summer evenings.

Harry S. Grabner

SQUARE DANCING under the stars has been a popular
activity in the Fort Wayne Park Department since
1949, when this type of dancing was revived via a big danc-
ing party under the stars. Everybody had a wonderful time!

With the entertainment of both children and adults in
mind, the machinery was set up to use three hard-surfaced
tennis courts at one of the playgrounds. Bea Schneck was
engaged as the caller and the services of Nancy Lee and the
Hilltoppeis of Radio Station WOWO were obtained to pro-
vide music. One of the large department stores, Wolf and
Dessauer, agreed to pay for the cost of the caller and music
as a public service, while the park department undertook the
care of all other items‘such as lights, policing, public ad-
dress system, and personnel.

By the end of that summer, this weekly activity had out-
grown the playground site and we were confronted with the
problem as to where to hold the dances in 1950. The Pi
Chapter of the Psi Iota Xi Sorority agreed to hard surface
an area (100 by 110 feet) adjacent to a large pavilion in
Foster Park. This site had formerly been used as a tennis
court and was chosen because it had ample parking facili-
ties. In event of rain, the dances could be held under cover
in the pavilion. Since Bea Schneck had moved away, Bob
Taylor assumed the duties of caller and has acted as such
ever since; and Wolf and Dessauer and the park depart-
ment again co-sponsored the dances as a public service.

By the summer of 1952 a second square dance area (100
by 200 feet) had been constructed adjacent to a remodeled
barn in McMillen Park through the cooperation of Mr. and
Mrs. Dale W. McMillen. The barn houses restrooms and a

concession stand, while the fluorescent-lighted dance area

 

MR. GRABNER is assistant superintendent of recreation in
Fort Wayne, Indiana.

SEPTEMBER 1956

 

is one of the finest in this part of the country. Thus, in 1952,
we began to have two large public square dances each week.

Originally, the second dance had been scheduled for F ri-
day night but we soon found that, with hundreds of lakes
in this part of Indiana, many people left for “the lake” on
this night. It was in 1953, however, that we started the
schedule of “Dancing Under the Stars” at Foster Park on
Tuesday night and at McMillen Park on Thursday night,
from 8:00 to 10:30 P.M. ,

In the spring of 1955 the hard-surface area at Foster
Park received a new set of lights, a higher fence at the ends,
and posts and lines were added to make the area serviceable
for tennis during the day and night. The posts are con-
structed so that they can be removed, for dancing, and a
plate used to cover ‘the posthole. In the future the hard
surface area at McMillen Park may also be made available
for tennis.

Since 1949 approximately 200,000 dancers and specta-
tors have been in attendance. Particularly at McMillen Park
on Thursday nights we look on the square dance as one
phase of the “Family Night” program. Here the swimming
pool is open at night to encourage family swims, the kiddy-

' land and pony rides are available, baseball and softball

games, little league and pony league games are played.
With ample parking space, picnic facilities, and playground
apparatus, it is a pleasant park in which to spend the hot
summer evenings.

Dances at both locations have been free, and attendance
indicates that the people of Fort Wayne want this activity.
Certain rules —— including: no dancing in shorts, jeans,
slacks, or Bermuda shorts; no wearing of hats by men; and
so on—— are followed; and, in seven years of operation, the
activity has been comparatively easy to administer.

The “Dancing Under the Stars” program has made square
dancing available and fun for everyone. I

329

 

“You Are There”* during the anything-but-usual joint planning
action of the city planning board, library board, board of edu-

Mavis W. Renter

cation, board of recreation commission, and the city counc11.

THE TIME is January 12, 1956. The scene is the planning
board room in City Hall, East Orange, New Jersey.
Members of the recreation commission, the board of edu-
cation, the library board, and the planning board have come
together to discuss mutual plans.

The meeting was called by the chairman of the committee
on parks, playgrounds and schools of the East Orange Plan-
ning Board. As the last person wedges his chair in place
around the long conference table, the bold-faced clock on
the wall shows eight P.M. All things are as they were then—
except, you are there!

The chairman opens the meeting with a moment of silent
prayer.

Reporter: This is one of several meetings which have
been held between the four boards represented here. At a
previous meeting, the chairman of the finance committee of
the city council shared in the discussion. This evening two
visitors are present; they are foreign students who are at-
tending Upsala College: Shahen Galoostian from Iran and
Ken Sohn from Korea. In introducing them the chairman
has explained that the meeting this evening is an example
of grass-roots democracy which the students might like to
take back to their native lands.

Chairman: The purpose of this meeting is to discuss defi-
nite changes in plans at Ashland and Stockton Schools which
were presented at the previous meeting; namely, the incor-
poration of a branch library in the. new building to be con-
structed at Ashland School, the inclusion also of recreation
fieldhouse facilities in the new building, and a change in the
placement of the new kindergarten rooms at Stockton School
in order to accommodate the expansion of East Orange Oval
Playfield. Dr. Kentopp, would you like to lead off with an
explanation of the diagrams?

Superintendent 0] Schools (pointing to an architect’s
drawing) : Plans for the building to be erected at Ashland
will be enlarged in order to accommodate two extra grades
which will be transferred from the present building. In this
way space will be available in the present building to house
the public library branch.

Member of the Library Board: I thought the branch
library was to be in the new building.

Librarian: That was the original plan, Mr. Lyon. 1 am
ifraitl we did not apprise all our board members of the

5. lint [Ht is chairman of parks, playgrounds and schools
a] ., East Orange, New Jersey, Planning Board.

330

change which was made at the request of the library staff.
In a small meeting between two or three members of the
board of education and two or three members of the board
of library trustees, we studied in detail this area as to popu-
lation, the juvenile question, and the direction from which
the library patrons would be drawn. We found that the
branch library would be more satisfactory if located in the
original building at Ashland with an entrance on Park
Avenue, and we are grateful to the board of education for
making it possible to place it there. '

Superintendent of Schools: We plan to give the library
a separate entrance so that adult patrons will not regard it
as a school library, and an appropriate sign will be designed
by Mr. Hopkins and his staff and placed in front.

Librarian: This area is a dead spot in the city at the
present time from the standpoint of library facilities and a
real job needs to be done here. The library will certainly
use the auditorium from time to time.

Member of the City Council (who serves on the planning
board) : What are parking accommodations at Ashland?

Business Manager of the Board of Education: The park-
ing lot adjoining the present building and the stadium is not
large, but I believe most of the library patrons will walk to
and from; and, of course, when we have a stadium event
people line the streets with cars in every direction.

Superintendent of Recreation: While you are up, Dr.
Kentopp, would you mind pointing out where the field-
house is to be located?

Superintendent of Schools: I’ll be very glad to. As most
of you know, we placed the new building very close to this
south boundary in order to give as much unbroken play-
ground expanse as possible. The fieldhouse facilities also
were worked out in small meetings between the board of
education and the recreation department. The northeast
corner of the building which affords a View of the entire
playground was selected as the supervisor’s oflice. A gen-
eral purpose room adjoins the office and will provide the
recreation department with a special unit designed for their
needs.

Superintendent of Recreation: We are certainly grateful
to your board for placing the new building where it will
give the best possible advantage to the playground; perhaps

now is the time to iind out what areas we will be expected
to maintain.

.—~——__ ——_...___

* With (luc apologies to the Prudential Insurance Company, Spon‘
F-Ul’ of "Xou Arr- l‘hcre” on CBS-TV.

RECREATION

 

l
t
l

Superintendent of Schools: We had h0ped that the rec-
reation department would maintain all grounds except the
football field.

Superintendent of Recreation: Will there be a space where
large, heavy equipment may be stored?

Superintendent of Schools: Much space under the grand-
stands could be utilized entirely by the recreation depart-
ment.

Member of the Planning Board: Is the new school build-
ing going to be large enough? Where can eXpansion be
made in case the future enrollment should happen to ex-
ceed what is now predicted?

Reporter: While there is much lively discussion about
the growth of East Orange, the exodus to the suburbs, and
so forth, may I ask you a question or two, Madame Chair-
man? Does the planning board leave most of this develop-
ment to the various boards or does your board also initiate
original plans for an area?

Chairman: Indeed, we do. It was the planning board’s
suggestion to put a branch library in this area.

Reporter: How do you arrive at such decisions? How
did you know a branch library was needed there?

Chairman: The planning board is "divided into small
working committees which study a particular field of city
planning. My committee has detailed maps showing the
location of all schools, libraries, parks and playgrounds and
the distance citizens must travel for service from each. We
simply had no library in this part of the city and the heavily

p0pulated area indicated that library service should im-'

prove the neighborhood. The master plan also recommends
incorporating .library, school, and recreation facilities into
neighborhood centers not only as a direct saving to tax-
payers but to help encourage neighborhood cooperation.

Reporter: The master plan?

Chairman: East Orange has a complete master plan
which was drawn up several years ago by professional city
planners. This plan ties together the work of the various
committees on our board; but, as you know, city plan-
ning never stands still and a master plan must be adjusted,
revised, and added to as time goes on. Today, for that rea-
son, a professional city planner acts as consultant to the
East Orange Planning Board.

Reporter: You say the master plan calls for neighbor-
hood centers. Is that the reason you suggested the inclusion
of a fieldhouse in the new building?

Chairman: I am not sure that suggestion came from the
planning board, though we were quick to recommend it
after it was made—which proves the value of these joint
meetings. Every member is interested in effective planning,
and ideas shoot out from all directions. There is general
pooling of knowledge and information, everyone profits,
everyone helps solve the problem.

Reporter: This joint planning between city boards is
unusual isn’t it? Do other municipal commissions get to-
gether like this?

Chairman: I certainly h0pe so. Sound planning depends
on earnest discussion. Areas where mutual deve10pment
would not only serve a greater number of persons, but
would beautify the neighborhood and enhance property

SEPTEMBER 1956

values is a must, it seems to me. I also believe it is the
planning board’s duty to bring the various commissions to-
gether. Planning is the logical place for the stage to be set
and meetings to originate. Then small bilateral meetings
may go on from there as you have heard about this evening.
The planning board, having an over-all responsibility for
the city as to zoning, traffic, capital expenditures, and so on,
can prove an effective buffer between boards which, as may
be expected and desired, are a little overambitious in their
own field.

Reporter: Is Ashland the only area where such concerted
action is taking place?

Chairman: It is the only place where all three services
are provided on one tract of land, but there are several areas
being develOped between the recreation department and the
board of education. One already completed on the opposite
side of the city to Ashland is Washington Playground which
adjoins the school and is complete with fieldhouse and play
areas for all ages. It affords adequate playground during
school time and a neighborhood area all year round. It is a
beautiful development, and much credit goes to Mr. John
Faust and the National Recreation Association for this par-
ticular achievement, which stands out as a fine example for
similar undertakings. You are going to hear about another
one right now. Have you the drawings for the new build-
ing at Stockton School, Dr. KentOpp?

Superintendent of Schools: Yes, it’s right here. You see
we have turned the building completely around and placed
it over on the corner so there will be no interference what-
ever with the playground; on the contrary, East Orange
Oval is quite nicely complemented by this arrangement.

Chairman of the Planning Board: Another general pur-
pose room is to be included in this building, is it not?

Superintendent of Schools: Yes, it is designed very much
like the one at Ashland and will be shared by the school and
the recreation department.

Chairman of the Planning Board: The master plan calls
for the development of a neighborhood center in this area
also. We have made a good start with joining the school
to the playground, and the other acquisitions can be ear-
marked for future improvement. So long as each commis-
sion knows what ,the other’s plans are, c00peration, I feel
sure, will implement their achievement.

Chairman: I certainly wish to underline Mr. Quinn’s re-
marks and to say that anytime any of the boards repre-
sented here desires a meeting of this kind, if you will let me
know, or call the secretary to the planning board, we shall
go about scheduling it immediately. In the meantime, you
will have ample notice of the next meeting when it is called.
Stockton School is not so involved as the development at
Ashland, so that most of us understand pretty well how the
board of education and the recreation department will fol-
low through on it. The time is nearing ten o’clock, so if
there is nothing further, the meeting is adjourned.

Reporter: The members push their chairs back in evident
satisfaction with what has been accomplished in this meeting
and those that have preceded it. After a few “small confer-
ences” around the room, they say good night to each other
and leave. I

331

 

Mara, the country’s top authority
on Cambodian - Siamese dances.

Oriental respect for dance. To be a
dancer in Cambodia (as well as in Java
and Bali) is a profession of honor—for
the ability to dance is considered a gift

from the gods.

11E NEW YEAR celebration, the pag-
T eant and festival of the dragon, was .
the delight of my own childhood in
Manchuria and Cambodia — and what
child in any country could resist it?

The dragon, the length of a city
block, red and gold and glittering, was
surrounded by “distinguished bar-
barians” on stilts. The dragon moved,
swayed, danced, flirted, snapped play-
fully, sulked, was coaxed, and swayed
again, moving way above the festival
crowd of jugglers, dancers, banners,
sparklers, lanterns, firecrackers —— and
children, children, everywhere, gazing,
watching, laughing, and remembering
---as I remember it now, more vividly
with time.

So I approached the idea of a Cam-
bodian dance program for children with .
the thought of sharing with American , i::::;:3813:5:fftlieworld“?
children some of the experiences which : your regreat: :n Eggirrigeg:

0

. t ' ' l -
are he homage 0f “cry A513“ Chlld based upon national or local

l
and which had so CHUCth my own folklore, would likewise be in- i

 

Congress Feature

Mara and her dancers are per-

. forming the charming Land of
l the Playful Dragon— a dance-
. play of a Cambodian legend;-
for International Recreation
Congress delegates at a demon-
stration session on Thursday

. afternoon, October 4. This has
: been performed throughout this
: country, giving American chil-
' dren a fascinating glimpse of the
l cultural heritage of children on

early years. I wanted to open to Ameri- . . .
_ tr1gu1ng to the chlldren of Cam-
can children the wonderful world of bodia? What legends, that we

Oriental {Olklorc — “nth “5 lovable’ all know, symbolize the beauty

notsy, clumsy dragons who bring good of our land? Beauty need not

luck and ros rit to their villa es. .
My sccgm] Scumisc in creatinggf and be professwnal to be effective.
Don’t miss this!

0/ the Playlal Dragon was to try to in-
still in American children some of the

.........““...”..m.“

----———-’

NARA was born in Maneharia of Ras-
vian-Frcnch parents. She has lived and
' 'died Oriental dance forms in many
f East lands and has appeared in
then 'r' in Europe, Asia, and America.

According to Cambodian legend,
dance was brought to the world by the
Goddess Apsara, who fell in love with a
handsome hunter and forsook immor-
tality to hear him a child. All the danc-
ers and musicians of the world are de-

332

—Is illustrated by presentation

of
Land of the Playful Dragon.

Mara

scended from this long-ago marriage of

‘ a goddess and a mortal.

This legend still lives in the customs
of Cambodia. To the present day, all
little girls who show exceptional ability
to dance, no matter how humble their
parentage, are taken at the age of seven
to the Royal Palace at Pnom Pehn to
test their skill. If a child shows she has
inherited the goddess’ ability to dance,
she becomes one of the court dancers
(a position of great esteem) and lives
in the Royal Palace. Land of the Play-
ful Dragon is the story of one such little
dancer.

My third aim was to stimulate chil-
dren’s sense of beauty, to give them the
feeling of fairy tale, the quality of
beauty unexplained and simple. The
charm of old fairy tales is often de-
stroyed in the modern process of mak-
ing a reward out of a gift (the beauty
of a fairy tale princess is a free gift, not
a reward for being smart or good or
what not) .

So I have not rationalized the legends
into a story with a moral for children.
The beauty of the goddess and the
dance she bestowed on the world, the
comic magnificence of the dragon, the
good fortune of the little dancer who
goes to live in the palace and marry the
king, the charm, humor, or wisdom of
the other characters —— all evolved
through the centuries for the esthetic
satisfaction they could give. They are
their own justification for being—and
I have presented them in that spirit.

RECREATION

 

Mai-Lan, a talented little Indo-Chinese
dancer, aged nine, plays leading role.

The Land of the Playful Dragon was

selected for presentation to recreation
leaders at the International Recreation
Conference in Philadelphia—not only
for its success in acquainting children
with another way of life in a different
part of the world, but also as a demon-
stration of a program for children
which finds no need to sacrifice artistic
integrity in appealing to young audi-
ences. l
'K' 46 * *

This production also illustrates the
sort of thing that can be done with the
use of the dance and folklore in a rec-
reation program. Even though the pro-
fessional execution would not be at-
tained, the building and presentation
of a legend or story in good taste and
through dance movement or drama can
attain beauty, effectiveness, and be edu-
cational as well as joyous. The working
out of such a story stimulates children’s
imaginations, and can bring to life their
own cultural heritage.

 

l

The dragon, Kum-A-Long, is the guardian of a Cinderella. A clumsy but
lovable pet, his frolicsome ways and antics captivate children the world over.

The presentation by an accomplished
artist such as Mara, will be an experi-
ence of quality, and it should open up
to theirecreation program leader-with-
imagination new vistas in the matter of
setting the standards of production and
performance; for what leader, after all,
does not need to raise his sights and/ or
to receive fresh stimulation and new
approaches to better and more effective
activities?

It also will acquaint recreation lead-
ers with one of the outstanding pro-
fessional dancers of the country and
with a production which might be avail-
able to them for their own community.

Kum-A-Long, the dragon—by the
way —— is a genuine Asiatic dragon’very
different from the wicked dragons of
western legends. The dragons of the
East are friendly, kindly protectors and
guardians of their people. Each city
and village has its own dragon, who
dances in all the parades with which
they celebrate their holidays. Thus it

is very natural to Indochinese children
that, when a child needs a protector, her
guardian should give her a dragon for
a pet.

The dragon has a very important
place in the legendary history of Indo-
china —— and is the national emblem of
Indochina, just as the American eagle
is the national emblem of the United
States. The biggest dragons, though,
are those of China and Manchuria, who
are as long as several city blocks and
need more than a hundred dancers to
carry them in parades.

And if one looks for them at the right
time and in the right places, one can
even find these friendly, protecting
dragons in the United States too. Every
year in February, when the people of
Chinatown in New York and San F ran-
cisco celebrate the Chinese New Year,
a lively and gorgeous dragon parades
through the streets with them!

Don’t miss Mara’s Congress perform-
ance if you can help itl—Ed.

“All that is good in the art and the civilization of many, many
countries should be given a chance to flower and expand in the lives
of the common people of the United States, and here the municipal
recreation centers have a large part to play.”—HOWARD BRAUCHER

‘SEPTEMBER 1956

‘3

,.
-
H‘-

 

 

Out Kansas may they take the prrmkishness put of All Hal-
Iow’s Ere by turning it into a community-wide Mar-d: gras.

OUR HALLOWEEN pranksters are too
busy to play tricks!” That’s what
you hear from people in Arkansas City,
Kansas. Children and older people
alike take part in the town’s miniature
Halloween Mardi gras, called “Arkala-
Iah.” An Indian word meaning “good
time” was combined with the town’s
name to spell the title of the festive
weekend. The celebration is synony-
mous with 'Halloween in the minds of
everyone in Arkansas City, and the de-
structive mischief that so often accom-
panies Halloween is seldom seen these
days.

The idea for a civic celebration was
born in 1928. In the first years, blood-
ed cattle were given away through
registrations in the business houses; a
huge choir contest was held in the park;
and free games, shows, and dances were
held. Since then, the celebration has
grown and changed.

In 1955, thirty thousand people com-
ing from towns all over south central
Kansas and northern Oklahoma came
for the festivities. Teamwork in the
whole community has made the occa-
sion a bigger success every year.

All the school children take some
part in planning and producing the
programs. A school holiday is declar-
ed, business slows to a walk, and traf-
fic through the town is (letouretl to
make room for celebrating in the main
street area.

On the evening that Arkalalah he-
gins. there is a gala air about the town,
with flags waving welcome from the
lightposts, and jack-o-lanterns decorat-

iii-b“

- -v_—" — - 77‘

\lus. lit 1mm, an 4rkansas Citian and
IV - economist, is now a graduate (15-

sist... it: loads research at Kansas
State I ullr'ge.

334

ing the store fronts. On that evening,
the coronation of Queen Alalah, who
reigns over the two-day gaiety, is held.
She has been chosen from the girls in
the sophomore class of Arkansas City
Junior College. The program for her
coronation is directed and produced by
teachers, administrators, parents, and
pupils from elementary school to junior
college.

Tension crackles through the audi-
ence, until the breathtaking moment
when the sparkling tiara is placed upon
the head of one of the candidates and
the royal robe is draped around her
shoulders. Not until that moment has
the town had a hint of its queen’s iden-
tity. After the crowning, the queen’s
court is presented. It is made up of
queens representing nearby towns.
These girls spend a whirling two days
in the court of Alalah, going to balls,
and attending social affairs planned for
them.

The coronation program starts, per-
haps with a fantasy of light and move-
ment created by senior-high-school
dancers. Then the grade-schoolers en-
tertain with a lively dance of toy sol-
diers or balloons. A magician may be
part of the program, or a clown. What-
ever it is, you can depend upon singing
and laughter throughout the evening.

Following the pageant comes a grand
march and the coronation ball.

Street contests start early the next
morning downtown. Tired winners of
the centipede race may be making room
f or the potato-sack race at one corner,
while at another intersection, you’ll see
a circle of onlookers and hear them
cheering for the terrapin derby. Per-
haps there’s an egg-tossing contest, a
rooster race. a baby-crawling contest.

As the day goes on, visiting high-

Patricia Burton

school and city bands do exhibition
drills, older citizens flock to the “Old-
Timers Reunion” held in an empty
store, and horse lovers find their way to
the rodeo grounds. Stock-car races,
too, have become a feature of the week-
end fun.

One afternoon, all visiting bands
mass at the main intersection and form
one gigantic band to play a concert.

Then come the high points—the pa-
rades. For the tots and their imagina-
tive parents, there is the doll buggy pa-
rade, and in the early afternoon comes
the big parade that seems to get bigger
and better every year. Crowds line the
main street to watch the procession of
colorful, precise bands; beautiful and
humorous floats; brightly decorated bi-
cycles; Queen Alalah and her attend-
ants; Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Camp-
fire Girls, National Guard groups, all
in uniform; and horses of every color.
The parade is nearly five miles long and
lasts more than an hour and a half.

At night, under the lights, the big
parade rolls by again, and then the
merrymakers head for the football
game or a dance or the last show of the
Gay Nineties Casino.

How does all this come about? Vpl-
untary work and a high spirit of cooper-
ation on the part of clubs, .organiza-
tions, schools, and the citizens of the
town have made Arkalalah. Laughing-
ly, they will tell you that even the
weather has worked for them.

In 1955, forty committees were set
up to carry out the workings of the
celebration.
committees are business and profes-
sional people of the town as well as
housewives. Various organizations take
over parts of the celebration; for ex-
ample, the ]unior Chamber of Com-

The chairmen of these

RECREATION

merce takes care of advertising with
“booster trips” through the country-
side, stopping at every small town to
give a quick preview of what’s to come.

The city school system has sponsored
the coronation, with the rural schools
entering floats in the parade. Publicity
has been the special concern of the
news editor of the local paper and the
manager of the radio station. Royal en-
tertainment, ticket sales, parade organi-
zation, street decorations, street stunts,
dances, street stands and concessions,
and the “Old Timers Reunion” are
some of the other features that are
sponsored by businesses, clubs, and or-

ganizations.

The sudden tripling of the town’s
population for two days causes prob-
lems in providing eating facilities for

everybody. In this case, again, the
service clubs, church and social groups
rise to meet the situation. Food stands
are seen all around the streets and in
empty buildings. A club-sponsored
pancake feed served three thousand
people in 1955. Chicken dinners, ham
and bean dinners, and barbecues, as
well as hotdog and coffee stands, pro-
vide meals for every taste during the
two days.

Individuals in the town also make
contributions to add to the occasion.
A scepter for the queen was made by a
high-school shop instructor. The
queen’s crown was a special gift. Food
manufacturers donate their products
and other businesses lend equipment.

Financially, the affair has paid for
itself every year but three during its

§§¥Z

twenty-five-year history. In 195.|
expenditures amounted to.$4«,000.
and travel expenses for visiting l

amounted to $800 to $900, social a
and accommodations for the q1
were $550 to $600; and cash prize
races and parade entries, $800; co
tion program, $500; dance bands,
to $900; taxes, $350; and postage:
Income comes from tickets to the
nation program, the queen’s ball
second night dance, and conces
and entertainments. It has been en
to cover all expenses except durin
three years of wartime inflation.

Through the years, the spirit of 1
ing together and the pride of 8111
fully producing a gala Halloweer
for everyone have made Arkalala
especially gay affair. I

 

The reason high-school students turned out, 600 strong.

.r'

«f k M _,--.i , ,...j

Five recreation students at State Teachers College, Cort-
land, New York, came up with a new idea for a high-school
Halloween party last year. This was to include the high-
school students in the initial planning. Perhaps that is why
six hundred high-school students, one hundred more than
the previous year, ammed the gym for the annual event—-
a dance. Vincent L. Fowler, recreation director in Cortland,
gave the credit to college students J o Kerst, Bob Cutia, Em
Hale, Ang Palermo, and Ken Reynolds.

The high school students designed and distributed posters
advertising the dance, made program suggestions, and deco-
rated the gym. They also originated its name, “Skeleton
Stomp.” Meanwhile, the recreation students planned the
evening’s formal entertainment, including a pre-dance show
and contest booths designated as “Mortician’s Row.”

Em Hale, a professional entertainer in New York City
for eight years before becoming a recreation student, was

SEPTEMBER 1956

        

Careful Planning

“ IPAYS

master of ceremonies for the half-hour show which incl
a baton specialty number, a Skeleton Stomp dance, a p
mime by the MC and the awarding of prizes to the Wi]
of the Mortician’s Row contests. The latter were: “Dr
Nail in a Coffin” (nail driving) ; “Blow Up a Lung”
loon blowing) ; “Sew Up a Head” (needle threading) ;
“Drop an Ear in a Bottle” (dropping dried apricots in a
bottle). The MC described the prizes as “two genuine
thenticated coflin nails, a rare replica of Dracula’s lun
head pre-shrunk and stitched by Frankenstein, and an I
pair of ears not called for at the city morgue.” The a
prizes handed to the high-school winners were, respecti
two nails, two inflated balloons, a potato head, and
dried apricots.

Exclusive of the payment to the professional orchc
the total cost of posters, entertainment, and decora
was $1.20. (Orange and black crepe paper had to be
chased; the remaining materials, which were secured b
high-school dance committee, were donated.)

The dance wasathelmaj or feature of a city-wide Hallo
program which included window decorating, a cos
parade, and a “telecast.” The Exchange Club, the police
fire departments, as well as the recreation departr
formed the general committee. I

RECREATIQN:

A Common 

 

IN SV’EDEN—Cycling is very popular
here, just as it is in every other country.

MEXICO. This could be a playground any-

where (note standard apparatus in rear).

 

3*

LAPLAND offers its hiking enthusiasts ad-

venture, but “what other country does not?

    

INDIA’S CHILDREN (right) overflow the ‘
schools, need to play as all children do.

 

Play is a human need, and its aetivi- how to play; the
ties—in varying degrees—are familiar ple the opportuni

to the peoples of the world. The lan- to wipe out old
ARABIA (below). The start of a race at the DHA

Sports Center. The Olympics feature track activities. guage ?f_ Play IS a unl‘iersal language' and deStrulcnon.
. - .-- - - Its act1V1t1es need no 1nterpreter and Recreation lar

cannot be confined by boundaries. important, but t]

The nations of the world must help tant as people. 1

their citizens to know recreation and sense of fulfillme
.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA. These boys are
typical examples of youth of the world.

   

36 -
RECREATION

 

 
   

 

ROUL ANIA is not the only country ad-
dicted to the excitement of winter skiing.
It has acquired an international popularity.

IN AFRICA—The natives for centuries,

have expressed themselves through the
dance. Here villagers do a thank-you dance.

   

‘ _. my...‘ - ’ ‘t‘w

AUSTRIA. Mountain lakes such

 

as this one
mean recreation for folks in many lands.

t give their peo- tion, and an enrichment of life. Shar-
'ough recreation, ed by the peoples of different nations,
)ries of fighting it can bring understanding and an at-

 

titude of brotherhood. Play can lift the HAWAII. Young and old.join in festival celebration.

. . , , People find common meeting ground in native dances.
1d buildings are Splrlt and the hearts of people. The $1, '  -u h ' ' r .. .. v, -_ w
'e not so impor- recreation leaders of the countries of ‘1' .‘ -'   ._ - ' . --

tion can bring a the world have, today, a great respon-
y, health, educa- sibility to the future of mankind. l

JAPAN. Grown-ups and children swim in
all lands, enjoy the same water activities.

 

SEPTEMBER 1956 3:

 

 

I.
I
.‘.

I I R .

-v 4, i

n

I I

\ e.
.d

 

,

 -.r g -.,
6'

c
P

¢ .
.- i?

«Q

Conferring at Annapolis (left to right): Joseph Prendergast, NRA; Ted Banks, The
I\thletic Institute; Mr. Nixon; George Hjelte, Los Angeles Department of Recrea-
tion and Parks; George Sargisson, Recreation Promotion & Service, Wilmington, Del.

“American communities today are
falling far short of providing the kinds
3f services needed to assure youth fit-
1055,” Joseph Prendergast, executive
lirector of the National Recreation As-
sociation, told delegates to President
Eisenhower’s Conference on Fitness of
American Youth in Annapolis in June
[8. Representing both the NRA and the
Education-Recreation Conference of the
\‘ational Social Welfare Assembly, Mr.
Prendergast was one of three featured
apcakcrs introduced by Vice-President
Richard Nixon, conference chairman.
His part in the meeting is referred to
several times in an excellent report on
.he meeting,“Conference atAnnapolis,”
in the July 2 issue of Sports Illustrated.
Community recreation comes in, at long
ast, for a warranted slice of attention.

U. 5. Secretary of Health, Education
1nd Welfare, Marion ll. Folsom, spoke
in the federal government’s interest in
routh fitness. Dr. Edward D. Green-
wood, representing the White llousc
‘ -nference on Children and Youth,

~rrd state and local government in-
ten ' in youth. Mr. l’rendcrgast's topic

was ' 'vrnrnunity Services for Youth
Fitnes-

338

“Although literally billions of hours
of adult time and millions of dollars of
volunteer money are spent annually for
recreation activities, there is a growing
need for greater citizen action for com-
munity recreation programs,” Mr.
Prendergast said.

“Public recreation agencies Offer by
far the greatest actual and potential
resources for youth participation in
wholesome recreation activities includ-
ing sports, yet the number Of American
cities that afford comprehensive well—
balanced sports opportunities through
their public recreation agencies or
otherwise is still comparatively small.

“Educating the public tO the value of
sports and other forms of recreation
and inspiring our youth to participate
in wholesome recreation activities are
basic nceds.”

I'le commended the many volunteer
agencies and public, private, and paro-
chial schools which are supporting sport
and physical education programs and
suggested the following plan of action
he brought forcibly to the attention of
every connnunity in the nation: to ac-
quire recreation areas accordin" to

' b
wulc-h .u-m—pted standards; to develop

these areas with facilities for indoor

and outdoor use; to employ competent
personnel to Operate these facilities and

give leadership to the program; to set
up a plan for cooperative action on the
part Of all local agencies concerned

with recreation and sport.

NIRA Conference

The fifteenth annual conference and
exhibit Of the National Industrial Rec-
reation Association was held in June in
New York City with more than three
hundred delegates —- employee recrea-
tion directors and other recreation spe-
cialists— assembled at the four-day
meeting to hear and discuss the latest
trends in industrial recreation.

Keynote speakers and their topics
were: Dr. Kenneth McFarland, educa-
tional consultant and lecturer for Gen-
eral Motors Corporation, “The Human
Factor is You!”; Joseph M. Bertotti,
manager of personnel practices and re-
search for the General Electric Com-
pany, “What Industrial Recreation
Means to Management”; and COl. Theo-
dore P. Bank, president of the Athletic
Institute, “Industrial Recreation and
America’s Physical Fitness.”

Several panels covered subjects such

as travel, sport ‘financing, insurance,

and women’s activities. A panel of na-
tional recreation leaders, Joseph Pren-
dergast (NRA), George Sargisson
(ARS) , Jackson Anderson (AAHPER) ,
Ken Klingler (Consolidated Electrody-

namics Corporation), and Dr. Harry
Edgren (Purdue University) discussed
standards for the recreation profession.

Ben Kozman, recreation director for
Thompson Products, Inc., Cleveland,
was elected NIRA president for 1956-
57; and Dr. Edgren was appointed di-
rector Of research.

Permanent Youth Commission

A nine-member permanent State
Youth Commission will spearhead New
York’s drive against juvenile delin-
quency. Chairman of the commission,
recently appointed by Governor Averell
Harriman, is Mark A. McCloskey Of
New York City, who has been serving
as chairman of the state’s previous
temporary commission (RECREATION,
March 1955, page 120). The commis-
sion is empowered tO grant state aid
for approved projects up to a maximum

RECREATION

 

f four hundred dollars annually for
such thousand persons under twenty-
ne, an increase of forty per cent over
reviously authorized grants. Other
3mmission members, who will receive
0 salary, include Hugh A. Doyle, mem-
er of the New Rochelle Recreation
ommission, and John Hay Whitney,
nancier and philanthropist.

Massachusetts Association
Expands

The Eastern Massachusetts Recrea-
on Association recently expanded to
aver the entire comonwealth, under the
tle of the Massachusetts Recreation
.ssociation, an NRA Affiliate Member.
ull-time park and recreation execu-
ves from central and Western Massa-
nusetts have been invited to join the
ew organization.

Oilicers for the coming year are Jack
lamins, Revere, president; William F.
.yan, Quincy, vice-president; Alvin G.
Zenney, Community Recreation Serv-
:es, Inc, Boston, secretary-treasurer.

About People

RAYMOND S. KIMBELL, superintend-
nt of recreation in San Francisco, re

ceived the California Recreation Soci-
ety’s award for outstanding achieve-
ment in the field of recreation.

MISS FRANCES H. HAIRE has retired
after thirty-one years as superintendent
of recreation in East Orange, New J er-
sey. Following World War 1, she served
on the staff of the National Recreation
Association as a field representative.
She was recently married to John M.
Rowley and is living in Andover, New
Jersey.

CLARENCE E. RIDLEY has retired as
executive director of the International
City Managers’ Association, a position
which he had held continuously since
1929. At his request the National Rec-
reation Association prepared the vol-
ume, Municipal Recreation Administra-
tion, which ever since has served as one
of the texts in the organization’s in-
service training program. The NRA,
has, for many years, contributed the
article on recreation and park develop-
ments to the Municipal Yearbook,

which he edited.

ED HANNIGAN has retired after six-
teen years as city playground super-
visor in Springfield, Massachusetts.

 

IN MEMORIAM

CHARLOTTE CARR, sixty-six, New
York City, nationally known social
worker, director of Hull HouSe in Chi-
cago from 1937 to 1942, first director
of the Citizens Committee on Children
of New York City, and longtime cru-
sader in welfare work. At the time of
her death, Miss Carr was consultant,
New York City Welfare Commission.

MRS. GERTRUDE S. GRoss, sixty-seven,
Summit, New Jersey, charity and wel-
fare worker, Summit’s first playground
director, member of the Summit Board
of Recreation Commissioners for ten
years and board president for seven.

JOHN B. T. CAMPBELL, Los Angeles,
veteran newspaperman and well-known
civic leader, member of the Los An-
geles Board of Recreation and Park
Commissioners and president of the
Coliseum Commission.

HUBERT G. JOHNSON, seventy-seven,
Detroit, athletic director for the De-
troit Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment for nearly twenty-five years prior
to his retirement in 1951, and member
of The American Amateur Baseball
Advisory Commission since 1953.

 

PORTABLE

Recreation Program

WORLD WIDE GAMES KIT contains a complete
set of recreation equipment for ages 6 and up. All
games are constructed of durable hardwoods.

The'Kit includes the following l5 games:

A. Active Floor Games

I Box Hockey (opens to 18x60in.)
Folds into sturdy carrying case

B. Ancient Table Games
I Adi Board (African)
1 Gomoku (Japanese)

1 Chinese F ri ends

1 Korean Yoot

SPECIAL PRICE OF WORLD WIDE GAMES KIT —
(F.0.B. Delaware, Ohio - Shipping Weight 30 lbs.)

  
 
 
    
 

‘ PTEMBER 1956

    

C. Games of 

2 Pommawonga (Indian)
2 Mexican Bolero

2 Pic-E-U-Nee

2 Bonum Board

D. Puzzles
1 Hindu Pyramid Puzzle

1 Nine Block Puzzle
$35.00

SEND YOUR ORDER

or request for catalog to:

WOR LD WIDE GAMES

Delaware, Ohio

  

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

PACK-O-FUN
The Scrapcraft

MAGAZINE
brings you

100’s of

Wonderful Proiects
like this ‘

Billy Goat
PUPPET

Here’s how! Subscribe now to PACK-O-FUN. the mag-
azine with a million fun-packed ideas for gifts,
games, parties, bazaars, favors, decorations—all
sorts of useful and entertaining items made easily
from ORDINARY HOUSEHOLD SCRAPSI PACK-O—FUN
shows you how to make things from yarn, wood,
foil, bottle caps, spools, wallpaper, burnt matches!
Sabra-£59 now and get instrucrions for making a
Goat Puppet. No buts about it . . . costs nothing,
and he's good for hundreds of laughs! Send only
$1.50 for 10 PACK-O-FUN issues with easy instruo
tions for inexpensive games, . 7
gifts, parties. Loads of fun,
. on a shoestring!

SUBSCRIBE NOW!

Be ready for Halloween,
Thanksgiving, Christmas,
Birthdays, etc.

Send $150 “.10 No

Only Issues
| PACK - o - FUN
741 Devon Ave., Dept. 996

Park Ridge, lllinois

IE] Enclosed is $1.50 for I year subscription.

(IO issues of 32 pages or more each).
I [I I enclose $2.50 for special TWO YEAR after.

B SPECIAL GROUP PRICE:

   

 

I
I
$1 each (5 or more :
I

l orders sent in together).

I Name ........................................................................... ..

i Address ...................................................................... ..

I Cily Zone State ___|
339

 

An interesting committee report.* Comments on these conclusions will be welcome.

INSOFAR as the primary function of a recreation depart-
ment is to provide a wide variety of recreation services
to all age groups within a community through tax monies
provided, fees and charges for specific activities and groups
are recommended in order to supplement the budget and
help defray the cost of specialized instruction and materials.
In general, fees and charges may vary in communities, based
upon the local situation—available budget, the public ability
to pay, and demand for specialized services.

It is felt that, in many instances, payment of some en-
rollment or instruction fee creates group stability and a
feeling of belonging. Fees and charges, however, should not
be so high as to be restrictive and, therefore, eliminate
potential participants. In general, it is recommended that
no fee or charge be made to children and teen-age partici-
pants, but that adults be required to pay something to cover
or partially cover the cost of instruction, depending upon
the character or type of activity.

A variety of philosophies and policies regarding fees and
charges exist among communities because of: budget, ex-
isting policies, general understanding of the purpose of rec-
reation activities in the community, and on other mitigat-
ing local situations. Therefore, it is impossible to make a
statement applicable to all situations.

Philosophy and Principles

Since recreation services in Wisconsin are a government
function permitted by state law, it is clear that recreation
is public service. Keeping this in mind, following are various
principles upon which fees and charge should be based:

1. Is the purpose of the activity for the participant’s own
personal gain or accomplishment in acquiring certain skills

and/ or knowledge, or is it primarily for the participant’s
own nm‘lal or personal pleasure?

' 'l 1.!- material was prepared by the Coordinating Committee of the
~ ’ our. lllvercatlvn \- m‘iation: ll. \_ 3 "If"! Ravine, (zlniirman;
ll. it"llkosln, “ll-in Cuenther. “3'. u

340

2. Is the purpose of the activity for the general good of
the Community in that groups and individuals become better
citizens or acquire specific skills and knowledge from which
the entire community will gain?

3. In general, should children be asked to pay a fee for
activities in which they participate? Should teen-agers?
Should adults? .

4-. Should participants be asked to pay a fee for activities
in which they are rendering a service by taking part—such
as a production for which admission is charged and the
revenue derived is turned back to the department?

5. Should participants in an activity which involves an
unusually heavy expense for equipment be asked to pay fees
or charges commensurate with the cost of the equipment?

6. Should fees and charges be based upon the premise
that recreation departments be self-supporting so far as
possible? I;

7. Should charges be made for the use of recreation fa-
cilities by other agencies or groups? I

Suggested Basie Policies

1. It is generally recommended that for activities in
which the participant enrolls for the purpose of acquiring
new skills or perfecting skills he already has for his per
sonal gain or accomplishment, an enrollment or instructior
fee should be charged to cover the cost of the specializet
instruction; for example, art, ceramics, square dancing
woodworking, golf, tennis, archery. For activities in whicl
the purpose is primarily for the participant’s own social 0
personal pleasure, some enrollment fee should be charged.

For activities in which special materials are used by 1:]
group as a whole and for which it is impossible to asse.
individual charges, a laboratory fee should be charged t
cover, or at least partially cover, the cost of such material.
for example, art, ceramics, woodworking (glue, nails). 1
activities for which special material and supplies are in
viduolly required by members of the group and sold 1

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 

RECREATI

members by the department, it is recommended that a cost
charge be made for these materialsjn addition to the en-
rollment or instruction fee.

In general, the basic fee or charge should be partially
determined by the cost of instruction, the length Of the
period of instruction (number of class or group meetings),
the cost of materials used which are furnished by the de-
partment, the cost of basic equipment needed.

2. It is generally recommended that for groups meeting
under the jurisdiction of the department and from which
the community as a whble gains values, no fee be charged.
Every attempt should be made for departments to carry the
burden of expense where community values are paramount
and for which a moral responsibility niay be.assumed; for
example, English and citizenship classes, home nursery
classes, drivers’ clinics, and so on.

3. It is generally recommended that no charge be made
for children’s (grade-school age) activities. Since many of
these are group activities of a class-instruction type, the
cost to the department is mainly for instruction and this
cost should be carried by the department. It is felt that
services to children should, be free and should be the re-
sponsibility of the department in order not to limit the well-
rounded and balanced program in which children should
participate. However, for special classes using quantities
of special materials, a small fee should be charged to par-
tially cover the cost of the materials only.

It is generally recommended that no charges be made for
teen-age group activities (junior and Senior high-school age)
participated in by that age group only. Where teen-age
groups receive class instruction of a specialized nature for
a stated period of time, a fee to at least partially cover the
cost of instruction should be charged.

It is generally recommended that some charge should be
made for most adult activities. Since adult groups and
classes are usually of a specialized nature requiring specially
trained or skilled instructors, and as enrollment in these
activities should be kept at a maximum to insure good in-
struction, some instruction fee seems justifiable, at least to
cover, or partially cover, the cost of instruction. Many adult
activities require special equipment, but it is felt that the
cost of equipment should not be used as a basis for the fee.

The amount of the charge or fee for adult activities should
be based upon the nature or classification of the activity,
that is, is it a neighborhood group whose primary purpose
is the social and pleasure value, where a nominal enrollment
fee should be charged, or a special activity in which the
primary purpose is learning specific skills for personal ad-
vantage, in which an enrollment or instruction fee should
be charged to cover the cost of instruction for a stated period
of time (number of class meetings). As recreation serv-
ices are in great demand, the minimum and/ or maximum
enrollment required for the activity should be considered
as a basis for the fee charged. Therefore, it is generally
recommended that the fee for an adult class or group be
based upon a minimum enrollment number, and that the

aximum enrollment number should cover, or at least to a

reat extent cover, the cost of instruction.

EPTEMBER 1956

  

A ----r 'WWWF—w qp——------» W—n—Ww—HA w ------- -.:.---,.—,'-

  

FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION 
AND PERFORMANCE. . . FAR GREATER
STRENGTH...UNEQUALLED SAFETY... e“ l

  655"” ' "mn‘q' 
!

   

PLAYGROUND
SWIMMING POOL
and DRESSING ROOM

EQUIPMENT

Since 19]] the finest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and construction
_ . specified by leading recreational
2. authorities for almost half a century.

Send for New Catalog

l; Write for Folder
 ’ On AMERICAN’S
‘3: j JlM PATTERSON
 I. I F E T I M E

Aluminum

D I V I N G PLAYGROUND DEVICE C0.

B O A R D
WORLD’S FINEST

i
E
lL< OFFICIAL BOARD

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WO'lD'S UARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK PICNIC, PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSlNG ROOM EQUIPMENT

   

Adult groups should be charged an athletic franchise fee
to cover, to a fair extent, the cost of Officials and services.
This seems ustifiable since participating teams receive spe-
cial services in that specific courts and diamonds and fields
are reserved for their exclusive use at stated times, and the
department renders a service in providing schedules, keep-
ing records, and so On, besides furnishing qualified officials.

4. It is generally recommended that no fee be charged
members Of musical or dramatic groups through whose
efforts a service is rendered to the public and to the depart-
ment by their participation in a production from which
revenue is received. Since admission charges add consider-
ably to the receipts Of the department, and as the publicity
value to the department, and the recreational and cultural
services to the community are important, it seems wholly
justifiable to waive department fees.

5. It is generally recommended that an enrollment fee
be charged in activities for which expensive special equip-
ment is needed.

6. Fees and charges should not be based upon the premise
that recreation departments should, to a high degree, be
self-supporting. If a department is to fulfill its functions in
providing activities of all types to all age groups, excessive
fees, which would be necessary to be self-supporting, cannot
be levied.

7. If existing rules and regulations make it possible for
other agencies and groups to use recreation facilities, some
“cost charge” should be levied to cover, or partially cover,
the cost of operation. I

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 3 l1

 

Use of Indoor Facilities
for Recreation

Advantages of a Separate
Recreation Building

Robert A. Lee

THE PEOPLE of Iowa City, Iowa, have had the good fortune,
through the farsightedness of civic leaders, to know and
enjoy a community recreation center building since the be-
ginning of the public recreation program in this midwest-
ern town of 28,000. In fact, here the term “recreation cen-
ter” is used synonymously with that of “recreation depart-
ment.” Parents took it for granted that the leisure-time
needs of their children would be adequately met, for the
most part, by the facilities and program of the city’s large
recreation center. Many adults of the community and the
surrounding trade area also made frequent use of the build-
ing themselves, to participate in the activities of a class
or to dance. Then on a zero day in January, 1955, tragedy
struck—a terrible fire that became a nightmare to thousands
of people who had known the building. Within the space
of a few hours the center was reduced to a pile of bricks and
twisted metal covered with a glaze of ice—the remains of
what had been the pride of the recreation department.

To give a rough idea of what the center had offered:
large ballroom with stage, used also as a gymnasium; gym-
nasium with showers and dressing rooms; handball court;
workshop; craftroorn; rier range; large gameroom, with
pool and table tennis tables; kitchen and snack bar; large
social room; cluhroom; ofhces.

The response to our plight was next to miraculous, how-
ever. Within a week practically all activities had been re-
sumed in facilities made available by numerous other or-
ganizations. Immediately following the fire, the public
schools were open to us for use on a five-do]lar-pcr-night
basis and are still being used.

Since we now have had the opportunity in lowa City of
conducting a public recreation program in a separate recre-

-——-q—r-—v——

Mn Ln: 1- superintendent a] recreation. [mm City, Iowa.

342

ation center as well as in a school center, certain points can
be made from first-hand experience. My personal feeling is
that reasons favoring a separate recreation center building
far outweigh those favoring use of existing school facilities
for recreation purposes.

First of all, school buildings are dedicated to education
and designed to serve the education needs of a certain
limited age-group. The recreation center, on the other
hand, is specifically dedicated to serving a wide range of
interests and ages, and being attractive and useful to all of
the people, all of the time.

Because of the ever-increasing demand on available class-
room and activity room space in schools, brought about by
the rapid growth in child population, daytime use of the
school buildings by other agencies, in our community at any
rate, is simply out of the question. Consequently, many
activities which could and should be conducted during the "
morning and afternoon hours are not possible. Even during
the limited time between the afternoon closing and supper
hour, the schoolsoare tied up with extracurricular activities
and intramural programs. Most cities have more then one
school system—we have three, each with a different hourly,
daily, and seasonal schedule, thus freeing the schools for R
the public recreation program at various times.

Conflicts in schedules will deveIOp regardless of the
buildings used, and since the schools are built for educa-'
tional purposes it is only natural to assume that school-
related functions will hold priority. This means disrupted
and irregular schedules of recreation activities, causing con-
fusion among participants in the program and staff people
conducting the activities. It is a known fact that regularly
scheduled activities suffer in attendance and effectiveness
when interruptions occur, either in initial scheduling or in
cancellations, regardless of how far in advance the change
or cancellation is announced.

Usually the school space available to recreation depart-
ments is in the grade-school buildings since the junior-high
and high-school buildings are in use in the evening with
play practice, athletic team practice, and various other ex-
tracurricular functions. Certain facilities essential to a rec-
reation center are non-existent or extremely inadequate in
the average grade-school building. Some of the more obvi-
ous shortcomings are inadequate shower and dressing
rooms, small gymnasiums with ceilings too low for teen-

RECREATION

 

Opened in 1955, Hamilton Recreation Center, San Francisco, is an example of a fine, separate center.

It contains a swimming pool, a gymnasium and an auditorium. Architect:

agers and adults, no game and craftrooms as such, no social
or party rooms, storage space, oflice space for director and
program leaders, or checkrooms. The facilities are, natur-
ally, designed for the age group they are to serve, and in
grade-school buildings it is a common sight to see teen-
agers down on their knees getting a drink from the low
fountains. What coat hooks there are, are so low that they
do not keep adult-size clothing off the floor. '

Other factors making the operation of school recreation
centers difficult are the ever increasing parking problem and
the “No Smoking” rule of the State of Iowa public schools.
Then there is the annoying problem of what to do about the
little things around a schoolroom such as the projects of
the children, chalkboards, and bulletin boards, items on the
teacher’s desk, and the other numerous supplies, which you
cannot expect teachers to store at the end of each day, but
which present continuous, petty supervisory difficulties.

We have found that the majority of our high school teen-
agers are not interested in returning to school buildings for
social recreation. Even school social activities do not draw
the crowds they should. Of course some may say this is due
to poor leadership, but the teen-agers themselves say they do
not like going “back to school” for their recreation. There
also seems to be a certain psychological factor involved with
adult activities held in school buildings. Outside of athletic
events, interest lags and attendance falters. When the same
activities are held elsewhere with the same leadership they
immediately pick up.

Program unity is difficult when you need to use a number
of school buildings for activities which could be housed in
one recreation center. Such an operation requires addi-
tional manpower and supervision, raising personnel costs
and increasing travel expenses. Staff meetings and confer-
ences become more and more difEcult. Our working agree-
ment with the schools is that we do our own janitor work
and, of necesssity, at times that are somewhat inconvenient

uch as eleven at night or six in the morning. Since we can-
not employ a maintenance man to be on hand at all hours
f the day or night, it very frequently means that personnel
ust be responsible for cleaning chores they are unaccus-
omed to doing.
The matter of equipment and supplies presents numer-
us little headaches. Storage is usually limited in any build-
,I g, and the older the building the more crowded the storage
pace. An outside agency using a school building is, of
ourse, the first to feel the pinch when space becomes tight.

EPTEMBER 1956

William G. Merchant.

Then, there is transportation of this equipment from one
building to another or, in some cases, costly duplication of
some items.

Many of these difficulties can be overcome by working
closely with school authorities in designing and remodeling
school buildings, but even this is not infallible, partly be-
cause of the difference in tax structure between a school
district and the corporate limits of a city which frequently
do not coincide. It most certainly seems to me that when a
human need plays such a vital part in our lives as does rec-
reation today, a department striving to satisfy this need,
with functions requiring shelter and specialized facilities,
should have its own home. The recreation center should be
in a community building to which the people can look with
great pride, just as they look to their churches, their schools,
and their homes—symbols of their other basic needs. I

Advantages of a
School Community
Recreation Center

Harold C. Myron

WE ARE TOLD coming events cast their shadows before
them. Coming events in public .recreation indicate a
shift toward cooperative and coordinated recreation plan-
ning, building, and programing, as opposed to the separ-
ately conceived, separately built, and separately operated
recreation facility and program.

This article emphasizes the use of already existing fa-
cilities within the community, especially the schools, and
the oint-development of recreation facilities When existing
public facilities are inadequate. It advocates multi-purpose
development, as opposed to specialized development.

MR. MYRON is director of the recreation department for the
public schools and city of Highland Park, Michigan.

343

 

Certainly there are perils in asking for an either-or posi-
tion on any subject. This one is no exception. A most
dangerous and unwarranted fallacy is that which assumes
because a situation is found true under given circumstances,
it is equally true under all circumstances. Recreation plan-
ning should be realistically related to specific facts and

requirements within the community.

In a real sense, there is need in recreation for critical
thinking and searching investigation, where nothing is
taken for granted and no elements are left unreviewed.
Otherwise, community funds are apt to be expended merely
for the extension and preservation of overly traditional
thinking and an excess of institutional prejudice.

Study of the community, of potential technological im-
provements, brings the humbling realization that we cannot
possibly know the full nature of the purposes which our rec-
reation buildings, our community buildings, our school
buildings must serve in the years ahead. Thus, if for no
other reason, joint, cooperative effort for flexibility and
multi-use should be the watchwords for future planning,

design, and operation.

A noteworthy example of the analytical approach, of look-
ing into the future, is present-day recreation-education plan-
ning. Recreation people, school people, and community
representatives are meeting together to discuss the purposes
which a particular structure must serve, the activities which
contribute to these purposes, and the design which will ef-
fectively and efficiently house and promote these activities.
By means of such planning, the people within the commu-
nity assure themselves of more adequate facilities for both
recreation and the schools, and thus avoid duplication of

specialized structures.

Formerly, schools were built for one purpose, teaching
the traditional, academic, subject matter curriculums. Now
they are designed to serve not only the greatly enlarged
school curriculums, but also to help provide for many re-
quirements in both recreation and education.

Cooperation and coordination in planning and Operation
is a real frontier in recreation. Cooperation means action
together. It means focusing what is to be done on the totality
of the community, of which recreation is one of the impor-
tant parts. It means placing needs of the community above
institutional needs. It means focusing, first, upon the peo-
ple of the community and, second, upon the institutions
which serve them. It infers that understanding between
community organizations and individuals is best facilitated
by means of mutual relationships and joint action. It means
that administrators and boards should not plan alone. It
means that citizens must be invited in. It means a wholis-
tie approach to community needs. It seeks the involvement,

understanding, and acceptance of others. in what is to be
accomplished recreation-wise.

Use of Existing Facilities

The use of existing facilities, particularly schools, or the
development of jointly-planned, jointly-built, and jointly-
( pcratcd multi-use recreation facilities, is based upon other
realistic considerations.

344

Operational Egiciency. Industry does not build separate
buildings to house second and third shifts. Neither can

public schools and public recreation, two important aspects
of community living, afford the luxury of specialized build-
ings, dormant part of the time. Financial resources for
schools and recreation are the same—public-tax supported.
Their operation should reflect economic wisdom in use as
well. While economic wisdom asserts that “schools should
not be idle,” neither should future “municipal structures”
be planned or erected without due consideration of multi-

purpose public-recreation usage.

 

Use of schools for community recreation means the use
of already existing facilities, avoids costly duplication.

n

Avoidance of Duplication. Public schools do not need to
buy land for athletic or playground purposes while closeby
the public recreation department or city is developing a
playfield or park. Joint purchase and development effects
two-fold savings. Less land is purchased and more land is
left on tax assessment rolls for revenue producing purposes. .
Reduction of Equipment and Expense. When two segmentsl
of the public service join together to operate a recreation?
facility on a mutually agreed basis, duplication of many
maintenance items is eliminated—wparticularly of specialized
equipment, used but a part of the time. When the same
facility serves multiple purposes, a portion of the funds
normally needed for two separate facilities is saved.

When two organizations join together to plan and effectu-
ate a cooperative enterprise, there is a pooling of financial

resources, a greater functional potential—and the commu-
nity benefits.

Schools Become Community-Focused

 
 
  
  
   
  

There is ample evidence that schools are accepting the
community concept. More and more there is the realization
that the broadening school curriculum can and should con-
tribute effectively to the over-all community recreation prO-
gram. Most schools have some of the facilities necessary
for public recreationuplaygrounds, pools, gyms, Shops:
club rooms, auditoriums, and the like. Many have all of th

RECREATro.

necessary facilities. The opportunity for joint-development
and programing to serve total public recreation needs is
not in the remote future, but here and now. There is little
reason to suppose that the tax dollar for recreation should
not be expended as wisely and effectively as is expected
elsewhere.

As some fear, the recreation-school cooperative concept
does not imply an abdication of control or responsibility of
either. Realistically and appropriately, many agencies, both
public and private, share in the responsibility for commu-
nity recreation. Joint action does not mean giving way to
someone else’s ideas and wishes. It is not a surrender of
status and position. It does not mean loss of identity. It
provides opportunity to build a new and more usable rec-
reation whole. That which is born is entirely different than
two separate, isolated, and duplicating enterprises. Par-
ticipation, acting together, planning together by two major
segments of community life——-—public schools and public rec-

reation (among others) —-pr0vides for the growth and
maturity of each.

People Become Community-Minded

Quotes from the 1955 Report of the Michigan White
House Conference on Education, which approximately 1,400
persons attended, with at least three laymen to each edu-
cator, indicate a trend in the thinking of lay people toward
united effort and full use of resources:

“In our modern society, the very process of maintaining
existence is becoming so complex that almost no one is able
to do so by his own efforts alone. Furthermore, we in this
country subscribe to the belief that people have the right to
expect more than the mere maintenance of existence. The
accomplishment of an ideal such as this means that we must
use all of our present resources and facilities, and move
toward providing the members of our society with the op-
portunities for education, recreation, and services to assist
them in achieving what we believe to be their birthright.
This implies, among other things, that we must make full
use of our resources, both by insuring that none are stand-
ing idle and that none are being duplicated when coopera-
tion would insure their being available.”

“The school buildings and other resources, including peo-
ple, should be made available on a year-round and around-
the-clock basis for the education, recreation, and general
welfare of the people they serve.”

“Buildings should be built in terms of use as community
centers.”

“Because the school does not work alone, there is a great
need for community projects involving all youth-serving
agencies.”

“The matter of providing youth with adequate means for
using their leisure time is therresponsibility of the entire
community, the schools, local government, and private agen-
cies and organizations concerned with the needs of youth.
To be sure, youth themselves should have a part of planning
recreation programs designed to serve them.”

“Planned recreation activities for children and youth
should be ,a cooperative undertaking of the school, local
‘ government, and community service agencies and organi-

SEPTEMBER 1956

zations. Involving a cross-section of the community citi-
zens and organized groups will lead to a more effective and
better financed program of recreation activities.”

The Goal: Community Programing

If, in public recreation, we believe that one of our major
purposes is to help people live effectively, so that they may
obtain the “good life,” there must be a rejection of the
“go-it-alone” policy and effective development of joint- plan-
ning and mutual, close cooperation with others. This is in
line with a parallel belief that activity of the home, the
churches, the schools, and the other agencies of the commu-
nity, as well as recreation, should be mobilized in a united
interrelated approach, in which the total resources are
brought to bear for the constructive development of people.
Partnership of public recreation, public schools, and private
agencies in planning, building, and programing is evi-
dence of an advanced degree of community-focused opera-
tion for community improvement. Emphasis upon coor-
dination will require an understanding of our own actions
and an acceptance of our personal limitations. Yet, at the
same time, we will strive to move in the direction of im-
provement, not only of our own recreation organization, but
of the larger community recreation organization as well.
The recreation administrator of the future will be a coor-

dinator, one who assists in the integration of his organiza-
tion into the operational totality of the whole community.
By so doing, his stature will grow—as will his organization,
his community, and his profession. I

 

So sensationally betterare
they qn every count—deSIgn,
construction, quality,
durability and play-ability—
that Rawlings HERCULITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high
standard. They're in a class
by themselves—they're . . .

"n50 Finest In The Field! "

o BASKET BALLS
o FOOTBALLS

   

o VOLLEY BALLS
0 SOCCER BALLS

RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS (O. 0 St. Louis 0 los Angeles - Dallas 0 Chicago

0 O I  [I
When writmg to our advertlsers please mentlon RECREATION. .115

 

   
   

":"-°5::- _

."h

 
 

New Yearbook Due

The Golden Anniversary Issue of the Recreation and Park
Yearbook, 1955, is scheduled for publication by the Na-
tional Recreation Association this fall. This will provide an
inventory of public park and recreation services at all levels
of government—local, county, state, and federal. Prepara-
tion of the Yearbook has been a major research under-
taking of the Association during the past year.

The cooperation of many individuals and organizations
has contributed to the success of the project. It has taken
a variety of forms, including advice in the preparation of
the report blank, compilation of lists of local park and rec-
reation authorities and assistance in getting the forms filled
out and submitted to the Association. The actual furnish-
ing of Yearbook data has called for a considerable amount
of time and effort on the part of the authorities who sub-
mitted reports.

Tabulation of the data has not‘ been completed, but it is
certain that the Yearbook will be more comprehensive than
any previously issued. The number of localities reporting
parks and recreation services will be much higher than ever
before, with a resulting increase in the number of centers,
leaders, and facilities. Expenditures for 1955 will show a
strikingly high total as compared with the 1950 figures.

A unique feature of the book will be a table recording the
number and acreage of school pr0perties, reported by a
large number of school authorities; and for the first time
it will include data on the recreation services of federal and
state agencies.

Copies of the Yearbook may be secured from the Associa-
tion for $2.00 each.

Research Meeting at Congress

In response to a number of requests, an informal meeting
for a discussion of research problems will be held at the
international Recreation Congress in Philadelphia on
Thursday afternoon, October 4. The meeting will afford an
opportunity for a discussion of research methods and prob-
lems, reports on recently completed research and consider-

ation of projects under way. The meeting is open to all
interested delegates.

New Research List Available

Research in Recreation Completed in 1955, a classified
list of one hundred and forty studies con'ipleted or published
during 1955, has recently been issued by the National llec-
v- ation Association and is available at $1.00 per copy. ln-

Mi- 5' II Ht is Jim tor a] tlu- NRA Research Department.

346

George D. Butler

cluded in the list are thirty-eight theses reported by seven-
teen colleges and universities and reports issued by a great
variety of national, state, and local organizations. Many of
the titles are briefly annotated and prices are indicated
when available. The new publication supplements the one
entitled Research in Recreation Completed in 1953 and
1954, issued last year by the Association. The two bulletins
may be purchased at a combination price of $1.50.

Four Studies

The recreation department of the District of Columbia
employs a recreation analyst, Edward H. Thacker, to con-
duct studies and research and is therefore better equipped
than most departments. In its 1956 research program were
four studies, some of which will not be completed until the
end of the year or early 1957. One is a cost analysis of rec-
reation units, designed to reveal various unit costs of oper-

ating both neighborhood and city-wide centers. It involves

a careful recording for each unit studied, quarterly analyses
of its personnel costs and attendance.

A second study relates to maintenance procedures and
costs. Because the department uses facilities controlled by
a number of agencies and various arrangements are made
for sharing the maintenance costs, it was considered de-
sirable to determine adequate maintenance standards, logi-
cal costs, and desirable practices. This study involved the
sending of a questionnaire to a number of cities inquiring
about maintenance procedures, personnel, and costs.

A study of leadership assigned to various operating units
is the subject of the third, in which a subcommittee of the
recreation board is participating. A listing of leadership
functions, an analysis of neighborhood conditions and a
study of the various centers, their facilities, staff, periods
of operation and relationship to other units are phases of
the study. It also includes a job-functions report in which
the personnel participating are asked to indicate the major
function to which they devote their time for each fifteen-

minute period they are on duty during the course of study. '

A fourth project, to be undertaken in cooperation with
the National Capital Planning Commission, involves a re-
study and appraisal of the plan for the district’s recreation
system to determine what modifications are desirable in
the plan adopted several years ago.

The studies which are being conducted in Washington,

D.C., illustrate the type of research that many recreation-

departments might well carry on, even on a limited basis.

Such studies should result in more effective services and

economies in providing them. The results of these should
be of value to recreation departments in other cities. I

RECREATION

r . - Ii  ‘ algr-émfadén  -' “
The "Champs"—Toam sponsored by
Highwood, lll., Communin Comer

  

 

New “‘Little Guys” Basketball League—for boys and four quarters of 6 minutes each.

12 Years and 5'ft- height, or under—HOW gives 1956 “Little Guys” National Tournament was
some magnificent little athletes the chance to Played in Oak Terrace Gym, Highwood, 111,...
COmPete in their Own Size and age Class- on a Hillyard-finished floor. Those who at-
Everything in the game is scaled down to size: tended came away convinced they had seen some
a court 55x35-ft., basket height of 8-ft. 6-in., 1964 World Olympic Champions in action!

}}}}}}}>}lil a...SoDolhe

 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

ketball Finals were played on
the beautiful Hillyard-fin-
    . _   ished floor in the Municipal
 -   " ' ' ' A . Auditorium, Kansas City, Mo.

Find Out Why...

Major Tournament Floors
everywhere choose Hillyard
TROPHY Finish. Ask your
nearby Hillyard “Maintain-
eer”®—he’s a trained floor.
expert—for complete infor-
mation on how to put your

floor in the TROPHY cham-
pionship class.

  
 

O

 

g 

Where the Big Champs won the     
I956 U. S. A. Olympic Finals.

 

HILLYARD St. Joseph, Mo.

Please have my Hillyard Maintaineer® survey my gym floor and
show me how reasonably it can be given a TROPHY "Finish for

 

 

 

 

S f. J O S e p '1 Champions”.
M i s s o u r i Nam
- Passiac, NJ. Institutio
San Jose, Calif. Address
Branches in Principal Cities City Slate____.___.

 

 

SEPTEMBER 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. fill:

 

0—YOU ARE playing host to a basket-

ball tournament! It may be an an-
nual invitational, a league tournament
or a holiday affair, or you may be host
for the first time to a sectional or re-
gional tournament in your state
tourney.

This may be your first time out as a
tournament manager, or you may be
an “old pro” at this tournament busi-
ness. In either case, there’s a lot of
work to be done in order to have that
tournament run smoothly. It takes a
well ' organized crew of people who
know what they’re doing and a man-
ager—that’s you—who knows what
has to be done. ~

\Vhat follows amounts to a checklist
of details which have to be cared for.

Team Selection

To you, as tournament manager,
what teams will be present is not of
concern. You are concerned chiefly
with the mechanics of running the
tournament once the teams have been
selected.

Tournament Site

The actual playing facilities should
receive your first attention. It may be
on your own floor, or it may be an en-
tirely strange gymnasium chosen by
others as the tournament site. In any
event, look at that building objectively,
with the thought of getting the follow-
ing things done and making the follow-
ing facilities available:

* 'n'lo nmri and reprinted with permir-ion
l Rantings Roundup, \ olume 1954, \urn-
be

348

Seating. The gym should have as
many safe seats available as space per-
mits. If there is a possibility for erect-
ing more seats, do so. Inspect all to
see that they are in safe condition. ' If
more are added, have the local fire de-
partment rule on the seating arrange-
ment and the fire exits.

Inspect the seat markings and the
section markings, and make sure that
the visiting spectators can find their
seats. 1 '

Floor Area. Is the playing floor in
good shape? Look at the floor lines for
possible repainting. If the floor_ needs
a new surface, have it done as soon as
practicable.

Dressing Rooms. Are the dressing
rooms in the gym sufficient for the
teams coming to the tournament? If
not, make arrangements for temporary
dressing rooms. Have dressing rooms
cleaned, lockers dusted, shower heads
inspected. Arrange for an adequate
supply of clean towels; have a supply
of soap available. Make provision for
safe-keeping of valuables. Either pro-
vide locks for the lockers or make ar-
rangements to have the valuables col-
lected and kept in a central safe place.

Training Room. If the gym does not
have a training room, set one up. All
you need is a training table and a small
set-up of training supplies. If possible,

have a trainer on duty all through the
tournament.

O‘yicials’ Room. Establish a room
where oliicials can dress or rest between
games and sessions. If no other space
is available, they could use the training
room; but it is best to keep them apart
from competing teams and coaches.
And they need towels tool

Floor Crew. Every gym has a man
or a crew taking care of it. See to it
that you locate them, tell them what
you want in the way of gym and floor

maintenance, and What you want dur-
ing the course of the tournament. If
there is no such crew, make arrange-

'ments to have several men assigned to

this task.

Refreshment Facilities. Survey the
gym for logical spots for refreshment
stands and arrange for their manning.

Parking Area. Make as much park-
ing space available as possible. If nec-
essary, work with the local police de-
partment to maintain areas specifically
for tournament parking and to direct
traffic during the course of the tourna-
ment.

Lighting. Floor lighting should be
as brilliant as the existing fixtures per-
mit. Check the bulbs. Inspect to see if
reflectors need polishing.

’-

Team Treatment

You, as host-manager, will have a
large number of teams visiting your city
for the first time, and it should be up to
you, as the good host, to take care of
their basic needs. .

Individual Escort. In advance, find
out from each coach the time of arrival.
Direct him to come to a specific loca-
tion in your city, and have an individ- [
ual assigned to meet the team. This ‘
individual can then direct them to their ,
assigned housing facilities and to the
gymnasium, if they don’t already know '
Where it is.

Instruction Sheet. Upon arrival, af-
mimeographed sheet should be handed,
to each coach, school official, and to
other principals in the tournament.

This sheet should contain the times
assigned for practice for each com-
peting team. A list of recommended}:
eating places and locations of movies;
and other recreation facilities might be
included. List any announcements
about tickets, meetings, and so on. It’s:
a good idea to list telephone numbers;

RECREATION

BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT!

-—both night and day—of all the tour-
.ament officials and where they may be
Jcated.

It would be a help to the visiting
oach to know about a good cleaning
lace for uniforms or other clothes.
.ist names and numbers of local sport-
ng goods stores, names of their rep-
esentatives and telephone numbers
there they might be reached night or
.ay.

Listing a doctor who might be called
.ight or day is always a good idea.
Make arrangements with a doctor to
eep himself available throughout the
ournament for any away-from-the-
;ym emergencies.) And with this sheet,
nclude a copy of the tournament pro-
gram.

Prior Notification. As far in advance
If the tournament as possible, notify
ach competing team of facilities avail-
ble to them both for housing their
earn and for pre-tournament practice,
that specific ball will be the official
'asketball of the tournament, and what
nractice balls will be available to them.

Ticket Procedure

No matter what formula is used for
heir distribution, tournament tickets
re always a problem. The tournament
icket manager will, of course, have
teen appointed. There should be a
[uota set up for each competing team,
vith a certain percentage of tickets each
ession alloted to the general public.

Your only c oncern with. tickets
hould be dissemination of information
rbout where and how they may be pur- .
based and that advance publicity on
[ickets is sent not only to the competing .
harns but released generally in each of

e competing cities.

Press Facilities

The handling of the press covering

EPTEMBER 1956

your tournament is important whether
the event is large or small. The press
coverage your tournament will receive
—— the number of members of the
Fourth Estate who will be on hand cov-
ering your tournament—will dictate the
facilities to set up.

Early in your preparations, enlist the
services of a publicity man or a news-
paper man to handle the press arrange-
ments. If possible, have him prepare
an information sheet on each of the
teams that will appear in the tourna-
ment —- this sheet to be handed to each
newspaper man upon his arrival at the
tournament.

Press Table. As quickly as possible,
determine how many newspaper men
will attend. Set up a “press bench” in
an advantageous spot in the gymna-
sium, apart from the officials” table.
The tournament publicity man should
work at this bench also, and, if possible,
should have a phone to the officials’
table. All spaces at the press bench
should be reserved and assigned. Re-
member, these men will be working;
try to position them in the gym so they
can be separated from the crowd.

If the tournament is important
enough to warrant Western Union
Wires and operators, inform them early
of the need and work with them on their
requirements.

Press Room. Try to establish a “press
room” for convenience of the press.
This could be a small room somewhere
near the gym where the sports writers
and photographers could relax between
sessions. If possible, provide refresh-
ments. You could establish your statis-
tics mimeograph machines, several
typewriters, and an outside phone in
this room. A dependable boy should
be assigned to “manage” the room at
all times; and could also run the mime-
ograph machine.

Statistician. Assign a statistician to
assemble the statistics for each game,
and make them available to the press
as soon after the game as possible. He
should work at the officials’ table. Sta-
tistics stencils should be prepared in
advance and the information typed in
on the prepared stencil immediately
following the game.

Radio and Television. If radio or
television are to cover the tournament,
know where you will put them in the
gymnasium, reserve these spaces, and
work with them on their problems far
in advance of the tournament.

Press Supplies. Make arrangements
to have paper, pencils, typewriters,
tournament programs available, not
only at the press bench, but also in the
press room. Remember to include a
pencil sharpener.

The Tournament “Crew”

It takes a lot of people, each perform-
ing his job at the right time, to make
any tournament run smoothly. There

_ will be many problems confronting you.

Your tournament can run off without
a hitch if you will “head off” some of
these problems before they arise.

Program Distribution. The specta-
tors who attend your tournament will
want programs. Their planning and
printing is another problem. Your
problem is distribution. With the pro-
gram manager, arrange for a dependa-
ble group of boys or girls to either sell
or distribute them. They should be
available at every entrance to the gym,
and at every session.

Floor Crew. Cleaning the floor before
each game and at half-time is impor-
tant not only to the play of the game
but to the appearance of the gym. Two
men should be assigned to perform this
task and should be instructed to do it
automatically.

Police. There’s an old expression
aboutf‘foresight and hindsight.” Con-
tact the local police and arrange to have
one or two policemen in the gymnasium
throughout the tournament.

Liaison Boy. As a help to the visiting
coaches, assign a dependable boy to
each team to stay with it while it is in
the gymnasium. This boy could be used
by the visiting coach for errand pur-
poses and is a fine gesture and service

to the visitors. ism->-

340

Cheerleaders. Reserve three or four
seats, in the front row, on both sides
of the floor for cheerleaders. Inform
all cheerleaders that these are their
seats and they are to remain in them
while their teams are on the floor ex-
cept when they are performing their
cheerleading functions.

Photographers. Mark off specific 10-
cations on the floor, in both end zones,
designated as “photographers’ shooting
locations,” and keep everyone else out
of them. Inform the photographers
that these are their reserved areas for
“shooting” the games.

Doctor. Without a lot of publicity,
arrange with one or several doctors to
be in attendance at all tournament ses-
sions. Reserve a seat for the doctor and
then, if needed, he can be summoned
without resorting to the usual “is there
a doctor in the house” public—address
announcement. Also quietly arrange to
have an ambulance at the tournament
site, or know 'the telephone number
where one may be reached quickly.

Ceremony and Decorations

Basketball is a game of color, and a
basketball tournament is a gala event
for all participants. Make plans to dress
up‘the gym, both inside and out; this
will add a festive note and create a
favorable impression for your tourna-
ment in the minds of guests. Use ban-
ners, pennants, streamers for decora-
tions; or have large signs, painted with
the names of the competing teams, to
post around the gym. Over the main
entrance, or over the street in front of
the gym, try to hang a large cloth ban-
ner with the name of the tournament
and some sort of “welcome” copy.

Seat Ushers. Make your seat ushers
distinctive; dress them uniformly. All
in white shirts and blue ties, or in the
same color sport shirts, or in T-shirts
printed with the name of the tourna-
ment on the front.

Music. Fill all the time-outs with
band music. Arrange to have at least
one band at every session, to play at all
breaks in floor activities. If no bands
are available, recorded music over the
public-address system will be sullicient.

Entertainment. Half—time and be-
tween-game entertainment is always cn-
jnyed by the spectators. Begin early
In arrange for this.

350

Awards Presentation. Make some-
thing special out of the presentation of
awards following the tournament. Tro-
phies should be presented immediately
following the final game. Keep the
spectators in their seats during this

ceremony.

Public Address System

The public-address system at your
tournament is the official “voice” of the
tournament. Coaches, teams, and spec-
tators depend upon it for information
about what is happening. Good public-
address system management can help
to make your tournament a success.
Make certain that it is in perfect work-
ing condition before the first game gets
under way. Have a Sound man check
over the entire system, tubes included.
During the tournament test it before
each session.

The PA announcer can be an impor-
tant person in the smooth-functioning
tournament. Arrange for, and assign,
an announcer with a dignified and au-
thoritative voice. Brief him on his
duties. Inform him that the PA system
is to be used for informational an-
nouncements, not for constant chatter.

The Scoreboard

For any type of athletic event, the
scoreboard is an important installation,
and its proper functioning can mean a
lot to everyone attending. As with the
PA system, it should be checked over
and placed in good working order be-
fore the first session opens.

Players’ Names. Many of the newer
scoreboards have spaces to insert
names of players “in the game” and the
number of fouls for each player. If
your scoreboard is not so equipped, im-
provise—have name cards painted, and
see if your electrician can’t wire such a
board with lights to show fouls. In-
struct several dependable boys on the
workings of the board. Coaches, play-
ers, and spectators alike appreciate this
type of installation; and it does much
to further “dress up” your tournament.

Decorate the scoreboard with a large
sign announcing the name of the tour-
nament. Photographers like to photo-
graph scorcboards and this is just a lit-
tle extra publicity touch.

The Official Ball

Always a “last-minute” item, yet one
that is important to the competing
coaches and players, is the official ball
of the tournament. They’ll appreciate
knowing in advance of the tournament
just which ball will be the official ball
of the tournament.

Choose this as far in advance as pos-
sible, and notify the competing coaches.

Practice Balls. Have practice balls
available, on the floor, for each team
to use during the pregame warm-up.
Usually six to eight are sufficient. (This
should be the same as the game ball.)
Have them cleaned after each use.

Game Ball. For appearance’s sake,
the game ball should be used for no
more than two games. Before each
game have two new balls inflated to
proper pressure and have the game of-

ficials choose the one to be used.

Officials’ Bench

During any basketball game, the 0f-
ficials’ bench should be a smooth func-
tioning operation. A lot of bad feeling
and a lot of dispute can be eliminated
if the game officials are efficient, know
their jobs, and perform them as “pros.”
This is especially true during a tourna-

r

ment.

Assign Officials. Prior to the tourna-
ment, assign competent men to handle
all official duties necessary for conduct
of the tournament. Choose and notify
the men who will be official scorer, 0f-
ficial timer, scoreboard operator, and|
then assign alternates for each 0b. See
that these men know their jobs and am?
not “political” appointments. ;

Official Scorer. Since many of the
players will be playing on a strange
floor, it would be wise to dress the 0f-
ficial scorer in a black-and-whité
striped shirt the same as the floor of
ficials wear. In this manner, the play‘
ers, who must report to the official
scorer before entering the game, car
readily identify him at the officials
table.

Table Assignments. Keep the of
ficials’ table efhcient by assigning place:
only for those who will be working
there. Spaces should be held for the

official scorer, timer, scoreboard oper

ator, and scorers for each competing
team. I

RECREATIOI;

 

Edith Brockway

l
RS. BROCKWAY is a writer, illustrator,
d photographer. She has been active
church work, helping direct chil-
en’s religious educational camps,
urch school sessions, and workshops.

PTEMBER 1956

Here is a possible solution to the complaint that teen-
agers won’t square dance. Start them younger! By the
time they’re teen-age, they’ll enjoy square dancing because
they’ll feel self-confident instead of self-conscious.

Notice the hidden techniques and qualities that made
this program so successful. First, a leader who loved it,
with a record player and microphone, started 0]? with
small groups. As these grew skillful others saw—and
joined to get their share of the 

Notice the element of drill, combined soon with a ele-
ment of speed. Both demand attention. There isn’t time
to be rowdy! To move rapidly and accurately through the
figures, the youngsters find they have to know those figures
as a team. Do they have a good time? Look at the faces

in these photographs.

OH, IT’S wonderful,” best describes
the fifth- and sixth—grade reac-
tions to the art of square dancing, as
taught by an energetic woman with a
microphone in the Akron, Ohio, ele-
mentary schools. Boisterous boys and
giggling girls storm into the gymnasi-
ums after three-thirty to join the fun
of learning the figures and breaks of
some of America’s oldest and newest
folk dances. Waiting and ready with
her record player warmed up is Alice
Mae Pierce, a square dance enthusiast
whose hobby horse has galloped her
into a full-time teaching schedule in
Akron’s public and private schools.
Seeing the need of putting pre-teen
energy to work on an enjoyable basis,
Alice Mae formed small groups of chil-
dren in her local school. These young-
sters were mostly from families whose
parents were already avid square
dancers, including her own daughter.
Out of this effort came the “Kalico

Kids,” a group of four who first danced.

for their school programs, then per-
formed for civic and community enter-
tainment, and are still going strong.

Parents and teachers alike felt this
was an ideal recreation outlet for excess
steam. Backed by the mothers, the par-
ent-teachers association, and the school
principals, after-school classes were
begun for fifth and sixth graders, first

 

“Duck for the Oyster” is one of the
best known squares, performed here by
pupils of Fairlawn and Rankin schools.

“The gents swing out, the ladies swing
in, Form that Texas star once again.”
This square is popular with children.

351

 

 

The twirl comes as an action of assur-
ance once more basic steps are learned.

in the local school, Fairlawn, then
others. These classes consisted of eight
to twelve lessons, lasting from an hour
to an hour and a half, with a nominal
tuition fee for the instructor and ex-
penses. Mothers acted as hostesses for
each class, and served refreshments for
the final session when the diplomas
were handed out.

The advantages accruing from this
extra class, as compared with the
square-dance sessions held during the
gym periods, is that more complicated
dances can be learned, and a wider va-
riety enjoyed. With the heavy sched-

Courtcsy turn at end of a ladies’ chain
lets buys display gentlemanly manners.

 

ules of gym classes in school, the gym
teacher cannot spend the time in learn-
ing and teaching more than rudimen-
tary routines of the squares, unless she
happens to be a chronic enthusiast.

In contrast to ballroom dancing,
where the boy carries the burden of
social aggresiveness, the square dance
distributes the fun to everyone on the
floor. It relieves the pressure of boy-
girl relationships for this age where
emotional and physical immaturity ne-
cessitates a more casual association be-
tween the children. The girls are more
apt to be the aggressors.

The shy and the show-off, the attrac-
tive and unattractive, the quick and the
slow, the rhythmic and the clumsy are
all on an equal footing of noncompeti-
tive activity.

Children are disciplined to follow
fast moving rules, with little time for
mischievous horseplay. The inattentive
dancer is soon brought into line by his
dancing partners, as most children en-
joy the satisfaction of good teamwork.
Good manners are stressed.

The instructor begins her classes
with the basic movements of square
dancing. Each step must be learned
thoroughly before advancing to the
next, thus eliminating any possible
cause for frustrated and disinterested
dancers. The children learn how to
circle, honor your partner, swing,
promenade, do-si-do, balance, star,
ladies chain, sashay, allemande left,
and grand left and right. Out of these

basic movements most dances are con-
structed.

Alice Mae discovered that teaching
square dancing to children called for a
lot more know-how than can be found
in a book. Having “fiddle blood” in
her veins to begin with, she began at-
tending every workshop, jamboree, and
camp available in the area to improve
her teaching technique. Here she learn-
ed ,the movements of square and folk
dances, kolos and other nationality
dances, the American round, the con-

tras, and lastly, modern dances, and the
mambo.

She feels that a successful children’s
tt‘iltllftl' should, above all, love to dance
and do it. Secondly, she should wield
a generous amount of patience, firm
liamllmg. guml humor, and insight into

When writing to our adv! rtisers pleas.‘ mention chitEA'rION.

the needs and capabilities of he? pupils.

The best and most important reason

for square dancing is because it’s fun.
Happy faces and enthusiastic applause
for “more” bring satisfaction to teach-
ers, parents, and pre-teens, who find
this wholesome gaiety a recreation
background for meeting the leisure-
time complexities of team life.

Suggested Books

A great many excellent books are

available on square dancing. Three are
mentioned here primarily because they

are written more from the teaching than
from the dancing or calling point of
view. All are illustrated and include the
music.

Honor Your Partner: Eighty-One

Square Dances with Music, Ed Dur-

lacher. Devin-Adair Publishing Com-
pany, 23 East 26th Street, New York
10. $8.50.

Partners All—Places All! Forty-Four

Enjoyable Square Dances and Folk
Dances for Everyone, Miriam H. Kirk-
ell and Irma K. Schaffnit. E. P. Dut-
ton & Company, 300 Fourth Avenue,

New York 10. $3.95.

Square Dances of Today and How to

Teach and Call Them, Richard G. Kraus.
Ronald Press Company, 15 East 26th
Street, New York 10. $3.25.

(These may be ordered through NRA
if you will add fifteen cents per book
for handling.)

1,

Wear Your Golden Age Club Pin With .

Pride Wherever You May Go

Designed by representatives i
of over 100 Golden Age clubs
and used nationally.

Gold colored metal with
evergreen tree in jewelers’
enamel. Symbolic of long life,

EXACT SIZE strength and perseverance.

The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE '
(greatest values of club membership) en-

ameled in black. The border is a laurel

wreath for honor. Safety catch.

Available Only to Authentic Clubs.
50¢ each, minimum order 10 pins.

  & (o. 22 N. 6th Street

Philadelphia 6, Pa.

FREE CATALOG

Complete information on Jamison
Safety En-i-neered playground and
athletic field equipment. Be sure
you get our bid. Write

 MANUFACTURING CO.

8781 S..Mett|er St.

to; Angeles 3, Calif. n

RECREATION:

 

HowTo Do IT! b 

 

PAPER CUT-OUT PlCTURES

 

MATERIALS
Co/o red Comfrucff'on Wer~
P457? ~/‘/’ask/ng. 7&pe -C' e Wop/Jane-
OPéker Box ([99 bar co var, shoe

 

box, e/t'. can ée used.)

METHOD

 
  
 
  

ZCuf ouf background shapes using
appropriai’elg colored paper.

  

0:419qu our“
«07‘? of/bféren"

    
 

fab/on doM'd/rke.
Pas‘l'e accordian S‘h‘ip +b cemr I
75/5 ma/ée: if s/awd ouf fmm bar/ground and 91%: suggesfz'an 'c‘v‘ doc/é.

inn-o

|SEPTEMBER 1956

Alfred B. Jensen

 

Students Can Join NRA

Stu d e n t s taking recreation
courses are eligible for Student
Associate Membership in the Na-
tional Recreation Association at

a special reduced rate. For more
information, see your recreation
curriculum director or write “On
The Campus” for an application
form.

Student Membership Urged

“The student who has at least a
speaking knowledge of the advances in
and the problems facing those in his
prospective field will be more prepared
to add constructively to the profession,”
writes Betty Larsen, University of
Maryland recreation major, in the
March 1956 issue of Highlights, Mary-
land Recreation Society bulletin.

Urging student membership in pro-
fessional organizations, Miss Larsen
points out that this offers an opportu-
nity for a gradual entry into the field.
The student will have a “feel for, and
some understanding of his relationship
to his profession.” Miss Larsen con-
cludes that the student who becomes
an active member will “not only help
himself—but may make some small
contribution to the field.”

Michigan Scholarship Fund

The Michigan Recreation Associa-
tion has provided for a $200 scholar-
ship to be awarded each year beginning
this school year. Recipients must be
recreation major students in the junior
or senior year. Students at Wayne Uni-
versity, Michigan State University, and
Michigan State Normal College are
eligible.

The llenry Schubert Scholarship pro-
gram, named after the veteran Michi-
gan recreation executive, is adminis-
tered by the scholarship aml recruit-
ment committee of the Michigan Rec-
reation Association. Chairman of the
committee is Chase ll. Hammond of
Muskegon.

Students Attend Conferences

lightven University of Illinois rec-
reatmn Atudcnts attended the NRA

3S4

 

Great Lakes District Conference in Pe-
oria in April, under the leadership of
Virginia Frye, instructor in recreation.

The group spent a day and a half at-
tending sessions and observing the con-
ference. NRA District Representative
Robert Horney discussed “Existing Em-
ployment Needs and Opportunities in
Public Recreation” in a special session
with the group.

“The students thoroughly enjoyed
the conference sessions they attended.
It was an excellent experience for them,
and stimulated their interest in attend-
ing future recreation conferences,” re-
ported Miss Frye.

In Florida, thirty students from Flor-
ida State University and Mississippi
Southern College attended the NRA
Southern District Conference at St.
Petersburg.

Students were reported in attendance
at every NRA district conference this
year.

SIU Institute Draws Many

 

Recreation directors at SIU Institute. Seat-
ed: Betty Reynolds, assistant superintend-
ent of recreation, Centralia, and Betty Mari-
cle, playground leader, Fairfield. Standing:
Howard Tanner, Handcrafters Foundation,
Waupun, Wisconsin; Harold Bean, recrea-
tion superintendent, Alton, and his assist-
ants, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Bailey; and John
T. Moake, superintendent of parks and
recreation for Carbondale Park District.

About one hundred persons partici-
pated in Southern Illinois University’s
Playground Leadership Training Insti-
tute held June 13-16 at the university’s
camp.

College credit of from two to six
quarter hours was granted for the
course, which included post-institute
s-crvu-u on playgrounds in southern ll-

linois communities. Villages having
only summer playground programs
were encouraged to be represented.

Instruction was provided in arts and
crafts, day camping, playground safety
and first aid, sports and games, dra-
matics, music, storytelling, and nature
studies.

Southern Illinois recreation directors
cooperated with the university recrea-
tion curriculum in conducting the in-

stitute.

F SU Coeds on TV Trapeze

Two Florida State University recrea-
tion majors performed aerial acrobat-
ics on the Sealtest “Big Top” show this
spring. Sue Herndon and Faye Moses
were chosen to appear on the national
TV show.

Miss Herndon is a graduate recrea-
tion student. She did an adagio num-
ber and performed a solo on her bal-
ance trapeze. Miss Moses, a recreation
senior, appeared in an adagio act and
in her specialty, a double trapeze act.

Twelve acts from a university circus,
“Flying High,” were televised on the
“Big Top” Show.

Honors to Wisconsin Majors

Two of the seven recreation majors
in a “top notch” graduating class at
Wisconsin State College, La Crosse,
were awarded academic honors at June
graduation.

Arlo H. Coplan was graduated with
highest honors.
South Dakota, he is listed in Who’s
Who in American Colleges and Univer-
sities.

Chester H. Miller of Stevens Point,
Wisconsin, was graduated with high
honors. He accepted a position in Green
Bay, Wisconsin.

Donna L. Mucha of Beaver Dam,
Wisconsin, was elected to Who’s Who

From Watertown, .

I
l
j.

in American Colleges and Universities t

because of her broad participation in
extra-curricular activities.

Richard Wilsman accepted an assist- 

antship in recreation at the University

of Illinois to work on a master’s degree. I

Lloyd Paulson, Mary Ann Glunn,
and Mary Sugden also received bach-
elor of science degrees with specializa-
tion in recreation.

Indiana Appointment .

Richard Lawson, superintendent of'

o . l
recreatlon for Amarlllo, Texas, has been I

appointed to the position of associate|
1n the Indiana University department of;

recreation. He will be teaching courses‘ '

I I . l
1n recreatlon crafts and 1n the nature-

and practice of play. A portion of his;
time will be devoted to doctoral Work.

 

MR. JENSEN is a member of the NRA;

Recreation Personnel Service staff.

I“

RECREATION:

 

(

l
x
i

l

 

100 % mun/[mum    .7
TABLE TENNIS TABLE '  

FOR OUTDOOR AND INDOOR use ,.   -.  E?
' .r . ._ I . ‘    '1" - .

Here at last is the Heavy-Duty Aluminum
Table Tennis Table featuring Durability and
Economy. Sturdily Constructed to Withstand
Extreme Abuse from Play and Weather.
Built to Lost a Life-time.

     

“Statianory” rocks ‘
in single or double
face units snap-lack
rigidly together to fit
 any space or provide
 copocity required.

 
   
    

Regulation Baunce and Constructian.

   
 
    

o Attractively Finished with Green
Anodized Nan-Glare Surface.

0 In 2 sections—4 legs Each Section.
Easily Separated inta 2 Tables.

0 When Separated Has Many Uses.

0 No Maintenance or Replacement
Prablems.

o Outlasts Waaden Tables by Many
Years.

0 A tremendaus success in Colleges,
Schools, Camps, etc.

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED 8‘ CONSTRUCTED StYIe D.F. 4-40. Portable Checker Rack (illustrated)

is 4 ft. 2 in. long: holds 40 coats and hats: goes
wherever needed on large. ball-bearing-swivel
'casters. Comes with or without checks and snap-on

For H eavy-D uty Use In :

OUTdoor and Indoor Reueallon centers! numbers.dStronglly weided gffsquare tubulalr. heavy
gauge an high y em osse urniture stee Smart
Playgrounds! Resorts! CIUbsf camps! in modern baked finishes. Give lifetime service -

never sag. creak or sway. 3 ft.. 4 8a 5 ft. units avail-
able. as well as other efficient space saving equip-
ment for every church. school. commercial.
For Full Details, Write; industrial and institutional need.

Write for Bulletin CK-S'IS
All-Metal Tennis Table Co.
7606eorgeSt.—Teaneck,N.J. VOGEl-PETERSON C0

"2] W. 37th Street - Chicago 9, Illinois

: BMWW/éem...
’witli NISSEN TRAMPOlINES*
é" sass: am

MODEL 77-A A M

Ocean-going Vessels, Etc.

 

    
  

MADE - NO ADJUSTMENT
NECESSARY

  
 

*Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
RECOMMENDED Write today for FREE

    catalog. and name of nearest dealer - a:

COMPETITION '
 TRAMPOlINE COMPANY
200 A Avenue. N. W., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, U. S. A.

NISSEN TRAMPOlINE COMPANY. lTD.
London, England

@é‘daé‘a, Mfg/V, at“ We Marx—WM

‘ SEPTEMBER 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. do.)

     
     
   
   

There is not only a need for recruit-
ing for the recreation profession but
the need is urgent.

The number of schools reporting
graduates with a major in recreation
is not only down as compared with five
years ago, but the decrease in the num-
ber of students is alarming. The total
number of graduates—444—reported
for 1956 is a decrease of 248 from the
692 accounted for in 1951. This rep-

resents a loss of thirty-six per cent.
This condition may reflect the postwar
situation where enrollment was strong
for a number of years due in part to
the GI Bill. Also, the situation indicates
terrific competition among professions
for graduates. .
Forecasters advise that social serv-
ices nIUst expand fifteen per cent in the
next ten years in order to maintain the
present level of service. The recreation
profession is not even keeping pace, let
alone preparing to meet the increasing
demands which are bound to come.
Thirty-six colleges and universities
report graduating students with recrea-
tion degrees in 1956 as compared with

MR. SUTHERLAND is director of the
NRA Recreation Personnel Service.

 

. .-_—

Numlwr of Degrees Awarded in 1951

.\ umber of Degree:

Daub! ; t g 9- ,2

gt 1%  3

£5.21 a as .2
\ew England 1 18 9 27
Middle Atlantic 9 107 66 173
Southern 1f) 93 7 100
(in-ll Lakes 11 191 60 251
.‘lidwmt 4 26 0 26
‘innllm. -t 2 l3 3 l6
' it Hi? 50 diners! 10 58 7 65
f: \urlhwcpt 3 32 2 H
I if '1 ' 538 154 092

356

l .

S 0 N N E L
———-———,——————_—_——'—|———_

College Analysis

fifty-three schools in 1951. Although
a number of schools reported major rec-
reation curriculums, they have not been
providing the profession with gradu-
ates. Many of these schools have stu-
dents in recreation classes but these are
majors from other departments and
cannot be counted as professional stu-
dents for the recreation field. Regional
and national inventories indicate that,
in general, colleges and universities
with major recreation curriculums are
operating at about fifty per cent of
capacity. Production could be increased
fifty per cent, were students to be se-
cured, without enlarging present facili-
ties and staff. One well-known school
did not graduate a single major recrea-
tion student in the first five years of its
major recreation curriculum and is still
giving the profession precious little.
Geographically, the Great Lakes dis-
trict is showing the greatest production,
with nine schools graduating 182 ma-
jors in 1956. The Southern district is
next with eighty-six majors and the
Middle Atlantic district third with
seventy-eight. Other districts are fall-
ing far below these figures, with New
England next in line with forty-nine,
then Pacific Northwest with twenty-

Number of Degrees Awarded in 1956

 

 

 

is m Bachelor Master Director Doctor Total
E3
Dislrict £2 a g t: r: I: f:

.2“: 9 1.: E 70. g: g '3 E '3 g '3 g I:

an: 0.2 to "' q; o g 5 *- 5 " '-' 5 " '"
__ 12 a r3 :3 :a B :— 2 B? :3 2 E; :3 2 5 =3
mg“ England 3 25 4 29 13 7 20 0 o o o 0 I 0 33 11 49
hllrldle Atlantic 6 24 20 44 14 9 23 0 1 1 8 2 10 46 32 78
S‘outhcrn 9 26 43 69 9 8 17 0 0 0 0 0 0 35 51 86
(Iron-at Lakes 9 54 70 124 12 35 47 6 3 9 2 0 2 74 108 182
Midwest 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Southwest 1 0 2 2 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 ' 0 3 3
Pacific bouthwcst 1 7 8 15 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 9 8 17
Purific NuthWu-t l 13 16 29 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 13 16 29
'lulaf '3!) I19 16.5 312 50 60 110 6 4 10 10 2 12 215 229 444

 

 

W. C. Sutherland

nine, and the other districts far below
this.

In 1956, eight schools accounted for
over half of the recreation graduates.
These schools graduated a total of 242
students with an average of slightly
better than thirty students per school.
Ten schools graduated between ten and
twenty students for a school average of
twelve and a total of 120 graduates.
Nine schools graduated between five
and nine students each, a total of sixty-
one for a school average of less than
seven students per institution.‘ Nine
schools graduated between five and
nine students, averaging less than two
per school. The charts shown here
point out the situation clearly and give
us plenty of reason to be alarmed.

F ,v

Summary and Comparison of
Recreation Degrees Granted

in 1951 and 1956

Degree 1951 1956 Loss

Bachelor ........ .. 538 312 226 (42%)

Graduate ........ .. 154 132 22 (14%)
Total ...... .. 692- 444 248 (3670)

° In 1956 thirty-six schools averaged 12.3
students per school.

° In 1951 fifty-three schools averaged 13
students per school.

RECREATION 

 

  

SEPTEMBER 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. I I

 Fascinating —- Exciting

 

SO UND OPP!

ANYWHERE WITH 5 PORT}! V0}!

.43 -
A BASIC NEW HANDICRAFT
NOW available in Bargain-Priced BULK

PACKS for Group Work!

#259 SUJI DEN PACK (group

of 5-8): Over $5. worth
of material. only..$3.50
#260 SUIT CLUB PACK

PORrAvox CAN BE PLUGGED INTO THE (group of 10-20): Over
CIGAREnE LIGHTER RECEPTACLE ON ANY $10.00 worth of ma-
VEHICLE OR BOAT—6 OR 12 vous tel-fol  only $6 75

#2615UJI CAMP PACK

(group of 50-75): Over
$45.00 worth of ma-
terial ....... .. only $30.00

28—page illustrated SUJI Instruction Manual—25c

AVailable through your regular
m suppliers Or write direct —
48-99 Van Dam St, L. I. City 1, N. Y.
“PLAY SAFE" — BE SURE IT'S A

FlEXI
SWING SEAT

marked “FlEXI”

   

0 DIRECT ACTIVITIES

  

 
   
 
 
 
 
  

MOIILE EA. svsrm
" Io warts auteur

0 WARN SWIMMERS AND BOATERS

   

Call Your Nearest Electronic Supply Store
In the Yellow Pages Under Sound Systems and Equipt.

  
 

 

SEND FOR FREE lITERATURE

ASSOCIATED DESIGNERS
135 E. Las Tunas Dr., San Gabriel, Calif.

 
   
 

  

 
 

MORE THAN

100,000

u.s. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES EACH YEAR SPECIFY

 

     
 

America’s Finest Sports Equipment by

NEW YORK 11 DANVILLE. ILL. - Los ANGELES ll CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT. 111(-

Standard and Custom Built Playground Equipment
Write for Literature

P. O. 474 Highland Park, Ill.

 

YOUR GROUP WILL DANCE BETTER
smanvr PlIBUL'A mm ' Io IHE Excmm: BE ._ _,

HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS—issued annu-   ' ' ' p.“
ally since 1915, this is an obiective reference ‘
volume to the entire field of independent educa-
tion. It classifies and describes thousands of

private schools of all types throughout the coun-
try. 1200 pages, cloth, $8.00

GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS — summarizes pro-
grams, fees and enrollments of over 600 private

residential camps. Provides summer and winter
addresses of directors. Cloth, $2.20; paper $1.10

JUNIOR COLLEGES AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS , 

AND COLLEGES—Curricula, courses, enrollment,
faculty, tuition, etc., are given for 600 iunior col-
leges, 1 TOO Specialized schools, and reference
with names and addresses for 1200 colleges and

Cloth, $3.30; paper, $2.20

universities.

    
    

STAIRWAY TO COLLEGE, by Normie and Harold In the actual dance or as a dramatic ac- Originally designed for
 new direct approach valuable to Stu- companiment, the GTCLSCTI Dance DELHI;  

. - - lends itself to colorful interpretations o The choice of leading an.

dents and those gU'd'ng the” course of conege modern, classical and oriental themes. as and foremost schools

 

preparation. Admission policies, college entrance
requirements, tests, examinations and prerequi-_

light and sturdy—Weighs 23 ounces, has
3-ply laminated rock maple rim, finished THE R-956

' sites and standards of the varying colleges are .in transparent lacquer in natura] color.
explained. 80 pp., cloth, $2.20; paper, $1.10. Head of specially selected real skin with  
bright nickel-plated straining hoop and a
eight nickel tensioning brackets. In order- MAN u FAcru Rm G co.

ing mention X4145-—Price $15.00 , postage M k
a GI‘SO n3
PORTER SARGENT PUBLISHER extra. . mug-cal imffmem
1 '| Beacon street Boston 8, Mass. Lamb's-wool-head heaters—Used With the for over 69 years

Gretsch Dance Drum singly or in pairs.

Order #5250 at $2.25 each. postage extra. 50 Broadway. Him 11, ll. "-

 

.j-rp

 

  

for every

RECREATION
ACTIVITY

 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
       
    

 

sound
at low cost

 

 

For every sound reproduction

_ application in recreation halls,
 gyms, auditoriums, or summer

camps, the Newcomb R-16CV

does the job beuer, yet weighs

. less than 22 pounds. A separate

- microphone and phonograph

volume control permits mixing
recorded music with the micro-

phone presentation. Variable

‘ speed control allows variable

tempo and pitch (from any basic

' speed setting). A quality heat

and humidity resiStant high

' fidelity ceramic pickup is encaéed

' in a professional-type tone arm.

Balanced-design amplifier with

' . inverse feedback in combination

. with a line ten-inch extended

. range speaker give quality you'd

never expeCt at its price. Newcomb

is the "round of quality since
1937". . . recognized by leading

school authorities from coast

' coast to coast.

a;
- t NEWCOMB VARIABLE SPEED

‘ ' Exclusive Newch design gives

. , dependable continuously variable
control at all 3 speeds.

1 —m
9 "iNEWCOMB

kill-lo Products 60.. Dept. 2-9
sass laslagtan An. its-"wood :II, Cam.

['1 Send free catalog of Newcomb
portable sound caulpmant.

"1 Send name at our nearest
ttewcomb dlstrlbutor.

Name, __.. i e ._ .__, _ __
Address. _

-—_‘--- ---—---_---

358

 gweaéeo

Last May, Dr. Martin W. Meyer, co-
ordinator of activities therapies for the
State of Indiana, and I conferred in
Chicago with Dr. Sarah Hardwicke of
the American Hospital Association and
Dr. John Hineman of the American
Medical Association. We had been ap-
pointed by the Council for the Advance-
ment of Hospital Recreation to press
for AHA and the AMA acceptance of
the standards which have been ap-
proved for hospital recreation workers
by the three professional organizations
belonging to the council.

Dr. Hardwicke stated that, before
the AHA could publish these standards,
hospital recreation must be recognized
as a paramedical activity by the AMA
~— as are occupational therapy and
physical therapy. Dr. Hineman .said
the AMA would be glad to help hospital
recreation workers become an accred-
ited paramedical group, but first the
AMA Council on Medical Education
must have a report on positions in hos-
pital recreation and their relationship
to the administrative and medical staff
and an analysis of existing curriculums
for hospital recreation leaders—to be
submitted for approval and/ or sugges-
tions.

There is great need for professional
recognition of hospital recreation by
the AHA and the AMA. The U.S. Office
of Vocational Rehabilitation, while
very interested in studies pertaining to
occupational therapy and physical ther-
apy, has not given the same considera-
tion to hospital recreation. This con-
dition is really the fault of those of us
in the field. We haven’t sold ourselves
to the powers that be! We must estab-
lish ourselves; and the way to achieve
this is through a thorough study of
where we stand today: a statistical
analysis, summarization, and synthesis
of our jobs, functions, relations to the
total hospital picture—and, above all,
our training.

A foundation is financing such a
study and has engaged a brilliant young ‘
research expert, Dr. John Silson. An

P“ —-w-——' .

 

Mus. HILL is the NRA consultant on I

hospital recreation.

When WTIUIID‘ tut our :1th I‘IlFt‘I‘S please mention RECREATION.

 

 

Beatrice H. Hill

outstanding committee has been formed
to aid the National Recreation Associ-
ation Hospital Recreation Service and
Recreation Personnel Service to do a
fine study of the field of hospital rec-
reation. The committee consists of :
Dr. Edith L. Ball, assistant professor
of education, New York University;
Clifford'C. Bream, Jr., recreation di-
rector, Veterans Administration, Wash-
ington, D.C.; Dr. Daniel Blain, medical
director, American Psychiatric Associ-
ation, Washington, D.C.; Russell Dean,
Office of Vocational Rehabilitation,
Washington, D.C.; Dr. Gerald B. Fitz-
gerald, director of recreation training,
University of Minnesota; Dr. Sarah
Hardwicke, American Hospital Associ-
ation, Chicago; Alfred Jensen, NRA
Recreation Personnel Service; William
Lawler, president of the National As-
sociation of Recreational Therapists
and Council for the Advancement of
Hospital Recreation; Dr. Harold D.
Meyer, professor of sociology, Univer-
sity of North Carolina, and recreation
consultant, North Carolina Recreation
CommissionpDr. Martin W. Meyer, co-
ordinator of activities therapies, Indi-
ana Division of Mental Health, Indian-
apolis; Dr. Cecil W. Morgan, professor
of physical education, Springfield Col-
lege, Massachusetts; and Lillian Sum-
mers, consultant in recreation, Ameri-
can National Red Cross, Washington,
DC.

Reports on the progress of this
study will appear in this column. I

BUY at a BIG DISCOUNT

We sell eyery type of craft kit, materials and
tools at substantial savings to you.

WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED BROCHURE

Send Your Requisition For Our Quotations
Absolutely No Obligations

DEXTRA Crafts Cr Toys, Inc. Dept. 12-1
1246 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 34, Mass.

AFRICAN ARROWI'IEADS

Authentic museum specimens from Ni-
geria, West Africa, and Belgian Congo,
Central Africa, $1.00 per set of eight.
Free weapons and relies list with order.
Buy direct from the Safari trader. De-
livery from N. Y. stocks immediately.
Send your $1.00 today to:

R. T. WATERS

1383-89 East 26th Street
Brooklyn 10, New York, U.S.A.

 

RECREATION

5

     

Beaks & Pamphlets
Received

ALL OUTDOORS, Jack Denton Scott.

Stackpole Company, Telegraph Press
Building, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

Pp. 268. $4.95.

ART OF THE AQUALUNG, THE—How to

Swim and Explore Under Water,
Robert Gruss. Philosophical Li-
brary, 15 East 40th Street, New York
16. Pp. 66. $2.75.

BEST SPORTS STORIES, 1956, Irving T.

Marsh and Edward Ehre, Editors. E.
P. Dutton & Company, 300 Fourth
Avenue, New York 10. Pp. 336.
$53.75*

CANOEING. American National Red
Cross, Washington 15, D. C.' Pp. 445.
Paper $1.25.

DESIGN FOR OUTDOOR EDUCATION,
Edwin L. Friet and Del G. Peterson.
P. S. Printers, 128 South Second

Avenue, Yakima, Washington. Pp.
34. Paper $1.50.

DINGHY OWNERSHIP, Geoffrey Nightin-
gale. John de Grail, 31 East 10th
Street, New York. Pp. 168. $3.50.

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE FILMS—
Sixteenth Annual Edition, 1956. Edu-

cators Progress Service, Randolph,
Wisconsin. Pp. 560. Paper $6.00.

FAMILY BOATING IS FUN! National As-
sociation of Engine and Boat Manu-
facturers, Inc., 420 Lexington Ave-

nue, New York 17. Unpaged. Free.

FOOTBALL’S GREATEST COACHES, Edwin

Pope. Tupper and Love, Inc., 55
Fifth Avenue, New York 3. Pp. 334.
$3.95.

FUN AND FESTIVAL FROM SOUTHEAST
ASIA, Constance M. Hallock. Friend-
ship Press, 257 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10. Pp. 48. $.50.*

FUN FOR OLDER ADULTS, Virginia Staf-
ford and Larry Eisenberg. Parthe-

non Press, Nashville 2, Tennessee.

Pp. 112. Paper $1.00.

GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS, THE—Elev-
enth Annual Edition, 1956. Porter
Sargent, Publisher, 11 Beacon Street,
Boston 8. Pp. 128. Paper $1.10;
cloth $2.20. ”

HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS, THE
-—Thirty-Seventh Edition, 1956. Por-
ter Sargent, 11 Beacon Street, Boston

8. Pp. 1,226. $8.00.

HANDBOOK FOR SKIN DIVERS, George
Bronson-Howard. Arco Publishing

Company, 480 Lexington Avenue,
New York 17. Pp. 142. $2.00.

HOW HIGH IS YOUR DANCE IQ? (Help-
ful Suggestions for Dancers), Mrs.

SEPTEMBER 1956

F. J. Barrett. Worcester Girls Club,
67 Lincoln Street, Worcester 5, Mas-
sachusetts. Unpaged. $.25.

HOW TO ENJOY YOUR WESTERN VACA-
TIONS, Kent Ruth. University of Ok-
lahoma Press, Norman, Oklahoma.

Pp. 422. $4.95.

KID’S CRAFT BOOK, Mabel H. Nance.
Zondervan Publishing House, 1415
Lake Drive, S.E., Grand Rapids 6,
Michigan. Pp. 32. $.35.

LETTERING AND ALPHABETS, J. Albert
Cavanagh. Dover Publications, 920
Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 121.
Paper $1.00; cloth $3.00.

LIGHTING THE STAGE, P. Corry. Pitman
Publishing Corporation, 2 West 45th
Street, New York 36. Pp. 157. $4.50.

MAKE YOUR OWN OUTDOOR SPORTS
EQUIPMENT, John Lacey. G. P. Put-

nam’s Sons, 210 Madison Avenue,

New York 16. Pp. 128. $2.50.*

PUBLIC EDUCATION IN AMERICA—A
First Course, George R. Cressman

and Harold W. Benda. Appleton-
Century Crofts, Inc., 35 West 32nd
Street, New York 1. Pp. 480. $5.00.

SCHOOL HEALTH PRACTICE, C. L. An-
derson. C. V. Mosby Company, 3207
Washington Boulevard, St. Louis 3.
Pp. 500. $4.75.*

SHORT SKITS AND GAMES FOR WOMEN’S
GROUPS, Carolyn Howard. Zonder-
van Publishing House, 1415 Lake
Drive, S.E., Grand Rapids 6. Pp. 61.
Paper $1.00.

SIx UPON THE WORLD—Toward an
American Culture for an Industrial
Age, Paul F. Douglass. Little, Brown

& Company, 34 Beacon Street, Bos-
ton 6. Pp. 441. $4.95.*

SKILL, SAFETY AND SPORT IN SWIM-
MING. Association Press, 291 Broad-
way, New York 7. Pp. 15. Minimum
100 copies, $7.50.*

WHY NOT SURVIVE? Michael W. Straus.
Simon & Schuster, 630 Fifth Avenue,
New York 20. Pp. 272. $4.00.*

WINNING HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL,
Charles V. (Chuck) Mather. Pren-
tice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New J er-
sey. Pp. 276. $4.25.*

WOODWORKING PROJECTS AND PLAN-
NING GUIDE, K. T. Olsen. Bruce Pub-
lishing Company, 400 North Broad-
way, Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin. Pp.

.63. $1.50.

 

* These publications are available from the
National Recreation Association at list price
plus fifteen cents for each book ordered to
cover postage and handling. Active Associate
and Afiliate Members of the Association re-
ceive a ten per cent discount on list price.
Remittances should accompany orders from
individuals; organizations and recreation de-
partments will be billed on their official orders.
Address orders to Combined Book Service,
National Recreation Association, 8 West

Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

WORKBASKET HANDBOOK. Arco Pub-
lishing Company, 480 Lexington Ave-

nue, New York 17. Pp. 144. $2.00.

WRITTEN POLICIES FOR SCHOOL BOARDS.
American Association of School Ad-
ministrators, 1201 Sixteenth Street,
N.W., Washington 6, D. C. Pp. 23.
$.50.

Periodicals

 

THE ANNALS of the American Academy
of Political and Social Science. (No-
vember 1955—The Public School
and Other Community Services.)
The American Academy of Political
and Social Science, 3937 Chestnut
Street, Philadelphia 4. Published bi-
monthly; single copies $2.00; $6.00

per year.

JEWISH CENTER PROGRAM AIDS. Na-
tional Jewish Welfare Board, 145
East 32nd Street, New York 16. Pub-
lished quarterly; single copies $.75;
$3.00 per year.

SOCIAL WORK. National Association of

Social Workers, One Park Avenue,
New York 16. Published quarterly
in January, April, July, and October;
single copies $1.75; $6.00 per year.

Magazine Articles

   

AMERICAN CITY, June 1956
Stretching Construction Dollars in

Baton Rouge Parks, Ralph Hile-

man

HOUSE & GARDEN, April 1956

Our Most Personal Possession: Lei-
sure, Louis Kronenberger.

PARKS 8: RECREATION, May 1956
Dress Up Your Play Areas with In-
expensive Play Sculptures, Wil-
liam Penn Mott, Jr.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, July 2, 1956
Conference at Annapolis: First Blow
for Fitness, Dorothy Stall.
50 Million Campers Hit the Trail,
Reginald Wells and Virginia Kraft.

SWIMMING POOL AGE, May 1956 ‘
The Seven Maj or Values of Swim-
ming, C. P. L. Nicholls.

Pointers on Municipal Pool Main-

tenance, W. G. Scheibe.
TODAY’S HEALTH, July 1956

Knowing How to Swim
Enough, Jean R. Komaiko.
Take-It-Easy Tennis, Harry J. Miller.

WOMEN’S DAY, August 1956
Making Leaf Skeletons is an Exciting

Hobby, John R. Saunders.

is Not

359

 

 

Music Round the Town

Max T. Krone, Editor. Follett Pub-
lishing Company, 1010 West Wash-
ington Boulevard, Chicago 7. Pp. 144.

$2.20.
This book, one of the “Together-We-

Sing Series,” is a carefully chosen col-
lection of songs for children of kinder-
garten and elementary-school age, pro-
fusely illustrated with charming
sketches, all of them in color. The
words and tune for each song are care-
fully printed for easy use, and accom-
paniments are also given, either on the
same page or in a separate section.
Records are available of the songs from
this book and the others in the series.

What lifts these books out of the
ordinary run of music books for use
with children is the addition of sug-
gestions for rhythms, games, simple
dances, and story dramatizations based
on the songs. The guide for teachers, a
special section of the book, will help
any leader to make full use of creative
activities built around well-chosen,
simple songs, including some familiar,
some new. We are delighted to find the
lovely carol “The Friendly Beasts,” for
example, and the charming Danish folk-
song “Opp, Lille Hans!” A classified
index, as well as a listing of the songs
available in albums, also adds to the
value of this carefully prepared book.

Classroom Activities

Frances R. Stuart. American Associ-
ation for Health, Physical Education,
and Recreation, 1201 Sixteenth Street,
N. W., Washington 6, D. C. Pp. 64.
Paper. $1.00.

Written primarily for teachers in cle-
mentary schools, this booklet will be
received gratefully not only by them,
but also by recreation leaders in public
departments and private agencies. It is
delightfully illustrated, and contains
Well-selected games, story plays, stunts,
tumbling and body mechanics, as well
as a listing of films, film strips and
bunks. it cannot. of course, take the

. we of a good game book- vhut it is
' nt material to put into the hands

0. 'mti-er or inexperienced leaders
anu lv-l ML“! their appetite for more.

360

Covering the Leisure-time Field

Your Adolescent at Home
and in School

Lawrence K. and Mary Frank. Vi-
king Press, 625 Madison Avenue, New
York 22. Pp. 336. $3.95.

Many of you may have read the
Franks’ earlier book, How to Help Your
Child in School, and know that their

books are well-organized, written in
non-technical language, and are thor-
ough and accurate. In addition, they
are sympathetic and optimistic———quali-
ties very welcome in the light of all the
adverse, critical material often seen.

This new book is addressed prima-
rily to parents, teachers, “and others
concerned with adolescent boys and
girls.” It is therefore an important
book for teen-center directors, and all
leaders working with this age group.

Chapters Ten and Twelve are of spe—
cial interest to such leaders. The
former deals with ihe enlarging high
school program,. and its section on
physical skills is in many ways an in-
dictment of many physical education
practices. In the latter, “Social Life in
High School,” a plea for the privilege
of being occasionally alone is made.
“They need a variety of materials in
which to discover themselves by crea-
tive work. ‘Creative’ does not mean be-
ing wholly original and producing a
masterpiece; we are creative whenever
we can do something that is our own,
that embodies or expresses our own in-
dividualized perceptions, feelings,
ideas. and ways of handling experi-
ence.” That definition of creativity is

worth keeping in mind in our work.

A comprehensive, selected bibliog-
raphy.will help you fill in any gap in
your library dealing with adolescence.

w—Virginia Musselman, NRA Program

Service.

Swimming Pool Data 8:
Reference Annual

Hoffman-Harris, Inc., 425 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 384. $5.00.

Like its predecessors, this twenty-
lourth edition of the Annual will serve
as a valuable reference source to all

concerned with swimming pool con-
struction or operation.

Articles comprising the first section
deal with pre-project planning, financ-
ing and promotion; design and con—
struction; operation and equipment
and maintenance. Those who keep
abreast of pool literature will recognize
a number of the articles. 0n the whole,
the material maintains a high degree
of excellence and affords a fund of use-
ful and authoritative data on various
pool problems.

A considerable percentage of the
Annual is devoted to a guide and direc-
tory of equipment and supplies, which,
together with the list of free literature
and trade helps, indicate the expanding
range of equipment available for use in
connection with swimming pools.

The foreword advises prospective
pool owners to investigate carefully and
seriously, and the Annual affords a
fruitful medium for investigation. One
cannot help but feel, however, that a
publication of this sort raises many
questions. For example, in the matter
of a single item such as “Recommended
Depth of Pool,” the suggested depth un-
der a one-meter board varies from
eight to eleven feet. At any rate, the
conflicting statements indicate the final
answer has not been found for many
pool problems—George Butler, NRA
Research Department.

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

PAGE
All-Metal Tennis Table Company _____________ __ 355
American Playground Device Company_..- 341
Associated Designers _______________________  357
The Bellevue Stratford ________________________ ___ 328
The J. E. Burke Company_ ________________ _.._ 355
Castello Fencing Equipment _ _________________ __ 319

Champion Recreation Equipment Company 357
The Creamery Package Mfg. Company___--___ 317

Dextra Crafts 8 Toys Company-_---____s...__.- 358
The Fred Gretsch Manufacturing Company- 357
Harper 8 Brothers _ _____________________________ __ 318
Harvard Table Tennis Company‘ ______________ __ 313
Hillerich 8 Bradsby Company, Inside Front Cover
Hillyard _. ________________________ __; ___________ _- 347
Jamison Manufacturing Company _________ __ 352
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company ____  ________ __ 318
Kalah Game Company _______________________ __ 326 ;
Midwest Pool and Court Company ........... _- 319 '
Monroe Company _______________________________ __ 319
Newcomb Audio Products Company_"---m- 358 .
Nissen Trampoline Company ____________ _- 355
Pack-O-Fun _________________________________________ __ 339
Porter Sargent Publisher  357 7
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company_ _____ ____ 345 :
James Spencer 8 Company_“, ________________ __ 352 
VogeI-Peterson Company ________________ ___._- 355
Volt Rubber Corporation ____________________ _-_ 357
R. T. Waters _________________________________________ __ 358
World Wide Games ___________________________ __ 339
X-Acto, Inc. __________________ _: __________ _-319-357 .

 

 

 

RECREATION

-— “v -:-‘,H_._._

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and
Local Recreation Agencies

September, October and November, 1956

HELEN M, DAUNCEY Winfield, Kansas Miss Lillian Cloud, Division of Natural Science, Southwestern
Social Recreation OCtOber 15'18 Conege
Corpus Christi, Texas Mrs. June Finck, Superintendent, City Recreation Division, Park
October 22-25 and Recreation Department
Houston, Texas Tilmon J. Carter, Superintendent of Recreation, Parks and Recre-
October 29-November 1 ation Department
Portales, New Mexico Joseph F. Dickson, Chairman, Division of Health and Physical
November 5-8 Education, Eastern New Mexico University
Danville, Illinois Mrs. Beatrice L. Spong, Program Director, Young Women’s
November 26-29 Christian Association, Hazel and Harrison Streets
ELIZABETH FOWLER Ohio University - Miss Margaret M. Deppen, Dean of Women, Ohio University,
social Recreation September 17 and 18 Athens
Charleston, West Virginia Robert E. Kresge, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, 310
September 19-21 City Building
ANNE LIVINGSTON South Carolina Recreation Mrs. Elizabeth E. Rhame, Chairman, Social Recreation Workshop
Social Recreation Society Committee, South Carolina Recreation Society, 1915 Harden Street,
November 5-6 Columbia

Miss Helen M. Dauncey of our training staff will conduct a two-week recreation leadership course for military personnel
and dependents at Ramey Air Force Base in Puerto Rico under the sponsorship of the U. S. Air Force.

Members of the Recreation Leadership Training Staff will be in attendance at the International Recreation Congress in
Philadelphia, September 30-October 5.

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to
attend. For details as to location of the institute, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with

the sponsor of the course listed above.

New Book Service for Recreation Leaders

The National Recreation Association is pleased to announce the opening of a new Recreation Book
Center at its headquarters building, 8 West Eighth Street, New York City.

Now, for the first time, the best in recreation literature, can be seen, examined, and purchased at one
convenient location.

Over 750 different books of special value and interest to professional and volunteer recreation leaders,
supervisors, and directors are on display. Ninety-one pubhshers are joining with the Association in spon-

soring the Center.
Everyone in recreation and allied fields is cordially invited to visit and browse through the new Center.

National Advisory Committee of Publishers
of the
National Recreation Association
Chairman: Virgil Gentilin, Simon and Schuster, Inc. Secretary: Rose Jay Schwartz, National Recreation Association

William Adams, Abingdon Press Donald Jones, Prentice-Hall, Inc. J ulien McKee, Houghton Mifilin Co.

Harry Brown, McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc. Josephine T. Lees, Ronald Press James Rietmulder, Association Press
Harold Steinger, Bantam Books Carol Woodward, The MacMillan Co.

Recreation Book Center Manager: Alfred B. Jensen, National Recreation Association

" I 10 oked down
into my
open grave”

3 .
25‘
23'
n,
2'
4?."
x5
>
2i
O»
n

at

 

“MR. SENATOR Ross, HOW SAY YOU?”

In the deathly silence of the Senate
chamber, the freshman Senator from
Kansas looked down, as he put it, into his
own grave.

0n deliberately trumped-up charges, the
bitterly fanatic leaders of 3055’s party were
trying to vote President Johnson out of
office—because Johnson stood between them
and their revenge on the defeated South.

Ross, they knew, also disliked Johnson
and wanted to punish the South. But, taking
no chances, they had warned him to vote
“guilty” or face political suicide.

And now, on that historic May morning
in 1868, the verdict had come to hang com-
pletely on his vote. First falteringly, then
loudly, he gave it: “Not guilty!”

That was sheer moral principle speaking.
Edmund Ross refused to join a move he
thought would wreck the historic powers of
the Presidency. For this, he lost his future,
lost his good name, and saved for himself

only what he had saved for everyone: our
democracy.

Into the whole fabric of American de-
mocracy is woven the steel-tough moral fiber
of men like Edmund Ross. Braver even than
battle courage, it has helped America he-
come strong in many ways. So strong, that,
today, one of the world’s greatest guaran-
tees of security is U. S. Savings Bonds.

For it is not American principal, but
American principles, that back these Bonds.
30, for yourself and your country, invest in
United States Savings Bonds regularly. And
hold on to them.

 

It’s actually easy to save—when yOu buy Series
E Savings Bonds through the Payroll Savings
Plan. Once you’ve signed up at your pay office,
your saving is done for you. The Bonds you re-
ceive pay good interest—3‘70 a year compounded
half-yearly when held to maturity. And the
longer you hold them, the better your return.
Even after maturity, they go on earning 10 years
more. 50 hold on to your Bonds! Join Payroll
Savings today—or buy Bonds where you bank.

Safe as America -'~

(I S. Savings Bonds

 

The U. 5. Government don not pay 10: this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in. cooperation Evil]; 2756':
Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.

.——--

/

'NATIONALJRECREATION ASSOCIATION 0— across: €956 - 50c.

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
   
 
 
 

You're looking at the ultranew Center-
Powered iron in which is achieved great concentration
of weight directly in back of the hitting area.
Adroit designing, for appearance as well as for weight
displacement, imparts to this club that rare
combination of beauty and power. What's more,

the new Grand Slams are
forged from STAINLESS-n

the premier metal for
iron golf heads.

Brand new for 1957, these
confidence-inspiring wood
beauties have in good share
that head-power-feel for which
H & B woods have long
been noted.

It's Icahn/eel, and performance that count with golfers——
the new (rrand Slams have everything.

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY CO., Louisville, Kentucky
Also Makers of Famous Louisville Slugger Bats

\‘e I l I I
hen writing to our advertisers please mention RECRFATION

      

HARVARD TABLE TE NIS TOURNAMENT

IN YOUR SCHOOL, PLANT OR RECREATION PROGRAM

f.

FREE TOURNAMENT KIT . . . Get all the advantages of full
sports participation with a Harvard Table Tennis Tournament.
Just return the coupon below! Your FREE tournament kit is filled
with everything required to run an exciting tournament. It
contains two colorful Harvard Table Tennis Teachers with in-
structions and tips from champions; photos and diagrams of
game-winning-techniques; ofticial U.S.T.T.A. rules and sections
on leagues and tournaments. You also get 3 Harvard Tourna-
ment Charts, a complete tournament publicity program and a
tally sheet which entitles you to valuable Harvard Gold Medals.

 

0

HARVARD GOLD MEDALS . . . Your men's and wOmen's

singles champions will prize these gleaming gold medals that
are FREE with Award Certificates when you complete the tour-
nament tally sheet. Mail the coupon below . . . today!

 

      

  TABLE  "CHAMPION

u:::—’-Mtsau---2---W:-c:t'..., W-AW‘W: mmwrmwrw- w"  A

 

 

1—.—
_—_—¢-—I————-— — _‘—u—u—__—___———_————_—

HARVARD TABLE TENNIS COMPANY
60 State St., Boston 9, Mass. RM-O

  
    
 

We plan to start our tournament on—____
(DAY, MONTH, YEAR)

   

 

 

 

° ° i i ants.
Gentlemen: I There WI" be apprOXImatelpran cp
In order to run a table tennis tournament please we do I do not offer table tennis a" year.
send us the FREE Harvard Tournament KIt. lCHECK ONEI
SCHOOL OR ORG. Table Tennis is part of our athletic_., recreation...
POSITION . .
STREET 3. No_ There are apprOXImately______In our school or
CITY_______ZONE____STATE organization. ‘NUMBER’

OCTOBER 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. ‘ 361

