 

JANUARY 13 - l9 - 20, 1956

Mark these Dates on Your Calendar

for the

lb.
INSTITUTE on the Aged, Ill and Handicapped

Sponsored by New York University School of Education

and the National Recreation Association:

to be held at

Vanderbilt Hall
New York University

Washington Square
New York City

 

“Your move!”

SPEAKERS will include: Mr. Clifford Bream, Jr., Chief, Recreation
Service, Veterans Administration, Washington; Dr. Michael Dacso, Di-
.. rector of Rehabilitation, Goldwater Memorial Hospital, New York; Dr.
Harold Meyers, Chairman, Recreation Curriculum, University of North
Carolina; Dr. Howard A. Rusk, Chairman, Department of Physical Medi- .
cine and Rehabilitation, N.Y.U.-Bellevue Medical Center; Miss Lillian
Summers, Recreation Consultant, Service in Military HOSpitals, Ameri-
can Red Cross National Headquarters.

TOPICS will include: Problems of the Aged; Contribution of Recre-
ation to Aged, Ill, and Handicapped; Therapeutic Objectives and Effects
of Recreation for Aged, Ill, and Handicapped.

WORKSHOPS will include: Future Planning for Personnel, Facilities
and Equipment for Hospitals and Homes for the Aged; Planning for the

Non-Institutionalized III or Handicapped Senior Citizen. There will be
five field trips to places where the aged are housed, and demonstrations
of successful recreation techniques.

“Still to be resolved is the question of why
the vast chasm exists between those in the
elderly group whose interests recede and
those who find opportunity for new growth
and development in the later years.”—-———Ollie

Randall and Nathan W. Shock, “Wanted:
Leaders for Older People,” Adult Leader-
ship, May, 1954.

For further information:

“If recreation has become so important in
all our lives how much more significant is it
in the lives of those whose physical handicap
imposes heavy personal, social, environ-
mental, and economicpbstacles? The impli-
cations for us . . . are obvious.”—Maurice

Case, Recreation Director, The Lighthouse,
New York Association for the Blind.

Call or write to Beatrice Hill, Secretary for the Institute, National Rec-
reation Association, Eight West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y. Mrs.
Hill is Hospital Consultant on the Association staff.

    

PORTER "0.33

" COMBINATION

It’s a space saver! It’s a money-saver, too!

Yes, here’s a Playground Combination Set that has been care-
fully planned to solve the problem of limited space. Small
playgrounds can install the Porter No. 38, and still provide
a wide variety of healthful exercise and fun for the children.
. Look at all the apparatus this one unit affords! Two Stand-
ard See-Saws, one Horizontal Bar, two Swings, a Pair of
Flying Rings, one Trapeze, and one 16-ft. Porter Safety Slide
—plus the sturdy 10-ft. steel frame that’s galvanized inside WRITE FOR THE NEWEST

and out and held rigidly together for years and years with CATALOG OF PORTER
Tested Malleable Iron fittings of exclusive Porter design.

The No. 3?? Combination Set has price appeal,.too..Write for ELANYGEOIU :qu EEQEU
the attractively low figure, and complete specdications. Im-
mediate delivery!

 

THE J. E. CORPORATION.
.' p 5 IOTTAWA, ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS 0F PlAYGROUND, GYMNASth AND. rSWI'MM-ING POOL EQUIPMEM

 

Exclusive MAKERS OF THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* ETLLTJE'TNUiE

Reg. U. 5. Put. Off.

IANUARY 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

THIS YEAR, 1956, marks the Fiftieth Anniversary of the

founding of the National Recreation Association. Dur-
ing this half-century there have been far-reaching changes in
the American way of life. There have been two World Wars
and a major depression. The population has more than
doubled and the standard of living has risen enormously
during this time. We talk today of atoms and jets and auto-
mation. In these early days of the Association, conversation
was about the horseless carriage and the wonders of the
transcontinental telephone.

On April 12, 1906, a group of leading educators, civic
leaders, and social workers met in Washington to discuss
the problem of how children could be assured a reasonable
chance for happy, healthy, and constructive lives in the un-
planned and congested American cities of the times.

These far-sighted thinkers were very much alert to the
new trends of the twentieth century. They were conscious.
that something had to be done about the American cities in
which growing slum-infested areas were filled to overflow-
ing with immigrants from abroad and emigrants from the
surrounding rural areas. They were not alone, because this
was the period in American history when civic leaders were
becoming active in campaigns for better communities; when
the term “muckraker” was prominent as a description of the
crusading journalists who were exposing corruption in city
government; when “reform” was in the mouth and on the
lips of a new generation moving into places of leadership.

So powerful was the appeal for the playground movement
in 1906 that within a year, many prominent national leaders
became identified with the program. President Theodore
Roosevelt spoke to the organizing group at a meeting in the
White House and later in the year agreed to serve as honor-
ary president of the new organization. By the end of the
first year Jacob Riis was serving as honorary vice-president
and Joseph Lee and Jane Addams were among its influential
supporters. Within a year the Russell Sage Foundation was
providing the services of a field consultant employed full-
time to assist local communities. Within eighteen months
of its formation, the Association helped to establish more

community recreation programs than had been established
in the previous eighteen years.

4

Editorial

 

The Past is Prologue

to the Future

From the very first, the new association drew support
from, and in turn served, every segment of American life.
There was an eagerness on the part of educators and social
workers from all over the country for the kind of leadership
and service the new organization was established to give.
But the support came from more than professional leaders
in these two professions. It came also from lawyers, re-
ligious leaders, bankers, industrialists, and thoughtful citi-
zens from all walks of life.

In the past fifty years, the concept of recreation has broad-
ened to keep pace with the changing times. Founded as the
Playground Association of America, the name was changed
in 1911 to the Playground and Recreation Association, and
in 1931 to the National Recreation Association. It is note-
worthy that within the last few months the National Recrea-
tion Association has produced a motion picture on hospital
recreation, a booklet on family recreation, and, by special
request, has consulted with the United States Air Force on
a manual about recreation for the dependents of airmen.

From the very first, the National Recreation Association
has worked in many ways to advance the cause of the rec-
reation movement. It pioneered in the development of the
physical education program in the public schools. It has
provided training in recreation leadership to nearly a mil-
lion volunteer and paid leaders in communities throughout
the country. It has helped to create a public understanding
of recreation as the finest, most creative use of non-working
time for adults, and free-time for children, and has encour-
aged the use of this time in every kind of wholesome indoor-
and-outdoor recreation, including music, drama, arts and
crafts, cultural, social, and athletic activities. It has en-
couraged recreation for the individual, for the family, and
for groups of people wherever they tend to come together
——-whether it be in churches, clubs, on the job, in the city
or in rural areas.

In all of its years of service it has sought to help every
organization in any way concerned with recreation. At the
national level, the Association has been a resource of en-
couragement and“ information for youth serving agencies,
civic and service clubs, government recreation agencies, and
similar organizations. At the local level, its many services

RECREATION

 

l

E
1

have been expanded to include individuals of all ages,
groups and public and private agencies of all kinds.

It is especially in the area of community recreation, how-

ever, that the National Recreation Association takes pride
in its accomplishments of the past fifty years. The enthusi-
astic sponsors of the playground movement in 1906 called
for every community in the country to accept the responsi-
bility for establishing public playgrounds under leadership.
Today more than three thousand communities have many
thousands of playgrounds staffed with professional leaders.
More than one thousand two hundred cities have recrea-
tion departments headed by a full-time recreation executive.
There are more than a million acres of public park and rec-

a reation properties owned and operated by cities and regional
; governmental park and recreation agencies.

These significant advantages in planned recreation for
better living have been encouraged and nurtured by the Na-
tional Recreation Association. The unique relation of the
Association to the recreation movement has helped to bring
together all of the elements in American life which are so
vitally concerned with recreation. Through the years the
recreation profession has grown into a separate, independent
profession. As the recreation profession has developed it
has provided more and more of the skilled leadership in the
movement. At the same time, the civic, business, industrial
and social leaders of local communities and the nation have
come to participate through their work as sponsors, sup-
porters, and members of the board of directors of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. In a very real sense they are
the trustees of the movement. And the professional staff of
the Association serves as the secretarial: for the movement.

America faces even more profound social and economic
challenges today than it ever has in the past. The problems
of American cities which loomed so large during the be-
ginning of the twentieth century, the troubles of war and
depression, were major obstacles on the road to progress.
But today’s cold war, the new leisure resulting from the
extensive use of electronics, the deveIOpment of atomic
energy and the concept of automation are challenges which
stagger the imagination.

In fact, the economic and social changes evolving today

: are completely fabulous. It is almost breathtaking to realize
‘ that since 1906 the average workweek has decreased from

sixty hours to less than forty and that, in just the past few
years, automation has developed to a point where predic-

* tions of the thirty-hour—and even the twenty-four-hour-
‘1 week are becoming commonplace.

Think of the challenges that this brings to all of us in rec-
reation! No longer will people’s thinking be centered large-
ly around their working time; by the very nature of the

‘ technology, working time will be a very minor part of living.

JANUARY 1956

Non-working activities—~recreation activities, if you will——
must give the opportunities to make life an exciting, crea-
tive, adventurous experience.

Back in 1906 the factory worker produced goods valued
at eighty-four cents per hour in terms of our present dollar.
Last year, by the same dollar measurement, this productivity
had increased to $2.41 per man-hour, and it is estimated
that it will reach $3.90 by 1975. This increased productiv-
ity is used one-third in more leisure time and two-thirds in
a higher standard of living. George Soule, the noted econ-
omist, in a recent book, Time For Living, predicts that
within three generations the average American family will
have an income in terms of rtoday’s purchasing power of
$25,000.

Now, for the first time, the great bulk of American peo-
ple are able to enjoy vast numbers of different kinds of rec-
reation activities which a few years ago were restricted to
only the few who were well-to-do.

Since 1906 the population of the United States has dou-
bled. By 1960 it will probably reach 177 million and by
1975, it is expected to increase some thirty-five per cent to
221 million. There are now more children in school than
there were people in the United States in 1860. The year of
1954 was the eighth consecutive year that the birth rate had

‘ run over three and a half million. Owing to increased lon-

gevity since 1906, the number of people over sixty-five has
more than quadrUpled. In 1906 one out of every twenty-five
persons was over sixty-five years of age. In 1950 it was one
in every twelve and in 1980 it will be one in every seven.

These are just a few of the astounding figures which help
to describe the nature of the new social conditions which
challenge society and especially those in a position of civic
or professional leadership in the recreation movement.

It has been wisely said by President-Emeritus William
Russell of Columbia University, “Too much leisure with too
much money has been the dread of societies across the ages. .
That is when nations cave in from within. That is when
they fail.”

During the past fifty years the National Recreation Asso-
ciation has worked through many critical periods in Ameri-
can life. We are in the midst of an evolution in living far
surpassing anything before. In the momentous days ahead,
all of us in the recreation movement face challenges far
beyond those before.

As we look to the next fifty years, the National Recreation
Association joins with everyone in the recreation movement
in meeting eagerly the new challenges. This is a time of
great hope for all mankind. It is a time when the recreation
forces of the nation and the world are destined to play an
ever greater role in man’s continuing search for peace and
happiness.

MW

Executive Director, National Recreation Association

 

The first in a series of special :
events planned by the National 0
Recreation Association in ob- l
servation of its 50th Annivers- j

ary will be the dedication of the i

l

l
l
i new NRA headquarters building
at 8 West Eighth Street, New
York City. Open house will be
held from three to six on Wed- 1
l nesday afternoon, January 25,
1956, with dedication ceremon-
ies scheduled for three o’clock.
I Afiiliate and associate members,
j and friends of the'National Rec-
: reation Association are cordially
I invited to attend. Guests will
l have an opportunity to go
1 through this historical building
. wh'ich formerly was the Whitney
Museum, and originally was es-
j tablished as the studio of Ger-
trude Vanderbilt Whitney, gift-
j ed sculptress. It has housed

! many other famous artists. .

) GOOD REASONS: Five major reasons
(in order of their importance) why
young people get into trouble are listed
by the National Probation and Parole
Association. They are: inadequate rec-
reation, lack of religion, conflict be-
tween parents, parental indifference,
and the fact that the mother is working.

i
I

) A NATIONAL RECREATION MONTH has
been declared by the National Recrea-
tion Association for June 1956 this year
in honor of the Association’s 50th An-
niversary. Decision to sponsor this was
made by the NRA after close consulta-
tion with many individual recreation
executives, NRA national committees,
professional groups affiliated for serv-
ice with NRA, and district advisory
committees. Almost unanimous opin-
ion of those consulted was that national
and local attention needs to be focused
on recreation in its broadest concept
through a special week or month. Plans
call for national radio, TV, and news-
paper publicity. Special attention will
be given to the beginning of the play-
gTOUnd and summer outdoor recreation
season. Local departments may plan
special programs throughout the month

6

7m. 7/3». SW Km.

 

. although some will celebrate with
just a single day or week sometime

during June.

) A NEW PAMPHLET, The Relation of
National Agencies to Local Community
Study Groups, has recently been issued
by the National Social Welfare Assem-
bly. It was prepared by a committee
which included Charles E. Reed, field
department manager of the National
Recreation Association.

The preparation of this report was
prompted by the concern of a number
of national agencies as to the conduct
of local surveys. It was developed with
the specific purpose of acquainting
those involved in community studies—
both the survey group and the local af-
filiate—with the interest, stake, and
services of a national agency in such
studies. We believe that the report
should be of use to community planners,
survey groups, survey staffs and consul-
tants, and to agencies involved in con-
ducting community studies. Copies
may be purchased from the Assembly,

345 East 46th Street, New York 17,
New York, at thirty cents each.

) A PENDING LAWSUIT FOR $300,000
against Little League Baseball came to
light on November 21 when Carl E.
Stotz, who has been its commissioner,
closed the national office of Little
League in Williamsport, Pennsylvania,
while a board meeting was in progress
at a local hotel. Little League head-
quarters is again, however, in full oper-
ation. Recreation leaders _are asked to
suspend judgment on the controversy
until all the facts are known, and to
offer their support and advice in any
local situations that might need their

help.

) A NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, Dean
W. Roberts, M.D., has been appointed
for the National Society for Crippled
Children and Adults. Dr. Roberts is a
nationally-known medical administra-
tor, physician, and leader in public
health. Since 1952 he has been director
of the pioneering National Commission
on Chronic Illness. 

) INSTITUTE ON THE AGED, ILL, AND
HANDICAPPED: Don’t forget this meeting

which is being held jointly by the Na-
tional Recreation Association and the
New York University School of Educa-
tion, January 18, 19 and 20, in N .Y.U.’s
Vanderbilt Hall. See full announce-
ment on inside front cover of this issue

of RECREATION.

) A NEW ONE-WEEK LEADERSHIP TRAIN-
ING COURSE designed to help play and
recreation leaders use games as an in-
troduction to creative expression,is now
being offered to commnuities through-
out the United States by the National
Recreation Association. Called “Games
With A Difference,” it is under the di-
rect leadership of Miss Grace Walker,
one of the nation’s foremost authorities
on creative recreation and dramatics.
The training course is designed for all
youth leaders in direct recreation lead-
ership with youngsters up to fourteen
years of age. Sponsoring groups may
include such organizations as the mu-
nicipal recreation department, the
health and welfare council, public
schools, settlement houses, and similar

organizations.
To reserve dates or obtain further In-

formation, write to Charles E. Reed,
Manager, Field Department, National
Recreation Assdciation, 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New York.

} STILL AVAILABLE. The following spe-
cial issues of RECREATION are still in
stock and may prove useful to you in
1956:

April, 1955 Playground Issue

May 1955 'Family Recreation

September 1955 City-School Coopera-
tion

December 1955 Congress Report——
and Index

} BROTHERHOOD WEEK occurs Febru-
ary 19 to 26 this year. The theme is
“Brotherhood for peace and freedom——
Believe it! Live it! Support it!”

Materials for use in program may be
secured by addressing requests to the
Commission on Educational Organiza-
tions, National Conference of Chris-
tians and Jews, 43 West 57 Street, New
York 19, New York, or to the nearest
National Conference office.

) THE NATIONAL CONVENTION of the
American Camping Association will be
held in Detroit, February 15 to 18,
1956. COpies of registration materials
are available at the Convention Office,

4864 Woodward Avenue, Detroit.

) W. A. RICHARDSON, director of recre-
ation, Arlington County, Virginia, has
suffered a heart attack and is in Arling-
ton Hospital. Reports indicate that he is
improving satisfactorily. Visitors are
not allowed, so if you would wish him a
speedy recovery, let a card say the
thought for you.

RECREATION

...
.-
I . I . I . I U I.

lllllll .-
_ U I . I U I.

  

 

-::::_:_-_.j,;:-- Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page
to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.

Juvenile Delinquency

Sirs:

In response to the stimulating edi-
torial by Sidney Lutzin, in your Septem-
ber issue, the question has been stated,
“What responsibility does recreation
have in the community program for de-
linquency prevention?” In brief, my
reply is this, “A major responsibility, a
wonderful opportunity, and the most
advantageous position.”

For those who dislike the term “de-
linquency,” and I tend to share their
feelings, preventative programing is
automatically an integral part. of the
well-conceived recreation calendar.
However, in planning the year’s agenda
of events and activities we must always
be mindful of“the “less than five per
cent group” of youngsters who com-
prise the ranks of serious offenders.

The current survey of the Senate In-
vestigating Committee probing into all
facets of youthful misbehavior and all
other like surveys reveal one thing in
common: the vast majority of all boys
and girls who come in conflict with the
law are youngsters with too much time
on their hands and no talents or inter-
ests cultivated sufliciently to satisfy
their natural quests for recognition,
adventure, and social prestige. My per-
sonal feeling is that we need more posi-
tive action and less research. After we
eliminate, or at least minimize, the ex-
isting ills and mal-influences there will
be plenty of time for research and anal-
ysis. More dollars for prevention will
erase many a wrong intention.

Junior and senior high” school teen
clubs, hot-rod clubs, drama clubs, arts
and crafts, bands and singing groups,
body building, wrestling, boxing, tum-
bling, charm classes, tap, ballet, acro-
batic and modern dancing, square
dance clubs, sports and more sports con-
stitute a partial list of activities that
would challenge youngsters with even
the most divergent interests. With ade-
quate facilities, professional leader-
ship, and both moral and active support
from the parents or other adults, the

JANUARY 1956

—The Editors.

best tools for prevention will be in use.
And so the question rightfully arises,
“How do we get them to participate?”

Speaking in terms of the hard-to-
reach five per cent, you will have to slant
your program. Most incorrigibles are
not athletes and have gone beyond their
natural desires for competition on the
school team level. However, certain
sports—for example, wrestling—fit into
the pattern. Often the start is weight-
lifting. From there simple acrobatics;
then, as the body and mind get stronger,
a few wrestling holds will attract the
boy; and, with proper handling and
encouragement, he might end up on the
wrestling team and completely give up
his negative ways of life. Pool, table
tennis, and other table games in a whole-
some atmosphere as provided by boys’
clubs and YMCA’s are also on the much
needed list. Wholesome occupation is
tantamount to delinquency prevention.

Without more elaboration on items of
general knowledge and application, I
would like to take this opportunity to
introduce my own special attempt to
guide the youngsters in our community
down the right road. This plan, and it
may very possibly be used by others,
is based on the accepted knowledge that
lifetime patterns of good or bad are
usually firmly entrenched in the per-
sonality and characteristics of a boy or
girl by the time he or she reaches eight
years of age. Stated concisely, we cata-
log every child from the kindergarten
through the third grade. On a quarterly
basis we review the cards and, when
necessary, introduce new programs
designed to reach the hard-to-interest
group. Our sincere belief is that this is
a formative and critical time of life for
all children; if we can provide them
with hobbies or other interests and fol-
low through enough to establish more
than a passing fancy, future delin-
quency problems will decrease more
and more each year.

Call it prevention or just good recre-
ation programing. When the day comes
that we have enough funds, facilities,
and personnel to do a real job, uvenile

When writing to Our advertisers please mention RECREATION. '

 

BRANCH PLAN'I' AT NAHMA, MICHIGAN

 

.. .‘

AMERICAN
24mm

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPME NT

0 It’s the plus factor that makes
American the most respected name
in Playground Equipment . . . Plus
in design—American leads the field.
.. .Plus in performance—Approved
Equipment stronger, more ruggedly
built to assure a lifetime of perfect
repair-free service . . . Plus in safety—
for American craftsmen are aware of
their responsibility for the safety of
your'children. Thus, with American
you receive far superior design and
performance and unmatched safetyi

Send for New Catalog

$§ write for literature featuring
american appraved iim patterson

LIFETIME Aluminum
D I V I N G B O A R D

world’s finest official board

AM E RICA N
PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.

WORLD'S musesr MANUFACIURERS or nus
DARK,,PICNIC. PLAYGROUND, swmmma
?OOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT ‘

 

. r ‘9‘

7

oflicers will have to hustle to keep em-
ployed—or possibly change their pro-
fession to that of recreation.

J. M. LEWIS, Director, T wentynine
Palms, California, Park and Recrea-

tion District.

Proof of Readership

Sirs:

This is in regard to my letter, pub-
lished in your November issue, on
physical fitness on the Eastchester play-
grounds.

I write newspaper and magazine arti-
cles as an avocation along with my job,
so I realize that you should be told if

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Subscription rates for RECREATION
magazine are:

1 year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$4.00
2 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.25

Foreign
Library subscriptions . . . . . . . 3.70
Club subscriptions . . . . . . . . . 3.50

( Ten or more individuals subscribing
at one time)

Single issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

National

Recreation Association

8 West Eighth Street
New York 11, N. Y.

OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOLS

by George D. Butler

This. very popular, compact
booklet of the series of articles
which appeared in the January,
February, March, and April 1955
issues of {RECREATION is once more
available (Second Printing).

75 cents

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street, New York TT, N. Y.

 

something you print brings results.

I have received many requests for in-
formation and they came from the vari-
ous corners—from Chicopee Falls, Mas-
sachusetts, from West Alexandria, Ohio,
and other places—about our Decathlon
Olympic Championships.

Also, I received response and re—
quests on our Christmas program, “A
Community Gives.”

I know you want these check-ups.

VINCENT D'. BELLEW, Superintend-
ent of Recreation, Tackahoe, New

York.

Recreation and the Schools

Sirs:

I think your September issue, which
focused attention on the growth of pub-
lic recreation programs sponsored by
schools and boards of education, was a
real service. This particular area has
experienced considerable growth in the
last three years, if Long Island is any
indication of what is going on through-
out the country.

Articles of particular note were:
“The School Building of the Future”
and “Citizen Participation in School
Building Planning.” This latter is ex-
tremely important, but, even today, is
frequently given no more than lip serv-
ice by municipal and education authori-
ties. Here, I feel, recreation people
have been the trail blazers, and other
professions would do well to follow.
Hubert I. Snyder, of Baltimore County,
Maryland, is a real pioneer in this field,
and strives to bring citizens in, en
masse, on every bit of planning and dis-
cussion of new facilities.

Other articles were mildly interest-
ing, but left me unmoved, because they
Hoated along the sweet paths of philoso-
phy, and sang the old songs of “recrea-
tion-education aims,” “similar objec—
tives,” and “related fields,” and so on.
They made little or no attempt to ex-
plore some of the seamy sides of this
type of community recreation program;
namely, conflicts between after-school
curriculum activities and after-school

CONSTRUCTIVE AND CREATIVE SUGGESTIONS

based on thirty years of developmental work by the
Arts Cooperative Service

QUALITY MATERIALS — metals, clays, paints,
papers, leather, felt, yarns, wood materials

STANDARD APPROVED EQUIPMENT — easels,

kilns, looms, tools, musical instruments, blocks

rtcrafl; services, inc.

340 Amsterdam Avenue, New York 24, N.Y. TRafalgar 3-0507

 

8 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATIQN... ,

FOR YOUR T956 PROGRAM
NEEDS IN ALL ARTS & CRAFTS

Write for catalogue of materials and studies—10c.

 

recreation activities, the status of recre-
ation in a vast education budget, prob-
lems of janitors and custodians unwill-
ing to work the extra hours to cover
recreation programs, school insurance
compared to recreation insurance, and
so forth. This type of recreation spon-
sorship is a real aid to the hundreds of
school district areas Which lie within
no town or village corporate limits, but
there are many basic problems involv-
ed—which should have been discussed.

Oceanside enjoys the good fortune of
a very forward-thinking board of edu-
cation and superintendent of schools,
who have enabled community recrea-
tion to be established and built in
Oceanside. I would hesitate to say what
the future would be for such an educa—
tion-sponsored community recreation
department in the absence of such a pro-
gressive board or under the supervision
of a superintendent who did not believe
in it. Herein lies a major weakness of
such a system.

JOSEPH E. CURTIS, Director of Rec—
reation, Oceanside, New York.

Fellowship in Folk Dancing

Sirs:

The first issue of the Rocky M oantain
Folk Dance Crier, last spring, carried
an inspiring introduction, “Attention
Folk Dancers.” It was aimagnificent
statement of the principle of good fel-
lowship in folk dancing, a. principle
which needs to be followed in the folk-
dance world and elsewhere. It asked,
“What is wrong with our groups, that
interested dancers turn away?”

It seems to me that there are two main
reasons for this: (1) emphasis on ex-
hibitions; and (2) neglect of American
dance forms.

Emphasis on exhibitions has a double
deterrent effect. It discourages people
from: takingtup folk*dancing because. it
seems way beyond them; it looks too
professional; and it encourages them to
merely sit and watch.

There are other effects, of course. It
breeds friction between leader and
group, rivalry between groups, a feeling
of superidrity on the part of dancers.

Emphasis on exhibitions tends to
favor a preoccupation with the spec-
tacular and complicated dances and a
slighting of .the simple, unpretentious
ones, lovely though they be.

The solution to the problem is plain
—and easy: let’s cut out the exhibitions
and dance for fun and fellowship.

This doesn’t apply to dance demon—
strations for teaching and exchange
purposes, since here the aim is not to
display a dance but to share it. Nor
does it apply to the desirability of im-
proving one’s dancing skill or to the joy
of dancing with ,a congenial partner.
Certainly a dance is very enjoyable

RECREATION

Change of Address

If you are planning to move, notify us
at least thirty days before the date of
the issue with which it is to take effect,
if possible, in order to receive your
magazines without interruption. Send
both your old and new addresses by let-
ter, card or post office form 225 to:
Subscription Department RECREATION
Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11, N. Y.

 

Write for our new Base Catalog. I

Smeo Cornwall/rm k I

370 a. Millionaire STREET
I Fond du lac, Wisconsin

‘ - - - - - - -
JANUARY 1956

when it flows smoothly and when it is
shared with a good friend. The enjoy-
ment is heightened as we increase our
skills. Rather than monopolize our
skills, however, let us pass them on to
others. 'There is deep, heartfelt satis-
faction in the spreading and sharing of
a thing of good cheer. The folk dance
is just that——-friendly, informal, jolly,
warmly sociable.

The neglect of American dance forms
is surprising since our country is rich
in traditional dances. Of course, some
American dances are done by folk
dance groups. But there seems to be an
overwhelming concentration on Euro-
pean dances. Owing to this concentra-
tion, the term “folk dances” has come
to mean the nationality and ethnic
dances of foreign countries.

It is odd that our folk dance leaders
turn away from jazz and jitterbug while
Europeans avidly take them up. I am
referring to the folk forms originated
years ago by our Negro people, not the
commercial variants. 'The azz that re-
tains its folk flavor is known as New
Orleans or Dixieland jazz; it is an
earthy, improvised music played by
small groups of musicians. Like our
traditional square dance, the traditional
jitterbug has regional and local varia-
tions. Its essence is a spirited, flowing
syncopation that does not follow a set
sequence but is improvised like the
music that stimulates it.

Of course, there are other improvisa-
tional dances, and here again our folk
dance movement is neglectful. We are
tied too much to the sequence dances.
We not only slight the plain waltz, two-
step, schottische, and polka in favor of
the sequence dances, but we forget that
these plain dances can be wonderfully
improvisational. Within the basic pat-
tern we can vary them as the spirit
moves us. The improvised waltz, for in-
stance, is a thing of beauty to behold
and a joy to do, a most charming exam-

ple of creative dancing.

What practical steps may we take to
remedy this? Let’s make our instruc-
tion for beginners more patient, more
gradual, and with more emphasis on the
simple, fun dances. Let’s have informal
committees of hosts and hostesses at our
dances who welcome newcomers, make
them feel at home, and see that they
have opportunity to dance—who, in
general, make the occasion a jolly, so-
ciable dance party. Let’s have interclub
dance parties in which we enjoy each
other’s company in good dance fellow-
ship. In the sharing and exchanging of
dance forms we can dissipate the ri-

valry among ourselves.

In short, let us make the folk dance a
truly folk experience.

ARTHUR KATONA, Golden, Colorado.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   

 

Whatever *n..".r.i; '

‘ you are teaching: woodworking, model
building, leather, metal, plastics, ceramics

x-ucto knives,
tools 8: sets

designed by craftsmen and precision-mode
for fine craftsmanship

will help you
do a better Mr

V by helping your students get better results
 and more creative satisfaction.

I.‘ Build Model Airplanes—send 10¢ for 32
 page booklet “Building Your First Flying
’ Models." Full size plans and instructions
for 4 models plus articles and helpful
5 hints.

 

. Ho. 86 X-ACIO
X‘CCfO HOBBY cursr
names 0 toms -$12.00

HANDICIAF'I' KI‘IS

 

X-ACTO, INC.
48-99 Van Dam St., long Island City I, N. Y.

 

 

No. 25 portable
5 ft. against-wall
rock holds 25

coats and hats

   

No. 50
This 5 ft. portable
rack holds 50 cools
and hats

    
 
   

CHECKROOM EFFICIENCY
ANYWHERE

Keep coats and hats out in the open, aired,
dry and in press—each coat on a wooden
hanger held spaced apart from every other;
each hat in its individualized space on a
ventilated shelf. Save floor space—accom-
modate 5 people per square foot. Rigidly
built for lifetime service—welded heavy
gauge and square tubular furniture steel.
Beautifully finished baked-on enamel.
Portable units come on large swivel casters.
Checker Wall Racks are also available in
any length by the foot—fit in anywhere.
Mount on wall at any height—standard
equipment in modern schools, etc. where
they keep clothes in a safe, sanitary,

orderly manner.

Write for Bulletin

VOGE L-PE'I'E RSO N CO.

“The Checkroom People"
"21 WEST 37TH STREET, CHICAGO 9, U.S.A.

CK-BIS

Editorially Speaking

 

“Words That Show a Man’s Wit”

0n Benjamin Franklin’s 250th birth-

day, January 17, it is interesting to take
a look at some of his maxims on char-
acter and life—which are as good in
1956 as on the day they were written.
They will be widely quoted this year
in speeches, articles, posters, advertise-
merits.“

“A good example is the best sermon.”

.___.__..——..—..—.——

“Well done is better then well said.”

___._......_._.__
“He that cannot obey, cannot command.”
—..—

“Are you angry when others disappoint you?
Remember you cannot depend upon yourself.”

-————----6—

“It is hard for an empty sack to stand up-

right.”
_—.—..—_.

“Look before, or you’ll find yourself behind.”

—...—

“The ancients tell us what is best; but we
must learn from the moderns what is fittest.”

...—.—.—_

“Hear no ill of a friend, nor speak any of an

enemy.”
____..__._..._..

“Approve not of him who commends all you
say. ’
—...—

“Learn of the skillful; he that teaches him-
self hath a fool for a master.”

____+_____

“Being ignorant is not so much a shame as
being unmlllng to learn.”

—+—
“He that riseth late must trot all day.”
—._...._..._.+..._.._.._

“By diligence and patience, the mouse bit in

two the cable.”
_—.—..—_.

“The worst wheel of the cart makes the most
noise.”
———_...—_

“Do not do that which you would not have
known.”
I———+-n—_—

“1:11;:- ’that can have patience can have what he
wr
————___._—__

“Have you somewhat to do Tomorrow, do it
Today.”

——

"‘ For booklet of quotes, write to The Frank-

lin Institute, Benjamin Franklin Parkway at
Twentieth, Philadelphia, 3.

 

10

The 4th “R”

The importance of recreation as the
fourth “R” of education was empha-
sized at a recent meeting of the Play
Schools Association, according to the
New York Times. “There still is no wide
acceptance of recreation as a vital force
in the development of personality,”
Mrs. Adele S. Mossler, director, said in
her annual report. “As a result, we fail
to put play to work, one of the most
powerful motivating factors to which
children respond in the process of
growing up.

“Wholesome recreational opportuni-
ties can enrich the lives of all'children.
In the case of potential delinquents,

these programs take on added signifi-
cance.”

In Popular Magazines

Recreation and park subjects con-
tinue to be of interest to the readers of
popular magazines. Among recent ar~
ticles are:

“Playgrounds Plus” (Woman’s Day,
January 1956) is a story with colored
photographs of the new-styled play-
grounds of Philadelphia. v

“Little League—For or Against?”
(The American Home, November 1955)
in which Ed Sullivan speaks “for,” Hay-
den Wingate “against.”

“We are‘ Destroying Our National
Parks” by Wallace Stegner (Sports Il-
lustrated, June 13, 1955) Mr. Stegner’s
book, This Is Dinosaur, was reviewed
in the September 1955 issue of REC-

REATION.

The Hope of Tomorrow

Somewhere in a schoolroom today under the care of an unknown
teacher is a child who in his own time, grown to maturity, will lead the
world away from war and toward peace.

The affection planted in that child’s life by wise guidance; the sense
of right values with which he is constantly surrounded; the integrity and
initiative that are fostered in his unfolding life will come to fruition in

a mighty service to the human race.

It is a wise providence that no one can tell which of the millions of
babies born in our country each year is to be this savior of tomorrow.
We are done with king-children and their pampered training to main-
tain a class system. We want the children of the people, of all the people

- —rich and poor of every race and creed—to have their chance.
And when thru honest growth, proved merit, and wise leadership the

pilots of tomorrow take their places at the helm, we want them to be sur-
rounded and supported by their fellows likewise schooled in the simple
and abiding principles of democracy.

With this purpose and in this faith, the teachers of America carry on.
This faith was good enough for the founding fathers who launched this
ship of state in even more troubled seas than we now face. This faith has
been good enough for the teachers and prophets of all ages who have
understood the power 0f human aspiration and growth.

It is the faith of J esus—the Golden Rule and the brotherhood of man.
It is the faith that for 1900 years has held aloft thru good times and bad
the torch of eternal truth. Let us renew our faith in this destiny of the
individual human soul lifted by true teaching thru the leavening power
of God’s grace to nobility and wisdom.

This faith of the teacher—your faith and mine as we look into the
eager face of youth—is the hope of tomorrow, a hope that cannot fail.
It is bigger than all the fears and partisanships of our time. Let us renew
and deepen our faith.—~—JOY ELMER MORGAN. Reprinted from the Senior

Citizen, December 1955.

RECREATION

 

—THE 1956 DISTRICT CONFERENCES—

The district conference, as sponsored by the National Recreation
Association, provides an opportunity on an area-wide basis for recrea-
tion and park leaders, municipal, and school recreation leaders and
board members to obtain information and training in newest concepts
and practices. Changes are made annually in program content to keep
the conference flexible and in tune with changing needs and condi-
tions. Devoted to the improvement of leadership in the recreation field
and the provision of better and ever-growing local recreation services,
it is a means by which the recreation worker can refresh his thinking and experience
professional growth. We sincerely hope that local recreation and park executives, and
many other local leaders, are planning to attend their own area conference in 1956.—
CHARLES E. REED, Director, Field Service, NRA.

   

Charles E. Reed

Great Lakes—April 10 to 13-—Hotel Pere Marquette, Peoria, Ill.

An excellent agenda will include meetings on such topics as: Program and Per-
sonnel Standards; Inter-Department Use of Facilities; Short Cuts in Maintenance; Robert L. Homey
Artificial Ice Rinks; The Role of Supervisors; Swimming Pool Operation; and New
Programs for Teen-Age Young People.

The program planning committee is composed of members of the district advisory
committee, representatives of the six Great Lakes recreation associations and the Peoria
arrangements committee.

Mr. Horney, of Madison, Wisconsin, NRA representative for the northern section
of this district, is a graduate of the University of Nebraska. Previous to jOining the
NRA in 194-9, he served as superintendent of recreation in Danville and Peoria, Illinois;
Davenport, Iowa; and Evansville, Indiana.

Mr. Brewer, of Detroit, is responsible for NRA field services in the southern part.
A graduate of Ohio State University, he is an old-timer in the recreation field and with
the Association. For twenty-four years he served in an executive capacity with the
Detroit Recreation and Park Department. He is a past president of the Amateur Base.-
ball Federation, and for many years has been chairman of the International Joint Rules
Committee on Softball.

Middle Atlantic—M arch 21 to 24—The Inn, Buck Hill Falls, Pa.

Key t0pics will be: Techniques to Measure and / or Appraise Recreation Interests
and Programs in the Community; The Values and Shortcomings of Playground A ppa-
ratus; Acquiring and Developing Recreation Areas and Facilities; Recruitment and
Training of Recreation Personnel; and Retirement Practices in Local Recreation Depart-
ments. Each of these subjects has been assigned by the district advisory committee to a
sub-committee for special study and a report to the conference for discussion. Mr.
Caverly, recreation superintendent in Freeport, Long Island, is chairman of the district
advisory committee. _ 0

Mr. Faust, of East Orange, New Jersey, is the dean of NBA district representatlves,
having been with the Association for many years. He did his undergraduate work at
Union College, graduate work at Johns Hopkins. Before he joined the NRA, he served
as general secretary of Associated Charities in a number of cities, and in executive posi-
tions with the American Red Cross and the Federal Security Agency. He is presently
a member of the East Orange Board of Recreation Commissioners.

Mr. Westgate of Reading, Pennsylvania, field stafi member since 1950, came to the
NRA from his positions as superintendent of recreation in Montpelier, Vermont, and
Portland, Maine. He has carried out special assignments in the Paciiic Southwest and
for the National Park Service in Alaska.

 

C. E. Brewer

Richard S. Westgatc

John W. Fa-ust

  

Joseph Caverly

JANUARY 1956 ' 11

Midwesthpril 11 to 13—Colorado Springs, Col.

For the first time this conference is being scheduled jointly with the Central Dis-
Hamld W- Lathrop trict AssociatiOn for Health, Physical Education and Recreation. An excellent program
" ' will permit many school people an opportunity to benefit by getting together with pro-
fessional recreation executives and workers. Joint recreation sessions for both groups
will be scheduled on Competition for Time of Teen Agers and Problems in Joint School-
Municipal Recreation. Sectional meetings on camping, dance, handicapped, and thera-
peutics will serve members from both groups. The sessions for the Midwest meetings
will consider: administration, supervision, program, facilities, centers, senior citizens,
military, board members, hospital, church, and rural workers.
Mr. Richter, director of recreation in Colorado Springs, and Mr. Lathrop of Denver,
acting district representative for the NRA, are co-chairmen for the program planning.
Mr. Lathrop has been appointed to serve in this district during the leave of absence
of representative Arthur Todd who has taken on an assignment for the U. S. Air Force
in Europe. A native of Minnesota, Mr. Lathrop was, for seven of his ten years with the
E. Stuart Richter Minneapolis Board of Park Commissioners, a park and recreation planner. From 1942
to 1946, he was president of the National Conference on State Parks.

 

New England—May 13 to l6—Wentworth-by-the-Sea, Portsmouth, N .H.

Waldo R. Hainsworth

Among t0pics to be discussed, four that are especially important will be: Activities
for Young Adults; Family Recreation; Girls’ and Women’s Programs; and Physical
Fitness Activities for Youth. Mr. Perry, executive director in Leominster, Massachu-
setts, is acting as chairman of the conference program committee.

Mr. Hainsworth joined the Association staff in 1946, to serve as NRA representative
for this district. He is a graduate of Randolph-Macon College, and for a time was organ-
izer and director of the children’s street play program for the Friends Committee of
Philadelphia. For more than three years he was superintendent of recreation in Nor-
folk, Virginia, where he gave outstanding service in developing a recreation program
to meet the emergency needs of one of the most difficult wartime centers in the country.

 

Pacific Northwest—April 9 to 11—Hotel Winthrop, Tacoma, Wash.

A general conference committee is acting as the working and planning group for
this meeting. The district advisory committee concerns itself with the over-all policies
and framework of the conference. Mr. Lantz, superintendent of public recreation, park
and school districts in Tacoma, is chairman of the local arrangements committee. A
complete and diversified coverage of recreation is being outlined — hospital, rural,
church, institutional, armed forces, industrial, community, state, park maintenance and
planning are included.

Mr. Shumard, NRA representative for this district, was graduated from Teachers
College, Peru, Nebraska, and received his master’s degree from Colorado State College
of Education. He has had special training in drama, and several years of experience
in physical education, athletics, and recreation leadership. He worked on recreation
during World War II as a lieutenant in the United States Navy. He has been serving
on the Association’s field staff in the Pacific Northwest since February 1949.

Willard H. Shumard

 

Tom Lantz

Pacific Southwest—February 12 to 15———Hotel U.S. Grant, San Diego, Cal.

This conference, co-sponsored by the National Recreation Association, the Cali-
fornia Recreation Commission, and the California Recreation Society, is known as the
California State and Pacific Southwest Recreation Conference. Mr. Teel, left, and Mr.
Winans, right, shown with Mr. Collier, NRA representative, in the photograph, are
president of the society and director of the commission respectively. The over-all con-
. ference theme this year will be “Planning Ahead For Leisure in the Pacific Southwest

Harold Tee] States.” Presentation of a new California Guide for Park and Recreation Planning will
i 10h" J' Satayng W, be a special feature. The list of thirty or more topics to be considered will include rec-
] g mans reation problems of teen-agers and senior citizens as well as those pertaining to hospital

 

12 ' RECREATION

 

. and industrial recreation and research.

Mr. Collier, a native of Colorado, has recently come to this area, as acting district
representative, from the Great Lakes District where he has served on the National Rec-
reation Association field staff since 1949. He received his undergraduate training at
Arizona State College and had two years of graduate work at the University of Colorado,

specializing in organization and administration of community recreation and related
services.

Southeast—March 28 to 30—Hotel Soreno, St. Petersburg, Fla.

Among the many important topics to be considered by the conference delegates will Ralph B- Van Fleet
be: Public Relations in Community Recreation Work; Problems of Segregation in Local
Recreation Services; and National Sports Programs for Boys. Mr. Jarrell, director of
parks and recreation in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, is acting as chaiman of the program
planning committee. .

Mr. Van Fleet, representing the NRA in this district, first began his service as a
field worker for the Association in 1946, in Georgia and in Florida where he had been
serving as a recreation executive and as president of the Florida Association of Rec-
reation Workers. He attended the University of Florida, received his bachelor’s degree
from Appalachian State Teachers College, has had experience as a high school principal
and as director of physical education. Temple R. Jarrell

 

Southern—April 3 to 5—Hotel Roanoke, Roanoke, Va.

The theme of the conference program will be Planning with emphasis on long-range W. A. Richardson
plans—planning for adequate areas and facilities, for program expansion, for staff RObe" P' Hume"
growth, public relations, and cooperative planning with other departments and agencies.
Provision is being made for sessions for specific interest groups in programing and for
special services personnel of the armed forces. Mr. Hunter, director of the Roanoke,
Virginia, Department of Parks and Recreation, is chairman of the state committee on
the conference. Chairman of the general conference committee is Mr. Richardson,
director of the Arlington County, Virginia, Recreation and Park Department.

Miss Preece has served as field representative for the Association in this district
during the past ten years. ‘In addition to extensive experience in local recreation service,
she has worked with private organizations in allied fields and directed war recreation
activities overseas. She also has had wide experience in planning and directing com-
munity recreation centers. and other phases of local recreation programs including their
evaluation through special surveys and studies. She served for eighteen years on the f ,
staff of the Milwaukee Department of Recreation and Adult Education. Marion Preece

 

Southwest—April 4 to 7—Hotel Heidelberg, Baton Rouge, La.

The program sessions will include at least two over-all themes: Internal Controls
of the Recreation Department and Recreation Problems of Special Interest Groups.
Under the former, symposiums will consider operating policies and practices with -—
reference to budget, staff, record-keeping, and department communications. The latter r
theme will include separate group discussions on the recreation problems in hospitals, ‘
industries, military installations, churches, and civic groups. Mr. Hileman, superintend-
ent of recreation in East Baton Rouge Parish, is serving as chairman of the local arrange-
ments committee, assisted by Mrs. Edward E. Moore, member of the recreation and park

commission.

Mr. Van Arsdale has been the field representative of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation for the Southwest District since 1943. Following his graduation from Springfield
College, Massachusetts, he taught school in Pennsylvania. His first eXperience in com-
munity recreation was as director of physical education and recreation in Rockville
Center, Long Island. For twenty years he was physical education director of the 
Y. M. C. A. in Elizabeth, New Jersey, and for nine years he served as a member of the Ralph M_ Hileman
recreation board in that city. I.

Harold Van Arsdale

   

JANUARY 1956 13

 

14

565666365 20% gm...

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY is pleased to announce
the expansion of its publishing on the subjects of health,

physical education, recreation, and related areas, to include
the line of textbooks previously published by A. S. Barnes

and Company. A complete catalog of books in this field

is available, and will be sent on request.

0 Principles of Recreation ,

JOHN L. HUTCHINSON, Teachers College, Columbia University

THIS UP-TO-DATE book provides a fundamental treat-
ment of recreation, for courses related to the subject,
which makes it possible to understand the basic concepts
underlying the organization of leisure activity. Fully in-
vestigates the cultural significance of the recreation pro-
fession, and discusses the responsibilities and functions
involved. Gives an account of the various cultural, eco-

The Theory of Play

ELMER D. MITCHELL, University of Michigan; and
BERNARD S. MASON. Fully covers the history of the play
movement, the theory of play, the role of play in modern
life, and the problems of administration and organiza-

tion. Revised edition of a pioneering textbook.
542 pp. $4.75

Community Organization
for Recreation

GERALD B. FITZGERALD, University of Minnesota. Dis-
cusses community recreation organization and program
plans on local, state, and national levels. Cognizant of
the place of the school in community organization for
recreation, the book points out how a community can
benefit through charging a public recreation authority
with reSponsibility for major public recreation services.

352 pp. $4

nomic, and social changes relating to leisure activity in

~ the United States—past and present—and an overview of

the status of recreation as provided by municipal, state,
federal, and school authorities. Includes suggestions for
the realization of a community recreation concept, em-
bodying key ideas which the peOple in any American

community can employ. 310 pp. $3.75

Playgrounds: Their
Administration and Operation

GEORGE D. BUTLER. Discusses the enlarged function of
the neighborhood playground; describes revised stand-
ards of playground space and leadership. Introduces new
and up-to-date programs, and outlines current methods

of dealing with a variety of playground problems.
Rev. Ed., 21 ills.; 459 pp. $4.75

Sports for Recreation

Edited by ELMER D. MITCHELL, University of Michigan.
This c0piously illustrated book describes the techniques
for playing fifty sports. Serves three purposes: to ex-
tend interesti in healthful recreations; to assemble
needed information on various types of physical recrea-
tion; and to treat each sport from the point of view of
the beginner or average player.

Rev. Ed., 157 ills.; 522 pp. $5

Community Sports
and Athletics

By NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIA-
TION. Deals with the problems in-
volved in starting and conducting a
sports program to serve the interests
of all people. Recreation and com-
munity leaders will find the book
of basic importance to the study,
organization, and administration of
a Sports program for the total com-

munity. 54 ills.; 500 pp. 35

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Leisure

and Recreation

MARTIN H. NEUMEYER, University
of Southern California; and ESTHER
S. NEUMEYER. This volume points
out present-day recreational needs
and problems, analyzes the varied
factors involved in leisure and rec-
reational activities, and emphasizes

the importance of social relations
and processes.

Rev. Ed. 411 pp. $4.50

Order your copies from:

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY

Recreation
Through Music

CHARLES LEONHARD, University of
Illinois. A book of interest to the
musical layman, as well as the rec-
reational leader. Stimulating dis-
cussions of the various styles in mu-
sic, and the different types of com-
positions, are supplemented with
copious lists of recommended re-
cordings, songs and music.

30 ills.; 160 pp. $3.25

15 East 26th Street, New York 10

RECREATION

Recreation on .
the Move—

 

Ella T. Cruise

Interesting activities t h a t t a k e
place in isolated army installations.

I<OREA IS a land of contrasts! It has many hills; it has

many rice paddies. It has its rainy season; it has its
dry season. It has its native people with their age-old cus-
toms and traditions; it has American troops right from the
land of jukeboxes and soda pop. The work of the American
troops is important and so is their leisure time. One phase
of the recreation available for these men fits right into the
pattern of contrasts; it is a mobile recreation program.
This was initiated in 1954- when, atthe time of the “cease
fire” in Korea, the defense department requested the Ameri-
can Red Cross to set up a recreation program for American
troops located in isolated areas in Korea. It was designed
to supplement the recreation resources of the U. S. Army
Special Services.

During World War ILRed Cross conducted an extensive
club program in many parts of the world. It also conducted
a clubmobile program which was primarily a coffee and
doughnuts operation. Because of the scattered locations of
the\American units in Korea it has been necessary to de-
velop a program combining aspects of both the club and
clubmobile operations whereby recreation activities may be
taken to the men “in the hills.” The coffee and doughnuts
are incidental to ‘the recreation activities. Trucks, known
as clubmobiles, are used to transport the workers and their
program materials to the American units served. For this
reason the program became known as the Red Cross Club-
mobile Program. It is just one phase of Red Cross service
called Supplemental Recreational Activities Overseas.

The military units served vary in size from ten or fifteen
men to one hundred and fifty or two hundred. There is a
variety of interests within these groups, regardless of size,
which means that variety is an important factor in plan-

 

ELLA T. CRUISE is a New Jersey school teacher who used
her “sabbatical” to go to Korea for the Red Cross.

JANUARY 1956

ning activities, as in any recreation program. The activities
are conducted outdoors or indoors depending upon the
weather and upon the facilities available. In most instances
the quonset mess hall, with its cumbersome tables and
benches, represents the one building in an area where there
is room for all the men to participate. Through experience
the workers have developed techniques and skills in adapt-
ing and conducting programs under such conditions.

Who Conducts the Programs?

Young women between the ages of twenty-three and
thirty are selected for the work and are given orientation
and training in Washington, D. C. Upon arrival in Korea
they are assigned by the area director, to units of eight, ten,
or twelve workers under the immediate supervision of a
unit head and a program director. Each unit conducts activ-
ities for the soldiers of approximately one hundred to one
hundred and twenty companies stationed within the area
of the division or corps to which the unit is assigned. Liv-
ing in quonset huts or some similar army facility, the Red
Cross staffs are located approximately in the centers of the
areas they serve. Also, office space is allocated for adminis-
trative duties and those duties related to operating a recre-
ation program; i.e., planning, preparing necessary proper-
ties, conducting recreation meetings and workshops.

Adaptability Has Its Place

Properties prepared for the activities are adapted for con-
venient transportation. They must be easy and quick to set
up and within range of materials available. A tin can con-
taining fruit juice could have an extended life span in Korea.
After its contents have been used, that poor can could make
several personal appearances. It might be a “pin” in a bowl-
ing game, or a sunken “hole” on a miniature golf course,
or a “target” in a pitch game, or it may have eyes painted
On it and a rope tail attach‘ed making it a “horse” in a horse-

15

racing game. It could make a long trip from its role as a
juice container to its final resting place on the salvage heap.
Being far removed from the usual sources for recreation
materials, the workers must use ingenuity and imagination
in making props and in adapting the more familiar recrea-
tion programs for use with the troops. A carnival might
include horse racing with a brown wrapping paper or scrap
canvas “track,” tin can “horses,” and bogus “money.” The
strong men would be given an opportunity to exercise their
biceps in a weight-lifting contest. Instead of employing reg-
ular weights, a Korean A-frame (a wooden frame designed

by the Koreans for carrying heavy loads on their backs) ”

would be substituted.

When all the pre-planning details for a particular pro- '

gram are completed, and all necessary props are prepared
and placed in “prop boxes,” the clubmobile teams of two
are ready to go out with their programs. In addition to
properties for one specific program the teams also carry
small games equipment such as playing cards, checkers,
chess, scrabble. Other supplies include P.A. systems, record
players with records, slide projectors, accordions, guitars,
ukeleles. Plans for the day determine equipment carried.

How is the Job Done?

Let’s follow a typical day’s schedule of one clubmobile
team. After having breakfast at 7:00 A.M. in the messhall
the ,two workers, dressed in slacks, shirts, boots, are ready
for their day’s work. With the cooperation of the military
the schedules of units to be visited are set up well in ad-
vance, so before starting out the workers have the names of
the three or four companies they are to visit. Through ar-
rangements with the company commanders, the men in each
company are excused from their training or work during
the hour and a half when the clubmobile team will be in the
area. Long before the truck arrives to pick them up, the
girls have made all necessary preparations. Upon arrival of
the soldier driver and truck, the program material is loaded,
the girls climb aboard, and a stop is made at the doughnut
kitchen for the day’s supply of “sinkers.” It is 8:00 A.M.
and they are scheduled to make a 9:15 visit to an infantry

enty-three trained recreation workers, operating twenty-five club-
bilcs, make regular visits to the men, even stopping off at the anti-
:raft cmplacements dotting the hills and remote infantry units.
is service was started at request of the Department of Defense.

:1" .    “-"—" “‘W' H 7 r r -' '“m' "‘~‘--""
’ I' ‘  z ‘ 5+ I.

 

company ten miles away.

Upon arrival the workers report to the orderly room or
office to exchange greetings. Already the soldiers have
started walking in the direction of the messhall, where the
mess personnel have the coffee ready. One member of the
Red Cross team serves the men coffee and doughnuts, and
the other distributes “conversation bits” for the men as they
sit down and relax at the tables. These bits might be mimeo-
graphed mystery puzzles, droodles, quizzes about the nick-
names of states or foreign flags, picture quizzes, state books
where the men enter their names and addresses and look for
names of friends from back home who are with other units
in Korea. These are just a few of the “gimmicks” that are
used to stimulate laughter and conversation.

After everyone has been served, the clubmobile team gets
into the main activity which might, for instance, be a series
of games planned around a football theme, including, per-
haps, a picture or information quiz about famous football
stars and teams, and ending with a football song rally. This
uses the talents of an accordionist or harmonica player, if
there is one in the group, and gives the program a hearty
finish. In the meantime, there may be some men at a rear
table who are busy playing checkers, dominoes, scrabble,
or just perusing the state books or other material that in-
terests them. At 10:30 A.M. the clubmobile workers say
their goodbyes and thank you’s, pack up their equipment,
report out at the office, and head for their next stop at a tank
company location. The tank company had had the football
program on a previous visit, so they have planned a Korean
culture program for today.

When they arrive at 11:15 the men are getting ready for
lunch. The workers take advantage of the few minutes lee-
way to put up posters, signs, a pictoral map of Korea and
pictures of the country which will announce the program
and stimulate interest in it. The young women pass through
the “chow line,” tray in hand, and are served with the serv-
icemen. As they sit down to eat it is not unusual for them
to find soldiers from their home state or even from their
home town. While chatting, the girls are busy promoting
interest in the program.~

In a “cock fight,” Pfc. Weldon F. Sparks (left), El Centro, C
fornia, with broom under his knees and his hands tied around
legs, must roll his opponent over to win. Do the men like it? Ami
can girls with whom to talk, sing, dance? “Never had it so gom

 

After lunch, while the tables are being cleared, they set
up their pr0ps so that everything is ready when the men re-
turn to the mess hall. Activities start off with a quiz includ-
ing questions about Korea; as, for instance, how large is
Korea compared to the United States? (Twice as large as
Florida.) What does a paper-bag hat signify? (Death in
a family.) Why does an older Korean man wear a bird cage
hat? (So his thoughts of wisdom may be passed through
to all.) Next, the pictoral map which has been on display
is brought forward and used with a quiz related to places
and pertinent facts about them. The men are then divided
into groups and given opportunities to try their skill at na-
tive games such as Mill, Y005, and Stone, Paper, Scissors.
The program is finished off with a game of consequences
with the high or low scorers from the various games being
the participants.

By two o’clock the girls are on their way to their next
stop, arriving at an artillery battery at 2:30. Here, they
learn that the gun crews must remain at their gun positions
today, so they visit the five gun positions spending perhaps
ten or fifteen minutes with each gun crew. Conversation
is the keynote of a visit such as this. The men take pride in
talking about their guns and eXplaining how they work.
Because time is brief and the groups of men so small, 'pro-
grams take on an informal note using just one or two of the
conversation bits that had been used earlier in the day. A
picture quiz provides laughs where the pictures of famous
faces are mounted on strange bodies. Humorous brain
teasers are exchanged. A can of popcorn might be left for
the men to have in their tents during the evening, or some

mobile team for the rest of the day to assist with birthday
parties being held at two engineer companies. Phone calls
are made for final confirmation from the company com-
mander. _

This is a typical day for clubmobile workers. After hav-
ing supper at the messhall nearest their quarters they are
free to do as they like. One night each week all ten mem-
bers of a staff join in an evening of square dancing at some
isolated company location or another type of party, such
as a Gay Nineties Party which some of the soldiers have
assisted in planning. .

There are other days, too. When two divisions are play-
ing football, part of the Red Cross staff may attend to serve
hot coffee from their trucks; sometimes they double as
cheerleaders. During special holidays some assist the serv-
icemen in conducting parties for orphans. When an emer-
gency arises such as a bridge washing out, two or three
might go down at midnight to serve hot coffee to the en-
gineers. When soldiers board a train at 3:00 A.M., the first
leg of the long journey home, the workers go down to say
their goodbyes with hot coffee. They greet new arrivals in
the same fashion. They write articles for the division news-
papers. On occasions they act as disc jockeys, adding a
feminine touch to the “Mail from Home” radio program.

The young women who serve in the Red Cross clubmobile
program keep on the move as they keep recreation on the
move in Korea. It is plain to see that the clubmobile workers
could not do the job without the cooPeration and assistance
of the military. A very important part is played by the
American soldiers who, with their humor, understanding,

mysteries for them to solve before the next visit.
After stopping by the ofiice for their adieus and thanks,
the two workers head for home, arriving at their quarters

cooperation, and spontaneity, contribute so much to the suc-
cess of the program. By their response it is easy to see that
they recognize the efforts of the Red Cross to bring home a

around 5:00. They bring their oche records up to date and
evaluate the day’s activities. The next day’s schedule is re-
viewed and properties are replenished or replaced to be used
on the morrow. A company scheduled for the next day plans
to have its own combo (small band) present, so plans for a
“Stop the Music” quiz are reviewed. Prior arrangements
have been made to have the combo accompany the club-

little closer to the shores of Korea, to provide recreation as
a diversion from their day-to-day routines, and to let the
servicemen know the people back home care about them.
The young women in the program do have fun in their
work. Best of all, they have the satisfaction that comes from
serving with the American Military who are carrying on a
mission of importance in a very vital part of the world. I

The servicemen call them the “Powder Puff Patrol,” but the
nothing fragile about these American girls who ride the ruttcd r(
and bounce along the mountain trails of Korea. Travelingin team
two or three, they may take two weeks to complete their circuit vi

vrving the First Marine Division during a landing operation. To the
en, wherever they are, these girls bring a touch of home, organize
.mes, sketching groups, handcrafts, songfests, dramatics, and
moral work. Pianos are few; they use guitars and other instruments.

 

 

RECREATION

and the Anxious Patient

 

NALOGOUS to that old chestnut about

the weather, the anxieties of pa-
tients in,a hospital are something often
talked about but about which little is
done. I have been working as a mem-
ber of a research group at Memorial
Center in New York City, a group which
has spent the last five years exploring
the emotional problems associated with
cancer and its treatment. Results sug-
gest that much more can be done to re-
lieve the anxieties of patients than has
hitherto been suspected. I would like
to share with you some of the findings
of these five years of investigation.
While it is undoubtedly true that many
of the principles we have evplved are
specific to the cancer patient, there are,
nevertheless, a number with broader
implications. Without attempting to
cover the vast and complex problem of
anxiety in general, we can examine the
anxieties of hospitalized patients. The
role of the recreation worker will be
emphasized particularly with respect to
the significance of his relationship to
the patient.

Adaption to Life

It must be recognized that a patient
does not begin to exist at the moment
he is admitted to a hospital and cease
to exist when he leaves but, rather, he
comes to the hospital with a long his-
tory of significant experiences in life.
During the course of development, each
individual achieves an adaptation to
life which, more or less successfully,

MORTON BARD, Ph.D., is the research
clinical psychologist at Memorial Cen-

ter for Cancer and Allied Diseases, New
York C ity.

18

serves him in the process of living. This
adaptation can be regarded as activity
directed toward the resolution of im-
mediate needs and the achievement of
long-range goals. The freedom of ac--
tion exhibited by an individual is de-
termined by his perception of the psy-
chological and physical aspects of his
environment and by his interpretation
of the events which take place. Some-
times, adaptation to life is rather deli-
cately balanced and is successful only
so long, as the environment retains an
element of familiarity and stability.

When the adaptation is threatened,
people employ a variety of techniques
to preserve its integrity and to continue
effectiveness in living. One of the most
common consequences of a threatened
adaptation is a subjectively felt anxiety
response. In effect, this is an alerting in
the face of danger, and the things that
people do under such circumstances
often appear self-defeating but actually
represent efforts to prevent emotional
disorganization.

Patients experience anxiety resulting
from the threat of their illness long be-
fore hospital admission. Actually, no
patient experiences a single reaction to
his illness 6r to its treatment. He experi-
ences, rather, a sequence of intimately
related emotional reactions which are
modified by his perception of each
phase of diagnosis and treatment. The
sequence of reality events can be char-
acterized as consisting of four stages:
the onset of symptoms, diagnosis, hos-
pitalization, and convalescence. The
emotional responses .to each phase of
the sequence are shaped by the nature
of immediate events as well as by pre-
vious life experiences. In addition, the

Remarks made by Dr. Morton Bard at the 37th

National Recreation Congress in Denver, em-
phasize above all else that a patient is a person.

« Morton Bard

reactions to each phase of the sequence
infiuence the patient’s ability to inte-
grate the total experiences and set the
tone for the long-term adaptive changes
which may be necessary.

An important element in the adapta-
tion of any individual is a sense of mas-
tery in the face of anxiety. Being able
to master situations is an important
source of self-esteem and emotional se-
curity, and it appears to be developed
very early in life. For example, efforts
at mastery are apparent even in the play
of small children. Many of you may
have witnessed such behavior in the
playground. Children who are just be-
ginning to walk frequently enjoy using
the slide. If one watches closely, how-
ever, one becomes aware that the slide
down is almost anticlimatic. The act of
climbing the ladder and standing at the
t0p seems to give the child most of his
enjoyment. The toddler feels a sense
of gratification and security rooted in
his ability to successfully master an en-
vironmental obstacle.

All people have the same need to feel
a sense of mastery. Returning to the
sequence of emotional reactions to ill-
ness, a person’s perception of the initial
symptom of illness arouses a host of an-
ticipatory reactions and initiates a series
of defensive or preparatory behavior
patterns. The symptom signals a break-
down in health, a threat to the adaptive
pattern arousing anxiety, and initiates
a series of speculations with regard to
the disruption of usual and important
activities in life.

At this point it must be emphasized
that a person is not characterized by a
level of adaptive capacity. Individuals
who have adapted successfully in many

RECREATION

other adverse situations may experience
acute anxiety in specific situations
which, directly or indirectly, signify
threats that they were unable to master
in the past. As an illustration, an indi-
vidual may have been a hero as a sol-
dier.in combat, but when faced with
the symptom of appendicitis he may
give all the appearances of a weak, de-
pendent and emotionally disorganized
individual. The symptom of appendici-
tis may have aroused early childhood
fears or failures in mastery, specifically
related to just such an event. Having
had no previous experience of failure
in situations like those met during war,
in battle he could function with freedom
and success.

The Meaning of Hospitalization

0n the day of admission to the hos-
pital all of the expectations aroused by
the initial symptom come clearly into
focus and the anxiety may be almost
unbearable. The unfamiliar and awe-
some hospital with its impersonal, effi-
cient, and sterile quality frequently rein-
forces the feelings of helplessness and
isolation initiated earlier in the se-
quence of events. Regardless of the pa-
tient’s observable behavior he may have
acute inner feelings of embarrassment,
confusion, disorganization, and loneli-
ness. This first day may activate many
of the early fears of childhood, fears of
abandonment and separation so prom-

inent as the early fears of most children.

The patient’s introduction to the hos-
pital is colored by his pre-admission
fears, and he is alert to the possibility
of danger in everything that occurs,
simple laboratory procedures, X-ray
studies and so on. All of these proce-
dures so commonplace to members of
the hospital staff only serve to heighten
the patient’s anxieties and spell out con-
firmation of the severity of the situa-
tion. If this sounds exaggerated, it is
meant to do so. While the actual inten-
sity of the reactions to these events may
vary from one person to another, and
while some patients may not express
their fears either directly or in observ-
able behavior, our studies have indi-
cated that all patients regard their hos-
pital experience with more than a little
trepidation.

The prime defense of any human be-

JANUARY 1956

ing against threats he cannot master is
to turn to others for help. In a hospital
setting, where illness is the threat, the
prime defender is the physician or sur-
geon. There is no substitute for the de-
velopment of a warm supportive rela-
tionship between the physician and his
patient. However, there are many an-
cillary professionals within a hosPital
who can serve to assist the physician in
the establishment of a warm relation-
ship. The fundamental need to estab-
lish contact with a supportive, non-
threatening individual is extreme at
this time.

The Role of Recreation

The recreation worker, of all mem-
bers of the hospital staff, has a unique
and most advantageous role. The rec-
reation person can regard himself as
one who provides “things” to the pa-
tient to divert him or to facilitate “tak-
ing his mind off his troubles.” How-

 

ever, in this discussion, there will be a
shift away from this concept and to-
ward the concept of the recreation work-
er’s use of himself as an object in the
recreational process. In a sense, a shift
in emphasis from the “thing” to the
“being.”
To consider the patient again for a
moment; he not only experiences the
anxieties already outlined, but he also
experiences a disruption of a vital fac-
tor of living—the capacity to be a pro-
ductive, contributing member of socie-
ty. It is almost as if the patient enters
a state of suspended animation insofar
as his societal responsibilities are c011-
cerned. To be sure, engaging the pa-
tient in activities gives him a sense aof
belonging to the social group in the
hospital and also affords him an oppor-
tunity of being once again a produc-
tive and contributing member of this
group, albeit in a.limited sense.
However,_this fundamental need to
participate and contribute constructive-

ly to a social group has many other ram-

ifications. It appears that this need is
a basic essential in the whole process
of human growth and that it is especial-
ly important in our culture where pro-
ductivity is so highly rewarded. Con-
sequently, it is not only the act of
producing or creating alone that is im-
portant, but rather producing and cm-
ating in interaction with other people.
The patient who is restricted to a hos-
pital room is cut off from human con-
tact in the main. Recreation provides
an opportunity to reaffirm the produc-
tive impulse and to fulfill the need for
creative expression.

The true significance of this concept
was brought home quite strikineg by
a patient who described her own sense
of well-being and exuberance after com-
pleting a handcraft task provided by
the recreation service at our hospital.
She used a most revealing expression:
“I felt good when I finished it. I never
knew I could do such things. It gave
me a feeling of attachment to life.”

The expression “attachment to life”
was so unusual that I explored this with
her further. She went on to explain, '
“Ever since this thing started I’ve had
a feeling of being detached and apart
from people, unable to do things. But
just doing this little thing, really noth-
ing at all, here in the hospital gave me
the sense of attachment or of belonging
and being able to do again.”

This illustration apparently supports
the importance of the “thing” in rec-
reational activity. But to leave it at
that would be entirely too superficial,
for on closer examination this patient’s
ability to use the “thing” supplied by
the recreation worker was largely moti—
vated by something else. Her ability to
begin the task and to successfully pur-
sue it to completion, was influenced by
her relationship to the recreation work-
er. The relationship was an excellent
one. The worker was not threatened by
the patient’s anxieties. She permitth
the patient to express her fears and anx-
ieties freely. She talked little and al-
lowed the patient to use her as a source
of support. The patient came to trust
the worker and undertook the activity
initially because of this sense of trust.

This raises a wholly new question:
What is the role of the recreation work-
er as perceived by the patient in the

19

hospital? While patients see recreation
people as members of the professional
staff, they do not see them as potentially
injurious, authoritative, or judgmental.
They are usually identified by the pa-
tient as people most nearly like them-
selves, that is, as peOple sincerely inter-
ested in the patient’swelfare yet do not
have the feared power to respond in a
potentially destructive fashion. This en-
dows recreation with a unique role, a
role which can be effectively utilized
to decrease the anxieties of the patients.

I am certain that running through
many of your minds at this moment is
the thought that it is far too idealistic
to define such a role for recreation.
Furthermore, I am certain that much
of the skepticism is based on the un-
healthy fact that in some hospitals
there may be one recreation worker for
thirty-five hundred patients. And most
of all, I have no wish to suggest that
the recreation worker should be re-
garded as a psychotherapist. But I do
wish to suggest that even in situations
where there are far too many patients
for the number of recreation workers,
it is possible to be available as an island
of refuge, to make yourself receptive
to the patient who wishes to reach out
and establish contact with another hu-
man being; and for you to utilize the
establishment of contact as a way of
helping the patient to organize his de-
fenses ‘and otherwise spur his efforts
at mastery. Because of his unique role,
the worker who appears harsh, judg-
mental or disinterested, will discourage
the one or two patients of thirty-five
hundred under his care from approach-
ing him and establishing contact. Be-
cause of your unique role' it is incum-

MORE THAN

bent upon you to create a climate of
freedom for the patient to reach out
and use you as a supportive person.

I am not unaware of the fact that rec-
reation people make an emotional in-
vestment in their professional function-
ing, as do all people who must use them-
selves in relating to others. As all of us
do, recreation people have problems. In
addition, recreation workers have a va-
riety of conceptions about illness and re-
action to illness as Well as other fears
and anxieties. A worker may identify
with a given patient and suffer the re-
activation of his own long dormant feel-
ings of rejection; he may feel a sense of
powerlessness or frustration with an ad-
vanced or terminal patient; he may
have guilt feelings about his own in-
tactness while the patient has suffered a
body deformity; or he may have his
own unconscious fears activated by the
signs and symptoms of the patient’s ill-
ness and by the patient’s behavior. As
a way of handling his own feelings the
worker may withdraw or resort to over-
intellectualization or impersonalization
as an avenue of escape.

To illustrate this point more speci-
fically, let us consider a worker who,
during the course of his own lifelong
adaptation, had developed the firm con-
viction that self-reliance and self-sufh-
ciency have great value. Chances are,
therefore, he would regard this attitude
in patients with favor. Such a worker
would probably become angry and an-
noyed and even somewhat disturbed by
patients who are expressing self-pity or
are excessively dependent. Unaware of
his own weakness (weakness only with
respect to the fact that he has an emo-
tional blind spot in this area) he may

100,000

U. S. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES EACH'YEAR SPECIFY

America’s Finest Sports Equipment by
97>»W>>)+>

NEW YORK 11

20

 

DANVlLLE, ILL. ° LOS ANGELES 11

be unusually short and impatient with
patients who express those feelings
which he regards with disdain and
contempt.

It would be very difficult for such a
worker to see expressions of anger or
dependence in their true perspective;
that is, as this person’s reaction to a
particular situation having specific sig-
nificance at this one point in a whole
lifetime of adaptation. Such a worker
accepts these expressions only in a nega-
tive way and assumes that they reflect
the patient’s basic character or person-
ality. In reality, of course, the patient’s
response may be quite appropriate to
the kind of experiences he has had, a
resourceful attempt to cope with feel-
ings of inner turmoil and an effort to
maintain emotional stability.

The worker who can develop some in-
sight into the nature of his own prej-
udices and emotional myopia will be
the worker who can more effectively use
himself as an instrument of recreation.
There are, of course, numerous other
examples of the range of possibilities
of this phenomenon.

Summary

It must be emphasized, above all
else, that a patient is a person. When
a breakdown in health occurs and the
person is no longer able to carry out
his responsibilities freely, and must de-
pend on others, many uncommon emo—
tional reactions may occur. The patient
will usually enjoy a variety of adaptive
techniques to insure a sense of mastery
in the face of the unknown and to pro-
vide him with a sense of security. In
a hospital setting, he becomes alert to
all environmental cues and constantly
searches for human contact as a source
of support.

Of all hospital personnel, the recrea-
tion worker is in a particularly' unique
and advantageous position in this re-
gard. The worker who is alert to the
possibilities in using himself as a rec-
reation tool will contribute much to
the reduction of anxieties in the ill. The
“how” of doing is infinitely more im-
portant than the “what.” Any profes-
sion responsible for the welfare of peo-
ple must recognize the powerful force
of human relatedness and harness its
energy for the purpose of achieving pro-
fessional goals. I

RECREATION

,a mu- :- — Ian I usualulmmlmu-unw

Recruiting for Recreation

A recreation fellowship is established by teen-agers.

a

As IN MANY other recreation agencies, the Help Wanted

sign has been swaying in the Indiana breeze at the
Evansville Community Center throughout its eight years of
operation.

Our sign has attracted a fabulous eight hundred and fifty
or more wonderful volunteer helpers from our community
each year. However, our urgent need for sufliciently trained
and qualified professional leaders has been-——just as in your
agency, no doubt—omnipresent.

We understand from our community center director,
Arthur Grady, that every recent regional, state, and na-
tional recreation conference has had at least one “mourning
session” devoted to the problem of the dearth of professional
recreation leadership. Too often, it seems, these sessions
follow a Mark-Twain-ish pattern where “everyone talks
about the weather but no one does anything about it.”
None, that is, except our Evansville teen-agers who have

concocted a unique “do-it-yourself” approach to their lead- ’

ership problem. Their answer is the Evansville Community
Center Recreational Scholarship. _

The board of directors of the Evansville Community Cen-
ter had established excellent personnel practices and attrac-
tive salary schedules with the hope of attracting the calibre
of professional help needed to staff its huge teen-agenpro-
gram. During 1947, the center’s first year, there was a total
teen-age membership of fifteen hundred; so far, in 1955,
the teen-age membership has increased to four thousand
three hundred and fifty. In addition, the center provides
facilities for more than two hundred and fifty adult organi-
zations.

To help the program staff, the center recruits help from
more than eight hundred and fifty volunteers each year, so
that the professional staff can be relieved of jobs such as
managing the snack bar and checkrooms, providing leader-
ship for clubs and classes, supervising oche and clerical
work. Much volunteer leadership has always been recruited
from the teen-agers too, and many “past-teeners” who were

MRS. SUHRHEINRICH is the mother of two teen-age boys, has
been a member of the board of directors of the Evansville
Community Center and, in addition, serves as publicity
chairman for the center as her Junior Service League vol-
unteer assignment.

JANUARY 1956

Mrs. Robert Suhrheinrich

active in the program during their high school days—those
who have outgrown the teen-age activities but enjoy remain-
ing active—give the center loads of help. .These volunteer
contributions are invaluable, but the vast problems of pro-
gram planning and organization are still jobs requiring
skilled professional leaders—which brings us back to the
same old problem! The possibility of solving the profes-
sional leadership shortage from within its own teen mem-
bership—~at least as far as the Evansville Community Center
was concerned—gained momentum in talking with some of
the young people.

Observation over a period of time has shown the line re-
sults with volunteer young people who are familiar with the
center’s unique philosophy, varied programs, methods of
operation, and general policy. The value of the “home-
grown” product has become more apparent; and possibly
with encouragement and a little financial assistance one or
more of these potential teen leaders could be given the neces-
sary boost to make recreation his or her chosen profes-
sional field. The student advisory council, official govern-
ing body for the teen-age membership, was asked to con-
sider the problem and to come up with ideas or suggestions
regarding it.

The result was the Evansville Community Center two-
thousand-dollar scholarship project—conceived, planned,
and made a reality, even to its financing, by the teen-agers.

Provisions of the Plan

1. Beginning May 1, 1955, and continuing each year
thereafter (unless terminated by future action of the student
advisory council and the board of directors of the Evansville
Community Center), a four-year scholarship shall be award-
ed to one graduating student of an Evansville high school,
provided that there is a candidate who meets the require-
ments and is approved by the scholarship selection commit-
tee of the Evansville Community Center.

2. The scholarship shall have a cash value of two thou-
sand dollars and will be paid to the school of the recipient’s
choice at a rate of two hundred and fifty dollars per
semester.

(The teen-agers insisted that they would go first class all
the way, even though a lesser amount might be incentive
enough!)

21

3. To be eligible as a candidate for this scholarship, the
boy or girl must be a graduating senior of an Evansville
high school which has official representation on the student
advisory council.

4. To be considered by the committee, a candidate must
be interested in the professional field of recreation, and
must desire to work toward a degree in this field.

5. The scholarship shall be valid only at a college or uni-
versity which offers a BS. degree in recreation.

6. Any student who has achieved a scholastic rating
which places him or her in the upper third of the graduat-
ing class may apply to the scholarship committee of his or
her school and make application for an interview with the
selection committee of the Evansville Community Center.

7. In addition to the applicant’s academic record, the
participation and leadership shown by the student in extra-
curricular activities in the high school shall be considered,
together with the interest, participation and leadership
shown in the recreational prOgrams of the Evansville Com-
munity Center, Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., church recreation pro-
grams, 4-H Junior Leaders, and /or other youth agencies.

(Although some standard has to be set for “book-larnin’,”
the student council felt that actual participation in such
programs would better indicate whether he is gifted in abil-
ity to lead people and how he agects those around him.)

8. Recipients of the scholarship shall supplement their
college studies in recreation as members of the Evansville
Community Center staff during at least two of the summer
vacation periods. The rate of salary during this period of
employment shall be commensurate with the responsibilities
and leadership that the student is able to assume.

(The summer-work idea works both ways—for the bene-
fit of the center in snagging an additional hand, and for the
student who not only supplements his income, but puts his
training to practical use, learning to handle groups of from
eight to one hundred, teaching dancing classes, leading club
groups, planning field trips and the countless other facets of
a teen-age youth center.)

9. Prior to the beginning of the second, third and fourth
year of study, the recipient shall meet with the scholarship
selection committee for the purpose of reviewing his or her
school work, and to evaluate his performance as a staff
worker during the summer employment period. Student
shall be expected to maintain a grade average which satis-
fies the scholarship requirements of the school which he or
she is attending. If no requirements are established, a mini-
mum of a “C” average is necessary. Approval of the con-

tinuation of the scholarship shall be given at this time by
the selection committee.

10. At the completion of four years of study and at least
two summers of employment at the Evansville Community
Center, the opportunity for employment as a full-time mem-
ber shall be considered on terms mutually acceptable to both

the scholarship recipient and the Evansville Community
Center.

11. Funds to finance the recreation scholarship shall be
appropriated from the membership fund of the high school
students of the Evansville Community Center. A special

22

account shall be created, suliicient to finance the entire cost
of each scholarship that is given. Checks will be drawn over
the signature of the treasurer and the executive director of
the Evansville Community Center. Parents of the scholar-
ship recipient shall indicate by a signed agreement that they
are willing and able to finance any additional costs which
are needed after the yearly grant has been used.

(Although the Evansville Community Center is a public
tax-supported agency, ALL money for the scholarship
comes from teen-age pockets—for each teen-ager pays a
one-dollar annual membership fee.and this teen-age money
is entirely administered by the teen-agers themselves.)

12. The Evansville Community Center Recreation Schol-
arship is an outright grant, provided the recipient main-
tains a satisfactory scholastic record and performs his or
her summer staff work in a manner which indicates the nec-
essary interest and ability in the field of recreation.

Repayment of all or part of the grant shall be eXpected

 

Virginia Sly (center above), winner of the first Evansville $§
Community Center Scholarship in Recreation, confers with P1
sor Garrett G. Eppley, chairman, and Mrs. Janet McLean, 0
Indiana University recreation department. Fund is teen-age prc

F

if the recipient transfers from the school of recreation to
another field of study. A notarized agreement signed by the
parents shall be effected, and the amount of repayment de-
termined by the selective committee.

13. Beginning September, 1955, any student desirous of
being considered for the Evansville Community-Center Rec-
reation Scholarship at the completion of the following school
year, may increase his or her activities record by doing
volunteer work in the community center’s recreation pro-
gram. Such'volunteer work will be on record with the selec-
tion committee when the scholarship is granted.

(Thereby, any teen-ager who thinks he may be interested
in applying for the scholarship has ample Opportunity to
start early in his school career, building up his chances for
consideration by increasing his volunteer work. Also, from
the center, he will be gaining additional training and ability
all through school.) '

14. The selection committee shall consist of the senior
class representatives on the student advisory council, the

RECREATION

counselors of the Evansville public high schools, and the
president and executive director of the Evansville Commu-

nity Center.
Approved April 26, 1955 by Norman 0. Long, president, and
Arthur J. Grady, executive director.

First Winner

Last June, the first winner of this unique do-it-yourself
scholarship was chosen. Virginia Sly, a June graduate of
Bosse High School, entered Indiana University this fall as
the first in the series of Evansville Community Center’s own
recreation leaders. Virginia, who has spent this summer
working at the center, was in the upper fifteen per cent of
her class, varsity yell leader for two years, member of the
student council and the girls’ athletic association, and active
in talent programs and youth church work.

Understandably proud of the teen-agers and their plan,
Mr. Grady wrote a number of universities to discover what
other recreation scholarships were available, and how the
center’s plan compared with them.

Commendation from Colleges

H. C. Hutchins, University of Wisconsin: “Your an-
nouncement of a scholarship for an individual who wishes
to undertake a professional career in recreation is rather
exciting. This is the only one of its kind of which I have
heard, and I think it established a fine precedent. . . .”

Garret G. Eppley, Indiana University: “Your student ad-
visory council-is to be highly complimented for the estab-
lishment of the recreation scholarship project . . . I know

Q‘W Wd

Having your own column is lots of “ stretchers at the heliport, to wave good-

 

Beatrice A. Hill

of no such project as you have initiated. You have made a
forward move to improve the quality of persons majoring
in recreation. . . .”

Charles K. Brightbill, University of Illinois: “Congratu-
lations to the Evansville Community Center, to you and to
all those responsible for establishing your recreation group
work scholarship plan. I am impressed not only with the
plan but also with the fact that it is for and supported by
high school students. . . .”

G. B. Fitzgerald, University of Minnesota: ‘. . . In‘my
Opinion this is a splendid project and a unique one. I know
of no recreation scholarship financed in this particular way,
nor do I know of any which match the financial provisions

of yours. Your group is to be heartily congratulated!”
‘1' * * *

‘

One recreation scholarship may sound insignificant at the
moment, but several of its developments bode well for the
future:

0 The Evansville Community Center is assured of a source
of trained leadership.

0 In time, many of the scholarship recipients will be trained
and available for employment elsewhere.

0 Because of the high scholarship requirements, this proj-
ect promises to attract the top-Hight high school graduates
into the field of recreation.

o If the scholarship idea has merit, other agencies and or-
ganizations may be motivated to help promising young
people enter the recreation field.

We are convinced that the immediate and long-range divi-
dends more than justify the investment. I

reation may be obtained by writing to:
Mrs. Gwen Smith, Administrative As-
sistant, American Recreation Society,
1129 Vermont Avenue, N .W., Washing-
ton 5, D.C.?

fun, but it is a really happy project only
if many others contribute suggestions
to it.’So, c’mon on, give! I’m sure
many of our readers have had some
wonderfully original ideas for Christ-
mas. Please write and tell me about
them.

We, here in New York, are having a
wonderful time! We have been asked
to set up publicity for the city’s two
chronic hospitals, both located on Wel-
fare Island in the middle of the East
River. We have a big deal planned—
“Operation Christmas Welfare Island
. . . By Land, Sea, and Air.” We ex-
pect to have one heliCOpter, one launch
from the fire department, one horse and
sleigh, and one red station wagon, each
vehicle with a Santa Claus operating it.
We take off by land, sea, and air from
the heliport on the Hudson River on
December 17 at noon. We plan to have

two dozen patients in wheelchairs and

MRS. HILL'iS the NRA consultant on
hospital recreation.

JANUARY 1956

bye to the four Santa Clauses. This
should make for good publicity for the
two hospitals, and gifts should begin
to pour in as soon as the story breaks.
Will let you know what happens!

Do You Know . . .

0 That the National Recreation Asso-
ciation and New York University are
having an Institute specifically con-
cerned with Recreation for the Aged,
Ill, and Handicapped on January 18,
19 and 20 at New York University?

0 That there is a very fine book on hos-
pital recreation called Recreation for
the Handicapped by Valerie Hunt. (See

page 37 for review.)

0 That there are two bulletins issued
by the National Recreation Associa-
tion: Recreation Leadership with the
Ill and Handicapped—A Service Ca-
reer for You (F61) and Suggested
Standards for Hospital Recreation Per-

sonnel (F62).
0 That Basic Concepts of Hospital Rec-

0 That Martin W. Meyer, formerly rec-
reation director, Montrose Veterans
Administration Hospital in New York
State, not only received his doctorate,
but has been engaged to do a very ex-
citing job in the State of Indiana? His

"title is Coordinator Activities Thera-

pies, Division of Mental Health, Indian-
apolis, and he is consultant to the many
ancillary therapies in the state h05pitals.

Here and There

0 Have you all seen a fine picture, tak-
ing place in a neuro-psychiatric hospi-
tal, Working and Playing to Health,
made by the National Mental Health
Association, and a brand new picture
made by the National Committee on the
Aging entitled, A Place to Live?

0 Is there a television program called
“Medical Horizens” in your locality?
In New York it’s Monday evening on
the ABC network. This program is a
really sensible, true picture of many
different types of hospitals.

23

    

   

An old-fashioned western hoe-down, in honor of George
Washington’s birthday, was featured during “Know
America” night. Music was provided by army personnel.

 

 

Knowing Y«

 

,_ This program, winner of the Sixth Army
Service Club Program Contest conducted
under the auspices of Headquarters Sixth
Army, and judged by the National Recrea-
tion Association, was submitted by the Pres-
idio Service Club, San Francisco, staffed by
Elizabeth de la Torre, Eileen Pierce, M ary-
ellen Pearson.

“Knowing Your World” extended over three months and a
planned for the purpose of correlating an educational progrz
with a theme dance.

February was “Know America.” The arm-chair traveler s:
movies of the scenic and productive wonders of the USA.
square dance party was the finale of Americana week.

March had “It’s Irish Week” with the presentation of grou
of Irish folk dancers and singers as well as films on Ireland. T
theme dance climaxed the week’s program. ’

April was “April in Paris” and the service club became a Pa:
street scene. Movie night took an enthusiastic audience to Pa:
and a speaker from the French Tourist OfEce answered questio
of wishful or soon-to-be visitors to Eur0pe.

Decorations and refreshments typical or suggestive of t
country, were used in each case to add authenticity to the pi
gram for the month. ’

 

 

For refreshments at the hoe-
down, hostesses made all kinds
of American pies. Left, girls
are slicing the pics for serv-
ing. What kind will you have?

Left: The Blarney Stone and
Wishing Well were a part of
Gaelic festivities, including an
“Irish Jig Night” and a
special “Leprechaun Party.”

Windows in the beautiful Pre-
sidio Club, San Francisco,
were put to excellent use in
“Knowing Your World” pro-
gram, which won first place.

 

orld

' ‘3 ‘ 1"".."1I3Iil F- 8700 W

t  -.‘

raw-Is MARCH '7 35:09 PM
 we Mme -‘ -5:oo 37.:

q a
v 3..."?

n'!‘ 1 "l. 1t;5\'.: \ '5‘... .- ‘  )'1 jivwn‘!

.I I t-OI no“ -lhll‘\o3a

Poster announcing Irish Week.

Basic Planning

Purpose: To coordinate large and small

oup activities with a common theme; to pre-
nt a program conducive to better understand-
; of peoples and countries; and to incorpo-
e other Special Services sections such as
-rary and crafts into service club program-

,.
Preparation: Over-all plans for needs of the
)gram were made the preceding month. The
lftS director and the librarian were informed
’ the theme.

Decorating supplies and refreshments other

in the usual monthly orders were requested.
ass—y

View of elaborate decorations
for the French program. Note
treatment of windows — cafe
awning, Eiffel Tower, and
fountains —— for atmosphere.

Right: Paris-in-the-spring air
permeated “April in Paris”
dance. Below: A glimpse of
the Rue de la Paix. Corsages
came from “Halle de Fleurs.”

 

Both were inexpensive and well within

budget limits.
Requests for services were submitted

to post agencies, photo lab, post news-
paper, post engineers, and the band.
Cooperation was excellent. The combo
was informed of the theme in advance
and had prepared many tunes appropri-
ate to the evening. Craft workers as-
sisted in the construction and erection
of decorations. The library had a dis~
play of books on the particular country

themed.
Publicity resources were utilized to

their full extent. The post paper, post-
ers, flyers, weekly bulletins, Daily Bul-
letin, movie slides and announcements
at Information and Education Section
meetings were used as a means to reach
all personnel.

Community agencies served a vital
part in making presentations authentic.
The Irish and French consuls contacted
individuals and organizations who
might be of assistance and referred
them to the directors. The French Tour-
ist Office supplied films, posters, pam-
phlets, maps, and a guest speaker. Air
line companies supplied posters and

o

films. Assistance from enlisted person-
nel increased as interest in the program
grew. Using a decorating party as a
stimulus: personneljoined in producing
pies for February’s cherry pie party
(the service club kitchen was filled with
pie makers); March’s shamrock cook-
ies were donated by a mess hall; odd
bits of material needed to create a Paris
street scene were found by enlisted
assistants.

Execution of Program

Supervision by service club director
and crafts director was necessary in
construction and arrangement of deco-
rations. Responsibility of securing and
returning films and film equipment
were delegated to NCO (non-commis-
sioned officer).

During the preparatory week, en-
listed personnel volunteered their serv-
ices on the nights of the programs and
were utilized to distribute corsages,
serve refreshments, and set up and run
the film projector. Volunteers were in-
formed well in advance of their exact
part in program. Their c00peration and
interest was a major factor in making

these world excursions successful.

Evaluation

From comments of participants, the
directors were satisfied that these pro-
grams fulfilled the purpose for which
they were established. Many enlisted
personnel who do not take part in the
established service club activities, par-
ticipated in this program—either from
the crafts aspect or educational angle.

Suggestions for further programs were
numerous.

Arm-chair travel attracts many men
who have either been overseas or will
be going; also, many couples take ad-
vantage of an Opportunity of this type
for sharing an evening at the service
club. Attendance increased monthly as
the program broadened.

Recommendations

This coordinated program can be
used in any service club—informative
pamphlets and films are secured easily
by mail request. The program is recom-
mended because of the unlimited theme
range; it may be adapted to sports,
science, literature, and music. I

 

Anne Livingston Retires

ANNE LIVINGSTON, recreation leadership training specialist for the
National Recreation Association since 1943, is retiring from
the Association staff as of January 1, 1956, although she will con-
tinue to take an occasional special assignment for the Association.

Her work in the past twelve years has taken her to every state—
in cities, towns, villages, and hamlets—where she has trained thous-
ands of professional and volunteer leaders in recreation depart-
ments, schools, churches, hospitals, camps, and many other agencies
serving youth. In addition to training others, she has demonstrated her own leadership skills
with groups ranging from less than a hundred to more than a thousand.

Mrs. Livingston came_to the Association with a wealth of talent and experience for her

 

26

work. After graduation from high school in St. Augustine, Florida, she took courses at the Uni-
versity of Florida and at Tampa University and ten years of special work in piano. She taught
music in public and private schools for five years, and for three years was music and social rec-
reation specialist for the department of public recreation in Jacksonville, Florida. Added to
this were five years as Florida state training specialist in music and social recreation and a
year as director of the Servicemen’s Pier at Miami Beach, the third largest servicemen’s center
in the country during the war. She is accredited by the California Department of Education as
an instructor in adult education and she has taught on the faculties of such institutions as
the University of Colorado and the University of Florida.

We know that the Association’s appreciation of her service and best wishes for success in
,carrying out her new plans and interests will be shared by her many friends throughout the
country.

RECREATION

 

Stewart L. Moyer

In every recreation program there come times when gay,
colorful costumes are needed. Plays, pageants, festivals,
parades, and special parties are made more effective by their
use. Easter demands rabbits; V alentine’s Day, red hearts
and flower costumes; Washington’s Birthday, the colonial
touch; Christmas, Santa Claus costumes—and so it goes.

Mothers and other members of volunteer groups give time
and pay the costs gladly; but the wise department saves its
costumes, adds to them each year—and ends with a real cos-
tume division.

The story which follows may light the way for other rec-
reation agencies that want to establish one, not only for their
own use but as a service project to the community.

Abandoned and Re-aetivated

COSTUMING is a unique branch of the Reading (Pennsyl-
vania) Recreation Department which had its birth as a
W.P.A. sewing project in the 1930’s. Its original purpose
was to employ persons to make costumes for a traveling the-
atre group. When the project was abandoned, the costumes
were stored unsystematically and could be borrowed only if
they could be found. If and when the costumes were found,
they were likely to be dirty and moth-eaten since no care
was then given to them.

At this time a local woman, Mrs.‘ Irma Epler, had the job
of attempting to fill requests from the playgrounds for vari-
ous needs. One of the most frequent requests was for cos-
tumes. Therefore, she and the dramatics supervisor of the
playgrounds started a campaign to have the abandoned sew-
ing project re-activated through the recreation department
for the department’s use in its program. The campaign was
a success and a part-time employee was hired in 1949 to
handle the many requests for costumes. In 1950, with an
ever increasing demand for this unique service, it became
essential that a full-time employee be hired; and Mrs. Epler
was asked to accept this position. Under her guidance, the
project is still flourishing. "

Finances

All finances go directly through the recreation department,
with a $300 budget for the service and a salary of $2,570
for the employee. The department brings in some money
through rental charges; however, the major portion comes
from the allocated budget. A three-dollar deposit charge is
required of individuals renting costumes, with a one dollar
and fifty cent refund. For organizations, the rental fee is
fifty cents per costume; for churches and schools, thirty-five
cents per costume. The Santa Claus and Mrs. Santa Claus

 

MR. MOYER is the superintendent of recreation in Reading.

i JANUARY 1956

suits (each one packed in its own suitcase) have five-dollar
deposit charges and four-dollar refunds. The money from
these rental charges is used for the upkeep, laundering of
the costumes, and the purchasing of additional accessories.

Costume Orders and Types

Costume orders at times come in about six months in ad-
vance; however, notice of five or six days is usually time
enough for the director to have the costumes ready. Cos-
tumes must be returned two days after use—except Santa
Claus suits which are picked up immediately before use and
returned immediately after. Some orders come in from a
hundred miles away. Costumes are also rented to a local
summer stock theatre group.

Since there is no method of sterilizing wigs and beards,
they are not rented through the costume department. Ex-
ceptions are the Santa Claus beards which are made of yak
hair and, therefore, can be laundered.

In storage today are approximately one thousand cos-
tumes, ranging from size two to twenty. Most of them have
been made with separate tops and bottoms in order to fit
more sizes. A person can be outfitted to be anything from a
Biblical character to a modern military hero.

Costume Usage

Approximately one hundred and seventy-five new cos-
tumes are produced each year; each costume’s estimated use
warrants its production. Here is a usage graph of 1954.

   

1000

    

                

950
--------—---
:33 ——-————————_
m -_--——_-—-_-
,,, ——-——--—-———
,0, --—---—--—--
,,, ——-—-—————_—
w, ——-—-—-———_—
,,, ————----—-——
,,, _————_——————
4,, ———————--———
4,, _—--—-—_——-_
,,, --—---—--—-_
,0, _--—--—--—--
,,, -—-—_———————
,0, —_-—--——_-——
,,, -—-——-—————_
,,, ——----———---
,, —-——---—-—-

JAN. FEB. ms. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. - sen. ocr. aov. DEC.

Materials and Care

Almost all of the costumes are made, laundered, and
mended in the department. Some full dress and military
outfits, evening gowns, and hats have been donated. Some
outfits are bought at rummage sales and decorated. It takes
about one full week per month to launder and mend those
costumes needing such care. Percale, taffeta, and organdy
are extensively used in the making of costumes for they are
inexpensive, launder well, and have a smart appearance. The
costumes are generally made from a basic pattern and ideas
for ornamentation taken from authentic pictures.

All that is required to start such a program is storage
space, a part-time employee, and a small amount of cash.
It has been a success in Reading—so why not try it? I

27

-a n h
— '

 

    
    

   
  
 

1 .- ‘ I. ‘*
' . ' , g. _ . 'M'V
., ‘ -  372%
‘ a  -s
a o ’ ’3 '
. '- j... I!
- . " at {as

 

Age-Determination Date

The American Recreation Society, at
its meeting in Denver in September,
adopted September 1 as the date for de-
termination of age for participants in
all summer sports. The National Com-
mittee for Amateur Baseball had sug-
gested the idea for baseball, but recrea-
tion executives approved so highly that
they adopted it for all sports. Although
this date is not mandatory on individual
recreation departments, it has a strong
recommendatory influence.

Allie Quatrano Honored

Allie P. Quatrano, assistant recrea-
tion director in Elmira, New York, has
received the “1955 Friend of the Boy”
award presented by the Elmira Optim-
ist Club at a Rotary Club fellowship
meeting. It is the first time such an
award has been given in this city. The
Optimist Club sponsors the local annual
kiddies’ Halloween party, bicycle rodeo,
and indoor track meet, as well as many
other youth activities.

November Elections Bring
Successful Bond Issues

In November elections over the coun-
try, many successful bond issues or ref-
erendums for recreation purposes were
passed. Some of them are:

0 Tulsa, Oklahoma—a bond issue of
$1,000,000 for additions to park facili-

ties.

0 Denver, Colorado—park bonds in
the amount of $1,000,000 for installa-
tion of water systems, utilities, and new
areas, including play areas.

0 Columbia, Missouri—park bonds in
an amount of $75,000 for park improve-
ments and land additions.

0 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania — au-
thorization for loans in the amount of
$42,368,389 for general city improve-
ments. Of this amount, $1,716,509 was
authorized for new playgrounds, recre-
ation centers, and necessary condition-
ing of these facilities.

0 San Francisco, California —-— a $7,-
000,000 bond issue for new park areas,

 

“I can tell you what’s wrong. It’s the P.A.L. and the Y.M.CA. and all those boys’
clubs keeping them off the streets. That’s what’s wrong.”

28

Reproduced by permission.
© 1955 The New Yorker Magazine, Inc.

rehabilitation of Golden Gate Park and

a number of other facilities, two new
covered swimming pools, a sportsman
center, and additional land for park and
recreation purposes.

0 F ostoria, Ohio —— a .3 mill levy
amounting to $10,500 annually for the
next five years for the operation of its
recreation program.

0 Wayne, M ichigan—the city council
approved expenditure of $280,000 in
bonds for construction of an artificial
skating rink, outdoor swimming pool,
and a recreation building.

Pool Magazine Renamed

Beach & Pool and Swimming has
been renamed Swimming Pool Age ef-
fective with its January 1956 issue. The
twenty-nine-year-old monthly magazine
serves operators of public pools, archi-
tects, designers, contractors, and others
concerned with construction, mainte-
nance, and supply of swimming pools.
Offices of the publication are at 425
Fourth Avenue, New York City.

Unusual Athletic Field Plan
According to The New York Times,

an unusual athletic field arrangement
between Columbia University and New
York City has been approved:

“Columbia University will build for
city ownership an athletic field on the
south end of Morningside Park.

“Columbia will spend $200,000 to
develop the three-and-one-half—acre site.
From October 31 to May 31 annually,
Columbia will have exclusive use of the
field for its athletic teams on Monday
through Friday from 8 AM. to 6 PM.
The public will use the facility Satur-
days and Sundays all year, and Mon-
days through Friday from June 1 to
September 30.

“Columbia will provide trained su-
pervision not only for its own teams,
but also for any organized community
group teams that may use the field dur-
ing public-use time. The agreement is
to run for ten years, revocable at any
time by the city but not by the uni-
versity.”

Golden-Age Pin

Georgene E. Bowen, director of edu-
cation-recreation for older people in
Philadelphia, writes:

“The newest development among the
older people’s clubs in the Philadelphia
area is the golden-age pin. The cost of
making an insignia is almost prohibi-
tive for one club, but, as a joint proj-
ect of the one hundred eighteen club
groups in our area, it was possible to
finance it. Now that the die has been
made, the pin is available to any authen-

RECREATION

CLEANUP
PROGRAMS
PROGRESS

 

Arthur Chase (center) introduces “Parky” the Cleanup Kan-
garoo to Alfred B. LaGasse (left), executive secretary of the
American Institute of Park Executives, and Joseph Prendergast,
executive director ,of the National Recreation Association.

At the second annual conference of the Keep America Beautiful, Inc., N a-
tional Advisory Council, Arthur Chase, coordinator of the “Parky” Cleanup Pro-
gram of the Los Angeles Recreation and Park Department, told of the intensive
promotion program which has made “Parky” the Cleanup Kangeroo a widely-
known and popular anti-litter symbol. Among the various promotion plans was
a national song contest last spring—and the prize winning entry, “Parky the Tidy
Kangeroo,” is now used in many sections of the country. “Parky” cleanup pro-
grams have been inaugurated in Los Angeles elementary and high schools and
are part of the driver-education programs.

l

Joseph Prendergast, chairman of the KAB National Advisory Council, in

making his report to the council, commented: “Those of us in the recreation and
park field, like my own agency, the National Recreation Association, are eSpecially
concerned with littering as it affects the two hundred million acres of national park
' and forest lands, five million acres of state parks, and one million acres of local

and regional parks and recreation areas.

“There are many of us on this National Advisory Council who are deeply
offended by the effect of littering on the beauty of America; we are also concerned
with its economic waste. Some of us- are in the fight against litter because it is a
health menace or a fire and safety hazard. All of us are concerned with the chal-
lenge the litter problem offers for basic education in good citizenship.”

 
   
   
   
  
  
   

tic club for older people at a minimal
- cost. '

“This pin was ,developed with the help
of the committee on recreation for older
peOple. Its symbolism and design were
discussed and voted upon by representa-
' tives of the local clubs, so the emblem
is truly the result of their wishes.”

‘ The gold-colored metal pin has a
; green-enamel pine or evergreen tree—
' for long life, strength, perseverance, “al-
ways green”—encircled with the words
. “Love, Play, Learn, Serve,” and the
, border of the pin is a laurel wreath—
I for honor. "

;. The manufacturer, James Spencer
f and Company, 22 North Sixth Street,
Philadelphia 16, is now ready to dis-
tribute these pins at little more than
cost.

None So Blind

Ears and hands must substitute for
eyes when sightless children engage in
sports. At schools for the blind, basket-

u JANUARY 1956

 

ball players are' guided in tossing their
shots, by a bell on the back rim of the
basket. In volleyball a ticking metro-
nome under the net indicates its posi-
tion, and players can hear the rice-filled
balloon they use for a ball. For the
archer there is a bell above the target to
guide his shot, and in the sixty-yard
dash the runners keep in line by sliding

their hands along wires. — National
Parent-Teacher, October, 1955.

Workshop on Interpretive
Programs

The Second Annual Workshop on In-
terpretive Programs will be held at
Bradford Woods, Indiana, on Monday,
Tuesday, and Wednesday, April 2, 3,
and 4. The workshOp is designed for
those interested primarily in the out-
door education programs of national,
state, and local 'parks and their relation
to the outdoor programs of schools,
museums, and other agencies. The 1955

   

workshOp was attended by over sixty
leaders in outdoor education and was
sponsored by the National Conference
on State Parks, the American Institute
of Park Executives, and Indiana Uni-
versity. For further information and
registration, write Reynold Carlson,

Alpha Hall, Indiana University, Bloom-
ington, Indiana.

No Idle Hands

Labor unions in New York City are
considering a plan under which skilled
craftsmen wbuld help keep the hands of
young people busy and out of mischief.
The CIO Council in New York plans to

send artisans into settlement houses to

teach young people the rudiments of a
craft.

Sports Photo Contest

Rawlings Sporting Goods Company
has announced its 1956 Sports Photo
Contest which is “Open to anyone who
has the occasion to point a lens at an
athletic event.” Deadline for entries is
June 15, 1956. Monetary awards will
be given for the eight best photos taken
during the 1955 football season, 1955-
56 basketball season, 1956 baseball sea-
son (up to contest deadline date), or of
other sports such as track, volleyball,
boxing, softball, and so on. Write to the
Public Relations Department of the -
company at 2300 Delmar Boulevard, St.
Louis 3, Missouri, for further informa-
tion and entry blanks.

In Memoriam

Thomas H. Pemberton, superinten-
dent of parks and recreation in Youngs-
town, Ohio, since 1932, died on Novem-
ber 28. Mr. Pemberton came from the
business field to the recreation field and
proved himself an able administrator
and executive. The park and recrea-
tion areas he developed are beautifully
landscaped and maintained, and are the
pride of the people of Youngstown.

Tom Pemberton, in his long recrea-
tion career, acquired many friends and
earned the respect of those with whom
he worked, locally and nationwide.

New Golden Age Club pin
available only to authentic
clubs. Goid colored metal,
green enamel tree, safety
catch, 50c. each, minimum
order 10 pins.

I JAMES SPENCER & (0.
22 N. 6th Street, Philadelphia 6, Pa.

 

   
  
 
 
 

 

Q 9. FREE! This Beautiful BIG Illustrated

 LEATHERCRAF‘I’ CATALOG
I Make Leather urses, alts. illfo s
J. c, LARSON "1., 820 So. Tripp Ave.

G: Department 5505, Chicago 24, Illinois
FREE! Big Illustrated Do-lt-Yourselt

-ME'I'AI.CRAFT CATALOG

Make Aluminum, Copper, Foil items
J. C. lARSON CO" 820 So. Tripp Ave.
Department 5505, Chicago 24. Iliinois

   
     

  
   

29

Shelter

and
Recreatlon

Responsibility for a team job challenges the wide-awake recreation administrator.

HOUSING and local welfare agencies are teaming up on
joint problems in a number of communities and are
finding that collective effort can aid them in the many phases
of their jobs, according to the May 1955 issue of The four-
nal of Housing. In New York City, for instance, the board
of estimate, in March, “took a significant step in the city’s
fight against juvenile delinquency” by appropriating $203,-
513 to finance a recreation program worked out by the city
housing authority, the board of education, and the youth
board. The program was to be supervised by “150 trained
professionals from the board of education and the youth
board.”

In Newark, New Jersey, the housing authority was build-
ing new recreation facilities at three of its projects, to be
staffed by the recreation division of the board of education.

The social worker’s place in the urban renewal housing
, program has been outlined to this group at the Arkansas
Conference of Social Work, and at a one-day seminar con-
ducted by the Pittsburgh Housing Association, and at the
_Nati0nal Social Welfare Assembly, among other meetings.

Where, then, do recreation and park administrators, de-
partments, boards and commissions fit into this picture of
providing the necessary recreation facilities and services
in new housing develOpments?

In December 1954, an all-day workshop conference on
problems involving the coordination of community services
with public housing facilities was held by oflicials and tech-
nicians of the Public Housing Administration, National
Recreation Association, National Federation of Settlements,
National Social Welfare Assembly, and other interested
agencies at the New York field office of the PHA.

The workshop initiated a program in which public hous-
ing oHicials will enlist the professional skills and services
of trained field specialists of the National Recreation As-
sociation and local public housing and recreation authori-
ties in the planning and design of tenant activity space and
the securing of more understanding by communities of lead-
ership, programs, and services for project families.

Since then, district representatives of the Association,
as far as possible, have been working with local recreation
and park executives and housing authorities to set up such

a cooperative arrangement.

Basic to this whole problem is recognition, on the part
of both of these important groups, of the necessity for such

recreation services and advance planning for them. With- '

out question, professional leaders in public recreation and
among local housing authorities should be working together,

30

especially at the advance planning stage, helping each other
at this point, to assure the provision of recreation facilities
and' services where needed. This is being done, in many in-
stances, by wide-awake and forward-looking park and rec-
reation administrators and housing executives; but, by and
large, more dynamic leadership is called for on the part of
both and of other community agencies concerned.

I

Instances of Cooperation Reported '
by Local Departments

Activities of some typical communities of varying sizes,
where effective cooperation now exists and where the recre-
ation problems in housing neighborhoods are being met
through joint endeavor, have been reported to NRA dis-
trict representatives. It is impossible to note all of them here,
but among them the following are cited as examples of the
sort of thing being done in various parts of the country.

New Rochelle, New York. There are two housing develop-
ments. At one, the recreation commission was given about
two acres adjacent to the project and a program is con-
ducted there during the summer. They are now asking the
city council for an appropriation of $15,000 to recondition
this area. Adjacent to the other development, the housing
authority has given to the city, for park and recreation use,
a parcel 265 by 1,100 feet (six acres plus). The recreation
commission supplies the leadership, equipment, and so on,
in all cases Where recreation is provided.

So far, the city manager and the city council have been
very cooperative in making appropriations for this work.
Those lands which have been conditioned are maintained
by the bureau of parks, such work being done when re-
quested by the superintendent of recreation. In this agreed
arrangement there is' no direct working agreement between
the housing authority and the bureau of parks. In order
to have the work progress consistently, the city manager
monthly meets with the recreation commission, the director
of public works, the manager of parks, the maintenance
foreman, and the superintendent of recreation.

Baltimore, Maryland. The over-all planning of recreation
areas and facilities for total community recreation needs

is in the hands of a special committee which works primar-
ily through the department of planning. Its chairman is
from the city planning staff. Other committee representa-
tives are staff members from .the housing authority, the
board of education, public health department, park depart-
ment, local council of social agencies, and the citizens’

RECREATION

housing association.

At present the committee is planning required recreation
facilities for areas which are considered urban renewal pro-
jects, primarily involving new housing developments. The
over-all commjttee meets frequently and on special call.

Two other significant projects have been developed by
this committee. First, the board of education and the rec-
reation and park department are jointly financing certain
recreation facilities to be included in a new school building.
Second, a first attempt is being made at joint-facilities plan-
ning in a new housing develOpment. Prior to any construc-
tion, the housing authority, board of education, and the
recreation and park department developed a unified plan.
The recreation building for the housing development will
be an enlargement and remodeling of an existing building
owned by the recreation and park department. Shortly,
when the school building for this neighborhood is con-
structed, the regular school gymnasium will be placed in
the newly developed recreation center building in the hous-
ing project. These various features are being jointly
financed and planned by the three public agencies involved.

It is significant that a citizens’ advisory committee on
urban redevelopment was set up some time ago, to support
the findings and recommendations of the over-all planning
committee and to appear before council and important com-
munity grOUps to secure approval of such joint plans.

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 

Dallas, Texas. An excellent example of advance planning
is shown here, in a good job of coordinating plans of the
housing authority with those of the city planning author-
ities and other government agencies. This early planning
gave the park board of Dallas opportunity to purchase park
sites in the vicinity of, or adjacent to, housing areas, in most
instances, and gave school authorities the opportunity to
acquire sites in the same vicinities. In the preparation of
building plans and specifications for the housing projects,
auditoriums, craft rooms, social areas, and small children’s
play areas equipped with play apparatus were included.

Leadership is provided at all of the community centers
which are adjacent to the housing projects and for the play
areas which are directly under the park and recreation de-
partment. In many instances, the department has set up
centers in the housing projects, using housing facilities.

Surveys are made at frequent intervals to determine pa-
tronage that would be available at the park site as well as
l the community centers adjacent to the projects. As the

need for additional facilities arises, locations and types of
' facilities are decided upon by representatives of the housing
' authority and the park and recreation department.

‘ Sylacauga, Alabama. This spring, the recreation superin-
tendent worked closely with the housing executive in the
development of the playground in the housing area. The
_ ity helped, housing used maintenance crews to assist, and
pcivic clubs contributed money for, equipment. In less than

{JANUARY 1956

two months time, by this team effort, an unimproved area
was transposed into a very attractive playground. This pro-
ject is an extremely good example of 000perative effort.

Boston, Massachusetts. The recreation administrator is
doing everything possible to assist the housing authority,
and in a few cases has sacrificed plans for one of his own
regular playgrounds to provide leadership. Recently, the
mayor has appointed a committee to conduct a working
study of recreation needs in certain sections of Boston.
Three or four qualified leaders—also good community or-
ganizers—are to be employed by this committee to put on
demonstration programs and to try to determine what the
pe0ple want and what additional facilities, if any, are
,needed. They will work in a number of the housing pro-
jects and try to determine why these residents and the sur-

rounding community do “not live closer together—as a
neighborhood unit.

Philadelphia. On the first project involving the oint plan-
ning of the department of recreation, board of education,
and the Philadelphia Housing Authority, it was agreed that
there should be no duplication of facilities in future com-
munity planning, that each agency concerned should be
consulted as to facilities needed and the supervision there-
of, and that—before planning—the department of recrea-
tion will inquire as _to whether any other agency is planning

 

to build through the city planning commission and coordi-
nating council, in order to prevent excess eXpenditures of
public funds.

Assistance is given by the recreation department to the
housing authorities in planning the recreation program de-
signed to serve housing residents. Leadership is provided
by the recreation department. Supplies and equipment for
the program are the responsibility of the housing authority.

Leaders provided by the recreation department during
July and August attend an in-service training period of two

" days; only those with proper qualifications, training, and

experience are selected and assigned to the housing projects.
The resident aides or managers also are invited to attend.

Throughout the year, the recreation coordination board,
acting as advisor to the commissioner of recreation, con-
fers with the city planning commission and executives of
other municipal agencies to plan for future development
and the best coordinated use of existing facilities. With the
executive policy set, meetings of the administrative heads
of the two agencies interpret policy on a local level, and
help, in general, to give the best service to all communities
possible. Meetings are held weekly or monthly.

Paterson, New Jersey. Planning is a cooperative process.
The board of recreation is in the picture from the earliest
stages—as the housing authority begins consideration of
a new project, they are consulted about the recreation facili-
ties; when the plans are put down on paper, there are con-

31

ferences with the architects; when construction begins, they
assist in supervising.

The residents of the housing projects are treated exactly
as any other citizens of the city. Frequently both the hous-
ing authority and residents in the projects call upon the
recreation board for advice and assistance in solving rec-
reation problems or in organization of program activities.

Pittsburgh. In the past five years representatives of the
parks and recreation department have been specifically
asked to sit with the architects planning a new housing pro-
ject, to lay out and design its recreation area.

All six housing projects in the city have recreation pro-
grams. Leadership is provided by the department’s bureau
of recreation activities, for both indoor and outdoor pro-
grams, and is composed of full-time trained people as well
as part-time leaders.

The agreement between the department and the housing
authority for supplies and equipment has been worked out
as follows: all expendable supplies are furnished by the
department; permanent equipment and maintenance, as
well as repair, by.the housing authority. The authority and
the bureau meet regularly to discuss common needs.

Milwaukee. The Milwaukee Public Schools Department of
Municipal Recreation cooperates with the Milwaukee Hous-
ing Authority in conducting regular, supervised playground
activities in public housing projects. Maintenance and oper-
ation of such playgrounds are the responsibility of the
recreation department. The department and the housing
authority jointly plan the construction of recreation build-

ings within housing projects. When this is the case, the '_

recreation department conducts the entire indoor program.

The maintenance of the recreation building, indoors and
out, is the responsibility of the housing authority, as are
light, heat, and water. Janitor and leadership services are
paidhfor by the recreation department. These agreements
are drawn up by the city attorney with the housing author-
ity. The board of school directors signs the agreement. All
recreation supplies are furnished by the recreation depart-
ment; playground equipment is furnished by the housing
authority. The entire costs of construction of the playground
and the recreation building are borne by the housing
authority.

Decatur, Illinois. Originally, when the housing development
was established, the recreation department made a number
of recommendations which were followed regarding the de-
velopment of indoor and outdoor recreation facilities. Since
that time, the recreation department has employed a full-
time person to conduct the recreation program at the hous-
ing project and also serve as summer playground leader.
The director of the housing project and members of his
staff are very much interested in cooperating with the rec-
reation department, and have stated many times that this
program means a great deal to the success of the project.

Instances Reported by PHA Field Offices

The following reports from Public Housing Administra-
tion field oHices were sent to NRA from PHA headquarters:

32

Atlanta. Good cooperation between the housing authorities
and local recreation leaders in Nashville and Chattanooga,
Tennessee; Gadsden, Alabama; Louisville, Kentucky.

San Francisco. Housing Authority of the city and county
has recently executed a formal contract with the park and
recreation department covering complete operation of the
local authority-owned gymnasium, culminating several
years of joint operation and cooperative effort. Also reports
good cooperative results from the housing authorities of
Eureka, Los Angeles, San Joaquin County, and Vallejo,
California; Seattle, Washington; and Hawaii.

New Y ork. Good programs have been established in cooper-
ation with the local recreation departments at the housing
authorities of New York City and Yonkers, New York;
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Bethlehem, and Easton, Pennsyl-
vania; Bayonne, Newark, Jersey City, and Trenton, N. J.

Chicago. This field office does not list definite examples of
good cooperation, but does state that good recreation pro-
grams have been established in Cleveland and Youngstown,

Ohio; Detroit, Michigan; and Chicago, Rockford, and
Quincy, Illinois.

Washington, D. C. Complete cooperation where the entire
program is under the supervision of the city récreation de-
partment during the entire year, e.g., Norfolk and Rich-
mond, Virginia.

Cooperation to the extent that the city recreation depart-
ment assigns workers to the community buildings of the
local housing authority on a year-round basis. Under this
arrangement, however, supervision of the program is re-
tained by the local authority, eg., Baltimore. Cooperation
which results in a program for summer months only, e.g.,
Portsmouth and Newport News, Virginia.

To conclude from the above statements that the problem
is being met satisfactorily in cities generally would be er-
roneous. Unfortunately, all too many instances could be
cited to the contrary. They are the situations where unsuc-
cessful attempts, to provide for the indoor and other recrea-
tion facilities now needed, have been made since construc-
tion and occupancy of the housing project rather than in
advance. If these recreation problems could regularly and
jointly be faced by the municipal recreation and housing
authorities at the pre-building stage, much of the later dis-
appointment by the residents could be avoided. Both of
these authorities have an important responsibility to insure
the required planning before an inadequate pattern is
frozen in construction and occupancy.

Other city recreation departments reporting, which are
notable for cooperative working relationship with local
housing authorities and which, unfortunately, could not be
described in detail here, are: Mobile, Opelika, and Mont-
gomery, Alabama; Nashville, Tennessee; San Antonio,
Houston, and Corpus Christi, Texas; New Orleans; Rahway,
Irvington, Perth Amboy, and Newark, New Jersey; Spring-
field, Rock Island, and Moline, Illinois. We are sharing
some of this good material with the PHA in Washington,
and hope some can be used in RECREATION in the future. I

RECREATION

i
i
l
i
i
i
i
l
g
E

for the

Administrator

NOTES .

Priority Plan for Area Development

Robert L. Burgan, parks and recreation director in Al-
buquerque, New Mexico, has prepared a priority-program
plan of development for park and recreation areas for the
city. In setting up a priority rating for various units in the
plan he has developed a number of unusual rating factors.
The following is a list of them:

1. Population Density—-—-A high score indicates a high population
density.

2. Incidence of Juvenile Delinquency-Here again a high score in-
dicates a high incidence of juvenile delinquency.

3. Existing Facilities—A high score indicates little or no existing
facilities; a low score indicates the presence of others.

4. Site Suitability—Embraces three factors: (a) location of arterial
highways; (b) drainage plans and patterns; and (c) zoning of the
adjoining area.

A high score indicates that these factors have little or no effect upon
the proposed area development.

5. Size of Area—The score indicates the degree to which the area
meets the playground standard of from four to seven acres or the
playfield standard of twelve acres or more.

6. Age of Subdivision—The older the subdivision the higher the
score.

Each playground ,or playlield area proposed for acquisi-
tion or development was assigned a priority rating on the
basis of the previously listed factors. The plan contains
specific recommendations for acquisition and development

for the years 1955—1958.

Special State Legislation Poses Problem

The disadvantages of special state legislation creating or
authorizing local recreation agencies, but restricting its ap-
plication to a single city, are illustrated by the experience
in a Midwest city. A special state law enacted in 1945 was
passed to enable a city of some 100,000 to create a recrea-
tion commission, but the law was applicable only to a city
of a certain population in a county with a valuation of not
morethan $150,000,000. In 1955 the valuation of the county
exceeded $150,000,000 so the law is no longer in effect and
the present recreation commission must be abolished. The
city is confronted with the problem of how to reconstitute
its recreation commission and continue to provide a recrea-
tion service.

Results from Bond Funds EXpenditures '

Two recreation and park authorities have recently issued
reports of the results which have been obtained from the
expenditure of bond funds. One year after the people of
East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana, voted $2,625,000 in
bonds for new recreation and park improvements, the rec-
reation and park commission issued an attractive, profusely
illustrated, folder portraying a number of the-improvements
completed during the first year. Among these are six new
playground shelter buildings, new children’s play areas,
golf course and club house, eleven tennis courts, and swim-
ming pool renovation. Under a heading “What Comes Next
and Why” appears a list of areas and facilities which are
scheduled for development, as well as a number already

JANUARY 1956

under construction.

George Hjelte, general manager of the recreation and
park department in Los Angeles, in October submitted to
the city recreation and park commission a final report on
the development program financed by a bond issue of $12,-
078,000 approved in May, 1947. Among the new facilities
are forty-eight municipal playgrounds, eleven swimming
pools, a Hollywoodland Girls Camp and improvements at
several other camp areas, enlargement and improvement of
forty playgrounds, and purchase of five additional sites.
Although the bond-fund building program was interrupted
by the Korean conflict, and construction costs sky-rocketed
with the resumption of building after World War II, more
facilities and improvements were actually provided than
were listed in the bond-fund proposal. The commission com-
mended the department staff for carrying out the bond-fund
program with notable success.

Segregation Invalid on Golf Courses

In action for judgment declaring that defendant’s refusal
to permit plaintiffs and other Negroes to play on golf course
owned and operated by city and city ordinance prohibiting
Negroes from frequenting city parks maintained for use by
white people were invalid, held, enjoining city from refusing
admittance to Negroes to city parks golf courses was suf-
ficient relief and court did not have to rule that defendants

’ were required by Fourteenth Amendment of Federal Con-

stitution to admit Negroes to such public places, as plaintiffs
were given everything they asked for in judgment. Holmes

v City of Atlanta, 223 F.2d 93 (5th Cir., June 17, 1955.)—
T he American City, November 1955.

Municipal Salesmansllip

“Municipal Salesmanship” was the subject of an address
given by Mayor deLesseps S. Morrison of New Orleans at
the 1954 meeting of the Colorado Municipal League. In his
speech, Mayor Morrison stated: “It is my belief that every
municipal government, large and small, is engaged in sales-
manship in its broadest meaning from the moment of its
formation.” He mentioned many ways in which the New
Orleans City Hall is being brought to the people.

One feature is a weekly tour of the city. The mayor dedi-
cates each Thursday from 2:00 to 5:00 RM. to this task and
he estimates that in the past six years he has probably con-
ducted 25,000 of the city’s citizens on these bus tours. Loud-
speakers are used and selected stops along the way are made
“at important projects or park and playground locations.”

The mayor listed several advantages of the tour program:
“First, it gives a public official the opportunity of visiting
with an enthusiastic civic group each week and of properly
acquainting them completely and at first hand with the cur-
rent projects of the city. Second, it gives a public oflicial
an opportunity to find out what people want. Third, it pro-
vides a public oflicial with a scheduled, weekly tour of the
city for his own benefit and enlightenment. Frequently,
mistakes and bad conditions are seen at first hand and this
often provides the impetus for their correction.”

Park and recreation oflicials might well take a leaf from
Mayor Morrison’s notebook.

33

Safety Programs for Parks

Though drafted with state parks in mind, this first

step in a program to develop some techniques for the
prevention of injuries in park operation is applicable

Polk Hebert

AT THE Southeastern Conference last October, one of the
first programs on park safety was presented, and the
subject given consideration by those responsible for park
operation. We read, see, and hear the words “safety” or
“accident prevention” so frequently that we have accepted
these words as not meant for us but only for the masses. In
fact, we have gotten so close to the forest that we cannot see
the trees; these words have lost some of their meaning.
Therefore, we should back off and approach this from a dif-

ferent view.

Recently, one of the major parks in the city of New Or-
leans was the scene of the death of a fourteen-year-old
youngster. This was termed an accident in newspaper head-

LIFEGUARD SHOCKED—BOY KILLED

Police revealed Saturday to throw a person’s hand
that an Audubon Park life- away ordinarily.” He said
guard nearly lost his life that the S boy fell
trying to save a fourteen- across the Plate, however,
year-old,electrocuted when and that, being wet from

 

he fell on a charged plate
at the pool.

Killed instantly Friday
night was J— S . Badly

shocked when he tried to
pull S ’s inert form
from the metal plate was
lifeguard A— 8—. Police
said the plate covered a
brick-enclosed el e c tr i c a l

junction box next to the
walkaway around the pool.

G— D , park superin-
tendent, said that homicide
detectives and a city elec-

trical inspector remained
at the pool until 12:40 AM.

Saturday investigating the
accident.
“The cause of it was a

wire inside the junction
box that touched the metal

 

 

 

plate,” Superintendent D— the boy, 8—,

swimming, he was immedi—
ately grounded. Police were
told by eyewitnesses that
the boy had walked over to
area of the junction box
when he suddenly stiffened.
He fell across the metal
plate covering the junc-
tion box, according to po-
lice patrolmen. When the
lifeguard attempted to pull
the body from the plate, he
was thrown back by the
electricity and shocked.
A A , head life-
guard, succeeded in remov-
ing the body by pulling it
off the plate with a towel.
Police crash-truck crew-
men and a Charity Hospi-
tal doctor worked unsuc-
cessfully for about twenty
minutes in efforts to revive
seventh

 

 

said. “It was sending one grade high school student,
hundred and ten volts was pronounced dead by

through the plate—enough l the doctor at 8 :15 PM.

POLK HEBERT is a board member of the Louisiana State
Parks and Recreation Commission, and a member of the
New Orleans Chapter, American Society of Safety Engineers.

34

to all parks.

lines, but—let’s analyze it.

Was this really an accident, or did it show a lack of train-
ing on the part of employees who should not have left a
hazardous condition which might cause injury?

Let’s approach this situation from: (a) a basis of edu-
cation and training of personnel, (b) examination of con-
ditions which cause injury, and (c) a study of preventative
methods for controlling hazardous conditions which expose
the living to injury.

SET UP A TRAINING PROGRAM.

chure services of trained specialists to instruct key per-
sonnel. These can be secured from large industrial manu-
facturing plants or utility companies, your local chapter of
the American Society of Safety Engineers or the National
Safety Council.

SURVEY YOUR REQUIREMENTS AS TO THE TYPE OF PROGRAM
THAT WILL BEST FIT YOUR PERSONNEL AND PROBLEMS.

Have you maintenance shops with hand and power tools?
If you do, then select an industrial plant who has a trained
man in the safe operation, care, and use of this equipment.
Borrow this man to train your key personnel and, in turn,
let them train that part of your organization that will derive
the most benefits from this training.

Do you use heavy equipment, draglines, bulldozers,
graders, power shovels, snowplows, trucks, and so on? If
you do, contact your local heavy equipment dealer for safety
information for the proper and safe use of this equipment.
(The Gamblers, a safety film, is produced by the Caterpillar
Tractor Company and available from Boyce Harvey Mach-
inery, Inc., Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and other equipment
dealers or local offices.)

Have you roadway maintenance, nature trails, bridle
paths? For the proper and safe maintenance of your road-
ways, contact your state highway department; and for in-
formation on the maintenance of your nature trails and
bridle paths, contact your municipal groups and recreation
program directors.

Have you a building maintenance or new construction
program? IS SO, get in touch with the various building sup-
pliers who can furnish you with safety information.

Have you docks, boats, bathing facilities, pools and other
water sports? For information concerning the solution of
any problems pertaining to these facilities, contact your

From a talk delivered at the National Conference of State Parks,
Burlington, Vermont.

RECREATION

_O

0 American Red Cross, U. S. Coast Guard, local power boat
. squadron, or U. S. Navy.

Have you electric, telephone, water, sewer and gas dis-
tribution systems? The odds are that you will have problems
in the proper functioning of one or more of these facilities.
For an answer to your. problem, contact your local public

utilities company, telephone company, gas company, water
works association, the sewerage and sanitation board, or
your local state health authorities.

SET UP AN INSPECTION PROGRAM WITH A CHECK SYSTEM.

This has been successfully accomplished by a classifica-
tion and inspection which might be termed “How To Make
An Inspection.” First, it is advisable to make a checklist
of the things to be inspected. To accomplish this to the best
advantage and to give a complete inspection, the inspector
should use all five of his senses if possible:

. .__ mwmmrmmmmmwgsuwmimum

Look for signs of poor housekeeping, poor maintenance,
inadequate tools, unsuitable equipment, and so on.

Listen for sounds of escaping gas or water. Listen for
unusual sounds like thumps, squeaks, or squeals.

Feel for equipment or machinery that is vibrating unnec-
essarily. Feel for sharp points or edges that may cut or tear.
Feel for rigidity.

Smell for odors of leaking natural gas, acetylene gas,
spilled gasoline, or other eXplosive gases or liquids.

Taste the purity of drinking water, soft drink dispensers,
coffee urns, or drinking fountains.

Review in advance of an inSpection a list of possible mech-
anical or physical hazards which may be found during the

[ inspection, then follow the inSpection checklist whenever
possible.

  

Also, follow the inspection process whenever possible.
This applies primarily to grounds and buildings.

Do not attempt to correct unsafe working practices which
may be observed while making an inspection. Instead, bring
them to the attention of the proper supervisor, foreman, or
superintendent after the inspection has been completed, be-
cause you want to avoid disturbing or distracting those at
work. They might injure themselves if startled or distracted.
A good inspector is an unobtrusive person.

The typical inspection list which has been successfully
used is as follows:

0 Buildings, Lodges, Cabins, and Group Camps

CHECK: F

1. Foundations of buildings.

2. Piers under buildings.

3. Sills and other_ foundation for evidence of termites, damp-
ness, and dry rot.

4. Grades under buildings for moisture accumulation.

5. Foundation walls for cracks.

6. All pipes exposed under building, drains, gas line, sewer
and water lines.

7. All concrete walls and drains and clean outs.

8. Outside paint for peeling, mildew and damaged surface.
9. All screen windows and doors.

10. All glasses in doors, windows, and outside openings.
11. Condition of glass and glazing on each window.

{i JANUARY 1956

12. Condition of roof, drains, and valleys for accumulation
of leaves or other obstructions, and around chimneys and
windows.

13. Louvers for accumulation of birdnests and other ob-
structions.

14. Condition of outside grounds for cleanliness and any

hazardous conditions such as broken bottles or other harm-
ful objects.

15. Interior floors.
16. Interior walls.
17. Interior ceilings.
18. All closet spaces.

19. Looks on all doors and window hooks and latches.
20. Furniture, chairs, tables, beds, refrigerators, and stoves.

21. Bathroom, toilet, lavatory, shower, shower curtain,
towel rack, linens, and general appearances.

22. All wiring and light fixtures inside and out.

0 General Buildings and Grounds

CHECK: ,

1. General condition of building inside and outside same
as other building inspections.

2. Storage facilities.

3. Storage of materials.

4. All salvage materials.

0 Grounds

CHECK:

l. Entire area for hazardous conditions, debris, neglect,
protection and cleanliness.

2. All barricades, fences, signs, roads, sewers, water towers,
electric and gas system. -

3. All docks, piers, boats, paddles, and hazards on shore
line. -

4. For dead trees near building and picnic areas.

0 Equipment

CHECK:

1. Tractors, trucks, and automotive equipment.

2. All hand tools, power tools as to condition and use.
3. Stock of materials on hand.

4. Mileage on automotive equipment.

Report all damaged and obsolete equipment.

This inspection should be made on a monthly basis with
the inspector furnishing a copy to the foreman or park su-
perintendent who, in turn, will initial one c0py and mail to
his supervisor.

As a further check to determine that this inspection has
been completed, a supplementary inspection sheet should
be furnished the supervisory inspector, engineer, or assist-
ant park director, who will Classify the general over-all con-
ditions of each area.

Sufficient records should be maintained in the adminis-
trative office and the inspection sheets should be of such a
nature that they can be perforated and indexed so that each
area will be set up as a separate unit and can be referred to
immediately for ready reference or discussion with the su-
perintendent or individual involved. The success of this
system must not be handed to the operating personnel as a

35

Handweaving

—— for better recreation programs

America’s recreation leaders are recognizing the grow--
ing appeal for handweaving, by organizing and expand-
ing weaving programs. To help them plan better weaving
programs they rely on Handweaver & Craftsman for in-

formation about:

WEAVING DESIGNS 8. TECHNIQUES 0 MATERIALS 8. EQUIPMENT a
METHODS OF TEACHING WEAVING 0 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY PROJECTS

Articles written by noted H &W
handweavers of interest to:  
6— Craftsman

Recreation Center Directors
Camp & YWCA Directors
Occupational Therapists

Craft Instructors
Adult Education Directors

Read by more than 8000

handweavers in 4% states
and 36 foreign countries.

PUBLISHED QUARTERLY
— 64 PAGES

Send today for free index page

Handweaver & Craftsman
DEPT. R, 246 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 1, NEW YORK

Single copy 31, 1 yr $4, 2 yrs $7.50, 3 yrs $10, 5 yrs $15

Canadian postage 50c year extra, Pan-American & foreign $1

 

 

2mm
BINDER

- Heavy simulated-leather
° Gold stamped

' Opens flat for changes

0 Holds one year’s issues

 
   

\-————————————————__—____—_—

RECREATION MAGAZINE PLEASE FILL IN I

8 West Eighth Street Year Number of copies I
New York 11, N. Y. 1955 ................................ .. I
This is my order for ................ ..copies 1955 ----------------------------  I
of the RECREATION magazine binder. Undated ......................... ..

 

 

Name .................................................................................................... .. I

Address ................................................................................................ .. I
City ...................................................................................................... .. I

l ....................................................................................................... .. I

l I I I O D O I O D O o O O I I I I I a I I I I I I a I I l I l o I O O O l o I I l O l I l O O I I I I I o o I ll;  EnclosedonaonoODIOOoa-ootlalIIOCIllIOU I
561 |

.——————————————————————————J

36 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

packaged unit but must be discussed at length in your
monthly or quarterly meetings of your supervisors so that
they will be given an opportunity to accept or reject this
system in their particular catagories.

Frankly, this is a selling job for the top management of
your organization to your operating group. Its- success is
dependent upon the acceptance of the operating personnel.
As an incentive plan for securing outstanding operation,
an award to attend sectional, regional or national safety
conferences to further their interest can be offered as an
inducement! There are many benefits derived from this
type of program which eiiect your entire operating person-
nel. It brings forth a closer spirit of cooperation among
employees, it brings suggestions which heretofore have not
been forthcoming, and it brings forth undiscovered talents
of individuals who are interested but unable to express them-
selves. The cost Of this Whole program is far outweighed
by its benefits. As a comparison, industry on a national
scale has set this up as one of their top objectives in the suc-
cessful operation of their business.

Now, to complete your records, it would create a com-
petitive spirit for the successful development of your pro-
gram tO set up some type Of report system on loss—time acci-
dents compared tO man-hours worked. This should be kept
as a yardstick to measure your success. You should not
have more than ten injuries per million man-hours worked.

SET UP A HAZARD OPERATION PLAN.

Such a plan is merely a suggestion system from the Op-
erating personnel, a system whereby they may express them-
selves On shortcuts, hazardous conditions, efficiency of Op-
eration, suggested accomplishments, suggested objectives,
suggested future planning. Or, in plain words, it is a system
whereby you would get suggestions from your entire oper-
ating personnel to make your little world a better place in
which to live. This system should be devised to meet your
particular requirements. Discuss this with your key person-
nel to come Up with a solution, such as a suggestion box or

some kind of suggestion program, which will best ht your
needs.

YOUR LIABILITY FOR PROTECTION AGAINST NEGLIGENCE ON
THE PART OF YOUR PARK OPERATION.

Naturally employees of your system are protected under

workmen’s compensation laws. But, what is the general

“using public’s” protection against accidents? The follow-

ing, which is an excerpt from a New Orleans newpaper con-
cerning the accidental electrocution mentioned earlier,
shows the type Of damages that can actually result from a
serious accident. I

A suit asking damages of $150,900 was filed today in Federal
District Court by the parents of a fifteen year old boy who was
electrocuted August 19 at a park swimming pool. The suit was
filed by Mrs. against the Travelers Insurance Company, in-
surers of the park. It is charged that the wire was not insulated,
that there were no warning signs and that employees of the pool
knew of the faulty condition for many months prior to the accident.

 

These thoughts are brought to you for your consideration
in setting up this type of protective program. I

RECREATION

l

 

-c.;.;.;.;.-  --: 92:92:: :

 

Fees and Charges for Public Recreation Facilities

The Metropolitan Recreation and Youth Services Council
in Los Angeles" sponsored a study of fees and charges for
the use of recreation facilities under the auspices of public
recreation departments in Los Angeles County. Its purpose
was to determine the policies and practices relating to fees
on which there is apparent general agreement. The follow-
ing principles for the guidance of local authorities in de-
veloping such policies are suggested in the report:

0 Recreation facilities under jurisdiction of public recrea-
tion departments should be used for the general recreation
program of the community.

0 It is logical to eXpect that the facilities should be used
primarily in conjunction with the activity program spon-
sored by the department.

0 Facilities when not in use for the program sponsored by
the department should be available on a permit basis to cer-
tain other community groups.

0 Certain activities which have no immediate relation to
the general purposes of the recreation program should be
discouraged from the use of the recreation facilities. When
use is granted, such use should have low priority, be charged
a fee comparable to commercial rates, have temporary use
only, and should not compete with or detract from the rec-
reation program.

0 In general, the recreation events which are for public rec-
reation use, Open to all, and Without payment of an admis-
sion fee, and so sponsored, organized, and conducted as to
be consistent with the aims of the department, should be
allowed use of the facilities without charge.

0 In general, participants receiving special privileges which
are not available to the general public because of the cost
involved should be expected to pay the cost on such special
privileges. This should not be confused with the general
policy which holds that recreation facilities are set up by the
public for the public use and should be generally free to the
public without charge.

The following comments appear in the summary:

One of the dangers inherent in setting up a system of fees
and charges is that the basis for charging sometimes re-
volves around an' economic consideration rather than a
social consideration, which results in a loss of valuable
services to the community.

If not handled carefully, or if misapplied or abused, the
system of fees and charges can: (1) amount to double taxa-
tion and constitute a mockery of the intent of public serv-
ices; (2) tend to make a community program too commer-
cialized; and (3) restrict participation.

 

* 206 South Spring Street, Los Angeles 12, California.

 

MR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

' JANUARY 1956

REVIEWS AND ABSTRACTS

George D. Butler

Dependence on.fees and charges as a substitute for tax
funds tends to destroy the public value of the program.

This does not mean that fees and charges should not sup-
plement tax appropriations. Charges are in many cases nec-
essary and frequently make possible better facilities and
more adequate leadership than would be possible otherwise.

Recreation for the Handicapped

Valerie V. Hunt. Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Avenue,
New York 11, New York. 1955. Pp. 340. $6.95.

A Review

Having been privileged to review parts of the manuscript
during the early development of this text, the reviewer is
highly pleased with the end product. In the rapidly develop-
ing area of recreation for the handicapped, this publication
is a much needed and valuable contribution. Because of its
broad scope, its sound philosophy, and its good documen-
tation, it is predicted that it will be used as a basic text for
such college courses as recreation in rehabilitation, recrea-
tional therapy, and hospital recreation for some time.

In Part I, the author surveys the nature of man and his
environment and the interaction between them. She points
up well how subtle biosocial interactions increase, lessen, or
change the needs of the handicapped and how these needs
can be met partly through recreation. Observing that ten-
sion is high in people who do things with difficulty, and rec-
ognizing the role of recreation in the alleviation of tension,
the author directs her attention to people with specific dis-
abilities and their needs, rather than to specific areas of rec-
reation activity.

In Part II, chapters are devoted to each of the above cate-
gories of handicapped persons. Each chapter contains the
background of the disability, which usually describes the
disease and its treatment, and the emotional, physical, and
intellectual characteristics associated therewith. Each chap-
ter also discusses the implications of the disability for rec-
reation, including ways in which needs and interests can be
met, precautions, program planning and recommended ac-
tivities, leadership techniques, and facility and equipment
modifications, where indicated.

According to the author, “Perhaps the chief aim of recre-
ation for the disabled is to enrich their living rather than
to make them over.” Her primary concern is the handi-
capped person. This is a refreshing point of view in a pro-
fessional area where all too often the concern is a defined
area of activity.—-B. E. Phillips, Recreation Specialist, Spe-
cial Service Department of Medicine and Surgery, Veterans
Administration, Washington 25, D. C.

37

The Mis ll - What Would You Have Done?

Most of us have had to face, at
various times in our activities, the
problem of the timid, fearful, ap-
prehensive or discouraged child,
the boy at whom others laugh,
the inept one, the scapegoat.

Arthur B. Candell

E HAVE all been puzzled over this
w situation, and most of us feel inade-
quately equipped to handle it. How is
the misfit to be supervised when we
alone are in sole charge of the rest of
the group? Should he be allowed to
wander off? Should he be made to par-
ticipate? Should he watch?

No matter where children play, there
is a leader. This leader may be the
trained adult, or perhaps simply one of
the participants who is more adept and
skilled than the rest and recognized by
the rest of the group for his superior
skills and organizational ability. The
latter may change during a game from
one child to another, but when it lapses
completely the game becomes disor-
ganized, chaotic, eventually breaks up.

Many interesting and informative ar-
ticles have been written and are avail-
able concerning the development of
leadership within the group and direc-
tion of group play; but there seems to
be a dearth of information concerning
the opposite situation. . . . the helping
of the child who not only has no leader-
ship ability, but who is not accepted in
a game because he is physically, emo-
tionally, or intellectually below the
group in “adeptness.”

Children, being interested solely in
the score and the “fun” of the game,

 

ARTHUR B. CANDELL is guidance and
recreation counselor of the elementary
school group at the Anderson School,
Staatsbnrg—on-Hndson, New York, a
psychiatric-oriented school under the

direction of Victor V. Anderson, M. D.
38

quickly expel, and usually criticize, the
one who spoils the fun. Needless to say,
this fosters considerable sadness and a
feeling of inferiority in the boy who
wants to play with the others but does
not know how.

While all of us have come up against
this situation at one time or another, I
am constantly involved in it while di-
recting recreation activities for a group
of about twenty mildly emotionally dis-
turbed youngsters under the optimum
conditions of group living, in a private
school geared to their problems.

Two chief methods are available to
the recreation worker in handling the
child who doesn’t fit the usual pattern.
He or she can be included in the exist-
ing program if it can be accomplished
without causing the child to feel anx—
ious, inferior, threatened, or rejected.
This requires extremely careful han-
dling and, if not properly done, it can
amplify the grief of the child, should
an attempt on his part under the urging
and guidance of an adult whom he re-
spects and admires also fail.

For example, there were three boys:
Teddy, physically handicapped; Frank-
ie, slightly retarded; and Carl, very hos-
tile, destructive, and aggressive. None
of these boys had group acceptance and
each reacted in his own way. Teddy
“withdrew,” played with the smaller
boys, stayed by himself a lot. Frankie
was repeatedly laughed at by the other
children when, in playing ball, he ran
toward the wrong base after a hit or
made other mistakes. Game by game,
he constantly tried to compete on the
level of the others, only to be subjected

to more of the taunts of the rest. Carl
was usually pulled out of the game for
fighting, bullying, kicking a ball into
the woods if he made an error, profani-
ty, and very bad sportsmanship. He
would sit on the bench and mutter, glow-
er, and throw dirt clods at the others.
Today, each one of these boys has found
his niche in the society of children, rec-
reationally speaking.

How It Was Accomplished

Teddy was thirteen years old. He was
very thin, wiry, and of normal intelli-
gence. When he was three, he had been
involved in an automobile accident
which resulted in a brain trauma, caus-
ing petit mal (mild epileptic attacks)
at irregular intervals and a forty per
cent loss of muscular control of the left
side of his body, primarily affecting his
speech and left arm and leg. Teddy was
painfully aware of being different from
the other children and shunned partici-
pation in any game in which he knew
he would not do well.

A substitute outlet was considered
for this boy and rejected as being be-
yond his capacity. Hobbies were im-
possible if they required manual dexter-‘
ity. It was noted, however, that he
would take active leadership of a group
of smaller children and they would lis-
ten raptly while he instructed them in
how to kick a football or slide into a
base. He was non-threatened and it was
evident that he felt very secure as long
as none of the' older group were around.
Teddy was given instructions in the
fundamentals of sportsmanship an d
sport skills; and then became a coach
and “instructor” for the little boys. He
avidly kept scores, made programs, ar-
ranged games and leagues, and soon
had the extreme satisfaction of having
the older boys ask his advice on how to
make a catch or pitch a horseshoe! He
was recognized and respected as an au-
thority and has all the satisfaction of a
personal victory as he supervises and
guides his little teams into victories.

RECREATION

;
l.

Frankie was also thirteen years old,
small for his age but very well coordi-
nated. He had extreme tenacity, per-
severance, and superior athletic abili-
ty; but owing to a low LQ. (76), he
would become over-excited during a
baseball game, run toward the wrong
base, forget rules, and cause the team
he was on no end of difliculties. In bas-
ketball he would easily sink the shot,
but in the wrong basket! Frank felt
very forlorn about this. He knew he
was good, but when it required abstract
thinking and concentration he became
confused . . . he knew this also and was
acutely concerned about it. Should a
substitute for sports be found for

Frank? No! He was good. He didn’t

want to play checkers or build forts.

Frank was a fair pitcher in baseball,
and I resolved to make him one of the
best. It was a tough job. I repeated
things endlessly. I helped him form
habits where the intellectual response
was deficient. Week after week Frank
pitched. He learned signals. He finally
learned to run to first, then to steal on
signal. What started out in my mind
as a tough task became a pleasure as
Frank actually emerged as a magnifi-
cent pitcher.

What helped Frankie? Hard patient
work 011 the part of an adult. This, and
a burning enthusiasm on the part of
this little retarded youngster, formed
the right combination.

Carl was the tough one. He was
twelve years old, large for his age, a
perpetual scowl on his face, and a rebel-
lion against anything that smacked of
“organization.” He had a secret fear
of being shown up as not as tough as
he wanted others to believe, and was a
sarcastic little cynic at that early age.

Carl was not too good at athletics,
and would frequently berate the umpire,
or fling his bat down in anger if he felt
that a pitch was incorrectly called——
as a cover-up for his deeper feelings of
inadequacy. He frequently asked if he
could box and loudly bragged about his
fighting ability. It was felt that this
was not the answer, however, as he was
incapable of handling a victory objec-
tively; and, should he lose, he would
be very vindictive against the boy who
bested him. In body-contact games he
took a particular delight in knocking

JANUARY 1956

smaller boys to the ground with unnec- I

essary roughness. Many hobbies such
as stamp collecting, model building, na-
ture study were tried; but Carl either
considered them “sissy” or would lose
interest quickly. What should we do?
He had to work off steam. He had to
proect his aggressive tendencies against
something inanimate. He was constant-
ly a disruptive influence during the rec-
reation activity.

We had a scout troop. This was really
“sissy” stuff to Carl; however, but one
weekend, he decided to accompany the
tr00p on a camping trip. He was his
usual uncooperative cynical self at the
start. Upon arrival at the campsite, he
begrudgingly consented to chop some
logs for firewood. The other scouts
erected the tents, lashed tripods, built
pioneering projects; and, to our amaze-
ment and joy, when we turned to check
on Carl after an hour of helping with
odds and ends, we found him happily
building a rather complex campfire
cooking crane with pothooks and poles
all expertly fashioned. We admired the
project and made it a special point to
use his fire in cooking our personal
meals that evening. On Monday we re-
turned, tired but happy, and overheard
Carl loudly defending scouting in gen-
eral and the trip in particular to a for-
mer accomplice who still maintained
that scouts generally were “mama’s
boys.” Carl had found his outlet in
scouting. He soon became a patrol lead-
er; he worked off his aggressions on a
log with an axe.

He led his patrol into adventure and
camradarie. The latent spark in Carl
was successfully tapped. Today he is a
happy, well-adjusted boy. He achieved
the goal of acceptance.

While the above cases are, of neces-
sity, condensed, they represent satisfac-
tory solutions toward the goal of having
the child feel that he is a “member of
the team.” See what you can do with
the “kid who doesn’t fit.” Explore dif-
ferent 'Ways and have patience. Be sensi-
tive. to his needs, give him encourage-
ment; and do not “toss him into” a
game to either make good or bear the
stigma of causing it to be lost. Give him
pointers and friendly guidance. Train
yourself to recognize clues to his

strengths and weaknesses. I

l
I
I

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 
    

ENAMEL-ON-COPPER

 IDEA BOOK

Now your classes can enjoy this
fascinating crarti The Copper
Shop [AmerlCa's leading source
of enameling supplies) will pro-
vide you at low cost every-
thing needed for dramatic dem-
onstrations or class projects.
FRI-J5 Idea Book gives complete
description of processes and
techniques for exciting. creative
results—iists hundreds of ready-
tn-fire copper items and sup-
plies. Send for your copy today!

THE COPPER SHOP
ow. or IMMERMAN 5. sons '
1312 E. 131:: St. Dept.JA-40 rx
CLEVELAND 14. omo

  
  
  
    
 
   
 
   
 

 

We FOLDING BANQUET TABLES,

  
  

 
 

If you are on the board of your school or
church. or on the house or purchasing com-
mittee of your club or lodge. you will be inter-
ested in this modern. Folding Pedestal Banquet
Table. Write for catalog & spectal discounts.

m: MONROE COMPANY 18! CHURCH ST. COIFAX. IOWA

(1ny BASKETBALL l

        
   

 
  

The Only Nel

GUARANTEED
for 3 YEARS!

outdoors or indoors 0 Send for Free Catalog
JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Depl. I, I0: 1065, NEW lONDON, CONN.

POLIO

[4/52 yet!

    

 

m  m

   

Jame/yito 3/

 

39

4 v

0a tée game

Alfred B. Jensen

 

Thirty New York University jun-
iors visited National Recreation Associ-
ation Headquarters in November. The
recreation class iield trip was arranged
by Professor Catherine Allen and the
Recreation Personnel Service of the As-
sociation. The students spent one and
a half hours touring the building and
learning about NRA services.

Divided into small groups for es-
corted tours, they were shown through
the printing and production depart-
ments, as well as through the three

floors housing professional services.‘

The latter half of their visit was spent
in the exhibition room conference cen-
ter. Headquarters and field services
were outlined and eXpIained by NRA
staff representatives, who emphasized
their usefulness to new leaders in the
field. The students also received kits
of informational material to use in class
discussion.

Similar special tours can be arranged
for other student groups upon request
of educators.

First College of Recreation

Brigham Young University in Provo,
Utah, now oiiers a major and a minor
in recreation. Dean Jay B. Nash points
out that these are in the College of Rec-

reation, Physical and Health Education,
and Athletics.

Lucky Number

Thirteen new student subscribers be-
gan receiving RECREATION at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota this fall, under
the money-saving student-group-mem-I
bership plan. Robert Giles, assistant
director of recreation training, spon-
sored the group.

Junior College Special

Professor Grant Longly, director of
the community recreation major at
Dean Junior College in Franklin, Mas-
sachusetts, reports a surge of interest

 

MR. JENSEN is a member of NRA Rec-

reation Personnel Service sta

40

in basic preparation for the field. This
college year sees twenty-six recreation
students in the freshman class.

How to Get a Job

“Public Relations and How to Get a
Job” was the subject of a talk given in
November by W. C. Sutherland, NRA’s
recreation personnel service director, at
Indiana University. Recreation stu-
dents in a public relations course heard
Mr. Sutherland draw on actual cases
in explaining the ways in which public
relations enter into job-seeking and
getting. During his stay at Indiana,Mr.
Sutherland interviewed graduating rec-
reation major students and discussed
professional and educational problems
with over iifty students and their
teachers.

College Students Interviewed

Graduating seniors and graduate stu-
dents in recreation were interviewed at
colleges in the Great Lakes, Southern,
and Middle Atlantic Districts during
the months of November and December
by NRA personnel staif members. Seven
colleges and universities were visited:
North Carolina State College, North
Carolina College at Durham, the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, Women’s
College of the University of North Car—
olina, Indiana University, the Univer-
sity of Illinois, and Teachers’ College

of the University of the State of New
York at Cortland.

At each college, recreation students
had Opportunity to talk individually
with NRA representatives about place-
ment, graduate education, and other
professional problems. Most of the visi-
tations also included special meetings

- with classes and informal sessions with

recreation student groups. Other col-
leges will be visited during the winter
and spring.

Cooperative Recruiting

Michigan State Recreation Associa-
tion representatives, under the leader-
ship of Chase Hammond of Muskeg-

on and Malcolm Elliott of Saginaw,
manned a iirst-year booth on “Recrea-
tion as a Career” at the Michigan State
University Career Carnival in Novem-
ber. NRA vocational materiaIs were
displayed and professional recreation
leaders from the state recreation group
were on hand throughout the two-day
conference to discuss the advantages
of a professional career in recreation
with high school seniors considering'at-
tendance at Michigan State University.
Professor Russell Daubert, director of
the recreation major at MSU, arranged

for the booth.

Faculty Changes

Dr. Catherine Allen, formerly of the
University of Tennessee, has joined the
faculty of New York University with
responsibility for the women’s physical
education program. Dr. Allen, known
for her work in rural and social recrea-
tion, also teaches an upper class recrea-
tion course.

Teaching in the recreation and out-
door education curriculum at Southern

Illinois University, Carbondale, is Rob-
ert E. McBride. Dr. McBride previously
taught at San Francisco State College.

Dr. Israel C. Heaton is a new member
of the recreation education department
staff at Los Angeles State College. He
is teaching industrial recreation and
club organization courses. Dr. Heaton
formerly was chairman of the recrea-
tion division of Utah State Agricultural
College at Logan, Utah.

Student Aid for Recreation Majors

A new edition of the bulletin Student
Aid for College Recreation Majors is
now being prepared and will be avail-
able this month. The NRA publication
lists special scholarships, fellowships,
and assistantships available to recrea-
tion students at colleges and universi-
ties. NRA members may obtain a free
copy by writing Recreation Personnel
Service, NRA. Single copies are avail-
able to others at a cost of twenty cents.

(Ask for P-162.)

On the Campus—Circa 1390

a Student visitors to NRA headquarters
this fall could see their predecessors in
a display of pictures the library offered
under the title of this page. Handle-bar
mustaches, striped blazers, choker col-
lars, and dashing looks were plentiful in
photographs of early Columbia Univer-
sity sports. Activities were baseball,
tennis, crew, andtug-of—war.

RECREATION

 

 

Recipes for FUN

FOUR PET IDEAS

These ideas have been tried and proved
successful. Use them as a basis for ac-
tivities in your own program.

BALLOON RACE

Pat Ritzenthaler, Recreation Department, Veterans Administration Center, Wood, Wisconsin

At the Veterans Administration Center in Wood, Wiscon-
sin, we have had an outdoor carnival presented by the spe-
cial services division and volunteer organizations for nine
consecutive years. Each year we seek novel ideas to give a
feeling of freshness to the entire show, so that the old-timers
can look forward to something new.

This year our innovation was a balloon race. Over 350
balloons, filled with helium, were released by patients on
the carnival] grounds all through the afternoon—at least one
was going up every few minutes.

Each balloon, had a small, stamped card, fastened to it
with a six-inch string, with the request that the finder return
it to the VA Center. If the card is regular postcard size, two
cents is sufficient postage. Our card was about two by three
inches so we had to use three cents postage. We used the
small size because we were afraid the larger card would re-

‘tard the balloon’s Hight. We still don’t know whether we

 

could get the same results with the larger card, but we may
be able to try it out sometime before next summer. Each card

ROLLER SKATING
— IN THE SNOW

I
x I
I x
I

Beverly Rodenheber, Supervisor of Recreation, Clinton Farms,

' women, we had a snowfall on the day our first outdoor roller
skating derby was scheduled. A raincheck seemed the logi-
cal solution until the ingenuity of the more than 150 girls
of the institution came to the fore. They were determined
that the elements would not deprive them of this program.
Fortunately, it was the dry, powdery type of snow that had
covered the outdoor pavilion during the night. By eight
o’clock in the morning, a volunteer crew was sweeping and
shoveling off the pavilion just as though this were a usual
occurrence. cTheir recreation director hated to tell them
that a very uncooperative weather man was forecasting rain,
sleet, and more snow for the afternoon. The girls’ enthusi-
asm would not be dampened by such dismal reports and soon
work was under way on the court. They consoled themselves
with the fact that the sun was shining strong enough to dry
the pavilion and that they were having a lot of fun shovel-
ing snow. So, with determination, the gay crepe paper ban-
ners were put up, the public address system was connected,
benches were properly placed and pots of hot coffee were

Clinton, New Jersey
.At Clinton Farms, the New Jersey state reformatory for
l
.'

 
 
 
 
   

. ANUARY 1956

was numbered because we cannot give the name of any
patient to the public, and the master list showed the name
and ward of each person who sent up a balloon. The Junior
Red Cross took care of blowing up the balloons with helium,
attaching the card and string, and writing the names on the
master sheet.

The balloon which was returned Within two weeks from
the greatest distance was declared the winner, and adequate
prizes were awarded. (The first and second prizes were won
by balloons returned from Lansing and Allegan, Michigan,
approximately 300 and 250 miles away.) There was a re-
turn of about ten per cent, which was rather small; but so
much depends upon the winds and the weather that we felt
it was definitely a worthwhile plan. There was a lot of en-
thusiastic talk at the time the balloons were released; how-
ever, we found that a great deal more early publicity would
help. A project of this kind would be a great asset to any
large outdoor gathering. Children especially would love it
—on a playground or in a camp, as well as in a hospital.

 

prepared.

Half an hour before the event, the contestants trudged
through the snow from the various cottages—wearing boots
to protect their shoes—with their skates slung over their
backs. The nonchalant air of determination, as though it
was a usual thing to roller skate on a cement platform com-
pletely surrounded by snow-covered lawn was something to
see. Skaters turned out from all over the grounds—to say
nothing of the spectators and many members of the official
staff who arrived early to get good seats.

The two-hour program consisted of speed races, backward
skating, and other forms of competitive skating. After the
winners were rewarded, the pavilion was opened for general
skating to music. Spectators and contestants cheerfully
shared the twenty pairs of skates and drank hot coffee
served from a delivery truck. Most of them hated to leave
when the party broke up, but the cold finally penetrated
fingers and toes. The warmth with which the girls asked,
“When can we do it again?” stamped the program as a
success.

41

Recipes for FUN

PLAY KITS FOR PRE-SCHOOLERS

From The 2-to-5 World, March, 1953

Tense times call for play-aid. A visit to grown-ups, a
rainy day at home, a trip in the car, even play time in the
park can be a trying experience for both parent and ch11d
if the youngster hasn’t enough to do. In the opinion of Mrs.
Rowena Shoemaker, assistant director of the Play Schools
Association, a play kit fashioned in advance and held in
readiness for such special occasions can turn a crisis into
a lark. That long ride in the car, that eternal afternoon in
the park becomes a creative delight or a peaceful pleasure
with the aid of a simple play kit such as these described.
Devised and tested by Mrs. Shoemaker herself, their con-
struction, too, is a satisfying joint project for parent and

child.

Materials: Shopping bags; staples, large needle and
thread, or rubber cement; manila envelopes, several sizes;
poster paints or crayons, or cut-out magazine pictures.

Directions: Staple, sew, or cement several different sized

 

,.

Traditionally, April 1 is “All Fool’s Day” and the begin-
ning of April showers. To 150 boys and girls in Phoenix,
Arizona, however, it meant the celebration of the culmina-
tion of National Laughter Week. The boys and girls, in a
colorful atmosphere, dramatically presented to a large crowd
of interested parents and friends their efforts toward un-
restrained laughter on “Ha Ha Day.”

Barbara Coker, recreation leader at Encanto Park in
Phoenix, Arizona, proposed this idea as a means of stimu-
lating interest in music and simple dramatics on the play-
grounds. The program was sponsored by the parks and rec-
reation department. Plans were made about six weeks in
advance, with discussions and meetings held to promote in-
terest among the recreation leaders. A working committee
was formed and a format for the program was outlined.

A mahogany plaque, appropriately inscribed, was selected
as the award for the winner of each group—the plaque to
be displayed in the winning area until next year’s event.

Entry blanks and a brief resume of the plans were en-
closed in letters mailed to recreation personnel at the school

42

 

 

manila envelopes to the inside of large shopping bag, then
shellac to strengthen compartments. Decorate and identify
bag on the outside, and shellac. Fill with anything that fits
your special parent-child mobility. A few suggestions:

Visiting Kit Auto Kit

Hand puppets
Colored pipe cleaners

Puzzles

Kaleidoscope

Crayons and pad Harmonica

Blunt scissors and old magazine Doll, toy animals

Miniature car or two for floor Penny box of raisins, ration of
play crackers

Rainy Day Kit Park Kit

Dress-up paraphernalia—veiling, Prepared bubble solution plus
feathers, ribbons wand or pipe
Used Christmas cards, birthday Skipping rope, balls, marbles
cards, and so on Crayons for drawing faces on
Tinker-toy set pick-up stones
Deck of picture cards Small dump truck for dirt, and
so on

HA HA DAY

Gene Ritzenthaler, Supervisor of Recreation, Phoenix, Arizona

,1

playgrounds and city parks. Publicity was handled by our
information representative. The idea took hold and entries
poured in—so many, in fact, that an elimination contest had
to be held in order to cut down the number of contestants.
A maximum of four humorous entries were accepted from
each area, and the participants dramatized their skits at the
bandshell at our fabulous Encanto Park.

We received excellent publicity from local newspapers,
radio, and television stations. The program manager of one
of our local TV stations was so interested that he wanted the.
four winners to appear on one of his programs.

To add spice and humor to the program, members of the
newly-formed Phoenix Clown Alley cavorted among the,
crowd. They gave great aid in arousing the interest and en-
thusiasm of the audience.

The variety of acts was divided into four groups: indi-
vidual pantomime; group pantomime; individual song;
dance or skit; group song, dance or skit. They were judged
on the basis of humor, originality, and costume by three.
well-known businessmen. A

RECREATION

 

 

I f you are interested in any of
these products, write directly to
the manufacturer at the address
given. PLEASE mention that you
read about it on RECREATION
magazine’s Market News page.

 

 

9 Ease of erection and design simplicity marks the Wonder
Building, a pre-fab steel structure which provides the shell
of the new school building, makes possible a classroom cost
of from five to ten thousand dollars, about one-third the
cost of the conventional classroom today.

The pre-fab structures are especially adaptable to grow-
ing communities where additional facilities are needed for
classrooms, repair buildings, auditoriums, gymnasiums, and
similar buildings. Consisting of patented, galvanized steel
panels, corrugated and curved to ‘permit trussless construc-
tion, the buildings are fire-, vermin-, and termite-proof.
They can be completely insulated and may be permanent, or
demountable with one hundred per cent salvage. The build-
ings have been field-tested in all areas of the country to
determine suitability for varying climates and weather.
Wonder Building Corporation of America, 30 N. LaSalle

Street, Chicago, Illinois.

0 A special raker
bar that quickly cuts
up heavily packed or
deeply piled snow is
a feature of the new
J ari Champion Snow
Thrower. The new,
rotary-type, self-pro-
pelled machine is de-
signed to clear apath
twenty inches wide
through any depth
' or type of snow at the rate of 520 shovelfuls per minute.
Thrown snow is spread over a thirty foot strip to prevent big
banks, and the throwing angle is adjustable. Other attach-
ments are available to make it an all-year maintenance ma-
chine. Write Department KP, Jari Products, Inc., 2990
Pillsbury Avenue, Minneapolis 8, Minnesota.

   

v... A new uranium detector kit containing all materials
,[needed to prospect for uranium is announced by CMG In-
‘ dustries, Box 611, Laramie, Wyoming. Invented by two

 JANUARY 1956

4

University of Wyoming scientists, the kit, which uses the
sun’s energy, has actually detected commercial uranium and
contains the necessary apparatus for appraising the uranium
content. For the outdoor man, sportsmen, and “week-end-
ers,” the kit includes a fold—up, pocket size detector, and
four typical uranium ores.

O The new Craftool Dust-
man, a portable dust collect-
ing and shop cleaning unit,
is a powerful, self-contained
dust collecting system that
uses any standard garbage or
ash can as its waste recepta-
cle. It collects sawdust and
dust right at the machine,
thereby eliminating the float-
ing dust problem in the shop,
and is also used for cleaning
the machines and for general
cleaning in the shop area—in
fact, for any job where the
average vacuum cleaner is in-
effective because of size or
capacity. The Dustman is the
household vacuum cleaner’s
big tough brother. Craftools,

Incorporated, 401 Broadway,
New York 13, New York.

 

O Permapex, a new type crayon combines permanence with
removability as desired. Graphs, charts, and diagrams
drawn with this crayon remain on most surfaces indefinitely.
Fluctuating figures or other elements may be drawn in with
chalk and then removed or changed as required without
damage to the basic Permapex-drawn chart. When the basic
chart is no longer needed, the crayon markings are easily
removed with Apex-Remove, a special solvent. The Perma-
pex Kit consists of four crayons—red, white, yellow and
blue—~—and a large tube of solvent. Apex Permanent Crayon
Company, 235 Lora Avenue, Youngstown 4, Ohio. ‘

O A new catalog of optical aids has factual information on
all types of optical instruments and components—including
measuring magnifiers, microscopes, pocket comparators,
telescopes and accessories, lenses, prisms, wedges of all de-
scriptions; hand spectroscopes; reticles; mirrors; astron-
omical telescopes; binoculars; and photographic items. A
copy of “Optical Catalog” is available on request from
Edmund Scientific Corporation, Barrington 7, New Jersey.

43

| Personnel 

° Recreation Salaries

Reaffirming the importance of defining jobs, as brought out in Mr. J.
J. Donovan’s article last month, “The What and Why of Job Analysis.”

Remarks made by Louis J. Kroeger,
management consultant, San Francisco,
at the 37th National Recreation Con—
gress in Denver.

THE FIRST difi’iculty which besets
those who set recreation salaries is
that not everyone understands exactly
what constitutes the nature of this pro-
fession nor are all employers of recrea-
tion workers careful to limit profession-
al assignments to professionals.

Basically, recreation jobs are priced
by the two main methods used in the
pricing of other jobs. One is to find
what others are paying for comparable
work; the other is to set standards in
relation to duties, responsibilities, and
qualifications required.

The first method has the obvious
drawbacks that we can never be sure
that all factors are truly comparable,
and that the use of comparative data
often sets up a vicious circle.

The second method can be effective
in the hands of competent analysts
working with an understanding man-
agement and legislative body. The prin-
cipal handicap is that it may get rates
out ahead of established custom and
established custom is hard to buck.

There are at least two other bases up-
on which these jobs may be priced. One
is simply to let the normal'play of the
law of supply and demand establish the
rates. The other is to rely on standards
and salaries pr0posed by professional
organizations such as the National Rec-
reation Association.

Reliance on supply and demand in-
troduces a new hazard —the competi-
tion of the non-professional for the pro-
fessional obs. Depending upon the law
of supply and demand is defensible
from the standpoint of the profession
only if professional standards are so
solidly established that the supply is

44..

limited to those who met them.

Some of us use the standards pro-
posed by professioi’ial organizations in
our work. They are useful guides and
they set desir‘able goals. However, we
often find them unrealistic in a given
community. They are, frankly, some-
times an aspiration rather than a fact.

Legally, the city council or other leg-
islative body sets salaries. Practically,
it may be the local recreation commis-
sion, a city manager or personnel di-
rector, or an outside personnel consult-
ant —— whomever the city council de-
pends upon for technical guidance in
salary setting.

This suggests that when you are con-
cerned with salaries in your own com-
munity, you should make the facts and
your views known both to those who
recommend salaries and to those who
approve them.

After all other considerations are
taken into account, the governing body
will finally apply one more criterion——
ability to pay. This is not ability toppay
in the abstract, but the udgment of the
governing body as to what total tax bill

the people will stand, and their own“

view as to what part of that bill should
apply to recreation.

This suggests that salary technicians
and local legislators need to be educated
not only on salary rates, but on the
character of professional recreation
service and on its relative importance
in the total local government.

Get acquainted with the personnel
people in your community. Don’t com-
plain about their lack of understanding
of your special problems if you haven’t
made the effort to inform them. Remem-
ber that scores or hundreds of other pro-
fessional and non-professional groups
compete for their understanding and
recognition. They do their best to bal-
ance them all; but their judgment can

be no better than their information.
You will find that they try to reduce
all kinds of work to certain common
denominators, while you tend to em-
phasize the special attributes of your
profession. Try to see it their way. Try
to translate your case into their lan-
guage and adjust it to their Viewpoint.
After all, obs do have to be reduced to
the common denominator of dollars of
salary paid, and these dollar rates can
be established only on such compara-
tive common factors as difficulty, im-
portance, and other items related to
duty, responsibility, and qualification.

** ** *>l< **

Remarks made by James Wilson, as-
sistant city manager, director of per--
sonnel, Colorado Springs, at the 37th'
National Recreation Congress in Den-
ver.

WE MUST remember that we work
for a public corporation, and‘that A 1

our program and types of servicelof-
fered will depend mainly upon the de-
sires and ability to pay of this large
board of directors (our public). Does
it not follow then that to a great extent
the salaries paid to the people admin-
istering this program will be deter-
mined on the same basis? The person-
nel department can recommend proper
salaries, but the acceptance of these
recommendations will depend largely
upon one thing—understanding of the
job and its attendant responsibilities.
This poses a particularly difficult
problem in this area, for the public has
not been exposed long enough to have
attained complete understanding of
what it takes to be a recreation worker.
I am sure that many of you have
faced this problem and would agree that
all too many peOple are prone to look

RECREATION '

upon the recreation worker as a play
leader rather than the skilled, well-
trained administrator that he or she
really is. How many times in your own
community have you seen an attempt
to get Bill or Mary a job in the recrea-
tion department with the following
arguments being advanced: Bill is a
great athlete and really understands
kids, or Mary just loves kids and she
is so handy, and so on?

I dare'say that not too often are we
advised of a possible candidate who is
recommended on the basis of his aca-
demic training, ability to prepare and
administer complex programs and bud-
gets, and so on. What then does this
indicate? Only one thing, lack of un-
derstanding. If people fully understood
as we do that the foregoing type of per-
son is what we must have in order to
provide the most effective and efficient
program, they too would be more re-
ceptive to paying a commensurate wage.

What then' remains to be done? I
did not intend to dwell on this subject,
yet I cannot help but feel that it is our
common problem and one that, if over-
come, will minimize the other problems
that arise in connection with wages
(barring a lack of funds, of course).

All of you work like beavers to sell
a particular park or recreation project.
This is done for only one reason; you
know that unless sold, your program
does not stand a chance—unless you
can find one that offers everyone some-
thing at absolutely no cost to anyone.
No program or profession sells itself—
usually because it is too complex to
meet with ready understanding.

You must sell the quality of the job
you are performing, and, further, you
must sell the fact that this quality is not
. achieved by accident—that it can only
I be furnished by well-trained, experi-
enced, and educated people who will
return every dollar in quality service.
I think you will find that the public too
appreciates the fact that you can’t get
I: something for nothing.

I urge you to sell it, for if you do, I
am confident that you will have work-
ing on your side the greatest single fac-
tor that influences your salary, or mine
_ for that matter, and also public opinion
which will be based on solid under-
standing of your profession. I

 

3 JANUARY 1956

 

Educator Hails TV Education

Dr. Milton S. Eisenhower, president
of Pennsylvania State University, told
reporters recently that education by
television could be just as effective as
classroom instruction, and said that
Penn State would expand its exPeri-
ments with TV teaching during the next
five years. He also stated that the Uni-
versity’s past experiments show prac-
'tically no difference in the marks of
students taught by TV and those who
attended classroom lectures.

Films

0 Hosteling Holiday, one of the most
recent films depicting youth activities,
beautifully captures the spirit of hostel-
ing and the fun of young people “on the
road.” It tells the story of a student in
the late teens who, finding the usual
summer in a large city very boring and
unchallenging, learns about youth hos-
teling and joins a group of boys and
girls to bike and hike through New Eng-
land. The boredom experienced by
many of today’s youth, when they do
not know how to use their leisure time
properly, is portrayed in effective and
moving contrast. The film was directed
and produced by Elliot Butler as his
thesis for his master’s degree at Boston
University. His photography is excel-
lent and the color very good. H osteling
Holiday (26 minutes, 16mm , color,
sound) may be rented from American
Youth Hostels, 14 West Eighth Street,
New York 11, or from local councils in
New Haven, Detroit, or New York City.

0 They Grow Up So Fast dramatizes
the frustrations of a boy “left on the
sidelines” while his' classmates played
games. The boy’s school had good
equipment and playgrounds but lacked
experienced teachers to help youngsters
develop skills in sports, games, and
other physical activities. The film, first
to be produced by the American Asso-
ciation for Health, Physical Education,
and Recreation, seeks to interpret physi-
cal education to the public, to educat-
ors, and to parents. Write to AAHPER,
1201 16th Street, N.W., Washington 6.

0 Man of ACTION, a new 131,;§-minute
color carton, features an urban sabo-
teur—a symbol of the citizen apathy
which has made housing our prime so-
' cial and economic problem—who barely

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

has to lift a finger to create slums. Pro-
duced for the American Council to Im-
prove Our Neighborhoods (ACTION)
by Transfilm and contributed as a pub-
lic service by Continental Can Com-
pany, it is a key tool in the organiza-
tion’s drive to stop home and neighbor-
hood deterioration. Available nationally
on free loan in 16mm to adult commu-
nity groups, industry, and TV stations
through Association Films’-libraries.

Filmstrip and' Slide Catalog
The S.V.E. educational catalog of

filmstrips, slides, and color slidesets
contains many new materials. The at-
tractive, illustrated 56-page catalog is
divided into three main sections —- for
primary, intermediate, and junior and
senior high school grades —— then
grouped according to subject matter
areas. Copies may be obtained free from
Society for Visual Education, Inc., 1345
Diversey Parkway, Chicago 14, or from

any S.V.E. dealer.

 

FOR EVERY
RECREATION LEADER

The Guide to the Best in free-
loan films, educational rental
subjects, Walt Disney Produc-
tionls, and
full-length
feature
films
from
Holly-
wood.

  
 
 
  
  

SEND FOR
YOUR COPY
TODAY!

“Since l9ll—Americo's First Distributor of
Films for Community Audiences"

ASSOCIATION FILMS, Inc.

EXECUTIVE OFFICES:
47 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.

BRANCH lIBRARIES:

RIDGEFIELD, N. J. DAtlAS
Broad at Elm 1108 Jackson Street

[A GRANGE, Il.l.. SAN FRANCISCO
561 Hillgrave Avenue 351 Turk Street

   

3

45

Books & Pamphlets
Received

DO IT YOURSELF WITH ALUMINUM, G.
W. Birdsall. McGraw-Hill Book Com-
pany, 330 West 42nd Street, New
York 36. Pp. 136. $3.95.*

EASY HANDCRAFTS FOR JUNIORS, Caro-

lyn Howard. Zondevan Publishing
House, 1415 Lake Drive, S.E., Grand

Rapids, Michigan. Pp. 60. $1.00.

EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES, Association
For Childhood Education Interna-
tional, 1200 Fifteenth Street, N.W.,
Washington 5, D. C. Pp. 92. $1.25.

FOOTBALL SCOUTING, Robert C. “Sarge”
MacKenzie. Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70
Fifth Avenue, New York 11. Pp.
278. $3.75.*

GAMES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS, Doris An-
derson. Zondervan Publishing House,

1415 Lake Drive, S.E., Grand Rapids,
Michigan. Pp. 32. $.50.

GLOVEMAKING FOR BEGINNERS, Natalie
S. Woolf. McKnight and McKnight
Publishing Company, Market and
Center Streets, Bloomington, Illinois.

Pp. 100. $1.50.

HANDBOOK OF INDOOR GAMES AND
STUNTS, Darwin A. Hindman. Pren-
tice-Hall, Inc., Publishers, 70 Fifth
Avenue, New York 11. Pp. 304.
$4.90.*

HEALTH EDUCATION MATERIALS. Na-
tional Dairy Council, 111 North
Canal Street, Chicago 6. Pp. 35. Free.

HOW.TO DEVELOP BETTER LEADERS,
Malcolm and Hulda Knowles. Asso-

ciation Press, 291 Broadway, New
York 7. Pp. 64. $1.00.*

How TO GAIN AN EXTRA HOUR EVERY
DAY, Ray Joseph. E. P. Dutton &

Company, Inc., 300 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10. Pp. 192. $2.95.*

How TO LEAD GROUP SINGING, Helen

Larry Eisenberg. Association Press,

291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 62.
$1.00.*

JUDO KATAS — FUNDAMENTAL OF
THROWING AND MAT TECHNIQUES,
Charles Yerkow. Prentice-Hall, Inc.,

70 Fifth Avenue, New York 11. Pp.
163. $4.95.*

JUVENILE DELINQUENCY—CAUSES, EF-
FECTS, AND REMEDIES, Paul C. Pol-
lack. Pageant Press, Inc., 130 West
42nd Street, New York 36. Pp. 48.
$2.00.

MAKE YOUR STAFF MEETINGS COUNT.
Arthur C. Croft Publications, New
London, Connecticut. Pp. 57. $2.50.

MEETING THE PRESS, Gertrude W.
Simpson. National Publicity Council
for Health and Welfare Services, Inc.,

46

     

257 Fourth Avenue, New York 10.
Pp. 63. $2.00.

MUSIC FOR CHILDREN’S LIVING. Asso-
ciation for Childhood Education In-
ternational, 1200 Fifteenth Street,
N.W., Washington 5, D. C. Pp. 48.
$.75.

MUSIC IN AMERICAN EDUCATION, Hazel
Nohavec Morgan, Editor. Music Ed-
ucators National Conference, 64 East

Jackson Boulevard, Chicago 4. Pp.
381. $4.75.

MY GROUP AND 1. Arthur C. Croft Pub-
lications, New London, Connecticut.

Pp. 24. $.75.

MY HOBBY IS COLLECTING ROCKS AND
MINERALS, David E. Jensen. Hart
Publishing Company, Inc., 670 Fifth
Avenue, New York 19. Pp. 122. $2.95.

MY HOBBY IS BIRD WATCHING, Mary P.

Pettit. Hart Publishing Company,"

Inc., 670 Fifth Avenue, New York
19. Pp. 128. Trade edition, $2.95;
institutional binding, $4.75.

THE NURSERY‘SCHOOL AND CHILD CARE
CENTER, Clark E. Moustakas and
Minnie Perrin Berson. William Mor-
row 8: Company, Inc., 425 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. Pp. '222.
$3.50. ~

OBEDIENCE TRAINING FOR YOUR DOG,

Cecil Wimhurst. Dover Publications,
Inc., 920 Broadway, New York 10.

Pp. 70. $.65.

ON CALL FOR YOUTH, Rudolph Witten-
berg. Association Press, 291 Broad-

way, New York 7. Pp. 241. $3.50.*

OUTDOOR HAZARDS, Mary V. Hood. The
Macmillan Company, 60 Fifth Ave-
nue, New York 11. Pp. 242. $3.95."P

PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR GIRLS AND
WOMEN, Emily R. Andrews, Helen
W. Smith, Margaret Michels, Mary
Lou Paul, Anne Mayrose. Prentice-
Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Avenue, New
York 11. Pp. 132. $2.95.*

PROBLEM SOLVING FOR THE EXECUTIVE.
Arthur C. Croft Publications, New
London, Connecticut. Pp. 45. $2.50.

REACHING TEEN-AGERS THROUGH GROUP
WORK AND RECREATION PROGRAMS.
(Monograph Number 1.) New YOrk
City Youth Board, 500 Park Avenue,
New York 22. Pp. 43. $.50.

RECREATION FOR HANDICAPPED PEOPLE
IN CALIFORNIA. Recreation Commis-
sion, Documents Section, State Print-
ing Oflice, Sacramento 14, California.

Pp. 51. $.50.

SELECTED SOFTBALL ARTICLES. Ameri-
can Association for Health, Physical
Education, and Recreation, 1201 Six,-
teenth Street, N.W., Washington 6,
D. C. Pp. 80. $1.00.

THE SHIP—HOW SHE WORKS, Stuart

 

* See footnote on page 48.

Beck. John de GraiI, Inc., 64 West
23rd Street, New York 10. Pp. 71.
$2.75.

SING FORTH. Seabury Press, Green'-
wich, Connecticut. Pp. 93. $.50.

SOCIAL GROUP WORK—PRINCIPLES AND
PRACTICES (Revised and enlarged),
Harleigh B. Trecker. Whiteside, Inc.,
425 Fourth Avenue, New York 16.
Pp. 442. $5.75.*

STAIRWAY TO COLLEGE—A Guide for
the Prospective College Student, N or-
mie and Harold Ruby. Porter Sar-
gent, 11 Beacon Street, Boston 8,
Massachusetts. Pp. 80. $2.20, cloth;

$1.10, paper.

STAMP COLLECTING—Teach Yourself
Books, Fred J. Melville, revised by
Charles Skilton. Soccer Associates,
10 Overlook Terrace, New York 33.
Pp. 190. $1.50.

TRY NATURE, Robert S. Field. Vantage
Press, Inc., 120 West 31st Street, New
York 1. Pp. 238. $3.75.

UNDERSTANDING PEOPLE IN DISTRESS,
Barney Katz and Louis P. Thorpe.
The Ronald Press Company, 15 East

26th Street, New York 10. Pp. 357.
$4.00.*

VANISHING PRAIRIE—A True Life Ad-
venture, Jane Werner and the stafic of
the Walt Disney Studio. Simon and
Schuster, 630 Fifth Avenue, Rocke-
feller Center, New York 20. Pp. 124.
$2.95*

Magazine Articles

AMERICAN HOME, November 1955
Little League . . . For or Against?

CHILDREN, November-December 1955
The Exiled Delinquent, Bertram M.
Beck, M .A.
Group Work with Hospitalized Chil-

dren, Constance Impallaria Albee,-

MSW.

PARENTS, December 1955
If Your Child Asks About Other
People’s Religion, Margaret
Albrecht.
A Code for Teen-Agers, Robert C.
Taber.

PARKS AND RECREATION, November
1955
Cabarrus County Has Two Chapters
in the Interest of Retarded Chil:
dren, Sarah E. Walker, M.S.P.H.

SCHOLASTIC COACH, September 1955
Soccer from A to Z, Glenn F. H.
Warner.
Physical Education and Juvenile De-
linquency, Kenneth G. Sullivan.

SOUNDINGS, September-October 1955
A Recreation Program for the Hear-

ing-Impaired Child, R 0 b e rt H.

Dombro.

   

 

RECREATION

 

The Metropolis:
Is Integration Possible?

Edwin A.Cottrell and Helen L. Jones.
Haynes Foundation, 916 Consolidated
Building, 607 Hill Street, Los Angeles
14, California. Pp. 116. Cloth, $2.50,-
paper, $2.00.

This is the final monograph in a
series of studies on government inte-
gration in the Los Angeles area under-
written by the Haynes Foundation. It
gives background information for the
‘ general understanding of the processes
' of local government, examples of ways

in which jurisdictions cooperate and

delegate authority and responsibility to
each other, reviews the major steps to-
ward integration which have taken
place or been proposed, and, finally,
presents a long-range plan for the
future.

Many metropolitan areas are under-

lgoing studies to facilitate the coordina-

 

tion of overlapping functions of county
and city government activities. Recre-
ation and park executives, their boards,
and interested citizens need to under-
stand the intricacies of government
operations to discharge their obligation
r to get the maximum value from the tax-
payers’ dollar and at the same time pro-
vide adequate recreation services for
the rapidly increasing leisure hours.
For the uninitiated, this study is an
entrancing revelation of the astounding
complexities of local government serv-
* ices and administrations—James M adi-

1. son, Field Department, NRA.

   

Baited Bulletin Boards

Thomas A. Koskey. Baited Bulletin
Boards, 30 Clareview Avenue, San
Jose 27, California. Pp. 32. 1954.
$1.00. 5

Here is a guide which should be in
the t0p center drawer of the director’s
desk in every recreation center. The
subject: bulletin boards that attract in-
:erest, hold interest, and impress favor-
ibly. Twenty-five pages of illustrations
' show ways to use bulletin boards affec-
' :ively. Key features are: use of color,
- irrangement, lettering and captions,
-‘ ,zextural materials, and a basic list of
' ?naterials. Adaptations for'odd shaped
soards are shown.

1

 

r a
J
jixnuxnv 1956

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

Written for teachers, this little hand-
book could be a great help in making
often neglected bulletin boards an asset
to recreation centers and playgrounds.
The booklet would be even more helpful
if it contained a section on “the board
that changes daily,” but the suggestions
are good, new, and effectively present-

ed.———Alfred B. Jensen, Recreation Per-
sonnel Service, NRA.

Exploring the Small Community

Otto G. Hoiberg. University of Ne-
braska, 1125 R Street, Lincoln 8, Ne-
braska. Pp. 199. $3.50.

Out of a life-long experience in small
communities, Dr. Hoiberg has drawn
basic principles and dynamic sugges-
tions for making life more livable in
such areas.

Dr. Hoiberg recognizes recreation as
a fundamental need of the people and
as an agent for community improve-
ment. The plan of the book, considering
the contribution of the church, the
school, business, tends to indicate a
well-defined boundary between adult
education, cultural expression and rec-
reation where no such boundary actu-
ally exists, but if study of Dr. Hoiberg’s
book increases the sum total of partici-
pation and of human happiness, one
need not quarrel over terms.

Excellent analysis of leadership avail-
able and of the need for democratic
planning makes the book practical and
helpful.

Dr. Hoiberg quotes W. I. Thomas as
recognizing four basic wishes in man——
security, response (love and friend-
ship), recognition (a place in the sun),
and new experience—and assigns to
recreation the major responsibility for
satisfying the wish for new experience.
—Edna V. Brancher, Correspondence
and Consultation Service, NRA.

Buildings of Tomorrow

Fern M. Colborn. William Morrow &
Company, Inc., 425 Fourth Avenue,

New York 16. Pp. 159. $3.50.

This guide is based upon the observa-
tion and experience of Miss Colborn as
a member of the staff of the National
Federation of Settlements. Although
the major emphasis is upon “agency”

buildings, the material in it can be ap-

plied in large measure to public recre-
ation buildings.

The book describes important consid-
erations that precede the preparation of
building plans and contains many help-
ful suggestions for the guidance of
groups responsible for a building proj-
ect. Valuable hints are also offered as
to ways in which the services of an
architect can be most effectively uti-
lized. Recreation workers will find of
special value the comments with refer-
ence to the planning of specific features
and the selection of building materials
and equipment. The volume contains
detailed descriptions of social settle-
ment buildings and illustrations of both
exteriors and interiors.

Although it is pointed out that the
size and type of buildings vary widely
according to local needs, Miss Colborn
proposes: “As a minimum every neigh-
borhood house must have a home base
that consists of space for offices, a
lounge, a fair-size meeting room, three
or four club or special activity rooms,
and a kitchen.” She goes on to add:
“The number of families you are able to
reach will depend far more upon the size
of the full-time staff you employ than
the size of your building.”

All communities considering the con-
struction of a community-type recrea-
tion building would do well to secure a
copy of this bookéCeorge D. Butler,
Director, NRA Research Department.

Meeting the Press

Gertrude W. Simpson. The National
Publicity Council for Health and Wel-
fare Services, 257 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10. Pp. 63. $2.00. ($1.50 to
members of the National Publicity
Council.) °

News releases, deadlines and the gen-
eral whirl of the working press can be
baffling to the uninitiated agency work-
er who finds himself responsible for
obtaining good press coverage for his
organization. Meeting the Press is an
informative booklet which aims at solv-
ing the mystery of how to get and stay
in the news and covers the gamut of
press-organization relationships. Read-
ers unfamiliar with newspaper proced-
ures and policies should find the book
useful in the preparation of material for
newspaper publicity and invaluable in
making the best possible,use of such
material.

The author’s range of subject was re-
viewed by nearly thirty local commu-
nity agencies and organizations whose
comments were guides in the prepara-
tion of the final manuscript. lt discuss-
es such subjects as who should be re-
sponsible for publicity; how to plan a
newspaper publicity program; basic

4.?

techniques of news writing; news on
radio and TV; how to work with week-
ly, neighborhood, and other specialized
press outlets.

Mrs. Simpson, author of the popular
manual Workingwith Newspapers (now
out of print), writes clearly, to-the-
point, and in entertaining style. She is
assistant to the public relations director,
Girl Scouts of the USA. Her eXperi-
ence includes news reporting for a large
daily paper, publicity for hOSpitals, col-
leges, trade associations, community
chest, foods, home decorations, and
fashions.——-—Charlotte Rice, Public In-
formation Department, NRA.

The Workshop Book

Martha Lincoln and Katherine Tor-
rey. Houghton Mimin Company, 2
Park Street, Boston 7, Massachusetts.
Pp. 214. $5.00.*

If you are starting a workshop for
children, this should be one of the first
books to buy. If you don’t have a Work-
shop program, this book wil make you
wish to start one—and tell you how.

It is exceedingly well-organized, cov-
ers not only woodwork but many other
media possible in a workshop, is clear,
concise, and stimulating. It is profuse-
ly illustrated by accurate construction
drawings and by photographs of the
finished projects, all of which are in
good taste and uphold excellent stand-
ards of design and construction. Full
information about the equipment and
supplies for each project is given, and
the projects are original and clever.

As if this wasn’t enough, the book
also contains a reference list of work-
shop‘materials and a carefully selected
bibliography, as well as a fine index
which makes it very easy to use.

If your workshop program has be-
come stale and routine, this material
will give it a real lift. It is one of the
finest we’ve seen in a long time. Highly
recommended. ——— Virginia M usselman,
Program Service, NRA.

2000 Fathoms Down

Commander Georges Houot and
Pierre Willm. E. P. Dutton 8. Company,
Inc. 300 Fourth Avenue, New York IO.
Pp. I92. $4.00.*

A true story of adventure beneath the
sea, telling of history-making dives that

 

"' These publications are available from the
National Recreation Association at list price
plus fifteen cents for each book ordered to
cover postage and handling. A ctioe Associate
and A Wiate Members of the Association re-
ceive a ten per cent discount on list price.
Remittances should accompany orders from
individuals; organizations and recreation de-
partments will be billed on their oiiicial orders.
Address orders to Combined Book Service,
National Recreation Association, 8 West
Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

48

can be comfortably enjoyed by the arm-
chair traveler. The memories and emo-
tions of these two pioneers make a
thrilling narrative and show that we can
look forward to a time when the sea will
give up its secrets. Illustrated. with

photographs.
All in One Day—

Experiences and Insights

Hilda Libby Ives. The Bond Wheel-
wright Company, 795 Forest Avenue,
Portland 5, Maine. $2.75.

The record of a radiant life, this book
by a long-time member of the board of
directors of the National Recreation As-
sociation, touches both peaks of joy and
depths of sadness. Always an active par-
ticipant in recreation in her own life, a
notable swimmer even as a grandmoth-
er, Mrs. Ives pays tribute to the power
of recreation in building character:

“Interest in sport provides a fine
foundation for the building of charac-
ter. To wait your turn, to play with the
team and not for individual glory, to
cheer as loser, for the best man, and to
forget oneself in cooperative play —
these are all great spiritual qualities to
be imbedded by sports in the life of
young people.

“My admiration for that group of pi-
oneers who forméd the National Rec-
reation Association, Luther Gulick, The-
odore Roosevelt, Joseph Lee, and
Howard Braucher, is boundless. No
adequate appraisal has yet been made
of the wonderful work accomplished
under the leadership of these great men
and countless others who have worked
with them through the last half centu-
ry.”—Edna V.‘ Braucher, National Rec-

reation Association.

ACTIVITY BOOKSHELF

Creative Activities by Dorothy Haupt
and D. Keith Osborn. The Merrill Pal-
mer School, 71 East Ferry Avenue, De-
troit 2, Michigan. Pp. 104, illustrated.

‘ $1.00.

A guide to parents and leaders, pre-
senting the kinds of activities in which
young children may engage with pleas-
ure and satisfaction. The book contains
a great many projects in various types
of activities, including paints and paint-
ing, stencils and printing, paper work,
clay, woodwork, rhythm instruments,
nature study, cooking, and special holi-
day projects. Recipes for paste, papier
mache, and so on are given in an ap-
pendix, as are valuable ‘references to
additional readings and sources of sup-
plies.-- Excellent for kindergarten and
pre-school leaders, and also for craft
leaders on playgrounds. Well-organ-
ized, in good taste and sound in tech-
niques. Recommended.

Handbook of F ollc, Square and Social

Dancing by Jane A. Harris, Anne Pitt-
man and Marlys S. Waller. Burgess
Publishing Company, Minneapolis 15,
Minnesota. Pp. 270, illustrated, revised
edition. $3.00.

An excellent handbook for the rec-
reation library. Contains useful mate-
rial on facilities and equipment for the
dance program, techniques of teaching,
and an excellent bibliography, in addi-
tion to the main sections describing
forty-three square dances, twenty-seven
round dances, thirty-six international
folk dances, six favorite social dances
and a special chapter of twenty-six
mixers and ice breakers.

Information on recordings is detailed
and complete; many sketches add
charm and informality. Recommended.

Hopscotch and Jump Rope Rhymes by,
Patricia Evans. The Porpoise Book-
shop, 308 Clement Street, San Francis-
co 18, California. Pp. 31 each. $.25
each.

These are two entirely delightful little
booklets, charmingly illustrated by the
author. The former gives a fascinating
history of hopscotch, originated prob-
ably in ancient Greece, and played all
over the world. Many of these varia-
tions are explained, and playing direc-
tions given.

The latter will increase your nostal-
gia for your childhood, as you will re-
member chanting many of these rhymes
to the thump of a rope. Order them,
read, and enjoy them—and discuss
them in staff meetings. They have a
long and honorable history!

 

m

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

American Playground Device Company ______ __ 7
Artcraft Services. Inc. A ________________________ -- 8
Association Films, Inc. _. ____________________ __ 45
The J. E. Burke Company  9.
The Copper Shop  39
Handweaver and Craftsman  36
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company ______________ __ I 39
J. C. [arson Company  ._ 29
The Monroe Company   _ 39
National Sports Company .-  9
The J. E. Porter Corporation   It

The Ronald Press Company________---________'__ __ 14
James Spencer and Company ____________________ _- 29
VogeI-Peterson Company .___ _____________________ __ 9‘
W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation-__-__________-_-- 201
X-acto. Inc.  9i

 

RECREATION r

\\\

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

January, February and March, 1956

Canton, Ohio
January 16-19

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

C. W. Schnake, Recreation Director, Recreation Department, Can-
ton City School District, Safety Building

Buffalo, New York

N. Y. State Association of Health, Physical Education and Recrea-
January 23

tion Conference

Downey, Illinois
February 28 and 29

Robert C. Boyd, Chief, Special Service, Veterans Administration
Hospital

Cicero, Illinois

March 5-8

Alan B. Domer, Executive Director, Cicero Youth Commission, 5341

West Cermak Road

Morganton, North Carolina
January 23-26

Reidsville, North Carolina
January 30-February 2

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

Miss Virginia Gregory, Recreation Specialist, North Carolina Rec-
reation Commission, Education Building Annex-Room 134, Raleigh

Kinston, North Carolina
February 6-9

Pacific Southwest District
February 13-April 12

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

John J. Collier, National Recreation Association District Repre-
sentative, Room 1009, 606 S. Hill Street, Los Angeles, California

FRANK A. STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Greenville, Mississippi
January 23-26

E. M. Ward, Superintendent of Recreation, Park Commission, 705
McAllister Street

 

Mr. Staples will be conducting Arts and Crafts training workshops at the following Air Bases beginning January 30: Mountain
Home Air Force Base, Idaho; Ellsworth Air Force Base, Rapid City, South Dakota; Malmstrom Air Force Base, Great Falls,
Montana. If you are interested in further details with reference to Mr. Staples’ availability for consultation during this period or
in the possibility of participating in these training workshops themselves please communicate with Mr. Howard Beresford, 3055
Bellaire, Denver 7, Colorado.

Miss Grace Walker will be attending the California State and Pacific Southwest District Conference to he held in San Diego.
California, February 12-15.

 

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, COmmUnlcate mm the Sponsor
of the course as listed above.

R E c R E A T 1 o N
West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y. , I J

 

RETURN POSTAGE GUARANTEED
Entered as second class matter

“ Those poor devils
are dying ”

 

USTACHIOED, bulky and calm, Jack
M Philip stood on the bridge of the
U.S.S. Texas, watching his gunners pour
fire into the Spanish men-of-war fleeing San-

tiago harbor.

Only a few days before, another Amer-
ican ship had accidentally fired at the Texas.
Philip had responded by signalling:
“Thanks, good line. but a little over.”

Now enemy shells were whistling over his
head from desperate vessels doomed to de-
struction. One of them, the Spanish battle-
ship Vizcaya, exploded as the Texas raced by.

Instantly, a great victorious shout sprang
up on the Texas. But Captain Philip quickly
silenced it:

“Don’t cheer, men; those poor devils are
dying.”

Jack Philip was already something of a
friendly hero to his men. But this one sen-
tence, more than all his bravery, made him

a hero of the Spanish-American War to mil-
lions of Americans.

For Americans prize gallantry. Gallantry
is part of the great heritage—part of the
strength—of the American people. And to-
day, it is this strength—the strength of 165
million Americans—which forms the real
guarantee behind one of the world’s finest
investments: U.S. Series E Savings Bonds.

That’s why it’s such a good idea for any
American to buy Savings Bonds regularly,
and to hold on to them. Start today!

 

It’s actually easy to save money—when you
buy Series E Savings Bonds through the auto-
matic Payroll Savings Plan where you work!
You just sign an application at your pay oilice;
after that your saving is done for you. The
Bonds you receive will pay you interest at the
rate of 3% per year, compounded semiannually,
when held to maturity. And after maturity they go
on earning 10 years more. Join the Plan today.
0r invest in Bonds regularly where you bank.

Safe as Hmerica -—

US. Savings Bonds

 

The U.S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in cooperation with the:
Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.

