5’ ‘ A 71"

, a a .
1 ' "'1 '
(If V r (A m. ‘ 4

 " Henry meffer Ill},
' 1431014311171 1 i ‘ "

 

 
   

PORTER "0.38

COMBINATION

It’s a space saver! It’s a money-saver, too!

Yes, here’s a Playground Combination Set that has been care-
fully planned to solve the problem of limited space. Small
playgrounds can install the Porter No. 38, and still provide
a wide variety of healthful exercise and fun for the children.
Look at all the apparatus this one unit affords! Two Stand-
ard See-Saws, one Horizontal Bar, two Swings, a Pair of
Flying Rings, one Trapeze, and one 16-ft. Porter Safety Slide
—plus the sturdy 10-ft. steel frame that’s galvanized inside WRHE FOR THE NEWEST
and Out and held rigidly together for years and years with CATALOG OF PORTER
Tested Malleable Iron fittings of exclusxve Porter de51gn. E N G I N E E R E D

The No. 38 Combination Set has price appeal, too. Write for
the attractively low figure, and complete specifications. Im- PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

mediate delivery!

 

THE 1. CORPORATION
OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS 0F PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG
Reg.u.s.Pat.os. STRUCTURE

 

MORE THAN

100,000

U. S. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES EACH YEAR SPECIFY

. 1"

skating

America’s Finest Sports Equipment by

NEW YORK 11 DANVILLE, ILL. - LOS ANGELES 11

for health and

 

I - .
I
/ 0

3/10 mar/«awn V 1, NS/J/ \' *.

 

I: /V.788//V um '
.' 4/ _-// ‘b’VJH / .LVHM
woe/j ,ucsrr7 A77V3’d o_/. A “nominal; spam-
.17//).9 ' ' 74/005 10 l at low cost and upkeep

  
  
  
 
   
  

I‘ll/V3 7d ' ' ' 33W”09’ [1 it’s eaiy to 1start a roller skating program!
. . t’s a ealt ful exercise and the o ular

380W / 1/ '1” 095/ way to build strong bodies. A iavlbrite
19000 o/y /7/’_' with boys and girls and budget planners,
 too . . . roller skating makes a grand co-

j4-/r-”' recreational activity. Handles the largest

, /"”' groups quickly and easily. Halls, gyms,

or any large floor area make fine roller
rinks. Invest in health and fun this season.

HA” 700W”! .—--Rubber Tire Skates—--.
FOR USE ON WAXED FLOORS IN

Gyms, Ballrooms or Halls

/l/.7 SS/N

V 3. Jay/u ‘0/VV7
3/14 501774 xlcVJ/i! /
soy/7 sways ,x'

     
 

A  ABSOLUTELY ‘
> GUARANTEED
- NOTTO MAR, SCRATCH on DAMAGE--

Rink clamp skates developed by
CHICAGO specially for skating on
waxed floors. The rubber wheels
are ideal for use on tile, ballroom I
floors or any highly waxed surface.
Will not harm or mark.

Write Now to the Leader in Rink
Skates on How to Start

teamed

ROLLER Sitan COMPANY
The Choice of Champions . . . for over 45 Years

............................ 4490 West lake Street—Chicago 24, Illinois

 
  
   
  

NEW NISSEN CATALOG

Illustrations. descriptions, ,

specifications and prices for -’

every style Nissan _/

Trampoline. 18 colorful r’

pages. Mail coupon today
for your FREE copy.

pectoooovovvvoovvee

O
. NISSEN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY

200 A Avenue. N. W.
Cedar Rapids. Iowa

Please rush FREE copy of new lb-page catalog.

v _ .
h—-——‘--H--—_—

    
 

   
 
 
 

.H—

TI‘AMPOLINES‘k

More than
5.000 NISSEH

TWOUNES
How in use

I

O

s

f

Q

3 am *W‘W’wv
Q ._ v __ ____. v
Q REPRESENTING
Q

’ ._ _ -
i

I

‘

ADDRESS

l
:.
ll

 

cr'rv ETA-re

*Hcg. U.S. Pat. Off.

MAY 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. ' 201

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

   

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON STATE RECREATION

The National Advisory Committee on State Recreation is composed.of state officials con-
cerned with recreation services and programs. The Committee functions In the followmg ways:
to help the National Recreation Association to be a clearing house on the sub] ect of state spon-
sored recreation services; as a study group to help the Association determine problems and to
help in the solution of these problems; to assist the Association in the dissemlnatlon of Informa-
tion on state recreation matters; to help coordinate the work of the Association In thls phase of
the recreation field with the activities of other national, professional and service organizatlons
concerned with this aspect of recreation. '

The Committee projects at present include work on the State Section of the Recreation .and
Park Yearbook for 1955 to be published this fall, identifying problems common to the admmls-
tration of state recreation services and recommending principles relating to the solution of these
problems, formulating and recommending to the National Recreation Association a policy state-
ment on the role of state government in organized recreation.

HAROLD K. JACK—Chairman

Supervisor of Health and Physical Education, Safety
and Recreation, State Board of Education
Richmond, Virginia

ROBERT L. BLACK—Vice-Chairman

Community Recreation Assistant, Missouri Division
of Resources and Development

ROBERT R. GAMBLE—Secretary

Assistant Director, Field Department, National
Recreation Association

Jefferson City, Missouri

KENNETH ABELL

Recreation Consultant, State
Planning Board
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

RALPH J. ANDREWS

Director, North Carolina Recreation
Commission

Raleigh, North Carolina

ERNEST V. BLOHM

Executive Secretary, Inter-Agency
Council for Recreation
Lansing, Michigan

MRS. A. O. BRUNCARDT

Vermont Director of ReCreation
Montpelier, Vermont

STEWART G. CASE

Recreation Specialist, Agricultural

Extension Service, Colorado A & M
College

Fort Collins, Colorado

V. W. FLchlscER

Chief, Division of Parks, Department
of National Resources
(.olumbus, Ohio

New York, New York

GEOReE H. GROVER

Director Division of Health and Phy-
sical Education, The State Educa-

tion Department

Albany, New York

LARRY J. HEER

State Recreation Consultant, Univer-

sity of Kansas
Lawrence, Kansas

PAUL E. LANDIS

Supervisor, Health, Physical Educa-
tion, Recreation and Safety, De-

partment of Education
Columbus, Ohio

RUTH McIN'nRE

Extension Specialist in Recreation

University of Massachusetts
A mherst. Massachusetts

’

EARLE E. MEADOWS

Consultant on Community Recrea-

tion, State Department of Public
Welfare

Austin, Texas

J. C. NEAL

Supervisor, Health, Physical Educa-

tion, Recreation and Safety, De-
partment of Education
St. Paul, Minnesota

E. H. RECNIER

Extension Rural Recreationist,
University of Illinois
Urbana, Illinois

JULIAN W. SMITH

Associate Professor of Outdoor Edu-
cation, Michigan State University
East Lansing, Michigan

WILLARD B. STONE

Director of Recreation, New York
State Youth Commission

Albany, New York

LOUIS F. TWARDZIK
Recreation Consultant, Division of

State Parks

Nashville, Tennessee

JOHN R. VANDERZICHT

Director, State Parks and Recreation
Commission

Seattle, Washington

WILLIAM W. WELLS

Director, State Parks and Recreation
Commission

Baton Rouge, Louisiana

STERLING S. WINANs

Director of Recreation, California
Recreation Commission
Sacramento, California

N‘

RECREATION'

 

A l

MAY 1956

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLIX Price 50 Cents No. 5

0n the Cover

Young fox, bright-eyed denizen of the wilderness
areas now preserved in parks and national forests
which offer beauty, inspiration and a precious na-
tional heritage. Such areas belong to American

L tradition and have molded American character.
(See editorial, “Why We Need Wild Places,” page
204-.) Photograph courtesy of L. G. Kesteloo, pho-
tographer, Virginia Commission of Game and In-
land Fisheries, and Virginia Wildlife magazine.

Next Month

An especially planned issue marks the Golden An-
niversary Year of the National Recreation Associa-
tion. Old-timers in the recreation field will enjoy
reading about familiar names and events in the
early days of the recreation movement; young ex-
ecutives can become familiar with the background,
early leaders, and philosophy of their chosen field.
Every recreation leader, young or old, will want to
own a copy for his recreation library. Buy extra
copies for your staff and 'board membei‘s. Send in
order early as possible!

1 Photo Credits

Page 212, Suzanne Szasz, N. Y.:, 213, U. S. Fish
hand Wildlife Service, (left) Andrew H. DuPre,
(others) E. P. Haddon; 221, University of Houston
I News Service; 233, Del-Hagen Studios, courtesy
(Santa Monica Department of Recreation, Cal.; 239,
( center) Harold Winder, courtesy Oakland Park
Department, Cal., (right) Flint Journal, Mich.;
244-. (top right) Jack Stock, Shelton, Conn.

  
 

 

f RECREATION is published monthly except July and

. August by the National Recreation Association, a serVIce

organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8

* West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York, is on
File in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers"
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re—entered as second-class
matter April 25. 1950, at the Post Oflice in New York,
New York, under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May
1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-
versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor,
Michigan. 0

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 141 EaSt
44th Street, New York 17, New York; Mark Minahan,
168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois; Keith
H. Evans, 3757 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles 5, and
593 Market Street, Suite 304, San Francisco 5.
California.

Copyright, 1956, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

6”.

Printed in the U.S.A. .' a.

I
\
f”..\

" Trade mark registered in U. 5. Patent Oliice.

 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Why We Need Wild Places (Editorial) . . . . . . . . .J. J. Shomon 204-
Let’s Put the Country Back Into the Boy . . . . . . . .J. A. Thayer 211
The Program of Creative Music . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Henry Cowell 212
Wildlife Recreatiouu—a National Need

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Victor B. Scheffer and Philip A. DuMont 213
The Moses Recipe for Better Parks . . . . . . . . . . (Robert [Hoses 214-
What of Parks in Ohio? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V. W. Flickinger 216
The Meeting (A Recreation Club for the

Handicapped) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ralph Sponge 219
The World’s Largest Piano Class . . . . . . . . . . . .Esther Rennick 220
International Advisory Committee for the International

Recreation Cengress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 222
ADNIINISTRATION
Recreation Equipment Development

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Louis Orsatti and John P. Madeira 224
Aquatic Training Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . .R. Foster Blaisdell 227
Skill and SCUBA Diving (Results of ARC Study) . . . . . . . . . . . 228
Notes for the Administrator. . . . . . . . . . . . .-“ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 232

PROGRARI
Promoting Tennis Requires a Sustained Rally

(Idea of the Month) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . George Diestelmeier 233
Summcr Music . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Etlward H. Watson 234
Footlights and Creasepaint . . . . . . . .‘ . . . . .Richard M. Samson 236
Suggestion Rox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 238

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 230

Hospital Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Beatrice A. Hill 237

On the Campus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Alfred B. Jensen 240

Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . W. C. Sutherland 242

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24-4

Books and Pamphlets Rcceived, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . 247

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Rccreation Leadership Training Courses . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

203

204

“Editorial

Why We Need
 P laces ‘ J. J. Shomon

WMMWWWWNWWMWMM

NOT so long ago I met an interesting old man on a lonely moose trail in the wilds of

the north country. I was miles from camp and the lateness of the afternoon and l

the cold scudding snow clouds had me sprinting campward at a fair clip. I didn’t
think there was a soul for miles around. Suddenly, directly in front of me, there loomed
the gray figure of a man. We both froze in our tracks. Our sense returned, we greeted
each other and began a friendly conversation. . ‘

“Me go trap in deep bush,” he said in his broken French-Canadian. “Stay ’til Christ-
mas. Den I come out, get more grub and go back again. This country good for man.”

I learned later that Pierre made regular visits to the wilderness bush country to cure
himself of a bad drinking habit. Once his three bottles of liquor were gone there was
nothing to do but sober up and let the wilderness country do its work. Pierre was sixty-
seven and a more rugged trapper there never was. The bush was obviously good for him.

The case in point is that we can all stand the antidote of wild places once in a while,
not so much to make us teetotalers but to help us regain a sense of equilibrium, serenity.

In America wild places are a spiritual necessity. We need them to recreate ourselves
and to remind us what the primeval glory of our country was like. Every time I go into
a wild or wilderness area I am struck by the healing influence of the surroundings.
Mental cobwebs disappear; nerves loosen up; contentment returns. No doctor can
prescribe a pill that will do that for a body.

Some decades ago certain selfless men like the late Bob Marshall realized the neces-
sity of wild places in our lives and set about the task of getting the federal government
and the states to set aside pristine areas dedicated to the spiritual welfare of mankind.
The Wilderness Society was born and began and carried on the fight to preserve wild
places. The National Park Service, U. S. Forest Service, and several of the states have
wisely set aside a few areas classed as “wilderness” and “wild areas,” but these places
are inadequate for our growing p0pulation. More areas—and there are not many wild
areas left on the continent—need to be set aside.

Like all worthy conservation endeavors it means a battle. A battle not only to add
to the areas we now have but to protect the ones that now exist. Pressures are constantly
at work to grab away the last vestiges of our primeval wilderness. This is especially
true near and around big centers of population—and yet it is here where wild places
are needed most, and surprisingly enough, where opposition is strongest.

In Virginia we don’t have any areas that can be classed as truly “wilderness” areas
but we do have some wild areas. We need more of them. We need to protect the ones
we have.

Just last spring the commission [Virginia Commission of Game and Inland Fish-
cries], through the noble efforts of I. T. Quinn, executive director, and Senators Robert-
son and Byrd, waged a valiant fight to help save Parramore Island on Virginia’s eastern
shore, an undisturbed wild area. The Navy had designs to make the wild and wildlife-
rich island a bombing target for oil-shore maneuvers. Fortunately the grab was stopped
and the island was saved. Conservation emerged victorious. '

In this year of 1956 it might be well for us who believe in conservation to look around

and see what should be done to safeguard—and add to-—our wild places which consti-
tute a precious natural heritage. l

Reprinted with permission from. Virginia Wildlife, Janu-
ary 1956 issue. Mn SHOMON is editor of that magazine.

 

QWWWWWQGWW¢ 4

RECREATION

    
   

an new

esteem
i it

Keeps Multi-Purpose Gym Floors
“yp'quf ” Gymnasium at Platte Val-

ley Elementary School. St.

Protects Against Grease and Dirt Build-Up We“ R-F-°-- Mon dou-

bles as lunchroam during
the noon hour.

  
 

   
   

Beautiful. fast-ploy gymnasium floor in
Ookwaad Junior High School. Kalama-
zaa. Mich.

  

Climaxirzg years 0 f research in Hillyard laboratories, this new "test tube” finish

  
    
 
  

ls formulated for asphalt tile, yet safe for fast and simple. Although non-slip, it is
all floors not tacky, will not catch and build up dirt.
Will not soften, fade, darken or discolor provides extra economy

    
 

any resilient flooring material.

Gives complete surface protection
Forms a hard, smooth, unbroken surface
that repels dirt and grease, keeping them
from grinding in. Protects floor against
food fats, that Otherwise would create an

The finish stays. After repeated washings,
the rich velvety lustre buffs back easily.
Eliminates frequent stripping and refinish-
ing.

The perfect solution for special problems

  
      
     
   
      
         
 
 

unsightly, slippery condition. No water 0f .multi'PPIPose moms.- - - 0’“ Pro‘iuct
spotting, Wthh fulfills your requirements for safety,
Makes maintenance easy appearance and economy on every floor of

    
 

The hard, smooth surface makes sweeping your building.

 
 
 

  
 

The Hillyard Maintaineer® will be glad to ex- I  Joseph, MO. I
plain or demonstrate the most effective and eca- ' . . ' I

“mm” methmls ’0' COMI‘IOHMK ' Please give me complete details on a treatment program for
your asphalt tile gym floor. The I . ~ Mr I
services of this trained floor expert I asphalt tlle  floors. I
are available to you without charge I I
or obligation. The Maintaineer is I I
On Your Staff. Not Your Payroll I Name .................... ‘l .................................................................... H t]
I ' '
I I
St. JOSEPH, I Institution ...............................  ...............  ................................. .. I
MISSOURI I : :

“90“ Passaic, N. J. I '- , I ' .‘
San Jose, Calif. I Address .................. .: .............................  ............... -3. ............. .. :
I - . --  w,

l i «. *' l
Branches and Warehouse Stocks in Principal Cities  a23:;3:11:22‘3311‘1"13121311125:f;j_:itj‘f"f”7"+‘f.“f‘:‘f’"ff’f‘ffff$§at¢ "T"'..‘T"'“.‘_""T'T_‘,'T" A_ __ _ 3

‘MAY 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. ' 205

 

0.0.0.

    

} WATCH FOR THE SPECIAL GOLDEN AN-
NIVERSARY ISSUE OF RECREATION. Don’t
miss the dramatic story of the develop-
ment of recreation in this country.
Background reading for every recrea-
tion leader! Coming in June.

) COMMUNITY LEADERS WHO HAVE
MADE SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTIONS to
the recreation movement through their
work with NRA Affiliate Members are
eligible for special Fiftieth Anniversary
certificates of appreciation and honor-
ary membership in their NRA district.
Those who have given long-time board
or other volunteer service, park or play-
ground lands, or who have served the
community recreation program in an
outstanding way are among those who
may be honored in this manner.

A nominating form has been sent to

affiliate members. Additional copies
can be secured by writing to the NRA—
but time is almost up.
} REPRINTS AVAILABLE FREE UPON RE-
QUEST. The outstanding address, “A
Philosophy of Recreation,” delivered
by Dr. Alexander Reid Martin, noted
psychiatrist of New York City, as the
keynote address for the Second South-
ern Regional Conference on Hospital
Recreation last year, has just been re-
printed by the National Recreation As-
sociation. This talk is not for hospital
recreation workers only, for it gives the
psychiatrist’s approach to the whole
subject of recreation and points up the
need for closer integration between the
psychiatrist and recreation leader.
Send for a copy! Dr. Martin is chair-
man of the Standing Committee Of the
American Psychiatric Association on
Cooperation with Leisure Time Agen-
cues.

} Tm: OUTDOOR "SWIMMING POOL—A
STUDY REPORT is now available. Spon-
acted by the Conference for National
Cooperation in Aquatics, the study was
conducted by a committee with George
D. Butler. of the National Recreation
Association as chairman. The Ameri-
can Red Cross assisted in compiling
data, but much Of the preparation was
done by the NRA. It' may be secured
from the Association fpr $1.00.

.206

b A WORKER-IN THE UNITED STATES
TODAY can turn out about six times as
much as his great grandfather one hun-
dred years ago, according tO the Ed-
press News Letter. If this ascending
curve continues, his great-grandson,
one hundred years from now, will be
able to produce in one seven-hour day
all that a man produces in the present
forty-hour week.

) THE NEED FOR A “MISSION 66” FOR
NATIONAL FOREST RECREATION FACILI-
TIES (similar tO the National Park Serv;
ice’s Mission 66) was introduced into
the Congressional Record of March 14-,
by Senator Wallace F. Bennett, follow-
ing an editorial in the March 5, 1956
issue of The Salt Lake Tribune, Salt
Lake City, Utah. It said in part: “The
1956 appropriation for national forest
recreation facilities amounted to $1,-
670,000, a mere pittance considering
the fact that forty-four million recre-
ational visits were made to the forests

last year and that camp and sanitation "

facilities are steadily deteriorating. . . .
“Recreational use of forests in the In-
ter-mountain Region jumped from 2,-
295,000 in 194-1 to 6,105,000 last year.
The same pattern holds for the Na-
tional forests throughout Utah. . . .
“Public use in the national forests
carries with it a tremendous responsi-
bility in safety and sanitation. .
“Efforts are being made tO spur fa-
vorable interest in Congress in a bill to
set aside ten per cent Of national forest
receipts, up to five and a half million
dollars annually, for recreational areas
and wildlife improvements. Some Ob-
servers are not optimistic this bill will

be adopted this year.” (HR1823—Ed.)

} AT THE REQUEST OF THE UNITED
STATES AIR FORCE IN EUROPE, Helen
Dauncey, NRA training specialist, and
Arthur Todd, on leave from the NRA
staff to serve as chief of the Youth Ac-
tivitics Branch, Headquarters, USAFE,
will conduct recreation training classes
during May for youth leaders in Ger-

many, France, England, and North
Africa.

} NEED ANY ADDITIONAL COPIES of the
April Issue Of RECREATION? Extra

orders and commendations are coming
in fast. Readers seem to think this
especially valuable and are re-ordering
in varying quantities, so—if you want
to be sure Of finding this issue in stock
—don’t wait to order. James Glenn
Hudson, executive director Of the
Geneva Youth Bureau, New York, for
instance, has just ordered copies for

-each of his twenty-two summer play-

ground workers. In a letter to Joseph
Prendergast, April 11, 1956, he says,
“I believe this is the best issue in my
experience in the professional field.”

) HAVE YOU ORDERED YOUR STAMPED
1956 BINDER for RECREATION maga-
zine? Stock is dwindling!

) WANTED: Good how-tO-do articles on
camping-administration, leadership,
program planning, nature, and other
activities. A Special camping issue of
RECREATION is being planned for next
Spring. Send us the sort of thing you
would like to see in such an issue. Ma-
terials Should be in our hands by the

end of 1956.

} THE FIFTEENTH ANNUAL CONFER-
ENCE AND EXHIBIT of the National In-
dustrial Recreation Association will be
held in New York City, at the Hotel
Statler, on June 3-6. A wide range of
industrial recreation topics will be cov-
ered during the twenty sessions of the
conference. A descriptive program out-
line and application card have been en-

closed with the last issue of the NRA
Associate Membership Letter.

} WHAT IS THE OUTLOOK FOR PARKS
AND RECREATION FACILITIES in the
United States? George D. Butler, NRA
director of research, answers this time-
ly question in an article published in
the April issue of the American Journal
of Economics and Sociology. In an
eightieth birthday salute to Harold S.
Buttenheim, editor emeritus of The
American City magazine, twenty Of the
nation’s foremost authorities on munici-
pal appeals have contributed a series of
interesting articles on the theme, “Mu-
nicipal Progress in the Twentieth Cen-
tury.”

} ART FOR WORLD FRIENDSHIP is a plan
through which groups of children all
over the world draw pictures—about
their lives, their homes, their friends
—to exchange with children Of other
lands. Every individual child who has
sent in a picture to be mailed out to
other children receives one in return.
This program has been favorably re-
ceived by the embassies in Washington.
US. Information Service and UNESCO.
For further details write to Mrs. F red-
erick W. Muller, Friendship, Friendly
Acres, Media, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.

RECREATION

 

0".
......... . '

. .

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

The “What Do I Get?” Problem

Sirs:

In the past few years there has been
an increase in the reward aspect of rec-
reation. Emphasis by certain leaders
has brought about almost a necessary
prize for everything that is accom-
plished or attempted by youth. When
competing in games or contests some
type of reward is always necessary. I’m
not condemning rewards as a possible
motivation, but rather the great em-
phasis which is placed on them from
the standpoint of both youth and rec-
reation personnel. The play-for-fun mo-
tive has escaped from us andhas been
replaced by an element of greed. '

I imagine this is not a new problem
to recreation people in the field, but
it indeed is becoming an alarming one.
The basic motive of recreation for fun
is being deserted for a principle of in-
dividualistic self-centerism. Let’s bring
back the old method of playing the
game, just for the fun of it!

RONALD A. HURST, Recreation Di-
vision, Board of Park Commission-
ers, 3251/2 City Hall, Minneapolis
15, Minnesota.

Our Foundations
Sirs :

“Firming the Foundations,” by Vir-
ginia Musselman in the February REC-
REATION is one of the most thought pro-
voking articles I have read for some
time. Sad to say, the younger directors
who really need the admonition in the
excellent article will not read it or un-
derstand it because they do not know
our foundations, through no fault of
their own in most cases. Ask any group
of young directors of at least five-years’
experience who Joseph Lee or Howard
Braucher were, or whether they have
read Play and Education by our foun-
der or The Child and Play by Rogers,
and I venture to say not more than ten
per cent can give you an intelligent
answer.

MAY 1956

-—The Editors.

Name any other profession that is so
careless in disregarding its early be-
ginnings in the training of its new crop
of directors! Our recreation founda-
tions were built by pioneers of great
breadth of thought and human under-
standing who looked upon recreation
almost as a religion. Has this zeal been
implanted in our new directors? The
time could come when Miss Mussel-
man’s diagnosis of the trouble as Com-
placency will not satisfy the troubled
parent or the questioning city father.

Good planning requires a thorough
knowledge of the entire structure, not
only what is above thei'ground and
showing, but What is holding up the
superstructure. A sound, sane philoso-
phy is essential to future success.

I still thrill to the mention of the
names of Joseph Lee, Dr. J. Finley, or
Howard Braucher. Young brother- and
sister-in-recreation, if your foundations
are slipping or your enthusiasm is
waning, go back and take a look at our
foundations represented by the names

' I have mentioned.

GRANT D. BRANDOR,::818 State
Street, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

Reader Interest

Sirs:

I want to tell you how much we ap-
preciate your write-up regarding the
new AYH iilm in the January issue of
RECREATION. You may be interested to
know that we have already received a

number of inquiries, and a number of
recreation people have used the film.

JUSTIN J. CLINE, Executive Director,
American Youth Hostels, 14 West
Eighth Street, New Y orh 11.

Statevvide Organization

Sirs: ..'

The following proposal has been
made to the Wisconsin Recreation As-
sociation’s Bo ard -‘ of liDirectors. It

would be deeply appreciated if this
could be printed in RECREATION, so

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
 

 

 

I  0 transcription player
‘  0 public address system

57; For every sound reproduCtion
‘ I application in recreation halls,
 gyms, auditoriums, or summer
1 camps, the Newcomb R-16CV
.. _ does the job better, yet weighs
 -; less than 22 pounds. A separate
 microphone and phonograph
 . volume control permits mixing
 recorded music with the micro-
r .' phone presentation. Variable
'  speed control allows variable
.  tempo and pitch (from any'basic
‘ j  speed setting). A quality heat
 ’T p and humidity resiStant high
1w. ‘ fidelity ceramic pickup is encased
. -_ .«. in a professional-type tone arm.
. _ =.‘ Balanced-design amplifier with
inverse feedback in combination
with a line ten-inch extended
range speaker give quality you'd
never expecr at its price. N ewcomb
 . is the "sound of quality since
.' ' I937”. . . recognized by leading
- ,. _. school authorities from coast
 coasr to coast.

-u_--:- ‘M. {I clan. .‘
.! n 1‘“ A '.

'3‘.‘~ i‘LW

yaw.

  NEWCOMB VARIABLE SPEED

‘ I” 1- Exclusive Newcomb design gives
‘ » dependable continuoust variable

_ control at all 3 Speeds.

 
 
   

' Audio Products Co., Dept. 2-5
- 6824 Lexington Av., Hollywood 38, Calif.

[:1 Send free catalog of Newcomb
portable sound equipment.

[:1 Send name of our nearest

Newcomb distributor.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 20'

mm FOLDING BAN

If you are on the board of your school or
chum-h. or on the house or purchasing com-
mittee of your club or lodge. you Will be Inter-
ested il\'hli modern. Folding Pedestal Banquet

Vrin- for catalog & special discounts.

 

   
  

   

Ancient African-Asian Counting Game, $3
Co-op. Recreation Service, Inc., Delaware, 0.

 

    
  
      
   
    
   
 
  
 

lden Age Club Pin

Designed by representatives
of over 100 Golden Age clubs

‘. and used nationally.

Gold colored metal with
evergreen tree in jewelers’
enamel. Symbolic of long life,
strength and perseverance.
The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE
(greatest values of club membership) en-
ameled in black. The border is a laurel
wreath for honor. Safety catch.

Available Only to Authentic Clubs.

50: each, minimum order 10 pins.

  & (o- 22 N. 6th Street

Philadelphia 6, Pa.

New Go

  

     

 

208

there may be a chance to study any

comments from r e c r e a t i o n people

throughout the land. (Please send all
letters to Charles H. Odegaard, Direc-
tor of Parks and Recreation, Marinette,
Wisconsin.) Naturally it is realized
that there are probably as many types
of organizations as there are states.
1. We assume that the purpose of
state recreation organizations is mani-
fold, the least of these not being:
——F or the members to meet in an effort
to exchange ideas, practices, and ex-
periences, so each will become better
equipped to do his respective job.
——-To promote recreation as a profes-
sion and as such to raise our standards
and practices.
—To aid communities who at present
either do not have organized public rec-
reation or have it in’a slipshod manner.
2. Therefore, to aid in the promotion
of these and other purposes, the follow-
ing plan is offered for consideration:
Geographically divide your state into
as many districts as the consideration
of area and concentrated population
will allow. (Wisconsin proposal calls

'for- seven with future allowance for

three divisions which will provide ten.)
In setting up these districts keep in
mind: ”

Each district should have at least one
and preferably two cities where there
are full-time departments. In states
with large areas this may mean form-
ing two or three large districts. This
is not desirable but necessary until fu-
ture development of program allows a
split.

Keep the district to a size where all
meetings within the district require no
overnight stops.

In each of these districts one direc-
tor would be responsible for calling the
first meeting of key people after which
time all would share in the program.
The state organization could help with
this first meeting.

Each of these districts would have
two or three one-day sessions per year
with the location rotating so all muni-
cipalities would eventually be the host.
Of course, the purpose of these districts
is to have area one-day meetings so the
professional people within the area may
help the remainder of the area, in ad-
dition to helping each other. Naturally,
people need not be members of the
state organization in order to partici-
pate.

There shall be one state-wide meet-
ing per annum of all recreation people.
The length of this meeting may be two
to four days depending upon the num-
ber of people and the amount of work
to be covered.

There shall be two administration
meetings per year: I

—-The fall meeting shall be held at the

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

same time and place as, the state meet-
ing. The primary purpose of this meet-
ing shall be to discuss all administra-
tion problems (excluding athletics and
their tournaments—this would elimi-
nate the problem so often found where
all of the time is on athletics).

—The spring meeting shall be held in
May, shall rotate its location, and shall
be a one-day affair with its primary
purpose being for the discussion of
athletics and “their tournaments.

The state’s executive board shall at-
tend the winter meeting of the'state’s
park and recreation society (or a like
organization) and shall make a report
on all events pertaining to the state rec-
reation association at the next annual

meeting.

CHARLES H. ODEGAARD, Director,
Parks and Recreation Department,
Marinette, Wisconsin.

Public Recreation and the Schools

Sirs:

If one believes that the future of pub-
lic recreation lies in the hands and
minds of the public school authorities
he will find much of value in Mr. Gab-
rielsen’s article appearing in RECREA-
TION for September 1955. But I do not.
Nor do I believe that the kinds of rec-
reation services described by Mr. Gab-
rielsen constitute the most important
contribution that the public schools can
make to the recreational life of the in-
dividual and the community.

Let’s start with the nature of recrea-
tion experience per se. Some things
that people do are primarily and often
wholly recreational in character; e. g.,
square dancing, hunting with a camera,
listening to music. Many other things
that people do are motivated primarily
by other than recreational desires but
at the same time have important recre-
ation values; e.g., enjoying the drive
through the countryside to an appoint-
ment or re-living the story of Huck Finn
while reading it to quiet down an eight-
year-old at bedtime. Certainly not all
of recreational value comes from ex-
periences that are organized by some-
one else. It seems reasonable to say
that everyone, at times, seeks recrea-
tions all by himself or with his own lit-
tle group of friends, and to some the
chance to read, converse, listen, or con-
template is the very essence of recrea-
tion. The recreation leader is there to
make it possible for people to enjoy the
kinds of recreations they want when
they want them. This is an extremely
broad and pervasive responsibility.

The educational experiences that peo-
ple get in school are probably the most
prolific source of recreation interests
for most people. The school leaves its
imprint on almost every individual,

giving each the opportunity to develop ‘

RECREATION

-a’ “Odd - .

 

 

his knowledge, skills, and interests in a
wide variety of helds—éthe same fields,
incidentally, of music, art, drama, liter-
ature, sports, natural science, and social
activities which we use in classifying
recreations. It seems to me that here is
the greatest contribution the school can
make to recreation of the individual: to
so arrange the learning experience iden-
tified with the school curriculum that
interests are awakened and skills learned
which then and later will provide recre-
ational satisfactions.

It does not follow, in my view, that
because the schOol actually does play
such a vital part in providing the means
of recreational expression, it should
therefore assume the community re-
sponsibility for providing public recrea-
tion services. Recreation is, by its very
nature, an educational function but that
does not mean it is or should be a func-
tion administered by the schools.

Public recreation is by tradition and
present practice a municipal function.
Municipal corporations have the au-
thority to exercise not only those powers
specifically named in the statutes but
also those powers that are necessary to
or can reasonably be inferred from the
enumerated powers. The diverse serv-
ices and opportunities that are needed
in a public recreation program literally
require the freedom of action enjoyed
by municipal corporations. School dis-
tricts, on the other hand, are quasi-mu-
nicipalities with the authority to exer-
cise only those powers specified in the
law. They have only limited freedom
to act in recreation matters, as a result
of which some essential recreation serv-
ices, such as those associated with large
parks, may not be provided by school
systems in the absence of explicit legis-
lative authority.

Should we not, then, as a profession,
encourage and aid the school authori-
ties to do better those things they are
uniquely in a position to do; namely,
nurture, among other things, those in-
terests arising from learning which may
have recreation value for the individ-
ual? Certainly- with increasing enroll-
ments and continually expanding cur-
riculum, here is one highly significant
effort the schools can make without
assuming the burden of administering
an additional function of government.

H. CLIFTON HUTCHINS, Assistant
Professor of Education and Coor-
dinator of Recreation Curriculum,

University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin.

Campus—Air Force
Training Program
‘ Sirs:

I have been reading your “On The
Campus” column with great interest

MAY 1956

each month in RECREATION magazine,
but was particularly interested this
month [April]since you mentioned the
Air Force Training Program for rec-
reation majors. I was rather surprised
to find that you were not aware that we
at McGuire are also a part of the field
work plan. We have ust recently com-
pleted a two months intensive training
period with a senior year student from
Pennsylvania State University. We
were very pleased to have her assigned
here and hope that we will have future
trainees from the same school, since she

has obviously received excellent train-

mg.

We hope that you will be able to men-
tion our part in the training program
in one of your columns, since we are
quite proud of our part in it.

LENORE M. WILDSMITH, Service
Club Director, McGuire Air Force

Base, Trenton, New Jersey.

- RHYTHM WORKSHOP

Atop Lookout Ml'n near Denver

For leaders of children of all ages
AUGUST 13 - 18
WORK . . . RELAX . . . PLAY

Write PAUL J. KERMIET. RI. 3. Golden, Colo.

 

 

“PLAY SAFE"—BE SURE IT’S A

FLEXI
SWING SEAT

marked “FLEXI”

     
 

(HAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT. INC.

Stondord ond Custom Built Ployground Equipment
Write for Literature

P. o. 474 Highland Park, In.

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. «N: R.

DR,Y LINE MARKERS

BETTER THAN EVER
FOR ALL SEASONAL SPORTS

a,  * Force Feed—
 ‘*~ Instant Shutoft—
50 lbs. capacity.

* Easy to fill and
operate.

* No Brushes or
Screens to clog.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL

 
   
   

L

Send to-Dept. R for booklet on four other model
H. 8. R. MFG. CO.. LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF

 

.00 t LlliHHHIHHHHHH/

()I r



“SAC”! '

For over 73 yeors, your
guorontee of quolity has
been the nome

    
 
 

(“ti it

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

it’s good enough to bear the name

OCEAN

RUBBER BASED POOL PAINT
with exclusive THIXOTROPIC formula

OCEAN POOL PAINT... a truly superior for-
male that will not blister, fade, or flake ofi. Far-
mulated especially for swimming pools. it applies
even and smoothly . . . dries quickly to a hard easy
to clean protective finish. Bright and colorful.

OCEAN POOL PAINT will glamorize and pro-

tect your pool—prevent algea and slime growth.

EXCLUSIVE THIXOTROPIC FORMULA...
a new discovery of our top research engineers!

No matter how thickly you apply OCEAN POOL
.— PAINT...IT WILL NOT RUN, DRIP, OR

OCEAN POOL SUPPLY (O. IN(., 866 Sixth Avenue, New York T, N. Y.
Illllllllllllllllllllllllllll\

QQQQQ

Alumnus POHL PM?”

GREEN

MEL

 

O EASY TO APPLY

0 DRIES QUICKLY TO THE
LIKE FINISH

0 DISCOURAGES ALGEA
AND SLIME GROWTH

0 Will NOT BLISTERH
fADE OR FLAKE

0 COMPLETELY “DRIP.
LESS”

O EASY TO CLEAN

Send today for color
chart, and catalog AB of
the complete OCEAN
POOL SUPPLY CO. line
of swimming pool equip-
ment and supplies.

llIlIlIlIIllIlllll‘le

209

Editorially Speaking

___________________________

The Strange Psychology
of Writing

There are people who, when they
pick up a pen to write, either go into a
mental deep freeze and can’t think of a
thing to say—or who are suddenly over-
come with a great formality. In either
case, the written result is one of great
stiffness, complicated sentences, long
words that we never realized we knew.
The latter leap from our subconscious
to the paper—with demoniacal intent
to cloud the issue. “To be academic
will be to sound learned,” we tell our-
selves, gazing at them proudly. Or, per-
haps, we imagine that stilted language
is expected of us.

But what about the poor reader? Or
what about the poor editor who gets lost
in our welter of words?

It is interesting that a whole book has
been written on this subject, just to tell
us that we are too often stiff, unnatural
and pompous in our writing and in our
speech. If you are one of the people
who are bothered this way, get a copy
by all means, and follow its plain and
entertaining horse-sense. It is The Art
of Readable Writing, by Rudolph
Flesch.‘ It is not a new book—but it
will be very new to anyone who has
missed it so far.

Mr. Flesch says: “Editors spend
ninety per cent of their time crossing
out words in manuscripts and shifting
around those that are left . . . It is hard
to remember this when you are your
own editor. Those words you liked so
well when you wrote them will prob-
ably have to be cut in half and com-
pletely rearranged.” To which we add
our own dictum: “No article is so good
that it can’t be improved by cutting.”

Molding Their Future

“The child is a young adult. Patterns
of leisure skills are laid during the first
dozen years of life. The adjusted work-
cr today was the rccreationally skilled
child of yesterday.

' Harper & Brothers, 4‘) East 33rd Street,
hue-n York 16. Pp. 237. $3.00.

210

“Our children will, as adults, prob-
ably have a work-week of thirty to
thirty-five hours. What is the recrea-
tion coordinator in industry doing for
his employee’s children?

“Facilities today are at a premium.
It is the fortunate industry that has pro-
vided, for employees and families, in-
door and outdoor recreation areas.
Nevertheless, by careful survey and
scheduling, many areas for a program
can be found in churches, city, county
and state parks, municipal recreation
areas and private agencies.

“By arrangement with private agen-
cies and church groups, industry can
sponsor or provide leadership and f1-
nancial aid to establish Scout troops,
Cub Packs, Brownies, Indian Guide,
Campfire Girls, Blue Bird groups and
the like for employee’s children. Such
arrangements improve the company’s
community relations and provide lead-
ership opportunities for employees.

“Employee recreation should accept
today’s challenge and include programs
for children of both sexes from seven
to fourteen. We can thus help to forti-
fy the child’s future as an industrial
worker and as a happy citizen of our
country.” — From editorial by Dr.
Floyd R. Eastwood, in Industrial Sports
and Recreation, March, 1955.

Keep the Parks
“The park facilities of New York

City are not luxuries. They are necessi-
ties. They may be described as breath-
ing places, without which, on torrid
days such as we have had this summer,
many New Yorkers would have nearly
suffocated in their crowded apartment
houses.”—Frank D. Slocum, in a letter

to the New York Herald Tribune, Au-
gust 11, 1955.

A Ghost Story

More reasons can be thought up to

sway people’s vote than you can shake
a stick at; for instance, our friend Cap’n
Bill Vinal, in Massachusetts, has run

into a ghost story in his campaign for

a state reservation. “I cannot seem to
whip up any opposition,” he writes.
“The most evil idea brought up so far
is that people disappear in the quaking
bog . . . The greatest enemies are apathy

and imaginary fears.”
Cap’n Bill’s article about the ghost,

in the Norwell News is very amusing.
The story, used to keep people from
voting for the reservation, is that a
woman first disappeared into Black
Pond many years ago. She was next
seen frozen in the ice by some boys who
decided to go skating. It took four of
them to cut her out. “It is reported
that the ghost of the woman comes back
in the full of the moon, in winter,” he
says; and that is why they are saying,
“Let’s have no state park.” He goes on
to point out that in the past ten years
he has probably led fifty trips to the
bog without losing one member of the
party. He says, “Anyone wanting to
fight for safety had better come out in
the open and fight for safety with auto-
mobiles, motor boats, and jet planes;
also for security against cancer, polio,
superstition, ignorance and icy streets.
After all, one simple-minded woman in
a century is nothing compared with the
annual death toll due to autos, toxines
and bacteria.”

Percentage of Delinquents
is Small

According to the New York Times of
February 23, 1956, Police Commission-
er Stephen P. Kennedy of New York
recently told two thousand boys and
girls that “much of the talk about ju-
venile delinquency here is of an alarm-
ist nature.” In addressing a “Salute
to Youth” celebration, he went on to
say that he thought the public had a
false picture of the situation. “Certain-
ly we have juvenile crime,” he com-
mented. “But I can remember my own
youth—the days of the bobbed-hair
bandit and the generation of Happers
carrying hip flasks —when everyone
was certain that the younger generation
was on the road to ruin.

“Those ‘juveniles’ are now in their
forties and fifties; they are the fathers
and mothers of today and for the most
part the respectable citizens of our com-
munity. As a matter of fact, juvenile
delinquents today constitute only a very
small percentage of our youths.” I

RECREATION

F

 

!

Let’s put the COUNTRY back into the BOY

A plea for nature ac-
tivities and the teach-
ing of real camping
skills— in camping.

 

A boy needs opportunity to know the world of nature.

NIANY YEARS ago there was a saying,
“You can take the boy out of the coun-
try, but you can’t take the ‘country’ out
of the boy.” This was a matter of the
city slicker poking fun at the man or
woman raised in the country. And as
a matter of fact, many country-raised
people in those days seemed to always
have a few hayseeds in their hair, no
matter what. Now, with the advent of
the radio, television, other means of
rapid communication—and with the
passage of two world wars—the man,
woman, or girl raised in the country is
hard to distinguish from a city person.

This presents a clear. challenge to
those engaged in the business of run-
ning camps — municipal, private,
school, organization, or any other type
of camp. The challenge? Let’s put
some of the “country” back into the
boy—and girl.

There is a very good possibility that
the camp which merely moves the play-
ground to the mountains or the woods
is missing the boat in the matter of serv-
ice to the camper. Youngsters of all
ages show a keen interest, and derive
a vast amount of fun, from being taught
the facts of rough camping and the
“how” of living in true camping situa-
tions. There is much more to the teach-

MR. THAYER is director of the recrea-
tion department, Monterey, California.

.m'  MAY 1956

ing of conservation than reading post-
ers and slogans or hearing lectures by
experts in the field. The boy or girl
who has practiced phases of conserva-
tion, from the proper way to clear' a
campfire site to the reforestation of a
burned area, will practice conservation
forever. Also, he will have a tendency
to preach what has been practiced.

The camp that takes boy and girl
campers back to pioneer days and in-
structs them in the ways of living in
those days probably achieves a max—
imum return in satisfaction and fun for
the campers. We have only recently
passed beyond the pioneer phase of our
country’s growth. Our literature for
children (and adults), the movies, and
television make much of the early set-
tler——-Pilgrim, Puritan, and pioneer——
the mountain man and scout, and, of.
course, the Indian; so the desire to
learn some of the things the pioneer had
to know to survive is quite strong in
the average young American.

Take fire, for instance. Building a
fire is a thing of mystery to the average
city child. The steps entailed in build-
ing a safe fire outdoors are unknown
to a vast number of America’s young
citizens—including many who have at-
tended “camp.” The processes of clear-
ing a fire site, gathering tinder, build-
ing a fuel supply and actually starting
a fire with the materials at hand would

* J. A. Thayer

 

I: . i ‘ an
" ' > 4
a )  a. .. m. ti.
.. I“ .'-

- a“ i’
 a .r ' 4!? 5?, Wig“ I

To examine its manifold mysterie

    

$9, “
. _ .Amlh‘. “mu-h .A r

To sleep beneath a blanket of star

be fascinating to them—as would oth:
camping skills.

And again, only a familiarityiwit
the colorful world of nature will prn
duce the future conservationist. For i:
stance, the practice of killing every re]
tile encountered because the camp:
thinks it’s a slimy, nasty thing th.
might bite would stop if camp leade
acquainted today’s campers with tl
amazing world of reptiles.

When one stops to consider the tr
mendous amount of materials availab
in any outdoor situation located awe
from urban areas, or, for that matte
the natural materials found in the ave
age city park, the only problem i'
volved is how to use as many of the
as possible in the short time a boy 1
girl is in camp.

Certainly the camper should go hon
with: a rudimentary knowledge of loc
trees, ferns, flowers, and other Hora;

2]

least a few pertinent facts about the
local animals, birds and reptiles; and
understanding of the methods and rea-
sons for safetyand comfort in the rough
camp; an introduction to the use of
rope and twine in knots, lashings, and
perhaps splices; a knowledge of how
not to get lost, and what to do if lost:
how to sleep comfortably on the ground.
He should: be acquainted with local
edible plants, roots and berries, actu-
ally having gathered, cooked and eaten
them as part of a camp meal; have an
understanding of the balance of nature,
and what happens when that balance is
upset; know trails and trail signs, poi-
sonous insects and reptiles and what to
do about them. He should have learned:
safety at the swimming pool and around
the lake, river or pond; the use of ma-
terials at hand for crafts; the logical
technique and skills of outdoor living;
and as much supplementary knowledge
as a camper can acquire.

Youngsters are tremendously inter-
ested in these things, which can be
taught in any camping situation. Their
response will be excellent.

The big question, of course, lies in
the provision of leadership. Where are
the leaders who can teach all these
things? The answer is relatively easy.
Any leader who has the “stuff” that
makes good leaders will find that camp

skills are easy to acquire and hard to
lose.

For the administrator who may be
skeptical, try just a few of the things
related to pioneering and watch the re-
sponse of campers and leaders alike.
There is plenty of literature' on the
subject—Girl Scout and Boy Scout
handbooks are filled with the basic facts
of camping, the Boy Scout camping
merit badge and pioneering badge
booklets are excellent; Bernard Mason
has written several fine books on camp-
ing and Woodcraft; and there are many
others in your local library.

So there’s the challenge. The effort to
meet it will pay big dividends in camp-
er and stall satisfaction, and contribute
to an increased awareness of the values
of our vast natural resources on the
part of rainpers and others involved. I

' ‘I'lld for li'l uf Valitinal Recreation A!!-
M" monpuhlu muons on camping and nature
mlwntnring

212.

 

REATIVE experience in all artistic media is a valuable and needed part of
0 personal development and pleasure. This has been recognized in certain
arts more than in others. Children are encouraged to write “compositions”
and even verses in English studies. Crayons and paints are placed in chil-
dren’s hands, and they are encouraged to draw and paint.

Music has been slower in this respect. The old-fashioned music lesson
did not consist of making one’s own music but of learning the technique
of playing that composed by other people on various instruments. There
was a strong feeling that only a genius could be a composer and that no

' others should try; and that, before composing at all, years of study of har-
mony, counterpoint, and so on, would be required.

The more recent view is that it is part of the natural heritage of every
child to have fun fashioning objects from musical sound as much as it is to
build houses of blocks, or to draw with colored crayons.

In carrying out this view, instruments easy to play are placed in children’s
hands—so easy that technical difficulties never stand in the way of successful
music-making. The first step is to create rhythms—the primary foundation
of all music—on such instruments of rhythm as drums, tom-toms, rattles,
triangles, cymbals, and gongs. When a child “makes up” a rhythmic figure,.
the whole group, with the aid of the instructor, learns the rhythms and plays
them together, thus gaining orchestral sense, muscular as well as musical
timing, and group coordination.

The next step is to make up tunes or short melodic motives. The instruc-
tor aids by limiting the problem enough so that the choice of suitable tones
to follow each other is easy to make. He also indicates various ways in
which shorter tunes may be extended into a longer melody. In the case of
older children, this extends to advice as to how to write down the rhythms
and melodies. The children indicate their rhythmic creations on percussion
instruments, and their melodies on the piano or xylophone, or by singing.
In some cases older children have preferred to write down their own pieces;
usually, however, the instructor does this for them. The older children also
learn some simple chords.

Most of this music is made up not for the sake of the music alone—
although pleasure in purely musical values is encouragedw—but for use in
association with other projects such as a tune for made-up verses, music
to go with made-up plays and dances. There is much discussion as to which
sort of music is needed for certain purposes. In the course of such discus- Q
sions ideas are born concerning the meanings, the aesthetics, and the philos-

ophies of music and the arts, as well as greater insight through creative
part1c1pat10n.—HENRY COWELL, composer, teacher, author. I

RECREATION

 

Victor B. Scheff’er and Philip A. DuMont

Wildlife Recreation

a National Need
it

Two oyster catchers poke from their
shells along the South Carolina coast.

. I . .v. I I ‘ {-4, n——. f.....___
:- -' I .
1 -' .
p
.,

    

IT WOULD be difficult to imagine our

national parks and forests without
their wildlife. On thenational refuges,
displays of wildlife reach spectacular
proportions—with thousands of geese,
ducks, pelicans, deer, bear, buffaloes

and other animals attracting more visi-
tors each year.

More than ninety-two million per-
sons visited these recreational areas in
1954. Estimates of the importance of
wildlife recreation have been made
from time to time, some in terms of
dollars and cents and others on a par-
ticipation basis; but, of course, no eco-
nomic yardstick can measure such val-
ues as clean fresh air and the smell of
dawn.

Arthur H. Carhart reported in Sports
A field, in 1951, the results of a ques-
tionnaire sent to two thousand sports-
men in all walks of life. Some of his

 

MR. SCHEFFER is biologist for the
Fish and Wildlife Service, Fort Collins,
Colorado. MR. DUMONT is biologist
for the Fish and Wildlife Service, U. S.
‘ Department of the Interior, and fish
and wildlife consultant for the Nation-
al Recreation Association’s National
Advisory Committee on Federal Rec-
reation.

. MAY 1956

Bison at Wichita Wildlife Refuge,

Oklahoma. Right: Montana whitetail.

.‘5’7

 

major conclusions are: The average
sportsman in the sample group spent
six hundred dollars a year on his sport.
The total expenditures for hunting and
fishing in the United States (estimated
on the basis of twenty-three million
sportsmen in 1950, spending only four
hundred dollars each per year) was
nine billion dollars. Hunting and fish-
ing, “regardless of the blind spot in
public news circles as to their impor-
tance” are the top sports in the national
scene. The total spent on sportsmen’s
dogs in 1950 exceeded what the public
paid at the gate to see all professional
and amateur football, basketball, and
hockey games, horse races and prize
fights combined.

In 1955, the Fish and Wildlife Serv-

ice reported that licensed hunters and
sport fishermen now number about
thirty—three million, and pay about
eighty-five million dollars a year for
licenses alone.

Wildlife recreation includes a vari-
ety of participant activities— with fish-
ing, hunting, camping, picnicking,
swimming, nature photographing and
observation the most popular. For in-
stance, in 1954 on the nine million acres
of national wildlife refuges in the
United States,- nearly a third of the five

 

L  g I; P ,
‘ _ _ no ’ I
E»? - Es...s.u..owam. await.

 

The

forty million visitors on the 181 millior

acres of national forests during 1954
included 7,403,665 fishermen and

3,687,710 hunters. It has been said
that one out of every four deer in the

million visitors were fishermen.

country is in a national forest.

In order to measure the importance
of hunting and fishing in our economy
the nation’sufirst survey is now being
made by Crossley S-D Surveys, Inc.
under a contract with the Fish and
Wildlife Service. About fifteen thou-
sand households, some in every state.
will be Visited initially and, in aboui
five thousand of these, interviews will
be conducted with hunters and fisher-
men.

Wildlife recreation has a broad base.
and concerns many groups. These are
indicated in the annual Directory 0}
Organizations and Ohicials Concerned
with the Protection of Wildlife and
Other Natural Resources.*

The Fish and Wildlife Service is con-

cerned at the national level with wild

animals of economic importance, with
research, with management of wildlife
on or near public lands and waters, and

* National Wildlife Federation, 232 Carroll

Street, N. W., Washington 12, DC. Pp. 62.
$.25.

213

with wildlife species that cross inter-
state and international boundaries.

For the benefit of the recreationist,
it aims to preserve in reasonable num-
bers those species—whether game ani-
mals or simply wild creatures of beauty
and interest—that contribute to the en-
joyment of man.

Wildlife resources were formerly
thought of as having distinct recrea-
tional and economic values. Now it is
realized that the two are synonymous.
Recreation is a vital part of the econ-
omy of the free man.

Through a system of 264 national
wildlife refuges, the Fish and Wildlife
Service now welcomes five million visi-
tors a year.

A federal tax on sporting goods pro-
vides funds which are allocated to the
individual states for research into prob-
lems of fish and game management and
restoration of fish and wildlife habitat.
About fifteen million dollars are avail-
able each year. By imposing certain
restrictions on the way the money shall
be spent, the service helps to maintain
high standards of performance.

The activities of the service in funda-
mental and applied research have an
important, though indirect, effect on
wildlife recreation. For example, in
each of seventeen land-grant colleges
the service has a man whose duties are
to train students of wildlife and to su-
pervise investigations of game species.
About 250 students a year graduate
from these colleges.

From the point of view of the out-

doorsman, perhaps the most p0pular
researches are those aimed at maintain-

ing the wildlife habitat in as natural
and as productive a state as possible.
In this field biologists are finding out
how to preserve those islands of living

greenery and pattern which contribute
so much to the landscape.

The service issues a bimonthly jour-
nal of abstracts, Wildlife Review, for
the benefit of three thousand profes-
sional workers. The pepular movie,
Seal Island, \Valt Disney’s pioneer
“true life adventure,” was filmed in
Alaska in cooperation with the service.
Wildlife on many of the refuges have
appeared on other Disney films.

The service acts as an attorney for
wildlife in the perennial contest for use

214

of the rivers and valleys of America.
It operates about ninety fish-cultural
stations, or hatcheries, throughout the
country. These provide trout and fish
for the stocking of waters on federal
lands and federally-sponsored water-
use projects.

Facing the urban populations and
recreation needs of tomorrow, admin-
istrators of wildlife should be thinking
about the shape of the “wildlife recrea-
tion” pyramid. That is, they should
be planning to provide not only pond-
fish for the enjoyment of millions along
the base of the pyramid but bighorn
sheep as well for the hundreds at the
peak. Only thus can administrators re-
lieve pressures on, and preserve, the
finest types of wildlife in the American
heritage.

Administrators should also be think-
ing about the over-all size of the rec-
reational pyramid, especially in its re-

What are public parks for?
The New York park commis-
sioner ojj'ers his answer —-
both a philosophy and a pro-
gram for action.

Robert Moses

The Moses Recipe for Better Parks

WHAT are parks for? It sounds like

a rhetorical question. Who indeed,
in principle at least, does not want
parks at a time of unprecedented popu-
lation growth, youth and age problems,
increasing urban congestion, rapid ex-
pansion of suburban subdivisions, dis-
a
shrinkage of the great outdoors, frantic
pushing of car sales, soaring air travel,

lation to the changing needs of the hu-
man community. We tend to lose sight
of the value of an activity which does
not return bread and butter to its parti-
cipants. It is important that we retain
our perspective.

Wildlife recreation has barely been
mentioned on past programs of the Na-
tional Recreation Congress. Fuller con-
sideration should be given to it in the
future, as well as to related kinds of
outdoor, spontaneous, wildland recrea-
tion.

Prominent in the discussions should
be the place of wildlife recreation at
community and state, as well as nation-
al, levels—for all wild species are orig-
inally the property of the people, and
the state has primary responsibility for
managing wildlife populations. Your
state conservation officer is qualified to
answer questions about wildlife and its

place in the local recreation program. I

 

and water shortages? You might as'

well ask who doesn’t want lungs and
fresh air to fill them.

At a hearing before Governor Smith
on appropriating, for public park pur-

poses, a private shooting preserve some; .
fifty miles out on Long Island, a club;

member asked the governor plaintively,
“Where can a millionaire go?” That:

was thirty years ago. The millionaires I .

RECREATION

  

' r

 

I Scene in Central Park—“What the poor

I

it.

 

S.

I ed. It may have parks but inadequate

have to go still farther now to escape
the crowd which is beating at the gates
of the one- and two-acre estates and
over-running the modest split levels of
the new middle-income patricians.
Recreation today is big business.
Public recreation occupies a larger and
larger slice of the budget pie—of all
budget pies, federal, state, municipal.
American municipalities, including
counties, towns, cities and villages, with
few exceptions, have always had inade-
quate parks and playgrounds. Today
when they are bursting their seams we
wake up to discover the appalling bill
which must be paid to make up for past

smugness, stupidity, neglect, selfishness.

Statistics in this field are highly mis-
leading. Acreage is not the measure.
A municipality may have a large per-
centage of so-called green belts and big
parks, but these may be in the wrong
places or not where they are most need-

cannot get individually, they must share
In common . . . parks are no . . . luxury.”

neighborhood playgrounds.

Today, sound planning demands both
play areas and small parks with facili-
ties for all groups in or near housing
subdivisions and slum clearance proj-
Sects, and athletic fields at new schools
ishared by the education and park au-
thorities. There must be not only mu-
inicipal recreation near home, but state

recreation 011 an ever larger scale in

.jl AY 1956

the suburbs, and the national govern-
ment must increasingly save and main-
tain historical and natural marvels.

We must pay more attention to the
several age groups and to passive, as
distinguished from active, recreation.
Older people must be allowed to relax
and read without getting hit on the
head by baseballs or jarred out of their
wits by Comanche Indians and Hop-
along Cassidys, not to speak of gangs
of young thugs requiring firm police
control. Museums which go with parks
must be rebuilt, revivified, expanded
and made accessible, attractive and fas-
cinating to hitherto unguessed num-
bers. Our zoos must be multiplied. Art
in parks has been not so much neglect-
ed as exploited by dubious talent. We
require game refuges in cities as well
as in the open country. We need large
forest reserves not only to protect our
climate and watersheds, but for camp-
ing by families who must have at least
a rudimentary shelter and cannot live
in tents, lean-tos and shacks open to
the elements. We need more parkways
leading to the open spaces—parkways
which are in effect ribbon parks with
occasional attractive stopping places on
their borders—and exPressways open
to mixed traffic and built to something
like parkway standards. ,

Now who can possibly .be against
such a program which is so logical, so
indispensable, so popular, so undenia-
ble in principle? I’ll tell you.

Everybody with an axe of his own to
grind. Every selfish vested interest.
Politicians who endorse the program
but don’t like its application. Special
groups and interests for this, but
against that. Taxpayers’ organizations
which welcome progress if it doesn’t
cost anything. Real estate boards which
concede that parks raise surrounding
values generally but not at this particu-
lar location. Pessimists who say too
little and too late.

Why go on? It remains a fact that
no major park acquisition is accom-
plished except over the dead bodies of
obstructionists. Everybody is with you
up to the showdown. Nobody will admit
indifference to posterity. The angels of
light are no doubt in the very long run
in the majority, but it’s hell to get them
organized and keep them lined up.

I do not despair of providing parks
to keep pace with the population, in
spite of our mistakes and deficiencies.
The cost will be burdensome, but there
will be more people to pay the bills.
We shall have to adopt new and radical
devices in the interest of posterity.

There must be some millionaires in
the suburbs who will cooperate if not
dedicate on reasonable terms. There
must be some who don’t have subdivi-
sion plans tucked away in the safe de-
posit box showing how Junior can cash
in when the old man dies. There
must be nearby clubs where the mem-
bers realize that the tax collector is
upon them, places where the neighbor’s
children are flushing the pheasants and
killing the tame ducks with bean shoot-
ers. And finally there is, praises be,
that last most drastic weapon of the
people where a great public purpose can
be served in no other way, the power
of eminent domain.

As a long-time park man, all I ask is
steadier and more reliable support from
those who are vocal enough about prin-
ciples but short on help where it is
needed.

I think I can truthfully say that no
opportunity to rescue or to create a spot
of green in the midst of steel, brick 01
concrete has been neglected in the New
York City park program in the last two
decades. The theorists and the perfec-
tionists, of course, say that there has
been no comprehensive plan and thal
ours has been a spotty program. We
have indeed taken what we could get in
the face of enormous difficulties. We
are even leaving to posterity vestiges
of the green belts which appear to the
dreamers in their verdant visions. Whal
other city has done as much in the same
time?

Prosperity without prudent control,
physical growth without regulation in
the common interest, movement with-
out plan or purpose, pursuit of happi-
ness with no common objective, pro-
longation of life without cultivation of
leisure, this is not civilization. Parks
are the‘outward visible symbols of de-
mocracy. That in my book is what they
are for. I

Condensed, and reprinted with permissiOn
from an article appearing in the New YOTIl
Times Magazine, January 8, 1956.

215

 

The terrace and delightful view of the lake from the
dining lodge in popular Lake Hope State Park, Zaleskl.

"With increasing leisure time the citizens of Ohio are be-
coming park-minded. Park and recreation facilities in that
state are provided by various levels of government ranging
from village parks and forests to national monuments.
Throughout, there is the basic objective to provide open
spaces and facilities for rest and relaxation. Size of these
may vary, but each has a relationship to the other in fulfill-
ing the. individual needs of the visitor.

With millions following the lure of the out-of-doors, rec-
reation in all its facets is now an important part of our
economic and social pattern. In this quest for refreshment
of strength, both physical and mental, the following factors
will influence the individual in his choice of activity:

1. The distance he will have to travel to avail himself of
facilities. It is a proven fact that areas which are close to
the family home, with suitable facilities for family use, are
the most attractive. When reaching such areas involves
travel on crowded highways, there is an inborn reluctance
to set forth on an extended trip for a few hours in the open.

2. When an extended stay is contemplated, overnight

Ohio's roadside parks such as this served 12,250,000
visitors last year. They average one and a half to
two acres, are included in the highway construction.

 

What of Parks

The fine park system in this state
is a noted one. Have you ever
stopped at an Ohio roadside unit?
Try it sometime!

facilities are a must, in the form of vacation cabins or the
increasingly popular camping site. There is an insatiable
demand for the latter. In Ohio last year participation in this
type of camping doubled.

Village and city parks must receive consideration in the
planning and development of facilities at all levels. City
parks take the initial impact by reason of their easy and
quick accessibility. They are primarily for day-use activi-
ties. County or metropolitan parks, at the next level, serve
this same need with a larger acreage, similar facilities; and
they may permit limited overnight use. They serve as buf-
fers and absorb a portion of the load between city and state
areas, just as state areas absorb some of the load before it
reaches the national parks. State and national parks have
similar facilities, greater acreage and, in most instances,
overnight accommodations. All park areas, regardless of
location, usually provide sanitary facilities, an approved
water supply, roads, and parking areas. Other conveniences
or activities may be included, as dictated by need or the
responsible administering body. N o attempt has been made

to include, in this article, a discussion of our park areas
below the county level.

From July 1, 1954 through June 30, 1955 there were
48,225,000 visitations made to Ohio’s public outdoor areas,
which provide a total of 352,311 acres of land and water
for the visitors’ enjoyment. This vast acreage includes six
metropolitan park districts, two watershed conservancy dis-
tricts, and three departments of state government. All of
these agencies were created and are operated in accordance
with the statutes of Ohio. From a national point of view,
the least common are the watershed conservancy districts"
The law authorizing the creation of such districts was en-
acted in 1914, as an outgrowth of the disastrous Dayton
flood a- year earlier. It was substantially amended about

twenty years ago to broaden the scope of the districts’ activ-
ilies.

RECREATION

 

V. W. Flickinger

 

In the development of a beachialong the shoe H e

~' ~
. ..m,mzj/¢.,MMT%,W ,M‘hgwaLMU."

Hope, state provides summer recreation for Ohioans.

The Muskingum District (55,826 acres), with headquar-
ters at New Philadelphia, has done such an excellent job
of planning and developing recreation facilities at a number
of its impounded lakes, that the Ohio Division of Parks
does not plan to develop additional parks in that part of the
state unless required to do so by legislative mandate.

For the convenience of out-of-state visitors and for Ohio-
ans as well, while traveling through the state, there are 227
roadside parks or roadside rest stops operated by the Ohio
Department of Highways. These are fairly well distributed
over the state and are concentrated on major highways with
at least one roadside park in all except one of Ohio’s eighty-
eight counties.

These roadside units, in additon to contributing substan-
tially to safety, have added to Ohio’s reputation for fine
parks. Once considered as something to enjoy on a high-
way, they are no longer considered a luxury, but a necessity,
for the modern motorist. Provision is made for their con-
struction in highway construction contracts, and as part of
the highway. Deceleration or acceleration lanes are added
for safety in entering or leaving the rest stop.

While caring for the needs of Ohioans and their visitors,
historical interests have not been neglected. The state histo-
rical society is the guardian of Ohio’s fifty-six historical
landmarks, including a recently acquired river tugboat.

The largest single landed agency holding public domain
in trust for the people is the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources. This is composed of seven divisions, three of
which administer lands and related activity.

The wildlife division has acquired and is presently de-
ve10ping 33,900 acres of land and water for hunting. and
fishing, financed principally by hunting and fishing license

MR. FLICKINGER is chief of the division of parks of the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources, and a member of the
NRA National Advisory Committee on State Recreation.

MAY 1956

funds. The forestry division administers over 145,900 acr
of land with the primary function of timber manageme
—but limited recreation, such as fishing, hunting, natu
study, and hiking, is permitted on its holdings. The par
division, with its 82,500 acres of land and water, has t
responsibility for providing public recreation facilities.

State park systems are usually made up of areas of scen:
scientific, historical, archaeological or recreational signi
cance of state-wide importance. Each area should posse
unique or high quality of interest. Each system should:

1. Conserve outstanding examples of the state’s natul
and cultural resources for the inspiration and benefit of t
public.

2. Provide non-urban recreation opportunities, for t
state’s citizens and visitors, which are normally beyond t
responsibility of the state’s political subdivisions.

Evidence that Ohio’s state park system is serving in tl
capacity is substantiated by a 10,600,000-visitor count d1
ing the year under review. Additional thousands we
turned away for lack of facilities to accommodate them.

By birthday reckoning, the Ohio parks division is one
the infants in the state park field, having celebrated :
sixth birthday August 11, 1955. F actually, it had its t
ginning in 1824 with the initial acquisition of lands for t:
Ohio and the Miami-and-Erie Canal systems. These lant
purchased for the purpose of impounding water for can
lock operations, are now state lakes in the present systel

Throughout the years until 1949, state parks in Ohio we
so—called stepchildren of various departments of the sta
government. The responsibility for park acquisition, d
velopment, and maintenance was with the conservation a1
natural resources division of the department of agricultu
experiment station (since transferred to the department
natural resources) and the department of public wori
(state lakes and canals). As may be surmised, each of t]
above agencies did not have as its major objective the d

2:

,.

Overnight accommodations are available in most state
parks. All parks provide sanitary facilities and water.

velopment of state parks. However, credit is due them for
their foresight in acquisition and preservation of many
natural and historic features which have since been in-
corporated in the present state park system.

Finally, in 1949, the general assembly created a new de-
partment of natural resources with two new divisions—as
the result of years of effort on the part of far-sighted citi-
zens interested in the conservation of the state’s natural
resources. These were the parks division and the lands and
soils division. The remaining five divisions were trans-
ferred from other state departments.

In creating the parks division, the legislature charged it
with a definite responsibility, giving it the “right, power,
and duty to create, supervise, operate, protect, and maintain
a system of state parks, and to promote the use thereof by
the public. Within thirty days after effective date of the
act, all state properties, the major function of which is park
in nature, are to be so classified and transferred to the
Division, except roadside parks of the Department of High-
ways, and lands of the Historical Society.”

The first step was a personal survey to determine liabili-
ties and assets, after which an organization plan was de-
signed and placed in operation. Personnel to staff the di-
vision was obtained by transfer from other agencies and
employed on the basis of professional qualifications and
experience; areas were personally field checked to deter-
mine which should be accepted or rejected and were classi-
fied; maintenance operations were continued; plans and
program were outlined; and the division launched a pro-
gram of action.

For many years, there has been a lack of a uniformly
accepted classification of state park areas, since some states
use and apply the term “state park” to all areas regardless
of character, use, custom, size, and statutory provisions.
Ohio has adopted and is following classifications recom-
mended hy the National Conference on State Parks with

218

 

minor modification to fit its own particular situation.* On
this basis Ohio has, as of January 1, 1956, the following

state park areas:

17 state parks
2 state beach parks (Lake Erie)
5 state lakes (former canal feeders)

9 state reserves—-—recreation
10 state reserves—Jake (water area predominating)

2 reservoir lakes (operated under license from U. S. Army
Engineers)

1 canalway (ten-mile section of Miami Erie Canal)
4 waysides

Since its beginning, the division’s program has been
based on legislative appropriations for maintenance, opera-
tion, and capital improvements, such funds being specifi-
cally appropriated to the parks division. A recent act of
the general assembly created a state park rotary fund which
now permits the return of monies derived from park opera-
tions directly to the division, which. may expend them in
the furtherance of its program, subject to the regular pro-
cedure governing all state expenditures.

Progress has been continuous with the division since its
inception. Its first appropriation for operation and mainte-
nance was less than $140,000. Recognizing the increased
volume of public HSe and rising maintenance costs, the gen-
eral assembly at its most recent session voted the division

almost $660,000 for such use. To this will be added the

money accruing to the division’s rotary fund.

For capital improvements the assembly has allotted the
division approximately $1,500,000 for each of the past six
years. Such investments are reflected in: improved roads;
parking areas; additional needed lands; new recreational
lakes; picnic areas; overnight facilities, including both
cabins and camping areas; new beaches and facilities; addi-
tional wells and toilets; a continuing program of dredging
in the old canal reservoir lakes; and similar projects.

In 1952, the division submitted to the general assembly
a ten-year program which envisioned the spending of $26,-
000,000 for the development of Ohio’s state park system.
In 1957, after five years of substantial accomplishment, it
is planned to submit a revised long-range program, necessi-
tated by the constantly changing value of the dollar. Master
plans have been prepared for the areas involved, with de-
tailed plans to be prepared when the funds are assured.

Although the use of leisure time is a matter of personal
choice, its wise use benefits the economic and social struc-
ture. Conditions brought about by present-day living, plus
industry’s recognition of the need for recreation, are af-
fecting the use of existing facilities, as well as influencing
the acquisition and development of new areas. Availability
of adequate recreation facilities can be an important factor
in securing new industry for a community or state.

Ohio, therefore, is planning and building an integrated

recreation system at all levels to present the opportunity for
such use. I

* v*—— m

"‘ See Suggested Criteria for Evaluating Areas Proposed for In'

'(‘lusion in State Park System, published by the NCSP, 901 Union
Trust Building, Washington 25, DC. ‘

RECREATION

 

 

 

THE MEETING

 

 

A new member of the recreation club for the handicapped tells,
in his own words, the story of attending his first meeting.

As I haven’t many close friends, I
was surprised one day when I picked
up the telephone and heard the voice
of a strange woman asking for me.
There was to be a meeting on Thursday
evening for handicapped adults—with
entertainment and refreshments — and
she invited me to come.

I am “handicapped,” with a bad
right arm and a game right leg.
That was the reason that I usually did
not like to go any place where I would
meet strangers. They generally gush
all over a guy . . . a little sympathy goes
a long way with me, and too much of
it makes me self-conscious.

After giving the invitation a little
thought, I dialed the woman’s number
and accepted. She told me that I would
not have to ride in the bus, because she
and the other women who were respon-
sible for the party used their own cars
to transport guests to and from the
meeting place. Very nice, what?

0n the night of the meeting, sure
enough, she called for me, and intro-
duced another occupant in the car—a
young woman—a pretty little thing,
with golden-brown hair and eyes that
seemed to look' right through and be-
yond you. I tried to start a conversa-
tion with her but she did not seem to
want to talk.

After driving three or four miles to
the community building, we went into
a large room. Some of the handicapped

.- ' were able to enter under their own
. ‘ power, while others walked with canes

or crutches. Then some men entered

r l MR. SPANGE is a member of the club for
the handicapped sponsored by the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of

’ _ 'lWyoming Valley, Wilkes-Barre, Penn-

sylvania.

. MAY 1956

Ralph Spange

carrying folded-up wheelchairs, while
others carried their occupants. People
attended that meeting in wheelchairs!

I thought, “What a wonderful thing
the ladies of this community are doing,
to go to all this trouble and expense to
bring joy and happiness into the lives
of handicapped people!” I saw reflect-
ed in their faces all the kindness and
goodness that it takes to make an angel.

An air of congeniality hung over the
hall, and there seemed toibe only joy
and gladness written in the counte-
nances of these handicapped people.

They all were neatly dressed. The
women had their hair styled in the latest
fashion, and the men in slacks and
sportshirts looked as good as any Beau
Brummel. It proved that even though
handicapped, they still knew how to
make themselves attractive. All in all,
they were just like other people who are
out for a good time. .

They talked among themselves, and
I joined in the conversation as if I had
known themall my life. Never a word
was said about afflictions. That subject
did not seem to have any place in the
talk of these handicapped pe0ple. They
had the same interests as anyone else.

When old acquaintances had been re-
newed and new people welcomed, the
entertainment got under way. The mu-
sic was furnished by a four-piece “hill-
billy” orchestra.

The boy who strummed the bass viol
was quite a character. He kept swing-
ing his instrument over and around his
head; then he would rest it on the plat-
form and hop over it from one side to
the other, playing it all the while.

Then there was a man among the

guests whose hobby was clay modeling.
N o matter where this man went, he took

his clay with him, and he gave awad of
it to each and every person he met in

the hall, handicapped or not. Each re
ceiving an allotment was supposed t:
knead it with his hands, if he was abll
(the man never st0pped to ask), unti
it began to resemble an ashtray. Th«
only trouble was that the orchestra mu
sic was so loud that it conflicted wit]
the clay-modeler’s voice and y01
couldn’t hear what the man was saying
The result was a badly mixed-up crowg
of people. But to give credit where ‘i
is deserved, the clay-modeling mai
tried very hard to show everybody :
good time; and, as it was, some of th'
group turned out very nice looking ash
trays after all.

When the clay had been cleared awaj

and everyone had wiped his hands

someone suggested a square dance
When the orchestra started to play, thl
people in wheelchairs rolled out to th:
center of the floor. A caller began t!
sing out to the tune of Turkey in th.
Straw and the dance was on! Of course
they didn’t have the rhythm and stylt
of a regular dance, but I wouldn’t. I):
afraid to bet even money that if th:
participants had practiced enough the:
could have been almost perfect. Th:
rest of the people in the hall were get
ting a big kick out of watching tha
wheelchair dance. It wasn’t the danm
so much as the spirit the dancers pu
into it and the fun they were getting ou
of it. They were having a fine time ant
they hated to quit. But soon the orches
tra was playing Home, Sweet Home am
we knew it was time to leave.

There was considerable handshaking
as the handicapped people said,°“So
long!” to one another. I said good-by:
to the girl with the faraway look in he]
eyes, then climbed into the auto. Th:
driver blew his born as if to say, “Good
night, all,” and I was driving away
from my first meeting. I

215

AT THE University of Houston, Texas,
there is a professor of music educa-
tion who, through many years experi-
ence in the field of music and educa«
tion, became acutely aware of the fact
that there is an instinctive reaching out
on the part of millions of Americans
who love music but are uncertain as to
how to approach it. With this aware-
ness came action. The result is the
largest piano class in the world.

Professor George Stout, formerly su-
pervisor of public schools at Baton
Rouge, Louisiana, is now at the univer-
sity which has the distinction of being
the first to put an educational television
station in operation: Station KUHT,
with classes in many fields which offer
college credit.

A pioneer in group instruction and
classroom piano, Professor Stout makes
a slight difference in terms by deli ning
keyboard experience classes as groups,
large or small, working together from
simple rote in all keys, gradually add-
ing a little harmony or chording, pro-
grossing to note reading of easy ar-
rangements of folksongs, classics,
Christmas carols, current popular hits,
symphonic themes, opera melodies, and
cowboy songs.

Class piano lessons, or group instruc-
tion used by thousands of private teach-
ers, often in conjunction with one pri-
vate lesmn a week, closely follow the
same prmedure. Professor Stont’s pu-
pils are limitless in number and, with

V

 

'.

Reprinted by permiuion from the Angus]
1955 issue of Etude. The Mmic Magazine.
Copyright 1933 by Theodore l’rerwr ('om-
puny.

220

Every week is music week . . .
seem that nearly everyone in area is taking piano
bout it in this

by television. Read a

the exception of three or four students
with whom he works in his TV studio
during the broadcast, they are in the
little red light above the studio camera.

Recently, while attending Professor
Stout’s first piano-TV workshop and
taking part both as pupil and teacher,
I felt the impact of the possibility of
America becoming a nation of amateur
musicmakers. When this happens there
will be a shortage of private teachers
and concert artists, because the demand
for both will increase several hundred
per cent.

Is this the music teacher’s Utopian
dream? Not at all. It is the solution
to the yen of ninety per cent of our peo-
ple to learn to “play the piano a little
for my own pleasure.”

The TV lessons were originally
scheduled for the classroom teacher
who often finds herself handicapped by
her inability to play a tune or chord a
melody in any key.

Employing methods and music used
by the elementary classroom teacher,
songs from state adopted textbooks
were played and sung in the TV classes,
and simple chord accompaniments were
added. This provided the classroom
teachers with a vital tool for conduct-
ing their public school music programs.

The TV piano class rapidly grew out
of its embryonic stage into the lives of
persons in every field of endeavor and
age group. The prime purpose now is

learning to play the piano mostly for
fun.

A Houston surgeon had a piano
moved into his office so, when detained
for late appointments, he wouldn’t miss

fascinating story.

his lesson. Many housewives who
“studied piano a little but never did
learn to play” have enrolled, as have
clerks, stenographers, professors, and
teenagers.

College credit is given, although
most of those enrolled are taking les-
sons for their own enjoyment. Those
working for credit attend campus class-
es every t_wo weeks where they are
given personal instruction, their prOg-
ress checked and faults corrected.
Those persons who enroll for the home-
study courses come to the campus once
a month to show their progress and re-
ceive personal instruction.

It was through these campus sessions
that Professor Stout discovered the

calibre of his students. Take the Kriegle
family as one of many examples. Mr.
Carl P. Kriegle is a tool-and-die maker
who loved music but didn’t know one
note from the other on a piano. He and
his daughter Jeanette, aged seven, start-
ed their lessons together. Their prog—
ress was so wonderful that the two sons
and Mrs. Kriegle joined in. Mr. Kriegle
performed for our workshop, not only
playing arrangements from several
books but playing also a melody of his
own. Jeanette, whom it was my privi-
lege to teach on a TV closed-circuit
demonstration, is now studying with a
private teacher and is an outstanding
student.

It is estimated that between three and
four thousand persons in the area are
learning to have a lot of fun with their
hitherto silent keyboards, or their new-
ly purchased pianos, as the genial, be-
loved professor says, “Good evening,

RECREATIOR

 

 
 
 
 
  
  

._._.——— :—

 

Esther Rennick

boys and girls, mother and dad, Uncle
Joe, and grandmother. Let’s gather
around the piano; we’re going to learn
some new songs.”

The spirit of co-operation in this
project is amazing. The music stores
are open for the sessions and any one
may go inside, seat himself at a piano
in full view of a large TV screen, and
take his piano lesson.

The. musical scenery back of these
lessons is unique in its own right. The
three-octave electric keyboard in the
background, operated by a smaller key-
board on the table below, lights the
keys to demonstrate the location of
single tones, as well as formation of
chords, scales, or any combination
needed to clarify instruction in rote
playing or note reading.

Another keyboard sits on a high
table and gives out bell-like tones when
Professor Stout accompanies his studio
pupils with a melody as they learn
their chords. As the studio pupils play,
they make the same kind of mistakes,

. presumably, that the students at home

are making. This gives him an oppor-
tunity to clarify, correct, and repeat as
he goes along with his instructions,
thus giving equal opportunity to those
who may not catch on as rapidly as the
more musical or apt pupil.

Professor Stout has proven that mu-
sic at any level can be taught efficiently
and effectively in groups. The rapid
growth of piano classwork and key-
board experience classes is a testament
to its value; yet, he often runs into per-
fectionists who believe that music les-
sons are for the gifted, and that only

MAY 1956

 

Professor George Stout conducts a demonstration with his studio class at
the University of Houston. His enthusiasm is contagious, his classes fun.

the “classics” should be taught.

Professor Stout said, “When I was a
youngster my teacher said, ‘You must
do something with your music.’ Today
the wide-awake, progressive teacher
says, ‘Your music must do something
for you.” No longer does the under-
standing teacher frown through Billy’s
lesson because he has no talent for mu-
sic. She knows that music is an in-
tegral part of normal living.”

Billy needs keyboard experience with
no thought of becoming a second Horo-
witz, just as he needs to play baseball
with no idea of becoming a pitcher for
the Brooklyn Dodgers. Because of his
keyboard experience, Billy will eventu-
ally play the piano in his own fashion,
buy tickets to concerts and listen to
music as a leisure-time activity, just as
he will attend ball games and root for
his home team.

Professor Stout is like the famous
minister who became noted for convert-
ing every person he met during his ex-
tensive traveling. On a recent trip to
Venezuela where Professor Stout was

invited to set up a TV program of piano
class lessons on a commercial station in
Caracas, he carried along his three-
octave keyboard and gave the steward-
ess lessons going over and returning,
just as he does when he travels on train,
ship, or plane to national meetings of
music educators and teachers. He gives
free lessons by the wayside to all who
will listen, just to show how easy it is
to learn and how much enjoyment there

is to be had from making one’s own
music.

His enthusiasm is more contagious
than measles, and lasts much longer,
because it has an enduring quality. It
has touched the lives of many persons,
who sense the vibrant quality of his
love for music and his even greater
love of sharing it with everyone, and
they are spurred to great and still great-
er efforts to learn to play the piano.

A great number of Professor Stout’s
TV piano class members became so in-
terested that they have started taking
private lessons in their own neighbor-
hoods. “They look for teachers,” said
Professor Stout, “who will continue
their class or group instruction because
in such groups they lose their timidity
and learn a great deal from other mem-
bers of the class.”

The head of a Houston family may be
tired from the pressure of a workday
and Mother may be weary from the de-
mands of a busy household, but when
the cheerful voice and smiling face of
Professor Stout comes into the living
room, the atmosphere clears as the
family gathers around the piano. “Mu-
sic,” says Alice Lee Humphreys,*
“should be scattered abroad and gath-
ered up in some way by every crea-
ture.” Out Texas way, Professor George
Stout is scattering music abroad and
it is being gathered up by thousands
of people. I

 

waiver. in My Hand, Alice Lee Hum-
phreys. John Knox Press, 8 North Sixth
Street, Richmond 9, Virginia. 1950. $2.50.

221

WITH FORMER President of the
United States Herbert Hoover as

honorary chairman, an outstanding In-
ternational Advisory Committee is be-
ing formed {or the International Rec-
reation Congress which will meet in
Philadelphia on September 30 - Octo-
her 5. Distinguished leaders in govern-
ment, industry, and in youth and rec-
reation movements of fifteen countries
have already accepted membership on
the committee. Mr. Hoover served as
honorary president at the First Inter-
national Recreation Congress in 1932
at Los Angeles.

Members \Vho Have Accepted

BRAZIL—Mrs. Ethel Bauzer Madeiros

CEYLON—W. J. A. van Langenberg

EGYPT—His Excellency Staff Major
Kamal El-Din Hussein

 

Kamal El-Din Hussein

Mus. Ernst. BAL'ZER MADEtttos has been working in the
field of recreation for the last ten years. She is in charge of
the preparation of a manual on recreation for the elemen-
tary school teacher which will be printed and distributed by
the Government of Brazil. She is a graduate of the Univer-
sity of Brazil and received ltcr MA. from Northwestern
University in the United States. At present she is technical
advisor for the Ministry of Education and Culture and is

tn charge of extension courses and post-graduate lectures
in Rio de Janeiro.

W. J. A. H's lANM-INBLHG Is a tttettther of the committee
recently appointed by the Prime Minister of Ceylon to re-
port on the encouragement of sport and recreation in that

-7

 

I ' - .
Bte Iphtcal mlormattnn on then-- and addmrmdt omnmmw mom
lift! VII IppCHI' ' l' Jun" ‘nd [llf'nlln'f int-nu» ‘

222

 

ENGLAND—The Right Honorable The
Lord Luke of Pavenham

FRANCE—Raymond Cortat, Director of
the Bureau of Education and Di-
rector General of Youth and Sports*

GERMANY—Dr. H. C. Georg von Opel

INDIA—G. D. Sondhi

IRAN—Abolfazl Sadry, General Direc-

 

Georg von Opel

tor of Iranian Physical Education
Department, Ministry of Education“

IRAQ—--His Excellency Arkan Abadi

ISRAEL— Norman Lourie, Chairman,
Israel Playing Fields Association“

ITALY—Dr. Guido Vianello, National
Commissioner, National Association
for the Welfare of Workers*

JAPAN—Soichi Saito

NORWAY—Rolf Hofmo

THE PHILIPPINES—General Carlos P.
' Romulo

SW EDEN—Sven Salen
V E N E 2 U E L A —-— Lieutenant Colonel

Frank Risquez, National Sports In-

stitute*

Other countries will be represented
on the committee. Invitations have
been extended to leaders in Australia,
Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Denmark,
Pakistan, Syria, and Uruguay. ‘

Herbert Hoover

 

G. D. Sondhi

country. He is a graduate of the University of London and
a member of the Order of the British Empire. He has always
been interested in sports and has held many executive offices
in sports organizations. He is permanent secretary to the
Ministry of Posts and Broadcasting in Ceylon.

HIS EXCELLENCY STAFF MAJOR KAMAL EL-DIN HUSSEIN
is Minister of Education in Egypt, head of the Supreme
Council for Youth Service, and member of the Permanent
Council for Public Welfare Services. He is a graduate of
the Military College and of the Staff College where he served

as a lecturer. He is one of the outstanding young leaders
tn the new government of Egypt.

[HE RIGHT HONORABLE THE Loan LUKE 0F PAVENHAM is
one of the leading industrialists of England, and his list of
mrcctorshlps 18 long. He was educated at Eton and Trinity

RECREATION

    

Rolf Hofmo ,

 

Sdichi Saito

College, received his M.A. from Cambridge. He is a mem-
ber of the County Council of Bedfordshire, president of the
London Chamber of Commerce, and served on the Area
Committee of the British Broadcasting Company. He is also
vice-president of the National Federation of Young Farmers

Clubs, Eastern Area, and chairman of the National Playing
Fields Association of England.

DR. H. C. GEORG VON OPEL is another prominent indus-
tialist, from Germany, the owner of several dealerships for
the Opel—hpopular German automobile first manufactured
by Dr. Opel’s grandfather—and other industrial undertak-
ings. President of the German Olympic Society and chair-
man of several sports associations, he was active in rowing
and won one American and seven German championships

between 1928 and 1953.

G. D. SONDHI is the only member of this committee who
served also on the committee for the 1932 Congress . F 01-
lowing his education at Punjab University, he won honors
in history and economics at Trinity College, Cambridge.
He has had a distinguished career in education in India;
and, among his many activities in sports and recreation, he
organized the Olympic movement, founded the open-air
theatre movement, and has served as an executive officer in
numerous sports and cultural organizations. He is honor-
ary life president of the Amateur Athletic Federation of
India; and he served as honorary advisor on youth welfare

to the Indian Ministry of Education from 1953 until his
retirement in January 1956.

HIS EXCELLENCY ARKAN ABADI, Member of Parliament in
Iraq since 1947, also did graduate work at Cambridge. He
has served as vice-president of the Chamber of Deputies,
and in two cabinets. first as Minister without Portfolio and
later as Minister of Social Affairs. During the devastating
floods of Baghdad in 1954, he served as chairman of the
committee whose work saved the city and managed the flood
relief program afterward. At present he is chairman of the
Society for Combating Vagrancy and of the Commission on
National Economy. He is especially aware of the importance

of recreation for children, youth, and adults at this critical
time in Iraq’s history.

SOICHI SAITO attended the International Recreation Con-
gress in 1932, and for many years, until just recently, was
president of the National Recreation Association of Japan.

MAY 1956

      

Lord Luke

Carlos Romulo

He has headed the national YMCA movement in Japan since
1953. As head of the Repatriation Bureau, with a staff of
twenty thousand, he brought back to Japan more than six
million repatriates and helped more than a million foreign
nationals to return to their respective countries after the
war. He also help rebuild the National Recreation Associa-
tion in Japan, which he now serves as international advisor.

ROLF HOFMO has been head of the N orWegian State Office
for Sport and Youth Work since it was established in 1946.
His work has been of great importance in planning and
building sport fields and recreation centers throughout his
country. On numerous occasions he has been a member of
governmental committees working out reports concerning
sports and youth problems. He has been chairman of the
Committee for Sport since 1934, one of the founders of the
Council for Open Areas Surrounding Oslo in 1936 and
chairman since 1939. He was chairman of the Construction
Committee for the Olympic Games at Oslo in 1952, and has

a similar responsibility for the proposed Norwegian Uni-
versity for Sports.

GENERAL CARLOS P. ROMULO is widely known through-
out the United States for his service as Ambassador from
the Philippines, as one of the leaders in the United Nations,
and for his military service in World War II on the staff of
General MacArthur. General Romulo has achieved distinc-
tions in many fields. In 1942 he won the Pulitzer Prize in
Journalism. .He is the author of six books, most recent of
which is Crusade in Asia. For his tireless efforts for peace
he has received many awards and was nominated for the

Nobel Peace Prize in 1951 and 1953. For his military serv-

ice he has been decorated by his own country, by the United
States, and by manv other countries.

SVEN SALEN visits the United States frequently, both for
business and for recreation. In 1927 he won the gold medal
in a sailing competition in Oyster Bay, Long Island. He is
still active in the sport of sailing—a sport that comes natur-
ally to the owner of many shipping lines—and has added
sailing on ice to his interests and skills. He is chairman of
the Swedish Shipowners Association, and chairman of the
Swedish Merchant Marine Welfare Committee, and chair-
man of the Modomsdo Mining and Steel Company. He is

also chairman and president of the Swedish Ski and Outdoor
Sports Society. I n

223

Recreatioi

 

An experimental equipment center and
position, as established by the Los Ange]

Department, present interesting implic
drawn up for civil service examiner

   

i ‘.

Suggestions are invited from staff, parents, patrons.

ATURE or THE PROBLEM: Some recreation equip-

ment or play supply item needs improvement—per-
haps an entirely new article must be “invented” to serve a
recreation need, or a choice needs to be made from among
several manufactured products to be used in the park or on
the playground. Does the procedure, or mechanics, exist
within your department to solve problems of this type?

 

Recreation Equipment Improvement Committee

To meet problems of this nature, William Frederickson,
Jr., superintendent of recreation for the Los Angeles De-
partment of Recreation and Parks, conceived the idea of
forming a recreation equipment improvement committee.
It is the function of this committee to analyze, survey, con-
duct research, develop, report and recommend ideas or
items which contribute to the solution of the problems men-
tioned above. This group was formed in 1951 and has done
a very valuable job to date.

Any recreation and park department, large or small, can
form such a committee. In a small department, it may con-
sist of only two or three persons; in a large one, as many as
twelve can function effectively. The Los Angeles Recrea-
tion Equipment Improvement Committee has drawn mem-
bers from the planning, maintenance, professional crafts

l electrical, carpenter, machinist), recreation leadership,
and engineering sections. This group meets approximately
every six weeks to consider suggestions which may have
come from many sources. Recreation leaders, supervisors,
maintenance and construction employees, administrative
staff, parents and patrons, are invited to send suggestions or
to gel in touch with any member of the committee directly.

Mn. ()ltsA'r'rt is recreation supervisor and Mn. Maryann is
personnel ogicer [or the Los Angeles City Recreation and

Park Department.

224

“‘22 -' -

 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 

How the Committee Operates ‘

Let us see hoW this group works by considering a specific
problem and following the various steps involved.

Problem: To develop a table tennis clamp or bracket
which would stand up under the extreme wear given it at
public playgrounds and parks.

1. The committee analyzed the weaknesses of the brack-
ets in use and decided to seek one which: (a) had an ad-
justable net-post; (b) was heavily constructed so it would
withstand abuse; (c) had a large-diameter screw which
passed through at least one-quarter-inch of metal so threads
would not strip (a common fault); and (d) was quickly
and easily placed into and removed from position so that
it could be checked in and out.

2. Ordinarily, the next step would be to survey the com-
mercial field for such a bracket; but this was unnecessary
since, over the years, just about every bracket made had
been tried, and literature and information on existing de-
signs were known.

3. From the discussion and analysis it was determined
that. the development of the model could best be done by a
committee member. (The assignment might have gone to
one of the shop divisions such as paint, cabinet, electrical, or

RECREATION

Lew specialized staff
' .

ecreatlon and Park
ms. New duties, as
re presented here.

has no skilled craftsmen, tools, or shops, it might be done
by interesting a private concern in the development.)

4. Upon completion of the prototype, it was brought back

to the committee which finally prepared a report and recom-
mendations for action.

‘ machine. In a small recreation and park department, which
i
g

Solution: In this case the department made its own pat-
tern, had metal molds made from it, and had the brackets
made at a foundry.

The procedure outlined above has worked out quite suc-
cessfully. To review:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 
 

syndh

a t '4’
. . - ' , v-‘t,
'4“ w, - "agile-xi. '  r --  A l ’ l r I ‘r‘ T H
'3»! ,  . xig‘tifl“
»' an"  '_  _ ‘- -. 1". .

-- 5w anus. as It Wxxxrht,

" (I; M”; n’ ’ ’ I
3 K r a,» ; \ ,ér + a . I. p
' 1» ,. , '4? r ,, 493%? , I
'   a“??? w»  s???” “a I r ."
a , , . .- . -
. . r fume”; ‘5}. .  . I. “ma” _, h  1x2,  '  I" _ _ _

The Toddle Town Railroad constructed at the center.

1. Recognize the problem.

2. Analyze the weaknesses and determine the desired
features.

3. Develop a working model and test under field condi-

tions wherever practicable. Usually the necessary research
is also done at this stage.

4. Report back to the committee and prepare~recom-
mendations.

Among Other Projects

The following projects are some that have been worked
out successfully by the Los Angeles committee:

MAY 1956

    

 

Louis Orsatti and John P. Madeira

1. Bumper mat to be used to absorb impact of basketbaJ
players. This mat has a plastic filler of one-inch-thic]
polyvinyl chloride, canvas covered. It weighs one-third a
much as conventional hair-filled mats, is much safer to use
and may be washed as the filler is waterproof.

2. Numerous new Halloween carnival games; also, a big]
striker which can be easily transported and assembled am
has proven extremely popular with teen-age boys.

3. Aluminum carrom-board pockets. These multiply th<
life of carrom boards at least six times.

4. Plastic coating for handles of flying rings (Romar
Rings). This coating—which, especially outdoors, is less
expensive and is superior to leather—was developed in co
operation with a plastics company.

5. Safety lifeguard-boat cushions. These are made with
a foam-type plastic filler and have at least eight times the
buoyancy of kapok. They are used as pillows on boats
Operated by the department and also serve as life buoys in
case the boat capsizes.

6. Folding table-tennis tables. They are made in two

sections with a simple, sturdy sliding strap for folding the

steel tubular legs. m

      

Work once scattered is now part of a full-time job.

225

Specialized Jobs Established

The work of this committee has pointed up the need for
a specialized job classification. Accordingly, two positions
have been created and filled by persons who are titled “rec-
reation equipment developers.” Now, whenever the com-
mittee decides to proceed with development work, the proj-
ect is turned over to one of these developers, channeled
through the supervisor who is responsible for his work. To
our knowledge, this is the first time a department of recre-
ation and parks has formally set up a class of employment
and provided the specialized experimental equipment cen-
ter to do this type of work.

Job Classification and Examination Procedures

Since all full—time positions in this department are sub-
ject to civil service procedures, duty statements covering
the two positions were submitted to the civil service depart-
ment for classification. In brief, they included the following:

Duties. To develop ideas for new or for the improve-
ment of existing recreation equipment and facilities: de-
sign, fabricate, assemble, and test working models; initiate
ideas for the construction of a wide variety of recreation
equipment, facilities, tools, exhibits, displays, building and
grounds maintenance aids, and publicity projects; conduct
research; prepare routine designs and drawings; build pat-
terns and molds; construct displays involving carving, cast-
ing figures, and painting; wire displays and exhibits for
electric motor operation.

Scope of the Examination. A good knowledge of: the
characteristics of a wide variety of materials, including
wood, metal, plastics, synthetics and rubber; and the opera-
tion,. together with skill in the use, of a variety of wood-
working and metalworking power and hand tools com-
monly found in a shop. A general knowledge of: art work
as it pertains to disPlays and back drops; and pattern and
mold making. Some knowledge of the fundamentals of elec—
tricity. Skill in carving wood by either hand or power tools.
Ability to prepare and work from rough sketches and draw-
ings.

Minimum Requirements for Admission to the Examina-
tion. Graduation from high school, plus three years of ex-
perience in model making, display construction work, or the
development of recreation equipment and facilities.

Instructions to Candidates. Implement the following pro-
ject—for use on the various playgrounds throughout the
city—to develop football skills and to increase the inter-

est in football of children between the ages of eight to
fourteen years.

1. Prepare sketches and rough plans for the construction
of a life-size figure to serve as a target in the exercise of
football passing skills. It is contemplated that it will be

moved from playground to playground as desired.
The target figure:

—Should be realistic and represent a football player in
position and about to receive a forward pass.

—Should include a circle of outstretched arms or in some
way provide a target at which the football may be thrown.

226

u—Should be so constructed that hits and misses will be
readily apparent, without any need for interpretation.
——Should not be too difficult to hit, but difficult enough to
require some skill.

——-Should be readily portable and capable of being set up
easily by a director and an assistant in a minimum length
of time, using a minimum number of tools.

——Should be sturdy enough to Withstand rough handling
and remaining outdoors overnight.

-—-——Should be stable and remain upright while being hit by

footballs from any angle.

2. You will be given one-half hour to plan how you would
construct this figure. Make a rough sketch of your idea
showing details of operation, construction, assembly on the
playground, and list the various materials required and
how they would be used. '

3. Be prepared to discuss the details of your plan with the
rating board.

When the candidate returned with his proposed solution
to the problem, he was questioned in detail as to the pro-
cedure, methods, and problems involved in its execution.
In addition to technical details involved, attention was di-
rected toward the creativity and originality of thinking,
and to the uniqueness of approach in devising solutions
which would provide factors of novelty, new experience,
and challenge to patrons using it.

The civil service commission, in preparing and conduct—
ing the examination, held a number of conferences with
representatives from the recreation and park department
in order to gain a thorough understanding of the duties and
functions of this job. They decided that the examination
should consist entirely of a job demonstration and an evalu-
ation of personal qualifications. Accordingly, the commis-
sion secured the following three individuals to serve as
raters: two directors of recreation from municipal recrea-
tion departments in adjacent cities; one supervisor of prop-
erties from a major motion picture studio. The examina-
tion proper was held at our eXperimental equipment center,
where the raters were given full orientation as to our shop
equipment and productions.

We are especially appreciative of the cooperation shown
by the Los Angeles City Civil Service Commission in the
classification and examination processes. This position,
being unique, presented problems requiring deviation from
routine examining procedures. By a thorough understand-
ing of job requirements and by careful orientation of the
raters, the civil service staff was able to conduct a practical
and meaningful examination. Qualified personnel were ap-
pointed and are now serving satisfactorily.

Although this work has been previously carried out in-
formally by employees serving in other classifications, its
present importance warranted assignment on a full-time
basis. The ever-growing demand for adequate recreation
services to meet the leisure needs of all age groups in times
of rapid technological expansion and cultural evolution is
a challenge to our profession. This new classification is

one example of our efforts to keep pace with changing
recreation needs. I

RECREATION

AQUATIC TRAINING PROGRAM

 

The T0peka Recreation Commission
conducts a Saturday aquatic training
program at Washburn Swimming Pool
during the winter and spring. The suc-
cess of last year’s program meant much
to the total aquatic program of Topeka.
This year we hope to enlarge and ad-
vance the quantity and quality of that
program. Training is divided into
three sessions: synchronized swim-
ming; competitive swimming; and staff
aid and instructor training.

Synchronized swimming is divided
into three groups:

Group I——Adpanced. Individuals in-
vited to join this group have had syn-
chronized swimming eXperience or
enough swimming ability for advanced
synchronized swimming work.

Group 2—Intermediate. Individuals
.invited to this group are those who
ihave had synchronized swimming ex-
; perience or swimming ability of a qual-
lity that will permit them to do work
required of this group.

Group 3—Beginners. Individuals in-
vited to join this group will be those
who have passed their American Red
Cross advanced swimming, senior life
saving, or have proven by demonstra-
tion that they have the swimming abil-
ity to do synchronized swimming work;
and who are interested in advancing in
their ability as a swimmer.

Competitive swimming classes are
divided into two groups:

Group A. Individuals who are in-
terested in improving their ability as
speed swimmers in one or more strokes

nd have passed at least the American
ed Cross swimmers’ requirements
nd/or at least junior life saving. All

ndividuals in this group will be ages
hirteen and over.

. AY 1956

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

COPPER ENAMELING

8: JEWELRY MAKIN G

These crafts definitely have a
place in your recreation program.
Easy to do, interesting, pront-
able besides. For full infor-
mation and complete supply
listing of equipment,
material and kits send
for BERGEN'S Latest
Catalog NOW!

Write Dept. REF

    
 
  
  
   

113 Beech Street
Hackensack. N. l.

 

  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
  

  

RECREATION CENTER DIRECTOR lll

Two years experience as director, or three years
experience as assistant director in smaller rec-
reation center. College graduate with speciali-
zation in recreation or related field. Salary:
$293 - $366. Apply Career Service Authority,

Room 178, City and County Building, Denver,
Colorado.

Group B. Individuals who are inter-
ested in improving their ability as
speed-swimmers in one or more strokes
and who have passed the American Red
Cross swimmers’ requirements and are
junior life savers. This group is com-

posed of individuals twelve years of age
and under.

 
   
 
     
     
  

 

         
 
 

Staff aid and instructor training pro-
gram started early in March along with
a re-scheduling of classes. The water
safety instructors course and a staff aid
course began at this time. These courses
terminate in time for the five-night Wa-
ter Safety Instructors Course, May 14-
18, which will be taught by a represen-
tative of the American Red Cross Area
Oiiice.

The following schedule of Saturday
classes went into effect November 26

arses, ens, Bil folds
J. C. LARSO” CO., 820 So. Tripp Ave.

_ Department .5905, Chicago 24. Illinois

 

   
 

  

METALCRAFT CATALOG

Make Aluminum, Copper. Foil items
'J. C. LARSON CO., 820 So. Tripp Ave.

Department 5905, Chicago 24, Illinois

and will end May 26.
Group Class Time
1 Intermediate synchron-

ized .......................... .. 9:00—10:30 A.M.
2 Advanced synchron-

ized .......................... ..10:30-—12:00 M
3 Beginners synchron-

ized .......................... .. 2:00— 3:00 P.M.
A Senior competitive .... .. 3:00— 4:30 PM.

B Junior competitive .... .. 4:30— 6:00 P.M.

Individuals are advanced When their
ability and performance merits moving
to a higher skill group.

Regular attendance is important as
our limited time for the use of the pool
does not permit us to take all who are
eligible. We maintain a waiting list for
all of the classes and persons may be
asked to drop out if their irregular at-

Since 1883 OCEAN POOL has
been tirst choice for all
waterfront supplies.

tendance is keeping out someone who
could attend regularly. There are no

Send today, on camp
stationery. for big. colortul

FREE CATALOG Ho. AB

registration fees; but each person must
furnish his/her own suit, and all girls
must Wear bathing caps—R. FOSTER
BLAISDELL, Superintendent, Topeka
Recreation Commission, Kansas.

OCEAN POOL SUPPLY CO.

866 Sixth Avenue, New York 1, H. Y.

 

227

SKIN and SCUBA

DIVING

From the report of a survey conducted by Water Safety Service, American National
Red Cross, with the c00peration of skin and SC UBA* diving clubs throughout America.

SKIN DIVING

The objective of this phase of the study was to secure
some basic information concerning the skill ability of the
individual participating in skin diving, some of the per-
sonal practices that cause people to get into trouble, some
of the essential information a person should have in order
to be safe and, last but not least, some factors of safety that
should be stressed by those responsible for educating others
in skin diving.

Revealed by the Study

0 What are the minimum standards of personal skill a
person should have before participating?

There was unanimous feeling that a person should be able
to swim well before becoming a skin diver. However, the
term “well” has different meanings for different individuals.
For example, the distance that a person should be able to
swim ranged from fifty feet to one thousand yards. The
average is in the neighborhood of four hundred and forty
yards. There was general accord that the ability to swim
underwater should be learned before attempting skin div-
ing, but again the distance varied—the minimum being
thirty feet and the maximum forty yards. Seventy-five feet
is about the average distance.

People should also be able to surface dive. The distance
ran from merely diving below the surface to a maximum
depth of eighteen feet. No average could be calculated, but
it is significant that this skill was mentioned by the majority
of those reporting.

The ability to sustain oneself at the surface is another
skill which prospective skin divers should master.

A significant number of reports indicated that a knowl-
edge of life saving is also desirable, with special emphasis
on some of the carries. A knowledge of first aid was deemed
important by a number, with special emphasis on artificial
respiration. For those who plan to skin dive in the ocean
it is essential to know how to swim in surf, haveuknowledge
of rip currents and how to swim through them.

Many pointed out that a skin diver should be in excellent
health, both physically and mentally.

o What personal practices are the cause of most accidents?

In the opinion of almost everyone, the major cause is
diving alone. Other factors, such as over-confidence, care-

“‘ Self Contained Underwater Breathing Apparatus.

228

lessness, overexertion, lack of good safety practices, show-
ing off, horseplay, and panic, were also high on the list of
reasons why people get into trouble when skin diving.
Specific reasons mentioned often endugh to indicate a
trend are poor knowledge of local conditions, lack of flota-
tion gear on the swimmer or on the surface, unsafe practices
with guns, going too deep, inexperience in using equipment,
lack of knowledge or basic swimming skills, diving too
soon after eating or drinking, diving into water while wear-
ing mask or goggles, staying in the water too long.
0 I f the life of an individual depended upon what you told
him, what are the ten things you would tell a skin diver?
Again there was no doubt as to the best advice any skin

 

l
diver should have: never dive alone. Other extremely im-l
portant bits of advice are: always have some surface flota-
tion device, treat spear guns as dangerous weapons, don’t
panic, try to remain calm, be familiar with the equipment
you plan to use, choose your equipment carefully and wise-
ly, know first aid, be in good physical condition, know and
stay within your limitations, don’t drink alcoholic beverages
before diving, don’t venture too far away from the surface
support, carry a knife, leave the water when cut'or bleed-
ing, be familiar with the area in which you are diving,
develop emergency procedures.

Other suggestions include: leave the water when cold,
never dive with a cold or sinus condition, don’t dive in
murky water, be alert to moving objects underwater, stay
out where surf is heavy, avoid overfatigue, look up beforer
ascending to see if surface is clear, don’t become too curi-h-
ous, avoid horseplay, know location of your partner at all;

RECREATION:

times, don’t try to impress others, don’t attempt to dive
too deep.
0 Name ten rules you would suggest for skin diving.

These paralleled the above. Additional rules listed often
enough to establish a pattern: avoid the combination of
surf and rocks; practice self-control; be in good physical
condition; learn how to use your equipment; avoid over-
eating or use of carbonated liquids before diving; know and
respect the condition of the area in which you are diving;
think—don’t take chances; use a quick release belt if weights
are used; learn how to give artificial respiration; stay away
from piers or pilings; stay close to boat on surface; learn
first aid; give dangerous fish a wide berth, unless experi-
enced and well equipped; avoid diving into the water while
wearing a mask; avoid a deep dive—thirty feet should be
deep enough; stay away from rip tides; stay up-current
from boat; never enter a hole unless you know you can get
out.

Conclusions

Before participating in skin diving a person’s skills ability

_should include better than average swimming, distance

swimming, staying afloat with a minimum of effort, under-
water swimming, surface diving, life savingw-especially the
carries—~and first aid with emphasis on artificial respiration.
Most accidents to skin divers are caused by unsafe acts of
the diver, rather than the equipment used. Most of these
can be prevented if the individual assumes personal respon-
sibility for his own safety and for that of a buddy.

Because of the rapid growth of this activity, coupled with
the comparatively limited and uncoordinated opportunities
for leadership training, it is imperative that something be

done in this field.
SCUBA DIVING

The objective of this phase of the study was the same as
that for skin diving.

Revealed by the Study

0 What are the minimum standards of shill a person should
have before participating in SCUBA diving?

Among varied suggestions, a definite trend was observed
in the direction of those standards set forth for skin divers.
A person should be a better than average swimmer. His
skills should include the ability to distance swim four hun-
dred and forty yards, to swim underwater about seventy-
five feet, to surface dive, to tow a victim, and to remain
afloat with a minimum of trouble. He should have a knowl-
edge of first aid, especially artificial respiration. In addi-
tion, and probably of great significance, a person should
have had experience in shin diving before going into SCUBA
diving. Again, not in the category of a skill but neverthe—
less important, were the many suggestions that the person
be in good physical and mental condition.

0 What are the personal practices that cause most accidents
to SCUBA divers?

As in skin diving, diving alone is the one personal prac-
tice, mentioned by almost all who reported, that causes most
people to get into trouble. Other major causes are over-
confidence, panic, carelessness, disregard for safety rules,

MAY 1956

surfacing too quickly, overexertion, showing off, overim-
mersion, diving too deep, failure to recognize personal limi-
tations, drinking alcoholic beverages before diving, and
diving too soon after eating.
0 What are the ten things you would tell a SCUBA diver
in order to save his life? _
Once again the most important factor indicated was:
always dive with a partner. Others of extreme: importance
are: learn to use your equipment, learn to know how the
equipment works, use good equipment, keep the equipment
in good repair, examine your equipment before each dive,
use pure compressed air, always wear flotation gear or have
flotation gear on the surface, continue to exhale as you
ascend, ascend slowly, be in good physical condition, use a
quick release buckle for body weights, remainhcalm, de-
velop emergency procedures, don’t use goggles or ear plugs.
Other factors mentioned are: leave the water when cold,
don’t dive with a cold or sinus condition, carry a knife,
leave the water when cut or bleeding, avoid rough water,

 

know first aid, deve10p hand signals, avoid overfatigue,
know and follow decompression table, don’t try for records,
know life saving, be able to remove equipment quickly.

0 Name ten safety rules for SCUBA diving.

In addition to the warnings above, some specific rules
mentioned are: avoid deep dives; be in good physical and
mental condition; learn about the area in which you plan
to dive; know and respect your limitations; avoid exhaus-
tion; avoid filling tanks beyond rated pressure; avoid
drOpping air tanks; avoid diving at night.

Conclusions

All SCUBA divers should have the prerequisites of a skin
diver and in addition be experienced in skin diving. Most
accidents to SCUBA divers are caused by their failure to
dive with a buddy and to fully understand the operations
and limitations of the equipment they are using.

Most accidents can be prevented if the individual ob-
serves the generally accepted practices of safe waterman-
ship and in addition learns to know and use the equipment.
( See review of Underwater Recreation, page 248. Sketches
illustrating this article are used from it with permission.

-——Ed.) I

229

 

 
 
 

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Psychiatry Enters Camping

Program at a recent conference for
the camp directors of Palisades Inter-
state Park (New York and New Jersey)
included an address, “A Psychiatrist
Looks at Camping,” by Major William
Hausman, chief of medical research at
the U. S. Military Academy, West Point,
New York. Other excellent features of
the meeting attested to careful planning
and a trend among these progressive
directors toward an increasing concern
for the individual camper (as well as
for the group) and a creative approach
to all activities. Among them, two that
were especially outstanding: a work-
shop on creative dramatics and their
relation to camps, led by Grace Stani-
street, of Adelphi College Children’s
Theatre; and a talk on staff relations
and training by Lois Goodrich, direc-
tor of Trail Blazer Camps of St. J ohn’s
Guild. We are trying to get copies of
both of these, for a possible camping
issue of RECREATION early next year.

The camping set-up in Palisades In-
terstate Park is an interesting one. Or-
ganizations engaged in social, charit-
able or philanthropic work, such as Girl
and Boy Scouts, YM and YWCA’S,
churches, settlements, and so on, rent
a camp through the superintendent of
the camp department, Joseph K. Mc-
Manus. All camps have been built with
gift money from friends of the park. At
the present time, sixty-two camps are in
operation. Coordination and instruc-
tion of camp directors and staffs on
park policies and procedures is in the
hands of Mr. McManus’ assistant and
supervisor of group camps, Alma Fleck.

Keeping Company

The Cooper Parent-Teacher Associa-
tion in Eastchester, New York, went
outside its ranks to honor the local town
superintendent of recreation. Vincent

230

D. Bellew. He has been presented with
a life membership in the New York
State Congress of Parents and Teachers
for his outstanding recreation program
for Eastehester children and his indus-
try and application of talent to that job.

Mr. Bellew, in his acceptance, re-
marked, “The schools and the local mu-
nicipal recreation department should al-
ways work together in a coordinated
and integrated program for the best in-
terests of the children. But,” he cau-
tioned, “at top level the school authority
and the recreation authority should be
separate.” In humor, he concluded, “It
is all right for us to keep company, but
don’t let us ever get married. The job
is bigger than both of us.”

Duke of Edinburgh at Track
Opening

 

During the opening of the Woodside
running track and sports arena in Wat-
ford, Hartfordshire, this group of girls
chatted with His Royal Highness the
Duke of Edinburgh, who, as president
of the National Playing Fields Associa-
tion, oHiciated at the opening cere-
monies.

The Duke toured the arena and track,
visited informally with athletes and

fired the pistol for the start of an inter-
schools cross-country run. He also in-
spected the dressing rooms at Woodside
House and saw some of the netball,
hockey, and football pitches of the

ground.

In an address, His Highness pointed
out the need for more running tracks,
such as the one in Watford.

Blue Chip Investment

“Developers of home colonies cover-
ing tracts of fifty acres or larger have
been encouraged to set aside space for
recreation facilities by Allan V. Rose,
builder, active in Long Island and West-
chester County (New York).

“Mr. Rose eXplained that such a poli-
cy is important not only to the full en-
joyment of suburban living but also to
the retention of resale value by the
dwellings that include such facilities.
He mentioned tennis courts, swimming
pools, and a complete set of playground
paraphernalia as essentials in setting up
a recreation area.

“To implement such a program, Mr.
Rose suggested that one and one-half
acres be allocated for every fifty acres
developed with housing. The cost of
maintaining these facilities would be
borne by the residents and could be ex-
pected to be negligible when distributed
among them. He said that a home
bought in a colony that provides this
advantage is a ‘blue chip’ investment.”

—From The New York Times, March
25, 1956.

Outdoor Education Project

To speed development of outdoor ed-
ucation programs, a five-year project
has been set up by the American Asso-
ciation for Health, Physical Education,
and Recreation in cooperation with
manufacturers of fishing tackle, sport-
ing arms, and ammunition. Designed
primarily for schools and colleges, the
program will emphasize casting and
fishing, shooting and firearms safety,
camping, boating, and other related out-
door activities. Conservation, safety,
and outdoor living will be of primary
concern. A cooperative arrangement
with Michigan State University has
made the project staff available.

AAHPER- recently made a survey of
outdoor education programs in 28,000
secondary schools and 2,000 colleges.

RECREATION

Returns show a wide variety of outdoor
activities already being offered, such as
camping, casting, shooting and firearms
safety, boating and water sports, arch-
ery, skiing, orienteering, and many oth-
ers. Twelve per cent of the high schools
and a quarter of the colleges reporting
have casting and/or shooting in their
programs.

A series of regional state workshops
and clinics are being planned in sec-
tions of the country where survey re-
turns revealed the greatest amount of
interest. For further information write
to the project’s director, Julian W.
Smith, College of Education, Michigan
State University, East Lansing.

Golf Course Construction Aid

Quality with Economy in Golf Con-
struction by Geoffrey S. Cornish is a
leaflet “outlining factors involved from
earliest planning stages to opening day.”
It has been prepared “to assist individ-
uals, clubs, and other groups contem-
plating new courses to bring their pro-
jects to successful conclusions without
exorbitant costs and waste arising from
inadequate planning and natural er-
rors.” (Mr. Cornish, golf course archi-
tect, wrote “Short Golf for Community
Recreation Centers,” in the June 1954
issue of RECREATION.) Copies of the
leaflet may be obtained free of charge
from Mr. Cornish, Fiddler’s Green,
South Amherst, Massachusetts.

Facts and Figures

Las Vegas, Nevada—Bond issue passed,
by four to one majority, to construct a
$4,000,000 convention hall and to pro-
vide $500,000 for recreation facilities
including four swimming pools for the
county, and the development of three
park-playground areas.

Staten Island, New York—An organized
effort to raise $3,000,000 for the restor-
ation of Richmondtown is under way.
Sponsored by the Staten Island Histori-
cal Society and the New York Depart-
ment of Parks, the project would pro-
vide an historical reconstruction second
only to Williamsburg, Virginia, and
Sturbridge, Massachusetts. Park Com-
missioner Robert Moses has promised
that the city will put up half of the sum
if the.society can raise the remaining
amount.

MAY 1956

 

    

Like Father

Nine-year-old
Jack Blohm, son of
Ernest V. Blohm,
executive secretary
of the Michigan In-
ter-Agency Coun-
cil for Recreation,
wrote this poem ex-
pressing his feelings about recreation.

Pot ohm

RECREATION

Recreation is about the best
And still a great deal better

Of play and games and fun,
All added in together.

A lot of games and fun and things
All added in together,
It’s heavier than a cannonball

And lighter than a feather!

It’s loaded down with fun and joy
That makes the world go ’round;
It can be as quiet as a little mouse
Or be the loudest sound.

Recreation makes folks happy,
And joyful as can be,

As cheerful as a singing lark,
And on the happiest key.

Jottings . . .

l/ Melville Hodge, superintendent of
recreation in Rock Island, Illinois, re-
tired in April after more than thirty
years of service.

I/ The National Public Parks Tennis
Tournament for Seniors will be held in
Cincinnati August 19 through 26 at the
Airport Playfield Tennis Courts. Infor-
mation may be obtained from Robert
E. Coady, Supervisor of Tennis and
Special Activities, Public Recreation
Commission, 1100 Sycamore Street,
Cincinnati 2.

 

Reproduced by permission.
© 1955 The New Yorker Magazine, Inc.

I/ The March 1956 issue of Town Jour-
nal featured an article, “This Teen Cen-
ter Really Works,” profusely illustrated
with beautifully color photos. It is the
story of the Wel-Com-Inn at Fremont,
Nebraska. Readers who remember our
story about this center, “Who Says
Teen-Agers Won’t Work?” in June
1953, will be interested to see how it
has progressed in the three years since
that time. For those thinking of start-

ing a teen center, a list of “do’s”

and
“dont’s” may be obtained by sending
a self-addressed stamped envelope to
Mrs. Sammie Niehus, Director, Wel-

Com-Inn, Fremont, Nebraska.

Quotations

From chapter eight, these lines I quote,
“For losing weight play tennis,

For extra pounds, all men please note!
Are to man’s charms, a menace.”

With longing look flung at TV—
Each Saturday found me swatting.
My evening hours were never free
0f leaping, thumping, trotting.

I’d love to say this exercise

Took fat from off around me,

But Hark ye! HOpefuls and be wise
Each day no thinner found me.

I quoted them from chapter eight,

“Pounds to man’s charms, a menace.”

Now, you quote me, “I gained more
weight,

From chasing balls at tennis.”

MIRABEL LEE
N arberth, Pennsylvania

 

Sitting Tight

As we go to press, a group of embat-
tled mothers in New York’s Central
Park are fighting a bulldozer and the
city park department in an effort to
save a half-acre of unofficial play area
from being transformed into additional
parking space for the park restaurant,
Tavern-on-the-Green. The park users
are trying to preserve this rocky half-
acre as a “Wild West” playground for
the children. The mothers are taking
turns sitting on camp stools blocking
the bulldozer’s path.

Park Commissioner Robert Moses
stated that the area had never been des-
ignated as a play space, and that park-
ing facilities for the tavern were to be
much smaller than in most cities where
there are restaurants in parks. The com-
missioner is noted for sitting tight once
he makes up his mind but these minute-
men mothers may outsit him. We’ll let
you know who sat tightest next month!

231

for the

Administrator
0

NOTES

The importance of providing adequate areas for recrea-
tion in our growing communities and of advance coopera-
tive planning to assure proper location and development is
receiving increased recognition from many sources. A
number of illustrations follow.

Neighborhood Plans
In its 1954 report the Midland, Michigan, Planning De-

partment, states: “Due to the many acres of undeveloped
land within the annexed area there is an opportunity for
the finest of residential, park and school site developments.
During the year, the department prepared preliminary plans
for eight square miles. Each square mile is proposed to be
a neighborhood with a centrally located, fifteen-acre school
site, parks totaling about ten per cent of the gross area, one

or two neighborhood shopping areas and about 1,000 to
1,200 residential lots.”

Values Rise in Pittsburgh

Mr. Donald Robinson writing in the National Municipal
Review on the subject “Slum Clearance Pays Off” cited how
values zoomed in Pittsburgh after a drive was launched to
rehabilitate sixty slum acres. “The state ripped down every
building in one half of the area and made it into a park.
Simultaneously, the city’s Urban Redevelopment Authority
built a housing project on the remaining land.” He further
stated that six years later, “despite the fact that thirty acres

had been taken off the tax rolls, land values alone in that
rehabilitated district had soared $10,500,000.”

Planning for Good Living

In a series of articles appearing in The New Yorker, deal-
ing with New York City’s traffic problems, Lewis Mumford,
noted authority on housing and city planning, decried the
increasing tendency toward excessive population densities.

He wrote: “Instead of maximizing facilities for motorcars, -

we should maximize the advantages of urban life. Parks,
playgrounds, and schools, theatres, universities, and con-
cert halls, to say nothing of a quiet night’s sleep and a sunny
outlook when one wakes up, are more important than any
benefits to be derived from the constant use of the automo-
bile. To accomplish this improvement, we must devise a
fundamental change in the city’s whole pattern. The plain
fact is that the high-density city is obsolete. If the city is
to become livable again, and if its traflic is to be reduced to
dimensions that can be handled, the city will have to bring
all its powers to bear Upon the problem of creating a new

metropolitan pattern, not just unintegrated segments of
such a pattern.”

Recreation an Essential to Integrated Planning

The New York Times in a recent article quoted Howard J.
Teas, land planner, on the necessity of integrated planning

232

to assure orderly development of communities on Long Is-
land, New York: “The attracting of new industrial and com-
mercial enterprise to Long Island and the establishment of
an additional number of convenient recreation facilities are
all-important prerequisites to the continuance of a pros~
perous housing picture, a stable economy and healthy and
secure family units.” He further stated that Long Island
communities would have to plan now for additional play
facilities in anticipation of a large influx of new families

during the coming few years.

Joint Planning With Housing Authorities

Planning for recreation facilities and services to meet
needs of project tenants in low-rent housing developments
is a basic responsibility of the local community, according
to the Public Housing Administration. It states: “Where
necessary facilities are not provided by the local commu-
nity and are not in prospect, the local authority shall pro-
vide outdoor play spaces and may provide indoor space” . . .
in accordance with standards developed by the administra-
tion.

Appropriate local agencies should be consulted in the
preliminary planning of recreation facilities: “Where on-
site facilities are determined to be required, the local au-
thority is responsible for planning and developing working
relationships, preferably written, with appropriate local
agencies, public or private, 'or both. These agreements
should provide for project tenants to receive the educational,
recreational, health, and welfare services and programs
which are customarily provided in the community. The ar-
rangements should be made prior to the layout of plans for
on-site activity space.

“The appropriate local agencies which will conduct the
programs should be invited by local authorities to partici-
pate in planning space and the layout of equipment; such
space must be in conformity with established standards.”

The statement further outlines the requirements under
which the local housing authority “may, with prior Public
Housing Authority approval, transfer project development
funds to a local agency for the cost of a new facility off-site
or to expand an existing facility constructed by the local
agency.”

The preceding regulations make it clear that the provision
of recreation facilities in low-rent public housing projects
is a matter of joint concern on the part of the housing au-
thority and other appropriate local agencies. (See “Shelter
and Recreation,” January 1956 issue of RECREATION.)

Planning Schools as Neighborhood Centers

In one of his monthly television programs, Mayor Wagner
of New York City discussed plans for expanding New York’s
use of public school buildings as neighborhood centers. He
pointed out that a school building designed for such use
“should have at least one comfortably furnished living-
room type lounge with a kitchenette attached.” He called
also for “a small club room where. a group of neighbors can

hold a committee meeting in a congenial, friendly atmos-
phere.” I

RECREATION

 

 

Eleven-year-old Steve Myerson dis-
covered a new interest when he took
part in the community tennis pro-
gram in Santa Monica, California.

Here it is, at last—a factual account
of what it takes to start a good tennis
program, and to keep it going.

Tennis is such a wonderful game. It
has everything——~ excitement, drama,
shill, action, color, discipline, rules of
conduct, and tremendous carry-over
value into adult life. It’s fun to play,
and fun to watch.

W e recommend that our readers read
carefully and underscore the last sen-

tence in this fine article. It’s well worth
considering.

TENNIS in Waterloo, Iowa, reached

an all-time “low” about five years
ago. The same courts that have been
used rather extensively prior to World
War II were almost entirely idle; the
tennis association was a memory only;
there was no source of instruction for
beginners; and local tournaments were
abandoned because of lack of interest.

MAY 1956

Promotmg Tenms

Requlres

a Sustained Rally

Now, at the close of a deliberate
“five-year” promotional plan sponsor-
ed by the recreation commission, a
rather encouraging progress report can
be made. However, we have not “ar-
rived” because it has become obvious
that there can be no end to a tennis pro-
motion in a growing community. Our
tennis movement is like a snowball roll-
ing downhill—collecting more young-
sters, more facilities, and more general
interest with every turn. a

Major Gains

Following is a list of some major
gains during the past five years: (1)
registrations have increased to the point
Where we will need three full-time in-
structors this coming summer; (2) the
defunct tennis association has been re-
organized and now includes one hun-
dred fifty members; (3) community in-
terest has been such that the park board
added six new courts and the school
board added eight new courts, making
available a total of thirty-two hard-sur-
faced courts; (4) a series of major
tournaments is conducted regularly and
gaining momentum; and (5) “co-inci-
dentally, our high school tennis squads
have risen from the bottom to near the
top in state competition.

Experiences and Learnings

Perhaps a brief sketch of some of our
experiences in rebuilding and expand-
ing our tennis program may be of value
to other communities.

Generally speaking, we can report
that we did not encounter any magic
formulas, and there were times when
we debated whether it wouldn’t be bet-
ter to invest our resources in other ac-
tivities that might prove more attrac-

George Diestelmeier

tive. Frankly, we had our periods of
discouragement in the early stages
when only a handful of participants re-
sponded. Even now our tennis program
is not conspicuous by great numbers of
players, but rather by the enthusiasm

of a good cross section of citizens of
all ages.

Through trial and error we have con-
vinced ourselves that large, mass-type
instruction programs may make good
newspaper copy, but they don’t produce

,widespread, lasting interest.in tennis.

We have come to rely upon instruction
through small groups, with as much in-
dividual guidance as possible because
we learned that there are no shortcuts.
The broad base of a tennis program is
built gradually upon the day-to-day
contact of the enthusiastic instructor
and his pupils.

We feel that a long range program
such as ours requires a corps of paid,
persevering leadership. This paid
leadership can in turn mobilize num-
bers of volunteers to serve as assist-
ants. The advantages in having the
same instruction staff return from year
to year are quite obvious.

We felt in the beginning, and still
do, that most of our efforts should be
concentrated upon beginning and in-
termediate players. Last year, for ex-
ample, we had twenty-four different
one-hour instruction classes devoted to
novices of various age groups. These
classes met twice each week for a two-

MR. DIESTELMEIER is assistant princi-
pal at Logan Junior High School in
Waterloo, Iowa. He has served as ten-
nis supervisor for the recreation com-
mission summer program since its in-
ception five years ago.

233

month period. Classes have a top limit
of lifteen pupils. A very nominal reg-
istration fee is charged.

Procedures

When we began our instruction pro-
gram five years ago, too much of our
time on the court was spent on “cor-
rect” stroke techniques. Today, while
we endeavor to establish sound pat-
terns, our primary goal is to get all be-
ginners actually playing within the first
month, even if the game has to start
with the “server” moved up to the serv-
ice line rather than on the baseline.
We discovered that our drOp-outs were
minimized when we postponed empha-
sis on form and inserted more oppor-
tunities for fun.

We have become very dependent
upon practice boards in our instruction
program. We find they speed up skill

Summer

devel0pment immeasurably and they
offer many opportunities for nlotiva-
tion contests such as longest rally, most
backhands, most forehands, and so
'iorth. It is not unusual for some begin-
ners to rally over one hundred times
after the first two or three weeks. Prac-
tice boards at every major battery of
courts have been one of our best invest-
ments.

Our summer program includes stand-
ard tournaments for all ages, but our
most exciting events are the annual
novice tournament and our inter-park
and inter-city play days. The only re-
quirement for play day is that the
youngster be able to serve, be able to
keep score, and want to play. Our nov-
elty activities include handicap tourna-
ments, special double elimination tour-
neys for beginners, and ladder tour-
neys.

Music

Our more advanced players are not
neglected. Each year we schedule sev-
eral “name” clinics. We feel that these
short, intensive instruction programs
do the most good for players beyond
the beginning stages because they are
in a better position to comprehend and
utilize more technical aspects. We offer
group instruction, and Operate a twi-
light league for advanced players.

The foregoing sketch of tennis in our
town is intended to accentuate the fact
that community tennis programs will
not sprout and grow accidentally, nor
will they endure without persistent and
unrelenting leadership. Tennis will
never become a sport for the masses,
but given commensurate recognition
such as we give to baseball, play-
grounds, and other activities, it can be-
come one of the brighter facets of com-
munity recreation. I

Edward H. Watson

 

\

r \l . 
\L. 

\\
\
ID

It’s the latter part of April and hun-
dreds of attractively printed application
forms are being carried home by boys
and girls all over Wilmington, Dela-

 

MR. WATSON, head of the music depart-
ment at Oak Grove Elementary and
Junior High School, Elsmere, Dela-
ware, is in charge of music promotion
[or Wilmington Recreation Promotion
and Service.

234

free music lessons and has interested 1,200 chil-
dren tn taking them. Use National Music Week

to launch such programs.

ware, and the surrounding areas. For
it’s summer-music time again!

“Summer music”—-—a term that means
free music lessons and music instruc-
tion books to hundreds of children in
and around Wilmington for a period of
six weeks during the summer.

This program was started in the sum-
mer of 1954, with the idea of giving
more children a chance to study music.
That first year there were five centers

——three in Wilmington itself, one to the
north, and one to the south of the city.
Applications were distributed about the
end of April so that children could be
assigned to the various centers and
teaching schedules planned.

There were eight teachers for the six
hundred children entered that year, in-
cluding a coordinator who went from

center to center to iron out what kinks
there were.

RECREATION

I

From comments that came back to
the sponsors from teachers, pupils and
parents, it was apparent that the pro-
gram had caught on and that greater
facilities were needed for the second
summer. Plans were made accordingly,
and resulted in some twelve hundred
children being enrolled, twelve centers
opened, and eighteen teachers em-
ployed, including two coordinators.

Reasons for Success

1. There is no competition from aca-
demic subjects during summer vaca-
tion. This means more time can be
given to practicing, insuring greater
and more rapid progress.

2. More teaching time can be al-

lowed per pupil, in most cases, which-

means that individual difficulties can be
dealt with more readily.

3. Pupils of equal ability can be
scheduled together. In this way a slow-
er pupil isn’t discouraged by being in
a faster advancing group or vice versa.

4. Pupils are there because they want
to be there, not because they have to be
—as in school. This means a great de-
gree of enthusiasm and want-to-do-it-
ness. It is amazing (or is it) what "re-

sults are attained b e c a u s e of this
attitude.

The Physical Set Up

Using the previous enrollment as a
scale, the planning for the coming sea-
son is increased by, let us say, six hun-
dred more. Then various schools are
asked for permission for use as possible
centers, keeping in mind pupil distribu-
tion as to area. Also, judging from pre-
vious enrollment, the number of teach-
ers needed, is determined, as well as
how many to teach strings, brass, wood-
winds, or percussion. Some will have a
full teaching load at a single center,
while others will go from one center
to another, depending upon instrument
enrollment. Most school music teachers
can teach any of the instruments, but
their placement depends upon whatever
is best for the program. Then schedules
must be made out and all pupils notified
as to their lesson times.

The hours are from nine to twelve,
Monday through Friday, beginning the
last week of June and running through
the first week in August. In most cases,

MAY 1956

pupils get two lessons per week; in some
centers, beginners are given three les-
sons per week. Scheduling differs in
each center, depending upon the pupil
load, instruments studied, and pupil
ability. In other centers advanced pu-
pils are scheduled for one lesson and
one ensemble per week, be it band, or-
chestra, or small group. Only band and
orchestra instruments are taught.

During the six-week period, groups
of equal ability are taken by bus from
several centers to one center to play
together. This provides a keener inter-
est not only in the playing but in seeing
what other groups are accomplishing.
At the close of the summer session, eve-
ning programs are held in each area to
which parents are invited. At these, all
beginners perform together, intermedi-
ate, advanced, and so on. °

 

Tie-in your music programs

with special events during music
week ........................ __ May 6-13

 

Availability of enough instruments
for such an extensive program has been
no problem at all. Many are privately
owned, of course. In those schools
where school-owned instruments are
available, the pupil is allowed to keep
for the summer the instrument which
he has been using during the school
year. For those who do not come within
either of these categories, instruments
are available to rent. One of the music
stores has cooperated to the extent of
giving a special rental price to anyone
studying in the program.

This rental idea is a boon to many
parents. Not only do the children re-
ceive free. lessons, but in many cases
the questions, “Does my child have any
talent?” or ‘.‘Will my children take to
music if given the chance?” are an-
swered—at the expense of only a small
rental fee. In schools where no school-
owned instruments are available and
there is a large family, the parents can-
not afford to rent instruments for sev-
eral children during the winter months.
With the lower rental fees and more
time for the children to earn money dur-
ing the summer, these problems are
often solved. The rentals also help the
music stores during a slack season.

Also because of “Summer Music,”
private teachers get more pupils. After
six weeks of attention and practice,
Johnny finds he can get some real mu-

sic out of that horn, so he wants to be-
come even better.

The teachers for the program are
chosen first from the ranks of the school
music instructors. As the program has
expanded and more have been needed,
private teachers have also been recruit-
ed. Several are specialists in a particu-
lar field and, as such, are invaluable for

the more advanced pupils in the pro-
gram.

One of the most effective phases of
the program was the daily checkup of
absentees. Each day the center leader
reported the names of those absent to
the secretary of the program who then
called each parent to find out why John-
ny or Sally was absent. In some cases
it was because the child was confused
as to lesson time, or Johnny went off to
play baseball unknown to Mama. In
few cases was there outright indiffer-
ence. This calling seemed to make both
parents and pupils realize that, even
though the lessons were free, there was
a personal interest in each child to see

that he or she got the most out of the
program.

Last, but by no means least, is the
financial setup. The first year the pro-
gram was underwritten by several in-

terested citizens. The pay rate for em-
ployees was set at five dollars per hour
for each teacher and for the program
secretary. The secretary not only calls
the absentees, but handles the payroll
and pays the bills. This rate is for ac-
tual hours taught.

The second year some of the schools
paid a portion of the teachers” salaries
——in most cases half of it—the money
coming out of whatever fund the indi-
vidual school thought best. In other
cases the school paid part and the Lions
Club part. Whatever portion remained
to make up the full salary was taken
care of by those same interested citi-
zens who underwrote the first year’s
program.

Plans are being made this year for
a bigger and, if possible, better pro-
gram. So here’s to “Summer Music”

because it means so much to so many
children. I

235

MEMO TO towns of less than five thou-
sand population: You can have le-
gitimate theatre! Eureka, Kansas, did
it, and Eureka numbers less than four
thousand. Last sunnner local residents
attended six plays and 3 Gilbert and
Sullivan operetta, and all—from the
prescenium back— were produced by
local talent.

To critics of democracy: The sum-
mer theatre in Eureka was a cross sec-
tion of the “American way of life.”

The blueprint for a summer theatre
includes a general chairman who coor-
dinates all committees, and chairmen
for: personnel casting and stagehands;
play reading and direction; choosing
plays and assigning directors; proper-
ties; make-up; publicity and art; and

stage construction and maintenance.

These thespians, tyros all, after re-
ceiving the blessing and assistance of
our city summer recreation committee,
utilized telephones and the county week-
ly. In May, 1954, a group of forty met
and the Eureka Summer Theatre was
born. The moving force, to whom the
first meeting and the ultimate success
of the group must be credited, is the
wife of a local physician. The first se-
ries of plays was scheduled for the last
Saturday in June, forty-five days away.
Subsequent dates were to be the last
Saturday of each of the summer
months.

All labor. and routine service were
donated; make-up was furnished, gra-
tis, by a local druggist; lumber, paint,
and wiring were furnished at cost. Any
expense incurred by this group was
underwritten by the summer recreation

board.

The stage, designed and constructed
by a local rancher who has a degree in
engineering, was made of two-by-eights,
in six-foot sections. When assembled
it was twelve-feet deep and thirty-six
feet wide. Mounted on fifty-five-gallon
oil drums borrowed from a local oil
distributor, it was set up on the day the
productions were to be presented and
was knocked down after the show. Cart-
age was furnished by the National
Guard and storage space was in the

 

i———‘—

MR. SAMSON, a public school language
instructor, has done feature wriling [or
several Kansas newspapers.

236

Footlights and Greasepaint

******

armory.
The site for the stage was the soft-

ball diamond. Known as one of the
best softball diamonds in the state, this
location has permanent concrete bleach-
ers with seating for two thousand peo-
ple. The ball park is in a natural de-
pression which lends itself to reclining
on the-grass or enjoying the comforts
of a car while watching the entertain-
ment.

Rehearsals were not too much of a
chore. No one objected to spending
several evenings for several weeks re-
peating lines and scenes. This wasn’t
the acid test—that came on the day
when the shows were to be presented. . . .

It began with an all-day session at
the ballpark, setting up the stage, lights,
and public address system, and so forth,
until 7 P.M. when the cast assembled to
become wards of the make-up com-
mittee.

To the day’s accumulation of perspi-
ration and dust, therefore, were added
several ounces of warm greasy theatri-

All help set up stage, such as housewife, counselor, students below.

******

Richard M. Samson

cal make-up, mixed with the several
hundred assorted insects that dearly

love footlights.
The final curtain call didn’t release

the .Ethel Barrymores and Maurice
Evanses either. The stage had to be
knocked down and stored, props re-

'turned, and the ball diamond restored

to its original condition; but it was fun .’

0n the twenty-eighth of June, ap-
proximately thirty-five hundred people
gathered to see the first play, which was
directed by the science teacher and
counselor from the local high school.
Included in this cast were five house-
wives, an attorney, a rancher, a teacher,
and three business women. The next
play, directed by the high school libra-
rian, included three teachers, a secre-
tary, a cowboy, an architect, the presi-
dent of the local business and profes-
sional women’S‘club, and an engineer-
ing student. A speech teacher directed
the third, and so on, throughout the
series, each play was directed, produc-
ed, and acted by a similarly mixed

 

RECREATION

group. In addition, forty-five more
people worked backstage on props, mu-
sic, make—up, and carpentry.

No sooner was this series over than
preparations were begun for the next,
and personnel chairmen began the quest
for new cast members.

The second series, reduced to two
plays, drew an equally large audience
on the night of July 31, as well as a
goodwill offering of more than eighty
dollars. Again each play called upon
the talents of an assorted group of citi-
zens.

Dresses that were heirlooms were
borrowed in Fall River, twenty miles
away. Antique chairs were brought in
from the Norwegian farms up around
Teterville. Attics were ransacked for
umbrellas, and an appliance dealer
loaned a television set.

The final presentations, the Gilbert
and Sullivan operetta, Trial by fury,
and a comedy written and directed by
an engineering student home from Kan-
sas University were given on the last
Saturday in August. Attendance and
collections remained constant.

All of these performances were sched-
uled for nine o’clock Saturday night,
late enough not to interfere with Sat-
urday night shoppers. Each time, ar-
rangements were made to use the high
school auditorium in case of rain; but

this part of Kansas had a dry summer. -

Among interesting sidelights: (1)
the summer recreation board guaran-
teed to underwrite the expenses of this
group and, after collections plus one
expense check, the board realized a
profit of fifty dollars; and (2) an invi-

tation was extended to present two]

plays at the annual Fourth of July cele-
bration at Lyndon, for which the sum-
mer theatre group was paid one hun-

dred dollars.

From a community standpoint, this
was a worthwhile project in that more
than a hundred people, plus the usual
behind-the—scenes group of fifty, had
entertained three thousand five hun-
dred people in a town that barely ex-
ceeds that figure. It was an example of
complete cooperation, from the bor-
rowed props to the free publicity in the
Eureka Herald. And it was an example
of “democracy in action.” It could
only happen in the United States. I

MAY 1956

#whét'aé €aMa€ee

This month, Madison Dunn,. recrea-
tion director at Riverside Hospital for
Juvenile Drug Addicts, tells of his rec-
reation program.

Riverside Hospital on North Brother
Island, New York City, is a hospital for
adolescent narcotic users who range
from fourteen to twenty-one years of
age. Although most of the 128 patients
are boys, similar treatment is given to
both sexes. Its patients come from dif-
ferent types of agencies, the courts, and
through the recommendations of par-
ents. A few ask to be admitted.

A boy will first be examined by the
doctor, have his clothing checked for
concealed drugs, and then be sent to
the withdrawal ward, where he is grad-
ually taken off the drug by the use of
proper medication. He must remain on
this ward for three weeks, during which
time he is observed, interviewed, tested
and examined by the psychiatrist, psy-
chologist, psychiatric social worker,
recreational therapist, occupational
therapist, nurse, and the chaplain.

At the end of this time he is brought
to the diagnostic clinic, where staff

'members compare notes and decide

whether he stays, is sent home or, in
some cases, returned to the court. For
those who stay, this is the day when
their own clothing is returned and they
are accorded the same privileges as the
regular patients.

His daily program includes a half-
day of school, a half-day of work, and
regular appointments with his doctors
and other members of the rehabilitation
team. As the entire program is aimed
towards the patient’s return to the com-
munity, we in recreation conduct our
programs as close to community-type
recreation as possible.

Our program is conducted from 2:45
P.M. to 10:00 P.M. Monday through Fri-
day; 10:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. on Satur-
days, Sundays, and holidays. Some of
the activities .are: games, movies,
music, dancing, discussion groups,
sports, dramatics, outings, and field
trips. The recreation staff has to be ex-

 

MRS. HILL is the NRA consultant on
hospital recreation.

Beatrice H. Hill

tremely careful not to over-supervise
the patient but still carefully protect
him from the dangers of his weakness.

In an effort to reach and understand
the patient, there are several media the
recreational therapist utilizes. One of
these is the hospital team. The patient
population is divided into six teams;
and members of the staffs of all depart-
ments are assigned to the various teams
—to handle their problems and help
with their treatment. Each recreational
therapist is responsible to one team and
for reporting its progress, keeping rec-
ords of the patients, and entering his
notes on the medical charts.

When a patient first arrives he is
given an orientation by a member of
the recreation department. Even while
he is on withdrawal, recreation of a
passive nature is brought to him.

A Recreation Patient Council, which
consists of two elected representatives
of the six teams, meets each Friday with
the medical superintendent, recreation—
al therapist, and school teacher. Once
a week, also, there are separate meet-
ings for each of the six teams, during
which the patients are free to discuss
problems that the recreational therapist
may be able to help solve. Out of these
meetings come sound group therapy,

good ideas which can be incorporated
into the recreation program. and a
chance to talk over health habits and
grooming.

Doctors and psychiatrists feel that
the informal non-compulsive type of re-
lationship which we establish with a
patient, in a game or activity, is ad-
vantageous because the patient finds it
easier to talk when there is not the for-
mal “across-the-desk” type of interview.
We very often are in the favorable po-
sition of being able to report a great
deal about how the patient feels regard-
ing people and life in general. At River-
side, we feel the addiction of the patient
is secondary and the mental maladjust-
ment is the main factor to be treated.
Our youngsters want and need direc-
tion. They must be shown what society
expects from them and taught how to

get along with it. I

237

__..._—-—--I——
-——-

 

Treated skin is attached to barrel head.

There is strong accent on music at
the Knott Street Center, one of Port-
land’s more unusual community cen-
ters directed by the park bureau—with
chorus groups, orchestra,‘and theatre
workshop vying for most popular choice
among the activities and instructions

offered. The center is a popular play”

spot in the neighborhood it serves, and
the lusty voices and capers of the young-
sters had been annoying those engross-
cd in the music and drama programs.

Therefore, working on the theory
that there is an urge in everyone to
“make music” and to tap out rhythm,
and convinced that this urge can be
translated into purposeful music-mak-
ing, the director of the center’s choral
and orchestra groups decided to put his
theory to test. He also has craftwork
know-how, so he rounded up some
wooden kegs and rawhide and suggest-
ed to some of the more boisterous boys
that they join him in making some
drums—tom-tom, congo, bongo, and
other calypso types designed for vary-
ing resonance.

Drum-making calls for craftsman-
ship in treating skins for use as drum-
heads, fitting and tightening them for
resonance, and attaching them to the
kegs. It also ollcrs an Opportunity for
the instructor, a composer of ability

238

with a fund of musical knowledge, to
talk casually about the history of drums
—which are among the oldest in the
instrument family———their employment
by native medicine men, their use by
tribesmen for conveying messages, and
their more aesthetic role as percussion
instruments in an orchestra or other
musical assemblage.

The boys are intrigued by the possi-
bilities of pounding out some lusty
“noise” on the drums, but it is a quick
trick for the instructor to channel this
into rhythmic pattern making. Indeed,
the boys are eager to acquire the knowl-
edge and skill that will take them be-
yond the “just noise” making stage to
meaningful development of rhythm and
melody. The workshop has produced
drums in assorted sizes and of varied
construction. They make exciting en-
semble playing and the drummers
“send” themselves in improvising.

Interest in the drum project has been
heightened by guest appearances of the
boys on local television and as the re-
sult of a feature story about the drums
in a Portland newspaper. A profes-
Sional drummer playing a local engage-
ment with a calypso band became so
enthusiastic when he learned about the
Knott Street drummers that he offered

 

Hands beat out rhythm on bongo drum.

his services as volunteer instructor.

The drums have added a new and
strong beat to orchestra playing at the
center. The earnest, the show-offs, and
the “just curious” are getting an excit-
ing and absorbing experience n—un-
aware that the drums are giving them
far more than just the fun they are
getting out of making and beating them.
It isn’t exactly quiet at the Knott Street
Center now, but the noise is far more
musical and rhythmic.—RUTH STRODE,
Park Bureau, Portland, Oregon.

Easy-To-Make Shakers and Rattles

 

Box BATTLES

Materials:

Box of any shape or siae such as
kitchen-matchbox, oatmeal carton
saltbox.

Wooden stick about one-half—inch ir
diameter and one-foot long.

Bottle caps, nails, pebbles, or beans

Poster paint.

Wheat flour paste.

NeWSpapers and paper toweling.

Tape.

Shellac (optional).

Steps in making: Put several bottl:
caps, nails, pebbles, or beans into thq
box and then seal it with tape. (Adhe
sive tape works well.) Make an Open
ing in one end just large enough to in
sert the stick, which will serve as'thu
handle. Tape stick securely in place
Cut enough one-inch-wide strips 0
newspaper to completely cover box an:
handle, twice. Mix wheat flour past

RECREATIO

 

with water to form a thick paste (about
one cup).

Cover strips of newspaper with paste
and apply smoothly to rattle, overlap—
ping strips slightly, until both box and
handle are completely covered. Add
second layer. Cut and apply strips of

paper toweling in the same manner for
the third layer.

Set the box in a warm place for one
day to dry. When thoroughly dry, paint
as desired. Shellac may be used as a

final coat to protect and preserve the
paint.

Each rattle can be made to sound dif-

ferently by varying the types of con-
tainers and the particles inside.

LIGHT BULB SHAKERS

Materials :

Large burned-out light bulb.
Newspapers and paper toweling.
Wheat Hour paste.

Poster paint.

Shellac.

Steps in making: Cover light bulb with
strips of newspaper and paste as for

shakers described above. Add final

layer of paper toweling.

When the paper has dried, break bulb
inside by gently hitting shaker against
a table. A rattle results from the pieces

of broken glass inside the paper form.
Paint and shellac.

Caution: Because broken glass is in-
volved in this project, it should not be
used with very young children—PAT
_ FRIEDLAND and SUSAN COOLEY, Stu-
' dents, Oregon State College, Corvallis.

Sports Show Booth

The Cincinnati Recreation Commis-
- sion was given complimentary Space at
the recent Sports, Vacation, and Travel
Show at the Cincinnati Gardens. For
the occasion, their booth—decorated
with pictures of the commission’s ac-
tivities and novel sports figures— was
manned completely by volunteer help.
Almost 2,400 people participated in the
free game the booth offered, in which
each person was given three tries to
. throw a Ping-pong ball into a cup five
. feet away. Prizes were passes to the
: Airport Playfield activities. Literature
. on “Where to Play in Cincinnati” was
, also distributed.

. MAY 1956

Disposable Trash Containers
The Oakland, California, Park De-

partment, working with a paper and
fibreboard company, has developed a
disposable trash container which is
lightweight, colorful, fire resistant, and
water repellent.

Even in inclement weather the card-
board container, which is treated with
a sizing material and adhesive to make
it water resistant, will last-three to four
weeks. As soon as the container be-
comes soiled or damaged it is replaced.
A metal holder fixes the location of the
cardboard receptacle and prevents it

from blowing away.

I. Ml»  g 3 I
post; mam;

9,5»

Oakland’s disposable trash containers.

It can be printed in various colors
with whatever information is desired.
For its initial program, the Oakland de-
partment chose chartreuse and white,
with a simple design planned to fit the
design'of the metal holder.

Another advantage of these contain-
ers is that they come Hat from the mill
— which simplifies storage —— and are
quickly and easily assembled with spe-
cial adhesive tape to seal the bottom
Haps.

The Oakland department has found
that its regular metal trash cans last a
maximum of eight to ten years. The
cost of the disposable ones, even if dis-
carded as often as every two weeks,
compares favorably with the cost of the
metal ones amortized over a seven¢year

period.

“Christmas in July”

More than three hundred children in
Flint, Michigan, participated in the

 

 

Santa and elves take time out to chat.

recreation department’s annual pageant
last summer. Presented at Atwood
Stadium, “Christmas in July” “was an
original story about three boys who,
on a hot July day, wished for Christmas
and suddenly found themselves visiting
the North Pole.
ranged from a summer playground to
Santa’s workshop and Disneyland-—
with dances, songs, and skits performed
by groups from each of the city’s
twenty-two playgrounds.

The several scenes

All of the costumes were made from
crepe paper and the total cost did not
exceed twenty-five dollars. They were
colorful and the children enjoyed mak-
ing them. Screens, approximately five
feet high and nine feet wide were made
from cardboard boxes that mattresses
are packed in, which can be picked up
at local furniture stores. Pictures were
painted on these by the children with
the help of the craft instructor.

Because of the size of the stadium,
the narration was done from the press
box, rather than using field mikes, with
the children doing the acting and danc-
ing as the narration was carried on.

We had fun doing the pageant, and
the youngsters welcomed an opportu-
nity to participate in the activities.
—L1NA W. TYLER, Director of Recre-
ation, Flint, Michigan.

 

Mattress-box prop beguiles wee folk.

239

@

@646 Md

Alfred B. Jensen

 

Students Make Long-Range Plan

Long-range planning for a recreation
area in Wildwood, Florida, has been
completed by Dr. Roy E. Leilich’s class
in “Conduct of Playgrounds and In-
door Centers” at the University of Flor-
ida. The study was undertaken at the
request of the Wildwood Improvement
Commission.

Thirty class members gave 459 man-
hours to the assignment. Seniors from
the college of architecture added an-
other 510 hours with sketches and plans
for a recreation center recommended
for the eight-acre plot.

The first step in planning was the

 

Wildwood model makers, students
Carolyn Luck and Marion Spauld-
ing, discuss layout for proposed
playground with Dr. Roy Leilicll.

conduct of an interest survey. The rec-
reation class analyzed results and in
committee planned the area. Work in-
cluded a field trip to the area and actual
rough layout of the various facilities
on the ground.

Dr. Leilich points out, “My class is
composed of both young students, who
have had no experience, and older grad-
uate students, who have been leaders
in school and community undertakings.
The result of their endeavors is the best
that could be done in the short amount
of time spent on the project.”

Five class members made the final
oral report to the Wildwood commis-
sion, with Dean D. K. Stanley, Profes-
sor B. K. Stevens, and Dr. Leilich. They
presented the group with a model of
the site and detailed plans for ten-year
(level0pmcnt.

Students in
Stale-District Conference

“Students and Recreation Jobs” was

240

the topic of a special session of the
1956 California State-NRA Pacific
Southwest District Conference. John R.
Sexton, the session chairman, and Janet
H. Pritchard, recorder, are students at

San Diego State College.

Panel members discussed student and
part-time situations, recreation ob
opportunities with the Armed Forces
and Red Cross, and the types of begin-
ning jobs available today. Factors to
consider in choosing 3 ob were group-
ed in three areas: yourself, the ob, and
the community.

In another session, delegates dis-
cussed “Field Experience in the Recrea-
tion Curriculum,” under the chairman-
ship of Dr. Mary S. Wiley, recreation
curriculum supervisor at San Jose State
College. The importance of this experi-
ence to the college, the student, and the
agency was outlined.

Recreation Gets a New Look

Social recreation at Brigham Young
University in Provo, Utah, has acquired
a new look with the appointment of a
woman faculty member from the college
of recreation, health, and physical edu-
cation to spend about a third of her
time as recreation consultant, with an
office at one of the Heritage Halls. a
woman’s dormitory group housing
nearly fifteen hundred girls.

Individual halls conduct activities

with the cooperation of the consultant”

and their own social chairman. This
program is supplemented by open-air
programs at centrally located patios
featuring fireplaces, lights, and courts
for badminton, shufHeboard, and vol-
leyball. Exchange parties feature danc-
ing and mixers and active games. Popu-
lar coed activities have been get-ac-

quainted parties, seasonal get-togeth-
ers, and birthday parties.

National Recreation Month
is Graduation Month

National Recreation Month will be
celebrated in June this year. Rec-
reation students who graduate will be
in the unique position of arriving on
the scene during a month dedicated to
the recognition of the importance of
recreation in the American way of life.

.-

MR. JENSEN is a member of the NRA
Recreation Personnel Service Staff.

 

All recreation students have a fine
opportunity to serve their profession,.
their college, and their community by
putting their skills in leadership and
organization to work to insure that Na-
tional Recreation Month is widely rec-
ognized in their .own sphere. It is a
class, group, or organization project
with real meaning.

Illinois Requires More Field

Work, Adds Supervisors to Faculty

Preliminary non-credit field work in
recreation is now required of sopho-
more and junior recreation majors at
the University of Illinois. Each student
must give at least three hours per week.

Charles K. Brightbill, professor of
recreation, calls the new program val-
uable for two reasons. He says, “This
is an excellent way of making an early
determination of the student’s capacity
and interest in the profession. It also
is a fine preparatory move for field
work done later for credit.”

Cooperating agency field-work super-
visors at Illinois now receive regular
university appointments to the position
and become eligible for certain staff
privileges. This step is expected to
strengthen further the field experience
program. '

Notes in Margin

University of Georgia reports a BS.
in education with recreation major . . .
Purdue welcomed Dr. Harry D. Edgren
as professor of recreation in April . . .
Look up campu§ in dictionary—means
playground in".Latin, every student
knows . . . Write “On the Campus”
about any honors to recreation students
or faculty . . . National Recreation In-
ternship Program is moving . . . Over
one thousand students have had infor-
mation about new NRA Student Asso-
ciate and Afliliate Membership plan in
April. . . . I

Vacancy at Wisconsin

A graduate assistantship in rec-
reation at the University of Wis-
consin is available for the school
year 1956-57. Compensation has
been set at $1,400. The graduate
assistant will spend approximate.-
ly twenty hours per week super-
vising senior recreation students
doing field work.

Applicants should be eligible to
work for a graduate degree and
should have had from three to
five years experience in recrea-
tion. Inquiries should be ad-
dressed to Dr. H. C. Hutchins,
Coordinator of Recreation Cur-
riculum,University of Wisconsin,

Madison 6.

 

RECREATION

   

. “gh-
. vb
and

‘s
,5:-

 
 

«ny- W2}? I  .  q":- q’w top. I v _
a: . a t» K- .- f
.- .a.
93‘. N. , , r.-
.r.‘ x -. l.- a“
K 
t ‘ .-
-\. .v '- 9
.- . ,‘ucw.

x?"-
’< f5?
I:

World’s Finest Official Regulation Board

Lifetime Construction, Unequaled Performance and Safety

RADICALLY DIFFERENT in design and
construction, unequaled in perform-
ance by any other board you’ve seen.

BUILT LIKE AN AIRPLANE WING ——
Aircraft structural design combined
with spring-leaf principle and heat-
tempered, specially alloyed aluminum
are joined in an assembly Of great
strength, uniform flexibility and
incomparable springing qualities.

PRACTICALLY UNBREAKABLE — Many
times stronger than actual load re-
quirements—Will Withstand severest
use day after day, yet continue tO
give unmatched performance and
maximum springing action year after
year, free of repairs or replacement.

SPRING-LEAF CONSTRUCTION gives
much greater strength at f ulcrum
where needed, and lightness at tIp.

   
   
   
 

PATENTS
PEN DING

EXCLUSIVE DISTRIBUTORS

W

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK. PICNIC, PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOI. AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

EFFORTLESS TAKE-OFFS, MORE HEIGHT
WITH LESS EFFORT—~No other board
has such buoyant springing qualities
or is so stable underfoot. Built-in
resilience lasts as long as the board.

SAFEST DIVING BOARD EVER DESIGNED
—Aircraft structure eliminates
torque (twisting action) at tip Of the
board. Battleship Safety Tread, 18”
wide, safest non-slip covering known.

WEIGHS LESS than conventional wood
or coated wood boards, easier to in-
stall or remove. The only board that
fits any regulation diving standard.

ENDS BROKEN BOARD PROBLEM—
eliminates repair and replacement
expense indefinitely, pays for itself
in a few years. The entire board is
anodized for permanent protection
against salt water and all corrosion.

No. APL-14 Lifetime Aluminum Board
14’ long, weight 130 lbs.. . . . . $325.00

No. APL-16 Lifetime Aluminum Board
16’ long, weight 140 lbs .... . .$325.00

h

&

ite for Literature

J’

 

AERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.

 

“VIUST HAVE’S” for Your Recreation Library!
TWO Special 1956 Issues of 

APRIL—PLAYGROUND ISSUE-

ming and clean-up.
QUALITY: Finest precision-made scraper
paints and surgically-sharp knife blades.

     

X'GCI'O®

 

Far sgraflita, incising, slab work, tem--
plate making, shaping, modeling, trim-

VERSATILITY: Slim all-metal handle takes
any at 6 scrapers as well as blades.

ECONOMY: Paints and blades quickly
and easily interchanged or replaced.

 

 

V
‘w. u.........l= —
t——Y —— — — _

\ iii-— 4— @A: ‘
e— 
.”  . _ ,  . . _',_;_.__- _J

No. 63 Double Set: 2 handles. 6 points, 2
knife blades . . . $2.75. Other sets at 75c
and $1.50. Refills available separately.

Write - on letterhead
—for FREE catalog.

9 48-99 Van Dam Street, l. I.C. I. N. Y.

 

WALL MOUNTED RACK

Hold More Wraps in Less Space.
Standard in checkrooms. Also widely
used as self-service racks in coffee
shops, restaurants, meeting rooms—
wherever people gather. Mount on
any available wall space, even over
floor obstructions, accommodate 4
or 5 persons per running foot. Pro-
vides each with a coat hanger and
individual hat space. Keeps wraps.
aired, dry, “in-press.” Come with
or without numbers and checks.
Strongly built of reinforced heavy
gauge steel. Finished in baked

 

Featuring articles on playground leadership, activities, facilities, and many other
subjects, to aidlin promoting, planning, and carrying out summer recreation
programs. .

JUNK—ANNIVERSARY ISSUE—Honoring the F iftieth Year of the NRA

A sixty-four-page issue which will contain articles about the history and back-
ground of the NRA, the recreation movement, the peOple who have contributed
so much to it, other articles and regular monthly features.

enamel. 3’2", 4'2", 5'2" lengths. Mount
independently or interlock to make ‘
continuous racks of

any length.

 
 
 
  

Write for
Bulletin CK-515

d ' ' . . . . . . . . . . .. . I .
0r or your copies now $50 eaCI VOGEL_PETERSON CO.

1127 West 37th Street 0 Chicago 9. Illinois

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11

MAY 1956

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 241

 

Qualities of a Leader

Life does not give its choicest blessings and satis-
factions to those who withhold helpfulness and useful-
ness, or to those who try too hard to save themselves
and to get more than they give. The willing persons,
for every useful service they perform, are somehow
richly rewarded. Beyond all else, they feel good inside.
Every good, every virtue, is somehow rewarded with
growth and satisfaction.

Everything has its price. It is not possible to get
something for nothing. There is a reward or penalty for
everything we do or fail to do. There is compensation
in the very makeup of life. We judge, appraise, and
classify ourselves constantly by the things we do. With
or against our will we draw a portrait for others to see
by every word, action, and deed.

Those who play it straight and clean, with honesty
and honor, do not have to face the question as to
whether they are fit to live with themselves. They are
efficient for they are not distracted by conversation with
their conscience. Little compromises with honesty, small
infractions of personal and professional standards, have
a tendency to grow larger. In matters of performance,
character, and conduct, as well as in mathematics, a
straight line is the shortest distance between two points
and the best one to follow.

Honesty and willingness consist of communicating
the truth and doing the right thing. No one has told the
truth if he deliberately leaves a false impression no
matter what his words or actions. The most insidious
form of dishonesty is telling a half-truth and withhold-

ing the other half—or misleading others by the in:

Hection of voice, insinuation, innuendo, by gesture, or
suggestion or by what is left unsaid. There is no more
disgraceful behavior than in pretending to do, to act,
to support or to accomplish something when inside just
the opposite is felt and when the heart is cold or un-
sympathetic.

Those who rely upon the letter of the law, but violate
the spirit and ignore every intention of honesty, do not
make good leaders. Intent is the important thing-—
mere appearance of truthfulness or willingness is not
enough.

Of all the good qualities that can be listed, and the
list is a long one, willingness to be helpful, plus hon-
esty and absolute integrity, are the most important to
leaders who desire to secure the confidence of others.
Without these qualities in large measure there can be
no unified strength, no continued effort, no orderly
long-range accomplishmentnw. C. SUTHERLAND, Di-
rector, NRA Recreation Personnel Service.

242

Volunteers in the Recreation Program

All of us should review the following ways of obtaining
and giving recognition to volunteers, as brought out in the
8th Annual New Hampshire-Vermont Recreation Weekend
Meeting, 1956:

Recruiting

° Publicize need for volunteers and make contacts person-
ally to learn other people’s interests and abilities.

° High schools are often good sources of youth leaders.
Work with school officials in selecting youngsters from each
class who are interested in helping with the recreation pro-
gram. In this way continuity is established and as the older
ones move along, the younger ones replace them as leaders.
° Use a newcomers’ club as a source of volunteers. These
new people in town are usually glad to have an opportunity

'to meet others in this way and are willing to devote time to

the program.

° Military recruiters are urged to participate in community
activities where they are stationed and this is another pos-
sible source. _

' Claremont, New Hampshire, has an organized group of
high school boys and girls called the Volunteer Service
Corps, who give time at the community center, leading story-
telling, lifesaving, riflery, and so on. Interested students
fill out volunteer forms, showing preference for special ac-
tivities and mentioning any special: talent.

‘ In approaching and recruiting volunteers, try to impress
upon them the importance of the job and that each one has
the qualifications to do his specific job. In working with
.adult volunteers, do not ask for too much time. Once the
volunteer is sold upon the aims, ideals, and importance of
your program and is interested, he is glad to help.

‘ Use public speaking engagements to put across the need
for volunteers and recruit help in this way.

Recognition

It is most important that volunteers receive recognition
for their work. A volunteer activity can well be a form of
recreation. There are a great many compensations, other
than monetary, for those making such contributions.

' Recognition may be accomplished through newspaper and
radio publicity, or some other form of public acclaim.

° With younger volunteers, recognition can be given by
awarding arm-patches and special privileges at the center.
‘ Volunteers may be awarded certificates at a banquet to
show appreciation for their services.

° High school credit sometimes can be arranged for volun-
teer service on playgrounds and in community centers. This
must be worked out with school authorities and have their
cooperation and approval.

° “Thank you” letters should be written for all volunteer
services, no matter how small. I

RECREATION

The BIGGEST KILN VALUE
EVER OFFERED!

Suprior By Every Comparison!

The COPPER SHOP’S DUO-KILN
(For both ENAMELING and CERAMICS)

ONLY

I $2995

Plus $1.50 Pocking Charges
Accessory pyrometer  $17.95

0 Volume production mokes pos-

sible this amozing value in o

8” x 9” x 4%" high-quality enomeling 8. ceramic

(Dealer inquiries invited} kiln. Check these terrific features:

8” x 9" x 41/)" chamber; 3 heot,

i5 omp., U.L. approved switch; 2%" thick insuloting brick;

2 best quality, 2100° elements; 24 go. welded steel cobinet;

chip resistant metollic finish; heovy-duty side hinge; eosy-to-

use, finger-tip lotch; U.L. approved cord. Larger kilns also
available at low prices.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

So sensationally better are they on
every count—design, construction,
quality, durability and playability—-
that Rawlings HERCULITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high
standard. They're in a class
by themselves—they're . .

ENAMEL-ON-COPPER
IDEA BOOK

New iewelry ond enomeI-on-copper ldeo Book gives step-by-
step instructions on processes and techniques for beginners
and odvanced workers. Book lists hundreds of new copper
items never before avoilable, low cast kits, complete supplies,
new tools and equipment. If you are not on our moiling list,

send for your copy of this valuable book today! It's FREE!

   1812E.I3THST.-DEPT.M-40
CLEVELAND 14. onto

A Div. of lrnrnerman and Sons

. vauev anus  w
o ansxarnnus  __ 746 

e SOCCER BALLS  >1 9“  

roaranus _
nnwunos sponrmo oooos co. - sr. IOUIS a Los moms

 
  
  

    
   

    
 

Jl.‘

   

    
 

voun GROUP WILL DANCE BETTER
To THE EXCITING BEAT __ _+ _
OF THE . .  i-  "

   

SARGENT PI/Bllt'A 1' 10M?

HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS—issued annu-
ally since 1915, this is" an obiective reference
volume to the entire field of independent educa-
tion. It classifies and describes thousands ‘of
private schools of all types throughout the coun-

try. 1200 pages, cloth, $8.00

GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS — summarizes pro-
grams, fees and enrollments of over 600 private
residential camps. Provides summer and winter

addresses of directors. Cloth, $2.20; paper $1 .10

JUNIOR COLLEGES AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS
AND COLLEGES—Curricula, courses, enrollment,
faculty, tuition, etc., are given for 600 iunior col-
leges, l 100 specialized schools, and reference
with names and addresses for 1200 colleges and

universities. Cloth, $3.30; paper, $2.20

STAIRWAY TO COLLEGE, by Normie and Harold
Ruby—A new direct approach valuable to stu-
dents and those guiding their course of college
preparation. Admission policies, college entrance
requirements, tests, examinations and prerequi-
sites and standards of the varying colleges are *

explained. 80 pp., cloth, $2.20; paper, $1.10.

 

       
   
    
       
     
   
   
   
   
    
      
  

In the actual donce or as a dramatic ac- Originally designed for
companiment, the Gretsch Dance Drum MARY WIGMAN

lends itself to colorful interpretations of The choice of leading an-
modern, classical and. Oriental themes. 1:1: and foremost schools

   
   
   
   
 

Light and“ sturdy-Weighs 23 ounces, has 55556
3-ply laminated rock maple rim, finished THE

in transparent lacquer in natural color.
Head of specially selected real skin with  
bright nickel-plated straining hoop and I

eight nickel tensioning brackets. In order- MAN u Fact-u n | N a c 0,
ing mention X4145—Price $15.00 , postage Makers of fine
extra.

 
     
 
  
 

  

PORTER SARGENT PUBLISHER

1 1 Beacon Street Boston 8, Mass.

musical instruments
lamb's-wool-heod boaters-Used with the for over 69 years

Gretsch Dance Drum singly or in pairs.

Order #5250 at $2.25 each, postage extra. 60 Broadway, B'kl’n II,  

    
 

MAY. 1956, When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 243

 

 

NEWS

If you are interested in any of
these products, write directly to
the manufacturer at the address
given. PLEASE mention that you
read about it on RECREATION
magazine’s Market News page.

 

O A free plan for a
demountable pick-
up-truck cover has
been designed by the
engineering depart-
ment of Masonite
Corporation. The
portable cover pro-
vides a snug tempo-
rary shelter, ideal
for sportsmen, which can be built at low cost. It has a Hoor,
an entry door with a window, and three plexiglass win-
dows—and a bench on each side if desired. The curved top
is formed of Tempered Presdwood bent over ribs of metal
conduit. For a copy of the plan, No. AE-321, write to the
Home Service Bureau, Masonite Corporation, 111 West
Washington Street, Chicago 2, Illinois.

 

O The Selleck Cata-

maran is a non-sink-
able, twin-hull water
craft that is well suit-
ed for camps and
other recreation
areas where instruc-
tions in basic pad-
dling and rowing are
given; and it is also
outstanding for life-
guard work. The
self-balancing twin-
float construction affords unusual stability and freedom
from tipping and rocking. It is convenient to launch and
beach as one man can stand between the floats, pick up the
craft, and easily carry it in or out of the water. Available
in two sizes: the standard and the larger crew-size model.
Selleck Watercycle Company, Inc., Catamaran Division,
Boca Raton, Florida.

0 Foldcraft Portable Parti-
tions offer a quick and easy
solution to the problem of ac-
commodating different class-
es, meetings or other groups
in limited space. They are
light in weight, move easily
on heavy-duty swivel casters,
and can be used in combina-
tions to form as many separ-
- ate cubicles as desired. The

panels of these partitions are
made of smooth, tempered bardboard framed in heavy-

gauge tubular steel for extra strength. One side of the panel
is treated for use as a chalk board; a handy bulletin or lack
board which can be moved from one end of the panel to the

244

 

 

 

other is an added feature. The partitions are available in
four- to ten-foot lengths, and the height is adjustable from

five to six feet. They nest and store compactly when not in
use. Foldcraft, Mendota, Minnesota.

0 Handi-Floats, made
of cellular plastic, are
an answer to many
beach and pool needs:
for lifelines, markers,
buoys, playthings, and
other uses. They are
available in three sizes,
all permanently buoy-
ant, lightweight but
tough, resistant to ma-
rine growth and rot. They cannot absorb water and they
air dry rapidly. B. F. Goodrich Sponge Products Division,
Shelton, Connecticut.

0 Marvel Clip prevents pencils, glass-
es, and other objects from falling out
of shirt pockets when the wearer bends
over. This new pocket clip applies
steady tension to pocket sides through
the spring action of a special phos-
phor wire. It is automatically adjust-
able to any pocket size and is easily
attached. The clip ends are sealed by
small ornaments which may be re-
placed with initials, trade or other identification symbols.
Popular Products Company, Sussex 1, New Jersey.

 

Booklets and Brochures

0 Improving Athletic Fields by Dr. Fred V. Grau is a

twenty-four page informational booklet available free of

charge from the West Point Products Corporation, West
Point, Pennsylvania.

0 “Why Shufileboard Should be a Part of Your Recreation
Program” is a colorful and interesting little brochure on
table shuflleboard. Free from the American Shuffleboard
Company, Union City, New Jersey. '

O 0.§icial Softball Rules and 1956 Famous Slugger Year-
book, the two popular editions offered annually by Hillerich

81 Bradsby, are now available from local sporting goods

dealers or from the company, 434-436 Finzer Street, Louis-
ville 2, Kentucky.

. Swimming pool equipment and supplies are featured in
Catalog AB, which is available with a color chart for pool

paint from Ocean Pool Supply Company, Inc., 866 Sixth
Avenue, New York 1, New York.

,3 RECREATION

Tetherboll I
Ey°b°"l_  i! ro
5.0.3.33  Multi-Puriégef
°:_":Jlb" ALUMINUM
 STANDARD

QUANTITY DISCOUNTS

on lEATHER SUPPLIES W - to

Outdoor Safety and Comfort

    
    

Complele SUPPUeS Arthur H. DesGrey. Based on the ex-

le a t h e r , b o o It s. perience of seasoned campers, this book

+0015, 60 [wagons shows how outdoor living can be made
comfortable and reasonably free from

High Jump

Slide. coast-to-coast

, lnhrchongoablo  . . . i o .
Acllustoble Indoors-ml Outdoofsfor guaraMee {agar D. W th minimum effort and
Evan", , you“ w, _ "ammo" . expense. iscusses sanitation, water sup-
d ' 32"" ' "9°" TENNIS s e r v I c e at lo w e r ply, recreational act1v1t1es, fishing, food
In oar 0 I H JUMP 0 TE‘I'HERIALL Sn 1  I
Base Plate cost. PP V, P COOkefY, Storm protection,

and for FREE CATALOGUE

  

only 9 u”. inseCt repellents, etc. 53 £115., 171 pp. $3
O ['0 Write For New Leathercroft ,
gm any supply to. a Catalog No. 78- The THEORY of CAMPING
’ TANDT LEATHER 00. . .
Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN. P. o. Box 7914“) Ft. Worth, Tex. Frank L. Irwm. This book shows how

camping can have an important role in
the elementary or secondary school pro-
gram. It explains the educational as-
pects of organized camping, the part
camping plays in achieving the goals of
American education, and the specific

6 I methods by which camping can be used
r e a a m e s I n e to attain these goals. 178 pp. $3.25
BOY’S BOOK of SNAKES

Percy A. Morris. Here are the true,
interesting facts abOut snakes. Book
shows how useful many of them are, how
to tell one kind from another, and how
to catch the useful ones for pets. There
is information on the poisonous snakes,
too, including first aid for snake bite. A
line introducrion to the reptile world,
and a highly popular one.

62 ill;., 185 pp. $3.50

  
     
  

\I\\LE 811/
$6 BATS €569

HIllERIEHBBRAllSBYE'J ~

   

THEY HOP and CRAWL

Alto by Percy A. Morris. Experiences
and first-hand facts about reptiles and
amphibians of all kinds—with photo-
graphs of the creatures in their natural
surroundings. Traits, haunts, food habits,
color, dimensions, natural enemies, adap-
tability as pets, and distincrive characrer-

istics are simply explained for readers of
all ages. 91 £111., 253 pp. $3.50

 

    
  
 

" .135
333

'5 t . A I. r 4 .
"'  I- ‘Am HBKA.”
W '  ":':-F  w»: 1. .  I. _‘ 

INTRODUCING INSECTS

James G. Needham. An easy way to
become acquainted with the beauty and
infinite variety of common inseCts. Clear-
ly and simply, the book relates the story
of the insect world, revealing what in-
seCts are like, where they are found, and
what they do in the world. Designed

especially for the beginner.
85 £115., 129 PP. $2.25

     
      

 

At the plate or on the tee, if it’s
made by H St B your team members
know they are playing with the
finest equipment experience and
know—how can produce-42 years

, of it. send for free color catalogs

   
 
 
  

for ready reference in purchasing
from your dealer.

The SEASHORE PARADE

Muriel Lewin Guberlet. This delight-
ful book makes a visit to the seashore a
new and rewarding experience. Combin-
ing line drawings with its descriptions,
the book gives colorful and curious facrs
about plankton, sponges, jellyfish, sea
angels, starfish, and many kinds of shell-
fish—all the myriad sea life that inhabits
the salty waters of our coaSt.

64 an, 197 pp. $2.00

Order your books from:

UU/SVIYE

GRAND SLAM
Golf Clubs

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY

 

HILLERICH 8. BRADSBY (0., LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, DEPT. R-6 15 East 26th 59., New York 10

MAY 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 24:5

 

TEXTS in P. E.

Nash—PHILOSOPHY of RECREATION
and LEISURE

This book deals with the leisure time activities of adolescents and
adults. Education as a process is discussed only as it lays the
foundation for a wide range of leisure pursuits. It is a study of
what men do with time made captive through the development of
the machine. This book presents a philosophy. The treatment is
accumulative but each chapter is, in a sense, a unit presentation
of the problem of the use of leisure. Illustrations in support of
each chapter’s theme are intended, first, to elaborate the part and,
second, to throw light on the total concept of man’s striving for a

fullness of life through leisure. By JAY B. NASH. 222 pages,
illustrated. PRICE, $2.50.

Fielder—THE RHYTHMIC PROGRAM for
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS

This book is planned and produced for classroom teachers and
supervisors in elementary schools; it is intended to serve as a text-
book in colleges and universities for such courses as methods of
teaching rhythms in elementary schools. It embodies the various
phases of a well-rOunded program of rhythmic activities. It sug-
gests time for each phase and shows the interdependence of all.
It also demonstrates the possibilities of continuity and the relat-
edness of previous learnings with new learnings which grow in

complexity as children develop greater insights. By GRACE FIELDER.
244 pages, illustrated. PRICE, $3.50.

THE C. V. MOSBY COMPANY,
3207 Washington Blvd., St. Louis 3, Mo. '

MOSBY

and RECREATION

Larson-Yocum—MEASUREMENT and EVALUATION in
PHYSICAL HEALTH and RECREATION EDUCATION

This book may be used for both elementary and advanced courses
in measurement and evaluation—and as a measurement and eval-
uation reference book. It is so detailed and complete that it makes
the purchase of a work on tests and measurements unnecessary.
It also can be used as a text on statistics—and there is no other
dual purpose text and workbook combined in one book. One of
its most practical features is the use of the “Photo-code” tech-
nique on the presentation of individual tests and also the statisti-
cal procedures. By LEONARD A. LARSON and RACHAEL DUNAVEN
YOCUM. 512 pages, 164 illustrations, charts and tables. PRICE,

$4.25.

O'Keefe-AldriCh—EDUCATION THROUGH
PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES

This book is unique in that it not only presents the activities that
should be included in the elementary school physical education
program, but clearly shows how the program can be organized
and conducted in the many school situations throughout the
country in which facilities, equipment, and available space often
affect the nature of the program.

The authors present in a practical and logical way the bases for
selecting activities, the fundamental principles underlying the
program, the objectives of a program, the desirable amount of
time to devote to the total program, and the numerous activities
and criteria for evaluating the activities. By PATTRIC RUTH O'KEEFE
and ANITA ALDRICH. 331 pages, 154 illustrations. PRICE, $4.50.

Date .............................................................. ..

Gentlemen: Send me the book(s) checked on 30 day-approval. Teachers’ discount 10%. (It is understood that in the event
the bookIs) are adopted as texts at Our school that the charge for my copies will be cancelled).

[j Nash “PHILOSOPHY OF RECREATION AND

LEISURE” ............................................................................ ..$2.50

ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS” .......................................... ..$3.50

IN PHYSICAL HEALTH AND RECREATION
EDUCATION” .................................................................... "$4.25

[I O’Keefe-Aldrich “EDUCATION THROUGH

PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES" .............................................. "$4.50

 ' . ‘ . ' ' - ' . ' o . ' . ' . . ' I . . I . . . l I ' I I I I I . ' T . . I . - . I . ' ' I I I . . I I I I I . . ' . . ‘ ' ‘ O . ' . ' ' ' ‘ . ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' P ' ' I 'l  I I I n I I I u o I I I I I I I . n I I I I I a a D D I I I I I I I r I I I I I o I I I I I I I o I I I I I I I I I I a a I a o a I a a a a I n I n I o I I I I I u - - - - n I n I I o o I I o I a a o I I II

School.

g o n u - u u I I I a I a I I a o I I I I a o I I I I I I I I I I a I n I n n I n I n o o o . u o u u a u u u u u a - u u a u u o I u n o a o I a u a a u u n o u I I o u u I n n I I I I n a I on

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l a Fielder “TIIE RHYTIIMIC PROGRAM FOR
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
: City........
I

L _ _ — — - — — -————————- - — — — _ u - _ _-

246

.1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

[j Larson-Yocum “MEASUREMENT AND EVALUATION :
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

------------------------------------------------------------------------- ..     .   '

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

I I u u u u u a u u I n I n n n n n n n-
u I u u u u u u I u u u I I I u u a u . u u u . g g g . g g n . n n n a n . n . . . a a a n a n . . n n . n . . a . . . a n a n u n a n n n n n I o I I I I I I - - I I l O l i O O O I I ' ' ' ' "

J0fR5-56 I

RECREATION

Books & Pamphlets
Received

ADVENTURES OF A SLUM FIGHTER,
Charles F. Palmer. Tupper and
Love, Inc., 55 Fifth Avenue, New
York 3. Pp. 272. $4.00.

AGE OF AUTOMATION, THE—Its Effect
on Human Welfare, Warner Bloom-
berg, Jr. League for Industrial De-
mocracy, 112 E. 19th Street, New
York. Pp. 39. $.35.

AQUATICS, SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING,
WINTER SPORTS AND OUTING ACTIVI-
TIES GUIDE, July 1955-July 1957,
with Official Rules. Doris Bullock
and Louise Roloff, Editors. Ameri-
can Association for Health, Physical
Education, and Recreation, 1201 Six-
teenth Street, N .W., Washington 6,
D. C. Pp. 60. $.75.

ART AND PLAY THERAPY, Emery I.
Gondor, Doubleday 81 Company, Gar-

den City, New York. Pp. 61. $.95.*

ART FOR EXCEPTIONAL CHILDREN, Arne
W. Randall. The College Bookstore,
Texas Technological College, Lub-
bock, Texas. Pp. 104 (mimeo-
graphed). $2.50.

BACK TO WHAT WOODSHED? (#232—
Delinquency), Justine Wise Polier.
Public Affairs Pamphlets, 22 East

38th Street, New York 16. Pp. 28.
$.25.

BOOK OF BADMINTON, THE, Eddy
Choong and Fred Brundle. Philo-
sophical Library, Inc., 15 East 40th
Street, New York 16. Pp. 128. $3.75.

COMMUNITY PROGRAMS FOR MENTAL
HEALTH, Ruth Kotinsky and Helen
L. Witmer, Editors. Published for
the Commonwealth Fund by the Har-

vard University Press, Cambridge 38.
Pp. 362. $5.00.

l EDUCATION FOR LATER MATURITY, com-
y piled by Dr. Wilma Donahue for the
Adult Education Association Com-

mittee on Education for the Aging.

Whiteside, Inc., 425 Fourth Avenue,
New York 16. Pp. 338. I $4.50.*

FOLK DANCE GUIDE—6th Annual Edi-
tion, 1956. Paul Schwartz, Publish-

er, Box 342, Cooper Station, New
York 3. Pp. 24. $1.00.

HOW TO CHOOSE A CAMP FOR YOUR
CHILD (#231), Ernest Osborne.
Public Affairs Pamphlets, 22 East
38th Street, New York 16. Pp. 28.
3.25.

JUNGLE PRIZE—A one-act play of Ma-

laya, Marion Holmes. Friendship

Press, 257 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. Pp. 32. p.50.*

MAY 1956

     

 

LEADERSHIP AND MORALE and LEADER-
SHIP IN ACTION, Daniel R. Davies and
Kenneth F. Herrold. Arthur C. Croft
Publications, 100 Garfield Avenue,
New London, Connecticut. Pp. 55
and pp. 54. $2.50 each.

MASTER DIVER AND UNDERWATER
SPORTSMAN, THE, Captain T. A.
Hampton. John de‘ Graff, Inc., 64
West 23rd Street, New York. Pp. 208.
$3.50.

MASTER STUNT BOOK, THE, Lawrence
M. Brings. T. S. Denison & Company,
321 Fifth Avenue South, Minneapo-
lis 15. Pp. 431. $3.95.

NATIONAL-FOREST VACATIONS. Super-
intendent of Documents, Government

Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.
Pp. 64. $.25.

OBJECTIVES OF THE MENTAL HEALTH
PROJECT FOR THE DEAF, Dr. Franz
J. Kallmann. American Annals of

the Deaf, Gallaudet College, Wash-
ington 2, D. C. Pp. 15. $.25.

PACK YOUR LEISURE WITH PROFIT AND
PLEASURE, Corinne Updegraff Wells.
Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Avenue,
New York 11. Pp. 367. $3.95.*

PREHISTORIC PEOPLE OF THE NORTHERN
SOUTHWEST, Joe Ben Wheat. Grand
Canyon Natural History Association,
Box 219, Grand Canyon, Arizona.
Pp. 38. $.50 plus $.08 postage.

RIDE WITH THE SUN—An Anthology of
Folk Tales and Stories from the Unit-
ed Nations, Harold Courlander, Edi-
tor. Juvenile Books, Whittlesey
House, 330 West 42nd Street, New
York 36, Pp. 296. $3.50.*

SENIOR CITIZEN IN OUR COMMUNITY,
THE (A community study of the liv-
ing conditions and needs of the per-
sons sixty-five and over in Long

Beach.) Community Welfare Coun-
cil, 1213 Cedar Avenue, Long Beach,
California. Pp. 59. $1.00.

SKIN DIVING AND EXPLORING UNDER-

WATER, John Sweeney. McGraw-Hill
Book Company, 330 West 42nd
Street, New York 36. Pp. 176. $3.50.*

SOCIOLOGY OF URBANIZATION: A STUDY
IN RURBAN SOCIETY, Dr. T. Earl Sul-
lenger. Braun-Brumfield, Inc., Ann

Arbor, Michigan. Pp. 269. $3.50.

SUMMER JOB GUIDE FOR STUDENTS AND
COUNSELORS, 1956 Edition. 'Big

 

* These publications are available from the
National Recreation Association at list price
plus fifteen cents for each book ordered to
cover postage and handling. Active Associate
and A Wiate Members of the Association re-
ceive a ten per cent discount on list price.
Remittances should accompany°orders from
individuals; organizations and recreation de-
partments will be billed on their oliicial orders.
Address orders to Combined Book Service,

National Recreation Association, 8 West
Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

Brother Movement, 33 Union Square

West, New York 3. Pp. 4. $.10.

TOOLS FOR SPEAKING AND SINGING, Ger-
trude Wheeler Beckman. G. Schirm-
er, Inc., 3 East 43rd Street, New
York. Pp. 157. $4.00.

Magazine Articles

THE EDUCATION DIGEST, March 1956
How Can We Get Enough Good
Teachers—And Keep Them?

Using Tests for Evaluation, Robert
L. Ebel.

JOURNAL OF HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCA-
TION, RECREATION, March 1956
A Winter Vacation Camp, Leslie S.
Clark.
Lumey Sticks, Joy Garrison and M il-
ly Daren.

, April 1956
Summer'Fun for Teen-Agers, Louis

13. Means.

Adventures in Nature Study, Bettye
Breeser.

Softball Play Situations, Marjorie
Kelly.

   

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

PAGE
American Playground Device Company .... -- 241
Bergen Arts & Crafts ____________________________ -- 227
The J. E. Burke Company ___________________ L- 208
Champion Recreation Equipment ______________ -- 209
Chicago Roller Skate Company _______________ _- 201
City and County of Denver... _______  _________ -- 227
Cooperative Recreation Service, lnc.-.-----___ 208
The Copper Shop ___________________________________ _- 243
The Fred. Gretsch Manufacturing Company- 243
H. 8. R. Manufacturing Company-------_--_____- 209
Hillerich 8. Bradsby ............................... -- 245
Hillyard Chemical Company ..................... _- 205
Jaytro Athletic Supply Company---   245
J. C. Larson Company . -- 227

The Monroe Company ................ _. _____ _  208

 

 

 

The C. V. Mosby Company..-    246
Newcomb Audio Products Company. .... -_ 207
Nissen Trampoline Company ____________________ _- 201
Ocean Pool Supply Company..__-____-.___-209, 227
The J. E. Porter Corporation .--_|nside Front Cover
Porter Sargent Publisher-_-_--.-______,,,-________ 243
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company __________ -. 243
Rhythm Workshop ________________________________ __ 209
The Ronald Press Company_-_-----   -  245
James Spencerand Company__-___.  -- 208
Tandy Leather Company.____-__--   245
Vogel-Peterson Company _,  __   241
W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation-    201
X-acto, Inc.     ........ -- 241

247

 

Underwater Recreation

Los Angeles County Department of
Parks and Recreation. Underwater Rec-
reation, 834 West Olympic, Los An-
geles 15. Pp. 62. $1.15.

An excellent and instructive manual
on new developments not only in safety,
but in improvement of skills, communi-
cations, and organized program activi-
ties in underwater recreation. This is
about the most practical for use by a
recreation department that we have
seen on the subject. The two major
sections of the book are, again, skin
diving and scuba diving (see article
page 228), and most of the principles
stated pertain to both.

The Los Angeles County Department
of Parks and Recreation is one of the
public recreation departments taking
the lead in this newtype of recreation,
as revealed in “Recreation Goes Under-
water,” by Al Tillman, underwater rec-
reation coordinator, in the February
1955 issue of RECREATION. A] is one of
the editors of this book, the other is
William E. Starr.

InformatiOn is well organized for
easy reference, and its style of presen-
tation makes for interesting reading.
The sense of humor displayed by Jess
Cruel’s illustrations adds an entertain-
ing element without in the least detract-
ing from the seriousness of the subject.
A reading list is appended.

Recommended for any recreation
agency considering these sports as a
program activity.

Program Handbook for Army
Service Club Personnel

Department of the Army Pamphlet
28-1. Superintendent of Documents,
U. 5. Government Printing Office,
Washington 25, D. C. Pp. 230. Paper,
$1.25.

This 230-page booklet is written pri-
marily, of course, for Army Service
Club personnel. It is reviewed here.
however, in the hope that those who
work with teen-agers and adults will
order a copy and use it for its excellent
program content.

The sections on social recreation
(themes for special days. carnivals,
ballroom dances, and so on). creative
activities- including crafts and rnusir

248

Covering the Leisure-time Field

and the section on intellectual pursuits,
including quiz programs, discussion
groups, hobby and interest groups, are
all carefully prepared and contain ex-
cellent program ideas.

The material is beautifully organized,
carefully detailed, and is an excellent
resource for program activities. Don’t
let the title throw you off. If you do,
you’re missing a very fine, inexpensive
book geared to young adults—and such
books are hard to find—Virginia M us-
selman, Program Service, NRA.

Community Organization—
Theory and Principles

Murray G. Ross. Harper & Brothers,
49 East 33rd Street, New York 16. Pp.
239. $3.00.*

The purpose of this book, as stated
by the author in the preface, is “to set
forth a conception of the community
organization process, to describe its
nature, and to outline the principles
which facilitate its development.” He
does not contend it is the only approach
or the most useful in all situations, yet
lay and professional leaders familiar

with community forces will readily re--

alize the worth of this particular proc-
ess.

Discussions of the basic principles of
community organization and the basic
factors which influence organization
methods explain and emphasize the
uniting of people in common action as

the essential task of community organ-
ization.

As evidences of today’s need for
wider understanding and use of the best
in community organization processes,
the author cites the results of the pres-
ent mobility of population and modern
technology in terms of weakening the
sense of “belonging to the community,”
of the lack of “sinking of roots” and of
the establishment of “neighborly rela-

. tions.”

Any lay or'professional person ac-
tively engaged in commanity welfare
efforts, be he social case worker, recre-
ation and group worker or community
Organization worker, will find in the
final chapter on “The Role of the Pro-
fessional Worker,” a series of valuable
principles and suggestions to guide him
in his working relationships with the

various forces which constitute the total
community setting—Charles E. Reed,

Director, NRA Field Services.

A Saw Screams at Midnight
(The Whodunit-Yourself Book)

O. A. Mills. E. P. Dutton & Company,

, Inc., 300 Fourth Avenue, New York 10.

Pp. 96. $2.503“

If you are a do-it-yourselfer and
want to have fun, take a look at this
delightfully zany book which kids the
home craftsman and offers him a fare
of how-to-do-it ideas with a frankly
nutty Havor. It is a book for the craft
fans who do not take themselves too
seriously—0r for anyone with a sense
of humor. Try it out on the craftsman
in your own home, you know, “the guy
with a cellar full of tools and sawdust
in his hair.”

The author has a field day with such
topics as “How to Speak Hardwarese,”
“Wiring——— The Baseboard Jungle.”
“How to Cut Down on Your Hammer
Strokes,” and so on. He, further, gives
specific instructions for a collection of
mad projects, among them: How to

Hang a Door; The Home With the
Homemade Look; Teakettle That Whis-
tles Dixie; A Modern Ivy Planter From
That Old Stradivarius; Plaques for
Walls Slightly Cracked. Fully illus-

trated with drawings and pictures of
these whacky projects—most of which
were actually constructed by the au-
thor—and many photographs posed by
Carl Reiner, TV___comedian.

Planning School-Community
Swimming Pools

Louis E. Means and Charles D. Gib-
son. California State Department of
Education, Sacramento, California. Pp.

58. $.60.

This profusely illustrated booklet is
a valuable addition to the growing liter-
ature on the subject of swimming pools.
Prepared under the direction of The
Bureau of Health. Physical Education.
and Recreation, after consultation with
a large number of local authorities, it
contains excellent suggestions with ref-
erence to cooperative pool planning and
the development of a comprehensive
aquatics program. It affords much val-
uable information with reference to
space and facility requirements and the
suitability of various types of pools for
aquatic activities. Some pool types,
however, receive rather casual consid-
eration, and no mention is made of the
fan-shape pool, a type that is gaining‘in
favor in many sections of the country.

H—Ceorge D. Butler, NRA Research De-

partment.

 

* See footnote on page 247.

RECREATION

 

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and
Local Recreation Agencies

May, June and July, 1956

HELEN M, DAUNCEY Altoona, Pennsylvania David M. Langkammer, Superintendent of Recreation
Social and Playground June 7'8
Recreauon Toledo, Ohio Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building

June 11-14
York, Pennsylvania Mrs. Sylvia C. Newcombe, Superintendent, York Recreation Com-
June 18-19 mission
Westchester County, New York Miss Vivian 0. Wills, Assistant Superintendent, Westchester
June 21 County Recreation Commission, White Plains
State of Rhode Island William H. Cotter, Jr., Chief, Bureau of Recreation, State Ofiicc
June 28-29 Building, Providence
Whitinsville, Massachusetts Roscoe Marker, Superintendent, Northbridge Playground and Rec-
July 2-3 reation Commission

RUTH G_ EHLERS Fayette County, Kentucky John F. Gettler, Director, Fayette County Playground and Recrea-

playground Recreation May 7-10 tion Board, Lexington
Mankato, Minnesota
June 4-5
St. Cloud, Minncsota
Jllne 6-3 Robert L. Horney, NRA District Representative, 223 Davis Build-

Virginia, Minnesota mg, 151 Michigan Street, Toledo, Ohio

June 12-13
Superior, Wisconsin
.lune 15-16
Shepherdstown, West Virginia Dr. Oliver S. Ikenberry, President, Shepherd College
July 9-12
ANNE LIVINGSTON Sheboygan, Wisconsin lloward Rich, Director of Public Recreation
Playground Recreation June 12-15
MILDRED SCANLON Pittsfield, Massachusetts Vincent J. Herbert, Superintendent, Board of Park Commissioners
Playground Recreation June “3'21
GRACE WALKER Clifltop, West Virginia L. A. Toney, State Leader, Extension Work, Institute
Creative and Playground June 6-8
Recreation . . . .
Lancaster, Pennsylvania Albert E. Reese, Director of Recreation, 135 N. Lime Street
June 11-12
FRANK A, STAPLES Toledo, Ohio Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building
Arts and Crafts June 11'14'
Altoona, Pennsylvania David M. Langkammer, Superintendent of Recreation
June 22-23

 

Miss Dauncey will conduct four recreation leadership training courses for the United States Air Forces in Europe between
May 1 and June 4, with emphasis on the Air Force Youth Activities Program.

 

Frank A. Staples will be conducting Arts and Crafts training workshops between May 14 and June 7 at Air Bases at the
following locatiOns: Abilene, Texas; Ardmore, Oklahoma; Little Rock, Arkansas; Blytheville, Arkansas. If you are interested
in further details with reference to his availability for consultation during this period, or in the possibility of participating in
these training workshops, please communicate with Raymond Morrison, regional representative of the OHice of Community Serv-
ices, Department of the Air Force, at 248 Casa Blanca, Fort Worth 7, Texas.

 

A two-day statewide summer playground training course for New Hampshire will be held at Bristol 011 June 15 and 16. Members
of the Association’s leadership training staff will be assisted by Waldo Hainsworth, NRA district representative, and Richard A.
(Wink) Tapply, director of recreation, Bristol. For further information or to register please write to Mr. Hainsworth, Fowler Road,

Northbridge, Massachusetts.

 

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually Open to all who wish to
attend. For details as to location of the institute, contents of the course, registration, and the like, communicate with the sponsor

of the course as listed above.

 

Recreation
Month

Sponsored by

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

8 West Eighth Street
New York 11, N. Y.

   

 

