Henry Pil3ii’t'cr Li
MnuMuI‘ruy U -
Jacksonville.

 

   
   
   

for the famous
oval trade-mark
on the bat

for Catholic parents and all youth workers who are looking for

CATHOLIC CAMPS

The NATIONAL CATHOLIC CAMPING ASSOCIATION

announces the publication of its

1957 DIRECTORY OF CATHOLIC CAMPS

Here is information vital to all those seeking a summer
camp for their youngsters. Our new directory contains
complete, accurate, and up-to-date information on all
active Catholic camps in America—nearly 300 in all.

This year plan to send your chiltl to a Catholic camp-—
where God is foremost. Catholic camps are among the
fittest and most modern in tlte conntry.

The National Catholic Camping Association is an
activity of the Youth Department, National Catholic
Welfare Conference. Membership is open to anyone in-

terested in camping. Mcmhers receive the annual Directory

of Catholic Camps and Trail Signs, the official monthly
magazine of Catholic camping.

Msett. JOSEPH E. SCIIIEDER, Ptl.l).

National. Director

for your directory send $1.00 to

NATIONAL CATHOLIC CAMPING ASSOCIATION

1312 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.

\Vashinglon 5, l). C.

When writing to our advertisers please mention Rscsurtoa.

  

LOUISVILLE SLIIGGER BATS

 

 

MARCH 1957

I?!

 
    

I I I l I.

 

701d“ )4!“ 7:664 Wm
to Give ‘Your Gym Fioor TROPHY

' "Fir'iish for Champions" _ .
COACHES'lIKE i’TROPHY" FlOORS°—

tar beautiful, appearance which ‘ invites
championship c‘aliher play.
PLAYERS [IKE THEM —far' sure-footed

slip resistance.

SPECTATORS 'lIKE THEM -'-.far' na-

" glare, light calar‘ whiéh' helps _th_em._ see _

6

‘plays clearly,

- ADMINIsrRATohs' m custom-
   _.far é’xtra‘ lang wear

and .ease - af' n'iaintenance. -_
Naw‘You Can Afford. the Best! TROPHY
autvgears-all. ather finishes by .mare than
2.ta l—cuts la.bartinishing and mainte-
nance byr'one-halfl'

' ST.YIJOSEPH, MO.

San Jose, Calif. Passaic: N. J.
" Branchesjn Principal Cities

__ fir—Pi“ 1. end-*- '”_ '1.

hinking of REFlNlS/IING
or REMARKlNG

_E your
gym

"
._¢I.

in:

     
 

REVISED
H l  D  l. D  Gives You Valuable

Suggestions, Can Save You Expensive Unnecessary Work

Complete instructions for laying out, marking, and finish-
ing. It's up-to-date, with all rule changes, including new
wide free throw lanes. Also gives lining instructions for
other popular indoor sports. Every coach should have
this Free Guide. If you're changing over to the wide lane,

Hillyard can show you how to remark your court Without
re-finishing the entire floor!

_ ._ MAIL T

HILLYARD St. Joseph Mo. l

C] Please send me new Coach’s Folder on Gym Floor finishing, layout l
and marking. I

pert, advise me the proper way to change my court over to new wide I
lane markings. _

 c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c o c c c c c c c c a c c c c c a c o o a a c a c c c a a o a a a a a c a c a a a a o a .5 a a o a a a a a a a o a a a a a o o a a a a o a a a a a a a a c a I a a. I

Institution ...................................................................................................... .. l

l—
l

l

l

I C] Please have your nearby Hillyard "Maintaineer"®, trained floor ex-
l

l

l

l

l

I—

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 65

 

66

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL

The National Advisory Council is made up of the chairmen of the National and Dis-
trict Advisory Committees of the National Recreation Association, the president of the
Federation of National Professional Organizations f or Recreation, and a representative
of the Annual Meeting of Presidents of AfIiliated State Societies and Associations. The
Council advises directly with the Board of Directors of the National Recreation

Association.

ROBERT W. CRAWFORD—Chairman

National Advisory Committee on Recreation Administration

ROBERT L. BLACK

National Advisory Committee on State
Recreation

GERNON G. BROWN
Southwest District Advisory Committee

BERNARD B. CAMPBELL

New England District Advisory
Committee

PAUL H. DOUGLASS

National Advisory Committee on the
Recruitment, Training and Place-
ment of Recreation Personnel

ARNOLD HALPERN

Pacific Northwest District Advisory
Committee

ARTHUR WILLIAMS—Secretary
National Recreation Association

RUSSELL JOHNSON

Great Lakes District Advisory
Committee

DR. ROY LEILICII
Southern District Advisory Committee

DOROTHEA LENSCH

National Advisory Committee on Rec-
reation Programs and Activities

STEWART MOYER
Middle Atlantic District Advisory

Committee

J. A. REYNOLDS

National Advisory Committee on Rec-
reation Research

DR. JULIAN W. SMITH

President, Federation of National Pro-
fessional Organizations for Recrea-
tion

BEN H. THOMPSON

National Advisory Committee on Fed-
° eral Recreation

II. B. TRENT

Pacific Southwest District Advisory
Committee

JAY M. VER LEE

National Advisory Commitlee on De-
fense Related Services

FORREST W. WAKEFIELD
Midwest District Advisory Committee

AUSTIN WELCII

National Advisory Committee for the
International Recreation Service of
the National Recreation Association

AFFILIATED STATE SOCIETIES AND ASSOCIATIONS

ALABAMA RECREATION ASSOCIATION
ALABAMA RECREATION SOCIETY
ARIZONA RECREATION ASSOCIATION
CALIFORNIA RECREATION SOCIETY
COLORADO RECREATION SOCIETY
CONNECTICUT RECREATION SOCIETY

MISSOURI RECREATION ASSOCIATION

MONTANA RECREATION ASSOCIATION

NEVADA STATE RECREATION AND PARK SOCIETY
NEW HAMPSHIRE RECREATION SOCIETY

NEW JERSEY PARKS AND RECREATION ASSOCIATION
pUBLIC RECREATION ASSOCIATION OF NEW JERSEY

 

FLORIDA RECREATION ASSOCIATION

GEORGIA RECREATION SOCIETY

IDAHO RECREATION SOCIETY

ILLINOIS ASSOCIATION OF PARK DISTRICTS
ILLINOIS RECREATION ASSOCIATION

INDIANA PARK AND RECREATION ASSOCIATION
IOWA RECREATION SOCIETY

KANSAS RECREATION SOCIETY

KENTUCKY RECREATION SOCIETY

LOUISIANA RECREATION ASSOCIATION

MAINE STATE RECREATION SOCIETY
MARYLAND RECREATION SOCIETY
MASSACHUSETTS RECREATION ASSOCIATION
MICHIGAN RECREATION ASSOCIATION
MINNESOTA RECREATION ASSOCIATION
MISSISSIPPI RECREATION ASSOCIATION WASHINGTON STATE RECREATION SOCIETY

MISSOURI COMMUNITY RECREATION AND PARK SOCIETY WEST VIRGINIA RECREATION SOCIETY
WISCONSIN RECREATION ASSOCIATION

NORTII CAROLINA RECREATION SOCIETY
NORTII DAKOTA RECREATION ASSOCIATION
OIIIO RECREATION ASSOCIATION

OKLAHOMA RECREATION SOCIETY

OREGON RECREATION AND PARK ASSOCIATION
PENNSYLVANIA RECREATION SOCIETY

SOUTH CAROLINA RECREATION SOCIETY
SOUTH DAKOTA RECREATION AND PARK ASSOCIATION
TENNESSEE RECREATION SOCIETY

TEXAS RECREATION SOCIETY

UTAH RECREATION SOCIETY

VERMONT RECREATION SOCIETY

VIRGINIA RECREATION SOCIETY

NEW MEXICO RECREATION ASSOCIATION
NEW YORK STATE RECREATION SOCIETY

|1
RECREATION '

MARCH 1957

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Vol. L Price 50 Cents No. 3

 

0n the Cover
THE CAMPER—1957. In camps, the young learn

to love our mountains and forests, open spaces, lakes
and the sea; they learn to know one another and to
live together joyously during the summer, when our
cities set them free. Photograph, courtesy of South
Carolina State Commission of Forestry.

Next Month

The Playground Issue of RECREATION is usually
published in April. This year it is a jackpot of play-
ground ideas. Among the articles are “Playground
Facts and Fun,” “An Investment in Leadership,”
“Dennis the Menace Playground,” “The Girl in the
Blue Denim Skirt,” “Try a New Idea,” a suggested
summer playg'round evaluation form, and many
othcrs. Those who are planning a special May Day
observation will welcome the “Maypole Dance.”

Photo Credits

Page 73, Milwaukee Journal Photo; 84 Earle’s
Photo Art Studio, Two Rivers, Wisconsin; 90 (up-
per right), American Playground Device Company,
Anderson, Indiana, (others), Odell, Anderson, In-
diana; 92, Milwaukee Journal Photo; 97, Dearborn

(Michigan) Recreation Department; 104 (left),

Paul R. Kasko, Greenbelt, Maryland, (right), Wau-
keslta Daily Freeman.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York, is on
Erie in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers'
Guide. Subscriptions 34.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re-entered as second-class
matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Oitice in New York,
New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Secrion 11 3, Aer of October 3, 1917, authorized May

1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-
versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor,

Michigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 94 Garfield
Place, Lynbrook, Long Island, New YOrk; Mark Mina-
han, 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

Copyright, 1957. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A.
'9 ll

‘ Trade mark registered in U. 8. Patent 0&3ce.

 

MARCH 1957

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

New Horizons for Camping (Editorial) . . . . . . T. R. Alexander 70
Long Beach Beckons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
What Are Today’s Campers Missing? . . . . . Eugene L. Sloan, Jr. 73
The Personal Touch in Day Camping . . . . . . Patrick J. Carolan 74
The Mentally Retarded at Camp . . . . . . . . . . . .Roland Larson 77
Recreation at the South Pole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .liIuriel McGann 81
ADRIINISTRATION
Camping for Tomorrow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Reynold E. Carlson 83
Campsite Selection, Layout and

Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lelois C. Reimann 85
The Professional Role of the Camp

Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Hetlley S. Dimock 88
A Recreation Development . . . . . . . . . . . . William J. Duchaine 90
PROGRADI
Westward HO! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Nature Study in a Playground Day Camp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84

Nature Tools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bettye Breeser 92

Creativity in Camp Music . . . . . . ." . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94

Flag Ceremony . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96

The Campfire (Idea of the Month) . . . . . . . .S. Theodore Wool 97

Woodftre and Candle-Light . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mary Edgar 98

Contests fora Woodsmen’s Weekend . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99

Guideposts for Safe Water Skiing . . . . . . . . . . .Harold III. Core 100

Bone Carving (How To Do It!) . . . . . . . . . . .Frank A. Staples 102

Inexpensive Nature Materials for Crafts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103

Water Dramatics for Young Swimmers . . . . . . . .Betty DuBois 104

Easter Idea Hunt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107

REGULAR FEATURES

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

How To Do It! Idea of Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .See Program

Personnel—Recruiting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Marilyn Jensen 106

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108

Hospital Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Beatrice H. Hill 109

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . 110

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111

Recreation Leadership Training Courses. . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

67

  

 

ii::::'°-'-=::--.-'i'°"° Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page
to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York II—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes

may be exchanged with others on the wide range of

subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.

Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Hot Rods

Sirs:

In' the December issue of RECREA-
TION Magazine (page 463) you have an
article pro and con on drag strips.

I think it would be a good idea for
RECREATION to do two things. First,
find out how many city recreation de-
partments are involved in “hot rod”
activities and, second, report the find-
ings of the National Safety Council
when they complete their survey on
drag strips. i "

GEORGE T. SARGISSON, Executive Di-

rector, Recreation Promotion and

Service, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware.

Members Speak

Sirs:

As an associate member of the Na-
tional Recreation Association for-Ever
fifteen or twenty years I would like to
present the following:

In the 1920’s and 1930’s the number
of recreation departments, and the or-
ganization of future departments, was
on a small scale compared to the pres-
ent time. Members of the field service
were able to visit the organized depart-
ments in their areas and give the neces-
sary time for the promotion of recrea-
tion. I feel that this service was-inval-
uable to the parties concerned, particu-
larly to those of us who were beginning
in administrative positions. I for one
will never be able to thank your or-
ganization enough for the assistanee
given.

\Vith the rapid growth of recreation
nation-wide, I know the field service
is more than overloaded. At the same
time, I realizethc sources from which
your funds are secured for the opera-
tion of services given.

Each department in the nation oper-
ates on _a budget just the same as your
organization. Knowing you only have
so much money which you may spend,
I would like to propose the following
so that more field personnel could be
added to the staff, with each having a
smaller area and therefore in better po-

()8

—The Editors.

sition to give the best service.

1. Increase the membership dues of
associate members from $5.00 to $25.00
per year.

2. Increase affiliate memberships
from $10.00 to $35.00 per year.

3. Contributors could continue as
thev have in the past.

This is no criticism of the National
Recreation Association or its person-
nel, as I think that the organization is
the best for the promotion of recrea-
tion.” I believe that if the preliminary
work was done prior to the next Na-
tional Recreation Congress and a very
frank analysis was placed before the
body at that time. I am sure you would
receive a very favorable reaction. It
may possibly take two years to sell the
idea, but I believe it would be worth-
while to all parties.

The average administrator. particu—
larly in one-man departments, would fa-
vor this due to the valuable assistance
that can be given by your field repre-
sentatives—I know this from past per-
sonal experience.

We people in the field would benefit
greatly. so why shouldn’t we be glad
to pay increased dues for this serviee?
Salaries for all personnel in this busi-
ness have certainly increased in the last
twenty years, although National Rcere-
ation Association membership has not.

RALPH M. STUDEBAKER, Town Rcc-
rcation Director, Pulaski, Virginia.

I- 'l- I- I-

Sirs: .

I am sending you herewith Montgom-
ery’s annual dues of $150.00. It has been
very gratifying to me to see the con-
tinued interest on the part of our board
toward the National Recreation Associa-
tion. I do wish that something could be
worked ont where more cities would in-
clude this item in their annual budget,
giving your organization more money
and at the same time enabling you to
give the cities more field help. I feel
that Charlie Reed has done a wonder-
ful job with limited finances and, as I

think back on our beginning here, l
am sure that without the help of Marion
Preeee, Bill Hay, Helen Dauneey, Annei
Livingston, J. W. Faust and many
others we would have been unable to-I
make the headway we have.

T. A. BELSER, Superintendent of

Parks and Recreation, Montgomery,

Alabama.
Otto T. MaIlery

Sirs:

I was greatly surprised and saddened
by the report in a recent Affiliate Mem-
bership Letter of the untimely death of
Otto T. Mallery, a member of the Na-
tional Recreation Association Board of
Directors. [See RECREATION, January
1957, page 4.——Ed.] I had known Mr.
Mallery since 1922 when I entered the
recreation field and have been one of
his great admirers. He had a magni-
ficent personality and loved people.
His sense of humor and his philosophy
of recreation were always an inspira-
tion to me at any National Recreation
Congress.

It just seems impossible that I must
lose this good friend after I had recent-
ly broken bread with him and talked
with him several times during the In-
ternational Recreation Congress in
Philadelphia. The National Recreation
Association has lost a great and out-
standing friend.

THOMAS W. LANTZ, Supcrintcntlcnt.

Public Recrcation, Tacoma, Wash-

ington.

Thanks to John Fanst*

Dear John:

I have read with interest and pleas-
ure the article (“Lord of Leisure”)
written by you for the December issue
of RECREATION.

It sounds exactly like the philosophy
you have preached during all the years
we were associated, and I know you
are continuing this philosophy now that
you are at liberty to “do as you please."

My main regret now is that you never
seem to come my way to inspire me
with your ideas and ideals. In conse-
quence, I am floundering along as best
l can, apparently to the annoyance of
at leastrsome of the ungodly in the
community—by that I mean those who
do not agree with me. whether right or
wrong. Once upon a time you used to
come in and adjudicate some of these
questions, but now that I am entirely on
my own, my victims have to take the
consequences of your loss.

hIAURtCE DUPONT LEE, President,

Board of Park Coumtissioners, Wil-

mington, Dclau'arc.

I- I- I- I

"' Mr. Faust retired from NRA field service
in 1955 after thirty-two years with the As-
sociation.

RECREATION

Dear J. W.:

Received- your “Lord of Leisure”
this morning. I have_.read it several
times. It is of that caliber that can,
and does, require many readings. It is,
may I say, a masterpiece of brevity and
content. I for one am proud of you,
I. W., for producing for posterity such
an excellent piece of religious litera-
ture.

As father and mother of such a piece
of writing you must at times, as you
read it, receive a warm glow of honest
and gratifying pride. Keep your brain
and heart children coming; we certain-
Iy need them at this time as we have
never needed them before!

GRANT D. BRANDON, Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania.

' ‘1

Query to Mr. Prendergast

Dear Joe:
I am writing as an Active Associate

Member of the NRA and a regular par-
ticipant in the NRA Congresses.

No doubt you have read the article
by Charles Price in the February 2,
1957 issue of The Saturday Evening
Post. The subject is Joe Brown and his
playground equipment designs.

I, and many other recreation people
in this area, are quite concerned about
the quote on page 92 attributed to an
executive of the NRA, and particularly
the phrase “entirely too high-brow for
that mob.”

I do not, of course, believe that this
statement was made by an executive of
the NRA and would appreciate your as-
.surance on this point, because I wish to
Write to Price and to the editor to pro-
test such a derogatory statement, which
I believe Pricc fabricated. This state-
ment, particularly in a national maga-
zine which is read by so many laymen,
certainly reflects no credit on the recre-

 

-

CALIFORNIA
STATE HOSPITALS

Offer
career opportunities in new
Rehabilitation Service Program

for

College Graduateswith

specialization in Recreation
Therapy or Recreation

0 STARTING SALARIES $4,296
0 FOURTEEN MODERN FACILITIES
O ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

Medical Recruitment Unit

California State Personnel Board

801 Capitol _Avenue Sacramento

 

MARCH 1957

ation movement and on those who at-
tend the Congress.

Any reactions you can give me to the
points I have raised here will be sin-
cerely appreciated.

G. B. FITZGERALD, Director of Rec-
reation Training, University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis.

* 'N- 'K- * *
Dear Fitz: _

I can well appreciate your reaction
to the unfortunate use of the expression
“entirely too high-brow for that mob”
by Charles Price in his article on Joe
Brown and his playground equipment
designs in a recent issue of The Satur-
day Evening Post. You are quite right,
of course, that an executive of the Na-
tional Recreation Association did not
make such a statement.

Actually, what happened was that Mr.
Price talked with our director of public
relations, David J. DuBois, about Joe
Brown and Mr. DuBois provided some
of the background material which was
woven into the article. Mr. Dubois did
say that the speech as Mr. Brown had
written it seemed to him to be extremely
abstract and he had some questions
about how enthusiastically it would be

received at a general session of the Con-
gress.

Mr. DuBois talked with Mr. Price -

this morning after I received your let-
ter and Mr. Price apologized for the ex-
cessively free interpretation of Mr. Du-
Bois’ remarks and pointed out that he
simply was attempting to illustrate that
“Joe Brown has a tendency to get really
involved in the subject.”

Of course, a number of recreation
people have told me that the over-all im-
pact of the article is excellent for rec-
reation. With the exception of this un-
fortunate error I do feel that Mr. Price
did a very fine job. Even the most dili-
gent reporters make errors and some-
times use an incorrect word here and

- there.

I think you will be pleased to know
that Parents’ magazine has an excellent
article on the community recreation
movement in its March issue. Also, the
manuscript for a major article on en-
croachment of park and recreation
lands has just been completed for pub-
lication in another national magazine,
probably in June. This kind of national
publicity, I am sure you will agree, is
worthwhile for the recreation move-
ment.

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Di-
rector, National Recreation Asso-
ciation.

||||l|lll|lll||llllllllll|||ll|||ll||||||lll||||l||llllllllllllllllllllll|||||ll||||||l||||l||lll|||l|||lll||||||ll|||l|||||||lll||l||

JUNEis
National Recreation Month

iIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIII

 

werre FOR.
LITERATURE

 

Rugged Aircraft Girder Construction,
Unequaled in Design, Durability and

Performance by any board built toda

y.

Exciusive International Distributors

“AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.

WORLD'S lARGESI’ MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK. RICNIC. PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND°DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

 

“asst: rm NBA/r]ng
5.0.3.52 l‘ Multi-Purpose
°""’ 3 lb" ALUMINUM
“22.35.”; STANDARD
In W 65
"'9 ‘s‘i'é'i IZWMS/
Adiuslob'. j. ' indoi:.;:h: for
Eyeball; o vaurr mt o nommran

0 TENNIS 0 PADDLE TENNIS

0 HIGH JUMP 0 TETHERBALI.

./ Official specifications
./ Lightweight

  
 
 

Indoor
Base Ploto
only 9 lbs.

./ No maintenance
./ Six different models

BASKETBALL
STEEL CHAIN
NETS

Alto Featuring Jayfro’r Custom Built
New and Improved!

1/ PADDLE TETHERBALL SETS

Revolutionary and Exciting New!

1/ SHUFFLEBOARD SETS

with “RUBBER CUSHIONED" DISCS
° Sand for Free Catalog 0

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. RC, Box 1065. NEW lONDON, CONN.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

./ Easy to install and move

3 Years Guarantee!
outdoors or indoors

69

Editorial

New H orizons

70

I:‘ j
3" \--'
l I“:

o ‘41-'-

T. R. Alexander

for Camping . . . . . .

THE HORIZON is as far as one can see in one direction. There are no new directions but there are
distances that most of us have never seen or traveled. The ability to see new horizons is depend—
ent upon moving up to higher ground or changing one’s point of view.

The U. S. Oflice of Education reports that eleven million more children will be added to the pres-
ent thirty-nine and a half million now attending United States schools in the next.ten years. Com-
munities already hard pressed to meet educational demands face, in the next decade, an unprecedented
challenge with resources of money, personnel and facilities far from adequate to maintain even ex-
isting educational standards. Citizens must call upon public and voluntary agencies in recreation and
camping to supplement their best efforts and deploy the total resources of the community in accordance
with community needs and in the light of the functions each is best fitted to perform.

The crisis that appears on the horizon in the U. S. school system calls for professional educators,
camping and recreation leaders to understand each other’s points of view and programs, and to co-
operate in programs of teaching and guided learning that will provide, in addition to knowledge, the
development of .a variety of interests, skills and appreciations in the major areas of human living.

Education, recreation and camping are not separate and unrelated movements or programs but
rather interrelated parts of one common concern with the development of better human persons, which
is, in turn, the chief concern of the whole organization of our society that we call dcmocracy.

Education has been defined as “a continuing process whereby the individual is lcd on by interest
from one experience to another in such a way that he acquires the knowledge, skill, habits and appreci-
ations which will mean the greatest enrichment of his life.”

Out of seventy-five years experience organized camping has many contributions to make. Resident
camping, which involves living together for twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, provides a unique
opportunity to teach the techniques of democratic community living, to learn the self-disciplines that
come with taking care of one’s self in a wilderness environment. There are the values that come with
the development of hobby interests, crafts, sports, woodcraft, health and physical fitness, and the un-
derstanding of nature where the camp situation provides a suPerior setting.

Persons come to accept valuc out of thc cxperienccs of life, not because someone tells them how
fine they are, but through discovery in their own everyday relationships with others. The controlled,
wholesome, democratic, creative setting of a modern camp aflords, as few experienccs outside the home
can, many opportunities for relationships with others which call forth these values.

The postwar ycars have brought expanding camping horizons in many directions. Thc nunlbcr,
enrollment and kinds of resident camps have shown a marked increase until, today, more than five mil-
lion children are enrolled in the nearly thirteen thousand camps in our country.

Extension of camping was for many years a concern of the voluntary welfare agency and the pri-
vate entrepreneur. An increasing number of parents, many of them campers themselves during their
youth, educators and citizens generally are solicitous concerning the cxtcnsion of camping opportuni-
ties to more and more young people. ‘

Beginning in the early days of World War [1, public schools evidenced an interest in making camp-
ing a part of every child’s educational experience, and each succccding year has scen the devclopnlent
of new school camping programs. Interest in school camping is widespread and considerable planning
'and experimentation is under way.

Church-sponsored camps represent one of thc fastcst growing areas of camping, with national lead-

ers of all faiths recognizing the obligations and opportunitics to strengthen their distinctive programs
through camping.

 

MR. ALEXANDER is president of the American Camping Association, Martinsnilic, Indiana.

.  RECREATION

Family camping is a third rapidly deve10ping phase of camping that gives father, mother and chil-
dren the experience of outdoor living in an organized resident camp, planned specifically for that pur-

pose or adapted for family use before or after the children’s camp season. ma
Camping for handicapped children and camping for older persons has increased many fold dur- 
ing the past ten years.  ,
Day camping presents still another fast growing trend in camping. With an emerging differentia- 
tion between play groups and building-centered summer-fun clubs, day camping places a primary em-  
phasis on taking advantage of an outdoor setting and camping skills. This phenomenal growth of day 11'
camping has received great stimulus in suburban communities where parents, schools, churches and  (‘2;
public au5pices have accelerated opportunities for younger children to enjoy an introduction to a camp- 
1ng experlence. gig-,1:
Another expanding horizon in camping has been the increased year-round use of camping facilities.  
Camping is no longer limited to an eight-week summer vacation period, as new facilities are designed £35., '13;
for use throughout the year, over weekends, and during vacation periods, with programs built around :3 
winter sports, conservation, hunting, fishing and other seasonal activities. £53., 
In the early 1930’s, a systematic and cooperative effort to formulate and apply standards to every  l gal?
aspect of camping began. Under leadership of the American Camping Association, standards for both $153.,”
resident and day camps have been established. They deal with personnel, program, site, facilities, equip- .55;
ment, health, sanitation and safety. The raising of camp standards marks another expanding horizon in $5, 
better camping. Sectional leadership-training workshops and improved pre-camp and in-service training  
programs have implemented higher camp leadership standards to produce older, more mature and better $3, + ;
trained camp leadership. _ 05???
A final expanding horizon in camping can be found in the increasing acceptance of a philosophy 5‘1.
that camp life must be developed around the personal welfare and growth of the individual camper and l 
that a real camping experience can be lost in a mass of overplanned schedules, activities imported from 
school and playground, and the requirements of an intensive competitive and award system. 
Camping, at its best, is a children’s world, a world of fun and adventure with those of his kind, a 
simple environment in which he expresses himself naturally. Led by high interest he moves from experi- 

ence to experience, acquiring knowledge, skills, experience in a community of intimate fellowship and
shared living, enriched through the guidance of understanding leadership. I

Long Beach Beckons -—f> SEPT. 30-0CT. 4

1957 NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

 

The invitatioyj is extended and the welcome mat is ter L. Scott; Dorothy B. Taaffe; and Robert W. Crawford.
being readied as Long Beach, California, gets set for (566 RECREATION, February 1957, Page 44o)

the 1957 National Recreation Congress. Headquarters hotels will be The Lafayette and The Wil-
' ton, both within walking distance of the Long Beach Mu-

This year the Congress is being sponsored by the National , nicipal Auditorium, which will be the focal point of the

Recreation Association, American Recreation Society, Cali- Congress for registration, exhibits, and meetings. This fabu-
fornia Recreation Society, County of Los Angeles Depart- lous building is located in a fourteen-acre park which juts
ment of Parks and Recreation, and Long Beach Recreation out into a lagoon enclosed by famed Rainbow Pier—and sar-
Commission———with the cooperation of the College Recrea- rounded by the blue Pacific Ocean and miles of sandy beach.
tion Association, Council for the Advancement of Hospital To combine pleasure with business, there are many re-
Recreation, and Federation of National Professional Organ- nowned places of interest all within an hour’s journey from

izations for Recreation, and the assistance of the State of Long Beach—high spots such as Hollywood and Los An-
California Recreation Commission. Certainly, with all these geles; Disneyland, Marineland, and Laguna Beach; Knott’s
top organizations working together to make the Congress .Berry Farm; the Griffith Park Observatory; Pasadena Rose
program the major event of the year in the recreation field, Bowl and Santa Anita Race Track, the Mission at Capis-
attendance is a “must” on the agenda of all those sincerely trano; plus many others. Banquets, tours and social activi-

concerned about recreation. ties will be, as usual, features of the Congress program.

Members of the Congress Executive Committee are: Check the dates—SEPTEMBER 30—OCTOBER 4—on your
Joseph Prendergast, chairman; J. Earl Schlupp, vice-chair- calendar NOW . . . and watch RECREATION for additional
man; William Frederickson, Jr.; Norman S. Johnson; Wal- Congress news each month. I

MARCH 1957 71

 

) LATEST DEVELOPMENTS IN ENCROACH-
MENT. The dilemma caused by project-
ed federal highways as well as by high-
pressure building locally, and other
problems regarding land for recreation
or parks today—which are affecting
every community—will be discussed in
the June issue of RECREATION.

) 100% AFFILIATION! With the recent
affiliation of the North Carolina Recre-
ation Society, every existing state rec-
reation'society or association is now
aleiated with the NRA. Forty-three
states currently have local organizations
and we hope to see groups organized in
the remaining states which do not as
yet hve their own professional societies.

3

b A BOOKLET 0F MAPS, Camping M ops,
USA, indicates major camping areas in
each of the forty-eight states. It can be
obtained through National Campers
and Hikers Association, or from the

authors, Glenn and Dale Rhodes, Box
162, Upper Montclair, New Jersey.

) IF YOU WANT TO SET UP A WEATIIER
STATION in your camp, you might like
to look over the pamphlet, Something
About the Weather. It is compiled by
and available from James E. O’Brien,
Western Pennsylvania Section, Ameri-
can Camping Association, 200 Ross
Street, Pittsburgh 19, for fifteen cents.

) ELEVEN THOUSAND JOB REFERRALS
were made by the National Recreation
Association during 1956. The number
of recreation executive positions reach-
ed a new high of one hundred and eight.

,Salaries ranged from $4,000 to $10,000,
with a median of $5,000.

) FOR CHILDREN’S BOOK WEEK, this
year, November 17-23, the slogan will
be one which was winner in arecent con-
test—“Explore with Books.” It is inter-
esting that for 1956 Book Week in the
Netherlands, the theme was “Indians,”
and American children’s books on In-
dians———in translation—were featured.
Many children’s libraries were trans-
formed into teepees and wigwams.

72

) NATIONAL WILDLIFE WEEK, March'

17 to 23, is sponsored annually by the
National Wildlife Federation and its

state aHiliates. Purpose: to gain public
appreciation of the fact that, to “Keep
America Beautiful,” we must protect
and manage wisely our national re-
sources—our waters, forests, soils and
wildlife.

This year, Wildlife Week emphasizes
the importance of providing adequate
living places for animals, always such
an important part of our American
scene and an addition to the beauty and
enjoyment of our outdoor areas. The
tens of millions of people who enjoy
hunting and fishing and visits to our
parks, forests and wildlife refuges can-
not help but be interested in this sub-
ject

) A STUDENT GROUP HEALTH STUDY
PLAN is announced by the American
Medical Association magazine, Today’s
Health. A free set of monthly discus-
sion topic questions, prepared by well-
known educators, has been prepared for
each issue. Further details can be ob-
tained by writing to Today’s Health,
American Medical Association, 535
North Dearborn Street, Chicago 10.

)SONC SLIDES AVAILABLE. National
Studios, 145 West 45th Street, New
York 19, one of the few remaining
sources for song slides, is discontinu-
ing this service. The over ten thousand
song slides in stock will be sold at ten
cents each—less than cost. If you use
or need slides for your community
sings, here’s a chance. Order direct
from the company and specify size,
either 2 by 2 inches or 31/2 by 4 inches.

) TIIERE IS A GREAT DEAL OF CONTRO-
VERSY as to whether or not operators of
power boats should be licensed, in view
of today’s great increase in the number
of small pleasure craft and the conges-
tion in many waters. If the answer is
“Yes,” what qualifications should be re-
quired for a license? Since July 1956,
the Committee on Merchant Marine and
Fisheries of the U. S. House of Repre-
sentatives has been conducting a nation-

wide study of recreational boating
under the chairmanship of Representa-
tive Herbert C. Bonner of North Caro-
lina. It is giving serious consideration
to this matter and to what legislation
should be in order;

) DO YOU CONDUCT A RIFLERY PRO-
GRAM? If so, please let us know about

_ it. We would like to carry a “what’s

doing” article on this subject in our
September issue, if possible. Send us
about two hundred words and a picture
that we can share with others!

) THE 84TH ANNUAL FORUM of the Na-
tional Conference on Social Welfare
will be held in Philadelphia May 19-24.
Some one hundred and twenty-five
meetings of separate welfare organiza-
tions will be included. For further in-
formation, write to National Confer-

ence on Social Welfare, 22 West Gay
Street, Columbus 15, Ohio.

) REMEMBER JUNE IS NATIONAL REC-
REATION MONTII! Watch your NRA
Membership Letters for program ideas!

) APRIL IS USO MONTH, and is so
designated as a reminder to the Ameri-
can people of the need for continued
appreciation and support for our youth
in the armed services. As it has from
the beginning, USO continues to bring
to the serviceman that important home-
away-frOIn-llome, and the same sort of
social, religious, recreation and educa-
tion programs available to him in his
own hometown.

 

The Drag Strip Check

The check on hot rods, conducted by
the National Safety Council, as men-
tioned on page 463 of the December
1956 issue of RECREATION, is complet-
ed. Nearly four hundred replies were
submitted from forty-eight states. Based
upon this the council has made the fol-
lowing recommendations on hot-rod-
ding and drag racing:

The National Safety Council opposes speed
contests. Since speed violations are so often
involved in trafIic accidents, the National
Safety Council cannot condonc speeding even
in the name of competition.

The Council feels that public interest would
be bettcr served if the energy and cnthusiasm
now devoted to drag racing were channclled
into more constructive activities. Economy
runs, driver clinics and leadership in traflic
safety programs are examples of dcsirable
outlets for interest in automobiles and driver
ability.

Although clubs known by the general term
“hot rod" often engage in many worthwhilc
activities it is apparent that the chief purpose
of such organizations is promotion of racing
events.

The National Safety Council thcrcfore rcc-
ommcnds that traffic authorities and safety
organizations refrain from endorsing, support-
ing, or participating in speed events. I

RECREATION

What are Today’s Campers

Eugene L. Swan, Jr:

IT WILL BE easier this summer to find
a camp that teaches a child French,
dancing, or spelling than one where he
will experience the irreplaceable lessons
of the wilderness. Baseball, which can
be played in the midst of a roaring city,
will OCCUpy ten thousand more hours
than forest travel, and miles of motion
picture film (most of it second-rate)
will come between campers and the real
thing around the campfire. By sum-
mer’s end only a comparative handful
will have slept in the Open for more
than a few nights or experienced any
more campfire cookery than that sub-
urban treat, the cook-out.

Well, what of it? Our camps teach
many things_ and teach them well:
swimming and sports, sailing and ten-
nis, riflery, nature, crafts, and horse-
back riding. What more can be asked?
It is the child’s vacation and the de-
cision is left up to him. If he wants
movies, radio, and the mechanical and
competitive amusements of our times,
why deny him?

But we do deny him! We deny him
something of inestimable value, some-
thing a camp can do hetter than any-
thing else.

George Washington grew up a long
time ago in a world very different from
ours, but he possessed qualities we still
value, that we hope to see blossom in
our children: serenity in the face of
disaster; courage with modesty; ut-
most self-reliance joined with utmost
respect for others; unshakeahle deter-
mination and practical idealism.

Where did this great leader get his
character? Samuel Eliot Morison, his-
torian and author of a penetrating
essay, “The Young Man Washington,”
writes: “He had the advantage of a dis-
cipline that few of us can get today. We
are born in crowded 'cities and attend
crowded schools and colleges. We take
our pleasure along crowded highways
and in crowded places of amusement. . .
. . . What our New England forebears

MARCH 1957

7%6édc‘x9?

learned from the sea. . . . Washington
ilearned from the wilderness.”

It is true, of course, that the oppor—
tunity to learn in the trackless class-
rooms of the “University of the Woods”
is gone forever. But we still have a
school with vast resources that can
teach us if we will allow it to. Even
today in pepulated New England,
alone, there are more than twenty-one
million acres of forest all within a day’s
drive of our back doors. Not only are
these millions of acres a great natural
resource, but also a spiritual one which
is ready to teach whoever goes to these
forests in the right frame of mind. The
lessons will be the same as those once
taught Washington, and which for over
a hundred years were the hirthright of
every American.

But we must go into the woods to find
ourselves, not to escape ourselves. More
Americans are spending more time in
outdoor recreation than ever hefore.
We go skiing on crowded slopes, allow-
ing ourselves to be hauled up by ma-
chine. We fish restlessly from place to
place. We hunt so carelessly that we
only maim the game and sometimes kill
each other. We foul picnic spots and
lake shores with refuse and hroken
bottles. We set up public-address sys-
tems in our campsites.

Who is at fault? No one -—-—- and
everyone. All of usmparcnts, camp
leaders, children—have let ourselves
lose our way in a jungle of competitive
skills. Too many have lost the know-
how of woodcraft, and interest in it.

What can we do? The first thing is
courageously to get rid of many things
we consider necessary. It would be
foolish, of course, to rip out a lighting
system, and, yet, let us consider that
without it we are more apt to go to bed
earlier, enjoy more sunrises. Without
it we are not tempted to fall- back on
radio and motion pictures for recrca-
tion, and are thus led to discover for-
gotten inner sources of creativity.

 

To explore the world of nature and its
secrets, know the fields and hills, is
the birthright of every American boy.

The remedy lies always on the side
of simplification, of less equipment, not
more, of tightening standards and les-
sening competition as an end in itself.
And it has already proved itself.

The state of Maine, for example, has
a program for boys and girls that has
been in operation, without fanfare, for
several years. In it, children as young
as fourteen may take an annual three-
day field trial in woodcraft. Their
judges skilled woodsmen and
guides; and those who pass the tests
receive a certificate as a “Junior Guide”
from the governor of the state. More
than one boy or girl has come out of
this experience, whether certified or
not, with a visible growth in character.

Another New England camp has
taken on the exacting responsibility of '
maintaining a part of that remarkable

are

cooperative venture, the Appalachian
Trail, a footpath which runs for two
thousand miles from Maine to Georgia,
and is the work of volunteers.

Parents must be willing to take a
stand for honest values against showy
equipment and programs, lazy, beach-
club months of idleness, and get-rich-
quick summer jobs. Directors and gov-
erning boards must reassess the pur-
poses for which their camps are run,
and even government itself must recog-
niZe what we are missing. I

Condensed and reprinted with permis-

sion from “George Washington Learned

Here,” The Educational Register, 1955-
1956. MR. SWAN is director of Pine
Island Camp, Belgrade Lakes, Maine.

73

 

The
Personal Touch

in
Day Camping

Patrick J. Carolan

Campers are offered experiences that parallel, in many ways, those
of resident camps. The program is planned to meet their needs.

K.

Is this possible with large groups, in a non-resident set-
ting? This is the story of an. unusual private day camp.

THE personal touch—evidenced by a genuine interest in
and concern for the growth and happiness of a given
boy or girl—is assumed to be an integral part of the philo-
sophy of well-organized resident camps. The overnight
camp setting provides round-the-clock opportunities for re-
alizing this goal. Twenty-four hour responsibility makes
for closer personal contact between the administrator, staff,
and camper. However, the day camp can also offer warm
personal contacts.

In the child’s eye, the professional staff person reprcscnts
his parents, teacher, or favorite uncle during camp. Rare
is the counselor who has not felt the warmth and dcvotion
of a child’s response to an interested approach. No expcri-
enee can ethically be overlooked, therefore, which might
benefit the child physically, emotionally, mentally and
socially.

This is consistent with the social purpose inherent in the
modern concept of camp administration. Hedley S. Dimock
states, “This sense of public duty and social responsibility
takes priority over personal interest (of administration)
or economic gain . . . This means that he (the camp director)
will not cnroll any camper unless therc is a reasonable ex-

Camp Baumann operates day camps on two sites,
Oceanside and Merrick, Long Island, New York.
Total area encompasses twenty-three acres. Camp en-
rollment for 1956 totaled one thousand boys and girls

ranging in age from three to twelve years. Facilities
are exeellcnt. The children are transported to and
from camp daily by bus. The camp day is from 9:00
A.M. to 4:15 RM.

741

 

peetation that the camp is equipped to meet the camper’s
needs.”*

The discriminating parent is becoming increasingly
aware of his ,child’s need for individual attention and op-
portunity for growth, above and beyond a halanced dict,
adequate physical facilities and equipment, and careful
group programing.

Is it feasible, then, for the administrators and owners
of large day camps to work toward the attainment of this
worthy goal? Their situation is very different. Practical
limitations in terms of concentrated time, continuity of
contact, and other factors distinguishing thc typical day
camp from the overnight experience, makc tllc problem a
dillieult one. The challenge is sufficient to tax the ingenuity
of the most conscientious day camp owner. In view of this,
it is unusual and unique to find thc “personal touch” as the
guiding thcrne motivating the administration of a large and
thriving day camp.

Camp Baumann, with sites at Oceanside and Merrick,
Long Island, New York, is a private co-educational day
camp exemplifying this approach. A personal interest in
each campcr permeatcs the atmosphere of the camp. Be-
ginning with the initial inquiry by an interested parcnt, the
permanent personnel dedicate themselves before, during,
and after the season to knowing the camper as an individual
personality. This attitude is transmitth to thc summer

“‘ From Administration of the rllodern Camp. llcdlcy S. Dimock,
Editor. Association Press, 19-18, page 269. $4.00.

DR. CAROLAN is a member of the department of health and
physical education at Brooklyn College, Brooklyn, New
Yorh, and an assistant supervisor at Camp Baumann, Mer-

rick, N e10 York.

RECREATION

staff with the ultimate aim of providing the best possible
communal experience for the boys and girls in a pack or
group best suited to their mutual needs.

Nor are efforts to secure the personal touch limited to
the eight-week sunlmer camping period. In this respect,
there is perhaps an advantage lacking in the resident camps,
in that extra-season visitation is convenient. The central
location and accessibility of the camp in relation to clien-
tele makes possible a year-round, open-door policy for re-
newal of acquaintances, pleasant reminiscing, dissemination
of information, tours of the grounds, discussion relative to
policy, plans, or improvements, and the all-important
parent-child-administrative evaluation of the individual
camper in relation to the total experience. The camp’s offi-
ces are open all year and the permanent staff (secretaries,
program director, owners) is available full time throughout
the year for the above purposes.

An individualized program requires serious, continual
thought, perpetual evaluation, and purposeful planning.
Specifically, many things are done in a conscious effort to
implement the personalized approach. We, at Camp Bau-
mann, feel that our efforts are very much worthwhile. The
results are obvious where they really count—the needs of
children are being met; they have fun.

Here are some of our ways of approaching this idea:

Year-Round Efforts (Off-Season)

1. Birthday cards with camp motif are sent to each
camper.

2. The camp newspaper is sent four times a year—keep-
ing campers and parents up-to-date on camp developments,
counselor doings, and so on.

3. An annual camp reunion is held. In 1956, during
Christmas holidays, .a roller-skating party was held in a
local skating arena.

4. It’s a small world. In suburban communities chance
meetings, just about anywhere, are an occasion for “camp

talk.”

Enrollment Procedures

1. Each new camper is met personally.

2. Invitations are extended to visit the camp several
times prior to the opening of the season to become familiar
with the camp environment and meet permanent staff.

3. An individualized file card is maintained for each
camper. All pertinent data is noted for referral and
guidance.

Pre-Canlp Preparation

1. At staff orientation sessions, the need for giving indi-
vidual attention to each child is explained and stressed.

Adventures can he found
via the water—be it on
pond, lake or stream.
Boating enables the camp
to take off for magic lands.

2. A handbook containing details of camp operation and
philosophy is given to each staff member as a self-study

guide.

Homogenous Grouping

1. Children are grouped according to age and maturation
level. Age differences within groups amount to a three-to-
four-month maximum.

2. Youngest groups (three to five years) are mixed.
Groups ranging from five through twelve are separated ac-
cording to sex.

3. Groups number from ten to twelve children.

4. Shortly after beginning of camp, groups are revised
to better meet needs of certain children.

5. Each group is assigned a counselor who remains with
that group for the duration of the camp experience.

6. A supervisor is in charge of every seven to eight
groups. As a matter of policy he, too, keeps a record. of
individual notes pertaining to children within his jurisdic-
tion and follows through upon recommendations.

Individualized Health Praetices

1. Medical examination of each camper plus a doctor’s
certificate of health is a must.

2. A camper absent three or more days must furnish a
doctor’s statement of health before readmittance to camp.

3. Each camper has a cumulative medical file upon which
all pertinent data is listed. Heights and weights are checked
at the end of camp to note progress made.

4. Individual diets or modifications of regular meals are
adhered to if at all possible. The nurse assumes responsi-
bility for this in cooperation with the dietician. w

Camp projects call for initiative, stir the im-
agination. What child can resist a tree house?

\. ' '



    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

 

 

Although in a heavily popnlated area, camp’s physical
facilities offer plenty of space and a rustic atmoSpherc
for many lively youngsters, ages from three to twelve.

5. As a matter of policy, the camp nurse follows up all
cases coming to her attention. Parents are kept informed
by phone or hy the bus counselor. Parents are queried re-
garding any camper absent three or more days. Owners
personally check through on all prolonged absentees.

Camp Operation (Individualized)

1. Program is planned to meet the interests and capaci-
ties of various age groups. Similar groups participate to-
gether. Adjustments are made to accommodate younger
groups and, at same time, fulfill their desire to emulate
older children—batting off a tee in baseball, using lowcr
baskets in basketball, separate and appropriate facilities for
youngest groups, and so on. Instructors teach all organized
activities, enabling counselors to concentrate upon indivi-
dual progress and growth through the medium of the physi-
cal or cultural activity. Observation of the child’s reaction
to varied activities helps the counselor to understand com-
petencies possessed or needed hy members of his group.

2. Facilities and equipment in general are geared to meet
the needs of age groups involved.

Personal Guidance (Adjustment Prohlcins)

1. Although tuition refund insurance is available, every
effort is made to discourage “dropouts.” This policy pro-
vides one of the most fertile areas for exercising the “per-
sonal touch.” Problem cases; involving temporary adjust-
ment difliculties, in some school and camp situations, are
often handled via the path of least resistance. Dropping a
child seldom solves the problem. We make every effort to
work out a solution acceptable to all—particularly the camp-
er. It is not unusual for the owners, director, supervisor,
counselor, and nurse to confer with a given child at a time
of diflieulty. Patient investigation, firmness when required,
and a variety of approaches by trained adults are suflicicnt
a great majority of the time. Occasionally, parent-owncr
conferences are advisable. In some instances consultation
with professional people in the community (school 1sz-
chologist, family doctor, and others) is arranged for the
purpose of gaining insight into the most effective approach
toward adjustment. Cllaraeteristieally, those children with

76

adjustment difliculties become our staunchest friends when
the problem is ironed out.

2. Each counselor receives a pocket-size book within
which he records all significant information relative to each
child within his group. This includes daily progress re-
ports, parental instruction, health notes, and so on. These
reports are checked periodically by supervisors. Problem
cases are discussed.

3. Birthday parties are held during camp hours (at snack
time) for each camper whose birthday occurs during the
season.

4. All staff members are addressed as “Uncle” or “Aunt.”
This creates a “one big happy family” atmosphere. Chil-
dren respond enthusiastically to this approach. It carries
over beyond camp many times. Chance meetings during
the off-season begin with a “Hi, Uncle John” greeting—with
nary a relative in sight!

5. Rosalind G. and Robert E. Baumann, owners of Camp
Baumann, attribute the unique success of their venture to the
“personal touch.” They know that a child in a camp must
have fun, a parent must know that the child’s best interests
are being served. Camp ownership becomes a rewarding vo-
cation, in fact akin to an avocation, when “peOple” come
first and genuine fun prevails. They make it a point to
know the campers. An attempt is made to talk to each child
individually and informally during the season, and on the
last day of camp as part of “tepee talks.” They often take
part in swim sessions during the day, ride horseback with
groups, and engage in impromptu challenge matches in the
various activities.

6. The boys and girls are given numerous opportunities
to exercise initiative and imagination in camp projects———tlle
newspaper, camper shows, special trips, designing of tepecs,
planning of non-scheduled hours are examples of special
events involving counselor-camper planning.

The permanent staff gives much thought to the various
practices cnumcrated above. Evaluation is continuous, as
it should be. The search for new insights, better ways of
getting closer to the ideal approach is constant. One thing
appears certain: complacency can never be the order of thc
day for day camping. I

liaselmll diamond. Daily instruction and practice is
carried on in some thirty-one athletic, social, creative,
manna] and nature activities with many special ments.

 

Recnmnox

 

Silver Lake Camp is an island camp, reached by a bridge, and therefore
provides ample opportunity for boating and many waterfront activities.

ILVER LAKE CAMP for the Mentally
Retarded is in Minnesota’s lakc
country, near Minneapolis. Its five
nicely wooded acres are completer
surrounded by water, for this is an
island camp. It is'here that mentally
retarded children and adults come to-
gether to work, play, and grow into
better individuals. Herc they become
real campers.

Come across the bridge from the
mainland and take a closer look at the
island. You will see five cabins, three
on one finger of the island and two on
the other finger .—providing a natural
geographic separation of the sexes.
Each cabin has running water and toi-
let facilities. There are additional ac-
commodations for staff members. A
dining hall seats forty-two, and 'a main
lodge offers ample space for inside ac-
tivities.

A play area for softball, basketball,
volleyball, badminton, croquet, also
equipped with swings and a trapeze
bar, is located between the cabins. In
the recreation hall are table games, a
piano, and craft supplies.

Waterfront facilities on the main-
land make swimming and boating two
of the more popular activities. At the
camp’s disposal are a splendid sandy
beach with a dock, diving boards, and

MR. LARSON is a school counselor, a
certified psychologist, and has been di-
rector of Silver Lake Camp for the past
two years.

MARCH 1957

six aluminum boats. Learning to swim
or row can be a real thrill and is part
of the process of becoming a good
camper.

Silver Lake Camp for the Mental-
ly Retarded came into being as the rc-
Sult of the hopes, dreams and concrete

plans of a number of people and or-_

ganizatiqns keenly interested in the to-
tal problem of the mentally retarded.
The Salvation Army provided the ini-
tial interest and offered to donate the
campsite with its many fine facilities,
and furnished all the food and the
services of a cook. A camp committee
Opportunity Work-
shop of Minneapolis, Hennepin County
Welfare, the Salvation Army, and the
Minneapolis Association for Retarded
Children were represented. Through a
series of meetings many problems were
discussed and solved—camp fees, trans-
portation, staffing, program.

Money was received from various
sources to meet expenses. Camp fecs
were set at ten dollars per camper pcr
session for those able to pay. Those
from institutions were invited on a
non-paying basis. Some children whose
parents could not pay were sponsored
by business concerns or individuals.
The local association for the mentally
retarded made a substantial contribu-
tion, as did the PTA group of a local
private school for the retarded.

Campers came from Opportunity
Workshop, lnc., a training center and
workshop for the retarded youth and

was organized.

Mentally
Retarded

at
Camp

Community teamwork
is vital . . .

Roland Larson

young adult; Fraser School, a private
school for retarded children in Minne-
apolis; the state institutions at Cam-
bridge, Faribault, and Owatonna; and
public school special classes in Minne-
apolis. Their chronological ages ran
from eleven to fifty-one. The youngest
group, from the public schools, ranged
from eleven to fifteen. The other
groups were almost entirely in their late
teens and early adulthood. Intelligence
level ranged roughly from IQ scores
in the forties to approximately eighty.
There were no so-called “custodial
cases.”

One of the first tasks was to pro-
vide a feeling of security for each camp-
er in his new surroundings. Rather
detailed orientation to the camp, the
staff, and to the other campers was an
important part of this process. Five
simple basic camp rules were explained
in detail and repeated until thoroughly
understood. Also basic in the establish-
ment of a secure environment were the
staff members" attitudes toward the
campers. Pressures and tensions were
at a minimum.

The camping periods in 1956 ran for
a total of about one month. Three

77

groups of from twenty-three to twenty-
eight campers attended. The young-
est group stayed f our days, while older
groups had a ten-day session. The
younger children from the public
schools were a constant challenge be-
cause of their vitality, lack of experi-
ence, and desire to do things. In con-
trast, the older campers from the state
institutions settled right down. Their
program was planned so there was am-
ple time for chatting, fishing, singing
around the piano, and relaxing in other
ways."

A daily rest period after lunch was
felt to be necessary. Most campers re-
quired a great deal of sleep, particu-
larly when the day included much phy-
sical activity.

Waterfront activities, simple games
and crafts were greatly enjoyed. Eve-
ning programs put on by the campers
included piano, harmonies, dance, vo-
cal numbers, and other entertainment.
The amount and degree of talent was
quite surprising, and the camper’s joy
of performing for the group was strong-
ly evident. The demand for
evening programs was ever present.

Group singing was encouraged, and
a number of camp-type songs were re-
peated frequently enough to be learned
by all. Songs with hand motions proved

1110113

to be most popular. Singing was spon-
after almost
every meal and at all informal get-to-
gethers of the group. Songs could often
be heard while boating, walking to the
_ beach, or getting ready for bed at night.

taneous and occurred

With the younger children stories
before bedtime were pOpular. After a
day packed with activity, these helped
prepare the children for restful sleep.
Most of the stories were at the lower
elementary level. .

Some of the older boys and men par-
ticipated in their first overnight camp-
ing trip. They took real pride in cook-
ing their own meals and pitching their
tents on nearby Turtle island.

Because Silver Lake Camp is an
island camp, it provides for either sep-
aration or integration, in terms of pro-
grams and activities, with an adjacent
mainland camp for normal children.
Many times we wanted our group to be
by itself. On the other hand, a number
of daily activities were carried on with
campers from the mainland camp —-

78

such as flag raising, canteen, and nu-
merous evening programs. This flexi-
bility gave the retarded groups ample
camping experiences with normal
groups, while spending most of their
time in a program specifically designed
for their own needs.

Since the retarded were so often in-
volved in activities with normal groups
from the mainland camp, it was im-
portant that the staff from this other
camp be oriented to the island group.
Under Mrs. Herbert Martin, this orien-
tation was accomplished in such a way
that relationships between island and
mainland campers were smooth and
natural.

The ratio of campers to staff was
about four to one. This favorable ra-
tio gave counselors adequate time to
work with individuals in specific situa-
tions. Closc supervision was often nec-
essary for the physical safety of the
campers. Someone had to see that
those under medication received their
pills regularly; campers subject to sei-
zures often had to be watched closely,
especially while boating and when in or
near the water. Close supervision also
was necessary to preserve the unity and
good feeling of the group, particularly
with the younger campers. Scraps
would arise at the slightest provocation,
partly because of the poor judgment
and lack of control which character-
ized so many younger campers. Hav-
ing ample staff to enable campers to ver-
balize their difficulties proved to bc a
valuable facet of our camp setup.

1. 0n the job

tor/ion if counf:

    

www mm

1. f‘ i I

The training and eXperience of the 1
six staff members was quite diverse.
One counselor was a teacher of thei
mentally retarded in the Minneapolis ‘
public school system and a second- 1
year counselor at the camp; another
was from the field of social work, with
experience in group work, nursery
school, and homebound teaching; a
third had worked as a nurses’ aid and 1
a camp counselor with the retarded for I
a year; and so on. This variety in
staff background often gave fresh and I
interesting insight into the multitudel
of problem situations which arose.

The dynamics of group activity were
always interesting. What was happen-
ing to the individual camper as a mem-
ber of the group was one of our great- i
est concerns. Nightly staff meetings]
helped each staff member grow in sen- ‘
sitivity to individual needs. Observa-
tions and ideas were exchanged con-
stantly. Much information on indivi-l
dual campers was obtained from camp
application blanks and medical examin- I
ation records.

We know that lifelong patterns I
could not be changed in a few days,|
but we did find that progress was made
when concentrated attention was given'
to a particular camper’s problems. it
was a real thrill to watch certain indi- I
viduals progress in behavior, attitudes. l
skills. and self-confidence as they I
achieved new things.

An individual evaluation was lnadeI
of each camper’s experiences and
growth at camp. The areas evaluated
included social, physical and personal
adjustincnt, work habits, and progress '
in art, music and crafts. All members I
of the staff took part in these ratings. I
thereby giving a more composite pic-
ture than any one person would bcl
able to do. Two copies of each evalu-
ation were made, one sent to the in-
stitution, school, or social worker in
charge of the retarded person, the other
copy retained for the camp files.

For communities wishing to initiate
a similar program it should be pointed
out that there are many potential work-
ers whose energy and enthusiasm may .
be tapped to get such a project started. -
Community teamwork is vital. it has '
been the key to the camping sessions I
for the mentally retarded at Silver

Lake. I

RECREATION

 

 
 
 

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

NRA Welcomes and Bids Farewell
Anne L. New and Frank J. Rowe

have recently joined the National Rec-
reation Association headquarters staff.
Miss New, formerly coordinator of Pub-
lic Information Services for the Girl
Scouts of the U.S.A., is replacing David
J. DuBois as director of NRA Public
Information and Education. Mr. Du-
Bois is on leave of absence for an as-
signment as public affairs officer for the
United States Information Service at an
overseas post. Mr. Rowe, previously
with the circulation department of the
Crowell-Collier Publishing Company,
replaces Alfred B. Jensen as head of the
NRA Recreation Book Center. Mr. Jen-
sen is joining the staff of Doug Johnson
Associates, a public relations and ad-
vertising agency in Syracuse, New York,
as general manager.

All-America Cities Awards

Forward strides in recreation brought
awards for five of the eleven municipali-
ties winning honors in the 1956 All-
America Cities Contest, sponsored by
the National Municipal League and
Look magazine. The five cited for rec-
reation progress were:

Anchorage, Alaska, where eXpanding
military bases have helped triple the
local population (11,254 in 1950) in
the last six years. Among the expanded
municipal facilities are new parks, a
municipal auditorium, a library and a
YMCA.

Zanesville, Ohio, where a campaign
against civic apathy led to opening of a
new city park and a clean-up drive
that won it the title of “Cleanest Town
in America” in a nation-wide contest.
Brattleboro, Vermont, where virtually
every civic organization helped achieve
a new park financed by a war memorial

fund and $115,000 bond issue. The local

women’s club developed such an excel-

MARCH 1957

lent picnic area for the park it won an
award in a Community Achievement
Contest sponsored by the National Fed-
eration of Women’s Clubs and Sears
Roebuck Foundation.

Torrance, California, where model plan-
ning is meeting the needs of a popula-
tion (31,834 in 1950) that has quad-
rupled in the last six years. Among
other developments it is vigorously
building new parks. (Torrance’s solu-
tion to the problem of recruiting needed
recreation personnel for its population
influx is explained on page 106 of this
issue.)

Oakland, California, where an extensive
urban renewal program has greatly ex-
panded park and recreation facilities.

Never a Corner so Remote . . .

Recreation is a basic need of even the
most primitive society in the most re-
mote corner of the globe. This is proven
by the dance, drama, religious, arts and
crafts activities presented during an ex-
tremely popular lecture-demonstration
course, impressively entitled “Cross-
Cultural Study of the Leisure Hours of
Man in Remote Regions of the World,”
now being given by the Museum of Nat-
ural History, New York City.

This year the focus is on surviving
aspects of ancient Oriental civilizations
and continuing forms of primitive cul-
tures. Ethnic dance specialists will per-
form dances from Japan and India as

 

 

well as Caribbean dances of African
origin. Special museum fihns will show
life and recreation in the remote reaches
of the Amazon and amOng the Austra-
lian aborigines. '

The course is conducted by C. Bruce
Hunter, superintendent of the museum’s
adult program, with the help of many
guest specialists during the fifteen two-
hour sessions.

Wilderness Adventuring

Two private camp organizations offer
unusual wilderness camping opportuni-
ties for youth:

A camping experience which thor-
oughly explores the wilderness sectors
of America and offers opportunity for
travel camping, sailing, mountaineer-
ing, hiking, pack trips, skiing and ca-
noeing is the pr0gram offered each sum-
mer to boys and girls of high-school age
by the Explorers’ Caravan Trips. For
further information write to: Dr. Rich-
ard E. Stultz, Director, Explorers’ Cara-
van, 965 Lancaster Avenue, Syracuse
10, New York.

Rugged adventures into untouchedx
areas are offered by The Trailsmen
trips for boys of eleven through sixteen.
In addition to trail journeys, these
campers visit government projects, fire-
towers, processing plants and similar
agencies to learn more about the ways
nature and civilization work together
today. For further information write

to: George Thompson, Trip Director,
The Trailsmen, 2600 Willowbrook

Drive, Cincinnati 37, Ohio.

To Fill the Gap

Oddly enough, an economic setback
will mean increased recrcation develop-
ment in the FingeriLakes region of
upper New York State. Forced to de-
ve10p new resources and stimulate busi-
ness because of loss created by drastic

i cutbacks at Sampson Air Force Base on

Seneca Lake, officials of the area are
studying a blueprint to develop the
area as the “playground” of all New
York State. The state commerce com-
missioner has called on business and
civic groups in the area to help expand
park facilities, clean up pollution in the
lakes, improve the area’s already su-
perb fishing and preserve the beautiful
old trees in the cities and villages and
along highways. and»

79

IBM in Recreation
I

The results of a new project initiated
by the Springfield (Ohio) City Coun-
cil will be interesting to watch. The
names and addresses of participants in
nineteen programs sponsored by the
city recreation department were tabu-
lated on IBM cards and a list of over
4,700 names and addresses was.com-
piled. A letter to adults and parents of
participating children will be sent . . . to
make citizens more aware of the year-
round recreation program. . . . Peeple
will be invited to offer their suggestions,
criticisms and comments on the present
program and future activities.

The alphabetical listing of names
will give the recreation department the
first complete check on the total num-
ber of different peeple who are reached
by its recreation program. In addition
to names and addresses, the IBM listing
gives a code number designating the
program in which that particular indi-
vidual took part. As new persons join
activities, these will be added to the
present file. —— From Sounding Board,

Ohio Recreation Association.

High School Photo Contest

Both quantity and quality of entries
received so far in this year’s National
High School Photographic Awards indi-
cate that students are showing an in-
creasing interest in photography. This
year’s contest, the twelfth such annual
affair, {all run through March 31, 1957.
Any student attending daily a public,
.private, or parochial school (grades
nine through twelve) is eligible to sub-
mit photographs. Judging will be done
in four classes: (1) school activities;
(2) peeple (outside of school); (3)
pictorials; and (4-) animals and pets.

As in previous years, a selection of
winning photos will again be collected
into a traveling exhibit available to
schools on loan without charge.

School Building Expenditures

Building expenditures for new public
schools will jump fifty-six'per cent by
1966 predicts the building magazine
Architectural Formn"in its December
issue. Current construction expendi-
tures of $2,500,000,000 will rise over
the next ten years to an annual rate of

$3,900,000,000 in 1966, at which time
“schools will probably just be starting

80

on another round of expansion.”

Projections are based on a 1966
population estimate of 197,000,000
people, and a projected gross national
product in the year of $575,000,000,-
000 (in 1956 dollars).

In a Children’s Hospital

A highly developed recreation pro-
gram is carried on at -the Children’s
Hospital in Cincinnati, Ohio. Staffed
by six full-time workers, this program
offers morning, afternoon and evening
activities. In addition to three people
trained in child development, two in
elementary and art education, and a
trained nurse-aid, some forty volun-
teers do two or three hours’ work twice
a week. A full-time librarian is in
charge of the children’s library, which

has nearly 3,500 books—Chifd Study,
Winter 1956-57.

 

Bicycle Safety Plan

Three out of every four American
youngsters between the ages of six and
fifteen ride a bicycle; every nineteen
minutes one of these youngsters is in-
jured and at least once a day one is
killed—in collisions with automobiles.

To protect these youthful users of
public streets and highways, the Associ-
ation of Casualty and Surety Com-
panies, at the request of state and mu-
nicipal government oflicials throughout

 

the nation, has announced the comple-
tion of a model plan for the organization
and Operation of a bicycle safety pro-
gram—proper education, training and
testing of bicycle riders and the inspec-
tion of bicycles to detect unsafe condi-
tions—on a community level.

The plan is explained in a booklet en-
titled A Community Bicycfe Safety Pro-
gram for use in establishing community
programs. Single copies are available

free of charge from the Accident Pre-
vention Department, Association of

Casualty and Surety Companies, 60
John Street, New York 38.

45,000 New Swimming Pools

An interesting recent New York
Times news note stated: “The swim-
ming pool industry expects to build
45,000 new units this year, a gain
of thirty-six per cent over the 33,000
pools constructed in 1956.

“This prediction was made by Robert
M. Hoffman, president of the National
Swimming Pool Institute. He said that
sales this year would rise to $500,000,-
000 from the total of $325,000,000 in
1956. The figure is based on construc-
tion of new pools, plus equipment for
new and old pools.

“Almost two-thirds of the prospective
45,000 pools will be of the back-yard

variety. . . .”

Bremerton Boating Facilities

Boating enthusiasts in Bremerton,
Washington, (population 30,200) have
a total of sixteen public boat launching
areas on salt and fresh water within a
twenty-mile radius of the heart of the
city. This extensive network of public
boating facilities is the result of coop-
eration hetween state and city govern-
ments. with the assistance of the Brem-
crton Boating Club and marine trade
groups.

Pilna Sqnares Off

More than 20,000 children and adults

have learned square dancing during the
past six years through Arizona’s Pima
County Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment, which has cooperated with the
Pima County Square Dance Committee
in holding classes for beginners and in-
termediate devotees of this activity.
Twelve Monday evening classes are
held each fall, and another.twelve-week
course in the spring, for a total of
twenty-four evenings of instruction
each year. Since its inception in 1950.
volunteer instructors have given a com-
bined total of 6,912 hours of teaching.
“Family Night” square dances, as well
as instruction periods for children and
adults, are also held year-round at sev~
eral centers—From the Pinm County
Parks and Recreation. Department Cen-

eraf Report for 1956. I

RECREATon

   
   

Recreation

at the South Pole

Are these things on your program for young adults, or service pe0ple?

OPERATION DEEPFREEZE iS the

Navy’s name for the expedition
now preparing to spend a winter in the
Antarctic. The seven hundred men in
Deepfreeze will be divided into seven
groups, with some fourteen to two hun-
dred men in each group. Once they
have established their bases and the
winter weather has closed in, each
group will be completely isolated; no
supplies can reach them and their only
communication with each other will be
via radio.

Morale—keeping the men at each
base interested. alert and operating as a
harmonious team—will be vitally im-
portant to the success of the exPedi-
tion as a whole. The virus of boredom
may be as potentially dangerous as
virus pneumonia.

Since a task force wintering over
in the Antarctic usually has an abun-
dance of leisure time, the Navy Bureau
of Personnel asked for suggestions
from veterans of previous expeditions,
as well as from the volunteers for
Deepfreeze. What recreation materials
should be included in the expedition’s
list of supplies and equipment? The re-
sulting compilation has many interest-
ing features. (It should be remembered
that these were not the supplies actu-
ally approved for shipment, but the
items requested by the members of the
expedition or mentioned as worthy of
consideration by others.)

Perhaps most noteworthy is the
heavy emphasis on music. More than

MRS. MCGANN is a member of the NRA

research staff.

MARCH 1957

one thousand albums and single arec-
ords were requested by number and
title, almost evenly divided between
classical 'and popular selections, with a
slight majority asking for popular and
jazz numbers. Selections ranged from
Caruso to Elvis Presley, and from
Ciitterdammerang to My Fair Lady.
Also requested were recorded plays by
Shakespeare, T. S. Eliot and Noel Cow-
ard, such reconstructions of history as
I Can Hear It Now, and Bible readings,
with those by Charles Laughton being
mentioned specifically. Tape record-
ings were listed and the selections men-
tioned followed the same pattern of
classical and popular music, songs as-
sociated with colleges or with religious
worship, poetry .and Bible readings.

The interest in music was by no
means entirely passive. Fourteen in-
struments and lesson books to accom-
pany them were listed, including
drums, harmonica, accordion and elec-
tric organ.

Appreciation of the opportunity for
learning was also apparent in the book
list. Textbooks predominated, virtual-
ly all the books needed to offer a fairly
comprehensive academic, business or
vocational high school or college course
being included. Among the texts men-
tioned were books on journalism and
news reporting; psychology, sociology
and criminology; languages, Japanese,
Chinese, Russian and Portuguese; agri-
culture; auto mechanics and aeronau-
tics; carpentry, masonry and welding;
foremanship and supervision; sales-
manship and advertising.

More than one hundred and fifty

Muriel McGann

books were specifically requested by
title. They included adventure, detec-
tive and crime stories, bi0graphy, his-
tory, philosophy, and a wide variety of
other interest areas. English and for-
eign language dictionaries were listed,
as were an atlas, an almanac, the Ency-
clopaedia Britannica, a complete Shake~
speare, and the Douay and Revised
Standard Versions of the Bible. Comic
books were requested, as well as books
containing arrangements of music for
male quartets and male choruses.
Periodicals were an important part
of this reading list for long winter eve-
nings. Sunday newspapers from New
York, Los Angeles and New Orleans
were mentioned, in addition to popu-
lar weeklies and monthlies such-as The
Saturday Evening Post, The New York-
er, Reader’s Digest, and National Ce-
ographic Magazine; religious, sports
and hobby magazines; service jOlllt-R
nals; how-to-do-it and crossword-puz-
zle magazines. The list also included
the Sears Roebuck catalogue—although
delivery service might pose a serious
problem, even for Sears Roebuck!
Movies are too firme entrencliédiiii
American life to be omitted, regardless
of the distance to the nearest drive-in.
More than one hundred and forty pic-
tures were asked for by name. The ma-
jority were'recent productions but the
following movie classics also were

mentioned: Lon Chaney in The
Phantom of the Opera, Rudolph Valen-

tino in The Son of the Sheik, as well
as Gone with the Wind, The Shape of
Things to Come, Ninotchka and It Hap-
pened One Night. Animated cartoons

. 8]

rounded out ‘the usual movie program.

Since the Antarctic continent is some-
what beyond the range of any existing
television station, some of the group
evidently hoped to keep up with their
favorite programs by reviewing past
episodes. Films of Sergeant Bilko pro-
grams, Dragnet, Robert Montgomery
Presents, The Way and Christopher
Movement productions were listed,
among others.

Hobbies will Hourish at the Deep-
freeze bases if even a small percentage
of the requested supplies can be trans-
ported to them. Among the types of
equipment mentioned were: leather-
working and lapidary kits; metal and
woodworking tools; equipment for
building and operating model planes,
cars, boats and trains, including trans-
“formers and gas or electric motors; ma-
terials for oil and watercolor painting,
and carving; equipment and instruc-
tion. manuals for ham radio stations;

equipment for gunsmithing, Hy tying
and horticulture (the latter to consist

.of one cubic yard of sterile dirt per

gardener, Vigoro, sun-lamp bulbs, a
watering can, and lettuce, carrot and

radish seed).

Less solitary forms of recreation al-
so have a place in the .ideal Antarctic
program. Thirty-one games for two or
more players were named—card games,
carroms, dominoes, mah-jongg and
Monopoly; and more active games,
such as badminton, darts and Ping-
pong. Pool and shufileboard tables
were mentioned, and the devotees of
Lady Luck hoped to woo her with po-
ker chips, dice, roulette wheels and
pinball machines.

The amount of space to be made
available for active sports at the bases
was not specified, but some of the vol-
unteers apparently had high hopes, for
they requested equipment for archery,

baseball, football, golf, softball, and

target shooting, in addition to boxing,
handball, horseshoes, medicine ball,
vollyball, weightlifting and wrestling.

Holidays were not forgotten. Sup-
plies for Christmas and New Year’s
were listed, firecrackers and sparklers
for July Fourth, and enough candles to
decorate a cake for. each man’s birth-
day.

The average recreation director will
never be faced with a supply problem
in which an omission is irrevocable,
but he may still be able to learn some-
thing from this list. If music, hobbies,
sports, the acquisition of knowledge,
and the other activities recommended
or requested for Operation Deepfreeze
could make life tolerable—-—perhaps
even pleasant ——- in the desolate Ant-
arctic winter, surely they should .be
part of the basic program in every
recreation department. I

 

 

 _ g4 ./

“Westward Ho!” will be"tl1e cry in
your camp this summer jl you want
some good fun and adventure in your
program. We provided it by thinking
up a covered-wagon' trip.

'Twenty dollars bought an unused hay
wagon from a local farm. Our eleven-
and tu'elve-year-olds' cut. saplings and
'sdiaked them in water. to Make them pli-
able. The nine- and ten-year-old group

‘82 '

cut saplings with forks in them to attach
on thc wagon to carry pots and pans.
Our teen-agers went at the assemblying
with gusto. They lashed saplings to the
wagon, cut up an old tcnt and covcred
the wagon. The wheels wcre removed
and greased for action.

A nearby farm provided thc horse,
who promptly became a camp character.

"The excitcment, when the trip 'started,

was tremendous. The wagon carried the
supplies and sleeping bags, and the
campers took turns riding in the wagon
and hiking along behind it, pioneer
style. The route was planned by staff
incinbers to take advantage of dirt and
little uscd roads, and the campsite was
close enough so the horse could be re-
turned to the farmer until the group was
ready for thc return journey.

This trip was the first of several using
the wagon, as each group became fasci-
nated with the idea of a covered-wagon
trek.

Though our camp program offers
many kinds of trips, this onc was unique
in that it was carried out in our own
neighborhood. Needless to say, it stim-
ulatcd arts and crafts projects by thc
score, an interest in folk songs, an
awareness of the camp’s environment,
and hours of preparatory program.

\Vc dismantled thc wagon at the end
of the summer and plan to reassemble
it with this ycar’s campers. It will pro-
vide new adventurcs. Try it for your-
selfl—HARVEY G. SEGAL, program. di-
rector, Camp Wehcela, Hartford, h-(aine.
Alan Krigman, an MIT student, one of
the counselors on the covered-wagon
trip, took the photograph. I

RECREATION

Reynold E. Carlson

 

Camping for Tomorrow

WNOQWOMQQOGMWQQQWG @QMWWWWGWWWWWWQMWWWQWQ

PARENTS AND EDUCATORS today recognize the values of
camping for children, and it is now an integral part of
the programs of most youth-serving, education, and recrea-
tion agencies. This recognition is based, at least in part, on
a belief that “the good camp can be one of the most signifi-
cant of educational experiences—an experience that may
profoundly effect the physical, mental, and emotional out-

look of the child.”

Needs for the Future

Acceptance of the values of camping imposes upon camp-
ing leaders the moral responsibility for continuing high
standards of service and providing camping experience for
the future in accordance with needs as they may develop.

Some of the needs for tomorrow’s camps will not differ
from those of today. Children will continue to need love,
adventure, recognition, a sense of “belonging,” achievement,
self-expression, and physical activity—unchanging needs
which are a part of the very core of life. Camps are ideally
designed to meet these needs through their small groups,
their favorable camper-counselor relationships, their twen-
ty-four-hour-a-day and seven-day-a-week programs, their
basic relationship to the out-of-doors, and their infinite vari-
ety of activities. Meeting these needs of children must always
be their first responsibility.

Camping needs through the coming years will be affected,
however, by external aspects of our changing world. One
of the most important of these is the tremendous growth in
population.

Experts are now predicting a population in America by
1975 of two hundred to two hundred and ten million per-
sons. In recent years, camp attendance has been growing at
a faster rate than has the population. We now have camp
facilities and programs to provide for eleven or twelve per
cent of our child population between the ages of eight and
fourteen. Because of the growing place of camping in ’the
life of youth, we may well need to provide camping for fif-
teen or twenty per cent of this age group by 1975. Consider-
ing this possibility in the face of the rising population, there
is reason to believe that summer camps will need to expand
by thirty or forty per cent during the next eighteen years.

Scarcity of Campsites. As population expands, it becomes

MR. CARLSON is professor of recreation at the University of
Indiana, Bloomington, Indiana.

MARCH 1957

increasingly difficult to find desirable campsites which
provide the acreage, isolation, and program possibilities
needed in camp. Camp agencies will encounter increased
competition for land from those who seek private vacation
sites, from resort promoters, and from commercial enter-
prises of various kinds. Therefore camps anticipating ex-
pansion should secure land as soon as possible. Man’s
ingenuity cannot manufacture more of this basic resource.’

One acre out of every ten in the United States today is
under the auspices of government agencies. Camping auL‘
thorities may have to depend increasingly on these public
land-holding agencies for the use of park-forest land which
they may lease for long or short-term camping.

Outdoor Education and Camping. Outdoor education is

recognized as a problem of education to help people to

learn to use outdoor resources wisely, to understand bio-

logical principles, and to act as intelligent ’citizens in de-

termining policies on resource use. In the schools it may

take the form of classes, experiences in camps, or it may.
involve use of the out-of-doors on field trips in science andir'
conservation “courses as a laboratory of instruction.

This will undoubtedly-have an impact on organized camp-
ing. More children will, as a result of outdoor education,
be interested in camping and betterprepared for it; camp-3
ing programs can be more easily oriented toward outdoor“?
living and learning; leaders with outdoor-related skills will,I

be more numerous; and the understanding of camping-

values will be more widespread. 

_ Increased Regulations. For many years voluntary agenciesl,

and the American Camping Association have been in the?
process of developing and implementing camping stand-
ards. This has done much to improve camping practices.‘
A recent grant from the Kellogg Foundation to the Ameri-
can Camping Association will make possible the improve-
ment of the standards implementation program on a na-
tional basis.

State agencies, particularly boards of health, have in

recent years greatly tightened regulations governing camp,

* operations. About twenty-eight states now have regulations:

governing summer camps, and several states have a licens-
ing system. There is every reason to believe, as years go
by, that the regulation of camping by state agencies will be.
increased, and that parents will learn to evaluate camps in;
terms of their ability to meet standards.

Community Planning. Many communities are now exam-t

83i

 

ining their total camping picture in terms of facilities, costs,
and community responsibility for providing camping serv-
ices. Each should attempt to upgrade its camping program
in the light of present standards.

In any community study, the adequacy of present eamp-
ing services should be considered in terms of present usage.
Facilities and areas should be analyzed in terms of the size
of the camp population, the extent to which they meet health
and safety standards, the program, the leadership, and the
inclusion of all social segments of the community.

Camp population trends as well as trends in the commu-
nity’s child population should serve as a basis for determin-
ing future needs. Many communities and camping agen-
cies will need to secure land and develop master plans even
though actual facility development is postponed for many
years. Consideration should be given to the increased in-
terest of schools in outdoor education and to the phenom-
enal advances in the day camp field. Agencies holding pub-
, lic land, such as parks and forests, should be studied in
terms of the extent to which they can be developed to serve
camping needs.

Leadership. A major problem during recent years has been
the difficulty in securing a sufficient number of mature,
qualified leaders. It arises in part from the various other
summer opportunities for students and.teachers. Many

college stud nts who would like to go to camp cannot afford
to pass by ‘ther opportunities which offer higher incomes.
The number of college courses in camping and the num-

ber of students taking such courses have increased vastly
during recent years.

The New Leisure. Vacations, shorter working hours, high
incomes, and mobility have changed the leisure-time pat-

,tern of the American people. The millions who now use our

public and private lands attest to this fact. This leisure im-
poses a re5ponsibility on camping leaders to teach the arts
of leisure that are outdoor-related. Eighty-five per cent of
our people are not producers of food and fibre but are con-
sumers and users of the outdoor areas. Learning to use
the outdoors wisely and to conserve our forests and wild-
life unimpaired for future generations is a paramount
concern.

Camps must prepare to offer experiences to children
that will train them for leisure, particularly leisure related
to the use and understanding of the out-of-doors. Nowhere
else but in the good home do we find the favorable combi-
nation of circumstances for helping youth grow that we
find in camp. Every child should have the opportunity—at
least onee——-of attending a good camp. The competition of
other activities for a child’s time should never be allowed
to crowd out the unique experience of camping. I

 

 

CHILDREN LEARN tent pitching early, also how to use knife
and hatchet, in Two Rivers, Wisconsin. Above, a group
listens to Eugene Ertman, campcraft specialist. This is a
part of a day-camp program inaugurath last ycar by Fred
H. Reich, former local director of recreation who is now
teaching recreation at Wisconsin State College at LaCrosse.
“The primary aim of day camping,” says Mr. Reich, “should
be toward group experienccs in which children live and
learn together by playing and creating with the simple tools
at hand and the natural gifts of God in the out-of-doors.”
The highly successful’program in the Two Rivcrs day
camp at Point Beach-State Forest stimulatcs nature appreci-

84

Nature Study
in u

Playground Day Camp

ation through a knowledge of and familiarity with many of
its parts———trees, birds, insects, plant life, minerals, and so on.
(Aids for such a program are available from the National
Audubon Society, 1130 Fifth Avenue, New York 28.) Among
specialists conducting last year’s program were an ornitholo-
gist, nature and conservation authority; a geologist, and arts
and .erafts instructor; a campcraft, soils and conservation
specialist; and a compass and nature games instructor.

The camp is under the leadership of the municipal recrca-
tion department, and each Thursday a differcnt playground
in Two Rivers takcs more than seventy-fivc children to thc
camp by bus. Throughout the day, the children learn by sce-
ing, finding, smelling,,hearing, and feeling the handwork of
nature. They may continue these interests on the play-
grounds and in the rccreation ccntcr under supcrvised
leadership throughout the year. I

RECREATION

l

Campsite Selection, Layout and Development

 a t .n

 

9- ‘---.-.~—-_---—-

Three-story lodge, Camp Crystalaire, Michigan. The lodge may include areas
for recreation and dining, kitchen, food storage, lavatories, and Space for oflices.

ONE of the most rapidly growing rec-
reation - educational movements
today is that of organized camping. Ap-
proximately thirteen thousand organ-
ized resident' camps in the United States
—-—and an almost countless number of
day camps—cater to over four million
children during the spring, summer and
fall months. School camps which uti-
lize some of these camp facilities dur-
ing the school year, and arc rapidly
growing in number, add thousands
more.

On the other hand, new campsitcs,
in the more populated areas of our
country, are becoming fewer and fewer
as well as more costly.

Selection of Campsites

This is dependent upon many fac-
tors —— geographical location, type of
program to be conducted, centralized
or decentralized, type of organization

MR. REIMANN has had extensive camp
experience and is now a professional
camp consultant. He is the author of
Successful Camp Administration (how
oui”'-of print) and The Success Camp,
which will be published soon by the
Uniziersity of Michigan Press.

MARCH" 1957

or agency using it, number of campers
to be housed, nearness of the site to the
base of the agency and the area from

which the majority of campers are.

drawn. Terrain in various areas of
the country will vary. Price of the land
is a factor. Certain basic needs must
be considered.

The American Camping Association
standards suggest one acre of land
(owned or available) per camper.
This is the ideal, although less than
that amount of land is actually uscd.
Large acreage makes for seclusion, a
fceling of space, and protects the camp
from intrusion by the public, and from
the cottages, resorts and social hazards,
such as taverns and commercial amuse-
ment places as may be nearby.

Long-range planning, including pos-
sible increase in size of the camp or
division into two or more camp units,
is urged. With lake, stream, ocean and
mountain sites being rapidly pre-cmp-
ted by summer homes and resorts, it
is advisable to secure large enough
acreage initially for any possible fu-

ture development or expansion. To‘buy

a small site with the”'hope o‘r eicpecta-'

tion of purchasing additional adjacei‘lt
land at a later time when money is

Lewis C. Reimann

available or the need arises, is often
too costly or impossible.

A rolling terrain, with some level
ground for recreation, a safe lake bot-
tom and a wooded area make for a de-
sirable site. The soil and land slope
should ensure good drainage after rain,
and adequate sewage disposal. An ex-
cess of light, sandy soil is undesirable,
particularly on sloping ground. Hard
clay soil results in mud after rain and
poor seepage for sewage disposal. The
ideal is a firm, sandy-clay mixture
which will soak up moisture and grow
grass for firm footing for the thous-
ands of feet which will walk over it:
during the season.

Swampy or boggy areas near the
center of the camp site should be
avoided. Such wet places are breeding
places Although
swamps and bogs are often a rich

for mosquitoes.
source of insect and 'water life, leading
to opportunities for nature study and
collections, they should not be close
to living quarters. With modern earth-
moving equipment, swales, swamps
and bogs can be filled easily, hillsides
leveled, and dikes and dams thrown
up, to alter the face of the camp and
add usable ground at comparatively

85

 

small cost.

The presence of a forest tract on
the campsite is desirable for shade, na-
ture trails, tree identification, cover for
wildlife and for beauty. Scattered
clumps of bushes and trees add to the
site’s beauty and utility. Some direc-
tors prefer to let shrubbery and trees
grow naturally and wild without at-
tempting to prune or cut them. Othérs
plan landscaping; nature trails; tree,
flower, and shrub identification label-
ing; reforestation; and soil erosion
prevention.

Sometimes prevailing winds are fac—
tors to be considered in the location of
the camp site. A deep “pocket” in a
valley or in a heavily wooded area can
mean uncomfortable conditions in hot
or humid weather. If possible, a loca-
tion where prevailing winds will pass
over and through the camp should be
selected. Such winds will also help to
reduce insect life such as mosquitoes.

A realistic appraisal of a possible
campsite should be made, item by
item, and considered in the final deci-
sion for purchase or rejection. The
campsite appraisal form used by the
Girl Scouts of America is very practi-
cal and may be obtained at local Girl
Scout offices.

Laying Out the Campsite

The camp layout must provide for
several buildings and recreation areas.
The central area provides for the lodge
which may include the dining hall,
kitchen, food storage, toilet and lava-
tory facilities for the kitchen staff and
dietician’s office. The lodge may also
include headquarters of the director,
program director, business manager
and camp secretary, unless a separate
building can be provided. It should be
in easy access to all parts of camp.

The location of sleeping quarters for
campers, cabins or tents, should be on
high ground—to afford good drainage
——-and preferably with a view of the
lake, stream or an over-all view of the
camp or countryside. Some shade for
the sleeping quarters should be consid-
cred, but densely wooded areas should
be avoided. The sun should reach the
cabin or tent at some time during the
day. Underbrush should be cleared
away from the cabin several feet on all
sides, to reduce mosquito population.

86

In a decentralized camp, sleeping ac-
commodations are usually placed in
several groups, for different ages, sep-
arate from each other, yet not too dis-
tant from the center of the camp, to
enable campers, particularly younger
Ones, to walk to the dining hall and
activity areas within a few minutes.
Good drainage is also important in the
placing of these units. Nearby swamps
and swales should be avoided or filled.

 

an isolated spot on the camp grounds,
away from dust, noise and traffic, with
good drainage and a good view.

An administration building to ac-
commodate the business and program
staff and camp headquarters should be
placed where easily accessible to mem-
bers of the staff and visitors as they
come into camp, yet far enough.from
the sleeping quarters to avoid noises
which might disturb the campers at

Dining hall and kitchen, lirownlee type. Location of a wooded area in or
nearby the camp provides natural beauty, nature trails, wildlife cover.

Careful attention must be given to
the drainage of the total site, particu-
larly where the major activities are car-
ried on. Tile and drainage ditches to
take off rain water quickly should be
installed where low areas exist. Sandy
soil will absorb moisture readily but
a heavy clay soil requires well planned
drainage. The advice of local or dis-
trict health officials is often available
for this purpose. No standing water
should remain on the grounds for a
long period of time.

Physical hazards, such as poisonous
weeds, sharp drOp-offs of terrain, roots,
holes, pits, pools, and the like should
be eliminated before the camp is used.
Poison ivy and irritating weeds can be
eradicated with modern chemical
sprays. Overhanging dead limbs and
decayed trees should be removed. Old
rusty fences, cans, bottles and trash
present hazards. Negligence on the part
of the camp operator in regard to re-
movable hazards can result in damage
suits if catnpers or members of the pub-
lic are injured.

The infirmary should be placed in

night. This building may include a
room as a gathering place for counsel-
ors during time-off and free evening
hours. This room should be restricted
to staff members only to give them pri-
vacy from campers.

Program and activity areas are of
great importance. All program facili-
ties are dependent upon the type of
camp operated. In camps which cm-
phasize games and sports, recreation
fields on flat grounds can include space
for softball, volleyball, basketball, field
games, tennis courts and other facili-
ties such as those for horseshoes, box
hockey, and tether tennis. They should
occupy, if possible, a place in the camp
layout, easily accessible for formal, in-
formal and “pickup” games.

If handcraft is a major activity, a
spacious, well-equipped building is re-
quired. This structure can provide
tnere shelter with open sides: but in
areas where there is considerable
change of temperature or rain, the
building should be enclosed. Separate
tables and benches for different kinds
of crafts are desirable. Pottery inak-

RECREATION

ing, ceramics and lapidary should have
a separate room or separate space. A
room where materials are stored and
dispensed should be partitioned from
the main craft shop.. Good lighting
by means of large and numerous win-
dows is necessary.

In a camp which emphasizes nature
collections, a museum building, open on
the sides or completely enclosed, is a
valuable asset. This building is placed
in the shade, in a spot at the edge of or
just off the central camp area.

A central recreation building can
provide space for dramatics, all-camp
meetings, worship services and other
large gatherings. '(A raised stage with
side entrances adds much to the interest
in and good production of plays, stunts
and music programs.) In the absence
of a recreation building the dining
room can be used for these activities.

Since swimming is one of the most
important and popular activities and
skills taught in summer camps, be it in
a lake, stream or swimming pool, spe-
cial attention should be paid to this
facility. The swimming area should

*- I
at"

J

-5

 

H

caying matter, and have a gradual slopc

-‘to deeper water, with no sudden drop-

off. The beach adjacent to the swim-
ming area should be cleared of brush,
weeds, grass and other hazards.

While isolation from resorts and
built-up areas is essential, the roads to
the camp proper should be such that
the camp can be reached easily by car.
Some camps depend upon bus service
to bring the campers into camp,. or to
a spot nearby from which they can be
picked up and transported to the camp.

The entrance road to the camp should
be carefully planned and maintaincd.
There should be only one such road,
and that plainly marked with signs di-
recting visitors where to park. A park-
ing area should be provided, with
parking rules strictly enforced to keep
cars and trucks from cutting up the
grounds. It should not encroach upon
the campgrounds proper and prefer-
ably should be somewhat removed from
them but not so distant that visitors
will have far to walk.

Only one road should lead to the rear
service entrance of the lodge or kitchen

- - -

W

vs.—

4' x

Cabins and dining hall, Camp Tanuga, Michigan, have picturesque lake-
side location. Site provides plenty of level ground for outdoor recreation.

provide for safety, sanitary conditions,
ample and separate areas for begin-
ners, advanced swimmers, and for spe-
cial instruction. The use of public
beaches and areas adjacent to cottages
and resorts should be avoided. Special
attention to possible water pollution
from streams and adjacent property
should assure proper sanitary condi-
tions. The lake or stream bottom
should be clear of mud, muck and “de-

MARCH 1957

and dining room where food and sup-
plies are delivered. An ample turn-
around, well gravelled, should be pro-
vided and plainly marked. No roads
should cross the camp area.

If the camp is provided with a garage,
repair shop and storage buildings,
these should be off the immediate camp
area, preferably near the road entrance.
These buildings are best placed in a
wooded section or masked off by. trees

 

or shrubbery.

Should a caretaker’s residence be
provided, it should be a winterized
building, located at or near the en-
trance road to enable the caretaker to
control ingress or egress of visitors.

If the camp acreage is ample, out-
post campsites for day trips or over-
night camping on the camp property
can be provided. These should be
carefully planned to afford safety, com-
fort and sanitary facilities. Small
wooded areas should be cleared of
trees or brush for pitching of tents or
erection of shelters, sleeping space,
cooking and campfires in a shaded or
semi-shaded spot. Such outpost sites
should avoid large trees which.can
be a hazard because of falling branch-
es, windfalls and lightning. The num-
ber of such outposts needed depends
upon the number of campers and the
degree of emphasis on outpost camping.

Should the acreage of the camp prop-
erty be too small for such outpost sites,
it is usually possible to provide-"for
them on adjacent property or distant
places, either on lakes, streams or other
desirable spots. Such locations can be
found by eXploring the country around
and making arrangements with the
property owners by means of verbal

, agreements or leases at a nominal cost.

With more and more emphasis being
placed upon overnight and out-of-camp.
trips, outpost campsites should be pro-
vided early in the camp planning.

Once a desirable campsite with the
above layout possibilities is found, the
next problem is to arrange for purchase
and financing. Since good campsites
are becoming harder and harder to
find, because suitable property has
been largely pre-empted by summer
cottage and resort expansion, financing
the purchase of a site and erection of
camp buildings plus adequate camping
equipment remains the most difficult
problem for both agency and private
camp operators.

In the search for a desirable camp-
site the assistance of real estate agents,
county agricultural agents and conser-
vation officials may be helpful. The
agency . or private operator should
spend considerable time in searching
out such properties and comparing
them, using the .above yardsticks to ap-
praise them in terms of camp use. I

87

“WILLUmmm'U

The Professional Role
of the

0 0 0 0 0 0 O O 0   O 0 0 0 0 O O (I O

Hedley S. Dimock

I  \HE CAMP DIRECTOR as chief executive or administrator

of the camp enterprise carries a three-dimensional
function—that of educator, administrator, and community
organizer. Stated more directly, the camp director is an ad-
ministrator of an educational enterprise that consists of a
camp community. In this three-dimensional role he must
possess, in balance, the phi1050phy and the arts of educa-
tion, of administration, and of community organization.
This balance is required between the philos0phy and the
arts or skills lest his conception of the “why” outrun his
skill in performance or lest his techniques be unguided by
sound principles and purpose. Since it can hardly be ex-
pected that this perfect blend is to be found in man or
woman, it is the part of wisdom for the camp director to be
aware of his own limitations in the light of the total func-
tions to be performed and, in selecting his staff, to keep in
mind the necessity of supplementing his knowledge and skill
at certain points.

Personality

The personality of the administrator—and of the super-
visor—significantly affects these processes in many ways.
Stated in negative terms, it means that the processes of de-
mocracy in the camp are blocked if the camp director is
authoritarian in his attitudes, regardless of what his phi-
los0phy may be; or the initiative and growth of the staff
members are stymied if authority is too highly centralized
in one person who satisfies his emotional needs by keeping
others dependent upon him; or the camp community can
hardly be free from tension and relaxed if the chief admin-
istrator is continuously under pressure and tension.

Perhaps the most basic personality qualification essen-
tial in the camp director is the ability to understand himself.

Administrative Skills

Among the more concrete elements of specialized knowl-
edge and skill required by the camp director arc the under-
standing and administering of the camp as a connnunity of
learning. Several of the important qualifications for this
are: a skill in analyzing and directing the important factors
in the camp community; an ability to deal with tensions and
conflicts; an ability to provide experiences in camp that
give an opportunity for initiative, creativeness, originality,
resourcefulness, persistence, cooperation, dependability,
honesty, leadership, and acceptance of responsibility.

Condensation of Chapter 16 of Administration of the

Modern Camp by Hedley S. Dimock. Association Press,
291 Broadway, New York 7. 1948. Pp. 283. $4.00. Re-

printed with permission.

88

In the selection, training and supervision of staff the camp
director must have the ability to: develop effective pro-
eedures for selecting and recruiting competent program per-
sonnel; plan and conduct pre-service training programs for
program staff; plan and utilize in-service training and super-
visory methods with staff; plan adequate ways for giving
status and recognition to program staff as individuals and
collectively; facilitate participation of staff in policy and
program-making; prepare, job analysis for each staff mem-
ber, indicating responsibilities and relationships; provide
for the personal and recreation needs of staff.

General Camp Administration

In performing his functions as general camp adrninis~
trator, the camp director must know how to:
0 Build an effective organizational structure to achieve
basic purposes.
0 Select personnel who can achieve basic camp purposes.
0 DeveIOp personnel policies that will deve10p loyal, effi-
cient, and cooperative staff members.
0 Develop a supervisory organization and program that will
yield maximum results from all personnel.
0 Recruit and select campers who can benefit from the
camp experience.
0 Interpret camping and his camp to the public.
0 Evaluate the desirability of various campsites.
0 Evaluate the desirability of various camp structures in
view of need, costs, durability, and so on.
0 Evaluate equipment needs and economic procurement.
o Administer the business operations of the camp, includ-
ing the operation of a business office, a calnper’s bank, a
store, and purchasing activities.
0 Set Up a record and reporting system— financial, pro-
gram, health, pcrsonncl, and so on—and to devise a system
of securing, organizing, and utilizing records and reports.
0 Evaluate all aspects of camp operations to insure the
achievement of camp objectives in as efficient and cconolni-
cal a manner as possible.

And he must also have knowledge of:
0 The care of equipment, the most effective means of stor-
age during the off season, and the making of inventories.
o How to construct a budget and secure conformity to it.
0 Usual camp hazards and the most effective means for
gaining protection through an effective yet economical in-
surancc program.
0 Organizations interested in camping and a skill in relat-
ing himself cooperatively with them.
0 Legal aspects of camp operations and procedures for com-
plying with legal requirements, including taxation, laws
affecting workers, health, liability, licensing, and so on. I

RECREATION

    
 
        

 
       

66‘

 1957 enmon
gal\ “55"”;

“.571
all"

“CAMP, DIRECTORY

INFORMATION on 2500 camps—location; name and address

of owner or operating organization,- number, age and sex of
campers; fees; facilities; program features.

ll

will i
i \‘ll

WALL MOUNTED RACK

Hold More Wraps in Less Space.
Standard in checkrooms. Also widely
used as self-service racks 1n coffee
shops, restaurants, meeting rooms-
wherever pe0ple gather. Mount on
any available wall space, even over
floor obstructions, accommodate 4
or 5 persons per running foot. Pro-
vides each with a coat hanger and
individual hat space. Keeps wraps
aired, dry, “in-press.” Come with
or without numbers and checks.
Strongly built of reinforced heavy
gauge steel. Finished in baked
enamel. 3'2", 4'2”, 5'2" lengths. Mount
independently or interlock to make

continuous racks of
any length.

in“

 
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
   

OF INTEREST and value to Recreation Workers, Youth Leaders,
Students, Parents.

 
 
 
  

PRICED TO SELL AT COST American Camping Association

5 0 6! Bradford Woods
ONLY , ’ PER COPY Martinsville, lndiana

Write for
Bulletin CK-5l5

VOGEL- PETERSON CO.
1127 West 37th Street 0 Chicago 9, lllinis

  
 

 

   

 
    
      
       
       
       
       
     
      
    
     
         
     

Place your summer order for
at least $25 . . . before
.April lst. 1957 and get ii)
on this Special offer of:

SPECIAL mox

Cowhide with rubber innersoles, soft soles,
assorted calors

Sizes: small ..... F. 9-13 $ 7_ 9 3

  

 
 

GUARANTEED
NOT TO BREAK

O
CHIP 0R

medium 1-3

“"98  4'6 002- ?§‘L‘.'~‘li".f.°"_
(Sample "5mm MOX" $1.00  ea. pr.) nihilism

This offer expires March 31, 1957. Sorry, we
can nor afford to have Our regular freight al-
lowance . . . as specified in our 1957 catalog

. apply to this special offer of moccasins. morph,”

Singing-Games
Folk Dancas

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES
P.0. Box 644, Freeport, N. Y.

All orders for Special Moccasins past
dated after March 31, 1957 will be
sold at the regular price of $1.25 ea.
or $10.00 per doz.

Walk-Through" System at Sim-
plified Progressive instruction,
followed by the Complete Dance.

[— __________________ _—_—l

Write For FREE 1957 CATALOG of

Ed Durlacher's “Talk-Through;
|

 

I Mail coupon for FREE brochure on all Honor Your Partner Teaching Aids t

HANDICRAFT SUPPLIES I SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES P.0. Box 644, Freeport, N. Y. I
Gentlemen: Please send me free brochure of Honor Your Partner Teaching Aids,

CLEVELAND CRAFTS co. | I

4705 Euclid Ave. CLEVELAND 3, OHIO l

34 Elmwood Parkway lEImwood Parkl I Nome — '

cmcaoo 35, ILL. | Address —— l

" l City—u...— __ - Zane... State —I

 

MARCH 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 89

 
 
  

A Recreation
Development

William J. Dnehaine

ll
1 t
'I

c
4

Killbuek Park eoneessions-seniee building nears eompletion.

A 213-acre farm is convert-
ed into a recreation area

for industrial employees.

 

Al lop, small [015 swing in absolule safely in nursery
chair-lype swing seals; below, pony rides are popular.

INDUSTRIAL recreation has assumed greater meaning for
General Motors employees and their families in Ander-
son and Muncie, Indiana. Last July, the new 213-acre Kill-
buck Park was formally opened for the enjoyment of work-
ers of the Deleo-Remy and Guide Lamp Divisions. This
picnic and recreation area marks a big step forward in the
extensive, year-round activities program provided.

Originally purchased by the Delco-Remy Welfare Asso-
ciation in 1955, the century-old Gola Childes’ Bethany
Acres farm was renamed for the Killbuek Creek that flows
diagonally through its scenic woods and fields. Killbuek
Park fills a long-felt need. For years, employees often have
had difliculty in findng suitable spots for plant and de-
partment picnics. Some had to be held at considerable dis-
tancc from 'their homes. In contrast, the new park is only
five and a half miles northeast of Anderson and sixteen
miles west of Muneie.

Development of the park was begun under supervision
of Purdue graduate J. A. Williams, plant maintenance en-
gineer. Winding roads were built through the picturesque
area. A thirty-eight-acre hardwood grove was cleared of
thorn bushes and thicket to make an attractive site for
picnic tables, grills, benches and children’s playground
equipment. A small pool was created near the entrance.

_________________——————-——--

MR. DUCHAINB is public relations director of the American
Playground Device Company, Anderson, Indiana.

90

A seventy by twenty-two-foot building, for concessions,
restrooms and first-aid services, was erected at the edge
of the picnic grove. In the former pasture area, on the
other side of the building, are located softball diamonds.
basketball courts, and other recreation facilities. The farm
barn quarters ponies for the ride concession; and just back
of the barn, an old gravel pit is converted into a rifle range.

An Anderson, Indiana, manufacturing firm' supplied
and installed one-hundred streamlined picnic tables, fifty
park benches and thirty-five picnic grills for the picnic area.
and laid out two playground apparatus areas—on'e for pre-
school and primary-age youngsters, the other for older
children. The area for younger children has swings,
equipped with chair-type nursery seats to give maximum
security to the small tots, an all-steel slide with a twelve-
foot chute. a merry-go-round capable of carrying twenty-
five youngsters, a larger swing equipped with safety rubber
seats, and a double primary castle tower, a very popular
climbing structure. The area for the older children is
equipped with two all-steel slides with twenty-foot chutes,
a heavy-duty steel swing with belt-type safety seats, a deluxe
merry-go-round capable of carrying forty children, a senior
wave stride and a senior castle tower.

The games and Sports area near the concessions building
is equipped with official regulation basketball backstop
units, horseshoe, volleyball, and table tennis facilities.

Shortly before Killbuek Park was formally opened, the
Guide Lamp Division joined Delco-Rcmy in the family
recreation venture. All employees and their families are
eligible to use the new facility. Membership cards have
been issued to all the workers and retired employees.

Physical deveIOplncnt of the park is continuing under
the direction of Mr. Williams. Recreation programs in the
park have been assigned to Dale Shaffer, supervisor of recre-
ation, who visualizcs Killbuck’s development as a commu-
nity center fer General Motors employees. “There are limit-
less possibilities in Killbuek Park,” he says. “It’s just the
thing to bring employees and their families out to enjoy
outdoor life together.”

Employees have been quick to take advantage of Killbuek
Park. In the first two months of operation, more than forty
thousand men, women and children turned out to enjoy
themselves in the cool "wooded areas. I

‘ The American Playground Device Company.

Recassnon

    

THIs --
BIG ILLUSTRATED

LEATHERCRAFT
CATALOG

There is no finer source at materials far Leather-
craft proiects at all kinds . . . eosy-to-assemble
kits to enable beginners to make billfolds,
glaves, purses, belts and other attractive items
. . top quality tooling and carving leathers
for advanced craftsmen. Alsa complete line at
leathercratt tools, accessaries, supplies and
instruction books.

 

     

ATTENTION
Fun For Everyone! METALCRAFT
:2:me 1:” 8aogtlsqsmf. if f::it+inegrtid;:::t HOBBYISTS Above is the RECREATION DIRECTOR'S

   

. . favorite "49’er" Hobby Chest cantainin full

Here Is a cam rehensive Illustrated catalag - g

from which youpc‘m make your “lemon of assortment af tools, knives and blades. Just a
sample at the hundreds of handicraft kits,

aluminum and capper In sheets and shapes for - . . , .
many praiects; copper, aluminum and brass  3:11;??? :Ilggggated m x'acto s Buymg

foil tar metal taaling; kilns, calars and kits
for metal enameling; instructian baaks, taals
and accessories for metalcratt of all kinds.

SEND TODAY FOR EITHER
OR BOTH FREE CATALOGS

I. C. LARSON CO.

820 S. TRIPP AVE., DEPT. 6305
CHICAGO 24, ILLINOIS

   

for players and spectators.

Rugged, Dimco FreeGIide Shuttle-

board sets are available for both out-
door and Indoor Installation.

Easy to install . . . low in upkeepl

Write today for colorfnl folder, "Let’.r
Ploy Sbnfieboard,” containing com-
plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMcO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2. OHIO

LOOP TENNIS

CHAMPION OF PLAYGROUND GAMES

It’s tops in popularity among all ages!

 
   
     
 

LATEST "HOW-TO” PROJECT BOOKS

Hobby Tools and How to
Use Them . . . . . . . . . . .. 75v
Indian Beadcrait ...... .. 25c
._ Suji Wire Art. . . . . . . . . . .. 25c
Wood Whittling Projects. 25c
Braiding and Weaving

with PLEXON Plastic
“Lacing .............. .. 25c ’

'FREE with "49'er" chest.

X-ACTO, INC.

48-99 Van Dam Street
long Island City I, N. Y.

 
       
   
   
     

 

.I-ul-p—— . .. _ _ _

Program in the Doldrume?
Everybody loves to play

wholesome, action-packed

__.——...

   

 

 

 
       
   
   
  

Biggest value for your money because of low cost, constant
use, small space required, no hazards, tremendous appeal to
skilled and unskilled alike, and both social and organic values.

ORDER YOUR SET TODAY!

l D. R. M. LOOP TENNIS COMPANY. INC.
: P. O. Box 481 ' Tallahassee. Florida
?

  

l A sure way of

maintaining
enthusiastic
attendance.

(9 sizes up to 31/2 at 7ft.)

SUPERIOR
FOLDING
POOL TABLE

--——-—~

-- l
5' onto" |
INDUSTRIES l
CORPORATION l

565 Barry Street - New York 59. N. Y.

  
   

   
 
 

MORE THAN

100,000

U.S. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES EACH YEAR SPECIFY

Write for
literature

  

  
 
     

 

 
 
 
 

America's Finest Sports Equipment by

1.}F-r*.}3'#‘}};i'-}-§=Jh}}}

NEW YORK it DANVILLE, ILL. - lDS ANGELES II

'II—u—n—_. .— u—r—w ,

 

MARCH 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention ansuort. 91

 

1'"

The first crawfish! Critter life in any stream is unpredictable
and exciting. Catching “firsts,” damming water to make
pools for small fish or just wading are thrilling activities.

NATURE is one of the easiest subjects
to present to campers, for it is all
around them. However, directors are
constantly faced with the problem of
getting a good nature counselor who
can inspire and interest youngsters.
Rather than having one specialist in the
field, it is better that all counselors,
from the ,water-front instructor to the
camp nurse, be aware of the never-end-
ing challenge of on-the-spot nature.

a One man, hired by a camp, presented
an excellent unscheduled nature session
to some happy campers when he discov-
ered a small rabbit family while mow-
ing a field. The children’s delight in
making their own bigger nest for imagi-
nary play highlighted worthwhile crca-
tive activities as well as wildlife conscr-
vation.

Campers who dub a maple the “nose
tree” are, being exposed to good nature
study, for their fun in wearing a split
seed flyer on their nose is a line first-
hand echricncc in observation, and
they will long remember the maple in
this connection. Perhaps the name
“crying tree” is a little far-fetched, but
lucky are the youngsters with the coun-
selor who points out the beechnut’s tear-
drop shapc. Long ago joys of youth in-

MRS. Bassssa is a member o/ the Pcnn-
sylvania section 0/ the American Camp-
ing Association, and was chairman of
the Downingtown Area I n-Carnp Nature
Institute, 1956, a Comstoch Society
executive board mcmber, and past presi-
dent of the Professional Writers Club
0/ Philadelphia. Shc has had twcnty
years camping experience, with eight
years as a camp director.

92

cluded such things as shooting a nar-
row-leaf plantain top and being able to
blow a blade of grass. Children today,
in spite of'a life geared to television,
radio and movies, are still! happy to
blow a dandelion’s white top and test
their chins with a buttercup to see if
they like butter.

Conservation must start early with
youth, for too many years have already
passed with people destroying rather
than enjoying nature. ,Diking a camp
stream to make pools for small fish dur-
ing dry spells has a two-way advan-
tage: the preservation of flippers and
an excellentwater program for the camp-
ers. It’s easy for children to (lam a
stream, and mud oozing up between the
toes is an elixir unrivaled. Critter life
in any stream is unpredictable and ex-
citing, and there’s an inexplicable thrill
in catching the first frog, turtle, sala-
mander or erawfish.

The common jcwelwecd or touch-ine-
not crowds many of our camp streams,
but how many campers are ever told
that the plant usually has bright red
“toes” (roots), and that the leaves

ll ow

about the reed worms in those brown-

when submerged turn silver?

ing grass stalks when they want to fish?
Digging worms isn’t always easy, but
there’s bait under rocks and in the
reeds for those who explore.

The young whittler who craves to
carve his name on the nearest tree can
he encouraged to do a bit of conserva-
tion with his knife. chlanting erodcd
strcam banks with freshly cut willow
shoots is an excellent nature program.

Encouraging children to see at all
three levels is wise, for there’s just as

Nature

.Tools

Introduction to nature the easy
way and the fun way can lead
to love of nature and more
intensified study in later years.

Bettye Breeser

much to enjoy in the vastness of the
sky as on the ant level. To lie down in
a field is to open up a new world to al
camper. These minutes of viewing will
offer a world of fantasy as the child.
sees cloud witches, animals, castles and
imaginary characters floating above. l
There’s still joy in pulling off the petals I
of the daisy to see if “he loves me, he
loves me not,” and a daisy wreath still
tops the list of childhood crafts.

V .l/
I .

  
 

STEP THRU THIS
TREE AND
MAKE A WISH

 
     
 

By a stretch of the imagination, a I
grove of trees can well become a camp’s I
“castle.” Through the shaded paths
boys and girls can create a simple yet I
worthwhile enchanted trail. The conn-
selor who stimulates this project by of-
fering some cleverly posted signs is well I
on his way to a good nature project.
“Step through this tree and make a
wish!” can spark the first lap of such a
trail, followed by a note on a stunnle
that reads. “The magic throne—sit on
it and your wish will come true!”

“This is the birds’ opera house—-
listen!” will encourage silence near a -
thicket, with a notice further on sug-
gesting that “The mitten tree (sassa- l
fras) grows close by—cau you find any
left-handed ones?” An archcd grove of l
locust trees might suggest the “tunnel
of the giants,” and a tangle of honey-
suckle the “home of the wicked witch!”
All this is nature interwoven with crca-

RECREATION '

 

 

tive play and offers any camp leader un-
ending possibilities.

Assorted burrs that grow along
wooded trails can be used for clever
table decorations. With the addition of
two small green leaves they assume
shapes of insects to top ferns or flowers
in a bouquet. The common May apple,
arranged with twigs, can become a coy
duck, peacock, or camp “happy bird.”

.MAY APPLE
DUCK

(Bea)

MAY APPLE
PEA CO C K

 

Plays and stories dealing with nature
are vital in a camp setting. Young
actors are naturals when they are per-
forming on a soft, wooded stage, and
lessons learned are long remembered.
The child who makes a helmet of red
oak leaves will know the spine tips of
the tree. He will long remember the
music of the stream as he said his brief
part in a play and the scent of the
freshly cut spicebush as the backdrop.

Creative writing is a valuable tool
for nature. Stories written about a
tree, flower, shrub, or animal found in
camp can well evolve into pantomime
dramatics. Children are not always
deft with the mechanics of writing, but
a wise counselor jots down their think-
ing and catches their vivid imagination
as stories are told.

The reflection of blue sky on a Vir-
ginia creeper leaf may suggest the sky’s
looking glass to some campers, while a
story of the magic umbrellas may come
from knowing the May apple. Calls are
intriguing, and some child may chance
to write a story on how the elves place
tiny “fried eggs” on maple leaves.

Counting age rings on a tree could

well suggest a story on the imaginary
history of the tree. Did Indians ever

camp beneath its shade, and what years
suffered drought? The widest rings usu-
ally appear on the north side, or damp-
est portion of the tree, which brings
into focus the subject of finding direc-
tion without a compass.

The trek from bunk to dining hall
can well be a source of art supplies.
Weed blossoms, grasses, old wood,
earth and common berries are ideal for
camp art work. Using a toothed paper,
the children simply rub the colors from
their findings to produce clever pictures
from nature. This craft highlights in-
genuity and stimulates observation.

All grasses are not the same. Why
not make a booklet of the collection in
camp? The graceful specimens, mount-
ed on black construction paper and cov-
ered with a clear plastic film are long-
lasting and educational. Dancing dolls
from long-needled pines will keep many
a young miss happy for hours. Pretty
stones, mounted in plaster of Paris are
unique paperweights to be taken home
as a souvenir.

CAMP FIRE
SMOKE RISING
VERYICALLY
MEANS

A CALM My
Wm! rstmo

| To 3 MILES
PER HOUR

   

DANCING DOLLS

Campfires are also nature, for the
direction of the smoke can well forecast
the eXpected weather. By just listening,
too, campers can tell if rain is due by
the distant whistles. Their sense of
smell is keen and the wise counselor is
ever on the alert to_recognize the ozone
after a rain, the freshness of a woods
in the morning and the fragrance of
new mown hay.

The cracking of twigs and dry leaves

on a southern lepe should be pointed
out to campers to compare with the
quiet spongy footing they eXperience
on a northern hillside. Country children
for decades have found pleasure in
chewing sourgrass wood sorrel), mint,
spicebush, sassafras and the like, and
there’s still a big thrill in catching the
large drop of nectar from the top of a
honeysuckle blossom.

All campers should know the slippery
inner bark of a willow twig, for whistle
making was a craft of our forefathers.
Dandelion stems make excellent curls
when split and dropped in water. Vio-
lets and many other wild flowers ex-
plode their pods when ripe. Are these the
“sharpshooters” of the woods? Nature
materials are found in almost all camp
settings, even in city parks. The “throw-
aways” of nature, such as pods, seeds,
shedding bark and leaves, are nature-
craft materials to the counselor with
imagination.

Campers should have time to watch
the bees in a hollyhock and see the
backward flight of a hummingbird as he
leaves a blossom. They should catch
fireflies and watch ants at work in their
mounds. The feel of moist grass at sun-
up should be theirs and their eyes
should marvel at the panorama of color
at sunset.

They should see their own reflection
in a stream and the mirrored leaves
overhead. The softness of moss should
not be strange to young feet nor the
powdery dust of a camp lane. Their
hands should be stained with the juice
of wild strawberries, and they should
know the milky fluid that seeps from

.the stem of the milkweed. This is nature

the easy way. Intensified study and
identification will come in later years
after appreciation and love of the out-
of-doors has been well rooted in camp. I

 

Know ’44an 7mg .7 "nu-n"...-

0N FILM:

O Adventuring in the Handcrafts (16mm, sound, color). Rental:
34.25 for first day, half price for second. Girl Scouts of U.S.A., 155
East 44th Street, New York 17. Send request for loan of this film
well in advance, give alternate dates. It’s booked heavily.

0 Work Camp Slides (43 slides, 35mm, color, titled Work Learn

Serve). $7.00 to buy; $2.00 to rent, plus.return postage and insurance.
Send purchase orders to Miss Frances Malda, World Council of
Churches Youth Department, 156 Fifth Avenue, New York 10. Send
rental orders to United Student Christian Council, Ecumenical Volun-
tary Service Projects, 156 Fifth Avgnue, New York 10. '

IN PRINT:

0 Water Skiing F or All by Walter Prince. Greenberg: Publisher, 
East 57th Street, New York 22. $3.50. Covers fundamentals and points

MARCH 1957

 

- .4- ." 4----"4-4-4-4-m- --

 

out methods of improving the skiing ability of those already riding
the slats.

0 Plans for a M edium-Sized Ramp. Douglas Fir Plywood Association,
1119 A Street, Tacoma 2, Washington. Free. Interested in building
your own jump ramp? These plans give full construction details,
number and size of bolts and screws, size and specifications of the
lumber, and so on.

o How to Forecast the Weather. Louis D. Rubin, Box 8615, Rich-
mond 26, Virginia. $.10. It’s in color, and so inexpensive that every
camper can have his own c0py.

o The Camp Nurse. American Camping Association, Bradford Woods,
Martinsville, Indiana. $.50. A statement on qualifications, duties, re-
sponsibilities and value of the nurse in the camping program.

Order from sources given.

93

Creativity 1

THE very nature of music as a rhythmic art makes it a

natural outlet for creative expression. To a high degree
music shares many characteristics in common with speech.
Melody, as a succession of regulated sounds in time and
pitch, readily expresses thoughts and feelings. In singing,
music is combined with speech. Thus, like conversation, it
can be shared spontaneously with others within a group.
At the same time, in various ways music can release crea-
tive forces for well being within the individual. As a “uni-
versal language,” it provides a natural starting point toward
creativity in the camp. In all phases of the program, mu-
sic can continue in its creative function. It combines easily
with other activities and can provide a pleasant mcans of
transition from one part of the camp program to another.
At all times, music can function informally as a vital, crea-
tive contact among groups and individuals.

Obeetives

In creative music the following objectives should be
sought: to gain confidence through self-expression, develop
appreciation of good music, encourage development of mu-
sical ability, experience a feeling of oneness within a group,
deve10p appreciation of the heritage of people through
their folk music, and provide resources for creative use of
leisure.

Two Areas of Creative Music Activities

Two important areas in music which can be used effec-
tively in creative experience are: the actual composing of
music, making and playing of instruments, interpreting mu-
sic through dance and other original forms, playing or sing-
ing of music already composed.

In all situations involving music, the most important con-
sideration is the creative opportunity presented to the camp-
er—how he may be freed from tensions or inhibitions to
express himself freely. In the creation of original music,
the quality of the music is secondary to what happens to
the individual. Wherever possible, however, campers should
be encouraged to appreciate music of good quality primarily

94

%j in Cam MUSIC hr:

In most instances these activi-
ties originate informally and are
followed through to their crea-
tive aspects by discerning leaders.

through the selection of good song material. This creative
experience should be integrated whenever possible with ap-
pr0priate phases of the camp program.

Use of Music to Stimulate Creativeness

The following projects in the musical program of a camp
are offered as examples and not necessarily as patterns to
follow. Note that in most of these instances the activity orig-
inated very informally and was carried out successfully be-

cause the leader recognized the potential creative aspect of
the idea.

Songs that depict memorable events or highlights of pro-
gram.——A group of girls composed the music for a log they
had kept of a three-day primitive hike, and then prescnted
it to the whole camp as a history of their expericnces. They
had actually composed a folk song of such high quality that
it proved worthy of inclusion in the camp’s folk-song library.

Songs composed as “take-03s” on situations or stag mem-
bers.—Under careful guidance these songs may result in
good use of satirical music. The director of a camp often
makes a good subject.

This article is part of the hndings of a workshop on
creative activities held at Bradford Woods, Martinsville,
Indiana, October 22-24, 1956, under the direction of A.
Cooper Ballentine, chairman of the American Camping
Association Committee on Program Services to Camps.
Walter F. Anderson, director of music at Antioch Col-

lege, was leader of the music group, and John A. Ledlie
was coordinator of the three groups—creative music,
creative drama and creative arts and crafts. The report
is not generally available. It will be expanded and re-
fined at seven regional workshops in 1957, and may then
be published by American Cpmping Association. This
section is used by permissioihi.

 

RECREATION .

Rearranging carnp songs.——-Descants to one-part songs may
be written. Harmony may be developed for small portions
of songs. Changes in tempo are another form of experi-
mentation.

In one case, one line of a song was sung differently, but
in harmony, by a group of older girls. Not only did their
rearrangement become standard, but other groups began
adding their own improvisations to other standard songs.

Composition of “club” songs.——-In a camp organized on a
“club” basis, composing of club songs (although group
spirit or group unity was their primary purpose) provided
a creative experience. After completing the words of a
song, one club had diHiculty in composing the music. The
counselor finally gave each camper one of the lines and
asked him to provide a melody for that line only. Since it
was difficult for the entire club to learn all of these melodies
within a limited time, the grOUp decided to present the
song with each boy singing his own line.

Composing music for ceremony or pageant purposes.—The
closing ceremony of one camp has become traditionally a
program which tells the history of the council fire. Only
the basic theme is traditional; songs and skits are planned
anew each year by campers.

Construction by campers of their own musical instruments.

Pantomime to portray the message or meaning of songs.—
When they realized that the “donkey” in the song “Donkey
Riding” was erroneously thought of as an animal, some
campers divided themselves into two groups, one singing
the song, the other pantomiming the real meaning of the
donkey—a small engine used to pull boats through a canal.

Use of the autoharp for background music for melodramatic
shits. Any chord or chords may be played and will sound
musically satisfying.

A favorite evening program—an across-the-lake-sing.—A
girls’ unit invites a boys’ unit to participate. The girls lo-
cate themselves across the lake from the boys. Both groups
build fires and exchange songs. This provides a good situa-
tion for the presentation of original songs.

Camp worship services—a wonderful opportunity for cre-
ativity.——-An all-camper choir sang a selection in which the
original words, written by a camper, were set to the music
of a favorite hymn. Campers composed words for choral
readings. Expressing the meanings effectively was also a
creative experience.

Dramatization of the poem “Creation,” by James Weldon
Johnson, through dance, with a background of music se-
lected by the campers, proved a stimulating eXperience for
both participants and audience.

Music for vesper services was selected by campers to ex-
press their feelings. In a vesper service, crayons and paper
were given to campers as they came into the chapel. As mu-
sic was played to convey a feeling, the campers, if stimu-
lated, expressed their interpretation by drawings. In an-
other vesper service the campers expressed through song
the history of the camp area as told to them by an old native.

Providing security for the individual through creative

MARCH -~1957

leisure relaxation.——-An attractive listening corner was set
aside where individuals or groups could come and use rec-
ords at their leisure.

Opportunities have been provided for individuals and
small groups to use their special musical talents before the
entire camp during meals or as part of special programs.

When community singing is used as a creative activity,
much depends upon the leader and his goals for the group.
Moods can be set through singing the proper songs at the
proper time. Standards of music can be raised and a spirit
of fun maintained when singing starts at an existing level
of appreciation and progresses gradually to a better type of
folk and other music.

Groups of older campers may sing with or without ac-
companiment while strolling among camp units after taps.
Instrumental music alone may be used in this same way.
The same idea can be used in the morning as the group
wakes up. In some camps, if it seems best, a recording of
the proper type of music may be used in these same types of
situations.

Encouraging campers to interpret music in dance and to
originate dances based on their own experience.——- Indian
dances may be improvised.

Mexican rhythms were interpreted by campers, each in
costume, forming a circle, facing out. They sat with knees
up and h'éads down in typically Mexican fashion. Each had
a small instrument such as a gourd and sandpaper block.
The leader at the side had a large drum which he beat in
a steady, four-beat meter. Each camper in turn played a
rhythm on his instrument, then got 11p and interpreted his
own rhythm in a dance movement.

Creating dances to folk tunes may include interpreting
tunes in the form of square dances. Begin by using simple
tunes, such as “Turkey in the Straw” and “Pop Goes the
Weasel.”

The same procedures used in modern dance may also be
used in synchronized swimming, horseback riding, games,
and field events.

Realization of potentialities for spontaneity.—Singing may
be encouraged while campers are watching the sunset or

,sunrise, working on craft projects, cleaning the dining hall,

relaxing during interim or gap periods. These occasions
also provide unique learning situations since spontaneity
in learning appeals to youth and is an important phase in
the creative aspects of music.

Training the Staff

Use of a tape recorder to record examples of the foregoing
types of programs is of great value in staff training, both in
developing proper climate and evaluating creative pro-
graming.

Stimulation of Creativity

Creative eprriences like those already mentioned will
take place only if a climate (mood or atInOSphere) condu-
cive to such experiences is established and maintained.
These are some of the factors that make such a climate
possible: m

95

 

o The camp director must accept the concept that the crea-
tive process is more important than the level of performance.
0 Because of the informality of the creative process, the
camp director needs to develop specific goals of creativity
in music which he or she keeps continually emphasizing with
the staff in pre-camp training and in all training sessions
during the entire camp season.

0 A counselor must have some grasp of the individual char-
acteristics of each camper in his group and a sympathetic
rapport with each one if at any given moment he is to in-
fluence spontaneous expression.

0 Whether leadership in music is provided by a specialist
or by resources within the general staff, such direction
should be expressed in setting a mood rather than by giving
authoritative direction.

0 The counselor in charge of the music program needs to
know how to work through the staff, since this method is
more likely to be conducive to and productive of a creative
response than the direct approach of a specialist.

0 Special abilities of both campers and staff need to be
recognized as the potential stimulus for an informal music
situation.

0 In order to stimulate spontaneity, a counselor must have
an appreciation not only of a “proper climate” (including
program flexibility) but also an appreciation of the role
that “readiness” plays in the motivation of campers. I

Next Month .'

, ANNUAL
W“ PLAYGROUND
ISSUE

Magazine

 

“The Choice of Those Who Playi'l'he Game”

The MacGregor Co. ° Cincinnati 32, Ohio
FOOTBALL ' BASEBALL ' BASKETBALL ' GOLF ' TENNIS

 

96

FLAG
CEREMCONY

 

Flag ceremonies are always an impressive part of the
camp program; and at least one ceremony—either colors or
retreat—should be held every day in camp. The responsi-

bility for these ceremonies should be rotated among camp
units.

The unit in charge of the ceremony selects five campers
to serve as color guard. One camper is designated as color
bearer and wears a red sash over the right shoulder, tied
with a square knot under the left arm. The color gualds I
wear red sashes around their waists, tied at the left side. If
the flag is unusually large, six or even eight campers may
make up the color guard.

The entire camp proceeds in a single line and forms a
horseshoe around the flagpole. The color bearer and guards
then proceed through the open end of the horseshoe to a
position in front of the flagpole and remain facing the pole
throughout the ceremony. There is absolute silence from
the time the group begins to move forward into the horse-
shoe until it returns to the starting point. Since the color
guards are the official custodians of the flag while they are
wearing sashes they do not sing, speak, salute, or take part
in the program.

The ceremony itself takes place while the flag is at the top
of the pole. During a color ceremony the flag is raised first
and then the program takes place; during retreat the oppo-
site is true—the program is first and the flag lowering is last.
The program may bc varied according to the wishes of the
group planning it, but it should consist of the Pledge of
Allegiance, some patriotic thought in poetry or song, and
group smgmg.

The color guards salute during the color ceremony im-
mcdiately after they have raised the flag into position and '
the bearer has returned to his original position in front of
the pole. At retrcat the group making up the guard salutes
the flag after taking position and before the flag is lowered. II
The camp group in the horseshoe salutes the colors from the
time the first snap is fastened until the flag reaches the to]:
of the pole. At retreat the group holds its salute from the
time the flag starts its desccnt until the final snap has been
loosened.

In the process of raising or lowering the flag, the color
bearer steps forward first, followed by the two color guards
immediately behind him. These two guards take their places
to the right and left of the bearer and arc responsible for t
seeing that the flag flies free on raising and never touches the
ground when being lowered. One guard may assist the
bearer in fastening or looscning the snaps on the rope.

In folding the flag the guard folds it lengthwise in half:
then lengthwise again in half. The blue field is folded under-
neath toward the outside and nearest the flagpole. The last
couple (farthest from the pole) begins folding the flag with
triangle folds; the other two guards place their hands under
the flag to steady it.

After the flag has been folded, one of the forward guards
takes the flag and places it in the outstretched arms of the ..
bearer, with the point toward the bearer. After this guard
has resumed position, all guards take one step outward and
turn to face the center. The color bearer does an about-face.
walks between the aisle of facing guards. The first couple I
then turns and follows the bearer, the second follows, until
all have lcft formation. The cntire horseshoe then turns and '
leaves the circle—IRENE R. KIRCHNER, Rochester, Pennsyl-

|
l

, vania, Girl Scout camp leader.

RECREATION I

 

The Campfire

S. Theodore Wfoal

 

Jih-

 

‘— 1-. -.' .g.

Programs should be carefully planned, for what happens in the glow of
the evening campfire makes a deep, lasting impression on young minds.

Probably the two programs most enjoyed and longest remembered by camp—
ers are the aquatic and the campfire programs. The former are usually under
the care of a carefully selected waterfront staff. The latter is everybody’s

business.

The combination of a fire and the darkness of night is irresistible, but when a
well-planned campfire program is added, the event becomes one of the most valu-
able assets to the camp—and to the camper. This outline covers the major points
in planning. Each cainp leader will, of course, fill it in to suit the needs and the

interests of his camp group or unit.

CAMPERS always look forward to
campfire programs with enthusi-
asm. They are real adventures ——
something different and exciting, with
a certain primitive atmosphere of feel-
ing safe and protected by fire and com-
panions from the dangers of the night.

Campfire programs may be of many
types and used on many occasions.
Usually they fall into three major types:
the weekly campfire, each one planned
around a different theme; the cere-
monial campfire; and the social events
campfire.

The function of the counselor in the
planning, deve10pment and execution
of a campfire is to guide camper plan-
ning along constructive lines and to
suggestions and
and thought into a cohesive experience

coordinate camper

in group living.

in planning a campfire program, the
following aspects must be considered:

1. The objectives.

2. Developing the program of events
and activities.

MR. WOAL teaches at the John Paul
I ones Junior High School in Philadel-
ph ia. H is article is based on his experi-

ences at Camp Airy, T hurniont, Mary-
land.

MARCH 1957

3. Preparing the campfire site.

4. Obtaining properties and supplies.

5. Organizing the participants.

6. Notifying and briefing the audi-
ence.

7. Evaluating the effectiveness of
the experience.

The Objectives—The leader must ana-
lyze these, both for the campers as in-
dividuals and the campers as a collec-
What is the desirable out-
come of the campfire eXperience? What
type of theme will fit best into the ob-
jectives?

Developing the Program of Events
and Activities——The leader must~ pro-
vide for the selection of the type of

live unit.

campfire program. is it one of a week-
ly series, a ceremonial, a program
mainly for fun and sociability? The
selection should be by democratic ac-
tion on the part of the bunk, unit or
other group of campers. They should
have ample time and opportunity to
suggest and develop ideas, with final
approval given by the majority.

in working with campers, the leader
should keep in mind, for discussion
when necessary, such questions as:
0 Does the type of campfire program
lend itself to camper participation in
its deve10pment and execution?

0 Can materials and supplies required
be obtained, constructed or assembled?
0 Does the final decision represent the
will of the majority?

0 Who is going to do the required
chores?

0 Can the proposed program be pre-
pared adequately in the time avail-
able?

The selection and development of
events and activities for the campfire
should be a c00perative project. The
function of the counselor is to guide
campers in deve10ping each phase of
the program and to coordinate their
efforts (offer suggestions and assist).
Perhaps a program committee should
be selected and specifically charged
with development of the program; or,
the program may be agreed upon after
full camper discussion and assign-
ments then made by the camper select-
ed to “head up” the campfire. Give the
plenty of opportunity to
voice opinions, make suggestions and,

campers

in general, participate in selection and
building of the program.

Once the general theme and the types
of events and activities have been de-
cided upon, the campers should work
out a written outline. The next step
is to select specific games, skits, stunts,
and so forth, and to develop them, con-
structing any necessary props or equip-
ment. They should then request assist-
ance from many other departments or
specialists, such as music or dramatics,
asking for such help sufliciently in ad-
vance. They are then ready for tryouts,
coaching and rehearsals, if necessary.
Preparing the Campfire Site —— The
campers, or their chosen representa-

97

 

tive, should select the site of the camp-
fire, investigate its‘iilocafio'n, decide on
its suitability and check with the camp
administration as to its availability for
the time andiuse decided upon. They
should also select an alternate site to
be used in case of inclement weather
and also check its availability with ad-
ministration.

The chosen area must be cleaned
and arranged for the program. Camp-
ers should be responsible for the wood,
' fireplace, matches, seating space, water
to extinguish the fire, and for clean-
up after the program. Campers should
be chosen for these responsibilities by
the group and should be briefed by
the leader.

Obtaining Preperties and Supplies———
The campers should choose a commit-
tee responsible for such jobs as mak-
ing or borrowing any necessary props
or equipment, such as wigs, drums, cos-
tumes; requisitioning refreshments at
least forty-eight hours in advance; se-
lecting and providing any awards or
prizes, if required. The committce
should accomplish these chores through
the accepted camp channels.

Organizing the Participants ~— The
campers should “run the Show.” The

leader’s job is to guide and advise. A
well-planned program can be a flop if
not well-organized and adequately re-
hearsed. All props and supplies should
be on hand and the participants given
a last-minute briefing just previous to
the campfire.

Notifying and Briefing the Audience—~—
The “audience,” whether all or part of
the camp, should be notified in ad-
vance by announcements, posters, run-
ners, or other means just when and
where to assemble; what to
(sweater, if cold, raincoat if damp);

wear

and special costume required by the
type of campfire program, such as face
mask or other adornment; directions
for entering the area; directions for
seating and for dismissal; instructions
for applause if any special type is re-
quired by the theme; and instructions
for the distribution of refreshments.
Leaders should be on hand to assist in
seating the campers, and participate as
part of the 'audience.
Evaluating the E §ectiveness of the Ex-
perience—The campers. after the camp-
fire is over and before details are for-
gotten, should discuss the event, raising
such questions as:

Did the program provide something

of interest to everyone? Was it too
long? Too short? What went over
best? Why? Anything “flopped”?
Why? If it could be done over, what
changes should be made?

The leaders, in evaluating the pro-
gram should consider such questions
as: Did the program represent a truly
democratic project? Did it develop
any new skills? Did all the participants
accept their responsibilities? What did
they learn in the way of planning and
organizing? Was the program content
fresh and imaginative? Anything go
wrong? Why? What could have been
done better? What techniques might
have been used to better advantage? '

The leaders should always make a
full, written report of such events, giv-
ing an outline of the program. types of
activities, and comments.
These not only help in future planning,
but also may prevent future duplication.
POSSIBLE THEMES FOR CAMPFIRES:

Cowboy, lndian, Old Timers, Pirate,
Outer Space, Circus, Song Fest, Hobo,
Patriotic, International, Gypsy. Camp
Birthday, Magic, Worship, Tall Tales,
Camp Life. Any one of these is capable
of many variations and can include a
wide variety of activities. I

resources,

Woodfire and Candle-Light

Selections for the campfire or vesper cere1110ny*

RESOURCES

Be thankful for the task too great for you,

The plan that seems too large for you alone,

The need demanding better than your best

Which draws you humhly to the Father’s
throne.

For there the finite meets the Infinite

And human limitations melt away.

God’s great reserve of kindling, conquering
power

Is ours to draw from for the hardest day.

WHEN You LEAVE CAMP

The friendly little paths I know
Will miss your glad young feet;
The hillsides and the forests
The sound of laughter sweet;
The dancing waves upon the lake
Will miss eanoe and sail;

All silent in the shadowed woods
Will be your well-worn trail

98

The singing birds will miss your songs,
The stars your wondering eyes;

The ever-eh anging sunsets

Your look Of hushed surprise.

You leave behind the beauty

Of all the hills you trod,

But in your heart you take away

More lasting gifts of God.

A LEGACY TO A CAMPER

If I had power to make this will
I would bequeath to you

The ehild-like sense Of wonder
To last the long years through.

Wondernthe gift of magie sight,
To see with eager eyes .
Each miraele Of beauty

In forest, lake and skies;

* From Mary Edgar’s book, Woodfire
and Candle-Light, (now out of print).

Reprinted with Miss Edgar’s permission
from Canadian Camping, December 1955.

 

The searlet flames of autumn,
The tender shades of spring,
The lunar nloth unfolding
Her gossamer green wings;

The clear eall Of the hermit thrush.
The creseeut moon swung low,

The sunset from a hilltop,

The firefight’s ruddy glow.

A legacy of wonder!

Could you but guess its worth!
No other preeious dower
Would so transform the earth.

Wonder enough to squander
On every glad surprise,

For every golden morning,
For every new eniprise

“I had power to make this will,
I would bequeath to you

The ehild-like sense of wonder
To last the long years through.

RECREATION

Contests

for a

l Woodsmen’s
Weekend

HESE SUGGESTIONS for outdoor ac-
T tivities for campers, whether week-
end or longer, could form the basis of a
fine active program for teen-agers and
young adults. They assume a ccrtain
amount of training and experience in
butdoor skills and could therefore he
used as a climax to an outdoor camping
program or trip into the woods. They
were prepared by C. Ross McKenney,
woodcraft advisor of the Dartmouth
Outing Club, Hanover, New Hampshire
for the Outing Club Handbook edited
by Gunnar Peterson, George Williams
Cbllege, Chicago, and are used with
permission.

Fire Building

Simple Fire Building Technique. Con-
testants start with the same kind of
wood, or wood they have chosen from
the woodpile. At the signal they start
kindling the fire in any way they wish
as long as they use only wood, no pa-
per. Each contestant has a can of soapy
water and this is hung over fire where-
ever he wishes to place it. The one that
hoils over first wins. '

Preparation of a Menu. Contestants
choose wood from the woodpile. They
can arrange the fireplace as they desire.
At the signal the fire is lighted and a
specified menu is prepared and served
to the judges. The food must he
cooked to satisfy them. Time decides
the winner, providing the food is
cooked properly.

Burning a String. At the signal con-
testants build a fire large enough to
burn off a string stretched a given
height above the fire.

Log Sawing

Logs especially prepared for the con-
test must be sawed in two. Both cross-
cut and bucksaws may be used. First
to saw through the log wins.

MARCH 1957

Fly and Bait Casting

Bait Casting. Standard bait casting rods
are used with a silk casting line and one-
ounce plugs. Events on water can be for
distance and accuracy (casting into
rings). Land events can be casting
through rings thrown into the air, and
at targets with bradded plugs.

Fly Casting. Events in distance and ac-
curacy on water. Rods to weigh not
over five and one-half ounces, nine feet
in length. Line shall not be heavier than
size C (American) backer line and shall
not be spliced on any nearer than sev-
enty feet from the end. No larger than
size 6 hook shall be used and the leader
must be no shorter than six feet.

Fly Tying. This event will be judged
for quality alone. Contestants are per-
mitted to use their own equipment and
employ any method they desire.

Canoe Races

Single Canoe Race. One person to each
canoe and he can take any position he
desires (standing, sitting or kneeling).
Contestants start at the signal, paddle
around buo‘y and back to the starting
point or finish line. Deliberate fouling

' disqualifies contestant. Points awarded

for the best times turned in.

Double Race. Two persons to each
canoe, taking any position they desire.
Start at signal, paddle around buoy and
back to finish line. Deliberate fouling

' disqualifies any contestant.

F our-Man Race. Four persons to each
canoe. Any position desired. Start at
signal, paddle around buoy and back
to finish line.

Rescue Race. Two persons in each

canoe. Start at signal. Somewhere

along the course the signal is given”

at whicll time the contestant in the
bow of each canoe has to jump clear
of the canoe and then climb back into

it. Contestants then continue on toithew'f
finish line.

Exchange Race. Two persons in each
canoe. Start at signal. Somewhere on
the course a signal is given at which
time both contestants _in each canoe
jump clear of canoe and into a pre-
determined opponent’s canoe. Race is
then continued to the finish line. Up-
setting of canoes disqualifies contes-
tants.

Portage Race. One person to each
canoe. Start at signal and paddle to
predetermined point on shore, jump
out, shoulder canoe and carry back to
starting point. Place canoe in water

again and paddle around buoy and
hack to finish line.

Canoe Tilting. Two persons in each
canoe. Person in stern of each canoe
may take any position desired but per-
son in bow must stand on the gun-
Person in bow
has a long pole with an appropriate
rubber fixture attached to one end. Ob-
ject of the contest is to force opponent
into the water. Falling into the canoe
is legal. Canoes should remain at least
six feet apart.

wales of. the canoe.

Rescuing Canoe from Water. One per-
son to each canoe. Upset canoes to be
retrieved are placed by judges at cer-
tain locations on the lake or pond. At
the signal, contestants paddle out to a
specified canoe, place upset canoe
across theirs and return to the finish
line.

Miscellaneous

Archery. Deciding factors will be ac-
curacy and distance.

Loading and Carrying Backboard. At
the signal a specified load for all pack-
boards must be lashed on securely.
Contestant then carries it approximate-
ly two hundred yards with the one
reaching the finish line first with his
load still securely tied being the
winner.

Knapsach' Race. A loaded knapsack is
picked up and shoulder straps adjust-
ed in place at the signal. Contestant
then carries it approximately two hun-
(:1er yards.

Note: In all events-the judges’ deci-
sions will be final in regard to poor
sportsmanship, rowdyism, fouling and
scoring. I

99

 

   
 

-/

One of the fastest growing sports today, water skiing is
high on the list of the activities recommended for
developing physical fitness and muscular coordination.

WATER SKIING is believed to have

had its origin twenty-five years
ago among French ski troops who de-
veloped this new type of recreation by
turning their snow ski abilities to the
water. Now more and more snow ski-
ers are following the same process of
evolution. At first the sport was re-
served for those who owned a speed-
boat with a powerful inboard motor.
In recent years the low-cost outboard
motor has all but wiped out financial
barriers and brought water skiing with-
in easy reach of the average income.
Since so many youngsters are turning
to the thrills of skimming across the
water on a pair of wooden boards, we
should plan to include this new sport
in the aquatic program.

Water skiing is not diflicult and docs
not require exceptional athletic ability.
Almost anyone can learn to do it wcll
enough to have fun. The fundamentals
can be learned in a matter of hours.

HAROLD M. GORE is a member of the
National Committee on Health and
Safety, Boy Seouts of America, and (ii-
reetor of Camp Najerog, Wilmington,
Vermont. His artiele is reprinted from
the bulletin Health and Safety, and used
by permission of the Boy Scouts of
Arneriea.

100

In many camps, waterfront leaders can
readily set up a safe water skiing pro-
gram if the methods are carefully ex-
plained to them. Here are the basic
standards for this activity.

Two Types of Training Needed

Training a boy to ski is only half
the training problem. Water skiing is
tied in with and dependent upon out-
board boating, and a program of out-
board boatmanship must be oficrcd in
addition to training in skiing. This
should include practice in safe boat
handling, training in rules of the water
road, and practice in courtesy afloat.

Water skiing should conform to all
regular waterfront rcquircmcnts. Ev-
ery skier should be a strong swimmer
and should he at home in, on, and un-
dcr the water.

Boats and Motors

Two very important safety factors
enter the picture at this point: (1) the
selection of the proper boat and motor
and (2) the teamwork developed be-
tween a trained outboard motorboat
operator and the water skier.

An ideal outboard bull is probably a
fourteen-foot runabout with a wide
transom, about fifty-four inchcs. Water
skiers can skim along behind such a

Guideposts for

Harold M. Core

boat powered with a seven-and-a-balf-
to ten-horsepower motor and work up
a speed of from fifteen to twenty or
more miles per hour. A wide stern is
necessary. Towing a skier around a
sharp turn can make steering diflieult
and boat balance unstable if the stern
is narrow.

It is important to match boats and
motors for best performance. If the
motor is too small, it won’t pull the
skier up out of the water. Even worse,
if the motor is too large for the bull.
the boat will be overpowered. That
means danger and plenty of trouble
afloat. Boats certified by the Outboard
Boating Club of America carry a plate
stating the recommended maximum
horsepower.

Proper towrope attachments are im-
portant. Lifting handles and motor
clamps should not be used. Towropcs
should be attached to eyebolts installed
on the transom.

Many boats have capsized when tow-
ing a skier in a tight turn. There should
be at least one life jacket or cushion for
every person on board. Othcr csscn-
tials in the boat include oars or paddles,
ample lines, whistle or born, first-aid
kit, a knife, fire extinguisher, extra
shcar pins for motor, extra plugs, and
a tool kit.

RECREATION

l
|

Important information about one 01“
today’s most thrilling and popular
sports——in camp or out.

I Safe Water

A Good Boatman

The water skier°s partner in good ski-
ing teamwork is the boat driver. We go
along with those folks who feel that the
boat driver is ninety per cent of safe
skiing! The water skier’s safety may
depend on how well the boat is handled.

There should always be two men in
the boat: a driver to operate the boat
and look ahead so that he can steer
the boat and skier away from possible
danger spots and an observer to watch
the skier and give orders to the driver.

The Skier’s Equipment

The equipment for water skiing in-
cludes skis, binding, and towrope. The
outboard-style ski is recommended for
beginners. These are usually about six
feet long and seven inches wide. Bind-
ings are usually made of a flexible ma-
terial like gum rubber, so that they
will give way in case of a fall and pre-
vent ankle injuries. Towropes are from
sixty to seventy-five feet and have a
towbar attached.

The use of life vests or jackets is
recommended for beginning skiers and
is advisable for skiing on larger bodies
of water or under unusual conditions
such as cold water or rough weather.

Getting Started

Basic skiing can be learned in a very
few lessons. It’s important to get start-
ed correctly and not develop any bad
habits in form. Points to remember:
keep the knees bent, arms straight, and
have the weight balanced directly over
the feet, while in a half-crouch position.

Start off with a little practice ashore.
Dry-land exercise is used to teach prop-
er position and balance and to get the
“feel.” Then try actual starts in the
water.

When the skier is in the water and
ready, the towboat starts at idling speed
until the towrope is extended to its full
length. The driver doesn’t “hit it” ap-
ply full throttle) until the rope is taut,
he can see the skier’s tips, and the skier

MARCH 1957

Skiing

has indicated that he is ready to go.
It’s a real partnership between the skier
and driver!

When the skier is “up” on the water,
power should be eased off as signaled
by the skier—“thumbs up” meaning
more speed, “thumbs down,” less speed.
Wide-arc turns are preferable. If a
short turn is necessary, the driver
should be sure the skier is not going to
be on the inside of the turn. If the skier
is outside the wake on the left (port)
side, don’t turn left too sharply until‘he
has returned to the wake. If he is on
the inside he will sink because of lack
of speed and, unless he lets go, will have
the towrope pulled from his hands
when the line finally straightens out.

The boat driver must steer the skier
away from all objects such as docks
and sea walls and give other boats and
obstacles a wide berth. He must avoid
swimmers.

When recovering a fallen skier, cut
speed immediately to determine if he
is entangled
quickly, coming up at idling speed,
and make a half circle around him.
This will bring the towline directly into
his hands. Kill the motor when taking
a skier into the boat, as he may slip and
get hit by the prop. An idling boat in

neutral is not safe.

in rope, then return

In the take-off the skier puts on his
skis in about two or three feet of water,
grabs the towbar, and then raises the
tips of his skis above the water as a sig-
nal to the driver to start the boat. When
the boat starts to pull, the skier should
allow it to pull him up slowly to a stand-
ing position. It’s important that the
driver give the skier a fast but steady
pull. The skier does not pull up with
his arms! Keep the arms straight at
the take-off and let the boat do the

pulling.

Code of the Safe Water Skier

0 Learn to be a strong swimmer before
attempting to water ski.

0 Equipment should always be tested
before skiing.
0 When starting, don’t yell “hit it” un-
til your ski tips are up and the rope is
taut.
0 Stay away from docks, sea walls,
boats, and swimmers. Skiers seldom
get hurt from hitting the water, but usu-
ally from striking solid objects.
0 Watch the water ahead. Skier must
not depend on driver to keep him from
dangerous objects.
0 Be thoughtful of the rights of swim-
mers, boatmen, and fishermen.
o On falling: Recover skis, as they
will keep you afloat.

Raise hand quickly to signal boat
driver.

If in a congested area raise a ski so
other boats can see you.

Release the handle when falling back-
wards.

Avoid falling forward into the rope.
0 Never wrap the towrope around the
body.
0 Be very careful with the rope. Get-
ting it tangled on take-off, or pulling
up on it so that you have slack while
skiing, could lead to trouble.
0 When landing, run parallel to shore,
come in slowly, and release towbar a
safe distance from shore. Do not land
in swimming areas.
0 Don’t ski in shallow water. Avoid
excessive speed. Ski progressively—the
skier should never try stunts for which
he does not have the basic skill. I

Training begins on land. Early steps

include ways of putting on skis, hold-
mg the tow handle, weight balance, the
starting position and kinds of take-offs.

 

 

How To Do IT.” b 

 

BONE CARvme

\

MAT ERxALs

Shin Bone of Beef or any
of/ver so/Ib' bone-
H/es; round, bo/f-rocma’,

 

f/af and 'f‘H'onqu/a r «-

Hack Saw, Cap/>79 562w and

Pawn/re. ‘
METHOD E

|.Bo'I| bone 4’0 remove all ¥oreign maH’er -- Drug ‘Hnorouthq.
A/ofs: b’cm 9/??? bone in suns/7w? ¢5r a few days 63403 7‘0 b/eac/v if:

2. Make 'drawinq of objeclYoM/a/yje) ~ Pasha on bone .  
3.0K ou’f shape using hacksaw or coping saw.  gym?

pray/)7? 0/ /€/fér ope/79¢

hi W W\

 
      
   
  
 
 

Der/'9” 0/? paper
pa57‘ea’ fa px'e'ce

57/27? 7%!

I. '.
' ' // /
. . ona’e rod/70’
I" = g s
a". a. o :
Mignon o a 03‘.
. "2' .3 333 2"“
‘ ‘ o. u 63%;:
"Mi-TE * 3f  ' .
5'1?"le rv-l
5,! o


Mia: 561/7‘0/75, bacf/ag pm)“, paper A’n/Vas,

f7? :5//"0’.s=.sJ afar: 0/770/778/7/5, 8/21 can be made.

102 Rncnmnox

 

INEXPENSIVE NATURE MATERIALS FOR CRAFTS

Material Treatment
Corn Husks Allow to dry, moisten as
used, may be dyed.
Cattails Gather in fall, allow to
dry, moisten as used.
Rushes Gather when full grown,

allow to dry, moisten as
used.

Gather when the heads
begin to blow apart.

Allow to dry, moisten be-
fore using in weaving.

Cattail Flqu '

Grasses

Gather when ripe, may be
cut with a saw.

Nuts

Clean thoroughly but
gently, may be drilled.

Shells

For whistles, cut in
spring.

Willow

Clay Amount of washing will
depend upon purity,
wash, allow to settle, re-
move water, may be fired
and glazed.

Twigs Sort for size.

Projects

Braids for mats, san-
dals, dolls, flowers,

belts, stuffing for pil-"

lows, hooked mats.

Weaving of mats, trays,
dolls, toy ducks.

Woven mats, baskets.

Stuffing for toys, good
insulation.

Woven mats, filling for
mats, stuffing for toys,
baskets.

Neckerchief holders,
pins, belts, bracelets,
place cards, novelty
items.

Spoons, belts, bracelets,
pins, earrings, novelty
items.

Whistles, baskets, trays,

framework fo r 0 th er
weaving.

All types of pottery
items, figurines.

Necklaces, belts, brace-
lets.

, Reprinted from Parks and Recreation, June 1953.

  

ATHLETIC BALLS

 

So sensationally better are
they on every count—design,
construction, quality;
durability and play-ability—
that Rawlings HERCULITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high
standard. They're in a class
by themselves—they’re . . .

" 17in Finer! In 7719 Field! "

. BASKETBALLS
o roorBAus

o VOLLEY BALLS
o SOCCER BALLS

RAWlINGS SPORTING GOODS CO. 0 St. louis - Los Angeles 0 Dallas 0 Chicago

 

. ——————————— —* Send for these 275 NEW activities! ————— ——'————-=

 

       

   
 

 ‘
‘k m - "i
kw I“!
In.

{is
treasury 0‘ “n

Rollicking folk fun for everyone

El SINGING GAMES
AND DANCES

DAVID S. McINTOSH

56 delightful singing games and singing
dances, each with words, music, and instruc-
tions clear enough for beginners. Chosen for
their gay simplicity and originality from the author's vaSt col-
lection of MidweSt Americana, and adapted for modern use.
Special index suggests child and adult age groups for each
activity.

$3.00

For pre-teen story time

Cl TREASURY OF
AMERICAN INDIAN TALES

f“.  THEODORE WHITSON RESSLER

44 authentic, traditional and original stories
from 27 tribes in all parts of the country.

Each story “child-tested" for reading to ages

I
I
I
I
I
L-

iMARCH 1957

6 to 12. Character building Indian traits of courage, honeSty
and close family ties are stressed unobtrusively.

$3.95

CHECK BOOKS ABOVE—CLIP AD—WRITE NAME AND ADDRESS IN MARGIN AND MAIL TO
"' —————————— —" ASSOCIATION PRESS - 291 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.

For camps, playgrounds,
all outdoor places

CI CREATIVE CRAFTS
FOR CAMPERS

CATHERINE T. HAMMEI'T
and CAROL M. HORROCKS

 

17S arts and crafts projects using forms and materials found
outdoors to make articles correlating with other outdoor activi-
ties. Lucid text and numerous illuStrations detail 100 Cf the
projects step by step, Among the varied techniques included

are:

Braiding and knotting Weaving

Basketry Sketching and painting
Ceramics Printing and stencilng
Leatherwork Wllittling, woodcarving,
Metalwork and woodworking

A special section tells how to relate these crafts projects to
Other activities: dramatics, music, nature study, games, sports,
campcraft, bulletins, exhibits, favors and decorations for Spe-
cial events, etc. All projects are arranged progressively, and
encourage handcrafters to explore and experiment. $7.95

Preparation for water drainalics includes fun of learning, adds self-
confidence in the water, ties in well with swimming instruction.

CHILDREN like to share their joy in
swimming; and it is good public
relations for any camp or playground
leader to let them do so, with an au-
dience. The problem is to put on a
production that both performers and
watchers will enjoy --- without taking
too many hours away from regular
swim instruction.

Water draniatics can he the answer,
eithcr as a full-fledged production or
to simplify an already traditional syn-
chronized swimming display.

For example of the latter, a lively
recorded numbcr, such as a cowboy
song, might he played while a dozen
boys, ages seven and up, walk through
shallow water with the rocking motion
of a canter. ln circle formation, they
suddenly whip out water pistols and
shoot up a fountain effect, or race off
in a free-style cowboy-Indian chase in
which the villains, onec subdued, turn

Mlss DUBOIS is former waterfront di-
rector of Camp Manitou, Central Vai-
iey, New York. Her article is based on.
experience.

104.

 

It’s fun 10 share joy of water play;
children love g r o u p activities.

for Young Swimmers

I.

over and scull nteekly out of the area.

Even this brief skctch includes many
elements of water-show dramatics—an
action situation, appropriate music.
gestures, and properties. In addition,
the complete number may require cos-
tumes. even if just feather headbands
for the Indians, or it may need scenery,
preferably based around the natural
features of the swimming area. How
about an Indian lookout atop the life-
guard tower, a life-ring lasso. or a
tepee set by the water?

Certainly. this treatment slights the
traditional grace and skill of watcr
ballet; but how many girls bclow junior
high school age can easily master a
bent-knee dolphin, and how many boys
even care. to try? Yet they all like
make-believe. lf the program requires
fewer rehearsals than a synchronized
swimming program, it is so much the
better.

Drama appeals to the audience.
whether parents, townspeople. a neigh-
borhood group, or your own camp or
playground population. Only a frac-
tion of those watching understand the

Betsy DnBois

skill needed for a Catalina, a subma-
rine, or cvcn a precision crawl of ten
swimmers in unison; but they like ges-
tures and costumes --- thc obvious
things.

They may know that a ballet kick
is impressive, but they don’t know the
seulling practice needed to keep afloat
thosc who execute it. Therefore, many
programs have found the answer: elimi-
natc the difficult, keep the obvious. and
make up the difl'erence with imagina-
lion!

Dependence more upon imagination
than upon individual skills presents

First, it allows
Large groups are

several advantages.
more participants.

impossible for complicated stroke pat-
terns. but a recreation program in New
Bremen, Ohio. incorporated a group of
one hundred and twenty children in mass
numbers. The show spotlighted what
the children represented, not what the}
were doing. Second. rehearsal time is
cut, leaving more time for swimming
instruction. In a Marshall, Missouri.
show, for instance, nobody had to
Each

practice arm movements. was

RECREATION

holding on to one of two strips of red
cloth arranged to form a cross.

Practice is easier when the choreog-
raphy follows the “story” on the rec-
0rd. The instructor needn’t say, “Start
your flutter kicks twenty-four counts
after the music begins.” He merely
says, “Wait ’til the record sings ‘I get a
kick out of you.’ ”

A good tie-in with swimming instruc-
tion is a third advantage. Many skills
of synchronized swimming are beyond
and apart from those needed to pass
Red Cross or other tests. Water dra-
matics makes simple learning fun. The
handstand bow to the water-show king
trains heads-down beginning divers.
And a frog number, even legs only, can
advance lessons on the breast stroke.
There’s no harm in letting the young
tadpoles hold the side of the pool or
even keep their hands on the bottom
of the lake for a whole number.

In planning a water show,* the group
can help out. First, choose a good story.
“Theme” shows, with each number a
different circus number or a different
month, lack the suspense of narratives.
The audience can keep abreast of a plot
through a narrator, by n1imeographed
programs, or by its own knowledge of
a familiar story. Recent or old musical
plays, reduced to simple narration,
have their own records. Fairy tales or
Mother Goose rhymes appeal to young-
er groups; and folk tales make a novel
program.

The theme may help in selecting rec-
ords. For example, Camp Nicolet,
Eagle River, Wisconsin, swam a Pinoc-
chio number to “I’ve Got No Strings.”
But records are only one possibility.
Participants can swim to singing, drum-
beats, clapping, or the rhythm of a
poem read over the microphone. The
singers or clappers can easily blend into
the number. Just put them in dryland'

versions of the swimmers’ costumes; or '

include them in the action during en-
trances or exits.

The swimmers and their choreogra-
phy highlight the show. Here water dra-
matics differs from ballet, in that song
lyrics and theme guide its gestures.'For
example: sailor-dives for seamen; one
salutc per sidestroke for soldiers; a

* Material on water games and carnivals
can be found in Aqaafun, an NRA publica-
tion. (P 172) 3.50.

MARCH 1957

pawing front crawl for h o r s e s ; a
straight-arm back crawl for windmills;
and, in formations, a circular clock with
two swimmers as moving “hands,” or a
circle eXpanding as someone outside it
“blows up the balloon.”

For special interest, fit regular water
ballet stunts into your theme. Swim-
mers at Camp Manitou, Central Valley,
New York, mastered a barrel roll; then
a line of them rolled alternately left and
right to form an inchworm.

Camp Talako, also in New York,
built a whole number on a fisherman
and mermaid story ** of lovers sepa-
rated because he cannot follow her
under water. The two swam together
throughout, but for every stunt (dol-
phin, surface dive, and so on) in which
she went under water, he did a shallow
version of the same thing, keeping his
face above the surface.

The principle applies to even the lov-
liest numbers, as tried at Camp Hagan,
Shawnee - on - Delaware, Pennsylvania.
Swimmers duplicated the whirling mo-
tion of falling autumn leaves with a
simple twisting foot-first surface dive.

Costumes perk up a water drama, as
they do any other type; but for the easi-
est swimming, accessories are the limit.
Bracelets can be wide tinfoil strips for
an African slave, strings of bells for a
reindeer, or gauze for a doctor. Head-
dresses can range from the oilcloth
hairbows of Little Bo Peep to the pipe-
cleaner curls of the heroine in an all-
boy show. Anything is fine as long as
it is waterproof, simple, and stays on.

Scenery is too rare in water shows,
but it’s one of the best ways to involve
the craft shop in the water program,
and it makes performers feel practically
professional. Most groups let one set
tie together the whole show, since scene
changes are just too much trouble. They
use equipment at hand by- wiring tree
boughs to'the t0p of pool ladders, lean-
ing a cardboard storybook against the
lifeguard tower, or setting at the water’s
edge, a canoe decorated as a priate ship.
To help vary choreography, the canoe
moves right into the swimming area as

** There are many legends and versions of
romance between a fisherman and a mermaid.
One of the best known is oscar Wilde’s “Fish-
erman and His Soul” in his Happy Prince and
Other Fairy Tales, published by G. P. Put-
nam’s Sons, 210 Madison Avenue, New York
16. $2.50.

floating scenery. Other pieces, from
merry-go-round to sleigh, can bob on
rubber life rings or boats. A float cen-
ters the action, and helps swimmers got
a second wind inconspicuously.

“Props” make variety even easier.
Hens pause to tread water, and move
away leaving ping-pong ball eggs. So-
ciety ladies carry tin teacups, fling wa-
ter from them, and toss them away; or
a basketball team takes real shooting
practice through the joined arms of a
circle formation.

With stress on pr0ps especially, but
using several elements of dramatics, one
camp made the story of Hans Chris-
tian Andersen a top show. A group of
beginners, feathers taped on their bath-
ing caps, stood in shallow water. El-
bows bent, they “flapped” their hands
like good little swans; then they
splashed a poor ugly duckling, gro-
tesquely wrapped in an old Indian
headdress of feathers. But the change
came—he ducked under water and took
off the ugly feathers. Weighting them
on the bottom with a rock, he emerged
a lovely swan. No trouble at all—~since
he’d earned, the role by winning a
breath-holding contest.

Thumbelina came next; and—-— as
Hans painted a face on his thumb—the
craft shop painted faces on the backs
of white, inexpensive bathing caps.
When Thumbelina grew to nine feet-tall
in the lyrics, so did the swimmers, by
climbing backwards up ladders out of
the water.

The finale? Water show drama at its
height! Hans courted his girl, won her,
and swam with her to the water’s edge
—-between rows of well-wishers show-
ering the happy couple with popcorn.-

CREATIVE CRAFTS

FOR CAMPERS
by

Catherine T. Hammett
and

Carol M. Horrocks

A fine crafts manual—plus correlation
with dramatics, music, nature, campcraft
-—-—plus Indian and pioneer crafts, map-
making, photography, camp newspaper,
and many other practical sections.

448 pages $7.95

Order now from:

RECREATION BOOK CENTER
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y.

NRA membership discounts will apply.

 

105

 

i
P E n s o N N E L
___—1_

RECRUITING

Marilyn Jensen

One town’s solution of a serious shortage of trained recreation personnel.

Recruiting competent recreation per-
sonnel has ceased to be a serious prob-
lem in Torrance, California. After
viewing methods used in industry and
business, we decided to apply the same
techniques to solve our own recruiting
problem. With the influx of population
locally, we have greatly needed more
trained leaders to keep up with the
rapid eXpansion of the recreation de-
partment.

Our Solution

In January 1956, recreation director
Harry B. Van Bellehem discussed a
leadership training program with school
district officials. After several months,
the recreation department came up with
a plan that has proved very workable.

The answer has been to incorporate
our leadership training program into
an accredited high-school class during
the summer session. I was given the as-
signment of preparing the course out-
line and supervising the training pro-
gram. The outline was then studied
and approved by the school board—the
students to receive pay from the recre-
ation department and credit from the
school district during the sixty-hour
training period.

Realizing that the end result would
depend largly upon the instructor, the
selection of this person was left to the
discretion of the recreation department.
The school board stipulated that the
person selected must have a valid teach-
ing certificate and that the final choice
be agreeable to the school district.

The selection of students began as
soon as the recreation department dc-
tcrmined the approximate number of

positions that could be filled by gradu-
ates of such a program. The schools

MISS JENSEN is supervisor of women’s
and girls’ activities for the Torrance,
Caiifornia, Recreation Department.

106

0

performed an invaluable service in the
selection of possible participants.
Through the high school counseling of-
fices, students were screened on the
basis of leadership activities, ability to
work well with others, definite plans to
enter college in the fall, and particular
interest in recreation or related fields.
The names of fifteen students from each
school were then submitted to the rec-
reation department, and they were en-
couraged to apply for a summer rec-
reation position.

Twenty-six of the thirty students rec-
ommended by the schools applied for
jobs. The recreation department then
selected fifty per cent of this group by
means of a final interview conducted by

recreation personnel.

Course Outline. The main objective was
to provide training in the techniques
and activities ,involved in recreation
leadership. The material covered in-
eluded: a general perspective of the
field of recreation; common playground
problems and possible solutions; poli-
cies and practices in Torrance; charac-
teristics of different age groups; leader-
ship techniques including posture, use
of a whistle, and vocabulary; games of
low organization; types of tourna-
ments; use of dramatics in the program.
The class periods served a dual pur-
pose by providing a practical labora-
tory for experimenting with activities
unfamiliar to class members, and dis-
cussion of on-the-job problems.
During the summer program, the
school areas were staffed with an area
director and one or two student leaders.
These students assisted the directors in
all phases of the program. They were
not placed in complete responsibility.
Result. For the most part, our student
leaders were excellent. They even sur-
passed, in many instances, some of our
adult leaders'5who had been in the pro-
gram for a number of years. The wealth

of knowledge these students had gained
in class was so apparent to the older
staff members that they requested such
training classes for themselves. The
caliber of the program was better, and
the esprit de corps of the entire recrea-
tion leadership staff was so improved
that there was little comparison with
previous years. Half of the students
employed during the summer continued
as part-time winter employees.

The Future

This plan allows-for future advance-
ment as the personnel gain experience.
Annual salary increases have been set
up to enable the student leaders to
progress systematically from a payrate
of $1.10 an hour as an entering college '
freshman to $1.72 as a graduate.

The system of upgrading through
promotion with attendant pay increases
obligates the recreation department to
select the most competent leaders. Re-
lease of others creates a constant de-
mand for new trainees each year. As
the program grows, additional classes
for advanced student leaders will be
included. School officials have been
very favorably impressed with the pro-
gram, and have indicated that they wish
to see it eXpand. The program has not
been a financial burden to the recrea-
tion department. The school district
pays the salary of the instructor. and the
small salary that the department has
had to pay the leaders while attending
classes has been more than justified by
the improved program and staff morale.

We are proud of the work done with
em high school graduates. The pro-
gram is reaching our natural leaders—
the dues who can be successful in rec-
reation—and allows them to test a
career in this field. When they make
vocational decisions, there is a better
than average chance that they will scri-
ously consider recreation as a career. I

RECREATION

l
I
l

 

 

Many of the following Easter cus-
toms from other countries will suggest
games, crafts, contests, and special
events. Fit them into your Easter cele-
brations, use them as poster ideas and
as springboards for your own imagi-
nation.

BULGARIA: The people come to the
town squares at midnight. Each person
brings. a candle and at the stroke of
midnight lights it. These Easter candles
are taken back home and are kept
throughout the year as protection
against disease, storms, and so on. Pro-
gram adaptation: A lovely outdoor
ceremony.

GERMANY: Special little “rabbit gar-
dens” are built by the children so the
Easter bunny has a place to leave the
eggs. Program adaptations: Pre-Easter
egg hunt idea for children’s craft proj-
ects; egg nest exhibit.

FINLAND: Boys and girls spank one
another with pussywillows. The child
spanked must give up an Easter egg.
Program adaptation: Scene or tableau
for a festival or pageant.

HOLLAND: Boys and girls on Easter
Eve go about the streets with lanterns
attached to long poles. Folk songs are
sung as they parade through the streets.
(Homes in Holland are often above
shops, on the second floor. The poles
are used so that the lanterns may be
seen by the people upstairs!) Program
adaptation: A new and interesting 'spe-
cial event.

NORWAY: Children hide eggs for the
adults to hunt. Program adaptation: A

good switch from the usual pattern—
why not try it?

PORTUGAL: People exchange colored
paper cornucopias which are filled with
almonds. Program adaptation: Idea
for favors and decorations!

SWEDEN: Eggs are decorated with
comical rhymes! Program adaptation:
This will be fun! Give special decorat-
ed egg to the one with the funniest
rhyme. Put the eggs on display. I

 

NRA Program Aids, March-April 1956.
MARCH 1957

 

l[I[I% ALUMINUM TABLE TENNIS TABLE

FOR OUTDOOR AND INDOOR USE

Here at last is the Heavy-Duty Aluminum Table Tennis Table featuring Durability and Ecan-

amy. Sturdin Canstructed ta Withstand Extreme Abuse fram Play and Weather. Built to Last
a Life-time.

0 REGULATION BOUNCE AND CONSTRUCTION.
0 ATTRACTIVELY FINISHED WITH GREEN ANODIZED NON-GLARE SURFACE.
0 IN 2 SECTIONS—4 LEGS EACH SECTION. EASILY SEPARATED INTO 2 TABLES.

0 WHEN SEPARATED HAS MANY USES.

O NO MAINTENANCE OR REPLACEMENT PROBLEMS.

0 OUTLASTS WOODEN TABLES BY MANY YEARS.

O A TREMENDOUS SUCCESS IN COLLEGES, SCHOOLS, CAMPS, ETC.

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED & CONSTRUCTED FOR HEAVY-DUTY USE IN:

Outdaar and Indoor Recreatian Centers, Playgrounds, Resarts, Clubs,
Camps, Ocean-galng Vessels, Etc.

FOR FULL DETAILS, WRITE:

ALL-METAL TENNIS TABLE CO. 760 GEORGE sr. — TEANECK, N. .1.

COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION For RECREATION

GERALD B. FITZGERALD, Universlty of Mlnnesata

Book discusses community recreation
organization and program plans on
the local, state, and national levels.
Shows how community benefits by hav-
ing responsible public recreation au-

thority in charge of recreation services.
Emphasizes the importance of effec-
tive association between lay and pro-
fessional leaders, outlining basic prin-
ciples for all concerned. 352 pp. 34.

RECREATION THROUGH MUSIC

CHARLES LEONHARD, University of Illinais

This practical book provides specific
material for recreation and song lead-
ers in the conduct of their singing,
listening, and playing programs. In-
cludes stimulating discussions on the
various components of music, types

of compositions, and different musical
Styles. Helpful lists of recommended
recordings, song books, and special
recordings and songs for children.

30 £221., 160 pp. $3.25

0 PapuIar books on the'dance . . .

The Li'l Abner Official Square Dance Handbook

FRED LEIFER

sic scores for 26 dances. Selections of
classified songs and country games in-
cluding an annotated bibliography of
45 dance books. 157 £221., 127 pp.

$2.25

Invaluable to recreation leaders and
dance teachers this useful guide pro-
vides all necessary information on
organizing a square dance. Presents
basic steps and figures, calls, and mu-

Wallr Your Way to Better Dancing

LAWRENCE A. HOSTETLER

This profusely illusrrated book pre-
sents a complete and logical method
for teaching and learning ballroom
dancing. Shows the many advantages
of correct dancing and provides a
visual piCture of each step and com-

bination the student is learning. Pre-
sents the basic principles of leading
and following and describes in detail
the various dance rhythms. Rev. Ed,

130 521:, 295 pp. $4.25

THE FOLK DANCE LIBRARY

Ann Schley Duggan, Texas State
Callege for Wamen; Jeannette
Schlattmann, Bernard College;
Abbie Rutledge, Perdue University

The Teaching of Folk Dance
5 522:, 116 pp.

Folk Dances of Scandinavia
32 i22.t., 1 map, 21 mmica2 scorer,

118 pp.

Folk Dances of Europeon Countries

31 £225., 3 maps, 27 Myriad scorer,
106 pp.

Folk Dances of the British Isles
26 £221., 1 map, 12 mmica2 scorer,
110 pp.

Folk Dances of the United States
and Mexico 43 £221., 2 maps, 21 mn-
12'642 scorer, 159 PP.

Each 8% x11. $3.50

Send for complete price list in Sports, Physical Education, and Recreation

The Ronald Press Company 0 15 E. 26th St., New York 10

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

107

 

 

NEWS

I f you are interested in any 0}
these products, write directly tc
the manufacturer at the addresu
given. PLEASE mention that yoq
read about it on RECREATION
magazine’s Market News page

 

0 Tennis Wink is a varia-
tion of tiddlywinks played on
a 15”x24.~” green felt court
over a plastic net. The net
clamps on to the court, and
the serve-wink is attached to
a nylon string at the center
to prevent it from getting lost.
Scoring is the same as in reg-
ulation tennis, singles and
doubles. Transogram Com-

pany, 200 Fifth Avenue, New York 10. ,

 

d

O A new aluminum tee and yardage marker -_I
for golf, shotput, discus Iand javelin throwing
is made of rugged, weatherproof cast alumi-
num with stenciled numerals. The markers
have an integral spike and convenient finger
grip for quick placement or removal from the
ground and are well suited for 'use as markers
wherever yardage is measured. Ball and Hale,
1526 Greenmount Avenue, Pittsburgh 16, Pennsylvania.

0 A new water ski-tow rope, of irradiated polyethylene
plastic, offers the advantage of grcater strength, minimum
stretch, and excellent floating quality, as well as bcing for-
ever waterprooof and longer lasting than other ropes. It
should be useful to both beginners and professionals in water
skiing. The ski-tow is seventy-five feet long, completely as-
sembled with a secure splice and fastened to a splinter-free
birch handle with “walled crown” non-slip knots. Those
who make their own water ski-tows can purchasc thc, r0pc
without handle in eighty-foot length. Thomas Jackson and
Son Company, Reading Pennsylvania.

0 Space-Kite, a new
high-flying cl 0 t h
kite, is a controlla-
blc three-dimension-
al aeronautical flycr
m a (l e entirely of
tear--proof acetate
cloth, precision sew-
ed in red, yellow and
blue. It is flown eas-
ily and can be made
to climb, glide and
and zoom at will and will fly for hours on end. It requires
no tail for stability. Earlier models have bcen used in U. 5.
weather rescarch.

Two sizes are available: a 28”-high kite without string

108

 

" is for porous surface marking

and a 35”-high kite with 250 feet of kite cord. Extra cord
is available in 250-foot balls. Alan-Whitney Company, 413
Chapel Street, New Haven 2, Connecticut.

9 Squeezo is a felt-point mark-
er that controls the flow of ink
with a squeeze bottle which
holds three-quarter ounce of wa-
ter-color ink available in eight ‘4

. «
colors. The new water-color 111k /

  

and does not strike through even
the cheapest grade newsprint
chart paper. It makes multiple-color art work easy and in
expensive. In tests with three- to six-year-olds it was foun
they could do much better coloring because the point staye
sharp (the ink comes off hands and clothes with a little soa]

and water). Marsh Stencil Machine Company, Felt-Poin'
Pen Division, Belleville, Illinois.

0--

0 A new plastic float line, consisting of 1%”)(43/1” tubulai
floats strung continuously on a oneocighth-inch moncl cab]
is furnished complete with hook, spring, tension hook an
other required fittings. Hemisphcrical soft plastic spacer
are positioned between each float to provide extra flcxihilityl
and greater attractiveness. This continuous type line r91
(luces turbulence and provides a high degree of safety be-
cause of grcat visibility and exceptional buoyancy. In ad!
dition, bare cable is not exposed at any point. The line i
particularly suited for marking water recreation areas of al
typcs, especially at camps. ,

The plastic floats are virtually indestructible, arc unaf-
fccted by chlorine or salt watcr, will not swell or distort an!
will not accumulate algae. The color is part of the plasti
itself, eliminating chipping or peeling and consequent rcn
finishing. The lnoncl cable will last indefinitely. J. H. Shcpi
hcrd Son and Company, 1820 East Avenuc, Elyria, Ohio. I

O Fishermen can now apply shot to
their lines in a twinkling with a new
Shot-A-Matic dispcnser. This handy
little device holds a supply of 3/0
split-shot and all the fisherman has to
do is dial a shot into position in a
fecdcr slot, inscrt linc in slot, press
plunger—and presto, the job is done.
The Shot-A-Matic is molded of trans-
parent Eastman Tcnite bntyrate plastic and won’t rust o

shaltcr. Varco Products Company, 1015 Juniper Avenn
Boulder, Colorado.

   

RECREATIOE1

H

 

 

g‘aeyédaé Medea

Beatrice H. Hill

0 The Westchester County Recreation
Commission, New York, and the Na-
tional Recreation Association co-spon-
sored a one-day institute in White
Plains, on February 5, on “Recreation
for the Aged, Ill and Handicapped”
(primarily those in nursing homes).
Westchester County is working very
progressively towards a closer relation-
ship between the nursing home owner
and the local recreation commission.
Thc outcome will be a carefully formu-
lated recreation plan, with trained vol-
unteers under supervision of personnel
indoctrinated in recreation.

o The National Association of Recrea-
tional Therapists will hold their annual
hospital meeting in Chicago at the Ho-
tel LaSalle, March 20-21. The topic will
be “Recreational Care for thc Men-
tally Ill and Mentally Retarded.” There
will be .tours of Chicago hospitals,
some very fine addresses by psychia-
trists, panels on music, sports, games,
clubs, parties, dancing, and spccial
workshops in rhythm band and folk
dancing.

0 April 28—30, the Third Southern

Regional Institute in Hospital Rccrea-
tion will be held at the University of
North Carolina in Chapel Hill. Con-
ferences with doctors, workshOps on su-
pervision leadership, adaptation of ac-
tivities and interpretation will be fea-
tured. For further information, write

Harold V. Meyer, Box 1139, Univer-
sity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

0 Teachers College, Columbia Univer-
sity, and the National Recreation As-
sociation are planning a conference in
June, to consist of two two-week ses-
sions, with or without a two-point credit
each, for a University fee of fifty (10]-
lars. Preliminary plans indicate an in-
tcnsive in-service course of training for
those hospital recreation professionals
who feel a need of eXpanding and im-
proving the recreation services in their
institutions. Emphasis will also be
placed on methods and techniques of

Jamlsnntrtftrt't':

Be sure to rheclc the rmny exc'usive features of
n

‘. waned *0. Write for free catalog of 254

l

.r- v m Mcn or “mine: C...
9n. Sautl' My .43: St eet
Lr ; hrs”; 3 Ca icy."

MARCH 1957

 

the professional worker and of the po-
tential college graduate.

There will be daily class lectures and
demonstrations at the college as well
as field work in an iilstitution which
matches the needs and interests of the
studcnt. Further information will be an-
nounced in this column at a later date.

0 I wonder how many recreation lead-
ers read the very fine article in the Jan-
uary 3 issue of Life, “The Age of Psy-
chology in the U. S.,” the first of a
series by Ernest Hairmann? I call at-
tention to it because it contains an up-
setting aspect . . . a picture of the hos-
pital team that treats a mental patient,
with practically every department men-
tioned with the exception of recreation.
Recreation in a mental hospital, as we
know, is very important in the patient’s
daily care; and yet, in a national publi-
cation like this, we are still so little rec-
ognized professionally that we are not
mentioned along with the other mem-
bers of the hospital team.

0 Another interesting article, in The
New York Times, January 13, by Dr.
Howard A. Rusk, in his regular Sun-
day column, tclls us that today therc
are more general hospital beds than
ever before; and since the Hill-Burton
Hospital Survey and Construction Pro-
gram started in 1948, the nation has
gained 253,000 acceptable new ones . . .
“In contrast to this improving picture
in numbers and distribution of general
hospital beds, the availability of chron-
ic hospital, nursing home and rehabili-
tation beds has worsened. Studies . . .
show we have only about half the nurs-
ing home beds needed and almost half
of those we do have are not acceptable
by state standards of health and safety.
Hill-Burton inventories in mid-1956
showed an over-all need for 395,000

nursing home beds. There are now

218,000 such beds, of which 103,000

were not acceptable.”

He also notes that, in the entire coun-
try, there arc only twenty-eight com-
prehensive rehabilitation centers. Hc
closes by commenting that, as the life-
span continues to lengthen, the num-
ber of persons affected by chronic dis:
case and physical disability will con-
tinue to mount. Thus, dynamic action
must be taken for the care of this in-
creasing hospital population. I

'MRS. HILL is the NRA consultant on

hospital recreation.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

Write for our new Base Catalog. I

I 34pm Own/M4 

0
it
's
«‘5 "

370 N. MARQUETTE STREET
l Fond du Lac, Wisconsin

.—_——.————n——_———_.____.___._

Wear Your Golden Age Club Pin With
Pride Wherever You May Ga

Designed by representatives
of over 100 Golden Age clubs
and used nationally.

Gold colored metal with
enamel. Symbolic of longlife,
strength and perseverance.
The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE
(greatest values of club membership) en-
ameled in black. The horder is a laurel
wreath for honor. Safety catch.

Available Only to Authentic Clubs.
50: each, minimum order 10 pins.

James Spencer & (o. 22 N. 6th Street

Philadelphia 6, Pa.

CT SIZE

ENAMEL ON

COPPER

      
   
  

64 PAGES

Learn iewelry making; latest enam-
eling processes and techniques from
step - by - step illustrated instruc-
tions. Book lists many new copper
 items, complete supplies, tools 8.
i ‘ equipment. Send for your copy of this
valuable reference book today! (It's FREE!)

‘ THE COPPER SHOP
A Div. of lmmerman 8 Sons ' Dept. 170
2185 EAST 14th 0 CLEVELAND 15, OHIO

  

FOLDING
BANQUET

  
   
   
  

 
   
  

It you are on the
Board of your
(.‘hurch. Lodge.
Club. School. etc...
you will be inter-
ested in this mud-
em Folding llan-
quet Table.

    
    

     

 » ND

MONROE TRUCKS

  
 
 
 

  

Completely fln-
isht-‘(l tops. re-
sistant to most
serving hazards-
t'su‘d with or with-
out table cloths.

     
    
 
     
  

  
   

Write for Table and

Trtir‘k Catalog and special

price discounts to institutions
and organizations.

Monroe (20.. 181 Church St.. Colfax, la.

03 ' we”

 
  

  

    
 

109

Books & Pamphlets
Received

ACT IT OUT, Bernice Wells Carlson.
Abingdon Press, 810 Broadway,
Nashville 2. Pp. 160. $2.00.

AND ON THE RIGHT (Guide to New York
City). Jack Horn, 262 West End
Avenue, New York 23. Pp. 140.
Paper $1.00.

CREATIVE ART (Elementary Grades),

Fran Trucksess. Fran Trucksess, P.
O. Box 412, Boulder, Colorado. Pp.

105. Paper 

DANCE PRODUCTION, Gertrude Lippin-
cott, Editor. American Association
for Health. Physical Education and
Recreation, 1201 Sixteenth Street,
N.W., Washington 6, D.C. Pp. 102.
Paper $1.50.

EASY WAYS TO EXPERT WOODWORKING,
Robert Scharff. McGraw-Hill, 330
West 42nd Street, New York 36. Pp.
185. $3.95.

 

 

 

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

All-Metal Tennis Table,"Company ........... -_ 107

American Camping Association _-.... _. 89
American Playground Device Company- 69
Association Press __..__-__,.__.....,_L-_ 103

Audio Equipment Company- ..0utside Back Cover

 

California State Personnel Board.______s._- 69
Cleveland Crafts Company..._.L_.. _ 89
The C0pper Shop 109
D. M. R. 100p Tennis Company- 91
Dimco-Gray Company .___._____- . 91
H. 8. R. Manufacturing Company. 110
Hillerich 8. Bradsbyman, .._lnside Front Cover
Hillyard ........ -H .. ..-_.-._.q-... 65
Jamison Manufacturing Company _ 109
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company-.. 69

I. C. larson Company “an...” 91
The MacGregor Company. .. 96
The Monroe Company H. 109

National Catholic Camping Association
-LEH,.--..-__|nside Front Cover

National Sports Company

uoH-H

,-_...__--r._ - 109
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company. 103
The Ronald Press --H........-___.__--. 107
James Spencer & Company . 109
Square Dance Associates L.“ 89
Superior Industries Corp. , _ .. 91
Vogel-Peterson Company _. 89
Voit Rubber Corporation - _ 91
X-acto, lnc. ............... h.  91

M
-——————_——_—_—____

110

 

  

FLOWER SIIOW THEMES AND ARRANGE-
MENT CLASSES FOR DEVELOPING
THEM, Dorothy Biddle. Hearthside
Press, 118 East 28th Street, New
York 16. Pp. 64-. $1.95.

LEADERSHIP AND ROLE EXPECTATIONS,
Ralph M. Stogdill, Ellis L. Scott, Wil-
liam E. Jaynes. Bureau of Business
Research, Ohio State University, Co-
lumbus 10. Pp. 168. Paper $2.00.

LEARN CIIESS FROM THE MASTERS, Fred
Reinfeld. Dover Publications, 920
Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 144.
Paper $1.00.

LET’S GIVE A SHOW, Bill and Sue Sev-
ern. Alfred A. KnOpf, 501 Madison
Avenue, New York 22. Pp. 178.
$2.50.

LIVING SAFELY, Roy Stewart. Burgess
Publishing Company, 426 South
Sixth Street, Minneapolis 15. Pp.
101. Paper $3.00.

PSYCHOLOGY FOR LIVING, Eugene H.
Sloane. Owl Press, Bay Ridge, Ai'i-
napolis, Maryland. Pp. 136. $3.00.

PUBLIC RELATIONS FOR SOCIAL AGEN-
CIES, Harold P. Levy. Harper 81
Brothers, 49 East 33rd Street, New
York 16. Pp. 208. $3.50.

READING WITHOUT BOUNDARIES, Frances
Lander Spain, Editor. New York
Public Library, 42nd Street and Fifth
Avenue, New York 36. Pp. 104.
Paper $1.00.

SCIIOOL-COMMUNITY LEADERSIIIP, Dor-
man G. Stout. William C. Brown
Company, 215 West Ninth Street,
Dubuquc, Iowa. Pp. 141. Papcr
$2.75.

SCIIOOLS FOR TIIE NEw NEEDS: EDUCA-
TIONAL, SOCIAL, ECONOMIC. F. W.
Dodgc Corporation, 119 West 40th
Street, New York 18. Pp. 312. $9.75.

SIIORT SKIN DIVING COURSE, Joe Micek
and Sherman Poska. Jewish Comrnu-
nity Centcr, 101 North 20th Street,
Omaha, Nebraska. Pp. 11. Free (en-

close self-addressed 11”x8V2” envc-
lope with six cents postage).

SOCIAL WORK YEAR BOOK—1957, Rus-
sell H. Kurtz, Editor. National Asso-
ciation of Social Workers, One Park
Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 752.
$7.50.

URANIUM PROSPECTING, Hubert Lloyd

Barnes. Dover .Publications, 920
Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 117.

Papcr $1.00.

WHY NOT WRITE? William Redgrave,
Editor. Harian Publications 12
Broadway. Grcenlawn, New York.

Pp. 56. Paper $1.00.

YOU AND MUSIC. Charming L. Bete
Company, Box 506, Greenfield, Mas-
sachusctts. Pp. 15. 3.15.

WHAT’S HAPPENING IN SCIIOOL INTE-
GRATION? ( #244), Harold C. Flem-
ing and John Constable. Public Af-
fairs Pamphlets 22 East 38tli Strcet,
New York 16. Pp. 20. 3.25.

 

 

Magazine Articles

ADULT LEADERSHIP, January 1957
Music in Adult Life, Max Kaplan.

The Development of Mature Individ-
uals, John C. Whitehorn.

, February 1957

The Mature Attitude, Edgar Z. Fried—
enberg.

CAMPING MAGAZINE, January 195?

   

 

Camper-Centered Program, Thomas.

S. Cohn.

Counselor-Camper Relationships,
A. T. Leonard and Fred van Har-
tesveldt.

The Value of Art in Camp,Dorothea
R. Flood.

, February 1957

Choosing Your Camp Naturalist,
Alfred L. Hawhes.

The Story Teller at Camp, Arthur
Lewis Zapel.

The Value of Co-Ed Camping, C.

Owen and Catherine C. Greene.

JOURNAL OF HEALTII, PHYSICAL EDUCA-
TION, RECREATION, January 1957

A Play-Way to Fitness. George Van
Bibber.

 

Role Playing Vitalizes Pre-CampI

Training, J. Bertram Kessel.

PARK MAINTENANCE, January 1957
Workreation.

THE SATURDAY EVENING POST, Febru-
ary 2, 1957
He’s Tough on Kids, Charles Price.

UNDERSTANDING TIIE CHILD, January
1957

Values and Dangers of the Socio~
gram, Arthur R. DeLong.

 

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. & :R.I

DRY lINE MARKERS 1

5 DIFFERENT moons
From 20# lo 100:: Capacity

Forte Food -— Instant
Show” — 50 lbs. co-
pacify.

Shaker in Hopper lot
Constant Flow.

Adiustohlo Control on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL



-"_

Send to Dept. R for booklet on four other models
H. & R. MFG. CO... [05 ANGELES 34, CALIF.

 
   

National Recreation Month

I 'I' '. I-"ll l'.‘ .":"-l ! I'-|'

RECREA'rrON

 

So You’re Gonna Ride a Bus

A Bus Program for the Day Camp

Jerry Witkovsky and Mort Schrag.
Jewish Community Center Division, Na-
tional Jewish Welfare Board, 145 East
32nd Street, New York 16. Pp. 19.
$.50.

This is a nineteen-page pamphlet, so
unusual and so excellent that we felt it
worth including here. Transportation
to and from a day camp (or any other
location), or during a trip or tour can
be a headache; or it can be an integral,
planned part of the recreation program.
This pamphlet is filled with practical,
imaginative ways of making the bus
trip not only orderly and fun, hut a
valuable part of the child’s experience.

Include it in your pre-camp, or pre-
playground training courses. See that
any leader who will be in charge of a
bus full of youngsters, whether they’re
I going to the day camp, the beach, the
zoo, or what have you, gets a copy of
this pamphlet. It’s an excellent piece of
work—-and mach needed.

The Ship of Peace

Elsie Denean Hunt. Pageant Press,
101 Fifth Avenue, New York 3. Pp.
178. $3.00. "-

This is an entertaining personal ac-
count of family vacationing in a mod-
ern “covered wagon”——— or trailer——
which makes it possible for its owners to
stop wherever they wish. The title re-
fers to the peace of mind and relief
from daily problems which can accom-
pany such trips. There are incidents
of humor and adventure mixed with
philosophical observations.

Recreation and the Local Church*

Frances Clemens, Robert Tully, Ed-
ward CriII, Editors. Brethren Publish-

ing House, Elgin, Illinois. Pp. 191.
$2.75.

Many books have been published in
recent years about recreation, its ad-
ministration, program activities, lead-
ership, and so on’; but few have been
dedicated Specifically to church recrea-

tion and its guiding principles. Now, -

the three editors of this book attempt
to put the Christian faith and recreation
together in such a way that each sup-
plements the other. It is interesting that

MARCH 1957

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

this is still a needed service and that we
must continually fortify ourselves
against the taboos of our Puritan an-
cestors——who held that play is a sin.
This book was actually written by a
recreation workshop group, Sponsored
by the Church of the Brethren in 1954,
with the “editors” acting as its editorial
committee. It presents a philosophy of
church recreation and techniques of
leadership practical for the church set-
ting. It can act as guide and counsel to
pastors as well as to group leaders. Spe-
cific program suggestions include ways
to discover and deve10p better lay lead-
ers, the place and use of recreation in
all phases of the church-program, a
developmental chart, and suggestions
for age groups to guide leaders in the
use of recreation, guidance and help on
church buildings and facilities needed
for fellowship and recreation purposes.

The Proof of the Pudding:
What Children Read

Phyllis Fenner. John Day Company,
62 West 45th Street, New York 36.
Pp. 246. $3.95.

If you are interested in why and what
children read, which books have with-
stood the test of years and meet chil-
dren’s interest, even in this age of tele-
vision and other distractions, you’ll
smile over and thoroughly enjoy this
book. The warmth of the author glows
through every page. Her long eXperi-
ence as librarian in the Manhasset, New
York, public schools has given her an
insight into books that please young-
sters. Her eXperiences and suggestions
will be of great service to those per-
sonally or professionally interested in
stimulating better reading habits among
today’s children. If you are ever in
doubt as to what book to buy for what
child, consult this book. When you do,
however, you won’t be able to put it
down because it’s such fun to read.

Water Skiing for All

Walter N. Prince. Greenberg: Pub-
lisher, 201 East 57th Street, New York
22. Pp. 205. $3.50.

After you have read the article on
water skiing in this issue (page 100),

 

*Available through the NRA Recreation
Book Center, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11.

you’ll want to order this book. The
author has been associated with ski
schools from California to Florida and
has instructed students from six to
sixty years old.

This book is well-organized, well-il-
lustrated, easy to read, and covers all
phases of water skiing. Its method of
organization lends itself to use as an
instruction manual. Recreation depart-
ments and other youth-serving agencies
will find the chapters on schools and
tournaments very helpful in setting up

' such services.

How to Make Good Tape

Recordings

C. J. LeBel. Audio Devices, Inc., 4'44
Madison Avenue, New York 22. Pp.
159. Paper $1.50; cloth $2.50.

This manual with its up-to-date infor-
mation should he very helpful to anyone
interested in making tape recordings;
the authors of all sections are special-
ists. It is non-technical and easy to
read, the text being made additionally
clear by the use of diagrams.

Subjects such as how to select tape
recorders, how to edit recordings, acous-
tically treat studios, and put together
shows are covered by eXperienced peo-
ple. The many uses of a tape recorder——
such as making commentaries for mov-
ies, recording musical programs, teach-
ing, improving staff speaking tech-
niques, recording board or committee
meetings, making sound effects, taking
down commentaries by interested citi-
zens for radio use, taping church serv-
ices, and so on—are discussed.

In fact, the use of a recorder is as
broad as the thinking of the individual
using it.

It would be hard to get along without
a.tape recorder after one is in the habit
of using it.———R. B. M cClintock, Superin-
tendent, Parks and Recreation, Omaha,

Nebraska.

The Golfers Own Book

Dave Stanley and George G. Ross,
Editors. Lantern Press, 257 Fourth
Avenue, New York 10. Pp. 342. $4.95.

This aptly titled book is, indeed, a

jack pot of golf information. It in-
cludes, for instance, tips from eXperts
on playing techniques, discussions of
equipment and its care, information
about places to play, clothes to wear,
off-beat data, and a glossary of golf
terms. It even devotes a section to golf
fiction and humor. Among the experts
who have contributed are: Bobby Jones,
“On Stance and Swing”; the late Mil-
dred ( Babe) Zaharias, “Tee and Fair-
way Woods”; Cary Middlecofi, “The
Swing”; Lealand Gustavson, “You and
Your Caddy”; Joe Novak on “Putting
and Approach Shots”; and others. m

111

Outdoor Horizons

Lawrence M. Brings, Editor. T. S.
Denison & Company, 32] Fifth Avenue
South, Minneapolis 15. Pp. 231 . $7.50.

This book covers all phases of wild-
life and wilderness experiences and
sport, with how-to-do-it information on
hunting and fishing and interesting and
important sidelights by experts and or-
ganizations such as the Audubon So-

ciety, National Wildlife Federation,
U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service.‘ It is

illustrated with sketches, black and-

white photographs, and color reproduc-
tions of photos and paintings includ-
ing a series by Roger E. Prcuss.

American Mountain Songs

Compiled by Ethel Park Richardson,
edited and arranged by Sigmund
Spaeth. Greenberg: Publisher, 20]
East 57th Street, New York 22. Pp.
120. $3.50.

Everyone who loves folksongs will
enjoy this collection. Many people have
collected the English songs that are still
found intact in our Southern inoun-

tains, but this collection includes those
originated in the American highlands.

The book is divided into four sec-
tions: ballads, lonesome and love tunes,
spirituals, and nonsense songs. Very
probably somewhere in it you’ll find
the song your grandmother sang when
she rocked you to sleep.

Add this book to your collection of
folksongs. You’ll find songs that your
choruses will enjoy and their audiences
love.

Camp Reference and
Buying Guide—1957

Galloway Publishing Company, 120
West Seventh Street, Plainfield, New
Jersey. $2.00.

Almost anyone who eXpects to have
anything to do with operating or work-
ing in a camp will find value in the

tenth anniversary edition of the Camp
Re/erence and Buying Guide just out.
Its more than one hundred and fifty
pages are crammed with a wide variety
of factual answers to questions likely to
come up during a camping season.

The book is divided into sections on

Use  Magazine
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

If you want to publicize information -abont . . . HELP WANTED . . . POSITIONS
WANTED . . . SERVICES AVAILABLE . . . WORKSHOPS AND CONFERENCES

EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES

HERE’S HOW:

ITEMS FOR EXCHANGE

. Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish replies

SCI”.

. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

. Count the number of words in the message and the address: Count caeh group
of numbers as one word (c.g., “856 East Fifth Street” or “Salary $5,000 per year”

would each count as four words). '
Connt boldface words separately.

4. Figure the eost of your ad: Words in regular type. . . .SJS caeh
Words in boldface type. . . .25 each
Minimum ad accepted $3.00

5. Mail your copy with your remittance to Reereaiion Classified Ads. 8 West Eighth

Street, New York 11, New York. Copy must be received by the fifth of the month
prceeding the month of the issue in which ad is desired (c.g., April 5 to appear in the
May issue).

HELP WANTED

Playground Director, man or woman, for

town of 6.000. Saiary $380 to $450 per

month based on eXperience. Send com-

pletc resume of education and ex eriencc.

JMarpes Smith. City Courthouse, unvtiie,
a ne.

Cost: Boldface—2 words a] 3.25..... 8 .50
Regular—29 words at 8.15 ..  4.35
Total cost of above ad would be 34.85

WORKSHOPS 8: CONFERENCES

Square Dance Workshops. Weekly sum-
mer workshops for recreation ieaders.
Qualified instructors. sessions for begin-
ners to advanced leaders. Write Director.
Square Dance Camp, Riverview. Montana.

Cost: Boldface—3 words at 3.25  .75
Regular—21 words at 8.15 . . . . . .. 3.15
Total cost of above ad would be 83.90

SAMPLE ADS

POSITIONS \VANTED

Crafts Instructor dcsircs position with
ubiie recreation program in Midwest.
on years experience in ali phases of
crafts. speeiaiizing in eeramics and weav-
ing. Minimum salary $4.500 per year. Jane
Jones. 5t2 Orehard Strcet, Wide Falls.
Michigan.

Coat: Boldface—2 words at 8.25  8 .50
Regular- 31 words at 8.15  5.10
Total coat of above ad would be 35.60

ITEMS FOR EXCHANGE

Have Twelve Tennts Nets, good condition.
to swap {or softbali bases or backstOp.
IReea‘eation Department. Miii City. Mary-
an .

Cost: Boldface—3 words at 8.25. . . . .. 3 .75
Regular—15 words at 3.15 . . . . . .. 2.25
Total cost of above ad would be 83.00

IMPORTANT: REMITTANCE MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER!

112

 

business management, food and foodI
service, health and safety, maintenance!
and development, and program. Each
section is further subdivided to cover aI
wide range of activities. For example.I
the program section contains informa-
tion on more than two hundred differ-I
ent craft projects, graded by age of!
camper, with a list of required materi-
als. Also covered under program arel
photography, boat mooring methods,
dimensions and diagrams of fields and
courts for most pOpular camp sports, a
checklist of sports supplies, rifierypoint-
ers, graded tests of camping skills, equip-
ment for out-of-calnp trips, camp mov-j
ies, and so on. Other sections are simi-
larly comprehensively covered.
Included also is a bibliography of
over three hundred books in the field
of camping; section on the American"
Camping Association. of which the-
Camp Re/erence and Buying Guide is.
an oflicial publication: and the buying

guide which lists hundreds of sources.‘

Flower Show Themes and Classes!

Dorothy Biddle. Hearthstone Press,
118 East 28th Street, New York 16.
Pp. 64'. $1.95.

Anyone who has visitcd a flowerI
show, taken a course in flowcr arrange-i
ment or who hopes to promote flower
shows and flower-arranging classes will I
find a tremendous amount of new, in-‘
tcresting and lovely idcas in this littlcl
Gil-page book. It has idcas for tabch
scllings, arrangements and themes for
holidays and anniversarics. and (most
helpfully) ideas for themcs suitable for
juniors—thosc lucky childrcn who are
cncograged to becomc interestcd in
flower arranging.

The author. as any gardcn club mcm-Il
bcr can tell you, has been a lcader in
this ficld for twcnty ycars. Shc is now
garden club cditor of Popular Garden
ing magazinc, and co-author, wilh her
daughtcr. of ninc books.

I
I'l‘rne-"l‘o-Life Stories for Canlpersi

llavc you secn the attractivc littlc
"Truc-To-Life Serics” of storics by R. |
\V. Eschmeycr. publishcd by Fishcr-
man Press, Oxford, Ohio? Thcy’re al-
tractivc, wcll-wrillcn. accurate. and in-
cxpcnsive. The following titlcs arcl
availablc from lhc publishcr: Al Alli-I
gator, Billy Bass, Bobby Bluegill.|
Charley Coltontail, l'rcrlrly Fox Squir-
rel. Mac Mallard, Tommy Trout. Bob'l
White, Willie lf’liitcmil. and Wood}
Woodcock.

Each has been checked by expcrts.
Campers will love thcm, and lcarn from
thcm. Hard covcr cdition. $1.00 each:
paperback. $.50. L'se lhe former for the
camp library. thc lattcr for pcrsonal
copies for campcrs.

HECREATIO!

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and

Local Recreation A gcncics

March, April and May, 1957

HELEN M, DAUNCEY Fayettcville,Arkansas Troy N. Hendricks, Ilcad, Department of Ilealth, Physical Educa-
Social Recreation March 11-14 tion and Recreation, University of Arkansas
Sherman, Texas Mrs. Ralph Day, Assistant Professor of Physical Education, Austin
April 8-11 College
RUTH G, EHLERS New York City Miss Maxine Keith, Executive Director, Girls Clubs of America,
Social Recreation April 1 Inc., 130 Maple Street, Springfield, Massachusetts
State of Verumut Mrs. A. 0. Bruugardt, Vermont Director of Recreation, State House,
May 6-16 Montpelier
ANNE LIVINGSTON Aiken, South Carolina Darrell Robinson, Jr., Superintendent, Aiken County Recreation
Social Recreation March 25-28 Commission, Box 2085
GRACE WALKER Association for Childhood Miss Sally Davis, 1202 East Indianola Avenue
Creative Recreation Education Convention
Youngstown, Ohio
May 18

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsor
of the course as listed above.

Miss Walker will attend the Northlaud Recreation Leaders Laboratory in Minnesota, April 24 through May 2.

Miss Dauncey will be in the Pacific Northwest Area during the week of March 4, conducting a leadership course at Fairchild Air
Force Base, Spokane, Washington. For further information communicate directly with Linus L. Burk, Air Force Regional Repre-
scntativc, 1345 Lincoln Avenue, San Rafael, California.

Miss Dauncey will be in the Southwest Area the weeks of March 18 and 25 and April 1 at the following air bases: Little Rock Air
Force Base, Arkansas; Barksdalc Air Force Base, Shreveport, Louisiana; and Kelley Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas. For

further details concerning the above three courses write to R. C. Morrison, Air Force Regional Representative, 248 Casa Blanca,
Fort Worth, Texas.

Miss Daunccy will conduct recreation leadership training courses for the United States Air Force in Europe April 22 through
May 31.

Frank A. Staples will be conducting two-week arts and crafts training workshops March 11 through April 18 in the Southwest Area
at the following air bases: Lake Charles Air Force Base, Louisiana; Bcrgstrom Air Force Base, Austin, Texas; Reese Air Force
Base, Lubbock, Texas. For further information, R. C. Morrison, at address above.

Mr. Staples will be in the Pacific Northwest Area from April 22 through 26. For further information, Iloward Bcrcsford, 3055
Bellairc, Denver 7, Colorado.

Mr. Staples will be in the Pacific Northwest and Pacific Southwest Areas April 29 through May 10. For information, Liuus L.
Burk at address above.

Mr. Staples will he in the Midwest Area at the following air hases for two-week periods beginning May 13: Mt. Ilomc Air Force
Base, Idaho; Offutt Air Force Base, Olnaha, Nehraska. For information, Iloward Bercsford at address above.

AUDIO EQUIPMENT CO., INC., Great Neck, N. Y.

I would like [3 brochure I] demonstration of Audio Holler

ELECTRONIC MEGAPHONE

nun—Hm»

TITLE

AUTHORITY __

“am-I" — _—--o—-—_—-—-

ST. 8 NO.

CITY OR
TOWN

 

