o nry l" ieiti‘er I
M a o. M array Coll ;_
J a aka-Ionville. Ulin '

FEB '7 1957

      

' :~
I.”

. M

  

———— sme RONALD Boo/at
LEADERSHIP IN RECREATION

Gerald B. Fitzgerald, Univer-
sity of Minnesota. Emphasizing
the principles, techniques, and
tools of effective leadership, this
book follows the premise that the
recreation leader functions pri-
marin in relation to people rather

PLAYGROUNDS:

than to activities. The book pre-
sents the methods used to deveIOp
and evaluate leadership ability,
citing typical professional stand-
ards. Includes job descriptions,
salary scales, requirements for
public and private organizations.

304 pp. 84

Their Administration and Operation

George D. Butler. This book

discusses the enlarged function of
the neighborhood playground; de-
scribes revised standards of play-
ground space and leadership. In-

troduces new and up-to-date pro-
grams, and outlines current meth-
ods of dealing with a variety of

playground problems.
Rev. Ed. 21 ills., 459 pp. $4.75

ACTIVE GAMES AND CONTESTS

Bernard S. Mason; and Elmer
D. Mitchell, University of M iclt-
igan. Presents well-known games
together with newer approaches.
Designed to acquaint student and

teacher with games of a vigorous
nature, this book provides 1800
games and contests arranged in 5
major groups.

100 ills, tables, 600 pp. $4.75

SOCIAL GAMES FOR RECREATION

Also by Bernard S. Mason and
Elmer D. Mitchell. This book

describes over 1200 games de-
signed for social recreation and

0 Ready in March

general education play. A com-
panion to Active Games and Con-
tests, it classifies activities by type,
age, and need.

86 ills., 421 pp. $4.50

TUMBLING TECHNIQUES ILLUSTRATED

Ted Burns. Illustrations by Ty-

ler Mieoleau. A thorough cover-
age, through text and illustra-
tions, of the basic individual tum-
bling techniques. For both begin-

ners and advanced students the
series of stunts appear in a logical
progression. Book also includes

- basic exercises, learning assists,
and lesson plans.

 x 10. 304 ills., 96 pp. $3

Send for complete price list in Sports, Physical Education, and Recreation.

THE RONALD mass comm- “5:212:33”

MORE THAN

100,000

U. S. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES EACH YEAR SPECIFY

America’s Finest Sports Equipment by
sass—“n+7:- %+}-}-;P :3?" .:-

NEW YORK 1 I

DANVILLE, Ill. ' HIS ANGELES II

 

 

     

  

f      
Shut Iehour
Fun For Everyone !

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-
tion for all ages . . . teen anioymant
for players and spectators.

Rugged. Dimco FreeGlide Shuttle-
board sets are available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . low in upteepl

Write today for colorful folder, "Let's
Play Shuffleboard,” containing com-
plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2. OHIO

 

PARKS are the setting for many
Recreation Programs.

PARK administration and know-
how aid and complement your
work.

The PARK. and RECREATION pic-
ture is a dynamic, changing
0118.

Only one magazine leads in com-
plete coverage of this field:

I from new products to new
presidents of societies

I from how to put a bond
issue across to the latest

SWIMMING POOL data
and design.

Join our family of over 14,000
readers who use PM as their
working tool.

Send your purchase order to:

PARK MAINTENANCE

Dept R
P. O. Box 409

Appleton, Wisconsin

One year—$3.00 Three years—$7.50
Groups ot the or more, one year—-
$2.00 per person.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

to Your Group from

' RE’ADER'S DIGEST

a -FUL_LY AUTOMATIC
' COFFEE URN!

t ' «- FULLY AUTOMATIC . . .
electric, portable

0 choice of 30-, 50-, 80-
and l20-cUp sizes

- o from cold water to so-

gr‘; ,. perb coffee
z “~33 A” . . .
L  x e no II‘ISTOIIOI’IOI'I . . . |ust

. .. plug in
Now . . . your organization can get a new,
FULLY AUTOMATIC Coffee Urn by Tricola-
tor . . . worth up to $79.95 retail . . . FREE!
It’s easy. Just have members obtain as few
as 33 Introductory Subscriptions at the spe-
cial half-price rate of only $1. for 8 issues.
That‘s all there is to it! You’ll reach your
goal quickly because everybody knows, likes
and wants The Reader‘s Digest for them-
selves, or as the perfect gift! Take advantage
of this amazing offer—send for
all details todayl

ALLAN SCOTT, Dept. 29A

THE READER’S DIGEST '
_ PLEASANTVILLE, N.Y.

    
  

   
 
 
 

 

Roller Skating is the one sport in
which all your students can partic-
ipate. It handles large groups of
boys and girls quickly and easily,
and does not require a change of
clothes. The equipment is rela-
tively inexpensive. Little supervi-
sion is needed. That’s Why more
and more schools are making roller

skating a definite part of their
:23?ny _ 50 lb" "3' physical education and recreation
Shaker in Hopper for W— programs.

Constant Flow.
Adiuslable Control an  
ABORIGINES ° ARROW HEADS

Handle.
SAVES TIME AND 3 RAfiglggEgBAL $100
and-

MATERIAL
DAGGER — 7" -— $3.95 ppd.
1Corved Sheath Included)

R. T. WATERS (Importer)
1383 Eost 26th Street, Brooklyn 10, N. Y.

' NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. <85 R.

DRY LINE MARKERS
5 DIFFERENT MODELS
I From 20# to 'IOO# Capacity

Farce Feed — Instant

     
  
 
     

 

Send to Dept. R for booklet on four other models
H. 8: R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

. ' - PLAY AREAS DO DOUBLE DUTY WITH
,\ 7' ) 575;)erfér
if Folding Table Tennis Tables! new RUBBER-PLASTIC WHEELS ARE

Superior tables can be stored compactly, can be KIND To GYM FLOORS These new

opened for play in a jiffy . . . even rolled ' Duryte mbber‘Plasuc Wheels Oumeal‘

away on wheels by a youngster. Sturdy, rigid Others and 31‘ e guaranteed not '10

Superior MTlOOO Table has edge-protecting ' mar or scratch the floors. “Chicago” has a
METAL FRAME AND TUBULAR STEEL skate designed for any type of floor

 

LEGS, HEAVY DOUBLE HARDWARE
0N LEGS. Thousands used by playgrounds,

camps, schools, military installations . . .

surface or finish. Write today for free
details on roller skating programs

  

wherever a heavy duty table is needed. and Skating CQUiPment-
I, N. T _ _
Bellamy casters POPULARLY T’RICED. APT’ROVED BY perm. ___ _ T __ _ 5 a
make it easy to Write for literature showmg complete llne .". "" " ‘5‘.-
clear Your goers. of institutional table tennis tables. _ "' ' er I]

m ’7- _ __I.
4490-8 West Lake, Chicago 24, III.

FEBRUARY 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 33

Editorially Speaking

 

Brotherhood Week

NO BETTER WORDS TO DESCRIBE "EROTHERHOOF‘

none; will}; charity . '-
767° all.i....”: '0: __  7 
, M$.  Ii‘l'

 

Recreation has an important part to
play in bringing about mutual under-
standing of the peoples of different na-
tionalities, creeds and races. As Howard
Braucher said: Know you one another
and thus you fuljill the law of peace.
Share your songs, your music, your art,
your sports, your ‘heart’s desire,’ and
you know you have shared what has
greatest lasting value.

Since 1940, the brotherhood of man
has been pointed up, annually, by the
observation of Brotherhood Week,
sponsored by the National Conference
of Christians and Jews. This year it is
scheduled for February 17 - 24. What
has your department planned'as a spe-
cial observation? Will you please write
us about it?

It is interesting to note, by the way,
the original of the seated figure of Lin-
coln ( pictured above) in the great Lin-
coln Memorial in Washington, and
symbol of brotherhood throughout the
world, was sculptured in the old Whit-
ney Museum—~now the headquarters
offices of the National Recreation As-
sociation.

Automation

As machines take over factory and
office jobs, here are some of the changes
being wrought. We will have:

0 A world in which a smaller pcrcent-
age of our labor force will work in fac-
tories;

o A world in which less monotonous

and tedious work will require human
effort;

34

o A world in which the workweek is
greatly shortened;
o A world in which the pace of life
slows down, in which leisure becomes
the center of life, rather than the fringe.

Ultimately the most pressing prob-
lem is to educate individuals for a soci-
ety in which leisure is the center of life
rather than the fringe. Two hundred
years ago, when it was necessary for
many people to put in sixty or seventy
hours a week in miserable factories,
just in order to survive, the question of
what to do with nonwork——‘with leisure
—never presented itself. Today, with
our forty-hour workweek, we are
already facing the two-day weekend
with something of a self-conscious atti-
tude. It will become a perplexing prob-
lem when leisure time spills over from
the weekend to Monday and Friday and
when a man leaves his desk or station
after six hours of work, still fresh and
full of energy. —-—-— From “Automation
Pilots a New Revolution” by John Die-
bold, Challenge, November 1956.

‘I' l-

l- *-

“Our noses aren’t as close to the
grindstone as were those of our fathers
and grandfathers, but enough of their
attitude is left in our subconscious so
that our new leisure isn’t quite the won-
derful part of our lives that it should

be.”-—Holi(lay, March 1956.
‘I' * * *

In 1931, Joseph Lec stated in an edi-
torial, “Leisure for everybody, a con-
dition which we are now approaching,
is a new thing under the sun—the most
revolutionary thing that ever happened
. . . . Here is our chance . . . . We may
choose the path of life or pass it by.”

Are Your Parks Threatened Too?

Director W. C.

City Recreation

McHorris has sounded a timely warn-

ing about a possible threat to the city’s
parks in Kingsport, Tennessee. Why
on earth even talk about chopping up
a playground at a time when local ju-
venile delinquency appears to be on thc
rise? '

The march of progress can bccomc
relentless, sometimes destroying cvcry-
thing of beauty in its path. Progress
took over for commercial purposcs the
original park sites laid out by the city
planners along Broad Street. Progress
laid sweltering concrete over grassy
parkways and chopped down the trees.
Progress almost removed the Broad

Street Circle, one of the city’s land-
marks. And now, progress threatens
the only place in the west end where
children can play on public property.
In past city elections, rumblings of dis-
content have come from the west end
with cries of ‘neglect’ or ‘underrepre-
sentation.’ Take away their park and
these rumblings will grow into shouts
of anger and Kingsport may well be
forced into precincts for city elections.”

-—Kingsport News, August 11, 1956.

An Editor Says:

Getting out this magazineis no
picnic.

If we print jokes, people say we
are silly.

If we don’t, they say we are too
serious.

If we stick close to the ofiice all
day, we ought to be around hunt-
ing material.

If we go out and try to hustle,
we ought to be on the job in the
office.

If we don’t print contributions,
we don’t appreciate genius.

' And if we do print them. the
paper is full of junk!

If we edit the other fellow’s
stuff, we’re too critical.

If we don’t, we’re asleep.

If we clip things from other
magazines, we are too lazy to
write them ourselves.

Now, like as not, some guy will
say we copied this from some
magazine. We did. —— Dwight
News, employee publication of
Cone Mills Corporation, Dwight
Division, Alabama City, Ala-
bama.

Ever the Same

0n Camping: “The use of the outdoors
to a child is like the use of water to a
fish, or almost so. . . . There is water
to swim or wade in . . . there are trees
to climb and fall out of . . . smclls
fraught with memoryand association. . .
“He should also know the outdoors
as a home, should huild the wood firc
and the camp and experience the e11-
dearing hospitality of mother earth.
“Nature is the source of wonder and
imagination. . . . The sky and woods
and fields speak with the thousand
voices of winds and streams, of trees
and flowers and animals. They are thc
child’s book and laboratory, the world
to which his mind and feelings are at-
tuned, his counterpart in science and in

art.”-—From “The Use of the Out-
doors,” THE PLAYGROUND. August 1927.

0 See our Special Comping Issue of
Recreation, March I957.—-—Ed.

RECREATION

FEBRUARY 1957 ,

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Vol. L Price 50 Cents NO. 2

 

0n the Cover

THE CHESSMASTER. This photograph, by War-
rant Officer (JG) Henry D. Evans, won second prize
in the Army’s first World-Wide .All-Service Arna-
teur Photography Contest in 1949. Its subject was
an eighty-three year old retired gardener of Karls-
ruhe, Germany. The chess set was handcarved in
Heidelberg, Germany. Photo courtesy U. S. Army.

Next Blonth

The special Camping Issue of RECREATION in
March, 1957, will carry an excellent selection of
articlcs on camp leadership, administration, activi-
ties. A few Of these are: “Camping for Tomorrow”
by Rey Carlson: “Camp Selection, Layout and De-
velopment” by Lewis C. Reimann; “The Personal
Touch in Day Camping” by Patrick J. Carolau;
“Crcativity in Camp Music”; “Nature Tools” by
Bcttye Breeser; “The Campfire” by S. Theodorc
Woal; “Gnideposts for Safe Water Skiing” by
Harold M. Gore. Among articles not on camping
subjects are “Concession vs. Direct Operation” by
Ralph M. Hilenian; “Recreation at the South Pole”
by Muriel E. McGann; “A Recreation Develop-
ment” by William J. Duchaine.

Photo Credits

Page 4]. 42, Bureau of Parks and Public Recrea-
tion, Portland, Oregon; 43, The Detroit News; 44.,
Jasper Nutter and Marshall LaCour, Long Beach,
California; 46, 47, 48 (bottom), Division of Public-
ity, Frankfort, Kentucky; 48 (top), U.S. D.A. Exten-
sion Service photo by G. W. AckernIan.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association. a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York, is on
file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readert'
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Reentcred as second-class
matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York.
New York, under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Section 1103. Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May
1, 1924. Microt'Ilms of current issues available Uni-
versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 94 Garfield
Place, Lynbrook, Long Island, New York; Mark Mina-
han, 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinors.

Copyright, 1957. by the
National RecreatiOn Association, Incorporated

Printed in the USA.

$18 3;.

' Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent Office.

 

FEBRUARY 1957

 

P -

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

\

CONTENTS

I

GENERAL FEATURES _ ' .

f

The “Why” of Recreation (Editorial) . . . . . . .Slrerwoorl Gates 40

Adolescence Will be Like This. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Helen Rapp 41
Activities in the Golden Years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Operation Outdoors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ; .  . . 54
ADDIINISTRATION

A Survey Leads to Action. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Pat Perkinson 53
Recreation Space in Subdivisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

Per Capita Expenditures for Recreation and

Parks in 1955 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Muriel E. IlleGann 57
PROGRADI
Family Recreation—Foe of Juvenile

Delinquency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charles A. Bucller 46
An Irish Fair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Patriek J. Heneglmn 49
Decorative Painting on Wood

(How To Do It!) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Frank A. Staples 50
For Your February Parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Brighten That Dark Corner (Idea of the Month) . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Your Program Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I: . . . 56

REGULAR FEATURES

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Personneln—Reereation Personnel

Review-—1956 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .W. C. Sutherland 59

How To Do It! Idea of Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Scc Program

Market News ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . 62

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Recreation Leadership Training Courses. . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

35

Popular

Dancing
Clown

Puppet

‘ RUBKY
HULL-0

Easy-ta-Make
(paper rolls,
round boxes)

Directions
FREE . . .

when you
subscribe

to
PACK-O-FUN 32?;
Scrapcraii Magazine Below

He's a panic! Children “roll with laughter" at his antics!
To make this Rock 'n Roll Clown Puppet, use the card-
board tubes (from waxed paper. foil, toilet tissue) and
containers (oatmeal or salt boXes, ice cream cartons)
that collect around the home as readily as dust. So start
your group collecting! Easily assembled. a few splashes
of paint, crepe paper rucbing. yarn touches and Clown
is ready to dance, act, sing, talk and make merry!

0 Y

 

All 3 for $1

So many PACK-O-FUN subscribers ask for back numbers,
reprints or ideas for “more of the same," that we’ve com-
piled projects in 3 most requested categories into a Grnup
of Booklets: Helping Hands for Busy Leaders.

Craft with Small Wooden Objects features a wonder-
‘ lul array of Toys, Games, Gifts, Favors, Ornaments using
assorted small wooden "throw-aways." Tin Can Proj-
ecta, especially for children . . . no soldering! Every-
thing from bottle caps to large potato chip cans . . . with
one chapter on simple cutting and shaping techniques.

“There are never enough good skits," you wrote . . . sn
PACK-O-FUN'S new Skit Book came into being. Over
a dozen original skits, pantomines. puppet plays, plus
practical help for producing them.

Subscribe Now
for PACK-O-FUN

Like magic, turn “odds and
ends" into useful items . . .
gifts, toys, decorations, Holiday
ideas, too. in every issue

iii? $150.3.01210 133%.

PACK-O-FUN

741 Devnn Ave... Dept. 927
Park Ridge. III.

I enclose:
[I 31.50 for 1 year subscription to PACK-O-FUN.

 

[I 83.50 for 3-Year subscription plus FREE copy of"
“LAUGH AWHILE SKITS AND STUNTS." reg- I

ular 50c value. I
[I 31.00 for 3 PACK-O-FUN Helping Hand Booklets.

PLEASE PRINT I

NAME .........  ............................... .. l
annanss ...................................... .. I
CITY ........................... .. STATE ..... .. |

. - — — _ — — _ — — _ — — ———l

35 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   
  
   
  
      
   

  

I o . ° 0 o . . o.
o o o . o . . o c o.
........... '0

o
o
g o
.oo
...... a.
o

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York II—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Mr. Mallery
Sirs:

We have just learned of the unfor-
tunate death of Otto T. Mallory in an
automobile accident in Philadelphia.

Members of the Oakland Recreation
Commission and our department staff
extend sincere expressions of sympathy.

Mr. Mallery’s long term leadership
in the recreation field will be sorely
missed by all of us who have known
him over the years. We realize that
this is a severe blow to the National
Recreation Association, for he gave
freely of his time and his wealth to the
recreation cause.

JAY M. VER LEE, Superintendent of
Recreation, Oakland, California.

Brotherhood in Bccrcation

Sirs:

We are extremely grateful that you
devoted some space to Brotherhood
Week (February 17 to 24-) in the De-
cember edition of RECREATION.

Perhaps in no comparable way has
the concept of brotherhood been so
dramatically brought to life as it has
in the field of recreation. Where chil-
dren learn to play together, they also
are learning to live together. Let us
hope that our efforts in the future are
more closely interwoven to make that
dream more of a working reality.

Enclosed is a copy of a pamphlet you
may find of interest. Perhaps those
who work with youth groups on a con-
tinuing basis might find the concepts
in this pamphlet of use.

SAAL D. LESSER, Assistant Director,
Commission on Community Organi-
zations, The National Conference of

Christians & Jews, New York City.

0 The pamphlet is “From Principle to
Practice—A guide to human relations
programming with youth," published

by The National Conference of Chris-

tians and Jews, 43 West 57th Street,
New York 19. Pp. 60. $.25.——-—Ed.

—The Editors.

A Mine of Information
Sirs:

The 1956 Recreation and Park Year-
book, with statistics as of December 31,
1955, has just been received and ex-
amined. This is a remarkable com-
pendium of information on the growth
of recreation facilities and the extent of
use of such facilities by the public.

Collection and compiling of this in-
formation could only be accomplished
by an organization with long experience
and “know-how” in its particular field.

The “know-how” and insights into
the meaning of the statistics also appear
in clearly written descriptive matter.

This is a monumental work contain-
ing a mine of information basic to
future progress.

GUY L. SIIIPPS, Consultant on Cont-
mnnity Activities, The Dow Chemi-
cal Contpany, Midland, Michigan.

0 This publication (#208) is avail-
able from the NRA Recreation Book
Center for $2.00.—Ed.

\Vhy Bccrcation ?

Sirs:

Today I rcccived my December issue
of RECREATION, and read your “Why
Recreation?” note on the “Editorially
Speaking” page. I am sending you a
few of my “whys.”

Why did state and local governments
spend more than $464,000,000 for rcc-
reation last year? Why did voters ap-
prove over $158,000,000 in recreation
bonds in the last five years? Why this
new profession, recreation?

These are questions that city oflicials,
voters, and many othch likc myself are
asking pcople today. A fcw wecks ago,
I spoke to a very active womcn’s club,
which is starting a drivc to build a
greatly needcd community centcr hcrc.
These ladies arc making plans for a
speaking tour of the ninety-odd civic
clubs of our city, and l was askcd to
answer the “Why Rccrcation?” ques-
tion. I uscd the following four points:

RECREATION

1. Basically, we are the same as our
primitive ancestors, although we are
living in a changed environment. We
can no longer pick up a club arid whack
a person for stepping on our toes. We
have to stand and take it—-——we go into
an emotional strain——we have to find
something to take the place of the cave-
man’s club. Sports programs offered by
recreation departments provide the out-
let that is needed by today’s cave man.

2. We are living in the assembly-line
age. Many people have jobs that are
routine and require no thinking. Keep-
ing in the mind the theory, “That which
is not used will decay,” recreation pro-
vides arts and crafts and other program
activities giving participants a chance
to use their creative abilities.

3. Today’s labor unions, as well as
mechanization, have helped to improve
working conditions and to shorten the
working day. Result: more leisure time
than ever before. “An idle mind is
the devil’s workshop” is an old saying
that is remembered by the recreation
person as he promotes a full-time pro-
gram of activities for the many people
who don’t know what to do with this
ever-increasing leisure time.

4. Improvements in medical science
are letting people live longer. Every
year more and more people reach re-
tirement age. These people, in many
cases, are a problem to society. The
recreation worker steps in and organ-
izes them into golden-age clubs; and
the clubs give them something to do and
help to solve many of their problems.
But most important, such a program
lets them know they are not forgotten.
This one reason alone could answer the
“why” question.

These are only four of the many ways
that recreation people are helping to
answer it. We have got a job to do, and
we must not settle for anything but the
very best. We are in a new profession
and every time we answer the “Why
Recreation?” question, we are boosting
our profession. It is up to you, its

members, to be its boosters—don’t just
belong.
W. G. BOYD, Superintendent, Parks
and Recreation Department, Annis-
ton, Alabama.

* 'I- * *-

Leisure time is the source of life for
most people. Eating, sleeping, working
do not usually call for the utmost exer-
tion of which we are capable. We can
all do more at every level—physical,
mental and spiritual. If the stimulus is
great enough, we get second wind and
tenth wind and live exuberantly all the
while. But seldom are we so galvan-
ized. This glowing, radiant life has to
be sought for the most part during lei-
sure hours in recreation.

Sadly enough, few can fuse all life
into an incandescent delight through
work; but recreation provides oppor-
tunity for living to the hilt in a self-
chosen activity. And the sense of be-
longing to a group, the comfort of being
loved and the satisfaction of accom-
plishing something worth while—all
important for mental health and happi-
ness———are almost inherent in the en-
vironment of these activities.

I think in America we can almost
take for granted public desire for space,
for sunlight, for children’s play and
playgrounds, perhaps even for broad
opportunities for physical exercise. Al-
most anybody will agree to the value of
playgrounds—that they help to prevent
juvenile delinquency, to promote physi-
cal litness, to build citizenship. But the
thrilling reach of the movement is what
grips many recreation leaders. They
are fired on the chance to help build a
nation of people, men and women who
live nobly and happily, whose lives are
all of a piece, who serve the Lord with
thanksgiving and come into His pres-
ence with joy. These pour themselves
out in service, paint pictures, cultivate
gardens, study birds, play many parts
on the stage, lift their hearts in song.

There lies the path. Who would not

 

 
 
  
  
  

I
'---r

AMERICA'S OlDEST AND lARGEST IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF

FENCING EQUIPMENT

 

30 EAST 10th STREET, N.Y.3,N.Y. 0 GRamercy 7-5790

FEBRUARY 1957

Far 2 ar 200. Requires minimum space and simple inex-
pensive equipment.

I

It: Fir

    
 
 

A FENCING
PROGRAM

We design and manufacture the
best and least expensive
weapans and accessaries
far beginners and ex-
perts. Let us help yau
set up a fencing activity
ar develap the one yau
have. Cansultatians free.

/

/.
'I

 

Write Dept. R for
FREE CATALOG.

r»

 

want to help in building a life like that
for all men everywhere!
EDNA V. BRAUCHER, volunteer work-
er in the National Recreation Assai-
ciation and wife of the late Howard

Braucher, president of the NRA.

     
 
 

I

_ Superior Design,
 COHSE’UCTIOH and
PE ORMANCE

1.

  
  

" mainline-II— . «ah H.M*I~ *M I

.’far greater
strength and

SAFETY!

_ ..,._ -.._‘,-4...._-_....‘ ,__.«J_‘.._..__._._\

P I. AYG R0 U N D
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for nearly half a century.

WRITE FOR LITERATURE

‘—"-

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, u. s. A.

wORLD's LARGESt MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK. PICNIC. PtAvOROUND. SWIMMING
9001. AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

 

SQUARE YOUR SETS PRESENTS
50 MUSICAL MIXERS
A book of 50 easy musical mixers and play-party games.
Only $1.00 at your record store 0r direct from:

SQUARE YOUR SETS
3302—I5th Str. A

Moline, Ill.
Write for a FREE sample copy of SQUARE YOUR SETS

magazine. Complete record mail order service—wrlte
far catalogs.

WHAT to SAY

ON 1001 OCCASIONS

Practical handbook for Word-for-word

the “amateur” speaker “Me's Y°" ‘°"

Now you need never again be at use for'
a loss for words when addressing
your cluh or orgaoization! WHAT
TO SAY AND HOW TO SAY
IT gives you tested models of
speeches and letters that always
win a hearty receptioo. David
Belson — a promineOt attorney
active in community affairs for
more thao 25 years—not only
tells you what to say hut also
shows you how to say it most effec-
tively. Send No Money! Examine
WHAT TO SAY AND HOW TO
SAY IT for 10 Days FREE! See
how much the book does for you.
Then either remit $3.50 plus a
few cents posrage or return the
book aod pay nOthing. Write Gratings

today to: l Etc... etc... etc.

Citadel Press, Dept. w-35, 222 Fourth Ave, N. Y. 3, N. Y.

Nominations
Presentations
Appeals for Funds
Resolutions
Citations
Introductlons
Installations
Tributes \
Congratulations
Dedications
Condolences
Awards

Speech Openings
Closing Remarks

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.  37

} PAN AMERICAN WEEK is scheduled
for April 8-14. This, and Pan American
Day, April 14, will be used to point up
and strengthen inter-American under-
standing. Writes J osé A. Mora, secre-
tary general of the Pan American
Union: “The next best thing to meet-
ing our neighbors ‘over the fence,” so
to speak, is getting acquainted with
them through their music, dances, art,
and literature; to discover how they
live, work and play, by means of books,
photos, and films.

“It is my fondest hope that we may all
join in a dynamic demonstration of in-
ter-American unity and brotherhood in
the schools, churches, clubs, trade
unions, and community centers of
America, not only during Pan Ameri-
can Week . . . but all year round.”

Why not plan an over-the-fence pro-
gram for that day or week? A 1957

Pan American Day packet is available

from the Office Of Puhlic Relations, Pan
American Union, Washington 16, D. C.

} NEEDED: COVER PICTURES FOR REC-
REATION MAGAZINE! Here is a chance
to have a photo from your recreation de-
partment considered for cover display
on a national magazine! Study the
covers of RECREATION for the past year
and note the. type of pictures used, the
amount of space needed for title and
(late line, and their placement, and that
a vertical picture is necessary. Some-
times a horizontal picture is adaptable
to strategic cropping—but not often. A
picture must tell a story—of action,
human interest, or inspiration. Photos
of large groups do not, as a rule, lend
themselves to this kind of use.

Written permission of parents or of
the adults in the picture must accom-
pany each, if it is to be considered for
this purpose. Photos must also carry
your name, credit to be given, and a
line description of the activity or sub-
ject portrayed.

All submitted pictures that cannot be
used on the cover will be held in our
photograph pool. Proper credit will be
given whenever one is published.

} TIIE 1956 YOUTH RECREATION KIT,
which has been aVailable for $1.00 from

.38

 

UNICEF, contains songs, games, crafts,
customs and stories of other lands. It
could, therefore, be useful in carrying
out your special observance of Brother-
hood Week, February 17 to 24. The
manual of the 1955 kit, which also con-
tains a wealth of material, in still avail-

able for $.15.

} SUMMER CAMPS IN AMERICA hecanIe
seventy-five years old with the closing
of the camping season last fall, accord-
ing to Camping Magazine. The earliest
account of thc first camp, written by
Elizabeth Balch, appeared in the June
1886 issue Of St. Nicholas, under the
title “The Boys’ Paradise.”

} THE NATION’S TWENTY-NINTH NA-
TIONAL PARK was opened recently in
the Virgin Islands. A five-thousand-acre
tract of hills and white beaches, the
park was given to the federal govern-
ment by Laurcnce S. Rockefeller, on be-
half of Jackson Hole Prescrve, Inc., a
conservation organization sponsored by
his family. The new park was author-
ized by Act of Congress, signed into
law by President Eisenhower last
August.

) THE FIRST STATE PARK IN WESTCIIEs-
TER COUNTY, New York, is to be started
this year. Its eight hunder acres are
heside thc Taconic Statc Parkway at
Yorktown. Robert Moses, chairman of
the State Council of Parks, states that
the new park not only will serve rcsi-
dents of othcr counties but will rclicve
Westchester’s overcrowded parks rc-
stricted to local residents. Formal ac-
tion awaits settlement of details.

} NEw RECREATION ARTICLE COMING:
“Can Children Have the Fun They Need
in Your Community?” by Ruth and
Edward Brecher, in I’arents’ magazine
in March. “Children at play,” the arti-
cle states, “arc developing those physi-
cal, emotional and social qualities which
will characterize them throughout life
. . . just an hour on a well run play-
ground will convince you that recrea-
tion is a necessity.”

Cited as one example of a well-run
municipal recreation program is the

suburban community of Leonia, New
Jersey. A detailed description of the
requirements of a good community rec-
reation program is provided. Land,
playgrounds, playfields, indoor facili-
ties, professional leadership and finance
standards are listed.

} “EVERY THIRD DAY IS A PLAYDAY IN
THE U.S.A.” is the theme of a new ad-
vertising promotion which the Alumi-
num Company of America is aiming at
the elipanding recreation market. (See
“Automation,” on page 34.) Purpose
of the promotion is to call attention to
the company’s sporting goods and prod-
ucts for leisure living.

} FEDERAL LEGISLATION —- Recreation
agencies for a number of years have
been unable to secure federal surplus
property without cost because, under
the terms of the present law, donable
surplus may be secured only by schools.
colleges, universities, hospitals, clinics.
and so on. Public and private recrea-
tion agencies not a part of a recognized
educational or health institution so far
have not been eligible for surplus ma-
terials.

The National Recreation Association.
through the National Social Welfare
Assembly, has recently recommended
to the United States Department of
Health, Education and Welfare that thc
law be amended to include voluntary
nonprofit recreation agencies and tax—
supported recreation agencies.

The National Recreation Association
and twenty-five other social and recrea-
tion agencies were reprcsented at a con-
gressional subcommittee hearing on
possible revision of the federal excise
tax law to exempt public and private
agencies from the payment of federal
excise taxes.

} AN INSTITUTE ON RECREATION FOR
THE PIIYSICALLY HANDICAPPED, under
auspices of Recrcation Center for the
Handicapped, lnc.; thc San Francisco
Adult Education Division and Recrca-
tion and Park Department: and the
California Recreation Commission, will
be held March 24-30 at the Fleish-

hacker Pool Building, San Francisco.

} AN ARTICLE ON PLAYGROUNDS, “A
Playground Really Built for Kids” by
Hank Ketcham, creator Of “Dennis the
Menace,” appeared in the January 20
issue of This Week, Sunday magazinc.
Hc presents a new incxpensive kind of
fun area, with such cquipment as “The
Thing,” which is a different toy to cach
child; the “Flying Swing,” which gives
the rider an unbalanced spin; the “Uni-
brella Trce,” a small rider’s paradisc;
and so on.

RECREATION

 
    
 
 
 
     

ENAMEL ON
COPPER

Jamison'zarmt

Be sure to check the many exclusive features of

64 PAGES

Learn jewelry making; latest enam-
Back I eling processes and techniques from

step - by - step illustrated instruc-
tions. Baal: lists many new copper
_ —- items, complete supplies, tools 8.
equipment. Send for your copy of this
valuable reference book today! (It's FREE!)

THE COPPER SHOP
A Div. of lmmerman 8. Sans ' Dept. 154

1312 East 13th ' Cleveland 14, Ohio

this rugged line. Write for free catalog of 254
items.

Jamison Manufacturing Cat .S'r'm‘t
8781 South Mettler Street . l‘f25
las Angeles 3. California

   
 
       

—_.__ m-.—

—— ORIENTAL BUTTERFLIES ——I
‘2 DIFRFEEENT  

EXQUISITE COLORS
ALL SPECIMENS PRESSED OPEN,
FOR IMMED!ATE MOUNTING

R. T.  (DIRECT IMPORTl

1333-95 E. 26 St... Brooklyn 10, N. Y.

 

a we
BASKETBAll

STEEl CHAIII
NETS

 

*- Sharpest,mastaccurate cutters made—avail-
able in TO styles 0 All-Metal Handle (pat-
l ented) features “vise-grip. nan-slip" chuck -

 

3 Years Guaranteel

 

“we”, or "the" I I X-acta Cutters fit all standard handles—
Alw featuring hadron cmwm bum ’ wrne for our new Base caning. X-acta Handles take all standard cutters.
V ALUMINUM MULTt-PURPOSE STANDARDS I Complete line of X-acto Lino tools and
V SHUFillI’SBBOARIEUSSETSO WITH i m buyers - economically priced — individually
“ BER HI NED“ DISCS and in sets, 45¢: to 32.95.
V name TETHERBALL ssrs : I 59”“ CWW I
Send 25¢ lor HANDICRAFT TOOL and

PROJECT SELECTION GUIDE BOOK
48-99 Van Dam Street. l.|.C. l. N.Y¢

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY co. FanddulGCerconsln

I lIS.['|cI fof Ff.. Caiolog a ' I  N.  
Dept. R, Box "365, NEW LONDON, CONN. - - - - - - - -

 

 

SPRING

is Just Around
the Corner!

IBrr-rrr!)

That’s what the Program De-
partment tells us. anyway.
It’s making like a robin be-
cause-you guessed itl-tlle
PLAYGROUND SYMMER
NOTEBOOK is under way.

 

It’s Top Secret—but the theme this year is Circles
of Friendship—empliasis on cooperation between
home, neighborhood, and playgrounds. Ideas f or
family nights, new craft projects, lots of games.
new special events.

Twelve bulletins in the set . . . $2.50 (NRA members $2).
Available May 1.

Order EARLY. Order enough copies. Last year the supply "The Choice of Those Who Play The Game”

ran out. Don’t let it happen to you, tra la!

 

The MacGregor Ca. ° Cincinnati 32, Ohio

National Recreation Association FOOTBALL - BASEBALL - BASKETBALL o GOLF - TENNIS
8 “rest Eighth Street, New York 11, N.Y.

 

FEBRUARY 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 39

{(23:55/  -0f‘)\r“
K ~ WHY Recreation

   

This challenging statement* might

well have been drafted for Broth-
erhood Week, February 17 to 24.

Sherwood Gates, Director, Oflice of
Community Services, U. S. Air Force

T SEEMS to me that it is utterly essential that we of the free
world come to know and to understand each other better
-—how the people of our countries work and play and live;
what the cultural and spiritual interests are which sustain
them; what their dreams are, and what hopes they nurture
and cling to. It seems to me that recreation people are un-
avoidably challenged to make available and attractive, to
more and more people, opportunities in their free time to
engage in activities which promote the development of new
and varied intellectual and cultural interests and pursuits,
which stimulate intellectual curiosity, which accelerate the
desire to learn. There are so very many things for all of us
to learn about ourselves and our world neighbors if, as
individuals in freedom-loving countries, we are to be more
than pawns in this vast struggle against power and domina-
tion around the world. And, realizing that it is the quality
of men’s souls which is at stake, our recreation policy makers
and leaders must create and offer to us, as never before,
opportunities for free-time participation which will enhance
the spirit and lift the tone and quality of our daily living
beyond the level of boredom and despair, and above the
level of commercialism and materialism.

Recreation leaders simply cannot conceal their own basic
attitudes regarding life and values. Their projudices, their
likes and dislikes, their ambitions and motives, their own
moral integrity or lack of integrity, the things in life which
they hold in high esteem—inevitably these things are re-
vealed to those whose activities they help direct. For ex-
ample, does the recreation leader have a strong democratic
respect for the personality of persons—all persons? If he
does not hold to such a respect, those who associate with
him will soon discover this anti-democratic attitude through
his behavior, through the ways in which he deals with per-
sons in his daily activities as a leader, regardless of what he
may say in formal speech and writing.

I hope that I am wrong in fearing that all too often we
place emphasis on the formal training and the skills of rec-
reation leaders, to the neglect of an all-important emphasis
on their quality as persons, on the depth and strength of

40

'

their democratic beliefs and convictions. I am not sug-
gesting here that high requirements for skills are incom-
patible with an emphasis on quality of character; on the
contrary, what I am urging is a balanced, a completed em-
phasis. Only those who are completely dedicated to the
purposes and convictions and processes of democracy have

a rightful place of leadership in the recreation movement
of a free country.

Let us suppose that a group of people have come to this
country from other countries to learn what we are really
like, what our real wants and interests and desires are, what
the things in life which we really value and prize are; what
the motives and drives are which make us ‘tick.’ These visi-
tors read our newspapers and magazines and books. They
hear our speeches, listen to our radio programs, and see our
television offerings. They observe us closely as we go about
the business of earning a livelihood; but they watch us even
more closely in our recreation and other free-time activities
as we develop and express our inner lives. Just what, in
our judgment, would these visitors conclude about our char-
acter as a people through their observation of us in our
free time? Would they decide, for example, that we are a
happy and satisfied people? Would they decide that we are
a people of basic good will and of democratic neighborli-
ness? A people of good taste and good manners? A pe0ple
who enjoy social fellowship, who prize and reward good
sportsmanship? A people who like and enjoy music, dra-
matics, and the creative arts, good literature, nature, and
all forms of beauty? Would they decide that we prize the
arts and the fruits of gracious, joyous living, and that our
educational system, our homes, churches, and our recreation
movement have all combined and concentrated success-
fully on teaching us how to live as free, responsible, moral,
and happy citizens of a democracy? Or might they decide
that, for all too many of us, our chief gods are machines,
and full barns, and fast automobiles, and television sets,
and indoor plumbing, and that as a people we have not yet
learned how to use our leisure to our own best advantage
and enjoyment, to the enrichment of the world’s culture
and spirit?

We in this country have free time in quantities far beyond
the dreams of men in the days of my childhood; but we have
far to go in developing a leisure-time culture which will be
an asset to ourselves and to the nation and to a distraught
world. The free world needs the wisdom and good will of
all of us, for leisure time can be one of the greatest personal
and national assets and strengths of our countries, or it can
be a tragic personal and national liability. I

* Excerpts from a talk, “Values of Recreation in a Democ-
racy,” given at a Cooperative Community Recreation Ex-
change Project session, National Recreation School, 1956.

RECREATION

“Teen-agers are, like Ivory soap, 99 44/ 100% pure,”
says Miss Rapp, “and if you keep your sense of
humor and your faith that they’ll turn out all right,

you’ll also keep your sanity.” This

material is

from a talk delivered at the annual workshop for
community center leaders at Fort Wayne, Indiana.

 

ERHAPS there are some who do not

know yet what a teen-ager goes
through, what “being like this” means.
What is it like—this period of adoles-
cence?

As we know, it is a period of great
physical change. While growth is un-
even at all ‘ages, the adolescent years
are characterized by growth and de-
velopment so uneven that leaders of
teen-age groups would do well to rec-
ognize this as one of the most important
factors in learning to understand and
deal with these youngsters.

Normally, sometime between the ages
of ten and sixteen or seventeen, each
boy and girl passes through three
stages. First there is likely to be a
period of little change, called by some
the plateau stage. For a period of six
months or a year the child may make
little or no gain in height or weight.
Then suddenly he shoots up—perhaps
four or five inches. This height spurt
is usually followed by rapid gain in
weight, sometimes as much as twenty
or more pounds in less than a year.

Now, if all children in a given group
went through these stages at the same
time, no one would have to worry about

 

MISS RAPP has taught physical educa-
tion and handled teen-agers for many
years at Forest Park School, Fort
Wayne, Indiana.

FEBRUARY 1957

Adolescence

Will Be

Like This

Helen Rapp

being the “Shrimp” or “Beanpole” or
“Skinny” or “Fatso” of his gang. Un-
fortunately, however, these stages are
likely to come anytime between ten and
seventeen. We have the early growers
and the late growers. And, just to make
matters worse, girls are likely to have
their spurt in height one and one-half
to two years before the boys. Anyone
who works with teen-age groups knows
what a social problem that can cause.
You know—the five-foot-six-inch girl
trying to waltz gracefully with the live-
foot boy under her arm, or the ninety-
five-pound boy trying to swing his one-
hundred-and-thirty-five-pound partner!

Not only do members of a group
grow at different rates, but all parts of
the same individual stubbornly refuse
to develop simultaneously. Legs are
likely to lengthen before the trunk.
Sometimes these bones develop more
rapidly than the muscles which con-
trol them. Sometimes muscles outstrip
the bones. These irregularities make
for awkwardness and embarrassment.
Sometimes muscular strength increases
so rapidly that the adolescent literally
“doesn’t know his own strength”—and
he is accused of undue roughness which
actually is unintended. The heart and
lungs develop more slowly than the
body. Blood pressure may fall. Care
must be taken that these adolescents
do not get overtired. Rapid and un-

 

even growth may consume much of the
child’s energy—and we accuse him of
laziness. Paradoxically, these lazy spells
may be punctuated by sudden bursts
of frenzied activity. Conversely, the
teen-ager may b/egin an activity with
boundless energy and enthusiasm, only
to peter out completely before the game
is over or the task completed.
Biological changes during these years
account for still other problems. Change
in body contours and Voice register,
increase in hairy growth and new body
functions cause both pride and Self-con-
sciousness. There’s a whole new self
to get used to. Changes in blood chem-
istry may result in still another burden
to be borne—acne, which can make a
boy’s life miserable and be an utter

calamity for a girl. Is it any wonder
the child becomes different—and dif-

iicult?
Again, these biological changes come

at different times to different people.
The onset of puberty may come any
time between nine or ten and sixteen
or seventeen, with girls about one and
one-half years ahead of the boys. Thus,
even if a leader has in his group only
boys and girls of a given chronological
age, he may find many maturity levels
represented. For example, in a typical
group of twenty thirteen- or fourteen-
year-olds—say ten girls and ten boys—~—
a leader might rightfully expect to find

41

six boys and one girl who have not yet
left childhood, three boys and four girls
who have entered puberty, and one boy
and five girls who have reached physi-
cal maturity.

Knowing what to expect at these Vari-
ous stages of physical and biological
growth is the beginning of understand-
ing the teen-ager.

There are numerous psychological
changes too. With the maturing of the
sex organs comes a deepening of feel-
ing. These feelings sometimes surge
over these adolescents, and they try to
find outlets for their devotion—not
always _wisely, of course, because of
their great inexperience. Crushes, cases,
and falling in love are common. And
they do fall in love—and usually out
again, only to fall in once more. Wise
is the leader who can help direct these
feelings. Too often we tease and poke
fun when friendly guidance is needed.
Adolescents go overboard in their de-
votion to a cause, and no amount of
seryice and sacrifice is too great. Again,
a wise leader capitalizes on and tempers
this feeling.

Teen-agers, as a result of the many
Changes in themselves, are likely to be
a bundle of jangling nerves. Their emo-
tions simply shoot up and down. Squab-
bles, cross words, and apologies follow
in quick succession. The adolescent
himself becomes impatient, and we
adults become exasperated. If only we
could remember. that patience and time
are needed for their systems to adjust
to change!

These teen-agers are as changeable
and unpredictable as April weather.
One momentnthey agree sweetly to all
suggestions, the next they object to
everything. Their moods change from
the extremes .of hilarity to depths of
depression, from painful self-conscious-
ness to obnoxious strutting. They can be
thoughtless and rude, or saccharinely
courteous. They are often different per-
sons in different places and with differ-
ent people. ,They play for attention by
giggling, wisecracking, talking loudly,
flying into rages, sulking, or acting
sophisticated or superior.

The adolescent period is character-
ized by growing independence. Much
as we adults hate it, these adolescents
are beginning to see us as we are. They
are brutally frank and often downright

42

fresh. They want more privileges, but
are sometimes unwilling to assume cor-
responding responsibility. They want
to be independent, but yearn for de-
pendence. This is in part responsible
for the all-importance of the gang. Ac-
ceptance by their peers is important
because, in the attempt to achieve in-
dependence from adults, they need the
security of “belonging” to the teen-age
crowd.

Here again we see the differences
within the group. Those who are in the
pre-adolescent maturity level prefer
companions of their own sex, while
adolescents are ready for mixed groups

 

and a different type of social activity.

Adolescents have, to an exaggerated
degree, the social needs common to all
people, the need for affection, the need

and the need for
achievement or recognition. Anything
we can do to help satisfy these basic
needs will help to build up security in
these youngsters who, for all their sur-
face cockiness, are terribly unsure of

for acceptance,

themselves.

Although the adolescent is in almost
constant conflict with his parents, he
yearns for their love, and needs their
love and understanding more than at
any other period in his life.

Belonging to the gang and being like
the gang are musts to him. To be dif-
ferent, in even the most insignificant
way, is stark tragedy to all but the most
individualistic teen-ager. The adoles-
cent whose parents, home, clothes, are
not like the others is miserable indeed.

Tecn-agers need to feel successful in
at least some of the things they do and
to be rec0gnized for their achievements.

A teen-ager needs encouragement as a
plant needs water. Perhaps we are t0(
parsimonious with our praise. The good
deeds and worthwhile accomplishments
of the many adolescents are likely to be
lost behind the adverse publicity giver
to the small number who commit of
fenses against society. Let’s give the
99 44/100% their just duel

I’ve said very little so far about teen-
age interests. Personally, I don’t think
it matters much what you offer. them in
the way of recreation as long as it’s
wholesome and something they can do
with the gang. They go to the movies
and don’t know what picture is play-
ing; they go to the ball game and don’t
know the score. They go because their
friends are there. With one voice they
squeal, shriek, groan, sigh, boo, and
cheer.

Teen-agers are interested first of all
in themselves. Therefore there might
well be a place in your program for
some discussion groups on personal de-
velopment and social growth.

Teen-agers are definitely interested
in the opposite sex. Therefore, activi-
ties that boys and girls can do together
should have a high priority rating.
Dancing is an ever popular activity with
both boys and girls.

For a group which includes both 111a-
ture and immature youngsters, hikes,
picnics, wiener roasts, roller skating,
or ice skating provide fun for all. Sports
of all kinds have great appeal for the
majority of boys and girls. Hobby or
interest groups, too, will please.

For the older teen-agers who are be-
ginning to think more seriously and
who want to do something more con-
structive, activities with a community
service theme will meet with approval.
Occasional parties may be shared with
others less fortunate than they, or con-
tinuing community projects may be
undertaken. In either case, group plan-
ning should precede and group work
should carry on the activity, with adult
guidance—but not adult domination.

Working with the teen-ager is not
easy, but it is both challenging and re-
warding. If your sense of humor and
your faith in his future should occasion-
ally fail you, you might try what always
works for me. I do a little flashback—-
to when I was a SOphomore in high
school. It works like a charm! I

RECREATION

 
   
 

Some one hundred citizens have the lime of
their lives, convinced lhat life is every bit as

good a1 sixty or seventy as 31 twenty or thirly.
friend.

flower for

Deal rhorn

WHEN WORKING men and women
retire on a pension at the age
of sixty-five, it is possible that the best
years of their lives lie ahead—when ap-

man picks

preciation and enjoyment are height-
ened and leisure increased. George
Bernard Shaw once said that it’s a pity
youth is wasted on young people. And
yet, as we know, the golden years are
not the good years for the many per-
sons who have not prepared to enjoy
them nor learned how to use their lei-
sure time to enrich their daily lives. In
this respect, municipal recreation de-
partments are proving helpful—through
introducing'peOple to interests which
can be carried over and providing fa-
cilities and leadership for social and
other group activities after retirement.
Thc following are examples of the
sort of thing that is being done by de-
partments throughout the country.

Outing Groups

The Senior Citizens Club, in Dear-

born, Michigan, is so large that it is
divided into two groups. Members meet
every Monday; and on alternate Mon-
days they go on outings. Traveling on
a school bus, they visit such places as
Bob-Lo, Belle Isle, the Detroit Zoo, state
parks. They carry picnic lunches, go
boating and wading, play cards, hold
song fests, engage in brisk discussions.
Sometimes they st0p at parks or play.-
grounds to give the merry-go-round and
slides 'a workout, or at an ice cream
parlor for a treat.

In the winter months they see movies,
write and'enact their own play's, take
a whirl at square d'aiicin g, stage parties
and visit places of interest. .

FEBRUARY '1957

The program has been an unqualified
success. This hardy group knows what
the lyricist meant when he wrote of “the
young at heart.”—From The Detroit

News, September 18, 1955.

Bridging .the Years

At the Past Fifty Lounge of the rec-
reation department in Beaver Falls,
Pennsylvania, members renew friend-
ships, once again find an interest in life,
and become productive, creative mem-
bers of a social group.

Their newest project is a real success.
The young people of the recreation pro-
gram have adopted grandmothers and
grandfathers from the oldster group.
They introduce themselves in calls to
their homes, and stay to talk with them;
they remember birthdays and special
holidays. Past Fifty Club members are
beginning now to respond and return
this exchange of ideas, time—-—-—and even
presents. They are finding they still can
learn and still can be creative and in-
teresting to age groups other than those
of their own generation.

'Both groups seem to be enjoying it
immensely. There seems to be a bridge
of understanding between them and
both are profiting from the experience
of ' being together.—NORMA HEINRICH,
Superintendent of Recreation, Beaver
Faiis,’ Pennsylvania.

Special Events.

'A vigorous'community center pro-
gram should provide a series of high

Activities
in“: the

Golden Years

News. of: the Old Timers

and medium peaks of interest. "These
add zest to the life of the organi'zati'o'ii.

Ever on the alert foritimely inotiva-
tion of such events, George Séedhouse,
chief of community centers and play-
grounds for Cleveland, Ohio, noted that
the Wilbur Wright Community Center
had been functioning for twenty-five
years. Seeing the possibilities _of such
a milestone, the idea of a Silver Anini-
versary Celebration developed. Com-

_mittees were appointed, and each set to

work planning some phase of the affair.

The evening seemed to divide itself
into two parts, a civic dinner, followed:
by an old time dance. (Some' charter
members of the center’s Old Time Dance
Club had not missed a single session of.
old-time dancing in the quarter-century
since the opening of the center.) The
local newspapers agreed to run articles
and announcements, and this publicity
was supplemented by word-of—mouth.
One week after announcement of the
dinner, the two hundred possible res-
ervations had been filled.

On the night. of the silver annivers-‘
ary, dinner was prepared by the day-
school cafeteria staii, and served by the
girls of the home economics class.
After-dinner speeches were limited to
one minute. The barbershop quartet of
the center presented some close har-
mony; and charter members were given
silver trophies for their contributions
to the center.

Later, in the gymnasium, the dinner
guests were oined hy old friends. Be-
tween dances, while resting up from a
vigorous “Red River Valley,” or “Vir-
ginia Reel,” they renewed acquaint-
ances.

Now they are looking for other
special events at Wilbur Wright! ——
MARJORIE WELCH, former director oi
Wilbur Wright Community Center. I

43

 

Representatives of the five recreation organizations—National Recreation Asso-
ciation, American Recreation Society, California Recreation Society, Los Angeles
County Park and Recreation Department, and Long Beach Recreation Commission
—-—co-sponsoring the 1957 National Recreation Congress (see announcement in
RECREATION, January 1957, page 6) are making history in the recreation field by
setting a new high in cooperative planning.

A preliminary planning committee for the Congress (above), which met in
Long Beach, California, on December 19, 1956, consisted of, left to right: Norman
Johnson, director, Parks and Recreation, Los Angeles County; Sterling S. Winans,
director, California Recreation Commission, Sacramento; Dorothy B. Taaffe, pres-
ident-elect, ARS, Los Angeles; J. Earl Sehlupp, president, ARS, Denver; Joseph
Prendergast, executive director, NRA, New York; Howard B. Holman, president,
CRS, Fresno; William Frederickson, president-elect, CRS, Los Angeles; John J.
Collier, representative, NBA, Pacific Southwest District, Los Angeles; Walter L.
Scott, director, Municipal and School Recreation, Long Beach.

Watch RECREATION Magazine for further news and announcements about
exciting Congress plans.

 

Cited for Anti-Litter Leadership on litterbugs.

Joseph Prendergast, Medallions bearing the official Kcep

‘3 P‘MEP/O executive director of America Beautiful symbol were pre-

3;" 7 the National Reel-ea. sented “in recognition and apprecia-

* .71"?  Association,  tion 0f   through the

<96. 3" D avid DuBoiS NRA early developmental stages of the na-
Aurv ’

tionwide educational program to stimu-

director of public in-
late individual responsibility and pride

formation and education, were among

 

the representatives of national civic and
public service organizations who re-
ceived a special citation at the close of
1956 from Donald J. Hardenbrook,
president of Keep Arnerica Beautiful,
Inc., for “voluntcer service” in the war

44

in clean, safe, attractive surroundings.”

Commending the NRA for its pioneer
role in the KAB movement, Mr. Hard-
enbrook said: “This prominent national
Organization, together with other major
public and private non-profit groups, is

concerned about the litter potentials
that are inevitably linked with our ex-
panding economy and our increasing
use of outdoor recreational facilities.
They are in the vanguard of one of the
most important public service cam-
paigns ever launched. We rely on ac-
celerated participation, in the future, by
these and other civic and youth agency
leaders, for the achievement of our com-
mon goal.”
NBA News Netes

National Recreation Association an-
nounees the following staff changes:
0 Arthur ‘W. Williams, assistant execu-
tive director of the NRA, is now associ-
ate executive director. He has been on
the Association staff for forty-six years.
0 Charles E. Reed, director of field
services, and George D. Butler, director
of rescarch, have been appointed assist-
ant executive directors of the NRA. Mr.
Reed has been with the Association for
forty years, Mr. Butler for thirty-eight.
0 Richard (Wink) Tapply, former di-
rector of recreation in Bristol, New
Hampshire, has joined the NRA staff as
district representative in New Hamp-
shire to assist Waldo Hainsworth, New

England district representative, with
field work in small communities.

B01) Gamble Goes to IRA

Robert R. Gamble

has joined the staff
of the International
Rccreation Associa-
tion as director of
the IRA Exchangc of
Persons projects and
general assistant to
Thomas E. Rivers,
IRA director general. (See RECREA-
TION, January 1957, page 12.)

Mr. Gamble was a member of the
NRA staff for eightecn years, having
joined the organization in 1938 with a
background in law and public adminis-
tration. He is well known to the recrca-
tion field through his work as assistant
dircctor of thc NRA Field Department,
assistant secrctary of the National Rec-
reation Congrcsses, and assistant dircc-
tor of the first Cooperative Community
Recrcation EXchange Program of last
year. In his earlier years with the As-
sociation, he served in personnel and as
assistant to Howard Braucher.

RECREATION

Basic Leadership Requirements

for Today’s World

The greatest hope for us in a confused
and disordered civilization will be men
and women who possess these qualities:

Receptive minds capable of critical self-
analysis.

Ability to make wise decisions and for-
mulate sound personal and social judg-
ments.

Mature approaches to individual and so-
cial problems based on reason rather than
emotion.

Mental flexibility, recognizing society as
an evolving process in the dominion of new
ideas, concepts, and behavior patterns.

Appreciation of their own peOple’s heri-
tage.

Intelligent understanding of the civiliza-
tion and cultural patterns of other people
and races.

Attitudes of fair play in the face of blind
racial and religious prejudices.

Clear perceptions of the privileges and
obligations of membership in a civilized
society.

Balanced understanding of religious and
moral values.

Serenity to accept the unchangeable, cour-
age to change what should be modified, and
wisdom to distinguish between the two.

—From an address by Dr. Gordon S. Wat-
kins, provost of University of California. Re-
printed from California Recreation News-
Prevues, September 1956.

About People

KEITH A. MACDONALD, executive di-
rector of the Greater Vallejo Recreation
District, California, was awarded an
honorary life membership in the Val-
lejo Council of Parent-Teacher Associa-
tions. The presentation program, hon-
oring his “meritorious and outstanding
service toward the education and we]-

fare of children and youth,” was in form

of the well-known “This is Your Life”
TV show.

HORACE B. GARMAN, Decatur, Illinois,
attorney, who has served as the city’s
recreation board president for twenty
years and has been active in local rec-
reation activities for thirty years, retired
as board president recently.

In Making a Better Citizen

Colonel Arthur W. Gustafson, Special
Services Officer, Sixth Army, has this
to say about recreation for service per-
sonnel:

“The Armed Forces Recreation Pro-
gram actually came into its own after
World War II when it became necessary
to station American soldiers, sailors,
airmen, marines and their families
around the globe. This program, still in
the process of development, has pro-
gressed to the point that it now encom-
passes a world-wide program utilizing
the full-time services of approximately

FEBRUARY 1957

four thousand professionally qualified
recreation specialists.

“I believe the recreation program is
the most effective antidote for boredom,
maladjustment, and discontent. I be-
lieve our program is the commander’s
most eHective tool in the development of
stamina, team-work, and the will to win.
We use all the resources at our disposal
to make this program dyhamic, attrac-
tive, and a satisfying experience for the
young recruit, and, more important, as
an essential contributing element in his
difficult transition to a good soldier.
No one activity is likely to meet the
needs or serve the interests of all or even
most of them. Each has an appeal, a
strong appeal for some of them. For
this reason our program is broad in
scope, replete with a wide variety of ac-
tivities. All are important, all are es-
sential! Its worth or profits gained, if
one cares to look at it in a cold busi-
nesslike manner, can only be measured
by the degree of advancement in our
society in making a better citizen of
the individual servicemen and women.”

Join the Safety Campaign

Back citizen action for an attack on
traffic accidents! Join the long line of
organizations, both national and local,
cooperating in a campaign to promote

safety. Call upon other civic groups to
help. Excellent suggestions are con-
tained in a special “Back the Attack on
Traffic Accidents” issue of Public Safety
(Volume 49, Number 7), published by
the National Safety Council, 425 North
Michigan Avenue, Chicago 11.

Skating, Anyone?

The unusually frigid weather in the
Middle Atlantic states has resulted in
more ice skating than has been possible
in that part of the country for several
years——and in some special problems
for recreation departments. Regular
work goes undone while the entire staff
answers telephone inquiries about the
state of the ice on local ponds.

“Doesn’t anyone remember what a
red ball means?” asked one harassed
staff member, after the hundredth
query about the significance of this
once-familiar symbol. “I’m going to
tell the next person who asks that it
means that a dangerous bull is loose!”

A particularly eager taxpayer called
one recreation executive at his home
at six A.M. to ask whether there was
skating that morning. Taking a firm
grip on his temper, he replied that the
ice was pretty mushy.

“Will there be skating this after-
noon?” she asked.

“Not unless the temperature drops.”

“Will there be skating tomorrow
morning?”

l-Iis patience exhausted, the execu-
tive snapped, “Madam, the only One
Who can answer that question doesn’t
work for this department!”

Not to be put off, the caller persisted,
“Well, what department does he work

for?”—M.E.McG., NRA.

 

U Social Welfare Today

Great untapped reservoirs of citizen
interest in social welfare are just await-
ing discovery in our American commu-
nities, declares Sidney Hollander, pres-
ident of the National Social Welfare
Assembly. Speaking at a panel discus-
sion attended by representatives of
health, welfare and recreation organiza-
tions from many parts of the country,
Mr. Hollander said he believed most
people were sincerely interested in
“making their towns better places to live
in,” and that young people, older re-
tired people, and employed people with
volunteer time to give would be avail-
able if they knew where their efforts
were really needed.

Two reports of community service
projects among students were given:
Forty Yale students, working under su-
pervision of a professional social

worker, provide all volunteer service for

a boys’ club in New Haven. At the Uni-

versity of Rochester, former hazing ac-
tivities have given way to requirements
of new fraternity members to give vol-
unteer service in settlement houses.

Introducing the discussion of adapts
ing social welfare program to social
change, Ray Johns, general secretary of
the Boston YMCA, said the chief char-
acteristics of American life today are
pressure for status, restlessness, “un-
certainty about the world and the indi-
vidual’s place in it,” greater sophistica-
tion, and a “tendency toward likeness.”
Adaptation of social welfare program,
he said, involved relocation of bases of
service, and changes in nature, auspices
and structure of services.

“People think of social welfare as
dealing only with economic need,” said
Mr. Johns. “The public does not realize
. . . it is prepared to help people to
live rather than ust to help them to keep
alive.”

45

One means by which rec-
reation leaders can help
to alleviate a major prob-
lem —-— juvenile delin-

quency.

Charles A. Bucher

SIX GIRLS between the ages of fourteen

and sixteen were arraigned before
a juvenile court after -having been pick-
ed up in a disreputable roadhouse in a
large Eastern city recently. Called as
a witness in the prosecution of “the
owner, one of the girls, when asked why
she spent so much time in this place of
ill-repute, caustically answered, “I
wanted to dance,'to have a good time,
be with my friends. I can’t have any
fun at home. My mother and father
always want Inc to get out of the house.

Where else could I go?”
Juvenile delinquency begins at home.

Children’s Court Judge George W.
Smyth says onc-third of the children
labeled “delinquent” are from homes
disrupted by divorce, dcsertion' or
death. The remaining two-thirds are
victims of parental indifference, drunk-
cnness, low moral standards, and ncu-
rotic behavior. The facts point up the
seriousness of this problem: forty-two
per cent of lhe teen-agers would live-
away from home if the choice were

CHARLES A. BUCII'ER' iS' professor of edu-'
cation, Department 'of Physical Erluca-.
tion, Health and Recreation, School of
Education, New York University.

40

 

A family starts out across country in Kentucky. In this home good times
and companionship happin take the place of parental indilTereuce. The
impulse toward youthful waywartluess or crime can find no toehold here.

theirs; one out of every four marriages
ends in divorce; three hundred thous-
and children are involved in divorces
each year; there has been a fifty per
cent increase in the number of babies
born outside of marriage in the last
decade; one-fourth of all married wom-
en who live with their husbands work
to supplement the family income; one
out of cight childrcn are not living with
both parents.

These home-wrccking statistics in-
dicate the urgent need to re-ereate the
family into a prevcntive force against
youthful w’aywardness. J. Edgar Hoover
feels, “Parents must awaken to the re-
alization that the family is the first great
training school in behavior or misbe-
ha'vior. Children develop a sense of
right and wrong—~they are not born
with it. The homc becomes for thcm
their first classroom and parents scrvc
as their first teachers.”

The church looks at the problem in
much the same way as thc law enforce-
Ine'nt agency. A nationally famous re-
ligious leader blasts irresponsible par-
ents as the chief cause of juvenile (le-
limjuency. He places in this classifica-
tion those fathers too busy making a
success of their business and mothers

too wrapped up in their social ambitions
to have any time to be with their chil-
dren. “But God pity those parents,” he
said, “who bequeath to their chidren
only the memory of a long succession
of baby sitters.”

National leaders in all walks of life
point to family unity as a weapon
against delinquency. lnternationalopin-
ion also concurs. The first United Na-
tions Congress on Prevention of Crime
declared: “Dclinqucncy appears to have
had an intimate relationship with the
social and cultural changes that have
. . lt is
vital that prevention efforts be designcd
to produce closer family ties, to achieve

operated through the family. .

greater affection. emotional security
and control through the family. The

child needs a sense of belonging.

A major contribution to the solution
of the skyrocketing juvenile (lclin-
quency problem is clear. Parents must
do everything possible to make the
family strong, healthy, and happy. And,
in order to have cohesiveness. Mom,
Pop and the kids must do things as a
group. Only as the entirc famin learns
to spend some of thcir leisure time with
each other, and have fun doing it, can-
family strength he hililt. In spite of

RECREATION

Foe of juvenile Delinquency

 

this, a national survey shows that an
estimated fifty-nine per cent of young

boys and girls say they never go to the‘

movies, take a drive, or recreate with
their families.

Eamilies of American military and
civilian personnel stationed abroad
have proved the worth of spending some
of their free time together. A “we”
feeling exists among these fathers,
mothers and their children, largely be-
cause they play, work and worship as a
group. Such practices have resulted in
more fun and happiness for all and, in
addition, have reduced juvenile delin-
quency. ' f

Ways to Start

We in America can strengthen the
family by learning to do more things
together. Try one of the following sug-
gestions in order to get started:

1. Go on an old-fashioned picnic.
Pack the hamper with cold chicken,
jars of salad, pie and watermelon, bring
a bat and ball—ask a neighbor’s family
to come too. Spend the day out-of-
doors, playing, eating and getting better
acquainted.

2. Get a block of tickets for the
shows that are coming to town—the cir-
cus with its animals, clowns and aerial
acts; the rodeo that is exciting and will
please everyone. And almost every com-
munity has its annual Fourth of July

FEBRUARY 1957

celebration, summer band concert, and
Veterans” Day parade.

3. Take an educational tour together.
In this historically rich land there’s op-
portunity within easy reach of everyone
to visit a famous landmark, historic
battlefield, museum, birthplace or mon-
ument. Many communities also have
art galleries, planetariums, aquariums
and zoos. Such a trip will pay social
as well as educational dividends.

4. The backyard often has ample
space for a badminton court, croquet
set, and a place to hang a basketball
hoop. Mothers and fathers should get
outside and play with their children.
They’ll probably lose, but the exercise
will be good, to say nothing of acting as
a spring tonic for family t0getherness.

5. Invest in some sleeping bags and
camp out overnight. Cook supper in
the open, sing around the campfire, and
take turns telling a few “spooky” tales.
Such an experiencc will be exciting and
long rememhered.

6. Become a “do-it-yourself” family.
Try such projects as refinishing a piece
of furniture, building an outdoor bar-
becue, recovering a chair, or finishing
off the basement playroom. The chil-
dren may be in the way but they’ll feel
very proud of the finished project.

7. Take advantage of the many park
and forest areas that local, state and
national governments maintain. Many
parents will be amazed at the number of
places available.

8. Have a game night. Dust off the
parchesi, checkers, monopoly, or scrab-
ble board. Spend an evening around the
dining-room table playing games. Top
it off with a special refreshment treat.

9. Take advantage of any musical
talent the family members may have.
Form a band. Sing together. Even if
not blessed with talent, everyone can

enjoy records. Music can do much to
bring happiness and contentment.

These are only a few suggestions.
There are many more to suit the needs
and interests of all. Family recreation
can become a regular habit in every
home if mothers and fathers will take
the initiative in planning. As they be-
come enthusiastic, they will help to
spread the family recreation idea
throughout the community. Get every-
one into the act. Be a pioneer in this
great movement. Follow the many com-
munities who are sponsoringfamily rec-
reation programs. Their schools and
recreation centers are opening their
doors in the late afternoon, early eve-
ning, and on Saturday morning, so that
Mom, Pop and all the children can play
as a group. Youngsters and oldsters
alike are delving into arts and crafts,
hobbies, music, dancing, swimming,
dramatics, and other activities.

At Levittown, New York, they have
a pr0gram of “dancing for the family.”
Last year a “family fun with music”
workshop was conducted at the New
Rochelle, New York, Guidance Center.
A Jewish center in New Jersey, a school
of art in Minneapolis, the Michigan
public schools, and a recreation center
in Kansas City are among those that
have either started. or are making plans
for family recreation programs. The
recreation division of your village, town
or city, as well as the schools, can moti-
vate such activity and provide the nec-
essary organization, equipment and
facilities.

Suggestions to Reereation
Departments

A Community or Neighborhood Family
Council Organization. Organize as a
first step in setting up the necessary
machinery. Include mothers, fathers,
boys, girls, in-laws, grandparents and

47

 

\.

 

The home is the first great training school in human'bellavior. Family
unity is a major weapon in the fight against juvenile delinquency.

representatives from school and recrea-
tion groups. Elect ofiicers. Establish
objectives. Inventory family interests,
skills and abilities as a basis for plan-
ning a program. After studying the
situation, take the initiative in starting
community family recreation programs.
Recommend good television programs,
movies, literature, and render any other
services which will help promote family
fellowship.

Family Clubs. What could be more im-
portant for your community than family
clubs? If you live in an average United
States community, you have men’s,
boys’, girls’ and women’s clubs. Ex—
cept for church suppers and an ocea-
sional family picnic, these clubs Oper-
ate for members only. Billy has his
over-nite, Mom her afternoon tea, and
Pop his clambake; but why not do
some of these interestinng and exciting
things together? A club started by sev-
eral families can develop much interest
and enthusiasm.

Bring Programs to the Home. The
family should not, of course, always be
expected to use public rccreation and
school facilities. Recreation must exist
in the home, especially where there are
small children. Home recreation can be
encouraged in many ways. For in-
stancc, a lending service, similar to li-
braries, can be established and a set of
tools for leather work, photography
equipment, game supplies and other
materials made available on a loan
basis. Mimeographed game and party
bulletins could be distributed.

48

In bringing the program to the home

the position of itinerant recreation
leader could also be established. Such
a person could spend his or her time
visiting families and instructing in
various recreation projects.
Promotion. Your community should
take an active part in promoting the
family program. Mothers and fathers
need to be shown the importance and
fun of participating. The mayor can
proclaim a “Family Recreation Day.”
Parent-teacher associations, churches,
schools and various social agcncics can
plan family events where everyone is
welcome. Adult education classcs can
instill an interest in those activities that
lend themselves to group participation.
And why not recreation classes where a
whole family can learn to paint, scw,
dance, or sing?

School Participation. Schools can 11pr
to spearhead the drive for a planncd
family recreation program. They have
tcachcrs skilled in many activities, and
facilities such as shops, swimming
pools, gymnasiums, and auditoriums.

Facilities and Equipment. thn thcsc
are planned for your community, thc
family should bc kept in mind. For cx-
ample, plans for a new swimming pool
should include very shallow water for
tots, shaded areas for baby’s nap, pic-
nic grounds for hungry children and
other adequate facilities to make it pos-
sible for everyone to participate. When
building a new school, plans should in-
elude facilities to accommodate ncigh-
borhood and family groups in the arts

and crafts shop and other areas of the
building. In addition, don’t forget the
camping site that could be deve10ped
with accommodations for young and
old.

Leadership. Qualified leadership is es-
sential for a successful program. Rec-
reation leaders should understand the
importance of family recreation, the
needs and interests of human beings at
all ages, their capabilities and limita-
tions, and the procedure for promot-
ing and motivating participation.

Activities cannot be geared too near
the adult level. A high degree of skill
and perfection may have to be over-
looked. Parents will have to be willing
to learn to play again where small chil-
dren are concerned. New experiences
should be injected constantly into the
program. Events should be scheduled
at times when everyone can get to-
gether—in the late afternoon, early
evening, weekends and holidays.

A gigantic national drive by parents
and communities to make family recre-
ation as common as baseball in America
can do much to increase the strength of
our nation. But, even more important,
it will give the home and family a
sturdy, solid foundation upon which to
build a future.

Let’s takc our children away from
the roadhouses, allcys, strcetcorners,
poolrooms, and bars and bring them
back to the family hearth. Let’s leave
no question in their minds as to where
thcy can play and have fun. I

The young family spends the day in a
state park. Fine picnic areas are now
available in all states, often near at hand.

 

RECREATION

An IRISH Fair

Patrick J. chcgll an

Irish fun in observance of St. Patrick’s Day, March 17.

 

a. .- .—

Naturally, activities from Ireland always include tales
peopled with fairies and lepreehauns of the Emerald
Isle. Above, storyteller James Newman enthralls mem-
bers of the younger set with his Gaelie anecdotes.

ACNE-HOUR bandshell program grew into a three-day

Irish Fair—one with twenty different activities—
within a period of five years in Hollywood, Florida. This is
a dramatic indication of the tremendous appeal of the St.
Patrick theme to local citizens.

Last year’s fair included a St. Patrick’s Day Parade, a
state-wide talent search, the choosing of an Irish Rose of
Shannon Queen, an Irish Revue, a Shamrock Golf Tourna-
ment, Emerald Pageant, Golden Harp Swim Meet, Sham—
rock Tennis Tournament, Green‘ Hat Regatta, Teen-Age
Come-All-Ye, St. Patrick’s Day Ball, a weight-lifting con-
test called Strong Men of Eire, a major league exhibition
baseball game, and a beach pavilion dance.

Close to eight hundred children participated actively in
the athletic events; and more than three thousand young-
sters marched in the Children’s St. Patrick’s Day Parade.
Police estimates placed the total spectator participation at
forty-one thousand for the whole three days.

Because of the phenomenal growth of The Irish Fair, it
can no longer be handled in an off-the-cuff, casual manner.
The scheduling and timing of the events, selection of quali-
fied judges and oflicials, handling of publicity, and final
staging of events call for detailed precision planning.

The events are selected at least six months prior to the
fair by recreation department personnel. Three active citi-
zens, representing various civic and social organizations
in the community, are selected as a committee for each of
the twenty activities. It is the enthusiasm and ability of
these sixty committee members that make a success of the
individual activities, therefore they are selected carefully.

MR. HENEGHAN is the recreation director of Hollywood,
Florida.

FEBRUARY 1957

 

When all committees have been formed, an organization
meeting is held, where the objectives and purpose of the
fair are outlined in detail. An effective innovation used last
year was the printing of special Irish Fair stationery, which
not only listed all the activities but mentioned all members
on the committees. This official recognition of their work
was an important morale factor.

After the over-all organization meeting, the committee
for each activity received its own schedule for future meet-
ings. Not until one week before the actual fair were all the
members brought together for a final meeting. Breaking
the fair down into units in this way not only expedited mat-
ters, but allowed the small recreation department staff to
work more effectively and give professional guidance.

To coordinate all activities, two master control boards
were set up in the recreation office. One listed the activities
and, every week, showed what had been accomplished and
what the objectives were for the coming week. It proved to
be an effective way of keeping abreast of the twenty activi-
ties and was also a boon to reporters who could come in and
pick their stories right off the wall. The other control board
was a huge calendar with the actual time of each appoint-
ment, conference, meeting, and so on, posted in plain view.

In order to insure the largest participation, every school,
civic and social organization in the entire county received
a series of letters. The first letter told everyone that the
Irish Day Fair was a youth program and stated, in general
terms, the purpose of the fair and asked for support. The
second, which followed within a few weeks, gave specific
ways in-which these organizations could participate. The
last letter, sent six weeks prior to the actual fair, asked these
groups for definite commitments.

As each commitment came in, it was mounted on the con-
trol board and released to the newspapers. The amount of
fresh, readily available news that this device provided was
one of the main reasons that the newspapers were so willing
to cooperate and contribute news space to the fair. I

Left, Kathleen, daughter of the author, reads an Irish
story to Dale Allen. Right, Janis Dropkin and Patrick
Cromley paste and tape a harp to be used in the fair.

 

 

50

HowTo Do lTO” b 

 

DECORATIVE PAINTING ON WooD

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

MATERlALS

Show Cara! Fae/hf -- 6790/,“
[a cga er ~“75aponf/Rxbb/bq
Compound ~ Jon/2500's Wax--
Red Sab/e Bras/7 e5.

LRemove all paln‘l',yarn'lsh,e‘l’c.from wood.
Sandpaper all surfaces smoo-l'h.

‘1'  '
2. Draw deslqn on paper and +ran3‘Fer+owood uslnq car-ban paper.

3.Pain‘l' design 143an Show carol painl".
Abfesdn sofme me Very AM warm

4,Cover pain'l'ed design w'rl‘h coafl'of"

clear lacquer.

Naif: 56¢! bag/Pr 0/) - a’o no/éMJ/z if".
" AM: 0/2/52 caref- oéw'po w/)% 795% (007‘?

5 Pain-F on second coal' 0"? clear lacquer.
ll/afe.'(‘o ver :07??? Janézce.

. 6A‘H’cr :écond coal" 0"? lacquer '15 arts {aéom‘ jammy

.5th il' w'rlh *7 Duponl- Rubbing Compound.

7 Anollner coal (0:- Jew/2M cow’s) of clear- lacquer mag be applied 14‘ desirable.
Nofe.‘ Rub crow)? awe/5 /0(‘?(/PI‘ 6007‘7‘0 Jew/Ir a Jwaor‘A 7922/35.

8.PoJish surface cull-+1 Johnson‘s waw’rb qc‘l’ velve‘l‘g surface .

/l/07‘é': 75/3 mafiao’ 07" 010cm»; can also be use! 0/7 web/or 9/055.
Ans/Eva 0/ axe/é»- co/or- po/W‘ ox/pa/bz‘ :Aoa/o’ ée cased. Mame/-
Show/4" é! used~ jsaan/Mepeo’ 0/7, 3‘09 f/or lémb‘é , 3‘" Erma/7'08.

RECREATION

“’7 (7 V. - ram Cn .
0570 9 C7

Saint Valentine, \Ve Love 'You!
Parties? 0f eourse! Look through
back issues of RECREATION, check Par-
ties F or Special Days of the Year
(NBA, 50¢) and the bulletin, St. Valeri-
tine’s Day (MP 61, NRA, 35¢L ) . '-
Dances? All you need is a theme.
The teen-agers or adults can make their
own program. How about:
Buttons and Bows Bounce
My Heart’s On My Sleevc Dance
Hale and Heart-y Hop
Sugar Candy—Jim Dandy Dance
Something NEW? Have you tried
any of these, either as separate pro-
grams or as part of your other plans?
A Share-Your-Heart Party. An activity
to be planned by a club, or class, or de-
partment, or troop, or other group for
some less fortunate group, such as chil-
dren in a hospital ward, or an orphanage,
or home for the aged, or a detention
sehool. It can include almost anything:
a valentine for every guest, of course;
special “acts” such as an cxhibition
dance, puppet show, tumbling act, an
accordian, guitar or harmOnica selec-

tion, an action song, a few simple gamcs
sclected for the age-group, a solo or
duct or trio number, ending with group
singing; and, naturally, rcfreshmcnts.
Valentines F or Servicernen and Women.
lf you’re near any military installation,
you surely will be inviting the service-
men and women to any of your special
adult parties or dances. But could the
youngsters in your department, class,
or club “adopt” a corps or squadron,
company or regiment, or the men in
some isolated station? When they make
their valentines, couldn’t they choose
the best of all to go to our armed
forces?

A Community “Pop” Concert—frankly
sentimental. Every club, every class,
every organization in town votes on its
favorite love song—and is responsible
for presenting it as a solo, quartette,
chorus, or instrumental number, what-
ever the group wishes at an evening
community concert of such songs. Let
the audience vote for its favorite by
clapping.

A Comic Valentine Contest. Betcha the

711?

newspapers would like this! Whatever
happened to those comic valentines we
used to see? Our guess is that they got
too cruel and too suggestive —- but
really amusing ones are fun to do.

Announce the contest through the
papers, and by posters, or keep it in
the club or department if you prefer.
Arrange a time and place where they
can be made. Arrange a method of col-
lecting them. Set a time limit. Get
judges. Set rules: valentines must be
funny, not cruel; must not portray any
identifiable person; must be within spe-
cified maximum and minimum size
limits; and so on.

Then plan an exhibit of them—dis—
played on a long clothesline across the
walls of the lounge, or library, or club-
room, or even in a downtown window.
The judges mark the winners with BlG
badges or ribbons—blue for first, white
for second, red for third prize. The
prizes could be just the ribbons and the
honor, or heart-shaped boxes of candy,
or very big, fancy valentines for send-
ing to mother or the girl friend.

February 12—Birthdate of Abraham Lincoln

Here’s a Bulletin Board idea for announcing your ABRAHAM LINCOLN PARTY.

( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
1 2 3 4 5

( 1 ( ) ( ) ( )
6

7 8 9

( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
15 16 17 18 19

( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
10 11 12 13 14

IV rite the proper letters in the spaces above the proper numbers.

1. If you ever saw a cow jump over the moon write “N”

in spaces 1, 4, 6, 16. If not write “A.”

2. If “X” comes before “H” in the alphabet write “2-9

in space 19. If not write “Y.”

3. If you like candy better than mosquitoes write “L” in

spaces 8 and 13.

4. If you see double consult an ocnlist; if not put “R”

in spaces 3 and 17.

5. If ten qnarts make a pint draw an elephant in space _

7, if not put in “M.”

15, “T” in space 18, and “O” in space 12.

8. If Shakespeare wrote “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star”

put a “

” in spaces 10 and 14. If not put in an “N.”

9. Jf 31,467 is more than twelve dozen write “C” in

space 11.

I 10. If “S” eomes before “U” in the alphabet write “0”

in space 12.

11. If you have ever walked from N.Y.C. to Chicago

write the letter “T” in space 9, if not write in “I.”

12. If you can run a mile in three minutes write the let-

 

tcr “A” in space 5, if not write in “H.”
13. If you plan to come, sign below.

0 a '0
| 6. If summer IS warmer than winter put a “B”1n space 2.
' 7. If black and white are Opposites, write “P” in space .

FEBRUARY 1957 51'

 

 

3167466“

That Dark Corner

Somewhere, in the gameroom, lounge, clubroorn, ofice, or in the den at home,
there’s a dark corner that can be brightened up and made useful. With a little
money, some elbow grease and almost no know-how, you can have space for read-
ing, studying, table games, puzzles, séwing and other crafts, or for club meetings,
cards, food serving, eating, or just plain conversations. Here’s the idea as devel-
oped by Mary Frances Sargent, director of the service club at the Granite City
Engineer Depot, Granite City, Illinois, for use in her service club. It will work
just as well in a recreation building, teen center, golden-age club, church, private

agency or home.

GIVEN: A dark corner of a room.
NEEDED: A bright corner that can be
used for a writing nook, craft area or
other purposes.

SOLUTION: A photomural, curtains to
frame it, a long tablc with shelf space,
and some lights.

RESULT: See photograph. Aren’t you
envious?

The Table

Two redwood boards, twenty inches
wide, and eleven feet long. (Pine will
cost less, but won’t be as handsome or
durable.) Two sets of twenty-two-inch
wrought-iron legs for the lower board
or shelf—handy for books, magazines,

52

supplies, and what have you. Two sets
of six-inch wrought-iron legs for the
top board, making it just right for desk
or table height. These wrought-iron
legs can be purchased at most lumber
or hardware stores, and usually come
furnished with scrcws.,

Give the boards a good finish by
sandpapering and using two coats of
clear varnish to bring out the grain.
Attach the legs as indicated in the pho-
tograph. Voila! Ahandsome table that
will seat six comfortably.

The Wall Behind the Table

A commercial ph otomu ral. (A blown-
up photograph of your own park in

W)

summcr or winter would be cvcn bc'
ter.) These murals come just like wal
paper cut in strips. Anyone who ca
swing a pastebrush can hang then
This onc is in full color, but thcy com
in black and white at less cost.

The wood valance is pine, staincd t
match the redwood table. Two Huorc:
cent tubes under the valance give ind
rect lighting for thc table, and set 0
the mural. The drapes are “bargai
basemcnt,” in white so as not to clas
with thc mural.

Look at the photograph again, the
rush to that dark, wastcd corner an
got busy! I

RECREATIO

How to make use of a community study.

A Survey Leads to Action

YOU’VE just completed an elaborate
study of the recreation facilities
and needs in your community. What
becomes of it now? Is it to be placed
importantly on a shelf to look impres-
sive and gather dust? Or is it to find
some more dynamic use?

The Richmond, Virginia, Department
of Recreation and Parks recently com-
pleted such a study and chose the latter
alternative in a most dramatic way.

The origin of Richmond’s study goes
back to one evening in 1952 when a
group of teen-agers from North Rich-
mond assembled with neighbors,
church, recreation and civic group
leaders to discuss their need for better
recreation facilities. Out of this move-
ment grew the North Richmond Neigh-
borhood Council, which presented to
the city council its studied considera-
tions and recommendations and 'asked
for extension of the recreation program
in that section of the city.

Members of the city council were re-
luctant to take action until similar in-
formation on facilities, needs and de-
sires had been obtained from all of the
other sections of Richmond. And thus
were born the five neighborhood coun-
cils—North, East, South, West and Cen-
tral—to delve into problems of their
own neighborhoods and come up with
practical suggestions for improving
their recreation programs.

To organize and direct these neigh-
borhood councils the city could not
have selected a person better qualified
than Claire McCarthy, whose name has
been synonymous with recreation in
Richmond. Miss McCarthy, who serves
as secretary to the neighborhood coun-

 

MRS. PERKINSON is information and
communication secretary, Department

of Recreation and Parks, Richmond,
Virginia.

FEBRUARY 1957 '

Pat Perkinson

cw

cils, dedicated herself to this tremen-
dous project, meeting three or four
nights weekly for two years with groups
in the various sections. Ward Stal-
naker, executive secretary of the Rich-
mond Area Community Council at the
time, served as consultant. 
Through the cooperation of the
schools, agencies and officials of the
Richmond area, the councils sought in-
formation such as:
0 Population statistics and pertinent
social factors of Richmond.
0 Facilities and programs available to
Richmond through the recreation and
group agencies, private and public, or
those which might become available in
the future.
0 Recreation opportunities available
through other schools,
churches, commercial enterprise, indus-
try, parks, adult and other informal
education, hobby groups.
0 How school children use their leisure
time, the degree to which they now en-
gage in organized recreation activities,
their interests, and their concept of de-
sirable future recreation development.
While the study consultant compiled
population and social data, all city stu-
dents from the fourth grade through
senior high school were polled as to
their leisure-time activities. When the
data had been summarized the study
committees analyzed the facts available
and visited existing recreation facilities
in their respective districts. On the
basis of these detailed studies, the vari-
ous neighborhood councils then drew
up recommendations for improvement
of recreation programs in their sections.
Results of all five neighborhood
studies were digested and presented in
a very readable booklet by the depart-
ment of recreation and parks. The one-
hundred-page publication represented
a monumental task. And that could

sources:

have been the end, were it not in the
hands of ingeniously original persons
who were anxious to put their story
across to as many people as possible in
as effective a manner as possible.
Their opportunity came a few months
following the publication of the Rich-
mond Recreation Study. The occasion
was the annual meeting of the depart-

ment of recreation and parks held in

the base of the Carillon War Memorial

in beautiful Byrd Park. After a “Dutch

treat” Richmond’s study
came to life with a graphic presentation
of its highlights.

Among the one hundred and fifty
who listened with great interest were
not only the members of the neighbor-
hood councils, but also representatives
of private and public agencies con-
cerned with recreation and city oflicials
who are responsible for the wise spend-
ing of Richmond’s funds.

Backdrop for the program was a tre-
mendous outline map of the city sur-
rounded by illustrations of recreation
activities, displayed in a frame meas-
uring six and a half by nine feet. Near-
by were mounted cutout maps of each
of the five sections. As each study com-
mittee chairman came forward to re-
port on the facilities and needs of his
area, he removed the section map from
its board and placed it where it be-
longed on the outline map of the city.
The jigsaw was complete when the five
chairmen had completed their reports,
and those in the audience could tell at
a glance where the present and the pro-
posed facilities are located by referring
to a simple key.

To place recreation in its proper pro-
spective, the city manager then dis-
cussed the “city dollar” and its division
among the several agencies of the mu-
nicipal government. It was seen that
the department of recreation and parks

luncheon,

53

D
M
l
N
|
S
T
R
A
T
|
O
N

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

program. In addition there were dona-
tions of more than $60,000 in materials
and money.

In turn, Jesse A. Reynolds, director
of the recreation and parks department,
gave the volunteers and others present
an idea of how the recreation depart-
ment makes use of its share of the pub-
lic funds. Richmond divides the reere-

 I ation dollar as follows: 17.7 per cent for

 

receives the smallest allocation of any

of the major departments, 3.6 per cent
as compared with 22.9 for schools, 18.5
for health and welfare, 14.5 for debt
service, 13.8 for safety, and 16.7 for
other government operations.

City Manager Horace Edwards
praised the Work of Richmond’s reerea-
tion volunteers and noted how it en-
abled the city to stretch the recreation
dollar. He said that nearly 5,000 per-
sons had eontrihtued more than 100,-
000 man hours to the city’s recreation

 

The audience knew what their
city needed . . . . Hcre, Lackey
Martin, chairman of the joint
ncighborhood councils, and Mrs.
A. V. Griggs, study chairman for
North Richmond, set up mastcr
map which formed backdrOp for
department of recreation and
parks ’56 niecting in Byrd Park.

playgrounds and centers, 16.2 for cem-
eteries, 10.2 for trees, 8.7 for sports and
athleties, 3.9 for city-wide service, 4.5
for administration, and 38.8 for main-
tenance.

The result of this well-planned and
executed program was an inspired and
informed audience who knew Rich-
mond’s needs in the way of recreation
and were willing to do something,to
make the circles on the map which rep-
resented “proposed facilities” become
actualities.

OPERATION OUTDOORS

Operation Outdoors, a plan to double camping and pie-

Within a few months after this im-
pressive annual meeting at the carillon
there occurred a shining example of
what such a group can do to promote
the cause of recreation in a city. Land
adjacent to one of the most crowded
playgrounds in a highly populous area
of Richmond was put on the market.
Even as prospective buyers were visual-
izing their office buildings on the val-
uable property, the city’s neighborhood
councils sprang into action.

Securing the land to extend the play-
ground would mean that the commu-
nity center so badly needed in North
Richmond would temporarily lose its
priority, but, by unanimous agreement,
the neighborhood council committees
rallied to the need of the ‘Vest Rich-
mond playground. They appeared be-
fore the city council, armed with con-
vincing facts from their studies, and
saved the land for the extension of the
playground. Now they have received
the go-ahead from the city council for I
the North Richmond center—a $50,000
facility for teen-age activities.

This unified action demonstrates the
value of an enlightened public, but it
promises to be only the beginning.
Richmond’s recreation study has come
out of the pages of its neat green hinder
and penetrated the hearts and minds of l
citizens from all sections of the city
who will not rest until their reeommen- I
dations become realities. I |

+

called for in Operation Outdoors. Tables and fireplaces are I

nicking facilities in the national forests within the next five
years, has just been announced by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. The five-year recreation plan was released fol-
lowing the President’s hudget message to Congress which
recommended financial support 'of the project to start this
year.

Recreation visits to the national forests will hit the sixty-
six million mark by 1962, Forest Service ollicials predict.
Their estimate is based on the past rate of rise in recreation-
use of national forests, the growing population, increased
time for leisure activities, and the upward swing in money
spent for recreation.

Operation Outdoors is a double-barrelled program. First
it aims at solving the problem of ever-increasing family out-
door activities such as picnicking and camping in the
national forests; a second part will deal with improvement
and management of wildlife habitat.

Some 2,150 new camping and pienicking grounds which
will accommodate 40,500 additional families at a time are

54

to be repaired and sanitary facilities modernized on the

4,900 camp and picnic grounds which now can properly

accommodate only 41,400 families. As in the past, it will be
left to private capital to provide and Operate resorts and
other Special facilities in the national forests.

“Operation Outdoors is geared not only to correct exist- -I
ing unsatisfactory conditions at national forest recreation I
areas but also to meet foreseeable use during the next five I
years,” Richard l3. McArdle, chief of the Forest Service,
said. 0

Recreation visits to the national forests hit an all-time
high of 45,500,000 million in 1955 as compared to 18,200.-
000 in 1946. About thirty-nine per cent of the people camped
and picnicked outside improved areas because existing faci-
lities, largely built by the Civilian Conservation Corps.
between 1933 and 1941, could not take care of them.

, A copy of the report, Operation Outdoors, may be ob»
tained upon request to the Forest Service. [1.5. Department

' of Agriculture, Washington 25, D.C.

RECREATION '

- ‘ - ~  - WMWWWWWaM

Recreation Space

27¢ s

Subdivisions '

 

Elbow Room in Subdivisions *

Numerous California communities are feeling the impact
of population increases caused by a steady flow of new-
comers to the state, by the establishment of many new
families, and by the rising birth rate. Thousands of homes
are being built in new subdivisions within the cities, in
suburban fringe areas, or in semi-isolated rural locations
previously used for agriculture.

The public welfare is endangered because land areas are
not being set aside for public use in subdivisions, especially
for park and.recreation purposes. In some instances public
school sites, secured because school districts do have man-
datory and tax power for educating children who live in the
subdivisions, are deemed sufi’icient for recreation puposes.

This is a compromise which disregards the needs of chil-
dren and adults for recreation other than the activities and
sports which are appropriate to school athletic fields. Parks
and green belts which people might use for family picnics,
riding and hiking trails, day camping and nature exPlora-
tion are lacking. Suitable sites in subdivisions are not being
provided for community recreation buildings where youth
and adults can participate in social activities, arts and crafts,
drama and music, and club activities.

In 1949-50 the state recreation commission reported on
the unusual approach to the problem of acquiring land for
recreation and park areas by two cities, Claremont and
Whittier. These cities require subdividers to pay a fee of
$30 per lot and $50 dollars per acre, respectively. The fees
are deposited in special funds to be used for the acquisition
of park and recreation areas for the people of the sub-
division.

In 1955, the commission learned that other communities
are adopting similar methods. Anaheim, Arcadia, Azusa,
Corona, Fullerton, Monterey Park, Orange and San Gabriel
have passed or amended subdivision ordinances to includc
sections which require the subdivider to pay to the city a
sum of $25 per residence lot for like purpose.

"‘ From the 1954-1955 Annual Report of the California Recreation
Commission.

FEBRUARY 1957 .

WWWWWWW

F ontana requires a $10 fee per lot; La Verne requires a
$50 fee per lot. A $100 fee per net acre (exclusive of streets
and highways) is required in Modesto and in Torrance.
Merced requires a $100 fee per gross acre and Yuba City
levies $62.50 per acre. In Davis the subdivider pays $12.50
per lot for recreation areas before the subdivision map is
approved and $12.50 per lot when the building permit is
issued, and also for all new construction throughout the
city. In multi-family development an additional $10 is
charged per unit. Santa Clara and Napa levy $20 and $15,
respectively, for each residential unit.

In some instances the cities permit the subdivider to ded-
icate land to the city for recreation and park purposes in
lieu _of payment of money. Stockton requires that one acre
or portion thereof be conveyed to the city by the subdivider
for each one hundred families or portion thereof in the sub-
division. In lieu of land, the subdivider must contribute
the equivalent value to be used for acquisition of recreation
and park areas. Land reservation for parks, playgrounds,
school sites or other public uses required on a regional basis
to serve an area greater than that encompassed by the sub-
division must be reserved as such for a period of at least
one year after approval of the subdivision map.

Livermore’s subdivision ordinance requires that a sum
of money equal to the aggregate total amount ascertained
by multiplying the number of acres (exclusive of public
streets and highways) by $250 shall be paid to a city fund
designated as the park and recreation facilities fund. Land
may be dedicated in lieu of payment of fees.

A difficulty sometimes encountered when a subdivider
offers land in lieu of cash is the unsuitability of the site for
recreation and park purposes. In some instances areas
offered were marginal in location, were on steep rocky ter-
rain, or marked by deep gullies. The planning commission
of Marin County has developed a formula for reservation
of park and recreation sites in county subdivisions, wherein
such land areas are increased proportionately in acreage in
relation to the degree of grade in the hill sections.

Eureka, National City and Santa Barbara have been re-

55

A
D
M
I
N
I
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N

 

vising their subdivision ordinances. Subdivision ordinances
in Arcata, Lompoc, Oakland, Sacramento and San Luis
Obispo carry clauses which provide that the planning com-
mission may suggest to the subdivider the advisability of
dedicating suitable areas for parks and recreation facilities,
or that due consideration be given to the allocation of suit-
able areas for parks and playgrounds to be dedicated or
reserved for public use.

Some ordinances provide that this allocation of land shall
be in accordance with a city master plan. Ofiicials in one
city reported that these permissive clauses in ordinances
had not been at all effective in establishing recreation areas
and had not functioned as a force to create open space in
the city. Another city reported that, in actual practice,
there was no compliance with the clause.

Long Beach does not require dedication of areas for parks
and playgrounds, but officials state that subdividers and
community developers are usually requested to reserve for
future purchase, or dedicate free of cost to the city, park
and recreation areas substantially in accordance with the
comprehensive plan for these facilities. Several park and
recreation areas have been secured from developers without
cost. In other instances, certain areas have been set aside
for future acquisition by the city.

Importance of Providing Space

The importance of providing recreation space in connec-
tion with new residential neighborhoods is pointed out in
Control of Land Subdivision, a booklet issued by the New
York State Department of Commerce. Among the require-

m"...-----------
0

Your Program Calendar

What ARE You Planning For THIS Month?

FEBRUARY

1 Victor Herbert’s Birthday
National Freedom Day
2 ~ Ground Hog Day
6 — 12 Boy Scout Week
11 Thomas Edison’s Birthday

What CAN You Plan For NEXT Month?

MARCH
2 — 9 National 4-H Club Week
3 Alexander Graham Bell’s Birthday
{I 3 — 9 National Peanut Week
4 President’s Day
4 —'9 National Smile Week

5 Mardi Gras (Shrove Tuesday)
10 — 16

Girl Scout Week

 

56

ments for approval of plats by a planning board is one “that
a park or parks suitably located and of reasonable size for
playground and other recreation purposes be provided in
the development layout.”

A set of subdivision regulations contains the following
provision under “General Requirements for the Subdivision

of Land”:

Areas for parks and playgrounds shall be of reasonable size for
neighborhood playgrounds or other recreation uses. No arbitrary
percentage of area shall he insisted upon by the board, but, in gen-
eral, developers should set aside not less than ten per cent of the
area for these purposes. .

A sample set of “Subdivision Regulations for Planning Boards”
includes, under “Design Standards”:

1. Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public use
shown in a master plan is located in whole or in part in a subdivision,
the planning board may require the dedication or reservation of such
area within the subdivision in those cases in which the planning board
deems such requirements to be reasonable.

2. Where deemed essential by the planning board, upon considera-
tion of the particular type of deveIOprnent proposed in the subdivision,
especially in large-scale neighborhood unit developments not antici-
pated in the master plan, the planning board may require the dedi-
cation or reservation of such other areas or sites of a character, ex-
tent, and location suitable to the needs created by such deveIOpment
for schools, parks, and other neighborhood purposes.

County Planning Board Requires Bond

In a report on Burlington County, New Jersey, June 27,
1955, J. W. Faust reported a conference with George M.
Rogers, executive of the county.planning board. He states:
“This board requires a bond from each developer and can

hold up a deveIOpment plan that is unsatisfactory. . . . In!
one instance they persuaded a developer, instead of filling i
in fifteen to twenty acres of low land and a lake, to leave the ,

 

a

lake with five acres around it as a park and develop the rest.”

.1.
g

i

FEBRUARY 
l2 — 22 National Defense Week I
12 Abraham Lincoln’s Birthday :

14 Valentine’s Day :

17 — 24 Brotherhood Week 1
22 George Washington’s Birthday i

i

l

NIARCII e i
15 Andrew J ackson’s Birthday I

15 — 22 Jewish Youth Week 
17 St. Patrick’s Day :

17 — 23 National Wildlife Week :
17 — 24 Camp Fire Girls Birthday Week :
24 — 30 International Photography “leek ‘

m-mmmu-W-“-1.--”--“---““----"----u---- “------.J

. RECREATION

Per Capita Expenditures
for RECREATION and PARKS in 1955

THE RECENT publication of the 1956
Recreation and Park Yearbook
makes possible, for the first time in five
years, a study of the per capita recrea-
tion and park expenditures of the re-
porting cities. Since this is the second
Yearbook in which all expenditures for
recreation and parks are recorded,
rather than those for recreation alone,
it also is possible to compare the total
expenditures figures with those re-
corded in 1950.

Only the cities reporting employ-
ment of full-time year-round recreation

0 TABLE I shows the range of per cap-
ita expenditures, by population groups,
in the 908 cities included in the study.
The average and median figures also
are shown for each group; because it
is less subject to distortion by a few
very high or very low figures, the me-
dian probably is more truly representa-
tive of the group than the average. The

average per capita for all 908 cities is
$2.58; the median is $2.37.

leadership have been included in the
tabulations. Figures are based on cur-
rent operating expenses alone; money
spent for capital items is not included.
A few communities reporting full-time
leadership could not be included be-
cause they did not report the amount of
money spent in 1955, or because they
are not incorporated municipalities and
population figures could not be secured.

Population figures used in the study
are local estimates (which usually tend
to be high) except in the very few cases
where a local census has been taken

The table shows a new trend toward
higher expenditures in the larger cities;
the three groups of cities with popula-
tion of over 50,000 spent more per cap-
ita than the three groups between 5,000
and 50,000. It is also worthy of note
that forty-six cities, five per cent of
those reporting, spent six dollars or
more per capita. (In the opinion of the
National Recreation Association, any
city wishing to provide adequate facili-

Muriel E. McGann

since 1950, or where no p0pulation
figures were given on the report form;
in the latter case, 1950 census figures
have been used. Many cities known to
have more than one recreation or park
agency were represented by only one
agency in the Yearbook, in spite of re-
peated efforts to secure reports from
the others; the expenditure figure re-
corded for such cities is, of course, less
than the amount actually spent. There-
fore, the per capita total expenditures
figures shown in the following tables
are undoubtedly low in some cases.

ties and program will find it necessary
to spend this amount.)

The fact that 908 cities were included
in the study, an increase of one hun-
dred and twenty-five per cent over 1950,
appears to indicate that although per
capita spending is not, on the whole,
keeping pace with population growth,
many more cities are now employing
full-time year-round recreation leader-

ship.

 

Table I—TOTAL EXPENDITURES

Number of Cities with Per Capita Expenditure of

Number of Average ' $.50 $1.00 $1.50 $2.00 $3.00 $4.00 $5.00 $6.00

Population Group Cities Per Capita Median Under to to to to to to to and
$.50 $.99 $1.49 $1.99 $2.99 $3.99 $4.99 $5.99 Over

Under 5,000 .............. .. 49 $5.18 $3.09 -—— 2 5 5 11 7 3 3 13
5,000 - 9,999 .............. .. 96 $2.79 $2.09 3 7 15 21 22 10 8 3 7
10,000- 24,999 .............. .. 296 $2.24 $1.91 7 45 56 49 81 32 13 6 7
25,000- 49,999 .............. .. 216 $2.07 $1.71 11 36 36 43 54 20 11 1 4
50,000 - 99,999 .............. .. 136 $2.69 $2.74 5 16 17 22 32 19 9 8 8
100,000 - 249,999 .............. .. 70 $2.88 $2.75 3 5 7 8 17 12 10 4 4
250,000 and over .............. .. 45 $3.26 $3.05 1 — 3 6 11 11 8 2 3
Total ................ .. 908 $2.58 $2.37 30 111 139 154 228 111 62 27 46

 

 

0 TABLE II shows per capita expendi-
tures for leadership salaries and wages
in the 787 cities which reported full-
time year-round leadership, the amount

MRS. MCGANN, a member of the NRA

staff, is associate editor of the 1956
Yearbook.

FEBRUARY 1957

of money spent for leadership, and
their population. Although many cities
that employed leaders failed to respond
to all requests for a Yearbook report,
replies were received from virtually all
the agencies employing leaders in these
787 cities; figures shown are therefore
substantially correct for cities covered.

The growing recognition of the im-
portance of leadership is emphasized in
this table. In 1950, only seventeen per
cent of the reporting cities spent $1.00
or more per capita for leadership; in
1955, at least $1.00 was spent by thirty-
six per cent of the cities. The NRA
standard of $1.50 per capita was met

57

A
D
M
l
N
I
S
T
R
A
T
l
0
N

 

by 112 cities, fourteen per cent of those
reporting.
Larger cities have stepped up their

expenditures for leadership, as well as
their total expenditures.
ago, no city over fifty thousand reported

Five years

spending more than $1.49 per capita
for leadership; in 1955, sixteen cities
over fifty thousand spent more.

Table II—LEADERSHIP EXPENDITURES

Number of

Population Group Cities

Under 5,000 .............. .. 38
5,000 - 9,999  77
10,000 - 24,999 .............. .. 253
25,000 - 49,999 .............. .. 189
50,000 - 99,999 .............. .. 123
100,000 - 249,999 .............. .. 63
250,000 and over ..? ........... .. 44

Total ................ .. 787

0 TABLE III shows clearly that, while
cities over fifty thousand in population
have increased their per capita expendi-
tures for recreation and parks substan-
tially in the past five years, increases
in recreation appr0priations in the
smaller cities have not been commen-
surate with population growth. The
average total per capita expenditure for
all the cities reporting full-time year-
round leadership dropped from $2.70
to $2.58, a decrease of four per cent, in
the five years between 1950 and 1955.

Leadership expenditures, on the
other hand, increased more than thirty
per cent in all population groups ex-

 

0 TABLE IV shows a geographical
breakdown of per capita expenditures
for all current operating expenses and
for leadership. The districts shown are
NRA field service districts, and the
states are apportioned as follows:

New England: Connecticut, Maine, Massa-

chusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Ver-
mont.

Middle Atlantic: Delaware, District of Co-
lumhia, Maryland, New Jersey, New York,

Average
Per Capita

$2.65
$1.10
$ .97
3 .83
3 .80
3 .71
3 .73

$1.00

Number of Cities with Per Capita Expenditure of

$.25

to
8.49

Median Under

3.25

$1.80
$1.16 3
$ .88 37
3 .72 36
5 .59 29
3 .62 16
$ .69 11

3 .82

 

cept the 5,000 to 9,999 bracket. The
average expenditure of $1.00 per cap-

Table III—PER 'CAPITA EXPENDITURES, 1950 AND 1955

3.50
to

3.74

$.75
10
3.99

$1.00

to to
$1.49 $1.99

5 8 7
13 26 12
61 63 20
44 35 8
24 25 6
14 8 3

$1.50

10
54
55
28
15
12 8 7 3

174 169 59

ita for leadership represents a net in-
increase of forty-seven per cent.

 

     
     
     
         
     
     
   
 
     
   

      

Pennsylvania.

Great Lakes: Illinois, Indiana, Michigan,
Minnesota, Ohio, Wisconsin.

Midwest: Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Mis-
souri, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Da-
kota, Wyoming.

Southern: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Ken-
tucky, Mississippi, North Carolina. South Car-
olina, Tennessee, Virginia. West Virginia.
Southwest: Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico,
Oklahoma, Texas.

Pacific Southwest: Arizona, California. Ne-
vada, Utah.

Pacific Northwest: Idaho, Montana, Oregon,

Average Total

P 1 C Expenditure Expenditure
t.
opu a non roup Per Cent Per cent
1950 1955 of Change 1950 1955 of Change
Under 5,000 ................ .. $6.30 $5.13 '_13 $1.90 32.65 +39
5.000- 9,999 ................ .. 33.37 32.79 ——14 $1.09 $1.10 + 1
10,000- 24,999 ............... .. $2.78 32.24 —19 s .74 s .97 +31
25.000. 49,999 ............... .. $2.19 $2.07 -— 5 s .63 s .83 +32
50,000.. 99,999 ................ . $2.34 $2.69 +15 3 .55 s .80 +45
100,000-249,999 ............... .. $2.40 32.88 +20 3 .43 3 .71 +43
250,000 and over ................ .. $2.64 53.26 +23 3 .51 s .73 +43
Total .............. .... $2.70 $2.58 $ . $1.00 +47

Average Leadership

 

Washington.
Average and median per capita ex-i

penditures for current operating ex-l
penses and for leadership were 'higliestl
in the Pacific Southwest district. Six-i
teen, or twelve per cent, of the reportingEI
cities in this district met the NRA total
expenditures standard; twenty-nine, or
twenty-seven per cent, the leadership
standard. I

Table IV—PER CAPITA EXPENDITURES, BY DISTRICTS

 

District

Number

of Cities
New England ............................. .. 95
Middle Atlantic ......................... .. 182
Great Lakes ................................. .. 206
Midwest ....................................... .. 61
Southern ..................................... .. 172
Southwest ................................... .. 41
Pacific Southwest ....................... .. 124
Pacific Northwest ....................... .. 27

Total
Expenditures

Leadership

Salaries and Wages

Number of

Cities Meeting
NRA Standard

Average Number Average E I “:1”. Lmdep

Per Capita Median of Cities Per Capila Median tgfes Ship
3271 $2.00 87 $1.10 3 .82 5 14
$2.11 $1.66 160 $1.01 $ .86 4 20
$2.76 $2.29 172 $ .93 S .80 11 24
$2.53 $2.58 59 S .67 S .60 — 1
$2.45 $1.85 145 $1.04 3 .87 8 20
$1.44 $1.62 32 $ .52 3 .48 — —
$3.39 $2.92 107 $1.29 $1.10 16 29
$2.48 $2.18 25 S .93 S .75 2 4

RECREATION

PER

Each year seems to bring increased
activity and new developments in the
field of recreation personnel. 1956 was
no exception.

Placements in the various classifica-
tions remained strong, but were espe-

cially conspicuous at the executive level. '

One hundred and two positions for su-
and/ or
parks were filled, the largest number
in NRA history. The majority of these
were in the Middle Atlantic and Great
Lakes districts. However, the number

perintendents of recreation

of executive placements in the South,
Midwest and Far West‘ also incrcascd.

As in former years, a high percentage
of the executive placements were in
medium-size and small connnunities.
For instance, of the executive place-
ments 37 per cent was in communities
of 10,000 population and under, 49 per
cent in citics of 15,000 and under; 58
per cent in cities of 25,000 and under,
and 93 per cent in cities of 50,000 pop-
ulation or less. In other words, only
sevcn per cent of the executive place-
ment was in the larger communities of

50,000 population and over.

The salary range for thc executive
positions filled was $4,000 to $10,000,

with a $5,000 median.
The NRA National Internship Pro-

gram began in 1956 with professional
students in training in four municipal
rccrcation departments: Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania; Milwaukee, Wisconsin;
Portland, Oregon; and Oakland, Cali-
fornia. Additional interns are serving
in state mental hospitals in Indiana.
The first Institute on Recreation Ad-
ministration was conducted in conjunc-
tion with the International Recreation
Congress in Philadelphia. Plans are
under way for a second one at the 1957

Congress scheduled for Long Beach,

MR. SUTIIERLAND is director of the NRA
Recreation Personnel Service.

FEBRUARY 1957

S 0 N N'E L
__—___r___

Recreation Personnel Review—1956

0‘

California. An institute for top-rank-
ing executives seems destined to be-
come a permanent Congress feature.
An NRA personnel study, Personnel
Standards in Community Recreation
Leadership;i which first appeared in
1930 and has undergone several revi-
sions, has been brought up~to-date and
made available once again with the as-
sistance of the National Advisory Com-
mittee on Recruitment, Training and
Placement. This committee is also as-
sisting in the preparation of the Sep-
tembcr 1957 issue of the'Academy of
Political and Social Science Annals.
This issue of Annals, devoted entirely
to recreation, will be an 80,000-word
volume edited by Dr. Paul F. Douglass.

The recreation movement continues

_to face a serious problem of personnel

shortage. This is particularly true in
respect to qualified workers for begin-
ning positions. The demand for pro-
fessional recreation personnel continues
to increase While the number of quali-
fied workers is by no means keeping
pace.

Several additional states have ap-
pointed recruiting committees as a part
of their state recreation society activi-
ties, and this new development should
help. However, the terrific competition
for the employment of college gradu-
ates is expected to continue, making it
imperative that all recreation agencies,
professional workers and friends of the
recreation movement do everything
possible to attract neW- prospects to the
professional training centers and into
the movement.

National and district conferences,
and many of the state meetings, em-
phasized and featured personnel activi-
ties last year with much attention fo-
cused on recruiting. Much more can

 

* Available from Recreation Book Center,
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11. (BBC

#415A) $2.00.

W. C. Sutherland

and should be done as the recreation
movement moves forward and as the
recreation profession endeavors to
make a respected place for itself among
the great professions of our time.

Only great leadership can make a
great profession, and a worthy goal for
professional recreation workcrs and
agencies should be to make great lead-
ership the heritage and tradition of the
recreation field.

Recruiting, Wise selection, and the
development of leaders should continue
to receive the best efforts of all those
presently concerned with recreation.
We cannot escape the fact that what-
ever success or greatness recreation
achicves will be in direct proportion to
the cxtent that our leaders distinguish
themselves as scholars, as masters in
the skills of the profession, and in the
art of leadership. I

ONE lANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.

 Year-round position, will be

poid $345 per month ond olso will be per-
mitted to do Iondscope work on the side.
Write to A. C. Homilton, Director of Forks &

Recreation, City Holl, Lubbock.r Texos.

CALIFORNIA

offers you

ottroctive opportunities to porticipote in
on exponding rehobilitotion progrom in
its Stote Mentol Hospitols.

IMMEDIATE EMPLOYMENT

For

College trained Recreation Therapists
Registered Occupational therapists
College trained Music therapists

Solories stort ot $4,296; good promo-
tionol opportunities;r 3 weeks’ poid voco-
tion onnuolly; retirement annuities and
other employee benefits.

Write State Personnel Board
801 Capitol Avenue. Sacramento. California

 

59

 

 

NEWS

 

I f you are interested in any of
these products, write directly to
the manufacturer at the address
given. PLEASE mention that you
read about it on RECREATION
magazine’s Market News page.

 

O A new, conveni-
ent portable speak-
er’s stand called the
Speakeasy is design-
ed to fit any micro-
phone stand. It is
lightweight, all-alu-
minum and provides
a complete, adapta-
ble speaker’s lectern.
Double-page plat-
form surface meas-
ures nineteen by thirteen inches and is Hanged at both sides
and bottom to prevent speaker’s notebooks or pages falling
off. Platform is adjustable up or down, and swings in a
360-degree arc. Its counterbalanced construction eliminates
any tipping hazard. George Reuter Organization, 450 East

Ohio Street, Chicago 11.

 

O A new series of inexpensive Eraso posters and charts
(with patcnted ERASO* “Write it on—Wipe it off” finish),
designed for simple and economical planning, scheduling
and promotion of all athletic and recreation activities are
guaranteed reusable over one hundred and fifty times with
normal care. The attractive promotion posters, fourteen by
twenty-two inches, are available in combinations of five
bright colors. Program planning and administration aids
have been broadened by the addition of large (twenty-four
by thirty-six inches) bulletin board, all-purpose and round-
' robin charts. Thc latter, available for either eight or twclve
team tournaments, simplify a normally complicated and
tedious job. They completely schedule teams, date, time,
place, oHicials, in a matter of minutes.

A free colorful catalog, illustrating these and many other
new program aids, may be obtained by writing thc Program

Aids Company, 550 Fifth Avenue, New York 36.

O A new mimeo-
graph, the BDC Rex-
Rotary M-4, oper-
atcs as a printing
press for stencils.
The customary per-
forated drum and
liquid ink have been
replaced by two cyl-
inders, an oscillating
ink roller and heavy
printers ink. This basic new design eliminates leaking ink,
clogged drums, ink pads, inking with a brush, blurry copies.

It is simple to operate and features three-minute color
change, accurate registration, automatic cut-off counter,
three-day copy adjustment, automatic feed for any weight

 

60

paper from tissue to cardboard, from post card to legal size.
The M4 is available in both electric and hand operated

models. Bohn Duplicator Corporation, 444 Fourth Avenue,
New York 16..

O Topl-Takl, developed from old English pub games, offers
youngsters chance-and-skill table games based on such real
sports as hockey and football. Of hardwood and finely fin-
ished, Topl-Takl games are sturdy, well-constructed, can
take rough treatment. The W. D. Griffin Company, 5927
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland 3.

'E

9 With the new Lain
Lantern String, effec-
tive lighting for out-
door living areas can
now bc put up with as
little effort as a simple
clothesline. The String
. is a three-lantern sys-
term, on thirty feet of
rubber-covered cord,
designed for all-weather I

use. It fcatures lantern shades formcd from Eastman Tenite
butyrate plastic, especially selected for its good wcathering '
properties and impact strength. With its special hangcrs,
the system can be attached quickly to trees, roofs or wires,
then plugged to the nearest outlet. Transluccnt shades,
eleven inches in diameter, shed soft, glarcless light over a l
widc area.

thn more than three lanterns are desicd, two or anI'C of I
the Lam Lantern Strings can be plugged together in a c011-
tinuous chain. Lam Workshop Inc., 404- Main Strcet, ‘Vake- '
field, Massachusetts.

 

 O Vend-a-Frank, a new hot-dog dis-

K“: 14;; pensing machine, is a natural adjunct
“5‘7?” to soft-drink, ice-cream, and hot-coffec |

c . vendors. The machine is filled and opcr-

ri- ated much like a cigarette vendor, em-

ploys National slug-rejcctor and change

makcr. Upon insertion of coin, a hot

dog is cooked electrically and scrved in

. its own sanitary box, all in twcnty sec-

onds. The Vend-a-Frank has a capacity
of eighty-four frankfurters in vending
position and seventy in storagc position,
both comparments under rcfrigcration
at all timcs. United States Vending
Machine Corporation, 4300 North Car-
lisle Strcct, Philadelphia 40.

RECREATION

TWO OUTSTANDING
Magenta-Jill GUIDES

ya».

Recreation Leaders and Teachers

44

RICHARD KRAUS

Teachers College, Columbia University

1, A brief volume designed to help recreation
workers with children from six to twelve . . .

  

PLAY ACTIVITIES FOR
CHILDREN

A Guide for Teachers, Parents, and
Recreation Leaders

-Reac£4/ {04 We wie-

 

 

This new book of timely interest describes the underlying
values of youthful play, and gives examples of successful
play programs. It gives many Specifically helpful sugges-
tions and guides for working with groups of children as
well as clearly-written directions for a wide variety of activ-
ities including active and inactive games; musical play and
singing; folk and creative dancing; arts and crafts; and
dramatics. Recent advances on play programs and upto-
date material on childhood growth and development are
includcd. The hook is unique in its variety and scape.

2, A distinctive text emphasizing leadership skills
in social recreation . . .

 

RECREATION LEADER’S
HANDBOOK

McGraw-Hill Series in Health Education,
Physical Education, and Recreation

312 pages - $5.75

This outstanding work provides a practical, down-to-earth
discussion of social leadership objectives and techniques
applied to the recreation needs of groups of all sizes and
ages. It covers the background of social recreation in this
country, the role of recreation in everyday life, leadership
objectives and techniques in working with recreation groups,
and a wide variety of time-tested acceptable materials. There
is an extensive treatment of program planning to meet the
needs of different types of groups.

_____ _U_SE_TE'5_C_°E’2N______
l' _l

COLLEGE DEPARTMENT, McGRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY, Inc.
330 West 42nd Street, New York 36, N.Y.

Please send me, on approval, a copy of the book(s) checked below. I agree to l
pay for the book(s) upon receipt of invoice or return the book(s) within 10 I
days.

I [I PLAY ACTIVITIES FOR CHILDREN (available in June, 1957)
l [I RECREATION LEADER’S HANDBOOK
I

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Zone... ..State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I

Title . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |

Affiliation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3257 I

    

McGraw-HiII BOOK COMPANY, INC.

330 West 42nd Street, New York 36, N.Y.

 

FEBRUARY 1957

 

     
   

So sensatronally better are
they on every count—design,
construction, quality,
durability and play-ability—
that Rawlings HERCULITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high
standard. They're in a class
by themselves—they're . . .

"lira Finest In the Field! "

o BASKETBALLS
o FOOTBALLS

o VOLLEY BALLS
o SOCCER BALLS

RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS C0. 0 St. Louis 0 Los Angeles 0 Dallas 0 Chicago

RECREATION DIRECTORS

MALE AND FEMALE
Needed by the

CITY OF LOS ANGELES

to organize and supervise activities at City
recreation centers.

$375 to $464 Month

Interesting, challenging work for college
graduates with maior in Physical Education
or Recreation.

SECURE CAREERS—ALL CIVIL SERVICE BENEFITS

Write Room 5, City Hall

Los Angeles I2 MI-521 I

1956
RECREATION and PARK YEARBOOK

A Nation-wide Inventory of the Public Recreation and
Park Services of Local, County, State and Federal
Agencies for the Year Ending December 31, I955.

$2.00

National Recreation Association
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N.Y.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 6].

Books & Pamphlets
Received

ALL ABOUT BICYCLES, Dorothy Healey.
Comet Press Books, 200 Varick

Street, New York 14. Unpaged. $2.00.
AMERICAN MOUNTAIN SONGS, compiled

     

by Ethel Park Richardson (edited'*

and arranged‘by Sigmund Spaeth).
Greenberg: Publisher, 201 East 57th
Street, New York 22. Pp. 120. $3.50.

ARCHERY, Howard -Wiseman and Fred
Brundle. Dover Publications, 920
Broadway, New York-10. Pp. 112.
$.65.

BABE RUTH LEAGUE RULES AND REGU-
LATIONS—1957. Babe Ruth League,
524% Hamilton Avenue, Trenton,
New Jersey. Pp. 28. Free.

CIIILD WHO IS MENTALLY RETARDED,
TIIE. Superintendent of Documents,
U. S. Government Printing Office,
Washington 25, D. C. Pp. 22. 3.10.

COMMUNICATION THROUGII REPORTS,
Paul Douglass. Prentice Hall, Eugle-
wood Cliffs, New Jersey. Pp. 410.
35.95.

COMPLEAT CRUISER, THE—The Art,
Practice and Enjoyment of Boating,
L. Francis Herresholl. Sheridan
House, 257 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10. Pp. 372. $5.00.

COMPLETE BOOK OF PET CARE, TIIE,
Howard J. Lewis. Random House,
457 Madison Avenue, New York 22.
Pp. 144. $2.95.

COMPLETE GUIDE TO BETTER BOWLING,
THE, Howard J. Lewis, Editor. lian-
dom House, 457 Madison Avenue,

New York 22. Pp. 144. $2.95.
DINGIIY SAILING FOR BOYS—OR GIRLS,

Geoilrey Nightingale. John (le Grail,
31 East 10th Street, New York 3.

Pp. 120. $2.50.
DYNAMICS OF AGING, TIIE, Ethel Sabin

Smith. W. W. Norton 8: Company,
55 Fifth Avenue, New York 3. Pp.

191. $3.50.
FOLK DANCE GUIDE (Seventh Annual

Edition 1957), Paul Schwartz, Edi-
tor. .P. O. Box 342, Cooper Station,

Wear Your Golden Age Club Pln Wlth
Prlde Wherever You May Ga

Designed by representatives

. Of over 100 Golden Age clubs
and used nationally.

* Gold colored metal with
evergreen tree in jewelers’
enamel. Symbolic of longlife,
strength and perseverance.

The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE

(greatest values of club membership) en-
ameled in black. The border is a laurel
wreath for honor. Safety catch.

Available Only to Authentic Clubs.
50: eoch, mlnlmum order 10 plus.

James Spencer 5| (0. 22 N. 6th Strut

Philadelphia 6, Pa.

62

 

New York 3. Pp. 26. Paper SLOO.

GOLFERS OWN BOOK, THE, Dave Stan-
ley and George AG. Ross, 1 EditOrs.
Lantern Press, 257 Fourth Avenue.
New York '10. Pp. 342. $4.95.

HoerO »BUILD MODEL RAILROADS AND
EQUIPMENT, Barton K. Davis. Crown
Publishers, 419 Fourth Avenue, New
York 16. Pp. 191. 33.95.

How TO TAKE .BETTER HOME MOVIES,
Peter 'Gowland. Fawcett Publica-

tions,“’Greenwich, Connecticut. Pp.
144. Paper $.75. (plus 8.10 for mail-
ing) . r

LOCAL PLANNING AND ZONING. Depart-
ment Of Commerce, 112 State Stréet,
Albany, New York. Pp. 89. Free.

MATHEMATICS MA'GIC AND MYSTERY.
Martin Gardner.
tions, 920 Broadway. New York 10.
Pp. 176. Paper 31.00.

PEOPLE TAKE THE LEAD, THE. (A rec-
Ord of progress in civil rights, 1948
to 1957.) American Jewish Commit-
tee, 386 Fourth Avenue, New York
16. Pp. 38. 3.15.

PIIYSICAL EDUCATION: STUDENT AND
BEGINNING TEACIIING, Clyde KnaDD
and Ann E. Jewett. MeGraw-Hill
Book Company, 330 ‘Vest 42nd
Street. New York 36. Pp. 303. $4.75.

PLANNING FACILITIES FOR HEALTII,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREA-
TION (Revised Edition). The Ath-
letie lnstitute. 209 South State Street.
Chicago 4. Pp. 154. Paper $52.50.

PLAYBOOK FOR SMALL FRY. Marion
JOllison. Hart Publishing Company.
74 Fifth Avenue. New York 11. Pp.
127. Paper $1.00.

PLAYMAKING WITII CIIILDREN (Second
Edition), Winifred Ward. Appleton-
Centurv-Crofts. 35 West 32nd Street.
New York 1, New York. Pp. 341.
$3.50.

PLAYS FOR CHILDREN. Childrcu’s Thea-
trc Press, Anchorage, Kentucky. Pp.
83. $.10.

RECREATION AND TIIE LOCAL CIIURCII.
Frances Clemens, Robert Tully. Ed-
ward Crill, Editors. Brethren P111)-
lishing House, Elgin. Illinois. Pp.
191. $2.75.

RIDDLES OF MANY LANDS, Carl Withers
and Sula Benet. Abelard-Schuman.
lne., 404 Fourth Avenue, New York
16. Pp. 160. $2.75.

SKIING ILLUSTRATED—A Guide for the
Young Skier, John and Frankie

O’Rear. A. S. Barnes and Company.
232 Madison Avenue, New York 16.

Pp. 96. $3.00.

SOCIAL WELFARE FORUM, TIIE, 1956.
Columbia University Press, 2960
Broadway, New York 27. Pp. 273.
$5.00.

SPORTS ATLAS OF AMERICA.  L. Jor-
dan. C. S. Hammond & Company.

Maplewood, New Jersey. Pp. 63.
$2.95.

Dover Publiea- .

STUDY OF ADOLESCENT BOYS, A. Na
tional Council, Boy Scouts of Amer
iea,"New Brunswick, New Jersey. Pp
183. Paper $2.00. ' -

TEEN-AGERS AND ALCOHOL—~—-A Hand
bOOk for the Educator, Raymond G
McCarthy. Yale Center of Aleoho

“Studies, 52 Hillhouse Avenue, Net
Haven, Connecticut. Pp. 188. $4.00

THEATRE, SCENECRAFT, Vern Adix
Children’s Theatre Press, Anchorage
Kentucky. Pp. 309. $6.50.

THIS IS THE WAY WE WRAP OUR GIFTS
Dennison Manufacturing Company
Framingham, Massachusetts. Pp. 23
3.25.

WHAT MAKES A GOOD HOME, Anna W
M. Wolf and Margaret C. Dawso

' Child Study Association of America
132 East 74th Street, New York 21
Pp. 35. 3.40.

WIN AT CIIE‘CKERS, Millard Hoppe
Dover Publications, 920 Broadwa,
New York 10. Pp. 109. $1.00.

Magazine Articles

CAMPING MAGAZINE, December 1956
Better Camping Through Better Ad
ministration, Fred V. Rogers.
Your Responsibilities in Trainin

Camp Leaders, M arvfn. Rife.
CIIILD STUDY, Winter 19.5657
Books of the Year for Children.
JOURNAL OF HEALTII, PHYSICAL EDUCA
TION, RECREATION, Dccembcr 1956
Organizing Our Campus Becreatior
Program, DorI's A. Meelr.
Prepare for Retirement, Ralph M
Crawunder.
Take Care of Your Athletic Equip
Inent, Kenneth 0. Baldwin.
N EA JOURNAL, December 1956
A Child in Today’s \Vorld. Doroth
W. Barueh.
, January 1957
Books that Enchant, Frances Clarlr
Sayers.
The Child’s the Thing, Emily llfll.
PARKS St RECREATION, November 195
City-School Cooperation Pays OH
Walter ]. Barrows.
Day Camping—Door to the Ont-ol-
Doors, Bonita L. Voss.
Put Your \Vinter Problems On lee
I oh :1 A . llet'nzelman.
SCIIOOI. ACTIVITIES, October 1956
Tape Recorded Plays, Margaret K.
Hartwell.
SKATING NEWS, November 1956,
December 1956 i
I Cover the Boot-Cover Story (Par
I and Part ll). Margaret 1. Saudi

ers.
TODAY’S l-lEALTII, January 1957 l
‘V hen You Retire—Look Before Youl
Migrate. Senator Thomas C. Des-
moml. I

 

RECREATIOD1

 

The New Psychology
for Leadership

Donald A. and Eleanor C. laird.

McGraw-Hill Book Company, 330
West 42nd Street, New York 36. Pp.
226. $4.00.

In “Research in Today’s Leader-
ship,” in the December issue of REC-
RATION (his Congress talk) Dr. Paul
Douglass refers to a previous book by
the Lairds, The Technique of Handling
People, and quotes them several times.
Now they have come forth with another
publication “based on researches in
group dynamics and human relations.”
This must be their seventh or eighth
book on leadership psychology.

It presents techniques to improve
personal leadership, and covers prac-
tical aspects of management relations.
Visual aid ,“chartoons” and numerous
case histories add interest and clarity
to descriptions of the above subjects—
and are amusing as well. This is an ex-
cellent, down-to-earth book of guidance
not to be overlooked by supervisors who
need to increase the elliciency of their
methods!

Essentials of

Social Group Work Skill

Helen U. Phillips. Association Press,
291 Broadway, New York 7.

This doctoral dissertation, which will
be published early in May, gives evi-
dence of a very wide coverage of ma-
terial dealing with social group work
skill. As might be suspected, the lan-
guage is technical; however, the use of
case studies enables those not saturated
with the jargon of the social grOUp
work profession to grasp the basic
points.

The thesis is “that between social
group work purpose and skill is a recip-
rocal relation; defined purpose gives di-
rection to the skill of the worker who
is to approach the aims of group work;
and skill, so directed, contributes to the
fullillment of the purpose.”

Careful attention is given to specific
areas of social group work skill; name-
ly, “the use of agency function, com-
munication, the present moment of time
and groUp relations.” Also well cov-
ered are methods by which the trained

FEBRUARY 1957

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

worker uses these selected areas of the
skill to accomplish the basic aims of
group work: “individual growth of
group members and development of the
group as a whole for social usefulness.”

Dr. Phillips succeeds in establishing
her point of view, and, although it is
not contended that this is the only ef-
fective way, the reader is deeply im-
pressed with the functional way of
working with groups toward social
goals as described in this book. It be-
longs in the personal library of all
group workers and recreation leaders

on the activity level.—fames A. Madi-
son, NRA Field Staff.

A Pilot Study 011 Swimming for
the Severely Mentally Retarded

Ontario Recreation Association, 100
Gibbs Street, Oshawa, Ontario, Can-
ada. Pp. 72. Paper $1.00.

This project was part of a research
program on recreation for the severely
mentally handicapped initiated by an
Ontario Recreation Association com-
mittee on recreation for the retarded.
It was the first pilot study, with three
major objectives:

0 To discover whether swimming
would be an enjoyable recreation activ-
ity for severely mentally handicapped.
0 To find out how well these children
might progress in swimming skills.

0 To see what success, in planning and
administering such a project, could he
achieved by a grOUp of citizens with
some experience in swimming but with-
out previous contact with retarded chil-
dren, assuming that they had advice
from those working directly with such
children.

Swimming was chosen as the first
project because of the committee chair-
man’s special interest in this area and
because the physical benefits, such as
relaxation and muscular development,
seemed to be particularly desirable for
the mentally handicapped.

This study is worth careful reading
because it contains findings that can
be put into immediate use in any swim-
ming program during the coming
months. It is also valuable because it
adds considerably to the slowly increas-
ing information now available on recre-

tion for the retarded. We look forward
to other studies by this committee.

The Candle Book

Carli laklan. M. Barrows and Com-
pany, 425 Fourth Avenue, New York
16. Pp. 190. $3.50.

This book has personality! It is
lively and entertaining, and you can
tell that the author had fun writing it.
You will enjoy the anecdotes, poems,
and historical facts about candles as
much as you enjoy working with the
easy-to-follow instructions on candle
making and decorating:

Neither do men light a candle, and
put it under a bushel, but on a candle-
stick; and it giveth light unto all that
are in the house—Matthew 5:15.

Every step of the making, from start
to finish, is described in detail. Infor-
mation includes the kinds of wax avail-
able, sizes of wicks to use, how to color,
how to make molds, how to decorate

'candles, how to use them as decoration,

and where to buy equipment. Every
page is full of ideas. The author’s sug-
gestions will serve as a springboard for
your own imagination.

Did you know, for "instance, that
candles will burn with colored flames if
wicks are treated with salts of copper,
barium, strontium, or some such?

There are added features such as
fresh and original designs for Christ-
mas, birthdays, holidays and parties,
how to use candles with flowers, and
how to commercialize this craft. The
illustrations are interesting and useful.

Whether you are interested in a sat-
isfying hobby or an exciting money-
making venture, you can be sure this
book will provide plenty to work with.
—Shirley Silbert, instructor at New
York University and the Y.W.C.A. Craft
Students League, author of Craft Work

Kit. it“

__

FOLDING
BANQUET

      
   
     

If you are on the
Board of your
Church. Lodge.
Club, School,_ etc"
you will be inter-
ested in this mod-
ern Folding Ban-
quet Table.

 
   
 
      
      
  

 
   

Completely tin-
ished tops, re-
sistant to most
aerving hazards.
Used with or with-
out table cloths.

 
  
    
     

“wuss” -
Write for Table and I; “'- '-
Truck Qatalog and special
pnce discounts to institutiona
and organizations.

Monroe (20., 18] Church St" Colfax, la.

        

ammo-f

    
   
   
 

63

The New Complete Hoyle

Albert H. Morehead, Richard l. Frey
and Geoffrey Mott-Smith. Garden City
Books, Garden City, New York. Pp.
740. $3.95.

This is the second, revised edition of
this book, originally published in 1947.
It is, of course, a standard book that
should be available in any recreation
library. In it are rules for over five
hundred games of skill and chance——
including canasta, samba, Bolivia,
Scrabble, calypso, bridge, and other
games played with cards, dice boards,
counters, numbers and words. Chap-
ters on juvenile card games, domino
games, checkers, chess and their varia-
tions are all useful, not only in teaching
games but in settling diSputes and set-

ting up official rules for tournaments or
contests.

You’ll recognize the authors. Mr.
Morehead is editor of games for the
New York Times and the Encyclopaedia
Britannica. Mr. Mott-Smith is an ex-
pert on mathematical games, a bridge
champion, and an official of the U. S.
Chess Association. Mr. Frey is one
of the world’s best bridge players.—
Virginia Mttsselman, NRA Program

Service.

Rules of Games
According To Hoyle

Richard l. Frey. Fawcett Publica-

tions, Fawcett Place, Greenwich, Con-
necticut. Pp. 256. $.35.

This is a soft-cover, pocket-size
book, with the official rules for more
than two hundred p0pular games of
skill and chance—canasta, chess, Mich-
igan, cribbage, pinochle, rummy and
many other card, dice, board, parlor
and word games. It is not as inclusive
as the New Complete Hoyle, but will be
valuable for personal ownership and
use.

How to Plan and Conduct
Workshops and Conferences *

Richard Beckhard. Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7.
Pp. 64. $1.00.

Anyone who has ever helped run a
conference, or who expects to, will ap-
proach this little manual with special
interest—and find real stimulation and
help. It presents clearly, concisely, and
in logical order, the steps to be taken

1"Available through the NRA Recreation
Book Center, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11.

Use  Classified Advertising

If you want to publicize information about

Help Wanted . . . Positions Wanted . . . Services Available
Workshops and Conferences . . . Educational Opportunities . . . Items for Exchange

HERE’S HOW:

I. Type—or clcarly print—your message and the address to which you wish rcph'cs

SCI".

2. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

3. Count the number of words in the message and the address: Count each group
of numbers as one word (e.g., “856 East Fifth Street” or “Salary $5,000 per year"

would each count as four words).
Count boldface words separately.

4. Figure the cost of your ad: Words in regular typc. . . .SJS each
Words in boldface type. . . .25 each
Minimum ad acceptcd $3.00

5. Mail your cOpy with your remittance to Recreation Classified Ads. 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New York. Copy must be received by the fifth of the month
preceding the month of the issue in which ad is desired (e.g., April 5 to appear in the

May issue).

HELP WANTED

Playground Director, man or woman. for
town of 6.000. Saiary $380 to $450 per
month based on experience. Send com-
piete resume of education and experience.

James Smith. City Courthouse. Funviiie.
Maine.

Cost: Boldface—2 words at 5.25 . . . . ..3 .50
Regular—29 words I] 5.15  4.35
Total cost of above ad would be 54.85

WORKSHOPS & CONFERENCES

Square Dance Workshops. Weekiy sum-
mer workshops for recreation ieaders.
Qualified instructors. sessions for begin-
ners to advanced ieaders. Write Director.
Square Dance Camp. Riverview. Montana.

Cost: Boldface—3 words at 3.25 . . . . ..5 .75
Regular—~21 words at 3.15 . . . . . .. 3.15
Total cost of above ad would be 53.90

SAMPLE ADS

POSITIONS WANTED

Crafts Instructor desires position with
public recreation program in Midwest.
Ten years experience in all phases of
crafts. Specializing in ceramics and weav-
ing. Minimum saiary $4.500 per year. Jane
Jones. 512 Orchard Street, Wide Fails.
Michigan.

Cost: Boldface—2 word: at 8.25  .50
Regular—34 words at 8.15 . . . . . .. 5.10
Total cost of above ad would be 85.60

ITEMS FOR EXCHANGE

Have Twelve Tennis Nets. good condition.
to swap for softball bases or backstop.
Fccgeation Department. Miil City. Mary-
an .

Cost: Boldface—3 words at 8.25 . . . . ..8 .75
Regular—15 word! at 8.15 . . . . . .. 2.25
Total cost of above ad would be 33.00

"should have particular interest for the

in operating such a meeting, and

recreation field, where these get-to- 1
gethers are many. .
Contents include initial planning, 
fact finding and evaluation, program
development, conference preparation,
planning conference Operations, and re-
porting and follow-up action. EachI
contains detailed suggestions and I
checklists. Under “Planning the Con-II
ference Operations,” for instance, come '.
steering committee operation, organiza-‘I
tion and management, registration pro-I
cedure, and conference communications
planning. ll
The author is executive director ofl
Conference Counselors, Incorporated.I
He writes authoritatively and effec-
tively. As a bonus, this Leadership
Library book is sized to fit in pocket or
purse, so it can be read on the way.
Companion to this, for conference-
goers, is the 1954 book of this same
leadership series, How to Attend a Con-1
ference, by Dorothea F. Sullivan. Hap-
pier conferees, more productive con-
ferences and workshops, could almost
be guaranteed if all would apply these
two authors9 suggestions—Alfred B.
Jensen, special assistant to the execu-

tive director, N RA.

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

PACE

 

American Playground Device Company__.__ 37
The J. E. Burke Company ___.___,.._.___ 33
California State Personnel Board, _. 5

Castello Fencing Equipment .._._.._ _ 37
Chicago Roller Skate Company. __ 33
Citadel Press --_,-_._.. __ 37
The Copper Shop H. 39

Dimco-Gray Company- a _.lnside Front Cove

 

 

H. & R. Manufacturing Company m... 33
A. C. Hamilton ___.__._._____. .___ - 59
Jamison Manufacturing Company. __ 39
Jayiro Athletic Supply Company .a _..__. 39

los Angeles City Civil Service Commission _ 61
The MacGregor Company .______.____.___ 39 .

McGraw-Hill Book Company. lnc. ._ 6|
The Monroe Company.____-.__-,._ _. 63 '
National Sports Company t. 39"
Pack-O-Fun ..___.__. 36

 

Park Maintenance“ Inside Front‘Cover'i

Rawlings Sporting Goods Company  .c-.. 61 i
The Ronald Press-,m..__r___-. lnside Front Cover
School Activities Publishing Company J
Outside Back Cover
James Spencer a Company,. .__._s-_--,----_.- _ 62‘-j
Square Your Sets Enterprises 37
Superior lndustrles Corp. H. . 33-
Tricolator Manutacturlng Company. 33
Volt Rubber Corporation, a ,lnside Front Cover
R. T. Waters Amman- a. Hm“- 33-39

X-acto. Inc. ..

.. ___39l
m:

 

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and

Local Recreation Agencies

February, March and April, 1957

HELEN M_ DAUNCEY Fayetteville, Arkansas Troy Hendricks, Head, Department of Health, Physical Education
social Recreation March 11-14 and Recreation, University of Arkansas
Sherman, Texas Mrs. Ralph Day, Assistant Professor of Physical Education, Austin
April 8-11 College
RUTH G, EHLERS l"Morganton, North Carolina Jack Biggerstaff, Director of Recreation, State Hospital
Social Recreation J anual'Y 2331
Greensboro, North Carolina Miss Mabel Smith, Parks and Recreation Department
February 4-7
New York City Miss Maxine Keith, Executive Director, Girls Clubs of America, lnc.,
April 1 130 Maple Street, Springfield, Massachusetts
ANNE LIVINGSTON *Cencord, North Carolina Jesse Taylor, Director of Recreation
Social Recreation FBeral'Y 4'7
*Roanoke Rapids, George Hudgins, Director of Recreation

North Carolina
February 11-14

Aiken. South Carolina Darrell Robinson, Jr., Superintendent, Aiken County Recreation
March 25-28 Commission, Box 2085

GRACE WALKER Pocatello, Idaho John L. Brenna, Recreation Director, Box 1489

Creative Recreation February 4’7

* In cooperation with the North Carolina Recreation Commission, Raleigh

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate Wlth the sponsor

of the course as listed above.

Miss Dauncey will attend the Pacific Southwest District Recreation Conference in Sacramento, California, Fehruary 2427.

Miss Walker will attend the Northland Recreation Leaders Laboratory in Minnesota April 24 through the end of the month.

Miss Dauncey will also be in the Pacific Southwest and Pacific Northwest Areas during February and through March 7 at the
following air bases: Castle Air Force Base, Travis Air Force Base, Hamilton Air Force Base, Falrchlld Air Force Base. For further
information communicate with Linus L. Burk, Air Force Regional Representative, 1345 Lincoln Avenue, San Rafael, California.
Beginning the week of March 18 through April 4 she will be in the Southwest Area conducting courses at an hases in that general
area. For further information communicate with R. C. Morrison, Air Force Regional Representative, 248 Casa Blanca, Fort Worth,

Texas.

Miss Dauncey will conduct recreation leadership training courses for the United States Air Force in Europe beginning April 22
through May 31.

Frank A. Staples will be conducting two week Arts and Crafts training workshops beginning February 4 through the end of the month
in the Southern Area at the following air bases: Palm Beach Air Force Base, Orlando.A1r Force Base. For furtherunformatlon
communicate with Fred E. Lengfeld, Recreation Consultant, Military Air Transport Service, Washington, DC. Beginning March 4
through April 11 he will be conducting training courses in the Southwest Area.. Contact R. C. Morrison, 248 Casa Blanca, Fort
Worth, Texas, for further information. A two week period beginning April 15 Will bring Mr. Staples 1nto the Pacific Northwest
Area. For further information communicate with Howard Beresford, 3055 Bellaire, Denver 7, Colorado.

 

"iEvery Issue is Full of Bond Ideas”

—GERALD M. VAN Poor.
Director of Student Activities

Na tional Education Association

Gerald M. Van Pool, a leading figure on the
national education scene, urges state Student
Council secretaries to subscribe to SCHOOL
ACTIVITIES Magazine because “every issue

is full of good ideas to help us improve student
councils.”

 

Every student leader and faculty sponsor of an activity in your school will appreci-
ate the down-to-earth ideas and suggestions in SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Niagazine. In
your school library, it will help you month after month in planning successful programs

for assemblies, plays, clubs, athletics, debate, music, student publications, and student

government.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES is the only national magazine in the extracurricular field.
Readers look to it for expert leadership and rer on it to help them solve their problems

in any student activity program.

SUBSCRIBE NOW!

One Year, $4.00

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING Co. Two Years, 7.00

1041 NEW HAMPSHIRE

LAWRENCE, KANSAS 0

Just clip and mail

C

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

Please enter my subscription to SCHOOL ACTIVITIES for I
| the order form to:
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

years.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES
PUBLISHING COMPANY

N ame

Add
T688 1041 New Hampshire

City—_____.__State Lawrence, Kansas

 

