{+531.1.0.5:wag::urm‘uuqqggl u; :3 ‘.:.'.-
. ._ he, ,.
. .

 

GET READY

for Plan your program events now. Write
for reproduction proofs of these
 E line drawings for your posters,

    

folders, displays, announcements.

N    Also available—red, White 311d blue 132:7.1:L::.".:::':“;::‘.
\

display strips (4%" x 17") featuring

U cle S l d' th (1 f
R  R  O N reldreatidllil 3?; amhgunderdlllraOEde:r from :
 PUBLIC INFORMATION 8: EDUCATION

National Recreation Association
8 West 8 Street, New York 11, N. Y.

“.- 1h...-

Juul {Narme Recreation Month

It's your 'IlllltI—llukl “I. II"! II it'

 

JUN! - National Recreation Month

It's your leisure—Inks III. In”! at It!

   

HERE IT COMES—
for 7958

 

The PLAYGROUND SUMMER NOTEBOOK

What’s more important to the playground
program than

GETTING-TO- KNOW

The Youngsters o The Parents 0 The Play Areas 0 Games and Sports
Music and Dancing 0 Arts and Crafts 0 Family Nights 0 Special Groups
Nature - Storytelling and Drama 0 The Community

@Qile

Available May l—Price: $2.50: $2.00 for NRA members— at NRA.
8 West Eighth Street. New York ll. Order EARLY— a copy for each Play-
ground and Leader. Last year's edition was sold out by June l5.

ECREATION THAT PRODUCES !
I EALLY HANDSOME RESULTS! '

 

A BEAUTIFUL. COMPLETE
LINE OF PLASTIC COATED
LACE AND CORD. IN ROLLS.
HANKS AND PACKAGES

REXLACE AND
REXCORD KITS

Hanks packed in individual
cartons. Instruction sheets for
various proiects. low cost.

See your iobber for these fast-selling
profitable products.

PRIL 1958

 

 

Making craft ’
products from I
Plastic Lacing

IT'S TODAY'S MOST
FASCINATING HOBBY

   Non-stretch. tlame-proot.

Reversible vinyl. Waterproot. Will not crack or peel.
3/32nd width. Comes in IOO yard spools.

PYRO CORD. A round pyro cord. Popular width.
20 bright colors.

PYRO TONES. A tlat striped lace. One width. Six

ditterent color combinations.

PYRO PEARL. An oval lace. One width. Has gleam-

ing pearl—like tinish. Comes in six colors.

All quality products. Fade proof. Waterproof.

IF YOU WISH, WRITE TO US FOR THE NAME
OF YOUR NEAREST SUPPLIER

PYROTEX

COMPANY. INC.

LEOMINSTER. MASS.

 

97

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

HONOR ROLL OF SPONSORSJ':

The National Recreation Association is proud to publish the names of present
sponsors who have served the field through the Association for ten years or
more. Those listed below constitute an honor roll. They have made a notable,

contribution to the development of recreation in America.

We take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation.

SPONSORS WHO HAVE SERVED FOR TWENTY OR MORE YEARS

F. GREGG BEMIS
Boston, Massachusetts

MRS. PAUL L. BORDEN
Goldsboro, North Carolina

WARD M. CANADAY
Toledo, Ohio

C. SEWALL CLARK
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

MRS. G. H. A. CLOWES
Woods Hole, Massachusetts

MRS. F. F. COUCH
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania

F. TRUBEE DAYISON
Locust Valley, New York

*Deceased

MRS. WILLIAM G. DWIGHT *
H olyoke, Massachusetts

BLAIR J. FISHRURN
Roanoke, Virginia

EDGAR FRIEDLANDER
Cincinnati, Ohio

ROBERT GARRETT
Baltimore, Maryland

MAX GUGGENHEIMER
Lynch burg, Virginia

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER
F itchburg, Massachusetts

MRS. WALTER C. J ANNEY *
Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania

DR. TULLY C. KNOLES
Stockton, California

MRS. H. DUTTON NOBLE
Auburn, New York

MRS. BRAGE W. PADDOCK
Pittsfield, Massachusetts

MRS. BERT PRINTz
Youngstown, Ohio

WILLIAM H. PUTNAM *
Hartford, Connecticut

REV. CHARLES A. Ross
Elizabeth, New Jersey

MRS. ALGER SHELDEN
Detroit, Michigan

SPONSORS WHO HAVE SERVED TEN YEARS OR MORE

MRS. COPLEY AMORY, J R., Cambridge, Mass.
DR. ROY H. BARIREAU, Battle Creek, Mich.
HON. WILLARD M. BENTON, Kansas City, Kan.
MRS. FRANCES W. BIRD, W ianno, Mass.

HON. JAMES M. CORCORAN, Evanston, Ill.
MRS. J. GERRY DOBBINS, Litchfield, Conn.
GAYLORD DONNELLEY, Chicago, Ill.

RICHARD FARNSWORTH, Houston, Tex.

L. HARRIS FRENCH, Waterbury, Conn.

C. R. FRYE, Shreveport, La.

MRS. JOSEPH E. FRIEND, New Orleans, La.
MRS. CLARENCE J. GAMBLE, Milton, Mass.
COLIN GARDNER, III, Middletown, Ohio
MRS. JOHN GREW, Dover, Mass.

WILLIAM L. HINDS, Syracuse, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM C. HUNTOON, JR., Providence, R. l.
MRS. SIEGEL JUDD, Grand Rapids, Mich.
THOMAS V. KENNEY, Troy, N. Y.

ARTHUR W. KING, Duluth, Minn.

MRS. LEDLIE I. LAUGHLIN, Princeton, N. J.
ROBERT H. LOOMIS, Newton, Mass.

MRS. JOHN R. MCLANE, Manchester, N. H.
JOHNSON D. MCMAIION, Rome, N. Y.

MRS. NOEL MILLER, Racine, W’is.
WELLES V. MOOT, BuEalo, N. Y.

MRS. JULIAN PEASE, New Britain, Conn.

MRS. SAMUEL F. PRYOR, JR., Greenwich, Conn.
MRS. RICHARD E. RIEGEL, Wilmington, Del.
CARL T. SCHUNEMAN, St. Paul, Minn.
RAYMOND D. SHEPARD, Montclair, N. J.
ARTHUR B. SHEPLEY, J R., St. Louis, Mo.

ERED B. SHOAF, Fort Wayne, Ind.

MRS. ALBERT SPALDING, Great Barrington, Mass.
ARTHUR STANGEL, Manitowoc, Wis.

HARRY C. STINE, Kenosha, Wis.
H. J. STOCKSICK, Pasadena, Calif.

FRED R. STOFFT, Tucson, Ariz.

MRS. WALTER A. STRONG, Winnetka, lll.
MRS. HERBERT J. STURSRERG, Norwalk, Conn.
GEORGE C. THOMPSON, Grand Rapids, Mich.

EVANS WARD, Port Chester, N. Y.
MRS. FREDERIc WINTHROP, Hamilton, Mass.

 

 

 

BEN F. TUCKER ""
Long Beach, California
{3
r “:3 {I
If s P i.
i
I
RECREATI

 

  
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
    
  
 
    
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  

.1 ' RIL 1958

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PREND'EIicAs'r
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Business Manager, RALPH  Mourns

" ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

.l' '1'“

0L. LI. Price 50 Cents- ‘ i" No.‘4

. «J ' ‘l'A‘LQ .

the Cover

oppets on the Playground. Program leaders,
lease note: if you look carefully enough you no
oubt will find some original activity ideas here!
over picture courtesy of Standard Romper Com-
any, makers of Health-Tex.

ext Month

May is Senior Citizens Month, and RECREATION
'll carry several articles about services for this
e group. Outstanding among them will be the
ory of what labor unions are doing to help re-
'red employees enrich their leisure time. One sec-
on of the issue will he devoted to information
out the construction of swimming pools. In ad-

ition, watch for the story about a successful ball
rogram for male adults.

* hoto Credits

_ Page 102, (upper left) Swiss National Travel Of-
ce, New 'York City, (lower right) 1950 Grailex
hoto Contest; 106, Papalia, East Orange, N. 3.;
07 (upper right) Bill Harris, St. Louis, Mo.; 111,
entral Studih’s, Atlantic' City, N. 1.; 116, Art Per-
et; 11?, Dennison Manufacturing Company, Fram-
ngham, Mass.; 118-119 (and 107 second from bot-
om), Fichera Studios, Montehello, Calif.; 126, St.
etersburg Times, Fla.; 128, Hamilton Spectator,
ntario; 130, New York City Board of Education.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street. New York 11, New York. is on
aleoin public libraries and is indexed in the Redert'
Quads. Suhscnptions 34.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign SuhSCtlrtlon rate 84.50. lie-entered as second-clans
matter Apri 25, l950, at the Post Othce in New York.
New X'orlt under AC! of March 3. 1879. A

for ending at special rate of postage provided in
Set-tron 1103.1“: of October 3, 1917. authorized May
1, 1924. Microulms of current issue available Uns-

versity Microfilrns, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space RepresentativerzMark Minahan. 185 North Wa-
bash Avenue. Chic 1. Illinois; Seymour A. Rob-
hins s: Associates. 10 West 55th Street, New York 19,
New York: Thompson and Clark, 681 Market Street,

San Francisco 5, and 6000 Sunset Boulevard, Holly-
wood 28, California.

, Copyright. 1958. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A.
-1-

' Trade mark registered in U. S. Patenr 053cc.

|
l
o

 

ran. 1958

 

 

CQHTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Theodore Roosevelt and the Children (Editorial)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . .Francis W. H. Adams 100

Imagination Visits the Playground—1958 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106

A Playground Meets a Challenge . . . . . . . . Robert E. Kresge 109

Dangerous Rocket Experiments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110

Recreation Enters the SpaceEAge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111

Humaneness for the Elderly . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
ADMINISTRATION

Research Reviews and Abstracts. . . . . . . .George D. Butler 108

Cleveland’s New Recreation Centers . . . . . . .Cloire Newman 112

A Special Questions Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115

Playshore—-A Nautical- Play Area . . . . . . . . . ..Cene Rotsch 118

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

Los Angeles Pilot Study of Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129

Youth Interest Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
PROGRAM
Talk About Kazoos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nellie J. Sullivan 116
Easter Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
Playground Program Aids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
Volunteers—A Playground Necessity. . . . .May Day Walden. 123
New Ideas for Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bob Loefelbein 124
Trench Fireplaces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Natalie Olmsted 125
The Indians Are Day Camping . . . . . . . .Mary E. L. Sawyer 126
Traveling Playlots . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Florence Meiler 128
REGULAR FEATURES
ThinngouShouldKnow . . . . . . . ...................101

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134

Advertisers Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135

ClassifiedAds . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .............'..... 135

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136
BooksandPamphlets Received  140
Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
Hospital Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Beatrice H. Hill 142
NewPublications . . . . . . ...........................143
Recreation Leadership Training Courses. . . . .Inside Back Cover

99

100

(headed Kama/t m at ear/m -

l Francis W. H. Adams

OMETIMES the clearest light on the present is shed by a thought from the past.
This truth was never more apparent than it is this month. We are celebrating
1 the birthday of the National Recreation Association (founded April 12, 1906) and
" have just passed the halfway mark in the celebration of the centennial year of Theodore
Roosevelt, first honorary president of the Association.

It is, in addition, a happy coincidence that this April issue of RECREATION is de-
voted to playgrounds. Roosevelt’s concern for children was at the heart of his interest
in the whole recreation movement.

!

 

“It is an excellent thing to have rapid transit but it is a good deal more important,
if you look at matters with a proper perspective, to have ample playgrounds.” This is
TR writing to Jacob Riis in 1894. Thirteen years later, in a message to Cuno H. Rudolph
of the Washington Playground Association, Roosevelt declared:

“. . . since play is a fundamental need, playgrounds should be provided for every
child as much as schools. This means that they must be distributed over the cities
in such a way as to be within walking distance of every boy and girl. . . .” I

Straightforward and vigorous as always, Roosevelt focused attention on the facts
of the situation: playgrounds supply something vital to children. Therefore, children
should have them—and enough of them. An outdated problem? A very pressing prob-
lem.

This issue of RECREATION Magazine records the current state of the nation’s play-
grounds. They have not kept pace with our increasing child p0pulation.

Too often the playgrounds we do offer (swings and slides set on blackt0p) are just -
the kinds of places that children (who love to climb trees, dig, sit on cool grass, and
play tag in and out of bushes) find downright unattractive. At the same time, the Presi-
dent’s Citizens Advisory Committee on the Fitness of American Youth reminds us that
our young pe0ple need more, not less, active out-of-door play.

Where are they to get it?

The playgrounds of tomorrow must be built first in the hearts and consciences of
the grownups of today. We have been startled recently by an apparent lag in the questing
American spirit, the inquiring Americanomind. Yet surely we all know that intellectual
and scientific advances are not the merely result of schooling or big budgets. They are
first and foremost the result of a habit of thought, a positive delight in experimentation
and knowledge seeking.

This pleasure in questioning, this satisfaction in trying it for yourself, this joy in
the thing for its own sake, has been the mainspring of our progress. It is also the
essence of recreation. Many children in our mechanized society find this joy for the
first time in the physical challenge, the imagination-stretching of an inviting playground

. with a wise leader. . |

Recreation has always been one of mankind’s necessities. In addition, today, as
never before, recreation has a positive contribution to make to our nation’s physical I
fitness, mental alertness, and spii’itual well-being—our very survival. '

The contribution begins in our parks and playgrounds. It continues as long as
life lasts. - -

To sum it up in TR’s words:

“The point lies in develOping a man who can do something with his strength; -
who not only has the skill to turn his muscles to advantage, but the heart and head to

direct that skill and to direct it well and fearlessly.” *

MR. ADAMS, chairman of the NRA board, former police commissioner of N a
York City, now a member of City Board of Education, is chairman. of the N a
York City Theodore Roosevelt Centennnal Commission.

RECREATI a

} OPERATING BUDGETS SHOW AN IN-
CREASE during the last six years, accord-
ing to the annual report of the National

Recreation Association Field Service
Department. The majority were ex-
' tended from ten to twenty-five per cent.
l Bond issues were passed in ninety-four
I communities in twenty states and tax
. levies in twenty communities in nine
: states.

 

) A SPLIT DOWN THE CENTER of the Ad-
irondack Forest Preserve is threatened
by the Northway route as now pro-
posed. This four-lane, divided highway
will damage the State Forest Preserve,
according to the Adirondack Mountain
Club, which is fighting this issue and
recommending an alternate valley route
between Glens Falls and Plattsburg.
Action is required. If you wish to help,
send for the club’s brochure from the
executive secretary at Gabriels, New
York. You can obtain up to ten copies
free.

) PAN AMERICAN DAY falls on April 14,
and should be an occasion of renewing
our knowledge of Pan-American coun-
tries, and our friendships with Pan-
American people.

) EXTREMELY POPULAR IN CANADA is a
publication, Planning 0 Recreation
Buiiding,* particularly with recreation
commissions. It is published by the
Canadian Welfare Council, and if you’d
like to see it, write soon, as only a few
copies are left.

COMMUNITY CLOWN CLUBS, did you

now August is “National Clown
onth”?

THE FIRST GEORGIA RECREATION
OMMISSION has just been created by

senate bill. It was unanimously ap-
roved at the Governor’s Conference
)rior to introducing the bill. The Na-
ilonal Recreation Association was rep-
esented, in supporting this bill, by its
.Xecutive director, Joseph Prendergast,
a strict representative Ralph Van Fleet,
nd Bill Hay, former NRA state man in
he South, now taking the place of
' rion Preece as Association repre-
; tative in the Southern District.

ASTROSCIENCE——what does it mean?
'I-_ ht high schools in Indianapolis are
ering freshman students a new
urse on this subject—the study of
* ce, covering rockets, missiles, as-
. nomy, and meteorology.

I NNOUNCING ORGANIZATION of the

‘ rk, Recreation and Open Space Pro-
t of the New Jersey, New York, Con-
ticut MetrOpolitan Region. This has

Available irom Canadian Welfare Conn-
55 Parkdale Avenue, Ottawa, Ontario.

RIL 1958

 

 

been accomplished through the efforts
of sponsors: Metropolitan Regional
Council and Regional Plan Association,
with the c00peration of the governors
of New Jersey, New York, and Connect-
icut, the Metropolitan Council of Plan-
ning Agencies, park and recreation of-
ficials of the region, and the National
Recreation Association.

The NRA is represented by board
members H. P. Davison, president of J.
P. Morgan 81 Company, and Joseph
Prendergast, NRA executive director.

A $60,000 grant has been received
by the Regional Plan Association from
the Old Dominion Foundation for staff
work by RPA. The contribution of the
Metropolitan Regional Council will be
active participation in the project by
staff members of the member counties
and municipalities of the MRC.

) NEW YORK IN THE SPRING is a gay
information pamphlet, free to tourists
upon request, listing hundreds of activi-
ties scheduled in the city. Planning to
visit us? If so, write for it. Address
New York Convention Bureau, 90 East
42nd Street, New York 17. A separate
pamphlet, Bronx Zoo, gives all neces-
sary information for-an enjoyable visit
and can be obtained from the New York
Zoological Society, 185th Street and
Southern Boulevard, Bronx 60.

) A N O T n E R HELPFUL PAMPHLET,
Swimming for the Cerebrai Palsied, can
be useful to leaders this summer. Free
from United Cerebral Palsy Associa-
tion, 369 Lexington Avenue, New York
17.

) FORTY-NINE SCHOLARSIIIPS totaling
$75,000 will be awarded to the winners
of the second annual National Youth
Scholarship Contest, sponsored by
Johnson and Johnson, surgical dressing
manufacturers, in cooperation with the
Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Com-
pany. Awards of the contest, which

ends May 5, 1958, will be made on the
basis Of the best fifty-word essays on
the subject “Why a Good Education is
Important.”

All scholarships will be in the form
of paid-up Mutual Benefit policies.
Grand Prize is $10,000 and there are
two second prizes of $5,000 each, four
third prizes of $2,500 each, six fourth
prizes of $1,500 each, and 36 prizes of
$1,000 each.

Entry blanks, as well as further in-
formation about the contest, are avail-

able from the National Youth Scholar-

ship Committee, 130 East 59th Street,
New York 22.

) MAGAZINE AT HOME AND AT WORK: In
February, Jerry Raderstorf, director of
recreation at Oak Park, Michigan, en-
rolled all seven members of his recre-
ation advisory board as active associate
members of the NRA and requested, in
each case, that RECREATION be sent to
the home address of these board mem-
bers.

At almost the same time, John H.
Davis, superintendent of recreation,
Dalton, Georgia, enrolled the five per-
sons on his recreation commission as
members, with the magazine to go to
their homes.

The Westchester County (New
York) Recreation Commission has or-
dered ten subscriptions to RECREATION
for educational work in the commu-
nity.

IMPORTANT!
We are happy to give reprint

permission wherever possible, but

please check with us before using
any material in RECREATION. On
some rare occasions, we do not

hold copyrightI—The Editors

 

101

    

Editorially
Speaking

102

 

Spring Carnival

Spring is an adventure in Switzer-
land! In this land of mountains and
snows and deep, green valleys folklore
flourishes, and the sober winter yield-
ing to the brilliant spring brings forth
an outburst of joy and gaiety. Spring
is a miracle of beauty in the Swiss
Alps, but is also exciting in the lower
areas. Quaint customs and festivals
are inseparable in springtime.

Toward the end of April, Zurich
opens its celebration with a children’s
parade. Flower bedecked floats bearing
the Goddess of Spring and her atten-
dants are towed through the streets.
In this happy procession is the weird
and frosty figure of Boogg, a symbol
of winter. Made of wood and covered
with cotton wool, his insides are stuffed
with firecrackers. In the evening, when
the clocks strike six, following the col-
orful cavalcade of the ancient guilds,
Boogg is set afire to expiate his wrong-
doings. Amid the flare of the flames
and the bursts of the firecrackers, a
company of horsemen dressed in flow-
ing white circle the pyre. In the hills
and mountains around, companion fires
flare up and a night festival climaxes
the day.

Easter is a particularly happy sea-
son. In the Lake Lucerne region the
entry of Jesus into Jerusalem on Palm
Sunday is reverently depicted. High-
light of the pre-Lenten festivities, it is a
celebration that goes back to medieval
days, with archery and wrestling
matches, open-air theatricals, and mas-
querades.

Climax of carnival festivities is the
Basel Carnival, known throughout
Europe for its art and wit. In prepara-
tion, costumes are fashioned with the
greatest secrecy. Cleverly illuminated
posters and lanterns make fun of all
that has happened in the city during the
past year. Blunders of the town coun-
cil and of magistrates are revived, and
citizens receive some sarcastic knocks.

  
   
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
    
 
    
     
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
     
  
   
 
   

Why Have Playgrounds?

School is out! There go the children!
Where are they going? What will they
do this summer? They are your chil-
dren, mister! A few of the luckier ones
will go into summer camps, into the
congested but wholesome activities of
some boys’ club, or work on a farm.
However, most of them are going into
the city streets, out to the city dumps,
off into the suburban woodlots and
fields.

Some of them, giving vent to normal,
healthy, animal spirits, unguided by
sympathetic adult experience, wil
drown in forbidden swimming holes.
Some will be crushed under the rushing
wheels of modern traffic. Some, seek-
ing the acclaim of their mates, wil
transgress the grownups’ rules of pro-
priety and will oin the list of “juvenil
delinquents.” Some will venture, un
trained, unwarned, to play with forbid-
den weapons. . . .

What are you going to do about it,
Mister? These kids, you know, are th
America of tomorrow. You may be
childless but you have to live with these
youngsters and their parents-not only
tomorrow, but today . . . Don’t yo
want to spend your old age in a natio
governed by clear-headed, straight-
thinking, courageous younger men?

'I l- 'I *

School’s out. The kids are spreading
out everywhere. They are getting int
everything. lf they get into trouble it’
your fault, misterl—C. B. Lister, i
American Rifleman.

Easter’s ComingI—April 6

  
    

RECREATIO

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 1 1—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range 0]
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Letter to a Local Paper
‘ nirs:

The [Wilmington, Delaware,] Board
n-f Park Commissioners, at their meet-
g on September 12, passed the follow-
ng resolution:

_ “Resolved that it should be the policy

-. nd practice of the Board of Park Com-
. issioners that whenever and wherever
: growing tree is destroyed on park
ands or a dead tree is permanently re-
- ved therefrom, that another tree will
- planted to replace the tree that is
estroyed or removed.”

“Be it further resolved that the Board
f Park Commissioners endeavor to
rsuade other appropriate city, county,
nd state departments to ad0pt a simi-
r policy.”

The [Delaware] State Highway De-
: rtment has recently agreed that wher-
'- er and whenever their work necessi-
tes the removal of a tree on park prop-
- ty, with the approval of the park com-
lission, they will plant another tree
'herever the superintendent of parks
-. y designate.

We h0pe that some of our new plant-
g under this program may be done
' en along the streets of Wilmington,
front of private homes where the
u mers are willing to take care of any
I ees that are so planted by the park
mmission.

' We are announcing this program . . .
ith the hope that . . . park executives
roughout the country may . . . do
mething of a similar nature. We are
' o advising the Garden Club of Amer-
'a and the Izaak Walton League of
is program, in the hope that they will
so assist in furthering these objec-
ves. It is our understanding that in
'- 'itzerland this is a national policy
'th severe penalties for noncompli-

 
 
   
  
    
 
  
  
       
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
    

.I

F
i .

‘ e.

We know of no other community,
unty, or state in America that is fol-
wing such a routine and it may be, in
' sequence, that this movement is
- iginal in Wilmington and that it may

I
- 'PRIL 1958

 

—The Edito rs.

lead to preventing our countryside
from being denuded of its woodlands.
Several private citizens have learned of
our endeavor and have agreed to co-
Operate.

The proposed new planting may not
be done at the site of the tree which has
been removed, but there are plenty of
locations throughout our community
where trees are badly needed and our
park superintendent will be pleased to

designate these spots and the type of _.

tree best suited.
We hope that these thoughts will re-

ceive careful consideration by the citi- '

zens of Wilmington and vicinity, for
the improvement of the city, and the
welfare of all.
MAURICE DUPONT LEE, President,
Board of Park Commissioners,
5421 Nemours Building, Wilming-
ton, Delaware.
0 For other news of Wilmington parks,

see p. l36.—Ed.

Your Office

Sirs:

Congratulations on the article in the
January, 1958 issue, “Your Office.” For
many years I have felt the same way
about recreation offices, and, in our
’own way, we have tried to remedy this
situation. However, after reading your
article, I made up my mind to restudy
our situation and see if we can’t dress
things up even more than we are doing
now.
RUSSELL J. FOVAL, Superintendent
of Recreation, Playground and Rec-
reation Board, Decatur, Illinois.

Usable Ideas
Sirs:

I would like . . . to express . . . my
sincere thanks and appreciation for the
aid and ideas I have obtained from
RECREATION Magazine.

It has been a great aid in our pro-
graming for the past five years. Just
recently we have used some informa-
tion and ideas to a great advantage in

. dealer's or write direct ta factory I. . “’6'
" for-more information.

3 DAYTON RABIIUET BDMPAN

  
 
 

' I
I‘ I
| E II 'I I I
+s. l
e " I' ..

 

I / I i, iii-1;; lirrigi'
/E,’_- . r. _ g {flu 
i, Lennls, hadmln- . ,rp:

' ton, squash and l
’ paddle tennis. 3

VV‘ —"“""

hrsferp/ay../onger/tfe. . ’-
For years DAYTON Steel Rac- ' ‘”
quets have been the favorite of
professionals and beginners
alike. Thousands are now play-
ing an improved game—with
more speed and accuracy than
ever before.

Daylons are practically inde«

structibIe—ideal for 

schools and play-
grounds. Steel strings mills and
court layouts

and tubular steel
frames are not af- lllf hadmlnton
or tennis are

fected by climatic
yours tor the

changes. No covers or
presses are needed to asking.

   

.1 33‘s.-
protect them. they won‘t "Eggéiggggg,
warp, splinter. rot or sag. " 

it wlll pay you to investigate 
now. See them at your local 

   
   

748 Alliright St. Aroanum, Ohio

   

STEEL RACQUETS

  

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED
FOR HEAVY DUTY USE

We

0 iota!
gaggle tion

SIZE and
BA“ BOUNCE /

 
   
   
     
   
   
    
   

   
 

   

4 lEGS to
EACH sscnon

MADE IN
2 SECTIONS

Notionolly recognised our! used by
the ARMED PORCES, COLLEGES.
MUNtClt'AllTIES, RECREATION CEN-
TERS. SCHOOLS. ClUBS, PARKS.etc.

MODEL #104 MODEL #106

as abave with i 8 sturdy snap in type
statianary legs. " faldlng legs.

 

° Na Maintenance or Replacement Problems.
“ Sturdy Lifetime Constructlan.

" SECURELY lNSTALLED HEAVY GAUGE
ALUMINUM CENTER NET

For FUll.
DETAILS

All. MUM TENNIS TABlE (0.
wens P.O.BOX I4 LTEANECK, NJ.

 

When writing to our advertisers olease mention RECREATION- H12

 

 

IMMEDIATE

DELIVERY ON ° ° ° ° ’ ° C'R'A'F'T'S

FROM YOUR 3 HANDY, CONVENIENT
CHOICE OF LOCATIONS

Hurry . . . place your order with us now for your Summer craft
programs. Our three locations offer immediate delivery service
and a variety of crafts at low quantity prices. All orders over $50
W111 be Shlpped freight prepaid as stipulated in our 1958 catalog.

Write For FREE Catalog of Handicraft Supplies!

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.

4 East 16th Street
NEW YORK 3, NEW YORK

4707 Euclid Ave.
CLEVELAND 3, OHIO

34 Elmwood Parkway
CHICAGO 35, ILL.

 

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. (R: R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

5 DIFFERENT MODELS
Fram 20# to 100# Capacity

Force Feed -— Instant
Shutaff — 50 lbs. ca-
poclty.

Attention—

REBREATIUN DIRECTORS
Consider BERAMIBS

This fast growing hobby offers most
interesting training and constant crea-
tive enjoyment.

0

Shaker ln Hopper for
Constant Flow.

Send for Full Information. Our big
68 page complete catalog is now avail-
able. 50¢ to individuals. Free to

. . . Adiustable Control on
schools - institutions, etc.

Handle.

House of Ceramics SAVES TIME AND

Write MATERIAL
T d 2481 Matthews
0 33' Send to Dept. R {or booklet on {our other models

Memph's 8’ Tenn" H. a. R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

 

the NEW low cost

RUBBERIZED
PLAYGROUND

can ELIMINATE most
Ribng

ACCIDENTS

 

  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
   

0 Playground directors
everywhere, are reporting a
sharp DECREASE or NO ACCI-
DENTS AT ALL on SAF-PLA. This
proven playground surfacing material
can be applied to blaCk top, concrete or
any smooth penetration pavement. Actual
rubber in SAF-PLA gives kids a“bounce instead of a
bruise" and practically eliminates all abrasions, f; _,
cuts and painful falls. Let us send you the FACTS!

  

write for bulletin no. 13 . . .

RUBBER RECLAIMING CO.. INC.

30): 365" surrALo 5, MIN YORK

104 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

our Christmas program. Among thes
were: “A Phone Santa Program”;

“Santa Claus Suit Lending Service”;

“Santa Claus School”; and a “Ha
Christian Andersen Art Festival.”

. . Best wishes to the RECREATI
Magazine for continued growth an
servlce. . . .

EDSEL B. MARTZ, Supervisor, Com

munity Centers & Playground

Department of Recreation a

Parks, Arlington 1, Virginia.

Exchange Requested

Sirs:

We would like very much to e
change golden-age papers with grou
in other cities. Mr. .I. W. Faust su
gested that we write you for the nam
and addresses of others who publi
these papers. It will be apreciated i
you will send us this list at your co
venience.

Our own paper is called Golden Ag
Notes.

MRS. JoE UPGHURCII, Director, 3
cial Recreation, Montgomery, m
bama.

Rx Recreation

Sirs:

Our library print of your Iilm R
Recreation is now being used in Pr
toria, Union of South Africa, an
quoted below is a paragraph from J
communication just received from th

post:
“The Rotary Club of Johannesbur

is extremely interested in this film an
is planning to start a similar recre
tion program here in South Afric
They would also like to show it to othe
clubs who might be interested in th'
scheme. Any booklets or informatio
issued by the National Recreation As
sociation in New York would also :-
welcomed.”

BECKY SANFORD, Chief, Acquis

tions Branch, Motion Picture Ser

ice, U. 5. Information Agenc

Washington, D. C.
Artificial Rinks

. I
Sirs:

In William Radke’s article “Ice Sk I
ing on Plastic” in the February iss
of RECREATION, a statement is 111a
that no known community south of t
Great Lakes has an ice skating facili
larger than 100’ x 200'. ,

Please be advised that here in Sai
Louis, on November 11, 1957, we ope
ed a permanent outdoor ice rink wi
an ice-skating surface measuring 120
230'. It is not plastic, but one (:0
tinuous concrete slab measuring 120
230’. However, we do consider our ri _
artificial in that we have twenty-thr
miles of brine tubing beneath the co

crete slab.

RECREATIO .

A FENCING:
PROGRAM:

For 2 or 200. Requires minimum spoce ond simple inex- .
pensive equipment. We design ond manufacture the
best ond least expensive .
weopons ond accessories
for beginners ond ex- .
perts. let us heip you
_ set up o fencing octivity .
or develop the one you
have. Consultotions free. .

  
     
  

. We believe that this rink, built at a
' '. of slightly less than $1,000,000, is

‘- most beautiful skating rink in the
1 lited States, and if you do not believe
L~ at I have said, ask anyone of the two
ndred thousand persons who have
'oyed our rink since last November.

JAMES E. HEATH, Superintendent of

Recreation, St. Louis, Missouri.

Space Encroachment

s:

' e were very much interested in the
ies RECREATION ran on the encroach-

 

- Write De 1. R for
nt prOblem 1“ the_ park and recrea' AMERICA'S omssr AND LARGES‘I IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS or FREE €131,106. .
n ield- Park   also m o
n pUthlzmg thls pmblem for a long 30 EAST 10th smear, N.Y.3,N.Y.-GRamercy 3-5930 . 0 0 . . 0

| e. W e hope that together we may do
ough good so that eventually city
cils and others in power will “see
light” and plan ahead for commu-
y improvement.
ERIK MADISEN, JIL, Managing Edi-
tor, Park Maintenance, Appleton,
Wisconsin.

Need More Interpretation
rs:

, I am a young man of 23, with a BS
’ recreation; and have been working
Special Services since 1957. The
son I am writing this letter is be-
use I am sick and tired of people ask-
; me what I have my degree in and
. hing when I tell them recreation.
_ .- is makes me furious; if pe0ple only
w the work that goes into program
nning, and the extra hours you have
on’t think they would get such a kick
I of it. Also if they realized what re-
} _ ds are reaped by trained personnel
‘ this field, I daresay they would real-
the fact that there is a great need for
re such personnel to carry on the
u k so vitally needed, especially with
° younger generation. It is the only
nce for survival in the coming years
more leisure time, when the young
ple will need us more than ever. . . .
ore attention must be given to the
reation programs in cities and in
ry spot in the United States—and
more original ideas-——-—and we must
- 'n more men and women for the job.
gh praise to your magazine; it must
given great credit for contributing

I the recreation program. . . .
'1‘ PAUL OTT CARRUTII, Service Club,

Killeen Base, Killeen, Texas.

, “Splendid Review”

L

s:
Thank you for the splendid review

-. I' have afforded Municipal Law in

. I. March, 1958, issue of your nation- K A z o o 6 W 9

' y prominent magazine, RECREATION. ‘0 ’ m.
. I r interest in acquainting persons in

 . r iield with the availability of this EDE N, N Ew YORK

‘ w work is deeply appreciated. . . .
' BRICE W. RIIYNE, Associate Gen-
eral Counsel, National Institute of

Originators of the

 flagcgayaw Officers, Washing- KAZOO and KAZOO BAND INSTRUMENTS

 

- IL 1958 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 105
'II

 

 

East Orange youngsters embark for faraway lands.
The jetty, sand, and pilings add a tang of reality as the
captain swings the wheel and heads his boat out to sea.

AMERICA’S Playground 1958 reveals imagination, and con-

cern for creative play. Here are some brief accounts and
suggestions that can help you give your own playground.a
modern touch at little cost. "

The Nautical Influence*

“East Orange Goes Nautical” was the headline in New
Jersey’s largest newspaper when a story and picture ap-
peared concerning “the harbor,” a fully developed play-
ground, recently Opened by the East Orange Recreation
Commission.

Landlocked East Orange youngsters can now go down to
the sea in ships—at least in one mock fourteen-foot cabin
cruiser. Along with the boat, a sparkling maritime theme
was carried out with a lighthouse, jetty, and pilings.

For less than $200, the department purchased two not-so-
seaworthy boats, constructed a lighthouse out of cinder
blocks, drove in cut-down telephone poles, to simulate a
jetty and dock, and added sand for that beach effect. This
new equipment has enjoyed overwhelming popularity and
use and has even attracted new visitors.

This was not a stab in the dark or a flair for the sensa-
tional. Careful consideration and effort were put into in-
teresting innovations in the playground that would add to
its play value. Careful attention was given to the play-com-
munity theory. ,

As a youngster approaches the equipment, he or she first
comes in contact with the “sea-washed” jetty stumps painted
in sea green with whitecaps on top. The two haphazard
lines of stumps are arranged lower and closer together in
the front. However, each succeeding stump becomes higher
and farther apart, giving the illusion of shallower water,
and making it increasingly difficult for a youngster to

* See also, “Playshore,” p. 118.

106

Imagination Visi :I

reach the “dock area” and boat as he jumps from stump
stump.

The boat is set in the rear of the jetty flanked with pili
of four poles of varied heights. The cabin in the boat
seats for two or three youngsters, but more manage to cro
in. The glass windows on all sides have been removed. .

A mast with crossarm was inserted to satisfy the natu
desire to climb. Use was made of a scrap apparatus p
which was set in cement under the boat. A r0pe ladder \
made to facilitate climbing up the mast. This is used as
lookout, as the picture indicates.

The cabin roof was reinforced, so that it could be us
F

 

for sun bathing and jumping. A small ladder was built
from the deck to the cabin roof, for the smaller tots to cli
An automobile steering wheel was almost a necessity a
immediately became the most popular device of the unit.

A boat needed more atmosphere in a playground than
the seashore, so a lighthouse was added. Of course, a lig '
house without play value is really only an ornament, so
conceived the idea of a structure surrounded by a catw
that might be used as another lookout. There was to be
opening near the t0p, which would face a sliding pole
getting to the ground quickly, as is often found in fireho
equipment.

Fortunately, a local concrete company manufactu
curved cinder blocks for manholes and sewers. This ga
us the idea for the substantial, but inexpensive, mater
for building. Openings for windows and doors could
neatly placed simply by omitting blocks.

Our maintenance foreman, Lawrence Renna, took I
sketchy ideas, with his own plan for an outside catwalk, a
the lighthouse was soon a reality through the efforts of u
maintenance crew. A light was installed at the top, wh
the youngsters could easily reach and turn in all directio
Finally, all of the new equipment was given a bright c
of paint, and twenty tons of beach sand was spread ab
Public reSponse to the area, which is adjacent to conv
tional swings, slides, and merry-go-round, was most gr
fying and has spurred the staff into developing sim'
schemes in other areas, change always attracting childr
particularly where their imagination is challenged.

A playground should keep up with the changing ne
and interests of our young peeple. New play equipment t
is attractive and appealing will renew interest in your pl
grounds, as well as augment use of your traditional
paratus, thus providing maximum utilization of exist
space.——GRAHAM M. SKEA, Superintendent of Recreati

East Orange, New Jersey.

RECREATI

i he Playground—1958

I Ride ’Em, Cowboy!

      
   
 

The two simple pieces of playground apparatus described
. re will be popular with the Hopalongs, Annie Oakleys,
one Rangers, and all the cowboys and Indians of the
Iorsey” set. Each is very simple in construction and could
- made very easily and inexpensively in the school work-
op or by the maintenance department. Make them in

34' IEIPE
WASt-IER ' HANDLE 1t!- STUFF NEW'SHPER’

cor-«cyan: . mm
HEAVY
Hanan

  
   
      

l HFAVY SPRING A1"
| EALH men

‘\ a'PIPE 55‘] m CONCRETE

OLD WWAT‘ERTAHK FRAME MADE of OLD
BED-IRON

   
   
 
  

l

rying sizes, and different colors, put them in a “corral”
ith Western brands decorating the gate—and watch the
*Iungsters take to the trail!

Mr. Clarence A. Neal, director of the Sunbury, Pennsyl-
nia Youth and Community Center, sent in the very origi-
metal horse. It can carry double; it moves! It was de-
gned by Richard Green, industrial arts teacher in the
nbury Junior High School and crafts instructor for the
ayground system. He guarantees that Old Pipelegs may
. rt off with gay paint, but will be worn down to his original

F

  
 
  
    
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 

n color by the end of summer, because the youngsters love
m so. The sketch is self-explanatory.

Horse No. 2, Old Oakheart, is slightly more conventional.
- was sent in by John B. Penney, director of the recreation
|(l parks department of Concord, New Hampshire. He and
I. family were designed and constructed by Roland G.
chance, supervisor of maintenance and construction,
om an old oak tree cut down in one of the parks. Sketch

ves a general impression of the horse, but doesn’t do him
sticel

To make Old Oakheart, Mr. Lachance says: “Cut oak log

ut 48 inches long, bevel front end 45° from center. Peel
:_ of all bark. Peel four oak legs approximately four inches
ameter, 32 inches long. Countersink four holes into body

L1

 

RIL 1958

 

    

 

In this new age, as space-mindedness invades the play-
ground, equipment should keep up with, ehanging
needs. “Satellite,” above, is one sueh modern design.

Another easily made and durable horse for “Ride ’Em
Cowboy.” Horses, of all sorts, are always popular.

 

Amusing seahorses bring the sea to inland Playshore,
in Montebello, California (see page 118). Below,
the Wild West eorral in Essex County, New Jersey.

A . - -*  '
u an: .. 
C I .

 

two inches deep, to fit end of legs. Fasten with steel straps
from inside of legs to under part of body, between legs.
Head and neck are drilled with 3/4," drill, body with 3%" drill
for 5/3” by 16” lag screw. Metal straps should be put on side
of head and neck to body to prevent turning. Ears of leather
are best. Harness and tail can be replaced—rope lasts quite
well. Finish with oil stain and let dry.”

It’s not to late to build up a “stable” for the 1958 play-
ground season. These two horses are safe and satisfactory.
The children of Sunbury and Concord rode them happily;
the small fry in your town will love them too.

Corral

A Western theme is used by the Essex County Park Com-
mission in Brookdale Park, Bloomfield, New Jersey, in lieu
of a “dragon pit” idea that came from Europe via Frank
Evans, director of recreation in Maplewood. The Brook-
dale Corral, as it is known, finds youngsters aged two to
ten swarming over the lean-tos, riding the bucking bron-
co, and creating, in their imaginations, Wild West situa-
tions undreamed of in Hollywood or on television and hav-
ing a good time doing so. One of the more popular items is
a climbing pole with a triangular gong and striker at its
top; its notes peal throughout the day.

 

2W 2661666614
aw! z4é¢mm

Practices with Sports Officials

The research and information division of the District of
Columbia Recreation Department has secured statements
from thirteen metropolitan cities about practices in dealing
with sports officials. Following are some of the findings:

0 Ten cities use the baseball officials’ association as their
source of officials; three use an approved list other than
the association; three use department employees; and two
reported using older youths and adults.

0 Eight cities report using the basketball officials’ associa-
tion; four, another approved list; four, department em-
ployees, and two, older youths and adults.

0 Softball association officials are used by nine cities, with
four reporting use of an approved list; three, department
employees, and two, older youths and adults.

0 Seven, six and eight cities reported the exclusive use of
the ofiicials’ associations for their paid oflicials in baseball,
basketball, and softball, respectively. Two others use them
for adult baseball leagues only, and one reported they are
“usually” used.

0 One city indicated the officials’ associations did not co-
operate with the department in arranging rates, schedule,
and so on. Three others did not answer the question.

0 Past experience by one city indicated that officials’ asso-
ciations became pressure groups, giving difficulty on fees,

108

   
   
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

Other features include a rustic seesaw, a mule train,
burling log, several other climbing poles, a zigzag fence, a
a stockade with simulated cannon on swivels, with cra
space to get in and out.

Skinned white cedar logs were used for all its ‘parts.
was designed by the engineering department and construc
by the maintenance department. The ground is cover
with tanbark. A log fence, also used for seating, surroun
the entire area. It is centrally located, adjacent to the re
lar playground and attracts many people all day long.

From the Designers

Today’s designers, architects, artists, educators, and re
reation leaders, too, are attempting to fill not only the ch
dren’s physical needs, but their dramatic interests, needs f
adventure, need for learning, and for growth.

Working with wood, concrete, plastic, they are expe
menting with pieces of play equipment that make no attem
to reproduce actual objects but, rather, present the chi
with an inviting shape or form his imagination can tu
into rocks, caves, mountains, planes, or'what-have-you. 1
other words, they make no attempt to superimpose adu
concepts upon the children’s play, but offer abstract form
to stimulate freedom and spontaneity. @

assignments, and so on. Accordingly, it organized a traini
program of its own, used qualified officials for its games.

I
CONCLUSIONS:

0 Careful examination of the returned questionnaires giv
the impression that those departments participating m
actively with the officials’ associations have less difficu
with them.

0 Departments seemingly most content are those whi
have 'organized their own associations or training cour
and established an approved list of qualified officials.

0 Generally there is close coOperation and little confl
between recreation departments and the oflicials’ assoc
tions.

0 Use of paid officials is most prevalent among ad
leagues; youth leagues are more inclined to use departm
employees or older youth and adults.

Swnnmlng Study

A pilot study on a swimming program for severely m
tally retarded children conducted in Ontario, Canada,
1956 (see RECREATION, February 1957, page 63) yiel
the following results:

The children progressed a little each week, rememberi
some of the skills taught the previous week. The major
progressed to a point where they would fit in very nic
in a small class receiving group instruction. Only two 0
dren refused to enter the water.

It appeared that these children can learn to swim if th
receive individual instruction or are paired according
compatibility and ability. Their enjoyment was obvious a
they delighted in demonstrating the newly learned skills.

RECREATI

l ' a '
y l
I O .t . f‘
I . .
Q - _
' . . o
. . :
.,.. -
O
' o
. ' t . o
. o _.
. I-I 
. I '-. '
Q «I ' .
a ' . ' '. - -
.- . - 'l: -
I

very American playground has a Joseph Lee Day or
eck—to honor the “Godfather of Play.” Charleston
llows earnival-eireus pattern, attracts 4,000 ehildren.

I

 

 

I
in» m “In a

: Meets a Challenge

Will you cooperate, and do something
about the leadership shortage, in honor
of Joseph Lee? Write as what you think.

    
   
   
 
  
    

OMEONE once said that the only sure things in this life
'-' are death and taxes. We in recreation are sure of at
ast two other things—J oseph Lee’s unique position in our
eld and the critical, almost fatal, shortage of recreation
adership. There are other giants in recreation history;
ut there is only one “Godfather of Play”—Joseph Lee.
cts about Mr. Lee’s right to this title, and why he is so
‘ered, have been recorded over and over again, so we will
repeat them. However, we would like to show how the
emory of Joseph Lee can be used to draw the public’s at-
ntion to the scarcity of trained leaders in recreation, and.
ore important, arouse citizens to do something about it.
The playgrounds in Charleston, West Virginia, always
vc a Joseph Lee Day in late July; this is nothing new in
harleston or elsewhere. It has been a national custom that
.ach playground conduct a special event, such as a carnival.
cnic, or junior Olympics; 21 picture of Joseph Lee might
. on display—and that would be that until another year.

This didn’t satisfy one of Charleston’s supervisors. He
anted to see this commemoration take on a more lasting
rm, and he suggested a fund to be created by each play-
: ound child’s donating a penny on Joseph Lee Day. If this

 
  
   
   
   

re done all over the country, quite a few pennies (1,000,-
0 pennies equal $10,000) would be available for some
_ reation project Joseph Lee would have rejoiced to see.

The idea was permitted to age a few years; it lost no
rength in the process. Finally, the thought was communi-

R. KRESGE is superintendent of parks and recreation in
harleston, West Virginia.

 

'....__._ Irv-n

Robert E. Kresge

cated to the National Recreation Association. Encourage-
ment to proceed with what might be termed a pilot project

i was given. From this correspondence there also deve10ped

the idea of having it become a “Joseph Lee Scholarship
Fund for Recreation Leadership Training.”

50, last summer, Joseph Lee Day on our playgrounds had
a quadruple purpose: to provide good recreation; to recog-
nize Joseph Lee and his contribution to recreation in Ameri-
ca; to publicize today’s urgent need for recreation leaders;
and to allow every person using the playgrounds to give a
penny or more to a fund which bore the name of Joseph
Lee, which would help solve recreation’s number one prob-
lem today.

This last objective made it necessary to do a thorough
job of acquainting everyone, young and old, with Joseph
Lee. Mimeographed handouts describing his life were gen-
erously distributed on all playgrounds and in their neigh-
borhoods prior to or on the day the special event was to
take place.

Each playground planned its own program. The leaders
were enthusiastic, so much so, that the original idea of hav-
ing each child give a penny was nearly lost in the plans as
finally executed. Most playgrounds did have youngsters
circulating through the crowds with containers for penny
donations. The departure came in that the leaders used the
program, which, in most cases, followed the carnival theme,
as a means of increasing their playground’s contribution
to the Joseph Lee Fund. We discouraged charging for
anything but food and drink.

A few playgrounds raised a considerable sum, dividing

‘nx

A voluntary penny, from the children of Ameriea, in the name of
this great leader, for reereation leadership—if inatehetl by other
playgrounds—could help meet one of the field’s greatest needs.

  

--——- —— n...- -

this between their own needs and the Joseph Lee Fund.
Those which had the best aEairs and the least headaches
afterwards were ones which used play money for every-
thing but refreshments. The newspapers devoted much more
space to it than to previous Joseph Lee Day programs.

Charleston is eager to add to the $64.98 it contributed
to the fund it started. What it does this summer depends
on the response of other cities to the idea.

Good recreation; a vital cause; done in the name of
Joseph Lee—there it is.I From here on it’s up to you in
Sioux City, to you in West Palm Beach, to you in Colorado
Springs, to you in Philadelphia, to you in Austin, to you in
Pasadena, to you recreation departments everywhere! @

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  

From Mayor’s Proclamation

It is a pleasure for me to proclaim the week of July 22-
as Joseph Lec Week in Charleston, during which time all
Charleston’s playgrounds will set aside a day for a spec
program. I heartily approve of the plan whereby all c
dren using the playgrounds will be given a chance to th
Joseph Lee and show their appreciation for playgroun
Their pennies and nickels, if placed in what might be call

“The Joseph Lee Scholarship Fund for Recreation Lead

9

ship Training,’ and when matched by similar gifts fr
playground children through America, could help meet r
reation’s greatest need today—qualified leadership.—Jo

T. Cbpenhaver, Mayor, Charleston, West Virginia.

 

DANGEROUS
ROCKET EXPERIMENTS

W

Recreation departments and leaders,
a dangerous situation has been uncov-
ered that sound, creative, and forceful
leadership could do much to alleviate.
Replies to questionnaires Sent out by
First Army Headquarters on Governors
Island, New York, to junior rocket
groups, composed of teen-age young-
sters engaged mainly in making things
explode, reveal that most of these
youngsters have been carrying out their
rocket experiments without parental
knowledge or adult supervision. For
the most part, the youngsters make
their rockets from a simple metal cas-
ing and a propellant substance of some
sort, frequently match heads, for the
blast-off. Captain Bertrand R. Brinley,
chief of the news branch at headquar-
ters, explains that match heads in com-
bination with good design make a good
rocket—and, also, a lethal bomb.

He strongly urges that, in experi-
menting with rockets using propellents
of any type, these junior rocketeers
have the advice and guidance of adults
over twenty-five years of age, that they
inform their parents of their activities,
and also that they let the local fire and
police departments in on it, too.

A positive aspect of this situation is

110

described in an announcement by the
American Rocket Society (in existence
since 1930) that it may soon set up a
Junior Registry, a national organiza-
tion of junior rocketry enthusiasts,
seventeen years and younger, with the
idea of giving teen-agers a thorough
background in s p a c e exploration,
study, theoretical analysis,.and provid-
ing them with facilities and expert su-
pervision. A successful pilot experiment
has already been conducted by the ARS
Washington, D. C. chapter, guided by
Lt. Col. C. M. Parkin, missile authority
from the Army Engineers Research and
Development Laboratory, himself a
member of the society. He has organ-
ized some three hundred local high
school students and is in the process of
supplying them with films, books, ma-
terials, and. speakers, and arranging
demonstrations, which are seen either
from behind a concrete bunker or on a
TV screen—a far cry from the unsuper-
vised fooling around of most groups.

A spokesman in the New York ARS
oflice reports that the national organi-
zation is making a nation-wide survey
to find out exactly how much teen-age
interest such a group would engender.
The youngest ARS membership now ex-

 
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   

tended is to students seventeen an
over. The society is a professional 0
and has made many firm public stat
ments against any amateur research
all. It has also found that the youngste
just interested in making things e
plode is not the one who later turns int
the serious scientist. Blast off, recre
tion people, and make experimentin
safe, educational, and fun.

“Whether people like it or not, th‘
boys’ rockets are going to get bigg
and better and faster,” says Captai
Brinley and cites the hundreds of lette
he has received from boys. One suc
typical missile missive tersely presen
a realistic difficulty encountered by bo
rocketeers:

“I find one problem always presen
that is finding the rocket once it h
landed.”

The first phase of his program, d
clares Captain Brinley, was getting
know the number of teen-aged rock
eers and their problems. The seco
phase will be to enlist cooperation
industrialists and educators to provi
safety information, skilled technical
vice, and help in setting up down-
earth programs.

The third phase of the prob]
would be to obtain launching pads '
a safe area, bunkers and periscopes, r
mote firing controls, modern elect'ro
equipment to track down the boys’ m
siles, and qualified supervisors to ke
everything in its orbit.

“Some of the boys have an enorlno
potential,” Captain Brinley points 0
“and industry will be grabbing the
up. We just want them to live to s
that day.” I

RECREATI

 
  
         

II onvention Hall, Atlantic City.

EPTEMBER IN ATLANTIC CITYis a tremendous experience
" ——-warm fall days, ocean swimming, deep-sea fishing,
iles of the famous boardwalk. This world-famous play-
round will provide a stimulating background for the social
fe of the Congress. At the moment, we know that there
ill be a Congress get-together on Monday night, square
ancing on Wednesday night, plus the American Recrea-
.. on Society Banquet, and the National Recreation Asso-

iation Banquet and Dance.

Plans Shape Up for Week-Long Meeting

There will be emphasis this year on trends, facts, new
I o as and new developments. Special attention will be given
- the implications of the “Space Age” as they relate to
creation. With the present national emphasis on science,
1e case for recreation will be reinterpreted in the light of
“day’s needs. Alertness must be the watchword—alertness
- the types of recreation demanded by the new age.

A noted American scientist, for instance, has suggested

  
   
  
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
  

E

 ' at this country “develop its pure creative talents and po-
‘1 ntials or face loss of the economic and military race with
' ussia.” (Eugene Ayres, formerly in charge of research for
vi ulf Refining Company, writing in the American Petroleum
] astitute Quarterly, goes on to describe the potential inven-
n, r as a nonconformist, more artist than scientist, who

lould be encouraged to exercise his ingenuity.) Congress

ssions will discuss ways of getting our own recreation
aceship into the air.

 
 
  
   
  

Committees

Joint committees of ARS Sections and NRA National
visory Committees, and others, have been meeting under
- direction of Charles B. Cranford, chairman of Special
terest Programs. SPECIAL INTEREST Committees, each
ith a subchairman from both ARS and NRA sponsoring
' encies, are as follows:
* Armed Forces; Professional Education; Research; State
d Federal Recreation; Local Government; Parks; Rural;
I dustrial; Hospital, Ill and Handicapped; and others as

[L

 

Recreation Enters the Space Age

40th National Recreation Congress*

determined by the Executive Committee.

Robert B. Crawford is serving as chairman of GENERAL
INTEREST Sessions and has enlisted the aid of recreation ex-
ecutives across the country in setting up these sessions of the
Congress.

Local Arrangements

A committee composed of civic leaders of Atlantic City,
representatives of the New Jersey Public Recreation Asso-
ciation, the Parks and Recreation Bureau of the New Jersey
State Department of Conservation and Economic Develop-
ment, and the Mid-Atlantic District Advisory Committee
are working out necessary local arrangements.

All exhibits this year will be in the Ambassador Hotel,
as will be most of the Congress meetings. The exhibit area
is ideally located on the mezzanine and will have direct
access from the main meeting rooms.

Post Congress Tours

Plans are being made for post Congress tours, including
Philadelphia, New York City, and other points of interest.
For those who may want to go sightseeing during the week-
end following the Congress, a low-budget, all-inclusive pack-
age trip is planned, with detailed announcement soon.

Four general sessions are scheduled, with outstanding
speakers. There will be master sessions dealing with many
major problems faced by recreation executives, which will
provide additional time for discussion. I

*Atlantic City,

New Jersey,
September 22 to 26.

 

 

 

erie 0 seven ewrecrea ion ui in s. woo cm are now nearin com eio .
Oneofas s f n t b ld g T fth lt n

Clevelandis New Recreation (Centers

._ in'n os s 0 1e 11 are seven eau i 11 new ui ( inns an e we 0 e u e -
Gap t ftl ft , b tfl b ll g gr llfrth futr ofrec '
reation in Cleveland, and indicate a trend of the times in the recreation field in general.

Q VISITOR to the Cleveland, Ohio, Division of Recreation

studied the wood and plaster model on a desk in the

office of commissioner John S. Nagy. “What’s that going
to be?” he demanded.

The Cleveland chief smiled. “We’ve planned it to be the
best recreation center in the country,” he said. Mr. Nagy
remains confident that his statement will prove accurate.
Seven such $958,000 brick-and-concrete structures are plan-
ned for Cleveland; two are already nearing completion, the
F. B. Fairfax Recreation Center on Cleveland’s east side and
the E. M. Estabrook Recreation Center on the southwest.
These master units are part of a ten-year capital improve-
ment program in Cleveland.

All the centers are to be the same inside, and each will
be situated near the center of a large recreation develop-
ment. The two-story layout combines the best of modern
ideas in recreation and architecture. The entire develop-

MRS. NEWMAN is a member 0/ the sta§ of the Cleveland Rec-
reation Division’s Bureau of Public Relations and Research.

To reader’s left, ball field, space for free play, horse-
shoes, shuffleboard; right, tots’ play area, game courts.

 

Claire Newmarl

nlent area will include numerous sports facilities, free play
areas, and a parking lot. Among the unusual features of
these centers are: an indoor-outdoor swimming pool; a gym
that converts from basketball court to tennis court to I
stage-equipped theater in a matter of minutes; a strategl-
cally located “rumpus room”; and a comfortable lounge
for the city’s increasing number of senior citizens.

When Mr. Nagy sat down with city architect Anthony
Gattozzi to plan this recreation project he had fourteen
years”. experience at the Cleveland helm behind him.* He
knows that he is indeed fortunate to serve a city Where rec-
reation is considered an important municipal service. How-
ever, even in Cleveland money is important; therefore MI".
Nagy’s recreation philosophy is based on, “The greates
good for the greatest number at the least cost.” He realize
that good facilities alone—gyms, pools, craft rooms, loung
—would not be enough. What sets one recreation buildin I
above another, what ultimately proves the most economica
is the well-planned structure. Thus, intelligent and eHe
tive planning became the keynote of Cleveland’s new re
reation centers.

Planning certainly was missing in the existing center
when Mr. Nagy took over. Most of Cleveland’s present 081
ters are pre-World War 1. All but one began its service 1
the community as a bathhouse. To give the patrons so
way to pass their time as they waited, game rooms wer
added. Gyms followed, then came craft rooms, and swin
ming pools. Eventually, as bathing facilities became n10
universally available, these “bathhouses” lost their origin
function; but their popularity did not diminish. They ha

*Architectural drawings and specifications by Joseph A. Ga

tozzi, AIA.

RECREATI -

  
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  

visor can give expert guidance to jewelry, leather, wood,
and ceramics handcrafters during the same period. The
drama and music areas are situated in one large room with
a room divider, making it possible to coordinate the two
arts, or to conduct them as separate activities. Offices of
the physical education directors are placed between the
gymnasium and the swimming pool, within easy reach of
both. For the same reason, the locker rooms are situated
between the gym and pool, allowing direct access from each.

Special groups, both young and old, receive individual

ecOIne companionable centers of neighborhood recreation.

ln this new role of recreation center, the houses became
lore and more cumbersome to operate. Their llelter-skel-
r growth had left no opportunity for planning. Each new
ring seemed to bring its own entrance and exit. With no
ontrol over the flow of traffic, staff members were hard put
a keep track of patrons. Rooms accommodating similar
ctivity groups were widely separated. Steep stairs and
ng hallways not only added to the task of an already over-
orked recreation staff, but made it virtually impossible for
lder peOple to use many of the facilities. Maintenance
oblems also became heavy.

To compensate for errors of the past, needlessly large
ails were necessary. It had become obvious that these
lectic recreation centers, costly to operate, would not
Hice for expanding recreation needs in Cleveland. This
as the situation when voters made available bond money
r the centers, expressly designed for their purpose.

The new “super centers” are so designed that patrons are
u have access only through the front entrance. As they
roceed through a spacious lobby, they will encounter a
lass-enclosed desk—the control point of the center. The
cretary seated here will greet people and direct them to
e various activities taking place in the building. Since
1e secretary will come into contact with all comers, at-
ndance records will be accurate. As rooms will be num-
ered and direction signs posted, traffic will be kept moving.
The simple balance maintained in the building’s layout
ill contribute to staff mobility as well as an easy flow of
trons. Related activities are grouped together; one craft
rea accommodates separate rooms for the various activi-

attention in the new centers. One of recreation’s greatest
challenges today is unafliliated youth groups. In all Cleve-
land centers, of course, youngsters are welcome to partici-
pate in scheduled activities; but those boys who are not as
yet ready for these will not have to seek elsewhere for fun.
They can use the rumpus room.

9

says Mr. Nagy,
“and our rumpus room exists for no other purpose.” This

“Young boys need to blow off steam,3

room is his pet idea. It is at the head of the stairs on the
second floor, and will be filled with mats, punching bags,
skip ropes and similar gym equipment. It will be open to
any boy who wants to enjoy this equipment and also will be
used by boys who arrive early to class. It is hoped that the
rumpus room will encourage young boys who would other-
wise stay away to come to the center. Gradually, as they
become more at home in these surroundings, such boys will
be given the support needed to enter the scheduled activities.

Also receiving recognition is the ever-increasing group
of older people who have unique recreation needs. In plan-
ning for these people, Mr. Nagy believes that the old rec-
reation standard of utility is not completely applicable.

es in session at one time. A single arts and crafts super- Golden agers must, in many situations, be drawn into the

First floor plan. All centers are to be the same inside. Note indoor-outdoor pool and directors’ offices.

       
    

225'-o"

._.__.... f...— _.____._ -—-|—-‘--—-—4--——-—-

. 809-0" 1. 72'-°ll

r
I

O O  Ii.%0'~0
. . . 0‘0... ‘0 a 0.5%.. 3°15. ‘ ' ’5' ' ' ‘ a
3%, gasses:  ‘ "
‘ . . I C

3":-
m. '0 '9 o. 9’.
Ck. O

K

I!

as

I
i

O’ -
5' =?.~:
' 3-".

 
 
 

J. a. .I
emu MILE“!
,__ --

      
  
 
 
 

'_.

J -
0:1»...

'.
{$5

(.335
.3

         
 

14.0:
.H
:-

'0‘
I

0
$4-
. I-
3. 0

‘il
5..

«-
ii
3'5
M
a;
‘3

120-0

  
  

   

   
  

    
 

   
  
 
 
  
  
      

 
  
  
   
        
 

 
 
 

  

0,, :-°-:-
II g 5-
In
15 am
I < ’-
3 w ‘i
4%
m I
O I I.
U ¢   ' .‘O‘si:.$
z N in” 0i :9“ I ' I ; sagggg
.. «T-  am 1  r: r: . $252»
0 u 5 
LL  r m. ,  4’ "o . - ._ .. ,, ‘:«:o:'

C
,4.» - o 

.. u‘. '5. 0' I ' 16%. .o'o . n . '
.Ifff‘o'. . ' 5...". I 0"... .r- .
0' vex

   
   
    
   

 
      

  
   
  

    
     
  

       

      

 
     
 

 

. .H
o‘ 14:4 ' '1'. J‘L '0': '4.”
. d .

O

.% 'o'hm

 

on I
I
ll.

uuuuu I I

RIL 1958

  
 
         
  

A
D
M
l
N
I
T
R
A
T
I
0
N

 

225'—o"

n
can! . poo-I
w-ro u- .-

UPPER PART OF
GYMNASIUM

:22’—o"

 

SECOND F_LOOR PL

_——..'—-—_-—-._.__.._.— ...___.

A 1NW

Second floor plan. Craft area (top) has separate rooms for jewelry, leather, wood, ceramics.

centers. Comfort is a prime consideration as well as spe-
cial programs geared to their needs, since these people some-
times do not mix well with other groups.

To help meet these specifications, the new centers have a
special clubroom set aside for golden-age groups or any sen-
ior citizen looking for a comfortable place to spend an after-
noon in the company of others. Television, chess, check-
ers, and plenty of comfortable sofas and easy chairs will
be available. The library is to be next door. Located on the
first fioor, to eliminate the necessity of climbing stairs, the
room is also jUst a short distance from the center kitchen,
which often plays a large role in golden-age club affairs.

Of all the demands made upon a recreation center, calls
for the gymnasium are insistent. For league games, the
gym is a regulation-size basketball court, with bleachers
folding out from the wall. For busy practice sessions, the
bleachers fold back and two play areas come into view: a
somewhat smaller basketball floor and a free area which can
accommodate tennis or badminton groups. For special
events, a full-size elevated stage gains the spotlight at one
end of the gym. In minutes, folding chairs convert the
gymnasium into a theater.

The pool area is also convertible. An outdoor-indoor
affair, it chianges over from summer to winter by means .of
sliding glass-paneled doors. The pool itself, forty-two feet
by seventy-five, varies in depth from just over two feet to
seven. Mr. Nagy is quite pleased with it and thinks the

% May is Senior Citizens Month at

 

3.114

 

 
 

,“7
'o
>' U P P E R PART '
an. m "' '0
131 0s: POOL. 0
H” J h
d L4; (
i o
i
l |
— Hm 
\'.  ‘ In...
*1—1
I .L.
w..._.r_...._-.'_...:_--_.s.

 

 

extra investment in the sliding doors well spent. The hu
warm-weather patio surrounding the pool has its purpos _;‘.
surveys show that bathers spend but one-fourth of their ti 1'
in the water, so that allowing ample room for sun-bathi
increases capacity correspondingly.

. Commisisoner Nagy is aware that without the right sta
his recreation centers can remain a pile of bricks. He
confident, however, that he will find the top people he nee
Mr. Nagy feels that he has prepared the way for his staff I‘
combining excellent facilities with functional design.

While he wouldn’t presume to press his particular pla '
on other communities, the commissioner does feel they m
Cleveland’s metropolitan problems. “We have recogni
certain needs in recreation,” he said recently, “and we ha
planned to meet them.”

Mr. Nagy believes these centers can provide a new patte
for recreation facilities. In a large city, such as Clevela
recreation buildings must be placed in a great number
areas. Each facility must be as nearly complete as p
sible. Thus the problem facing the administrative h
of such a recreation program is to satisfy the needs of

1

 

area and, at the same time, remain within his work'
budget. The new Cleveland centers appear to hold the .
swer. While providing Cleveland’s citizens with the n1
modern and efficient recreation facilities, the buildings
despite their initial expense—also promise to be less co

in the long run. I

RECREATI ‘

A Special Questions Project

I g a o a a
I IIE commIttee sent out a ten-questIon questIonnaIre; thIs

'. a brief summary of some of subjects that stimulated the
eatest response.*

In a city with a thriving cooperative sports program, what
. the best way of organizing, training, assigning, and super-
ising sports ogicials?

ORGANIZING. The formation of an organization of sports
llicials for this—in which they have their own officers—

ith the recreation department’s relinquishing leadership

Iter it is operating satisfactorily—was recommended.
- TRAINING. Where highly organized ofhcials’ associations
Iperate more or less independently of the recreation de-

rlment, it is customary to expect these associations to
upply trained oHicials. Where there is close liaison between
he department and the oHicials’ association, or where the
sociation is responsible to the department, the depart-
- nt usually takes charge of training, with the supervisor
f the sport in direct charge.

ASSIGNMENTS AND SUPERVISION. Assignments are usually
ndled by the sports supervisor of the department. The
mount of supervision given officials apparently varies
idely from city to city. Many departments confine their
fforts primarily to training and assigning officials.

  
   
  
   
    
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
  
     

" hat are the most effective methods of extending the public
creation program through cosponsorship of activities?

The possibilities of cosponsorship depend Upon the size
a the city, the type of program offered, and the amount of
utside interest. The recreation department should, in any
sponsorship arrangement, develop basic policies and pro-
ide, or have a major voice, in choosing the leadership.
Ample publicity should be given to all cosponsors; and
e recreation director should be responsible for obtaining
hem by telling other agencies about Opportunities for co-
I onsorship and asking them for ideas. The director might
rganize a community council, which would sit with the
- creation board in an advisory capacity and hear plans
nd problems, members then reporting back to their own
rganization; or, an existing discussion group might be
01nposed of leaders or organizations that might become
ponsors. The director should have a detailed plan, if it is
ceded, but the cosponsoring agency should be allowed to
work out plans if it can and will. Activity responsibilities
.- nd successes should be shared with cosponsors; and their
ontributions, service or financial, should be recognized.

  
     
 
  
 
 

W hat types of individuals have been most effective as rec-
rcation board members? Least effective?

The following qualities are desirable: appreciation of

 

* Also see, “Concession vs Direct Operations,” RECREATION, April
1957, p. 150 and p. 108 of this issue.

J 

 

Conducted by the NRA National Advisory

Committee on Recreation Administration.

civic responsibility; board participation in civic affairs and
groups; understanding of the basic concept of community
recreation and interest in the whole field of recreation,
rather than in any one phase of it; absence of indebtedness
to any one group or faction (resulting in the ability to re-
sist pressure) ; an understanding of the division of respon-
sibility between the board and the executive; a cooperative
team spirit. Women interested in civic affairs were espe-
cially mentioned as desirable board members, as were the
owners of small businesses. Above all, it was emphasized
that the good board member attends meetings!

The one most listed undesirable quality was desire for
personal gain. Many executives condemned the board mem-
ber who serves because he sees his membership as a step-
pingstone.

There was disagreement about the value of doctors and
lawyers on a board; one or two mentioned them specifically
as undesirable, another as desirable.

What do recreation and park executives want and expect of
their boards ? Vice-versa?

Boards should have a broad understanding of the whole
recreation field, so that they can act as a buffer between the
executive and community pressure groups. Of equal im-
portance are:

0 The formulation of broad and farseeing but practical
policies conforming to the real community needs.

0 An understanding of the distinction between adminis-
trative and policy-making functions, and a willingness to
allow the professional staff to work without interference
within the bounds of established policy.

0 Active public relations work on the part of the board—
bringing recreation needs to the attention of the public,
working actively to secure public support, and generally
publicizing the work of the recreation department.

0 Loyalty to the professional staff—whatever differences
may develop between the board and the superintendent at
meetings, they should present a united front to the public.
0 Regular attendance at board meetings was also listed.

In regard to the executive: boards expect eliicient and
honest administration from their superintendent; and they
expect him to make farsighted and straightforward recom-
mendations to the board regarding all phases of recreation
in his community. Third, he should keep the board

thoroughly informed about his department and all other 

matters coming within the board’s jurisdiction.

It is important that the cxecutive’s loyalty to the board
should be sulliciently strong to make it possible for him to
carry out established policies with which-he may have been
in disagreement when they were originally discussed; He

should also be a good public relations man. Growth on the
job was also mentioned several times. I

A
D
M
I
N
l
S
T
R
A
T
l
O
N

 

 

Imagine 5,000 kazoos, all playing at once, and in honor of Joseph Lee!
That’s what happened at the big winde of the summcr recreation pro-

gram in Torrington, Connecticut, and it hasn’t been the same since!

SHADES of John Philip Sousa! What

marches he would have composed
for a band of five thousand members,
each one playing a kazoo! That’s the
story of the Torrington, Connecticut,
Kazoo Concert.

A kazoo, according to Webster, is a
“toy or rude instrument consisting of a
tube inside of which is stretched a
strip of catgut made to vibrate by sing-
ing or humming into it.” To those who
do not own a kazoo or are allergic to
the stuffy dictionary definitions, a ka-
zoo can be simply a comb covered with
a piece of tissue paper and held to the
lips while one hums a tune through it.
A concert is a “musical performance
of some length by several voices or in-
struments or both.” Our concert is cer-
tainly musical. Well, musical, that is,
in comparison to some of the disso~
nance that passes for music these days.
It is a “performance,” believe me!

Two years ago, the recreation de-
partment’s program director, Carl Bo-
zenski, came across that old song
“Toodle~Dee-Doo on Your Old Ka-
zoo.” He immediately got the idea of
.a kazoo concert. Early in the play-

MISS SULLIVAN is a Torrington high
school teacher and guidance counselor.
She is a former playground supervisor
and now serves as a volunteer worker
for the recreation department.

116

ground season he broached the idea to
Edmund Waller, owner of local radio
station WTOR, who promptly offered
to contribute, gratis, to this unusual
cause five thousand kazoos to be dis-
tributed (a) through the radio station
itself, (b) through the local merchants,
with the explicit understanding that
there was no obligation to purchase
anything in order to obtain a kazoo,
and (c) through the ten local play-
grounds. '

And so was born the Kazoo Concert.
The first year it attracted five thousand
members, adults and children alike.
Last year between seven and eight
thousand participated in this event, the
first, we believe, of its kind.

How does it work? Torrington’s
playground programs are geared to the
last week of the playground season,
usually the third week of August,
known as Founders and Donors Week,
honoring the founder of the playground
movement in the United States, Joseph
Lee, as well as local donors of parks or
playground areas. Early in the summer
season, kazoo bands are formed at each
of the ten playgrounds. These bands
are carefully rehearsed and then given
an opportunity to perform over WTOR.
The best band of the lot is chosen to be
the city Kazoo Band. Ample publicity
is given the choice through the local
newspaper and the radio station.

  
  
   
  
   
 
    
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
 

Nellie J. Sulliva I

l
I
'I

WTOR and its genial owner hav '
been the mainstay of many of Torring a".
ton’s community projects: the Christ
mas Village, Mardi Gras, the Jack 0’ l
Lantcrn Contest, teen-age dances, th _
Kazoo Concert, and others. Withou
its staunch and enthusiastic endorse :
ment, as well as that of the local new I
paper, the Torrington Register, thes
various ambitious community project
could not have been successfully under
taken.

Several men’s club organize thei
own kazoo combos. The whole town b
comes kazoo conscious. POp practic
in the shower, Mama works out wit
rock ’n’ roll tunes, Junior arouses th
neighborhood with his early-hour re
dition of “Shine On, Harvest Moon.”

On the last night of the playgroun
season, always a Saturday, from fiv _
to seven thousand people stream in
one park for the windup of th
season. The Kiddy Kazoo band, jud
ed the best of the playground group
and augmented by a similar band fro
one of the men’s clubs, is seated on a
improvised stage along with a regul
musical band. F ollowing a short am
teur show, put on by talented youn
sters, also chosen from the vario
playgrounds, the musical band picks u
the tune of “Davy Crockett” while fir
works set up in a distant corner of t
field illuminate the night with a silho

RECREATIO

  
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
      
    
  
  
   
 
    
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
  

_ e of Davy in his famous coonskin.‘
 peOple, all seven thousand, whip
It their kazoos, moisten their lips, and
re forth with the stirring strains of
_ - old frontiersman, or “I’m Looking
f - er a Four-Leaf Clover,” or “Ru-
n ph, the Red-Nosed Reindeer” as the
' works indicate. Between times, the
ening’s theme song, “Toodle-Dee-
i: on Your Old Kazoo” gets a good
ing. This community spirit, this es-
 ‘t-de-corps, is the most essential in-
_ client of any corporate project from
I quare dance to a kazoo concert. To
- raphrase a famous quote” from Sir
mes Barrie’s What Every Woman
news, “If you have it (esprit-de-
rps, we mean), you don’t need to
1ve anything else; and if you don’t
- ve it, it doesn’t matter what else you

- ~ve.” l

J

* See “Musical Fireworks,” RECREATIOK,

II ne 1954.

' ** He was referring to charm.

ere are some bright ideas (many
m leftover materials and crepe
-:- for making baskets, favors,
. table centerpieces, for decorating
ter eggs, and adding extra excite-
" t to egg hunts.

nny Jack Horner Centerpiece

erials: Crepe paper—moss green,
te and pink; round box, approxi-
tely seven inches in diameter and
r inches high; lightweight card-
rd; wire; paste; ten-inch doilies.

IL 1958

The Local Press

Five thousand kazoos (honest) are
being distributed in Torrington this
week, in preparation for the city’s, and
probably the world’s first community
kazoo concert.

The (late for the unusual event, in

case you want to attend or leave town,
is .Aug. 18.

WTOR Sponsoring Kazoos
Local radio station, WTOR, has un-

derwritten the cost of the kazoos,

which are being distributed free in
downtown stores. There’s no commer-
cial tie-in, Carl [Bozenskil has insist-
ed, ever since he began directing ac-

tivities here, that the children’s pro-
grams not be exploited in any way.
The station is creating a little kazoo
interest, these days, by frequent ren-
derings of an old-time favorite,
“Toodle-Dee-Doo on Your Old Ka-
zoo.”

There’ll be a nonkazoo band on hand
at the concert, to provide a melodic
guide for the expected 5,000 kazoo
artists, some of whom, Carl concedes,
perhaps won’t have had much practice
prior to the concert.

“Be sure to come,” Carl emphasiz-

ed, “and kindly show your kazoo at the
gate.”——BsaNAan J. MALAHAN in The

Hartford Times, July 28, 1956.

 

 

Easter Tables

Cover a round box with green crepe,
then cut eight strips each three-quarter
inches wide by five inches long and
paste (dark side out) at even intervals
around box and doily edge around top.
Head: Cut two silhouettes from white
construction paper, cover one side of
each with white crepe, place under book
until paste is dry to keep flat.

Ears: Cut two large and two small ears
from pink crepe, then paste the small
ones pink side up, to white side of
larger ones and then paste them in place

on bunny head silhouette. Cut features
from colored paper or draw them. Cut
an eighteen-inch piece of wire and
paste silhouettes together back to back
with three inches of wire in between.
One inch below chin, wrap wire with a
strip of crepe around and around, form-
ing a knob. Twist end of wire into flat
spiral. Tape to inside center of box.
Rafle: Cut a strip of green crepe eight
inches wide by approximately thirty
inches long, fold in half lengthwise, pin
to hold in place and cut open edges into
fringe. Cut strip in two fifteen-inch
pieces, then place one on top of other
and gather through center with needle
and thread. Tie under bunny’s chin.
Easter bonnet: Place flowers around
one of bunny’s ears and drape veiling
over eyes, tying in back.

Daisy Favor

Materials: Crepe paper—white, yellow,
and moss green; lollypop; large gum-
dr0p; clear cellophane; small souffle
cup. Cover a lollyp0p with green crepe
paper and insert end of stick into a
large gumdr0p, place in center of a five
inch square of clear cellophane, draw
up around, tie with green ribbon.
Daisy: Cut a strip of white crepe with
the grain one and one half inches wide
by eight inches long, fold in half twice
with the grain. Cut one edge into petals
three fourth inches deep, gather
straight edge with needle and thread to
form a circle and paste to front of lolly-
p0p. Cut a one inch circle of yellow
and paste in center of flower. Cover a
scuffle cup with green crepe and stand
daisy inside.

Easter Egg Place Card

Materials: Crepe paper—azure blue
and American Beauty; lace paper doil-
ies; eggs. Blow egg, then wrap it with
azure blue crepe paper. Trim with
American Beauty crepe and trim with
small designs cut from lace paper doily.
Paste end of egg to place card and add
ribbon bow. To blow egg, make pin-
hole in both ends of egg, using a long
hat pin. (Make sure pin pierces egg
yolk.) Blow insides into a bowl, rinse
shell thoroughly and allow to dry. To
wrap egg, cut a one quarter inch wide
strip of crepe paper through the fold
of un0pened package. Paste end of strip
to egg and wrap diagonally. %

117

 

. H “W%

  

g! sibb ,._
. “I ...'

.‘r .  I

Twenty-three-foot lighthouse has interior slide.

ACOMMUNITY of some thirty thousand people, Monte-
‘ bello, California, has experienced a dearth of equipped
children’s play areas. It does, however, have a new twenty-
acre park site named after a local war hero, Grant Rea
Memorial Park. The thought of displaying a well-equip-
ped play area, especially designed for children between the
ages of three and twelve years, has been running through
my mind the past two years. The plans are finally drawn
up and have been ofhcially approved. Rather than turn to
the completely abstract in active play-equipment design, as
some modern areas have done, or to construct a children’s
area primarily visual in appeal, we decided to:

0 Design a play area for completely active play.

0 Keep all. units in this area within the realm of a given
theme; thereby encouraging active play for these preteen

 

MR. ROTSCH, versatile director of recreation in M ontebello,
drew up the plans and designs for Playshore, to be executed
by a professional architect. His experience in the ship-
building industry and his service in the U. S. Navy have had
an obvious influence on Playshore’s design. He is also a
song writer and was, at one time,'municipal rnusic director.

 

The whale will be a climber twenty feet long: i

118

Montebello, California, plans
a delightful play area for the
imaginative child where the
“theme is the thin".” It will
bring the seashore to inland

boys and girls.

 PLAYSHOR

W'Iumm
h

\

 

FAMILY
PlCNIC AREA

ammucéC>
‘9 a
[9? $32

The theme selected was one

Gene Rolsch

E

E 
g _
E

m

 

children by just suggesting a basic theme through the us
of design, but still allowing latitude for imaginative play.
The theme selected was that of sea life and the seashore
and, in keeping with the lore of the sea, we titled the are
Playshore. The saga of the sea, being almost as old a
civilization itself and still as modern as tomorrow, provid
us with an agcless theme, with universal appeal. The Pla

shore area will occupy two-and-a-half acres of park and ha -'

been planned and designed by recreation professionals an
staff members of the Montebello Department of Recreation

Unique Approach

One morning last spring I called Joann Treder, the de
partment’s supervisor (and also a clever artist), into m
office and explained my basic thoughts related to Playshore
We put child appeal and play value first in our thinking
safety factors of each unit were equally important, but wer
considered second. Our thought was that merely safe pla
equipment is not enough, for if child appeal is nonexisten
then both time and money have been wasted, as is the cas
with some of the old-time play equipment. As the desig
for each unit was selected, the utmost care and attention t
detail were given to making it as hazard-free as possible.

Durable materials, such as steel, wood and concrete, hav
been used throughout these designs. Ease of maintenanc
was also carefully considered. The entire arca will be turfe
in durable grasses, with a free-form bed of sand curbed i

around each unit.

RECREATIO

' Nautical Play Area

1”” o
KSEA SERPERT

regular playground, not an amusement park.

Encourages Family Attendanee

The Playshore area will be completely enclosed in chain-
inked fencing and located on two levels. The enclosure will
lave only one gate for both entry and exit, opening directly
onto a large family picnic area. Mother, Daddy, and the
rest of the family are also considered at Playshore. The
upper level will feature a food-concession building, benches,

Ilnbrella tables, and other seating arrangements, which will
enable adults to enjoy a snack or cold drink and view the
htire play area below without being too close to, or inter-

Iupting, the play of their children. Thereby, the young-
siers may explore the wonders of Playshore in their own

say and still be seen by their parents.

I
Seventeen Play Units

Playshore will boast seventeen units of especially de-
signed play equipment. All but two of these units will be
bompletely original in designm—the turtle climber and an
oversized merry-go-round, which will be made up by com-

ercial manufacturers. Among these units will be a forty-
[0t wading pool in the form of a huge goldfish; a twenty-
tot whale climber, with accompanying whale boat; a sixty-

ot sea serpent, whose tail coils on the upper level, with

  
     
  

I e last twenty feet being a wave slide from one level to the
ther; a twenty-three-foot lighthouse with an interior spiral
ide, also working from one level to the other; a, giant
lide, approached by a long ramp with more than a hun-

  
  
  

PRIL 1958

The intriguing starfish elimber, top, is one of
Playshore’s seventeen specially designed units.

The sea serpent is a sixty-foot slide that amiably
brings the ehildren down from the upper level.

 

 

Crow’s nest, really a pole slide, ehallenges the
youngsters to climb aloft and scan far horizons.

119

dred square feet of stainless steel slide bed; a crow’s nest
pole slide; a submarine, fabricated from three-foot-diam-
eter sewer tiles; a twenty-five-foot fire boat; a star fish
climber; a forty-foot pirate’s ship, fabricated on an actual
discarded boat hull; a “Pacific cable” balanced walker; six
seahorse swings; a pipe climber in the shape of a turtle;
drinking fountains in a giant clamshell, and sea chests or
benches built like sea chests. There is ample space left in
the area for future additions.

Developmental Plan

Obviously a development of this sc0pe is expensive. We
have obtained bids on the various units, and barring too
serious future contingencies, we have an accurate estimate.
Feeling that both cost-wise and interest-wise, it would be
well to involve the whole community, we specifically laid
our development plan as a community-develOpment proj-
ect. .We have formed a citizen’s committee known as Play-
shore, Incorporated, which will act as a nonprofit corpora-
tion, with a chairman and a six-man board of directors.
As designer and director of the department, I am working
with this committee on a consultant basis. Service clubs
and other civic groups are being invited to sponsor an in-
dividual unit financially, or more than one, if they so desire.
Thus far, we have yet to encounter a single refusal, as all
groups approached have responded immediately, or are in
the process of doing so. *

With the knowledge that some groups are, of necessity,

in better financial condition than others, owing to size and

* Three thousand dollars have already been pledged.

 

Humaneness for the Elderly

New Y ork’s new “homestead” plan
emphasizes need for treating the aged as people
--——not as patients . . .

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
   

type of organization, units on Playshore were specially pr
rated in cost. In this way, even smaller organizations c
become a part of Playshore’s development at a cost in li
with their financial status. The least expensive units a
the drinking fountains and benches, which will only c
$75 each, up through the most expensive, around $4,000.

No efforts have been spared in laying the groundwo
carefully for a good community-relations program. In pr
senting the Playshore idea to the organizations and publi
our office prepared color sketches for each of the uni
maps of the entire park site and smaller maps of the Pla
shore area itself. Duplicates of these and a brochure on t
development are given to each organization as it is a
proached for support. Now in preparation are a comple
professional architectural presentation donated by Geor
F. Schreiber, an architect doing another job for Montebell
a quarter-inch scale mock-up of the Playshore area an
units. The city government is already in the process of d
veloping the over-all park site and Playshore will be a
sisted by public funds in the total development. Actual co
struction is expected to start in early spring, and it is h0pe
that a large part of the play area will be ready for dedicatio
in June or July, l958.**

The city and people of Montebello extend an invitati
and welcome to all recreation professionals in the natio
who would like to visit us within the next year, to see Pla
shore. Questions addressed to the recreation department r
lating to this, or similar develOpments, will be answered .

quickly as possible. @

h“-

* * Ground breaking will be in mid-April, 1958.

Other communities might well follow
the lead of New York City, where the
drabness of life for elderly pe0ple who
must live in a hospital for want of a
better place to go, is being eliminated,
according to an announcement by Dr.
Howard A. Rusk, member of the Board
of Hospitals, during the Institute of the
Ill, Handicapped and Homebound at
New York University in January.
(This is the institute cosponsored by
the National Recreation Association
and New York University.)

A study of the New York hospitals
has revealed that few of these patients
still need actual hospitalization. Rather,
they stay on because there is no one to
care for them, and,"i1p"t9,¢now, they
have had to settle down to; . isolated
existence in a corner of a: nerd filled

120

with really sick people. Here, they have
been given a bed, chair, and bedside
table for their treasures, and told to
keep quiet. They have led a bleak ex-
istence, have been awakened every cold
gray dawn to be washed and fed with
the other patients and otherwise made
to fit in with routines for the ill.

At long last, however, these elderly
pe0ple will have an opportunity to live
with dignity, privacy, and some small
pleasures. A new type of installation,
called “homesteads,” along with a more
humane consideration of their needs,
is being introduced by the city’s de-
partment of hOSpitals. The first such in-
stallation was opened at Goldwater
Memorial Hospital on Welfare Island
shortly after the NYU meeting, and this
is the first time in the history of the

‘l" v
n

5

three thousand homestead beds in Ne
York City hospitals, bringing that v

New York City-state relationship th
such a project has been jointly finance
A section of one floor has been u
vided into small living units that ha
been redecorated by professionals a
made as cheerfully homelike as pos
ble. Here the oldsters will have ind
vidual accommodations and recreatio
al and vocational facilities. No nurs
will be on duty, but attendants will u
near at hand for emergencies. The do

tors will not make “bedside” calls, b

will hold office hours, and be on call -
all times. The National Recreation A
sociation has been asked to set up t
recreation activities for these units.

is h0ped that, eventually, there will u:

tally needed “humane touch.” I

Recess-r1 a

 

layground Fragrant Aids

The following tips are eullcd
from the experience of others,
and are contributed here to
stimulate your program with
fresh ideas and activities.

“Playground Paudy”

“Pandy” was a small youngster
ressed in a panda suit made of terry
loth and papier-ma;hé. Pandy toured
1e playgrounds witll the safety director
": a portable amplifier, delighting
ouugsters as he demonstrated the safe
In. of apparatus. Aimed primarily to-
*ard the younger set, Pandy was not
nly an immediate aid, but part of a
ng-range safety plan. He was also
. TV; safety spot announcements,
ommentary,and 35mm slides of Pandy
rought playground safety before the
ublic. Our safety program is also pub-
cized by newspapers and radio. Safety
. further emphasized on the play-
, ounds by means of safety games and
uzzles.——JAMEs E. BONAHOOM, safety
irector, supervisor of special events,

ort Wayne Park Board, Indiana.

‘A Program from Foot Lockers”

Springfield, Missouri, is an all-Amer-

n city of 100,000 population, with
fteen beautiful parks and all types of
ay equipment and planned programs
t specific times. Two recreation super—
'sors carry equipment in foot lockers

their cars and travel from park to
rk. Park supervisors, in the mean-

e, have created great advance in-
est in the program by announcing
r arrival to the children and what will
our when she comes.

A special-event day is held at alter-
te parks during the week. In 1957
r first-week theme was Olympic Day,
d our supervisors carried this out
ith crafts, games, contests, singing,
orytelling, and so on.

This experiment has met with won-
rful results. Our attendance has rap-

RIL 1958 ‘

 

Children love antics of “Pandy,” who tours playgrounds in the interest
of safety to demonstrate the proper use of apparatus. He was also on TV.

Papier-maché steer is result of the “Program from Foot Lockers.”

 

idly increased; the children are well
behaved; and the delinquency problem
is almost nonexistent. The program
ran for eleven weeks, with the follow-
ing themes: Indian Day, Robin Hood
Day, Circus Day, Patriotic Day, Paul
Bunyan Day, Christmas in July, Pirate
Day, Hobo Day, and Mystery Day.—

ROY BONE, assistant recreation direc-

tor, Springfield Public Park Board.

Special Events—“For F un”
Notable progress has been made by
our staff in promoting and conducting
special events on the playgrounds,
which we have always considered one
of the most important program facets.

121

 

These events are the highlights of the
week. Children tire of routine pro—

grams without an occasional change to
hold their interest. A special event of-
fers activity opportunities not usually
found in the daily program. Also, it is
good publicity for the playground and
an excellent method of interesting and
recruiting adult volunteers.

On the other hand, this part of the
program presents many problems and
can actually produce negative results.
The inexperienced leader, without ade-
quate guidance, tends to think of it as
a contest or competition of some sort';
then, whatever the event, the emphasis
in the promoting and conducting of the
event is on the competition. What bet-
ter way to foster keen competition than
by giving prizes to the winners? Thus
the cycle begins, and each succeeding
event must offer better prizes, or the
children will not think it worthwhile.

In the summer of 1953, we decided to
take drastic steps. We talked to the
playground supervisors about the real
objectives of special events and about
the dangers of “bribing” children to
We virtually prohibited
the use of prizes, and provided each
playground supervisor with ribbons to

participate.

use in their places, with disappointing
results.

For the next two summers, our efforts
met with similar results; defeat seemed
Playground supervisors
simply could not conduct successful
special events without excessive use of

imminent.

material incentives; many of the super-
visors symphathized with the children.
Early in the spring of 1956, this per-
ennial problem of prizes was discussed
at a department staff meeting. We

122

finally arrived at this point: if three
generations of children on a play-
ground have had a pet show every sum-
mer, and prizes have always been given
for the winners, then the fourth genera-
tion must have prizes, too. Social pres-
sure and tradition are mighty forces;
if you can’t beat them, try going around
them. We decided, in other words, to
change the type of special event instead
of trying to change the method of oper-
ation of familiar ones. Thus carnival
night was substituted for the pet show,
Indian day for the doll show. While it
is impossible and undesirable to re-
move all elements of competition from
such events, the program was planned
so that the competitive aspects were
minor. Our special events are now suc-
cessful beyond anything we had hoped.
—MARGARET FARR in Civic Recreation,
a recreation bulletin published by De-
partment of Public Recreation, Ottawa,

Canada.

Flying Saucers—Spaceman Toy

Here is a space-age project for your
playground crafts or for the whole
group on that rainy day indoors. At
one of the NRA Northwest District
Conferences, in Boise, Idaho, Mrs.
Frances Werschkul, craft director in the
Portland, Oregon, Park and Recreation
Department and member of the Arts
and Crafts Committee of the National
Recreation Association, demonstrated
a playground project everybody loved.

It is simple; can be modified, has
movement, and captures the imagina-
tion. The following instructions can be
changed if the youngsters prefer birds
or clowns to spacemen, or corks to rub-
ber balls, or copper wire to pipe clean-
ers.

Supplies needed:

36 inches of 14-gauge wire

18 inches of 18-gauge wire

2 disks of 32-gauge sheet aluminum, 3-inch
diameter

2 small peanuts

2 small foam rubber balls or corks

6 pipe cleaners '

Directions: Bend the heavy wire in half,
using pliers if necessary. Twist the
wires together evenly, so that the width
between twists is between one-quarter
and one-half inch. You now have one
twisted wire about fifteen inches long.
Insert the two ends into small foam rub-

ber balls.
For the flying saucers, punch three

 
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
   

small holes in each of the disks. Insert
the wire into these holes, so that they
lie flat, held by the wire. Just outside
the disks, bend the wire into “swings,”
for the spacemen to hang on (se
sketch). Then bend the wire around
the pole, going around twice. Experi-
ment here. The disk wire should glide
smoothly down the pole, not too fast,
not too slowly, and when the pole is re-
versed, should glide the other way
equally well. It must follow the twists
in the wire, not slide over them.

The spacemen are peanuts, painted
with poster paint. One pipe cleaner is
inserted through two holes, carefully
punched toward one end of the peanut,
for legs; the same is done for arms.
The third pipe cleaner is cut in half, '
and each half inserted into the peanutI
top for antenna; twisted copper wire at
the t0p adds a space touch.

Bend the arms of each Spaceman
securely but loosely around the “swing”
in the wire, so that he rides down
smoothly with the disk. Note that the
pipe cleaner legs and arms are twisted.

For Young Archaeologists

Indian treasure, arrowheads, bones,
and burial grounds capture the imagin
ation of eight- and nine-year old boys
The leaders of the Midget Section at th
Erie YMCA’s Camp Sherwin capita
ized on the dreams of the little fellow
by going just a little further than th
customary Indian campfire stories, an
actually making a reality out of unco
ering an Indian burial ground.

One evening after the little camper
had been put to bed the leaders carrie
bones to a carefully selected spot an
buried them. Indian coins (rusty pe
nies), wampum (the cook’s necklace
and arrows (from the archery range
were added. The following day, aft
a hike the group somehow stumbled
a strange looking mound proclaimed
resemble an Indian grave. After so
digging, behold, bones and hidd
treasures were uncovered. News of th
archeological find spread like wildfi
throughout camp, a n d excavatio
started wholesale throughout the are
Finally, after a day of exciting activit
forty—eight tired little fellows we
home with tall tales of the bigdiscover

—ROBERT E. ZECH, director of YMC

Camp Sherwin, Erie, Pennsylvania.

RECREATI

70km tears-

A

 
 
 
    
   
  

I layground

Necessity

May Day Walden

'I-

' AKE SOME five thousand youngsters of assorted races;
add a few thousand adults and senior citizens; dis-
: ibute over thirty-four playgrounds; head them with trained
creation workers; mix in about two hundred volunteers;
d turn ’em all out under warm sunny skies to have fun.
at, roughly speaking, lists the basic ingredients of the
liblic recreation program of the City and County of Hono-
ulu, Hawaii.
Important in the “recipe” is the volunteer, whose work
oes on quietly, but without whom the program would not
e nearly as successful. It is only with his help that the rec-
qation program can accommodate so many persons. The
ills added by the volunteers give strength and greater
iriety to the program; their devotion gives inspiration to
'3 paid staff, and their understanding makes them good
# erpreters of the program to the community.
. Almost every recreation area here has two or three or
- re adults giving volunteer service during the year; and
n-agers help as junior leaders. They serve in various
1; acities. Some lead clubs or conduct sports leagues;
ers teach arts and crafts, tell stories, direct plays, lead
accompany singing. Still others help with swimming
'3 sses, teach dancing, provide transporation, chaperone
' oups on hikes, picnics and parties, or serve as counselors

'I S. WALDEN is publicity specialist for the board of public
I, ks and recreation in Honolulu, Hawaii.

—
-—-
 ___
~ ‘3:- s
. __f r
'.I‘ . .
,

 

IL 1958

and cooks at camp. During the past year a total of more
than two hundred men and women served as volunteers on
the public playgrounds. Together they served a total of
22,553 hours.

Who are these volunteers? They come from many walks
of life. Some hold full-time jobs in business and profes-
sional fields and find volunteering on the playgrounds after
working hours provides recreation for themselves as well as
for others. Many are mothers and fathers whose own chil-
dren are participants in the playground activities. There
are housewives, too, who enjoy something interesting to do
outside of the home, and there are retired persons. The lat-
ter, with more leisure at their disposal and the desire to
continue to be useful, are among the most faithful workers.

The volunteer who gave the highest number of service
hours last year is retired; Karl Greene, an amateur malaco-
logist, who serves as head of the shell department at the
Children’s Center Museum of Nature Science. Several years
ago he presented his private shell collection, one of the
largest in the island, to the museum for the children of the
city. Another retired person, Hersh Mann, gave 832 hours
as secretary of the Honolulu Senior Citizens’ Club.

Recruiting

In order to have the needed volunteers, the Honolulu
Board of Public Parks and Recreation is constantly on the
lookout for persons whose services might be enlisted. There
is continuous recruiting to fill vacancies left by volunteers
who have moved from the community or who have turned
to other interests because their children have grown up.
It is from the ranks of the participants in the recreation
program that the department first seeks its volunteers.
With their enthusiasm and belief in the worth of recrea-
tion already kindled, they are naturally the best prospects.
Indeed, most of the volunteers were first participants who
were then enlisted when they showed certain skills.

The attempt is made, wherever possible, to interest citi-
zens to serve on a neighborhood level. It is felt that they
would enjoy most working for and among friends and
neighbors. Therefore, recruiting is usually done through
the personal contact of the area director with the person who
has the desired skill. In talks before service organizations,
staff members explain the opportunities for volunteering
on the playgrounds. They point out the many types of
volunteers needed, not only in the activity skills, but in such
roles as leader of young people’s groups, chaperones, and
judges at special events.

The city’s volunteer service bureau also occasionally
makes referrals to the recreation department, but experi-
ence has shown that persons so referred do not usually re-

main long because they do not have the intense enthusiasm
of former participants.

Orientation

Orientation of the volunteer takes place in two parts. On
the department level, a representative of the administrative

The referee of this game works during the day as a
painter. Volunteers come from many walks of life, in-
spire entire staff with their enthusiasm and devotion.

12'3

 

staff meets with him to interpret the philosophy and func-
tion of the recreation program. An effort is made also to
inculcate pride in the service he can give on the part of the
new volunteer.

0n the area level the orientation is assisted by the di-
rector who explains the content of the playground’s pro-
gram, the make-up of the community to be served, and the
resources available.

When there is necd to train and orient many volunteers
at a time, such as preceding the summer fun program, a
worksh0p is conducted by the department. This consists of
nine three-hour sessions. Short courses in arts and crafts,
nature science, and music are presented by specialists.

The emotional and social needs of youngsters, the aims
and purposes of the department, and the responsibility of
the volunteer and the department to each other are discussed.

Recognition

The pleasure derived from working with children is their
greatest reward, say the volunteers. However, formal rec-
ognition is given to them once a year, usually at the end of
the summer fun session. This is done at a community func-
tion, Sllch as a dinner or a dance, where, in a special recogni-
tion ceremony, recreation commissioners express the grati-
tude of the board and present the volunteers with certificates.
Recognition is also given at area programs, and there has
been some feeling that this is more meaningful because the
volunteers are personally known to those present.

In addition to certificates, material gifts are sometimes
presented. In a few instances where the standard of leader-
ship, skill, and hours of service warrant it, partial monetary
compensation is given by the department. The contribution

 

_ N. ‘ .. ,
This group of volunteers is learning how to use flannel
board pietures to illustrate stories during a workshop.

 
   
  
 
  
   
   
  
     
   
  
 

program, twelve years of age and older, who have shown
qualities of leadership, sincerity, dependability, and re-
sourcefulness. They are generally leaders in their interest
groups and are used to hold their respective groups together. h

  

The young people are given experiences that will develop
leadership and reSponsibility. They work closely with th
playground directors and perform such services as stand
ing by when younger children are taking swimming lessons,
accompanying hikers, assisting at camp and sports events _I
preparing exhibits, presenting nature science programs, and II
serving as docents at the Children’s Museum. The junior
leaders also share in program planning.

These leaders are given some kind of identification nl
wear—a particular type of cap or shirt. At the end of th
summer term the department sponsors a party for all 3
them and presents a gift to each in the form of some usefu

of the volunteers is also acknowledged frequently by the
agency in its publicity releases and pictures.

Junior Leaders

Recently, incrcased attention has been given to the de-
velopment of junior leaders. They are participants in the

New Ideas for Games

Source materials can help build your
games program with a minimum outlay
of time and effort. Why start every
program from scratch? New games to
keep up flagging playground interest
work on this idea of integration of in-
novation: (1) it is easier to teach a
game that has a basis in another game,
already known, than to teach an entirely
new one (and children’s interest span
is short) ; (2) you can arouse an inter-
est in more than one existing game at
a time by learning partial skills of both.

Take bowling and golf as an ex-
ample. Combined, these two games
form an interesting and inexpensive

124

 

variation for the playground. The new
game is simple. A golf ball is putted
down a prepared lane into a set-up of
ten miniature bowling pins. Score is
kept by the strike and spare system on
rcgular bowling cards.

Where did the idea come from? A

toy and novelty manufacturing com-
pany catalogue. Many such novelty
catalogues have games and ideas easily
converted to playground or crafts class
use. SUpply catalogues are often over-
looked because recreation leaders order
them only to answer some Specific need.
Send out a dozen postcards to play-
ground equipment manufacturers for
their catalogues and leaf through them.
I’ll bet a soggy soybean you come up

school article. During the past year there were 182 junio
leaders who each gave more than 75 hours of service, the' .'
total number of hours being 34,488.

, The importance of developing junior leaders lies not onl
in the services they give now but also in the hope that man
future adult volunteers will come from their ranks. 

  
   
  
     
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  

with more than one idea you can u
in your program . . . like the “bat-bak
table tennis outfit, table bowling, tabl
top shuffieboard, and others.

Each might be ideal for a limit
play space or a special age group. 0
or two persons of little skill may pla;.

“Bat-bak” is especially interesting t
a director who sees several table tenn
outfits laying idle day after day for a
of a dozen reasons. The table tilts
vertically at one end, so actually t _
player can hit the ball against a w
and return his own hit; or two can pla
alternating hits. Space requiremen ';
negligible—BOB LOEFFELBEIN, Supe
intendent of River Road Park and Re

reation District, Eugene, Oregon.

RECREATI a

Trench Fireplaces

 

A day camp
trains for special

camping slcills

CAMPING is an accepted way of life in the Northwest. In
order to prepare youngsters for the safe enjoyment of
the woods and mountains, therefore, the park commission
of Seattle, Washington, sponsors and conducts training in
'camp skills by providing opportunities to learn and prac-
tice in day camp. Take fire making, for example. Trench
fireplaces, built up waist high, so that early practice is safe,
and no skirts or eyebrows get singed, offer the chance to
learn how, the fun of using the fire for cooking, and the
adaptation of these fires to the campfire making and cook-
ing that will come later on camping trips.

Such lessons are carefully planned and cover all types of
fires. An outline of a typical lesson plan follows. Such
instruction, accompanied by demonstration and practice,

ould be applied to a local playground program, as well as
o a day camp.

 
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
   
    
  
  

Recreation Instructor and Camp Counselor Guide

Subject: Trench Fires

ay . . . . . . . .Time . . . . . . . .Camp Area Location . . . . . . . .
ounselor Assigned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I MEMORANDUM: Fires have many uses; they may cook

od, heat water, destroy rubbish, or serve to warm and
I eer the camper.
A good day camper learns to build a foundation fire, and
en learns to build it into the kind of fire that will serve
' s purpose best.
A good fire is built in a safe place, is kept under control
all times, and is completely extinguished when no longer

eded.

Equipment Needed: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trench hre: This is to provide a larger number of camp-
. safe access to the blaze of the fire; provide concentrated
t in a controlled area; give a versatile camper the oppor-

ity to barbecue or grill large pieces of meat or other food.
| ESSON PLAN AND OUTLINE:

1. Several types of stone material may be used in the con-

55 OLMSTED, district recreation supervisor, is directly re-
nsible for the day camp program of the Seattle Park
mission, Seattle, Washington, has developed the bull:

he training material used in it.

' IL 1958

Natalie Olmsted

struction of a trench fire: Masonry—cement or fire brick
——and natural stone—lava rock, granite (sandstone ex-
plodes with heat).
2. Location for construction:
a. Select a location where fire hazard is limited
b. Select location accessible to other campers
c. Select level ground area
d. Select area most apt to be somewhat protected from
the wind, regardless of its direction
3. Execution of construction of trench: Dig a rectangu-
lar trench large enough to allow for the lining with stone
and ample space for good fire. After trench has been dug
and stones have been placed very close together, line the
sides and floor of the trench, mortar (if available) may be
poured behind stones. The same principles are involved in
the off-the-ground type; this is relative to the size and lining
of firebox space.
4. Preparing the fire—what to use:
' Tinder—material that catches fire from a match. This
should be in pieces not any thicker than a match but longer,
such as shavings or fuzz sticks, fine twigs (especially from
evergreen trees); tops of bushes or Weeds, pieces of pine
pitch (paper may be used but is used only in emergencies).
Beware of material that flares Up quickly.
' Kindling—material that catches fire from tinder—such
as good dry sticks and twigs graduated in size, just bigger
than tinder up to sizes as large as the thumb (they should be
from six to twelve inches long; larger pieces may be split
for kindling).
' Fuel—the real fire material—includes good firm pieces
of wood graduated in size from pieces bigger than kindling

to good-sized logs. This selection depends on use. Char-
coal is often used as fuel.

Trench fire at this point is available for cooking uses.

TRENCH-FIRE Boxes

.
'6
a
.a

     

lac/mix“ ,4;

   

' --------- I.
2/7 . "

n ==::

 
   

 

' 5/195 VIEW .

 

‘ 9

 



Lamadaca chieftains have been powwowing about day’s
events. Feathers are awardcd for outstanding merit.

 

THERE is a colorful day camp in St.

Petersburg, Florida, with Indian
lore as its theme—Camp Lamadaca, on
the shores of Lake Maggiore. Its In-
dian-sounding name was formed by
combining the first two letters of LAke
M A ggiore DAy CA mp.

Camp Lamadaca was founded in
1949, and in 1954 it was admitted to the
Florida section of the American Camp-
ing Association. Although it is operated
only during the summer playground
season, it was recognized by the associa-
tion for its oustanding program and
leadership, giving some sixty children
of nine to fourteen years of age an op-

Mlss SAW YER is senior supervisor of the
recreation. department inSt.Petersburg.

[26

portunity to enjoy a day in camp, with
a regular camp schedule.

Campers are required to be registered
at and to attend the community play-
grounds jointly sponsored by the Pine]-
las County school system and the city
recreation department. In fact, the staff
at the day camp is made up of person-
nel from both the schools and the rec-
reation department.

The youngsters are brought to camp
by Heap Big Yellow Horse (the school
bus). Every morning it gallops up and

disgorges a hord of prospective In-
dians. After the war whoops calm down
around the council circle, the day’s plan-
ned program starts. “Big Cap” bugles
formation for flag raising, salute, and
the Pledge of Allegiance. Buddies are
then paired off for the conducted tour

of the nature trail. “Big Cap” can call
the alligators from away out in the
middle of the lake (always a surprise
and delight to everyone) and he knows
just where the°white herons nest and
the great eagle circles. The many trees,
shrubs, flowers—even poison ivy—are
marked and identified to give the La-

Evcry Indian knows how to construct a firc, of coursc.
Note the council circlc totem pole in background.

 

The Indians
Are Day Camping

Mary E. L. Sawyer

madaca Indians a better understandin
of Florida Hora, with a bit of faun
thrown in.

Archers go out into the great open
spaces. Fishermen hunt for worms an
go angling off the pier. A bamboo grov "
can be raided for a fine fishing pole '
and the eager beavers are taught how t I
rig a pole and how to fish, with excel
lent results. Little cans with fish of al
sizes and colors, and crabs, put to sleep
and wrapped up, are taken home a

souvenirs.

Around 11:30 the mob usually get
so hungry that “Big Cap” bugles firs
call to the heap big feast. There is
never need for a second or last call. Th
first day at camp, each child brings hi
own feedbag. On the next day all g

into a huddle and come up with a steal,

and the chow line is loud and lusty, a
it forms with a beating of plates an

pans. Tlic next day is cookout day I
when campers learn safety in fire build..-
ing, how to cook the food they brin I
from home and correct use of a. I
hatchet and knives.

Each day there is something “extr

RECREAT’IO

)ecial” for the Indians: water safety
ssons, first aid, new games, group
inging contests, native crafts, tent
itching, and rope knotting.

Every year five Indian tribes are
ormed: Seminoles, whose color is yel-
ow and whose symbol is the sun;
' ohicans, whose color is blue and
- 1nbol, the blue god; Blackfoots, whose
lor is green and symbol, the buffalo;
ioux, whose color is turquoise and

bol, the white heron; and Apaches,
vhose color is red and symbol, the
1underbird.

One of the 111081: impressive things at
he camp, and the center of interest, is
he totem pole made of a palm tree
runk which stands in the center of the
Each week a different
ribe puts its Indian symbol and color
n the pole. At the end of the season
he pole is completed and makes a color-
in] and decorative show piece.

a uncil circle.

Feathers of many colors are awarded
for outstanding merits—red for the
est tent pitched by the warriors, green

for first and biggest fish, blue for the
most artistic headband, yellow for the
highest score in archery and races. The
purple feather is the greatest prize a
Lamadaca Indian. can win——for good
citizenship and for being the best all-
round camper.

0n the last day of every camp week a
big powwow is held in the council circle
—-—with Indian dances and songs, In-
dian wrestling, and the passing around
of the medicine stick—an impressive
ceremony. Feathers are awarded at this
time. The counselors are presented with
a feather from each tribe as a gesture of
appreciation from the campers.

The camp ends for the summer with
all tribes and their chiefs and warriors
and Indian princcsses coming together,
wearing their warpaint and feathers, for
a mass powwow to make peace and live
in harmony.

Each chief, with the help of one brave
of his tribe, competes in tent (wigwam)
pitching and each princess shows her
skill in fire building. It is an interesting

9*

contest to watch. Winners are given
prize war bonnets of many feathers and
shell necklaces. The chief and princess
winning these two contests become the
chief and princess of all the tribes and
reign for the day.

Then there is the great thanksgiving
feast—hot dogs, Indian bread, dug
roots (carrot sticks and potato chips)
and firewater (pop). Each Indian fin-
ishes with the pipe of peace (pop-
sickle).

The climax of the powwow is the
“Legend of the Buried Treasure of La-
madaca.” Each tribe goes out in force
to follow given clues to find the treasure
to be divided among members of the
tribe finding it. After all, a jar of hard
candy can give heap happiness!

The end comes, the last call sounds,
the tribes return to their home hunting
grounds, to show off their feathers and
relive their many memories.

A day camp, along with summer play-
grounds, is a truly big, important ac-
tivity program for boys and girls. I

 

 

7€ote¢ for;

Me #dmmm
.

Restricted TitIe Lands Not for Parks

“When funds are earmarked for parks, they can’t be spent
on land with a restrictcd title,” said the city council of
Buena Park, California—and the school district superin-
lendent protested, “This is a restriction imposed by the state;
without it we cannot sell the property.”

Thus the three five-acre park sites adjacent to elementary
Ischools were turned down by the councilmen. They believed
that guaranteeing school youngsters the right to play on the
Eites during school hours jeopardized future plans for de-
velopmcnt of the park lands——they should be taken clear and

free or not at all.-——Park Maintenance, August 1957.

h
Court Decisions

EFRESIIMENT STAND IN PARK WITHIN RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
The Cleveland Metropolitan Park Board had developed a
public park and picnic area, including a bathhouse, parking
area, and so on, in a single-family residence district on Lake
Erie in a suburban town, and now proposed to add a small re-
freshment stand to these facilities. The town of Bay Village

uthorities objected, but the court upheld the proposed ad-
ition.

‘ van. 1958

In the opinion, the court held, that the refreshment stand
was necessary to afford the public maximum enjoyment of
the recreational facilities and was a necessary part of the
facilities provided. The proposed stand was therefore held
to be permitted as an accessory use under the local zoning
law, and not held a nuisance. Board of Park Commissioners
of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District v. City of Bay
Village, 141 North Eastern (2d) 769 (Court of Appeals
( intermediate court), April 24, I957).

ZONING
The Dccember, 1957 issue of The American City reported

on a zoning case:

“Certiorari brought to review action of Zoning Board of
Review in approving variance permitting supermarket, drug-
store and bank in residence zone across street from elemen-
tary and unior high schools. For many years lot had been
used as playground by children. Court rulcd that no vested
right to such use had been created, upheld variance and
commended Board for its clear presentation of reasons for

approval. School Committee 1). Zoning Board, 133A .2d 734
(Supreme Court, July 17, 1957.)”

Instruction Surplus

In 1956, when a new steel swimming pool, fifty by one
hundred and twenty-five feet, costing $96,000, was installed
on a former school site in St. Joseph, Missouri, interest in
swimming instruction increased so much that it was neces-
sary to establish an eight-station assembly line. Over one

thousand people were registered, with the Red Cross paying
the entire cost of instruction. I

127

 

Traveling Playlots

Hamilton, Ontario, answers
the play-space problem.

N EW SURVEYS, large tracts of land an-
nexed by the city! A swiftly
growing population! This was the posi-
tion faced by Hamilton, Ontario, in the
early 1950’s. Sudden expansion created
the problem of playgrounds to service
new areas.

The idea of Traveling Playlots was
born in the mind of Hamilton’s then
director of recreation A. G. “Andy”
Ley. Since playgrounds with standard
equipment to cover these areas ade-
quately would be too costly, traveling
playlots seemed to be worth a try. The
general plan was to provide a trained
playground leader to cover an area.
This leader, working with a committee
of mothers, could choose four sites
suitable as play space for a small group
of children. The leader would divide
her time—Monday, Tuesday, Wednes-
day and Thursday—among the four
locations, going two half-days to each.
On Friday morning the leaders would
meet with the recreation department
staff to exchange ideas and discuss
while
would be taken up with meetings of

problems, Friday afternoons
parent committees.

The first step was to discuss this with
the parents. In the early spring of 1953
members of the recreation department
staff spoke to home and school groups,
who received the idea enthusiastically
and set up local committees. These com-
each neighborhood

mittees toured

with a staff person, to choose the sites.

MISS MEILER is director of recreation,
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

128

Florence Mailer

Vacant lots, school grounds, backyards,
and front lawns were available. When
the playlot leaders were chosen, they
met with the parent committees and to-
gether planned the weekly schedule.

Each leader was allocated craft sup-
plies, storybooks, and, armed with her
knowledge of children’s games, started
out the first day of this experiment. The
leaders traveled on bicycles and carried
their supplies in shopping bags, visit-
ing one spot in the morning, and an-
other in the afternoon. Schedules were
printed and issued to all mothers so
that they could keep the children posted
as to when the leader would be in their
district. .

There were problems. Some loca-
tions had to be changed, more craft
materials were required than for a
standard playground, and quite often
the large number of children and the
wide age range made it necessary to di-
vide the group. Volunteer assistance
from one of the mothers’ committees
helped to solve this problem. Generous
donations of scrap materials, tables, re-
freshments on hot days, cake and fudge
for sales, emphasized many times how
important and vital the mothers’ com-
mittee was to the operation. The moth-
ers saw the problems and did some-
thing about it.

Five summers have come and gone.
In 1954, the number of locations was
increased from four to six, and in 1956
it was increased again to eight areas.
The number of playlots visited by each
The

program, too, has grown, and now in-

leader varies from two to four.

Play area can be a backyard, front la
vacant lot, schoolground, as long as the
is any group of youngsters to be serve

cludes crafts, storytelling,

g I‘ O u 5
games, sports, music, picnics, swi
parties, and special events, such a
costume parties, pet shows, and carni
vals.
Dundurn Museum, originally

seventy-two room castle, is a favorit
haunt of the children. Every grou '

makes at least one trip to the museu

   
   
   

where they particularly like to descen I
to the “dungeons” in the dark, dam
basement. Combined with a picnic i
the park, it is a trip anticipated wit
great enthusiasm.

One summer day, in a certain dis
trict, the milkman making his earl
morning rounds was amazed to -a
brilliantly colored flowers sproutin
from all the empty bottles he picked up
These colorful additions to his dail l.
routine were made by the children a 1
the traveling playlot, from milk bottl
caps and construction paper, and an-
nounced “One quart please,” and s '
on. We often wonder if he ever kne
who “planted” all these gay flowers

Much of the success of the travelin
playlots is due to the specially chose '
leaders. Since, of necessity, they ar
working without constant supervision
they must have a sense of responsi
bility, abilit J
a love of children, and conside

iniative, organizing
able training in the skills and teachin
of crafts and games. The words of
traveling playlot leader, who had thr
year’s part time experience on a re
lar playground, are frequently heard
“I feel that this summer was one of t
most enjoyable that I have spent. . . .

The name “traveling playlots”
really not correct, since it is the lead
who travels. However, their chief a
vantage is that they can be establishe
wherever there is a group of childre
without a large capital outlay for lan
or equipment. In any succeeding ye
they can be conducted in a differe
spot if necessary, for there is no heav
apparatus to be moved.

The leader, with her bag of supplie
merely rides her bicycle down a di
ferent street, gathering the childre
around her, and starts to work. Q

RECREATIO

I

as Angelos

Pilot Study

of Playgrounds

‘ DEQUATE REPORTING of services rendered at public rec-
reation centers has long presented a serious problem.
n an effort to clarify the services offered at playgrounds

d to provide a method by which they can be adequately
. rtrayed on a statistical reporting form, a pilot study was
. rried on at two city playgrounds in Los Angeles under the
onsorship of the Youth Services Division of the Welfare
' anning Council.“

In outlining this study consideration was given to four
imensions of public recreation service: facility, leadership
r staff, program, and participation or patrons. The inter-
elationship but uniqueness of each of these dimensions was
-. ognized and an attempt made to delineate the signifi-
nce of each of these factors. Two hypotheses were formu-
. ted for the study:

Definite activity areas or zones exist on a public play-
round in which the kind of activities engaged in by staff
re distinct from the other areas.

The relative amount of leadership given by staff varies
nversely to the distance of the activity area from the office.
ariables in playground settings were recognized, but an

tempt was made in this study to test the validity of these
wo hypotheses.

Two playgrounds were used, comparable in size and rep-
'sentative of good program content and staff. The com-

unities served were quite different, however; one having
. middle-income, Caucasian population; the other, a low-

come area with a majority of the residents of either Mexi-
an-American or Negro extraction. Trained observers were
ssigned to the two playgrounds for a period of one week
0 record the activities of staff and patrons. Data were
ecorded on regular and part-time personnel. Each observer
_as assigned to a specific staff member and in addition
‘floater observers” were assigned to each facility to gather
ata on the patrons in zones by age and by activity. Time
ecording was on an hour-to-hour basis, with actual minutes
a leadership activity recorded.

If Four playground zones were recognized. Zone I includes
+ office building and the indoor facilities together with
e oflice porch area. Zone II surrounds Zone I and in-
:‘ des facilities and equipment for activities and games of
w organization. Zone III includes the field spaces with
i ilities for team games and sports and provision for
4- tator facilities. Zone IV is the fringe area and embraces

; cilities and areas usually found on the perimeter; such as,

’ Public Recreation Service Units——Measuring Youth Services,

' ol. 3, by Norman P. Miller and Irving Piliavin. Available from

"search Department, Welfare Planning Council, Los Angeles He-
. n. Special Report Series No. 45, March, 1956.

I
' R11. 1958

benches, picnic tables, tennis courts, oldsters’ club house,
and the like.

The findings are briefly summarized as follows:

With respect to staff services, “direct services to patrons”
and “indirect services to patrons” received almost equal em-
phasis by staff at both playgrounds. Less than five per cent
of staff time was spent on “services to the community.”
“Direct services to patrons” were rendered by staff to a far
greater degree in Zone I than in any other. Staff spent more
time with scheduled groups than with other types of partici-
pants. At both playgrounds over half of the time devoted to
direct services was spent with scheduled groups. Signifi-
cant differences existed in the leadership practices of male
and female staff. Women workers spent far more time than
men in giving direct services to patrons and in work with
scheduled groups and individuals. They spent less than two
per cent of their time outside Zone I. No significant corre-
lation appeared between the time staff spent in giving serv-
ices within the four zones, and the amount of patron par-
ticipation taking place in the zones. Patterns of service and
of patron participation indicated a large number of the play-
ground users received little or no leadership from staff.

The findings verify the hypothesis that definite zones
exist on public playgrounds and that the activities of staff
in each zone differ from those carried out in other zones.
The second hypothesis that the amount of staff service given
in each zone varied inversely to its distance from the ofhce
was not fully confirmed.

A significant observation was that the study’s findings
revealed no correspondence between activities engaged in
by leaders and those carried out by participants; that is,
at any time it was not possible to infer from the partici-
pation pattern at either playground what the leadership
activity pattern would be. This finding would seem to in-
dicate that information gathered in report forms, for ex-
ample, as to the pattern of patron participation at play-
grounds, does not adequately refiect the amount and nature
of staff services being rendered to the patrons. Thus more
information must be obtained regarding the manner in
which staff members carry out their jobs if an adequate
statistical reporting system is to be achieved.

One conclusion resulting from the study is that there is
need to know more about what different types of partici-
pants desire to do at recreation facilities. “Determining the
recreation patterns of persons in terms of age groupings, in-
come level, cultural affiliation, and so on would provide a
partial answer to this question. But, further research ask-
ing participants directly what they desire from recreation
programs should be attempted in the future.” ER;

129

A
D
M
I
N
I
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N

 

 

Youth Interest Studie

THE GROWING CONCERN about the ways in which children
and young people spend their leisure time and the
increasing importance of providing wholesome recreation
opportunities for this age group have prompted many local
surveys of youth interests and activities. Description of
some of the findings in three such studies follows. These
were conducted in Richmond, Virginia, Stamford, Con-
necticut, and on a nation-wide basis by the Boy Scouts of
America.

The Richmond Study

A recreation study* in Richmond, Virginia, inquired
about the free-time interests, hobbies, and activities of
junior and senior high school students. Separate data were
compiled for students in each of four districts of the city.
The purpose of this study was to secure data that would en-
able local recreation agencies to evaluate their programs
and provide additional services as needed in various sec-
tions of the city. ' K

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS. In one district, watching
TV and listening to radio or records were the activities
checked most often by boys and girls as a major use of free
time on school days. On week ends this activity declined
and movie attendance increased. Play at a playground or
park was checked most often as use of after-school time.
During the summer a surprisingly large percentage go to
the beach, particularly nonwhite girls. The same general
patterns were reported in a second district, although the
week-end dr0p was in favor of visiting or playing with
friends. “Working on a job” led as an afternoon activity.

Among white boys and Negro girls in a third district,
watching TV or listening to radio or records were the rank-
ing leisure-time activities during the school year. Among
nonwhite boys and white girls, helping around the home

.*.Richmond Recreation Study, sponsored by the Richmond, Vir-
ginia, Neighborhood Councils in cooperation with the Richmond
Department of Recreation and Parks, 1955.

130

   
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
     
     
     
       
    
    
    
    
        
    
  

The skillful leader exposes young peo-
ple to many interests so that they can
have a substantial basis in choosing ac-
tivities. Herc, young book critics give
broadcast to provoke reading interest.

ranked first. On week ends going to the movies ranked firs
among boys; helping around the home, among girls of bot
races. Visiting, playing with friends, or helping aroun
home ranked high among all groups after school. Durin
the summer a paid ob ranked first among boys, helping a
home among girls. A large percentage go to the beach, es
pecially of nonwhite girls.

In a fourth district, TV, radio, and records, visitin
friends, and helping at home held first place during th
school year. Week ends, the leading activity is going t
the movies. Here again a large percentage checked visit
to the beach; seventy-four per cent of the Negro girls lis
this activity as a major use of leisure time.

Interests and Hobbies. In recording their interests an -
hobbies, the activities listed were the three checked by jun
ior high school students as representing present activitie
(See Figure 1.) -

The study of activities that the junior high school grou
would like to engage in produced these. (See Figure 2.)

The study reveals that baseball (which, in this, apparentl
includes softball) is by far the most common activity i
which boys of both races participate. It is among the thr
leading activities reported by all eight groups of boys. Swil
ming is next in importance, having a place in six of th

Figure 1

 
      

District

White Negro While
Central 47% baseball 69% baseball 49% swimming
35% bunting 47% swimming 45% movies 47% mt
33% model 46% dancing 43% dancing 39% m1
building
West 73% baseball 83% baseball 60% swimming '
60% swimming 51% fishing 49% dancing
49% fishing 45% swimming 45% movies
East 67% baseball 75% baseball 61% baseball
61% lisbing 58% swimming 48% swimming
56% bunting 37% dancing 42% dancing
South 67% baseball 77% baseball 62% baseball I
64% iisbing 49% movies 53% swimming
55% swimming 45% swimming 48% movies

     

RECREATIOI

i ght groups, including the Negro boys in all four sections.
ishing ranks third, appearing in four of the eight boys’ lists
present activities.

Among junior high school girls, dancing appears in all
t one of the lists of present activities, followed by movies,
hich appear in six—three white and three Negro groups.
aseball is in five of the eight lists and, surprisingly, it tops
' e other present activities with four of the eight girls
' oups. Swimming appears in all of four lists for white
udents, but in no Negro gI'Ollp. Music and knitting have a

   
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
   
 

ominent place in one each of the two lists of activities en-
aged in by Negro girls.

Those desired by junior high school students are more
iverse than the activities commonly engaged in, and the ac-
vities desired by boys and girls are more similar than are
I e activities in which the two sexes now take part. Roller
ating, for example, which is largely lacking in the top-
nking current activities, appears among the top three
sired by five grOUps; picnics, hayrides, and fishing by
our groups; hunting and art by three-—Negroes constitute
1 three groups wanting art.

IGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: In one district all gI'OllpS, except
1e white girls, checked watching TV, or listening to the
adio or records first for their free time on school days.
I th white and nonwhite girls study and help at home. Dur-
ng the summer the boys listed “working at a paid job,”
*hile the girls reported “going to the beach.”

In the second district most white boys and girls listed
udying and the majority of nonwhite boys and girls Spe-
ified TV, radio, and records for major use of free time
school days. Movies formed the most attractive week-end

ed highest by both boys and girls. Boys listed a paid job
and girls going to the beach as primary summer activities.

Interests and Hobbies. The activities listed in Figure 3 are
the threc most frequently checked by senior high school stu-
dents as representing current interests and hobbies.

Baseball also leads among high school boys, appearing
in the top three in all eight lists of present activities. Fish-
ing is reported in all four districts by white boys and swim-
ming in three; neither activity, however, appears in the t0p
activities of Negro boys. On the other hand, four Negro
groups list movies, as compared with only one white group.
Dancing appears in three of the four Negro lists, but is not
a top-ranking activity among white boys.

Movies and dancing are the outstanding current activi-
ties of senior high school girls, appearing in every list.
Swimming is a popular activity among three of the four
white groups, but is not engaged in widely by Negro girls.
Watching TV has high ranking in three of the eight groups.

Swimming is the activity most desired by boys and girls
in senior high school, as it appears in thirteen out of the
sixteen lists. Tennis appears more often than any of the
other activities, ranking high in six of the eight boys’ lists.
Four of the white groups want hayrides, but this is not given
a high ranking by the Negro boys or girls. Roller skating is
the next most desired activity. Movies appear in only one
of the sixteen high school lists of desired activities. There
would seem to be a strong emphasis on sports among these

Figure 3
Girls

White i

D1311’1C1 ""—'—‘—""'_"‘"—_"—‘

White N egro Negro

D
M
l
N
I
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N

 

68% dancing

39% movies

33% talks, boy-
girl relation-
ships

Central 71% baseball 60% basehall
52% fishing 44% dancing

48% swimming 43% movies

68% movies
58% dancing
52% swimming I

' tivity. During the summer, a paid job was most often
- iecked by boys, and movies by the girls. The beach at-
- acted both.

In the third district white boys and girls and Negro boys
- ecked TV, radio, and records; Negro girls listed helping
t home, as most frequent school-day activities. A paid job
*as the leading week-end activity among nonwhite boys;

59% swimming
48% movies
46% dancing

54% movies
50% dancing
41% watching
TV TV
63% dancing
63% movies

i 72% dancing
39% music
38% movies

50% has..."
41% fishing
31% movies

82% baseball
58% fishing

53% swimming

66% baseball
54% movies
46% dancing

71% baseball
49% movies
43% dancing

I.

   
 
  
 
 
   
  
 

49% movies
48% dancing
32% watching

.....-.__... __._-._ a...

60% baseball 52% movies
60% watching 51% dancing

 work was ranked first by boys and movies by girls, but
. s 0 ts
th go to the beach. ' 44% fishing 425i; niniien
. . . . . 1 TV

I In the fourth dlstrlct wh1te boys enjoy TV, radlo, and -
cords on school days; nonwhite boys and white girls study

d nonwhite girls help around the house. Movies were rank-

e movies among the other three groups. During the sum- —————-——
63% baseball
48% swimming

46% swimming 30% watching

 

Activities They Would Like to Do

Figure 2
District -
.Negro

12% swimming 19% bunting — i
I 10% fishing 13% swimming 19% knitting 2357.» watching
sports
l 7% roller 12% music 16% tennis 16% music
skating

TOTandiayrides
8% fishing

White

35% hayrides
23% dancing
18% swimming

Central

White Negro

26% swimming
18% dramatics
16% picnics

11% picnics
11% tennis
7% swimming

29% swimming
16% art
16% bunting

9% swimming
9% tennis

- 38% hunting
26% fisbing

13% swimming
8% picnics

13% swimming
13% roller
skating

11% swimming
8% fishing

19% swimming

23% swimming
12% table tennis

16% roller
skating

8% hayrides 9% art 11% picnics l 8% tennis

13% swimming

10% bunting

10% roller
skating

27% swimming
9% roller
skating
7% movies

RIL 1958

23% hunting
17% swimming
17% fishing

13% swimming
11% baseball

9% badminton

25% hayrides
21% swimming
19% dancing

22% swimming
14% fishing

14% roller

skating

!

18% bayrides

15% art
15% swimming

57% swimming

34% roller
skating

28% fishing

 

6‘}? art

12% swimming
11% llayritles
10% fishing

8% hayrides-
7% fishing

24% swimming

12% tennis
9% knitting
8% model

building

24% tennis

20% swimming
13% fishill g

8% roller
skating

12% dramatics
10% tennis
9% swimming

21% roller
skating

20% reading

16% swimming

"wt

13% movies

32% swimming
16% tennis
16% sewing,

needlecraf t

22% swimming

15% dramatics

 

13% tennis

131

1
Vi hitt-
19% bayrides 23% swimming

youngsters, which shows up throughout the lists. It is inter-
esting to note that reading is not listed once.

The Stamford Study

In 1956, the Recreation and Group Work Division of the
Stamford Community Council undertook a study which had
the following purposes:

' To determine how the young people of Stamford were
spending out-of-school time.

' To learn whether they needed or desired additional
facilities and programs.

' To determine the characteristics of those young people
served by the various agencies and to compare them with
those of youth who did not participate in agency programs.

' To help guide youth-serving agencies in program plan-
ning and other aspects of their work.

The information was secured by personal interviews with
students selected by a random sampling of the pupils in the
eighth through the twelfth grades of the public, private, and
parochial schools. Two hundred and fifty-four young people
were interviewed by trained volunteers who made use of
written guides and questionnaires developed with the help
of a public relations firm. The following findings were re-
ported in Survey of Youth Activities issued by the council
in 1957:

' Eighty-five per cent take part in activities sponsored by
local recreation and group-work agencies; sixty-three per
cent in church-sponsored programs; sixty-one per cent in
special interest clubs and formal independent clubs. Thirty-
seven per cent work for pay on an average of eleven hours
per week.

' Girls spend more time alone as they grow older and rela-
tively less time with their family; boys spend less time alone
as they get older and less time with their families, but more
time in group association with older boys.

' The time a young person spends watching television de-
creases sharply between grades eight and twelve.

The highest participation, ninety-three per cent, is in the
middle of five socio-economic groups. Boy Scout activity
is five times greater in the highest, as compared with the
lowest status group.

' An extremely wide range was indicated in activities “liked
best.” The most frequently mentioned was dancing, with
nearly thirteen per cent of all replies, followed by basket-
ball, reading, ice skating, swimming, parties, and bowling,
in that order. Enjoyment of the activity itself rather than .
for self-improvement or relationship with others seemed
to be the primary influence in determining preference'.

' In stating reasons for failure to participate in desired
activities, sixty per cent listed facilities not available;
thirteen per cent lack of time; and eight per cent transporta-
tion difficulties and financial reasons.

National Boy Scout Study
A Study of Adolescent Bog/3*”, conducted for the Boy

Scouts of America by the Institute for Social Research at
the University of Michigan, contains much information of

** Boy Scouts of America, New Brunswick, N. J., 1955.

132

 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
     
         
     
      

interest to recreation workers. The report represents th
findings in one of a number of studies undertaken by the
National Council of the Boy Scouts of America “to clarify
the needs of adolescent boys and the proper function of
youth agencies in serving these needs.” Among the specific
questions, answers for which were sought in the study, are:
How much leisure time do boys have? What are boys’
principal leisure activities? What do they most like to do?
How important a part do voluntary group membership
play in boys” lives? What kinds of groups are most attrac-
tive to boys? As might be expected, the objectives were
achieved with varying degrees of success. The report con-
tains a great variety of statistics based upon interviews with
six hundred and sixty boys. They cover many aspects of their
use of leisure time. Of special interest are the lists of activi-
ties most broadly participated in and most enjoyed by boys
who do them, as follows:

    

Maximum Participation M ost Enjoyed

Swimming

Hunting

Working with cars, motorcycles
Playing baseball

Playing basketball

Playing football

Fishing

Camping, hiking

Playing pool, billiards
Horseback riding

Going to movies
Swimming

Listening to the radio
Playing baseball
Watching television

Playing basketball
Fishing

Reading

Going to parties
Playing football

  
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
 
   
   
 
     

Among the major findings of the study are that most boy
in the age range of fourteen to sixteen years have had ex
perience with a good variety of leisure activities and tha
most of them share some or a few of their leisure activitie
with their parents.

The section dealing with group membership indicate
that three boys in ten belong to no clubs or organizations
that most boys judge the groups they belong to on the basi
of the interest level of the activities ofiered; that boys su
gest sports and games, outdoor activities and social activ
ties most frequently when asked to indicate the kinds 0
activities they would like a club to offer. Nine out of te!I
boys think a group of adolescent boys and girls should hav
some adult leadership, but their notions for the role of th
adult vary widely. I
Many of the other findings merit careful study by all Wl] Ir

are concerned with planning recreation programs for youn

people. I

 

The children now love luxury, they have bad manner
contempt for authority, they show disrespect for elder
and love chatter in place of exercise. They no longer ris
when elders enter the room. They contradict their parent
chatter before company, gobble up dainties at the tabl.
cross their legs, and tyrannize over their teachers.

—SOCRATES (2000 years ago) I
l

 

RECREATIO

Masts for the Congress . . .
// m

Make your reservations early, if you want to

FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION
AND PERFORMANCE . . . FAR GREATER
STRENGTH . . . UNEQUALLED SAFETY. . .

enjoy Atlantic City in the soft, balmy days of
late summer. You know—walks along the

beach, square dancing, and, above all, the chal—

lenges offered at Congress meetings and work-

 

shops.

 

—+— PARK, PICNIC,

P I. AYG R O U N D
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

Since l9ll the finest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
" defective materials and construction

. ' -- ’ I" . . . specified by leading recreational
.  authorities for almost half a century.

Send for New Catalog

 
 
   
 

40th National Recreation Congress
September 22-26 f y 7

.Id

 

Craft Weaving

Braiding and Crocheting
makes

* POI HOlDERS * RUGS * MATS

0 Available In 20 beautiful
colors . . . also varigaled

Write for Folder U i —:_-- _ _- _ ._. H _ _ _ .J
On AMERICAN'S ' I

AMERCAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

    

. JIM PATTERSON
L I F E 1' I M E

Aluminum
D I V I N G

B 0 A R D
woeto's rmssr

OFFICIAL B OARD

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

 

 

for informant," and prices write WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
I PARK. PICNIC. PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING

   POOL AND onessmo ROOM EQUIPMENT

BOX 352 KERNERSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA I '       __ _ -' ll

 

f animation

-—-——nuouuu-—g

FOR:
. You

Your Board

Your City
Officials

Your Key
. Personnel
Your informed
. Lay Supporters

“m------------------------------------.

New Subscription Order Form

PARKS & RECREATION
Oglebay Park, Wheeling, West Virginia

Enter my personal subscription to start with the
next issue:

$   enclosed for ...... .. year(s). [:1 Send Invoice "The Choice of Those Who Play The Game”
NAME . . .............................................................. ..

TITLE ..................................................................... ..
ADDRESS .............................................. ..
CI'I‘Y................. .. ..

1 yr. $5 2 yrs. $9 ' . Foreign—1 yr. $6

 

The MacGregor Co. ' Cincinnati 32, Ohio
FOOTBALL ' BASEBALL ' BASKETBALL ' GOLF ' TENNIS

 

 

APRIL 1958 133

-.—__-—I-——-———_

 

NEWS .

For further information regarding
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION. I

 

6 Since RECREATION for April is devoted to playgrounds
this column will include items we hope you will find useful,

and fun, in your playground programs.
.

less steel, rustproof bedway.

  

0 An attractive, safe, space-
saving playground slide has
been designed to take up only
one quarter of the square-foot
area of the conventional slide.
Besides the safety features,
visible in photograph, the
Burke Space-Saver Slide is
painted, for child appeal, in
brightly colored, o u t d o o r
baked enamel, and has a stain-
It comes in three sizes: 4’, 6’,

and 8’ high, with 8’, 12’, and 16’ long chute. The J. E.
Burke Company, Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, and New Bruns-

wick, New Jersey.

6 Keeping athletic
equipment from
straying has always
been a problem. A
c o m p a ct, complete
branding-iron k it
has been developed,
designed to lessen the
loss or theft of equip-

 

ment from playgrounds and schools, called the Voit BK20
Thermostatic Branding Iron. The iron works as well on
wood, leather, and plastic items as it does on rubber. The
kit itself contains a strong wooden box, iron, a choice of
either “Rec. Dept.” or “Sch. Prop” head, a stand for the
iron, wire brush for cleaning the head, and a bristle brush
to use on branded item, and complete instructions. The
branding operation is simple and safe, producing a lasting,
legible identification. W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation, 2945
East Twelfth Street, Los Angeles, California.

6 Your playground
will be jumping when
th e children climb
aboard the Jumping
J a c k s and bounce
away. The Wise En-
gineering Company
designed this sturdily
constructed, station-
ary version of the po-
go stick, with th e
chi ld’s safety in
mind; full extent of
vertical travel is four
inches. The user can

9

 

av--. m u... ._-
. min: . M .. .i "

 

bounce vigorously up and down or twirl around the pole as

134

 

he wishes. The unit, suitable for teen-agers or younger chil-
dren, is attractively painted in bright colors and requires no
maintenance, except an occasional oiling. Wise Engineering
Company, Newark, New Jersey.

0 The Nissen Toy I
Company, a subsidi-.

ary of Nissen Tram- |
poline, has developed I
an adjustable jump

rope. Length is taken I
in or out by turning I
the polyethylene
handles at either end -
of the r0pe without
cutting or damaging
it, yet at the same
time allowing swivel'
action. The rope is available in 9’ and 16’ lengths, either|
nylon covered or in plain sash cord of #10 or #12 weight.
Handles are nonbreakable and colorfast. Nissen Toy
Company, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. I

 

6 Hard surfaces in recreation areas and playgrounds are i
always a source of accident worries. Safety Surf is a shock-
absorbent protective rubber covering for use under play-
ground apparatus or other types of gym and athletic equip-
ment, designed to protect even the most reckless from seri-
ous injuries resulting from falls. Safety Surf is assembled
from 'four basic, interchangeable, interlocking rubbe
blocks, one inch thick, covering an area in modules of two
feet in any direction. No cement or mastic is required, an
there is no special maintenance expense. Write M. M. Levitt ‘
Mitchell Rubber Products, Inc., Sports and Recreation Di .
vision, 2114 San Fernando Road, Los Angeles 65. ,
I

O A pr0perly wild-looking playground rocking horse ac- .
comlnodates about seven happy children. There are foot. '
rests along the sides of this brightly painted sturdy meta
horse and small backrests Spaced out the length of his bac

    

I I
—all safety features. O’Sullivan Distributors, Ltd., 95 ’-

Odlin Road, Richmond, Vancouver, Canada. {I};

 

RECREATIO

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE
All Metal Table Tennis Company____.._..._ 103
American Playground Device Company.-. . 133
Beltz Engineering laboratories MW- .. 141
Califone Corporation ._...._______._________ _ 140
Castello Fencing Equipment _________ _-__ 105
Champion Recreation Equipment .._______- 135
Chicago Roller Skate Company__..._0utside Back
Cover
Classified Advertising ____ ____ _____________ 135
Cleveland Cratts Company ___._--.__._.  104
Comet Press Books ____..__ __________ .. 141
Dayton Racquet Company ________-_-_____ 103
Dimco-Gray Company _________.___.____.______- 140
Exposition Press I....___._._.__s.__ 140
Greenwich Book Publishers - .___.____.__.____ 140
Hillerich 8. Bradsby Companym-__. .|nside Back
Cover
Home Cratts Company _________._ 133
H 8. R Manufacturing Company___________ 104
House of Ceramics mm...“ 104
Jamison Playground Equipment ...__.._.__n 140
laytro Athletic Supply Company-_.....___a._- 141
Kazoo Company _____.______._______._...-.-._-__ 105
Libraphone Incorporated M_-__..._....__--_..__ 142
MacGregor Sports Company _. __......_._.__-. 133
Mental Health __ ....... __ _..._._______ 139
National Sports Company ____._.___.,._...__ 140
National Society for Crippled Children
and Adults __-_._..-___--_m..___..___ 140
ational Studios -_.________._________ 140
Nissen Trampoline Company .______.._._ 138
Organization Services Incorporated _.__.___ 137
ark Maintenance ...__..______. mmmmm ._ 142
Parks 8. Recreation m"... _.--_.._--._.I__._ 133
Pecsolite Equipment Company --_________.__ 137
yrotex Company M... _______________ 97
chool Products Company __.__.._.__.._.____._.__ 141
quare Dance Associates __________ -___ 141
mes Spencer 8. Company ___________ m 140
ar Company I. _______ ___.___135. 140. 141
eela-Wooket Archery Camp _____.____._n. 135
. S. Army Special Services __._..____-... 139
. S. Rubber Reclaiming Company 104
it .. ________________ -me- 138

June Is National
<$ <%

Recreation Month

 

PRIL 1958

 

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted...... $3.00

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

 

HELP WANTED

Program Director for
community center serving
Levittown, Pennsylvania,
area. Starting salary $4,-
000 to $4,800 based upon
experience. For details
contact William Penn Cen-
ter, Fallsington, Pennsyl-
vania.

Folk Dance leader want-
ed for summer position
with highly creative youth
project. Male or female.

New England. Write Box
1149, Pittsfield, Mass.

Senior Group Worker
for small residential treat-
ment program serving emo-
tionally disturbed boys and
girls, ages 6 to 14. Inter-
racial and nonsectarian.

CWLA member. Psychia-

tric consultation, good em-
ployment practices. Salary
range, $4,836-56,756. Start-
ing salary dependent on
qualifications. Position not
newly created. Professional
training and experience
with children are required.
Institutional experience de-
sirable. Write to Maxine
Elliott, Director, Hathaway
Home for Children, 840

North Avenue 66, Los An-
geles 42, California.

Recreation Director for
teen-age recreation center,
male, with degree or ex-
perience in recreation, phy-
sical education, or youth
work. Start $400 per
month. Write: Leslie A.
Harvey, Director, West
Side County & City Parks,
Recreation & Parkways
District, 300 Main St.,
Taft, California.

Playground Director,
man, for town of 60,000.
Salary $500 to $600 per
month based on experi-
ence. Send complete resu-
me of recreational experi-
ence. R. Earl KipP. County

Superintendent, Box 271,
Orlando, Florida.

Recreation Therapists
for California State Hos-
pitals in several locations.
Positions open to college
graduates with major in
Recreation or Therapy and
supervised field work.
Monthly salary starts at
$376; promotional Oppor-
tunities in expanding reha-
bilitation program to $644.
Liberal employee benefits.
Write Medical Recruit-
ment Unit, State Personnel
Board, 801 Capitol Avenue,
Sacramento, California.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

New York 11.

* Writers

for RECREATION!

Please double-space all

manuscripts, leave wide
margins, and send the
original copyl not a

—

carbon.

 

w IMPORTANT m

If you are planning to move,
please notify us of your change of
address at least thirty days before
the date of issue with which it is to
take effect, if possible, in order to
receive your magazines without
interruption. Send both old and
new addresses by letter, card or
post-oflice form 225 to: Subscrip-
tion Department, RECREATION
Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street,

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 

*

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

CHAMPION ibii’ftié’i’i‘i’
“SCALED TO CHILD SIZE”

Write for Free Literature
P001. — PLAYGROUND — GYM

Champion Recreation Equip, Inc.

Highland Park, Illinois

For New All Steel Pump Merry-Go-Rounds

KER,"

Star Co.—l.itchfield, Mich.-—I.Incoln 2-2022

 

ARCHERY BELONGS

In your recreation program
For archery education Information write:

Myrtle and Ed Miller

TEELA-WOOKET ARCHERY CAMP
450 W. 24th St. 16 ER

New York 11, N. Y.

 

For Fairyland Tot 8. All Playgraund Equipment



Star Co.—Litchfield, Mich.—I.Incoln 2-2022

 

135

L__

 

   

I.“
. 4“ “L
a

.

u
..
7.

   A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Far-reaching Decision Against
Encroachment

The Court of Chancery on January
10 permanently banned the sale of 6.35
acres of North Brandywine Park in
Wilmington, Delaware, to the Wilming-
ton Board Of Education for use as a
school site.

This decision was the culmination
of a hard-fought, two-year battle be-
tween the board of park commissioners
and the mayor and the council. Maurice
duPont Lee, president of the board,
vigorously opposed encroachment on
park lands by anybody and reiterated
the park board’s stand: namely, the
board is merely a trustee for the park
land and, as such, has no authority to
sell or give it to anyone. Mr. Lee said,
“We ought not to give away one inch
of park land, considering the rate at
which the city is growing.” He stated
this in view of the fact that Wilming-
ton has less than half the park acreage
recommended by the National Recrea-
tion Association. (See Mr. Lee’s letter
regarding the replacement of trees in
Wilmington, in “Letters,” page 103.

In his ruling, vice-chancellor Wil-
liam Marvel said: “ . . . It has been
generally held that the use of park land
for school purposes is a diversion in
violation of the dedication or uses per-
missible by law for such lands.” The
ruling is a real victory for recreation,
and the fight must continue against en-
croachment, whether by highway, city
councils, school boards, housing de-
veIOpments, industrial concerns, ad in-
finitum, or the country will become a
vast wasteland of dreary built-up areas,
and there will be no land for recreation
or for beauty.

Retires After Long Service

Thirty years of varied and faithful
service to the field of recreation ended

136

on February 28, when Mrs. Jessie Gar-
rison Mehling retired as state super-
visor of health and physical education
in Alabama. Hers is the distinction of
being the first woman so appointed.

She has been a vigorous proponent of
more and better teaching of health,
physical education, and recreation, for
all children in Alabama. TO ensure
prOper leadership in the recreation
field, on a state-wide basis, Mrs. Mehl-
ing worked in close c00peration with
institutions of higher learning, prepar-
ing teachers and other community
leaders for all phases of this work. She
regularly took advantage of the services
of the NRA, calling upon Association
training specialists to conduct courses
throughout the state, and devoted a
great deal of time to the preparation of
study courses, planning of state-wide
instruction schools, and the conducting
of workshOps.

Science Fair

Science and recreation have come to-
gether with a bang to produce the
Douglas County Science Fair in Law-
rence, Kansas. The sixth fair, which
took place March 29-30, is an annual
event for children in kindergarten
through twelfth grade. The fair was
organized by Wayne Bly, superinten-
dent of recreation in Lawrence, with
the assistance of the local schools, news-
paper, and radio station. It is held in
affiliation with the National Science
Fair, in cooperation with the Science
Clubs of America, and is cosponsored
by three local chemical companies and
the Lawrence Recreation Commission,
which is the only recreation commis-
sion in the country now sponsoring a
science fair.

“A science fair is a collection of ex-
hibits, each of which is designed to
show a scientific principle, a laboratory

  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
       
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
    
  

procedure, or an industrial deveIOp
ment,” according to a science fair an-
nouncement. “It is an exhibition of ex
hibits or projects, developed or con-
structed, and displayed by students
under the direction of teachers or other
interested persons.”

The reasons for holding such a fai
are:

' To encourage students to take an ac
tive part in science and mathematics.

' To afford opportunities for students
and teachers to exchange ideas abou
science.

' TO arouse public interest in the abili-
ties Of students and teachers.

° To provide science education for th
area.

' To provide wholesome recreation for I
those who enjoy science. ‘
In a tense era, when our country
needs trained minds, an affair of this
sort is a fine program activity for an
recreation department. Further details .
on how, who, when, where, what, and
rules may be Obtained from Mr. Bly. ,'

H

Play Space in Housing Projects In

Two key problems related to recre-
ation in housing projects were empha-
sized at a recent all-day conference i I
New York City, sponsored by the
United Housing Foundation, Play
Schools Association, and the NYC De
partment of Health. The conferenc
considered facilities and activities fo
the 28,000 New York families now liv
ing in low-cost, middle-income c00pera
tives in the NYC area. Dwellings f0
20,000 more families are planned fo
the next five years. City and stat
authorities, prominent architects, an
real estate people participated in live]
discussions and were quick to recogniz
the two things which recreation au
thorities have been aware of since th
outset of the national public housin
program: the need for play space, an
the need for such space to be allocate
before building is started.*

J. Clarence Davies, Jr., chairman o
the board of directors of Citizen
Housing and Planning Council, emph
sized that recreation facilities in hous
ing are a must. The acceptance of th
basic principle that recreation an

 

*See “Shelter and Recreation,” RECR
ATION, January, 1956, p. 30.

RECREATIO

IMWMWMHWWWWWWWWMWHMIWHllllilllllillllillllllllillllltlllllhillIllllllllllllllllillllilllliig

“Let's Have A Picnic” or:  g

The New Complete I
PIC N I C MAN UM.  {I

Contains 84- suggested games,  

. ting rooms together with adequate | ‘=
tdoor Space should be included in all '
ew c00perative housing developments l
rorn the begining, was approved by
_i 11, as was the fact that in order to make
his effective, the agencies contributing
Inancial aid (city, state, and federal)
ust require that all builders make pro-

'sion for such facilities. Significantly, planning charts, sites, themes, ‘

he city’s 213 cooperatives suffer .most finances, Publw‘w’ etc: 3 x '

rom lack of initial planning; and a Promony used by hundreds of industrial,  \\
ommittee was formed to investigate City, school, ond other recreolion leaders. POSTPAID

Illllljllllljllluumlmmlumummt it Hi Hll..Iiil:lli|illliiiinl a null. i II I i

he most direct ways of meeting the
emendous need for more space. I

“it,” ORGANIZMION SERVIEES 1m, 10200 Grand River Ave. Detroit 4. Mich. __,
a"..IIIHIIIIIIIIllIlllIIIIIlIlIllllllmlllllllIllllllllllllllIlllllIlllillllllllillllllllllilllllllilllllllllllllllllilllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllIllllliIllIlIIIlIIilIlIIIlIlllIilllIIlIIIIIllIIIlilllllllllllllllllllllllllllE

The first artificial ice arena in the l

'orld claimed to be designed specifi- l a;
ally for amateur competitive speed ,
'ating was dedicated in January by
he Detroit Department of Parks and

at last a way to
-ecreation. The layout, located at Far-

rell Field, incorporates an oval racing
rack, hockey rink, general skating ,  P I 
rea, loudspeaker system, night lights, I
nd an artificial lake with fountain _
PECSOLITE

verage 85-foot by 185-foot. The lake I_
e isperses the heat in the ice. ' G v M M AT 3

Adjoining the rink is a temporary i W M wwwwwww
uilding that includes a warming area I nag—Mi T  _ I i
or skaters, refectory, office checking
acilities, and toilets. The warming
helter consists of two prefabricated
teel buildings, each 32 feet by 60 feet,
oined by a 20-foot passage. The one-
ighth-mile speed track has a minimum

2-foot width, widening to 64 feet on
he turns. Removing the gates of the

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllNIH]!Ill]llllllll||llllllllllilllllllllHIlllllllllllllilblllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHg

 

Unique Ice Skating Rink

 

 

     

prays—all within an over-all 400-foot ‘,
y 190-f00t area, as compared with the

only PECSOLITE has
IO TIMES GREATER SHOCK ABSORPTION
...lOWEST RATE OF REBOUND

A new development in gymnasium
protection, Pecsolite provides un-
equalled safety . . . actual tests
i ckey pen enlarges the area to a one- showing that' Pecsolite absorbs 10

'xth mile track. times more shock than ordinary
Laid out on a uniform surface, the mats - - - couples this superior
shock absorption with a much
lower rate of rebound to completely
cushion impact and lessen shock
and injury.

0 10 Times Greater Shock Absorption - No “Elephant Greases" When Rolled Up

' “We” R3“ 0' Rebwnd - Durable: new coatlng formula provides sur-
- Slze No Problem: mats available In any face strength of 2400 P.S.l.

lewd“ any “mm to as" - Sanitary: moisture resistance prevents

 

- Easy to Combine: transparent tape holds transfer of Infection
smaller mats together . . . allows for any
combination 0 Completely Odorless
- Stores Compactly: takes up half the space - Easy Maintenance: wipe of a rag and mat
rozen area is a combination of the 0' 00'1""th mats '3 ma“

90-foot by ISO-foot hockey pen and

e competitive track. Both areas are

53d {01” general Skatmg: Portable @ECSOLITE EQUIPMENT co. Third ond MarketSts. Sunbury, Po.

leachers will be set up for spectators

See Your Pecsolite Dealer now, or write for brochure and prices to:

RIL 1958 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 137

at competitive meets. William E. Bach

AMERICA'S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS man. parks development co-ordinator.

FOR EVERY AGE GROUP who conceived and engineered the Far-
pRICE 0R SKILL_ - ' , well rink building, planned a brick

‘_ I building to house the machine room
{"9  a containing 100hp compressors using

 . 15,000 gallons of brine to create the ice.
GOES ,_WlTH THE GAME

“This is the ninth artificial ice rink

® constructed by this department since
'  1953,” says John J. Considine, general
NEW YORK 11 _  superintendent of the department. This

CHICAGO H ' r ' oval track assures Detroit of a cracker-
lOS ANGELES ‘ll

jack, championship skating surface for
all competitive meets. There is a charge
of ten cents for children and twenty—five
for adults.

Assumes New Post

The very first superintendent of rec-
reation in Gorham, New Hampshire,
Harry Coulter, took over his new post
last July. The town (population 2,857)
has thrown itself wholeheartedly into
its new recreation program—Gorham’s
citizens have built a swimming pool and
picnic area, passed an article at a town
meeting creating a department of recre-
ation and appropriating funds to em-
ploy a year-round director.

While the recreation building is be-
ing remodeled, the program is con-
(1 u c t e d wherever “the carpenters
aren’t,” and in the schools.

Program Sources

Do you need reference sources fo
games, songs, stories, plays, pageants
and so on, based on customs around th
world, or for the building of interna
tional good will? The American As~
sociation for the United Nations, 345
East 46th Street, New York City 17,
has just issued a Resource Handbook.“

. , . . . , A copy at hand will save you time i
Ask any kld who 3 tried 1t. The Trampohne 1s fun. looking up library references Whe

 

Always the favorite recreation at parks, classes or playtime. you’re planning that international wee
for the playgrounds, or other program

And it’s such a good all-around conditioner. _
° w1th an around-the-world theme.

Is the Trampoline part of your recreation program? Cooperative Recreation _

The recreation program in Greeley

Colorado, now in its twelfth year, rep-
resents the cooperative eiforts of t
IF   A   A  city, the board of education, and t -
Colorado State College of Education
®ch. U.s. PaLOff. which share in the expense and opera

tion of the program, administered b

NISSEN TRAMPUUNE COMPANY 200 A Avenue NW, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, U.S.A.. * Priced at fifty cents-

133 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATIO

 

e Greeley Community Activities Com-
ission. An adult division provides
- essary instruction and equipment
. painting, ceramics, metalwork, and
Instruction in ball-
.I dancing, square dancing, and

- her activities.

usic is also available. There are also
tensive athletic programs and events

| all ages. The commission maintains '

1 auditorium and youth center.

Community Education Head

Francis J. Brennan has been named -

irector of the New York City Board

Education’s Bureau of Community
He succeeds Mark A. Mc-
oskey, now chairman of the New York
Mr. Bren-
an has been the bureau’s assistant di-
-. tor since 1940.

Reprints Still Available

Five hundred copies of “Study for
e Development of a Neighborhood
ayground” can still be ordered from
e Association, at 3.15 each. Write

der Department, NRA, 8 West

ucation.

ate Youth Commission.

, ' 'ghth Street, New York City 11. Many

ople have found this article very help-
I.

New President

The head of recreation curricula at

6 University of California, Los An-
les, Dr. Norman P. Miller, has been

. I-de president of the Federation of

q

ational Professional Organizations

or Recreation, a co-ordinating body.

 

In Memoriam

 

, Widely known and loved Mary

ughter, of Kingsport, Tennessee,
0 served for ten years as p0pular
stess in the Civic Auditorium there
'd in November. An editorial in the
ngsport News referred to her “ability
I see into the heart of a fellow human
d find his worth.” Mrs. Slaughter
s greatly interested in art and gave
eouragement to young artists, among
iem the young Tennessee sculptor,
1, gar Bowlin. She will be missed.

I
~ On December 16, 1957 a good friend
the National Recreation Association,

lonel Harold R. Smith of the Salva-

- - 11 Army, died at his home in Kearny,

.r V Jersey. He was sixty-three. His
I.” a familiar face at National Recre-

'.°on Congresses and at NRA head-
an. 1958

quarters. We will all miss him.

0 Andy Montgomery, a sponsor of the
Association from Austin, Texas, died
recently. He served from 1951 to 1958.

NRA has lost a devoted leader and a
good friend.

Explorer of Mist

Lone little boy on a playground swing,
Scouting the edge of the sky,
What do you see from your soaring
wing?
What do you dream and why?

Never a smile and never a word—
To the top of the world you go;
Explorer of rnist, as a mythical bird,
What do you see or know?

Over the mountain and over the plain,
Skimming as light you race;

Are you a saucered satellite-brain
Spinning off through space?

It’s a long, long ride in a playground
swing
To the beaches of the moon;
Do spacemen fold each silver wing,
Then scurry home at noon?

--CULLEN JONES

Reprinted with permission of the author
and National Parent-Teacher, April, 1957.

“Our Dealings With All
Peoples . . .”

May the turbulence of our age yield
to a true time of peace, when men and
nations shall share a life that honors
the dignity of each, the brotherhood
of all.——President Eisenhower, in his
second Inaugural Address.

LOCALLY TO THE

National Association
for Mental Health

 

        

      

V

EUROPE

WORK IN

EUROPE

TRAVEL IN

CIVIlIAN CAREERS
WITH ARMY

SPECIAL
SERVICES

An extraordinary opportunity
that offers so many decided
career and leisure-hour ad-
vantages. Imaglne the excit-
ing thrill of International tra-
vel as well as living In en-
chanting Germany or France.
Discover the one job that ex-
pects you to apply your edu-
cation and experience with a
creative flalrl You will cer-
tainly enjoy working as a
civilian with American troops
overseas.

Investigate Special Services
openings for Librarians,
Crafts Directors, Recreation
Leaders and Service Club
Supervisors. Slngle girls,
minimum age 23 with college
degree meet basic program
requirements.

Today, send for your copy of
Special Services fascinating
brochure. “Civlllan Careers
In Far Away Placesl” Sud-
denly . . . you’ll be travelling
an amazing open road to
happiness.

Write to:

   

lll YEARS of SERVICE

If yau prefer Hawaii, the Caribbean, the
Orient, Alaska ar the United States, in-
quire abaut s‘ImiIar careers in these areas.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

The Adiutont General

Department of the Army
Washington 25, D. C.
Attention: AGMZ-R (G20)

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

    
    
      
 

  

   
   
 
 
 

 
   
 

139

’ PLAYGROUND
Jamisonmumm

Be sure to check the many exclusive features at

this rugged line. Write for tree cotolag of 254
items.

Jamison Manufacturing Ca.
8781 South Mettler Street
los Angeles 3, Colitarnia

Since
NE 5

 

Pride Wherever You May Go

Designed by representatives
of over 100 Golden Age clubs
and used nationally.

Gold colored metal with
evergreen tree in jewelers’
' ‘ enamel. Symbolic of long life,

EXACT SIZE strength and perseverance.
The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE
(greatest values of club membership) en-
ameled in black. The horder is a laurel

wreath for honor. Safety catch.
Available Only to Authentic Clubs.

50c each, minimum order 10 pins.

22 N. 6th Street
Philadelphia 6, Pa.

 

James Spencer S to.

 

 

seeking a book publisher

Two fact-tilled, illustrated brochures tell how
to publish your book, get 40% royalties, na-
tional advertising, publicity and promotion.
Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. R4

Exposition Press / 386 4th Ave., N.Y. 16 2

a
r.__ MM.“ . mm. .. .

h

Fun For Everyone !

From.8 to 80 hare is exciting recrea-
tion for all ages . . . lean anioyment
tor players and spectators.

Rugged, Dirnco FreeGIide ShutTIe-
board sets are available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . low in Upkeepl

Write today for colorful folder, "Let’s
Play Sbnji‘ieboard,” containing com-
plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

 

 

140

 

Wear Your Golden Age Club Pln Wk!
I

Books & Pamphlets
Received

ABC OF DRIFTWOOD FOR FLOWER ARRANGERS,
Florence M. Schaffer. Hearthside Press,
118 E. 28th St., New York 16. Pp. 128.
$3.95.

AGED IN AMERICAN SOCIETY. THE, Joseph T.
Drake. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New
York 10. Pp. 431. $5.50.

ALL CHILDREN HAvE GIFTS, Anne S. Hop-

pock. Association for Childhood Education
International, 1200-15th St., N.W., Wash-
ington 5. Pp. 32. $.75.

BETTER REPORT WRITING, Willis H. Waldo.
Reinhold Publishing Corp., 430 Park Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 231. $4.75.

BOOK OF INDIAN LIFE CRAFTS, Oscar E. Nor-

beck. Association Press, 291 Broadway,
New York 7. Pp. 253. $5.95.

BOOK OF TIIE EARTH, THE, A. C. Spectorsky,
Editor. Appleton-Century-Crofts, 35 W.
32nd St., New York 1. Pp. 488. $12.50.

DAYS OF DISCOVERY (Program Aid Packets) :
1. October-November; 2. December-Janu-
ary; 3. February-May; 4. June-September.
American Friends Service Committee, 20
S. 12th St., Philadelphia 7. $.25 each set.

EASY-To-MAKE OUTDOOR PLAY EQUIPMENT,
Reginald R. Hawkins. Macmillan Co., 60
5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 99. $2.95.

GROUP WORK PAPERS—1957. National As-

sociation of Social Workers, 95 Madison
Ave., New York 16. Pp. 82. Paper $1.75.

HOT ROD IT—AND RUN FOR FUN! Fred Hors-
ley. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J.
Pp. 264. $3.95.

KNOW THE GAME SERIES: ASSOCIATION
FOOTBALL, THE LAWS OF (SOCCER); ATR-
LETICS; BADMINTON; FENCING; GOLF; SIM-
PLE GYMNAsTIcs; LAWN TENNIS; RACING;
RUGBY UNION FOOTBALL; Snow J UMPING;
SKIING; SWIMMING; TABLE TENNIS. Sport-
shelf, PO. Box 116, 10 Overlriok Ter., New
York 33. Paper 8.75 each.

LET'S PLAY A STORY, Elizabeth Allstrom.
Friendship Press, 257 4th Ave., New York
10. Pp. 165. Paper $1.95; cloth $2.95.

LET’S TAKE A RIDE (CHILDREN’S ATTRACTIONS
NEAR NEW YORK CITY). Young’s Research
Service, P. 0. Box 72, Gracie Station, New
York 28. Pp. 48. Paper $1.00.

LINCOLN’S DEVOTIONAL. Channel Press, 159
Northern Blvd., Great Neck, N. Y. Pp. 192.
$2.75.

MENTAL HEALTH HANDBOOK, A, Ian Sket-
towe. Williams 8; Wilkins, Mt. Royal and

Guilford .Aves.. Baltimore 2, Pp. 196. $5.50.

METROPOLIS IN FERMENT. American Academy
of Political & Social Science, 3937 Chest-
nut St., Philadelphia 4. Pp. 231. Paper
$2.00; cloth $3.00.

MOSAICS: HOBBY AND ART, Edwin Hendrick-
son. Hill and Wang, 104 5th Ave., New
York 11. Pp. 111. $3.50.

MY HOPPY TAWPY SAFETY RHYMEs. Hoppy
Taw Corp., 927 S. State St., Salt Lake City,
Utah. Pp. 33. $1.50.

MORE NEW GAMES FOR ’TWEEN-AGERS, Allen

A. Macfarlan. Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 237. $3.50.

    

 

TEEN-AGE GANGS, Dale Kramer and Madeline

Karr. Popular Library, 10 E. 40th St., New
York 16. Pp. 176. $.25.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Keep ’em SINGING

with these oll-tirna favorite

A SONG SLIDES

wonderful hours of fun for
young and old alike 
l
I

2” x 2” slides  soc/slide -
3v. ” x 4" slides  __ 75¢/slicle I

WRITE FOR CATOLOGUE 5

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 48th Straat
Naw York 36, N. Y.

.IUdson 2-1926

350K MANUSCRIPTS :

CONSIDERED

hy cooperative publisher who offers authors only
pnhlic‘ltirul. higher rovsIty, national distribution, and
lweutifully designed books. All subjects welcomed.
Write. or send your manuscript direclly.

GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS
Attn. Mr. Hitchcock 489 Fifth Avenue
New York 17. N. Y.

     
  
    
  
     
   
 
    
     
     
 
 

 

 

For All Games Posts 8: Goals



Stor Co.—LitchReld, Mich.—L|ncoln 2-2022

 

HELP CRIPPLED CHILDREN

 

National Society

for
Crippled Children and Adults

11 So. LaSalle Chicago 3

- callfone -

Portabie PHONOGRAF’HS
TRANSCRIPTION PLAYERS
Complete SOUND SYSTEMS

for Every Recreation Use-t!

call-fume CORPORA‘I’ION- DEPT. R-l
roar no. sYcAMORE - HOLLYWOOD as. CALIF.

NATIONAL

. aisle -
I H‘OFQGSTON Bill  i

o QQALITY,Gy a
I Write torFO‘ur =3: ose cotoIog. I

W .
I n n 'I' I n I. II In
5.9m cww '
I 310 NORTH MARQUETTE. FUND DU UL. WIS.

   

  

RECREATION

THROUGH THE YEAR WITH CRAFTS, Opal Beebe

Allen and Naomi Morris Ready. Bruce
gublishing, Milwaukee 1. Pp. 120. Paper
2.50.

TREES AND TIIEIR WORLD, Carroll Lane Fen-
ton and Dorothy Constance Pallas. John
Day, 210 Madison Avenue, New York 16.
Pp. 96. $3.25.

TREES OF THE EASTERN AND CENTRAL UNITED
) STATES AND CANADA, William M. Harlow.

    
   
  
  
 

36 Ilg Pages, Fully Illustrated.
with Hundreds of unusual Items
and Interesting Prolects: Save on
MOSAICS, CEIAMICS. MUSIC IOX
and CLOCK MOVEMENTS, A“ SUP-
PLIES, PLASTICS, CANDLE DINING.
SHELLCIAH’. etc. Centalns Easy
"Shew Haw" Instructlans on many
Types of Croft Werk. Lists over 100
Inexpenslve beeklets. new so.

“It! armor caratoo rooAr

‘ ‘ 1 __._-_ Dover Publications, 920 Broadway, New SCHOOL "Goons co.
A. Experl' Oro “:25”: York 10' Pp° 288' Paper 5135- Dept. 3-350 E. 23m St... New York 10.

UNIFORM PLEASURE BOATING ACT—1957. Out-
board Boating Club of America, 307 North
-— of on unpublished manuscript,

L.___—_j- Records  _. Michigan Avenue, Chicago 1. Pp. 13. Free. I“ m help gain the "cognition
_. __.___ ' VOLLEYBALL GUIDE (July l957-July 1959), Inside you deserve. We. will publish
1" "'   ’5‘ Evelyn Prescott, Editor. American Asso- I'm" BOOK"‘" w'"°""*""'9"'

 2'..— lnstructionol  

If you are the talented author

 

Sto - -
_’_ " ciation for Health, Physical Education, and or? Kirk,pé2?d°12,:f:;1f"" and
g?   1. Recreation, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., P bl. h- Write for HIEE copy of
.1 ' u '5 "‘9 How To Publish Your Book
  for a" - waShmgton 16. Pp. 112. Paper $.75. Your 300k COMET PRESS BOOKS De I. RM4
-_ - _L_____ 09:5  WHAT EVERY PARENT SHOULD KNOW WHEN ‘ 200 Varlck St... N.’ Y. 1p4°
-45; A BOY OR GIRL WANTS A GUN. Sportsmen’s W
m- _ ‘ I ' Service Bureau,  East  Street, New     
York 17. Pp. 8. Free. ,. Wm.
_ ‘ ; x i - . .. WHAT TO DO ABOUT “JUNK.” Charming L. BELTEMP
1‘ - ’ . ;3 Bete Company, Box 506, Greenfield, Massa- ammial I“ aiming mm, by
—._F.' M s -'-'- chusetls- PD- 15- 5-15. "er ENGINEERING LABORATORIES
-‘--' — —-—' WHAT WE WANT OF OUR SCHOOLS, Irving D , 24 14%} WWII" AV?“
I __ callsthenlcs ' H d Adler. John Day, 62 West 45th Street, New "to" ' c gon' in". 9'18"
} ,_ N F WYoI: 361: Fr; 256. 3275. E 13 h k
| .4. __ HY ID HIS AVE TO APPEN, ar c enc , .
__     J Miers. National Society For Crippled Chil_ For Picnic Tobles—Bor-B-Cue Stoves

- ‘1 ' be" bouncing :i—n dren & Adults, 11 South LaSalle Street,

_: i I’m“! IJIIECIIWJ Lg Chicago 3. Pp. 28. 8.25. 
"'2. 8) WINTER SPORTS 81 OUTING ACTIVITIES GUIDE

__
C ) (July 1957-1959), Jan Gund, Editor. Amer-
r:...1 I .-_-.'._.«__. ican Association for Health, Physical Edu-

' '  cation, and Recreation, 1201 Sixteenth
I .  ' Street, N.W., Washington 6. Pp. 128. Pa-

Stor Co.—Litchfleld, Mich.—Llncoln 2-2022

‘- . _-I‘--.

 

.p—IIIIID-a—

55" WONDERFUL WORLD OF THE SEA, THE, James Evebolt

E-Singing Games Fisher. Garden City Books, Garden City, Multi-Purpose

8 Ft.

I
l
l
i
l
l
l
I
1

IL-

.-

  
  
 

1 .   a: ' per $.75. Tethorboll  
. . Play Party Games '” - New YM‘“ 1"” 63- $295- ,nfygigf ALUMINUM
I / WORSIIIP FOR THE YOUNG IN SPIRIT. (Second |_ 
' _   r Series), Paul N. Elbin. Bethany Press, St. "Eh damn it
-_ , _. Louis, Missouri. Pp. 144. $2.50. °' "‘9' W I
_ pre.kinderganen '- YEARBOOK OF AMERICAN CHURCHES FOR 1958. High Jump  
"" g” Benson Y. Landis, Editor. National Coun- Slide 
through 3rd grade 2 cil of the Churches of Christ in the U.S.A., Hagan]— . vourvssu . .........e..
—' 7 ' '- 297 4th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 322. $5.00. I Sam”; "ng2‘33
Baslnlggf: L ./ Official speclflcatlons
only 9 Lbs. ./ Lightwelght

./ Easy to Install and move
,/ No maintenance
./ Six different models

8’0I'A331/3

—.___._—-'__-_

Magazine Articles

   

THE AMERICAN CITY, January 1953

 

I I
I SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES ' Put Your Recrcation Plan to Work, Joseph 
: sex 644, raseronr, N. v. I P. creeeeu. SlEEl CHAIN
| Mail coupon for FREE descriptive brochure. ' THE CRIPPLED CHILD. December 1957 
I I Recreation Is an All-Time Thing, Charles
Nam. I P Craniord 3YeorsGuoronteeI
: | ' ' outdoors or indoors
' | NEA JOURNAL, February 1958 _
Address_________________._' Science, Robert H. Cargeton. Aim Featuring Jayfro‘: Carton: Bruit
I Science d the Humanities R C Cus- New and Improved!
I I t a" ** ' ' w PADDLE TETHERBALI. ssrs
City ("’30"- I/ rErHERBALL Posts
i : Helping Youth to Safety, Dorothy McClure Revolutionary and Exciting New!
' 5"”: ' Fraser, 1’ SHUFFLEBOARD SETSS s
- - - - wilh "RUBBER CUSHIONED" DI C
I—---———-———-——------l Learnmg To .L‘S‘en—‘L’S‘emng To Learn’ VOFFICIAL 100% NYLON Basketball
' Dom V' Smut!“ Nets and Nylon Boll Carriers
WOMAN’S DAY’ February 1958 J A Y P so Trill: 3;: 3:3 I: LY c 0
Mg}? Two'Lmer Word’ R066” Paul Dept. ac, Box 1065, NEw LONDON. CONN:

 

PRIL 1958 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 141

Another Therapist

on Your Recreation Sta]?
for Less Than 1¢ an. Hour

tlBRAPHONE—the remorkobie “Talk-
ing Book" Program that makes your
work easier, more beneficioi . . .

As a method of hospital recreatlonal therapY. the
LIBRAPHONE program has achieved amazlng results
among patients. This therapeutic diversion helps
them relax, forget their worries, and to get well
faster. LIBRAPHONE is a program of staries, novels,
and books recorded on extra-long play phonograph
discs by professional talent. Titles include all iieids
of interest. Can be used with ali patients without
restriction. Play on any 4-SPEED phonograph—or
3-Speed machine with inexpensive adaptor. Write
today for complete information without obligatlon.

Athena“.
‘7“.

Dept. R
550 Fifth Ave.
New York 36,

New York

 

 

Almost everyone
in the park field reads

 
   

  

172-552.:
why not YOU?
 0 articles

o readers
0 reader help

FIRST

0 Buyer’s Guide Issue
0 Swimming Pool Annual
0 Turf Research Annual

 to order on municipal bill-
ing form or send check for $3.50 (if
you add Dept. R to address we’ll give
you one year FREE with your paid
subscription).

$3.50 per year. $8.75 three years
Free Sample Copy

PARK MAINTENANCE

P.O. Box 409
Appleton, Wisconsin

142

 

4‘ One of the highlights of the Third

Annual Institute on Recreation for the
111 and Handicapped, sponsored by the
New York University School of Educa-
tion and the National Recreation As-
sociation, was the session on “Re'cre-
ation for the Convalescent Mentally Ill
Outpatient.” It is becoming apparent
to many psychiatrists across the nation
that it is necessary to teach patients
who have been emotionally ill how to
use their free time in a leisurely rather

’ than compulsive manner. Many.psy-

chiatric hospitals are extending their
services for the patient into the com-
munity, providing help with vocational
and financial problems and living ar-
rangements. Psychiatric hopsitals'" are
offering their patients recreation plan-
ning and counseling in the predischarge
period, as a new community service.
Some hospitals are even providing rec-
reation staff in the community itself for
helping outpatients work out their rec-
reation problems. Two pioneers in this
type of program are Marie Sante, chief
of recreation at the Veterans Adminis-
tration Hospital in Kansas City, Mis-
souri, and John Beard, executive direc-
tor of The Fountain House in New

York City.

4‘ The Fourth Institute in Hospital
Recreation to be held at the University
of Minnesota May 26-28 will include
the following program:

° Design for Research in the Hospital
Recreation Program.

° Program Evaluation in the Light of
Patient Needs.

' Staff Development and Self-Improve-
ment.

° Audio-Visual Aids and Other Media
for Interpretation of the Hospital Rec-
reation Program.

° Recreation Needs and Activities for
the Aged, Long-Term, and Other Speci-
fic Types of Patients.

Application should be in very early.

4* An interesting article appeared in
The New York Times Magazine, De-

cember 29, 1957, by Mike Corman, ex-
ecutive director of the National Com-
mittee Against Mental Illness. The arti-
cle, “Open Hospitals for the Mentally

Ill,” discusses some of the latest tren T,
in planning for the psychiatric patien '
If you are not familar with the “dzl
hospital,” and the “night hospital,
this article describes them clearly. MI
Corman has also edited a recent repoi'
you should have. It is called Has I ntep
sive Therapy Paid Off? and is availab
free from The National Mental Healt

Committee, 1129 Vermont
N. W., Washington, D. C.

*i‘ The first part of the National Stu-d
0n Recreation in the Medical Setti I
The sectio'
on administration is complete an
will be available sometime this spring

5

Avenue.

is nearing completion.

The second section on personnel is i
preparation and will be available in th
fall. On behalf of the staff and the ad
visory committee for the study, w
would like to thank each and everyon
of you who has participated by fur
nishing us with information. The re
sults are striking and will have greal I:
bearing on the future of recreation for |

the ill and handicapped.

l

   
   
  

4‘ Are you doing a research project '
your hospital? We are interested a
we are frequently asked about suc
projects concerning recreation and arl
attempting to maintain a file in ou
office. Two brought to our attentiI
in the last month are “The Use of Nur
ing Stations in Psychiatric Units 0
General Hospitals,” in the Journal 0
the American H 03pital Associatio i
Oetober 16, 1957, which suggests th
recreation personnel use nursing st
tions for staff interchanges, recordin
and discussions concerning patie _
care, and A Patient’s Eye View of H 0
pital Operation, a study of patients b
ing discharged from the Veterans A 
ministration HOSpital, New York Cit -
Some of the findings indicate that .2,
tients want more afternoon recreati I
programs, more recreation for none
bulatory patients, and more freque
library-cart visits.

If there is a study in progress in you
hospital, let us know about iti—Be
trice H. H iii, Director, NRA Consaltin
Service on Recreation for the IN an
Handicapped.

RECREATIO

ART DESIGNS

riental Art Motifs, Takahashi Sohei,
ditor. Charles E: Tuttle Company,
utland, Vermont. Pp. 79. $2.50.

This moderately priced collection of
ascinating miniature sketches compil-
d by artists and scholars of China and
.iapan, speaks for itself, with no text
ave a brief introduction. Artists, crafts
eople, and connoisseurs of Oriental
. t will want to own it, use it for

‘ ketches, designs, or just enjoyment of
ese charming presentations of peo-
le, animals, objects, pagodas, temples,
nd landscapes. Often only a few brush
rokes produce something really en-

- anting.

: andbook of Orna'rnent,” Franz Sales
-._ yer. Dover Publications. 920 Broad-

: y, New York City 10. Pp. 548. Paper
.00.

. This is a reprint of a classic on pat-

E ern and design published seventy

a. ars ago. It contains “over three thou-

:nd detailed line cuts—the largest col-

ction ever compiled,” according to

c publisher. Over three hundred

: tes are accompanied by explanatory

ext and cover ornamentation from

reek times. This should be invaluable

0 artists, students, crafts people, and

’ hould have a place on their working
' helves.

Tender Warriors

1 Dorothy Sterling with Donald Gross.
l ill and Wang, 104 Fifth Avenue, New
. York City 11. Pp. 96. $2.50.

A factual recapitulation, by means
f interviews and photographs, of inci-
3 nts that have happened as a result of
he Supreme Court decision on integra-
ion in the schools. The school children
n the South, Negro and white, are the

l “'tender warriors” of this book—which

. tells the story of how they, their parents,

and teachers have been affected. It

'ves both the “ups” and “downs,” and

e problems in between. The children,

I. course, reflect the opinions of their

i arents; but it is from the young that

y a change in the thinking of the people
i‘nust come—if it comes at all.

Mrs. Sterling is the author of twelve

' books for young people, while Mr.

3 Cross is a free-lance writer specializing

in the civil rights field. The book has

_ 5r vealing photographs by M y r o n

D ' hrenberg taken during a recent tour

-' of the South. ' '

Games for Junior and Senior

I 1 High Schools *

., . Hazel A. Richardson. Burgess Pub-
IShlng Company, 4‘26 South Sixth

 "‘ Available from NRA Recreation Book
.enter, Eight West Eighth Street, New York
City 11.

., APRIL 1958

 

Street, Minneapolis 15. On 171 Cards.
$2.75.

Readers may be familiar with Miss
Richardson’s previous collection,
Games for the Elementary School
Grades. This new collection is again in
card file format, alphabetized and or-
ganized by classification, such as “bas-
ketball,” or “running,” and so on.

The set includes 171 games, each
complete on one card, plus a classified
index. The games are primarily active
ones, representing various types of
skills. Games with safety hazards and
ones requiring very specialized equip-
ment are omitted.

Such card sets of games should be on
file in a recreation office and located
where playground and indoor center
leaders can consult them. They should
prove of great value in adding variety
to playground and gymnasium pro-
grams.

Storytelling for You

Ruby Ethel Cundiff and Barbara
Webb. Antioch Press, Yellow Springs,
Ohio. Pp. 103. Paper $1.00, cloth
$2.00.

An excellent, ineXpensive addition
for your collection of books on story-
telling. (Of course, you have F or the
Storyteller, and Storytelling - Why -
Where - When - How, both NRA publi-
cations. This new publication supple-
ments them very nicely.) The chapter
on how to tell stories is well worked out
and contains important suggestions that
should be especially helpful to the play-
ground or camp leader. It and a selec-
tion of four tales for telling were pre-
pared by Miss Webb. Incidentally, one
of these tales is an original ghost story,
very dramatic in a nice, wholesome
sort of way.

Miss Cundiff has contributed a very
wise chapter on the importance of story-
telling and a very carefully selected and
annotated bibliography.

Lady from Savannah

The Life of Juliette Low

Gladys Denny Shultz and Daisy
Gordon Lawrence. J. B. Lippincott
Company, 521 Fifth Avenue, New York
City 17. Pp. 383. $4.95.

Covering the Leisure-time Field

Unpredictable, witty, charming, com-
passionate, Juliette Low was the found-
er of one of our nation’s greatest lei-
sure-time organizations: the Girl Scouts
of the United States of America. Her
life reminds us that it is not by meth-
ods or routines or organizational struc-
ture alone that the world advances.

Surviving the deeperate days of re-
construction in Savannah, Daisy, as she
was always known, was a, belle, a fash-
ionable hostess in London, a loyal
American who rushed home to work in
military hospitals during the Spanish-
American War, a devoted wife whose
marriage ended tragically. Yet. her
sense of humor and her belief in people
never failed.

She founded the Girl Scouts when
more than two-thirds of her own life
had already passed. She brought to her
effort the enthusiasm of the girls them-
selves—and today who can be unaware
of the millions of eager youngsters who
follow the trail of adventure and serv-
ice she so glowingly described to the
first little group in Savannah?

This is not the story of an organiza-
tion but of a fascinating woman who
managed, out of a bewildering com-
bination of orthodoxy and unortho-
doxy, to build and sustain a national
movement for “education through rec-
reation.”—ANNE L. NEW, NRA Depart-
ment of Public Information and Educa-
tion.

Indian Beadwork

Robert Hofsinde. William Morrow &
Company, 425 Fourth Avenue, New
York 16. Pp. 128. $2.50.

This very interesting beadwork craft
comes along just in time to be used
with “Indian” groups on playgrounds
and in summer camps (See “The In-
dians are Day Camping,” on page 126.
—-Ed.) It should appeal to boys and
girls, as well as to adults. The material
is presented in story form with beauti-
ful illustrations, against an authentic
Indian background. Fourteen well-
chosen projects are given, along with
brief historical facts about beadwork
as the Indians practiced it.

A simplified method for making the
bead loom will i115pire confidence from

143

the start. With a little patlence and
concentration, the well-planned instruc-
tions for making the objects and for
weaving the beads can be followed.
There are many helpful diagrams,
working drawings, and lists of neces-
sary materials. For application on the
objects to be made, Indian designs are
given, as well as suggestions for creat-
ing original designs. Projects include
belts, necklaces, bracelets, headbands,
purses, bags, knife sheaths, and two
types of moccasins—the Northern

Plains and the Woodland.

The author is well known for his un-
derstanding “and portrayal of Indian
life. He writes and illustrates with en-
thusiasm and resourcefulness! Mr.
Hofsinde is also the author of The In-
dian’s Secret World, Indian .Sign
Language, and Indian Games and
Crafts. All these books are highly
recommended for recreation and camp
leaderS.——SHIRLEY SILBERT, member,
Arts and Crafts Committee of the Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Recrea-
tion Programs and Activities.

Station Wagon Living

Bill Moss. Simon & Schuster, lnc.,
630 Fifth Avenue, New York 20. Pp.
252. $2.95.

Among camping and travel publica-
tions, this gay little book is not only
outstanding, but “different.” It is fun
to read, whether you are going any-
where or not, and its profuse sketches
and other illustrations in color and
black-and-white, will make you want to
pack your kit and take off for one of the
campgrounds listed.

FOR NATURE LOVERS

Three books, excellent for summer-
time hammock or out-of-door reading.

The Book of The Earth, A. C. Spector-
sky, Editor. Appleton-Century-Crofts,
35 West 32nd Street, New York 1.
Pp. 488. $12.50.

This is an unusually beautiful pub-
lication, an addition to the publisher’s
“DeLuxe Series,” which was especially
published for the International Geo-
physical Year. Its appeal is to lovers
of literature and of art as well as of
the earth, for it is a collection of the
writings of many of our prominent au-
thors about the adventures of the hu-
man race on our planet. Illustrations
include striking photographs, repro-
ductions of old steel engravings, and
line drawings. The book goes a long
way toward fulfilling the publisher’s
announcement of it as “the gift book
of the year.”

The River of Life, Rutherford Platt.
144 ‘

Simon and Schuster, 630 Fifth Avenue,
New York 20. Pp. 309. $5.00.

Although this book came out a year
ago and we have not had a chance to
review it until now, it should not be
overlooked. It is another beautiful book,
telling, this time, a leisurely story of
earth’s living things; even examining
the first microsc0pic cell, “electric”
animals such as the firefly, the sparkle
in the sea water; often emphasizing the
bizarre, fanciful, or phiIOSOphical. Its
setting is the whole world: ocean, land,
air, and space. It should be owned and
savored by all lovers of nature’s mys-
teries.

Nature and the American, Hans Huth.
University of California Press, Berke-

ley 4. Pp. 250. $7.50.

The American attitude toward na-
ture has changed with the centuries,
and today it is necessary for the public
to leap to the defense of the conserva-
tion of our few remaining natural wil-
derness areas and open spaces. This
book gives the story of developments
that finally led to the conservation
movement in this country, tracing the
contribution that the authors of this
nation have made to its interpretation
and promotion. One whole chapter is
devoted to “Play and Rest” and dis-
cusses gardens, travel, parks, but not
recreation as such. Others cover tim-
berlands, nature, “summer migration.”
Photographs are excellent. This offers
good reading for those who enjoy the
historical facts which have led to the
present or who are especially interested
in the conservation of the vanishing

open frontier.

Book of Indian Life Crafts

Oscar E. Norbeck. Association Press,
291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 253.

$5.95.

Any scout or camp leader interested
in outdoor activities with n a t u r e
themes, based on authentic Indian cul-
ture, will find this book a gold mine of
ideas. It covers costumes, games, cere-
monials, and fire building. However,
so do many other books on Indians, but
this one goes much farther. It has
chapters on Indian transportation,
foods and cooking, dwellings, commu-
nications (smoke signals, fire signals,
totem poles, trail signals, and others),
hunting equipment, plus a listing of
Indian names for boys and girls, a cal-
endar of Indian events, the principal
Indian tribes, and sources of supplies.
Bibliographies and an index add to its
usefulness. It is a good companion
volume to Indian Beadworh, by Robert
Hofsinde, reviewed by Shirley Silbert,

also in this issue.

was published in 1956 but escaped

   
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

Gold Medal Plays for Holiday

Helen Louise Miller. Plays, lnc.,
Arlington Street, Boston 16. Pp. 43
$4.75.

This author won the 1956 and 19
George Washington Gold Medal f

playwriting awarded by the Freedo
Foundation at Valley Forge. Her c
lection of thirty one-act, royalty-fr
plays is for youngsters in the mid
and lower grades. They are simple -
far as production is concerned, and t
dialogue is natural.

The book includes plays for .J
loween, Thanksgiving, Christmas, Li
coln’s and Washington’s birthda :
Valentine’s Day, Flag Day, Mothe
Day, Easter, and Book Week. It al
contains one play for such dates -'
American Education Week, Vetera
Day, Election Day, and Memorial D

The Edge of April

Biography of John Burroughs. Hild .'
garde Hoyt Swift. William Morrow '

Company, 425 Faurth Avenue, Ne
York 16. Pp.316. $3.95.

This story of John Burroughs com
at the proper time of year and carries-
foreword by his granddaughter, Eliz 
heth Burroughs. It dramatizes a collec
tion of happy adventures in nature wit I
the companionship of the great ma 7'
through the help of his own memorie I!
the recollections of his son, and gran 
children, and friends. Lynd Ward
black-and-white illustrations suppl
ment Mrs. Swift’s sensitivity to beau

Seaweeds at Ebb Tide

Muriel Lewin Guberlet. Univers
af Washingtan Press, Seattle 5.
182. $3.50.

This book on Pacific Coast seawe

 

until now. In case it has escaped

you folks on the West Coast, we’d 1'
to call it to your attention. The ill
trations by Elizabeth L. Curtis are l
lightful. The descriptions and infor l
tion are fascinating, and we’re sure y
can develop a new hobby club with

How to Have a Show

Barbara Berk and Jeanne Benldi
Franklin Watts, 699 Madisan Avenu
New Yark 2l . Pp. 63. $2.95.

Many of the ideas in this book a '
credited to the Los Angeles Parks_ a1
Recreation Department, but they’ 1.
been given a magic touch by a clev
writer and a very talented illustrat
Jeanne Bendick. It’s a young reade
introduction to stage craft, with ima
native suggestions for staging, costum =
sets, and props for informal drama
productions and many special even
like carnivals, pet shows, circuses, a
the like.—VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN, N '

Program Service.

RECREATI n

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association and Local Recreation Agencies

April, May, June 1958

RUTH G. EHLERS
Social Recreation

HELEN M. DAUNCEY

Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON

Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK A. STAPLES

Arts and Crafts

   
 
  
  
 

 

Kingsport, Tennessee
May 5-8

Lancaster, Pennsylvania
June 16-17

San Antonio, Texas
June 2-3

Mankato, Minnesota
June 9-10

St. Cloud, Minnesota
June 11-12

Superior, Wisconsin J
June 13

Vineland, New Jersey
June 18, 19, 20

Durham, New Hampshire

June 23

Jackson, Mississippi
June 3-4

Toledo, Ohio
June 16-19

Northland Recreation

Laboratory
A pril 17-24

Danville, Virginia
June 11-13

Toledo, Ohio
June 16-19

Otisville, New York
June 23-26

 

THE CHOICE OF THE GHAMPIONSJLWAYS

for the famous
oval trade-mark

Mr. W. C. McHorris, Director of Recreation, Kingsport

Mr. Al Reese, Jr., Superintendent of Recreation, 135 N. Lime,
Lancaster

Miss Lou Hamilton, Superintendent, Recreation Division, 930 E.
Hildebrand, San Antonio

Mr. Robert L. Horncy, NRA Field Representative, 110 Shepard
Terracc, Madison, Wisconsin

Mr. Jack A. Claes, Supervisor of Recreation, City Hall Annex—
610 Wood Street, Vineland

Mrs. Patricia (Olkkonen) Clow, Recreation Specialist, University
of New Hampshire, Durham

Mr. Herbert Wilson, Director of Recreation, 2301 Fifteenth Street,
Gulfport

Mr. A. C. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building,
Toledo

Miss Julia M. Faltinson, 3100 West Lake Street, Minneapolis 16,
Minnesota

Miss Constance Rollison, Program Director, Department of Recre-
ation, Danvillc

Mr. A. G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building,
Toledo

Mr. Benjamin J. Hill, Superintendent, Otisville Training School
for Boys, Otisville

lOUISVILLE SLUGGER BATS
LOOK

  

 
   
 

on the bat

   

__.__i ._.__.._.___

 

Space for I or  

 

they A" can have Active fun in your gym

Roller skating is more fun than a barrel of monkeys, and it
entertains and exercises more people in less space than any other sport.
Little equipment is needed, little supervision is necessary.
That’s why more and more schools are making roller skating a definite

part of their physical education and recreation programs.

NEW RUBBER-PLASTIC WHEELS ARE KIND TO GYM FLOORS

These new Duryte rubber-plastic wheels autwear others and
are guaranteed not to mar or scratch the floors. "Chicago"
has a skate designed for any type afxflaar surface or finish.
Write today for free details on roller skating programs and

skating equipment.

 

    

66' 

y
.1.
Wk  Chicaga Raller Skate Ca., 4490-D W. Lake Street, Chicago 24, III.

