 

lI/-'ll('lll-[ lfC’Lf/‘JllOl’i {.1S(*(l/'.'ll(‘.li"t"- [LLLCH H121. c b"Q(

‘O

V

 

} SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE FOCUSED
on the place of books in our “expanding
leisure time” this year, with the first
National Library Week campaign
launched this spring (March 16-22)
and the 40th anniversary of Children’s
Book Week to be observed in the fall
(November 28), according to Lucy
Tompkins of the Children’s Book Coun-
cil. She says, “Results of a Gallup Poll

released three years ago showed that as
a nation we read alarmingly little, far
less than many other countries of simi-
lar literacy. But, while there are no re-
cent statistics, reports from various
quarters indicate that a ‘reading revo-
lution’ is taking place, that increasingly
nonreaders are discovering that .
reading is one of the most rewarding
leisure-time activities ever invented.
Still we have a long way to go, and it’s
urgent that we get there.

“The reading habit best begins in
childhood . . . and recreation leaders
and volunteer committees can do much
to introduce children and young peo-
ple in their communities to books, not
only directly, but by enlisting the inter-
est and support Of adult groups.”

)RECREATION MAGAZINE BIBLIOGRA-
PHIES: All single bibliographies have
been available free, up to January 1,
1958. We are reminding readers, how-
ever, that each bibliography running
over five pages in length, now carries
a small charge (see RECREATION, Sep-
tember, 1957). Therefore, the follow-

ing are now fifteen cents each:

Areas, Facilities, Equipment

Aspects of Administration

Cooperation in Community Recreation
Planning

Personnel

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each DEADLINES: Copy must be received by

Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted...... $3.00

the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

66

HELP WANTED

Counselors: Southern
Michigan co-ed private
camp. All specialties and
cabin counselors. Oppor-
tunity for advancement. Ex-

cellent salary for teachers.
Write: Lake of the Woods

C a m p , 8001 Dorchester,
Chicago.

Camp Counselors. Boys’
camps in Maine. July 8!
August; liberal salary 8!
living. State qualifications,
experience: K e n n e b e c
Camps, Jefferson Building,
£3015 Chestnut St., Phila. 7,
a.

Recreation Supervisor

(Arts 8: Crafts). $5322 to
$6762 annually. Female,
age 21-35. Must have de-
gree in occupational or rec-
reational therapy with an

emphasis on arts and crafts,
and music plus one year of
full-time paid experience
within last five years. Posi-
tion in training school for
mentally deficient children.
For information w r i t e :
Wayne County Civil Serv-
ice Commission, 628 City-
County Bldg., Detroit 26,
Michigan.

Wanted: Pool Manager
Large private swimming
and playground club in

Alexandria, Va., desires
year-round Playground
Manager, experienced in
pool management and oper-
ation, as well as in recre-
ation programs for children
to the age of 13. This is an
attractive opportunity for a
properly qualified person.
Send resume and photo-
graph. Warwick Club, 923
Fifteenth Street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

Recreation Supcrvisor
(Male), graduate, major
in recreation or a llie d
fields, with either full- or
part-time experience. $358
“$395. Apply to Donald
G. Renner, Recreation Di-
rector, 1821 - 6th Street,
Sanger, California.

Recreation Therapists
for California State Hospi-
tals in several locations.
Positions open to college
graduates with major in
Recreation or Therapy and
supervised field work.
Monthly salary starts at
$376; promotional oppor-
tunities in expanding re-
habilitation program to
$644. Liberal employee
benefits. Write Medical Re-
cruitment Unit, State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Calif—
me.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
    
  
  

Recreation Research

Arts and Crafts in the Recreation Program
History of the Recreation Movement
Recreation Philosophy and Theory

Program Planning

Recreation for Children

Sports in the Recreation Program

The collected set of forty-three bibli-
ographies, in that many categories, i
available from the Association fo

$1.00.

Incidentally, this set cannot be added
to and increased in size another year,
in its present mimeographed form.
Shall it be published as a booklet or
dropped? If this service is valuable to
you, will you write to us and help save
it? We need to hear from you.

} REPRINTED IN PAMPHLET FORM: an
article from September, 1957, issue of
Fortune, “Are Cities Un-American?”
by William H. Whyte, Jr. “Clearly the
norm of American aspiration is now in
suburbia,” writes Mr. Whyte. “Here
is the place to enjoy the new leisure,
and as more people make more money
and spend less time making it, the mid-
dle-class identification with suburbia
will be made more compelling yet. The
momentum would seem irresistible.”
He goes on to warn that the succes
suburbia has achieved in attractin
residents may prove its undoing, for a
it expands, it will no longer be in th
country. He says, “The nice plans fo
parks and playgrounds seem to get lost
there is already a marked shortage o
recreation areas. In the New Yor
metropolis there is such a shortage tha
the older suburbs are taking police a
tion to keep residents of other comm
nities from using their playgrounds an
their public golf courses. The city, i
short, has a tremendous opportunity.
Copies available from: The Editor
Fortune, 9 Rockefeller Center, Ne
York City 20, in amounts of from o .
to twenty—free; from twenty up—te
cents each.

) A RECREATION GRADUATE FELLO '
SHIP of $800 is available at Mississip
Southern College, Hattiesburg, Missi
sippi, and is open to men and wome
Anybody interested? Address: Stati
A, Box 222, Hattiesburg.

) WE TAKE PLEASURE IN ANNOUNCI
a new streamlined edition of Geor
Butler’s Recreation Areas, just 0
press. The book, published by Rona
Press, 15 East 26th Street, New Yo

City 10, will be reviewed next mont
Retailing at $6.00, it is available fro

the NRA Recreation Book Center at
West Eighth Street, with the usual di

count for NRA members.

RECREATIO

 
 
 

I“ ARCH 1958

   

'-

THE MAGAAINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

Editor in Chief, Joszra Pasnnsncssr

Editor, Doaomv DONALDSON C O N T E N T S

Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

 
   
   
   

assocmz muons
Recreation Administration, Csoacn BUTLER

Program Actwtttes, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN GENERAL FEATURES

   
    
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

0L. LI. Price 50 Cents No. 3

Hot Dog in the Manger (Editorial). . . . . . . . . Joseph Lee 68
I _ the Cover Family Camping Invades TV! . . . . . . . . .Stanley W. Stacker 74
   The beauty of summer days Recreation Enters the Space Age. 0 o o o o o o e . o a . . . . a a a o o o 
n camp makes for lasting memories. The rightness . .
f a real camping experience and its closeness to The Coat That Taught the Children. . . . . . .Estelle McBride 80
nature, with good leadership, of course, cannot be s R d- a o -
ucstioned. Photo: Courtesy Massie-Missouri Re- uggcsmd ea In” on Famlly campmg ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 85
ources Division. Suggested Reading on Recreation and Youth

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .William C. Menninger, NLD. 85

'ext Month

April brings the annual Playground Issue of
ECREATION, with its abundance of ideas for the
' oming playground season—and other materials as PROGRAI“
vell! Don't miss the article about Playsbore, the

ow proposed playground with a nautical twist for r . .
'Iontebello. California. Sketches of the equipment Emluntmg the Recreanon camp Program

re fascinating. A  project on [he playgrounds o . u . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o o o o . a . . . . . Russell Bo Drmbers 

f Charleston, West Virginia, concerns a possible ' . ‘

oseph Lee Recreation Scholarshipmif other com_ Youth Camps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Edtth Brochtoay 77
unitics want to [0119“. this Challenging lead' Read? Sailing in Camp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

00, about the amaznng Kazoo Concert, wrndup of

hc playground program in Torrington, Connecti- Nature's Shorthantl. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .D. R. Flood 84
ut. Anton administrative materials, executives '

9511 want [Ogread the story of the new Cleveland rec, Camp Photography. . . . . .C. T. Hammett and V. Musselman 86

ation centers.

hoto Credits

Page 73, lionvé-Boston School of Physical Edu- ADDIINISTRATloN

tion, Mcdfortl, Mass.; 77, Eastern Gas & Fuel As-

ciates, Pittsburgh, Pa.; 80-81, Arline Strong; 82,

“987333509 Arc’lf‘ecmre. New York City; 839 Men” Fees and Charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Chase II. Hammond 88
'es, Princeton, N. J.; 87, Jack Markow & Co...

ontrcalaQuehcc, Canada. Youth C011!ch ........-........................... 

Relationship of Highway and Recreation Planning . . . . . . . . 91

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
1. August by the National Recreation Association. a serylce

organization supported by voluntary contributionsnat 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York. 15 on

I file in public libraries and is indexed in the Reade-ff
' Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for- REGULAR FEATURES
eigu subscription rate 34.50. Resentered as second-class
matter Apri 25. 1950. at the Post Office in New York,

New York under Aer of March 3, 1879. Acceptance . .
for mailing a: special mm of postage “0";de for in Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Section 1103. Acr of October 3. 1917. authorized May . . . 66
1. I924. Microfilms of current issues available Unl- Classnf'ted Adverttsmg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
versity Micronlms, 313 N. Firs: Street. Ann Arbor.
Michigan. Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Spare Re resentatit’ertMark Minahan. 185 North Wa- . . .
bash Avcpnuc,  l,   A.    o o o o o o o o o o e o e o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
bins 6t Associates, 101 West 55th Street. New York 19.
New York: Thompson and Clark. 681 Market Street. Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
San Francisco. 5. and 6000 Sunset Boulevard, Holly-
W°°d 23. California“ Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Copyright. 1958. by the

Naiional RW‘caiion Asmi‘dm- InCO‘Wta‘c‘l Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Primed i" ‘hc U'S'A' {E‘- Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles. . . . . . . . 94
-" "‘3" New Publications  . . . . . . . . . . . .  96

' ' ' . . t omce. , ,
T‘adc mark "muted m U s Pm” Recreation Leadership Training Courses. . . . .Insldc Back Cover

1.
'RCH 1958 67

Joseph Lee

Hot
do

If]

the
Manger

In a 1928 letter to

The Boston Herald,

Mr. Lee strikes a pre-
liminary blow in line
with today’ s movement

to “Keep America

Beautiful.”

T IS A PITY that House Bill 319, giving a state commission power to regulate the use 0
land along the state highways in such a way as to save the beauty of the scenery, ha
not been passed. It has, however, been referred to the next general court, and the fight t
preserve one of the essential values for the creation of which these great thoroughfare
were built will not be given up.
Of the necessity for some such measure there can hardly be a question. Any on

who has recently driven along the Mohawk Trail, or almost any of the other state road
through some of our most beautiful scenery, can testify that the most vivid impressio
brought back from such a trip is of an endless procession of filling stations, hot do
stands, and other objects which have not hitherto been classed as beautiful.
And these embellishments are not merely, in their kind, additions to the scene
They have, psychologically speaking, become the whole of it. The skill with which the
have been planned to seize in every instance the very eye and focus of the view, th
point at which the traveler is forced to look, and from that vantage ground to shrie
their wares—each enfevered canine joining the pack in full cry upon the senses of th
traveler—constitutes a very miracle in advertising. The effect is as though, in a publi
art museum, some similar genius had affixed a scarlet sticker upon the face of ever
portrait—Titian’s “Man with the Glove,” for instance, or the “Mona Lisa.” The res
thus reached is not confined to any merely momentary impression. It carries over. Tl

  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  

music of one pack has not ceased to echo in the patient’s system before another open

Not that hot-dog stands or the other kind of filling station should be abolish
There must be places of refection for man and for machine. The farmers also shoul
have a chance to dispose of that wealth of produce not only in fruit and vegetables a
balsam pillows, but in old furniture and braided rugs, of which the soil along sta
highways becomes so miraculously prolific. Personally, I would go even further.
believe there should be somewhere in our state an advertisers’ paradise—a Dogs’ Hig
way, perhaps——to which anybody who liked that sort of thing might repair and sup h
fill of it. Going to the dogs is indeed an established tendency of human nature, a1
should he recognized in any well-rounded scheme of public recreation.

Along our beautiful state highways the commercial features should be confined u
those points at which they will not destroy the natural scenery. Hot dogs and scene
supply two forms of enjoyment which, like a steam siren and a symphony concert, shou
not be mixed.

And there is another thing. The bill was right in giving this power of regulation I
the state. I am myself a firm believer in decentralization—leaving each function I
government in the hands of the smallest unit that can deal with it, at the sacrifice I
uniformity, even of something in effectiveness. But in the present instance a divid
jurisdiction will sacrifice the end in view. Nature cannot advantageously be taken
small doses. Reverie: one, two, three, four, crashl—is not her tempo. To permit t
scenery along a great stretch of public highway to be desecrated at one point is to 1n
the whole effect. As in a river, a single pollution is enough.

It is not the shock alone that devastates. The expectation of it at uncertain interv
is almost worse. It is like the time between jabs when you are at the dentist’s, or 1
the experience of the nervous man who heard a stranger overhead drop one boot on I
floor and then, when he had waited an hour listening for the expected repetition, call
“Why in hell don’t you drop the other boot?”

Impairment of the scenic beauty along the great entrances to Massachusetts in
for a time be good advertising for the few, but is destructive of the general inter
People come here from other sections of the country not for a continuation of the sa
road they have traveled for a thousand miles but to look on something different.
disappoint this expectation at the very threshold is measurably to lose their custom.

The state’s participation in the protection of the scenery of the state highways
like its participation in their construction, a service to both state and local interests.

 

Everyone in the recreation. field knows J OSEPII LEE, dearly beloved “father of our pl -
grounds” and early president of the National Recreation Association.

RECREAT

I3 . .
gunman III III. WEI" "

   

 mnnIIIIIIImnInmnmuunIInIInnI Ir  I =  w  a" 
“Let's Have A Picnic” .er :4

a
g
2
W10“

SQUARE
DANCE
ASSOCIATES

Freeport, N. Y.

W

Expert Oral
Instructional

The New Complete - ’

PICNIC MANUAL 
Contains 84 suggested games,  (

planning charts, sites, themes,
finances, publicity, etc.

llllIllIIllllllllIIIll!IIllI|IlII[IlllllllllllllllllIIllllllllIlllHHIIWIIIHHIIIIIIHIIHIIHHIIHEHWH

.1“.
//
IIIIImIImnm-I—mmummmnnn

Profitany used by hundreds of industrial, 0
Records for City, school, and other recreation leaders. SIPOgMD
W53" ORGANIZATION SERVICES INC. 10200 Grand River Ave. Detroit 4. Mich.

SQUARE DANGES
COUPLE DANGES
AND MIXERS

...II|I||||||l|lllllllllllilllllillllllillilllllllilllllillllilllillllllllllllllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|llllll|IllllllllllEllllllllllllllllllllllll[IIllIlllllllillllllIIllIIllllIlliI|tilllllllllilllllHlllillllllllllllllemHlllllnllllllllhE

111

calisthenics

N
ISIO FOR ROPE SKIPPIIG

ball bouncing
with written instructions

m

onhythms
_ talk Dances
~Singing Games
~Play Party
Games

 

Ask any kid who’s tried it. The Trampoline is fun.

 Always the favorite recreation at parks, classes or playtime.

And it's such a good all-around conditioner.

prekindergarten
through 3rd grade

I
I
QUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES    A
OX 644, FREEPORT, N. Y.
ess

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY 200 AAvenue IIw, cedar Rapids, Iowa, use

ARCH 1958 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 69

Is the Trampoline part of your recreation program?

IT ISN’T A TRAMPOLINE®

 

®Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.

 

sup mmr up

70

III TIMES GREATER SHOCK ABSORPTION

 

at last a way to

 

\\

r

 

PECSOLiTE g.
 at
tin-I; PECSOLITE has

. . . lOWEST RATE OF REBOUND

A new deve10pment in gymnasium
protection, Pecsolite provides un-
equalled safety . . . actual tests
showing that Pecsolite absorbs 10
times more shock than ordinary
mats . . couples this superior
shock absorption with a much
lower rate of rebound to completely
cushion impact and 'lessen shock
and injury.

0 No “Elephant Greases" When Rolled Up

o Durable: new coating formula provides sur-
face strength of 2400 P.s.l.

o Sanitary: moisture resistance prevents
transfer of infection

0 Completely Odorless

0 Easy Maintenance: wipe of a rag and mat
ls clean

0 10 Times Greater Shock Absorption
0 Lowest Rate of Rebound

- Size No Problem: mats available in any
length, any width to 36"

0 Easy to Combine: transparent tape holds
smaller mats together . . . allows for any
combination

0 Stores Compactly: takes up half the space
of conventional mats

See Your Pecsolite Dealer now, or write {or brochure and prices to:

"x

 .ECSOLITE eourrmmr co. Third and Market st. Sunbury, Pa.

Special Playground issue. {[2

SQUARE DANCE?

Official Suppliers to
Colleges and City Departments

all labels in the field.

LOCALLY TO TH E

NoiionoI Association
for Meni‘uI Health

AMERICAN SQUARES

The Magazine of American Folk Dancing
1159 Broad Street, Newark 2, N. J.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

     
  
  

Watch for April Ema/(zen

 

 

FOLK DANCE?

RECORDS - BOOKS - SUPPLIES

No postage charge—no packing charge—orders
shipped same day as received—{amplete stock of

Send for free catalogs and a sample copy of

 

L etters

International Festival

Sirs:

When the 1957 Llangollen Interna-
tional Musical Eisteddfod" was in ses-
sion (July 9-14), folk dancing, folk
singing and instrumental folk music
rang throughout Welsh hills and dales.

There for only one day, I observed
fifty-nine folk-dance and folk-song
groups from about twenty-three coun-
tries. Each group, dressed in national
costume, performed native dances from
its country.

It was a shocking blow to find no
USA group among them. There wasn’t
a single American group entered in the
dance competition. With all the Amer-
ican square-dance groups in Europe,
this seems regrettable. Only one group
from America was listed in the entire
agenda.

The Welsh people with whom I spoke
were pleased that Americans were in-
terested in their eisteddfod, but they
were sorry so few were competing.
Those desiring information should for-
ward their request to: Llangollen Inter-

national Musical Eisteddfod, Eistedd-
fod Office, Llangollen, North Wales
(Ct. Britain).

Among other things, participating
would be an excellent opportunity to
develop international relations. Euro-
pean armed forces and other American
square-dance groups in Europe should
endeavor to send competitors.

The 1957 festival, like the previous
ones, convened at Llangollen, Wales.
Llangollen, a quiet, rivered valley com-
munity with 3,000 inhabitants, emerg-
ing like another Brigadoon, teemed
with song, excitement, fun and folklore
talk. Approximately 120,000 people
converged on the small town. Every
inch of space was utilized.

Competitors from twenty-seven coun-
tries attended this eleventh annual
gathering: England, Finland, Rumania,
Spain and Yugoslovia were but a few
of the countries represented. Competi-
tors and spectators alike joined in a
spirit of international unity; the best
in folk dancing, folk music and folk
singing was presented.

Competition was divided into four
main sections; choral, open solo, youth
choirs and solo and folk song and
dance. TV and newspapers gave the
eisteddfod extensive coverage.

 

*An annual congress of bards, minstrels, and
literati of Wales, dating from the 12th century.

RECREATION

I

 

Lu thus s...

An amazing feature about this proud
international festival is that it is the
work of volunteer efforts from such a
small community.

JOHN K. TRENT, Lt. (jg), Uq.
USEUCOM (Comm Center), Paris,
APO #128, New York, New York.

Another Side of the Coin
Sirs:

The RECREATION Magazine of Janu-
ary, 1958 again includes many splendid
articles. I should like to make some
points regarding the important article,
“The Need for a Recreation Minor,” by
my good friend Henry 0. Dresser of
Louisiana State University. Dr. Dres-
ser’s statements need to be considered
by all of us. There are, however. some
other points of view that should also
be brought out.

Majors in music, fine arts, and the
theater arts are difficult to interest in
summer recreation employment when
they can- find more remunerative sum-
mer work in their own fields. We find
at the University of Minnesota that
since our minor in recreation was in-
stituted in 1941 most of our minors
have come from the field of elementary
education. Most of these students al-
ready have taken certain skills impor-
tant in recreation. Addition of a minor
in recreation provides such students
with a means for summer recreation
jobs. Such students are not as likely to
find employment in their major fields,
as are those in fine arts, music, and
theater arts. The elementary education
teachers are also more numerous. Ad-
mittedly this is not the entire answer
to recreation’s needs. For example the
elementary education major often can-
not be too helpful in the area of adult
recrcation interests.

Since inauguration of the recreation
major at the University of Minnesota
twenty years ago (fall of 1938) we have
found that part of the answer to the
need for specialists is to develop our
own by seeking out recreation students
who have interests in skills in the area
of the specialtics as well as the general
area of recreation.

The need for more recreation per-
sonnel is the same as the need for per-
sonnel in education, science, and other
fields. It is apparent that recreation
will be short of personnel for some
years to come. Nevertheless, we must
continue to do everything we can to
increase the supply of professional rec-
rcation personnel.

G. B. FITZGERALD, Director of Rec-
reation Training, University of

Minnesota, Minneapolis 14.
(cent. on p. 73)

MARCH 1958

  
      
  
     
 

   

  

I I

'---'—

If:

\  /

AMERICA 5 OLDEST AND IARGEST IMPORIERS AND MANUFACIURERS 0'

FENCING EQUIPMENT

 

30 EASY 10th SIREET, N.Y.3,N.Y.o GRamercy 3-6930

Per 2 or 200.
pensive equipment.

 

A FENCING
PROGRAM

Requires minimum spece end simpie inex-
We design and manufacture the
best and ieest expensive
weepens end eccesseries
fer beginners and ex-
perts. let us help yeu
set up e fencing activity
or develep the ene you
have. Censultetiens free.

Write Dept. I fer
FREE CATALOG.

_ .___ __—.._ -___ _- __ ._ -__I

AMERICA’S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS

/"\

FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,
PRICE OR SKILL—-

I?

 GOES.WITH THE GAME
® .

NEW YORK 11

CHICAGO ii

[08 ANGEIES 11

Stop wasting time recording Inventory casts,
handing out balls ond paying tap prices for low
quality balls. Install this attractive, cast-cutting
TFT Tobie Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

Leased FREE to responsible ogencies an $10.00
deposit subject to refund. Trouble-free aperatian

assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac- -

five hord wood and metal cabinet—7V2 x 89': x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: "Stap Wasting Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

IHCO "OI M! D

{J

VV

1'. F. _'r.:

    

SHENANDOAH PENNA.

 

Since 1883 OCEAN POOL has
been first choice for all
waterfront supplies.

Send today. on official

stationery. for big. colorful
FREE (ATALOG No. AB

OCEAN POOL SUPPLY CO.

155 West 23rd Street
New York II, N. Y.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 7].

 

The Canoe—Old and New

Thus the Birch Canoe was builded
In the valley by the river,

In the bosom of the forest;

And the forest’s life was in it,

All its mystery and its magic,

All the lightness of the birch tree,
All the toughness of the cedar,

All the larch’s supple sinews;
And it floated on the river

Like a yellow leaf in Autumn,
Like a yellow water-lily.

Thus Longfellow describes, in The
Song of Hiawatha, the wondrous craft
of the North American Indians. So well
did they use the products of the forest
to fashion these birch-bark canoes, that
today their counterparts in canvas or
aluminum still reign supreme as crafts
for use in the lakes and streams of our
country.

The canoe is a symbol of the Ameri-
can Indian’s best artistic achievements.
It is a superb example of his ability to
mold the products of nature through
simple but skillful craftsmanship into
an efficient tool for human use. The
modern canoe, for its size, is one of the
safest of water crafts. For its weight,
it has greater carrying capacity than
almost anything else that floats. It is
handy to move about and maneuver in

72

Editorially Speaking

many kinds of water, rough or calm.

The canoe is an excellent craft for
the vacationist. With it he can relive
the days of the voyageur and the fur
brigade. He can choose his craft and
his waters to fit his skill and ambition.
He can paddle, row, sail, or motor in
this most versatile of crafts. Still, as
in days of yore, the canoe demands a
master and will repond to skillful hands
like few other crafts.

Some people are afraid of canoes.
The same people might well be afraid
of an automobile if they tried to drive
in city traffic with no knowledge of how
to drive. Using a canoe in water, a
cartridge in a rifle, and gasoline in an
automobile, all require propriety, good
judgment, and training.

A great burst of interest in canoeing
has come about with the advent of light
metal canoes. These corrosion-resistant,
rugged crafts are formed from sheets
of metal and braced with extruded metal
frames. This is a matter of great im-
portance to the recreationist because
with exacting care and periodic main-
tenance, the great bugaboo of canoeing
as a sport has now been greatly sim-
plified—Arthur T. Wilcox, Conserva-
tion Bulletin, Michigan State Univer-
sity, East Lansing. '

II! II! =3

Canoeng in Camps. The managing of
a canoe is taught to our young where-
ever possible in the organized camping
set-up of today. From it, young people
learn much more than just canoesman-
ship, although the camp reward for the
latter is often exciting. Many times, in
fact, it is an overnight canoe trip—
which includes an evening around the
campfire, sleeping under the stars after
a long day at the paddle and, adventure.

Campers learn what it is like to slip
quietly under the, trees along a dream-
ing shore, to explore new territory, steal
up on wildlife, unheard and unseen.
They experience the restfulness of drift-
ing silently, listening to the lapping of
the water. These are special pleasures
of the true canoers, campers, and woods-
men.

There are races, too, and pageants
with canoes, and picnics on distant
beaches, but all involve canoeing with
practiced skill and include the satisfac-
tions of feeling the craft respond to the
master’s touch.

 

Camping Today

The emphasis of this issue of RECRE-
ATION is on camping because, on the
spring fringes of winter, thoughts turn
to the out-of-doors and plans for sum-
mer. Modern urban life and its pres-
sures stimulate in us more strongly than
ever, the desire and need to get out
under the sky, to enjoy open spaces and
being close to nature, to be revitalized.
This need is present in children as well
as in adults.

There are many kinds of camping
today—overnight, day camping, trip
camping-“but, whatever type, today’s
really good camp is devoted in great
part to nature, campcraft, the out-of-
doors, minus all of those things that en-
tcrtain us in the city playgrounds and
community centers. Authorities now ad-
vocate getting the most out of a true
camping environment, and leaving the
city at home.

Skills necessary for outdoor living 2-,
are stressed, and children are given a 'I'
taste of primitive woodland life. Trail
making, tracking, and orienteering are
often a part of this, as are instruction in
compass and map reading, weather- |
station building, outdoor cookery, fire
building, nature study, and nature
crafts—or making things from natural
products, as did the Indian.

Campers learn to see the beauty of a 
sunset, a pine tree against the sky, to '
thrill to the tang of woodsmoke, listen
to the whippoorwill. And they also learn
to get along together in a living, learn-
ing. situation.

With good leadership, camps can of-
fer high adventure and many wonders
to the city child!

 

"1" Help Us To See %

O God of the infinite heavens, and the ma-
jestic sea, Cod, too, of the snow-crystal and
the grain of sand, we thank thee that wherever
we seek thee, thou art to be found. But some-
times when we have lost the sense of thy pres-
ence, we have found it again beside a lake or
on a mountain top or in the quiet of a forest.
We thank thee, then, today for the out-of-
doors and all the beauty and the wonder of
the universe that thou hast made. Help us to
use these beauty spots of thine to tune our
souls to the music of eternity. Amen.

—Lowell Brestel Hazzard

Reprinted, with permission, from the Inter-
national Journal of Religious Education, No-

vember 1956.

 

RECREATION

HO

THREE—1n-

(13

$3?-

73.565”

5.5.-

H-FR‘FWQ

ll

 

Lssrsns— com. from p. 7:

For Board Members
Sirs:

Just received the renewal notice for
five one-year subscriptions to RECREA-
TION Magazine from April, 1958
through March, 1959, going to my
board members. The statement will be
processed in due time and the check
forwarded.

Virginia Musselman’s article in the
January, 1958, RECREATION Magazine,
entitled “Your Oliice—Its Importance
To Your Job,” was most informative
and stimulating. After reading the ar-
ticle I attached a notation to it and had
everybody in the ollice read it. In one
day’s time I noted that a terrific house-
cleaning job had been done and pe0ple
coming into our oflice have a bright
smile on their faces.

THOMAS W. LANTZ, Superintendent
of Public Recreation, Metropolitan.

Park District of Tacoma, Wash-

ington.

Space Standards
Sirs:

Enjoyed your article on “Our Space
Standards” in the January issue. Hope
it may help open the way to cooperative
conferring by leaders of recreation,
schools, parks, conservation, forests,
and others responsible for preserving
land and water for various community
purposes. Perhaps we have passed the
time when national recreation space
standards are feasible. However, I feel
that leaders of local and state space
standards planning could well be
brought into some sort of loose, co-
operative relationship and not continue
working entirely separately.

DANA CAULKINS, 263 West Center
Street, Covina, California.

Highway Billboards
Sirs:
Most certainly you may reprint the
quotation from Joseph Lee. [See p. 68.]
And incidentally, our thanks for call-
ing it to our attention, for it will be use-

ful in our own editorial campaign
against highway billboards.
ALDEN B. HOAG, Chief Editorial
Writer, The Herald, Boston I 2, M as-

sac/insetts.

Activities Valuable
Sirs:

I enjoycd reading “St. Patrick’s Day
Shenanigans” [in] the February issue.
I found the games and activities valua-
ble because they can be used at parties
all year. I know that we shall be able
to use them with children and adults in
my work as a recreation leader. I would

appreciate . . . more of them.
ALLEN Sl-IER, 137-37 - 234th Street,
Laurelton 22, New York.

MARCH 1958

 

with

  af - Pl 3

the new low cost

RUBBERIZED
PLAYGROUND

Saf-Pla can eliminate most of the abrasions, bruises
and cuts that result from children falling on hard,
abrasive or unsurfaced playgrounds. This new rubber-
ized playground surfacing material generally gives kids a “bounce instead
of a bruise” and is not expensive. Playground directors, wherever Saf-Pla
has been installed, report a sharp decrease in accidents or, in many cases,
NO ACCIDENTS AT ALL. Saf—Pla can be applied to black t0p, concrete
or other properly surfaced areas. You owe it to
yourself and your school or department to get the
facts on this safer, more modern playground surface.

curpéygm ACCIDENTS

  

   

      
 

write for bulletin no. 13 . . .

RUBBER RECLAIMING CO..

BOX 365 BUFFALO 5, NEW YORK

Program in the Doldrums?

Everybody loves to play
wholesome, action-packed

A sure way of
maintaining
enthusiastic
attendance.

(9 sizes up to 31/2 x 7 ft.)

  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

Fun For Everyone!

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-
tion for all ages . . . Iteen enioyment
for players and spectators.

Rugged, Dimco FreeGlide Shuffle-
board sets are available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . low in uplteepl
Write today for colorful folder, "Let’s
Play Shufjieboard,” containing com-

plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

literature

SUPERIOR
FOLDING
POOL TABLES

_—-ai__.

INDUSTRIES
CORPORATION

l 565 Barry Street - New York 59, N. Y.

  

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION"- 7R

Family Camping
‘ Invades TV!

0

Something new under the sun?

Stanley W. Stocker

DURING THE PAST few years, the phe-

nomenal growth of “family camp-
ing” has presented a challenge to us as
leaders in the field of recreation. At
Springfield College we have received
many requests for information on where
to go, what sort of equipment to take,
what the facilities are in our area, and
“do we have to rough it?”

With the cooperation of WHYN-TV,
we prepared a series of educational
programs dealing with family camp-
ing.* These were designed as a pub-
lic service to introduce the field of
camping to many would-be campers.

As the programs were produced in
May (when most folks do serious vaca-
tion planning), we were able to pro-
duce four of the five shows out-of-doors.
Each show lasted ten minutes and was
carried “live” by the station Monday
through Friday at 5:15 P.M. We felt
that this was a good time for reaching
both parents and children. I

The shows were prepared by the stu-
dents, with guidance. They were “semi-
scripted”; that is, the professor ap-
proved the content of each production

* For other TV presentations dealing with
family recreation, see “Television—A Year
Later” by Ruth Pike, RECREATION, December
1955, p. 469.

MR. STOCKER is assistant professor of
recreation and director of camping edu-
cation at Springneld College, Spring-
field, Massachusetts.

74

and reviewed it two or three times with
the student. The only formal rehearsal
occurred thirty minutes before show
time. Although rehearsal time was
brief, the results were excellent.

Our first presentation was that of
“Family Camping Equipment.” Our
focus was on equipment available in the
home and methods of improvisation.
We discussed types of cooking utensils,
packs, plastic bags for food and cloth-
ing, and insect repellents, for. instance.

“Comfort in the Out-of-Doors” was
the title of our second show. We placed
great emphasis on the basic but little-
accepted fact that one can be really
comfortable out-of—doors with a small
expenditure of money and effort. We
discussed the principles upon which one
should base his selection of tents,
sleeping bags, and __air mattresses, ex-
plaining what to look for in each item
for maximum use and ease.

From the cemfort of the. air mattress,
we roused ourselves to produce “Simple
Camp Cookery” and “Baking, Roasting,
and Reflector Ovens,” our third and
fourth shows. In these, we restricted
the choice of foods to those readily
available in chain stores. We tried to
give people ideas for managing simple
family cook-outs, demonstrating alu-
minum-foil, planked-fish, and roasting-
onva-spit cookery. Carrying over these
basic principles, we demonstrated bak-
ing in oil can ovens and regular reflector

 

, "9. WWW‘
One of the TV camping programs pointed out that
carcful selcction of sleeping equipment can result in
real comfort and reduce “roughing it” to a minimum.

. 4
J - a ‘
a new ' ‘Vuk ' '

 

ovens, and charcoal cookery. Consist-
ently, we aimed at convincing the pub-
lic that camp cookery can be delicious
and well-balanced, rather than a chok-
ed-down repast of charred hot dogs and
cold beans.

In our fifth show, we discussed briefly
the major areas in New England for
family camping, using maps and photo- I
graphs to show the various campsites.
This emphasized use of state parks.

Insofar as we can determine, this was
the first “live,” outvof-door, educational
camping series ever presented on tele-
vision. The reception of the series was
very good, as evidenced by the man
letters we received. The time require
for preparation was minimal. Viewer
and the students alike had a new kin
of educational experience.

Leaders in the field of recreation ar
receiving ever-increasing requests fo
help to meet the needs of the family i
our society. For a family to vacatio
together, within their economic means I
family camping offers a wonderful op
portunity for sharing fun and adven '
ture. In working and playing out-of
doors, a feeling of unity deepens an
develops. Our goal is to encourage, t
clarify, to wean family attitudes fro
fear of discomfort to fullness of livin '
in the out-of-doors. These TV prese
tations could be the forerunners o .
many more throughout the country i I
recreation departments take the lead.

RECREATIO

Evaluating the
Recreation Camp Program

THE INCREASED interest shown by recreation departments
in establishing camping as a part of their program is
evidence that young people are asking for more opportuni-
ties for out-of-door living. This constitutes a wish for
“_new experience” and is a vital part of the “growing up”
process, by which the young people can realize freedom of
action in programs new to them. Although the experiences
they are seeking are racially old, our modern pattern of
living makes them appear new. The wish also represents a-
need to escape from the routine programs with which they
are familiar. The camping experience can be satisfying if
the program of activities is challenging enough to allow for
freedom of expression according to their age and is with-
out artificiality.

Another wish is for a reasonable amount of security.
Campers need recognition, 3 sense of “belonging,” and un-
derstanding of their problems, and a feeling that they are
being treated fairly. Camping can meet these needs through
small group action and camper-counselor relationships.
PURPOSES: In considering the type of program for the day
or resident camp, regardless of structure, thought must be
given to the purposes for attending the camp. Primarily,
the campers are seeking fan and any other purpose is of sec-
ondary value to them. This may be in conflict, however,
with the adults’ version, and purposes that may not fit into
the camper’s concept are often featured with varying de-
grees of success.

Camping has been described by the American Camping
Association as a “recreational experience in the out-of-doors
which provides special opportunity for education and for
social adjustment through group living.” This concept is
further clarified by Hedley Dimock who says that the pro-
gram of the modern camp is unique in that it consists of
activities indigenous to the out-of-doors.‘

However, because a program is conducted in the out-of-
doors does not necessarily make it a camp program. A
group having as its main purpose the concentrated study
of subjects or the acquisition of skills in programs not nor-
mally found in the camp setting do not qualify as a camp,
although the participants are housed in tents or cabins and

f

1 Administration of the M odern Camp, p. 28. Association Press, New
York City. $4.00.

PROFESSOR DAUBERT is college supervisor of field work in
recreation at Michigan State University in East Lansing, and
has been active in camping for many years.

Anon 105.9

Russell B. Dauhcrt

periodically “go for a swim.” This rightfully should be
considered as a conference or workshop in an out-of-door
setting since it is not compatible with the spirit of camping.
OBJECTIVES: A clear statement of objectives determines the
program content and forms the basis for evaluating the
outcome. Camp program evaluation then starts with an
analysis of the camping objectives and is concerned with
how they are implemented. Too frequently the objectives
stated are generalities and include values that cannot be
developed. Objectives should be considered realistically
in terms of immediacy, thus helping to eliminate conflicts
and give direction to the counselors as well as the campers.
Immediate objectives include those values that can be
realized in a reasonably short time, the accomplishment Of
which is a readily apparent result of camping experience:
0 Fun and adventure
0 A feeling of at-homeness in the out-of-doors
0 Development of camping skills
0 Social adjustment for camp living
0 Recognition of spiritual and aesthetic values

Remote objectives constitute those areas of growth ac-
quired through the process of maturation and contributed
to by all organizations in the social order. They are not
the complete responsibility of any one program. Although
the camp may rightfully claim a part in the development of
these objectives, the element of time does not permit their
realization as do the immediate objectives. These are
citizenship, character, health, and physical growth, person-
ality development, and social adjustment for community
living.

PROGRAM PLANNING: Since camping is fun, the director and
staff must use the recreation approach in program planning.
However, other facts must be considered if the camper is
to realize fun in terms of deeper satisfactions. Skills must
bc mastered if the objective is to be realized and the edu-
cational approach becomes necessary for further fun. This
involves the use of competent leaders able to make the
objectives more meaningful. In planning the program, con-
sideration must be given to staff competency; campers’ ex-
perience that will reflect their interest; opportunity for
choice of activities; available areas, facilities, and equip-
ment; and length of the camping period. Sound planning is
the reflection of cooperation between staff and campers.

BASIC PROGRAM CONTENT: The standards of the American
Camping Association state, “Essentially the program should
be related to the central theme of living together out-of-

'7:

doors and learning to enjoy the out-of-doors in its various
manifestations.” The camp program must include activi-
ties that are typical of camping if it is to meet its primary
function as a camp. Basic to activities for the camp are:
Nature Lore—Discovery of natural things found in the
out-of-doors leading to appreciation and better understand-
ing of spiritual values. This includes investigation of the
stars, weather, rocks, and minerals, as well as Hora and

fauna of the region.

Camp Cra/t———Skills and knowledge necessary to make a
temporary home outdoors, including use of a compass and
the ability to follow a map; use of an axe, to build a fire,
and to cook a meal; setting up of shelters for protection
against the elements.

Natural Crafts—Creation of objects for utility or beauty,
from materials found in nature, by molding, weaving, carv-

(Continued next col.)

 

“The Choice of Those Who Play The Game”

The MacGregor Co. ° Cincinnati 32, Ohio
FOOTBALL ° BASEBALL ° BASKETBALL ° GOLF ' TENNIS

 

LOOPER

Craft Weaving

Braiding and Crocheting
makes

‘ a
“or HOLDERS *RUGS *MATS .1.

0 Available in 20 beautiful ‘1
colors . . . also varigaled ‘

   

for information and prices, write

HOME CRAFTS COMPANY

BOX 352 KERNERSViLLE, NORTH CAROLiNA

76 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

ing, braiding, grinding, polishing, cutting, and sewing or
tying. ’

A quatics—FThe ability to swim and use small craft safely.

Creative Activities—Spontaneous expression in the areas
of music, storytelling and dramatics, ceremonials, and cer-
tain dance forms.

Games and Contests—Activities by which early man main-
tained life, such as archery, fishing, riflery, and horseman-
ship, as well as games that require little organization (re-
ferred to as camp ga1nes) .

These six basic areas are essentials without which camp-
ing assumes a function foreign to its original purpose. Not
all camps can include some of these items because of geo-
graphical location or a lack of facilities. Each basic area,
however, must be included with equal status for a balanced
program. As Gerald Burns says, “When the program of a
regular or general camp becomes lopsided in favor of any
one division or activity, the entire program suffers.”2 This
is especially true of short-term camps such as day camp.
SUPPLEMENTARY: These are items often used as “fillers”
to the basic program, some of which could be considered as

inonessential for all camping purposes and best conducted
in the city where adequate provisions can be made for them.
The list includes athletic sports and contests, except for
occasional impromptu games; commercial entertainments;
mechanical apparatus and playground equipment programs;
certain forms of combative activities; and other programs -
not typical of the camp setting. ‘

The more acceptable forms of camp program are those

representing outcomes of the basic program areas planned
and produced by the campers, including demonstrations of
acquired skills, such as canoe and swimming demonstrations,
dramatic skits, Indian demonstrations, campfire ceremon-
ies, exhibits in crafts, field days, progressive game pro-
grams, hikes, and trips.
FACTORS 0F EVALUATION: Because of the complexity of
camp living and the breadth of interests of the campers,
program evaluation must be in terms of what the program
did for the campers and how they responded to it. Out-
comes are difiicult to measure, but a composite of informa-
tive materials based on the immediate objectives will aid
the director in his evaluation. Does the program:

0 Consist of a variety of basic camp activities for balance?
0 Allow for a selection of interests based upon ability?

0 Encourage the learning of new skills?

0 Foster cooperative action among campers and between
campers and staff?

0 Provide opportunity for individual activity as well ‘as
group participation?

0 Give the camper free time to set his own pace?

0 Give proper recognition for noteworthy accomplishment?
0 Create an environment conducive to “having fun”?

In the final analysis, appraisals of a more objective nature
can be used in completing the evaluation. A study of prog-
ress charts in activity areas and records of projects com-
pleted give an indication of the program’s effectiveness. g

2 Program of the Modem Camp, p. 71. Prentice Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, N. J. $5.00.

RECREATION

 

Youth
Camps

Edith Brockw ay

Junior and senior high,
chureh-sponsored youth
camps in Illinois have
been p 1° 0 ve 11 suceessful
by the hundreds of satis—
fied and morally strength-
ened young people who
return year after year to
sh a r e mutual camping
experiences.

[F ALL YOUNG people could attend such
a camp as we have experienced, I
think we would have juvenile delin-
quency licked.” This statement came
from a young man who had just finished
a week of counselling ten energetic
junior high boys at a coeducational
camp in southern Illinois. This was one
of eighty similar camps Sponsored by
the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter Day Saints last year.

His week had not been an easy one.
Keeping a bunch of twelve- to fifteen-
year-olds in line during a daily sched-
ule of flag raising, morning devotion-
als, classes, games, meals, campfire, and
a good night’s sleep left him with little

MRS. BROCKWAY is a writer and illus-
trator who has been. active in. helping
to direct children’s religious educational
camps in. Illinois. Her article on. square
dancing for the sub-teen. group, “Call
Them Squares,” appeared in. RECREA-
TION, September 1956.

MARCH 1958

l

l

—I—\.

 

Vespers—an evening service in a beautiful woodland setting. As stories
and Scriptures unfold the camper finds himself closer to God and nature.

time for daydreaming or horseplay.
Through his self-discipline and sense
of responsibility to his boys, he could
see more clearly the over-all benefits of
his efforts by the changes in the atti-
tudes and behavior of his charges. Boys
who roared into camp on the first day,
bringing bravado, loose talk, and care-
less habits, began cleaning house when
they were closely tied into the group
activities and objectives. It wasn’t the
pressure of having to behave, it was
wanting to conform with the spirit of
the group. Since the first camp was
launched in the thirties, two basic prem-
ises have proven valid and contribut-
ed tremendously to the success of
church camping.

1. Camps should be, first of all, an
eXperience full of adventure and rich
fellowship in outdoor experiences.

2. Religion in camp should be more
a matter of spirit and example than of
classwork and doctrinal teaching.

While there has been some increase in
the demand for religious instruction
by the campers themselves, the empha-
sis has continued to be on the rich,
Spiritual fellowship in an adventurous
camping experience.

The selection of the staff has much
to do with the success of such a camp.
Coed camping for these ages, twelve to
fifteen and fifteen to eighteen, has from
the start, inherent problems, which can
get out of hand if the staff is not on its

toes. Careful controls and a spirit of
high expectancy in moral standards
among the young people thcmselves help
to keep, down crises. The church camp
director, usually a minister or layman
with two or more seasons of camping
experience and a strong aptitude for
leading young peOple, selects his staff
from the area from which the campers
come.

These voluIiteers—uhousetv'iV'es, teach-
ers, chemists, office workers, doctors,
farmers, college students, and factory
foremen—-come with a desire to help,
whether it’s cooking the meals or teach-
ing an art class. Some are sclcctcd for
their ability to teach various specialized
classes, and others for their background
and experience in youth work. Camp
counselors and program leaders are
nineteen or older, with the average con-
siderably higher. Staff members under
nineteen are considered counselors-in-
training, as anyone this young often
lacks mature judgment for leadership.
A minimum ratio of one adult to every
six campers is almost a must. Food and
bunks are provided frce to staff.

In many areas, a short leadership
training institute for old and new staff
members has been very helpful in
orienting them to the camping program.
W’orkshops, periodic meetings with
leaders in various areas of the country,
camp leaders’ bulletins, a camp direc-
tors’ manual and a training guide have

77

WRITE FOR
LITERATURE

nlvme BOARD

World's Finest Official Board
Rugged Aircraft Girder Construction.
Unequaled in Design, Durability and
Performance by any board built today.

Exclusive International Distributors

_. warm—Ml

A.._._................... '-"M‘.-— '--'M--"' ‘----w------.W.ww-M

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK. PICNIC. PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

‘ Nemmlliliil'l

109%. Tennis

 Tables

FOR HEAVY DUTY USE

7W” 0W

0 total
Eagle tc'ois

SIZE and

 

4 [£65 TO
EACH SECTION

  

2 SECTIONS

Nationally recognized and used by
the ARMED FORCES. COLLEGES,
MUNICIPALITIES, RECREATION CEN-
TERS, SCHOOLS. CLUBS. PARKS.et¢.

MODEL #104 H MODEL #106
as above with . 8 sturdy snap in type
siotlonory qus. : folding legs.

  

     
 

  
     
 

   
 

 
  

" No Molntenonce or Replacement Problems.
' Sturdy Llfeilrne Construction.

’ SECURELY INSTALLED HEAVY GAUGE
ALUMINUM CENTER NET

 
 

For FULL
DETAILS
WRITE

All METAL TENNIS TABLE (0.
9.0.30): I42,TEANECK, NJ.

73 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

 
 
        

 
    
  
   

 
     
   
 
 
 
 

all been sponsored by the church to
further the camping program. Affilia-
tion with the American Camping Asso-
ciation through the years has helped to
keep the church youth office up-to-date.

Another important factor in success-
ful camping is the over-all program.
Usually the camp director follows the
outline published by the church camp-
ing director and his staff, then adapts
this material to his specific needs. A
program director, working with the
director, plans approximately what is
to be done weeks and months ahead of
camp time, leaving a wide margin for
changes if the spirit of the group neces-
sitates it. The decisions of the daily
staff meeting often alter many a well-
planned schedule. The main theme may
range from a safari in Africa, cowboys
and Indians, or a treasure hunt, to a
period in church history. This theme
is carried out in the classwork, the skits,
music, and the costuming during the
week, and is often climaxed in a special
program at the close of the camp. The
daily schedule includes flag raising,
morning devotionals; camp clean-up; a
religion class; crafts; sports; such as
swimming, archery, rifle range, base-
ball and volley ball; camp craft; art;
nature study; evening chats; campfire;
and cabin devotionals.

Cook-outs, treasure hunts, special
swimming periods, hay rides, a water-
melon feed, field trips, serenades, com-
petitive sports, are among activities.

The religious philosophy woven into
the morning classes, evening chats, and
campfire programs by the director and
teachers is a vital ingredient in the
camp’s success. Most of the young peo-
ple agree that it was the fellowship
services, usually held twice a week at
campfire or in the chapel area, that
made the most lasting impression in
their memories. Out in the open spaces,
in the woods, surrounded with those of
his own age, the boy and girl feel free
to pray and speak of their convictions.
Here, they are given an opportunity to
look at themselves, seeking help for
their needs and the needs of others, find-
ing strength for the future. Because of
this contribution to the moral and physi-
cal strength of our young people, the
church has dedicated itself to a strong

camping program. I

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
     
      
 

0 Those interested in obtaining a copy
at the “Preposed Camp Standards for
Youth Camps of the Church," should
write ta the American Camping Asso-
ciation, Martinsville, |ndiana.——Ed.

Wear Your Golden Age Club Pin With
Pride Wherever You May Go

Designed by representatives
of over 100 Golden Age clubs
and used nationally.

Gold colored metal with
evergreen tree in jewelers’
enamel. Symbolic of longlife,

EXACT 5'15 strength and perseverance.
The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE
(greatest values of club membership) en-
ameled in black. The border is a laurel
wreath for honor. Safety catch.

Available Only to Authentic Clubs.
501: each, minimum order 10 pins.

James Spencer 6. (o. ’2 “- 6'“ Sm"

Philadelphia 6, Po.

 

ICE WHEN YOU WANT IT

with
BELTEMP

ortitlcloi ice skating rinks by

BELTZ ENGINEERING LABORATORIES
HOZI Whittier Avenue
Detroit 24, Michigan. VEnice 9-18”

For Wire Baskels 8. Racks
with
Ventilating Shelves



Star Co.-—Litchfieid, Mich—Lincoln 2-2022

 

  

Almost everyone
in the park field read

//‘;/Lr /; riff/11’
gl/LQLLLLEL/LLZZLLLQ

why not YOU?
 0 articles

0 readers
0 reader help

  

  

FIRST

    
           
   
       
    
    
    

o Buyer's Guide Issue
0 Swimming Pool Annual
0 Turf Research Annual

 to order on municipal bill-
ing form or send check for $3.50 (if
you add Dept. R to address we’ll give
you one year FREE with your paid
subscription).

$3.50 per year, $8.75 three years
Free Sample Copy

PARK MAINTENANCE
PO. Box 409

Appleton, Wisconsin

RECREATIO

 

go,» yea/L

leader . . . executive . . . board member . . . professional
or volunteer at the 40th National Recreation Congress

Atlantic City, New Jersey.. .September 22-26, 1958

to help you meet the pressures and challenges of today and tomorrow as

the
the

the new ideas
the tested methods

trends
facts

   

(Qecreatiom entero the Space 0493

In the months since Sputnikl was
launched (on the day the 39th National

Recreation Congress ended) a series of

Distinguished leaders in national affairs, sci-
ence, business, psychology, and medicine
will be among the speakers who will help
us to answer these questions.

questions for all of us concerned with
the best use of leisure time by all Amer-
icans have begun to emerge:

Will Americans need different types of recreation or a
different point of view about leisure time —and if
so, what?

C
What can recreation do to provide a balance for the
emotional stresses of the Space age — including even-

tual space travel?
I

How will the demands of the space age affect our
recruiting for recreation as a profession and what

should we do about it?

- C
If leisure-time activities make a necessary, vital con-
tribution to our nation's physical, mental, and spiritual
growth, strength, and well-being, how can we find

financial and other support when so many proiects
are clamoring for funds and attention?

Workshops will deal with your specific job
problems as always—but, with special em-
phasis on what's new and different because
of our national situation.

TO HELP YOU DO YOUR JOB BETTER —

  

MARCH 1958

TH

To HELP MEET OUR COUNTRY’S NEEDS BETTER — NOW
E 40th NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

Headquarters: Hotel Ambassador
Make hotel reservations through
Housing Office, Hotel Ambassador

Save the dates . . .
September 22-26, 1958
Atlantic City, NJ.

Sponsored by American Recreation Society 0 National Recreation Association 0 Public Recreation Association of
New Jersey with the cooperation of Council for Advancement of Hospital Recreation 0 Federation of National

Professional Organizations for Recreation 0 State of New Jersey Department of Conservation and Economic De-
velopment, Bureau of Parks and Recreation.

For further information write Willard B. Stone, Secretary, National Recreation Congress, 8 West
8th Street, New York 11, N.Y.

79

 

Frisky accepts a tidbit. This popular camper astounds others by

seorning the traditional diet of tin cans and newspapers, and
favoring, instead, a diet of tender greens. How could this be?

‘V HEN FRISKY started to day camp she was seven months
old. Younger by far than any of her peers at camp, yet
wiser than some, this small goat, perennial butt of jokes and
verbal insults. made a community laugh and did more to
bind a varied collection of children together than lectures
on love, chocolate ice cream sodas, or even Santa Claus.
Frisky’s story has a happy moral for parent groups in every
community concerned with summer, children at loose ends,
and the children’s need to develop that most precious sense
of security, the feeling of “belonging.”

This, then, is the story of Frisky the goat and what she
taught the children.

It was summer, and, at the Fieldston School Day Camp in
Riverdale, a woody, grassy extension of steel-and-cement
\‘ew York City, 135 children had gathered together. They
ranged in age from six to fourteen and were almost as diverse
a collection as the delegates to the United Nations. lndeed,
six were oHSpring of two I \i delegates from India; others
were natives of New York City. They were white and Negro,
rich and poor, timid and talkative.

From the camp’s standpoint, this assorted group had come
together to grow, for “summer is the time for growing" is
the basic philosophy at Fieldston, just as the mental, emo-
tional, and physical growth of each child is a prime purpose
of the three Ethical Culture Schools to which the day camp
belongs. Since growing and knowing are inseparable, a

— —_——-—--—-----———- -—_—.—___.-.___——_—---——-

 

- --—-———- — .r

\Ilts. Mt BRIDE, a professional writer, has a son. attending
Fieldston. School.

til)

 

'“3' ': ' w ' 4-» w... .. -

The “oldsters” of camp bring the new baby goat home
from the auction. The children were proud of their bar-
gain—until they discovered they had paid too much!

The Goat The

focal point through which the children could learn to know
many things and each other was sought. Somebody sug-
gested a goat, and this is where Frisky came in.

The fourteen oldsters of the camp (twelve to fourteen)
bid for Frisky at a farm auction at Wassaic, New York. All
forty-five pounds of her cost them $11.50 in hard cash. The
children strutted with pride because of their financial acu-
men, then discovered with chagrin that for ten dollars they
could have bought a goat of Frisky’s calibre from any farmer
in the neighborhood! LESSON #1: A cautious buyer looks
before he leaps into a transaction.

Back at camp, Frisky, then nameless, was surrounded by
fascinated children. The first order of business was to name
her. Everybody had “the best” name. Tumult raged; then
democracy moved in. A secret ballot was taken and the name
“Frisky” won. Peace reigned. LESSON #2: Majority rule

  
  

is a. peace-making tool.

Frisky needed a house and all wanted to lend a hand; the
individualist, the uncooperative, the anti-social—all wanted
to work for Frisky. Never has a goat had such a domicile.
LESSON #3: Many willing hands make light work.

As one, children at Fieldston Camp observed, cared for.
and lavished affection upon Frisky. Children with no other
strong common interest were drawn more closely together
because of her—city children, other-country children, white
and Negro, rich and poor children. The timid came forth
and blossomed because they had no fear that Frisky would

R ECREATION

7.
Il- Zei-
‘-
U

4i!

ill a... I
.‘l 5'

Feelings run deep. Boys and girls, timid and aggressive,
dropped fears and hostilities while they lavished care
and affection on this charming and independent pet.

t the Children

I Estelle McBride
|

I reject them. Aggressive children dropped their hostilities,
for hostile children are frightened children—and how could
» goat make you afraid! Foreign-born children whose Eng-
lish was halting talked easily to others about Frisky, for
very child could understand and be understood by a goat!
The first reaction of the youngest group, four- and five-
year-olds, was to chase Frisky. They pushed and whooped
* and commanded. Did Frisky run? Not she! She asserted
er independence and wouldn’t budge! Finally the young-
. ters gave up and then—surprise! surprise !—-—-Frisky tagged
fter them. Everywhere the children went, the goat, like
r , Mary’s lamb, was sure to go. Eventually she even allowed
- then] to carry her, legs dangling, a superior smile on her
face. LESSON #4 was very plain (even to the very young) :
- Never push. Always lead, if you want COOperation.

' During Frisky’s first week, the group prepared a royal
'feast for her. Newspapers, old rags, tin cans, and other
delicacies were served with pomp and ceremony, but Frisky
, snifled at them prettily and turned her sensitive nose! The
[g campers were undone; how could this be? Everybody knew
that papcr and rags and old tin cans were choice fare for a
- goat! LESSON #5: ’Tis wise NOT to believe everything you

I hear; test the truth of even the most widespread beliefs.
1 What was Frisky’s favorite menu? A true gourmet, she
iked oak lcavcs above all and tender locust leav es next. She
l 1il)hled on bunny lettuce and broccoli but had quite a pas-
. .ion for grain; indeed, Frisky, like her two-legged admirers,

, MARCH 1958

 

 

f  "p .
, s2 . ' _

“What’s this all about?” An excellent study of Frisky,
star eamper, teaeher, and common bond of the eity and
other-country ehildren at Fieldston Sehool Day Camp.

A house is eonstrueted to shelter her, by many willing
and eager hands. One eamper, tomorrow’s builder of
skyserapers, drew up a five-page set of plans for it.

She takes her place in a group of five-year-olds wateh-
ing their group leader Marge. Aetivities of the
camp inelnded eating outdoors, sleeping under stars.

 

 

 

81

occasionally had eyes bigger than her stomach and made
herself ill gorging on grain. This sad fact of cause-and-effect

was well digested by the children!

So a happy summer passed for 135 children. There were
games and cookouts, arts and crafts, walks in the woods. In
the midst of it all, Frisky was a catalytic agent without equal,
for a group of diverse children of assorted temperaments.

Funny, gentle, independent, affectionate, adventurous,
law-loving Frisky! She also delighted the whole community.
One week end she ambled away from camp and landed in the

Awards

0 The Citizens Committee for Parks,
Playgrounds and Pools of Salem, Ore-
gon, won the first-place gold medal in
the Swimming Pool Age Annual Public
Relations Competition. The winning
entry, submitted by Vernon Gilmore,
director of recreation in Salem, was
based on a campaign to renovate two
Salem swimming pools completely—the
Olinger and Leslie pools, built in 1934-
by WPA and the school district.

Second prize was won by the Yavapai
County Youth Center, Prescott, Arizona,
under the leadership of Kenneth M.
Shake, vice-president of the group, for
its successful campaign for a swimming
pool at the center.

The judges were George D. Butler,
NRA director of research; Richard L.
Waddell, marketing editor of Business
W eek magazine; and William 0. Baker,
president of Swimquip Inc. and chair-
man of the public relations committee
of the National Swimming Pool In-
stitute.

' The “most outstanding contribution
in the development of park administra‘
tion and its related fields, as well as out-
standing activities in leadership in the
life of the community in which he is
employed,” was made by George Hjelte,
general manager of the Los Angeles City
Recreation and Park Department, ac-
cording to the California Society of the
American Institute of Park Executives,
when he was given the society’s 1957
Award of Achievement on January 23.
0 Two of the most significant recreation
projects of 1958 won awards in the rec-

reation category of the Fifth Annual

Design Awards Program sponsored by

Progressive Architecture magazine. Top

82

 

 

Olympic Arena

design award went to the proposed
Olympic Arena for the 1960 Olympic
Winter Games in Squaw Valley, Calif-
ornia, designed by the San Francisco
firms of Corlett 81 Spackman and Kit-
chen 81 Hunt. Another San Francisco
architect, Theodore T. Boutmy, won the
design award citation for his design for
the pr0posed S'ausalito, California,
Yacht Club. Interested readers may see
sketches and plans of the award winners
in the January issue of Progressive A r-
éhitecture.

Sausalito Yacht Club

:2- ’
I: a...
mag”.-

   

gunman—IN
“‘5

5 . \

    

Personnel Notes from Chicago
Walter Roy _has retired as director
of recreation for the Chicago Park Dis-
trict, and Vernon Hernlund, his former
assistant, replaces him.

Terry Rose
has moved into the latter slot, and An-
tony Dejulio has taken over Mr. Rose’s
duties as general supervisor of recrea-
tion programs.

Camps for Family Rovers
Nonprofit, municipal family camps
are very popular in California. A num-

Riverdale police station. Once, to show her commum
spirit, she actually walked into an apartment house and ra
a doorbell—no one knows how—and was greeted by
kindly but flabbergasted housewife!

Like music, Frisky had universal appeal. She placed
chips on human shoulders. She was the great leveler f
children of different ages and backgrounds and econom
levels. “Belonging” for everyone happened at Fieldst

School Day Camp, largely because of Frisky. She taught t
children so much! I

ber of organized camps were initiat

   
  
 
  
  
    
   
  
  

in the 1920’s and have been improv
by adding central showers, laund ,
facilities, and electricity in certa I.
areas. New sites are being opened ll
the Mount Tallac area of El Dorado N

tional Forest on a leasing arrangeme
with the federal government. Citi
granted such land are required to be'
development within the year but hav
ten years to complete their approve
plans. Other camps are owned an
operated by the cities themselves.

Capacity Attendance at Day Cam

(‘

. . . more true value can be obtain I
recreationally, from dollars spent u- '
the day-camp program than probabl '
any other one activity normally co I
ducted in municipal recreation,” -:
cording to R. Foster Blaisdell, superi 
tendent of recreation in Topeka, Ka -
sas. Mr. Blaisdell said further that t'
same activities carried on, for the chi
up to fifteen, in the neighborhood pa
or playground take on a different, a
more adventurous, quality in a d
camp atmosphere.

Topeka’s 1957 program brought c
pacity attendance and participati
with a total registration of 1,251,
cluding 150 unior leaders. Boating a

canoeing have been added to Topek I

day camp activities and the program h
been expanded to include eight five-d
weekly sessions.

 

IN MEMORIAM -

 

James Hamilton Grooms, superint
dent of the Park and Recreation Co
mission, Wellesley, Massachusetts, a
well-known in the recreation field, di
on January 21, in Wellesley, of a chro
heart ailment. He Was fifty-four. D
ing his tenure, Mr. Grooms built the r
rcation department into a smoot
functioning organization. I

RE CREATI r

*“ a

 

!

l

E
:L
I
e
,0

many city children have felt the thrill of running before a stiff breeze?

IIE EXTENT to which sailing may be a part of the camp’s
aquatic program depends upon the locale and the avail-
ility of sailing craft and instructors. Competent instruc-
'on in sailing is of major importance; good supervision
- d instruction must be available if any kind of sailing pro-
am is to be carried out.

Small sailboats of the sailing paddle board or “moth”-
'pe may be used initially, or the small “pram”-type craft
. own as “seashells” or “penguins.” These help beginners
a ome familiar with the principles of sailing before gradua-
'ng to larger craft, such as snipes, “X’s,” comets, or others
- similar construction involving jibs as well as mainsails.
' ils may be fitted to canoes in camp to hasten interest in
iling.

I Robert X. Perry, famous for his ability with sheet and
ller, has deve10ped the sailing and racing safety rules for
mp directors and campers that follow. These rules are
ed on sound principles and are heartily endorsed and
1commended for use wherever sailing is carried on.

I.

I
J iling and Racing Safety Rules for Camp Directors

. Permit swimmers only to sail and race.
. Require that participants be tested as to sailing ability
1 classified as neOphytes, crew, and skippers.
11. Provide a cloth “bonnet” to lit over headboard of sail——
-- nnet to be green and red, green on one side and red when
rersed:
1 If neophyte is handling tiller, sail carries red bonnet.
I If crew is handling tiller, sail carries green bonnet.
1f skipper is handling tiller, sail carries no bonnet.
ii” Require all sailboats to float when full of water with
- w aboard and to carry the following equipment:
' Life preservers or floating cushions—one for each person.
Two oars or paddles.
Anchor of proper weight and design, and line of suf-
 ent length depending on depth of water——minimu1n fifty
' t in length. This is very important.
1' Bucket.

Fenders (to protect boats).

eprinted from Health and Safety, published by the Boy Scouts of
rica, with permission.

'ca 1958

5. Prevent overloading of boats by establishing maximum
number of persons permitted aboard and total weight of
crew allowed.

6. Apply buddy system to sailing—at least two in each
boat or if sailing alone, at least two boats together.

7. Provide patrol rescue craft on the basis of one rescue
boat per ten sailboats, increasing this ratio during heavy
weather.

8. Establish special rules for racing that encourage safety.
(See N 05. 7 and 8 in rules for campers.)

9. Cancel racing when wind exceeds twenty-four mph and
if gustiness exists, cancel sailing.

10. Cancel sailing when wind exceeds thirty-one mph. De-

ve10p satisfactory signal system to recall all sailboats to
mooring or dock.

Sailing and Racing Safety Rules for Campers

1. Before hoisting sail make sure mainsheet is clear of
kinks and knots—ready to run.

2. Never belay or cleat the sheet when sail is up.

3. When under way, hold sheet in hand or have crew hold
in such manner that is can be released instantly. Do not be-
lay or permit it to become tangled or fouled.

4. If a thunderstorm or squall is making up, head for shore.

5. If caught in a squall, drop sails before it hits and tie
sails with sail st0ps. Anchor craft, or if water is too deep, tie
bucket to anchor line and “heave to on a sea anchor.” Keep
centerboard down for greater stability.

6. If capsized, hang on, do not leave boat, do not try to
swim to shore.

7. If racing and another boat capsizes, go to the rescue.
You will be credited with finishing in the position you were
in when you abandoned the race to help those in the water.

8. Should a crew member fall overboard during a race, you
must rescue him before continuing the race.

9. Swimming from a sailboat is not permitted.

10. Know the sailing and racing rules of the road.

When obeying and construing these rules, due regard shall
be taken of all the dangers of collision and of any special
circumstances that may justify a departure from the rules
in order to avoid immediate danger. A

83

 

 

D. R. Flood

AN EXCITING new way to spark
your camp art program is by
using “nature’s shorthand.” By observ-
ing nature’s growth patterns and action
lines, a simple form of shorthand can
easily be developed.* Early man recog-
nized a tree by its form, a leaf by shape,
or a mountain by the way it leaned. In
this manner, be communicated with his
friends. From his picture drawing,
came our present penmanship.

Even now much picture writing still
exists. Wlhile driving you will see a sign
showing a cross, meaning intersection,
S for a snaky turn; “RH” for railroad;
and others. Look at maps—again more
symbols. Walking down a street, you
may see a red cross, three balls before a
pawnshop, and so on. Woodsnlen and
hikers have their own trail signs. Look
around you for others.

This use of symbols, outlines, or
signs, has been beautifully developed by
the Japanese in their paintings. It is
also used in some of our modern art.
It is conspicuous in the water colors of
John Marin as well as of Raoul Dufy.
Since it is so natural for you to recog-
nize symbols, why not try nature’s short-
hand to record your pleasant moments
of camping?

A GB pencil, a pen with a Hexible
broad point, or a small brush, used with
either black ink or a pan of black water
color, are the simplest of materials.
Drawing paper comes in tablet form and
can generally be found in a five-and-ten
or art store.

As in all types of writing, practice
goes a long way towards perfection. So,
to get the feel of your equipment, do
several lines of the following strokes,
trying variations of the thickness of
your strokes. Note the symbols and
sketches on these pages, designed by

 

“ A fascinating book of the patterns found
in nature is Forms and Patterns in Nature by

Wolf Strache. Pantheon Books. $7.50.

MRS. FLOOD is known for her excellent
artwork with campers and has also writ-
ten articles on camp programs.

84

Nature’s

 

number. First, look at Sketch 1. Do you
notice how similar some of these strokes
are to your regular writing?

Practice a line or more of each of
these symbols. Note that when the lines
in Sketch 2 are joined you have a moun-
tain ridge. Put the strokes in Sketch 3
together, and you have layers of rocks
(3a) . The lines in Sketch 4‘ are useful
for the mountains or tree branches (4a) ,
and Sketch 5 easily forms the buildings,
brickwork, shingles, (5a). Sketch 6 be—
comes waves or mountains (6a). Looks
just like a map symbol, doesn’t it? From

Shorthand

add/ifs“?
[El

 

the arc of a circle, (7), you can ma
grass, plants, or trees (7a) by turni
the stroke various ways; while the sho
hand in 8, can become branches'wi
leaves, or weeds as in 8a. The figu
in Sketch 9 can be used for flower peta
or you can use an oval or just strai
lines (9a). Sketch 10 forms the folia
of a tree, as do dots or short lines (10a

Water has many rllytllms. After y
watch it for a while, the following s
bols will seem appropriate for it: wav
(11) , smooth (12) , shallow wavcs(13
and current (14).

RECREATI r

straight lines (27),or with curves (28), notes in black. You will treasure the
or block off your paper using part of the result, and will achieve something like

markings on a leaf, shell, and so on, (29 Sketches 31-34.
and 30).

Shade some of the areas in different

In your camping records with na-
- re’s shorthand, you may wish to insert
ople or objects. These, too, have deli-
ite lines (some common ones are

own in Sketch 15).

Costumes of people seem to call for
iflerent lines, depending on the ma-
-. ial of which they are made. They are
it and flowing (16) , angular and stiff
17), jagged (18) , or just straight
19).

The symbols we have used so far can
so make the iigures in Sketches 20-24.
Remember the view we saw when we
opped to rest (25) ? Or maybe we
- ton a busy street corner (26) ? Both
I these scenes are recorded in our note-
oks by means of symbols.

Now block off your sheet of paper

to various areas of different sizes with

   
 
 
  
  
  

 

You could use this nature shorthand
for craft designs, a scarf painted with
your camp experiences, a rug woven to
represent the view from your tent, a belt
tooled with a design representing what
you saw on your hike. §i

 

ways pleasing to your eyes, just as you
do when doodling as you telephone.
(Later, try this in color.) On this shaded

design superimpose your shorthand

aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa

Suggested Reading on:

 

Family Camping
(Please order from indicated sources)

Camping Handbook. Edmund H. Burke. $2.00.

How to Enjoy Your Western Vacations. Kent Ruth. $4.95.

The National Parks—What They Mean to You and Me. Freeman
ildcn. $5.75; pocket edition: $1.00.

Eunset Ideas for Family Camping. $1.75.

Eunset Western Campsite Directory. $1.00.

  
   
      
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
   

oung Adult and Family Camping. $1.75.
0 You’re Going to Take a Trip (Games to play while traveling).
$.15.

ampsite Finder. Richard 8: Jane Hartesveldt. Vol. l-West: $1.50;

Vol. 2-East: $1.00.

available from the National Recreation Association, 8 West 8th

. New York City 11. (Enclose check or money order.)

amping Maps, USA. $1.95. Camping Trips, U.S.A. $1.00. Both

Glenn 8: Dale Rhodes. Camping Maps, U.S.A., P. O. Box 162,

: er Montclair, N. J.

acation Campgrounds ( Southeastern Edition) and Vacation Camp-

oands (Northeastern Edition). Both by Charles 8: Kay Hultquist.

_- . tion Campgrounds, Box 295, Maryville, Tenn. $.75 each.

ord Treasury of Station Wagon Living. Franklin M. Reek 8:

liam Moss. $2.95.

ea; Horizoas—U.S.A. Compiled by Pan American Airways, $1.95.

_ h from Simon 8' Sehuster, 630 5th Avenue, New York City 20.

I. acationing. (Practical ideas about health and safety for the fam-

L. vacation). Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S., 393

Ave., New York City 1. Free.

ow Cost Trips for the W hole Family (Eastern U. S. and Canada).

4 enherg: Publisher, 201 E. 57th St., New York City 22. $2.75.
ploring Our National Parks. Devereux Butcher. Houghton-Mif—

2 Park St., Boston 7. $5.00 eloth; $3.45 paper.

mily Camping and Places to Camp in the North Central States.

f- rge T. Wilson. R. Laacke Company, 1025 W. Walnut St.,

waukee 5. $1.00.

ent Camper’s Guide to New England and New York State Camp-

reas. Outdoor Publishers, PO. Box 55, Rocky Hill, Conn. $1.00.

uide to America. Elmer Jenkins. Public Affairs Press, 419 New

y Ave., Washington 3, D. C. $5.00.

further information write to such state and federal agencies as:

to chambers of commerce.

te park commissions or departments.

te departments of conservation.

H 1958

   

5

National Park Service, Department of the Interior, Washington
25, D. C.

U. S. Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington 25,
D. C.

Superintendents of any of the national parks you intend to visit.

Recreation and Youth

by William C. Menninger, M.D.

“Recreation and Mental Health,” RECREATION, 42:340-346 (Nov.
1948).

“Why You Need a Vacation,” This Week (April 24, 1949) .

“Enjoying Leisure Time,” Life Adjustment Booklet, Science Re-
search Associates, Chicago (1950) .

“Making and Keeping Friends,” Life Adjustment Booklet, Science
Research Associates, Chicago (1952).

“Like Leader, Like Girl,” The Campfire Girl, 34:3 (Oct. 1954).

“At the Heart of Scouting,” Scouting, 42:89 (Nov. 1954).

“Mental Health,” Scouting, 42:2-3,22 (April 1954).

“Calling All Fathers,” Parents’ Magazine, 24:26,50 (F eh. 1949) .

“How to Help Your Child Make Friends,” Parents’ Magazine, 26:38 ii.
(Oct. 1951) [with Catharine W. Menninger].

“You and Your Friends,” American Junior Red Cross Journal, Mar.
19, 1954, pp. 4-7.

“Recipe for a Happy Family,” Mental Health in Virginia, 1:1-4
(1951) .

“Emotional Adjustments for the Handicapped,” The Crippled Child,
27:4-7, if. (Dec. 1949) .

“Recreational Therapy as Applied in a Modern Psychiatric HOSpi-
tal,” Occap. Therapy and Rehabilit., 16:15-24 (Feb. 1937) .
[with l. MeColll.

“Psychiatric Hospital Therapy Designed to Meet Unconscious Needs,”
American Journal Psychiatry, 93:347-360 (Sept. 1936).

“Experiments with Educational Therapy in a Psychiatric Institution,”
Bulletin M enninger Clinic, 6:38-45 (1942) .

“Psychoanalytic Interpretations of Patients’ Reactions in Occupa-
tional Therapy, Recreational Therapy and Physiotherapy,” Bull.
Menninger Clinic, 1: 148-157 (1937). "

“Psychoanalytic Principles Applied to the Treatment of HOSpitalized
Patients,” Bull. Menninger Clinic, 1 :35-43 (1936) .

“Bihliotherapy,” Bull. M enninger Clinic, 1:263-273 (1937) .

“Recreation and Morale: Symposium,” Ball. Menninger Clinic,
6:65-102 (1942). [Entire May 1942 issue]. %

85

Camp Photograph a

 

   

(“My/

PHOTOGRAPHY has become one of our most popular hob-
bies. It is, however, a technical subject, and those camps

where it is taught will want to provide a skilled leader and a
photography workshop having not only the necessary dark-
room but also the space and equipment for printing, enlarg-
ing, cutting, and mounting. Manuals on photography, includ-
ing plans for such a room have been published by manufac-
turers, such as Eastman Kodak. [Several are listed at the
end of this article.]

Camps not having the time, space, leadership, or money
for an intensive photography program need not omit it from
their program altogether. Almost every camper, these days,
comes to camp with some sort of camera, from an inexpen-
sive little box camera to the more expensive larger models.
Moreover, most campers have almost no knowledge of how
to take pictures, what makes good pictures, or how their
cameras work; yet they continue to take pictures, and these
pictures taken at camp mean a great deal to them. 0

The Unit Counselor’s Job

Any counselor with even the most rudimentary knowledge
can make picture taking much more fun and help campers
get much better pictures. It should be the responsibility of
the unit counselor to take on this job and work with the
campers who have brought their cameras.

The program will probably be too informal to be called
a program. It should start early in camp—the very first day,
almost the first hour, of arrival. The unit, tent, or cabin
counselor greets each new camper, introduces the campers
to one another, and makes each feel welcome. Soon he finds
an opening: “It’s fine that so many of you brought your
cameras. Let’s get together early tomorrow and plan some
wonderful pictures of your first day at camp. Your fathers
and mothers would love to see what your tent looks like, and
who lives in it with you, and what you do all day. Perhaps

we can work out a picture letter.”
Already a common interest and a common project makes

the little group feel at home. Perhaps that evening, around

the first campfire, they will talk about it some more, adding

_____________.____._——————————
Reprinted with permission from The Camp Program Book by Cath-

erine T. Hammett and Virginia Musselman. Association Press, New

York City. $5 .00.
86

DON'T FORGET vomz CAMERA!

  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
    

C. T. Hamm
V. Musse

it to their big plans for camp. Such a discussion will give t
counselor further material for exploring all the exciti
things to do in camp, that also make good pictures.

The next day, bright and early, out come the camer
Now is the time to encourage walking around, looking f
the best angle to take that picture of the tent or cabin. .-
is the time to show how to hold the camera steady, how
set it for the right distance, and how to get the sun on t
subject instead of in the lens. Now is the time to sugg
how much more interesting the new chum will look if he
she is doing something—sweeping, building a fire, or wa
ing hands—instead of just staring stiffiy into the camer 1

Sometimes a camera can be a means of painless introd . 1
tion to a strange situation. An offer of, “I’ll take your p '.
ture just as you’re going into the water,” might take u '
other'child’s mind off possible fear of the water. “l’ll ta
your picture when you get in perfect position with your -.
and arrow,” will emphasize the need for good form. “Th
ought to be a good view from the top of that hill,” mi
provide the needed incentive to a group lagging from un

customed walking.
All campers will want to take pictures of camp to sh

their friends and families. Finding interesting subjects—
cedar tree all bent by the wind, the hilltop used for picn'
the Sunday grove, the lake, the recreation hall—can be m
a basis for appreciation of setting, and line (and even col
if color film is used). Making a list of photogenic spots, t
ing individual shots of them from different angles, and t
comparing results can be very interesting and results in so
good pictures.

Getting camp friends in action, instead of stifi'ly posed
one of the first lessons in good photography. Pictures
exciting events in swimming, boating, fishing, and stunts r
be taken. The counselor should help the camper adjust

camera for the proper timing.

Building an Incentive

Using Pictures as Awards. Photographs can be used
awards. A picture of the best towel rack and its maker,
winning canoe crossing the finish line, the homemade =
phants in the camp circus, mounted on the bulletin board
pasted into the camp log, gives needed approbation. J -
being asked for a print of especially good pictures, to be
in the camp log, is incentive for trying to take good pictu

Still further encouragement is letting them try to ge
picture good enough to bc used on the camp folder for n

RECREAT

ar. In such a case, the name and age of the youngster
ould be given.

Photographic Contests and Exhibits. If the campers are
ry interested in photography (and they will be if their
ader has given enough help and encouragement), contests
w d exhibits will be a natural development. These can be
ple or elaborate. A good photograph might appear, at-
actively mounted, on the bulletin board, with the caption,
1 ane Took This Picture. Can You Beat It?”

The campers might decide upon classifications such as
se: Action pictures—sports, games, contests. Human
terest——Jane peeling onions, Tommie making up his bunk.
ndscapes—scenes around camp. Close-ups—of counse-
, campers, craft projects. Camp pets—wild or otherwise.
teriors—taken indoors with artificial lighting. Camp life
typical camp scenes.

Each camper should mount his pictures on heavy paper
-. cardboard, print a title under the picture, and put his
ame on the mount. All pictures may be hung in the main
- ge, given numbers, and then judged by a Special com-
'ttee of judges selected by the campers or by p0pular vote.

e best three in each classification might be given small
ue, red, or white ribbons for first, second, and third place
spectively; the best three in the whole show, large blue,
d, or white stars or ribbon. Such an exhibit would be of
at interest to parents on visitors’ day.

If there is a wide age range among the campers, it might
- wise to classify the pictures into three major age groups.
'mpers having real skill and owning precision cameras
' ould be put in a special class. In short-term camps, if there
I ’t time to organize an exhibit before campers leave for
me, the event might be planned for a camp reunion later.

  
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  

  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 

The Picture Letter
Once or twice in the camp season, some of the campers
.. like to select typical pictures of a day at camp, mount
I em on folded paper that fits an envelope, and send them
me as a letter. This could be a fine rainy-day or rest-hour
oject. Such a picture letter might include these scenes:

' ar Folks,
- Here’s what we do in camp:

1. We raise the flag (picture of campers holding the flag,
- eliminary to raising it).

 
  
 
 
  
 

2. Breakfast cookout (picture of campers preparing
1reahfast on a hilltop).
3. We do chores (picture of campers doing chores).
4. We make things (picture of campers in crafts).
5. We swim (picture of campers at the waterfront).
6. We eat dinner (picture of the dinner bell being rung).
7. We rest (picture of campers asleep, reading, or play-
g quiet games).
8. We go on a hike (a trail picture).
9. We eat again (a suppertime or picnic shot) .
10. Around the campfire (a flashbulb shot) .
ill. Taps (picture of the bugler blowing taps).
Gce, but we have fun!
I Your loving son, Tommie
What parent wouldn’t be thrilled to get such a letter,
I what camper wouldn’t be thrilled to have such a record?

 
 
  
   
   

- CH 1958

     

by...

K

“Hey, how about me '3” The take-off for camp is a good
time to start picture taking. Above, campers in Mont-
real leave by bus—except for one forlorn toddler.

Equip ment

Every camp should have one good camera with necessary
attachments, such as filter and close-up attachment, to take
nature shots, craft projects, and the like. It should be in
charge of a counselor who knows how to use it.

The camp commissary should carry films, or the camp
should arrange to purchase them in the nearest town when
shopping for supplies. If photography is not one of the
special activities and the campers do not learn how to deve10p

their own films, arrangements for developing films locally
should be made.

Special Helps

The Camera Clinic. Many youngsters who own or borrow
cameras know nothing more about them than how to click
the shutter. The camp should provide a place and a time
when a counselor or older camper is available to help put in
or change films, fix films that get stuck, and help in general.

The Picture Board. A good way to stimulate interest in
better photography is to mount a photograph on a special
bulletin board and tack up comments, written on slips of
paper, pointing to special features, such as good lighting
effect, excellent composition, nice shadows; or faults, such
as too crowded, poor composition, tilted camera, light-struck.
Or, campers might be asked to make their own comments
about what is good or bad about the photograph. I

#

REFERENCE BOOKS ON PHOTOGRAPHY ABC’s

The First Book of Photography“. John Hoke. Franklin
Watts, 699 Madison Avenue, New York 21. $1.95. This is a
book of basic information for young people with a box
camera.

The Brownie Book of Picture T aking. Eastman Kodak
Company, Rochester 4, New York. $.35.

Practical Photography“. Robert A. McCoy. McKnight &
McKnight, Bloomington, Illinois. $4.00. A nontechnical
text for the beginner.

 

*Available from the NRA Recreation Book Center, 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11.

87

 

a Fees and Charges 1%

This is a summary of policies and practices reported
by twenty-five city park and recreation executives.

BRIEF FORM was sent to these directors requesting an-

swers to nine questions. Analysis of the answers made
it obvious that what works well in one situation is not neces-
sarily the answer elsewhere. With perhaps one or two ex-
ceptions, most executives seemed to face this problem with
an open mind, feeling that what they were doing was right
at the monent, but possibly could be improved later.

Many factors influence the way in which fees and charges
are used to supplement tax money. The length of time a de-
partment has been established and the general acceptance of
recreation as a responsibility of government are important.
The economic condition of the community, the standard of
living of its residents, and the nature of the industries play
their parts. Another important factor is, are we dealing with
a progressive or conservative peOple with leadership that is
dynamic or static? Recreation and park leadership that is
aggressive and yet not offensive, that Speaks with authority
because it has the facts to back up statements, that knows
how to “win friends and influence people” is perhaps one of
the best keys to unlock the door to tax coffers.

Other factors, too, help determine a policy on fees and
charges. There is general acceptance of the theory that
people enjoy and place greater value on those activities for
which they pay a fee, no matter how small. Then, too, it is
often said that a fee tends to eliminate the noninterested—the
troublemakers—that it provides opportunities for better con-
trol. There are still more but by listing these few, we begin
to feel that this is a matter that needs study in each locality.

Let’s move, then, to the heart of the problem. Who sets
the policy on fees and charges in municipal, parks, and what
is that policy? First of all, it is quite apparent that the di-
rector of the department is, or should be, the key person in
determining policy. His study and research on the matter
should be outlined and presented to the city council or parks
and recreation commission with his recommendations. In
the majority of cases, the city council delegates the responsi-
bility for making decisions to this commission, or it has this
authority by law, but many cities report that this right is re-
tained by the council, since such decisions are so closely re-
lated to over-all income and outgo. Where organized under
a park district, such policy matters are handled by the board.

Prevailing Policies

As would be expected, the policy on fees and charges as

MR. HAMMOND is director of parks and recreation, Maske-

gon, Michigan.

88

Chase H. Hamm

represented by twenty-five cities in eight states varies grea .
From “absolutely no charges,” answers ranged to “make
activities as near self-supporting as possible.” Very few
ported all activities free. The majority made no attempt
have all activities self-supporting, but approved moder
and reasonable use of fees and charges. One city report
attempts to make all adult activities pay their way. F0
cities operate under the policy of making all activities
nearly self-supporting as possible.

On one hand, then, is the feeling that activities shou
be free to all participants. One director says, “Fees are f I
the birds—raise taxes—don’t make the participant .-
twice, through taxes and fees, too.” Support for this co
tention comes from another executive who is forced to ma
heavy use of fees and charges. He questions the advisabili
of using this revenue from the standpoint of time involvij
in promotion, manpower, bookkeeping, and so on—ti 
which might better be spent in promoting bigger and bette
programs. Making everything free does have advantag

   
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 

and may be the answer in some communities.
Fortunately, the other viewpoint of making nearly eve
activity self-supporting is not shared by many. Supporti
this position are such well-known ideas as, “an activity c0
trolled by price is better than a free activity,” “suppleme
the tax dollar for more programs,” “people appreciate mo
those things for which they pay directly,” ‘
uninterested—help in control.” This position departs fr

‘fees keep out

the concept of “public” recreation and becomes a comm
cial recreation venture having profit as its motive and giv
less thought to the service aspect.

Now, then, let’s look at the “middle of the road” polic
as stated by the majority of executives reporting. Park rl
recreation programs Operate as a function of government I
as a service to the people to provide better living in pleas :
and happy surroundings. The democratic approach operat I
on the basis that these programs and facilities should Ll
available to all the people, not just those who have rea
change in their pockets. The policy might be stated this .wa 
Most activities and facilities are free to the public witho
additional cost (having already paid for it in taxes) to
used and enjoyed by all who will avail themselves of the o
portunity with the exception of those activities which (
require expensive special facilities, (2) have limited use
the nature of the activity, (3) have high upkeep and mai
tenance costs, (4) require constant replacement of materi.

as in arts and crafts, and (5) require exceptionally skill

RECREATI

(l costly leadership. In this case, the policy-making board
termines a fair and reasonable fee to be charged, based
1 such factors as capital outlay, maintenance costs, and
dership requirements. This policy makes the general run
l activities such as playgrounds, indoor centers, ice rinks,
so on available to all children and adults at no cost and

11 activities as swimming, golf, boating, skating on artifi-
al ice rinks, zoos, bowling on the green, organized base-
I] and softball, ski tows, and so on for a reasonable fee.
Local conditions dictate such variances as free swimming

; certain hours, free golf instruction for teen-agers, or cer-
in free hours at the 200. This provides enough flexibility
meet changing local conditions and the availability of
2 c tax dollars. Directors need to be alert to note trends
. ranting a policy change and to make such recommenda-

u is to the policy-making board.

  
  
   
  

The Fringe Problem

In practically every conference or gathering of municipal
ficials the discussion sooner or later gets to the subject of
chniques for dealing with the out-of-city resident who uses
ny municipal services but who makes no tax contribution
I help support the operation. This problem is unique to
rk and recreation departments because it is more difficult
I control than most other municipal services. Water dis-
ibuted beyond the boundaries is metered and a just fee is
Iarged. Storm and sanitary sewage services follow the same
tiern. When police and fire services are used, a set rate
agreed upon. Compare this with the usual procedure in
o'grams of recreation and uses of public parks. I would
ke to illustrate by referring to my own city of 50,000 which
the hub of a metropolitan area of 110,000 composed of
ur municipalities and three townships. Many folks live in
city and work in another. The downtown city provides
(I only organized softball, baseball, and basketball leagues
fhe area, and, consequently, about one half of the players
- 1e from outside the city. Even with substantial entrance
- , the additional cost of these teams represents an expendi-
of approximately $3,000.00 for those out-of-city players.
major park, including a most desirable Lake Michigan
11, is located within, and operated by, the hub city.
ipping and maintenance of these areas is expensive. Now,
. should the hub city continue to supply the major recre-
n facilities and programs for the whole area or should
* t up a system of fees and charges which will require that
siders” help pay the way?*
he majority of the executives consulted said it made no
rence who used their parks, and two even made it more
ific when they said, “We welcome the fringe area folks
r areas.” There is a growing feeling, however, against
1 a generous attitude. One city reports that out-of—city
lents cannot use its facilities. Another makes a double
for golf players and beach parking for nonresidents.
t othcr cities report some form of restrictions by use of
a fees, denial of season tickets, and so on.

   
  
  
  

    
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
      
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
   

i

i

 

reverm side of the coin is also true. Westchester County, just
'(le New York City, has been steadily closing its excellent rec-
ion facilities to the millions of city residents who threaten to
U]! its parks, golf courses, and pools.

n 1958

This complicated problem will take much study and plenty
of patience to resolve. One approach is being used in my
community, for a Greater Muskegon Public Study Com-
mittee is actively at work. The subcommittee on parks and
recreation is digging up all the facts. It is being clearly
pointed out where standards are being met and where they
are not, and who is paying for what. If this consolidation
program does not eventually work out, then I believe there
should be ways found to spread the load through fees and
chargcs. Cooperative action can solve most problems bctter
than fences and “keep out” signs and I am hoping this will
be the case in our situation.

As would be expected, cities in the heavily populated dis-
tricts, and especially smaller cities adjacent to such areas as
Chicago, have distinct problems of control. The situation
that finds large numbers of folks moving out of the big city
to parks and beaches to escape the heat and crowds is a tough
one for many areas. In order to control such “taking over”
to the exclusion of local residents, some cities resort to the
use of parking meters or attendant-checked parking lots.
Decals displayed on cars are available at a small fee to visi-
tors and free to residents in a few cases. Showing of a prop-
erty tax receipt is the admission ticket to certain facilities of
one city, while another close to Chicago uses this schedule for
charges in using its Lake Michigan beach—twenty-five cents
for local residents; fifty cents for state residents; and one
dollar for out-of—state visitors. Here again is illustrated the
fact of adapting the fee schedule to the local needs.

It takes a generous city, or one which has not caught up
to the problems, to be willing to pay the full costs of con-
struction, maintenance, programing, and life guard service
on a beach where nonresidents come by the thousands to en-
joy facilities built primarily for local residents. In talking
with such visitors, they don’t seem to want to avoid paying
their fair share for using recreation facilities. It seems only
reasonable, therefore, for communities to adopt into their
fee and charge policy a program using parking fees, admis-
sion charges, and use fees most adequately meeting the prob-
lem. By so doing, visitors and residents together are helping
to maintain the facility, provide funds for continued expan-
sion and proper staffing.

Range and Fees

As for the amounts charged, we have already concluded
that local circumstances dictate this. For example, charges
for outdoor swimming pools vary from free use, ten cents for
all, fifteen cents for children, twenty-five cents for adults,
twenty cents for children, forty cents for adults, up to a maxi-
mum of twenty-five cents for children, and fifty cents for
adults, with the majority charging ten to fifteen cents for
children, and twenty-five to thirty cents for adults.

Charges for municipal golf pretty well prove that we are
interested in having facilities available to participants pay-
ing a reasonable fee. We find such variances as a fifty-cents
fee for those under sixteen, sixty-five cents for all, seventy-
five cents anytime, seventy-five cents weekdays and one dol-

lar week-ends, one dollar and twenty cents, one dollar for resi-

89

A
D
M
l
N
l
S
T
R
A
T
l
O
N

 

dents, twO dollars for nonresidents, two dollars weekdays
and three dollars week-ends, with the average seventy-five
cents for weekdays and one dollar for week-ends.

Artificial ice rinks are becoming more common each year,
and, as the cost Of construction and Operation is reduced, we
can assume that more Of us will be interested in fees for this
specialized activity. One city reports that from 9:00 AM.
tO 7:30 P.M., a fee Of twenty-five cents is charged, from
8:00 P.M. to 10:00 PM. the fee is fifty cents. Twenty-five
cents for children and fifty cents for adults are common.

These are but a few Of the special facilities where the
majority feel that a reasonable fee should be'charged. I am
sure we could have an interesting discussion on amounts that
should be charged for dOckage facilities, launching ramps,
softball and baseball entry fees, zoo admissions, lawn bowl-
ing, lighted tennis courts, park pavilions, concession percent-
ages, and so on, and in some cases, I think we would agree
that these facilities would be out of the question as a practical
operation without the use Of a schedule Of fees and charges.

We are in a period ofprosperity when ourmunicipal govern-
ments are making improvements right and left, new streets,
new water systems, new this and new that. Increased budgets
for police and fire, street maintenance, garbage services are
but a few. Just where and how does the parks and recreation
department rate in this Spending program? Are we relying
on fees and charges tO carry the load and using our adminis-
trative ability in promoting income or are we selling the city
council on meeting accepted national standards for tax-sup-
ported park and recreation programs? We should constantly
remind ourselves and the city fathers that they should be
setting aside up tO five per cent Of the city’s total operating
budget, or $6.00 per capita, for park and recreation Opera-
tion. When that is done, recreation can be for all, programs
enlarged, and facilities developed for the wide range Of ac-
tivities we will need tO meet the challenges Of the greatly ex-
panding leisure time. Thinking about the thirty-hour week,
the six-hour day, the long vacation periods, the resulting
influx Of park uses, the park and recreation executive can be
thrilled and get the jitters all in one breath. A determination
tO get sufficient funds for construction, maintenance, and
program, coupled with a well conceived policy Of free and fee

activity will keep us from develOping ulcers tOO fast. I

 

 

Youth Centers

MASTER’S THESIS on “The Operation Of Youth Centers

in Selected Communities Of the United States” was
completed by Jack LeRoy Waldron at the State College Of
Washington, in Pullman. The purpose of the study was to
investigate and evaluate the operations Of a number Of rec-
ommended youth centers. The study involved the send-
ing Of a questionnaire to eight or ten selected youth centers
in each Of the National Recreation Association’s eight dis-
tricts, as recommended by the district representatives. The

following conclusions are based on that study:
1. Youth centers selected as successful existed more fre-

90

quently in communities under 25,000 population.

2. There was general agreement that financial supp
should be derived through public taxation.

3. A paid and trained director was desirable in m
centers. This is substantiated by the fact that all Of

centers employed either full-time directors, full-time a
part-time directors, or part-time directors, and that salar

were the main eXpense.

4. Adults played an important role in both the major
sponsibility for the operation of the center and the init
movement for the establishment Of the center.

5. Most centers operated on an eleven-tO-twelve mo
schcdule. Staying open six days was the desirable wee
operative schedule and mornings were found to be an
desirable time tO keep the center Open.

6. Most youth center buildings were either specifica
constructed or renovated tO serve as such. In 71.4 per c
Of the centers studied, the city assumed ownership.

7. Youth centers offered their facilities tO age grou
other than strictly teen-age.

8. The factor Of racial segregation was taken into cO
sideration in a few Of the youth centers.

9. Game rooms were the facility appearing most fr
quently in the centers studied.

10. Most centers offered social dancing and table ten
as activities in their programs, which were most pOpul

11. The attitude of adults and youth toward the you
centers was excellent or good in most communities. Coo
ation between adults and youth in the Operation Of the cent
was also excellent or good in most communities.

12. 0f the five factors important tO youth centers, me
bership and leadership were rated satisfactory. Proble
were indicated in finance, facilities, and programs. I

  
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
   

 

 

 

I
I
I
j I am the heat of your hearth on the cold winter nights,
I The friendly shade screening you from the summer sun,
‘ And my fruits are refreshing draughts quenching your
Thirst as you journey on.
I am the beam that holds your house, the board Of your
Table, the bed on which you lie, and the timber that
i Builds your boat.
. I am the handle of your hoe, the door of your home-
! Stead, the wood of your cradle, and the shell Of your
: Coffin. I am the bread of kindness and the flower of
I
I
I
I
I

Beauty. Ye who pass by, listen tO my prayer: harm me
Not.

THIS VERSE FROM THE ANCIENT PORTUGUESE HAS
BEEN USED IN THE FOREST RESERVATIONS OF PORTU-

GAL FOR MORE THAN A THOUSAND YEARS. —Reprinted
from NEWSLETTER, Tennessee Department of Conserva-

tion, Division of State Parks, Nashville. g.

"-"n—n—n

 

W

 

 

RECREAT

Relatz'omszb . 1 f , . , , , , , ,

of Highway and Recreation Planning

Changing patterns for living and playing that are important to our future.

HE IMPORTANCE of planning for rec-
reation was emphasized by several
akers at the symposium on “The New
ighways: Challenge to the Metr0poli-
Region,” held last September in
oomfield, Connecticut. Some four
ndred of the nation’s top industri-
ists, planners, economists, highway 0f-
ials, real estate leaders, government
rsonnel, and others came together for
s at the invitation of the Connecticut
'fe Insurance Company.
The papers prepared in advance of
‘ three-day sessions and the panels
ring the symposium dealt with the
estion of 110w the federal highway
ogram would affect the efficiency and
ability of American cities. Deep con-
rn was expressed over the potential
rm that would result from the pro-
m unless it were planned to coordi-
te with metropolitan land-use plan-
ng. Several of the papers contained
ferences to recreation and its relation-
ip to the highway program.
In a general review of the problem,
ilfred Owen of the Brookings Institu-
.u pointed out that for the masses of
r people cities have become disagree-
le to live and work in. He stated,
pen space in our CXplosively expand-
; metropolitan areas has all but dis-
peared and with it the light and air
in opportunities for recreation that a
.. ion with wealth and leisure time
uld be able to enjoy. . . . The natural
Ii ' uty of the countryside is being je0p-
dized by the bulldozers.”

Andrew Heiskell, publisher of Life,

rned that highways can separate
5* es and recreation areas and can

  
 
 
  
  
 
     
    
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
  
  
   

I ally destroy a community’s park
. I recreation areas; while Carl Feiss,
': nning consultant, also voiced serious
' cern over the cncroachments on park
as by highway authorities. He said,

.- creation areas and parks are the first

' ' CH 1958

open spaces considered fair game by the
highway planner. In practically every
big city—Boston, Philadelphia, Wash-
ington, D. C., Cleveland, and many
others—once secluded parks designed
for leisure and for needed human recre-
ation, become easy prey for the concrete
sluice-ways required by machines. Such
loss of hard-earned park areas is the new
highway robbery.”

On the other hand, he pointed out that
freeways and parkways may provide
needed breathing space and that “green
areas and, sometimes, small parks and
playgrounds, form part of the residual
taking.”

Luther Gulick, president of the In-
stitute of Public Administration, urged
action on a metr0politan basis, stating,
“It is a fallacy to think that small in-
dependent jurisdictions with limited
funds and powers will buy up and estab-
lish open spaces, recreational opportu-
nities, and extensive rights of way ade-
quate for the entire region, over the
years. Little urisdictions may take care
of neighborhood playgrounds and
streets, but they can never be expected
to take care of the larger requirements.”

The revolt against city living was
further emphasized by James W. Rouse,
shopping-center developer, who stated,
“With more time for recreation, gardens
and families, and more money to spend
on them, people are looking and behav-
ing less and less like the formal, regi-
mented brick and concrete cities in
which they are asked to live. Station
wagons, blue jeans, barbecues give ex-
pression t0 the casual mobile outdoor
family living that marks the American
family. They seek space and they are
finding it in the scatteration around our
cities.”

He proposed neighborhood units in
which the family could live in an en-
vironment in which it felt at home, and

groups of neighborhoods including
their own schools and playgrounds,
among other facilities, perhaps on the
scale of 25,000 to 50,000 people. Many
such communities would create the need
and the opportunity for a larger central
core that would provide recreation and
cultural facilities beyond those which
the communities alone could support.

Glenn C. Richards, Detroit’s commis-
sioner of public works, reported on the
city’s rebuilding program for its central
area. He cited a neighborhood in which
the parks, schools, and shopping centers
are accessible from every dwelling unit
without a single pedestrian traffic cross-
ing at street-grade level, exemplifying
the pattern for the urban neighborhood
of the future.

The problem of access to outdoor rec-
reation facilities was discussed by Ed-
ward A. Ackerman of Resources for the
Future, Inc., as follows:

“As the urban spread continues more
and more people will be placed farther
and farther from facilities usable on a
weekend, or a daily basis. Undesir-
able crowding of the public facilities
available, already evident in the New
York metropolitan area may be ex-
pected to be general unless plans are
laid to avoid it. This is certain not only
because of the increased p0pulation
density and lessening work hours but
also because of further closing off of
beach, lake shore, or countryside for
private use, as has happened along the
accessible parts of the Atlantic coast line
with surprising rapidity and complete-
ness in the postwar period.

“Measures to alleviate or meet the
problem can be taken in two directions!
(1) Planning and public action to re-
serve adequate Open, or ‘green’ space
in the path of the urban spread which
will be encouraged by the new high-
ways. This means that foresighted and

91

 

  

W

E0 l DIN G
BANQUET

      
    

Dir-ct chtory
Prices 3. Discounts
To Chm-choc. Clubs.
Lodges. Schools
and All Organiza-

Hons.

Over 46,000 in-
stitutions own
and use modern
Monroe Folding
Banquet Tables.

Write for the new
MONROE 50TH
ANNIVERSA R Y
CATALOG of '
Folding Tables. -'
Folding Chairs.
Trucks. Movable
Partitiops. Fold-
ing RISBI'S. . etc.
Get: our specml prices.
quantity dlsoounts, also terms.

Monroe Co.. 181 Church St.. Colfax. Iowa

    
          
 
    
 

         
     
      

llllIIIl|||||||I|||||||||||||||||||||IIIII||Illlllll|||I||||||||||I||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||||||||I||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

JUNEis
National Recreation Month

||||I|||||I||IIIIIIIIIIIll||l|||Il||||||||||||||lIIIIIIIIllIIllIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIII|||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

PAGE
All Metal Table Tennis Company ___._.._-_____,- 78
American Association for HPER ...-..--_-_“_._._.__. .- 94
American Playground Device _h. ____.____-___- 78
American Squares  .  _-_- 70
Association Press _ ........ .. .. _. ...._  95
Audio Equipment Company. Inc.  .. .. Back Cover
Beltz Engineering Laboratories _.-__h____ -____ 78
CasteIIo Fencing Equipment .,s_____._______-.. 71
Champion Playground Equipment- .- _- .- 95
Classified    66
Comet Press Books .___ + .. .. _-_  95
Dimco-Gray Company _- ..._. ._.-._ ..- 73
Exposition Press ---c-.....-...-_-.._.___ ....- .... .- 94
Greenwich Book Publishers ..  ---- “mm..- 94
Hillerich 8 Bradsby  . Inside Front Cover
Home Crafts Company -..  _-h___._____-.. 76
Houghton Mifflin __.   Inside Back Cover
.Iamison Playground Equipment . .... -L ....... ....- 94
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company  . -___.___ 94
The MacGregor Company mm”... _....... _ 76
Mental Health  ..-._  70
Kathleen Merrill   - .......... ....__ 95
Monroe Company  ____  _ 92

National Directory of ca‘iih'i‘é'

Camps _-____s_“__s_s-___  Inside Front Cover

 

National Sports Company _. _  94
National Square Dance Associates ......s..  - 69
Nissen Trampoline Company ..._-......-_.--..-_..  - 69
Ocean Pool Supply Company .  ___.____.-_ 71
Organization Services, Inc. _- . . ..___...._ 69
Park Maintenance  .. . _......_..--- 92
Parks 8 Recreation  . ..  . ._ 93
Pecsolite Equipment Company _.  - 70
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company  93
Reinhold Press _._-__c-__...----c.___--..--  65
Ronald Press .... .. . .-_-_-.  Inside Back Cover
James Spencer 8 Company ..-._.-.._-__..--___-_.... 78
Star Company ---,._.-_+______ . , _.._.-_... 78. 94. 95
Superior Industries Corporation ..-.------..._-_c 73
T. F. Twardzik 8 Company a... ..  71
U. S. Rubber Reclaiming Corporation .__.___-___._ 73
Voit  -.._.-..H-_.- __.__-- 71
92

vigorous public action must accompany
or precede private subdivision, com-
mercial, and industrial growth. (2) Pro-
vision of more distant recreational 0p-
portunities but still within easy reach

of the urban development age. . . . ”

The increasing use of highways dur-
ing leisure-time periods was emphasiz-
ed by Frank W. Herring of the-«Port of
New York Authority. He commented,
“Good roads came into existence origin-
ally with recreation use as a major func-
the automobile made its first
appearance as a sort of super sporting
goods item; and it has been the availa-
bility of the automobile that has made
possible the broadly based enjoyment
of recreation Opportunities that play

tion;

such an important part in family life
today. Recreation travel on week-ends
is family travel and for many families
the automobile has its principal use in
week-end visits to the country, or to the
seashore, or to the mountains. . . .

“Leisure-time destinations are wide-
ly dispersed thronghout the city’s hin-
terland and travel routes fan out ex-
tensively. . . . The greatest problem
presented is that of arterial capacity,
of providing enough highway lanes to
accommodate the volume of traffic
flowing outward from the city when the
leisure-time period begins and back into
town when the holiday is over. . . .
Almost forty-five per cent of the total
annual automobile passenger volume
crossing the Hudson River in the New
York area is represented by passengers
on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.
After all, week-ends, holidays, and va-
cations now account for about a third
of the days of the year.

“We can see no reason to suppose
that the importance of this component
0n the

contrary, we must expect that the in-

of urban travel will decline.

creasing productivity of our economy
will yield still more leisure time for
more and more people. What we cannot
yet see clearly -is the form the leisure-
time increase will take.”

A number of questions about urban
Sprawl were raised by James H. Scheuer,
private redevelopment investor. “Have
we created attractive, open, green com-
munities, separate from areas of urban
concentration, or is it mostly an unend-
ing Spread of the cities, truly an ‘urban

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

sprawl”? This is a serious 
“Have we well-planned and conv
iently located facilities for shoppi
entertainment, and recreation in a
suburban life, or are they the excepti
rather than the rule . . . ? The a

swers to these questions are alm
painfully self-evident.”

Boyd T. Bernard of the Urban La
Institute asked, “Is it sound to fell
a route, however well engineered, t
breaks up park land, arboretums, e-
stroys creek valleys, severs specializ
agriculture; elevates through highly
stricted residential areas, and creat
blight both adjacent and beyond
Commenting on a preposed route t

     
    
   

I
would have destroyed an arboretum a

a park along a picturesque creek, 1
stated, “The arboretum could not I
recreated in a generation, the pa
characteristics of the area would u
forever destroyed.” I

Edmund N. Bacon, city planner, in or
cated the need to develop attitudes -
that Open land should be preserved, a. I
a public policy that would support su I
an attitude. He also proposed the i -
that more congestion might be valuab
in order to make possible the reserv
tion of more Open land for public 11

An illustrated lecture on “Highwa
and the American City,” by Vict
Gruen, architect and planner, clear
portrayed the importance of home an
family recreation, and of greenbelts .
a means of controlling urban sprawl.

Lewis Mumford, leading author a
critic 011 architecture and city planni
in his summary of the symposium, ma
a plea for open space and the amenit
in the planning of neighborhood, ci
and region.

During the symposium, George
Butler, of the National Recreation ‘
sociation research staff, commented
the tendency of highway authorities
preempt park land and stated that p
and recreation authorities felt a gr
concern over encroachments that—h
and will result from the federal hi
way program. He urged that the t
ing of park lands for highways
avoided whenever possible; that,
cases where such action was unavo
able, full compensation should be 111
in order to permit the authorities
replace the lost park areas. I

RECREATII

MARKET NEWS

 

Stay-Brite is an improved two-inch wide, .055” thick
inyl marking tape for volleyball, tennis, and badminton
I ourts. This white plastic tape does not shrink, is not affected
y weather or chemicals, and is self-cleaning during the
laying season. Its edges don’t curl because of an exclusive
evelling process. It is easily installed with a new, longer
1/3” spiral-threaded aluminum nail. There are four nail
oles to the foot, each smaller than the nail, so that if a soft
pot in the ground is hit, the tape holds the nail. The kits
nclude lengths for specific game requirements, nails, and
nstructions. West Point approved the tape after an eleven-
nonth trial. Write John P. Horgan Plastic Products, 152
V est 42nd Street, New York 36.

     
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
    
 
       
 
 

A morale-booster for the chronically ill, the handicapped,
nd respiratory, heart, or traction patients is available in a
‘talking library” record program called the Libraphone.
l e discs, covering a wide range of subjects and interests,

l
I
'I
I

 

   
 

1: re recorded by professional actors, and include juveniles.
vesterns, mysteries, humor, classics, and inspirational ma-
_ erial, all by well-known authors. Playing time runs almost
'= hour per side, thus requiring minimum attention. The
I inyl records are break and wear resistant, and come in a
'turdy album. They can be played on any three-speed phono-
[_ raph with a low-cost adapter for the new 16rpm speed.

here is also a “sonograph”———a four-speed phonograph de-

igned for institutional use. Write Libraphone, Inc., 550
*ifth Avenue, New York 36.

O Lumite is the registered trade-mark name for a Saran
(plastic) shade cloth that can be used to shade grandstands.
lay areas, rest areas, and can also be used as a windbreak.
tcomes in different weaves depending upon the degree of
.hade desircd. Lumite is easily installed and long-wearing;
t does not rot, rust, or mildew. There are many possible
1508 in camp or playground for this versatile material. Write
he Lumite Division, Chicopee Manufacturing Corporation.
ornelia, Georgia.

0 A compact, Hat-bottomed, snub-nosed paddle boat, the
' ittle Fisherman, can be carried in car trunk or station
'agon. Stable and easily handled, it is a good boat for
llildren, either at camp or summering with their families.
lade of corrosion-resistant aluminum, the boat does not
hrink, swell, rot, rust and is not affected by salt water. The
F-9 is made with a nonslip floor surface, styrofoam flota-
ion, and integral construction. Write Southwest Manufac-

uring Company, P. 0. Box 2501, Little Rock, Arkansas.
ARCH 1958

 

   

So sensationally better are
they on every count—design.
construction. quality,
durability and play-ability—
that Rawlings HERCU LITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high
standard. They're in a class
by themselves—they’re . . .

"The Finer! In My Field! "

e VOLLEY BALLS e BASKETBALLS

e SOCCER BALLS e FOOTBALLS
O

 

I

. museum

15.
IIGIIIHI' - _'

Your Board
Your City

. Officials
Your Key
. Personnel
Your Informed
. Lay Supporters

 
 
      
        
       
          
       
     
   
   
    
   
    
  

a"

FOR PARK AND RECREATION
SUPERINTENDENTS . . . tech-

 

PARKS 6 RECREATION . . .
only national magazine designed
niques described by practical for both Dark and recreation
men In the field. administrators.
fail-L’ANCEDWEDITPR‘?“ “23' EACH MONTH . . . the most
f ' ' ' e W ce 0 e p 0' “referred to" publication in Its
essional on land acaulsltion, field a must for “I,
design construction recrea- ' ' ' ya
u ' reference library.

tionel usage. administration and
maintenance . a complete ALL USABLE INFORMATION

coverage. . . . no Ectlon. no “fairy tales"

A QUALITY PRODUCT . . . tine avidly read from cover to cover
paper, printing, photos, maps . . . send for your free sample
and editorial approach. and judge for yourself.

SERVING THE PARK AND RECREATION FIELDS SINCE 1917.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES

   
    
   

   
 

One year ..    S 5.00 PARKS & RECREATION
Two years  . ..  9.00 Department RN
Three years . . . 13.00 Oglebsy Park

   
  

Groups of tour or more—one Wheellnarw'“ Virolnl'

year 54.00 each per year.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 93

Jamisonttttm’tt

Be sure to chocl; the many exclusive features of

  

this rugged l'na. WI'te far fro. ratatag of 254
items.

Jaszon Manufacturing Co.
8781 South Mnttler Street
Los Angelo: 3. Ca"=farnio

STEEL CHAIN
NETS

3 Years Guarantaal
outdoors or Indoors

S'iur‘
ITJY

 
 
  
  
    
 
  

  

Illa. lecturing Jayfro'a custom built

Watch for April Eematéon
J NYLON BASKETBALL NETS 8: BALL CARRIERS

Special Playground issue. {[2
J ALUMINUM MULTl-PURPOSE STANDARDS
J TETHERBALL POLES 8n PADDLE SETS MW ‘

J ALUMINUM SHUFFLEBOARD sers  

I Sand for Free Catalog 0
CONSIDERED

‘I A Y F R o A T H l' E T I c S U P P I' Y c o' by cooperative publisher who offers authors early

Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN. publication, higher royalty, national distribution. and

beautifully designed books. All aubjeeta welcomed.
Write, or send your manuscript directly.

GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS
Attn. Mr. Hitchcock 489 Fifth Avenue
New York 17, N. Y.

Free to WRITERS

seeking a book publisher

Two fact-filled. illustrated brochures tell how
to publish your book, get 40% royalties. na-
tional advertising, publicity and promotion.
Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. R3

Exposition Press / 386 4th Ave... N.Y. 16

 

  
  

 

   

April is (—l
Cancer Control Month.

   

 

  
  

  
 
  

 

I POFP CISION 
I on ALITYZG‘LJA

Write for Our n a.

For Folding Gym Backboards

."se cotolog. I

I nan-Iona“. I 

5.9m Corr-imam
Star Co.—litchtield, Mich.-—-Llncoln 2-2022

I 370 NORTH MARGUETTE. FUND DU LM. WIS.
- - - - - - - -

 

 

AAHPER'S latest report

0 EDUCATION FOR

LEISURE

Conference on Education for Leisure——

The Role of the Public School
The Community Approach to the Leisure Problem

Outlines the concept that a community can best meet the
leisure-time needs of its citizens by working through and
with the schools. Gives specific examples of proiects
and activities in various cities. Also considers other
approaches to the problem.

American Association for Health, Physical Education, and Recreation

1201 - 16th Street, N.W.
Washington, 6, D. C.

' — check enclosed
_ please bill

Education for LEISURE

 

 

 

 

Name
Street
City Zone State
94 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

     

CONSERVATION EDUCATION IN AMERICAN CO

CRAFTSMANSHIP AND DESIGN IN POTTERY,

DOUST SKETCH BOOKS: SKETCIIING I

 

Magazine Articles

EVERYWOMAN’S, February 1958

A Plan For A partness, Dorothy K. Whyte.
NEA JOURNAL, December 1957

Child Growth and Development.
articles).

JOURNAL OF HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATI
AND RECREATION, December 1957
Our Winter Outdoor School, C. LIICI'II
Otto.
Teaching International Understanding,

Sara Stag? Jernigan and Catherine
Allen.

PARKS AND RECREATION, November 1957
Basic Need For Land, Conrad L. Wirth.

December 1957
Land Acquisition, Hugh R. Pomeroy.
“Seminole Village” Has Outdoor Educatio

Value, John R. McCormack.
Operation “Parkette,” Keith E. Kelly.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, February 10, 1957

Squash At Its Best.

Books & Pamphlets
Received

AMERICA’S NATIONAL PARKS, Nelson Beech

Keyes. Doublcday & Co., Garden City, N. Y
Pp. 256. $7.50.

ART FOR EVERYONE, Hal Cooper. Watso

Guptill, 24 W. 40th St., New York 18. Pp.
128. $4.95.

BEGINNING SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING, 1957
Betty Spears. Burgess Publishing, 426 S

6th St., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 90. Papa
$3.00.

BIRD WATCHERS, THE, Marjory Bartlett Sa .
ger, E. P. Dutton, 300 4th Ave., New Yor
10. Pp. 164. $2.75.

BOATING HANDBOOK. Arco Publishing, 48

Lexington Ave., New York 17. Pp. 142.
$2.00.

CAMPING HANDBOOK, Edmund H. Burke. Arc
Publishing, 480 Lexington Ave., New York
17. Pp. 143. $2.00.

COMMUNITY APPROACH TO TIIE LEISUR
PROBLEM (1957 CONFERENCE REPORT)
American Association for Health, Physics
Education and Recreation, 1201 16th St.
N.W., Washington 6, D. C. Pp. 73. Papa
$1.00.

COMMUNITY RECREATION (SECOND EDITION)
Harold D. Meyer and Charles K. Brightbi |
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. P
525. $6.00.

  
  
  
 

(F0 .

 

 

  

   
    
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

LEGES, Charles E. Lively and Jack J. Preis
Ronald Press 15 E. 26th St., New York 1
Pp. 267. $5.00.

COPPERCRAPT AND SILVER MADE AT HOM
Karl Robert & Nora Kramer. Greenber
Publisher, 201 E. 57th St., New York
Pp. 175. $7.50.

B. Dalton. Pitman Publishing, 2 W. 45t
St., New York 36. Pp. 113. $10.00.

RECREATIO

  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
   

TOWN AND HOME; SKETCHING PEOPLE;
SRETCIIING TRE SEASIDE. All by L. A.
Doust. Frederick Warne, 210 5th Ave.,
New York 10. Pp. 71 each. $1.50 each.

DUCATING WOMEN FOR A CHANGING WORLD,
Kate Hevner Mueller. University of Min-
nesota Press, 2037 University Ave., S.E.,
Minneapolis 14. Pp. 302. $4.75.

UCATORS GUIDE TO FREE TAPES, SCRIPTs,
AND TRANSCRIPTIONS (FOURTH ANNUAL
EDITION—1958) , Walter A. Wittich &Gertie
Hanson Halsted, Editors. Educators Prog-
ress Service, Randolph, Wisc. Pp. 206.
Paper $5.75.

NAMELING ON METAL, Oppi Untracht.Green-
berg: Publisher, 201 E. 57th St., New York
22. Pp. 191. $7.50:

AMILY CAMPING. Parents and Teachers As-
sociation of the Ethical Culture Schools, 33
Central Park W., New York 23. Unpaged.
$.25.

LK DANCE GUIDE (Eighth Annual Edition)

1958. Paul Schwartz, P.0. Box 342, Cooper
Station, New York 3. Pp. 28. Paper $1.00.

UN COMES FIRST FOR BLIND SLOW-LEARN-
ERs, Mildred Blake Huffman. Charles C.
Thomas, 301 E. Lawrence Ave., Springfield,
Ill. Pp. 157. $5.00.

’IDE To CAREER INFORMATION (BIBLIOGRA-
PIIY). llarper & Brothers, 49 E. 33rd St.,
New York 16. Pp. 203. $3.00.

ANDEOOR FOR TIIE AMATEUR THEATRE, A,
Peter Cotes, Editor. Philosophical Li-
brary, 15 E. 40th St., New York 16. Pp.
424. $12.50.

ELPINc YOUR CHILD TO READ BETTER, Ro-
bert M. Goldenson. Thomas Y. Crowell,
432 4th Ave., New York 16. Pp. 312. $3.95.

OIIWAY NEEDS STUDIEs— 1957. National
Academy of Sciences, National Research
Council, 2101 Constitution Ave., Washing-
ton 26, D. C. Pp. 133. Papcr, $2.80.

OME WAS NEVER LIKE THIS, Etta Payne.
Greenwich Book Publishers. 489 5th Ave.,
New York 17. Pp. 184. $3.00.

OMER AND THE CIRCUS TRAIN, Hardie Gra-
matky. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 210 Madi-
son Ave., New York 16. Unpaged. $2.75.

ow CITIEs CONTROL JUVENILE DELIN-
QUENCY, J. L. Levin. American Municipal
Association, 1625 H St., N.W., Washing-
ton 6, D. C. Pp. 56. Paper $2.50.

ow To IMPROVE YOUR DIVING. The Athletic
Institute, 209 S. State St., Chicago 4. Pp.
56. $.50.

ow TO KEEP FIT AND LIKE IT, Arthur Stein-
haus. Dartnell Corporation, 4660 N. Rav-
Ienswood Ave., Chicago 40. Pp. 72. 8.50.

ow TO MAKE A LITTLE GO A LONG WAY
(GUIDE To FREE, INEXPENSIVE AND UN-
USUAL ENTERTAINMENT IN NEW YORK CITY).
Young’s Research Service, P. 0. Box 72,
Gracie Station, New York 28. Pp. 64. Paper
31.00.

0w TO PLAY CHECKERS, Fred Reinfield.
Sterling Publishing, 121 E. 24th St., New
York 10. Pp. 186. $2.50.

ow TO WIN AT DUPLICATE BRIDGE, Marshall
Miles. Exposition Press, 386 4th Ave., New
IYork 16. Pp. 463. $5.00.

EAYASRI KOKEI (KODANSHA LIBRARY OF
[JAPANESE ART, NO. 11). Charles E. Tuttle
Co., Rutland, Vt., Unpaged. $1.25.

RCH 1958

--AT NO EXTRA CHARGE---- 

The 640 page, 5795
OMNIBUS OF FUN

the Eisenberg’s giant book of thousands of new aCtivities

9

5

E.
E
a. .
D

'5

ll
2.

— sent as a bonus when you clip this ad and check yOur

 

order for all tbree new recreation books shown below.

I

[I MORE NEW GAMES
FOR 'TWEEN-AGERS

Allan A. Macfarlan. Over 200 games for boys and girls
9 to 15, by the author of the successful N 920 Game: for ’Tween-
Agerr. Every game labeled for easy seleCtion by age appeal,
number of players, locale, equipment (if any), etc. Fully illus-

trated. $3.50

BOOK OF INDIAN LIFE
CRAFTS [1

Oscar E. Norbeck. Crafts and skills that were Indian
daily life essentials: nearly 200 tested projects for boys and
girls of all ages. Tribes of every major region are represented.
Projects include tipi, tOtem pole, dance masks, pottery, cookery,
games equipment, signal fires, braves’ and maidens’ costumes,
tools, hunting implements. Hundreds of detailed illustrations.

$195 ,_

El THE COMPLETE BOOK OF I
CAMPFIRE PROGRAMS

LaRue A. Thurston. For memorable evenings at camp . . .
hundreds of campfire ideas, planning instructions, complete
programs, for boys and girls in any type of camp. Covers cere-
monies, the campfire as a court, noisy fun, singing, stories and
talk, games, stunts, magic, etc. Every activity tested by the author,
an experienced youth leader. Clear illustrations, complete index.

$5.95

iiiira min - .-

  

 

—-.-—q-'——-»--—-+. .

 

CLIP THIS AD Check book(s) you want. Get Omnibus of Fun as bonus I

I

I

I if you check all 3. Sent post free if payment is enclosed. Write name, address in I
I margin; mail to ASSOCIATION PRESS, 291 B'way, N.Y.C. 7

CHAMPION

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT
“SCALED TO CHILD SIZE”

FREE LITERATURE
GYM — PLAYGROUND --— POOL

Highland Park, III.

 

   

If you are the tolented author
 of an unpublished monuscript,‘
I let us help gain the r'e'cognlj’t'iol':I
ou deserve. We wi pu is
TALENT Y

your BOOK—we will edit,design,
 print, promote, advertise and

sell itl Good royalties.

Write for FREE copy of
How To Publish Your Book

COMET PRESS BOOKS, Dept. RM3
200 Varlck St., N. Y. 14

TO
WASTE?

 

For Catalog of Swings -
Slides - Climbers - See-Saws

STUDIES AND SKETCHES
FOR MODERN DANCE

. . . RECORDS OR SHEET MUSIC . . .

Free descrlptive folder

Write KATHLEEN MERRILL
'6484 S. W. 25th St., Miami 44, Fla.

KER,”

Star Co.—-Litchfleld, Mich—Lincoln 2-2022

 

$mc’n9-‘l'layground Summer Notebook (NRA)

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 95

 

Complete Book
of Campfire Programs

LaRue A. Thurston. Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7.
Pp. 318. $5.95.

Here are ideas about everything that
goes into a campfire program. It is a
must for this year’s crop of counselors,
and fresh material for the experienced
director. You’ll smell the fire, see the
dancing shadows, hear the good talk
and tall tales told hy fire light. There
are bibliographies appended at the ends
of most of the chapters, including one
of stories for campfire telling, and one
for stunts, games, and other activities.
There is a chapter devoted to ceremon-
ies, one to physical arrangements, while
another deals with leadership and pro-
gram planning. The book is indexed
for convenient use.

The Successful Camp

Lewis C. Reimann, University 'of
Michigan Press, Ann Arbor. Pp. 233.
$4.75.

A new book“ 011 camp administration
is very welcome. Trends come and go,
techniques change, new standards are
prepared, new surveys are made—all
of which influence it.

This book is directed primarily to
private camp administration, although
the author has been careful to keep
the organization camp in mind. Its
style is lucid and concise, its informa-
tion comprehensive in most areas. Fact-
ual information, on camp costs, for ex-
ample, and on comparative figures of
large and small camps, private and or-
ganization camps, is useful. We wish
Mr. Reimann had been able to use later
cost figures than those from a 1954 sur-
vey, since costs have jumped consid-
erably since then. No doubt the 1954
figures were used because they were
authoritative, but a comparison, even
on a limited scale, with a few cost anal-
yses of later date would have been
valuable.

The only other chapter that does not
compare favorath with the remainder
of the hook is the far-too-short chapter
on outdoor recreation facilities. Surely
the council ring, the waterfront, even
the area in front of the cabin, or tent

 

* \vailable from the N RA Recreation Book
Center, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11.

96

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

might be included. To devote most of
a short chapter to tennis, considered of
questionable value in some camping
circles, and horseback riding, an activ-
ity too expensive for many camps, while
leaving out many other more important
facets of camping, is a serious omission
we hope will be corrected in the next
edition of this book.

The chapter outlining an entire
year’s work for a camp director will be
worth the cost of the book to anyone
entering this field for the first time. It
will also serve as a reminder and guide
to experienced directors.

The book is full of valuable informa-
tion on such matters as the various
types of insurance, food service, busi-
ness details, recruitment of staff and
campers, out-of-season promotion, and,
we are glad to see, business ethics. It is
further hlessed with excellent paper and
good type, as well as an attractive
cover. The publisher and the author
have done a very good job—Virginia
M usselman, NRA Program Depart-

ment.

Municipal Law

Charles S. Rhyne. National Institute
of Municipal Law Officers, 839 Seven-
teenth Street, N.W., Washington 6,
Pp. 1125. $22.50.

Public recreation administrators, did
you know that a municipality is liable
to the same extent as a private corpor-
ation for injuries resulting from the
creation or maintenance of a nuisance
by the municipality?

Recreation and park authorities are
not expected to be experts on legal mat-
ters, but they .should be familiar with
sources of information on legislation
affecting the work of their department.
Mr. Rhyne’s Municipal Law, the first
one-volume handbook on the subject
since 1910, affords such a source. It is
an authoritative restatement of law ap-
plicable to the modern city.

Several sections of this volume are of
special interest and value to the recre-
ation field. One defines the types of rec-
reation facilities that have been ap-
proved for capital expenditures; an-
other deals with the conditions under
which municipal property may be ac-
quired and disposed of. One entire
chapter is devoted to parks, play-

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
  

grounds, beaches, swimming pools,
diums, and other facilities. A chap
on municipal tort liability includes
discussion of parks and recreation i
cilities; one on zoning cites decisio
relating to various types of puhlic a
private recreation facilities and uses.
preparing this hook the National Ins
tute of Municipal Law Officers has re
dered a valuable service—George B:

ler, NRA Director of Research.

I
II

The Community of the Future
and the Future of Community I

Arthur E. Morgan. Community Se
ice, lnc., Yellow Springs, Ohio. Pp. 16
$3.00. 1

Mr. Morgan has been actively co
cerned with problems of the communi
for a half century and this book giv
ample evidence of his long and vari
experience. It presents primarily a ca '
for the small community, its function 
American life and the necessity for i
survival. Readers of RECREATION wi
find the chapters entitled “The Phyqi
cal Setting” and “Recreation in th
Community of the Future” especial
interesting.

The Handicapped and Tlrcir
Rehabilitation I

Edited by Harry A. Pattison, M.D
Charles C. Thomas Publisher, BanneIi
stone House, 301-327 East Lawren |
Avenue, Springfield, Illinois, Pp. 94 '
$14.75.

The rehabilitation field has develo

ed in the past few years to encompa
a multitude of concepts, ideas, tec
niques, and personnel. Dr. Pattiso
has gathered material dealing with th
varied aspects of this field into on
comprehensive volume. Each section '
written by a noted authority in a pa
ticular Specialty. For example: D
Earl Hoerner, clinical director of t
famed Kessler Institute for Rellabilit
tion, writes on the major objectives u
rehabilitation; Dr. Edward Streck
chairman of the department of psycl
atry at the University of Pennsylvan
writes on the general principles of ps
chotherapy.

Logically divided into four parts, t
book contains sections on foundatio
disabilities, the rehahilitation tea:
and, finally, problems and procedur
It is, in essence, an encyclopcdia u
current rehabilitation practice. Mal
subsections deal with the place of r
reation in rehabilitation, from recre
tion problems of the handicapped clli
to the use of recreation in the treatme
of the industrially injured.

This is the kind of book that recre
tion workers in all settings might w
consult—Elliott M. Cohen, NRA Co
suiting Service on Recreation for the

and Handicapped.

RECREATI r

 
  
 

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and
Local Recreation Agencies

March, April, May, 1958

RUTH G, EHLERS Greenville, North Carolina Miss Virginia Gregory, North Carolina Recreation Commission,
Social Recreation MaTCh 3'5 Raleigh
Kingsport, Tennessee W. C. McHorris, Director of Recreation, Kingsport
May 5-8
ANNE LIVINGSTON Ames, Iowa Miss llelen Tucker, Ag Annex, Iowa State College
Social Recreation 313mb 3‘6
Natural Bridge, Virginia Dr. Harold K. Jack, Supervisor, HPES&R, State Board of Educa-
March 20-21 tion, Richmond 16
GRACE WALKER Poughkeepsie, New York Rupert J. Tarver, Jr., William W. Smith Community Center,
Creative Recreation April 7'10 PoughkeePSle
Northland Recreation Miss Julia M. F altinson, 3100 West Lake Street, Minneapolis 16,
Laboratory Minnesota
Loretto, Minnesota
April 17-24

Miss Helen M. Dauncey will be conducting social recreation courses at the following Air Force Bases: March 3-6; Scott Air
Force Base, Belleville, Illinois; March 10-13, Chanute Air Force Base, Rantoul, Illinois, (for further details, communicate with
the Air Force Regional Representative, Howard Beresford, 3055 Bellaire, Denver, Colorado).

Mr. Frank A. Staples will be at the following Air Force Bases conducting two-week arts and crafts courses: March 3-13, Shep-
pard Air Force Base, Wichita Falls, Texas, (for further details, communicate with the Air Force Regional Representative, Ray
Morrison, 24-8 Casa Blanca, Fort Worth 7, Texas) ; March 17-27, Keesler Air Force Base, Biloxi, Mississippi, (for further details,
communicate with the Air Force Regional Representative, Wayne Shields, USAF Office of Community Services, University of
Georgia, Athens).

 

Attendance at training courses conducted by the National Recreation Association leaders is usually bpen to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsor of the course
as listed above.

 

“Basic reference work on
the national parks.”

EXPLORING OUR NATIONAL
PARKS and MONUMENTS

Devereux Butcher,
Executive Secretary, National Parks Association

I—— New RONALD Books
TEAM SPORTS FOR GIRLS

Editor Ann Paterson and seven top authorities in the
field of physical education present the techniques 0
teaching team sports to junior and senior high-school
girls. Individual chapters on lacrosse, speed-a-way, field
hockey, speedball, soccer, softball, volleyball, and basket-
ball. Each chapter describes the object of the game, facili-
ties and equipment required, positions and duties 0
players, basic skills, strategy, etc. Includes a summa

of official rules and a glossary of terms. 97 £115., tables;
389 pp., March 3. $5.

MODERN BOWLING TECHNIQUES

Junie McMahon, famous bowling star, and Murray
Goodman, veteran sports writer, have hit right in the
“pocket” with a book that will interest all who enjoy
tumbling the pins! Detailed instruction on beginning
and advanced techniques, advice on analyzing the game
and correcting mistakes, plus an up-to-date survey of
modern aspects of the sport. Includes scoring procedures,

playing rules, and alley specifications. 50 £115., 6%" x 10”,
January 20. * $2.95

describes 28 national parks and 34 national
nature monuments: contains over 300 superb
photographs, including 16 pages in full color.
The latest, most authentic book on the subject, it
tells how to get there by bus, train and auto,
what you'll see and do, and where to stay.

35.00 cloth, $33.45 paper
Houglnon Mifllin Company

 

(\\\ Something to
‘97-, i“. Collected set of

kg \\ 43 bibliographies, DEFEND YOURSELF!
'  "011 as 11111“? Sllbi00t5'— An authority on new and ancient combat, Jack Grover
' iron] RECREATION combines the best of judo, boxing, wrestling, etc., to show
' s1 00 110w anyone of average strength can defend himself against
j t i ' ' an aggressor. Underscores combat techniques for particu-

HoU‘EoEotd

lar situations. Charts show most vulnerable parts of the
body With descriptive text on attack and defense of each

part. Offers easily grasped material on fair or anything-
goes fighting. 64 1115., 61/2" at 10", March. "' $2.95

* Books in the Barn“ Sports Library

At bookstore; or from:
\ National Recreation Association 1' H E R o N A L D P R E s s c o M P A N Y
Ordor Dopt., I W. 8th Strut, New York 11.

‘ l5 East 26th Street, New' York 10, N. Y.

Single copies
are free. Those
5 pages and more—S. l 5

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  

  

 

f-I-I-“HCu -

_ qr":

I AUDIO EQUIPMENT CO., INC., Great Neck, N. Y.
I would like [3 brochure [j demonstration of Audio Hoiler

PORTABLE ° SELF-CONTAINED NAME
ELECTRONIC MEGAPHONE “m

I AUTHORITY

. ST. 8. NO.

_ CITY OR ZONE
TOWN______________________..(I'f any) STATE

 

