' e.  .
NATIONAL IECIEATION Idaatl-ATION r OCTOBER II!‘ 0 5,0:
. I.

‘I

     

I

 

I

) A TWO-YEAR STUDY of our state park
systems has been announced by Na-
tional Park Service director Conrad L.
Wirth. Freeman Tilden, author of
widely read books about the National
Park System, has been 'retained for this
purpose and will report his findings in
book form.

) LETTERS-TO-THE-EDITOR. If readers
of RECREATION enjoy this section in the
magazine, it is suggested they contri-
bute to it. Take a look at the following
pages in this issue. Any comments,
opinion, or rebuttal? If so, other rcad-
ers would like to hear about it. If you
don’t like this section, we would like to
hear about it.

) AN EXCELLENT PROMOTION PIECE for
community recreation within the state
has resulted from a project taken on by
the Indiana Advisory Committee on
Recreation. Prepared by Garrett G. Ep-
pley, chairman of the Department of
Recreation, School of Health, Physical
Education, and Recreation at Indiana
University, and F. L. McReynolds, as-
sociate in rural youth work and recrea-
tion of the Agricultural Extension Serv-
ice at Purdue and committee president,
the booklet is lively and shows careful
planning for a successful selling job.
It is available, on a nonprofit basis, to
residents of other states at forty cents a
copy. For further details, write Mr.
McReynolds at Purdue UniversityAgri-
cultural Extension Service, Lafayette,
Indiana.

) A STATEMENT 0N YOUTH FITNESS as a
community responsibility has been pre-
pared by a subcommittee of the Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Recrea-
tion Programs and Activities and pub-
lished by the National Recreation Ass
sociation. Copies have been sent to af-
filiate members of the Association, in
addition to which a limited number are
available, free upon request. Write for
it on your oflicial letterhead. This is a
good companion piece to Guidelines for
Physical Evaluation for Youth Fitness,
the pamphlet released by the Presi-
dent’s Council on Youth Fitness last
spring. Inquiries regarding the latter

266

should be directed to the council at

Washington 25, D. C.

) OPEN FOR THE FOLIACE SEASON.
Twenty-one state parks in New Hamp-
shire have been held open after the gen-
eral Labor Day closing date, so resi-
dents and tourists may enjoy the color-
ful fall foliage.

) Two MILLION ANGELS in disguise will
go into action October 31 for the
“Trick or Treat for UNICEF.” Goblins
and witches will chant this refrain to
householders from Alaska to Florida.
It means they are asking for nickels
and dimes for milk and medicine for
needy children of other lands. As in
other years, many recreation depart-
ments will take part in this worthy pro-
gram. Write the U. S. Committee for
UNlCEF, United Nations, New York,
for further information or order a plan-
ning kit with material for twenty-five

youngsters ($1.00) .

"F-n hi). Ill-t... a". I I

) DON’T FORGET NA-
TIONAL CHILDREN’S
BOOK WEEK, November
2 to 8, 1958! This for-
tieth annual celebration
will be the occasion for
book fairs, displays,
dramatization of favor-
ite stories, book quizzes, story hours,
and all kinds of special occasions, high-
lighting the wonderful discoveries chil-
dren make when they “Explore with
Books.” This observance is “right up
our alley,” '

- V‘s-n.
, xi.

I'll-I. mg“

 

1n the recreation field, be-
cause not only is reading recreation,
but so many enjoyable recreation ac-
tivities come from books. Write im-
mediately to the Children’s Book Coun-
cil, 50 West 53rd Street, New York 19,
for a list of program aids, if you have
not already done so. In the meantime,
get your crafts .groups busy on some
posters of your own, planned around
the above theme. Let’s do all we can
to stimulate children’s interest in the
wonderland of books!

} HAVE YOU SEEN the new Bantam pa-
perback, a second edition of A Wonder-

ful World for Children by Peter Car-

dozo? Look it up at your nearest news-

 
 
 
   
    
     
 
     
 

stand. It is filled with activity idea
boys and girls.

Meetings

0 Annual conference of AIPE. .
year’s meeting of the American In
tute of Park Executives will be he]
the Jung Hotel in New Orleans, Lo
iana, October 12 to 16.

0 Annual meeting of National Con
ence on State Parks is scheduled
Blackwater Falls State Park, Da
West Virginia, October 6 to 9.

0 State Convention of Wisconsin R i
reation Association will be held
vember 5 to 7, in Milwaukee.

) RECREATION MAGAZINE BINDERS w
1959 stamping are now available.

    
  
    
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
  

) PLEASE SEND IN MATERIAL—articl
pictures, short items, “how-to’s”
for a “Travel Is Recreation” empha
in a spring issue of RECREATION, p
sibly May or June. Trips, campi
hiking, canoeing, touring, other t}
of vacationing all come under this he

See our June, 1958 issue.

Training

0 Helen M. Dauncey, NRA social r

reation training specialist, will be I
special assignment in Alaska, Octob
623. She will be working at several .
force military installations during t I
two-week period.

0 Anne Livingston, NRA social recr
tion training specialist, will conduct
recreation workshop in Dayton, Oh
October 6-9, under the auspices of t
Department of Public Welfare, Di
sion of Parks and Recreation. John
Mahan, supervisor of arts and crafts i
the Dayton department, will conduct
arts and crafts training course, in D

ton, during the preceding week, S
tember 29 to October 3.

) DANCES FOR YOUR United Nati

Day celebration. Please note the :
cellent collection of folk-dance recor
prepared by our old friends, the H
mans, and put out by RCA (see pa
225 in the September issue of RECR
TION). If you order or write for m
information, be sure to mention t
magazine.

We believe the following articles in
this issue of RECREATION Magazine will
be of special interest to those working
with the ill and handicapped: “ls Rec-
reation for Everyone?”; “Joint Use of
Recreation Facilities”; Reporter’s Note-

book, containing “Versatile Community
Center” and “The Film Scene”; “What

Do You Know About Modern Dance?”;
“Summer’s Castoffs”; “Recreation Activ-

ities From Other Lands”; Market News,
with the item on a genealogy kit; Letters
to the Editor; and, of course, Hospital
Capsules.

RECREATIO

-" OBER 1958

 

Editor in Chief, J osspufaaunsacasr
Editor, DOROTHY Dommsou
Business Manager, RALPH C. Moat-us

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

  
    
  
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
      
     
     
    

I
Recreation Administration, Gsoacs BUTLER

Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

. Ll. Price 50 Cents No. 8

the Cover

Even scarecrows dance, and pumpkins glow, on
hallow’s eve—magic night of witches, goblins,
rills and chills! Pboto from A. Devaney, New
rk.

"xi I‘lonth

Stories about teen-agc programs and a senior citi-
activity-center deal with two groups of serious
ncern to the recreation leader. “The Administra-
n of Maintenance,” and “Importance of Good
anning” will have special appeal for executives.
bbies and the making of Christmas decorations
both covered. The report and pictures of the
th National Recreation Congress in Atlantic City
_ 11 appear in the December issue. November will
0 carry “Explorers of the Air,” story of a good
do] plane program, and “Tell Your Story with
. tures,” an excellent article on photojournalism—
_ bow to take good pictures for publication. “In-
' endcnt Basketball” olTers an example for other
IInunities to use in setting up a successful, adult

kctball league.
|.|

 oto Credits

i age 269, Dennis Clintborne, Detroit, Michigan,
7 National High School Photographic Awards
ner; 275, Alex Cray, Toronto, Canada; 279 and
, Keith County Studio, Nebraska; 282, Van-
ard, Hollywood, California; 288, State Park Com-
ssion of Louisiana, New Orleans.

   

i
I

  

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association. a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Streer, New York 11, New York. is on
file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readert’
Guide. Subscriptions 34.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 54.50. Re-entercd as second-class
matrer April 25. 1950. at the Post Ofiice in New York,
New York under Acr of March 3. 1879. Acceprance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
I Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May
I l. 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-

versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space Representatives: Mark Minahan. 185 North Wa-
bash Avenue. Chicago 1. Illinois: Seymour A. Rob-

bins 8: Associates, 489 Fifth Avenue, New York 17,
New York.

I . Copyright, 1958. by the
National Recreation Association. Incorporated

Printed in the USA. .m.
-1: '3 w ti

nug‘

 

J .

" Trade mark registered in U. S. Patenr Oliice.

   

' CTOBER, 1958

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Needed ——
Space on Earth (Editorial) . . . . . . . . .Conrad L. Wirtlt 268
Creative Leisure (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . Vireller 3. Floyd 269
A Miracle in El Paso . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William M. Hay 272
Is Reereation for Everyone? . . . . . . . . . . . . .June Braoten 274-
Reereation Activities From Other Lands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 278
ADRIINISTRATION
Joint Use of Administration Facilities. . . . .Erlwin S. Howell 286
Criteria for State Parks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
NotesfortlleAdministrator  290
PROGRADI
Community Halloween at Low Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
Summer’s Castoffs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bettye Breeser 277
What Do You Know About Modern Dance?
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Aileene Lockhart 279
Public Relations and Halloween . . . . . . Virginia Alusselman 285

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

RepOrter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jean Waclttel 291

Hospital Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Beatrice H. Hill 292

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 293

Classified Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 293

Magazine Artieles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 294-

Books and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 294-

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 295

    
 

DUCATIONAL

R E S S
S S O C l ATlO N The orticles herein printed are the expres-

OF sions of the writers and not o statement of
AMER [CA . . . . . policy of the Notional Recreation Association.

267

N E
Space on Earth

   
  
   
    
    

Conrad L. W’ir

N THE FRONT mess of our newspa-
pers we read about trips to the

moon and beyond into the ever-expand-
ing universe.

the use of the pe0ple in the five cou
ties surrounding Detroit.

The urgency of establishing op
spaces in metropolitan regions cann
be overemphasized. At the same ti
we must not overlook the ever-incre
ing demand for new and expanded fa
cilities,such as: golf courses, play field "
swimming pools and beaches; picn'

Inside we see articles
about the need of space for new high-
ways and airports, frequently with rec-
ommcndations that park lands be used

for this purpose, and every day there
are advertisements

l

concerning new

suburban developments, shopping cen-
tcrs, and housing.

While reaching into outer space we
cannot afford to overlook the problems
of space for a good life on earth. Every
eleven seconds there is an additional
person in the United States—327 an

and camp grounds, trails for hiking, b'
cycling and horseback riding; marina
fishing areas, and plenty of wild land:
Facilities that are adequate today wi
be inadequate ten years from now.

The Space Age, with its revolution-

'4.
ary concepts of time and distance, wil

   
  
   

have far-reaching effccts on recreatio .
outside of metropolitan regions.

Better access facilities and new de-
mands for natural resources are brin 1
ing new impacts on our remaining wil
lands. Space in which to fish and hun
and to camp and hike is hecoming criti
cal. If future generations are to be abl
to have some of the enjoyment and in-
spiration we can still find in our parks
and forests, along our streams and i 1
other, recreation areas, we must make
plans now and follow them up with th
necessary action.

We need an inventory and evaluatio
of the nation’s outdoor recreation re
sources. We should determine the pres
ent and future needs for all types of out-
door recreation areas, and should form-
ulate a nationwide plan and program i or
the acquisition, preservation, and use
of rccreation areas and facilities at all
levels of government. '

hour, almost three million a year—and
most of them will be concentrated in
vast urban areas. Space must be pro-
vided so they can get out-of-doors, in
contact with nature, for physical exer-
cise, relaxation, and inspiration, and
for relief from electronic contrivances.
Metropolitan regions should he planned
to provide livable communities with
broad bands of green established for

recreation, agriculture, and preserva-
tion of natural features.

  
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
   

-|

All political units in metrOpolitan
regions will need to pool their resources
to guide land use and development and
to acquire lands and waters for public
recreation purposes. One means of ac-
complishing this is through the estab-
lishment of a metropolitan authority,
such as the Huron-Clinton Metropoli-
tan Authority, which was created in
1939 to provide parks, connecting

drives, and limited access highways for _
The plan and program must include

natural areas of scenic, scientific, wild
and wilderness interest, and historic
sites, structures and memorials, as well
as adequate places for all the other
kinds of wholesome outdoor fun. #

 

MR. WIRTH is director of the National
Park Service, U. S. Department of the
Interior. Reprinted, with permission,

from Park Maintenance, March, 1958.

  
  

II

RECREATION |

II

Editorial

Creative Leisure

ircher B. Floyd

recreation executive
terprets the challenge
1 automation

FEW YEARS AGO there was a great
deal of talk about a shorter work
y and even a shorter workweek and

l.

ar. Those concerned—largely labor
ders and industrialists —were de—
I onstrating for the first time, an aware-
ss of the effects of mass production
11d specialization on society. More re-
.ntly, the matter of automation has
ceivcd the same verbal attention.
'rhat will man do now with machines
ing over so many of his tasks?
gain, what will he do with his spare
me?
Now that a voice-operated typewriter,
hich types directly from dictation, is
reality, now that electronic computers
11 be equipped with devices that proc-
- s experimental data directly, with-
ut its having to be coded by humans,
d other automatic highly technical
. chines, previously only dreamed of,
re really here—one hears not a word
It the subject. Such silence could by
- means indicate that we need no long-
consider the question of a shorter
ork day and how to cope with it.
Today, social workers and those con—
erned with recreation and education
ught to join forces with the industrial-
ts and labor leaders and retool their
inking. Where will the breadwinner
pend his (or her) spare time? Will our
. tion become a sedcntary one, passive-
occupying television stools for hours
end?
What effects will more “free time”
I ve on the family, the classroom, the
ommunity? Will man seek to broaden

his horizons by attending afternoon
and evening classes? Will man become
increasingly involved in the govern-
ment of his union, community, state, or
nation? He may become an active mem-
ber of his church or school board; or he
may have more time and money to
travel. What would such changes bring
to local government, the school, the
highways, and airways? Maybe men
will share more of the “domestic tasks.”

The effect of these changes will be in-
terpreted and focused by those who plan
now. Who will it be . . . the school,
church, industry, agencies working in
the social-recreation fields, private or
governmental?

What have you, the recreation
worker, the social worker, to offer a per-
son who has been steadily and progres-
sively deprived of any touch with a com-
pleted task, deprived of the creative ex-
perienccs man craves? What can you
give of real recreative social value; how
can you involve him in situations which
are attractive, challenging, and will min-
ister to his unmet needs?

Educator, what have you to offer to
the steelmill worker or sandhog? He
doesn’t want to study; he doesn’t need
a degree. Maybe, just the same, he may
be interested in contributing to society.
He may have a latent interest in art or
music, be it rock ‘n’ roll or Chopin.

These questions, though not refined,
point to a real problem. We must see
our responsibility and commit ourselves
to doing something about it now. #

VIRCIIER B. FLOYD is executive director
of the Sewickley Community Center,
Sewickley, Pennsylvania.

 

260

Community Halloween

ALLOWEEN night mischief— taken
for granted and endured, with grit-
ted tecth, in most communities—has
met its match in Iowa City, Iowa—a
town of 25,000 just west of the Missis-
sippi. The panacea is an annual Hallo-
ween night parade, costume party, and
dance all rolled into one—and all at a
cost of less than 3100.

Last year, more than a thousand
children from kindergarten through
senior high school attended this party.
The elementary school age children
gathered on a main thoroughfare at
6:15 P.M. Halloween night, dressed in
costumes, all competing for one of the
sixty prizes to be awarded.

A city fire engine and a Moose drum-
and-bugle corps headed the parade to
the front of a local theater where, at
about 7 P.M., they were treated to re-
freshments and a program of cartoons
and short movie subjects. At 8 :30 P.M.,
escorted by their parents, this group
of youngsters went home.

What is more they stayed home. Each
grade-school boy and girl who attends
signs and turns in a numbered pledge
card stating that he or she will not
willfully damage or destroy any prop-
erty during the Halloween season. The
children are told that thirty minutes
after they leave the theater, twenty-five
cards will be chosen from a box. If the
lucky youngster is home when the
sponsors call, he wins a prize.

Junior and senior high-school stu-
dents, meanwhile, are not neglected.
They are invited—with or without
dates—to separate dances where re—
freshments are served and music is pro-
vided by small orchestras.

The all-in-one party works wonders
in Iowa City; but it takes weeks of
planning.

270

at
Low Cost

Important Steps

1. Meet with representatives from
each sponsoring group at least six weeks
before Halloween. Decide what kind
of party you want. The evening can in—
clude games or contests of skill, held
in a school gymnasium, in a community
center, or facilities can be rented. The
route of march for the parade must be
mapped out and approved by police——
if you want to stage a parade.

2. Plan your method of invitation.
lowa City’s pledge card is an excellent
way to reach the younger students and
does three jobs at once. It serves as an
invitation and admission card, is used
for the drawing later in the evening,
and pledges the children to good con-
duct during Halloween. High-school
students can be reached with local news-
paper publicity, posters in the school
halls, and notices to home-room teach-
ers.

3. Get in touch with your local mer-
chants. You need prizes for the drawing
and candy giveaways. Many of your
own associates can help in this manner,
and the chamber of commerce will no
doubt apply its persuasive talents in
your behalf. Refreshments can include
lollipops, candy bars, or jelly apples.

4. Print your costume award certifi-
cates. Choose the judges—school or
civic leaders, perhaps. Set up a system
of judging. Make plans to set up a re-
viewing stand. °

5. If you plan to show a movie or a
series of short ‘subjects, rent appro-
priate ones from a commercial distribu-
tor. If you prefer live entertainment—
Iowa City once had a circus theme
complete with jugglers, clowns, and
tumblers—get in touch with an enter-
tainment agency.

6. Buy noisemakers. The cost is low

 

and they are well worth the mone
They can be distributed just before th
start of the parade.

7. Engage a band or two, dependin
on your plans. The musicians” unio

of the AFL often has a good-will fun

available and may provide you with

   
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   

band at no cost. Otherwise, you ma
be able to engage the volunteer service
of a pick-up band.

8. Talk up the party. Keep in touc
with the parents and get them on you
side. Most will want to help when the
realize what your purpose is.

9. Put the youngsters in the righ
spirit. Work out arrangements so th
school children can paint Hallowee
witches and goblins on downtown stor
windows during the day. You mig
want to award a prize for the be
grade-school drawing of a Hallowee
subject.

10. Plan a meeting of your com
mittee immediately after the part
Evaluate and criticize your work whil
everything remains fresh in your mind
You will come up with suggestions fo
a better party next year. Countless d
tails will require your attention. Be sur
to include every minutia you can col
lectively offer. Succeeding committe
will bless you for saving them unneces
sary wear and tear.

If you have further questions, a not
to Robert Lec, Iowa City’s superinten
dent of recreation, will bring a quic
reply. He has coordinated parties ther

since 1951.

The cost of the party in any com
munity, divided among the sponsorin
organizations, should be almost negli
gible and certainly justilied.—HOWAR
M. GREENWALD, editor, employee publi
cations, Ford Motor Company, Cincin
nati, Ohio.

RECREATIO

I o o o
.o.o'o'odo.

For the Handicapped

a ar Sirs:
Do you [or your readers] have avail-
)le any program and activity ideas for
_ ople who are seriously handicapped
1 a iysically? My staff and I . . . are on
_ e search for new and different ideas.
 would, indecd, appreciate any as-
stance. . . . I have been checking the
vailable literature but find most of it
als with theory. Perhaps you can di-
ct me to activity literature that is
vailable for the seriously handicapped.
_ I have been reading your “Hospital
' psules” and find it most interesting
d inspiring. We find that the RECRE-
TION Magazine has provided us with
ogram material for our staff meetings.
CLARA S. SIMON, Recreation Di-
rector, Georgia Warrn Springs

Foundation, Warm Springs, Ca.

More on Senior Citizens

ear Sirs:

May I extend a word of heartiest ap-
reoiation for the admirable way in
hich you have featured Senior Citi-
ns Month in RECREATION for May.
I ou have made a fine contribution to
he cause, and we hope you will con-
inue each May the fine work you have
.cgun.

Jov ELMER MORGAN, President,
I Senior Citizens of America, 1129
Vermont Avenue, N.W., Washing-
ton 5, D. C.

SaInte from the Army

car Sirs:

I am shortly terminating my very
'nteresting tour of duty as the Chief,
pecial Services Division, TACO. Since
took on the job four years ago, I have
I et and been associated with many
'onderful people in the various fields
f the Army Special Services program.
i f the program has made progress, and
think it has, this has been due in

I cronnn- l958

  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
     
     
  
  
 
   
   
 
    
 
    
       
  

Readers .’ You are invited to send letters for this page
to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
.York 11—50 that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range 0]
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

VSignememher Children’s Book “leek, November 2 to 8&

When writing to our advertisers nlease mention Rnnnnsrmn-

where would I
get color slides of
the world’s art

of every era?

from the
educator-
recommended
archives of the

AMERICAN LIBRARY
COLOR SLIDE CO.!

\/ 14,000 Master Slides of the
World’s Art in Color.
250,000 Color Slides in stock
for immediate delivery.

Slides mounted in glass and
labeled, in paper mounts, or as
unmounted film. (For economy
buyers who mount their own, we
supply film cut to fit any 2" x 2"
mount or mask.)

Selection Service: you may
obtain unmounted Color Slides
which you are invited to examine
before placing your order.

Unique variety of “survey
course” slide packages.

Free quality Slide .Projectors
given with “collection” purchases.

 

—The Editors. \/

part to the interest, cooperation, and
support of you and the fine and loyal
members of your staff. For your con-
tributions, I am grateful, and I wish to
express to you a sincere and heartfelt
“thank you”—and the plea that you
continue with my successor, Colonel

Herbert L. Nelson.

I am assuming new duties at the US.
Army Engineer Center at Fort Belvoir,
Virginia. While I am severing my di-
rect connection with Special Services, I
assure you that I will nevcr cease to be
deeply interested in the welfare and
morale of the U. S. soldier. In that, I
know you share my views.

L. W. JACKSON, Colonel, AGC, Chief,
Special Services Division, Depart-

ment of the Army, Washington 25,
D. C.

. + “-
Art Cempendium l

. 3 -
Color Slide Index

Goals

Dear Sirs:
Perhaps this thought is worth pub-
lishing in RECREATION Magazine.

A Belief

Every man should have a place of
solitude away from the ever-flickering
lights of cars and streets, where only he
and his beliefs mingle among the nat-
ural things. Here each day a short time
should be devoted to reanalyzing his
goals, thcir real values, and the means
which are incorporated to attain the
goals.

He should daily reanalyze himself in
an effort to determine his weakness and
his strength. He should devote a few
moments thinking of what he did dur-
ing the day that was helpful and good
and what he did that was harmful or
lax. He should be honest with himself
in his analysis and respond to his find-
ings so that the next analysis will reveal

SPECIAL
INTRODUCTORY OFFER!

This new Art Compendium & Color Slide
Reference Index contains 24 individually
bound brochures covering 14,000 subjects,
the world’s monumental works of art
from the Old Stone Age to the present.
Compiled by art historians alphabetically
and chronologically by classification . . .
it‘s a “must” for everybody and anybody
interested in art education, ap reciatton
and creation! Complete set p as hand-
some binder (a $2 value) and free sample
slide — all for just $5! Limited offer, write

Amcrlcan lerary Color Slide (.10.. Inc.
n'nlo R.  W.  St-, NYC 

E] Please send complete Art Compendium
Set, sample slide, and special bmder —

E] I enclose $5
E] Bill me for $5 plus postage
E] Please send me further information on

progress° . . . . your art slide service.
Lack of effort IS disgraceful but it is
    NAME . o . . . . . . . . o . o . . o . . o . . o . . o . . . . . . . . o.
CLAYNE JENSEN, Director of Recre- mnmmon ........................... ..

ation, Utah State University, Logan.
ADDRESS . . . . . o . . o . . . . . . . . . . . o . . . . . . o o . . . .

CITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . “ZONE. “STATE . . . . .. ._

 

27]

A Miracle in El Paso

No Special formula
for ragged, screaming children . . .

MIRACLES D0 happen, even today. They are happening

right now in our very midst—yes, in recreation—
but they are not happening by chance or accident, or by a
sudden stroke of Providence. This miracle, quite to the con-
trary, has grown from patience and perseverance, work and
love, and by divine guidance, too. Starting Our Lady’s
Youth Center in El Paso, Texas, in November of 1953 was
not accomplished by the usual simple rules of finding a suit-
able location with adequate building; setting up budget;
installing necessary equipment, and hiring a staff of quali-
fied directors; now you are in business. It was different,
because all neighborhoods, like all people, are different.
Each calls for some special, carefully drawn, and more care-
fully applied prescription. There is no special formula to
scrve as a simple solution to all ailments.

Father Harold J. Rahm, S], has certain regular assign-
ments that would overburden the average layman. When,
in mid-1952, he suddenly found himself located in a sec-
tion of South El Paso, Texas, inhabited by the very poor,
he found himself immediately submerged in extracurricular
activities. Had he and his wonderful helpers realized what
they would go through in providing recreation for this very
poor slum area, they might have faltered at the very begin-
ning. However, this is a miracle and miracles in the making
do not falter. .

How do we get to know a neighborhood, the people, their
problems, their needs, their longings? Father Rahm spent
months until he camc to know these people of Latin-Ameri-
can descent. He learned to understand their dire poverty,
their limitations, .their small hOpes; but, most of all, he
learned to love them—without love there could be nothing.

He walked the streets and alleys, teeming with ragged,
haggard, screaming children and scrawny stray animals—
streets redolent of litter and waste of all sorts! Telling
about his tours he said, “People appeared and disappeared
through gaping holes in fences, through wet wash hung in
patios and on stairway landings. Women chattered in
Spanish and yelled at the children while performing house-
hold tasks without benefit of gas, hot water, or even run-
ning water.”

Bicycle eXploration revealed additional factors; the

MR. HAY represents the NRA in its Southern District.

272

-a half years as funds, personnel, and equipment would per

William M. H

language barrier; the realization that there are class di
tinctions even in slums. Roughly grouped, there were fo
classes of families:

At the top, there are those with a reasonably sober fathe
who has a regular paying job. Some of these enjoy a c
and TV set and have adequate food and clothing.

Next comes the family with good moral and social stan
ards, handicapped by financial limitations.

Third is the large group of women and children deserte
by the titular head of the family, for whom the mother’
best efforts are inadequate to provide decent living cond
tions.

Last is the too large group of individuals with no r
semblance to a family unit; no acknowledged father of th
children who roam the streets, give trouble at school, for
gangs, and fight the battle of survival. It is largely thi
group who come to Our Lady’s Youth Center—some of th
toughest incorrigibles in town.

“We started with baseball in the backyard of Sacre
Heart Church,” says Father Rahm, “This attracted so man
youngsters from their games of ‘stick ball’ in the streets th
we began to look for larger quarters. A ramshackle 01
building, unused for twenty years, was our prize discover
All windows were gone; there was no heat, light, or wate
All in all, it was a sorry spectacle; but it was large an
centrally located.

“With the consent of the owners and help of one volu
teer assistant and some of the neighborhood kids, we wade
in. Generous friends of all faiths and civic interest pro
vidcd materials and skilled labor. The building, after recon
ditioning, was painted. The yard was graded, paved, an
provided with some equipment.”

Father Rahm, with captivating enthusiasm, says further
“Our program follows no pattern. It has evolved natural]
to meet the needs, grown gradually through these four an

 
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

mit. No beanstalk this, for our Jack, but an cdifice with
firm foundation.

“Much equipment and some personnel have been furnishe
by the city recreation department. Superintendent of recre
ation Robert Shipp has been a great help. The staff, pai
and volunteer, now numbers twenty-five, the latest membe
a social service director, and will undoubtedly increase

RECREATIO

 

‘hey came from filth and poverty, and needed love . . .

I “The building provides table games, TV room, jukebox,
brary, art room, sewing and cooking facilities, three club
ooms, photography and showrooms, besides auditorium,
- mnasium, and office.”
The program is not limited to the center. Leaders go out
1to various sections of the neighborhood, for it is quite
rge—aetually several neighborhoods in one—-——to provide
tivities even in homes, where large enough.
The use of teen-age volunteers, constituting the bulk of the
aft, is one of the excellent aspects of this program. Some
'olunteers put in long hours as leaders; others help plan
eir own teen-age programs. Many were originally problem
hildren before they secured positive direction.
Approximately a thousand teen-agers and youngsters en-
age in the seven-day-a-week activities at the center and else-
here. There are clubs for all ages and interests. Boy Scout
oops that have won tr0phies; homemaking and sewing
asses;art and photography; dancing classes and weekly
ances with an orchestra; classes in boxing, wrestling,
'eight lifting and judo; fencing; English lessons; and in-
or games.
There are weekly movies and classes in social doctrines.
1e center sponsors two weekly TV programs, and opens a
i dio station daily with a three-minute devotional. It pub-
I hes a weekly newspaper. Three orchestras originate at the
nter, one of which now plays professional engagements.
The building early threatened to burst at the seams, and
'i- city council agreed to r0ping off the adjacent street from
:00 to 10:00 P.M. There the children, with adult super-
sion, play hopscotch and foursquare, jump rope, play

softhall, touch football, and box, and have lots of fun.

“New emergencies kept cropping up,” Father Rahm con-
tinues. “As Operational expenses grew, so did the . . .
charity of individuals and organizations. The Spanish-
speaking'council of the Knights of Columbus has not only
given us use of the building rent-free but paid the insur-
ance and utilities. My speaking fees and personal serv-
ices, of course, go into the center. Now part of our opera-
tional expenses are included in the United Fund in this, its
first year, in El Paso. Contributions hereafter will go
toward purchase of the building.

“Our Lady’s Youth Center is here to stay and to serve.
Over and above the pressure of administrative duties, the
daily harassment of details, we strive to keep uppermost the
concern for pe0ple. People are our business, particularly
the youth, the adults of tomorrow. L

“We try always to pour out love to fill the empty, be-
wildered hearts of the neglected, the rejected boy and girl.
True, this love must at times be implemented with a big
stick. We must keep everything under lock and key, and be
ever alert for gang warfare. But our city police officials
note a decline in delinquency in the slums of South El Paso.
Our Lady’s Youth Center is not fancy, but, rather, func-
tional. We are proud of it. We are grateful for the divine
guidance which we have enjoyed.”

Is this a typical neighborhood? Well, hardly. Is there
such a thing? Neighborhoods are all different; call for
careful analysis. Is this a typical program? Perhaps; at
least, in the sense that all good programs are adapted to
serve the people of the neighborhood in which they live.

Does this sound like a church or a religious program?
Well, hardly. This program is possible only throughthe
c00perative effort of many pe0ple—volunteers who plan and
play there, civic clubs who give materials and money, United
Fund, city recreation department, police department, and
many, many others. Without these combined interests and
help, but especially without the hard work and determina-
tion of Father Rahm and his staff, this miracle would not
have happened. With the same ingredients, it can happen
anywhere. It must happen, again and again.

The greatest need today is to turn more realistically to
neighborhood programs. Any individual, organization, or
city can learn a helpful and meaningful approach to this
vital problem by a close look into the story behind Our

Lady’s Youth Center—the miracle in El Paso. #

\Ve adults may think of chess as a game for intellectuals, college professors, and
atomic scientists, but actually children love the game and learn the moves quickly.
Any child of seven or older can learn the basic rules from the instructions in-
cluded with a box of ehessmen. Any ordinary checker board may be used.

What fun to plot the king’s capture, charge ahead with the knight, or catch
the stately queen 01f guard with a crafty bishop! Chess has all the excitement of
cowboys and Indians, with much less wear and tear on mother on rainy days.

So don’t underestimate your child’s ability. The next time he wonders “what
to do next’ ’ try clieSS.——-NANCY TALBERT, California Parent-Teacher, January 1958.

TOBER, 1958

273

 

 



H'
—I_ l =-"\

Young (‘3..101tillll at camp for retarded children. In Canada, rec-
reation helps this neglected group to find its place in the sun.

Is

Recreation
for
Everyone?

RECREATION is for everyone.” This slogan has proba-
bly been used, at one time or another, by all who
work in the recreation field. We like to feel that none is left
out in this land of equal opportunity. Could there be any
possibility, then, that there is a group in any of our com-
munities having little or no recreation services? There is,
fellow recreation workers, a whole segment of our society——
the mentally handicapped. Ah! but we can dismiss quickly
the idea of planning recreation prOgrams for them; we
think we have neither the knowledge nor the ability to work
in this specialized field. Anyway, we assure ourselves that
this group is much too small to worry about.
When the Ontario [Canada] Association for Retarded

MRS. BHMTHN is executive secretary of the Ontario Recrea-
tion Association, Committee on Recreation for the Retarded.

274

June Braatct

Does your community program
really help all groups?

   
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
   

children approached the Ontario Recreation Association
for assistance about three years ago, the challenging re-
quest was accepted with a feeling of trepidation and un-
certainty.

A special committee, Recreation for the Retarded, was
formed, and a chairman appointed with power to add mem-
bers. Great care was taken in their selection, because this
was to be a province-wide committec. One member, in ad-
dition to the chairman, had been on the Ontario Recrea-
tion Association board of directors for some time and was
familiar with that association’s policies. There were also
representatives from a public recreation agency, from priv-
ate recreation agencies, such as YWCA, YMCA, the Cana-I
dian Red Cross Society, and so on; and from the provincial
recreation department in the government. It was felt, as
well, that it was important to have a member who was
closely associated with retarded children, to act in an ad-
visory capacity. Therefore, the executive director of the
local association for retarded children became a member;
and later the new executive director of the Provincial As- '
sociation for Retarded Children joined the group.

The committee set out to find some of the answers to the
many questions recreation people would ask. Who are the
mentally handicapped? What size of group might we ex I
pect? Are we capable of planning and carrying out pro
grams for them in our community? If so, how do we go
about it?

The first step, for those of us who did not know too muc
about mental retardation, was to study the problem an
educate ourselves generally. We found that mental retarda
tion has nothing to do with mental illness, as some of us ha
thought. It is, instead, an incomplete development of th
mental capacities, and is characterized by slowness in men
tal and neurological growth. About three per cent of ou.-
population is thus tragically afilicted. This group might b 3
divided into three sections: those who are mildly retarde
and usually found in auxiliary or opportunity classes i
regular schools, called the educable group; second, th
in-between, or trainable group, whose IQ’s are below fifty I
and last the group composed of those who are completel
dependent.

Until about twelve years ago the trainable mentally re
tarded were hidden away in back rooms. Parents wer
ashamed of having a mentally subnormal child. The stor
of the present association’s development from a mere hand
ful of parents’ banding together is dramatic. Now govern
ments are giving grants to the special schools connecte
with these associations. In these, retarded children are amaz
ing everyone with what they can accomplish with trainin
We realize, now, that these children have the same need

RECREATIO

as all of us—for love, security, discipline, the need to
succeed. They, too, love to play!

At the same time, information * was collected about all
the existing recreation programs. Much of value1 was sup-
plied to us by the PARC Recreation Committee chairman.
A Recreation Activities and Facilities Survey was under-
taken; questionnaires 2 were sent to all schools for retarded
children in Ontario, to many across Canada, and to sev-

,_ eral places in the United States, where there are recreation
programs. We were pleased to learn about quite a number
of successful programs, but were disappointed that only a
very few had detailed reports.

It was decided that, in order to obtain answers to the
questions of recreation peeple, the best thing to do was to
initiate some pilot projects. So it was, that early in 1956 a
1 Community Committee was set up to carry through the first
I project, “Swimming.” A great deal of planning wcnt into
w. this, from inviting the personnel of the planning committee
_ to arranging the facilities, and planning the program itself.3
I; Then one day in early spring the program bcgan. A bus
financed by Civitan Clubs of Toronto (service clubs)
brought about fifty severely retarded children, twelve to
eighteen years old, from the Metropolitan Toronto Asso-

ciation for Retarded Children School to the Dufierin School
Swimming Pool. Pool time was donated by the Toronto

Board of Education. Some of the teachers accompanied the
p boys and girls. At the pool, there were the supervisor, who
.j was chairman of Water Safety Service, Toronto Branch
Canadian Red Cross Society, and about a dozen Red Cross
instructors. The teachers who came with the children as-
[ sisted the girls in thc locker room, and four men from the
Civitan Clubs took time off from work to come and assist

I
f See references at end of this article.

I
OCTOBER, 1958

 

 

the boys in their locker room; six clubs took turns with this
duty. The children were divided into three classes. One
class was in the water while the other two classes got ready
or watched.

At first there was individual instruction. Naturally, there
was some fear; a few of the children were reluctant to enter
the water at first, but not many weekly sessions passed be-
fore they were all happily adjusted to the water and making
progress—mostly slow progress, to be sure, but still prog-
ress. The instructors were patient and understanding,
using demonstration more than explanation. They entcred
the water with the children and assisted them in a more
physical way than is necessary with normal children. The
delight and enjoyment, so apparent on the faces of the boys
and girls, told of their joy, even though expressing it was
often difficult for them. When they went home, they, too,
now could talk about a club to which they belonged, just
like the other kids. In Ontario, today, there is the Crest
Club, which sports a Red Cross crest especially designed
for handicapped children participating in the Red Cross
swim programs.

Detailed records were kept so that a complete report could
be made.3 A special progress chart was ticked off at each
lesson by each child’s instructor. After each period, these
were turned over to a group of women from the women’s

Do the handicapped benefit from your program? In Toronto, fifty retarded children receive swimming lessons.

auxiliary of the Toronto Association, who volunteered their
time each week to take charge of the reports.

It was discovered that the children’s progress was beyond
our wildest dreams. Much extra planning was necessary,
but it was found that the actual classes and program were
not too difficult to handle. Discipline was no problem. Now,
swimming is a regular part of the school program. Many
of the children have progressed to small classes with two
instructors, and are swimming in deep water, diving from

275

the board, and are still making good swimming progress.

The sports editor of the Toronto Globe and Mail became
interested and has been soliciting donations for a school
pool. The objective of two hundred thousand dollars has
almost becn reached. Other swim programs are starting in
other places in Ontario, using the pilot project’s written re-
port as a guide.

The recreation department in Oshawa, Ontario, took the
leadership role in forming a community committee to plan
and carry out another pilot project, a summer playground.
During the summer of 1956 about twenty children took ad-
vantage of this. They came to the playground three days a
week, in taxis financed by community welfare funds, and
participated in a program very similar to that of a regular
playground. But here there were not the frustrations of
trying to keep up with normal children. They needed more
rest, and games and crafts were specially adapted. More
playground leaders were used than is usual for that number

of children. A report was written 4 so that others might try
this venture.

It became evident to the ORA committee that it would be
helpful for people working in the recreation programs to
have additional knowledge about mental retardation, so in
June 1956 a one-day course for leaders in recreation pro-
grams for the severely mentally handicapped5 was intro-
duced. A longer course would have been desirable, but this
was a start. It included informative films on mental re-
tardation, from Canada and the United States, a talk about
the association in Ontario, and a panel discussion.

A former physical education graduate taught another rec-
reation skill—that of square dancing—to a group of young
severely retarded adults. She kept both written and films
records 8 over a year’s period. She began with clapping and
stomping to music, progressing to basic skills of simple
dance steps, arm movements to simple little dances, the Vir-
ginia Reel, and, finally, a simple square dance. The group
enjoyed every minute of its dance lessons. Now, at their
parties they can do what, perhaps before, they had only
watched others doing.

The ORA committee also invited leaders in the Girl Guide
and Boy Scout movement in Toronto to a meeting and
asked them if they would carry on their program at the
Metropolitan Toronto Association for Retarded Children.
They were most happy to c00perate, and both programs have
been conducted weekly during noon hour since then. The
children love coming to school in their uniforms, just like
their young neighbors. The program is especially adapted
to their capabilities; they are participating and learning to
be good citizens.

The ORA Committee has come to many conclusions from
the results of these pilot projects, and has proven that rec-,
reation people can most certainly handle programs for seri-
ously retarded children. They found, however, that it is
very desirable to have someone who is working with these
children on the committee in an advisory capacity. A great
deal of planning is essential, as are extra safety precautions.
A higher ratio of leaders to children is necessary. The

most highly trained people, in whatever area of recreation -

276

is being planned, should be the objective. Volunteer help
is useful in many ways for such things as extra supervision,
keeping records, and raising funds. Service clubs are pleas-
ed to help in this way. A more detailed account of some
general principles is found in Report #1 of the Ontario
Recreation Association Committeef‘

Over a year ago, the Ontario Association for Retarded
Children formed its own recreation committee. Close liai-
son is maintained between the two, with the chairman of
each sitting on the other’s committee.

Last summer the OARC conducted its first pilot project——
a residence camp for seriously retarded children.3 The
chairman of the ORA committee assisted with planning and
acted as program director. One hundred children from
eight to eighteen years of age attended for a three-week
period—first a boys’ camp, then a girls’ camp. The program
was similar to any gobd camp program; the ratio of coun-
selor to camper was one to three. Funds from the Lodge of
the Loyal Order of the Moose helped finance it.

Games included simple tumbling and exercises. Patient
counselors helped the children learn to manipulate muscles,
which often did not coordinate too well. Very gradually,
they learned game skills that had been broken down into
very simple tasks and to master simple exercises after re-
peating them over and over. They love repetition, for it
gives them a sense of security. Tenseness began to disap-
pear. Crafts included the making of articles that the chil-
dren could take home, such as kites, and costumes for the
boys’ Indian Powwow or the girls’ gypsy carnival. In dra-
matics groups the children practiced skits for special events.

Speech improved and confidencc was gained in performing
for their camper friends.

Swimming, of course, was a highlight. Counselors took
one camper at a time into the pool. Progress was amazing.
Information from the pilot project in swimming was used.
Nature hikes, using butterfly nets made in crafts, a story
hour, a boat ride, or an overnight camp trip were some of
the other small group activities. The evening campfire was
fitting climax to the day’s activities. Happy campers loved
to sing, to hear and to tell stories around a blazing fire. It
was usually a tired but inspired group of counselors who
led their charges oil to an early bed time, only to gather
later to talk about their thrilling and never-to-be-forgotten
experiences. Truly, these children were learning how to live
by living and playing together. Perhaps we were discovering
the full meaning of recreation—for all children. Perhaps we
are just now beginning to find a way to help these children
develOp far more than was believed possible; a fair sizcd
group, in your community, awaits your interest and help.
Perhaps we will really have discovered the full meaning of
recreation for all. #

—-—-—n—-

All the numbered references above are listed on page
287. Those publications, as well as the 1956, '57, and '58
annual reports of the Ontario Recreation Association—the
lotter $.25 eoch—moy be obtained from Mrs. June Braot-
en, executive secretary, Ontario Recreation Association,
48 Deepwood Crescent, Don Mills, Ontario, Conada.—-—Ed.

RECREATION

UP.

Summer’s

ggestions for autumn
nature crafts

  
 
   
  

HEN AUTUMN’S silvery hazc lingers
bricfly ovcr the countryside and the
f. rld is splattered wildly with vivid
n -s it’s time to catch the lovely cast-
m .* of retiring summer to use for nature
its." The milkwood is now wide
... .n and its ripe brown seeds are cas-
m ing on silken parachutes. Burrs and
a my catch-ons hitch a ride on your
hing, and field and woodland pro-

- a vast supply of material for the
ltsman.

5.
I, uiee painting is rewarding, since

M ure’s paint box is well stocked with
m rs in the fall. Using a toothed paper
it rough drawing cardboard one can

I? act lovely—and, at times, unex-
[g tcd—-colors from “things agrow-
he ” by rubbing briskly a flower head,
m, ‘y stem or still moist leaf. A color
a rt or legend is made simply by hav-
ng a worksheet at hand while you are

ecting possible materials. In not-
ok thc colors obtained from the find-
it is surprising to discover that red
rs do not always produce red, pur-
blooms may produce orange or
'n, and cven greens are not always
1. The colors from grass blades
H I be darkcr or lighter than stem
1 as or crushed leaves, and many yel-
h Iflowcrs produce greens. The rotting
rs of stumps ofier brownish red;
, as found in the woods, 3 deep
n; and moss tufts, an interesting
11 or brown, depending upon the
nd typc. Ripe berries usually ren-
: true color; these and any milky
a ct are ideal substances to “glittcr”
' natural sparkle. Mica sand or
.r ied mica add sparkle to campfire or
: tpictures.

    
   
  
   
       
     

lg.
.11

v
I}

.L'

l I

if

       
  
 
  
   
  
  
      
 

Hi
',|

lp.
of

V )ottlc of liquid starch, some paper
I rt dishes, a few cotton-tipped
 , and a bottle of red shoe polish
*1 used to elaborate juice painting.
_ ing a tablespoon of starch in each

al' I. as a basc, the crushed leaves,

5”; '

Ed. I e also Mrs. Breeser’s article, “Nature
’ RECREATION, March 1957.

.Ige
53

m’ '

 

From the woods eomes a pixie wonder-
land. A ten-cent elf adds interest to
odd branches, aeorns, bark, grasses.

grasses, dusty particles of wood, moss
tops, crushed blooms or earth can be
stirred into a thick, more easily spread
’ The addition of shoe polish
highlights sunset skies or vivid blooms,

“paint.’

difficult to extract from nature findings
unless red berries are available. Char-
coal from the campfire can be used for
deep shadows or outline work.
Milkweed pods, by their very shape,
suggest bodies of birds, animals, or
fish. By adding sticks, grasses, or pods
it is simple to come up with novel make-
into’s. Gilded or painted red, these pods
can be mounted on a dry twig, as petals,
with florist’s putty, to produce a novel
holiday flower. Centers are of small
pine cones, which also serve as “buds.”
Fall leaf pictures are not new, for our
great-grandmothers gathered these
vivid gems to liven their parlors during
the long winter. When using the leaves
before they are crisp, press them for a
day or two, and then glue them on heavy
cardboard to produce outdoor scenes.
A line, slightly lower than center, is
used as the horizon with mountains add-
ed in the background. Colored leaves
are used as is, or shaped to resemble
distant trees, and the foreground of a
lake or stream can be niadc with blue
paper, with reflected trees fringing this
area. Mounted under glass or plastic,

MRS. BREESER is a member of the Penn-
sylvania section of the American Camp-
ing Association and has had many

ears’ cam in ex erience, includin - not recommended. The ver common
3’ Y

several years as director.

Castoffs

Bettye Breeser

these pictures retain their colors for a
surprisingly long time. Paraffin-dipped
autumn leaves also retain their colors 3
long while and are fine for winter bou-
quets with dried grasses and pods.
Holiday wreaths have extra appeal when
sparked with the addition of autumn’s
fire.

Velvety rosettes of mullein have a
delicate look when dried, as they lose
their rich green and take on a softer
coloration. Permitting them to dry for
a few weeks makes it possible to stitch
them to a black velvet base to frame for
a winter picture. The addition of a
few pods, nuts, and dried grasses gives
a three-dimensional effect. The dull
side of heavy aluminum foil, placed
over the vein side of fully grown leaves,
can be rubbed with the finger tips to
produce detailed prints. Since poster
paint on the foil will give a rather hit-
and-miss effect it gives just enough tint
to make the print interesting and un-
usual. The foil leaf is mounted on
heavy cardboard.

Horse corn, the traditional “ammuni-
tion” of Halloween, abundant in most
places, is ideal for fall crafts. Simple
arrangements of these kernels on heavy
cardboard produce a frame for a fa-
vorite poem about the season. Centered
with a tiny acorn or hemlock, corn-
kernel flowers carry the true colors of
autumn since each little nubbin is tip-
ped with red, purple, brown, or orange.
There’s no end to corn craft, since the
hard bead-like gems can be soaked and
strung for jewelry, mounted on ear-
ring or pin backs, used for table dec-
orations, or a harvest door arrange-
1nent.

As in every nature craft, wildflower
conservation must be observed. Rare
and uncommon flowers must not be
picked lest their precious seeds be lost
to the woodland. Disturbing ferns,
vines, and plants for winter gardens is

3

or weed kind, live well in terrariunls. #

 

Recreation
Activities
from

Other Lands

 

 

Use these ideas in your

United Nations Day observance—

October 24——or United Nations
Week, October 19 to 26.

—-f rom Indonesia

Whenever there is an important cele-
bration, especially in Java, there is sure
to be a “Wayang Kulit” or shadow play.
A dalang (puppeteer) operates some-
times as many as one hundred puppets.
The play starts soon after sundown and
continues on well past midnight. The
themes of the plays are religious, stories
and characters are traditional. See
sketches on this page for simplified ver-
sions of Barong, the monster who sym-
bolizes Good and protects mankind
from Rangda, the lady personifying
Evil.* The puppeteer holds the puppet
and moves the arms all with one hand.
He has no stage but sits cross-legged
on the ground holding the puppets be-

 

* There are books in your library giving
outlines for these stories, or y0u can make up
your own plays.



—from the Philippines

From the time they are very young,
Philippine boys learn to handle boats.
One type is a vinta. It has outriggers
to keep it from tipping over; the sail
is brightly colored, sometimes many-
colored, and the boys steer it with pad-
dles. To make a toy vinta:

1. Trace and transfer pattern to a fold-
ed paper, putting the bottom on the
fold. Cut out. Crayon tan to water-
proof it. Paste or tape the ends (XX)
together.

2. Push two pipe cleaners through the
holes.

278

 

hind a thin curtain. He imitates all
voices, too. A light hangs above his
head, between him and the puppets,
casting their shadows on the curtain.
Behind him sits a gamelan orchestra
(gongs of all sizes and drums). All men
sit behind the orchestra and all women
and children sit on the other side of the
curtain seeing only shadows.

These puppets are made by hand
from dried buffalo hide, shaped and
then flattened between' two padded
boards. They are beautifully decorated

and fitted to horn handles.



it.

3. Bend and twist the ends around two
straws. I

4. Cut a strip of cardboard 2 inches
by % of an inch. Cut a hole in the cen-
ter and bend the ends.

5. Put a soda straw through the hole,
after slitting one end for the sail thread.
Slit, bend, and paste the other end in

~ the bottom of the boat. Paste the card-

board in place.

I
To MAKE WAYANC PUPPETS

You’ll need:

2 sheets Bristol board

1 spool bead wire

2 19-inch Hat sticks

4 19-inch lengths coat-hanger wi

or other rigid wire

Variety of poster paints

Enlarge the figures to nineteen in
es, the authentic size. Trace pieces
heavy board, like Bristol board, .-
cut carefully. Punch holes with an
pick where indicated. Attach pi
with bead wire. Using one length
wire, spiral one end, string through .
spiral the other end as tightly as .
sible. Decorate with patterns shown
batik, using brilliant yellows, r
blues.

Tape a light stick onto back '
strength. Use rigid wire (coat-haI

l

wire) or thin dowel sticks as
guides. Pierce holes in each hand
loop wire through. Arms must be c
to move in complete circle in fron
puppet. For movement: when a pu
speaks one arm is extended toward
dience and the other rests at side.
printed, with permission, from. 195:

Neighbor, published by the U. S.
mittee for UNICEF, United Nati
New York.

 

6. Cut a square sail from thin p
Paint or crayon a bright color.

7. Fold and paste the top and 'b0
of the sail over two thin sticks or st
8. Tie a thread to the ends of th
stick. Hang sail through the slit i
straw mast—Reprinted, with pa
sion, from Fun Around the Worl

Frances W. Keene, published b
Seashore Press, Pelhanz, New Yor

RECRE

r leene Lockhart
s

 

ODERN DANCE is a creative art form,
one of the basic experiences in

 
  
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
 

cl

, a challenging and satisfying experi-
e by which personal growth may be
eloped, appreciation enlarged, and
sonalities expanded. For these rea-
5, dance is growing in its appeal and
included iii the educational experi-
e of more and more boys and girls.
he number of instructors able to
'de students competently is far less
n the demand. . . . But perhaps many
e instructors could develop into
(1 beginning dance leaders if the
ial fear of starting could be over-
e. An elementary knowledge and

5

1d

It
'

9.

-E

erstanding of the musical, spatial,
{a compositional aspects of movement
be learned. A real enjoyment in
an awareness of the body in action
be developed. The mutual sharing
this development with students can
a fascinating and gratifying adven-
I 0 art can be explained in chrono-
'cal sequence or by the application
any number of artistic principles.
1 cannot be explained logically like
i solution of a problem in geometry.
li- if the obvious difficulty of writing
vement themes down so that they
ht be intelligible could be overcome,
;-' would be criticized for doing so;
“ ' 1e hands of a literal and unimagina-
- teacher this material would be re-

rinted, with permission, from. Mod-
Dance, Building and Teaching Les-

3 (Second Edition), published by

b C. Brown Company, Dubu que, Iowa.

1

OBER, 1958

llatDOY0n
Know

 

duced to mechanical routine and gym-
nastic exercise. The process of compos-
ing a dance of artistic merit can never
be accomplished by the addition of this
and that element. While a consideration
of individual principles may not total a
good piece of composition, nevertheless
an understanding and working knowl-
edge of such principles are necessary
to obtain a unified whole. There arc
means by which development and com-

munication may be furthered.

Adventures in Movement

A consideration of the body as an in-
strument of expression is valuable. Stu-
dents have a right to experience the en-
j.oyment rhythmic activity brings. They
should be given the opportunity to de-
velop as much eHiciency in movement
as possible. The development of the
kinesthetic perception of line, move-
ment, rhythm, and grouping quickens
one’s appreciation of all the arts. The
relationships of dance to other arts and
all arts to each other are many and in-
timate. To find this out for oneself is
stimulating.

Dance is a space-timc art; these as-
pects do not exist in isolation but a
separate study of the rhythmical and
spatial phases of movement should be
rewarding.

Building and Teaching Lessons

The degrce to which students grow
depends not only on their inherent ahili-
ties and interests but also on the kind
of guidance and stimulation they re-

ceive. If desirable outcomes arc to be

About Modern
Dance?

Ways of introducing others to adventure in movement.

achieved in modern dance, the problems
experienced must be those that will
arouse studcnt interests and extend ca-
pacities, that will develop understand-
ings of artistic values and widen sensi-
tivities. It is obvious that there is no
formula applicable to achieve these
ends. One may sketch broad lines of
suggestions but specific procedures
must grow out of particular needs and

interests.

%

Suggestions

The dance teacher should:
0 Set an atmosphere arousing interest
and receptiveness to rhythmical activi-
ties. Self-assurance and enjoyment are
quickly communicable and a class soon
detects insincerity. '
0 Always emphasize the spirit of a
problem or technique as well as the
mere technical skill involved.
0 Be prepared to give suggestions and
hints for deve10ping movemeint themes,
and be able to criticize constructively
and impartially.
0 Include a variety of activities in be-
ginning lessons, progressing from the
simple to the more diflicult, and con-
sciously building into something more
The lesson should not be
composed of a monotonous scries of un-

complex.

related gymnastic exercises set to music.
Techniques should be taught and de-
veloped as adventures in movement.

0 Make it sound easy enough and suf-
ficiently enjoyable that all know they
can perform satisfactorily. At the end
of each lesson students should feel a
sense of satisfaction and achievement. >

279

 

!

SOME STARTING POSITIONS
FOR DANCE WARM-UPS

0 Encourage spontaneity, freedom, and
variety of movement.
0 Emphasize doing simple things well.
0 Encourage originality from the be-
ginning. Students should not be forced
into “creating” until they have deve10p-
ed sufficient interest and technique.
0 Plan lessons carefully so that they in-
clude warm-up techniques. Follow these
with more vigorous activities. End the
period with something challenging.
0 Start beginners with something fa-
miliar and quick as simple skips, walks,
and runs. It is important that precision
of movement and good body mechan-
ics be emphasized at all times.
0 Select activities that are within the
range of capability. As in all teaching,
make a gradual transition from the
familiar to the new.
0 Allow beginning classes to work in
groups of about five to eight students.
In such groups individuals are not
forced to produce things prematurely.
0 Develop an atmosphere in which it
becomes understood that the contribu-
tions of each member in a group are
important. Group participation implies
the exploration of an idea by all.
0 Plan to vary the approach in present-
ing techniques, movement, and com-
positional problems.
0 Combine, alternate, and contrast
vigorous with less demanding activities.
0 Try not to teach too much too fast.
0 Emphasize learning and exploring
rather than acquisition of specific
dances.
0 Make discussion and evaluation es-
sential parts of the learning process.
0 If the class is composed of both boys
and girls (and it should be), it is im-
portant to create an atmosPhere and a
content that is a challenge to the boys
as well as to the girls.

Some specific suggestions for dance
for boys are:
0 Compare dance with sports—the
need for control, form and skill,

280

Stride Side

strength, powerful clear movement in

both.

instructor’s approach can do much to

The choice of material and the

arouse and maintain interest.

0 Eliminate the idea that dance is ef-
feminate. If the students can see a
dance group including men who are
virile and well skilled, or if the class is
taught even occasionally by a man, or is
observed by such a man with sufficient
frequency to indicate his interest and
approval, or if the class can include a
member of the school’s football or track
team, these experiences largely will
overcome the idea that all dance is
“sissy.”

0 Avoid activities that make the boys
feel self-conscious. At the beginning
utilize material requiring skill and agil-
ity and large, unhampered movements,
material involving a great deal of activ-
ity and an objective approach, and a
variety of activities, especially those de-
manding straight lines and strong quali-
ties.

0 Plan a careful transitional period,
between movement thought of as skill

and movement utilized as a means of

communication. Embarrassment ensues
if boys are required to “compose” pre-
maturely; on the other hand, creative
group activity with an cmphasis on ex-
perimentation and freedom is appeal-
ing. In developing movement idcas, be
sure and include themes to arouse a
boy’s interest and challenge his physi-
cal abilities.

0 Display pictures on the bulletin
board of strong leaps and manly move-
ments.

0 Emphasize sincerity and idea rather
than technical perfection or too much
“art” talk.

Modern Dance Warm-Ups

Technique refers to method of exe-
cution and fiuency in the handling of
materials. It is necessary to develop
knowledge and skill in the use of an art

iiia

Hurdle Hook

medium, in the case of dance—m
ment—but technique alone prod
nothing more than virtuosity. Du

  
  
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

thc warm-up period, the dancer sh
accomplish more than mere physio
ical preparation for activity. He
deve10p more than sheer skill in u
his body. Acquiring technique can
stimulate originality. Some dance
sibility can be achieved by thou
fully and creatively exploring, exp
menting, and developing movement
sibilities.

The objectives are:
0 To stimulate the body physiol
cally so that it will be prepared
more strenuous and demanding a
ity.
o o deve10p a well-disciplined
well-controlled body.
increased flexibi
strength, balance, and coordination.

0 To deve10p

4- To emphasize specifically good b
control and body mechanics.
0 To develop a movement vocahula

Q
Cb
m
p-
CD
a
2:3
’1
5
‘1‘
C
'5
..3
Cb
(1
bid
H
E
p.22
,—

SugD

From a strong tall position, arms
tended overhead, swing downward
deep knee-bend; then straighten
knees as the continuation of the
swing extends the arms downward,
ward, and upward as the knees a
bend and the whole body extends to
original position. The whole m
ment should be continuous and sw'
(a two-beat swing) . A three-beat s“
may be made by adding a swing of
arms downward and backward. A f
beat swing might consist of the t
beat swing to each side, making a fi
eight. A five-beat swing could co
of the three-beat swing plus the s\
to each side, making a figure eight
bit of experimentation will resul
other interesting beat swings. (See
tographs on facing page.)

* There is space here for only one exa

of these techniques. See Miss Lockhart’s |
for many others.

RECREAT

%©%©EA

Stride Lunge Lying Long Stride Lying Hook

 

Warm-up technique suggested as an example on page 280. Start with known
techniques and then progress to original combinations of movements.

 

OCTOBER, 1958 281

 

 

   

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Happy Birthday!

The United Nations will be thirteen
years old on October 24. The United
States Committee for the UN has sug-
gested an appropriate way to celebrate
———by having a ’Round-the-World Din-
Her—either as an organization project
or as a family affair. Children will
learn about other countries by making
the table decorations, collecting the
flags of the various countries, as well
as headdresses and costumes. Adults
will get a literal taste of something new
as they prepare foods from new recipes,
utilizing exotic ingredients and differ-
ent manners of preparation. During
the meal itself, the purpose of the
United Nations could be explained.

Let us know what interesting affair

you have provided for UN Day.

People in the News
New Board Member. We are happy

to announce the election of Grant Tits-
worth as the new chairman of the board
of the National Recreation Association,
succeeding Francis W. H. Adams. Mr.
Titsworth has served on the board for
a number of years. Other officers elect-
ed are Miss Susan Lee of New York
City, first vice-president; Mrs. William
L. Van Alen, Edgemont, Pennsylvania,
second vice-president; Howard H. Cal-
laway, Hamilton, Georgia, third vice-
president; and Adrian M. Massie, New
York, treasurer. Joseph Prendergast
was re-elected executive director.

Appointment. George D. Butler, N a-
tional Recreation Association assistant
executive director and director of re-
search, has been made chairman of the
Leonia  J.) Recreation Commission.
Author of many books, issued under the
Association’s aegis, he is also present
chairman of a-number of important
committees. .He ,has directed many

282

studies and surveys of areas and facili-
ties, both nationwide and at the local
level. Mr. Butler is a modest soul, but
a little digging revealed a Phi Beta
Kappa key and the French Croix de
Guerre in his past—the latter awarded
when he served as an ambulance driver

during the first Woild War.

New Department—New Chairman.
Georgia’s newly created state recreation
commission has named Max Lockwood,
superintendent of recreation in States-
boro, as its first chairman.

California to Singapore. Sterling S.
Winans, first state director of recrea-
tion in California, has resigned to serve
as recreation advisor to the chief minis-
ter of the government of Singapore, at
the invitation of the Asia Foundation.
Robert Blum, foundation president,
states that the Singapore government,
with the help of Mr. Winans, expects to
develop community recreation facili-
ties, coordinate voluntary groups, and
establish a training program for future
recreation leaders. '

Program Workshops for Army. A
series of program workshops for U. S.
Army service club recreation directors,
in France and Western Germany, were
conducted during August and Septem-

ber by Dr. Edith Ball and Margaret

Mulac, both outstanding recreatio
leaders. (For review of Miss Mulac’
new book, see page 295.)

Speech. Joseph Prendergast, NRA
executive director, will be guest speaker
October 7 at the Seventeenth Short
Course on Roadside Development, co-
sponsored by Ohio State University’s
department of landscape architecture
and the Ohio Department of Highways.
His subject will be “The Highway in a

Program for Recreation in America.”

Retirement in Dearborn. After a‘most
twenty-eight years of service, Henry D.
Schubert retired on May 1 as superin-
tendent of recreation in Dearborn,
Michigan, where his name had become
synonymous with recreation. What was
a one-man operation in 1930 has be-
come a staff of eight executives and su-
pervisors, three clerks, and the play
leaders, augmented by hundreds more
in the summer months. He plans to
stay in Dearborn, “near my children

[5] and grandchildren [12].”

New Facilities

Unusual Beachfront. Development
of the Santa Monica, California, Beach
Parks is going along at a good clip—
one phase is now finished and the sec-
ond begun, according to Welton Becket
& Associates, Los Angeles, architects
and engineers for the project. One of
the striking features of all these beach
parks is the thin-shelled concrete vault-
ing covering the main building areas
(see photograph). The buildings them-
selves are of concrete block, while the
grounds are surfaced in grass, asphalt,
cement, and sand. Landscaping is by
Jack Evans and Associates, structural
engineering by Richard R. Bradshaw of
Los Angeles.

 

RECREATION

 

Alleys to Playgrounds. New neigh-
borhood playgrounds are being created
in Detroit by closing backyard alleys
previously used only for collection of
refuse, which is shifted to the streets as
soon as alleys are closed.* .

According to the International City
Managers” Association, as reported by
the Public Administration Bulletin, a
play area can be formed when all prop-
erty owners in the block so petition the
city plan commission. Even without

YOU CAN TRAIN JUNIORS,
.___. SAFER, FASTER i

 AT [555 COST
“ ' E with SPRING-TYPE

at -. . ’jlfoAIsv Alomrttsa

 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
   
      
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

    
  
  
   

K‘ UUIIIUH
if" FT

DIVI'WON

4)
4‘25 «2,93%

 
 

unanimous consent, an alley can be
closed by court order if two-thirds of
the property owners agree.

Two New Centers. Two beautiful,
newly constructed recreation centers
were dedicated by the Montgomery,
Alabama, Parks and Recreation Com-
mission, in May. They are the Carver
and Bellingrath Recreation Center,
planned for the city by the Charles M.

Graves Organization, park and recrea-

   

M d‘ ' \..

Eagle Division Winners in 3rd annual spring-type Air Rifle Tour-
nament Shoot at Offutt Air Base, sponsored by Omaha Safety Council,
Omaha, Nebraska. Ages seven through twelve. Note eight shooters are girls.

tion engineers.

Versatile Community Center

Under the blue skies and hot noon-
day sun of June 25, Mayor Wagner of
New York City, broke ground for what
is believed to be the first community
center located on hospital grounds——
the Mosholu-Montefiore Community
Center, in the Bronx. He was enthusi-
astically assisted in the dirt-shoveling
department by Laura Lee Sporn, a
three-year-old who had undergone
open-heart surgery at Monteliore Hos-
pital. It is the first of twelve such cen-
ters to be erected by the Associated
YM-YWHA’s of Greater New York.
The land was donated by the hospital.
The Mayor dcscribed the center as
“unique,” and also “an example of
city-wide planning which I hope other
great voluntary agcncies will emulate.”

The center will serve—regardless of
race, color, or creed—an estimated
thirty-five hundred Mosholu area resi-
dents, selected groups of patients des-
ignated by Montefiore Hospital authori-
ties, and the hospital’s sixteen hundred
employees and staff members. The cen-
ter will offer professionally supervised
recreation and education services to all
age groups and the physically handi-

The official NRA spring-type shooting range is only
15 feet—less than the length of your car; a garage or

room 20 feet long is your costless range.
APPROVED FOR

Junior Programs of:

  
    
     

2 Grocery cartons stuffed with magazines
make safel costless backstops.
o N'atlonal Rifle Association

3 Daisys cost as little as $4.98 , Tm, Boymoutsoummca

Ammunition costs only St: for over Merit Badze 0 83 Gun Clubs
4 125 shots! " 0 Schools 0 Camps o Rec-
reation Departments, etc.

' -' “I W .
f 0 0
l SINCE 1888: Safer Short Rangehlow Power, Spring Action! 

Daisy Manufacturing Company, Rogers, Arkansas, U.S.A.

 

 

r— 1

 

NEW 1958'

Illustrated .

CATALOG:

Lists training aids and equipment

. . O
for club or classroom instruction. An
essential guide

to an impor-.
_ tant activity. 0

capped. It will also explore means of , .
Write Dept. R for .

. AM c ' [D r a as wromns mo MANUFACTURERS or
* For other backyard and alley prOJects see “I A s 0 Es AND M G i Your free COPY .

RECREATION, January 1950, p. 478 (Peoria)

and May 1950, p. 91 (Chicago). Q Q Q Q so EAST 10th STREET, N.Y.3,N.Y.-GRamercy 3-6930 0 O O O O O O O

n nnnn m. 1n:o W’th writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 283

 

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recording inventory costs,
handing aut balls and paying tap prices for low

quolity bolls. Install this attractive, cost-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Boll Meter NOW!

Leased FREE to responsible agencies on $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attroc-
tive hord wood ond metol cabinet—7V2 x 8% x 15
inches high. Eosy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses eoch for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
tap quolity balls. Use profit to mointain and re-
place poddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free faIder: “Stap Wasting Their Time."

I. f. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

INEDRPORAIED

SHENANDOAH

 

PENNA.

 

New, improved Golden Age Club Pin.
New in real gold plate with tree in
green lewelers' enamel. Safety catch.
75: each, including federal tax and
postage.

Minimum order 10 pins

Available only to authentic clubs.

JAMES SPENCER 8. CO.
22 N. 6th Street Philadelphia 6, Pa.

 

EXACT SIZE

Reserve your copy of the
Congress Proceedings
new!

F0 1 D I N G
BANQUET

Clinger Factory

Prices 5. Oiecaunts
To Churchre. Clubs.
Lodges. Sch 09 I s
arid All Organiza-
trans.

Over 50,000 in-
:titutinus own
and use modern
Munroc Folding
Banquet. Tables.

Write for the new  - -  - -~ -- 
MONROE _ 518T -'; .. ,
ANNIVERSARY ' ° .  ' 
I‘AXTAIJ()G 0f ' '-

Fultllug T a I) 1.8 S , 
Folding C h a 1 r s. a.
T r11 5: k s, Movable
ital-minus, Fold-
ing “11113,. etc...
Get. our :5 0013.1 pnees,
quantity ismunts, also terms.

Monroe Co., ‘IBI Church St., Colfax, Iowa

 

284

 

integrating the activities of a special-
ized social group-work agency and a
large general hospital, in order to aid
designated groups of hospital patients.

The Film Scene

There are so many new films out, use-
ful to the professional recreationist,
that it’s difficult to choose. However,
here are some gleanings.

Reach for Tomorrow, narrated by
Henry Fonda, is the dramatic record of
the experiences of five crippled people
———tltree children, two adults—on the
long road to rehabilitation and what it
involves. Running time: 26:35; avail-
able for $3.50 plus postage, free to TV
stations wishing to use the film as a
public affairs feature. Write The Na-
tional Society for Crippled Children
and Adults, Inc., 2023 West Ogden Ave-
nue, Chicago 12.

Profiles of Elementary Physical Edu-
cation, an interesting new issue of Cor-
onet Films, is based on the physical
education program of the Cleveland
city schools, and created by the Divi-
sion of Elementary Physical Education
of the Cleveland Board of Education.
Mainly 3 methods film, it demonstrates
successful teaching methods and
stresses the importance of the physical
fitness which can only begin in those
early, important, formative years. The
three-reel, 16mm sound motion picture
may be bought from Coronet Films,

Coronet Building, Chicago 1, for $165
in black-and-white and $300 in color.

In Memoriam

Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer, one of the
National Recreation Association’s old-
est board members, in point of service—
she was elected June 5, 1912-died on
May 25 of this year. Her years were
filled with a long and fruitful battle
to better civic conditions in Jackson-
ville, Florida, and educate the city to
the need and value of public recrea-

tion. When she was elected to the NRA
Board in 1912, Jacksonville had exact-
ly one playground, and it was a hard
fight to keep that one going.

Mrs. Cummer, in her will, established
the De Ette Holden Cummer Museum
Foundation, to be devoted exclusively
to educational and cultural purposes

. for the pe0ple of Jacksonville.

When writing to our' advertisers please mention RECREATION.

perfect
for
instruction and recreation

N E W C O M B
D E P E N DA B L E
arconn r. TRANSCRIPTION PLAYERS s. P.A.

Newcomb sound products have proven
their dependability by delivering years of
trouble-free servlce In leading school sys-
tems throughout the country. They are
safe; ruggedly built at the finest quality
materials; most are transformer powered
for best performance, maxlmum safety.

With easy-to-servlce constructlon and
quickly available American-made parts, it
is a simple matter for any service man to
put the equipment in like-new condition.

NEWCOMB serves your other sound needs with
DEPENDABLE CONTINUOUS DUTY RADIOS,
PUBLIC ADDRESS AMPLIFIERS and RECORD
PLAYERS. Write for complete catalog.

NEWCOMB AUDIO PRODUCTS co., pept. 2-10,
first in sound since 1937

6824 Lexlngton Ave., Hollywood 38, Calif.

CHAMPION

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

"SCALED TO CHILD SIZE"

FREE LITERATURE
‘“~ GYM — PLAYGROUND — POOL

nghland Park, III.

 

Hoop Scoot, n. on Indoor or open-air game in which
each of two contesting teams endeavors to kick a hoop
into contact with their opponents’; a flexible plastic hoop

Hooper, n. In Hoop Scoot, a player on the offensive
team.

Scooter, n. a player on the defensive team.

$2.00 complete. Nothing else to buy. For further
information, write to HOOP SCOOT 220-59 73rd Avenue,
Bayside 64, N. Y.

 

All-metal SNAP-ON
basketball nets.
Use in or outdoors.
No instruction-
needed, iust snap
into loops. $6.75
a pair.

Write

LOU-PEL Mfr.

32 MONROE ST., WATERFORD, CONN.

 

RECREATION

 
 
   
    
    
  

' AST YEAR the National Recreation
Association Program Department

'I ived a letter from a superintendent
recreation asking for some safety
a. for Halloween. He planned to

I t any suggestions and distribute
widely through the schools, the

,r , and ‘various youth-serving agen-
. This was such a fine example of
d public relations that we decided
ought to share it with you in REC-
TION, so that other departments
1d follow this example. A few, such

urbank, California,‘t have. This is
u- iin service to parents—one so
ple that any recreation department
do it, and that will also enlist family
peration.

l hink up ways to get these Halloween
I gestions into every home. Perhaps

' t can be distributed through the

1 Ools, or the local radio and television

in

I9

“'5

TI

'on, and by the local newspaper.
rt soon.M

y, and add any others that might be
gested by local conditions or prob-

 

ms under leadership call .”

1 Your Child 011 Halloween
v LL HE COME HOME SAFE?

ASE DO

ave a home party if possible.

The sketch above comes from Burbank.

York 11. $.65.

OBER, 1958

" urge that departments or agen-
. go over the following ideas care-

s. If mimeographed, be sure the
oil is clean-cut and includes a lit-
sketch or two, such as the above, to
I e it look attractive. If printed, give
" n interesting layout. In either case,
1 a final paragraph, such as: “Thesc

_ gestions are sent to you as a public
- ice by your recreation department.
information about Halloween pro-

It’s not too late to order Planning for
owecn—Large and Small Groups and
- unity-Wide Celebrations (P208). Na-

: 1 Recreation Association, 8 W. 8th Street,

Public Relations
and Halloween

A service for parents . . .

Virginia Musselman

0 Keep porch lights on.

0 Wrap goodies (sandwich bags).

0 Accompany children, especially thc
younger ones.

0 Try to keep “Trick or Treat” be-
tween six and eight P.M.

o Emphasize safety—running across
streets and driveways, or down alleys
and across lots can be dangerous.

0 Show this to a neighbor.

PLEASE DO NOT

0 Invite youngsters inside your home
for treats.

0 Give money (unless for UNICEF’s
“Trick or Treat”).

0 Leave breakable objects or obstacles

on lawns, porches, or steps.

BEFORE YOUR CHILD LEAVES

Check His Costume

0 Is it so long it will trip him?

0 Will it get caught On bushes, hedges,
or fences?

o Is it light in color so he can be seen
at night? Be sure he wears either a
white cap, scarf, gloves, or white shoes.
Check His M ask

0 Make-up is much safer than any kind
of mask. Use cold cream first—and
again in removing the make-up.

o Is his skin sensitive? He may be al-
lergic to rubber and get a skin infection
from a rubber mask.

0 Is the mask flameproof? -

0 Does it have any whiskers or other
shaggy trimming that might catch fire?
0 Can he see perfectly? Make sure the
nose and mouth of the mask are Open
and are large enough.

0 Can the mask come off easily? Is
there any danger of its getting out of
place and blinding or suliocating him?
C heck His Shoes

0 He’ll run, so be sure he won’t trip or

fall in heavy boots; on girls, watch the
high heels.

Check His Extras

MISS MUSSELMAN is director 0/ the
NRA Program Department.

0 If he carries a lantern of any kind,
make sure it’s lighted by a flashlight.
DO not allow him to use candles or
torches. A flashlight will be safer on
dark streets, yards, steps, and porches.
0 Do not let him carry a knife, sword,
or other sharp instrument, even a make-
believe one. He may fall on it or acci-
dentally hurt some one else.

Remind Him 0] His Manners

oIf he gets a “treat,” he should say
“thank you.”

0 He takes only his share; and he
shares with others.

0 He doesn’t gobble down all sorts of
sweets—only to have an upset stomach.
0 He wipes his feet if he’s invited in-
side—and he doesn’t touch things.

0 He asks politely and doesn’t yell.

Some Safe Conduct Rules

0 He comes back home by a specific
time.

0 He does nothing that will injure or
hurt anyone. Soaping car windows de-
stroys visibility. Upsetting a trash can
may result in someone’s falling over it.
0 Halloween is for fun and frolic, not
violence and vandalism. He should
leave all personal property alone.

Know His Plans

0 Where is he going? How long will
he be there? How will he get home?
Can you reach him if necessary?

0 Will he be under supervision and
leadership?

0 Will he be with others of his own
age, youngsters you know?

0 If he goes to a party, are the decora-
tions all flameproof ? (This means corn-
stalks and autumn leaves, tool)

0 Is the program suitable for his age?
(Very young children should not go
through torture chambers, halls of hor-
ror, and the like.)

0 Has the place of the party, particu-
larly any darkened room of the cham-

ber-Of-horrors variety, been checked
thoroughly for safety?

AFTER HE COMES HOME

0 Remove his make-up with cold cream.
0 Encourage him to unwind by telling
you about his adventures.

0 Give him a glass Of hot milk or
cocoa to help him relax.

0 Pop him into a warm tub before he
goes to bed and leave a dim light on in
his room if he shows any signs of hav-
ing been frightened. #

285

 

Joint

Use
of

Recreation
Facilities

By Cities, Counties,
and Schools

Edwin S. Howell

How CAN CITIES, whose tax rates con-
stitute, on the average, twenty-five
per cent of the total city, county, and
district tax rate in the city, do any-
thing about providing a well-balanced,
economical, and efficient program of
community services? One answer lies
in promoting intergovernmental rela-
tions and cooperative agreements. Joint
use of recreation facilities affords a fine

MR. HOWELL is city manager of Rich-
mond, California.

286

example of the unlimited opportunities
The

joint or multiple use of recreation fa-

in intergovernmental relations.

cilities means utilization of public
facilities for community recreation
when these facilities are not required
for their primary purposes.

Many California communities are al-
ready actively develOping successful
joint-use programs in community facili-
ties, such as the oint use of civic center
buildings to house the activities of local
governmental agencies, of public works
equipment, and so on. Opportunities
for these are unlimited. This is particu-
larly so because recreation is one of
the few activities divided among fed-
eral, state, and local governments.
Within the local government, recrea-
tion is again divided among cities,
counties, school districts, as well as
regional, recreation, community, park,
and other special purpose districts. N o
matter which governmental unit may
have built a particular recreation fa-
cility, the citizens have still paid for it
and it is important that optimum use be
made of the facility.

The full enjoyment of recreation fa-
cilities by community residents,whether
they live within our city or on its pe-
riphery, is a necessary prerequisite to
a sound and healthy community. Rec-
reation provides desirable moral, social,
and cultural advantages that help shape
the youth of our community into the
leaders of tomorrow.

Local government should do every-
thing within its power to facilitate and
promote joint action on all levels and
to encourage cooperation by public and
voluntary agencies.

It is the policy in California to en-
courage local jurisdictions in thc co-
operative use of their recreation facili-
ties, as evinced by permissive state leg-
islation; such as, thc provision that
cities, by agreement, may jointly excr-
cise with other public agencies, any
power common to the contracting par-
ties, or the code enabling cities, coun—
ties, and school districts to cooperate
in carrying on recreation services. Each
may enter into written agreements and
may ointly establish systems of recrea-
tion, and the building and grounds of
each and every public school are a civic
center where groups of citizens may

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
  

meet for informal recreation activit'
Other codes permit the lease or usc
armories for any lawful purpose, 1.
trict agricultural associations to le
or let its real property for public pa
recreation, or playground purposes,
board of supervisors of any county 0t *
ing fairgrounds facilities to lease
grant use of these facilities, and so 1

Many of us can point to examples
joint-use recreation programs un
way in our cities. However, none 11
would admit that his city, county
school district has reached the limit
possibilities existing in this phase
intergovernmental cooperation.

In the city of Richmond, for instan
the plunge, art center, library, mun'
pal auditorium, and school buildi
are all used by other government uni
as well as by local private agenci
Organized swimming classes, for b
high school and junior college, are 11
in the plunge during nonschedu
hours; recreation festivals and sch
graduations and teacher orientati
programs are scheduled in the muni
pal auditorium; and last year the g .
ernor’s Virginia Town Hall Meeting
Youth was held in the school audit
urn. Church facilities, a private age
youth center, and a local industr
private recreation facility are m
available for scheduled use by the c
munity.

In addition, and in c00peration w
the schools, the city has undertake
joint program of integrated devel
ment of city park and school pl
ground facilities. The planning c
mission’s general plan has recomme
ed that each neighborhood have an
tegrated school-park-playground,
has established a ratio as a guide,
voting a fourth of the site to the sch
building and its setting, half of the -
to playground, and one-quarter to
sive park Space. Ideally, this would
a twelve-acre site. Another benefit to
derived from this integrated site
velOpment would be the gain of a lar
single area devoted to public use:
most invariably this results in a 1n
effectivc break in the monotony of
pattern of our residential blocks, .
the neighborhood’s appearance is
ploved because of the larger site.

In Richmond, there are portions

RECREAT

ll r separate elementary school dis-
" ‘ 'ets within the corporate limits. When
E9: ' city attempted to move toward the
“1' int usage goal, we found that some of
.'  districts were impoverished and
pendent on state aid for their opera-
ns. In some districts, located on the
tskirts of the city, raw land was quite
- dily available, while in another dis-
-'ct, operating in the older portion of
- city, additional land could be ob-
ined only by razing existing dwell-
s. Each district presented entirely
jfierent problems, and in the impover-
. ted districts, these were complicated
y the addition of the state’s legal re-
irements. Recently, however, one im-
verished district, after weighing the
sts of severance damages for an ele-
ntary site, persuaded the state to
rmit the district to purchase a twenty-
_-ght-acre site in order to obtain and
- serve some very desirable wooded
rk land adjacent to the school,
 spite the fact that the city was un-
le to commit itself to the purchase of
6 park area or to reimbursements of
. e school district.
In the older and more built-up por-
"n of the city, Richmond has acquir-
i , designed and put into effect its first
uly integrated school«park-play-
ound. This is on a very small site
I“ ich, except for a small existing city-
wned playground, had to be cleared of
a ivate dwellings. An official agree-

 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 

Cont. from page 276)
References

1956) .” 3.50.

1 A bibliography is included at the end of Report #1: “General
rinciples That Have Been Found Useful in Planning Recreation

rogrammes for the Severely Handicapped.” $.50.
2Report #3: “A Survey of Recreation Activities and Facilities

3 Report #4: “A Pilot Study on Swimming for the Severely Men-
lly Retarded”—a detailcd report about committee organization,
lanning the project, the actual program, and results of the research
‘ ords. $1.00. There is also a visual aid to the report, a 10-minute

nient between the city and the school

district providing for cooperation in
the design and approval of the final
plan by the school district, the city
planning department, and the superin-
tendent of parks has been made. In this
case, provisions are included for de-
velopment, maintenance, supervision,
and use.

The benefits of a satisfactorily nego-
tiated joint-use program are great.
However, in these negotiations, there
are certain obstacles that must be over-
come, anyone of which could block an
agreement. Details such as the financ-
ing of the facilities limiting the joint
use so that it does not interfere with
the primary purpose of the facility, the
assignment of responsibility and as-
sumption of financial burden for the
maintenance, supervision, and liability
-——these and other details common to a
particular area may delay or make im-
possible a satisfactory agreement.
Though these details are important,
perhaps the greatest single obstacle that
must be overcome is local attitude. In
some areas, there is still the feeling on
the part of recreation specialists that
recreation facilities provided by the
schools are for a specific use and should
not be thought of in terms of use by the
whole community. In some areas, the
attitude also persists that school ad-
ministration must be separated from
local government, and this attitude,

needless to say, usually stands in the
way of agreement. However, in recent
years, these attitudes have been largely
dissipated. The many local joint agree-
ments are testimony to this, as are the
policy statements of the State of Cali-
fornia as expressed through its recre-
ation commission.

As you may realize, joint use is an
easy and attractive thing to talk about
but difficult to achieve. There is usu-
ally a mountain of local prejudice,
perhaps, unwillingness to study and ap-
preciate the other’s problems, responsi-
bilities, and policies. All this must be
overcome if a solution is to be devised.

There are still many unresolved prob-
lems—and potentialities—inherent in a
joint-use program. For instance, one
facet to be considered is the city-county-
school joint use or acquisition of fringe
area facilities surrounding the city—
facilities that would be prohibitively
expensive if acquired after the area was
fully developed and then annexed.

The exact agreement reached for co-
operatively developing and using ‘our
facilities will in all likelihood not be
suited for duplication in establishing
joint-use facilities in other school dis-
tricts. Each school jurisdiction and
each site will probably present its own
set of conditions to satisfy. The impor-
tant thing is that the problems involved
in this sort of joint usage can be solved.

It can be done and it is worth doing. if:

Forty years ago, Dr. John H. Finley, late NRA Board Mem—
ber and one-time editor-in-chief of The New York Times,
had this to say about leisure.

“When it is reflected that the labor week is for millions

forty-five or forty-eight hours or fifty or even sixty hours
out of the total of 168 hours from which to spin health,

A
D
M
|
N
l
S
T .
R
A
T
|
O
N

 

ack and white, 16mm film with tape recording. Available for re-
rn postage.
4 Report #5: “A Pilot Project on a Playground for Severely Men-
lly Retarded Children,” conducted by Community Incorporated,

shawa, Ontario. $.50.
5 Report #2: “A One-Day Course for Leaders in Recreation Pro-

. Inmcs for the Severely Mentally Handicapped.” $.50.
6Report #6: “An Interim Report on a Pilot Study on the Struc-
tre Purpose, and Plan of Work for Recreation Committees for the

etarded.”
7 Report #1: Introduction to the Series. $.50.

slnformation about Camp Belwood may be had by writing the
ntario Association for Retarded Children, Suite 1501, 55 York
trcet, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Into the Sunlight, 16mm, 14-minute, color film, with commentary |
E. I d music, has been professionally produced about this camp. It '
i ay be purchased for $100.00 (cleared for Canada—USA. on tele-

' sion) . In Canada it may be borrowed from OARC. °

pleasure, money, content, respect and the evolution of an
immortal soul, and when it is further realized that vocational
efficiency and vocational care and machine lightening of labor
are likely not only to extend the hours of leisure but also to
leave the race with a greater freedom of body to enjoy leisure,
the practical importance of conserving to the highest volun-
tary uses of humanity these hours saved from compulsory

labor must be apparent.
"And it will be a far more difficult task of civilization to

teach men to use leisure rightly than to instruct them how to
labor efficiently.”

   
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 

Iii

'CTOBER, 1958 287

Criteria for
State Park

  
   
   
   
    
   
  
   
   
  
   
    
  
   
    
  

 

A look at requirements for state park sites

Bogue Faluya Wayside Park in Louisiana tempts way-
farers with a swimmin’ llolc, thus has both sccnic and
recreation values to offer the tourist and local folks.

In New York Group of Smaller Units. In certain special cases, a gro
In New York state the Program for each of the ten park of smaller units may be desirable when the several sites a

regions has been based primarily upon recreation needs and 01056 enough together for central management and it is 11
scenic attractions. An even geographical distribution of Praetica1 t0 aC‘IUire the land between unit5°

parks every fifty miles, or parks for every county, is held Nearness to Cities and Large Villages. The site generall
to be manifestly impossible on any reasonable theory of should be beyond the limits of cities or large villages. I

scenic and recreation standards, “because it is fundament- state park should be out in the country, attractive to tou
ally unscientific, and because it would be unnecessary and ists and to the people of the state in general, or should ser
prohibitively expensive.” According to its state policy: * a great metropolitan area. '

“A Park Site ShOUId P0553SS bOth recreational and scenic The Large Park Compared to Smaller Parks. It is better t
value. In some instances exceptional scenic values may be '

sufficient to overcome the lack of recreational possibilities,
and, in other cases, unusual recreational possibilities may
make up for a lack of scenic values.

concentrate on one large fine park than to scatter efior
'I
over a number of smaller parks. '

Requirements for New Parks to be Increasingly Strict. T

establishment of new parks must not be carried to an exte
that will interfere with the proper development of existi
parks. For this reason the requirements for new park sit
must beco'ine increasingly strict. A state park should .
developed in a dignified and substantial manner and pa
funds should not be scattered over so many sites as to res
in partial or improper development. Construction shou
be with durable materials and should be as nearly f0
proof as possible.

“By exceptional scenic value is meant rare natural scen-
ery, which is unlikely to be preserved for enjoyment by the
public of this and future generations if the property re-
mains in private hands, and which is sufficiently distinctive
to attract and interest people from distant parts of the state
as well as local people.

“By unusual recreational value is meant features such as
topography, trees, vegetation, streams, lakes or ocean shore

offering recreational possibilities which would attract and _ O o 0
interest People of a Wide surrounding area and would not be H tstortc and Sczenttfic Features. The value of a state par

available to the Public if the Property remained in Private site is enhanced if it contains historical and scientific fe
hands tures that are interesting and educational, but such facto

are incidental and not controlling, like scenic and recreatio
requirements.

No new sites, primarily historical and scientific, shoul
be acquired as a part of the state park system. They belo .,
in the educational system.

“The state parks should be sufficient in number and size
to meet the prospective needs of the people of each region
over and above facilities which are or should be provided
by local city, county, town, and village parks, and without
requiring a state park budget which is unreasonable or ex-
cessive in the light of other financial demands.” Types of Land to be Taken. In general, the policy is not

The following principles have been formulated by_ the take unattractive, open farm lands for park purposes, b
Division of Parks and the State Council of Parks: f to utilize property that cannot be economically farm_e
Minimum Area. Except in extraordinary cases the site However, this should not be so construed as to prevent th
should include not less than four hundred acres of land well taking of necessary open land and to provide and prote
adapted to park use and development. Existing parks of entrances, parking areas, recreation fields, and other facil
smaller area should be extended to at least this minimum ties as adjuncts to the main park area. A site possessing .
acreage. fair percentage of wooded areas or with a stream, lak

ocean front, or other water attraction is very desirable.
* Principles Governing the Establishment, Extension and Develop-

ment of the Park and Parkway System of New York State, 1956. Cost of Land. The cost of land Should be reasonable, co

288 ‘ RECREATIO

ering values in the section of the state in which the park
I is located. Other things being equal, a site involving a
. ll number of present owners is to be preferred. No prop-
ty should be accepted as a gift unless it meets all the re-
ircments herein set forth for establishing new parks and
volves no commitments, privileges, or conditions not in
 long run to the advantage of the people of the state.

 
  
 
   
 
  

as: of Development. The difficulty and cost of essential
ture development, especially such features as access,
atcr supply, sanitation, and grading for necessary use
reas, is as important a factor in site selection as the visual
ssets of the land.

ning. The area within five hundred feet of a park should
zoned by pr0per local authorities against commercial and

  
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
  
   
    
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
  

ustrial uses so as to encourage a high-class residential
ve10pment.

'bdivision Planning. Marginal roads should be required
y local planning authorities in connection with their ap-
oval of plans for subdivisions abutting upon a park.

5
i: .

In California

In 1956 the California State Park Commission likewise
opted the following criteria: **

“A state park: an area of outstanding natural, historical,
outdoor recreational interest, of such state-wide signifi-
: nce that its acquisition, protection, development, and Oper-
ion for public use with state funds is justified.

“Areas selected to become state parks should involve one
: more of these features:

:-

 'Natura1 scenery of unusual beauty; or outstanding ex-
nples of forests or other vegetative growth, wildlife, or
ological formations.

Historic sites or buildings that represent important phases
the history of the state.

Outstanding qualities that make the area of value to the
. Ople of the state for outdoor recreation.

“Criteria for relative evalution of proposed new areas,
l d additions to existing areas:

' Qualities of the lands involved.

ll Urgency, bccausc of imminent destruction or rising

'.. I,
Cl

.5

lues.

Public need for expansion of lands and facilities.
Geographical location, in the interest of a well-balanced
III stem.

If Proportion of each type (i.e. scenic, historical, or recre-
r onal) in the state park system as a whole.”

I Specific procedures for acquiring state parks are likewise

forth as the five-year master plan. Steps includc a close
1,, iew and preparation of master acquisition plans pre—
I red for final approval by the state park commission and
_ - department of finance for each project, each plan to
It. 7?: int out the lands desired, the acreage or front-feet, or
no 5 th, and an estimate of cost. Each project is considered
1° ‘_ on its own merits in relation to the criteria listed above.
' r each project approved master plans will be followed.

at

|.

*California State Park System Five Year Master Plan—July 1,
r 6 to June 30,1961.

"I nr-n

--I—.-HII-t-—

When apprOpriations are made, authority to proceed with
each project will be granted to the state park commission
and department of finance, and appraisals will be made by
impartial experts. Around these appraisals, negotiations for
land purchases will be undertaken through authority pro-
vided the state park commission by the Public Resources
Code. Once a project is favorably negotiated, cscrow will
be established in accordance with the requirements of the
state'department of finance. Upon satisfactory conclusion
of acquisition, it is then submitted to the development sec-
tion, which in coOperation with the district superintendent
conccrned, prepares the master plan for development.

At its meeting on October 19, 1956, the commission unan-
imously adopted the resolution reaffirming the basis on
which areas should be included in the state park system.
These criteria involved the following principles:

Areas in the state park system should be of state-wide
and not 'local significance. They should possess outstand-
ing qualities of landscape or features of special significance
that make their preservation and public recreation use a
matter of state-wide concern. They should be unified and
complete areas with logical boundaries.

State parks are primarily natural areas. Developments
are for the purpose of making the areas available for public
enjoyment in a manner consistent with the preservation of
natural attractiveness and should be of the simpler sorts in
a natural environment (i.e. camping, picnicking, sight-
seeing, nature study, hiking, riding, boating, swimming,
fishing, and so on, involving no major modification of
their lands, forests, and waters, and without extensive in-
troduction of artificial features such as athletic fields, play-
grounds, golf courses, and other forms of recreation de-
velopments that are primarily for local benefit.

Funds for the state park system are not intended to be
used as a subsidy to local recreation deve10pments. Im-
portant as these are, they have traditionally been considered
as the responsibility of local communities, and are not a
part of or related to the state park system, which supple-
ments on a state-wide basis the local recreation provisions.

The state park areas should be equitably distributed so
as to assure proper balance in their use by the citizens of all
parts of the state, but not necessarily located in specific
communities on the basis of population or area. The state-
wide value of the present state park system is shown by the
fact that a majority of the visitors to many remote parks
come from the populous centers of the state. One of the.
primary purposes of the state parks is to afford city dwellers
the benefits of life in the open country; therefore, county
lines cannot be taken as the basis of distribution of parks,
but rather the determining factor should be the availability
of thc types of lands that can most satisfactorily afford the
sorts of outdoor recreation characteristic of state parks.

In determining the value to the different parts of the
state of areas proposed for state park purposes, not only
should reasonable accessibility to the entire population be
taken into account, but also the relative cost to the state in
terms of the types of recreation characteristic of state

parks. #

000

for the

Administrator

NOTE

Park and Recreation Properties

Participants in the Southeastern Parks and Recreation

Planning, Maintenance and Operation Workshop held in
Raleigh, North Carolina, in March, 1958, adOpted a num-

ber of resolutions relating to park and recreation prob-
lems. One of them dealt with encroachments and reads as
follows:

WHEREAS the clamor for land available to the location of
existing population has become an urgent problem of serv-
ice rendering agencies which require sizeable tracts of land,
and
WHEREAS existing recreation and park lands, particularly
in the Southeast, are inadequate to serve the needs of our
present population, and '
WHEREAS our rapidly increasing population and rapid con-
sumption of land to meet the needs of housing, business and
industrial land use make the need for parks, open spaces
and recreation areas extremely acute, and
WHEREAS competition for land brings increasing pressure
to divert existing park and recreation lands to other uses,
Now, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Southeastern
Parks and Recreation Planning, Maintenance and Opera-
tion Workshop, meeting in Raleigh, North Carolina, March
5-7, 1958, strongly recommends:
That in city, regional and state land-use planning equal
emphasis be placed on the acquisition of land for parks
and recreation areas as on the acquisition of land for
other public services so that adequate provision will be
made in all land-use planning to meet the public need
for parks and recreation areas, and
Further, that all proposals to divert park and recreation
lands to other uses be impartially analyzed and studied
to determine whether or not such proposals are in fact in
the long-range public interest, and that diversion of park
and recreation lands to other uses be permitted only if
such diversion is found to be essential in the long-range
public interest, and only if land so diverted to other uses
is replaced by land of such quality and so located as to
serve the p0pulation deprived of park and recreation
services by diversion of park and recreation land to
other uses.

The resolution was directed to the American Municipal
Association and the International City Managers Associa-
tion. Another resolution authorized the conduct of a seven-
state study of vandalism, including the extent to which it
exists, the facilities and/or equipment subject to vandal-
ism, practices effective in reducing vandalism, and an over-
all analysis of the problem.

****

Multnomah County, Oregon, deve10pers are required to
pay $37.50 for each lot that is platted or to give the equiva-

lent in land.
'I‘ 'H' 'I‘ 'I‘

According to Public Management, the village of Fridley,
Minnesota, has adopted a platting ordinance for the con-

200

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

trol of land subdivisions within the village. One provisi
is that 5 per cent of the area is to be dedicated for pub
use. If more than 5 per cent of the land is planned "
public use, the excess will be reserved for two years in t
event that the village or other public body wishes to p
chase this land. If the subdivider allows less than 5 p
cent of the gross area for public use, he must pay the d
ference between the 5 per cent and the area allowed in
the park fund. This ordinance also provides a penalty .
$100 for the sale or negotiation of sale of each lot bef
the plat is approved.
* * 'H- *

John B. Funk, director of public works for Baltimo
County, Maryland, has reported that he is in favor of coun
expenditures of $250,000 annually for acquisition of si
for recreation development. Mr. Funk is urging the pla
ning commission to spur acquisition of extensive greenwa
along stream beds. Although the existing master plan f
state parks and forests is currently undergoing revisio
Mr. Funk urges that the county take the initiative in pr
viding additional parks in Baltimore County rather th
leaving it to the city of Baltimore and the state.

Property Tax Levies

A committee of the Citizens League of Minncapolis a
Hennepin County, Minnesota, after several years’ work a
the preparation of proposals to the Minneapolis Chart
Commission, has recommended that the park board, as w
as the school and library boards, be retained with authori
to set their own property tax levies within charter or stat
tory limits. This recommendation reflects credit upon t
park board because so many similar studies result in 1'
recommendation that the board be abolished and a depa
ment be created under an administrator.—National M um:

pal Review, March, 1958.

Buying vs Building

At this year’s Great Lakes Park Training Institute he
in Pokagon State Park, Indiana, a workshop section co
sidered the question of buying vs building such facilities
bleachers, benches, and picnic tables. A number of speci
comments were made with reference to individual facili
types, but four general conclusions growing out of the wor
shop follow:
0 It is undesirable for small maintenance crews to perfo
both maintenance and major construction tasks.
0 It is recommended that small communities should n
build. It is desirable to study the problem of buildi
thoroughly, then consider all costs and conditions befo
undertaking the projeét of building; however, off-seas
labor conditions may be the deciding factor in determini
whether to buy or build. '
0 Care must be taken in comparing building and buyi
costs. Usually there are many hidden costs overlooked
building.
0 In some cases, taking on construction tasks may justi
the purchase of badly needed equipment which otherw'
could not be obtained. This permits full use of this equ'
ment on future maintenance tasks.

RECREATI

Jae/Mme

For the past two years, you have
n reading in this column about the
tional study, Recreation in Hospitals,
rently being conducted by the Na-
'ial Recreation Association. This
1 be available soon. It includes a
at deal of interesting material and re-
ls many previously unknown facts;
h as the following.
Did you know that, out of the sixty-
ht hundred hospitals in the United
tes, two thousand have organized
reation programs (these represent
proximately 75 per cent of the hos-
tal beds in the country) ; the average
; ary for recreation supervisors on the
i 'pital level is approximately $4600;
a . per cent of the personnel conducting
reation programs in hospitals are
membcrs of any professional or-
; lization; drama is the least used ac-
u _'ty in the hospital; outdoor areas
- used for recreation in 75 per cent of
hospitals having recreation pro-
ms? Tllesc and many other star-
ng facts are available for the first
ne in this new publication. Reserve
'4' r c0py now. Publication date and

I. ' ce to be announced shortly.
c

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
       
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
    
 
 
  

ll

mi

['1 1

5p ‘
'lll

Other Malerials

The proceedings of our mid-winter
- titute conccrning Recreation for the
mebound Ill and Handicapped are
. sale at $1.25 a copy.

I

Hospitals: The journal of the Amer-
-. Hospital Association is probably
. e ilable in your hospital’s professional
rary. Here are a few articles of par-
' plar interest to recreation personnel:
' ) Volume 31, Number 24, 12/16/57,
' ' ge 34, “Sidney’s Hospital Came.”
I ) Volume 32, Number 3, 2/1/58,
ge 4-1, “ A Bill of Rights for Volun-
-  rs!” (3) Volume 32, Number 4, 2/

58, Pagc 42, “Having Fun is Good

my I s. HlLL is director of the NRA Con-

ting Service on Recreation for the

and Handicapped.

'I nun

'ssnnnn

 

Bealrice H. Hill.

Medicine.” (4) Volume 32, Number 7,
4/1/58, Page 35, “Should I Bring
Johnny His Truck?”

"F We have available, upon request, a
bibliography of articles that have ap-
peared in RECREATION Magazine on
“Recreation for the 111 and Handicap-
ped in the Hosl)ital, for the Home-
bound, and in the Community.” This
bibliography lists articles on these and
related subjects appearing in the maga-
zine from January 1950 to September
1958. '

4‘ Among new books added to the NRA
Recreation Book Center, and available
at NRA membership discounts, are:
Introduction to Psychiatric Occupa-
tional Therapy, Fail 5. Fidler and Jan
W. Fidler, Jr.; Remotivating the Men-
tal Patient, Otto Von Mering and Stan-
ley H. King; Give and Take in Hospi-
tals, Temple Burling, Edith Lentz and
Robert Wildon; Training of the Lower
Extremity Amputee, Donald Kerr and
Signe Brunnstrom; and Hospital and
Bedside Games, Neva Boyd. In addi-
tion, the Book Center stocks approxi-
mately fifty publications chosen espe-
cially for recrcation personnel working
with the ill and handicapped. A com-
plete listing is available upon request.

A New Idea

4‘ Here’s a new idea to combat the lack
of trained personnel in the state hospi-
tals. Brooklyn State Hospital, Brook-
lyn, New York, in c00peration with the
YM and YWHA is offering a workshOp,
Dance in a Psychiatric Setting. The
theory of creative dance technique, for
the institutionalized mentally ill, will

be taught each Tuesday, starting Octo-
ber 14th, at the YM and YWHA, and

patients at Brooklyn State will partici-
pate in laboratory sessions held at the
hospital. Elizabeth Rosen, Ed.D., au-
thor of Dance in Psychotherapy, will
teach the workshop.*

*See RECREATION, June 1957, page 225.

“flu-n writina tn nnr advertisers: nil-nee. mentinn RECREATION.

     

         
     
       
   
       
       
   
      
 

GOLDENAGERS
 1° HONEYCOMB

MAKE
FOR GIFTS

 or PROFITS

SLOW. NO DRIP, CLEAN, BURNING

ii
li'

 

   

 

In stunning colors from bees wox foundations.
They're eosy to moke. Just roll 'em . . . no
melting!

CANDLE KIT NO. i —will moke as mony 05
48-2" condies or 6 giont 16" beouties. Kit
includes 3 sheets of honeycombkiiivox

[8' x 16 | in osst. colors, wic ng,

trimmings and instructions. .. .. 

CANDLE KIT NO. 2 —— more than 3
times the moteriol of Kit No. 1  

Or New Booklet
“CRAFTS for ems or PROFIT" .----.....---_-25c
Booklet and Our Cotolog Free With Order -—

By Request

Add 10% for postage—3% for sales tax
if applicable

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.

4707-.1 Euclid Ave. Clevelond 3, Ohio

5832 Chicogo Ave. Chicago 51, III.
4 East 16th St. New York 3, N.Y.

    

 

Tailored to fit any lven 0 en or closetted wall
area. Smart in des gn an modern in "clear".
"gold" dee etched anodized finishes and com-
binations. uality built—closed-end aluminum
tubing. rigidly held in cast aluminum brackets
that are adjustable for height in dovetailed
mounting extrusions. Brackets also adjustable

to any desired centers.

3 BASIC SHELVES 

 
 
 
  
    
 
  
  

1. Het ehelvee with
henger ber tor coat
hengersa

. -—x
.u.
I. .

2. Hat ehelvee wlth elec-
gered cest elumlnum cost

8. He! or utlltly “pleln”
hoohe.

shelves for eteched Here
for generel use.

Write for Bulletin CL 515

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.

1121 W. 37th Street - Chicago 9, Illinois

 

291

 

0 The Merry Flyer, a combination merry-go-round and see-
saw accommodating anywhere from one to four children, is
completely child propelled---no motor is involved. Except
for its four seats made of heavy marine plywood covered
with tempered Masonite and waterproof varnish, Merry
Flyer is of all-steel construction and this part can either be
zinc coated or painted with enamel. Corners and edges are
rounded for safety. Its parts are permanently lubricated;
it is easily installed in an area of twelve square feet; and
the manufacturer guarantees against breakage for twelve
months. Write L. Pittaluga Playground Equipment, North
Hills Avenue and Woodland Road, Willow Grove, Pennsyl-

vania.
1 o The Ampro line of
16mm sound film pro-
jectors includes one of
special interest to insti-
tutional audio-visual
users—recreation cen-
ters, hospitals, nursing
_. homes, and so on--the
Super Stylist 10. This
particular machine is
engineered to utilize
maximum sound cn-

ergy, needed for groups
of varying size, contains a 10-watt amplifier and a 10-inch

Alnico 5 permanent magnet speaker mounted in a lift-off
casc cover. Compact, portable, and lightweight, this pro-
jector is specifically geared to institutional demands. For
further information write Graflex, Inc., Rochester, New

York.

 

0 Genealogy is a hobby particularly suitable for the aged,
ill, and handicapped—in and out of hospitals—since it re-
quires no tremendous expenditure of either energy or
money, and is very satisfying, into the bargain. The Ever-
ton Publishers, who publish genealogy supplies, publica-
tions, and aids, have sent a circular describing their gene-
alogy kit to hospital recreation therapists all over the coun-
try, and also the services and aid they are prepared to give
in setting up such a program. They not only sell all the nec-
essary materials, but also have on file the names of thous-
ands of genealogists, living near hospitals, who would pro-
bably be more than willing to act as volunteer advisors in
getting such a project started. The genealogical kit contains

various necessary supplies and literature. Details may be

had from the publisher at 526 North Main Street, Logan,
Utah.

0 A heavy-duty first-aid kit, containing unit-wrapped con-
tents indexed for immediate identification and use, should
be extremely valuable to recreation centers, swimming
pools, gymnasiums, parks, and other places where first aid
might be necessary. Each kit has a facsimile index on the

292

NEWS

1“

   
 
  
  
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
    
  
  
 

I!

F or further information regard
any of these products, write dire
to the manufacturer. Please ment
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean Wacl
[i
[i
inside of the case lid, showing the exact location of e 9

item and concise instructions for its use, and each unit

boldly labeled. The kits are sturdily made of 20-ga

 

steel and lids are hinged along the entire length of one s
and fitted with a rubber gasket to keep out dust and da
ness. They may be used either as a permanent wall iusta
tion or a portable unit, as each comes equipped with a c
rying handle. For complete information write for Bulle

305, General Scientific Equipment Company, 7516 Lime
Pike, Philadelphia 50.

I

l
0 Alsynite Steplap translucent panels, made of Fiberg '
and plastic provide light without glare. The panels are av '
able in a wide variety of colors for making awnings, ca
pies, partitions, and so on, which would give them m
recreation applications. Write Alsynite Company of Am

ica, 4654 De Soto Street, San Diego, 9, California.

0 Huntington Laboratories has produced a new prod
every recreation center or facility of any kind should

extremely useful—the Odor-Bar Blockette, for use in urin
It kills odors by destroying the odor-producing bacte
When moisture hits the blockette, an antibacterial chemi
vapor is released, immediately neutralizing and destroy'
the odor at its source. Tests have shown as much as a 94.
reduction in urine bacteria after contact with the blockeI’

For further information, write Huntington Laboratori
Inc., Huntington, Indiana.

0 Among the many fine pr
ucts made by the Masonite C
poration is their extremely v
satile Peg-Board panel. You
sters in recreation centers, i
example, might make desig
as this little girl is doing,

winding black and white elas
. _ cords around golf tees stuck i
' .. the panel. Along with ma
others, the String Picture Ma
is an experimental toy, dcsig
by Victor D’Amico, educati
director of New York City’s l\
seum of Modern Art, to stir
late children’s interest in design. For details about

many uses of Peg-Board, write Masonite Corporation,

Progress Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey.

 

RECREATI

 

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

Page
All Metal Table Tennis Company s..____..s
.- Inside Back Cover

American library Color Slide Company - ____  271
American Playground Device -.Inside Front Cover

.. Broadman Press _____-__ Inside Back Cover

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each DEADLINES: COpy must be received by

Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted...... $3.00

the titth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send capy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED

open to college graduates

City of Coronado, Cali-

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
  

    

Califone Corporation .,. ._h-___-..a _- 293 Recreation! Therapists with major in recreation or fornia, needs qualified per-
for Cacl)ifornia state h05pi- recreation therapy. No ex- son assist director of recre-
asIeHo Fencin E III menf I 2 tals. pportunity to plan perience required to start ation in administration and
, c 9 q p 83 and conduct individual pa- at $376. Promtigons pSossi- programming $385—$469.
- - - tient recreation as well as ble to $644. rite tate Write Personnel Clerk, P.
Champion Recreahon Equ'pmem' special group activities; ex- Personnel Board, 801 Capi- O. Box 566, for details.
.9; Incorporaled --~—-—-~- ~~~~~ e~- - 284 cellent equipment and fa- tol Avenue, Sacramento
t cilitics available. Positions California.
Cleveland crafts company ' "  The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.
Daisy Manufacturing Company . 283
.9
- Exposition Press -- _._--.s-__-. 293
Hillertch 8. Bradsby 265  t  .
. e 0 PLAYGROUND
Home Crafts Company InsIde Front Cover . . .   E Q U I P M E N .I.
If H S I   a   Be rum to chock the merry exclusive features of
  --;--------—-- -H—-r——------o-- Two facbfilled, Illustrated brochures tell how "1:3 “Jailed '00- Wine for "9'." OTF'OI'I 0f 25‘
 Dulblislh 3:311: book, glelt 40% rioyalties, ns- "WM-
- noun a we ism . u 't t' . . u .".-I ..7 Al
3 House of CeramIcs --H. . 294 PM 09,301,,“ angrgsalftvglgennegmg 6°11 I .I gases: "11o; mgr s: ff . 333:...
J James Spencer 8 company 284 Exposmon Press / 386 4th Ave. N.Y. 16 I 1‘“ AW’ 3- --° "W" -
 ' I
. . |
JamIson Playground Eqqument 293
III Iayfro Athletic Supply Company- 294
I
lou-Pel Manufacturer ............. _- 284
"' The MacGregor Company. -. Inside Back Cover
Monroe Company  . _._--._-.s__.- 284 BINDERS
. ' Heavy simulated Ieathcr ' Opens flat for changes
Newcomb AudIo Products Company . 284 - Gold stamped - Holds one year’s issues

Porter Sargent ______.s-,.____._..lnside Front Cover

r.

New Price
$3.50 each

,- Raven Industries _._-_-__..--____,-__Inside Back Cover

T. F. Twardzik 8. Company  --..----_--._._._ 284

I0:I

   

l. (Includes I2 blades)
U. S. Government ._._-__-_Back Cover .
to. [Extra sets of looped rods available
U. S. Naval Institute  Inside Front Cover separately for 3.65 per set]
P U. S. Rubber Reclaiming Company.
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —'l
I Incorporated _----_-_--_._.._.._-___.._.-,..__ 294 I- I
I | RECREATION MAGAZINE PLEASE FILL IN I
:0 ogel-Peterson an“... s-------_-_---_--_-__- 291 I 3 west Eighth Street vs... Number of Copies I
I New York 11: N- Y- 1958 ................................ ..
‘5' oit .._.._._...___.._.. .-._.. _. --.... ..... __ 294 I o - I
si This is my order for ................ ..COplcs 1959 ................................. .. I
L : of the RECREATION magazine binder. undated .......................... .. |
' I
' I
' I
| Name ................................................................................................... .. I
. C (II I 1 Q  . : Address. ............................................................................................... .. I
smears PHONOGRAPHS I City I
  I ...................................................................................................... .. :
.‘omplete SOUND SYSTEMS I Blll ....................................................................................................... .. I
' ' .u—u for 5W?! Recruit—0” 059‘” I ........................................................ ..; or enclosed ........................... .. |
1' ' I 571 |
L t I h I o _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ J
CTOBER, 1958 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 293

  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
    
 
   
   
   
    
 
   
  
    
   
  
   
    
  
 
 

l Magazine Articles

NATIONAL PARKS MAGAZINE, January-March
1958.
Mission 66 in the Headlines, Conrad L.
W irth.
Ski Touring in California, Mary Curry Tre-
sidder.
RECREATION MANAGEMENT, September 1958.
Solve the Retirement Problem
Let’s Talk Travel
RECREATION FOR THE ILL AND IIANDICAPPED,

.4pril 1958.
Recreation Programs for the Blind and

the new low cost Partially Sighted Individual, Marion

Wurster.

R U B B E R I z E D Recreation for the Institutionalized Men-

tally Retarded, William T. Lawler.

P L   U N D SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, September 1958.

Monster Roundup Out West

. . , . SWIMMING POOL AGE, August 1958.
Saf—Pla can eliminate most of the abraSIons, bruises NSPITS Recommended qaandards for Public

and cuts that result from children falling on hard,
abrasive or unsurfaced playgrounds. This new rubber-
ized playground surfacing material generally gives kids a “bounce instead
of a bruise” and is not expensive. Playground directors, wherever Saf—Pla
has been installed, report a sharp decrease in accidents or, in many cases,
NO ACCIDENTS AT ALL. Saf—Pla can be applied to black tOp, concrete
or other prOperly surfaced areas. You owe it to
yourself and your school or department to get the
facts on this safer, more modern playground surface.

     

and Semipublic Pools.

Books & Pamphlets
Received

         
 

write for bulletin no. 13 . . . ‘

STATISTICS ON OI'TDOOR RECREATION, Marion
R U B B E R R E c L A I M I N G c o ' ' Clawson. Resources for the Future, 1145 I l
30" 365 Bonn-o 5: NEW YORK I 19th St., N.W., Washington 6, D. C. Pp.

166. Paper, $32.00.

SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT COSTS: WHO PAYS ;
FOR WHAT, compiled by Anna Sternheimer. I
State Planning Commission, 01 Cordell

'5 FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS Hull B1dg., Nashville, Tenn. Pp. 99.
FOR EVERY AGE GROUP, Mimeographeda $100-

SI'CCESS AT SWIMMING, Jose M. J uba, Editor.

   -— Sportshelf, 10 Overlook Ter., New York 33.
Pp. 123. $3.25.

SUGGESTED READING FOR THE FAMILY. Barnes
& Noble, 105 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 13.

Free.
SURF FISHING (Second Edition), Vlad Evan-

oiI. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New
York 10. Pp. 120. $2.95.
SWIM BETTER, Pat Besford. Sportshelf, 10
NEW YORK ll Overlook Ter., New York 33. Pp. 104. $3.25.
CHICAGO '1 ' . SWIMMING INSTRUCTION (New Reviscd Edi-
ms ANGELES '1 I tion). Sportshclf, 10 Overlook Ter., New
York 33. Pp. 143. $2.75.
TEACHING PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN ELEMEN-
TARY SCHOOLS (Second Edition), Maryhele
Attention— Vannier and Mildred Foster. W. B. Saun-

. , W 51' S ., P - d -
RECREATION DIRECTORS 3:35: terse.  q  e1

TOYS—THE TOOLS OF CHILDREN, June Frant-

cnnder c   zen. Nat’l Soc. for Crippled Children an

Adults, 11 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3. P

 

--o
-

 

 

SlEEl CHAIN

This fast growing hobby offers most 16. Paper, $1.00. ..
 interesting training and constant crea- TRAILERS; How To BUILD TRAILERS, Joh 
We enJOYment- Gartner. Pp. 159. Paper, $3.00. How 'I‘ 
3 Years Gunman-l Send for Full Information_ our big BUILD TRAILERS, Robcrt lI. ansen. Pp. 86 "
outdoors or Indoors . . ul
1‘ I I I b u 68 page complete catalog 13 now avaIl- Paper, $31.98. MOBILE HOME MANUAL. Pp 
'° "'“m‘ “'3’ "'i' “mm” " ‘ . able. 50¢ to individuals. Free to 197 Paper 5193 Trai1-R-C]ub of Amer “
J NYLON BASKETBALL NETS 3. BALL CARRIERS _- - - . ' ’ ' ' . .
J ALUMINUM MULTl-PURPOSE STANDARDS 50110013 Institutions, etc. 10a, Box 1378, Beverly 1131118, £31115 B1 1“
J TETHERBALL POI-ES 8- PADDLE SETS H - TRAVEL AND VACATION UN nnie ain ‘-
ouse of CeramIcS ’
J ALUMINUM SHUFFLEBOARD SETS Write Hart Publishing, 74 5th Ave., New Yor
' 5°“ '°' Fm “was ' | Today 2431 Matthews 11. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.00.
J A Y F R o A T H L E T | c 5 U P P L Y c 0' ' Memphis 8, Tenn. TREASURY OF CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS, A

Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDoN, CONN.

 

Zelda Wyatt Scllulke. Heartllsitle Prat,

29-1 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATIO

118 E. 28th St., New York 16. Pp. 128.
$3.95.

REASURY or CHRISTMAs PLAYS, A, Sylvia E.
Kamerman, Editor. Plays, Inc., 8 Arling-
ton St., Boston 16. Pp. 509. $5.00.

I REASURY 0F FRIENDSHIP, A, Ralph L. Woods,
Editor, David McKay, 55 5th Ave., New
York 3. Pp. 496. $6.95.

I RENDS INOGERONTOLOGY (Second Edition),
I Nathan W. Shock. Stanford University
“- Press, Stanford, Calif. Pp. 214. $4.50.

' Tn GIANT CROSSWORD PUzzLE BOOK, THE,
Arthur M. Lounsbury, Editor. Crown Pub-
lishers, 419 4th Ave., New York 16. Un-
paged. $1.75.

ICTORS REVISED INSTRUCTION BOOK (for

16mm 65-series sound projectors). High-
land-Bass, 50 Broad St., New York 4. Pp.

20. Free.

OLLEYBALL: Official Rules and Reference
Guide, 1958. U. S. Volleyball Association,
P. O. Box 109, Berne, 1nd. Pp. 192. Paper

, $.75.

..'AcEs AND THE PUBLIC INTEREST. Confer-
ence on Economic Progress, 1001 Connecti-

! cut Ave., N.W., Washington 6, D. C. Pp.

62. 8.50.

 RAT P.T.A. MEMBERS SHOULD KNOW ABOUT

JUVENILE DELINQUENCY, Vera J. Dickhoff.

National Congress of Parents and Teachers,
700 N. Rush St., Chicago 11. Pp. 96. $.50.

HAT SHOULD U. S. DO IN A CHANGING
WORLD? Foreign Policy Association, 345
E. 46th St., New York 17. Pp. 98. $.35.

’HAT To DO IN WEsTCHESTER (19th Annual
Edition-l. Maybury W. Fleming, P. O. Box
821, White Plains, N. Y. Pp. 92. $.50.

_. HERE WILL 20 MILLION PLAY IN 1968?

Sterling S. Winans. California State Rec-
reation Commission, 722 Capitol Ave., Sac-

I ramento 14. Pp. 19 (Mimeographed). Free.

’ONDER BOOK OF FINGER PLAYS AND ACTION
, RIIYMES, THE. Grosset & Dunlap, 1107
. Broadway, New York 10. Unpaged. $.25.

ONDER OF WATER, THE. Soil Conservation
Society, 838 5th Ave., Des Moines 14, Iowa.
Pp. 15. 5.20.

ORLD-WIDE SUMMER PLACEMENT DIRECT-

DRY. Advancement and Placement Insti-
tute, Box 99, Greenpoint Station, Brooklyn

22. Pp. 26. Paper $2.00.

MCA WATER SAFETY AND LIFESAVING, Har-
old T. Friermood, Editor. Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 48.
$.50.

GA FOR PERFECT HEALTn, Alain. Associ-
ated Booksellers, 2106 Post Road, West-
port, Connecticut. Pp. 155. $2.75.

UNc TEENS TALK IT OVER, Mary Bcery.
IMcGraw-Hill, 330 West 42nd Street, New
York 36. Pp. 160. $2.75.

"u UR CHILD’s EMOTIONAL HEALTH, Anna W.

H. Wolf. Public Affairs Pamphlets, 22 E.
38th St., New York 16. Pp. 28. $.25.

". UR COMMUNITY AND MENTAL HEALTH,
Elizabeth M. Dach. Public Affairs Pam—
phlets, 22 E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp. 28.
.25.

4: COMMUNITY CAN PROFIT FROM THE
'I OURIST BUSINESS. U. S. Government Print-

| g Office, Washington 25, D.C. Pp. 25.
I .15.

UR FAMILY’S HEALTH, Stella B. Apple-
aum. Public Affairs Committee, 22 E.

8th St., New York 16. Pp. 28. 3.25.

 
   
  
 
 
   
    
  
   
 
    

‘l

J

Iii

  
    
  
  
    
    
  
    
   
  
 
   
 
   
    
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
 

I!

I
I

]

TORRE- 105.9.

 

SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS

The five books reviewed here repre-
sent five types Of special interests that
might be formed into clubs in the rec-
reation program, and which would add
color and new life to routine activities.
From them it might be possible tO inter-
est some of the hard-tO-reach boys and
girls, men and women, or to offer stim-
ulation to the nonathletic groups.

Radio Plays from Shakespeare,* adapt-
ed by Lewy Olfson. Plays, Inc., 8 Ar-
lington Street, Boston 16, Massachu-
setts. Pp. 193. $3.75.

This is a good book to interest a
group in the true feeling of Shakespeare
without the usual staging difiiculties.
The five most popular tragedies includ-
ed in this book have been shortened,
but the meaning and the famous lives
are all here, :plus production sugges-
tions. Whether used as mock-radio
productions, or as part of a radio work-
shop, they Offer a real challenge.

How to Stencil and Decorate Furniture

and Tinware,* Nancy Richardson.
Ronald Press, 15 East 26th Street, New
York City 10. Pp. 186. $6.00.

A beautiful book about a type of
painting and stenciling that could be of
great interest to men’s or women’s craft
groups. With the increased interest in
home decorating, the decorating of both
old and new Objects in the Early Ameri-
can manner Offers a stimulating hobby.

Practical Guide to Model Railroading,*
edited by Linn H. Westcott and Richard
H. Wagner. Kalmbach Publishing Com-

pany, Milwaukee 3, Wisconsin. Pp. 60.
$2.00.

This booklet consists of thirteen
chapters, each written by a well-known
model railroader. Is there any boy or
man in the world who isn’t fascinated
by model trains? Here’s all the infor-
mation —-— from getting started, choos-
ing scale and gauge, to instructions for
building scenic terrain. Why not buy
some railroad caps and get that club
started?

How to Be a Wizard in Magic, Robeit

* Available from the NRA Recreation Book
Center, 8 W. 8th Street, New York City 11.

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-limp Field

Harbin. Charles T. Branford Company,
69 Union Street, Newton Centre 59,
Massachusetts. Pp. 175. $3.50.

Here is a really fascinating book on
magic. The author (you’ve seen him
on- television) makes his illustrations
seem so easy and yet so puzzling that
any group of boys or men would find
it a wonderful club activity.

Modern Card Tricks, Harry Blackstone.
Garden City Books, Garden City, New
York. Pp. 164. $2.50.

A new, revised edition Of the famous
book by the famous magician. Tricks
are limited to cards and do not cover
the same hobby area as the book above.

F OR FAMILY FUN

Family Fun and Activities, Margaret
E. Mulac. Harper 8: Brothers, 49 East
33rd Street, New York City 16. Pp.
268. $3.95.

Giant Book of Family F an and Games,
The.* Jack Tedford. Franklin Watts,
699 Madison Avenue, New York City
21. Pp. 560. $6.00.

F an with the Family, Harry D. Edgren
and E. H. Regnier. Stipes Publishing,
10-12 Chester Street, Champaign, Il-
linois. Pp. 86. $2.00.

It is interesting and heartening tO
see a trend toward a re-emphasis on
home as the center of the family’s play
life. Here are three new books, each
good in its own way.

Of the three, Miss Mulac’s is by far
the most penetrating and well-rounded.
It does far more than suggest activities,
important as they may be. How to play
together, how to work together, learn
and share together are the main themes.
Chores as well as parties, gardening,
sharing conversation, learning skills to-
gether, are all here, with a running
commentary that would make any pa-
rent the richer for having read this
book. It is, in fact, an excellent book
to give to any family as a gift.

Mr. Tedford’s book is a large com-
pilation Of a wide range Of activities,
from games through riddles, tricks,
crafts, crosswords, fortune telling,
brain-teasers, and the like. It is really
a sort of encyclopedia Of material, all
of which would be just as useful to a
recreation leader as it would to a pa-

00K

rent. Incidentally, it contains a number
of quizzes of various types. The book
contains no philosophy, evaluation, or
discussion of home play. It is what its
title suggests —— a source book of activi-
ties.

The third title is a slim paperbound
volume, much of it not particularly new
0 recreation leaders, but undoubtedly
new to many parents. Its brevity, sim-
plicity, and price should make it at-
tractive to inexperienced adults. It is
shallow compared to Miss Mulac’s book,
and limited in comparison to Mr. Ted-
ford’s, but for a let’s-get-started booklet
it is adequate.

Recreation Places*

Wayne R. Williams. Reinhold Pub-
lishing Company, 430 Park Avenue,
New York 22. Pp. 302. $18.00.

Recreation Places contains the con-
tributions of several authorities and is
a distinct addition to recreation litera-
ture. Perhaps its most distinguishing
feature is its collection of striking illus-
trations of modern recreation areas,
structures, and facilities. The pictures
and captions interpret methods of plan-
ning recreation places and present ex-
amples of effectively designed and con-
structed buildings and equipment. Its
five hundred illustrations, in fact, jus-
tify the title of the oversized book more
fully than does some of the text.

The diversity of auspices under
which recreation places are provided is
described at length, also the place of
these agencies in the total recreation
picture. The recreation professional is
challenged to meet the growing needs of
the community for recreation by serv-
ing in a guidance role, prompting the
training and use of volunteers, helping
in the coordination of agency pro-
grams, and in planning for the fullest
possible use of all recreation resources.
The history of recreation from preclas-
sic times is traced in great detail; fa-
miliar types of recreation are'discussed
from a fresh point of view; and the
needs of different age groups are re-
viewed in the light of present-day con-
ditions. The section dealing with sports
fields and lighting,containing diagrams
of courts and fields, should prove espe-
cially useful.

Two of the book’s shortcomings are
the inclusion of material with little ap-
parent relationship to its title, and the
slight emphasis given topics one would
expect to find presented in such a vol-
ume. For example, the chapter “Places
Where Recreation Occurs” contains
several pages relating to labor unions,
business, and industry, but less than a
page to city, county, or state recreation

* Available from NRA Recreation Book
Center, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11.

296

areas. The section dealing with na-
tional recreation scarcely mentions fed-
eral properties; and in fact, the design
and deveIOpment of public recreation
places receives comparatively little con-
sideration. Likewise, the section deal-
ing with the needs of various age groups
contains little application of these needs
in terms of places.

The comprehensive bibliography is
disappointing, for it is only remotely re-
lated to recreation places. In it appear
such titles as The Detective Novel, The
Psychology of Socialism, and Our
Prejudice Against English Came Pre-
serves, hut no listing of Planning Fa-
cilities for Health, Physical Education
and Recreation, A Guide for Planning
Recreation Parks in California, perti-
nent publications of the National Rec-
reation Association, and so on. The
book, fortunately, has a comprehensive
index. "

Some of the author’s statements and
those of the other contributors are sure
to be challenged by thoughtful readers.
Strikingly divergent concepts of recrea-
tion are presented in the essays defining
it. In spite of its shortcomings, how-
ever, the book presents a fresh ap-
proach to many aspects of recreation
and it is an exceptionally handsome

volume.——-—Ceorge D. Butler, NRA Re-

search Department.

The Stormy Decade: Adolescence

George J. Mohr, MD. and Marian
A. Despres, Ph.D. Random House,
Inc., 457 Madison Ave., New York 22.
Pp. 272. $3.95.

Published for parents and leaders of
young people, this book interprets the
adolescent and the problems of his
transition into an adult, in‘relation to
his family setting, his community, and
his society. Dr. Mohr, psychiatrist and
psychoanalyst, and Dr. Despres, psy-
chologist and teacher, are well equipped
to deal with their subject, and they have
written, in lay terms and with the 'help
of case histories, for the adult seeking
to understand and aid the teen-ager dur-
ing the crucial years. They treat briefly
the biological foundation of personality
before birth, infancy, and early child-
hood and then go on to adolescence.
Preteen and teen development are cov-
ered—health, sex, emotional disturb-
ances, intellectual, creative, and social
interests. Juvenile delinquency is not

overlooked, and an excellent reference
list at the back of the book is included.

Fun Plans for Church Recreation*

Agnes Durant Pylant. Broadman

P.ress, Nashville, Tennessee.. Pp. 125.
$2.50.

Some of the material in this book is
excellent, but not all. Mrs. Pylant, in

the last chapter, says of church activi
ties: “. . . they must always be above re
proach according to the highest Chris
tian standards and in agreement wit

 
   
    
  
   
  
     
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
    
  

the beliefs of the church sponsorin
them. Any game, song, stunt, or stor
that borders on the vulgar, dirty, or pr
fane has no place in the fun program 3
your church.” Added to this should n
any material that owes its so-called h
mor or success to rural dialect, physic
infirmities, matrimonial problems, u
that which casts aSpersions or mak
fun of cultural activities, even in jok
It is much easier to ridicule than to u
derstand; and the leader who takes th'
easy way will never develop an exten
ed, rich program.

All this is to protest the selection 0
material in several chapters of this pu
lication. There is nothing really wron
with the skits and stunts, except th
many are stale, and none represent
true picture of well-planned dramati
material. 'Under analysis, they are no
even funny. What is funny about .
bunch of young campers nearly knoc
ing down an old lady? Or a boy an
girl feeling disgust at the sight of a wa
or hunchback? Or a husband and wif
quarreling?

This sort of thing was considere
hilarious among simple, nai've rur
groups fifty years ago. Surely the stan
ards of culture and humor have rise
Today, church members in rural are
are not isolated. Television, radio, car
concerts, plays, the best in art, ente
tainment, and sports are near enough I
see and hear, whether in person or v
the air waves.

Little Nell, Dangerous Dan, and oth
mock melodrama characters are all rig
in a program or party planned arou
a showboat or Gay Nineties theme, b
please, not in the average church par
or social. Except for this, other mat
rial in the book is very good. The se
tions on action songs; musical, rhyth
and indoor games; races and relays a
well chosen.

Mrs. Pylant is a fine lcader, deep
devoted to church work. I’m sure sl
selected material that she has us
wisely or seen used wisely; but in ge
eral, other material might hetter upho
standards of good taste. If the lead
accepts second.rate skits because th
produce belly laughs, it does not nec
sarily follow that the program is su
cessful. _

The church has a wonderful opp
tunity to provide the best in leisure-ti
activities. In olden times the chur
was the repository and preserver of i
people’s culture; the arts all had th
roots in its rich history. Should t
modern church be satisfied with les

—Virginia Musselnzan, NRA Progra
Service.

RE CREATI u

     

3 ICE SKATING MADE EASIER
I: with a
I RF‘VEN RIKINER

o Rinkliners ore one-piece, heat-sealed plastic
sheets.

0 Playground and pork sizes, 40 x 40 to 100

x 200 fi.
0 Coldproof 4-mil polyethylene, nonbrittle. "The ChO'ce Of Those Who Play The Game”

0 Easy to lay out and flood. The MacGregor Co. - Cincinnati 32, Ohio
0 Holds water till freezing occurs. FOOTBALL - BASEBALL - BASKETBALL . GOLF - TENNIS

RAVEN INDUSTRIES
Box 227, Sioux Falls, South Dakota

 

 

 

W 1 ill PORTAN T N

If you are planning to move, please notify us of your
change of address at least thirty days before the date of issue
with which it is to take effect, if possible, in order to receive
your magazines without interruption. Send both old and
new addresses by letter, card, or post-office form 225 to:

“nun” DESIGNED Subscription Department, RECREATION Magazine, 8
F0: HEAVY DUTY USE West  Street, New York 11.

Good news for taste buds!

BANQUETS PLUS
by Mabel King Beeker

A personol treasury of excellent banquets that
will provide a backlog of ideas for years to come.
Plans for 34 banquets are given in detail with
N°”°"°"Y "‘°9““°" °"" W" 5" ideas for invitations, decorations, menus, programs,
”" "MED ’O‘CES' COLLEGE” and all the extras that make for a top-notch

TEIS. SCHOOlS. ClUBS, PARKsielc.

MODEL #104 ' MODEL #105

as «Im- wm 2 nurdvsnapimv- EATING FUN FOR INTERMEDIATES
stoilonorylegs. ' foldinglcgs.
' by Helen K. Painter

. N' M""""“ °' "Plum." '"bl'm' Recipes and menus for the goyest, cleverest, and

i 5""? mm" c°"“”‘"°"' very best eating your high-schoolers ever en—
~ SECURED! INSTALLED HEAVY GAUGE countered. 35¢
ALUMINUM CENTER NET

at your favorite bookstore
~er ALIMLIALTENNISTABLEEO. Bmdmn Pm,

333:2” P.O.BOX I42,TEANEC_K,NJ.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

HELP US
KEEP THE THINGS
WORTH KEEPING
22Z5°i$ii$1$2§?3 Ek‘iCH ACCO Roma 

_   
tages is the right to - OF HIS OWN  ;_  I -;" . -

worship as you please.
But protecting our
American heritages
costs money—because
peace costs money.

It takes money for
strength to keep the
peace. Money for sci-
ence and education to
help make peace last-
ing. And money saved
by individuals.

Your Savings Bonds,
as a direct investment in
your country, make you
a Partner in strength-
ening America’s Peace
Power.

The Bonds you buy
will earn money for you.
But the most important
thing they earn is peace.
They help us keep the
things worth keeping.

Think it over. Are

you buying as many
Bonds as you might?

 

HELP STRENGTHEN AMERICA’S PEACE POWER

BUY 11. S SAVINGS ENDS

         
 

The U.S. Government does not pay for this advertising. The Treasury Department thanks,
at, for their patriotic donation, The Advertising Council and this magazine.

  

    

