 

FIND NEW WORLDS

Through
RECREATION

O

0

Launch your program

now for

JUNE

 

NATIONAL RECREATION MONTH

Na’rional Recrea’rion Associa’rion. 8 Wes’r Eigh’rh S’rree’r. New York N

Modern Designs
lowest Prices
Supreme Quoiiry
Fast Service

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

TROPHIES

1 year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$4.00
2 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.25
Foreign . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.50
Library subscriptions . . . . . . . . 3.70

Club subscriptions . . . . . . . . . . 3.50
(Ten or more individuals subscribing at one time)

ENGRAVING FREE  

of any quantify—I or 1,000

Superbly styled trophies you will
be proud to give and own — at

\ SENSATIONAL SAVINGS!

 

Single issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

Write for FREE Cataiog

TROPHIES, Inc.

2048 W. North Ave. Chicago 47, Illinois

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Subscription rates ior RECREATION magazine are:

 

 

FEBRUARY 1959

   

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

Editor in Chief. Josarn PRENDERCAST C O N T E N T S

Editor, Donormr DONALDSON

Business Manager, RALPH C. Morons '
ASSOCIATE EDITORS   

Recreation Admmisnaiions GEORGE BUTLER W'h)‘ Recreation? (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . Warren Kerahow 40
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MussautAN _ o o o
‘ Impressions of Recreation In America

 

 

VOL. LIL Price 50 Cents No. 2 Rudolph W. I. Oppermtm 44
The European Sport Seene . . . . . . . . . . . .Seword L. Stoley 50

on the Cnver Operation of a Children 3 Zoo . . . . . . . .Tllomos R. Dames 52
s - ' t )

“DON’T TALK about it. do it!” This future mou- lortrait of Mr. Recreation—l art ll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

side". COVC‘TE" Willi mouthpiece from "039 [0 0'11". Winter Trees (Poem) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Conrntl Diekmann 53

explores the mysteries of the tuha. Sec “Music Is ' _
Magic for Tiny Tots,” page 54. blew Direetions for Oldsters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

'NQXI NICE“! ADMINISTRATION

The March issue carries an emphasis on camping. I l D ’ I

with good material on counselor training. camperse .oca ewe opments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
needs. program and facilities, and material about
camping l'or thc.handicapped is also included. Sug-
FCSIiOHS [01' nature “CliVilies inellldc hOW 10 make Squaw Valley Prepares for the Olympics . . Kenneth A. "ill 64
“A Nature Mural,” and ideas on other arts and _ _
crafts projeels from nature lnalerialg. “IlnlpreSSions l‘OSORI‘Cl‘I RCVICVVS and AllSlfHClS . . . . . o o o . . . George Butler 6;)
of Recreation in America” is continuet . Commu- , , , , , _
l‘ily.scllool joint use ol- recrealion facilities is co“ Lets Say W hat We Mean . . . . . . . . . . Charles R. lirrglttblll 66
cred, including a verbatim copy of their joint agree-
ment. in an excellent article by Earl Smith of
'Hcrccd, California. Building a golf course? Ilcre

Research Techniques for Recreation . . . .Norman P. Miller 62

Reereation’s Responsibility for Diving . . . . Peter l.. Dixon 67

is thc story of how to do it for $1500. FROG-“ARI

Photo Credits Teenagers and Mnsie  46
Page 42, The Methodist W’oman, NYC; 43, N.C. Egg llunting Season . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Edward L. Ericsort 48
*‘ie '3 Bureau, D I Ic t Conservation 3' Develo

430:1, Raleigh; grail-tn) picture Archives of “E: Program for Mentally Retarded . . . . . . l. Robert M. Slntlts 49
Austrian National Library, Vienna; (right) Daily - \ o o ‘
mirror. London, England; 52, US. Fish and Wild. Mus": ls Ilagle for Tiny Tots . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
life Service; 54'55. Three Lions. 1110-. NYC; 569 You’d Like ’Ent to Sing? W'hy? . . . . . . Augustus D. Zanzig 60
(left) News, Newark, NJ.; 59 (centcr) Los Angeles ' v

County Dcpartment of Parks and Recreation, Cali- I rogram holes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
l'ornia.

. REGULAR FEATURES
RECREATION is published monthly except July and

 

 
     
 

August by the National Recreation Association. a service Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
(\foganléallgth stsipportegl by {plufttrly clgntrib‘tyioy. at 8 Th ‘ SI I I h
Fm  um. "’5  . cw  . r ' 'IOOIIOOOO I I I I I I 00.0.0000...-
gig}: psubgic libraries‘wois indexedCaindthe mgr "‘55 0“ '0" ‘ "m‘ 41
m e. u scrIptIons . a year. na an an or- . - - o
d3” lubml-r‘ion me “do. Rammed as “condodm Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dorothy Donaldson 42
matter Apri 25. 1950. at the Post Office in New York. R . r b k
 Under   3.    00 aaaooooooooaaaoaoaooooo a a a a aaooo 
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in _
Section 1103. Ad of October 3. 1917. authorized May Market hows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jean Waehtel 63
l. 1924. Microfilm of current issues available Uni-
versity Microfilm. 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor. Classified Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Michigan.
Spare Representatives: Mark Minahan. 185 North Wa- \] j \ It | . g . i L o . O ' o o -
bash Annmn Chicago 1.. Illinois: Seymour A. Rob 1 agar ne .r r c es I ooks 8 lamphlets Recenetl . . . . . . a
&g       l7.   a a a a a a a o a a o o o o o o a a a a a a a a O o o o o o o O O 
Copyright. [959. by the

National Recreation Association. Incorporated
Printed in the u.s.A.  ou CAT I ONAI.
I." ',.“,'.°. gsEgglA-TION The article: heroin prlalod are the Cam“.

_ _ 0F clan oi Ibo writers and not a alolonon’l of
. Trade mark registered to U. 5. Patent Oliice. AMER ICA “my a, "u Noun“ “awn” Auuhun'

FEBRUARY 1959 37

TEN N IS COURT

 

ll. 8. RUBBER RECLAIMING 00., INC.

BUFFALO 5, N. Y...

 

38

P.O. BOX 365

the NEW low cost

  

‘1

I i  Sirs:

I am enclosing herewith an original
photo as well as a newspaper item of a
luncheon which I tendered to the Dade
County recreation executives on Thurs-

day, December 4-, 1958.

Cushioned for
Comfort and Safety

Now the fomous Sof-Plo, used for
rubberizing playgrounds, has also been
Successfully adapted for surfacing
tennis courts. Recreation Directors and
School Executives who know about the
safety, convenience ond weather resist-
once of Saf-Plo will be interested in
knowing thot the tennis courts hove
off these advantages and more. The
life of the court will be increased be-
couse Sof-Pla can be opplied over any
existing hard surfoce . . .

Tennis players will appreciate the
surer footing of rubber on rubber, os
well as the ottendant foot-ease

brought obout by this resilient surface.
The uniform bounce plus the safety
foctor in the event of a tall are oddi-
tianal reasons why your tennis court
should be surtoced with Sol-Fla.

Sof—Pto photographs taken at Agassiz Circle,
Delaware Park, Buffalo, N. Y.

Send for Illustrated Literature

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

ond in most.
cases, even badly deterioroted ones..

  

 Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page
to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
Y orlc 1 1—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range 0/
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

For Conventions

 

With the enormous amount of space
which is still empty and in view of the
fact that this exhibition hall is such a
wonderful facility, this may be of in-
terest to recreation personncl as a possi-
ble site for our national convention.

JACK WOODY, Superintendent of
Recreation, Miami Beach.

Crisis in Square Dancing
Sirs:

There seems to be a crisis in square
dancing.

The Combatants: Square Dancing for
All vs Square Dancing for the Few.
The Battleground: Public recreation
areas, churches, YMCA’s, dancehalls
over the country.

A t Stake: Whethcr your own dances are
attended by thousands or by just a few
sets.

There is an insidious tendency for
square-dance callers’ associations to be-
come interested in a split-timing, high-
level type of dancing only fanatics or
regular dancers can do, and often only
when they substitute concentration for
pure fun values. They give course after

course. The callers make up a new

dance to the latest tune, and there de-

—The Editors.

velops not only keen rivalry among
callers, but the callers have conditioned
the dancers to want gimmicks. In all
the noise and furor, the average person
is left out in the cold.

If you watch square dancing on TV,
you get the idea that you have to take
a course to be able to square dance. At-
tending the avcrage festival, you get
the idea that square dancing is too
difficult.

In the midst of square dancing for
the few, however, there stands like a
rock a small nucleus of callers who re-
main true to their calling . . . those who
believe in keeping square dancing a
simple, enoyable activity for all people,
including beginners.

By having “open to general public”
dances locally, under the supervision of
the department of recreation and parks,
the right type of square dancing can
be introduced and promoted—for the
average citizen and for, fun. Simplicity
will draw numbers. At two square
dances at Victory Field, New York, last

" silmmer, over three thousand people of

all ages attended.

Square dancing cuts racial, religious,
social barriers—the great leveler—the
democratic way.

BART HAIGH, square dance caller,
New York City.

Reprints on Mr. R.
Sirs:

I especially liked your article “A
Portrait of Mr. Recreation” (January,
1959) . I wonder if it would be possible
to have reprints so that it could be
forwarded to (park and recreation)
board members? I think in many towns
they are not aware of the multiple tasks
that confront a recreation director.

Mas. A. O. BRUNGARDT, Vermont Di-
rector o/ Recreation, Montpelier.

o Reprints of “A Portrait of Mr. Rec-
reation" will be made available (of 0
small charge to cover expenses) if we
can be assured of enough orders to
warrant making them up. Do you agree

RECREATION

  
  
   
  
 
 
   
  

ith Mrs. Brundgordt? If so, let us
our from you quickly.—Ed.

Our December Issue
iirs:

Just a linc to commcnd you and your
tail on tllc excellence of the December
ssne of RECREATION. I have come to
xpect high quality and fine things of
your publication but this issue tops my
'xpectations. It is so full of “mcaty”
tems and so attractively presented that
t will take mc Inorc than the month to
end and fully digest the contents.

Congratulations!

JOSEPH E. CURTIS, Director of
Recreation, Oceanside l’ n b l i c
Schools, Oceanside, New York.

Bibliographies
birs:

I would appreciate receiving a biblio-
graphy of articles that have appeared
in RECREATION on recreation for the
ill and handicapped, listing publica-
tions chosen especially for rccreation
personnel working with these people.
This information will be very helpful
to us with our work on an cxperimental
project “Recreation for the Handi-
capped.”

MADELEINE DALME, Consultant.
Recreation for the Handicapped

Committee, Montreal Council of
Social Agencies, Montreal, Canada.

Magazine Big Help
Sirs:

Through the years we have enioycd
receiving RECREATION and have found
it a wonderful source of recreation in-
formation. we found the attractive cov-
er on the Dccember [1958] issue to be
vcry useful in decorating one of our
community center bulletin boards; us-
ing an opaquc projector to blow it up,
then painting it on white poster paper.

We all appreciate the good job you
are doing. . . .

C. V. BLANKENSIHP, Industrial Rela-

tions, Callaway Mills, LaCrange,

Georgia.

Letter of Appreciation
Sirs:

Just a brief lcttcr of appreciation to
your organization, for your publication
RECREATION, and to your staff who corn-
pile thc scts of bibliographies.

I cannot count the number of times I
have referred to both for help whcn pre-
paring material for classroom presenta-
tion. Also a hearty thank-you to the
professionals who contrihute thc many
stimulating and informative articles. . . .

ROBERT L. WHITMAN, Graduate As-

sistant, Recreation Education, Penn-

sylvania State University, University

Park.

FEBRUARY 1959

   
  
  
   
 
  
  
 

‘  u eri r esi n,
  Fius‘l' in / '\ [Sloiistiitilon agnd

PO\PQORN PROFIT PERFORMMCE

I /

t.) o J
\ Popcorn belongs In every recreation set-

gup. It‘s os Amerlcon or Red, White ond
Blue. In heolthiully delicious. there's/

 

far greater
strength and

SAFETY!

 

 

  

«e / Ut/g/
IR. / /
‘~ v“ [HIEAN I
I.—  “ ‘t ' ' _
. \i‘x . g
/ID WHIZBitIQG 
x - ‘ '“°‘ "' AND SWIMMING

Only $265.00. Pop up to $25.00 in soles
per hour. Fully guoronteed for o yeor.
' Write for intormotion on this ond other

mochlnes, from $199.00 to Sti9\5.00.\
e

. ’ I

/ l \ \
Write for complete cototoo ond Intermo-
tlon on drlnk dispensers. hot dog mochlnes.
cotton condy ond Ice bolls. let Gold Medal
help you to the huge refreshment profits
thot ore ovoiloble t'rom every recreation“

POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
- buyers for nearly half a century.

"’ WRITE FOR LITERATURE

#

program.
I o «~\ AMERICAN
l - ' envoeouuo DIVICI co.
ANDERSON. INDIANA. use.
p GOLD MEDAL PRODUCTS co. r—‘ {I   _, ,   .
318 e. THIRD, CINCINNATI 2, omo ,. .

 

 

 ,;..-  .__..-

 

-—-——-—- --——I-— W!

CONSULTATION

PLANNING
and

DESIGN . . .
0fAll Your

Recreation Facilities
0 Ice Skating Rinks

0 Swimming Pools
0 Field Houses
0 Tennis Courts

Creative development of entire recreation areas.
backed up by years of experience (8! swimming pools. rinks,
and other facilities.)

PETER CARVER ASSOCIATES
70 East 45th Street
New York 17, New York

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 39

WHY

Warren W. Kershow

 

RECREATION

HE WEAKEST LINK in the recreation profession today is the inability of its profes-
T sional workcrs to answer clearly the blunt but natural questions of: Why havc
recreation anyway? What real purpose does it serve? Is it necessary?

Recreation people from one end of the country to thc other have heard such state-
ments as, “When I was a youngstcr there were no recreation departments, and I sup-
plied my own recreation,” or “If you would just leave children alone they would take
care of their own recreation necds,” or, “Recreation departments are an impractical
luxury and represcnt burcaucracy in that they are an unneeded drain on the taxpayer.”

This type of thinking is representative of a large portion of our population and
becausc of this uninformcd public, constructive rccrcation planning is often hampered
by lack of support. If we in rccrcation arc not on a firm footing with regard to these
elenlcntary qucstions about our field, the foundation for the future growth of our
profession is shaky.

In presenting our wares, wc must go furthcr than just starting recreation activities
hy kccping child rcn off the street. Recreation is more important now than ever before

,hecausc wc have so much lcisure timc. We must explain in broader terms the many

purposcs and applications of our programs. For example: We arc not letting nature
takc its course in the physical, social, and psychological developmcnt of human beings;
we are trying to control, influence and improvc their dcvelopnlent. This comes about
in the following ways:

0 Games, sports, skills and interests learned in youth programs can he the forerunners
of constructive, healthy hobbies for later life, and can be the basis of future vocations.

o The recreation leader, like the physical cducation instructor, enjoys a close and
friendly rclationship with teenagers, and because of this closeness can act as a posi-
tivc influence where the parcnt has failcd. Because of this closeness, the young people
look to him as an example of desirable deportrnent and character, and they copy him.
This gives him the opportunity to help them learn values and to develop good attitudes
and habits, such as those of proper dress, politeness, general good taste, and so on.

o By counseling countless misguided youths, recreation leaders often change the course
of their lives. Our counseling position is different from that of the minister or social
worker in that ours is often done indirectly, through action, or love of the activity the
youngster is taking part in. Because the general experience is favorable, the indirect
teaching is also usually received favorably.

While recreation is a broad field, with any number of areas of accomplishments,
it is well for the recreator to remember that the central theme or guiding ideal of our
profession is the educational factor, whether it be learning through play, growth
through interest, or health through participation.

We must teach for carry-over. We must instill attitudes and ideals that will become
an integral part of the characters of our young people—that will carry over and enrich
their everyday lives and their mental attitudes, for years to come. #-

 

MR. KERSHOW is director of recreation, Anne Arundel County, Annapolis, Maryland.

RECREATION

 

) RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE NORTH-
WEST DISTRICT of the National Recrea-
tion Association are Alaska and three
provinces of Canada -— Saskatchewan,

Alberta, and British Columbia.

) A SEMINAR ON RECREATION FOR TIIE
EAIOTIONALLv DISTURBED, beginning at
Columbia University on February 4,
is being conducted in cooperation with
the NRA Consulting Service on Recrea-
tion for the Ill and Handicapped. This
has been established for recreation lead-
ers, supervisors, group workers, and
teachers in hospitals, special schools,
community centers, and camps. For f ur-
ther information write Dr. Elizabeth
Rosen, Box 70, Department of Health
Education, Physical Education, and

Recreation, Teachers College, Columbia
University, New York 27, New York.

) IF vou Do NOT IIAvE A COPY, beg, bor-
row, or buy the January, 1959, issue of
House Beautiful. Read it, discuss it with
your stall, and um it as a source of in-
Spiration in your recreation programs.
The entire issue is devoted to the sub-
ject of “Awareness.” The cover itself
asks the provocative question “Are you
alive or dead?”

Throughout the articles runs the
theme of greater enjoyment of life
through developing one’s capacity 1'or
awareness through three simple steps.
First comes perception—the ability to
really see the beauty in simple things.
Then comes understanding, f ollowcd by
experiencing or participation. The color
photography used to show the beauty of
simple everyday things—an onion, a
glass in soapy water, a flower stem in a
vase—is extraordinary.

House Beautiful has made a real con-
tribution to the art of everyday living,
and its theme has great implications for
the recreation profession.

) CAN you REPORT any unusual or suc-
cessful vacation? The J unc, 1959, issue
of RECREATION will be devoted to vaca-
tions and travel. Materials or informa-
tion should be in our hands by April
first, at the latest. Pictures of excep-
tionally good vacation spots, with ex-

FEBRUARY 1959

planations, will be welcome. Consult
OUI‘ June, 1958, issue for the type of
thing we would like to have.

) A SIIORT COURSE FOR INDUSTRIAL ED-
ITORS is being conducted, March 9 to 14,
by Oklahoma State University, Still-
water, Oklahoma. Cost: $50 plus travel
and living expenses. For details, write:
Clement E. Trout, Chairman, Industrial
Editors Short Course, Oklahoma State
University, Stillwatcr, Oklahoma.

Camping Survey

The American Camping Asso-
ciation announces a survey of res-
ident caInp facilities in the U.S. A
questionnaire is now in the mails
and the ACA urgently requests

a return of the data as soon as
possible. Address: Stanley W.
Stockcr, Camping Survey Direc-
tor, American Camping Associa-
tion, Bradford Woods, Martins-

ville, Indiana.

) Iv vou COULD USE REPRINTS of “Por-
trait of Mr. Recreation,” from our Jan-
uary issue, along with the continuation,
on page 53 of this issue, please read the
letter on pages 38-39, and get in touch
with us.

) ALL PLATOROUNDS that have followed
up on the Joseph Lee Scholarship idea,
as described by Robert Kresge of
Charleston, West Virginia, on page 109
of our April, 1958, issue, please write
us about it. We would like to mention
it, in our next Playground Issue.

) MARCH 31 IS the deadline for entries
_in the Eastman Kodak High School
Photo Contest, open to all students,
grades 9 through 12, for photographs
taken since April 1 of last year. Last
minute information is still obtainable
by addressing the contest at Rochester

4, N. Y.

b A PROGRAM or FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
is olIered to qualified students by the
Illini Union and the department of rec-

 

reation at the l'IIiversit' of Illinois.
This is open to men anrf women who
are candidates for degree of master of
science in recreation or doctor of philo-
sophy (option in recreation). Applica-
tions and details can be secured from
Ilcad, Department Of Recreation, 1]]
Huff Gymnasium, University of Illinois,

Urbana, and should be filed before Feb-
ruary 15, 1959.

) A SECOND ANNUAL GROUP OF WORK-
SIIOPS will be conducted in various areas
of the Country this year by the Ameri-
can College of Sports Medicine, Board
of Education, Parkway at 21st Street,
Philadelphia 3. Some of the workshops
of interest to recreation leaders, espe-
cially those working with the ill or the
handicapped, are: Drugs and Physical
Performance; Emotional lfyperventila-
tion; Physiology of Exercise; Physio-
logic Rcsponses in Athletic Training;
Recreation Activity with the Ill and
Handicapped.

ERRATA

0 Individuals requesting membership
in the International Sports Fund being
established by the PcOple-to-Peoplc
Sports Committee, Inc. (page 8, Janu-
ary, 1958) , should address the commit-
tee at 20 Exchange Place, New York 5,
New York.

0 We regret the error giving the wrong
expiration date of Clause D in “Sug-
gested Standards for HOSpital Recrea-
tion Personnel,” in our January issue.
The correct expiration date is December

31, 1959, not 1958.

0 The pamphlet, Reaching Out for Rec-
reation, by Jay 13. Nash, Milo F. Chris-
tiansen and Dan Dodson, mentioned on
page 338, December, available from the
American Jewish Committee, costs $.20
per single copy. Orders of one hundred
copies can be purchased for 5.15. The
New York Times of November 13 gave
this pamphlet an excellent write-up, and
listed the eight recreation leaders who
stressed that “recreation activities,
through community agencies. can prove
to be a vital force against religious and
racial prejudice.”

Ill and Handicapped

Recreation leaders Of the ill and
handicapped will be especially inter-
ested in the following articles in this
issue: “Music Is Magic for Tiny Tots":
“Ncw Directions for Oldsters": “You'd
Like 'Em tO Sing? Why?"; "Research
chhniqucs for Rccrcation"; “Let’s
Say What We Moan"; Program for the
Mentally Retardcd": and the regular
features: “New Publications," “Things
You Should Know," “Reporter's Note-
book," and others.

 

41

 

Editorially Speaking

Dorothy Donaldson

 

Music Is in the Air

“Music is a moral law. It gives a
soul to the universe, wings to the
mind, flight to the imagination, a
charm to sadness, gaiety and life to
everything else. It is the essence of
order and leads to all that is good,
just, and beautiful.”——Plato.

We have been thinking about music,
and its worth to the individual and to
the community, and wondering .. . . Are
we doing enough with music in our rec-
reation programs?

Music has high value in the field of
mental and physical health, for instance,
and certainly has a part to play in our
“fitness” programs. President Eisen-
hower has said, “Music is a universal
language which shall one day unite thc
nations of the world.” Are we using it
to bring together our various ethnic or
national groups? Will it play a part in
our Brotherhood Week observance?

Educators are now placing a new em-
phasis on the enjoyment of music, to
supplement their usual concern with its
performance, thus giving it meaning
and importance in the student’s life.
They say, too, that group music lessons
strengthen the spirit of teamwork, help
students adjust to their fellows, and of-
fer a constructive outlet for excess en-
ergy. Are recreation leaders picking up
on this and giving the high-school grad-
uate help in carrying over these learned
skills and interests into his adult social
life? Are we providing citizens of our
towns with a chance to hear good music
or to make it?

Scientists, on their part, are urging
that music have an important place in
the curricula of colleges building to-
morrow’s scientific minds. They main-
tain that it broadens imagination and
heightens mental discipline.

In the community picture, music is
excellent at breaking down social bar—

of life—at parties, meetings, camps, in
clubs and musical organizations, bands,
orchestras, jam sessions. Helen Thomp-
son of the American Symphony Orches-
tra Leaguc observes, “Symphony or-
chestras have become as necessary to
the American way of life as baseball
and filling stations.” As a matter of fact,
musical participation is expanding at
a great rate; statistics show that one
person in evcry six now plays a musical
instrument. (See table right.) We, as
recreation leaders, are missing a good
bet, if we do not get these amateurs
together. (See pages 46, 54, and 60.)

Many events can take on a musical
glow and a feeling of good fellowship
with the addition of group singing or
musical instrument performance. Music
fits in with practically every activity
and can bring the dullest to life. It has
even bcen succcssfully interspersed with
play at baseball gamcs!

Musical events across the country
gather musicians and dancers for a
grand old time, as in Chcster and Dela-

ware Counties, Pennsylvania, at picnics
where fiddles, square dances, and music-
al festivities bring the populace togeth-
er. In some communities, too, impres-
sive traditions center about music.
These ofier entertainment for all ages
and a challenging opportunity for crea-
tive activity for the whole area, which
should _never be overlooked by recrea-
tion leaders!

A Few Statistics
on U. 5. Musical Activity

The Music Committee of the NRA National
Advisory Committec on Recreation Programs
and Activities calls your attention to the fol-
lowing statistics released by the American
Music Conference: As of September 30, 1958,
the following numbcrs of amateurs were es-
timated to he playing various types of musical
instruments:‘I

Piano ................................................ .. 20,700,000
Organ .............................................. .. 1,450,000
Violin 8: other strings .................... .. 3,150,000
Guitar .............................................. .. 4,450,000
Accordion ........................................ .. 1,500,000
Harmonica ...................................... .. 450.000
Ukulele ............................................ .. 1,500,000
Brass instruments .......................... .. 2,510,000
Woodwinds .................................... .. 2.510,000
Others ................................................ .. 300,000
Number of musical instruments owned
in U. 5.:
In 1936 ............................................ .. 17,100,000
Estimate for 1958 .......................... .. 30,550,000

An increase of better than 70 per cent.

Number of amateurs playing musical in-
struments in U. 5.:

In 1936 ............................................ .. 14,300,000
Estimate for 1958 .......................... .. 30,000,000

*These total more than the total number of
persons playing instrumcnts because some
persons play more than one.

 

 

One
World

Children cannot with their eyes discern
The meaning of strange lines and space;
Nor do they quickly see and learn
The cause that separates a race.

Think well, lest you sow doubt and fear,
And fail to reconcile for good-—
Children become what they see and hear;
Sow then your faith in Brotherhood.

—Mona Kewish. Reprinted with permission

ricrs- It can unite People: from all walks from The Methodist Woman, February, 1958.

42 RECREATION

Local Developments

ARIzOXA. Recreation is booming in Tucson, which recently
approved an overall bond development program to include
parks and playgrounds. Plans call for three major parks
and the enlargement of an eighteen-hole golf course to
thirty-six holes. During the past two years Tucson has de-
veloped fourteen neighborhood parks.

ARKANSAS. In the last election, voters in Little Rock ap-
proved a $500,000 bond issue for parks and airport de-
velopment.

CALIFORNIA. Recreation facilities in Lakewood, a residen-
tial city without and industry, are financed by a city sales
tax. Its most recently facility, the $200,000 Pat McCor-
mick Pool, dedicated in September, was named for the local
Olympic star, only four-gold-mcdal winner in Olympic his-
tory. The pool consists of two units, a 45' by 37’ by 15'
diving pool and a 45' by 120' by 3’-5’ swimming pool.

COLORADO. Rapidly growing Adams County has been di-
vided into tax districts to develop recreation facilities and
operate a well-halanced program. In November, District
#50 approved a $250,000 bond issue for additional recrea-
tion facilities and, earlier in the year, District #14 ap-
proved a $270,000 issue. The County had a population of
86,000 at the start of 1958, ended the year with a population
of approximately 94,000 and anticipates a growth of 10,000
annually for the next ten years. Says Dcan Kastens, director
of the Adams County Recreation Association, “So we have
a terrific prohlem in trying to keep abreast with our recrea-
tion plannina.”

FLORIDA. 'A four-year, $90,000 capital improvement pro-
gram for parks and playgrounds in Hialeah is being financ-
cd by a five per cent utility tax. The first major improve-
mcnt will be an Olympic-size swimming pool, scheduled for
completion this May. Three other pools are scheduled for
completion by May, 1960, and, a gym-recreation center is
planned for the third year. As part of its recreation facili-
ties expansion program, Sanford has just completed two
projects totaling $325,000: a civic center with a youth wing
and a swimming pool. Bonds issued for improvements are
to be retired from power franchise receipts. Fort Lauder-
dafe has approved $150,000 for neighborhood playground
development during 1959 and a similar amount for 1960.
It is also installing, with the assistance of two local civic
groups, two constructive apparatus areas using all-concrete
devices.

Construction of the $9,500,000 Bayway, to he completed
in about two years, will connect 5!. [’etersburg’s mainland
and golf beach with historic Mullet Key, twelve miles to the
south, in the Gulf of Mexico, at the mouth of Tampa Bay.
The key, a former U. S. government gunnery practice range,
was purchased by [’ineffas County ten years ago, and, upon
completion of the Bayway, will be developed into a multi-

FEBRUARY 1959

 

Golf beeomes available to the many as new pnblie eonrses are
developed. Hve states now report suell eourses in state parks.

million-dollar recreation area to he known as Fort De-Soto
County Park. The key’s fine beaches will be developed for
sun-surf bathing. Wildlife refuges, nature trails, camps,
shelters, and bathing facilities will be provided.

GEORGIA. A new six hundred-acre park in Savannah will
contain two golf courses, swimming pools, bridle paths,
athletic fields, and picnic areas.

KANSAS. A new nine-hole, sand-green golf course, built
around one end of the Municipal Airport runway in Em-
port'a, is U-shaped and cost $1,500.

MARYLAND. Newest of the state’s recreation sites is Cath-
fand State Park on South Mountain near Burkittsvillc, dedi-
cated in November. The 101-acrc area is the site of the
Civil War battle of South Mountain and was formerly the
estate of George Alfred “Gath” Townsend, famous Civil
War correspondent. The park offers picnic sites, tent areas
for campers, and ample opportunities for hikers, since the
Appalachian Trail runs through it. ’

MISSOURI. In the last election, 5!. Louis amended its charter
and divorced recreation and park functions from the mu-
nicipal welfare department, giving them a separate entity
as the St. Louis Department of Parks and Recreation.

N EW YORK. Construction has begun on a $350,000 public
golf course in Falfsburg and the township hopes to have the
first nine of the eighteen holes in play hy July. At the 38th
National Conference on State Parks it was reported that
five states (New York, Rhode lsland, Kentucky. Oklahoma,
and Iowa) are now operating puhlic golf courses in their
state parks and New York has the most extensive golf pro-
gram, with courses in six of its state parks. During 1958,
Bethpage State Park in Farmingdalc opened its fifth
eighteen-hole course.

OKLAHOMA. The city council in Oklahoma City has ap-
proved using 3265,680 of bond issue funds for restoring and
expanding Wiley Post Park, scheduled for formal opening
on the Fourth of July. The area will contain picnic grounds,
a pavilion, swinnning and wading pools. with dressing
rooms, walks. shuffleboard courts. a lighted softball dia~
mond with bleachers, and parking space. .1:

43

 

IMPRESSIONS OF RECREATION

Any rebuttal? These challenging observations of our recreation, by a
visitor to this country, are most appropriate as we celebrate Brother-
hood Week, February 15 to 22, and should stimulate our thinking
at any time. They will be continued in future 'issues of RECREATION.

To THE STRANGER, recreation in America, even if by force
of magnitude, is something quite overwhelming. As a
result, the visitor finds it somewhat difficult to comprehend
it all, and he can never be absolutely sure that his impres-
sions, especially when they tend to be critical, are not per-
haps owing to a lack of the necessary insight and perspec-
tive. For almost two years I have consciously refrained
from recording some of the conclusions arrived at and, even
now, they must be taken for what they are worth.

One of the first things one is taught in the USA is to be
careful about generalizations. Very soon, too, it becomes
evident that, from one center to the next, one’s impressions
are as many times confirmed as they are contradicted. It
would have been audacious of me to attempt a comprehen-
sive evaluation of American recreation; at best, this must
be seen as a few random impressions during a visit far
too short to allow for much more than superficial acquaint-
anee.

My criticism of certain features assuredly does not
claim to be authoritative and, for the purposes of this re-
port, I have deliberately resisted the temptation to elabor-
ate on all the many and obvious virtues of recreation in the
USA. These speak for themselves and are universally
acclaimed.

America, which has set the pace and the example and
which will, to a great extent, mould the philosophy, prin-
ciples, and practice of recreation for the rest of the world,
has a tremendous responsibility—and not only to itself.
With their commendable pride in having taken so much
from so many other cultures, Americans will, no doubt, be
prepared at least to consider the reactions of recreationists
from beyond their own borders.

Motivation in Recreation. In common with almost every
other participant in the exchange program (see RECREA-
TION, September, 1956, page 326), my first, and possibly
most perplexing impression, of recreation in America was
the belief of some foremost recreation philosophers that
recreation can be entirely justified on the basis of some-
thing so devoid of purpose and inspiration as “an experi-

RUDOLPH OPPERMAN, senior professional omcer and organ-
iZer of physical education and recreation, Johannesburg,
South Africa, visited the United States as a participant in the
Community Recreation Exchange Project in 1956, and at-
tended the International Recreation Congress, both sponsored

by the NRA that year.

4-4

ence or activity carried on during leisure . . . to enjoy with-
out compulsion” and without “ulterior aim.” I know that
the reply to this will be: “Oh, we have been through the
same thing fifty years ago! Thank Heavens, we no longer
have to carry recreation on the back of juvenile delinquency.
If you allow one single ulterior motive, then recreation be-
comes a tool of propaganda and exploitation and, as with
Hitler, no one knows where it might end.”

Let us grant that people could never be compelled to take
part in recreation; that enjoyment of the activity is basic
and that personal satisfaction should be the only compel-
ling agent; that recreation could never tolerate political
or other exploitation, and that it certainly is not the panacea
for all social ills.

0n the other hand, can it be denied that, although en-
joyed for their own sake and voluntarily participated in,
recreation activities do provide a wealth of eXperience and
opportunity for the participant’s social, cultural, intel-
lectual, physical, and emotional development? It is, after
all, a well-known fact that unless programs and activities
comply with the need for novelty and for a gradual but
progressive trend towards the unknown and the more ad-
vanced, they become stereotyped and monotonous. If this
is true, why are we not permitted to claim that recreation
does assist in producing socially better adjusted person-
alities; that it is a positive factor in achieving higher levels
of cultural activity; that, of necessity, it entails the proc-
ess of learning and of intellectual growth; that it can be
a valuable means of attaining higher standards of physical
efIieieney; and that it does hold within itself the potential
of countless experiences conducive to mental health and
emotional well-being?

Whether they are to be called by-products, or whether
sponsoring agencies wish to claim them as reasons or
“ulterior” motives in order to secure their share of the tax
dollar, is, to our way of thinking, immaterial. The fact
remains, they are inherent in recreation experience. There-
fore, recreation can be a force in the fields of informal edu-
cation, citizenship training, delinquency prevention, physi-
cal and mental health, and cultural advancement. If we
believe that man is the sum tdtal of his inheritance and of
his experience in his environment, then recreation can be
no exception.

American recreation philosophy does concede the “virus
of growth” in recreation, but in its anxiety over the abuses

RECREATION

IN AMERICA

Rudolph W. J. Opperman

of nazisni, communism, and fascism, it has, to our mind,
gone to thc other extreme of unnecessarily underplaying the
merits and significance of recreation’s “concomitant learn-
ings.” It is noteworthy that the value of recreation has been
hailed more oftcn by workers in the fields of social welfare.
medicine, mental health, and education than by recreation-
ists themselves. To the outsider it is also rather strange
that so relatively little research seems to have been done.
either to prove or to disprove the contribution of satisfac-
Iory recreation experience in relation to these spheres.

Perhaps the USA does not need to justify the expenditure
of millions of dollars on recreation, beyond the claim that
children have the right to play in the same way as they have
the right to eat and to receive education. In almost every
other country, however, recreation will have to find a higher
reason for its cxistence and support than the mere gather-
ing together of people for the sake of enjoyment. If not, we
shall find ourselves being placed in the same category as
the bioscopc, the circus, and Concy Island. What is more,
children are not fed and educated ust because of the proven
values of eating and education.

We appreciate the dangers of exploitation. Just as we
can have abuse in education, we can have corruption of the
nature and the spirit of recreation. As long as it retains
freedom of choice and freedom to take part or to refrain,
and as long as it remains free of political influence and of
compulsion, in whatever form, we do not apologize for be-
lieving that our approach to the opportunities of leisure
must be positive—to utilize it constructively for both indi-
vidual development and community well-being. The most
virtuous of human endeavors can be abused, even religion.
To us the issue is one of good recreation and of bad recrea-
tion. Not to admit thc good for fear of the bad is to show
a lack of faith and to deny that in recreation too there is
room and a need for balance and discretion. #

(To be continued)

MAN

Man is the one name belonging to every na-
tion on earth: there is one soul and many
tongues, one spirit and many sounds; every
country has its own speech, but the subjects
of speech are common to a”.—TERTULI.IAN.

Fannusav 1959

“The Choice of Those
Who Play The Game"

 

 

l
l
l
l
I
I
l
I
I
l
+
I
l
l
t
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

   

       

uln-

look to MocGregor first for the finest in all spods equipment.

The MacGregor Co. 0 Cincinnati 32, Ohio
FOOTBALL - BASEBALL - BASKETBALL - GOLF - TENNIS

 

  

  

   
  

" HES " GRAVES onermznron
Park 8. Recreation Specialists

1275 Spring St., N.W., Atlanta 9, Go.
Surveys - Buildings - Pools - Pork Plans

 

   

 

Olympic
Champion
Bob Richards.

Director of the

I . I  Wheaties
Sports

’ Federation

 

I
Win 3 COMMUNITY RECREATION KIT!

Ioln the Wheatles Sports Federation's YOUTH FITNESS IDEA SEARCH

As its newest project to help stimulate increased interest in youth fitness.
the Wheaties Sports Federation will award ISO Community Recreation Kits.
Your organization can be a winner! We want your ideas: "WHAT CAN THE
WHEATIES SPORTS FEDERATION DO TO PROMOTE YOUTH FITNESS?"
Rules ot the Youth Fitness Idea Search are on specially marked New Wheaties
packages, at your grocer's now. Or write tor rules to: General Mills. 80:: Ill,
Minneapolis 60. Minnesota

Community Recreatlon Kits conslst ol:

47-picce Harry Gill Junior Champ Set—track and
Held equipment scaled to size tor youngsters.

PLUS . . . 2 Voit footballs 1 Volt basketball
1 Vet! volleyball 1 Volt soccer ball
2 Voit aollballs 2 toutsvills Sluuu bals

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention thaurlox. 45

l

Tun to}: Tts'rss in music are almost
entirely impossible to predict.
What catches the adolescent fancy in
the spring may have a vastly diminished
attraction by summer.

According to David I‘iiesman. profes-
sor of social sciences at the University
of Chicago, "Most of the teenagers in
the majority category have an indis-
rriminate taste in popular music; they
seldom caprcss articulate preferences.
The functions of music for this group
arc social-—-the music gives them some-
thing to talk or kid about with friends,
an opportunity for competitiveness in
judging which tunes will become hits,
coupled with a lack of concern about
how hits are actually made; an oppor-
tunity for identification with star sing-
crs or band leaders as ‘personalities.’ ”

Through the years, dillerent styles of
music. have had their days in teenage
favor. Ragtime. swing, hop, and rock
'n' roll are all part of the vocabulary of
someone’s adolescence and all serve the
important function of giving young-

TEENAGERS and MU SIC

 

46

sters the chance to discover something
of their own—something not handed to
them by their parents and others of the
grown-up world.

The one identifying characteristic of
all these types of young music is its
heat. While it may not be good music,
it does have good, infectious rhythm——
the kind that complements and inspires
the dancing of youth—such as the
Charleston, Big Apple, Shag, and Jit-
terbug.

Given the opportunity, teenagers are
likely to progress in their musical de-
velopment beyond the pure rhythm
stage. Henry Sopkin, conductor of the
\tlanta Symphony Orchestra, says:
"Teenagers are not afraid to taste new
compositions and to enjoy both the new
The American
Music Conference has found that as

99

and the. old classics.

soon as a musical instrument is intro-
(lueed into the teenager’s life, he quickly
moves on to more refined intlsieal in-
terests. ABC points to the dearth of
teenage heavy-rhythm combos to sup-

port this theory. When the estimated
3,750,000 teenagerspwho play musical .
instruments gather for group music ses- I
sions, they gather in bands, youth sym-
phony orchestras, dance bands, and
string ensembles. The music they pro-
duce themselves is full and deep, rather
than strictly pulsating.

Teens always will have their rhythm
music; it is an inevitable part of grow-
ing up and must be accepted as a nat-
ural inclination. How quickly the teen-
ager passes through this initial stage of
musical preferences depends a great ex-
tent on the exposure to other types of
music he is given at home and school.

Community Musical Activity

Serving as life insurance on the cul-
tural activity in thousands of American
communities, these youth groups bridge
the gap between school music pro-
grams and adult musical organizations
and prepare the community’s young-
sters for active participation in their
town’s affairs.

Teens will always have their rhythmic
music, but are quick to progress beyond that stage. . .

Music plays its part in forging lhe bonds
of hrolherhood. These young folks in
Boysville, Miehigan, are making a prom-
ising start toward the building of good
citizenship. Today, youlh symphonies are
a growing force in the cnllural life of the
Com m unity, provide excellent experience.

RECaEATION

 

High-school combo holds a jam session
at home of one of the boys in “'innetka,
Illinois. Rhythm is part of growing-up.

Youth symphonies are a growing
force in the cultural life of the commu-
nity, affording youngsters the Oppor-
tunity of developing musical talents in
a rich and challenging atmosphere.
They also allow young people a chance
to supplement their school music train-
ing by performing with a larger organi-
zation than might exist in school. Youth
orchestras are a good training ground
in advanced orchestral concert work,
since they prime the future members of
the adult community orchestra or band.
0 Lafayette, Indiana, is one of the
many communities with an organized
young people’s symphony orchestra, to
give its youth the opportunity to gain
experience in orchestral playing. The
Lafayette Youth Symphony is a two-
year-old organization that, as one board
member put it, “develops initiative in
the children and encourages a broader
and more democratic outlook under re-
sponsible l e a d e rs h i p .” Community
leaders feel that by participating with
other boys and girls of their own age,
the average youngster will take an even
greater interest in his music studies.

0 Youthful enthusiasm, {inc music, and
good fun come out of the Junior Civic
Orchestra in Cincinnati, Ohio. The
young musicians’ ages range from ten
to seventeen. Thc orchestra’s conductor,
John F. Beroset, says the experience of
playing in a civic music group is valu-
able to youngsters.

0 Community leaders
Texas. consider their youth symphony

in Houston,

an ambassador of good will for their

FEBRUARY 1959

town and a “gilt-edge investment in [he
future of our city and country.”

0 Members of the Lexington. Ken-
lucky, Youth Symphony Orchestra are
musically active the year ’round. Prac-
ticc sessions and concerts fill the fall
and winter tnonths and, in the summer,
the young musicians are trained by in-
strumental specialists at a nearby music

camp.

Other active orchestras and bands:

——An orchestra for young people in
Lawrence, Massachusetts, organized at
St. George's Church.

—The Albuquerque, New Mexico,
Youth Symphony, an honor organiza-
tion composed of a group of students
reconnnended by school music direc-
tors.

——The Lakeland Youth Symphony in
Morris County, New Jersey, organizcd
after a survey in the area indicated a
need for such a symphony orohestra.

——The Rhode Island Philharmonic
Youth Orchestra.

—T h 0 Worcester, Massachusetts,
Youth Orchestra, whose instrumental-
ists range in age from an eleven-year-
old cellist Up to musicians in their early
twenties.

--—-Thc newly formed East Baton
Rouge, Louisiana, Youth Symphony,
the only such group in the state.

--—-Tbc Phoenix, Arizona, Youth Or-
chestra, bringing together the talents of
more than forty local teenagers.

—The Robin Hood Band of Culver
City, California, which has an outstand-
ing reputation throughout the nation,
and takes part in such important events
as the Mother Goose Parade in San
Diego, the Santa Claus Hollywood Par-
ade, and the Rose Bowl Parade, and
makes numerous other concert and
marching appearances.

—Thc Roanoke, Virginia, Youth
Symphony, conducted under the watch-
ful eye of the Junior League of Roanoke
and the lioanoke Symphony Orchestra
and Auxiliary.

——The Youth Orchestra for Strings in
Washington, D. C.

—Tl1c Young Peoples Musicians’
Society of West Springfield. Massachu-
setts. aiming to promote a spirit of co-
operation in musical activities among
yolllll, to bring out particular nmsical
abilities, to further music culture, and
to prepare the instrumentalists for puh-

lie performances in groups as well as
individually.

—~The jnnior members of the Musi-
cians Club of liielnnond, Virginia.

—~- The Le ltighto n, Pennsylvania,
Boy s’ Band, so important to the commu-
nity that the citizens have financially
supported the building of a band hall
for its concerts.

—The Vineland, New Jersey, Youth
Symphony Orchcsra, sponsored by the
recreation connnission. to give the ad-
vantages of training in advanced or-
chestral concert work to those who are
seriously interested in continuing and
improving their musical knowledge.

—The Akron, Ohio, Youth Orches-
tra, whose members strive to become
instrumentalists with the Akron Sym-
phony Orchestra.

——The New City, New York, Ameri-
can Legion Junior Band, winner of four
New York State championship cita-
tions.

—The Catholic Youth Council con-
cert hand in Worcester, Massachusetts,
made up of high-school students, to ap-
pear principally at youth-council activi-
ties throughout the diocese.

—The All-City Elementary School
Orchestra of New Britain, Connecticut.

—The Boy Scout Band of San An-
tonio, Texas.

——The Student Symphony of Chi-
cago, composed of North and North-
west Chicago youths.

—The Milwaukee, \Visconsin, Youth
Symphony Orchestra, a phase of the
Children’s Arts Program of the Milwau-
kee Junior League and Art’ Institute.

These total up to an impressive twen-
ty-two serious youth music projects in
operation around the country.

Never before have so many teenagers
participated in musical activity; music
by and for young people is on a definite
np-swing. Dr. George llowerton, dean
of the school of music at Northwestern
University. finds reason for this boom
in the fact that “most young people
have more time to spare. than in the
past. Family budgets are less depen-
dent on early teen earnings. Child labor
laws have cut down on part-time work
for youngsters. Music-making fills the
gap. lt can be enjoyed as a group acti-
vity, to keep you busy and happy. Mu-
sic is also a resource, if you’re alone.”

6!?

 

Bunny family plays host to school children. Here, a
youngster receives some jelly beans from Miss Bunny
(note carrot). Grandma Bunny can be seen at right.

CHANNELED along constructive lines, teenage energy can

produce a gratifying product of youthful imagination,
resourcefulness, and initiative. Too many times, when plan-
ning a program, we overlook the vast potential of this group
for eonnnunity service. With his abundance of energy, the
teenager is a natural resource for volunteer community
projects.

The teenagers of Wilton, Connecticut, have proved this
by initiating one of the largesLattended special events that
a community has ever witnessed. The annual Easter Egg
Hunt has proven their capabilities, and is now a recognized
community sermce.

“Bunnyland” is a part of this Easter event, and is a magi-
cal world of crépe-paper trees, oversized carrots, cabbage
plants. and picket fences—in which members of the bunny
family hold forth in festive drcss, much to the delight of
local tots. It all was conceived and created by cnthusiasti-
cally busy youngsters in their teens.

The hunt, itself, is operated by the Wilton Teen Council,
with the assistance of the local PTA’s and is open to chil-
dren in kindergarten and grades one, two, and three——with

 

Bunnyland serving the preschool group. Teenagers an-
nounce the event with gay fiyers distributed to those grades
in all schools. They givc timc, place, and other particulars.
Youngsters are asked to bring their hard-boiled, dyed cggs
to school on the Thursday before Good Friday and thcy
are then placed in classroom containers. A PTA repre-
sentative collects them and takes them to a central dis-
tribtiting point. In the meantime, Tecn Council members
E . are dcsigning, collecting, and constructing all props re-
gg quired for an enchanting Bunnyland. Early on the Satur-
day morning before Easter it is constructed on the site of

l I 0 the egg hunt, and becomcs the focal point of the event.
 \Vhile one group is working on this, another is filling
colored napkins with jelly beans, contributed by a local
merchant. They are placed in a gaily decorated whcelbar-
 row in the teen-created fantasy land. thn all construc-
tion is finished, and everything ready for use, the teen-
agers set about the task of hiding some twenty-three hun-
dred Easter eggs previously collected from the schools.
After all are hidden and tucked away within the confines
“Bunnyland” for tots. of thc chosen site, a patrol of teen supervisors guards the
area from possible egg poachers. This group maintains

control of the area, directs traIlic away from the immediate
entrances, and restrains the crowd from the section where

In which teenagers create a magical

the eggs are hidden.

As the time for the egg hunt approaches, two teenagers,
dressed in “Miss Bunny” and “Grandma Bunny” costumes,
are escorted to a new convertible automobile, loaned by a
local dealer. The escort is a teenage boy dressed in purple

Edward L. Ericson MR. ERICSON is director of recreation in Wl'Iton, Connecticut.

48 I RECREATION

W'illon Teen Council members record names at egg hunt

and direct youngsters to various sections of the site.

swallowtail coat, yellow bowtie and trousers, and a high
hat. All costumes are loaned to the young people by a local
resident. The convertible, with bunnies sitting on the rear

.-

 

seat. is then slowly driwn throngh the main business dis-
trict. At [no t'.M.. the bunnies and escort arrhe at the
site of the egg hunt. take their places In Bunnvland. and
officially open the hunt. hince it is open only to voungslers
in kindergarten through third grade the vounger uhildren
visit Bunnyland. talk with the bunnies. and receive a small
packet of jelly beans. This allows all youngsters an op-
portunity to participate in some portion of thc Easter
special event.

When the first prize, golden, and second prize. silver
eggs, are returned for prize remuneration, the youngsters
participating in the hunt may also pass through Bunny-
land. Prizc eggs were spray-painted gold or silver, marked
with an identifying marker, then sprayed with clear plastic.
as a precaution against individuals furnishing their own
prize eggs. When all the prize eggs are returned, and every-
one who desired to pass through Bunnyland has done so.
the. bunnics return through the center of town to their
burrows until the following year. i

Last year, the over-all attendance w as estimated at twenty-
two hundred from a community of seventy-twin hundred.
This figure was four hundred over the previous year's at-
tendance, and bears witness to the huge response to the
activity by the community. The entire operation would not
be possible without the brigade of teenage volunteers, and
the wonderful imagination they inherently possess. This

‘ is just one of many teen-sponsored activities, but is the high-

light of the present teen volunteer program. This activity,
alone, is proof of the ability and unselfish willingness of
the teenage group to serve people other than themselves. #-

 

 

Program for Mentally Retarded

Another step fora-71rd,
in providing "recreation
for all . . 

An experimental recreation program
for mentally retarded youth has been
of great interest to the Bridgeport.
Connecticut, Recreation Department
during recent months. A group, known
as the Parents and Friends of Mentally
Retarded Children, became concerned
about the recreation life of these chil-
dren and wanted to do something about
it. ( They previously had succeeded
in persuading the board of education to
provide special classes in the schools.)

A club for boys and young men from
fourteen to thirty years of age, was
formed, to meet in a centrally located
school gymnasium one night each week.
A leader, carefully selected from per-
sonnel at Bridgeport’s indoor recrea-
tion centers, was assigned to it. Parents
brought the boys to the gymnasium.
observed the activities while waiting.

FEBRUARY 1959

and took them home. Several fathcrs
assisted the leader during the program.

At the beginning, many of these boys
were awkward and lacked coordination.
Some had never handled nor thrown
a ball; some could not talk or be Under-
stood by anyone but their parents. It
was a diflicult but challenging situation.
There was such a wide variance in their
ability that they were broken up into
small groups and taught to play simple
games rcquiring handling, passing, and
throwing a ball; relays with running,
hopping, and jumping; and simple
games of imitating animals, birds, and
so on. The most difhcult cases received
individual attention with the fathers
assisting. It was surprising to see the
great improvement made in a short
time. Soon they were shooting baskets.
playing games of modified basketball,
volleyball, and kickball. Thcv were also
taUght simple dances and then square
dances. During the summer the club

continued to meet outdoors in one of
the parks and the boys were taught to
play softball, hike, and to enjoy nature
and swimming.

In the fall, when the club came back
to the gym, it was decided to have the
girls come one night each month for
square dancing. This project has been
successful. Parents have provided rc-
frcshmcnts at the end of each club meet-
ing and plan a party each month.

The leader is most enthusiastic about
his group and finds working with them
and watching their accomplishments
very satisfying. He is a most patient
and sympathetic leader, and everyone
thinks he is a swell fellow. The enthu-
siasm of the club and the parents is
most gratifying and we feel we are per.
forming a line service to a group who
were formerly neglected and forgotten
in our rccrcation program: - l. Ronrn'r
3i. Sue-1.72, Superintendent of Recrea-
tion. Bridgeport, Fonnern'cnt.

49

Seward L. StaIey

A look at our neighbors in other countries
re-ernphasizes the close tie-in between
sports and physical fitness.

THERE iIAS been a steady increase in sport participation
in W'estern European countries since the close of \Vorld
War II. The amount of participation in all categories is the
highest for all times, and all indications point to a further
increase. These developments were explained as outcomes
of an increase in leisure time, which provides increased
time for participation, and a widespread sensitivity to the
fact that the existing progressivc decrease in manual lahor
nccessitatcs an increasc in “other” types of vigorous activity,
if individual and national vitality is to be maintained.

Thc most popular participation sports today in \Vestern
Europe are hiking, soccer, gymnastics, skiing, cycling, and
swimming. To this must he added hoccc in ltaly, riflc-
target shooting in Switzerland, and cricket and bowls in
England. As rcgards the matter of passive participation——
spcctator, reader, and so on——the most popular sports are
soccer, cyclciendurance racing, automobile endurance rac-
ing, boxing. track and field athletics, and, perhaps, horsc
racing. There are also skiing in Austria, Switzerland, and
Germany, and cricket and dog racing in England.

As in thc past, a very high percentage of active sport par«
ticipation is membership in local sport clubs. In general,
these cluhs are of three typcs: those that sponsor one sport
(soccer, judo, rowing, riding,cycling, track and field, bowls,
mountaineering, hunting, fencing, gymnastics, tennis, and
so on; those that sponsor a few sports (two, three, or four) ;
and those that sponsor many sports (five to twenty or more).
Of these three types, the first is the most common. Some are
organized independently, that is without institutional spon-
sorship: some are organized under institutional sponsor-
ship (church, labor organization, political party, and so
on). They range in size from fifteen to five thousand mem-
hers; the most common size pcrhaps is from thirty to one
hundred. Some have no club accommodations (meeting in
a home or in a drinking-hall annex) and no sport facilities
(using city or other club facilities); some have elaborate
cluh houses and extensive facilities.

ln Europc, the sport movement centers in, and stems
from, a club organization. Nice——225,000 population—has

 

DR. STALEY is dean of the College of Physical Education,
University of Illinois. On a recent sabbatical leave project he
made a general survey of the current sport and training situa-
tion in western Europe, traveling 7 .200 miles‘ by rented auto-
mobile through nine countries: France, Spain, Portugal, ltaly,
Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Holland, and Belgium. Ex-
cerpted from his report to the 1957 Illinois Governor’s C on-
ference on Youth Fitness.

50

The European Sport Scene

 

at least one hundred sport clubs, with a total memhership
of at least forty thousand, and these clubs sponsor at least
forty different sports. In Munich, it is estimated that there
are at lcast three hundred sport clubs, with a total memher-
ship of at least two hundred thousand, sponsoring at least
sevcnty different sports. The 1956 classified telephone di-
rectory for Paris (population 2,500,000) lists eighty-five
multiple-sport cluhs and over five hundred single-Sport
clubs and commercial sport centcrs, largely the former.

Paris has a total of twelve large public sport centcrs
located in its environs. Each of these covers an area of
from fifty to two hunder or more acres and provides fa-
cilitics for many sports—soccer, field hockey, rugby, has-
ketball, volleyball, track and field, swimming, and the like.
Cologne has a green belt one kilometer wide and forty
kilometers long. running from the Rhine river on the east
to the Rhine river on the west and encircling the city on
the south. devoted exclusively to sport and outdoor recrea-
tion activities. Along thc Tiber in Home, in one two-mile
stretch. there were twenty-seven boathouses anchored in
the river. In The Hague, I saw two clusters of soccer fields:
one contained eight fields, the,other seven. Each was lo-
catcd in a large parklike area that contained other sport
facilities——playgrounds, running tracks, handball courts,
tennis courts, and the like. Vienna had a total of over one
hundred puhlic and private gymnasiurns. In Switzerland
and Austria evcry city of consequence has one or more
adjacent ski centers.

England has a private organization, The Playing Fields
Association, whose sole function is to secure additional
playing fields for the nation. In Lisbon, a city of 900,000,

there were six stadia in use and [our more in process of

RECREATION

 

Left, DllA Sports Center in Arabia spon-
lors such sports as tennis, track activities,
basketball. Centers in the Middle East are
also interested in many different sports.

construction, each accommodating from ten to sixty thous-
and spectators.

All Austrian, German, Swiss, and Belgian universities and
teclmical schools sponsor and promote student participa-
tion in sport. lnstitutional participation in this program is
limited largely to general leadership and general super-
vision. The program is officially supported through an in-
stitutional sports committee, composed of representatives
of the administration, the faculty, and the students, a limited
sports budget, a limited sports administration staff, and a
few sports facilities.

Most programs, however, are carried on by local indi-
vidnal (one-activity) sport clubs (soccer, boating, moun-
taineering, swimming, basketball, and so on) managed by
the students. Most clubs engage a coach or coaches, usu-
ally amateurs who donate their services; some, however,
employ full-time or part-time professionals. Each club car-
ries on a varied program of activities.

The national and/or regional sport-center movement is
especially interesting. We have nothing quite like this insti-
tution in the United States. These centers, now increasing
rapidly, have largely come into being since the close of
World War ll. While these differ somewhat as regards
ownership (public or private), location (urban and rural).
and in other ways, all conform to the general pattern. Each
owns or controls an area—ranging from one hundrcd to
five hundred or more acres, provides housing and eating
accommodations for groups—ranging from one hundred to
three hundred persons; provides a variety of facilities—
sport fields. sport buildings, locker rooms, shower rooms.
meeting rooms, and offices, and employs a permanent ad-
ministration, lcadership, and maintenancc staflnranging

FEBRUARY 1959

Sailing on the \Voerlhesee, In Auslrla.
l‘mte club house in background. Skiing,
however, is Austrla's lop favorlte sport.

 

Novices are shown how to earry a kayak at liishanl Abbey, :1 national recreatlon
center on the Thames, England, run by Central Council of Physical Education.

from twenty to five hundred persons. Each center also pro-
vides a variety of training programs: short courses for
sport leaders, ranging from one week to four months; short
courses for individuals interested in learning a sport, rang-
ing from two days to two wecks; short courses for promis-
ing sport performers, ranging from two days to two weeks;
and conferences of national, regional, and local sport groups
and leaders, ranging from one day to one week. These ccn-
ters are used as a training ground for national sport teams
prior to international competitions, ranging from one weck
to one month, and carry on programs in sport research—
physiological, methods of training, techniqucs, and so on.

ln general, the centers conduct three types of programs:
those sponsored by the center; those sponsored by a govern-
ment agency—national military department, provincial de-
partment of education, and similar agenciesr-and those
sponsored by private agencies. All centcrs, except those
devoted exclusively to winter sports, sponsor and promote
the entire range of sport—acrobatic stunts (diving, tum-
bling), athletic games (badminton, soccer), competitive
contests (fencing, judo), country sports (canoe-ing, moun-
taincering), individual sports (archery, field events). and
miscellaneous sports (ta rget-rille. shooting, weight training).

Most Amcricans are disposcd to assume that the Ameri-
can pcople are more sport-minded than any other nalional
group: There are no studies bearing on the. subject, and it
would he excecdingly diflicult to make any. Nonetheless, it
seems appropriate to report that. rigltt or wrong. percent-
agewise, there is more active participation and more inter-
est in sports in most of the countries visited than in the
United States (Portugal, Spain. ltaly, and Franee are the
possible exceptions). #

OPERATION OF

 

Thomas R. Baincs

ONSTRUCTION of a children’s zoo was made possible for
C the Calgary, Canada, Zoological Society, in the spring
of 1956, through an anonymous donation. The society, there-
fore, mailed a questionnaire to those zoos now operating
successfully. The following summary lists the twelve ques-
tions and the twenty-five replies returned. The response
was high. for only thirty questionnaires were sent out.
Q Do you charge admission? Sixteen said yes. eight said
no. If so. how much? Quite a wide range of replies re-
ceived ranged from five cents to twenty-five cents, with ten
cents seeming to be standard practice, and some zoos allow-
ing a reduction to organized groups.

%} What staff do you employ? Except where regular zoo
keepers were employed, female help appears to be more
popular than male.

Ea Wages? Several zoos pay a very high salary to the per-
son in charge, feeling that the responsibility for so many
children and animals calls for this high rate; for the balance
of the staff, wages run from fifty. cents to one dollar fifty.

52

a} Uniforms? Some wear usual zoo uniforms, others bush
shirts, blue jeans, and a badge.

%3 Hours of opening and closing? 10:00 A.M. or 10:30
A.M. to 5:30 or 6:00 P.M. seemed standard practice.

a} What are the arrangements for adults entering the chil-
dren’s zoo? Four zoos replying admit any adults on pay-
ment, but most insist that adult be accompanied by child;
two do not admit adults:

£3 Educational work? Most of the zoos appear to consider
that education in the ordinary sense should be left to other
park departments and any education received in the chil-
dren’s zoo should be incidental and as such is picked up by
any observant child. Some arrange talks for groups.

h Your most popular feature? Almost unanimous was the
reply that the “contact” pens and animals running loose
were by far the most popular feature. Dealing more speci-
fically with the most popular animals one said talking birds,
but bahy pigs and goats appear most popular. The bottle
feeding and animals running loose appeared to “steal the
show.”

a) l f rebuilding, what features would you add or delete?
Here again, as above, replies emphasizcd the desire to add
more pens whcre animals and children can mingle, and the
animals can get petted. Other replies advised not staying
too close to nursery rllymcs or other thcmes. This makes it
casier to interchange exhibits, which add greater interest.
Also it is considcred good for the exhibits themselves to
be rested; as for instance, the schoolhouse and “Mary and
the Lamb” are popular but here one is rather tied down to
the same exhibit. Some intcnd to add silnple trained animal
acts. Some state greater attention should be paid to more
elaborate housing,_ but that while adults will be attracted by
the housing, it is the animals that the children really appre-
ciate. Some would delete “Pussy in the Well” as it invoked
criticism from cat lovers. Several intended to add an otter
slide, although none have cxplained who will teach the otter
to slide!

a} What number of people can you accommodate? Quite a
wide range of replies varying from two hundred at a time
to five thousand a day.

a) Area? Replies varied from eight thousand square feet
to two, five, and even sixtcen acres.

E} Special comments. Most children’s zoos appear profit-
able. As one director stated, “Few people refuse a child
anything. Shade and clean water supply are essential. No
animal must be kept that is fed, housed, or handled in such
a way as to invoke pity. Absolute cleanliness and good man-
ners are esscntial.”

Other than admittance itcms, no questions on financing
were asked as each zoo must face its own problems.

From these replies it is apparent that efficient manage-
ment is more important than amount of arca or amount of
money available, but this, of course, also applies to any zoo.
Many of the above items proved of interest, and certainly
the cooperation and obvious enthusiasm of those replying
made the survey well worth the effort. h

 

MR. BAINES is curator of the Calgary Zoological Society.

RECREATION

Portrait of

Mr. Recreation—
Part II

Last month, RECREATION Magazine un-
veiled “A Portrait of Mr. Recreation,”
based on its survey of recreation execu-
tives. Here are further facts regarding
Mr. Recreation—who might be called
“The man of many hats . . . ”

MONO items Mr. Recreation purchases regularly are
Apieces of equipment his department is prepared to
loan or rent to individuals or groups on request. Although
jukeboxcs, sound trucks and other vehicles, platforms, and
other heavy and expensive pieces of equipment occasionally
were reported in this category, the table right shows that
the items most frequently borrowed or rented from sub-
scribers’ departments are the readily portable units needed
for picnics and other outdoor gatherings or for an after-
noon or evening of entertainment.

To determine whether the recession felt in industry, in
the latter half of 1957, had been reflected in Mr. Recreation’s
budget for the following year, the questionnaire asked him
to indicate how his 1958 budget compared with that of
1957. Of the 476 RECREATION-reader executives answering
this question, 310 reported they had more money to spend
in 1958, while 140 had about the same amount as in 1957.
Only twenty-six had a smaller budget in 1958. This would
appear to be an encouraging sign that recreation is no
longer considered merely a pleasant luxury, to be dropped
from municipal budgets as soon as tax reCeipts begin to
shrink.

As the demand for recreation facilities and services in-
creases, recreation and park executives are making exten-
sive plans to meet it. The following major construction
projects will be undertaken in 1959-60 by one or more of the

EQUIPMENT Mam: Manama; “to 1m: l’t'auc
IIY liimnigns’ Acnsrnzs us A liiznut. on LOAN BASH

 

Number at I"! can

heat Leaning Agencies 0| Reap-node"
Public. Address dyslrms .................. .. 3l6  ................ .. @74
Picnic Kits  , .............. ..  . 302  w to
lit-(turd Players ..... .. 245  ..  ..... .. 57
Projectors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 244  ............. .. 57
Sort-t us . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 210  .......... .. . 4")
Records ................................. .. ,. 177 o ...................... .. 4l

First Aid Kits .............................. "@124 .................................. .. 29
Movies ...........................................  12o ...............................  23

—

Cameras ..................................... ..

Tape Recorders ................. .. :1

Costumes ............................ .. b ......... .. 59 ...................... ... ..... .. l4
MUSicallnslruments & .................. .. 15 .................................. .. 3

departments headed by RECREATION subscribers:

75 .................................. .. l?

 

 

Band shell Heating units
Bathliouscs Marinas
Bleachers Skeet ranges
Boat docks Tennis courts
Bowling alleys Yacht club
Civic auditorium Zoo

In response to a question about the types of articles they
most want to see in RECREATION, more than half of the 592
reader-executives replying want articles dealing with the

following:

Teenagers .......................... .. 496 Arts and crafts .................. .. 374
New ideas .......................... .. 4-85 News of equipment and
Administration .................. .. 462 facilities .......................... .. 362
Senior citizens .................. .. 444 New products ...................... .. 338
Special events .................... .. 442 Games ................................. .. 316
Families .............................. .. 401 Sports .................................. .. 303
Training of personnel ...... .. 382 Buildings and equipment .. 300

This distribution indicates that Mr. Recreation is inter-
ested primarily in people, in doing the best possible job
for them, learning about new products, providing optimum
facilities and programs, and growing in his profession. In
short, he is a man with whom it is a pleasure to be associ-
atcd and whom it is an honor to serve—MURtEL MCCANN,

NRA Research Department and ESTA GLUCK, RECREATION
Magazine Advertising.

 

\Vinter Trees

 

FEBRUARY 1959

I think that I shall never shi
Again against so stont a tree.

A tree whose ragged bark is
pressed

ln has-relief npon my chest.

A tree that with haccltantic air

H’ears shi poles in its tangled hair.

I’ve learned my lesson: Fools

like me

Shonld never try to shave a tree.

—CONRAD DIEKMANN
From 530”: illustrated.
I959, Time, Inc.

53

MUSIC 18

“Please, Mr. C ello, tell me your secrets!”
Unafraid, a little girl edges in closer.

Euture drummer is fascinated with rum-
ble of kettledrum and is allowed to try it.

 

Right. sound uf harp's short strings ex-
t‘ites this tot. M usic-malcing intrigues her.

 

Left, deep-throated tones of Bee-
thoven's Fifth bring hands to ears.

 

“This seems to be bigger than both
of us!" Youngster and big bass.

 

“1C FOR TINY TOTS

D OER \tl'Stf“ charm thc young? (inc
faces shms's how irresistibl) they arc
drawn to its magic sounds and the

gluncc at the expression on thcsc

strange objects that make it. .\ll chil-
dren fulluw it naturally.

Therefore, the National Spuplmuy
Orchestra. in the natiun’s capital, has
conceived the bright idea of giving
Tiny Tot Concerts, during which thc

Vttllllghlt‘l'S haw u chanco' n-ut unh‘ tn
hctlr hut tn feel. touch. Mu“. twmg.
thump. and Inns it: instrumcntn. til i.—
intcrcsting [u notu- huw mam uf tm.lu}°s
t‘llihin'tt heard "lix‘c'i
music! I Thc highlight for thc childrcn
Cumm- during inlcrtuissiun, uhcn thcy

havc nun-r

arc given r‘nrtc Narrch to wander almut
thc orchestra tn tluir hearts’ cnntcnt.

Pt‘l‘furllltfta rcnmin at. their music

atatntls tn amwcr children's qucatiuue.

liming. thu- I'll‘l'it-I'Ftlnlll‘l' tun unir.
hiLitcd thiifin'h “.mdtr Jimul
in Lhihtatu thrcu
c-nnununia .1tiun ln-txw. n 00ft'ilt“lI-t and

I‘.’i l
t Inst-t itmh'ntft .
\nunp listt-ncr tlu ('nttl‘!‘r[!- .ll‘t' hr'hi in

achuul gunnaaium» rather [fun at
(.tlllhlillllillll 
This kind nf cunt-r11 might “v” I)"

n unt'luctcd In mnnnumh {Iftilf struts- 2::

Audience at a Tiny To! Symphony ("ormrt gums upclwnumhed m the rcHis-t m ht' Nays .1 x-unuruux Imumrc' tm 'hm.

 

The term “physical fitness” might well apply to these oltlsters
enjoying the recreation activities in Caldwell, New Jersey.
It is important to introduee the older eilizen to new interests.

 

Intent participant in a erafls class in Lexington, Kentucky.
Snell proJeets are very often part of community-scrviee pro-
gram and lll(‘lll(l(‘ making things for local hospitals and homes.

NEW DIRECTIONS for OLDSTERS

Residency Plan

RIGINALLY SET UP IN 1954 by

Catholic Charities as a conven-
tional recreation center for older per-
sons, the Kundig Center in Detroit,
Michigan, was geared to the usual hob-
by activities and counseling programs.
However, Father W'ilbur Suedkamp, CC
secretary for the Archdiocese of De-
troit, soon realized, during the course
of visiting some of the elderly members,
that the center had to offer something
more. “You have no idea,” he says, “of
the misery, poor diet, and utter neglect
of elementary health measures that I
found among elderly people trying to
live by themselves.”

Therefore, Father Sucdkamp helped
evolve the center’s “campus residency”
For participating members,
warm, clean rooms are found in the
neighborhood of the center, which then
provides them with three meals a day,
at minimum cost, prepared by a com-
petcnt chef. In addition, the plan also
offers the clublike advantages of a well-
organized (lay center with a recreation
social program, constructive arts and
crafts activities, and an adult education
program. The center’s programs are
open to all members, the great majority

plan.

56

of whom are not involved in the resi-
dency plan.

The center is housed in an abandoned
recreation building owned by the
church and entirely redecorated for its
new purpose. Financial help comes
from the Archdiocesan Development
Fund; incomes from the residents. such
as OASI benefits and Old-Age Assis-
tance payments; the United Community
Services of Detroit; and voluntary eon-
tributions through the Martin Kundig

Cuild.

Post-Retirement Planning

The problem of how to utilize post-
retircment years was the subject of a
five-day conference sponsored by the
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Department of
Municipal Recreation and WTMJ-TV.
The conference emphasized that an im-
portant aspect of this problem eoncern-
ed recreation: finding new interests for
the older citizen and adapting various
recreation activities to him.

More than six hundred delegates
from industrial firms and Milwaukee
area organizations attended. Among
them were representatives from the
Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Com-
pany; the Dairy Council of Milwaukee;

the General Electric Company; the So-
cial Security Administration; the Com-
munity Welfare Council; the Miller
Brewing Company; the Milwaukee
Health Department; and the Veterans
Administration. Also participating, on
discussion panels and committees, were
numerous responsible local residents,
including representatives for Milwau-
kec government, industry, business, and
welfare agencies.

Following each day’s sessions a spe-
cially selected recommendations com-
mittee of local persons met to study the
suggestions made. Those of greatest
merit were seleeted for plaeement be-
fore the entire conference for action at
the elosing session.

As an outgrowth of the conference, a
temporary advisory committee was se-
lected to help put into effect various
recommendations coming from the eon-
ference. High on their list of projects
was assisting the municipal recreation
department in setting up a series of
courses aimed at preparing community
residents for the recreation hours of
their retirement. The eommittee also
developed plans for a permanent advi-
sory service to work with the commu-
nity on eontinuing problems in con-

RECREATION

nection with the area’s older persons.
Also, WTMJ-TV announced plans to
offer a series of programs augmenting
the course to be set up by the municipal
recreation department.

Religious Education

“Included in the religious education
program of every congregation.” ac-
eording to Churches and Their Senior
Citizens, by H. Lee Jacobs, research as-
sociate in gerontology at the Statc Uni-
versity of lowa, “should be eourses,
lectures, films, and institutes dealing
with problems and opportunities of
older maturity, including preparation
for retirement.

“The traditional adult Bible class is
eertainly not enough. Moreover, this
education in retirement planning should
not be postponed until after “R” day
and then construed as merely an econ-
omic matter—where to live, financial
requirements, and so on. it is basically a
spiritual and educational task and
should be undertaken not later than the
[ortieth year, as an integral part of a
continuing life education program.”

More Planning

0 At the First National Senior Citi-
zens Conference held in New Orleans in
1957, a few hundred delegates were ex-
pected—and over a thousand registered.
They came by plane, train, bus, and
trailer from all over—from California
to New York and as far north as North
Dakota. All sessions and affairs were
swamped and some had to be held in
shifts.

At the second annual convention,
held in St. Louis last June, some two
thousand senior eitizens attended gen-
eral educational sessions and workshOp
meetings, took a trip on the Mississippi,
visited points of interest, and had an
evening of square dancing.

0 “Good professional leadership is
the prime faetor for the suecess of a
golden-age program,” according to the
New Jersey State Bureau of Recreation.
it says: “Leadership that is patient and
friendly can discover the personal in-
terests of the group and channel thcm
into satisfying recreation activities. The
recreation leader must havc the ability
to bring out the leadership capacities of
the members themselves-Lcontinuity of
leadership is extremely important here.

FEBRUARY 1959

“Good leadership, through sympa-
thetic understanding, can unearth tal-
ents and stimulate skills within the
group itself. if strong leadership is not
huilt up within the group, the experi-
enced professional leader will be re-
quired to lead the group indefinitely.
llenee, the solution to this problem is
to make the leadership come from with-
in the group itself, leaving the profes-
sional leader in the background. Even-
tually the professional leader is re-
moved . . . and the group itself elects
responsible members to act as officers
and assume the roles of responsibility
for the carrying out of the funetional
operation of the program.”

0 Friendly visiting is a growing serv-
ice to the aging in many communities
by memhers of many social and service

 

ages around two hundred; average age
of members is seventy-four.

0 St. Paul, Minnesota, is among the
few public recreation departments in
the eountry to appoint a full-time staff
member to develop programs for people
over sixty-five in neighborhood eenters.
The new program was launched in Sep-
tember, l957, when Bernard T. llol-
land, eommissioner of parks, play-
gronnds, and public buildings, an-
nouneed the appointment of a full-time
director of senior citizens’ activities to
the staff of the playground bureau.

Programs are offered one day a week,
from 10:00 AM. to 2:00 P..\t., at five
of the city’s twenty-six, year-round rec-
reation centers, selected on the basis of
population studies made hy the city
planning board and located in each arca

Guided tour through United Nations Building is taken by group of “Senior 65'ers,"
retired members of the Amalgamated Clothing \Vorkers Center, New York City.
Display is of “International Committee on l'eaeefnl Uses of Atomie Energy."

elubs, social and welfare organizations,
and individual volunteers. Services ren-
dered may range from social conversa-
tion to help with wardrobe repairs,
shopping, letter writing, and so on. A
typical group is the Visiting Home-
maker Serviee in Summit, New Jersey,
organized in 1954 and staffed by vol-
unteers who have provided much prae-
tieal aid and the “portable” recreation
activities for shut-in oldsters.

o The Live Long and Like it Library
Club, started by the Cleveland, Ohio,
Public Library in 1946, offers people
over sixty weekly lectures, discussions,
films, and programs. Attendance aver-

of the city. As leadership develops
within each group, additional days will
be seheduled until each becomes a full-
time program on a five-day-week basis.

0 The golden-age center in Wiehita,
Kansas, governs itself through a board
eomposed of equal representation from
golden-age clubs and labor unions. The
chairman, an active minister chosen by
the hoard and planning committee of
professionals, advises on long-range
programs.

0 The Massachusetts University EV-
tension Program for Senior Citizens
provides tnition-free courses for senior
citizens under state law. .,"‘,‘:

What is your recreation department‘s program for senior citizens?

Plan now, have it going by May—Senior Citizens Month!

 

57

 

   

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Service Club Field \Vork

Specialized field work in Army Spe-
cial Services will be available to eli—
gible seniors majoring in recreation at
San Jose State College, California.
Sixth Army Headquarters, stationed at
The Presidio in San Francisco, in con-
junction with the college, has initiated
a twelve-week training internship, the
second of which will start this March.
Three girls participated in last year’s
service club training.

The purposes of the field work are:
1) to offer detailed information and
practical experience to college students
participating in the Army Special Serv-
iccs program; 2) make highly qualified
personnel, interested in this work, avail-
able to the army; and 3) to provide
professional stimulation to service club
personnel. The interns will study pro-
graming, how to work with community
and volunteers, and how to get out
publicity, and will also undertake a
brief survey of the administrative as-
pects of service club work.

New Youth Museum

The Mid-Fairfield County Youth Mu-

seum in Westport, Connecticut, will be
erected on a donated site, part of a
forty-acre tract known as the \Vads-
worth Wildlife Preserve. One unusual
facility will be a lending library of live
pets. Children will be permitted to take
home raccoons, rabbits, and like small
animals on a one-week loan basis.

Power of the Press

Keith A. Macdonald, executive direc-
tor of the Greater Vallejo Recreation
District, California, informs us that the
Vallejo Clown Club, which was started
after RECREATION Magazine ran an ar-
ticle on clown clubs, has played over
eight hundred events in eight years to
an audience of over a million. Mr.

P

n
D.)

Macdonald is also starting his seventh
junior symphony orchestra (see p. 46) .

Matin Hour

Among memorable experiences at the
1958 Montana 4-H Club Congress, held
last summer, were the stirring matin
hour services, an excellent program idea
for any gathering—camp, convention,
Easter observanccs, or recreation work-
shop. Matins give people pause to think,
to feel a little more deeply and to reflect
quietly upon the meaning and values of
many things. They help in the under-
standing of other ethnic groups, and in
the building of good human relations.

 

Junior Luther League hold matin serv-
ice :1] the 1958 Montana 4-" Congress.

To this end, matin services employ
poetry, prose, storytelling, choral speak-
ing, movement, and music as a means
of communicating thoughts, ideas, and
feelings of brotherhood (see page 42).

The Montana Congress heard two
choral readings—Walt Whitman’s “I
Hear America Singing" and “Peace
Conference in an American Town,” by
Langston Hughes. Pictures and mate-
rials describing the matin hours were
put together in an exhibit entitled
“Montana Youth Groups Work To-
gether.” Further information is avail-
able from Geraldine Fenn, Associate
State 4-H Club Leader, Extension Serv-
ice, State College, Bozeman, Montana.

Faces Front and Center
White House honor

President Eisenhower has appointed
a member of the Board of the NRA,
Mrs. Rollin Brown, of Los Angeles,
California, as chairman of the National
Committee for the White House Con-
ference on Children
and Youth, to be held
in Washington, D.C.,
in 1960. Mrs. Brown,
chairman of the Cal-
ifornia Recreation

1 --1 Commission, has been
on the NRA Board for five years, and
has had a great deal of experience in
associations working with children and
youth, having served as president of
the National Congress of Parents and
Teachers.
Board member speaks

     

As chairman of the Lawrence Recrea-
tion Commission since its inception in
1946, Lloyd Houston has taken his
hoard membership seriously, giving a
great deal of time and energy to the
program as well as a ten-thousand-dol-
lar contribution toward a park recrea-
tion ccnter. Mr. Houston retired as
commissioner on January 1, 1959. In a
talk at the NRA Midwest District Con-
ference in Topeka, Kansas, last April,
he expressed some of his ideas on rec-
reation and the board member’s part in
“My Confession of Faith.” He said:

“Each member should take over some
department in cooperation with the su-
perintendent . . . to make him feel that
he is something besides a finance man
and a critic. His professional executive
is perfectly capable of handling the mat-
ter himself but if the board member
works with him in the proper spirit he
will really give some aid, feel that he
is doing something constructive, and
impress outsiders that this is not a one-
man program.”

Indianapolis luncheon

Eighteen friends of the National Rec-
reation Association in Indianapolis at-
tended a luncheon given by the Very
Revcrend Paul Moore, J r., dean of
Christ Church Cathedral, in honor of
NRA executive director Joseph Pren-
dergast, last November. Mr. Prcnder-
gast was one of the speakers during the
Church and Freedom Week seminars at
the cathedral. After his talk on “The
Tranquilized American” during a sem-

RECREATION

inar on “Freedom in Leisure,” he re-
viewed the services of the National
Recreation Association. This clarified
the Association’s services in the lndian-
apolis area as well as nationwide.
Retirement in New Jersey

After twenty years of faithful service
—the last seven as president—to the
board of recreation in Hawthorne Bor-
ough. l’assaie County, New Jersey, M rs.
Gertrude Kimmcrly has retired, as of
January 1. She is a service associate
of the National Recreation Association,
from whom she received a citation three
years ago for recreation work in her
conununity.
.rllemorial to a dance leader

A fund, started by friends of dance
leader Lloyd Shaw, who died last July.
will enable his widow to complete and
publish his book on the Cheyenne
Mountain School and its cowboy danc-
ers. Fund chairman is Henry Craef,

P. O. Box 847, Salida, Colorado.

NRA sponsor honored

Lincoln, Nebraska. will shortly re-
name its Rogers Park in honor of
Thomas C. Woods, an NRA sponsor, for
his contributions to the recreation field.
Social tribute

Richly deserved tribute for devoted
service to the small community of Bris-
tol, New Hampshire, was paid \Vink
Tapply. NRA district representative to
that state. Over one hundred people
crowded in the Tapply Room of the
community center to participate in the
testimonial dinner and the “This Is
Your Life, W i nk Tapply” program.
Madame Secretary

New York Governor Nelson A. Rock-
efeller appointed Mrs. Caroline K. Si-
mon as his secretary of state, second
woman in the history of that office and
first in thirty-three years. She has been
a member of the State Youth Commis-
ston.

Curling, Anyone?
The winter sport of curling has been

 

Darwin Curtis allows curling form.

FEBRUARY 1959

growing steadily in popularity since it
was first introduced into North America
over a hundred and fifty years ago by
Scottish regiments stationed in Canada.
In the last six years there has been a
great upsurge of interest in curling,
particularly in the U.S., where recrea-
tion departments have set up programs
and furnish the brooms and “stones”
needed.

It was once considered “an old man’s
game,” but with recent modernization,
especially a more modern sweeping
technique, curling now attracts the
young folks as well and has become an
excellent family sport (RECREATION,
November, 1953, page 354). A con-
densed but complete booklet on curling
in its revised version is available, for
a quarter, from Darwin Curtis, 21 ln-

dian Hill Road, Winnetka, lllinois.

Not Fair Game

 

A skin diver looking for “small
game” off Staten Island, New York, now
knows that if you catch a shark—let
go! When the skin diver rccently har-
pooned a shark it took off for deeper
waters and, according to the New York
Herald Tribune, the diver became en-
tangled in the line as he was unccre-
moniously dragged along. Aftcr un-

. snarling himself, he rose gasping to the

surface, was picked up by a cabin
cruiser, and taken to a hospital.

In another instance. a Cape Cod.
Massachusetts, fisherman, who thought
he had latched onto a “big one,” finally.
after a struggle, landcd his catch—a
sputtering skin diver.

Recreation Major Stntisties

The following statistics concerning
placement and average salaries of grad-
uates in recreation during 1958 from

the University of lndiana were sent us
by Carrctt C. lipplcy, chairman of the
department of recreation there.

The average salaries, according to
degrees: B.S.- -$4,27l; M.S.—-$5,630;
director of recreationm$5,613; doctor
of recreation—87,167.

Avcrage'salarics according to em-
ploynlcnt ran as follows (figures with-

in parcnthcscs are number of people
involved) :

College faculty (8) $5,700
State recreation services (3) $5,554
Hospital recreation (7) $5,500
Municipal recreation (9) $5,360
Military recreation (civilian) t2) $5.300
Camping (2) 85.150
Public schools ( 6) $1,875
Voluntary agencies (1) $1,400

Other 1958 lndiana graduates are
taking graduate work, two are airline
stewardesscs, and several are in mili-
tary service. It should be noted that
some of the above salaries are based on
a nine- or ten-month period, rather than
a yearly one.

 

3n Qrtnnriam

 

0 Walter L. Wirth, superintendent of
the parks and recreation department in
Salem, Oregon, and former president
of the American lnstitute of Park Ex-
ecutives, died in December, after a long
illness. He had started his career as a
landscape designer for the park system
in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His father, Theo-
dore Wirth, was a well-known park man
and onetime president of both the Na-
tional Park Service and the AlPE. llis
brother Conrad is present director of
the National Park Service. and a hroth-
er Theodore is a retired rear admiral.

o The man with the pocket full of
lollipOps will be missed by the children
at the Tichcnor Orthopedic Clinic in
Long Beach, California. Bcn Tucker,
an NRA sponsor for twenty-two years.
died in September. at the age of cighty-
eight in a hospital he had helped found.
He guided the development of the or-
thopedic clinic from a basement room
to one of the leading clinics of its kind.
As a further tribute to his work the
Benjamin F. Tuckcr School for Hamli-
capped Children was named for him.
Mr. Tucker believed that recreation on
the playgrounds and in the centers
"tends to produce the kinds of people
who make democracy work." #

59

You’d Like ’Em
to Sing?

W HY.
Augustus D. Zanzig

‘ ) 711v GROUP SINGING? What we do about it in our com-

munity and how depends on why we do anything at
all about it. We accept the idea that group singing should
be an integral part of any well-rounded education or recre-
ation program. Why? For fun, rcfreshment, and sociability:
for release from inhibition, tension, boredom, or self-center-
edness; for activating dormant energies, for a sense of per-
sonal and social well-being. There is nothing as heartwarm-
ing and cordial as one’s giving of one’s self in a well-beloved
song; it is a moment of pure generosity.

What other inner eXperience accompanies this giving?
The reader doubtless remembers the release of full, free, and
effectual energy in big songs like chanteys, in which even
a frail little fella can feel big and hefty! He can also recall
another kind of bigness in song, a bigness of soul, in a great
and simple hymn of praisc, by which something of the maj-
esty and wonder of the universe could enter into his own
being.

Words alone can convey deep meaning; as, for example,
those of the seventeenth century parson and poet Thomas
Traherne, in writing of his sense of that majesty: “You will
never enjoy the world aright till the sea lloweth in your
veins and you are clothed with the heavens and crowned
with the stars.” Associate the mood of these lines with that
of music, such as the majestic final movement of the Brahms
First Symphony. What effect has this on their meaning to
you?

In deep wonder, the text of the Bach chorale, Now Let
Every Tongue Adore Thee (originally Sleepers, Awake!)
declares, “No mortal eye hath seen, no lnortal ear hath
heard, such wondrous things.” Sing these words in a well-lcd

MR. ZANZIC needs no introduction to our readers. Formerly
a music specialist on the NRA staff, editor of Singing Amer-
ica and many other NRA books on music, he is now a mem-

ber of the Music Committee of the NRA National Advisory

Committee on Recreation Programs and Activities.

chorus or informal group, as the chorale would have you
reverently do. How much more deeply meaningful they have
become! And in combination with the simplest tune imagin-
able.

The vivifying effect of appropriate music on the meanings
of things, ideas, and experiences—which is to say, on our-
selves in relation to them—is a supreme gift of singing. We
may all, at some time, have sung of Christmas, Thanksgiv-
ing, and all the loves, faiths, and humility of our religions.
We may all have sung of friends hiking in the country, and
their rollicking good humor; of homcland, school, club,
camp; and much else. We have thereby infused each experi-
ence with fresh or heightened affection and, in many in-
stances, given voice to ranges of meaning which words alone
could never eXpress. It is the function of every art to eXpress
such values. It is a very good thing for all of us to develop
them in this way, and to increase our capacities for love and
enthusiasm; for these make up the indispensable motive
force of all that is best and most enjoyable in our living.

There have been other experiences well worth the singing:
hilarious activity or quiet thoughtfulness; feelings of kin-
ship with people of other countries; and, not least, the sense
of something beautiful in thc music of a song.

One of thee best potentials in group singing is that all the
folks involved can, together, makc a beautiful thing of a
song. Although they are not producing a new thing, they
still have the feeling of actually creating the song as it comes
gradually to full life and meaning in their own minds and
voices, or of re-creating it wl1cn they sing it again. Even
the least able of the group feels the beauty and expressive-
ness of the whole group’s singing as though it werc his own.

One more reason for group singing is the sport it can be,
as quick-wittcd and producing of keen pleasure as any ball
game. lt can even offer competition, though winning is al-
ways a victory for everybody. For example, The Calway
Piper calls for the nimblest and most precise enunciation
possible, a command of breath, and a keen sense of timing,
such as any sport demands, to sing it as fast, clearly, lightly,
and rhythmically as it should be. A round, like Come, Fol-
low, calls for similar and additional skills also not dependent
on any special musical talent, but only on a sporting atti-
tude. Even that much skill, besides being fun in itself, tends
to make one like singing all the more. The more one likes it,
the biggcr the urge to improve———to get some other reward
from it. Music, unlike many a physical sport, can be carried
on into increasingly rich enjoyment throughout a lifetime.
Informal group singing can be the best introduction to mu-
sic for the most pe0ple, and lead to greater enjoyment of all
music. #’

 

Music is like a voice speaking. What is it saying? Who says it? Through
our intuitions we may have a glimpse of the answers to these questions . . . .
Some of them concern the physical part of our lives—others the more pro—
found and mysterious aspects. Science helps us to understand many
phases of the material and dynamic sides of life, but the highest reaches of
' music come thrillingly close to the central core and essence of life itself.

—Le0pold Stowkowski

 

60

RECREATION

PROGRAM
NOTES

 

Because of the widespread miscon-
ception of the legal use of records, we
have obtained 'perrnission front Ameri-
can Squares Magazine to reprint the
following correspondence:

American Squares,

1159 Broad Street,
Newark 2. N. J.
Gentlemen:

ln Madison [New Hampshire], we
have been running some small, non-
profit square dances for the youth of
the town. We have been approached by
a representative of ASCAP, who says
we need a license. Would you be able
to clarify this for us?

We are not in a position to pay any
license fee, as the dances are not being
run for a profit. We have never before
had any question concerning the pay-
ment of a fee for the use of the records,

and did not receiVe a satisfactory an~
swer to our questions from ASCAP.

Is there a copyright on the record-
ings of Lloyd Shaw, llcrman, Folkraft,
and so on, which precludes their use at
a public dance?—RALPII ll. ACKER.

Mr. Ralph R. Aeker,
Silver Lake, New Hampshire,
Dear Mr. Acker:

We are in receipt of your letter and
beg to advise that if you are running a
public dance hall you are very dcfi nitely
liable for payments of license fees to
ASCAP. The only material that is not
subject to ASCAP licensing is folk
music, which falls into the public-
domain classification. ASCAP is an as-
sociation whose business is to protect
copyright holders.

The important thing for you to re-
member is this . . . if you use phono-
graph records published by Folkraft,
Folk Dancer, or Kismet, you can be
sure that the material is public domain
and not subject to license.

Practically all other square-dance
lahels are today publishing e0pyrighted
popular tunes, and the law Specifically
gives the right to ASCAP to license
halls for use of these tunes in public
dances.

FRANK L. KALTMAN, Publisher
American Squares

0 There are many generally ignored
ramifications of this subject and it may
be well to elaborate on a few of them:

About the commonest misapprehen-
sion held by the public is the legal
meaning of “public performance for

profit.” This does not mean that you

For That Valentine Party st 93? so

I

These Valentine ideas may not be
new to you, but they will be to your
party group. Include them, and see for
yourself!

I’ll String Along with You (Couple
Contest). Hide many short lengths of
string throughout the hall. Choose part-
ners to go “hunting” with. COUples tie
strings together as they find them.
Couples having the longest string at the
end of a given period will have the
longest life of happiness—together.

FEBRUARY 1959

My Heart’s on My Sleeve (Relay).
The girls line up in two or more teams
at one end of the room, and the boys
in the same way at the other end of
the room. Each girl is given a red cloth
heart and three pins. At the signal
the first girl in each team runs to the
first boy in the team opposite and pins
the heart patch on his sleeve. As soon
as it is on she runs back and touches
the next in line who runs over and pins
her patch on the next boy in line. As

are not liable if you don't make money
on the operation. If you charge admis-
sion, profit is legally assumed, whether
you realize a profit, break even, or lose
money. Substitution of a “voluntary
contribution” for a set admission fee
does not release you from responsibili-
ties . . . as some individuals have found
from tussles with the lnternal llevenue
Department. The fact that the record-
ing company paid for permission to
record and market a copyrighted tune
does not release you from responsibili-
use the record in a “public performance
for profit.”

If a caller uses a copyrighted melody
on a record, as an accompaniment to
his calling, you do not have the right to
record this performance on a tape rc-
eorder or otherwise; and unless the
caller owns the title to the copyright he
cannot legally give you permission to
do so. Even in the case of music not
copyrighted, the caller cannot ethically
give you permission to record his per-
formance to a recorded accompaniment
unless he secures “performance rights”
from the musicians who made the re-
cording. Ignoring this item won’t bring
down ASCAP on your neck, but the
American Federation ‘of Musicians
could put you and your hall on their
blacklist. Finally, even some “calls”
are copyrighted.

May we also remind you that “every-
body does it” is not a valid excuse. If
someone decided to use you for an ex-
ample or a test case it would be echn-
sive . . . win, lose, or draw.—TIIE EDI-
TOR, American Squares.

each contestant has either pinned the
patch on or had it pinned on they go to
the foot of the line.

Lovers’ Fun (Couple Contest).
String a wire across the room about six
feet from the floor. Suspend paper
hearts from the different
heights. The guests pair up for this
game, and the object is to have the girls
“snip hearts from the sky.” A girl is
blindfolded and turned around three
times. ln one hand she holds a pair of
scissors, in the other the end of a piece
of string about two feet in length. Ilcr
partner holds the other end of the string
and tries to guide her to a heart by the
movement of the string.

wire at

61

 

RESEARCH TECHNIQUES for

Norman P. 1\Iiller

“There must he means of communication. A common
language must be worked out . . . ”

roblems are encountered in the application of research
Pmethods and techniques in the field of recreation. The
emphasis currently placed on applied research approaches,
in terms of surveys, studies, and other fact-gathering efforts,
and by many types of agencies, suggests the need for critical
examination of the results of these efforts, and the methods
used in obtaining them.

For any type of recreation service there is usually a work-
ing philosophy that undergirds the action. Ideally, this phi-
losophy is founded upon sound principles and established
criteria and serves as a frame of reference and testing area
for interpretation of data, weighing of factors, and answer-
ing of operational questions. For example, the estahlishment
of priorities in terms of expenditures for new equipment
should reflect the philos0phy of the recreation department
and. this is important, in light of current conditions. It is
the basis for decision and action.

At a time when the demand for recreation services is in-
creasing greatly, and the means for providing services is so
variable, it appears particularly appropriate that attention
he devoted to the basis upon which administrative decision
and action is predicated. The need for sound creative plan-
ning is paramount. For this planning to be possible, admin-
istrators need facts and the “know-how” to interpret them.
This is where the researcher enters the picture. He is a col-
lector and analyzer of facts, a tester of ideas. Normally, for
applied research to be effective, at least four conditions
should exist: problems that need defining; interest in using
research in problem solving; free discussion between the
researcher and the recreation people; and anticipation of
making necessary changes should results warrant it.

These conditions are all too rarely found in the recreation
setting and, as a result, many current attempts at research
are ineffectual or wasted. There appears to be a difference
between the goals of the researcher and those of the admin-
istrator. What evidence is there to support this hypothesis?

First. The researcher needs to know why the administrator
does things a certain way. He needs to have concrete state-
ments of philosophy, objectives, and purposes. Further, he
may need to have some assurance that these statements have
,—————_.__._._._..____________________________
DR. MILLER is associate professor of physical education,
University of California, Los Angeles, and president of the

the Federation of National Professional Organizations for
Recreation.

62

some general acceptance and are agreed upon in the pro-
fession at large or, at the very least, by the administrator’s
own staff. For example, suppose one wishes to study the ef-
fectiveness of a playground program. One of the first ques-
tions a researcher would ask is, “What is the purpose of a
playground? What are its objectives?” The answers to these
apparently simple questions are essential in the evaluation
process. Yet, how many recreation departments have ever
clearly stated their philosophy on these matters? Where in
the recreation literature can one find these answers? And, if
one has these answers, by what means does he measure the
effectiveness of the playground? Certainly attendance count
is the most common measuring device, but is it applied
objectiver—is it valid? Does it measure the degree of ac-
complishment of objectives?

By and large, the working philosophy in recreation de-

partments has been developed separately, on the basis of
practice and trial-and-error, rather than in light of facts
that have been adequately tested. This does not imply that
much of the established practice is necessarily poor or un-
reliable but rather that we may not know why we do things.
Thus, it is very difficult to prove why things we call “best”
are best. Recreation needs to replace the “rule of the thumb”
with the slide rule approach.
Second. The researcher and the administrator should have
some common approach to problems and should share a will-
ingness to completely test, not just what is new, but tradi-
tional tasks as well, experimenting with better ways of per-
forming them.

The administrator too frequently depends upon only par-
tially validated facts and criteria for the solution of specific
problems of atypical cases. This may be because of a conflict
between the immediate needs of the administrator and the
problem itself. The administrator may need to solve a press-
ing problem, or one that has greater recognition in his eyes,
whereas this problem may be only part of a larger picture in
the eyes of the researcher. To the latter, one or more other
problems may need to be solved first, before an adequate an-
swer can be given, or several others should he worked on
concurrent] *, in order that conclusions be valid. The admin-
istrator, however, under the urgency of time may not wish
to wait for the total process. He wants an answer, so he acts
on the partially put-together jigsaw. Thus, lip service is
given research, in that data is accepted as satisfactory for
the solution of the immediate problem although it appears
incomplete to the researcher. Examples of this type of con-
flict are frequently demonstrated in planning research where
the plan conceived, designed, and drawn'up by the planner
and based on the research data becomes distorted or
changed or only partially accepted after the buffeting of
budget and commission hearings and exposure to other re-
lated pressures.

Third. The results of the testing of administrative ideas,
i

RECREATION

RECREATION

concepts. and practices need to be connnunicated and shared
between researchers and administrators, and some common
language must be worked out. There must he means of com-
munication. [See "Let‘s Say What \Ve Mean,” page 66.—

Ed.]
$4 12

In recreation, the consumer of research—practitioner or
administrator—appears to lag behind other disciplines and
professional fields. This is demonstrated hy the relatively
elementary types of questions asked in recreation; a general
lack of understanding of basic terminology and procedures
employed in research; and almost a distrust of research, the
result of either too insufficient background and understand-
ing or a reluctance to operate upon an approach other than
empirical.

The process of communicating research results through

publication appears to be the reSponsibility of no particular
agency or organization. This is readily apparent in the
dearth of publications about research put out in the field of
recreation. For example, in the year 1957, there was only
one research article published in the Research Quarterly of
AAHI’ER, one in the ARS Bulletin, and three in RECREA-
TION Magazine, which includes NRA reports of research ab-
stracts. This meager showing certainly does not reflect the
total research effort of the recreation profession, but it does
in terms of puhlished results. There are other evidences of the
interpretation of research findings, but they are obvious
only in those articles that provide details and descriptive
accounts of solutions to operating problems in specific lo-
cations. This indicates the limited extent to which existing
channels of puhlication are utilized concerning completed
research. Discussions of this subject should be encouraged,
as should be the efforts of the National Advisory Committee
on Research of the National Recreation Association, in es-
tablishing a clearing house for research and the publication
of bibliographies and abstracts. The extent to which these
efforts are utilized, however, has not yet been determined,
nor has the extent to which recreation pe0ple read and use
research findings in related fields and disciplines.
Fourth. In the light of new facts and tested data. some
change should take place, or, at least, there should be some
i'evidence of agreement and uniformity developing in recre-
Iation practice. Yet, in administrative planning and decision
making, complete objectivity appears impossible.

Subjective, decisions and value judgments are too often
made. Factors are affected, emotionally or otherwise, by the
administrator, which in turn affects not only the accumu-
lation but also the interpretation of data. Playground staffs
are found to be performing unnecessary tasks. Realignment
of duties and responsibilities is indicated.

It may be necessary for public opinion or support to shift

F EBRUARY 1959

or alter before new action or change can take place. This
type of delay is unavoidable. The real danger is that most
problems delineated by administrators for possible research
solution appear to lend themselves only to immediate solu-
tion for a specific situation. Often-heard statements such as.
“What worked in your community would not work in mine.”
are examples of the supposedly atypical problem with which
the researcher is frequently confronted. From the research
approach, valid criteria and principles should be applicable
to most communities and to many sets of circumstances.
Recreation must begin to solidify some of its operation into
a realistic pattern.

011 the surface, the above analysis appears to reflect sev-
eral irreconcilable conflicts. The purpose of this analysis,
however, is merely to identify the problem by examining
the factors and conditions that are currently in operation,
in order to achieve a hasis for suggestions. The following
solution is proposed, assuming that it will be very difficult
for the recreation administrator to control all of the factors
identified above. It is in the designing or developing of re-
search methods and approaches that deal with these factors,
that the best prospect for success lies.

Implications

The three essential ingredients for designing an approach
to an administrative research prohlem are: a clear delinea-
tion of the thinking of the administration as it relates to the
problem, including agreement upon a common philosophy
for the study and clearly defined objectives and purposes;
agreement upon the conceptualization of the problem to be
studied and what the needs of administration are for the
study; agreement upon the data to be collccted and how they
will he used.

These phases imply that the design of a study is best ac-
complished on a team approach basis. Further, they imply
that it may be necessary to develop language which will be
mutually understood, that will relieve some of the anxieties
of administrators regarding terminology to be used in rec-
reation research. The administrator and the practitioner
must be informed as findings are accumulated in the study,
particularly in each successive important step and as their
collection, interpretation, and application occur.

Another thing needed is a voice for research. The gap be-
tween researcher and practitioner can only be bridged by
means of better and more specific opportunities and chan-
nels for communication and interpretation. The conduct of
research without the publication of the methods of findings
is unwise and retards our efforts. It is important for the spe-
cific agency that conducts research to see that these results
are written up formally and distributed to all who might be
related to the study.

An important component of the team approach is the sub-
sequent encouragement offered recreation administrators to
place more trust in the results of research as a basis for ad-
ministrative decision in the planning process. Also. there is
a general reluctance on the part of recreation administrators
to change operating patterns. even in the face of objective
evidence and data. a tendency to be enthusiastic verbally

63

 

about research, but still with the “let-George-do-it attitude!”

Actually, use of the team approach, with an operating
plan that requires close cooperation and development of com-
mon agreement and philosophy, would do much to break
down some of the traditional thinking concerning relation-
ships between the researcher and the administrator. The
relegation of the researcher to the traditional ivory-tower
role does a disservice, not only to the researcher but also to
the profession, and should be dispensed with as quickly as
possible. The researcher can do much in this direction hy

assisting the administrator to better understand the import-
ance of investigating problems not foreseen initially as prob-
len1s, and of sometimes going just one step farther to make
sure that the data is satisfactory. It is through this accumu:
lation of factual information that researchers really can help
the administrator make objective decisions and judgments.

Certainly, the experience of others in this field can add
much to this development, and it is hoped they will come
forward to suggest ways _and means by which this can fur-
ther be interpreted and implemented. #

 

Squaw ‘Ualley rPrepares

for
the (Olympics

(601E clang and clatter of construc-
tion activity is echoing from dawn
to dusk at Squaw Valley, California, as
the organizing committee for the 1960

Winter Olympics prepares the area for
this renown international event. Squaw

Valley is 3326 miles from New York,
483 from Los Angeles, 200 from San
Francisco, and 40 from Reno. It is a
natural amphitheater in the Sierra Ne-
vadas, a half-mile wide and two miles
long, with Squaw Peak rising to 8885
feet at its west end.

The 1960 Winter Olympic Games will
be held Fchruary 18-28, with approxi-
mately one thousand athletes from
thirty to thirty-five nations. Closing
date for final entries received is not to
be' until 1960, fourteen days before
commencement of the games. Maxi-
mum entries allowed are three compet-
itors from each country for individual
events, and one team from each
country for each team event.

Over ten million dollars worth of fa-
cilities, specifically designed for the
games, are being constructed in and
near Squaw Valley. The games area
includes over six thousand acres of
land, five hundred of which will be in-
corporated in the California State Park
System and become a permanent pub-

lic winter sports area operated by the

64

Kenneth A. Hill

State of California Division of Beaches
and Parks. All this property is within
the Tahoe National Forest.

The arena will seat 11,000 persons.
and an 85' by 190' ice rink will he lo-
cated in its center. The building will
be enclosed on three sides, with the
south side open looking onto the speed
skating rink and the ski jumps. The
stands on the south side of the ice will
swing back for the opening and closing
ceremonies in order that the ice arena

can open out onto the speed-skating

 

Squaw Valley’s prize-winning arena.

rink. The design of the ice arena has
already won first prize in the nation-
wide Progressive Architecture Design
Awards for 1958, in which there were
over six hundred entries. The 400-
meter-speed-skating rink is artifically
refrigerated, the first ever to be used
in Olympic competition.

For the first time in the Winter Olym-
pics, all of the competing athletes will

be housed together in a separate vil-
lage. This 300-room, seven-building
settlement is being built in a secluded
area at the valley's northwest corner.

The slopes of four peaks surround-
ing Squaw Valley are being used as the
course for the six Alpine events. A new
3200-foot double chairlift has been
completed on Little Papoose Peak, to
add to the three existing lifts serving
KT-22 and Squaw Peak. For ski-jump-
ing events, 45-, 60-, and 80-meter jumps
are being constructed.

Major tryout competitions in sports
on the program of the Vlllth Winter
Games will be staged in Squaw Valley
during the 1958-59 winter season.
These pre-Olympic testing events will
include Alpine and Nordic skiing
events, the Biathlon, speed-skating and
figure-skating competitions.

The California State Legislature has
appropriated $7,990,000 for the stag-
ing of the games, in addition to $43,-
000,000 the state is spending to widen
to four lanes major highways leading
to Squaw Valley. The State of Nevada
legislature has voted $200,000 to use
in the staging of the games and has es-
tablished the Nevada Olympic Com-
mission to work with the organizing
committee. A new Reno Municipal Air-
port is being constructed to accommo-
date the expected heavy air traffic.

Public housing accommodations for
more than thirty thousand are available
within a radius of forty miles of Squaw
Valley. Housing offices will be set up in
the surrounding area. Inquiries should
be directed to the Housing Director,
Organizing Committee—Vlllth Olym-
pic Winter Games, 333 Market Street,

San Francisco 5, California. #

 

MR. HILL is superintendent of recreation
in Reno, Nevada.

RECREATION

 
  

Criteria and Standards

Since March, 194-5, a Technical Advisory Committee on
Recreation has been advising the Philadelphia City Plan-
ning Commission on the formulation of standards and the

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
   

evaluation of basic policies and objectives for a public rec-
reation program. A report, Recreation Plan [or Philadel-
phia, issued by the commission in September, 1958, pre-
sents criteria for the selection and development of recrea-
tion sites and standards for different types of recreation
areas adapted to the conditions and needs in this city of
over two million population. The standards cover three types
of playgrounds, calling for from three to eight acres to
serve a radius varying from one-quarter to one-half mile
and twelve to thirteen thousand people. Playficld standards
call for a site of eight to twenty acres to serve five or six
playground service areas. Other proposals call for a dis-
trict park of from twenty to one hundred acres scrving a
major section of the city and for a regional park of three
hundred to two thousand five hundred acres to be pro-
vided within forty minutes travel time of a majority of
homes in the metropolitan region.

Value of Research Studies

Joseph S. Holland, president of the New Jersey Associa-
tion of Chosen Frecholdcrs, in a recent issue of New Jersey
County Government, urged that the association employ a
competent director of research to be available to all coun-
ties in the state. He cited the values that have resulted from
several research studies conducted in Mercer County (where
he is director of the County Freeholder Board), one of them
a comprehensive survey conducted by the National Recrea-
tion Association. Mr. Holland stated: “Research does more
than uncover facts. It separates them from fiction. It fos-
t-ers objective thinking. It discards the individual, the per-

sonal, the selfish viewpoint. It insures a solid base. . . .”

Landscape Design

The University of Pennsylvania has been awarded a
£36,000 grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to continue
and expand a study of landscape architecture in its relation
to urban development. The grant will be used to extend a
:project examining landscape designs for highways, play-
grounds, parks, and city open spaces, as well as commercial
nd housing development. The project will enable two ex-
qperts in the field to study material gathered from wo rld-wide
periodicals—Parks and Recreation, October 1958.

New High in Golf Courses

I Although many golf courses, especially in metropolitan

 

FIR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

FEBRUARY 1959

REVIEWS AND ABSTRACTS

George Butler

areas, have been transformed into subdivisions in recent
years, records assembled by the National Golf Foundation
show a total of 5,718 regulation golf courses in operation
in 1958. This is a new postwar high and represents a net
gain of 642 such courses in the five-year period since 1953.
In addition to 182 new regulation courses, 38 new ’par or
‘short’ golf courses were opened for play in 1953.

Sources of Funds

The July 14, 1958, issue of Recreation V £6105, issued by
the Recreation Division, W'ashington State Parks and Rec-
reation Commission in Olympia, contains a comprehensive
report on sources of the funds expended by full-time munici-
pal park and recreation departments in the statc. Separate
figures are reported for thc three largest cities with a total
combined population of 926,000, and for seven smaller
cities, with a combined population of 146,345.

Seventy-four per cent of the money spent in the thrcc
largest cities came from general funds and seventy-six per
cent of the total in the seven smaller cities. Only one large
city mentioned budgeted funds from the school district;
none of the smaller cities reported funds from this source,
although a number of cities use certain school facilities and
have contractual agreements with mhool authorities.

Only one small city reported Community Chest funds and
its services extended beyond the corporate limits of the
city. Sixteen per cent of the budgets of the larger cities come
from fees and charges; nine per cent, in the case of five
smaller cities. Only one small city reported income from
contributions, although a number of the others received
donations of equipment, materials, and services.

Evidence that many municipalities tax their ingenuity
to obtain sufficient funds to maintain recrcation facilities
and programs was indicated by the following additional
sources of income; rentals, clcctric meters and refunds, a
housing authority, pinhall licenses, insurance dividends,
payments in lieu of taxes, transfers from current expenses,
and sanitary sewer fUnds.

Bond issues for park and recreation purposes continued
to have hard sledding in Washington State. In the March
elections, for example, out of $4,290,000 proposed for
parks and recreation, only three propositions for a total of
$328,000 were approved in three cities. These were for a
swimming pool, park improvements, and land acquisition.

The total expenditures for parks and recreation in the
three large cities averaged $4.19 per capita; in the seven
smaller cities, $3.98 per capita. Thesc figures indicate that
Washington cities are expending about two-thirds of thc
amonnt widely recognized as a desirable standard. 4“,"

65

 

An article inviting

discussion from the reader. . . .

 

Let’s Say
What We Mean

Charles K. Brighthill

Mister New Word batted in
To the trade’s lingo confusion:
“Let me help you for a change
To come to a conclusion.”
“Get out of here,” the others said,
“We don’t welcome your intrusion,
We want to stay the way we’ve been,
Alone with our illusion.”

The above may not have been exactly what Carl Ruud, an
imaginative graduate recreation student at the University
of Illinois, had in mind when he undertook to eXpIain to
his friends what he was studying, but it might well have
been. At any rate, it was this kind of dilemma that prompted
him to produce the interesting terms which follow.

These words, their definitions, and shades of meanings
were not arrived at quickly. They are, rather, the result of
careful research, and checking with educators, practitioners,
students, and experts in nomenclature and lexicography.

Everyone knows that, even within the profession, lhe
word recreation is used to describe many different situa-
tions. Incomprehensibility, misunderstanding and misin-
terpretation result; and an individual, especially a layman,
might easily lump together painting a picture, operating an
intramural sports program, and studying the recreative
uses of leisure in an academic setting. Similarly, for lack of
more specific terminology, there is indiscriminate use of
terms supposedly modifying the word recreation. For ex-
ample, from the standpoint of basic function, there is trc-
mendous difference between a municipal recreation dc-
partment, which provides public recreation programs, serv-
ices, and facilities and the recreation department of a col-
lege or university, which offers a program of instruction
and research in this particular field. Yet we commonly refer
to both agencies as recreation departments.

The partial answer, at least, to such confusion would ap-
pear to be in the composition of clearly defined new words,
properly constructed, with appropriate prefixes and suf-
fixes. This is what brought Ruud to suggest recreology as
an appropriate term to mean “the science of man’s recrea-
tive use of leisure.”
create—limits it to man’s recreative efforts and its sufiix,

Its prefix, from rec-reate—not re-

-ology, denotes a science or branch of knowledge. In this
particular field of study, one treats with the acts, states, and
agents of recreation as problems; the forces and effects of
recreation are investigated; and the recreation movement,

 

MR. BRIGHTBILL is head of the department of recreation at the
University of Illinois in Urbana.

66

its methods and experiences are eXplored. In this sense, it
clearly represents a particular body of concepts and does
not mean engaging in leisure activity, per se.

At first glance, you may think that recreology may not
be the right word, but, when applied in the manner de-
scribed, it is at least specific, definitive, and sound. Dr.
Harris W. Wilson of the University of Illinois English De-
partment says that, after considering “the etymological and
semantic aspects of the coinage, recreology, and its various
forms, I find it completely acceptable in linguistic terms.”

In the research process, Ruud sought the opinions and
reactions of a number of well-known peOple in the recrea-
tion profession, who, by and large, approved the new termi-
nology. Among them were: Dr. Harlan G. Metcalf, Cortland
College, New York; Dr. Garrett Eppley, Indiana University;
Dr. Harold D. Meyer, University of North Carolina, who
was enthusiastic after polling the opinions of more than a
dozen practitioners in the state; and George Hjelte, general
manager of the Los Angeles Recreation and Park Depart-
ment, who said he was intrigued. He said further, “Such a
word is needed and I think would have a good chance of
being accepted.” Not all the opinions of other well-informed
and respected persons in the profession were favorable; from
some the term received a lukewarm reception; from others
outright opposition.

How do these terms strike you? If you like the word
recreology and the words associated with it, use them. I do,
and intend to! #

RECREOLOGY AND RECREATION

charrmos

ltacacomc'r

(pronounced rec re 0] n jil

l Recreation—from recreate: to
refresh after toil or exertion; and

llleereolom—lmm recreate: to
refresh after toil or exertion;

and from ofogy: mcaning descrip-

tion; term for a science or a

branch of knnwledge.

a. The science of man's recrea-
tlve use of leisure; dcaling
wfth the acts, states, and
agents of recreation.

b. That body of knowledge con-
cerned with the past, present.
and future of the recreation
movement.

The science which investigates
the forces and eflects of the
various forms of recreation.

rl. That branch of knowledge
concerned with man's use,
misuse, and/or abuse of lei-
sure. i

. That body of knowledge ex-
amined attentively lny tbme
endearoring to be educated
formally for the wortby use of
leisure.

ll Recreologleal— (ade tending
toward or pertaining to recre-
ology.

lll Reercologleally—fadv.) accord-
ing to principles of or as regards
reckeology.

1V lleereologlst—(nJ one who ls
learned in or one whn makes a
specialty ol the study of rccre-
ology; a teacher or agent of ree-
reology.

V Recreologcr— (11.) a recreolo-
gist.

V1 Reereologlae—(VJ to work witb
recreological eoncepts or activi-
ties.

from tion: signifying act, state,
or agent.

a. The act of recreating or state
of being recreated.1

b. Activities which are diversion-
ary in character and have a
beneficial efiect of a physical,
mental, and/or an emotional
nature.2

c. A condition or state of being
typificd hy wholesome, abund-
ant living; worthy use of time
during leisure.

d. Activity voluntarily engaged in
during leisure and primarily
motivated by the satisfaction
or pleasure derived there-
from..

ll Recreational—(lde belonging
to or pertaining to recreation.

lll Reereatlonally—(ava accord.
ing to the principles of or as re-
gards recreation.

W Reeceatlonisl — (n.) a partici-
pant in recreation.

V lteer‘eator— (nJ an agent or
teacher 01 recreation.
TI lteereale-(vJ to participate in
recreation.

lirebster’a New Twentieth Century Dictionary of the English Language. New
York: Standard Reference Works Publishing Company. 1956.

2Basic Concepts of Hospitol Recreation.

ington, D.C. 1953, pp. 3-4.

American Recreation Society, Wash-

'Briuhtbill and Meyer. Recreation Text and Readings. New York: Prentice.

an]. 1953, p. 50.

Cast. Rum, Graduate Assistant, Department of Recreation, University of lllinois.

 

RECREATION

Peter L. Dixon

Recreation’s Responsibility

or Diving

The interests of people during their leisure time

are the concern of
public recreation departments.

KIN AND SCUBA DIVING is now big business and one of the
fastest growing sports in the United States. As a form of
recreation, this new subsurface activity is attracting many
)eoplc who are not trained nor physically ready to enter the
nderwatcr environment. Skin Diver magazine, the cnthusi-
sts’ monthly, reports 401 skin and scuba diving clubs in
this country. (Skin diving is sometimes called “free” div-
ing.)
Skin and scuba diving can be done safely. Organizations
sing self-contained underwater breathing apparatus (scu-
ba), if they maintain standards for safety, and train their
divers in safety techniques, do not have serious accidents.
The Seripps Institution of Oceanography at La Jolla, Cal-
'fornia, and the Los Angeles County Lifeguard Underwater
Search and Recovery team have been using skin and scuba
living techniques for several years without any serious ac-
eidents. The safety program of both organizations is based
on extensive preliminary training and frequent refresher
livcs. Scripps trains each new diver for three weeks, in the
I se of seuba and then only qualifies the beginners to depths
hove twenty-five feet. Subsequent training and experience
re required for qualification to dive at deeper levels.
Scripps’ diving log shows that only seven minor accidents
lave occurred in two years of scuba diving, with over four
liousand dives recorded. Scripps is now thinking of extend-
ng its diver training program to a month. The subjects
:ovcred in the training programs of both Los Angcles Coun-
y and Seripps include a thorough background in ph ysies and
)hysiology as related to the diver, knowledge of the marine
vironment, and an extensive background of supervised
)reliminary diving skills. The individual diver must be
rained, physically fit, and emotionally stable. Available ac-
‘ident statistics show that untrained and inexperienced div-
rs are the ones who join the mortality tables first.
If organized recreation is a reflection of the interests of
- eople in their leisure time, then the area of skin and scuba
iving should be considered a responsibility of the recrea-
'on profession. To a small extent and in a limited area somc
eercation departments are involving themselves with such
iving programs.

' It. DIXON is director of the junior lifeguard program, De-
rtment of Parks and Recreation, Los Angeles, California.

Haausav 1959

A modern-day untlerwaler rescue leani—
inelmling helieopler. speetlboal, frogmen
—ls now operated by Los Angeli-s (loamy
Deparlmenl of Puan

and lieerealiml.

 

In- a recent survey made by the author, questionnaires
were mailed to all California municipal and county recrea-
tion departments and districts asking:

1. Does your department now have a skin or scuba diving
program?

2. Does your department plan a skin or scuba diving pro-
gram in the foreseeable future?

3. If you now have a program, where was your leadership
obtained? .

4. If your department plans a program for the future, where
will leadership be obtained?

Its purpose was to discover the extent of concern and in-
volvement of California recreation dcpartmcnts with skin
and scuba diving.

Of the 232 departments receiving them, 132 responded
and of these forty-eight indicated interest. Fifteen depart-
ments are now offering skin or scuba diving programs and
seventeen plan programs in the foreseeable future. Several
departments expressed interest but lacked facilities; some
assist local groups by providing pools and meeting places;
eight departments were interested but had no immediate
plans.

The growing popularity of this sport indicates a need for
some organization to take the responsibility for training
leaders. The Los Angeles County Recreation Department is
now training a limited number and supplies instructors for
several communities.

Other leadership was obtained from many sources. The
aquatics departments of five recreation agencies had their
own leaders; several had instructors from local diving clubs.
These agencies also expressed a wide choice of areas from
which to obtain leadership. Loeal clubs were mentioned
most frequently. Thrce departments are planning to use Los
Angclcs County trained instructors; several agencies plan
to use voluntcer leadership; three cannot obtain any.

Since this sport requires a great deal of skill and experi-
ence, leadership must be of the highest quality. No matter
how well meaning an instructor may be. any misinformation
or unsafe technique passed on to students may lead to ac-
cidents or loss of life. If recreation departments are to be-
come involved with underwater reereation. their primary
responsibility is to provide the best leadership. Safety un-
derwater cannot be emphasized enough! #-

67

 

 

NEWS ,

For further information regarding
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean Wachtel

 

o A new popular-priced pho-
nograph, which also plays
transcriptions, is now avail-
able from the Califone Corpo-
ration. It incorporates many
features that recommend it for
a recreation or community cen-
ter, community theater, or any
other such place where a
sturdy, not-too-heavy machine is needed. The Director
Model 12V-9 incorporates a plug-in cartridge, for either
monaural or stereo, an outlet for second channel stereo
operation, and automatic arm rest, which secures the arm
automatically, thus protecting the cartridge and needles.
in spite of careless public use. The unit floats on cushioned
spring feet to prevent groove jumping due to floor vibra-
tion. With 12-inch extended range, heavy-duty loud-
speakers, it will reach an audience of 1500 persons. It can
play recordings up to 16 inches in diameter. For infor-
mation, write Geri Langsner. Califonc Corporation, 1011
North Sycamore Avenue, Hollywood 38, California.

 

o The teaching of science has become extremely important
in the United States, and many recreation departments have
taken on various phases of it as part of their programs. The
Product Design Company produces many materials suitable
for teachers in schools and colleges, which could be easily
adapted to recreation use. Of these, the conservation project
kit would probably be the most interesting. For this project,
children gather things like soil, twigs, moss, and topsoil, to
build models representing various farm and woodland
scenes. By studying nature in microcosm, the children come
to understand various aspects of conservation that involve
different kinds of soil, topsoil, and subsoil; plant cover as
erosion prevention; formation of gullies and their repair;
misuse of land by man; terraeing; river-bed erosion; and
landscaping a city lot. The importance of forests in water
conservation, recreation, and as wildlife habitats is em-
phasized, too. The kit contains a polystyrene tray 20%” by
28” by 2" deep, a drain, clamp, siphon tube, 38-page
illustrated teacher’s manual, student worksheets. and a
mountain unit set. For further information about this and
the other kits, write Product Design Company, 2796 Middle-
field Road, Redwood City, California.

0 Puzzle Blank is just that—a blank jigsaw puzzle—with
pieces cut so they can be removed, but not so deeply that
they fall out. The gimmick in this product is its blankness,
so that the individual can make his own design. It can be
painted, finger painted, crayoned, or decorated in any way
the user sees fit. The writer’s six-year-old daughter loved

it; and it would have many fine applications for recreation
leaders working with the ill and handicapped. Write Pronto

Sales, 408 S. W. Second Avenue, Portland 4, Oregon.
68

0 A maintenance product called Tisit has many labor-
saving uses that would make it invaluable in administering
recreation and park areas. Equipped with a high-velocity
, blower assembly, and with either gasoline engine or electric
motor, the Tisit blows leaves into piles, removes them from

~

  

fence rows, monuments, shruhbery, and also removes debris
in parking areas and bus stops. It can also ventilate man-
holes, underground vaults, tanks, and boilers. The suction
side cleans motors, electric panels, machinery, boxcars,
trucks, buses, boilers, furnaces, and houses and buildings
under construction. The Tisit comes either wheel or skid

mounted. Write the Michigan Production Engineering
Company, 1796 East Nine Mile Road, Hazel Park, Michigan.

c In recreation and sports, as anywhere else, things are
always coming unstuck. For these emergencies, a new chemi-
cal in the adhesive field has been deve10ped; called K-26, it
is both transparent and nontoxic. This new product repairs,
insulates, and waterproofs in such situations as a leak in
a fuel or gas line; repairing leaks in boats, buckets, pails,
and any other kind of metal or plastic container. K-26 can
be used to repair waders, life jackets, cushions, the tips,
ferrules, and grips on rods and golf clubs. It toughens with
age, and once set and hardened, is unaffected by gasoline,
oil, naphtha, or water. Write the Automatic Service Supply
Company, 17225 Sherwood, Detroit 12, Michigan.

0 Depending on the
climate and the
weather, there are
many indoor games
that would be fun to
play outdoors if the
ball chasing involved
did not make them un-
fcasible. With the de-
sign and invention of
the Sportatron, a vest-pocket gym that does almost every-
thing an indoor gym can do, new outdoor fun in recreation
and sports is now possible. In an area 12' by 24', this new
device can accommodate modified versions of baseball, ten-
nis, golf, soccer, volleyball, basketball, squash, and florball.
It is ideal, too, for individual practice as it can accommodate
full swings with bat, racket, or club. Games move faster
because they are streamlined to fit the smaller space, and
also because the ball is back in play more quickly. More
information is available from C. F. Browne, Sportatron
Company of America, lnc., 38 Green Street, New London,
Connecticut.

 

RECREATION

E

IHD'EXOFADVERIISERS CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

 

 

 

page RATES: Words In regular type 8.15 each DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
, Word: In boldfaca type 8.25 each the titth ot the month preceding date of
A" Mela] Iennls Iable company -   ~ 7i Minimum ad accepted $3.00 the issue in which ad is desired.
American Playground Device Company  COPY: Typc~or clearly printF-your message and the address to which you wish
, , n r. U d a
Charles M. Graves organizahon .  H ‘ 45 re: ezsen nher ne any words you want to appear in boldface type.
, . err copy wit remittance to:
Chlca 0 Roller Skate Com an  Back Cover '1'—
g p Y . IIIZI‘IIEATION (.Ilassifred Advertising. 8 West Eighth Street. New York 11. New York.
Defense Bonds   .lI‘iSide Back Cover w _ g __
Exposmon Press  "   69 llEIJ’ \VANTED ft 3376. Promotions pow. and supervisory recreation-
Goid Medal Produds Com an _ u 39 Recreation Therapists lie to 5644. Write State al therapists in Minnesota's
I . p Y ‘ for California State llospi- Personnel Board. 801 Capi- mental hcalilI program. Sal-
Gymnasilc Supply Company a..-" 69 tals. Opportunity to plan to] Avenue, Sacramento. ary $39-18 to $5616 depend-
I! H 1 F d 69 and conduct individual pa- California. cnt on experience. Vacancy
ear un  - -  tient rccrcation as well as ‘olk Dance Leader want- for rclIahilitation tlIcrapir-a
H8"? Manufacturing Company 69 special group activities; ex- ed for summer position with supervisor, $5400 to $6564.
ccllent equipment and fa~ highly creative youth pro)- Degrce plus acI'r-ralyearn of
James Spencer and Company . 69 cilitics availahle. Positions ect. Male or fcmalc. New supervisory cxpcrien cc.
. open to college graduates England. Box 1149, l’itts- Personnel Director. Dcpt.
Jail“) Mhlel'c Supply Company 69 with major in recreagon or field, Mass. of Public Welfare, 117 Inni-
. recreation t erapy. 0 ex- ——-~ --~ varsity Avenue, St. Paul 1.
lo" Pei Manmadurer *“‘“*“""" 70 patience required to start Openings available for stall Minnemra. .
Ille MdCGI’egIJI' Company  The pubiiahcr oaeumea no responeibr'lity IOr eert'icre or iteme odoertieed here.
Monroe Company PM . 69 - H- * - ~——-
National Sports Company .. 70 NEW AND IMPROVED
Peier Carver Associaies . 39 Change 0‘ Address 1% YA N 9 S H & R
C I
The Pro ram Aids Com any 70
g . p lfyou are planning to move, notify us DRY LINE MARKERS
i. i. lwardzlk and Company 71 ,
o I .d F 1 C at least thirty days before the date of ’ 5 DIFFERENT MODElS
Troph'es' Incorporated  "SI 8 [on over the issue with which it is to take effect, F'°"' 2°# F” 1°°# “Wad”
. orce Feed -— Inelont
U- 5- RUbber Redaimmg company   38 if possible, in order to receive your 550:1“ - 50 “n- “-
Vogel-Peierson Company  F 70 magazines without interruption. Send  In HOP," hr
Voif .- mmrhw _, 70 both your old and new addresses by lct- Comm" “W-
Wheaties (General Mills) _ 45 Ier, card or post office form 225 to: Adlosloble Control en

Subscription Department RECREATION "Md"-
SAVES TIME AND

Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street, New MATERIAL

F | G H T H  D I 5  E York 11’ N' Y’ Send to bept. R for booklet on {our other models
H. 8. R. MFG. CO.. LOS ANGELES 34. CALIF.

New. Improved Golden Age Club Pin.
Now In real gold plate with tree in
green [ewelen' enamel. Safety catch.  0
50¢ each. Including federol lo: and

   
 

postage. . .

Minimum order ‘IOpInI  CI  
Available only to oulhenllc clubs. Two ravaged. “instruct! brochure. ten how
EXACT SIZE JAMES SPENCER 8- CO. ’to publish your book. not 40% royaltiee. na-
22 N. am SIreeI Philadelphia 6. Po. “0"” 'dVemIlnr- Publicity and promotion.

Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. R.2
ExpOSII’lon Press / see an Av... N.‘t. l6

 

 

 
     

sows BUDGET ROBIEMS

 Shop from this FREE
 sailidkphroyv‘id: I:“girgeoailar  _ . p -- . I ,' - 
I taint: 5.11:3. CATALOG '- 1 ' srrn CHAIN

gymnasium with this
NETS

valoa-ladan catalog
3 Year! Guaranteel

as your guide.

TRADE-IN YOUR OLD

_ eotdeen er Indeen
4h- ]nturing leylro'e net-In built

EQUIPMENT on finast
3' _ ‘§::;‘*";s:u':§b::; . ALUMINUM MUlTl-PURPOSE STANDARDS
" I P . NYlON as NETS a BALI. CAIIIIIEIIS
' TETHERBALL POLES t. PADDLE sers
ALUMINUM snumeaono 5515
./ ALUMINUM aAmNo TEES

JAYFIO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. R. Ion 1065. NEW LONDON, CONN.

BANQUET
TABLES

 
    
 
 

  
 
 
 
 

  
     
       
      
  
     
     
   
     
     
   
     
       
   
 

   

Direct
Prices 1. (DI-coon:-
To Churches. Clube.

ee. Schoole
and All Ornamen-
hone.

0m 50.000 in-
etitutlona own
end use modern
Munroe Folding
tienquet Tables.

teetery

 
   

  
  
  

AND
MONROE TRUCKS

e.

  
 
  

   
  
 
  

  
 

Write for the new
.‘IIINIIDE 515T
ANNIVERSA I! Y
t‘A'l‘A LOG oi
Folding 'l‘eblel.
Folding (3 I) e l l' a.
Truck-I. )Iorelrle
i'ertitlanhe: Fold-
til ‘11. 1'10. --
Get our let prim-a. a "‘/

quentity lecounte. eteo temu.
Monroe Co.. ill Church St.. Colfax. lowe

2.:

  
 

      
   
 

. t
a  J
GYMNAerc SUPPLyco.

-.

   

I‘ --r- rf'.“‘\.

 

FEBRUARY 1959 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 69

AMERICA’S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS

Magazine Articles
FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,

pRlCE OR SKILL_ THE AMERICAN CITY, January 1959.

Christmas at Nela Park (outdoor light-

 ing) .

 ' l A City-581100] Swim Center, H. K. Hunter.
| tars we Ae'rn'n'u-ts, January 1959.
    : Special issue on pencil sketching.

   

 

(Intent: Mme-12m; November 1958.
' What Do We Want in Leadership? Martin

 Gold. .
NEW YORK 11 - Give Campers the Thrill of True Outdoor
CHICAGO I] ’ Living..Lois‘Coodr£ch.
Log “135153 I] I: [IIIZSCéATHULIL (.IIARITIL—zs REVIEW. December

Leisure-Time Activities thc Exceptional
Child Enjoys, Sister Mary Sheila.
NEA JOI'RNAL, Norember 1058.
Current Research on Creativity, Viktor
Loreenfeld.
I’Aaus .wn Spams Gumwos, December I 959.
Nev. Building Methods for Low Cost
Grandstands. '
I  [Haas .ucn RECREATION, October 1958.

  xsm Standard:- for Public Pools.
‘ - - -—---—----—, November 1958.

        
     
   
    

 
 
   
  

All-motel SNAP-ON

  lik‘i- basketball nuts. I

Us. in or outdoors. r " a. f I,  n ‘ "
a «(f of No Instruction I '   ' x Let’s Take. a Look at Our Public Rela-
f. "L . 4 .. md-d. lust snap “OP CISiON BULL limits.
it, - ‘ n i'“° IMP" “'75 . MAJ-[TKGU I ? ED Plan Your Battle on Encroachment, H. E.
‘ {it ' a pair. I . Xx . Valli".
Wm" for '3"! " use c°'°l°9' 'lur. YWCA MAGAZINE, January 1939.
Write I n n  o n n L I Sought \fter But Unsung—the Volunteer.

L O U - P EL Mfr. I m mamemm uc. wu.

Books & Pamphlets
Received

BOOK or Aucmew anlA’N‘ GAMES, Allan A.
Maciarlan. Association Press. 291 Broad-
way, Vew York 7. Pp. 28-1. $3.95.

Bnneowno TREASI’RE, Anne Colver. Alfred A.
Knopf. 501 Madison Ave., T\lew York 22.

I Pp. 83. $2.50.

‘1 \ Buxmc Dnrmmav, F. C. Avis. Philosophi-

ral Library, 15 E. 401h St.. New York 16.

32 MONROE ST., WATERFORD, CONN.

     

 

“Slolionory" rocks $2.75.
,I. igcg‘"::fu°;n:;‘:::: Bmucc PL wath' Gum; T0 Bmmx‘c. Alfred
a rigidly Logeum lo m Slicinwold. Barnes 8' Noble, 105 5th Ave..
' “W "m" °' WM“ Ne“ York 3. Pp. 190. Paper. $1.25.

(opacity roquirod.

 

Linurmca or Tur, [Narrow-s, Sir Edmund
Hillary. Editor. E. l’. Dutton. 300 4th Ave..
T\lew York 10. Pp. 221. $3.75.

Litutetoxsme Wuasruxc, Clifford P. Keen.
Charles M. Speidel, and Raymond H.
Swartz. 1'. S. Naval Institute, Annapolis,
\Id. Pp. 223. $1.50.

Lums'rmx' FINGER vas .n'n Gums. Edna
Be\‘an.‘7.un(lervan Publishing, Grand Ra-
pids. Mich, Pp. 30. 8.50.

1.1mm PARTICIPATION n- l'umx RENEWAL.
William Bishop Vixen and Joseph M. Boyd.
Tennessee State Planning Commission, C1-

 

Program Aids

NOTHING r~ BI'T NOTHINGwhuilds “

strung” teams and hetter programs than
Prn imam Aids The sure way to Scientific

 

w "
COAT and HAT RACKS' .

(umhing, Moire wins. Increased Game 3310,21; ,1:ebgggtgtgsgegcggegg£33133; 121 (.ordell Ilull Bldg, \ashville 3. Pp.
Attendaan New Prestige. wherever needed on large. ball-benrtng-amrcl 245. prev. ‘
casters. Comr- mth or without check: and snap-on ‘ - ,
0 ERASO‘ Posters 8: Charts numbersdsgfxglr wagedegffsqtlnre tubulalz. gentry (.UMPLETE (JUIDE T0 J t'uo, Robert W. Smith,
' auto an em 9' urn hire stee mart - r

. spot AWARDS. troeh'es  CUP; iii modern knightedr finishes GIN! lLfettme sorvtce- Edlmr- Charles E- TIMI“: Rllilamla 1‘ t- PP-
. PLAYMASTER" Coaching Aids nercr sag. circa}: urge-arms It... 4 a 5 It. units aratl- 2.19 3:; 95 I

_ w * ab 9. as we as at or e clent space saving cqutp- ’ ' ' ' ’ ' ‘ '
. 2:22;:wfsrgggril“:far???” tints-Intt 110; a??? Snatch} scsdool. commercial. Lousn'wl'rY FACILITlEs (Second Annual (.om- '
o . “ a .0- mm" up 0):; n us ra an I): 11 one. no . . . . n . __ . .
. Exe‘mive s‘hedu'ing Ki" wt". to, Baum“ GM” petition). National Association of Home

Builders, 1625 L St., N.W., Washington 6,
 co. I).C.Pp..)6. Free.

um es. en 0" WRITE FOR CATALOG TO —

THE PROGRAM AIDS 00., INC.

 

H21 W. 37th Sheet 0 Chicago 9, Illinois

   

Dept. n. 550 5th Ave., N. Y. 36. N. v.

(Cont. on page 72)

70 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

 

   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
  

Supervisory Methods in Municipal Ad-
ministration, Fronk P. Sherwood and
Wallace H. Best. International City
Managers' Association, 1313 East 60th
Street, Chicago, Illinois. Pp. 302.
$7.50.

This manual for a correspondence
course,‘ developed by the International
City Managers’ Association, will he of
interest to recreation workers, particu-
Iarly those in supervisory and adminis-
trative positions in the public service.
There are fifteen chapters dealing with
such subjects as “The Supervisor and
the Individual,” “The Supervisor, the
Individual and the Group,” “Creating
a Climate of Participation,” “Commun-
icating Successfully,” “Handling Per-
sonnel,” and others.

Also available is a training kit, which
contains case studies, discussion ques-
tions (ten per chapter), and two printed
pamphlets used in the U. 5. Air Force
management course for supervisors:
How to Understand Workers and [low
to Apply Techniques of Good Human
Relations. Supplementary materials in-
elude a guide and checklist for discus-
sion leaders, selected bibliography on
municipal supervision, and a selected
list of films and film strips for use in
municipal supervisory training. The
discussion leader also receives quiz
sheets for all students. There is a quiz
for each lesson; all QUBSIIOIIS are either
true-false or multiple-choice. This kit
is free to those who enroll in the course;
otherwise it costs $3.00.

Two sound film strips, developed
especially for the course, may be used
with it or separately. They are Develop-

ing on U nrlerstud y and The Supervisor
and the Individual. They cost $30.00

'each or $50.00 for the set.—W. C. Suth-
erland, director, NRA Recreation Per-
sonnel Service.

Games of the Orient, Stewart Culin.
Charles E. Tuttle, Rutlond, Vt. Pp. I77.
53.75.

In 1895, Stewart Culin, director of
the Museum of Archaeology and Pa]-
eontology at the University of Penn-

’ For Complete information regarding the
course, write to the International City Man-
gers' Association at the above address.

FEBRUARY 1959

Covering the Leisure-time Field

sylvania, published a book entitled

Korean Games. This was a collector’s
item. limited to 550 copies. Mr. Culin
was a noted collector of games of the
world; his writings were unique, as the
West knew little of this aspect of
Oriental culture. Last year, Charles
E. Tuttle had the foresight to republish
this wonderful book under the title
Games of the Orient.

Both titles are perhaps misnomers,
or at least incomplete, for Mr. Culin,
throughout the text and in voluminous
footnotes, also presents materials from
Western Europe, South America, and
the United States, including Alaska.
Some of the items discussed are far
front the concept of games, as known
in the United States.

This treasure—-—for, indeed, that’s
what it is—tells how to construct every-
thing from kites to special table games,
in addition to giving instructions for
pl a y i n g numerous nonequipment
games. There is a wealth of material on
the history of many games we know and
play today; the charts and diagrams en-
rich the text. Mr. Culin’s style is easy
to read and he has the ability of writ-
ing instructions in a most readable
fashion.

Every professional recreation leader
should be aeqUainted with this material.
It is the substance with which we work,
and to be effective, we must understand
the dimensions of our tools. Mr. Culin
helps us to do this in a painless, cdify-
ing, and intriguing way.—Elliott M.
Cohen, Consulting Service on Recrea-
tion for the Ill and Handicapped.

School Sites: Selection, Development,
and Utilization, James L. Taylor. Oiiice
of Education, U.S. Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare. U.S.
Government Printing Office, Washing-
ton 25, D.C. Pp. 9]. Paper, $.75.

This publication should be of interest
to every recreation executive and board
member. It is profusely illustrated with
layouts of school sites and contains val-
uable suggestions with reference to the
determination of site needs, the relation
of site planning to the school program,
and methods of selecting, acquiring, "

planning, and developing the site. It is .,

When writing to our advertisers please mention Rscassrtox.

 

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recording Inventory costs,
handing out balls and paying tap prices for low
quality bolls. Install this attractive, cost-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWl

 

leased FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Troubleafree operation

' assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-

live hard wood and metal cabinet—7V: at 8'6 x 15
inches high. Easy to Install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality bolls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wasting Their Time."

1. t. inIRDZIK s. (0.,

~- :r-n"

SHENANDOAH. PINNA,

 

100% ALUMINUM
TABLE TENNIS
TABLES

Entirely constructed of heavy-duty
ALUMINUM, exclusively designed for
intensive use in all types at public
recreation areas located indoors and

outdoors.

' Outlasls all other Ping-Pong tables
In public areas.

FOLDING and RIGID LEG MODELS.
Standard size and boll-bounce.

No maintenance or replacement
problems.

In 2 sections—4 legs each section.
Eoslly separated Into 2 tables for
many other uses.

Attractively finished In green nonglore
surface and silver lines.

' NATlONALLY USED FOR MANY
YEARS In Colleges, Schools, Clubs,
Playgrounds, Gymnasiums, etc.

For full details—write

All METAL IEN'INS TABLE (0.

P. O. BOX 142, TEAN‘ECK, N.

71

(Continued from Page 70)

m

COMMUNITY vaINc IN COOPERATIVE HOUSING,
Clara Fox. Play Schools Association, 41
W. 57th St., New York 19. Pp. 80. Paper,
$.75.

CONTRACT BRIDGE, Sportshelf, Box 634, New
Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 32. Paper, $.75.

COSTUME BOOK FOR PARTIES ANn PLAYS, TnE,
Joseph Leeming. J. B. Lippincott, E. Wash-
ington Sq., Philadelphia 5. Pp. 123. $3.25.

CURLINC AT A GLANCE, Dar Curtis. Darwin
Curtis, 21 Indian llill Rd., Winnetka, lll.
Pp. 28. $.25.

DICTIONARY or PERSONNEL AND INDUSTRIAL
RELATIONS, Esther L. Becker. Philosophical
Library, 15 E. 40th St., New York 16. Pp.
366. $10.00.

EAGLE SPORTS ANNUAL, Marcus Morris, Edi-
tor. SportslIelf, Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 128. $2.50.

EDUCATORS GUInE To FREE SLIDEFILMS, 1958,
Mary Horkheimer and John W. Diffor, Edi-
tors. Educators Progress Service, Ran-
dolph, Wis. Pp. 206. Paper, $6.00.

EnUCATORs GUIDE To FREE TAPES, SCRIPTS,
AND TRANSCRIPTIONS, 1959. Educators Pro-
gress Service, Box 497, Randolph, Wis. Pp.
229. Paper, $5.75.

ELEMENTARY SCHOOL CHILD AND HIS POSTURE
PATTERNS, TIIE, Evelyn A. Davies. Apple-
ton-Century-Crofts, 35 W. 32nd St., New
York 1. Pp. 80. Paper. $.95.

ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GIrInE To FREE CUR-
RICULI'M MATERIAL: (15th Annual Edi-
tion), Patricia ll. Sultles, Editor. Educa-
tors Progress Service, Randolph, Wis. Pp.
318. Paper, $6.50.

FACT Boon ON AGING. Department of Eco-
nomic Security, Frankfort, Ky. Pp. 77.
Free.

FITNESS or AMERICAN YOUTH. President’s
Council on Youth Fitness, 441 G St., N.W.,
Washington 25, D. C. Pp. 88. Free.

500 GAMES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS, Vernon llow-

ard. Zondervan Publishing. Grand Rapids,
Mich. Pp. 92. Paper, $1.50.

FOLK DANCE CATALOG. THE, Compiled by
Dolores Filardi. American Squares, 1159
Broad St., Newark 5, N. J. Pp. 159. $3.50
(on looscleaf cards).

FUN FOR THE NOT-SO-YOUNC, Sid G. lledges.
Philosophical Lihrary, 15 E. 40th St., New
York 16. Pp. 142. $3.75.

FUN FROM THE BIBLE, Leda P. McBride. Zon-
dervan Publishing, Grand Rapids, Mich.
Pp. 61. Paper. $1.00.

FUN WITII SCRAPs, Viola llening. Bruce Pub-
lishing, 400 N. Broadway, Milwaukee 1.
Pp. 178. $3.00.

GANG, THE. llerhert Bloch and Arthur Nied-
erhoffer. Philosophical Library, 15 E. 40th
St., New York 16. Pp. 231. $6.00.

PtIYSICAL EDUCATION FOR CHILDREN, Elizabeth
Halsey and Lorena Porter. Henry Holt, 383
Madison Ave., New York 17. Pp. 416. $5.75.

PIIYSICAL EDUCATION FOR ELEMENTARY
SCHOOLS, Ruth Evans, Thelma I. and Mary
E. Bacon, and Joie L. Stapleton, McGraw-
Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp.
317. $5.50.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE MODERN ELE-
MENTARY SCHOOL, Charles A. Bucher, Ed.
D., and Evelyn M. Reade, Ed. D. Mac-
millan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp.
437. $5.50.

72

one Of the first books to recognize the
fundamental importance of cooperative
planning on the part Of the school with
the recreation department and other
community agencies in the selecting, ac-
quiring, and developing of school prop-
erties.

For example, the author states: “Ex-
ploring the possibilities of COOperation
with other community agencies is im-
portant. At the very least, information
should be secured relative to their plans
and programs. Park boards and recrea-
tion commissions in some communities
cooperate with schools in planning fa-
cilities for joint usage. Sometimes such
an arrangement Offers the only solution
to securing a desirable site.”

Many illustrations demonstrate the
importance of planning school sites to
serve community as well as school
needs. It is pointed out that the school-
park idca not only saves the taxpayers
money, but provides bcttcr resources
for school and community programs.
Two sections meriting special mention
are a report of materials used in sur-
facing playground areas in a largc num-
her Of cities and a tablc setting forth
the recommended minimum size of
school sites adopted by state education
departments—George Butler, director,
NRA Research Department.

Sports and Recreation Facilities: For
School and Community, M. Alexander
Gabrielsen and Caswell M. Miles, Edi-
tors. Prentice-Hall, Englewaod Cliffs,
New Jersey. Pp. 370. $6.00 'I’ ‘

As Dr. Walter D. CoCkiIIg, editor of
The School Executive, states in the f ore-
word: “Editors Gabrielsen and Miles
have planned and deveIOped an impor-
tant and interesting book that should be
extremely helpful to all those concerned
with the sports facilities and the rec-
reation facilities of both schools and
communities.” Major emphasis is given
to school areas and facilities although,
throughout the book, it is recognized
that tlIesc should be designcd for both
school and community recreation use.
The importance of cooperative planning
between school and municipal authori-
ties is stressed by several contributors.

This volume contains more detailed,
technical data on the design and con-
struction of various types of facilities
than any other single publication. The
chapters were written by tweIIty-onc
specialists and contain valuable up-to-
date information for the guidance of
agencies or communities planning to de-
velop such facilities as a gymnasium,
indoor or outdoor swimming pool, golf
course, or skating rink, among othcrs.
Chapters dealing with lighting for
sports and various types of surfaces
contain detailed information. Sports

and Recreation Facilities merits a place
in every school and recreation library.

Brainstorming, Charles Clark. Creative
Thinking Courses, Inc., 11 West 42nd
Street, New York 36. Pp. 262. $4.50.

“Brainstorming,” which appears to
be increasing in popularity, has proven
its value as an idea-producing tech-
nique. This book gives a rather clear
and comprehensive treatment of brain-
storming and covers almost every as-
pect of the subject, explaining how you
can make it work for you.

The author tells thc inside facts and
explains how this technique can be used
for almost any gathering, from family
groups to largc corporations. He has
conducted many brainstorming sessions
for important concerns and is available
for this type of service—W. C. SUTHER-
LAND, director, NRA Recreation Person-
nel Service.

Sound Sketches with Rhythm Instru-
ments, J. Lilian Vandevere. Carl Van

Roy Ca., 2917 Ave. R, Brooklyn 29,
New York. Pp.48. $2.00.

Leaders who have worked with
rhythm instruments know that Miss
Vandeverc was one of the most prolific
——and best—writers of rhythm-band
scores for children. This new booklct,
published posthumously, is excellent
and can be put to use immediately in
your summer program. It consists of
dclightful, simple stories that can be
rcad by the leadcr, told by one child, or
dividCd among a group of children. The
stories are accompanied by simple
scores for rhythm band instruments,
not “pat,” but depending upon the
child‘s self-expression and interpreta-
tion, not only in music but in basic
physical activities.

The illustrations are delightful, the
material fresh and natural—a real find.

The Swimming Pool Book, Robert

Scharfi. M. Barrows and Company,
425 Fourth Avenue, New York 16.
Pp. 214. $3.50"

The nationwide construction of home
and club swimming pools has created a
demand for a publication that sets forth
in a rather elementary but clear and
concise manner the essential informa-
tion with reference to planning, con-
struction, operation, and maintenance
of a small pool. _The Swimming Poor
Book has obviously been designed tc
meet this need and its contents should
be exceedingly useful to any individual
or group interested in building an out-
door pool.

“ Available from NRA Recreation Bool-
Center, 8 W. 8th Street, New York 11.
'l'No 10% discount on this book.

RECREATIOR

HELP US KEEP THE
THINGS WORTH KEEPING

Nothing’s so precious to a
child as her mother’s love. It
surrounds her and helps her
find her way in a big strange
world.

And though she doesn’t
know it yet, peace is precious,
too. It. makes the lives of both
mother and daughter more
secure.

But like most precious
things, peace is not free. Peace
costs money. Money for
strength to keep the peace.
Money for science and educa-
tion to help make peace last-
ing. And money saved by
individuals to help keep our
economy strong.

Your Bonds make you a
Partner in strengthening
America’s Peace Power.

The chart below shows how
the Bonds you buy will earn
money for you. But the most
important thing they earn is
peace. They help us keep the
things worth keeping.

Think it over. Are you buy-
ing enough?

HOW YOU CAN REACH YOUR SAVINGS GOAL
WITH SERIES E SAVINGS BONDS
{in last 8 yum, 11 months)

 

HELP STRENGTHEN AMERICA‘S PEACE POWER

BUY U. S. SAVINGS BONDS

«3‘0" 3
The U .S. Gowrnment does not pay for this admrt‘ising. The Treasury Drportmrrt thanks _  _
The Adwrtising Council and this magazim‘ for their patriotic donation. 1% “if

LLE
S KAT IN m  e

reoreottoto t/oett eto $67Mth more people

to [err rjoetee. . .

Roller skating is a sport enjoyed by the
young in heart. A gym, ball or any other
sm00th surface makes a fine skating area,
and there is no damage to the floor if
proper skates are used. Little equipment is
needed . . . little supervision is required.
'l'hat's‘why more and more schools and
Churches have roller skating programs——
and mm} oft/Jew make money by charging a
nominal fee for skating. Write today for
free information.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

New Rubber-Plastic Wheels are kind to gym floors

Not only do these new Duryte rubber-plaStic wheels
outwear Others, they give the skater more traction
and smoorher rolling. They are guaranteed not to
mar or scratch the floors. Write for free details on
roller skating programs and skating equipment.

 

4490-8 West Lake, Chicago 24, Illinois

