 

Give BOOKS For Christmas

Kaiffai %1$%4S ZZ§K§K§K§K§K§ZZ§K§ £49243": 234$ JK§ZZ§ZZ§°ZZ4§ZZ£2Z§Z

For a Friend Who Is a Church leader 

759—RECREATION AND THE LOCAL CHURCH ................................ .. $2.75
By Frances Clemens, Robert Tully, and Edward Crill, Editors.

Program suggestions for sports, picnics, banquets, outdoor edu-
cation, nature studies, hobbies, crafts, playground fun, parties,
rhythmic activities, plays, music, storytelling, games. Bihli-
Ography. Illustrated. 191 pp.

1434—SUMMER WITH NURSERY CHILDREN .................................. .. $2.00

By Florence Schultz. Designed to aid in the planning of activities
and facilities for the church nursery school in summer. Includes
songs, indoor and Outdoor games, teaching techniques. and il-
lustrations. 156 pp.

For a Friend Who Is a Camp leader 

783—CREATIvE CRAFTS FOR CAMPERS ........................................ .. $7.95
By Catherine T. Hammett and Carol M. Horroch‘s. An emphasis
on outdoor arts and crafts in organized camps and for hand-
crafters Of all ages. 175 projects using Nature’s designs and
materials. 431 pp.

826—WORKEOOK FOR CAMP COUNSELOR TRAINING (2nd Ed.) $4.00“
By Marie D. Hartwig. Combines camping theory with practice.
Discusses group guidance and counseling, the major areas of
the camp program, first aid, and reports. References. 140 pp.

For a Friend Who Is a Parent 

1619—SINCINC DAYS OF CHILDHOOD .............................................. .. $4.95

Florence Ray. Songs, poems, finger plays, and rhythms for the
young child. Subject matter includes the seasons. holidays, cow.

boys, the circus, family fun, the farm. Teaching suggestions.
131 pp.

1696—EvERv CHILD’S STORYBOOK ................................................ .. $3.95
By Margaret Martignoni. A collection of stories, poems, nursery
rhymes, jokes, and riddles for children. Some are old favorites,
Others are the work of modern writers. Subject index. Il-
lustrated. 273 pp.

1295—GARDENINc: A NEW WORLD FOR CIIILDREN ........................ .. $2.75

By Sally Wright. Covers the basic fundamentals of year-round
gardening for children with emphasis on gardens compatible
with their interests. Contains projects and planning schemes.
Illustrations. 183 pp.

For a Friend Who Is a Teenager 

I397—HANDBOOK OF CO-ED TEEN ACTIVITIES .............................. .. $7.95
By Edythe and David Delilarche. Games, party suggestions, how
to plan dances, what to serve, camping, projects with purpose,
hobby guide and parliamentary procedure for leaders, parents
and teenagers. Illustrated. 640 pp.

841—BETTY WIIITE’S TEEN-ACE DANCE ETIQUETTE .................. .. $2.50
By Betty White. Presents the accepted social practices for teen-
agers. Illustrated by June Kirkpatrick. 64 pp.

219——-BETTY WIIITE’S TEEN-AGE DANCEDOOK ............................ .. $4.50

By Betty White. Contain all the popular dances, with clear and
easy instructions. Helpful ideas on invitations, dress, etc. Il-
lustrated. 240 pp.

605—TIIE SEvENTEEN PARTY BOOK ............................................ .. $3.00
Edited by Enid Haupt. For teenagers, detailed plans for showers,
high-school proms, birthday parties, box parties, and others.
Decorations, menus, rceipes, games. Illustrated. 207 pp.

BIO—PHOTOGRAPHY FOR TEEN-AOERS (2nd Ed.) ...................... .. $3.95
By Lucille Robertson Marshall. Covers every aspect Of photog-
raphy from the simple box camera to flash bulbs: use Of color:
latest equipment; and processes. Photographs. 180 pp.

RECREATION BOOK CENTER

For Christmas mailings

 

Prices subject to publishers’ changes

I'Not subject to NRA membership discount.

For the Friend With a Hobby 

779—THE CANDLE BOOK .............................................................. .. $3.50
By Carli Laklan. The first and complete book on candles and

candle craft as a hobby or for money-making. 190 pp.

802—MOSAICS: HOBBY AND ART ................................................ .. $3.50
By Edwin Hendrickson. The essentials of a new hobby requir-
ing no special artistic talent or age limit. Details and photos on
how to make many functional objects of different designs and
color schemes. 111 pp.

l593—THE COMPLETE BOOK OF COIN COLLECTING (Rev. Ed.) .. $3.95
Joseph Coffin. Provides anyone of average buying power with
the information essential to accumulate a worthwhile collection
of ancient and modern coins. List of dealers. Glossary. Photo-
graphs. 251 pp.

1597—How TO LIvE WITH A PARAKEET ...................................... .. $350"
By B. A. Benson. An amusing guide on the care and training of
parakeets. Includes teaching the parakeet to talk, taming, neces-

sary equipment, care in accidents and sickness. Line drawings.
188 pp.

136%BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS FLOWER ARRANCINC FOR
EvERv DAY AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS .................................. .. $2.95
ABC’s of basic arrangement styles—traditional, Oriental, mod-
ern. Illustrated instructions. Helpful hints, over 200 photo-

graphs, 115 in color. 160 pp.

1594 A—HANDICRAFTS AND HOBBIES FOR RECREATION AND RE-
TIREMENT .............................................................................. .. $4.00
By illarguerite [cit-is. A wealth of information on activities
which may be conducted in and around the home for pleasure
and profit. Crafts in wood, metal, leather, clay, paper, textiles
and plastics. New slants on old hobbies, gardening, painting,
weaving and collecting.

For the Friend Who Is a Sportsman 

666—BASIC SKILLS IN SPORTs (2nd Ed.) ................................ .. $450"
By David A. Arnlbruster and Leslie W. Irwin. Prewnts the es-
sential techniques, strategies, offenses and defenses of team and
individual sports for both men and women. Rules, equipment,
safety factors, tests. 334 pp.

I376—TIIE COMPLETE BOOK OF WATER SKIING .......................... .. $1.50
By Robert ScharH. Written for both the beginner and the ad-
vanced skier. Includes information on required equipment,
tricks, jumping, boat handling. water safety, and tournaments.
Over 100 illustrations. 191 pp.

For the Friend Who Is a Nature lover 

1290—TIIE TREE IDENTIFICATION BOOK ...................................... .. $10.00
By George W. D. Symonds. 1539 pictures to help identify 130
different trees. In two sections: Pictorial Keys, showing fruit.
bark, flowers, etc.; Master Pages, showing member of the family.

Side edge indexer], 272 pp.

ll53—TIIF. ART OF DRYING PLANTS AND FLOWERs .................... .. $4.50
By .ilabel Squires. A practical book on the selecting, drying, and
using of plant materials for year around decoration. Detailed
charts, lists, and tables. Photographs. 258 pp.

977—FIELD BOOK OF NATURE ACTIVITIES .................................. .. $3.95
By William Ilillcourt. A broad outline of all the possible activi-
ties in the field of nature study, and a wealth of ideas for every
conceivable nature hobby. Illustrated. 320 pp.

8 W7 est Eighth Street, New York 11, New York

orders must reach Book Center by November 20.

ll" hen ordering, mention Recreation Magazine.

l
|

  

for good sports everywhere!

  

Whatever your in-season sports program, MacGregor athletic
equipment can help make it a popular success. Golf, tennis,
softball, baseball—- just about any sport comes off better when
MacGregor balls and equipment are used. Generations of ath-
letic-minded men and women, boys and girls, have looked to
MacGregor for the finest in all sports equipment. Give your
program a boost by providing the best . . . MacGregor for all
good sports. MacGregor equipment is available from sporting
goods dealers everywhere.

@dczayaz B

THE MACGREGOR CO., Cincinnati 32, Ohio ' BASEBALL ' FOOTBALL ' BASKETBALL ' GOLF ' TENNIS

A Brunswick
Subsidiary

NOVEMBER 1960

REC REATION

 

 

NOVEMBER I960 VOL. Llll NO. 9 PRICE 60c
The Case for Beauty (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403
What is its place in today’s world?
Congress Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 407
Trends, emphases, and news from the 42nd National Recreation Congress
Directions for the Future . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Roy Sorenson 412
2: Implications from the 1960 White House Conference on Children and Y outli
5 Extending Your Recreation Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alice Serly, M.S. 414
E A multi-agency approach
w No Limit to their Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shirley R. Spencer and Louis Cantoni 417
Physical disabilities need not prevent group activities
The National Cultural Center—Part III _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Joseph Prendergast 418'
Its relation to the National Recreation Association and to you
Training Aids and Tips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4201
Ways of increasing effectiveness of church centered programs I
The Youngsters Take the Stage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Edward R'. Lucas 421
E The Downey Children’s Theatre—dz pioneering enterprise I
35 Christmas Craft-O-Rama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Esther Butterfield 425
8 A holiday demonstration program
3‘ Celebrations at Christmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4261
Floats and parades
Encroachment of Recreation and Park Lands and \Vatcr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
Z A summary of the national committee report
2 Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 428
E!
t..
E State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429l
E 'l
2 Agrecmcnts Concerning Part-Time Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joseph  Curtis 445
Employment forms
Teenage Motives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert B. McCreech 431
Why youngsters volunteer for service
t..
a No Recreation Director Is an Islam] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jac Cropley 433
g The partnership of private and public agencies
Starfish as \Vcll as Stars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dorothy Barclay 434
Can intellectual pnrsnits be recreation?
I
'2 Letters 400 Resources and References 402 Editorially Speaking 404 As \Ve Go To Press 405
(:3 Reporter’s Notebook 436 Market News 438 Trade Mart 439 Concerning Upkeep 443
I Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 444 Personnel 445 New Publications 446
U
<

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth
Street, Ncw York 11, New York, is on tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers'
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. lie-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current
issues available University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Space Representatives: East Coast-“Anvnnrtsmc MANAGER, RECREATION Magazine, 8 W.
8th Street, New York 11; Midwest—MARK MINAHAN, 185 N. Wabash Boulevard, Chicago
1, Illinois; and W est Coast—AARON Rornaumznc Sr ASSOCIATES, 8845 W. Olympic Boule-
vard, Beverly Hills, California.

398

Copyright, 1960. by the National
Recreation Association, Incorporated

«new



e.;.i°

Printed in the U.S.A.

The orHcIes heroin
printed ore the expres-
sion of the writers and
not 0 statement of policy
of the Notional Rocreo-
lion Association.

UCATIONAL
ESS
SOCIATION
OF

   
 

RECREATION

CIrcIe #III on coupon

RECREATION . 

-l

Hal

_r '  u  Want a Bigger and Better Program

   

 

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON WIT/I 0
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY - i .' More satisiied Public ?
Associate Editors  . I The Key to Success Lies in Your Undeveloped

Administration, GEORGE BUTLER    J Refreshment Profit Potential
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN ' ' "

  

POPCORN

8c profit per 10c sale.
Machines start at $199.00.

SNO-KONES

71/2c profit per 10c sole.
Machines from $149.50.

COTTON CANDY

8‘/2c profit per dime sale.
Equipment only $275.00.

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

      
 

Advertising Manager
ESTA CLUCK

    
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 

 

  

On the Cover

Transition into winter. The airy gai-
ety of these steeds carries over even
when the carrousel has stopped and
summer ended, in this delightful pic-
ture by Izis. It is reproduced from an
excellent new book, Say It With Your
Camera, by Jacob Deschin, through the
courtesy Of the publishers, Ziff-Davis __.
Publishing Company, One Park Ave- 
nue, New York 16 ($4.95) . '

Next Month K

The December issue of RECREATION
will be devoted, among other concerns,
to the “things” that make the recreation
job possible——the equipment, supplies,
and facilities and areas used by recrea-
tion executives and other leadership.

Selection of proper playground sur- M o v I E s NEW AND IMPROVED

facing, for example, will be covered in

an excellent article, “Paving the Way For Every occasion  , S H c 85 R c

to Playground Fun,” by Ed Maurer, *
recreation design and facility planner

DRY LINE MARKERS
for the Philadelphia Department of RECREATION - EDUCATION '\ SDIFFERENT MODELS

a-IL 41- -
Recreation, and how to make your play- 16MM SOUND From 2011- IO 100* COPO‘IW

Hundreds of Park and Recreation
Departments annually add IO to
20% to their available funds with

x, refreshment Profits. You can, too.
ff Detailed free booklets tell what you
need, how to order, and how to pay

Out of profits as you operate. No

_ ' obligation, write today sure for cam-
hgl plete details.

GOLD MEDAL PROOUOTS OO.

 310 EAST THIRD STREET
 CINCINNATI 2, OHIO

I. .‘I'

  

 

Circle #IIZ on coupon Circle #ll3 on coupon

 

_ ‘  Force Feed — Instant
ground dreams come true, 111 ‘ From . C I , ' ShquH — so lbs. ca-
. ,, Block & WhIte - o or “my.
Dream to Drawmg Board, by Gene __ Sh k I H f
Rotsch. Bill F rederickson, Jr., w111 tell Represeming Ca:u';m"m:fp" °'
What to do after the bond Issue has won Disney . cogumbio , womer .
passed, in “Forty-Million Dollars -— United Artists - Paramount Adlustoble Control on

Handle.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL

Well Spent.” Community people are —-—
- ' - f 6‘- FREE CATALOG
not left out of the book In other articles, send °' 9°99

however, and you won’t want to miss INSTITUTIONM CINEMA SERVICE. INC.

Virginia Musselman’s excellent Con- 41 Union Square -— New York 3, N. Y.
gress speech, “The White House Con-
ference on Children and Youth, Its
Challenge to Program.” Other good
things, including quickie last-minute AMERICA'S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS

idelais for Egrios‘tmas, .will round out a FOR EVERY AGE GROUP.
wa Opmg rIstmas Issue. PRICE OR SKILL—

Photo Credits

Page 403, Richards, Tacoma, Wash-
ington; 412, Romaine Photography,
San Francisco; 414-416, Hay Photo
Service, Stamford, Connecticut; 122-

23, Larry Cornwell, Downe)“. Califor-
nia; 433, Jac Holland, Deep River, On-

 

Send to Dept. R for booklet on four other models
H. 8. R. MFG. (20., [OS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

 

tario; 434, State Of California Division NEW YORK 11
of Beaches and Parks; 437. Miami- CHICAGO ll
Metro News Bureau. lOS ANGELES II

 

Circle # I I4 on coupon —‘>

NOVEMBER 1960

Circle #I IS on coupon.

NE‘V ALL-ADIEBICAK

 

PICNIC GRILL

It’s tops in grills! Positive six-way dram
control provides faster, easier fire kin-
dling, saves fuel, guarantees tenderer,
jnieicr ehareoaled steaks, chops and bar-
becues. American’s many plus-features
assure perfect lifetime performance.

Shipped fully assembled.

    
    
   
     

STATIONARY PO RTA B LE
Weight 188 lbs. Weight 205 lbs.
C02“ l'LE’l‘E C031 I’LETE
$4370 $4985

PATENTS PENDING

,_ __

Order Your Alt-American Grtlt TODAY!

AMERICAN

Durance?» DEVICE c0.
ANDEBSQN, INDIANA

 

Circle #I I6 on coupon.

ifyou

want to
provide
patrons

with the
most modern
and
convenient
checking
service . . .
and at the
same time
eliminate
checking
costs. .write
orphone

I
.

COIN AND KEY OPERATED CHECKING SYSTEMS

 

THE FLXIBLE COMPANY
LOUDONVILLE 1, OHIO

Faustmmnoi/vvtltowmictobgockm

400

 
   

Shocked into Action
Sirs:

The final analysis of the existing per-
sonnel situation in the field of recrea-
tion as presented by W. C. Sutherland
in the September issue of RECREATION
is an excellent portrayal of a serious
problem. The article is equally as im-
portant in outlining the current and
future personnel situation as the splen-
did discussion I have heard Mr. Suther-
land so ably deliver at several large
professional meetings. This current ef-
fort should acquaint many other per-
sons with the facts.

I hope that individuals listening and
reading about the drab personnel pic-
ture now and for the foreseeable future
will receive the same shock that I did.
I was so impressed . . . that I offered
my part-time services to George Wash-
ington University and the University of
Virginia to teach evening classes in rec-
reation, especially for graduates and
undergraduates majoring in physical
education, in the hopes I could prose-
lyte a few. Both schools accepted and
I have had some degree of success in
my classes in having interested students
place more emphasis upon recreation
skills and techniques with the intention
of entering the recreation field. In ad-
dition, I visited the local high-school
graduation classes and attempted to in-
tercst students who are going to college
to study in the area of recreation.

The graduate class I taught at the
University of Virginia (Northern
Branch) last semester was composed
mostly of local high-school physical-
education teachers who were indoctri-
nated and encouraged to go back to
their schools and interest capable stu-
dents to go to college and major in me-
reation. Out of the class I succeeded
also in having several of the teachers
decide to continue their advanced study
in the recreation field.

WILLIAM Dove THOMPSON, Director

of Recreation, Fairfax County, V ir-

ginia.

A Rewarding Program

Sirs:
Thc Arlington County Department of
Recreation and Parks conducted a sum-

LETTERS

Readers are invited to share their
views on these pages. Comments
of general interest are always wel—
come. -— The Editors.

 
 

mer playground for the mentally re-
tarded children this year for the first
time. It was a huge success. There
were five counselors, one matron, and
one craft specialist hired to supervise
and operate the program. Swimming in
a privately owned pool was provided
twice a week. Two Volkswagens were
used to transport the children to the
playground; some children were driven
to the playground by their parents. The
hours of operation were from 8 A.M. to
4:30 P.M. Attendance varied from forty
to fifty children daily. The program was
conducted for nine weeks (June 20-
August 19, Monday to Friday). These
children were most appreciative and
looked forward to the program most
enthusiastically.

Recreation departments all over the
country should provide recreation for
the mentally retarded as well as normal
children. With the proper personnel,
the job is easy and most rewarding to
the leaders as well as the children. I
recommend it most highly and feel that
this department gave a real service to
these children this past summer.

EDSEL B. MARTZ, Supervisor of Play-

grounds and Teen Centers, Arlington

County, Virginia.

A Tremendous Opportunity

Sirs:

After serving for three months as a
recreation intern in Milwaukee, through
the Internship Training Program of-
fered by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, I feel I owe it to all recreation
majors throughout the country to relay
some of my observations and feelings
regarding this educational opportunity.

I was first introduced to the program
last year while a senior at Oregon State
University. My adviser, Miss Percy
Margaret Gill, suggested I write to
NRA regarding this program. I now
find that not all recreation majors are
given this opportunity.

The Internship Program as offered
by the Milwaukee Recreation Depart-
ment (also offered in Philadelphia)
fosters growth not only in recreation
techniques and skill application, but
also in organization, administration,
and operation of a recreation system,
including the. actual application of these

RECREATION

methods by the intern in an on-the-job
training situation. Each intern has to
set up, develop, and offer his own pro-
gram for the particular group he is
serving. He is also given illustrations
and accounts of what departments in
other communities are doing so he may
become familiar with many different
recreation systems.

As a part of his one-year service to
the department, he attends meetings
especially designed to help him “grow,”
in the field. The NRA, through its Rec-
reation Personnel Service and Willard
C. Sutherland, devotes particular at-
tention to the intern and his progress,
offering him any and all assistance.

Interns who have successfully com-
pleted their training are now on their
way to contributing highly to the field
of recreation. Although it is not the aim
of this letter to stress the monetary
value of this training program, it would
be incomplete if I did not at least men-
tion the obvious fact that those persons
who are more adequately prepared pro-
fessionally naturally can qualify for the
higher paying jobs. With this in mind,
may I again emphasize the value of this
program.

Every senior majoring in recreation
should write to Mr. Sutherland, Rec-
reation Personnel Service, National
Recreation Association, 8 West 8th
Street, New York 11, inquiring about
this opportunity.

I wish to emphasize that I have not
been asked to write this letter, but am
doing so simply because I believe that
many recreation graduates are not
aware of this tremendous opportunity
and its professional value. I, for one,
believe in it to the extent that I want
professionally minded students in the
field of recreation to be aware of an op-
portunity to better themselves and the
profession.

HOWIE SMITH, Recreation Intern,

Department of Municipal Recreation,

Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Music to Our Ears

Sirs:

Congratulations on your outstanding
new format of RECREATION Magazine
in the September issue. This is indeed
a very wonderful copy, very attractively
presented and loaded with useful ma-
terials. It is a magazine in which any
recreation person would be proud to
have a contributing part.

I was particularly pleased with the
new color of last-minute news items and
the title arrangements for the various
sections. Best wishes for continued suc-
cess with this excellent contribution to
the recreation movement.

I would like very much for our board
members to start receiving RECREATION
Magazine and I am enclosing their

NOVEMBER 1960

names and addresses. Please have our
department billed for these five new
subscriptions.

JULIAN R. WALKER, Superintendent

of Recreation, Fayette County Play-

ground and Recreation Board, Lex-
ington, Kentucky.
* ‘I' I! I!

My heartiest congratulations on the
lively, new, and extremely useful “look”
. . . sectionalization of content by areas
of interest and concerns lends to the
magazine’s convenience as a reference
source. The monthly pages for fresh
ideas and briefs, together with the
brand new “As We Go To Press” and
“Trade Mart”—in color—give the for-
mat a decidedly modern and profes-
sional appearance. The quality of con-
tents remains on the high level as
always. Best wishes for continued suc-
cess in keeping the educational and in-
formational avenues so in tune with the
times.

SHANE MACCARTHY, Executive Di-

rector, President’s Council on Youth
Fitness, Washington, D.C.
* 11' * *

The September 1960 RECREATION
Magazine has eye appeal! First I had
to gaze at the pink pages and read the
latest news, then I turned to the “Trade
Mart” for information on the free ma-
terials. Then I looked at the front again
and admired the attractive yellow,
white, and black colors.

As I read RECREATION carefully, I
noted the well-done art work, the well-
illustrated, high-type articles, and the
increased number of advertisements.
Congratulations to you and your staff
on a job well done and another progres-
sive step forward!

THOMAS W. LANTZ, Superintendent,

Public Recreation, Metropolitan Park

District, Tacoma, Washington.

Circle #l25 on coupon

New, Improved Golden Age Club Pin.
Now in real gold plate with tree in
7 green lewelers' enamel. Safety catch.
 50c each, including federal tax and

postage.
Minimum order 10 pins
Available only to authentic clubs.

JAMES SPENCER a. co.
EXACT SIZE 22 N. on. Street Philadelphia 6, Pa.

 

 

Circle #IZB on coupon

     
    
   

 
  
   
  
     
   
       
  

 
 
 
    
 

b FOLDING TABLE llNE
‘3 D'mj“ kitchen committees. social groups. atten-
‘“’" ‘" mm Factory price! a discounts up to was
an!“ "KITS to i‘. ‘hurchcs, Schools, Clubs. etc. Monroe

all-new FOLD-RING Banquet Tables.
with exclusive new Jutomalic folding and

locking, super siren-uh. casy seating. 68 models and sizes.

BIG NEW 1961 CATALOG FREE

C lot ' tum. Full line tables, chairsutable and chair trucks, plat-
foiim-riiiccrs, portable pmitions. bulletin boards. Our 53rd year.

THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St., Colfax,

  

DISCOUNTS I. TERMS

   

Circle #ll'l on coupon

 

Stop wosting time recording inventory costs,
handing out bolls ond paying top prices for low

quality bolls. install this ottroctive, cost-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

leased FREE to responsible agencies on $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attroc-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V2 at 8V: 1: 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quolity bolls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place poddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wasting Their Time.“

T. F. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

“HONOR”!!!

SHENANDOAH, PINNA.

 

Hat and Coat Racks

These muiti-purposc wardrobe. racks .go
wherever needed or store away like folding
chairs when not in use. They come In 3 ft.
or 4 ft. lengths. have two hat shelves and
l or 2 full length hanger bars for coat
hangers or coat hooks. iTwo sided hooks

snap over and straddle the bar. see detaiil.
Standard units come on iides or casters:
stand rigidly under a full oad. CHECKEB-
ETTES are also available in two sided units
(double capacity): add-on units for making
long continuous racks. and matching wall
mount units.

Write for Cotolog. CT-515

VOGEL- PETERSON CO.

kt. es and Madison Streets, Elmhurst, III.

I.
'r'.

Circle #ll9 on coupon

ADD gamma“!

ED DllRLllCHER
T0 YOUR STAFF

with

l HONOR YOUR
- PARTNER RECORDS

Talk-Thru, Walk-Thru Method

0 Physical Fitness Activities to Music
0 Play Party
and
Singing Games
0 Marches
o Rope Skipping

0 Square Dances

o Couple Dances
& Mixers

0 Rhythms

0 Folk Dances

HONOR YOER PAlej‘ER RECORDS
Box No. Bob R, Freeport, N. Y.

D Please Send FREE BROCHURE

I
I

l

I [j Enclosed is 50¢ for 331/3 rpm DEMONSTRA-
I {ION RECORD giving excerpts from the albums
I Ilsted above.
I

I

I

I

I

Name

Freeport, N. Y

Unique, Progressive Recorded '
I
l
l
l
l

Address_______________________ :

Circle #IZO on coupon

l
I! n E
‘r‘ «c *
* . l
 l __

ENAMEL on COPPER
AND
CREATIVE CRAFT IDEAS

 

an“... IIIIIIII 6 ID"
_I nu locuo AVI'IIII
cuvluuo II, 9qu

 

Only lmmerman’s (mtgr. of kilns, tools and'
supplies widely endorsed by schools, lnstitu-‘*
tions ,and recreation programs) otters you‘
such a completely satisfying, direct channel
to supplies and "Here‘s How" lnl’ormationl,I
Explore enamellng, mosaics, metal tooling;

.. etching, jewelry, marquetry, etc., etc. Send

' for these valuable reference volumes today."
I . \

IMMERMAN & SONS

Dept. (TH-7 0 1024 EUClID 0 Cleveland 15, Ohio
A-Q'H'IS

—-—__
4.02

 

RESOURCES and REFERENCES

Resources for the Future offers a re-
print series which park and recreation
people should find of great value. Re-
cent additions are: Changing Patterns
of Land Use in the West by Marion
Clawson (#18); Lagging Sectors and
Regions of the American Economy by
Harvey S. Perlofi (#19); Suburban
Development Districts by Marion Claw-
son (#20); Conservation for More
and More People by Joseph L. Fisher
(#21); and Our Resource Situation
and 0utlook——Public Policy and Indi-
vidual Responsibilityby Joseph L. Fish-
er (#22). Single copies are free on
request, additional copies $.25, from
Resources for the Future, 1775 Massa-
chusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington,
D.C.

The World Around You, a packet of
booklets put out by the Garden Club
of America Conservation Committee.
contains such material as “Let’s All
Help Keep America Beautiful,” “Don’t
Be a Litterbug,” “Our National Parks,”
“Our Wildlife Heritage,” “What Is a
Watershed?” “Our National Re-
sources,” “A Study Guide.” Packet
costs $.35 and is available from Garden
Club of America, 598 Madison Avenue,
New York 22.

A wealth of free materials on youth
fitness is available from the President’s
Council on Youth Fitness. These work-
shop reports include bulletins on
“Sports for Fitness,” “Religious Group
Leaders,” and “Health Programs and
Physical Education.” Available from
the Council, General Accounting Office
Building, Suite 4830, 441 G Street
N.W., Washington 25, D. C.

Stunning art booklets, published by
the National Gallcry of Art, Washing-
ton 25, D. C., have texts by the museum
staff and contain color reproductions
of representative works. These 48-pagc,
7%”-by-51/3” booklets, priced at 3.25
each, are now available in a boxed set
of ten, under the over all title “Ten
Schools of Painting in the National
Gallery of Art,” for $2.50, postpaid.
The individual issues cover “German
Painting,” “Spanish Painting,” “Later
ltalian Painting,” “French Painting of
the 16-18th Centuries,” “French Paint-
ing: 19th Century,” “Early Italian
Painting,” “American Painting,”
“Flemish Painting,” “Dutch Painting,”
and “British Painting.”

Urban Renewal Notes, a bimonthly
digest, available on free subscription, is
designed “to point a finger at good

techniques, report unusual local ap-
proaches and successes, and summarize
pertinent Urban Renewal Administra-
tion program development and publica-
tions.” A request to URA, \Vashington
25, D.C. will put you on the mailing list.

Home Play and Play Equipment
(Children’s Bureau Publication #238)
is now available in a revised edition.
Adele Franklin, director of All-Day
Neighborhood Schools, Board of Edu-
cation, New York City, made the revi-
sions, bringing this useful twenty-four-
page pamphlet up to date, making it
increasingly valuable to parents and
parent groups. Order from the Super-
intendent of Documents, U.S. Govern-
ment Printing Oflice, Washington 25,

D. C., 3.15.

A Blueprint for Board Members is a
handbook by Della Schmidt who has
had twenty years experience as a mem-
ber of different boards and has also
“trained” board members for the Girl
Scouts of Omaha. It covers functions,
meetings, committees, staff-board and
community relationships, and offers
help in developing a board member’s
orientation kit and manual. Available
for $.50 from the Volunteer Bureau of
Omaha, 7th Floor, Kilpatrick Building,
Omaha, Nebraska.

We Can Agree, a code of behavior
for parents and teenagers, is a well-
prcparcd, well-presented pamphlet cov-
ering tcenage social, religious, and
scholastic behavior. Available for $.50
from Niagara Falls Youth CO-Ordinat-
ing Council, 607 Walnut Street, Niag-
ara Falls, New York.

Youth and tlre World, a people-to-
people program resource book, tells
how to get acquainted with young peo-
plc around the world through corre-
spondcnce, books, living and working
abroad, and school research on foreign
customs and mores. It includes a list
of foreign information offices. Avail-

able for $1.25 from \V. Arthur Mc-
Kinney, 18 Ryan Road, Highland Park,
New Jersey.

Group Methods in Therapy by Je-
rome D. Frank, M.D. discusses appli-
cation of group therapy methods in
helping people solve thcir emotional
problems. The booklet includes, in ad-
dition to more gencral therapy such as
discussion groups, such specialized ap-

Contr'nrierl on Page 432

RECREATION

THE CASE FOR BEAUTY

What Is Its Place
in Today’s World?

AN IMPORTANT PART of today’s city dream and the plans
for urban renewal to meet population increase must be
consideration of the place of beauty in this modernization
and Upgrading of our patterns of living. With increased cul-
tural activities and other interesting leisure-time facilities at
hand, and with higher incomes to enjoy them, people are
turning more and more to residing within the city limits.
As cities become more crowded, however, their somewhat
harried citizens want and need the relaxing quiet of more
green spaces, more natural areas in which to stretch the soul,
to provide the so necessary mental and spiritual strength.

In the light of this situation, many distinguished planners
and thinkers are becoming increasingly concerned and have
expressed themselves variously on the case for open spaces
and natural beauty within our metropolises. For instance,
in an address, “America Is Our Cities,” made before the
Greater Cincinnati Conference Workshop not long ago, Roy
W. Johnson, director of the Advanced Research Projects,
Washington, D.C., said, “Another basic characteristic of the
renewed city concerns a state of mind we have about beauty.
Don’t you think it’s time we stopped apologizing for beauty?
Why should we accept the pseudotheory that beauty without
practicality is no reason for beauty? To create a park just
because it makes a more beautiful city isn’t reason enough?
This, I think, is wrong. Beauty is a protest against disorder,
dirt, and decay. Ugliness promotes disorder and disorder
promotes decay, and decay winds up in the kind of slum-
ridden areas we see around our central core.

“There is an up-cycle that can operate in cities, just as
there is the all-too-well-known down-cycle. When older
areas are beautified and made places which lift people’s
hearts and heads, places where people want to live and
raise families and are proud to live, the up-cycle starts. and
5 experience has proven it has a remarkable momentum.”

And Dr. Luther Gulick, president of the Institute of Pub-
lic Administration, says “With most of the people now liv-
ing in cities, the only way we can make American life more

NOVEMBER 1960

      

«-

“A n open water-body in a dense city is a priceless
treasure . . . a million-dollar mirror reflecting
clouds and trees.”—RICIIARD NEUTRA

eHicient, beautiful, and noble is to make our cities efiicient,
beautiful, and noble.

“What we need is awareness; deep concern by the well-
informed; local governmental structures laid out for action.
But, above all, we need leadership for action.

“In the new metropolis we face economic and politicaI
problems, surely; but we face something much more sig-
nificant. It is nothing less than the task of providing for the
cultural and spiritual life of the future, so that this land of
ours may be richer, freer, nobler, and more dynamic.”

The Right Honorable Vincent Massey, while governor
general of Canada, told the Community Planning Associa-
tion of Canada, “City dwellers still need natural beauty.
They have always known it and have, when they could, sur-
rounded their habitations with gardens, parks, lawns and
stretches of water. These amenities are not luxuries; they
satisfy a profound need. We can have natural beauty in our
towns even if we must forego the charms of the open coun-
tryside, and in a town one may enjoy the peculiar delights of
nature associated with the harmonics of good architecture,
each embellishing the other.”

The importance of beauty in city planning is also treated
in Survival Through Design by Richard Neutra (New York:
Oxford University Press, 1954). Mr. Neutra stated, “. . . to
raise children in psychologically satisfactory surroundings
and not have them warped by sensorial privation, by con-
fusion and irritation to the eye or the ear or the nose. to have-
them look out on a green surface, or into green foliage, or
play in the shade of trees—instead of our spending the
money on well-advertised aluminum blinds, or awnings, or
shades after cutting down the trees—all this is quite prac-
tical. '

“Man has been conditioned and moulded by nature for
a million years, and city administrations have the job to
administer biologically bearable conditions to the citizens.
young and old. This is an extremely practical cruisideration.
I call it biological realisnl.”——-~D.D.

an

Circle #IZI on coupon

 art/2p

WHEREVER

CHILDREN PLAY

Safety!

Recreation equipment with
engineered safety to meet
the most rigid requirements.

0 Playground Equipment
0 Indoor Basketball Backstops
0 Swimming Pool Equipment

Literature for each line avail-
able on request—please specify.

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED

RECREATION
EQUIPMENT CORP

Dept. [£160 -—a 724 W. 8th St.
Anderson, Indiana

 

  
 

  

598 GAMES FOR FUN FROM

u‘sz'ngdon “Press .

 

 

Revised Edition

This revised edition brings the long-

time favorite game book up to date
with the addition of interesting new
games and helpful illustrations. All
games are conveniently arranged and
indexed for quick and easy activity
planning. Directions for games are
clear and easy to follow.

320 pages, illustrated $2.95

Order from your bookstore
ABINGDON PRESS

  

   

A Current Look at Public Housing

Housing officials and others are re-
examining the public-housing program
in numerous studies to determine how
current needs of project families can be
better satisfied, according to an an-
nouncement by the National Associa-
tion of Housing and Redevelopment
officials, in the Journal 0/ Housing.
Public housing has been built by one
thousand cities and towns since the
1949 Housing Act was passed, and the
program has brought a sense of accom-
plishment, says NAHRO, and the con-
sensus is that federal subsidy of low-
income housing is sound and necessary.

The Federal Housing and Home Fi-
nance Agency has issued three critiques
of public-housing policies in the past
three years. Housing executives in
many cities have taken a critical look at
their programs and are making major
overhauls. Nongovernmental groups
also are commenting. The National
Federation of Settlemcnts and Neigh-
borhood Centcrs has suggested that
public housing may not be keeping up
with urban social changes. Chicago’s
citizen group, the Metropolitan Hous-
ing and Planning Council, with AC-
TION, national association devoted to
urban renewal, held a joint study ses-
sion on housing-disadvantaged fami-
lies early this year.

Oliicials voice a pressing concern for
the growing gulf between public hous-
ing tenants and the rest 0/ the commu-
nity. Public housing ollicials now rec-
ognize that “the original concept of
public housing—namely, the ‘providing
of decent shelter for low-income fami-
lies’—was one step short of accom-
plishing nothing,” in the words of the
Chicago Housing Authority director.
He pointed out that, the real goal is to
overcome the “years of conditioning in
dreary slums” which bred hostility and
a feeling that life is a “dog-eat-dog”
struggle.

Working with settlement houses and
other volunteer welfare agencies, at
least two dozen citics cited by NAHRO
have encouraged tenants to feel a part
of the whole community and have made
public-housing projccts more acccpta-
ble to neighbors.

Another idea for breaking down the
walls between the lowest income fami-
lies housed in publicly aided buildings
and the rest of the population, which

EDITORIALLY
SPEAKING

  

Dorothy Donaldson

was overlooked in the Journal state-
ment, is the working with the local pub-
lic recreation departments and vice
versa, to do a cooperative job of pro-
viding further recreation interests and
activities which by their very nature
bring the two groups together in a natu-
ral and informal manner. This is illus-
trated very aptly by the story of the ex-
cellent program in Southfield Village,
Stamford, Connecticut, by the commu-
nity worker, Mrs. Alice Serly on Page
414 of this issue.

Music—Today and Tomorrow

At a recent meeting of the Music
Council, I was surprised to hear an at-
tractive, modern and intelligent young
woman, representing a nationally
known choral group, describe her taste
in music as “strictly long hair.” Now.
I have no fault to find with any one's
taste in music, at whatever hair length.
There was a time when there was noth-
ing in music for me but opera, oratorio.
or the symphony. Anything else was
taboo. Students and fricnds only whis-
pered about popular music as musical
“junk.” Whew! Whatasquare! What
a musical snob!

About that time, howevcr, Providence
put in an oar, and vast areas of music
on every level were opencd to me.
Croup songs, folk and popular; dance
combos and rhythms; the accordion;
harmonica; the ukulcle; all, had a defi-
nitc place in the great plan. What joy.
the unaffected singing of a boy. What
satisfaction in the timid, and oftcn out-
of-tune, songs of the aged. The beauty
of simplicity is lost to the musical snob
who overlooks the fact that simple
music is simply music.. .. Have we
moved so far away from the real pur-
pose of music we cannot see the forest
for the trees?

In recreation we have the greatest
opportunity for a dcvclopment of fine
music for the future, while at the same
time realizing immcdiate bencht. Crc-
atiou is the beginning. Recreation is
rc-creation. In this era of speed, with
the world rushing into who knows what,
let us strive by sincere daily effort to
“brighten the corner” whercvcr we are.
Thus, again, will music becomc of the
people and you will share in rc-crcating
the charm of yesterday. — \VILLIAM
FRANCIS BERCMANN, supervisor 0/ mn-
sic, Chicago Park District.

RECREATION

 

) HOT NEWS! A luncheon, cospon-
sored by the National Recreation As-
sociation and The Reader’s Digest on
October 27, released the report of the
National Committee on Encroachment
of Recreation and Park Lands and Wa-
ters to the press. See summary of the
report on Page 427 of this issue.

) NEW NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS of the
Boys’ Clubs of America, the Herbert
Hoover Building, at 771 First Avenue,
New York, was dedicated with formal
ceremonies October 18. The building
has been made possible largely by a
special gift of the Charles Hayden
Foundation, as well as by contributions
from other foundations, corporations,
and individuals.

) THE NEW JAMES BRYANT CONANT re-
port has just come out, published by
the Educational Testing Service of
Princeton, New Jersey ($.50, three
copies for $1). Entitled Recommen-
dations for Education in the Junior
High School Years, it is in the form of
a memorandum to school boards. Some
highlights are:

“All pupils should receive instruc-
tion in art, music, and physical educa-
tion. All girls should receive instruc-
tion in home economics and all boys
instruction in industrial arts.

“Group activities which have particu-
lar relevance for early adolescents
should be part of the total program.
These include musical and dramatic
activities, assembly and homeroom
programs, interest clubs, intra-mural
athletics, and student council.

“Interscholastic athletics and march-
ing bands are to be condemned in jun-
ior high schools. There is no sound
educational reason for them and too
I, often they serve merely as public en-
_ tertainment.

“The gymnasium is more important
in colder regions of the nation than in
those warm areas where children can
have physical education outside most
of the school year. Indeed, one can
question whether in such areas the gym-
' nasium is a necessity for satisfactory
instruction.”

) Another war has been won in Morris
I County, New Jersey, scene of many a
Revolutionary War battle. The recent
' stunning victory occurred when the

North American Wildlife Foundation,
NOVEMBER 1960

by a surprise coup, seized one thousand
acres of picturesque natural country-
side from under the collective noses of
the Port of New York Authority which
had been smelling out the area as a site
for a proposed jet airport. The founda-
tion bought the property, known as the
Great Swamp, from sixteen owners and
presented it to the U.S. Department of
the Interior as a bird sanctuary. The
foundation is engaged in a national
campaign to preserve the country’s

rapidly dwindling wetlands.
Conservation interests and the air-
port authority have been engaged in an
embittered war for many months over
the proposed jetport (see RECREATION,
March 1960, Page 136). The “general”
of the victorious forces is agreed to be
M. Hartley Dodge, honorary chairman
of the board of Remington Arms Com-
pany and a large landowner in the area.
Jet power notwithstanding, never un-

derestimate the power of a birdwatcher.
H

 

The President’s Reply

Awarded to President Eisenhower by the National Rec-
reation Association, at the NRA Luncheon at the 42nd
National Recreation Congress, a citation [or outstand-
ing service to recreation is acknowledged by the letter
below. For further details, see reference on page 408.

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

October 14, 1960

Dear Mr. Evans:

Please give my thanks to the members of the Board
of Directors of the National Recreation Association
for their 1960 Certificate of Appreciation.

I value this honor highly because I have long valued
the work of the National Recreation Association.
Over the years, this Association has done much to
strengthen our country's cultural and recreational
resources -- and it has Successfully cooperated with

like —minded groups in other nations.

Its program

has enriched the lives of our people and our neigh-

bors abroad.

You can assure your members that I will continue to
work with enthusiasm for the objectives of the National
Recreation Association.

With best wishes,

Sincerely.

Mr. James H. Evans

Chairman, Board of Directors

National Rec re ation Ass oc iation

8 West Eighth Street
New York ll, New York

 

b A NEW National Committee on Chil-
dren and Youth will be headed by Mrs.
Isabella J. Jones, associate director of
the White House Conference, who has
been named director. Mrs. Jones will
direct the conference’s follow-up activi-
ties to be undertaken by the new com-
mittee. Some six hundred national or-
ganizations, thirty-four agencies of the
federal government, and committees in
most Of the states will cooperate with
the national group in implementing the
findings of the conference. An evalua-
tion of results is contemplated as a re-
port tO the nation in 1965. Offices of
the committee will be in Washington.

) A NEW FIFTEEN-MEMBER State Coun-
cil on Arts, created by the 1960 Legis-
lature at the urging of Governor Nel-
son Rockefeller Of New York, is author-
ized to make a comprehensive survey of
the state’s cultural resources. It will
submit recommendations to the Gover-
nor and the Legislature concerning
ways in which the state could encourage
appreciation of and participation in the
fine arts and the performing arts.

} HISTORIC LANDMARKS of national
significance and interest may be regis-
tered by the National Park Service
under a plan just announced by the Sec-
retary of the Interior, Fred A. Scaton.
The National Registry of Historic
Landmarks is designed to recognize
and endorse the preservation and pro-
tection of structures and sites now ad-
ministered by the states, other public
agencies, or historical societies and to
encourage private owners of historic
landmarks to maintain such properties.
“The establishment of this Registry,”
said Secretary Seaton, “serves a long-
felt need for the federal government to
give moral support and recognition to
organizations now concerned with the
preservation of archeological and his-
toric properties. Because of the num-
ber of important historic landmarks in
our great nation, it is manifestly im-
possible for the government to acquire
or manage these sites Or support them
financially, although they are an integ-
ral part of the American heritage.”

) THE FIRST CHILDREN’S ART MONTII
has just been announced for March
1961. Its purpose is to emphasize the
value and importance Of participating
art for the development of all children.

It is sponsored by the Crayon, Water
Color and Craft Institute. During this

month, nationwide publicity on Chil-
dren’s Art Month will be released to
magazines, newspapers, radio and telc-
vision by the institute. Take advantage
of it! Use it as a shot-in-the-arm for

yOUr program or a springboard for a
new art activity.

Suggestions for community-wide
partICIpatlon and publicity material

406

are available from the Crayon, Water
Color and Craft Institute, 420 Lexing-
ton Avenue, New York 17.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

) A FIFTY-PAGE POLICY STATEMENT, en-
titled “Guiding Metropolitan Growth,”
of the Committee for Economic Devel-
opment states that local jurisdictions
within metropolitan areas are unable
to cope intelligently with such broad
problems as area transportation, air
pollution, land use, and urban renewal.
It urges the nation’s burgeoning metro-
politan areas to develop new forms of
government to meet mounting prob-
lems.

) COMMUNITY ARTS COUNCILS, INC.
was formally voted into existence June
17 at the Sixth International Confer-
ence on Arts Councils held in conjunc-
tion with the fifteenth national conven-
tion Of the American Symphony Or-
chestra League in St. Louis. The coun-
cil will work closely with the American
Symphony Orchestra League. George
M. Irwin, director of the Quincy (Illi-
nois) Society of Fine Arts, is the newly
elected president. For further informa-
tion write to the council at 300 Maine
Street, Quincy, Illinois, or 610 Colise-
um Tower, Winston-Salem, North Caro-
lina.

) RECOMMENDATIONS made at the Fifth
World Forestry Congress, in Seattle,
Washington, August 29 to September
10, which stressed the multiple use of
f orcst lands, were as follows:

1. Forest recreation and managed
wildlife should be recognized by gov-
ernment as acceptable forms Of multi-
plc-use management of forest lands.

2. All forms of animal life affect or
are affected by the forest, and under-
standing of their roles in the forest
should be made more widespread.

3. Research in forest recreation and
wildlife should be provided to furnish
additional information to cope with the
growing problem of public use, site
damage and wildlife management.

4-. Public information media should
he used to encourage the appreciation
and protection of outdoor values, and
the understanding that wildlife may
need to be utilized in some areas and
protected in others.

5. lnternational cooperation in the
preservation of nature and wildlife re-
serves in contiguous border areas is
strongly recommended.

6. TO assist in new programs of re-
serves and wildlife management, tech-
nical assistance be made available to
the new nations of Africa and to other
nations through international agencies.

For the U. 5. Forest Service's policy
on multiple use, see "Recreation in Our

National Forests," Recreation, Octo-
ber 1960.

 

) THE MAGNIFICENT COLLECTION of
photographs entitled “These Are Our
Children,” exhibited during the 1960
White House Conference on Children
and Youth, is available on free lea-n.
Sponsors must provide space and elec-
tricity and assume the costs of shipping,
installing, and dismantling. It is sug-
gested that several local groups pool
their interest and resources to bring the
exhibit tO their community. Anyone in-
terested should send choice Of dates to
the White House Conference on Chil-
dren and Youth, 330 Independence
Avenue, N.W., Washington 25, D.C.

) A STOP-POLLUTION ORDER has been
served on Kansas City, Kansas, and
Kansas City, Missouri, and a long list
Of leading industrial companies in the
two cities, which have been discharging
untreated waste into the Missouri
River. Cost of such compliance for the
two communities is estimated at 832,-
500,000, exclusive of improvements
which must be made by the private
businesses. The order, issued by the
US. Secretary of Health, Education.
and Welfare, Arthur S. Flemming,
gives the industrial concerns until Jan-
uary 1. 1963 to comply. The finding
leading to this action declared. among
other things, that this pollution not only
hurts the water supply in several cities
but also impedes development of the
Missouri River for recreation, commer-
cial, and industrial purposes.

) EXERCISE Is coon sIEOIeIxE in all
forms of heart conditions, according to
a New York City cardiologist, Dr. Louis
F. Bishop, quoted in Today’s Health.
He cautions that the exact prescription
Of exercise must be carefully suited to
the individual patient, and adds the best
activities are those which involve an
element of play rather than dull enlis-
thcnics.

b IN A MINNESOTA COURT DECIson
Frecbom Lake near Albert Lea, a
2,100-acre body of water, has been de-
clarcd open to the general public for
recreation purposes. reversing an ear-
lier ruling which held it to bc a private
lake. The new ruling climaxed an ef-
fort by Minnesota authorities to assure
public use of this popular waterway.
The Minnesota Department of Conser-
vation acquired a public-access site to
the lake five years ago. Its use was
threatened by the earlier ruling that
the public had no right tO use any por-
tion of surface waters overlying a lake
owned by a riparian owner. According
to a conservation department spokes-
man, “The decision is Of extreme im-
portance to our statewide public-access
program since it indicates that lake-
bcd ownership is not the determining
( nestion as to the public character Of
t e water.”

RECREATION

 

WISE USE of our expanding leisure to enrich community
living and to build national strength was a major
emphasis of the 42nd National Recreation Congress in
Washington, D.C., September 25-29, 1960, COSponsored by
the National Recreation Association and the American Rec-
reation Society. It was attended by 2,500 recreation peOple.

Keynotes

At the standing-room-only opening session Sunday eve-
ning, with Congress chairman Jesse A. Reynolds presiding,
Laurance Rockefeller set the keynote of the four-day meet-
ing. He pointed out that, as we pause to assess our goals and
achievements as a nation in this election year, we should
Take an accounting of America’s use of leisure. “Our so-
ciety will gain and maintain strength not only by what is
done during working hours but also by the use it makes of
its nonworking hours,” he said. He suggested that recrea-
tion in the out-of-doors can help promote national strength
through fostering the outdoor traits of self-reliance and
hardiness, and added, “These qualities of national character
are perhaps more needed than ever before. The overpower-
ing shift from a rural to an urban society has brought many
benefits, but it has had the unfortunate effect of taking
Americans away from the environment which is so much a
part of their heritage.” Mr. Rockefeller, as chairman of the
National Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commis-
sion, expressed the hope that the commission’s recommenda-
tions will be the nucleus of a program to make outdoor
recreation a reality for our children and grandchildren.

Sharing speaking honors with Mr. Rockefeller, Robert W.
Dowling, chairman of the Advisory Committee on the Arts
of the National Cultural Center, further discussed the im-
portance of our use of leisure in determining the nation’s
future. A national upgrading of cultural tastes can result
from wisely guided community activities in the arts. He
predicted that the National Cultural Center, to be built in
Washington, will become an American “mecca of the arts”
and set off a chain reaction of similar centers across the
country. (Various aspects of the Cultural Center have been
examined in a series of articles in RECREATION, beginning
in September 1960, and concluding this issue, Page 418.)

“CIIILDREN AND YOUTH—-—A NATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY”
was the theme of the second general session, Tuesday after-
noon, with Joseph Prendergast, executive director of the
National Recreation Association, presiding. The speakers,

Children and Youth, presented its interesting implications

for the recreation field. Stimulating papers were given by
Mrs. Rollin Brown, national chairman of the Conference

and member of the NRA Board of Directors, on Review of

the Conference; Roy Sorenson, general secretary, San Fran-
cisco YMCA, on Implications of the Conference mm Page

NOVEMBER 1960

Noteworthy things to be remembered . . .

412) ; Dorothy B. Taaffe, assistant director, Oflice of Edu-

cational Relations, American Red Cross, Washington, D.C.,
on The Challenge to Professional Leadership; Virginia
Musselman, director, NRA Program Service, on The Chal-
lenges to Program; and Robert W. Crawford, commissioner
of recreation, Philadelphia, and new member of the NRA
Board, on The Challenge to the Community. A panel of in-
terrogators included Professor Charles K. Brightbill, head
of the Department of Recreation, University of Illinois,
Urbana; Charles B. Cranford, deputy commissioner of rec-
reation, Philadelphia; William Frederickson, Jr., super-
intendent of recreation, Los Angeles; and Dr. Milton A.
Gabrielson, professor of education, New York University.
To sum up the meeting and its challenges in the words
of Mr. Crawford, “The recommendations made by the White
House Conference should serve as an inspiration and guide
to all agencies in the field of recreation, groupwork, and in-
formal education. A program of tremendous vision and
bold execution will accomplish the objective of meeting the
leisure-time needs of the nation’s youth. Formidable as the
task may be it can be accomplished by imagination, a well-
defined plan, a willingness to work cooperatively, and a
deep conviction that only by working together and going
down the road hand in hand with all groups can we provide
the highest possible quality and quantity of recreation.”

Trends and Emphases
All week trends reflecting current recreation concerns

ran like bright threads through the many sessions:

> THE NEW EMPHASIS ON THE CULTURAL ARTS was reflected
throughout and specifically pointed up in the well-attended
meetings on THE PERFORMING ARTS IN TIIE RECREATION
PROGRAM and NEw IDEAS IN MUSIC PROGRAM. The latter
was a gay affair with eager delegates trying their hand—
some for the very first time——on guitars, ukeleles, and ac-
cordions under the leadership of experts. The former,
chaired by Prof. Brightbill, dealt with Planning, Budgeting,
Facilities and Other Administrative Concerns; Program
Development and Standards; and the National Importance
of Performing Arts in Recreation. Speakers were Dr. Sal-
vatore J. Prezioso, superintendent, Westchester County Rec-
reation Commission, White Plains, New York; Dorothea
Lensch, director of recreation, Bureau of Parks and Public
Recreation, Portland, Oregon; and Mr. Prendergast, who
is also a member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts of

the National Cultural Center.

P CONCERN FOR TIIE RECREATION OF CHILDREN AND YOUTH
was evident in many of the other mectings. As, for
instance in the very first session on POLITICS AND PRACTICES
IN THE OPERATION OF COMMUNITY CENTERS. when Edward
J. Garcia, executive director, Riverdale Neighborhood
House. Riverdale, New York, gave a hard-hitting Lilk on

-l' 2'

Policies and Practices in Establishing Agency Standards of
Conduct for Youth. He pointed out that a strong correla-
tion exists between the standards an agency establishes and
the type of behavior patterns teenagers will adopt when
participating in leisure-time activities in the agency pro-
gram. This continued to be evident in the session, ENRICH-
ING THE RECREATION PROGRAM, in the paper on Enrichment
Through Use of Youth Leadership, given by Helen Daun-
cey, training specialist on the NRA staff, and in the session,
UNDERSTANDING THE PEOPLE WE WORK WITH, when a panel
of four young people answered questions from the floor.
It was furthered in, among others, meetings on: REACHING
THE HARD TO REACH YOUTH, chaired by Lincoln Daniels,
chief, Community Services Branch, Division of Juvenile
Services, US. Department of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare; and TEEN AGE-ADULT RELATIONSHIPS, chaired by
Sidney G. Lutzin, regional director, New York State Youth
Commission. In the first of these, Dr. Merrill B. Conover,
education-recreation consultant, Health and Welfare Coun-
cil, Philadelphia, laid down guidelines for action in reach-
ing those who need help but who are unaware of it; and in
the latter, Dr. Wilson Shaffer, dean of Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, gave a down-to-earth talk on The Characteristics of
Adolescence and Their Impact Upon Relationships with
Adults. “The adolescent has been made too particularly
conscious of his own age group,” Dr. Shaffer remarked.
“In days gone by, we were not constantly told that we were
‘teenagers’—a group set apart . . . I don’t like the word
‘teenagers.’ It is one of our big mistakes.”

} THE INCREASING COOPERATION among community agen-
cies to provide recreation for all people could be noticed in
practically all discussions, was especially emphasized in the
session on EXPANDING PUBLIC RECREATION SERvICES FOR
REHABILITATION, chaired by Beatrice Hill, director of the
NRA Consulting Service on Recreation for the Ill and Hand-
icapped. Cooperation between municipal recreation de-
partments and hospitals is being recognized more and more
as a necessary element in carrying out the overall respon-
sibility for community recreation.

This trend was further pointed up by the meeting on
COOPERATION BETWEEN PUBLIC AND PRIvATE AGENCIES,
chaired by William H. Bartlett, recreation consultant, llealth
and Welfare Council, National Capital Area, Washington.
D.C. Speaker for this session was Lillian Summers, national
recreation consultant, Service in Military and Veterans Hos-
pitals, American Red Cross, Washington, D.C.

} CHURCII RECREATION is, of course, a part of the above
community-agency picture, and it is growing up. There was
a good discussion of ways in which churches and recrea-
tion departments can cooperate in the two meetings on
RECREATION AND TIIE FAITIIs, addressed by speakers rep-
resenting Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant viewpoints. Both

sessions were chaired by Dr. Robert W. Tully of Indiana
University.

D PEOPLE WERE ALSO TIIINKING OF AND TALKING ABOUT:
the need of research in many areas; the American family-
what recreation can contribute to it, with emphasis on

family camping; outdoor education for recreation; en-
croachment on recreation lands: increased boating and

408

other aquatic activities and pertinent safety measures.

} CONTINUING INTEREST IN SPORTS was illustrated, as usual,
by large attendance at the FORUM ON SPORTS AND ATHLETICS
as leaders sought help in these fields. The meeting was
chaired by Colonel Theodore Bank, president of the Ath-
letic Institute. Col. Bank also reported at the session on
THE SELECTION, PURCHASE AND CARE OF EQUIPMENT AND
SUPPLIES on the results of a joint workshop conducted in
1959 by the Institute and the American Association of
Health, Physical Education, and Recreation.

} QUESTIONS ON RELATION OF SCIENCE AND RECREATION
were answered in a Congress “first” session on USING SCI-
ENCE IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM, conducted by stafi mem-
bers of Science Service, a nonprofit organization which con-
ducts Science Clubs of America and the National Science
Fair-International. If you form your own recreation sci-
ence clubs, you qualify for affiliation with the service and
will receive its excellent materials on all sorts of science

programs as well as other service aids. Write to Science
Service, 1719 N Street, N.W., Washington 6. D.C.

Congress News and “Specials”

k A NEW’ NATION‘VIDE ANNUAL A‘VARDS PROGRAIM for DUI-
standing reporting in the field of physical recreation was
announced by Mansfield D. Sprague, vice-president and di-
rector of the American Machine 8* Foundry Company.
Sponsored by the company, the awards are designed to en-
courage and honor journalists and broadcasters to help
create better understanding of programs in this area of
recreation. To be known as “The AMP Awards,” they will
he administered and adjudged in close cooperation with the
National Rccreation Association. They will offer: (1)
$1,000 and a citation to the author or authors of the best
article, column, or editorial published in a United States
magazine; (2) $1,000 and a citation to the producer or
author of the best radio program broadcast over a U.S.
radio station or network; (3) $1,000 and a citation to the
producer or author of the best television program televiscd
over a US. television station or network; and (4) $500 and
a citation to the US. college newspaper or magazine that
publishes the best article, column, or editorial on the subject.

} PRESIDENT EISENIIOWER WAS AwARDED A CITATION for
outstanding service to recreation at the first National Rec-
reation Association Luncheon, attended by NRA Board
members, guests, NRA Affiliates and Associates, and stall.
Announcement of the award was made by James H. Evan-s,
chairman of the NRA board; its actual presentation will be
made later by Mr. Prendergast. The citation singled out for
special mention the President’s support of the National Ont-
door Recreation Resources Review Commission, the Presi-
dent’s Council on Youth Fitness, the 1960 White House
Conference on Children and Yonth, and the 1961 White
House Conference on the Aging. as well as the projected
National Cultural Center.

> A GIFT To TIIE JOSEPII LEE SCIIOLAIIsnIp FUND, presented
by Jane T. Cox, program director of the Charleston. West
Virginia, Recreation Department, representing the children
of the Charleston Playgrounds, was accepted on behalf of
the fund by Susan Lee, Mr. Lee’s daughter. The fund is

RECREATION

 

AT NRA LUNCHEON. Miss Lee,
right, accepts gift of playground chil-
dren’s for Joseph Lee Scholarship from
June Corr. Charleston, West Virginia.

administered by the National Recreation Association of
which Miss Lee is vice-president and Mr. Lee was one of
the founders and president. The check for $91.17 repre-
sented pennies collected by the Charleston children during
an annual playground carnival. Mrs. Cox pointed out that
this sum, multiplied by all the playgrounds in the country,
would be a real contribution toward providing better leader-
ship for the playgrounds always so dear to Mr. Lee’s heart.

} MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, member of the NRA Board of
directors and Mrs. Robert Thayer, Washington sponsor of
the NRA, gave a tea on Tuesday for Washington contribu-
tors and friends of the Association. Some of those at the
Congress visited the beautiful gardens at Dumbarton Oaks
in Georgetown, which Mr. and Mrs. Bliss have given to
Harvard University.

) CITATIONS AND ANNUAL FELLOW AWARDS were presented
by the American Recreation Society at its luncheon on Tues-
day to honor recreation colleagues for distinctive leader-
ship on service. Austin Welch, chairman of the ABS Cita-
tions and Awards Committee, made the presentations. Re-
cipients were as follows:

Fellow awards went to: R. Foster Blaisdell, superintendent
of recreation, Topeka, Kansas; Hubert I. Snyder, superin-
tendent of recreation, Baltimore County, Maryland; and
Birger J. Rudquist, Veterans Administration, Special Serv-
ices Division, Palo Alto, California. Citations for special
contributions were awarded to Esther Walsh, department
of the Army, Special Services Division; the late Percy
Otis Clapp, Special Services Division of the Veterans Ad-
ministration; and Dr. David K. Brace, University of Texas.

) The Editor’s Luncheon, also new this year, will he es-
pecially remembered by some few for the frank and pungent
criticism of their own publications by the luncheon speaker.

Cody Pfanstiehl, public relations director of the Washing-
ton Star, and by all with gratitude for his many helpful
tips on publishing know-how. Everyone was enthusiastic
about the meeting, thereby encouraging the NRA National
Advisory Committee on the Publishing of Recreation Ma-
terials in its planning for a good publications workshop at

NOVEMBER 1960

 

AT FIRST SESSION. Foster Blaisdell, ARS president; Robert Dowling, chair-
man, Advisory Committee on the Arts, National Cultural Center, speaker; Joseph
Prendergast, executive director, NRA; Jesse Reynolds, retiring ARS president;
Laurence Rockefeller, chairman,0utdoor Resources Review Commission, speaker.

the Detroit Congress next year. Mr. Pfanstiehl understood
the problems of editors in fields such as ours, having ad-
dressed or helped many of them in the past. A shop-talk
session followed his address. The luncheon was planned
and chaired by Joe Davidson, assistant superintendent of
recreation, Greenburgh Recreation Commission. White

Plains, New York.

} NEWSPAPER REPORTERS, as wcll as delegates, were fas-
cinated with the colorful carnival of exhibits, which over-
Howed the main exhibit area into lobbies, foyers, and ex-
tended along the Shorehani’s Bird Cage Walk. Several of
them wrote articles and columns about it. They were par-
ticularly fascinated with the “modern” playground equip-
ment, as are most lay people who have never thought about
such equipment one way or another. Jewelry-making kits
that can be used by oldsters, or all ages, to make bracelets,
necklaces, and pins with semi-precious stones, also came in
for their share of attention in the press. This exhibitor, in-
cidentally, had devised a giveaway kit which was extremely
popular in the light of the coming elections. A delegate
could receive, if he divulged the name of his candidate for
the presidency, a Nixon or Kennedy kit from which to make
up a button, lapel pin, or whatnot. Requests for the kit were
running 120% ahead for one candidate. Guess who?

P THE EXCELLENT SINGING which opcned two of the general
sessions is noteworthy for the excellent leadership provided
by Dr. Harold W. Arberg, chief of the Music Section, Spe-
cial Services Division, Department of the Army. and for the
particularly lovely arrangement of America the Beautiful
in which the audience participated at. the closing session.

Closing Session

This session was appropriately chaired by Milo l". Chris-
tiansen, sUperintendent of recreation in Washington and
our Congress host; the invocation was given by Rabbi
Stanley Rabinowitz. Th:- two speakers. both recently re-
turned froni foreign parts, talked on A NF.“ VIEW OF REt -
RE \TION 1N \xtEm- \ no human. showing how interest in
recreation has spread to the far corners of the earth. even
though many of the rountries are not familiar with that

4;)“

 

NEW BOARD MEM-
BERS. Two prominent pro-
fessional recreation execu-
tives elected to the board
of the National Recreation
Association are: left, Rob-

 

ert Crawford, recreation
commissioner, Philadel—
phia; George H jelte, gen-
eral manager, parks and
recreation, Los Angeles.
Both men took an active

part in the 42nd Congress.

 

 'f7,'i H
,E .XZAJ AL

EXHIBITS OF RECREATION PRODUCTS. Swarm-
ing with activity at all hours, and overflowing into cor-
ridors and lobbies, they provided one of the busiest
sections of the Congress. Seventy-seven exhibiting hrms,
with one hundred and two exhibitors booths, took part.

  

 

— .

a .
BA NQUFT NIGHT. Bill Frederickson, Los Angeles,
president-elect of the ARS, Mrs. Joseph Prendergast,
and .Mrs. Bill Stone are apparently enjoying it. Social-
izing in the evening brought relaxation and recreation
after the serious work and numerous sessions all day.

4 l O

  

CONGRESS HIGHLIGHTS

word. They were Prof. Brightbill, recipient of a nine-month
grant by the Rockefeller Foundation to study the relationships
of recreation to medicine in neuropsyehiatrie and general med-
ical hospitals and physical rehabilitation centers in twelve
European countries; and Sterling S. Winans, recreation con-
sultant for the Asia Foundation, and familiar to readers of
RECREATION through his two excellent articles about recreation
in the Far East in the February and March 1960 issues. Though
both reported that everywhere people seem to be wanting more
of life, Prof. Brightbill dropped a word of warning, “Although
we may be encouraged by the progress of recreation applied in
countless ways for the benefit of man in many parts of the
world,” he said, “we ought not be lulled into a false sense of
self-satisfaction. Incredible as it seems, the world’s average
man still lives in a but. He cannot read or write and he labors
fifteen hours a day although his energy is sapped by disease.
He and his family are always hungry. He is two out of three
of us. He still has hope and in time his lot will improve. . . .
When this happens we ought to make sure that he will not be
defeated, as have so many of his predecessors, by the open hour
and a leisure he is ill prepared to use.”

} AT THE ALL-CONGRESS BANQUET, George V. Allen, director
of the United States Information Agency, eXplained the vital
role US. Information libraries abroad are playing in increasing
international understanding and giving a true “image” of our
country. He was introduced by Walter L. Fowler, attorney and
member of the DC. Recreation Board for twelve years. Mr.
Fowler is a veritable IBM machine when it comes to recalling
poetry. He challenged those present to recite the second verse

of the Star Spangled Banner. Well, can you? #

    

bDUCA TION FOR OUTDOOR RECREATION.
Reynold E. Carlson, professor of recreation at Uni-
versity of Indiana, examines camp equipment in exhibit
area. He chaired meeting, “Promoting Family Camp-
ing,” discussing its meaning for recreation programs.

RECREATION

TITUTE ON RECREATION ADMINI-
AT ION. Participants were all talking
t the excellence of this institute, and t0
ight is the committee responsible. Sitting,
0 right: Jack Puryear, St. Petersburg, Fla.;
k Harnett, Long Beach, Cal.,' W. C. Suth-
d, secretary, New York; William Lederer,
enburgh, N. Y. Standing, left to right:
1k Evans, Maplewood, N. J.,' Al Orringer,
hington, D. C.; Al Cukierski, vice-chair-
, Garden City, N. Y.; Joseph Cole, Wash-
n, D. C., standing in for Milo F. Chris-
en, D. C. recreation superintendent.

lfx

A SOCIAL HOUR. Among hospital recreation leaders en-
tertained, were: left to right, Mary Hendren and Mrs. Anne
K. Bushart of St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, Washington, D. C.;
Clifjt Bream, chief of recreation, Veterans’ Administration;
Hillary Thompson, recreation therapist and Betty Ann Straw-
ther, assistant chief of recreation, also from St. Elizabeth’s.

AT THE ARMED FORCES BOOTH. The armed services
and special services were well represented, and numerous
officers headed their own meetings. The lively looking gals
lined up below are, left to right: Reba Taylor, Europe; Camilla
Allen, Connecticut; Cara Colyer, Virginia; Donna Powers,
New York; Betty Skinner, Air Force Academy, Colorado; E.
Welsh,Dept. of the Army;Bunny Woock,Air ForceAcademy.

NOVEMBER 1960

AT THE ARS LUNCHEON. Austin J. Welch, chairman of
the Citations and A wards Committee, left; R. Foster Blaisdell,
now president of the American Recreation Society; Jesse A.
Reynolds, the society’s outgoing president, who officiated at
the meeting. The citations and the annual fellowship awards
were presented for outstanding leadership in recreation.

SUBURBIA. E. J. Neiderfrank, left, Extension Rural So—
ciologist, Div. of Agricultural Economics Programs, Dept. of
Agriculture, and chairman of session, talks over plans with
discussants for meeting, Dr. William Thompson, director of
recreation, Fairfax Cottnty, Va.; Dr. Marion Clawson, direc-
tor, Land Use Management Program, Resources for the F u-
ture; Blair Lee, legislator, Montgomery County, Maryland.

 

  
 

DIRECTIONS

for the

 

 

  
   

FUTURE

Implications from the 1960 White House
Conference on Children and Youth Free
Time Forum, condensed from Mr. Soren-

Roy Sorenson

HAT WE seek are directions for the
future or imperatives for the fu-

ture. Let us, therefore. first consider
the ten major characterizations of free
time or leisure in America, as identified
at the White House Conference on Chil-
dren and Youth last spring. What are

 

their implications for a broadened c011-
cept of leisure in terms of goals for the future?

The major facts, forces, and observations which emerged
from the conference would appear to be as follows:

1. Free time or leisure has expanded and is expanding.
We are experiencing a decline in the hours of the work
week, more holidays, and lengthencd paid vacations.

2. Leisure has a new plaee in Ameriean values. Today
recreation is considered a necessary factor in individual
and community well being.

3. Leisure is big business with. more free time and higher
ineomes. In the rise from $4,000,000,000 in 194.0 to 516,-
000,000,000 in 1957, sports equipment, supplies and toys
lead with $4,000,000,000; radio, TV, musical instrumcnts,
and records come close with $3,500,000,000. Then, a third
to a quarter less, comes reading at just over a billion and
movies a billion. Last in the list the spectator sports figure
at a quarter of a billion dollars, while scven national youth
organizations spend $313,000,000 annually.

4. Adult leisure values and pursuits ageet free time oeeu-
pations of ehildren and youth. According to August Heck-
sher. director of the Twentieth Century Fund, the standards
of the adult world today “reach back into the world of chil-
dren making them less ‘idle’ but also more. dependent for
their pleasures on the output of the machine technology."

5. Free time is more organized. There is community pres-
sure for more facilities and more organized recreation.

_- ---«-.-—-—-—-— -_-. — —.—_.__ _ W *—

 

l)R. SOREIVSUA M reneral secretary of the San. Franeiseo
YMCA. president n} the Rosenberg Foundation and author
of The Art of Board \iembership and Designing Education
in Values: A Case Study in Institutional Change.

4:12

son’s speech on the new goals for recrea-
tion at the National Recreation Congress.

September 27, 1960, lVashington, D.C.

Joseph Prendergast wrote in his White House Conference
survey paper that, while playtime, at least, was at one time
a matter of the child’s own prerogative. today “even this
realm of choice is governed by facts outside the child’s con-
trol; the timing of radio. movie and TV programs, the avail-
ability of a recreation leader, or the scheduling of afternoon
and weekend play groups. There is a veritable smorgasbord
of activities."

6. Leisure values and pursuits are heavily aecented toward
the aetive. Leisure as we understand it in the United States
has little to do with the contemplative or passive mood. We
are an action-oriented people.

7. Free time is agected by eonmlunities. Leisure is col-
ored by the tendency to link it with the buying of gadgets
and the spending of money.

8. Leisure has beeome a family matter. Children and par-
ents jointly use the newly developed agencies of amusement.
When children are included in motor trips and vacation
tours, go to the movies with their parents, or find TV a
common entertainment, the result may be the development
of more common interests. But different interests make mn-
tual activities difiicult.

9. Cultural arts are inereasing. We are witnessing an up-
surge of interest in the cultural arts. The cultural arts are in-
creasingly coming into programs of youth agencies. (See
RECREATION, “New Worlds Through Reereation,” June
1959; “A New Day for the Cultural Arts.” November .1959:
and “Cultural Coexistenee in Richmond.” April 1960.l
10. Urban ehange and growth agect leisure. ln the cities.
inner core and in many new vast housing projects, conges-
tion and crowding have resulted in loss of outdoor play
spaces. This implies that for the 1960's we need a broad.
ened eoneept of free time. leisure, and recreation. The con-
cept must be big enough to comprehend within it the
changed and major role of leisure in our society and an
understanding of the forces and pressures which mould leio
sure valucs and pursuits.

Thesc, then, are the ten characteristics of leisure. Let
us try to synthesize them and arrive at their meaning.

RECREATION

IN A LEISURE-ORIENTED society free time is uncommitted
time, a resource for living, learning, and serving. It is
the arena within which children and youth find or diffuse
their identity; within which life is creative, zestful, and ful-
filling, or boring, drab, or dissipating; within which we
come to care and work for better community or rebel in
unsocial behavior; within which we develop personal au-
tonomy and social competence or conformity and inade-
quacy; within which we move to widening knowledge and
comprehension or atrophy the curiosity we may have had;
and within which we forge our values and move to mental
and physical health or ill health.

In short, we must accept a concept of leisure as life edu-
cator: shaper of life style and the culture and the expression
of both individuality and the culture. And the more free,
the more spontaneous, the more playful, the more varied,
the more zestful, and the more inner disciplined—the more
educative. Leisure is a value in itself, but it is also the de-
veloper or destroyer of growth, selfhood, social being, and
excellence. Free time is not a brief interlude from life, it
is life as we choose it. Leisure is not merely diversion or
amusement, it is the making of a life style. Recreation is
not a catalog of offered activities, it is the voluntary choice
of pursuits in search of fulfillment.

A concept of leisure also needs to include points of view
about personal and social values, such as activity and soli-
tude; play and work; family togetherness and separateness;
consumcrism and simplicity; autonomy and conformity;
spectator and participant; creative spirit and the social and
cultural arts; personal sense of responsibility for social
service and commitment to causes outside of one’s self;
mass media and growth; and urban renewal and land use
planning for an urban environment for leisure.

Within the broad concept of leisure we need to see not
only the institutions of family, school, church, and organ-
ized recreation agencies, but also the range of youthful ac-
tivities outside of these institutions: the play group in the
block, the gang on the loose, the car, the TV set (which
youngsters watch almost as many hours as they are in
school), the drive-in rendezvous, earlier dating, going steady
and marriage, and a wide spectrum of other free-time ac-

tivities.

A SECOND IMPERATIVE for the future is to mamge to serve
the larger population and the enlarged urban areas
with recreation services and to fill in the gaps without pro-
portional additional resources. There is pressure in com-
munities to provide more of everything: more facilities,
more leadership, more variety. Population forecasts mean
more children, more youth, more urban growth, more con-
gestion. In the Little White House Conferences all over the
land and in the States Report there was call for recreation
programs they didn’t have and more of what they did have.
Homer C. Wadsworth, chairman of the President’s Citizens
Advisory Committee on the Fitness of American Youth, has
spoken of the price tag attached to expansion of facilities
and services. This means more bond issues, more appro-
priations, more contributions for subsidies.
But the 1960’s will bring stiffer competition: competition

NOVEMBER 1960

for the consumer dollar as revealed in declining busincss
profit margins; competition for the tax dollar as govern-
ments are pressed for mass transit, highways, education on
all levels (elementary, secondary, and higher), correction,
mental health, health and welfare, and all public facilities
and services; competition for the contributed dollar as col-
leges, hospitals, churches, national health funds, local fed-
erated funds, and countless other causes scramble for funds.

Recognizing the scale of projected growth, it is not real-
istic to assume that our public and voluntary recreation
agencies can grow proportionately as they now function.
New ways must be found; innovation will be needed. This
is a challenge to the creativity of administrators of both
public and private recreation enterprises.

For the future it will be necessary to temper our heavy
reliance on quantitive thinking. We need to reevaluate rec-
reation services in terms other than amounts of money and
numbers of people. Quantitative thinking is concerned with
numbers, with more of what we have, with spread. Plan-
ning in the quantitative sense is ways and means of operat-
ing what is in more places, with more money, more facilities
and more staff. It does not reexamine function but accepts
uncritically the assumptions, methods, and forms which
have prevailed. Quantitative thinking mistakes size for im-
portance and confuses numerical growth with contempo-
rary impact upon our society. '

Qualitative thinking, on the other hand, is concerned with
doing differently; with inner perspective and renewal; with
new concepts, images, and perspectives; with revitalization
of function; with focus and refinement; with innovation,
with transformed programs, not new organizations. Quali-
tative thinking formulates new questions and seeks new
perspectives. It has to do with perception, social invention,
diagnosis of social needs and opportunities, and the devel-
opment of concepts and methods to satisfy them. The im-
perative for the future is to temper quantitative thinking
with innovational and qualitative thinking; with creative
venturesomeness, with creative imagination and curiosity.

This must lead us in three directions. One is toward re-
search, acknowledging how much we do not know and rec-
ognizing how many of the assumptions we make about our
programs have no solid basis of evidence. A second direc-
tion is toward designed experimentation or pilot projects
to try new things with new images born from recent knowl-
edge. A third is toward some reorganization of our serv.
ices. They have grown like Topsy with resulting heavy cost
for fragmentation in so many small administrative units
with high administrative and organizational costs. We can-
not meet the larger population needs of the future by
continuing to multiply inefficient and costly duplicative
organization and administrative units, nor by mere “coor-
dination.” The keynote for the future may be not coordi-
nation but reorganization: functional consolidations, or
mergers, or large units of executives and administrators in
ratio to youth workers.

The third imperative for the future is to focus our goals
for leisure education and services upon those objectives
which can correct the leisure trends which may be limiting,

Continued on Page 4“

413

 

I
JIII-

 

The children are entranced (luring story honr' directed by the Ferguson Library and Stamford Junior League.

EXTENDING YOUR SERVICE

The recreation program in a low-income housing project shows

what can be accomplished through a nmlti-agency approach.

Alice Scrly

housing project in Stamford,

Connecticut, houses 524 families
and there are 1200 children. Located
on a hill on the outskirts of the city, it
is some miles removed from building-
centered community agencies. Recrea-
tion was the first need expressed by the
250 families who resided in the original
part of the project built in 1940, and
the Stamford Recreation Department
was the first organization to respond to
the Housing Authority’s request for an
on-the-spot, year-round program for
the children.

By 1954, construction of four 8-story
apartment buildings more. than doubled
the project’s population. The Stamford
Housing Authority then appr lll".(_l to the

f ; OUTHFIELD VILLAGE, A low-income

 

 

Mtts. SERLY is community worker at
the Sou-thyield Pillage Neighborhood
Center, Southfiehl Pillage Housing
Project, Stamford, Connecticut.

“1144

Community Council in the hope that
additional group-work, health, and edu-
cational services might be made avail-
able to Southfield Village residents. As
a result of studies. the council’s commit-
tecs recommended a two-year pilot proj-
ect headed by a qualified social worker.
From April 1957 to December 1959,
this pilot project was sponsored by the
Stamford Junior League, Pitney-Bowes,
Inc., the.Stamford Foundation, two pri-
vate foundations, and the Stamford
Housing Authority. These organiza-
tions. along with representatives from
public and voluntary agencies, com-
prised the first Soutllfield Village Ad-
visory Board. lt engaged a community
worker whose main job was, and still
is. to find and bring a variety of com-
munity resources within easy reach of
I'n'nject. residents.

By January 1960 the pilot project
had proved sound enough to warrant

community support. The United Fund
of Stamford now finances the service of
the community worker and provides a
special program budget, while the
Stamford Housing Authority continues
to provide and maintain two rccrcation
halls, a clubroom, ofliees for the visit-
ing nurse and the community worker,
a baseball field. several playgrounds,
play materials, equipment, and utilities.
This combined program, made possible
by the cooperation of tax-supported
and voluntary organizations, is called
the Southfield Village Neighborhood
Center.

The Stamford Recreation Depart-
ment has increased its year-round pro-
gram in Southficld Village fivefold
since 1957 and, with the active cooper-
ation and support of thc Stamford
Housing Authority, it forms the back-
bone of service to the housing project.
linder the direction of its superinten-

RECREATION

dent, Edward J. Hunt, the Stamford

Recreation Department reaches out to
the people in every part of the city by
means of its mobile staff and equip-
ment. Here at Southfield Village liter-
ally hundreds of boys and girls enjoy
after-school and evening recreation ses-
sions in winter and a ten-hour-a-day
summer program. Scores of hard-to-
reach children who shun other pro-
grams “can hardly wait” for the recrea-
tion staff to arrive. The children’s real
affection for the Stamford Recreation
Department also arises from the fact
that their parents (many of them still
hard-to-reach) had earlier found the
department, with its outgoing and all-
inclusive policy, the one place where
they felt comfortable and accepted.

One of the secrets of the recreation
department’s special appeal lies in its
diversified program of tension-releas«

ing activities. The summer outdoor

NOVEMBER 1960

 

T

Stamford Recreation Department directs a relay race at Southfield Village.

program, from nine in the morning
until dark, includes boxing, baseball,
teeterball, horseshoes, relay races, alter-
nating with quiet games, handcrafts,
dramatics, doll shows, masquerades, et-
cetera. Augmenting these daily activi-
ties in the village, the recreation de-
partment maintains a day camp to
which forty-five boys and girls are
taken by bus—225 each week. It is an
all-day program, the children bringing
lunch and enjoying fresh milk served
by the recreation staff.

The winter indoor program consists
of after-school and evening sessions of
Ping-pong, pool, shuffleboard, boxinG.
and these also provide quick muscular
discharge of pent-up energy and, in
many instances, of anger and resent-
ment. Baton twirlinG. parade manoeu-
vers, tap dancing, on the other hand.
engage the interest of a wide variety of
children, from the shy and withdrawn

to the tree-destroyers. While caricature
drawing is popular for obvious rea-
sons, it is worth noting that two dc-
feated, mentally retarded youths, refer-
red by a school social workcr, recently
achieved their first real success through
this medium.

The Southfield Village Play Center

was inspired by the fact that, of all the
preschool children in the project, the
four-year-olds seemed to be the most
lonely or neglected. Often the oldest
of four preschool childrcn, with several
school-age brothers and sisters, the
four-year-old seemed to get lost in the
shuffle. It was enlightening, as well as
startling, to learn that some thefts from
parked cars as well as the smashing of
scores of greenhouse window panes
were done not by “teen-age vandals”
but by kindergarteners whose parents
did not even know that they were out
at night.

Connecticut’s standards for pre-
school children’s centers are high. It

required the combined efforts of the

Stamford Health Department, Housing
Authority, Medical Society, Junior
League, Visiting Nurse Association,
and the Stamford Day Nursery, work-
ing as a subcommittee of the advisory
board, to organize the play center.
Once its excellent morning and after-
noon sessions for fifty children were
established on a five-day-week basis,
the matter of its continuation presented
a serious problem to the Stamford Day
Nursery which had sponsored and
staffed it. The Stamford Recreation
Department stepped in and saved it
without a day’s loss of time. The same
teachers were retained and the Junior
League volunteer teachers switched
over to the recreation department.

Just as the boy “graduates” of the
play center join the regular recreation
programs, many of the girls become
members of the recreation department’s
sewing and handcrafts class. These
children, now school age. display a not-
iceable better handling of and respect
for equipment and a much more recep-
tive attitude to instructors than those
who have had no play center experi-
ence.

.-=\nother I'nited Fund agency willing
to change its standard procedure in the
interest of meeting the needs of the
housing projects children was the

1-15

Southwestern Connecticut Girl Scout
Council. Recognizing the unusual prob-
lems involved in depending upon par-
ent leadership, the Girl Scout Coun-
cil assigned a professional worker to
Southfield Village for two years where,
on a once-a-week basis, assisted by Jun-
ior League volunteers, she organized a
troop of forty-one. Two members of the
advisory board volunteered leadership
until other volunteers were found. In
fact, many of the programs have sur-
vived principally because of the deep
interest of the Southfield Village Ad-

visory Board.

ONCE A program has been estab-
lished within the housing project,
the next step is to take the children out
into the larger community. Bus trips,
financed through the United Fund bud-
get, have enabled the Girl Scouts to ac-
cept the invitations of other tr00ps to
seasonal parties and outings all over
the city. Reports from all community
sources remark on the spontaneous
courtesy and natural good manners of
these children when they are experienc-
ing genuine hospitality. The annual
campership fund, supported by Stam-
ford service clubs, civic, educational,
religious, and fraternal groups, is the
means by which an increasing number
of girls attend Girl Scout camps while
the boys go to Camp Rippowam of the
Stamford Boys Club and Camp Hazen
of the YMCA.

It was the recreation department
which provided staff and program
when, three years ago we began to try
to draw the housing pro ject’s older peo-
ple away from their radios and their
snug little homes for at least one after-
noon a week of sociability in the rec-
reation hall.

The Stamford District Council of
Catholic Women was the next organiza-
tion to bring life and gaiety to the older
people with a First-Tuesday Bingo
party replete with prizes and home-
made refreshments. Then a new pro-
gram was offered by the Stamford
Home for the Aged. Unique as homes
go in its sponsorship of a downtown
over-sixty club with a city-wide service
for Stamford’s older people, it has ex-
tended its staff to the housing project
for a weekly rug-making session com-

bined with a koffee klatsch. All matc-

416

rials are supplied by the home and the
makers may keep their rugs. The Vis-
iting Nurses Association of Stamford
performs an outstanding service for
these men and women and their home-
bound spouses, as well as for the play
center children and all the families in
the project.

The policy of taking an organized
group out into the larger community
where they can mingle with all other
pe0ple is just as beneficial to the old as
to the young. The Council of Catholic
Women recently took complete charge
of a day’s outing for senior residents
which included a tour of Stamford, a
visit to the health department for an in-
teresting meeting, winding up with a
deluxe luncheon served at St. Joseph’s
Hospital. Senior Citizens Week in
Stamford was clirnaxed with a picnic
organized by the Stamford Recreation
Department and the Community Coun-
oil on the grounds of the U. S. Naval
Reserve Training Center and a char-
tered bus enabled the Southfield Club
to attend the fascinating program.
dance to music played by a first rate
band engaged for the occasion by the
recreation department, and to meet all
the other over-sixties of Stamford.

UNIOR LEAGUE voluntcers come week-
ly to read stories to the children
during the fall-winter season. Then,
during the long summer vacation when
the children seem to long for anything
that resembles school, the Ferguson Li-
brary sends its staff here to conduct the
story hour on an even larger scale. The
Junior League has stocked a very size-
able library for Southfield Village chil-
dren and adults—all modern, inter-
esting, readable books——-—no advanced
calculus or third-year Creek.

For the first time in Southfield Vil-
lage’s existence the boys and girls are
enjoying suminer barbecues, Hallow-
een, Thanksgiving and Christmas par-

 

F or many years the National Rec-
reation Association has maintained
a close consulting relationship with
the Stamford Recreation Depart-
ment, and in recent years with the
Community Council and other key
community agencies. RECREATION
Magazine, as one of its many serv-
ices, carries helpful material such as
that found in this article.

 

 

ties, due to the extensive cooperation of
the Stamford Recreation Department.
Only a staff trained in working with a
massive group could put these affairs
across. The children develOp tremen-
dous tension at the sight of refresh-
1ncnts, not only for themselves but for
absent brothers and sisters. While the
food, gifts and prizes are donated by
such organizations as the Junior
League, Treasure Chest, Suburban Ki-
wanis, and interested individuals, a full
staff of recreation workers is required
to organize and produce the simplest of
programs. Many of these children are
hungry, physically as well as emotion-
ally, and a close affinity exists between
hunger and aggression. For many of
these children, the school luncheon is
the oasis between soda-pop-and-potato-
chip breakfasts and suppers.

In dealing with this need, once again
the recreation department’s program
serves as a setting. We are now experi-
menting with the occasional serving of
milk and graham crackers to the boys
and girls as they enter the recreation
hall or playground. It is a step in prac-
tical nutrition and could be helpful to
these children for they are extremely
wise, capable, and experienced in all

things pertaining to survival.

Whatever the problems may be, these
special trcats, large or small, exert a
wholesome, socializing influence upon
all participants. It is on these occa-
sions, as at the thrift sales and on bus
excursions, that the mothers here are
at their very best and shine as hostesses.

Tm; STAMFORD Advocate, the Week-

ly Shopper and radio station
WSTC have been covering all these
events during the past three years. By
now, even some of the apathetic and
cynical residents are beginning to take
pride when they read and hear that
Southfield Village’s social and recrea-
tion activities are just as newsworthy
as those in other parts of Stamford.
Every leader, professional or volun-
teer, who has come to work in South-
field Village has been deeply impressed
by the eager, friendly, cooperative
spirit of the children and adults, once
they have become convinced that we
are here to serve them and help them
make their lives better, richer, and
more worthwhile. #

RECREATION

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

N 0 LIMIT

 

TO THEIR
ACTIVITIES

Disabilities need not restrict
physical or community activity.

The MAC’s have proved it.

Any active group could be proud

of these projects. -

Shirley R. Spencer and Louis J. Cantoni

MORE THAN a
hundred peo-
ple who believe
that physical dis-
ability need not
stand in the way of
an active, happy
life constitute the
Metropolitan Ac-
tivities Club. Organized in 1954, the
club’s main purpose is to serve the so-
cial and recreation
needs of its mem-
bers. The club got
under way in Birm-
ingham, Michigan,
and draws most of
its members from
Detroit and the sur-
rounding area.

Membcrs call themselves the MAC’s.
Practically all of the MAC’s have

a moderate or severe disability, but

 

 

MISS SPENCER AND DR. CANTONI are
both members of the Metropolitan Ac-
tivities Club. Miss Spencer is’a master’s
degree candidate in vocational rehabili-
tation counseling at Wayne State U ni-
versity, in Detroit, where Dr. Cantoni
serves as associate professor of special
education and vocational rehabilitation.

ovEMBER 1960

friends and relatives can belong, too, so
not all members are physically handi-
capped. Ages range from eighteen to
seventy-two. There is no restriction on
membership by type of disability, but
most of the MAC’s have orthopedic dis-
ablements as the result of polio, spinal
injuries, birth defects, multiple sclero-
sis, or muscular dystrophy. Thus, the
great ma ority are visibly handicapped.
Thirty-live use wheelchairs, and twenty-
three others, crutches.

From the beginning, the MAC’s de-
cided they would carry on their own
activities without charitable assistance
or special campaigns sponsored by
others on their behalf. This does not
mean the interest and occasional assist-
ance of individuals and groups outside
the club have been spurned. It means
that the MAC’S have cherished their in-
dependence, and have always assumed
total responsibility for the success of
their own organization.

They believe strongly that they come
to know and appreciate each other bet-
ter through social and recreation activi-
ties. These include:

Bowling. The MAC’s are enthusiastic
bowlers. There are two groups of howlu
ers, each howling twice a month.

 

Basketball. A Detroit gym is used for
this activity.
Swimming. In the past the MAC’s have
done their swimming in an indoor pool,
but now they have important plans for
summer fun.
Square Dancing. The MAC Wheelers
arc proficient square dancers. W'hirl-
ing in their chairs, they have performed
for organizations and on TV. They also
won a trophy at the Michigan State
Fair.
Singing. Practicing one night a week,
the choral group keeps in top tone. It
has sung at banquets and festivals, and
brightened the days of many hospital-
ized children and grownups.
Arts and Crafts. Interested Inelnbers
meet weekly at a recreation center in
Ferndale, whcre they find relaxation in
sewing, flower making, copper enamel-
ing. copper picture making, leather-
work, and ceramics. They have dis-
played their products in hobby shows.
This list by no means exhausts the
club’s social and recreation activities.
The MAC's are also interested specta-
tors. Oncc a month they go by motor-
vade to such places as theaters, circuses,
baseball games, hockey games, and ice
Continued on Page 444

ll?

THE NATIONAL CULTURAL CENTER

Its relation to the National Recreation Association and to you.

Joseph Prendergast

HE NATIONAL RECREATION Association is one of the
T eleven national organizations concerned with the
performing arts and their recreational and educational
aspects that are participating in the National Cultural
Center to be built in our nation’s capital. These eleven will
take an active part in detailing the facilities to be provided
and in advising on the form and content of programing.

The Center’s Board of Trustees, in a joint meeting with
the Advisory Committee on the Arts, on March 31, 1960
adopted the following criteria in determining which organ-
izations should be invited: (1) that the national organiza-
tions should be truly national in character and affiliation;
(2) that they should have as their primary purpose the pro-
motion of those arts and activities which the National Cul-
tural Center will present to the public; and (3) that they
should be of a nonprofit character. Besides the NRA, the
others invited to participate are Academy of American
Poets, American National Theatre and Academy (ANTA) ,
American Academy of Arts and Letters, American Sym-
phonic Orchestra League, American Educational Theatre
Association, National Institute of Arts and Letters, Na-
tional Music Council, National Federation of Music Clubs,
Poetry Society of America, and The Theatre Library As-
soeiation.

By this formal invitation, the National Recreation Asso-
ciation and its service associates and affiliates will play a
real part in advancing the National Cultural Center project
and will participate in the decision-making process in Na-
tional Cultural Center affairs. The chairman of the NRA’s
Board of Directors will represent the Association, ex-offieio,
on the Advisory Committee on the Arts. The Association’s
executive director will continue to serve on the Advisory
Committee by virtue of his personal appointment to that
committee by President Eisenhower in March, 1959.

At its March 31, 1960 meeting, the Center’s Board of
Trustees also authorized its executive committee to explore
with the National Recreation Association and the other
participating national organizations the possibility of such
organizations establishing liaison offices or their head-
quarters offiees in the National Cultural Center. The NRA
is now giving serious consideration to the possibility of
establishing such a liaison office in the Center.

Since the NRA wishes to work very closely with all its
service associates and service affiliates concerned with any
one or more of the performing arts of interest to the Center,
it hopes to develop a two-way communication system for
transmission of information and suggestions between the
Association and such associates and affiliates and the Center.

MR. PRENDEROtsT is executive director of the National
Recreation Association and a member of the Advisory Com-
mittee on the Arts of the \iational Cultural Center.

4.18

PART III

Several steps to this end have already been taken. For ex-
ample, a special consultant on the performing arts has been
added to the Association’s staff. Among his duties and re-
sponsibilities will be serving as secretary of the Associa-
tion’s National Advisory Committees on the various per-
forming arts made up of representatives of the NRA’s four
thousand associates and nineteen hundred affiliates ap-
pointed by the Executive Director to these committees.
These committees will have a very close advisory relation-
ship to the Association and it is planned to have special
meetings on matters relating to the National Cultural Center
at all future National Recreation Congresses and District
Recreation Conferences. From time to time there will be
articles appearing in RECREATION on the Center and the
several performing arts, and the Association’s Newsletters
will be used on occasion. There may be spepial brochures
and other material for either general or limited distribution.
The Association also wishes to establish close working
relationships with the ten other national organizations in-
vited to participate in the National Cultural Center and with
all other nonprofit organizations concerned with the per-
forming arts and their recreational and educational aspcets.
Certain steps have already been take in that direction.

In July, 1959 the National Recreation Association at-
tempted to identify all recreation, community, civic, and
other similar nonprofit groups and organizations on the
local, state, and national levels in the field of the performing
arts. This was to enable its executive director, as a member
of the Center’s Advisory Committee on the Arts, to obtain
the advice of such organizations in his capacity as a mem-
ber of that Committee’s Special Committee on Concept. The
executive director wanted to be sure that the Opinions, de-
sires, and needs of such organizations would be given due
and proper consideration. It was assumed that other mem-
bers of the committee would see to it that the more strictly
professional societies, associations, guilds, and unions, and
those individuals and organizations properly concerned
with the actual presentation of programs in the Center to be ‘
financed in other ways than through nonprofit organizations \
would also have an opportunity to express their Opinions.

D URING 1959, NRA carried on a correspondence with a

considerable number of the more than ninety such or-
ganizations and the Association’s executive director had
personal meetings with several of their executives and other
representatives. On December 3rd, for example, he attended
a general meeting of the National Music Council in New
York City and on December 27th, a meeting of the board
of directors of the American Educational Theatre Associa-
tion in Washington, DC.

In all such contacts, NRA found a general confusion as

RECREATION

to just what the National Cultural Center was and was not.
The Association therefore suggested that consideration be
given by the Center Advisory Committee to a meeting to
which all such organizations could send representatives to
discuss the Center in general and their particular interests
with reference thereto.

On January 18, 1960, with the approval of the Chairman
of the Center’s Board of Trustees, the Chairman of the Ad-
visory Committee on the Arts, Robert W. Dowling, invited
a selected number of nonprofit organizations in the fields of
the performing arts to send representatives to a meeting

held last February in New York City.

In his introductory remarks as program chairman for
the February meeting NRA’s executive director stated: “We
are here to engage in an informal but, I h0pe, extensive dis-
cussion of the general concept of the National Cultural
Center, the use of the Center’s pr0posed facilities, the de-
ve10pment of its programs and presentations, and the rela-
tionship which the Center should have with the types of
nonprofit organizations with which many of us are asso-
ciated.

“This is an Opportunity that should not be missed. Only
one thing could let this opportunity go by and that, in my
Opinion, would be the lack of the leadership of and c00pera-
tion between the National Cultural Center and the agencies,
such as yours and mine, which are dedicated to serving the
American people and both the professionals and amateurs
among them in the several performing art fields.”

AMONG THE principal points made at the February meet-
ing were:
1. The national organizations serving the arts represented
at the meeting supported the National Cultural Center con-
cept in principle and wanted to work closely with the Ad-
visory Committee on the Arts in the deve10pment of that
concept.
2. The national organizations referred to were also con-
cerned with and wanted to help in the development of the
Center’s presentations and programs, especially as they re-
lated to programs for various age groups designed for
their participation, education, and recreation.
3. The national organizations were particularly concerned
with the use of the space on the third floor of the Center for
a special library and museum, workshops and studios, and
office space for the Center staff and national organizations.
4. The national organizations were concerned with the
fund-raising aspects of the Center and wanted to help any
way they could. It was suggested that there be some form
of personal membership in the Center for students and
others.
5. Estimated income of rentals from the use of the various
facilities, parking areas, guided tours, and miscellaneous
services were presented at this meeting. No estimates of
income from endowment and other sources were made. On
the basis of estimated net income presented, Mr. Dowling
assured those present that educational and recreational pro-
grams of national scope and importance could and would

be sponsored and conducted by the National Cultural Center.
Income from endowment and other sources could be used

NOVEMBER 1960

 

 

for educational and recreational programs also. Thcse pro-
grams would include such activities related to the perform-
ing arts as conferences, demonstrations, workshOps, and
other services to the nation which would further advance
the cultural life of the United States.

Since the February meeting, representatives of the Cen-
ter’s Board of Trustees have been intervicwing a large num-
ber of individuals throughout the country as to just how the
Center could best carry out its statutory duties and respon-

 

L. Corrin Strong, execu-
tive vice-chairman of the
Board of Trustees and na-
tional campaign chairman of
the Center, is philanthrOpist,
art patron, and former U.S.
Ambassador to Norway. He
is also a trustee of George
Washington University, D. C.

Edward Durell Stone of

New York City, consulting
architect for the Center, has
designed numerous theaters
and other centers of fine arts.
He is noted for the outstand-
ing pavilion and theater he
designed for the Interna-
tional Exposition at Brussels.

Robert W. Dowling, chair-
man of the Center’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts, is
head of a New York City in-
vestment firm with many the-
atrical interests. Last year
he toured the Soviet Union
in connection with the United

States exhibition in Moscow.

M

sibilities. Any suggestions from the Association’s service
affiliates and associates as to how the best possible relation-
ship could be established between them and the Center,
through the services of the Association, would be most wel-
comed.

The National Cultural Center in our nation’s capital is
to be created and developed in the American way in the
finest traditions of our country. Public and private organ-
izations and individuals will participate and share. not only
in making the physical structure of the National Cultural
Center possible, but in bringing to the nation as a whole,
the inspiration, leadership. and resources necessary for en-

riching the cultural lives of everyone. #

This is the last of three articles.

419

Training Aids and Tips . . .

Leadership WorkshOp Series

ADULT LEADERS of church-centered

recreation groups have responded
enthusiastically to a series of work-
shops initiated by the Metropolitan
Dade County Park and Recreation De-
partment, Miami, Florida. The recrea-
tion division felt that through this me-
dia assistance could be given to many
church-centered programs throughout
the county, and the workshops would
help to increase the effectiveness of the
leadership.

The first step was to present the out-
line of the plan to the Greater Miami
Council of Churches through its board
of directors. The initial plan outlined
the various phases of the workshops to
be presented and included active games,
folk games, quiet games, “starters” and
“closers,” as well as league participa-
tion, singing, refreshments, and so on.
Suggested dates and times were also
submitted, and the council was re-
quested to assist in securing approval
from churches with adequate facilities
in which to conduct the workshops and
also to assist in publicizing the dates,
time, and places, through church bulle-
tins.

The plan was well received by the
Council of Churches, and it was decided
to conduct the workshOps in four differ-
ent sections of the county in order to
give complete coverage, and to provide
the church leaders of each section an

opportunity to participate within their
area.

The next step was to produce a work-
book which the adult leaders would be
able to use as a guide and reference for
their future activities, special events,
and parties. From the beginning it was
emphasized that the workshops would
be based on actual participation in the
program, with very little lecture time
provided, following the theory that one
learns by doing.

The first of the series of workshops
was aimed at leaders of [Portage groups
and the various 5"t1lions of the forty-
page booklet were set up as follows:

420

introduction, fun for the early guests.
folk rhythms, up and atoms, social
games, mystery games, informal dra-
matics, singing fun, league participa-
tion, refreshments, closers. Each of the
sections contained numerous items, var-
iations, and details, giving those who
attended a comprehensive manual of
ready reference for future use.

The workshops were set up to cover
three-hour periods one night each week
for two weeks—a total of six hours per
workshop. Although this presented a
time limitation, it was felt that church
leaders would be more inclined to at-
tend one night per week for two weeks
rather than two evenings in succession.
The time element proved ample to allow
leaders to participate in many activities.

Prior to each workshop the minister
of the church was contacted and a staff
member visited the church, made ar-
rangements for tables, chairs, checked
for electrical outlets for public-address
system, familiarized the minister with
the type of program to be presented,
and reconfirmed time and dates for use
of the church facilities. Response to the
teenage leaders series justified the time
invested, with over eighty adult leaders
from forty different churches taking
part.

The same procedure was followed,
through cooperation of the Greater Mi-
ami Council of Churches, in offering a
second series, directed at leaders of
junior-age groups, concentrating on the
recreation aspects of the Daily Vaca-
tion Bible School programs. Another
booklet was designed for this age group
and provided to those taking part in
the workshops. Again the response was
good with forty represcntativcs from
twelve different churches participating.

In evaluating the church recreation
workshops it was felt that many of the
churches which were represented by
leaders of both the teenage groups and
the junior-age groups will benefit from
their experience and participation. The
question-and-auswcr periods following
each of the sessions indicated that those

CHURCH
RECREATIONI

 

 

participating were earnestly intereste
and felt that the workshops were ver_
helpful. The public-relations aspec
cannot be underestimated. The succes
of this program proves this type of ac
tivity has a definite place. The recrea
tion division will retain it in the annua
program, as one of the ways of provid
ing a public service to the people 0
Dade County and of contributing to th
overall recreation programs of the are
as well as to the many communities.

Program Resources

Plays for the Church is a list for
those church leaders looking for a playl
that will be a meaningful experience to
the actors as well as the congregation.l
It: does not include skits. stunts, hu-
morous plays. The suggested plays will
take work and study—but will be we]
worth the time and labor. This anno
tated list was prepared by a special COD]-
mittee of the Department of Worship
and the Arts of the National Council 0
the Churches of Christ in the U.S.A.
Available for 3.55 from the Nationall
Council of Churches, Office of Puhlica-‘
tion and Distribution. 120 East 23rd
Street. New York 10.

in the field of human relations. “ma-
tcrials are being producer] at such a:
rate and in such a variety that even the
professional worker is taxed to keep in-
telligently posted on the wealth of new
resources at his command.” Recreation
workers are only too keenly aware of I
this burden. To aid all overworkch
leaders, whatever their professional ism. '
is Resource Handbook in. Human Refa-
u'ons. a compilation of materials on the
dance, drama, education, groups, hous-
ing, music, and poetry. It also includes
books and pamphlets on human rela-
tions (graded as to readership). This
attractive, 75-page booklet. illustrated
with drawings. is available in a paper-
hound edition for $1.05 and clothbotmd
for $2.25 from The Council on llumau
Relations, 281 The Arcade. Cleveland
lil'. Ohio.

Reenmnox

 

Edward Ii. Lucas

The Youngsters Take the Stage

The Downey’s Children’s Theatre—u pioneering enterprise

ORE THAN TWO thousand children take part in the
M Downey Children’s Theatre in Downey, California,

where entertainment and recreation are synony-
mous. This enthusiastic response from so many youngsters.
in a city of only 85,000, indicates its success. The program
is conducted nearly twelve months of the year, and the adults
who seriously participate in it derive as much satisfaction
as the children. Started five years ago, it has now become a
community institution and a source of first-rate entertain-
ment. During the 1957-58 season, it performed for paying
audiences of about ten thousand and attendance for 1959-60
increased by nearly forty per cent.

The theater’s repertoire is impressive, too. During 1959-
60, forty-four full-length performances of plays such as
Beauty and the Beast, Heidi, and Aladdin were presented.
Today, the continuity and further eXpansion of the Chil-
dren’s Theatre seems assured, but this has not always been
the case. During the early months of the program, even its
most dedicated advocates despaired of clearing the many
obstacles in its path. Most formidable was that of finances,
and, intimately related to this, the creation of community
support. .

The theater had its beginnings in a conviction shared by

three peeple that it would be a desirable addition to the

 

MR. LUCAS, a freelance writer on business and industrial
subjects, occasionally gets so excited about a recreation
project he can’t help digressing.

NOVEMBER 1960

recreation and park district program. These three people——
Daniel F urman, then superintendent of the district, Mrs.
Lois Little, senior recreatio‘n director, and John Hume, a
trained specialist in theater production—launched their
first play in 1955 with the children's classic, Hansel and
Gretel, which has ten roles for uveniles and three for adults.
Announcements were made both in local newSpapers and
elementary schools of tryouts for the children’s parts. and
the directors were amazed to see 250 children present them-
selves. A policy of double casting for all children’s roles
was immediater instituted, making it possible for tw ice as
many children to participate, and protecting the play in
case an emergency eliminated one of the cast.

It was evident that adult cooperation was also urgently
needed if the production was to be a success. Besides play-
ing the adult roles, qualified people were needed to serve
as instructors in workshop classes. to build stage scenery,
to arrange for publicity, to print programs, and so on. The
adults responded to the call for help as enthusiastically as
the children!

One major problem is as finding a suitable auditorium
where the plays could he presented. Since Don‘ney’s major
growth has taken place nithin the last decade (it has only
recently become an incorporated city in the southern Los
:Xngeles area), almost all its schools are post-war structure:
without auditoriums. Such needs are served instead by
multi-purpose rooms called cafetoriums. and the produc-

121

.9 {6:3  

Parents of children in the cast of Snow Queen and the Goblin meet for
costume conference. Much of the theater’s success is attributed to fine
cooperation of parents who have always pitched in wherever necessary.

1 . {1. —I—

r

-w--I-  _ __ ______

The theater offers opportunity for expression. to many artistic talents.
Here, youngsters who are responsible for publicizing the plays get in-
structions on the designing and painting of signs in publicity class.

tions have taken place in one of these up to this time.

Because of the enthusiastic reception of Hansel and Gretel,
the plays Tom Sawyer and Sleeping Beauty were added to
the first season’s program. Ironically, the unqualified suc-
cess of the productions created the problem of how to finance
them. The recreation and park district had been carrying
all the expenses of the venture while in the middle of a
costly expansion of park facilities necessitated by the rapid
increase in population. Beyond paying Mr. Hume's salary
as director, it was clear that the district could no longer
handle the diverse expenses of the program, but, to main-
tain the momentum gained during the first season, the
budget had to be increased. The only answer was Voluntar}
financial support from the community itself. The depart-
ment hoped that community interest would be great enough
to keep the theater going.

The director made an appeal for funds. T he response

422

 

 

 

 

was greater than he had hoped, and led to the formation
of the Downcy Children’s Theatre, Inc., a nonprofit civic
organization. General members of this organization pay
$1.00 per year, while sustaining members or patrons pay
$10.00 or more yearly. Honorary memberships are given
to those who perform extraordinary service on behalf of

the organization.
Through this organization and the voluntary efforts of

adults who contribute their time and labor, directors have
been able to expand the theater program and have it pay
many of its own expenses. ln addition to increasing the
number of plays per season, the general structure of the
program has become more ambitious. These things are be-
ing achieved under a budget which is still amazingly small' -
SIU,()00 annually. The director’s salary absorbs approxi-
mately half of this, and, since most other expenses have
been assumed by the Children’s Theatre organization. the

RECREATION

Being part of a theater group isn’t sissy stug, as
you. Apart from, stage performances. youngstel
even help build sets. These two mernbers of the

It is easy to see that adults take their roles as seriously as the children do in
this scene from last season’s production, Mr. Popper’s Penguins. Large groups are
usual on stage, for director Hume is always seeking plays with a large child cast.

 
   
   
   
  
  

  
 

       
       

.. . «In . — g, i i - . . r"
' Children’s Theatre member can tell The hookah-smoking caterpillar, the ever-tardy white rabbit, and Alice meet here

the various staging techniques and can in Lewis Carroll’s well-known wonderland. A'primary aim of the theater is to let
are involved in scenery construction. each child participate who wishes, and produce well-acted plays at the same time.

 
 

l 'I ‘
‘!

    

-'

Drarna workshop classes held in the schools stress personal development. There are no problems of discipline here:

"-

NOVEMBER 1960 12:5

group has been able to break even by charging fifty cents
admission for performances. The theater has added cer-
tain fund raising activities as it has gone along.

The primary purpose of the program
is to offer recreation and instruction to
as many children as wish it. The sec-
ond objective, that of producing inter-
esting, well-acted plays, must always be
subservient to this, according to Mr.
Hume. Fortunately for the theater, it
has been possible to realize both ob-
jectives. This has been achieved be-
cause the program has two distinct facets—the theater and
the workshop—each of which increases the effectiveness of
the other. The purpose of the drama workshOps is not to
train children to become professional actors; rather, it is to
aid them in their personal development, and many students
benefit from the classes even though all cannot land an im-
portant role in one of the plays.

The original plan called for two workshOps that would
meet for eight weekly sessions in creative dramatic activities,
short plays, skits, and work games. Now, that number has
expanded to eighteen during the school term and ten in the
summer. Usually 250 to 300 children attend the workshops,
which are held in the schools. Each class has from twenty
to twenty-five students. The workshops are geared to ac-
commodate the nine- to twelve-year-olds, since these have
been the most numerous at tryouts. This has worked out
well, for children can usually read easily enough to partici-
pate in skits and plays by that age. Each workshOp leader
is a qualified instructor paid by the Downey Recreation and
Park District. He is usually assisted at each weekly meeting

 

John Hume

by two to four parents.

The aim has always been to promote widespread partici-
pation. Enough talented children can be found and trained
so it should not be necessary to depend upon a few child
stars. In general the more talented child actors get no more.
than oneomajor role per season, but can take minor roles in
other productions. The policy of double casting has been
helpful. both in increasing participation and in producing

plays that provide acting opportunities for large numbers.
Although one play produced required the casting of 150
child parts, the average requires about twenty children and
three adults.

The maximum age for a child actor at the Children’s
Theatre is sixteen. Although there is no formal age limit,
the youngsters just naturally drop out at about this time.
because they no longer feel they belong in the category of
“children.” To increase the scope of both program and in-
come, several new projects have been started. or are being
considered, that are geared to the older teenager and the
young adult. The Downey Children’s Theatre Costume
Rental Agency, where costumes are rented for season holi-
days and workshOps, is supervised by adults, but run by
teenage girls. The Arm Chair Cruise offers a series of five
carefully chosen travel films in color, shown by well-known
lecturers.
series of plays for adults acted by teenagers aged sixteen

Under consideration for the near future is a

and over.

Apart from the more obvious benefits of the program.
there have been some uneXpeeted bonuses. The volunteer
work done by adults, so necessary in holding down ex-
penses, has required a staggering amount of cooperation
and organization. You eannot tell someone who has no ex-
perience to make billboards and distribute them, do ad-
vertising and publicity, print tickets, make costumes, con-
struct sets—and let it go at that. Because of the high degree
of integrated effort necessary, people of different races, re-
ligions. and backgrounds nmst cooperate actively with one
another. Director Hume has said, “There’s something about
a program of this sort. requiring unselfish effort on the part
of everyone, that causes people to submerge differences that
might otherwise make amicable relationships difficult." The
Downey enterprise certainly proves his statement.

As a pioneering enterprise, the Downey Children‘s
Theatre has come a long way in its first few years. It has
already established a tradition within the community. and
has proven many points that can be studied profitably by
those who would establish similar programs in other com-

tnunities. #-

Do You Squop Your Wink?

T hose worried lest the younger gener-
ation be either slipping into atr0phy or
casting aside the traditions of its fore-
fathers may now take heart. In Britain,
our own [sports columnist] Red Smith
writes, an intercollegiate tiddlywink
league has been formed. Teams from
Oxford, Cambridge, Bristol, and other
universities are competing at the an-
cient and noble sport.

Tiddling a wink into the pot from a
three-foot distance is no mean feat, as

424

any squidgcr-wielding tiddlcr will tell
you. If Waterloo was won on the play-
ing fields of Eton, the sincws of future.
victories may even now be developing
on the tiddling tables of Cambridge.
. . . Tiddlywinks has the distinct all-
weather advantage of being an indoor
sport, requiring a minimum of equip-
ment; also it can be played while in-
dulging in other wholesome pursuits.
such as quaffing a tankard of ale. May-
hap sportsmen this side of the Atlantic

should move rapidly to promote the
game here, lest the world series of tid-
dlywinks become as exclusively British
as the world series of baseball is ex-
clusively American—and lest the Olym-
pic tiddlywink championship then go
by default. At the very least, every
American child ought to be taught that
one doesn’t ever play a squoppcd wink.
—chrt'n!ed with permission from the

New York Herald Tribune. July 2?,
I960.

RECREATION

@PROGRAM

 

CHRISTMAS CRAFT-O-RAMA

Preholiday planning offers interesting projects
for service clubs, church, hospital, community, or hobby groups.

Esther Butterfield

L AST YEAR SEVERAL new crafts were
being offered at the Down East
Recreation Laboratory and I became so
interested in them I wanted to set up
some sort of craft demonstration for
Presque Isle, Maine, where I work. The
coming Christmas season provided the
appropriate theme and reason.

In Presque Isle our community association and the Rec-
reation Services Section of the nearby air base work closely
together. Service club director Mary Moon kindly volun-
teered her services. Over coffee, we selected crafts we felt
would most greatly engage the community’s interest. Know-
ing the community as I do, it was not difficult to find the
right people to display and demonstrate special crafts. Next
step was publicizing the program through posters in store
windows, fliers distributed at the schools, and through the
local radio and TV station.

In our craft-o-rama we wanted to accomplish three
things: to show an interesting exhibit of what could be made
for Christmas; to show simple, effective Christmas tree dec-
orations; and to show how to make various types of presents
and decorations. We set up two large tables covered with
white cloths for the exhibits. In the middle of each we.
placed a Christmas tree about four feet high. One we deco-
rated with large pine cones painted red and gold and fas—
tened to the branches with fine wire. The other tree was
trimmed with gay decorations made from soda straws cov-
ered with glue and then sprinkled with different colored
glitter; red pipe-cleaners made into interesting shapes; and
paper doilies stapled into balls and glittered.

On these two tables we displayed sucll crafts as handmade
jewelry, driftwood lamps, etched aluminum trays, party fa-
vors, c0pper-enameled jewelry, terrycloth slippers, table

I centerpieces, and other look-see articles, each labeled by the
person who had made it. Along one side and across the end
of the room we set up ten other tables, each to be used, in-
dividually, by people who wished to display their crafts.

Table l—wood-hber flowers. They included poinsettias,
African violets, geraniums, lilies of the valley, and roses.

Table 2———Cliristmas candles. These included large ones

 

 

 

MRS. BUTTERFIELD is secretary of the Presqu lsle Com-
munity Association, Presque Isle, Maine.

NOVEMBER 1960

 

set in a base of greens, a floating one, and candles of vari-
ous sizes, all decorated with Christmas balls or glitter.

Table 3—handloomed articles. Place mats, neckties,
aprons, and other items.

Table 4—a Christmas dinner table. This included four
place settings of china, goblets, and silverware from a local
jewelry store. The Styrofoam centerpiece was covered with
pine cones painted gold, with a red candle at each point of
the star.

Table 5—flower arrangements. A local florist made up
different arrangements for this diSplay.

Table 6—ceramics. A display of many different articles
—cigarette boxes, ashtrays, candy dishes, cake plates, vases,
creamers, jugs, and so on.

Table 7—stenciled cloth. This included paint, brushes,
stencils, directions, and finished items, such as dresses,
aprons, and skirts.

Table 8—rug braiding. Material, thread, needles, direc-
tions, and finished rugs.

Table 9—handmade items. A local gift shop brought
mittens, shawls, carriage robes, caps, afghans, slippers,
aprons.

Table lO—lapanese dolls. These had been collected in
Japan and dressed by the owner.

For the see-how, or demonstrations, we set up chairs in
a semicircle around the room so that everyone could see,
and allowed thirty to forty minutes for each demonstration.
running them in two sessions.

At the afternoon session, from 1-5 P.M., various volunteer
hobbyists demonstrated wreath making, greeting cards,
flower arranging, making of artificial flowers, cake deco-
rating, and simple crafts for children to make into Christ-
mas gifts.

In the evening, from 79:30 P.M., other hobbyists demon-
strated ceramics, Christmas candles, rug braiding, sten-
ciling on cloth, Japanese dolls, and gift wrapping. Each
demonstrator furnished his own material and supplies and
was introduced by a master of ceremonies. Refreshments
were served after each session. These were free to all. and
we registered each guest in a special guesthook. Over 350
people from Presque Isle and surrounding towns. attended.
They were all so impressed and interested that we plan now

to make a craft-o-rama an annual (Went. 

1:2"

  

 

1-. a
t 

a l '
" 1'

Christmas is celebrated
in many ways, by many
people. Here are two ideas
recreation departments
have found successful.

CELEBRATIONS AT CHRISTMAS

Santa “Floats” 111 Vinelaml.

Fen MOST people, the Christmas

spirit is represented by the annual
appearance of the familiar Santa Claus.
To keep this spirit alive, the Recreation
Commission in Vineland, New Jersey,
designed a float, complete with rein-
deer, sled, and Santa, which has been
making visits throughout the commu-
nity two weeks prior to Christmas for
the past five years.

With limited funds, it was necessary
to construct an inexpensive, uncompli-
cated float. According to Jack Claes,
former superintendent of recreation, it
was designed and built in about two
working days. The floor of the float
was covercrl w’th white muslin and
trimmed with 1 ad muslin around the
base. Four rubber reindeer were pur-

426

chased for $100 from a Chicago display
house. These were supported by wire
frames to boxes under the muslin, and
although used for five years, they still
show very little wear.

Then, a search was made for a sled,
and, with the aid of the local newspa-
per, one was discovered in an old barn
hayloft.

Each year, gaily decorated letters are
sent out to the elementary schools an-
nouncing the pending visit of Santa,
and a schedule is arranged according
to the replies on a first-come, first-
served basis. Over twenty-five visits
are made to schools, clubs, and institu-
tions in the city, and over four thou-
sand candy pops are distributed.

The appearance of the float during
the Christmas season adds the extra

@PROGRAM

 

flavor that older folks as well as young-
sters always enjoy, and it is an activity
that was incorporated into the recrea-
tion department’s program with very
little expense.

F reeport Loves its Parade.

LAST CHRISTMAS the Freeport, New
York, Recreation Department eo-
ordinated the largest parade ever held
on Long Island. The parade, jointly
sponsored by the local merchants’ asso-
eiation and the recreation department,
was not a commercial endeavor, but a
community undertaking, according to
Kent Thomson, superintendent of ree-
reation and parade chairman. Twenty-
four local organizations, including the
Boy Scouts, police department, PTA,
sororities and fraternities, as well as
church and school groups, participated
in the event. And the assortment of dis-
plays and floats was dazzling. There
was a Nativity float, an animated San-
ta’s workshop display, an Aliee-in-Won-
derland scene, all made by the partici-
pants, and a host of gaily costumed
bands and marchers.

One of the highlights of the day was
the entrance of thirty-three giant bal-
loon floats, some over 110 feet high.
These were rented from the Giant Bal-
loon Company in Newark, New Jersey
for $2,500, which was donated by the
local sponsors. The balloons were
brought to the site deflated, and the
company provided the rolling plat-
forms to support them. Mr. Thomson
warns that orders must be placed many
months in advance, to assure getting the
balloon characters you wish.

Although there were enough spon-
sors to provide floats, there was some
difficulty in getting manpower to draw
them. An 505 was placed in the local
newspapers, and enough volunteers
were recruited from fratcrnities and
other youth groups to keep the floats
rolling. Thirty women served as adult
supervisors of the children.

The parade was such a success it is
being repeated this year, sponsored by
the village Chamber of Commerce.
There will be similar balloon floats, and
the entire community is eager to par-

ticipate. #

RECREATION

ADMINISTRATION

 

ENCROACHMENT

of Recreation and Park Lands and Waters

A summary of the National Committee Report

NCROACIIMENT OF RECREATION and park lands and
E waters has been increasing at an alarming rate and
shows no signs of diminishing. Striking evidence

of a steady increase is available, according to the National
Committee on Encroachment of Recreation and Park Lands
and Waters. The committee presented the findings of its
nationwide survey on the encroachment" problem at its
meeting during the 42nd National Recreation Congress,
September 28, in Washington, D.C. The twelve-man com-
mittee represents the National Recreation Association,
American Recreation Society, American Institute of Park
Executives, and the National Conference of State Parks.
Its chairman is Don Sinn, superintendent of recreation and
parks in Flint, Michigan. George Butler, NRA director of

research, is committee secretary and tabulated the results.

The survey was launched to determine the nature and ex-
tent of encroachment of park areas and facilities, the causes,
what has been done about it, what measures have been suc-
cessful in preventing encroachment, and what plan of action
is needed on a nationwide basis to meet the problem. To
accomplish this, a sample of local, state, and federal agencies
having responsibilities for managing recreation and park

* For purposes of the survey and the findings. encroachment refers
to the unjustified diversion, loss of, modification of, reduction in size
or condition of any public recreation-park land or water area or fa-
cility. The term does not apply to planned and acceptable changes in
park land which are advantageous to the recreation-park system.

NOVEMBER 1960

lands and waters was contacted. The committee found that:

1. The nationwide survey of the nature and extent of en-
croachment was a sampling survey and did not fully reflect
the extent and seriousness of encroachment cases which have
occurred or may occur. Additional and continuing research
is necessary to determine the full extent of encroachment
throughout the national park systems. The sampling survey
did reveal substantial evidence of existing and threatened
encroachment sufficient to support the committee’s findings.

2. Data obtained by the committee with reference to
limited cases of encroachment show losses of land and fa-
cilities valued conservatively at $9,000,000.

3. The chief encroachment offenders were found to be
highways; private. commercial and industrial enterprises,
including subdivisions, parking lots. buildings. etcetera;
schools; varied public and quasi-public agency purposes,
such as fire stations. armories, parking lots. hospitals: as
well as well-known private agency functions.

4. Factors which recreation and park agencies reported
as influencing encroachments were:

' Apparent unavoidahility.

° That it is cheaper to grab open park lands than to acquire
other land.

' Failure to publicly interpret recreation \alnes.

' Failure of the rct rc-ation-park agencv to plan and duelop

its lands.

. Pt‘litit'..l r-xpt-dic [It \ , H

 

° Ineffectiveness of the recreation-park department.

5. There was substantial evidence revealing that when an
aroused citizenry, community agencies, and recreation and
park authorities take concerted action, including use of ex-
isting legislation, to prevent unjustified encroachment at-
tempts, they have been stopped. The committee strongly
urges such action.

6. Early consultation and planning with encroaching
agencies may result in mutually beneficial modification of
plans and is recommended to recreation and park authori-
ties.

7. In every instance where recreation and park land
is to be taken for nonforming uses, the holding authority
should receive adequate compensation for replacement land
and development.

8. Constant and close cooperation by rccreation and park
agencies with planning authorities and other land-use agen-
cies engaged in similar functions was found to have limited
serious encroachment and such course of action is higth
recommended by the committee.

9. Federal, state, and local legislation is needed for the
protection of park lands from the many sources of encroach-
ment. Local legislative bodies are urged to adopt a clear-
cut policy declaring their intent to fully protect park lands.
or, in case of diversion to nonconforming purposes, to in-
sure adequate replacement in kind and/or compensation.

THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE adopted the following plan of
action:

1. Drafting of sample legislation for use by recreation
and park authorities and their legislative bodies.

2. Immediate amending and strengthening of the Fed-
eral Highway Act to provide for adequate protection to

    
   

 
 

jg‘l 135‘” NOTES FOR THE

“’
 s

The Right to Sue

The Appellate Division of the New Jersey Superior Court,
in a decision handed down June 27th, 1960, has ruled that
persons injured in municipally operated swimming pools
have the right to sue the municipality for damages. It up-
held an award of a lower court to a person who suffered a
brain concussion when he slipped on the bathroom floor of
a Newark pool. The award was based on the. grounds that
the floor was “wet, filmy, and slippery.”

 

The argument by the Appellate Division stated that the
question in the case was whether the usual immunity from
suit of a municipality applied to swimming pools. The rnl-
ing was made on the basis that swimming pools fall under
the proprietary heading. The court stated that towns 0p-
erate pools “more as a matter of local convenience than in
the exercise of some duty . . . it is a service which could
just as well be provided by a private corporation and very
often is.”

428

park lands affected by the eXpanding highway program.

3. Immediate support by the eommittee and the four na-
tional organizations in the preservation of our National
Capital Park System.

4. A nationwide campaign of education, information.
and promotion to emphasize and dramatize the encroach-
ment problem and to alert the public to the dangers to local.
state, and federal park systems from encroachment, through
feature stories and editorials in the press. and on radio
and TV.

5. Publication of the committee’s findings in the pro-
fessional publications of the sponsoring organizations.

6. Establishment of liaison with the American Institute
of Landscape Architects, American Institute of Planners.
American Institute of Architects, American Municipal As-
sociation, and related recreation and civic organizations.
including PTA’s women’s clubs, etcetera, requesting the
committee’s findings be published in their publications and
the inclusion of encroachment as a topic on their agenda in
future conferences.

7. Establishment of a central file of park encroachment
cases available to local, state, and federal authorities and
to continue to receive information on encroachment from
affected agencies throughout the United States.

8. Stimulation of recreation and park exeeutives to make
themselves available for radio and TV interviews, public
and private meetings and conferences to discuss the issue
of encroachment fully with the citizens directly affected.

9. Development and dissemination of a professionally
prepared. illustrated publication in pamphlet form for na-
tionwide distribution, jointly sponsored by the four national
recreation-park organizations which conducted the en-
croachment study. 

More for Less

It has been the practice of the Pontiac, Michigan, De
partment of Parks and Recreation, as in many other cities.
to distribute a brochure describing its annual winter pro-
gram. The cost of this distribution was three hundred dol-
lars for twenty thousand copies. To publicize its 1959-60
winter program, the department took a full-page ad in the
local daily newspaper, which has a circulation of over sixty
thousand. At an eXpenditure of fifty dollars the eoverage
was increased threefold. The response from the citizens in-
dicated the effectiveness of this public-relations release.

Putting Resources and Heads Together

Recreation authorities in Berkley, Royal Oak, and Oak
Park, Michigan, have evolved some unusual intercom
munity cooperation. A llOSpilnl, located in Royal Oak but
near the Berkley city line and more readily available to the
latter’s residents, has a large unused acreage which has been
made available for recreation use by the public. An arrange-
ment has been worked out by tlle recreation executives of
the two communities for developing and operating the area
on a dividcd-eost basis. Royal Oak will place the equip-
ment on the property; Berkley will provide the supervision:

Continued on Page 4.3.3

RECREATION

 

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

CALIFORNIA. Redwood City has just received a loan of
$300,000 from the State Division of Small Craft Harbors
to complete expansion of municipal boating facilities. The
photograph below shows the first phase of the Redwood
City harbor development which includes 120 new boat slips
in addition to the present thirty-two existing spaces. A dry-
storage yard (fenced area at upper left) will handle sixteen
small boats and trailers adjacent to the present clubhouse.
Stanford Crew headquarters is the long low structure im-
mediately to the right. The building flying the storm warn-

 

ings just to the left of the slips is the harbormaster’s office
over public restrooms. To the right of that is the boat sales
concession building. On the left of the entrance road off
Harbor Boulevard leading to expanded parking facilities is
the redwood-enclosed sewage treatment plant. Across the
road is another comfort station. Plans call for dredging
thirty thousand yards of mud from the harbor, rock rip-
rapping seven hundred feet of bank.

The project will take approximately six months to com-
plete, according to Alfred Morton, director of recreation.
Since Redwood City has a deep-water channel into the bar-
bor from lower San Francisco Bay, boat owners may use
these facilities twenty-four hours a day.

0 The new Roger Jessup Park in Pacoima is the first Los
Angeles County facility to have a complete gun club. The
range, to be opcrated by the Golden Valley Gun Club, was
constructed “to meet a distinct need for more recreation
facilities in the valley,” according to the district supervisor,
Warren Dorn. Thousands of gun enthusiasts will use the
facility, with strict safety requirements. It will include four-
teen trap and nine skeet shooting fields, each with two fields
for night shooting, plus ranges for archery, pistol and rifle

NOVEMBER 1960

shooting. Among thc other facilities at the 11cw club is a
clubhouse with a dining room.

0 The new 320-acre Butte Valley Wildflowcr Sanctuary in
Antelopc Valley near the community of Butte Valley in Los
Angeles County is one of the first areas in the statc to be
set aside for the preservation of natural descrt growth. It
is under the supervision of thc county parks and recreation
department. The setting asidc of this sanctuary and two
other areas in Antelope Valley and the Mojave Descrt is
important in preserving rapidly vanishing wildflowers for,
as the desert attracts new residents, its natural bcauty is
vanishing.

0 Happy Hollow, a new fantasy-type park for children in
San Jose, covers seven acres. The Hollow contains a puppet
theater, an amphitheater, maze, tree house, birthday area,
Viking ship, ferry boat, apparatus areas, a section for small
farm animals, and several turfed areas. Children can also
enjoy a motor-driven dragon.

CONNECTICUT. Public recreation is expanding in Dar-

ien which has been busy developing and improving Weed
and Pear Tree Point Beaches. Edwin F. Steffek, commis-
sioner of the Darien Park and Recreation Commission,
reports plans for two “natural parks” at Irving’s Woods
and the Leonard Tract are in the formative stage.
Declares Mr. Stefiek, “The Irving’s
Woods area comprises approximately
sixty-four acres of mixed woodlands
with some open glades and potentially
scenic hills and dales. The purchase
price was $335,000, from the town of
Darien entirely. The Leonard Tract
of about forty acres was purchased by
the town and recently divided about
equally between the public works de-
partment and the park and recreation
commission. The latter portion is a
hilly wooded area with spectacular rocky out-crops and a
stream that cascades in a series of small falls (a total height
of about sixty to seventy feet) to the highway.

“Both the Irving’s Woods and the Leonard Tract will be
developed as natural parks retaining, as far as possible.
their natural beauties but making them accessible through
suitable parking facilities, paths, and roads. The Irving’s
Woods will also have some picnic shelters, a pond, and a
play area for small children. However, active sports will
be confined to the town’s other areas such as the school
playgrounds, McGuane (Little League) Field, and the
beaches. A second ballfield has recently been addcd for
the Little Leaguers and three tennis courts last year at Weed
Beach, with two more courts contemplated as soon as con-

ditions permit.”

INDIANA. Chain O’Lakes, Indiana's twentieth state park
near Albion, was dcdicated this summer, thirteen years after
the initial appropriation for land acquisition and after
heartbreaking legal setbacks. Its history really begins in
1937-38 when a survey of potential park and recreation
areas was compiled and the Chain O’Lakes area was in-

1.20

eluded in the resulting master plan. Then, in 1946, an ex-
haustive study was made of twenty-three areas in the survey
to locate a “natural lake state park.” The varied topography
of a site in Noble County offered a challenge to develop a
park like no other in the existing state park system. It was
proposed to acquire the land surrounding nine small con-
nected lakes providing 186 acres of meandering waterways
with six and a half miles of widely varied shoreline, making
a park of some 2200 acres, roughly four miles long from
east to west and about three quarters of a mile wide.

The project received legislative recognition in 1947 with
an appropriation of $37,750 for preliminary acquisition,
giving impetus to local action. Allen, Noble, and Whitley
Counties levied taxes and accumulated funds totaling just
under a quarter-million dollars. The project seemed well
under way. However, not all citizens of the three counties
favored the idea of a new state park in the region. An in-
junction was filed and the fund held in escrow until 1956
when legal complications were finally resolved. In the
meantime, the 1949 General Assembly reappropriated the
fund granted in 1947, and again in 1951 kept the fund ac-
tive and available. In 1956 the budget committee allocated
a state park postwar fund balance of $21,725 for land ac-
quisition. In 1957 the legislature turned down a request
for $400,000 but did grant $10,000, a “token” of continu-
ing approval of the project. Finally, the 1959 General As-
sembly appropriated $300,000 for further land purchase.

After the injunction was finally removed, land purchas-
ing in earnest was begun by the Allen-Noble-Whitley Joint
County Park Board. This board kept the Chain O’Lakes
project alive through meetings, newspaper, publicity, and

by hundreds of personal contacts. Up to April of this year

the board had acquired 1183 acres at $248,000 cost. State
funds of $131,760 brought total land acquisition to 1414
acres. More land remains to be acquired to complete the
2200 acres indicated to provide proper control. For the
present the principal development will be on the south shore
of Sand Lake. Day-use facilities will include picnickinv,
fishing, boating, possibly swimming and limited camping.
0 In Frankfort a $1,670,000 home for the aged, to be com-
pleted in the spring of 1961, will be built by the Northwest
Indiana Methodist Conference. To be known as Wesley
Manor, the project will have, in addition to individual hous-
ing units, a recreation room and five craft rooms, a four-
teen-room hospital section, a chapel seating three hundred,
seven lounges, and a dining room.

0 The South Bend Department of Public Recreation is
celebrating its fiftieth anniversary this year. The city’s new
boat ramp at Memorial Park permits easy launching into
the St. Joseph River for boating, skiing, and fishing. This
summer, day camping was offered, at Rum Village Park,
for the first time.

TEXAS. When nature assures three hundred days of ideal
tennis-playing weather every year, you have a telling argu-
ment in favor of municipal tennis courts. Such is the case
in Corpus Christi and its brand-new Butt Tennis Center.
The movement to construct a modern tennis center was initi-
ated in the summer of 1959 by the Corpus Christi Tennis

430

 

H. E. Butt Tennis Center

Association. The city council set aside six acres in H. E.
Butt Park, and awarded a contract for construction of
twelve Laykold tennis courts and a large tennis locker build-
ing and pro shop. Actual contract price was $99,937.89.
In addition, there were firm commitments of donations or
discounts which amounted to $12,302.71, bringing the total
cost to $112,240.60. Also, all of the engineering and the
cost of preparing plans was donated by local firms. W. P.
Witt, director of parks and recreation, estimates that the
tennis center represents an outlay of approximately $150,-
000. Ultimate plans call for four more courts plus a center
court for tournament play and two practice courts.

The tennis center was made possible largely through the

generosity of H. E. Butt, owner of a large chain of grocery
stores. He loaned the city $75,000 interest-free and, in ad-
dition, made an outright contribution of $10,000. Addi-
tional cash contributions amounted to $9,000. At the time
the contract was let. the sum of $94,000 was available, leav-
ing a deficit of $5,937.89 underwritten by the city council.
Cash contributions have continued to come in.
o The Sportslnen’s Clubs of Texas sponsored a second con-
ference on boating safety in Austin in mid-August. Their
first conference in May 1958 sparked a coordinated state
effort by legislators, safety educators, marine organizations,
and others which culminated in the Texas Water Safety Act
of 1959. This year’s conference was regarded as an all-
important meeting ground for the exchange of ideas on how
to further promote boating safety in Texas. Speakers in-
cludcd representatives from the State Highway Department
(which handles motorboat registration), the State Public
Safety Department, the Governor’s Office, the State Edu-
cation Agency, the Sheriff’s Association of Texas, the Boat-
ing Trades Association of Texas, the U. S. Power Squadron,
the Coast Guard Auxiliary, American Water Safety Asso-
ciation, and the Outboard Boating Club of America.

The consensus was that Texas has accomplished about all
that needs to be done in legislating to achieve water safety.
Now there is much more to be gained by educating boaters
to the practical reasons for safety controls than by any addi-
tional punitive measures. It is felt many violations are not
in defiance of the law, but because boaters have not been
fully educated in the common-sense rules and courtcsies.
An intensified boating safety-education program utilizing
schools, newspapers, radio, TV, billboards was urged as an
immediate move. #

RECREATION

     
  
   

   

  
 
 
  
  
  
 

  

"=37

  

  
  
     
       

a;

 
  
 
   

I:

  
  

 
  

.. a:
jar-m

RECREATION

DIGEST

Why teenagers volunteer for service

TEENAGE MOTIVES

Robert B. McCreech
PSYCHOLOGIST RECENTLY WAS
A quoted as saying that much of

man’s current difficulty stems
from the fact that many persons have
developed “social consciousness with-
out social feeling.” In other words,
many know, but don’t care. This sug-
gests that the “altruistic citizen” needs
to be cultivated today more than ever
before.

If we accept the fact that our com-
munities are growing bigger, more im-
personal, more complicated and more
specialized, then we are challenged to
show some concern not only about the
uncommitted person in the community,
but, more specifically, about how best
we can awaken in young people an in-

 

MR. MCCREECH is director of the
School Bureau of United Community
Service of M etr0politan Boston, Massa-
chusetts. This material is condensed
from Mr. McCreech’s Speech at the
1959 annual meeting of the American
Hospital Association in New York City
and used with permission of the UCS
Bulletin.

NOVEMBER 1960

terest in participating in community
life through volunteer service. This
raises several questions:

0 Have young people demonstrated
that they can be properly involved in

volunteer service?
0 What are some obvious motivations

of young people in volunteer service?
0 How can we better evaluate junior
volunteer experiences?

Let us consider the first question.
Until recent years there has been very
little research concerning youth partici-
pation in volunteer programs. The
most valuable studies have been those
sponsored by the YMCA, YWCA, Boy
and Girl Scout and Camp Fire organi-
zations. These studies suggest many
guide lines for volunteer programs with

youth.

Through the leadership of Dr.
Thomas J. Curtin, state director of civic
education in Massachusetts. and other
school and community leaders partici-
pating in the program of the School
Bureau of Boston's United Community
Services, there has been accumulated

 

some interesting data regarding fifty-
five hundred boys and girls who partici-
pated in volunteer service projects over
a three-year period in seventy-three
Greater Boston health, social service,
and youth agencies. This growing pro-
gram has become popularly known as
“Operation Kindness.”

A large number of these young peo-
ple have shown they are sulliciently
competent to evaluate and conduct their
own school and community programs.
This has been demonstrated by their
exhibits at health and science fairs; in
work performed in school laboratories,
fine arts and industrial arts shops; in
community projects where young peo-
ple have influenced whole towns and
cities in the direction of improved
health and urban development facilities.

It is heartening to note how their
excellent working relationships with
adults illustrate a point brought out by
Dorothy \I. Roberts in her book. Part-
ners with Youth. \Irs. Rut-wits (on-
tends that the important element in
maintaining an effective mutnr rship

Mi

RECREATION

DIGEST

 

with youth is confidence in youth and
suggests three guide posts for such re-
lationships. Adults should:

0 Work within the range of teenage
interests and abilities.

0 Work with rather than for teenagers.
0 Permit the young people to have a
voice in selecting the projects on which
to work.

Not only are youth needed, but youth
need to engage in constructive endeav-
ors to realize their own potentialities
and to gain status. One UCS student
volunteer made the following state-
ment: “Why did we go back to serve?
No one forced us. We went back be-
cause we were needed. And that’s im-
portant—to be needed-Hand to be there
when you are needed. It grows on you,
this sense of responsibility. If our ex-
perience meant no more than that, it
was worth it. But it did mean more.
It meant a chance to disprove the
blanket censure by many adults who
unfortunately arc more aware of teen-
age crime than they are of teenage
service.”

A second point in considering youth
participation in service projects cen-
ters on the reasons why young pe0ple
volunteer. This is an area that is being
presently reviewed in Boston. Here are

  

some of our findings:

0 They want to be helpful.

0 They want to explore a job possi-
bility.

0 They have a friend at school or in
the neighborhood who is an enthusias-
tic volunteer.

0 They want to satisfy a personal need.
0 They want to meet interesting adults.
0 They seek prestige, perhaps recogni-
tion, through receiving a descriptive
line in a school yearbook.

0 They are motivated by spiritual
ideals.

0 They want to avail themselves of the
opportunity to give service through
school or community-sponsored service
groups with which they are afliliated.
0 They want to make new friends
among teenagers coming from other
schools who share similar interests.

0 They find volunteering part of a
family tradition.

0 They want to counteract, out of a
sense of duty, the feeling that all youth
are irresponsible.

0 They seek academic credit or experi-
ence which will help assure considera-
tion for collcgc entrance or job place-
ment.

0 They are searching for something

meaningful beyond personal desires.
The foregoing suggests there is a

strong necd to develop a new dimension

in volunteer service: evaluation in

depth. This new dimension should in-

Now you can

GO

where the events
take place
« ...and be heard!

WENGER RTABLE BANDWAGEN

The Mobile Combination Band Stand

and Outdoor Stage

Ideal for use at musie events. rallies. nets. demonstra-
tions. and for speakers. the Wenger Bandwagon pro-
vides eomi’ortabie quarters for performers. pius assuring

I
At site. the 
Wenger Bandwagon opens in minutes into a generous

resonanee and voiume for the audienee.

ii

  
 

 

 

MUSIC U‘IPMENT Co.

stage or outdoor theater. or a rompiete, aeientit'iraily

designed musie sheii

for band, orrhestra. or rhorus.

After event. it folds quirkiy into a handsome. rompletely

meiosed road traiier with ampie loeked storage spare for
chairs. stands. instruments. or areessory equipment.

he used indoors. tool

OWATONNA MINNESOTA

May

Every rommunity will want one!

Send for rompiete detaiis and aperifiratlons. or ask for

a free demonstration.

No obligation. of rourse.

 

432

 

clude a sensitive consideration of what
volunteer service actually means in the
lives of junior volunteers. To this end,
representatives from community agen-
cies might assemble in the classroom to
discuss the volunteer experience in its
totality. All are part of a community
team, and schools want partners who
can help them test values regarding the

acceptance of civic responsibility.
It is not enough merely to include

junior volunteers in service projects. It
is essential that there be a follow-up ex-
amination into what happens to these
young people after the volunteer expe-
rience, what opportunities exist for
them to tell about their experiences
in their school or to people in the com-
munity, how many of these voluntecrs
enter medical or health careers, and.
finally, how much acceptance and sup-
port is given to the young volunteers
by the community itself. Time and ef-
fort put into such a program is surely
not wasted when you consider a re-
sponse such as the following from one
of the fifty-five hundred student volun-
teers in Boston’s UCS School Bureau
program:

I“As a junior volunteer I was able to
get out of my own little world and meet
a much broader world. I was able to
feel needed and learned to accept many
things. I am now able to work with
people. I am grateful to have had this
chance of serving others.” if:

Resources

 

Continued from Page 402

 

plications as psychodrama and group
treatment of adolescent delinquents.

Dr. Frank has becn associate profes-
sor of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity since 1949 and psychiatrist in-
charge of the Johns Hopkins Hospital
Psychiatric Out-Patient Department .
since 1951. It is available for $.25
from the Public All'airs Committee. 22
East 38th Street. ..\'cw York 16.

The C aseworherr—Person with V clue.
gives the what, how and why of social
work. Rccreation leaders will be inter-
ested in the material dealing with serv-
ices t0 the blind, ill and handicapped.
and aged. Available for 3.75 from the
American Public \Velfare Association.

1313 East 60th Street. Chicago 37.
(—Circle #IO‘? on coupon

Racumriox

Do you, take other agency staff members out to lunch?

Ell RECREA TION
y DIGES T

 

No Recreation Director

Is An Island

J ac Cropley

VI‘ HERE ARE many

agencies with-
in the municipality
with whom the rec-
reation director has
a relationship.
Some are easily dis-
cernable for they
have been well established through
years of valuable service. The more
readily recognized would be those with
libraries, boys’ clubs, settlement houses,
schools, churches, YM-YWCA branches,
welfare groups, museums, private clubs,
and galleries.

 

A close look at the program of any
private agency will usually disclose the
fact that its staff is particularly gifted
and trained to meet the peculiar needs
of its program. Specialization is to be
expected, for a private agency usually
focuses on one facet of the broad recre-
ation field. The extent of specialized
service or program provided by an
agency is usually limited to those activi-
ties where there is a need for a high
ratio of skilled leaders in relation to
participants.

When consideration is given to the
large numbers accommodated in public
recreation programs, it may be unreal-
istic to expect as high a standard. Ac-
tivities operated by a public authority
are usually geared to programs requir-
ing a comparatively low ratio of leaders
in relation to participants. It is usually
accepted that those activities needing
highly specialized leaders and having
special facility requirements are not a
major concern of public recreation.

 

MR. CROPLEY is director of recreation
in Deep River, Ontario, Canada. Di-
gested, with permission, from The Com-
munity Courier.

NOVEMBER 1960

The prime responsibility of the di-
rector is to assure that a broad program
of recreation is available to the munici-
pality. In considering its position, the
recreation committee should be aware
of the programs offered by private agen-
cies and the facilities these groups con-
trol within the community. The trained
and specialized staff of private agencies
can be of immeasurable value to the
director; it is to his benefit to achieve
a good professional relationship with
the staffs of the private agencies. It is
conceivable that the facilities of the
agencies may be available to certain
public programs—mthis will only be de-
tcrmined if the municipal director is
aware of the agency’s program and re-
sources. In turn, the director can assist
the agencies through the loan of equip-
ment and personnel.

Relationships hinge to a great extent
on the philosophy of the director to-
ward his modus operandi. The axiom
that “the municipal recreation author-
ity is concerned with a balanced rec-
rcation program of sufficient depth to
provide opportunities for leisure activi-
ties for all within the community” is a
realistic concept. Municipal recreation
has the responsibility of administering
and coordinating the efforts of all to-
wards filling expressed wants and plan-
ning to meet the future needs.

A free-and-easy exchange in ideas
and plans between the public and pri-
vate agencies is desirable. This co-
operation results in benefits for the
entire community. A specialized or ex-
perimental program is most adaptable
to private agency sponsorship. Pro-
grams enjOying a mass participation or
those proven or stable usually gravitate
to the public agency. It is not a ques-

tion of rivalry or conlpetition——-it is a

solution best described as partnership.
Ask yourself these questions, Mr.

Public Recreation Director:

0 Do you meet upon occasion or have

a luncheon date with the members of

private agency staffs?

0 Does your staff meet regularly with

the private agency professionals?

0 Have you dispatched your newspa-

per friends to cover a private agency

story in recreation?

1- Do you use private agency staff in a

leadership capacity in your institutes

and leadership programs?

0 Have you ever loaned your staff and

facilities to private agencies without

fanfare?

1- Do you clear program planning with

private agencies to avoid duplication?

1- Have you referred members of the

public to private agency-operated pro-

grams?

0 Have you ever assisted privatc agen-

cies to fill staff vacancies by rcconl-

mcnding, procuring. or advertising?

I In con unction with private agencies.

have you prepared salary schedules

affecting program personnel to effect

standardization?

“Who programs” is of little impor-
tancc provided that the necds are being
met and that good standards are be-
ing maintained. If this pllilosOphy or
concept of municipal recreation is ac-
cepted. private and public agency rec-
l'eation have a common basis of under-
standing and should enjoy a mutual
trust and respect. The public recrea-
tion authority has no empire to build.
Working with agencies towards a full
leisure-time program can be a signifi-
cant contribution in the goal of a ma-

IV

ture community. '5:

433

K RECREATION
El? DIGEST

 

Can intellectual pursuits be recreation?

Can science be fun?

Dorothy Barclay

 

STARFISH AS WELL AS STARS . . .

NKLE-DEEP IN STILL chill ocean
the little boy wades, collecting
pail in hand. He bends, gropes

for a bit of green weed whose moving
pattern has caught his eye. Up on the
shore his older brother sits, staring in-
tently into a shallow pool left in the
rocks by the receding tide. As he
watches, the apparently empty pool is
gradually seen to be filled with moving
life.

Here are periwinkles, some as tiny
as the head of a pin; there is a star-
fish. . . . Together the brothers study
the finds.

In a city park three youngsters and
their father, binoculars at the ready,
have spotted a small gray and yellow
bird. “It’s a warblcrl” “Can’t be a
Warbler. Doesn’t move like one!” “It
flutters down like a leaf falling.” Heads
together, book in hand, they check their
observations.

Alone in her room a little girl care-
fully waters her “tree garden”-——glossy

sprouts of orange and lemon and grape-
fruit seeds.

Activities like these, during vacation

 

 

Condensed from. The New York Times
Magazine, June 15, 1958, courtesy of
the publisher. MRS. BARCLAY is parent
and child editor 0/ The Times.

434

time for some families, year-round for
others, add interest and color to busy
days. A pleasant pastime for the chil-
dren, certainly. Is it anything more?
Is it science? The way some educators
have been heard to talk recently one
might think that the first earth satcllites
made the earth itself obsolete; that
nothing so absorbing, so colorful, so
filled with life values as nature study
could still have any educational worth
at all. Children are interested 'in the
sputniks, these educators declared.
Then give them the sputniks. Never
mind the wonders at their feet.

But has science been too far removed
from animate life already? A large-
scale study conducted by the American
Association for the Advancement of
Science——research on “The Image of
the Scientist among High School Stu-
dents”—would seem to indicate that it
has. Analysis of the young people’s
descriptions of scientists as they “see”
them was made by Dr. Margaret Mead,
American Museum of Natural History,

and Dr. Rhoda Mctraux, Cornell Medi-

cal College.

The nation’s high-school youngsters
have, in the abstract, a great regard for
sciencc and scientists, they found. The
scientist is “a very intelligent man—a
genius or almost a genius. He is care-

ful, patient, devoted, courageous, open-
minded. He is prepared to work for
years without getting results and face
the possibility of failure without dis-
couragement. He wants to know the
answer.”

A handsome portrait. Life being
what it is in today’s teenage world,
however, this image is not one which
many youngsters choose to emulate.
The practical drawbacks to life in this
supposedly rarified realm quickly put
the damper on personal aspirations
along those lines. The idea of hard, ex-
acting, absorbing, intensely responsi-
ble, and only occasionally rewarding,
work is respected, but does not present
an attractive prospect for one’s own
future.

Now what has this to do with those
youngstch at the beach, that family in
the woods, the little girl with her tree
garden? A very great deal. For the
vital quality lacking in the adolesccnt’s
over-awed picture of The Scientist, Dr.
Mead and Dr. Metraux observc, is
any conception of the “delights” that
can balance the demands of scientific
activity.

“This lack of any sense that intellec-
tual activity is rewarding in itself,” they
llOl( , “can be related to the lack of any
mention of living things, plant, animal

RECREATION

or human, in the materials with which
the scientist is believed to work.” Plants
and animals appear only as dead ob-
jects for dissection; the human body,
as separate organs or systems; whole
human beings only as the dead denizens
of buried cities.

Youngsters see no place in science
for “the delights of observation, as in
early natural history studies, or in the
perception of regularities and connec-
tions in the world around them, or be-
tween themselves and the world around
them.” They repeatedly report “active
boredom” in science as it is taught,
while activities that are absorbingly in-
teresting—“watching things grow that
I have planted” or “working on my hot-
rod engine”—they automatically write

very Joy and satisfaction they produce.

The natural-born scientist has known
the satisfaction of discovery and pro-
ductive work from his earliest years——
when work and play were indistinguish-
able. To keep this spark alive in chil-
dren as they grow, to keep science “tied
to life” must be a principal aim of new
science education, the researchers de-
clare. Youngsters need help in seeing
the scientist as a human being working
with other human beings on projects
in which they share not only headaches
and problems but satisfactions and suc-
cesses as well.

The types of activities we have des-
cribed—and there are many other pos-
as the
researchers recommend, accent partici-

sibilities of course—~would,

give youngsters the opportunity to “do”
for themsclves. Starting such activities
early—even at nursery-school age—-
will help kcep children’s eyes open to
the wonder and delight in the natural
world, “which can then supply the mo-
tive power for enjoyment of intellectual
life later.” Taking part in nature study
activities, with parents and friends, will
help youngsters grow in understanding
of “science as teamwork, where minds
and skills of different sorts complement
one another.”

Contact with birds and chipmunks,
starfish and snails, observing the ways
of living things in their natural set-
tings, coming to learn with time how
little, how very little, is really known
about many of their greatest mysteries,

off as “nonscientific” for reason of the

pation rather than passive watching,

will help keep science “life-size.” .,",i.'

 

Notes for the Administrator
Continued from Page 428

 

and maintenance cost will be shared equally between the
two communities.

Cooperation has also made possible the development of a
number of successful recreation activities. A chess group,
drawing members from Berkley and Oak Park, meets in a
school building in Berkley. A badminton club, with Berkley
and Oak Park members, plays in the latter community. Joint
leagues in baseball and basketball are organized among

Berkley, Royal Oak, and Oak Park.

Urban Area Planning

A special report entitled A Framework for Urban Studies,
prepared by Coleman Woodbury, director of urban research
at the University of Wisconsin, for the Highway Research
Board, emphasizes the importance of research for the rec-
reation of urban areas. Mr. Woodbury points out it would
be a mistake to link all studies of planning to the highway
system and inquiries need to be made into subareas of
planning practice and problems. He states: “High on the
list of the latter would be consideration of recreation needs
of the major urban areas and of planning to fill them.

“Partly as a result of leisure-time increases, the land
areas needed for many kinds of recreation are almost ccr-
tain to increase, probably greatly. Question of area, lo-
cation, access, advance acquisition, operation, and main-
tenance expenses, and relations among urban, state, and
national government facilities are all involved. Yet, with
only a few exceptions, urban area planning is paying rela-
tively little attention to them, and the steps now being taken
in accord with plans are even less adequate.

Participation

The Rock Hill, South Carolina, Parks and Recreation De-

partment has kept a record of the individuals registered

NOVEMBER 1960

with the department which reveals that it serves 15.3 per-
cent of the total population. The figures indicate that 44 per
cent of the residents aged 6 to 12 are registered with the
department; forty-nine percent of those 13 to 19; 7.5 per
cent of the 21 to 50 age group and less than 2 percent of
those aged 50 and over.

Evaluating Play Apparatus

The March 1960 issue of The American City records the
experience of youngsters in Trenton, Michigan, in the use
of an Earn-A-Slide that was introduced in two of the city’s
areas last summer. One was installed in a totlot, the other
in a four-and-a-half-acre community park. Ronald Heavi-
land, director of parks and recreation, reported that a study
of the use to which the slides were put indicated that both
were extremely popular, but the slide in the totlot had re-
ceived much more use than the one in the larger area. This
type of observation is useful in helping evaluate the newer
types of play apparatus, and it is hoped that other park and
recreation authorities will report the results of similar ob-

servation or study. #

 

 

 

CHKB
" SWJM SWISS/ 55,}
A ' \
PvANeL ALPS _ \ ANADA

 

juTRAVEL __ l [ “a
l
l
J“:  _ . ———
11L!“ _ - __ _ _

“REST?”
138

I l

 

On the International Scene

Sweden. Angeline Erusha, recreation
graduate from the State University of
Iowa, is spending a year in the Stock-
holm playground department as an ex-
change director. From Sweden to the
United States, on a similar exchange,
came Peter Lars Larsson, son of Mrs.
Stina Wrentlind Larsson, superintend-
ent of playgrounds in Stockholm, to
work with the Cedar Rapids, Iowa,
Playground and Recreation Commis-
sion and Nevin Nichols this past sum-
Continuing this international
swapping, Mrs. Larsson spent her va-
cation in Yugoslavia as a UN ex-

m 81' .

changee.

Japan-US. The recent affiliation of
Tokyo and New York marks the twenty-
third sister-city linkage between Japan
and the United States since the start of
the People-to-People diplomacy pro-
gram begun twelve years ago. Friendly
cooperation in trade, industry, and cul-
tural activities is the keynote in the
program. Other sister-cities arc Naga-
saki and St. Paul, Minnesota; Yoko-
hama and San Diego; Sendai and River-
side, California; Okayama and San
Jose, California; Mishima and Pasa-
rlena; Osaka and San Francisco; Kobe
and Seattle; Moji and Norfolk, Vir-
ginia; Shimoda and Newport, Rhode
Island; Arita and Alameda, California;
Tateyama and Bellingham, Washing-
ton; Kofu and Des Moines; Hiroshima
and Honolulu; Matsumote and Salt
Lake City; Fujisawa and Miami Beach;
Shimizu and Stockton, California; Na-
gano and Clearwater, Florida; Kyoto
and Boston; Kokura and Tacoma; Sap-
poro and Portland, Oregon; Taehikawa
and San Bernardino, California.

Backyard W'llirl

Our faithful reporter in Mishawaka,
Indiana, Mrs. A. Zehrung, has sent us
a news clipping about a backyard carou-

436

 

/ A REPORTER’S

NOTEBOOK

sel, built from scrap iron, a washing
machine motor, and parts from kitchen
chairs and children’s rockers that is en-
chanting the seven children of Mr. and
Mrs. Patrick Perri of South Bend. Mr.
Perri and two of his friends built the
eight-seat merry-go-round.

Ontario Meeting

The third annual meeting of the So-
ciety of Directors of Municipal Recrea-
tion of Ontario will be combined with
the annual Training Institute Novem-
ber 10-12 at Vineland, Ontario. The
theme of this institute will he “Tech-
niques of Business Management in Ree-
reation.” In addition to business spe-
cialists who will act as program leaders
and resource personnel, senior mem-

hers of the society will present papers.

People in the News

WILLIAM FREDERICK-
SON, JR., superintend-
ent of recreation in
the city of Los Angeles
became president-elect

"~._ - of the American Rec-
Wm.Frederickson, reation Society at the
I" 42nd National Ree-

rcation Congress in September. Widely
known in the recreation field, Bill was
born, raised and educated in the Los
Angeles area. He began work for the
Los Angelcs City Department of Play-
grounds and Recreation in 1932. His
duties have included acting as housing
liaison officer in charge of recreation
facilities development in public housing
projects, supervisor of tl1irtecn swim-
ming pools, and senior recreation direc-
tor in charge of a recreation district.
He has been active in the National Rec-
reation Association, the American Ree-
reation Society, the California Congress
of Parents and Teachers, the California
Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation, and Recreation. the California

Recreation Society, and the American
Institute of Park Executives, among
many other organizations. (For other
new ARS officers see Page 409.)

- ERNEST V. BLOHM, executive secre-
tary of the Michigan Inter-Agency
Council for Recreation, was presented
with an award of appreciation for out-
standing achievement at the 1960 con-
ference of the Michigan State-Institu-
tion Recreation Conference. Another
significant outcome of the conference
was organization of a committee to es-
tablish self improvement ’opportunities
for on-the-job employees through short-
tcrm on-campus courses as well as ev
tension courses. The committee will
also implement the development of
studies in state universities and colleges
for the professional preparation of in-
stitution recreation staff personnel.

- To BE HONORED at the November
meeting of the Conference for National
Cooperation in Aquatics, which will
present awards this year for the first
time in its history, are Robert Moses.
recently retired New York City park
commissioner, chairman of the New
York Port Authority, and president of
the 1964 New York World’s Fair; lloh-
ert .I. II. Kiphuth. CNCA honorary
chairman and former Yale swimming
coach; Fred C. Mills, Carroll L. Bryant.
am] the late Charles Seully. The last
three are pioneers in the development
of first aid and life-saving work. The
November meeting. at Yale University.
will he an open one for the first time.
with no restrictions on attendance.

' CHANGES IN ARIZONA: Clarence 1t.
Allan recently has become director of
the newly established parks and recrea-
tion department in Scottsdale, Arizona.
l'lormcr superintendent of recreation
for the Maricopa County, Arizona.
Parks and Recreation Department, Mr.
Allan is president-elect of—thc Arizona

Smith Fal-

Recreation Association.

hacamnox

coner, Jr. replaces Mr. Allan as super-
intendent of recreation for Maricopa
County. He formerly headed the land-
acquisition program for the department.
Colonel John J. Peattie, who has com-
pleted twenty-two years active service
with the U.S. Army, was appointed land-
acquisition agent for the county. Ken-
neth J. Smithce, director of the county
department, was elected chairman of
the newly organized Arizona Conserva-
tion Council. Mr. Sinithee is the im-
mediate past-president of the Arizona
Recreation Association and also a mem-
ber of the Pacific Southwest District
Advisory Board of the National Rec-
reation Association.

° WHAT DOES a recreation leader do
after he retires? He uses the first leisure
he has probably ever known to develop
latent talents. That is if he is Stephen
H. Mahoney, former commissioner of
the Cambridge, Massachusetts Recrea.
tion Department. Mr. Mahoney has
just published a book of poetry entitled
Our Queen and Other Poems, (Boston:
Bruce Humphries, Inc. $3.00) , in which

 

Pope, the famous clown. recently introduced “talking story-
books” to the children at Crandon Park Zoo, Miami, Flor-
ida. The books became an immediate hit. The keys. shaped
like elephants, activate twenty books which descrihe the ani-
mals. Children lceep and reuse keys which cost fifty cents.

NOVEMBER 1960

a variety of vcrses range from humor to
filial devotion. Mr. Mahoney, who re-
tired from the Cambridge department
in 1956, had been in recreation work
forty-seven years. (See Mr. Mahoney’s
article, “The Place of the Tree W arrlcn
in. Recreation,” RECREATION, March

1959.)

State Parks Elections

New officers and board members of
the National Conference on State Parks
were elected in September. Frank D.
Quinn, of Austin, Texas, the former
NCSP president and member of the
Texas State Parks Board, succeeds Hor-
ace M. Albright as board chairman.
President is Arthur C. Elmer, chief.
Parks and Recreation Division of the
Michigan Department of Conservation.
Vice-presidents are Earl P. Hanson,
deputy chief of operations, California
Division of Beaches and Parks, and

John R. Vanderzicht, director, Wash-

ington State Parks and Recreation Com-
mission. Ben H. Thompson, chief of

recreation resource planning, National

Park Service, was elected treasurer;
new board members are Joseph J aeger,
J r., director of parks, Missouri; Harold

J. Dyer, New York Division of Parks;
Mrs. Ethcl W. Harris, San Antonio,
Texas; Robert B. Williams, Vermont
Departmcnt of Forests and Parks; Law-
rence Stuart, director of state parks,
Maine; Sidncy S. Kennedy, chief.
Branch of State Cooperation, National

Park Service; and Mrs. John W. Crabb,

Jamaica, lowa.

 

Obituaries

 

0 Herbert W. Lunn, assistant to the di-
rector of the Boy Scouts of America
editorial service, died recently in New
Brunswick, New Jersey, at the age of
sixty-one. Mr. Lunn had been active
in scouting for forty-five years.

0 Stephen C. Clark, philanthropist and
president of the National Baseball Hall
of Fame, died in September at his home
in Cooperstown, New York, at the age
of seventy-eight. Mr. Clark’s wide in-
terests included art collecting and
founding the Clark Foundation for
philanthropic work. He was a trustee
and director of several museums and
the founder of the Farmers Museum in
Cooperstown.

o Sidney Hubbell, long associated with
the Hempstead, New York, Recreation
Department, died recently at the age of
forty-two. “Hub” was an active basket-
ball oflicial with the Long Island Bas-
ketball Officials’ Association and the
National Association of Basketball Of-
ficials.

0 Mrs. Alice Stead Binney died recent-
ly in Old Greenwich, Connecticut. A
pioneer suburbanite and town benefac-
tor, Mrs. Binney was prominent in Old
Greenwich since she and her husband.
president of Binney S’ Smith, crayon
and carbon manufacturers, moved
there in 1899. Mr. Binney was the do-
nor of Binney Park in Old Greenwich
and Mrs. Binney later became the chief
donor of another park in the town.

0 E. S. [‘ndcrhill, Jr., co-puhlisher and
treasurer of The Corning ( "81!" York'
Leader, died recently at the age or
seventy. He was a member of the Fin-
ger Lakes Parks Commission.

0 S. Livingston Mather, vice-president
of Cleveland-Cliffs Company in Cleve~
land. Ohio. died in September at the
age of scventy-eight. He had retired
in 1917 after forty-two years in the
steel industries. Xctively interested in
forest conservation, he had. in the last
five years, given more than seven hun-
dred acres of forest land from his estatr
to he used for parks.

l“-

 
   

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

‘I ‘l ‘l ‘l

o A new masonite wall paneling has a rugged appearance
and may be used effectively in recreation rooms, meeting
rooms, centers, and so forth. The paneling comes with a
factory-applied white primecoat on its embossed surface,
ready for an additional coat of paint or two-toning. The
two-tone effect is accomplished by brushing a darker rub-
her-base paint over approximately half the 4'-by-8’ panel
and wiping it off with a damp sponge. The darker tone re-
mains in recesses of the embossment and the white prime-
coat stands out for contrast. Panel joints are invisible and
can be nailed over open framing, solid backing with finish-
ing nails, or fastened with waterproof tileboard adhesive
over existing walls. Want to know more? Circle #100.

0 Recreation and groupwork leaders will find a valuable
tool in a new portable disc recording and playback system
which can cut 6- to 131,,{i-inch master records instantane-
ously. Here is a convenient and practical way of making
folk music available for singing and dancing purposes and
for recording various vocal and instrumental performances.
Speeches, recitals of various kinds, stories, and single plays
can also be recorded. (Be careful to avoid infringement of
copyright restrictions.)

This new system will cut master records at 331/3- and
78-RPM and comes with idler and adapter for 45-11mm rec-
ords. A safety cam, which prevents double cutting and
stylus damage automatically raises the cutter as the center
of the disc is approached. The recorder is equipped with a
motor designed to prevent transmission vibration, and the
playback arm, equipped with dual sapphire magnetic car-
tridge, can be used for records up to twelve inches. Carry-
ing case may be purchased separately and the entire unit
weighs about sixty-five pounds. Circle #101.

0 An all-purpose table, versatile enough for use in craft-
rooms, meeting rooms, offices, and many other areas com-
bines two new products, a modern honeycomb top framed
in solid maple with beveled, lacquered edges and new tubu-
lar steel legs. The top surface of high-pressure laminated
Nevamar plastic, eliminates maintenance costs, for it won’t
crack, craze, or peel, resists stains, scars, and boiling water.
Legs are equipped with floor-saving swivel-glides, having
resilient plastic-bearing surface, and are finished in chrome
or baked enamel in a choice of colors. Tables are also avail-
able in round, rectangular, and trapezoidal shapes and many

sizes. Circle #103.

O A new rescue-breathing device for victims of drowning
and asphyxiation (heart attack, electric shock, smoke in-
halation, and so on) permits untrained persons to practice
mouth-to-mouth breathing without personal contact with
the victim. The Venti-Breather’s flexible face mask sep-
arates the rescuer from the victim in a sanitary manner,
fits both adults and children. As the rescuer breathes through

438

MARKET NEWS

a special tube to inflate the victim’s lungs, a unique one-way
valve directs his breath away from the rescuer’s face. Noth-
ing is inserted in the throat of the victim to cause gagging or
injury. For brochure, circle #101.

o Is the grass growing under fences or up close to founda-.
tion walls escaping the whirling blade of your power mower?
Now, the Skil Shrub and Grass Shear pokes its scissor-like
-* ‘- " V \ blade under fences or other low

. hanging obstructions, flush with
. i tree trunks, and right up to wall.
i An optional roller handle lets you
7‘. breeze along trimming as fast as
i you can walk, is attached with a
wing-nut, and is adjustable for
'horizontal or vertical trimming.
. - - - I J ... , a . - ltcan also shape shrubs and ever-
greens, trim or edge sidewalks and flower beds. A slip-
clutch safety feature prevents damage to the tool when
sticks and stones get caught between the blades. Circle

##105.

   
 
 
  
   

o Is your center bulging at all its seams? A new, multi-
purpose building developed by Martin Steel Corporation is
a preeut, preformed structure that can be added to your
existing building without any eXpensive foundation. Wall
sheets have their own supports so need no foundation wall.
These units are available with standard wind and roof loads
as well as in heavier models. They are fireproof, weather-
tight, provide any combination of sliding or walk-in doors,
skylights, windows, and ventilators. The 12'-wide panels
can be increased to 72' width; the 32' lengths can extend
indefinitely. With three basic heights—10', 12', and 14'—
no single part is too heavy to be handled by two men.

Circle #106.

o A brand new tot-lot slide, just fOUr feet high by three
feet wide, is decorated with Fiberglas medallions. Of all-
metal and welded construction, it features a one-piece
formed stainless-steel chute; expanded metal sides with ribs
of 1%” OD steel tubing; and fourteen gauge-steel steps
with formed edges. Chute, footbucks, and bedways are
welded into a single unit; platform steps and sides into a
second integrated unit. The two bolt together for fast erec-
tion. The slide and steps are red and white Epoxy finished
for colorful accents. For additional information, circle

##107.

o Administrators concerned with hourly or daily rate com-
putations at recreation and parking facilities can resolve
their problems with a new cash control system. This self-
contained computer stamps on a ticket the amount due
based on the installation’s particular rate scale. Any size
ticket can be stamped with this device. Quick operation
will relieve congestion. Date stamp changes automatically
and dated checks show total charges for aecuratc account-
ing. The small, clock-like device is powered by AC current
and can be used inside or out of attendant’s shelter. Circle

##108.

RECREATION

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

Page
Abingdon Press ..................... -____ 404
American Playground Device _. ..  400
American Trampoline __ . I _ .... _.. Back Cover
FLXIBLE --..--  400
Gold Medal Products ..................... _- 399
Handweaver 8. Craftsmen ..................... -- 441
H 8. R Manufacturing _..._-.._.__.___--.-__--  399
lmmerman 8. Sons __....---....-._...---------_..._-.- 402
Institutional Cinema  399
James Spencer -_....-_...-..__.._._._..._---..._._.. 401
John Wiley 8. Sons .. ...... -- Inside Back Cover
Kanawha County -.._.._._........--_..__-__.._.__.__ 445
MacGregor ... _-..__-._._-.__.--__.-._..---.--.--._ 397
Mason Candies  443
Monroe Company .... ..................... -_._ 401
National Studios --_____...  445
Nissen Trampoline ........................... _- 442
Park Maintenance _._ ...................... -- 441
Program Aids ..______.-._....____..-......_....-_.. 448
Recreation Equipment _._..---..-..-.._.-._..-_._._ 404
Square Dance Associates .._-._.._...--.__._..--._.-- 402
Superior Industries -....--_...-.. Inside Back Cover
T. F. Twardzik ..____.._.._- .-.--.__.-......._---.._- 401
Vogel Peterson ._._..__.__-_....__...._...___----..._ 401
Volt ...................................... ._..._ 399
Wenger Music __---_..-..-._--. -_--   432

 

NOVEMBER 1960

@

FREE AIDS

TRADE MART

 

The following Free Aids briefly describe free materials—catalogs,
brochures, jilms, booklets, services available, samples, and so on—that
will help you in your recreation work. Circle on the coupon the key
number corresponding to the same number above an ad or beneath any
keyed item about which you’d like more information.

Fill in the coupon, cut out, insert in envelope, and mail to us. We’ll
take care of the rest. There is absolutely no obligation whatsoever to you.

ARTS AND CRAFTS

STARCH CUBES are a surprising and inexpen-
sive construction material for children. To
see what you can do with a little airplane glue
and a box of starch cubes, circle #130.

ANYONE CAN BE A PHOTO COLORIST with new
painting pencils now available. They come
in a large color assortment, can be sharpened
to a fine point. For instruction and informa-

tion, circle #131.

A FIFTY-EIGHT PAGE BOOKLET tells the proper
way to machine, glue, fasten, and finish red-
wood for shOp and cabinet work. Circle

#132.

IT'S EASIER TO UNDERSTAND when you can see
how it’s done. A series of six educational

charts show how to use a hand saw, hack saw,
chisel, Special saw, and so forth. Circle #133.

PLASTIC caYsTAI. PELLETS can be popped into
an oven, melted down, and formed into im-
aginative and useful crafts items. Bake a
candle holder, bookend, serving tray, and so

forth. Circle #134.

POTENTIAL PEN-AND-INK ARTISTS can get
sketching lessons and sample drawings from
ink manufacturer. For your COpy of Ink

Sketching, circle #135.

SIMPLE STEPS IN SOAP CARVING are shown in
a 16 mm, ten-minute film available free.

Circle #136.

r-------------------____-—_--_-_____-----

Clip and mail today. to

EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE

YEAR-ROUND AIR CONDITIONING is covcred in
new booklet which contains hints and moncy-
saving facts on central heating and cooling
systems. Also has a glossary of heating-equip-
ment terms. Circle #137.

MANUAL ON MAINTENANCE gives clear, step-
by-step procedures on cleaning floors, walls,
and ceilings, washrooms, windows, removing
stains on floors and carpets, also contains
scction on solving maintenance problems.
For cOpy of Building Maintenance Manual,
circle #138.

FREE QUOTATION available from large locker
manufacturer. Just send company blueprints
or sketches of your prOposed or prcsent locker
room and number of lockers needed. For
brochure and more information about line of
completely ventilated lockers, circlc #139.

POOL HEATING BILLS can be cut up to ninety
per cent by using a transparent enclosure over
your outdoor pool. The enclosure, which acts

as a “house” when inflated, also serves as a
pool cover when deflated. Circle #140.

GET DETAILS on what manufacturer calls
freeze-proof fountain—in any choice of styles,
wall or pedestal, single or multiple bubbler.
Catalogue outdoor drinking fountains. Circle

#141.
H

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R9. 8 W. 81h St... New York 11

This coupon expires Doc. 15. 1960
Please send me more information on circled products.

 

100 101 102 103 104 105 108 107 108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 116
117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124 125 128 127 128 129 130 131 132 133
134 135 138 137 138 139 140 141 142 143 144 145 148 147 148 149 150
151 152 153 154 155 158 157 158 159 180 161 182 163 184 185 168 187
188 169 170 171 172 173 174 175 178 177 178 179 180 181 182 183 184

185 188 187 188 189 190 191 192 193 194 195 198 197 198 199 200
___________________.__._.___..._.__—_———————————-—

Name Title
________________________________________________________.

 

 

Organization

Address City Zone State

' " ' " as
439

 

SAMPLE CHIPS of Solartone available from
manufacturer. This surfacing material comes
in a variety of colors and grains, is protected
by a lifetime surface, can he used in game-
rooms, ofhces, restrooms, and so forth as sur-
face for desks, counters, walls. Circle #142.

WHEN ARE TRIANGLES NOT TRIANGLES? When
they are jointed together to make a child’s
climbing wall! Five-foot steel triangles with
circular grillwork at their center can be decor-
ative in a park garden or utilitarian on a play-
ground. For details on this and other imag-
inative play equipment, circle #143.

DIRECTORY or ARCHITECTS AND ENGINEERS lists
firms that specialize in the design or construc-
tion of small boat barbors, boat launching
ramps, and marinas. It includes sixty-one
ofhces of forty-eight firms located in all sec-
tions of the country. Circle #144.

IF YOU NEED HELP in selecting employees uni-
forms, Selecting A Uniform? should he very
useful. This booklet offers advice on proper
colors, style, and care. Circle #145.

HEAlIH AND FITNESS

TESTING CHART for physical fitness and pro-
ficiency is offered by a national organization
to program administrators and instructors of
athletic groups. Included are blank certifi-
cates, to he awarded to youngsters who are
able to complete the tests satisfactorily. The
chart also has a description of all the physical
activities and how-to sketches. Circle #146.

A SERIES OP TWENTY-NINE colorful, 11"-by-
17" posters presents amusing but sound re-
minders for safety and health, circle #147.

THE BEST “SOCIAL SECURITY” one can have is
to he attractive. Leaders of charm and fit-
ness classes will find the “Clothing Carousel”
kit a great help. Contains charts, posters.

booklets, and free film information. Circle
#148.

ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED BY INJURY. First
aid guide should be immediately at hand to
cover any emergency arising in recreation
centers, camps, parks, playgrounds, and any

other place where any recreation activity is
going on. Circle #149.

PROGRAM AIDS

How To ORGANIZE activities for that difficult
age group—the teenagers. Illustrated book-
let by famous beverage company describes
how to promote teenage planning for fun.
Useful in recreation and community centers,
hospitals, faith-oriented recreation prOgrams
—wberever a recreation leader needs fresh

ideas for teenagers. Circle #150.

LEADING PHOTOGRAPHIC COMPANY offers loan
of a series of program aids which should be
extremely useful for camera clubs. There are
work programs, sound-slide programs, and
a new group of “bow-to-do-it” film strips.
Circle #151.

FIFTEEN-MINUTE COLOR move: about camping
and boating, fihned in Great Smoky Moun-
tains National Park, is available on loan to
campers, hikers, civic clubs, and other inter-
ested groups. It covers camping activities and
displays the latest canvas camping and boat-
ing gear on the market. The 16MM film will
be released for showing over more than 525

major television stations next spring. Circle
#152.

WHAT Is A PARTY WITHOUT A CARE? Cake

dccorating is a holiday art. Send for To Dcc-
orate Your Cakes. Circle #153.

COLORFUL vaRD PUZZLE BOOK, geared to the
elementary-school age, contains eleven word
puzzles and has illustrations that contain a
clue to the correct messs ge. Each message con-
tains a worthwhile safety slogan. Circle #154.

RECORDINGS

COMPLETE COURSE IN SQUARE DANCING, from
primary grades through adult group. Clcar,
concise, oral, talk-through, walk-through in-
structions, followed by the entire dance with
calls. For catalogue, circle #162.

WALTz TIME. A 12-inch LP with spokcn in-
structions and music comes with a printed
booklet whicb furthcr explains and repeats

KNOW and USE
ALL

National Recreation Association services

Insurance Plans

Personnel and participants may obtain low-cost.
through their NRA affiliated recreation agency

Insurance plans have been developed to protoct t.

group-rated inaurance protection
: department.

erreation executive, leader, worker,

and volunteer from the liability exposures of his a .ties.

Plans covering accidents to team participants, hobby groups, clubs, and all who attend
and use the recreation facilities may also be had through your NRA affiliated organiza-

tion.

For complete information about the NRA inaurance plana for recreation personnel and
participants, Circle #159 on reverse side of this coupon.

440

 

the spoken instructions for waltzing. Cata-
logue gives full description of this and other
records available. Circle #163.

HOW TO PUT ON A PLAY. Recording of seven
plays. Accompanying booklets give instruc-
tions, hints on acting, make-up, costumes,
and scripts for the seven plays acted out on
the record. Four of the plays are acted in en-
tirety by professional child actors; other three
have parts left out, so that the child listening
can take part. For complete brochure, circle

#164.

FOR ADVANCED SQUARE-DANCE GROUPS, record-
ing company has a special collection of Hoe-
downs of the Smokies, recorded in tbe Smoky
Mountains of North Carolina, complete with

calls. Circle #165.

DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE with Alice on her visit
to wonderland. This classic. is presented in

a complete and unabridged album of three
records. Circle #166.

SGME

A NUMBER-ONE SUPPLY HOUSE for experi-
mentors and bobbyists offers catalogue on tele-
scope parts. Also, large selection of lenses,
war-surplus optical instruments. parts and

accessories, microscopes, binoculars, and so
forth. Circle #155.

FOR THE AIR-MINDED, a twenty-two page boo-k-
lct on The Age of Flight. Pictures airplanes
from the flimsy aircraft flown at Kitty Hawk
to todsy's jet fighters and passenger planes.

Circle #156.

THE wONDRRS OF SCIENCE tcaches you how to
make bouncing bubbles, perfume, secret ink,
and cven how to grow plants without soil.
Published by a major chemical compsny.

Circlc #157.

ATTENTION STARGAzrzRS! A booklet, Earth
and Star Reprints, will answer your questions
on why the North Star nevcr scents to move,
why stars seem to twinkle, how distant the
stars really are. Circle #158.

MYSTERY or SUPERSONIC FLIGHT need remain
a mystery no longer. Now, thc story in evcry-
day language, is told in a sixtcen-page book-
let offered by an acronautical company. Circle

#167.

TRICK OR TREAT RY MICROSCOPE. One of the
largest manufacturers of optic equipment of-
fers a thirty-one page book to acquaint you
with proper use of microscope and the tricks
and treats possible. Circle #168.

WATCH OUT, STORat ON WAY UPI llurricanc
terms, photos, history of hurricancs-—descrip—
tion, origin, and movements—arc included in
an intcresting and informativc four-page
booklct. Also included are precautions, warn-
ings, hurricane tracing chart. lielpful infor-
mation for campers, boating groups. fisher-
men, pirates. snd other maritime folk. Circle

#169.

THE STORY OF REFORESTATION is told in an in-
teresting, sixty-six-page book, The Forest is
the Future. Contains photographs, describes
our nccd for, and use of, trces. Circlc #170.

RECREATION

Directions for the Future
Continued from Page 413

 

which have to do with the quality of
free-time experience. These goals ap-
ply for all our institutions: home,
school, church, and community agen-
cies. Twelve such goals are:

1. The general goal of all education,
in leisure and in school: to help chil-
drcn and young people develop their
full potential, to achieve individual ful-
fillment within a framework of moral
purpose, to be their best. to be the per-
sons they could be.

2. To recover leisure, to relax and en-
joy free time. There have been written
and spoken observations about the
structured, hectic, pressured, formal-
ized, and expansive nature of so much
that passes as leisure. : Perhaps it may
be more possible in the future to nur-
ture spontaneity uiith simplicity and
naturalness in the young who are less
inhibited, less constricted, more natu-
ral, more human, with a sense of hu-
mor. A goal for the 60’s might well be
to distinguish the state of leisure from
activity, to cultivate the unhurried, the
leisurely, the voluntary, the simple, the
spontaneous.

3. T 0 seek a more healthy balance be-
tween work and recreation in the whole
social order. The pendulum has swung
from a work-valued orientation to a
leisure-valued orientation, and time
may be ripe for a restoration of bal-
ance. A boy’s recreation is empty if it
is not a contrast to real work; what
should be leisure is mere boredom. J u-
venile delinquency is, in part, a protest,
subconscious and inarticulate, against
a society which gives to the rising gen-
eration no role which absorbs its ener-
gies and focuses its aims. A worthy
recreation goal is to integrate the older
values and realities of work with the
newer values and realities of leisure.
Realizing the potentials of leisure re-
quires the inner satisfactions of work.

4. To enrich family recreation. Au-
gust Heckscher has stated this goal
well: “Our society could well give at-
tention to means for giving young peo-
ple opportunities for vacations apart
from their parents. A new relationship
must be established between the youth-
ful and adult worlds. A new relation-
ship is, in fact, in the making; leisure

NOVEMBER 1960

has brought parents and children into
a state of togetherness. But young peo-
ple should have alternative forms of en-
joyment away from the family room,
the patio, the barbecue pit and the pri-
vate swimming pool. It is when the
older and younger generation have each
been allowed a certain measure of free-
dom and have enjoyed themselves in
their own way that they can come to-
gether for the truest delights.” This is
a more balanced goal than indiscrimi-
nate promotion of “family recreation.”

5. To familiarize youth with the vari-
ety and complexity of the world, with
the wide range of experience and serv-
ices which can contribute to the good
life. It might well be a goal of recrea-
tion in the future to help youth break
out of the social isolation in their own
neighborhoods to experience diversity
and variety.

6. To increase the opportunities for
youth to participate in community af-
fairs, to engage in activities which ex-
press social concern and which give
understanding about problems outside
of their own group and community.

7. To foster identity and autonomy.
Much has been written and said about
the drift toward conformity. Recrea-
tion’s goal for the future should be to
foster individuality, identity, auton-
omy.

8. To cultivate and encourage detach-
ment, intervals for solitude, for reverie,
self-exploration; assimilation, and inte-
gration of new experience; for achiev-
ing one’s own resources to bear upon
problems, to give oneself a chance to
be heard. Here is a goal with which
the churches and synagogues have a
special opportunity. Contemplation,
meditation, reflection, silence have been
disciplines in all of the world’s faiths.
Religious institutions have a key oppor-
tunity, but this should not relieve all
who care about leisure values to do
their share to help restore a balance be-
tween activity and passivity, action and
reflection, gregariousness and solitude.

9. To accelerate the movement toward
the creative spirit and the cultural arts.
This movement was documented well in
Joseph Prendergast’s conference survey
paper. In leisure there are new fron-
tiers for developing creativity, inven-
tiveness, and generativity. In the cul-
tural arts there are rich reservoirs of

You will find stimulating
ideas for weavers of all

ages in every issue of

Handweaver

8- Craftsman

Published since 1950,

a complete file
will give you
a valuable

weaving library

Write for brochure and

prices of back issues

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

1 yr. $4 2 yrs. $7.50
3 yrs. $10 5 yrs. $15

Pan-American and foreign rates
$1 a year extra

Please send checks or money orders to

H and weaver £9" Craftsman
246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK 1

 

THE ADVICE
OF EXPERTS

flows freely in

Park Maintenance

Articles in each issue are by leading
experts in fields of pork, recreation,
golf, pool and rink.

THE PRESTIGE
MONTHLY MAGAZINE

“PM” leads in number of pages, in-
formative orticles, advertising and
circulation (audited circulation, of
course).

THE IDEAS AND SUGGESTIONS
OF EXPERTS ARE YOURS for . . .

$3.50—0ne Yeor

$8.75—Three Years

$2.50—One Year if groups of five
or more subscribe.

PARK MAINTENANCE

DEPARTMENT R
P.O. BOX 409 O APPLETON, WIS.

 

Circle #l23 on coupon

NISSEN
IS
QUALITY

 

Official NCAA and AAU
Rebound Tumbling Equipment

Nissen Trampoline® units

have proven their worth in over
10,000 schools and colleges
all over the world. Nissen

quality, safety and superior
performance are the result of
years of experience in designing
and manufacturing rebound
tumbling equipment. Write

for free catalog.

NISSEN TRAMPULINE®BUMPANY

215 A Ave. N.W., Cedar Rapids, Iowa
®T.M. Reg. U.S. Pat. 05. for Nissen Rebound Tumbling Equipment

SOMETHING FREE for you! Don’t miss Page 439, in color,

with its Trode Mort listings, telling you where to get free mate-

rials.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad aecepled . . . . $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the Issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED
Therapists for California

Slate Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-

tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which indeed-
ed supervised tieId work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $415.00 per
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liberal employ-
ment benefits. Write State
Personnel Board, 801 Capi-
lol Avenue, Sacramento,
California.

Scdro - Wooiiey, Wash-
lon, liecreulion Lender
—0pening for qualified

male or female to assist in
planning and conducting
program for individual pa-
tients as well as group ac-
tivities in large state mental
hospilal with both male
and female patients. Un-
limitcd recreational facili-
ties are available in the
heart of the Pacific North-
west just 65 miles north of
Seattle, Washington. Sal-
ary range, $4368-35184.
Quarters and subsistenec
available for unmarried
persons at nominal charge.
Scnd full details of train-
ing, background and ex-
perience to William D.
Voorhces, Jr., M.D., Super-
intendent, Box 309, Scdro-
Woolley, Washington.

Recreation Director,
CITY OF SOUTHFIELD,
Michigan. Rapidly growing
suburban community, 30,-
000 pop. Full time or part
time. Man to establish rec-
reation system. Salary open.
Apply Robert J. McNutt,
City Manager, City Hall,
Southfield, Michigan.

Recrealion Specialists
(Nature) & Assls. for po-
sitions in County of Los
Angeles Recrcation Dept.
At least 2 yrs. exp. in de-
veloping nature study rcc.
or instruction programs 8'
2 yrs. college in botany,
biology or zoology are re-
quired. Apply to County of
Les Angcles Civil Service

Comm.. 222 N. Grand, Los
Angcles l2, Calif.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

 

beauty, satisfaction, and fulfillment.
10. To extend recreation opportunities
to those groups in our society for whom
opportunities are scarcest: the mar-
ginal youth in the inner core of cities,
minority-group children in many com-
munities, the physically and mentally
handicapped, children of migrant fam-
ilies, the 252 counties in the United
States without any library service, and
others. ‘

11. To work for better urban environ-
ment. Uncontrolled urban sprawl, fail-
ure to acquire recreation spaces, traffic
congestion and long commuting, and
the decay of inner cities pose a threat to
leisure values. Land-use planning and
efiective zoning across metropolitan
areas is overdue and is primary busi-
ness in the 60’s. Mass transit to supple-
ment the auto with urban growth ahead
is essential. Urban renewal in the slum
sections of our cities needs to be accel-
erated. These are not the primary re-
sponsibility of recreationists, but citi-
zens concerned with leisure values of
both the young and the old must join
forces with progressive legislators, pub-
lic officials, and city planners to act
more boldly in wider contexts beyond
city and county boundaries.

12. The last goal is that of enlisting
and developing the competent amateur,
the citizen volunteer. The root meaning
of amateur is “for the love of it.” More
leisure for adults enlarges the potential
reservoir of citizen leadership. Newer
training methods promise a break-
through in the development of high
competence. \Vith all the experience in
the past, here is a potential in new
dimension. Community service and
growth opportunities can be provided
for many more adults in their leisure
and they can be an important answer
to the need for expansion without pro-
portional additional funds. This calls
for new skills in professional leader-
ship, those of enlistment and training
of volunteers; changing professionals
from organizers and conductors of pro-

grams to trainers of citizen personnel.
It It § §

These are broad imperatives. They
are not fragmented how-to-do-it bits.
But they can affect what all of us do to
move in the direction of realizing the
potentials of the first leisurcd society
in history. #-

RECREATION

   

IN ENGLAND the slogan is “Keep Brit-

ain Tidy.” In this country it’s “Keep
America Beautiful,” along with hun-
dreds of regional and local slogans,
such as: “Don’t Be a Litterbug” and
“Let’s Litter Less.” Parky the Tidy
Kangaroo and Louis the Lion, the plas-
tic litter containers in the form of ani-
n1als used in Lakeside Park, Oakland,
California, are examples of devices
used to reduce the tremendous cost of
cleaning up parks, streets, and high-
ways. Smokey Bear is known through-
out the country for his pointed message
on the hazards of littering.

RECREATION Magazine has been ac—
tive in the fight against litter and has
tried to supply its readers with helpful
ideas and information. Don’t forget
that Keep America Beautiful, Inc., 99
Park Avenue, New York 16, has free
publications to help you wage a more
effective war on litter. Write for KAB’s
brochure “Effective Litter Prevention,”
a guide for park and recreation depart-
ments which also lists other free mate-
rials available. Ask to be put on KAB’s
mailing list.

Have you heard of the unusual and
inexpensive refuse receptacle used in
Boston? It looks like a tree trunk and
has several excellent features. The idea

was developed by
Martin F. Walsh,
commissioner of
parks and recrea-
ition, who writes:
“For the past
eight years we

 

have made this
concrete tree-
trunk receptacle for use in Franklin

Park, Boston Common, the Public Gar-
den, and on Commonwealth Avenue.

MR. TODD is assistant executive director
of the National Recreation Association
and was formerly the Association’s
Midwest district representative.

NOVEMBER 1960

UPKEEP

Art Todd

We had found care of rusty trash bar-
rels a problem. After a cigarette had
been dr0pped in one of these barrels, a
small fire got started, ladies’ garments
were scorched and children’s hands
were burned from the hot metal. Our
employees also complained of the
weight of the barrels during the general
pickup. We tried designing a rustic-
type container but found it unservice-
able. From this experience we arrived
at a smaller receptacle with a tree-bark
design which answered all our prob-
lems. Public reaction has been enthusi-
astic. People like to look at it whether
just passing by or st0pping to dispose
waste. We have more than two hundred
in use.” He will be happy to answer
any inquiries.

Commissioner Walsh has found a 1-2
mix of sand and cement over wire mesh
to be satisfactory. A tree-bark design
is scratched into the last coat of plaster.
The cost, when produced in one hun-
dred-unit lots and cutting the wire mesh
carefully with no waste, has been $3.00
per unit, not including labor. Recepta-
cles can accommodate a twenty-one-
Some are used with no
barrels and are cleaned by pulling the
receptacle over and shoveling out from
the bottom.

These imitation tree trunks call to
mind some information on the cost of
removing and planting trees that is in-

cluded in the 1959 Annual Report of

the Evanston, Illinois, Park Division.

inch barrel.

Labor
hours Costs
Average per tree 13.5 $31.62
Average per stump removed 4.24 12.60
Average per trec trimmed 3.62 8.80
Average per tree planted 3.58 15.58
(Include purchase cost
of tree)
Average trees repaired 7.5 17.80

Do you have a maintenance prob-
lem? Do you have a suggestion for
improving upkeep that might be used
by others? Do let us hear from you! #

Circle #IZZ on coupon.

You can raise $500
or more in 6 days
this easy way

 

Sell famous Mason

Candies and in 4 to 15 days
your group can make

$300 to $2,500

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. If you decide to go
ahead you don’t risk a cent,—you pay noth-
ing in advance. We supply on consignment
your choice of FOUR VARIETIES of famous
Mason Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a band printed
with your organization’s name and picture.
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don’t sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make
$12.00 on every 30 sales of our $1.00 box
(66%% profit to you on cost). There’s no
risk! You can’t lose. Mail in coupon today
for information about MASON’S PROTECTED
FUND RAISING DRIVES.

I. ______________ __..
Mn. GEORGE M. RAUSCH, Dept. RM-ll 1

Mason, Box 549, Mineola, N.Y.

Gentlemen: Pieose send me, without

obh'gation, information on your Fund
Raising Pian.

Name

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
| Age if under 21..
I
I
I
I
I
L

 

Address __._ __
Organization. _ _

 

Phone____ _

 

 

Masvn Candies, Inc., .‘Iineola, L. 1., N. Y.

443

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

The following bibliography is packed
with action and food for thought for all
workers with the ill and handicapped—

From the Consulting Service on Rec-
reation for the Ill and Handicapped,
National Recreation Association, 8

West 8th Street, New York:

STARTING A RECREATION PROGRAM IN INSTI-
TUTIONS FOR THE ILL OR HANDICAPPED AGED,
$1.25
Explains the need for recreation in nursing
homes and homes for the aged; suggests
ways of meeting needs.
RECREATION AND PSYCHIATRY, $1.25
Four papers by well-known psychiatrists
about the role of the recreation specialist
in psychiatry.
THERAPEUTIC RECREATION, $.25
Five articles reprinted from Hospital Man-
agement
DEVELOPMENT OF PROGRAMS FOR HANDICAP-
PED CHILDREN IN A PUBLIC RECREATION FA-
CILITY, $1.25
Some ideas on how to begin this program.
PROGRAM IDEAS FOR THE AGED IN NEUROPSY-
CHIATRIC HOSPITALS, $.15
By Richard L. Burch (mimeographed).
SUGGESTIONS I-‘OR RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES
FOR THE AGED, $.25
A brief summary of a comprehensive leader
directed program (mimeographed)
THE PSYCHIATRIST’S INTEREST IN
TIME ACTIVITIES, $.40
Current problems as seen by the Group for

the Advancement of Psychiatry.
* i i i

From the National Society for Crip-
pled Children and Adults, 2023 West
Ogden Avenue, Chicago 12:

PLANNING A PLAYROOM WITHIN A LIMITED
BUDGET, $.10
How to set up a playroom within existing
structure with minimum expenditure, as
achieved by Lenox Hill Hospital.
CREATIVE PLAY MATERIALS, $.10
By Barbara Holcenberg. Suggestions for
those who worlc with handicapped children,
particularly those with limited motion of
extremities.
REPORT or STUDY ON TIIE USE OF TOYS IN
WORK WITH CEREBRAL PALSIED CHILDREN,
$.25
Toys best suited for use of cerebral-palsied
child from the standpoint of child’s all-
round development.

EMOTIONAL ADJUSTMENTS rOR TIIE HANDI-
CAPPED, $.10

By William C. Menninger, M.D.

* i i I

LEISURE-

From the National Association for

Retarded Children, 386 Park Avenue,
New York 16:

RETARDED CIIILDREN CAN CO CAMPING, Free

 

MRS. HILL is director, National Recrea-
tion Association Consulting Service on
Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped.

444

Beatrice H. Hill

Implications for camper, parent and com-
munity.
SWIMMING FOR THE MENTALLY RETARDED,
$.25
Directions on how to organize a swimming
program; includes teaching suggestions and
useful record forms.
A MANUAL TO AID IN TIIE ESTABLISHMENT or
COMMUNITY PROGRAMS or RECREATION FOR
THE MENTALLY RETARDED, $1.00

2742 Hennepin Avenue, Minneapolis 8,
Minn., 1959.

AN EXPERIMENT IN RECREATION WITH THE
MENTALLY RETARDED, Free

Includes extensive classification of games
suitable to ditlerent groups and degrees of
handicap.

INTRODUCTION TO A SERIES or PILOT STUDIES
AND PROJECTS AND SOME GENERAL PRINCIPLES
THAT HAVE BEEN FOUND USEFUL IN PLAN-
NING RECREATION PROGRAMS FOR THE RE-
TARDED, $.50 '

Report #1, 100 Gibbs Street, Oshawa,
Ontario, Canada.

MORE FUN FOR INSTITUTIONALIZED RETARDED
CIIILDREN, $.15

By E. P. Benoit, American Journal of Men-
tal Deficiency.

l i i t

From the American Foundation for
the Blind, 15 West 16th Street, New
York 11:

SCULPTURE BY BLIND CIIILDREN, 3.50
By Jeanne Kewell

HOBBIES or BLIND ADULTS, 3.45
By Charles C. Bitter

RECREATION FOR THE BLIND, 8.45
By Charles E. Buell Ed.D.

METIIODS or COMMUNICATION WITH DEAF-
BLIND ADULTS, 3.50
By Annette B. Dinsmore

RECORDING Booxs ron TIIE BLIND, 3.20
By Arthur Helms

0 UR INTENSIVE program of physi-

cal reconditioning attained
through competitive team play, pro-
gressive and graduated calisthenics,
and active recreation which in-

cludes athletics, bicycling, horseback
riding, fishing, swimming, hiking

and skiing provides more than physi-
cal fitness. It aids in relicving physi-
cal and emotional tension and pro-
vides a situation conducive tO psy-
chological readustment. A man who
can play, and play hard, is neither
physically nor psychologically ill.—
DR. HOWARD RUSK.

 

No Limit

Continued from Page 417

 

shows. Then, of course, there are par-
ties and party planning—with the
Thanksgiving and Christmas parties
very gala occasions.

The MAC’s are competent fund rais-
ers. In addition tO membership dues,
they have taken in money through adS
in their newsletter and yearbook, craft
sales at bazaars, farmers’ market bake
sales, card parties, Las Vegas parties,
dances, and a refreshment concession
at the Michigan State Fair. But all this
fund raising is not merely for the sake
of building a well-stocked tIeasury. The
MAC’s have a major goal in 1nind-—-the
clearing and developing of fifteen acres
of wooded land purchased three years
ago. Located about twenty miles north
of Detroit, this site, through the work
of nIenIbcrs and friends, .“ is becoming
a complete caInp facility.

If an organization is tO continue, it
must attract new members. Many po-
tential members get acquainted with the
MAC’s because they see or hear about
their activities. The club publicizes its
own activities through its newsletter
and ycarbook. Several ncwspapers have
been cager to tell the story Of the
MAC’s; they are willing speakers or
panel members for a variety of com-
munity information programs, profes-
sional mectings, radio talks, and TV ap-
pearances. Also, the club has alerted
key professionals tO refer potential
members. Thus, occupational thera-
pists, social workers, and counsclors in
various rehabilitation settings, whether
medically or vocationally oriented,
have referred interested handicapped
people.

Are the MAC’s an ingrown group?
Do they takc refugc from the world of
the nondisabled in their club and in
their activities? For thc vast majority
of the MAC’s, the answer tO these ques-
tions is an emphatic NO. Their club
enables them to engage in the same
kinds of activities as the nondisabled.
Through it, many have mode from
hospitals and rehabilitation centers to
a normal lifc iII thcir Own communities.
Many have made a transition from self-
conscious dependence to confidcnt iII-
dcpendence. #-

RECREATION

 

AGREEMENTS CONCERNING PART-TIME PERSONNEL

IT HAS become increasingly important

for recreation departments to take
special care in the employment, admin-
istration, and dismissal of part-time
recreation personnel. Verbal agree-
ments, telephone commitments, and all
sorts of informal arrangements have
been used as expedients, particularly in
one-man and two-man recreation de-
partments. With the great drain on his
time for programing, and with limited
clerical staff available, the small-depart-
ment executive frequently resorts to
short-cut measures. This can lead to
confusion, morale problems, and, even
worse, possible lawsuits.

The two forms discussed here are the
result of several years’ trial and error——
the work of many recreation people.
When the author arrived in the White
Plains, New York, recreation depart-
ment, he submitted the forms to the
civil service, finance, and the legal de-
partments. In each case changes were
made. The two resulting forms were
then considered legally and administra-
tively sound by the departments con-
sulted.

Form One, the Summer Playground
Employment Agreement, is sent out in
duplicate after the department has de-
cided on a person to be employed. A
brief covering letter explains that, after
reading the agreement carefully, and
upon finding it acceptable, the appli-
cant is to sign the original and return
it to the recreation department. He
keeps the duplicate. If there is any
question, the applicant may phone the
office directly or return the two forms
with his comments. These forms are
usually sent out and completed at least
six weeks to two months before the
summer playground programs open.

Form Two is the employment agree-
ment used throughout the year for part-

 

MR. CURTIS is commissioner of recrea-

tion, White Plains, New York.
NOVEMBER 1960

time recreation leaders in such areas as
basketball, archery, teen centers, and so
on. The last paragraph on this form
contains a clause in which the employ-
ing department reserves the right to
right to dismiss the leader without no-
tice if the program does not warrant
continued operation.

You will note that in both forms at-
tendance at training programs, month-
ly meetings, and so on is specifically
mentioned. It is important that the na-
ture of these responsibilities be estab-
lished at the start and not suddenly
brought up weeks later. If the leader
finds himself unable to make these com-
mitments, he at least knows of their ex-
istence before hand.

The following are slightly condensed

versions of these agreements.

Summer Playground Employment

The summer playground leader
agrees to work on a specific playground
for a specific number of weeks, for
which beginning and terminating dates
are given. Salary rate and schedule are
given, as well as the daily work sched-
ule. The agreement stipulates further
that the leader:

1. Attend a two-day leadership training
institute operated by the recreation de-
partment.

2. Attend a one-day leadership training
session conducted by the recreation de—
partment.

3. Will have no vacation time or other
time off during the term of employment.
4. Agree to work in any recreation de-
partment playground within the city
limits if such transfer is deemed neces-
sary by the department.

5. Attend weekly staff meetings.

6. As a prerequisite to acceptance of

'the final paycheck, submit a final com-

plete report of the summer program
and an accounting of all equipment.

 

Circle #l26 on coupon -—> I

PERSONNEL

 

Joseph E. Curtis

Part-Time Recreation Leader

The part-time leader agrees to accept
employment in the noncompetitive class
in a specific activity at a specific loca-
tion. The agreement contains the num-
ber of hours or sessions each day (or
days) of the week, or a nonscheduled
basis, with beginning and terminating
dates of employment indicated. Salary
and salary schedule are also given. In
addition, without further compensa-
tion, the part-time leader agrees to:

1. Attend evening leadership training
and staff meetings when held.

2. Regularly submit stories,
scores, special announcements, and cur-
rent information on his program to the
recreation ofhce for purposes of public-
ity, score-keeping, and records.

We hope that this information will be
of some assistance to all recreation ex-
ecutives, particularly to those in small
departments. #

HBTVS

COUNTY DIRECTOR WANTED

Kanowha County Parks and Recreation Com-
mission desires servlces of county director to
build recreation program from ground up.
Applications being received now for Immediate
employment. Reply givlna full qualifications,
experience, and salary expected. This Is a
big lob with great opportunities. Sherwood M.
Spencer, Secretory, P.O. Box 275], Charleston
30, W. Va.

Keep ’em SINGING

with these all-time favorite

SONG SLIDES

wonderful hours of fun for
young and old oiike

2” x 2” slides ........ .- Soc/slide

3V4 ” x 4” slides  LOO/slide
wma ran CA'I'OlOGUE s

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 4th Street
New York 36, N. Y.

JUdson 2-1926

 

445

  

Party Fun, Margaret E. Mulac. Har-
per & Brothers, 49 East 33rd Street,

Neerork 16. Pp. 368. $4.95.

Trained leaders in social recreation
will not find too much that is new or
different in this party book. The author
leans a little heavily on the old washer-
into-mufiin-tin and other toss games,
pencil-and-paper games, matching of
colors and other devices for couple or
team forming, and other old-timers that
fortunately are new to each oncoming
generation. Several of the “theme” par-
ties are very good, especially the “big
business” and the “baseball” parties.
The volume has an excellent index.

Despite the difficulty in finding or
creating really new party ideas, Miss
Mulac’s books are always solid and sub-
stantial, and their activities are always
in good taste. She has contributed a
great deal, through the years, to the
recreation movement. Her Game Book
is one of the best, and still in wide use
by playground leaders, as it deserves to

be.—V.M.

Beauty far the Sighted and the
Blind, Allen H. Eaton, foreword by

Helen Keller. St. Martin's Press, 175
Fifth Avenue, New York 10. Pp. 19],
illustrated. $4.00.

While attending an exhibition of
handmade objects, who has not had an
overwhelming desire to pick up a piece
of pottery to feel its surface or perhaps
finger a lovely textured fabric! Imag-
ine, then, how much the sense of touch
means to a blind person who must rely
mainly on this sense for his discovery,
comprehension, and enjoyment of an
object. The blind person can learn such
things as function, size, proportion,
temperature, smoothness, roughness,
and flow of line by handling the objects
and asking questions about them.

The author of this thought-provoking
book describes an experiment in which
blind and sighted persons learn to-
gether to appreciate a collection of
handmade objects of beauty. The ob-
jects collected especially for this ex-
perience were closely related to the cul-
tural and artistic history of man. Forty
objects were finally selected and in-
cluded about nineteen materials, among
them wood, silver, crystal, glass, porce-

446

lain, cork, plastic, lacquer, horn, palm
leaves, stone, vellum, ivory, amber, and
alabaster.

For those of us in the field of recrea-
tion who come in contact with blind
persons, Dr. Eaton’s suggestions will ex-
tend our understanding of the needs
and satisfactions of those deprived of
sight. But this book has more appeal
than that, since it presents ideas that
anyone can use to enhance his enjoy-
ment of the world’s treasures—Shirley
Silbert, member of the National Recre-
ation Association National Advisory
Committee on Recreation Programs
and Activities—Arts and Crafts Sub-
committee.

Do They Understand You? Wesley
Wiksell, Ph.D. The Macmillan Cam-
pany, 60 Fifth Avenue, New York ll.
Pp. 200. $4.95.

Observations indicate that you are
not likely to operate with over thirty
percent efficiency in face-to-face oral
communication. Perhaps seventy per-
cent of your communication is bound
to be either distorted, misunderstood.
rejected, forgotten, or disliked, accord-
ing to the author, a professor of speech
at Louisiana State University.

This is a practical, easy-to-read pub-
lication which contains many sugges-
tions, including Self-analysis, as to how
you can become more effective in oral
communication. Dr. Wiksell places
much emphasis upon understanding
your own attitude and its effect on the
listener. Obstacles and problems fre-
quently encountered are identified and
practical suggestions given for solving
them. For self-help, there are self-anal-
ysis question sheets and selected hibli-
ographies.—W. C. Sutherland, Nation-
al Recreation Association Recreation
Personnel Service.

Planning a College Union Building,
Chester Arthur Berry, Ed.D. Bureau of
Publicatians, Teachers Callege, 525
West 120th Street, New York 27. Pp.
210. $4.75.

Although this volume is intended pri-
marily to assist college planners and
obviously is helpful to architects and
designers of college union buildings,
much of the material in it should prove

EW ..
PUBLICATIONS

exceedingly useful to any individual or
agency that is concerned with the plan-
ning and construction of a community
recreation building.

General planning principles are ac-
companied by proposals for translating
plans into a physical plant, with de-
tailed consideration of specific facili-
ties, such as the theater, arts-and-crafts
shop, and game rooms, among others.
Specific suggestions are also given for
arrangements for architectural services,
selection and purchase of equipment,
and initiation of operations—GB.

Sculpture, The Basic Methads and
Materials, Lillian Johnson. David Mc-
Kay Company, 119 West 40th Street,
New York 18. Pp. 90. $3.95.‘

This excellent book covers sculptur-
ing in all materials. Mrs. Johnson con-
ducts children’s art classes at the
Newark (New Jersey) School of Fine
and Industrial Arts and several other
schools and art associations.

This would be a very helpful book
for a beginner and for a teacher of rec-
reatien classes; it has many fine photo-
graphs showing each step and also fin-
ished work. Mrs. Johnson proves that
sculpture is fun.—ll'f. B. Cummings,
National Recreation Association Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the

I ll and Handicapped.

Jordi, Theodore Isaac Rubin, MD.
Macmillan Campany, 60 Fifth Avenue,
New York ll. Pp. 73. $2.95.

Jordi is eight years old and schizo-
phrcnic—he lives in a private world
filled with threatening garbage cans
and menacing rain trees. There is no
place to go, no one he can trust. Mon-
kcy bars overwhelm him, crayons at-
tach him. Dr. Rubin takes us through
the tortured crannies of Jordi's mind
as he finds the way out of his suffering
and terrified isolation at a special
school for psychotic youngsters.

Any recreation leader meets some
J ordis. This slim volume is worth many
times its price for the insight it pro-

vides.—E.l).

‘ Available from National Recreation Asso-
ciation Recreation Book Center. 8 W. 8th
Street, New York 11.

RECREATION

MERRY-GO-READING

Children are still using their imag-
ination as a launching pad—despite the
recent spate of spatial science books for
younger readers (RECREATION, Septem-
ber 1960) . With Children’s Book Week
—November 13-19—in the offing, and
so many attractive juvenile publications
coming out, recreation leaders might
well take time to browse through some
of the recent oHerings for ideas for pre-
school, nature, arts-and-crafts, and crea-
tive dramatics groups. A few of the
more provocative new books are:

THE THINKING BOOK, Sandol Stoddard
W arburg, illustrated by 1 van Chermay-
e5. Little, Brown, 33 Beacon St., Boston
6. Unpaged. $3.00. Colors go boing
out at you and the words drift in a de-
lightful string of a Child’s wandering
thoughts on a bright morning. lts de-
lectable freshness will be a real pleasure
both to storyteller and children.

DO YOU WANT TO HEAR A SECRET, Syl-
via Berger Redman. Lothrop, Lee &
Shepard, 419 Park Avenue South, New
York. Unpaged. $2.75. Happy to be
just-born and out discovering the world,
the little animals in this gay book will
charm readers with their timid adven-
tures. Children will enjoy discovering
the world of squirrels, wind, bluebells,
and bees. They will like the repetitive
pattern of question and answer which
goes on among the animals.

THE FLUTE PLAYER 0F BEPPU, Kathryn
Gallant. Coward McCann, 210 Madi-
son Avenue, New York. Pp. 44. $2.75.

No one in Beppu was so admired and
respected as the flute player. And no
one admired him more than little Sato-
san, who dreamed one day of learning
to play the same magical sounds. The
story of this little Japanese boy will
give youngsters a taste of Oriental life
and manners.

THE SECRET HIDING PLACE, written. and
illustrated by Rainey Bennett. World
Publishing, 2231 West 110th Street,
Cleveland 2. Unpaged. $3.00. “What

fun is a walk with nineteen hippos?”
thought forlorn Little Hippo grouchily.
None at all! So he decided to find a
secret place of his own, and the story of
how he went is mischievous and laugh-
ing. Little readers and bigger readers
will find this book a pleasure. The il-
lustrations are done with light blues,
greens, and pinks in fairy-tale mood.

A JUNGLE IN°THE WHEAT FIELD, written
and illustrated by Egon Mathiesen.
McDowell Oblensky, 219 East 61st
Street. New York 21. Daydreaming
can make it so—when the lizard little
Bandy saw in the drowsy wheat field
changed into an alligator, he rcalized

NOVEMBER 1960

suddenly that the grain had turned into
trees, and that he was in a brightly
colored jungle. The conversations of
the little boy with the plants and ani-
mals in his wheatfield jungle are amus-
ing and wise. This witty book sketches
a fantasy where everything is not quite
what at first it seemed to be.

TORTOISE AND TURTLE, Evelyn Cendel,
illustrated by Hilary Knight. Simon (5’:
Schuster, 630 Fifth Avenue, New York
20. Unpaged. $2.95. This is asmiling-
around-the-edges and a bowing-very-
properly book. The eagerness of young
Turtle and the wise propriety of Tor-
toise are woven into a wholly delectable
story of Doing Things Very Correctly.
Children should gain a lot in learning
niceties from this book, which is not
didactic in the least but nonetheless gets
its point across.

DO YOU HEAR WHAT I HEAR? written
and illustrated by Helen Borten. Abel-
ard-Schunian, 404 Park Avenue, South,
New York. Unpaged. $2.75. The world

is a symphony. The sounds in it are
multitudinous and it makes us think of
so many different, exciting things like
circuses and drowsy things like sum-
mer mornings, all kinds of things. Mrs.
Borten does an excellent job of crystal-
lizing the aural world.

A GAGGLE 0F GEESE, Eve Merriam. Al-
fred A. Kquf, 501 Madison. Avenue,
New York 22. Unpaged. $2.95. A

sometimes amusing, always engrossing
collection of what animals and birds in
groups are called, this book should
hold the interest and fascination of Chil-
dren of all ages. The singularity of some
of the terms and their strangeness is a
real attention-getter.

PLEASE PASS THE GRASS, Leone Adel-

son, illustrated by Roger Duvoisin.

David McKay, 119 West 40th Street,
New York 18. Unpaged. $3.00. This
is a funny and sweet book in which au-
thor and illustrator reach a happy con-
cord. Miss Adelson views just one
thing—grass—in many different ways,
in the eyes of many different creatures.
She will make her reader very aware,
and charmingly so, of the many things
grass is.

OLD MOTHER WEST WIND, Thornton
W. Burgess, illustrated by Harrison
Cady. Little, Brown, 34 Beacon Street,
Boston 6. Pp. 140. $3.95. A golden
anniversary edition Of a forever book,
this is one of those lovely and imagi-
native books which adults remember as
something precious to be passed on to
the next generation. Mr. Cady’s bouncy
illustrations add a warmth and fine-
ness to this delightful edition.

Books & Pamphlets
Received

    

 

Aging

 

AGING IN TODAr’s SOCIETY, Clark Tibbitts
and Wilma Donahue, Editors. Prentice-
Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 418. $6.00.

HANDBOOK OF AGING AND THE INDIVIDUAL.
James E. Birren, Editor. University of Chi-
cago Press, Chicago 37. Pp. 939. $12.50.

REsEARCH PROGRAMs IN AGING, 1959. Super-
intendent of Documents, U.S. Government
Printing OBice, Washington 25, D.C. Pp.
16. $.15.

WHEN YOUR HusBAND RETIREs, Mollie Hart.
Appleton-Century-Crofts, 35 W. 32nd St.,
New York 1. Pp. 172. $3.50.

Books for Children and Young People

ABOUT APPLEs FROM ORCHARD TO MARKET,
Mary Moore Green, pp. 31; ABOUT THE
VEGETABLEs ON YOUR PLATE, Veve Elwell
Allee, pp. 31; ABOUT NEWS AND How IT
TRAVELs, Wilma Willis Simpson, pp. 31;
ABOUT ATOMIC POWER FOR PEOPLE, Ed-
ward and Ruth Radlauer, pp. 47; ABOUT
CAVEs, Terry Shannon, pp. 46; ABOUT FOUR
SEAsONs AND FIVE SENsEs, Ruth Shaw Rad-
lauer; ABOUT OUR FLAG, Elinor Rees,
pp. 31; ABOUT OUR WEATHER, Gertrude

Hevener Gibson, pp. 31; ABOUT SAVING
WILD LIFE FOR TOMORROW, Solveig Paul-
son Russell, pp. 31. Melmont Publishing,

310 S. Racine Ave., Chicago 7. $2.50 each.

AIR ALL AROUND, Tillie S. Pine and Joseph
Levine. Whittlesey House, 330 W. 42nd St.,
New York 36. Pp. 48. $2.50.

ANIMAL FUN BOOK, Frances A. Frey and
Frances W. Keene. Seahorse Press, 620 Es-
planade, Pelham, N. Y. Pp. 112. Paper,
$1.00.

Now: IN THE NIGHT, Anne Alexander. Rand
McNally, Box 7600, Chicago 80. Unpaged.
$2.75.

ONE FIsH, Two FIsH, RED FIsH, BLUE FIsH,
Dr. Seuss. Random House, 457 Madison
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 62. $1.95.

PEETIE THE PACK RAT, AND OTHER DEsERT
STORIEs, Van Clark. Caxton Printers,
Caldwell, Idaho. Pp. 108. $5.00.

PEPITO’S STORY, Eugene Fern. Ariel Books,
101 5th Ave., New York 3. Unpaged. $3.25.

PICTURE FOR HAROLD’s ROOM, A, Crockett
Johnson. Harper SI Bros., 49 E. 33rd St.,
New York 16, Pp. 64. $1.95.

POLAR BEAR BROTHERs, Crosby Newell, with
photographs by Ylla. Harper 8: Bros., 49
E. 33rd St., New York 16. Unpaged. $2.75.

PULCINELLA, Rose Laura Mincieli. Alfred
KnOpf, 501 Madison Ave., New York 22.
Unpaged. $2.95.

RABBIT WHO LosT HIs FUR, THE. Charles E.
Tuttle, Rutland, Vt. Unpaged. $1.25.

SECRET HIDING PLACE, THE, Rainey Bennett.
World Publishing, 2231 W. 110th St..
Cleveland 2. Unpaged. $3.00.

SEEDs ARE WONDERFUL, Willene K. Foster
and Pearl Queree. Melmont Publishers, 310
3. Racine Ave., Chicago 7. Pp. 31. $2.50.

SEE OUR PONY FARM, Elizabeth Laing Stew-
art. Reilly & Lee, 64 E. Jackson Blvd.,
Chicago 4. Pp. 32. $2.50.

SPACE FLIGHT, Lester Dcl Rey. Golden Press,
630 5th Ave., New York 20. Pp. 56. $.50.

 

447

 

SPACE MONKEY, THE TRUE STORY OF MISS
BAKER, Olive Burt. John Day, 210 Madison
Ave., New York 16. Pp. 64. $2.50.

SQUARE AS A HOUSE, Karla Kuskin. Harper
& Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Un-
paged. $2.50.

TAKE A GIANT STEP, Hannelore Hahn. Little,
Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp. 32.

$2.75.
TANNY, Nils Hogner. Henry Z. Walek, 101

5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 48. $2.75.

Christmas and Calendars

BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS HOLIDAY COOK
BOOK. Meredith Publishing, 1716 Locust
St., Des Moines, Iowa. Pp. 160. $2.95.

CHRISTMAS——VOL. 30 (Annual of Christmas
literature and art), Randolph E. Haugan,
Editor. Augsburg Publishing, 425 S. 4th
St., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 68. Paper, $1.50;
cloth, $3.50.

COME TO CHRISTMAS! Anna Laura and Ed-
ward W. Gebhard. Abingdon Press, 201
8th Ave. 5., Nashville 3, Tenn. Unpaged.
$.75.

FLOWER ARRANGEMENT CALENDAR, 1961.
Helen Van Pelt Wilson. M. Barrows, 425
Park Ave. S., New York 16. Unpaged.
Spiralbonnd, $1.50.

LIGHT THE CANDLES (list for Christmas read-
ing), Marcia Dalphin. Horn Books, 585
Boylston St., Boston 16. Pp. 24. Paper,
$1.00.

VERMONT LIFE—1961 CALENDAR. Stephen
Greene Press, 120 Main St., Brattleboro,
Vt. Spiralbound, $1.50.

WHERE’S PRANCER? Syd HoII. Harper &
Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Uno

paged. $1.95.

 

Circle #160 on coupon

alum/.9

_S_I
WITH NEW IDEAS
Program Aids

NOTHING builds heifer programs
and stronger teams Jthan ihese ori-
ginal. one-oI-a-kind problem-solving
work-savers. Get never-before results
with:

O EMSO“ Posters 8: Charis

0 SPOT AWARDS‘ Trophies 8: Cups
0 RECORD-MASTERt "Hallof-Fame" Displays

0 PLAYMASTER' Coaching Aids
0 SCORE-KING' Magnetic Scoreboard

‘Reg. U. 5. Pat. 0ft.

See your Sporting Goods Dealer
or wnie For FREE caialoc io—

IHE PROGRAM ‘105 C0. tee.
Depl. R. 550 Silt Ave., N. I. 36. ii. I.

AAQ

 

Ill and Handicapped, Health

#
ABC'S OF CHILDHOOD DISEASE. Metropolitan

Life Insurance Co., One Madison Ave., New

York 1. Pp. 11. Free.
BLINDNESS—ABILITY, NOT DISABILITY, Maxine

Wood. Public Affairs Committee, 22 E.
38th St., New York 16. Pp. 28. $.25.

CAST OFF THE FETTERS, Carl Burrows. In-

ternatI. See. for the Welfare of CrippIes,
707 lst Ave., New York 17. Pp. 186. $2.95.

CHILD IN THE SHADOWS, Edward L. French,

Ph.D. & J. Cliiiord Scott, MD. J. B. Lip-
pincott, E. Washington Sq., Philadelphia 5,
Pp. 156. $3.50.

CONCERNING THE EDUCATION OF BLIND CHIL-
DREN. Amer. Foundation for the Blind, 15
W. 16th St., New York 11. Pp. 107. Paper,
$1.00.

COUNSELING AND PSYCHOTIIERAPY: THEORY
AND PRACTICE, C. H. Patterson. Harper 8:
Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp.
320. $5.00.

CULTURE AND MENTAL HEALTH, Marvin K.
Opler, Editor. Macmillan, 60 5th Ave., New
York 11. Pp. 533. $8.75.

CULTURE OF THE STATE MENTAL HOSPITAL.
THE, H. Warren Dunhan and S. Kirson
Weinberg. Wayne Univ. Press, 4841 Cass
Ave., Detroit 2, Mich. Pp. 284. $5.00.

DISTURBED CIItLD, THE, Pearl H. Berkowitz
and Esther P. Rothman. New York Univ.
Press, New York 3. Pp. 204. $4.00.

EDUCATION FOR SOCIAL WORKERS IN THE RE-
HABILITATION OF TIIE HANDICAPPED, John J.
Horwitz. Council on Social Work Educa-
tion, 345 E. 46th St., New York 17. Pp. 76.
$2.50.

ESSENTIALS OF HEALTIIIER LIvING, Justus J.
SchiiIeres, Ph.D. John Wiley, 440 Park Ave.

S., New York 16. Pp. 335. $5.50.

HEALTH VALUES, A TEXT AND WORKROOK,
Charles Ebherhardt, Ph.D. and Hyman
Krakower, Ph.D. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
CliiIs. NJ. Pp. 314. Paper, $3.95.

INNER CONFLICT AND DEFENSE, Daniel R. Mil-
ler and Guy E. Swanson. Henry Holt, 383
Madison Ave., New York 17. Pp. 452.

$6.95.

JOBS AND FUTURES IN MENTAL HEALTII WORK,
Elizabeth Ogg. Public Affairs Pamphlets.
22 E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp. 28. $.25.

LANGUAGE DISORDERS IN CHILDREN, Nancy E.
Wood, Ph.D. Natl. Soc. for Crippled Chil-
dren & Adults, 2023 W. Ogden Ave., Chi-
cago 12. Pp. 32. $.50.

MARKED FOR ADvENTURE, Lois Eby. Chilton
Co., 56th & Chestnut Sts., Philadelphia 39.
Pp. 122. $2.95.

MENTAL HEALTH MANPOWER TRENDS, George
W. Albee. Basic Books, 59 Park Ave. S..
New York 3. Pp. 361. $6.75.

MENTAL HYGIENE IN TEACHING, (2nd ed.),
Fritz Redl and William W. Wattenherg.
Harcourt, Brace, 750 3rd Ave., New York
17. Pp. 562. $5.50.

I’HYSICALLY HANDICAFPED HOUSEWIFE, THE.
Internatl. Soc. for the Welfare of Cripplcs,
701 1st Ave., New York 17. Pp. 68. $1.00.

PRINCIPLES AND TECHNIQUES OF PSYCHIATRIC
NURSING (5th ed.), Madclene Elliott ln-
gram, R.N. W. B. Saunders, 218 W. Wash-
ington Sq., Philadelphia 5. Pp. 479. $5.50.

RECREATION FOR PATIENTS IN GENERAL HOS-
PITALS, Beatrice IL Hill and Elliott M.

Cohen. National Recreation Association, 8
W. 8th St., New York 11. Pp. 14. $.35.

REHABILITATION OF THE MENTALLY ILL, Milton

Greenblatt and Benjamin Simon. Amer.

Assoc. for the Advancement of Science, 1515
Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington 5,
D.C. Pp. 250. $5.00.

RING THE NIGHT BELL, PauI B. Magnuson.

Little, Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6.
Pp. 376. $5.00.

SOCIAL SCIENCE IN NURSING, Frances Cooke

Maegregor. Russell Sage Foundation, 505
Park Ave., New York 22. Pp. 354. $5.00.
STARTING A RECREATION PROGRAM IN INSTITU-
TIONS FOR THE ILL OR HANDICAPPED AGED,
Morton Thompson. National Recreation
Association, 8 W. 8th St., New York 11.

Pp. 28. Paper, $1.25.

STUDENT AND MENTAL HEALTH, TIIE, An In-
tenational View. Daniel H. Funkenstein.
World Federation for Mental Health, 162 E.
78th St., New York 21. Pp. 495. $5.00.

HANDROOK 0F STUTTERING FOR PROFESSIONAL
WORKERS, Oliver Bloodstein, Ph.D., Natl.
Soc. for Crippled Children 8' Adults, 2023
W. Ogden Ave., Chicago 12. Pp. 88. Paper,
$1.00.

TEKTBOOK OF HEALTHFUL LIvtNG (6th ed.),
Harold S. Diehl. MeGraw-Hill, 330 W.
42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 484. $6.75.

VENEREAL DISEASE: Old Plague—New Chal-
lenge, T. L. Riehman. Public Affairs Com-
mittee, 22 E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp.

20. 5.25.

ZEN BUDDHISM AND PSYCIIOANALYSIS, Erich
Fromm, D. T. Suzuki, and Richard De Mar-

tino. Harper 8: Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New
York 16. Pp. 180. $4.00.

Magazine Articles

ARTS AND ACTIvtTIES, October 1960
Special Crafts Issuc
IMAGE (Roche Medical), Summer 1960
Puppets Aid Diagnosis Of Disturbed Chil-
dren.
Japanese Doctors OII Call.
JOHPER, September 1960
Special Issue on Fitness
PARENTS’, September 1960
The Use Of Plays for Group Discussion,
Eda J. Leshatt.
Are Giants Real? Judith M. Cutman.
How to Make Teen Drivers Good Drivers.
Jean R. Komat'ki.
A Treasure Hunt Party for Eight to Ten-
Year-Olds. Jean MaeCregor Whelan.
RECREATION MANAGEMENT, October 1960
We Need Recreation to Make Believers
Out Of Non-Believers, Bert M. Walter.
Rest, Recreation Roost Production.

SENIOR CITIZEN, Oetober 1960
Making More of the Retirement Center,

John R. Van's.
Retirement llotels in California, Jennie
M CA I aster.
TODAY’S HEALTH, September 1960
Science Looks at Your J01), John E. Gibson.
Take a Tour of Kentucky. George Laycoek.
, October 1960
The Art of Living Young, James L. Slallery.
Halloween Was a Night to How], Helen

Fislar Brooks.
Look What’s llappening
Chtirley Dickey.
WOMAN’S DAY, October 1960
A Fresh Look at Today’s Youth, Jane White-

bread.
Will Your Child Be a Bored Grownup?

Ardis Whitman.

   

 

 

to Hunting!

RECREATION

Circle #l27 on coupan

.h.—

 

% BOOKS
UPQPIOI'

LE ISU RE rowmc Poo; we

srm UP   ‘ if 

EXCITEMENT

N
m ALL  
AGE GROUPS!  ,

A SOCIAL INQUIRY

By MAX KAPLAN, Boston, University. I ‘ I '   . "  
Deals with leisure in broad perspective,   M  '  "
not simply as a detailed account of what
people do or do not do. Rather, it treats
leisure as one of the “conditions of sur-
vival” in an emerging atomic society. In
the framework of this society, which is

   

  
 
  
   
  

 

 

Dependable Choice of Recreation
Supervisors from Coast to Coast!

   

' - ° - Superior’s professional styling attracts eager participants
seekln a new hil s . . .
g p 0 Ophy’ direcnon’ find . . . helps their game . . . brings them back for more.

values’ leisure 15 treated as a pOtentml Superior folding pool tables are manufactured in sizes up

source Of real meaning and value. to 8 feet, with optional table tennis top—the greatest

1960. 350 pages. $7.50 value ever ofiered in a space-saving pool table for rugged

institutional use. Ask us to show you proof!
Send now for your on-approval copy

JOHN WILEY 8. SONS, Inc.
440 Park Avenue South, New York 16, N. Y.

Write for complete catalog today.

SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORP., 520 Caster Street, New York 59, N. Y.
Table Tennis Tables 0 Table Tennis Sets 0 Shuttle Board 0 Poker Tables

1961 National Recreation Association District Conference Schedule

(TENTATIVE)

DISTRICT DATES lOCATlON HOTEL

Middle Atlantic January l8-20 Pocono Manor, Pa. Pocono Manor Inn

New England May 22-25 Manchester, Vermont Equinox Hotel

Midwest April I2-l4 Cedar Rapids, Iowa Roosevelt Hotel

Great Lakes April l4-l7 Muskegon. Michigan Occidental Hotel
Southern April 4-6 Jacksonville, Florida George Washington Hotel
Pacific Northwest April 9-l2 Tacoma, Washington Winthrop Hotel
Southwest April 4-7 Tulsa. Oklahoma Hotel Tulsa

California and Feb. 25-March | Los Angeles. Calif. Statler Hotel
Pacific Southwest

 

Circle #lol on coupon

 

The boom in trampolining can
be a real boon to your recrea-
tion program. With trampoline
centers popping up all over the
country, trampolining has be-
come America’s fastest-grow-
ing sport. Take advantage of
this unprecedented popularity.
Schedule trampolining on your
program and watch how fast
interest and excitement mount!
But get the best — specify
American Trampolines! Only
American Trampolines offer
you triple-bridged leg con-
struction and other exclusive
 features for longer life . . . bet-
. ter balance . . . and superior
performance. With American’s
newly increased production fa-
cilities, you’ll also get imme-
diate delivery. Write today for

our new catalog and prices.
Yours FREE for the asking!

 

Na special skill needed to trampoline—
all the bays (and girls) can partucipatel

 

American Trampolines fold up easily and
qunckly for storage and transportation

  
 

FREE-WaII Charts, Lesson Plans and LARRY GRISWOLD "Trampoline
Tumbling" Textbook with each AMERICAN TRAMPOLINE

In“

a!!!

American Trampolines Meet AII
A.A.U. and N.C.A.A. specifications

,./ —Are Guaranteed Highest Quality

   
   

AMERICAN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY, JEFFERSON 20, IOWA

If it's an AMERICAN Trampoline. it's the FINEQT

