 

HAVE YOU BEEN LOOKING FOR...

 

152. THE CAMP PROGRAM BOOK.
Catherine T. Hammett and Vir-
ginia M usselman.

A one-volume camping encyclo-
pedia covering program planning.
outdoor living, sports, arts and

crafts, specific programs, pageants.
380 pp. 5.00

827. ABC’S OF CAMP MUSIC.
Janet E. Tobitt.

A reference book for counselors of
songs suitable for campers of all
ages as well as dramatized ballads
and folk dances. 46 pp.

Paper .75*

145. ADMINISTRATION OF THE
MODERN CAMP. Hedley S. Di-
moek, Ed.

Outlines functions, principles, and
procedures of camp management
for the director and staff. Articles
from 11 contributors. 283 pp.

5.00*

1491. CREATIVE NATURE
CRAFTS. Robert 0. Bale.

Directions for projects made out of
materials from nature such as
rocks, horn, bones, bark, etc. In-
eludes dried fiowers, nature jewelry
and prints, straw crafts, and many
more. Bibliography. Illustrated.
Spiral-bound. 120 pp. Paper 2.50

1416. OUTDOOR RAMBLES. Sm-
art L. Thompson.

An invitation to enjoy fully the
world around us by acquiring “the

Books on Camping?

1198. THE COMPLETE BOOK OF
CAMPFIRE PROGRAMS. LaRue
A. Thurston.

Contains all aspects of a successful
campfire adaptable to any camp:
the circle of friendship, program
activities, attitudes of the leader,
and leadership techniques. lllustra-
tions. 318 pp. 5.95

564. FOR THE STORYTELLER.
National Recreation Assn.

How to select stories and how to
tell them effectively. With a bibli-
ography. 36 pp. Paper .85

1209. YOUR OWN BOOK OF
CAM PCRAFT. Catherine T. Ham-
mett.

Describes the skills that make a
good camper. Packing food and
equipment; knot-tying; fire-build-
ing; cooking; preparing a bedroll,
etc. For picnicker, camper or
scout group. Illustrated. 197 pp.

Paper.35*

Books on Nature?

hearing ear and the seeing eye."
Sights and sounds on rambles
through the woods and down the
river. Illustrated. 147 pp. 3.50

1290. THE TREE IDENTIFICA-
TION BOOK. George W. D. Sy-
mONdS.

1539 pictures to help identify 130
different trees. In two sections:
Pictorial Keys, showing fruit, bark,
flowers, etc.: Master Pages, show-
ing member of the family. Side-
edge indexed. 272 pp. 10.00

783. CREATIVE CRAFTS FOR
CAMPERS. Catherine T. Ham-
mett and Carol M. Horrocks.

An emphasis on outdoor arts and
crafts in organized camps and for
handcrafters of all ages. 175 proj-
ects using nature’s designs and ma-

terials. 431 pp. 7.95

149. CAMP COUNSELING. (2nd
ed.) A. Viola Mitchell and Ida
8. Crawford.

Complete, up-to-date guide to
camping—how to handle problem
campers, instructions for teaching
crafts, music, sports, etc. 406 pp.

4.75*

1395. HANDBOOK OF CAMP

MAINTENANCE. Alan A. Na-
titans.

Presents procedures in mainte-

nance Of eamps that need not be
done by skilled artisans. Guide to
basic maintenance programs and
procedures for equipment, build-
ings, and grounds. Glossary. ll-

lustrated. 240 pp. 7.95

481. ADvENTURING IN NATURE.
Betty Price.

A booklet of ideas for nature activ-
ities for all seasons. 95 pp.

Paper 1.25

 

For your convenience order by number from the Recreation Book Center

National F1e:c::*lon Association

 

II "—'-II—-——“--'--‘.-—

- 8 West 8th Street

° New York II, . 'ew York

 

 

 we. a

MAOGREOR

for good sports everywhere!

Whatever your in-season sports program, MacGregor athletic
equipment can help make it a popular success. Golf, tennis,
softball, baseball— just about any sport comes off better when
MacGregor balls and equipment are used. Generations of ath-
letic-minded men and women, boys and girls, have looked to
MacGregor for the finest in all sports equipment. Give your
program a boost by providing the best . . . MacGregor for all
good sports. MacGregor equipment is available from sporting
goods dealers everywhere.

"The Choice of Those Who Ploy The Come" 8 Subsidiary

THE MACGREGOR (20., Cincinnati 32. Ohio ' BASEBALL ' FOOTBALL ' BASKETBALL ' GOLF ‘ TENNIS

MARCH 1960 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

      

97

 

E VER Y REEREA TION PROGRAM NEEDS THESE:

 
    

COTTON CANDY . . SN

at ,

     

   
   
 

Whirlwind
Cotton Candy
Machine

  
   

    
 

   

Popcorn

Machine
$199.00

Sno-Konette

 - ‘- Ice Shaver
$5,000 ANNUAL PROFIT! $149.50

Don't handicap your program for lock of funds. Refresh-
menl Profits give you 10% more funds. Write for free 32-
poge booklet which tells how easily your department can

earn them. Free lZO-poge catalog and descriptive literature
is also yours for the osldng. Write today.

    
    

——-—_-—.

 
   
 

    
  
 
   

 

cow MEDAL PRODUCTS (0.

(ll'KllililTl 2, m

 

hlllehourd

Fun For Everyone !

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-
tion for all ages . . . lzeen enioymenf
for players and spectators.

Rugged. Dimco FreeGlide Shuffle-
board sets are available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . law in uplteepl
Write today for colorful folder, "Let’s

Play Shame-board,” containing com-

plete information on conrt layout and
equipment.

DlMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SlXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting lime recording inventory costs,
handing out bolls and paying top prices for low

quality bolls. Install this ottroctive, cost-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Boll Meter NOWI

 

Leosed FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operotion
assured-return machine for FREE repoir. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V: x 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 bolls—
dispenses each for l0¢. Cholce of 3 grades of
top quality bolls. Use profit to maintain and re-
ploce paddles, nets, etc. No risk guorontee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wosting Their Time."

T. f. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

‘M "if hil'i"

l SHENANDOAH. PENNA.

 
    

V-

1'. r."'r.i

 

98 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

RESOURCES AND
REFERENCES

 

A Guide to Organizing Fainin
Camps was prepared to help anyone in-
terested in using camp facilities for or-
ganized family camping. The informa-
tion and suggestions came from groups
and individuals who have used family
camps in Illinois. The 24-page pam-
phlet gives details of family “camptiv-
ity,” from organization and setup to
programs and activities for family par-
ticipation as well as individual partici-
pation. Available for five cents from
College of Agriculture, University of
lllinois, Urbana.

The Crisis in Open Land is a valu-
able eontribution to the literature set-
ting forth the need for open space in
America. In addition to pointing out
the need, however, the eonunittee that
prepared this publication urges a pro-
gram of action and suggests steps that
should be taken in order to meet the
situation. This profusely illustrated
pamph'et merits careful study and is
available from the American Institute
of Park Executives, Wheeling. West
Virginia. for one dollar.

Educational Displays and Exhibits is
an attractive, 47-page pamphlet full of
suggestions and techniques for better
planned displays and exhibits, so im-
portant in publicizing your agency and
program. Often recreation leaders and
directors fail to communicate effectively
with their eonununity and the public
because they lack good public-relations
materials. Here are procedures and
ideas for preparing bulletin-board dis-
plays, exhibits, and dioramas. As the
booklet explains, “in evaluating the ef-
feetiveness of a display or an exhibit,
the most important questions to con-
sider are: Does it attract attention?
Does it arouse and hold interest? The
exhibitor. through careful planning,
must satisfy these requirements. This
he does through the elements of design,
line, texture, space. pattern, and color.
He may use these elements to achieve,
movement, balance, emphasis or con-

trast, and unity of the overall plan.”
Available for $2.00 from Visual in-
struction Bureau. University of Texas,

Austin 12.

RECREATION

 

MARCH 1960

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERCAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

ASSISTANT EDITORS
JEAN WACHTEL ELVIRA DELANY

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

VOL. Ell]. Price 50 Cents No. 3

 

0n the Cover

Concentrating as only children can, these young-
stcrs go after water bug or fish as part of their camp
nature program—an activity not found on the city
playground. Photo courtesy Drew Morton, from the
National Audubon Society.

Next Month

Pixics, pirates, and puppcts—you name it, you’ll
find it, in April’s Playground Issue. Here is mate-
rial ready at hand for playground planning and
leadership training. Included are “Uniform Outfits
for Leaders?”; “Patterns for Playgrounds”; l“A Nau-
tical Play Community,” illustrating the importance
of careful planning and placing of cquipmcnt; and
many other uscful articles. “Playgrounds Abroad”
is a picture story of play areas and facilities in hous-
ing projects in Switzerland, Germany, Denmark.
Right out of the headlines are recreation trends in
' today’s play areas in America’s motels, trailer parks,
and housing developments, an article on recreation
and delinquency, and the story of a successful com-
munity art council in Richmond, Virginia.

Photo Credits

Page 106, Hal H. Harrison, National Audubon So-
ciety; 107, William Z. Harmon, Sarasota, Florida;
112 (left) and 113, C. Greenberg, New City, New
York; 116-7. Edward H. Coldberger, St. Louis, Mis~
sonri; 122, Florida Park Service, Tallahassee; 124-5,

.lamcs Madison, National Recreation Association;
129 (top), Harry C. Asbury, Brattleboro, Vermont.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association. a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8
West Eighth Street. New York 11. New York. is on
tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Readerr’
Gm’de. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re—entered as second-class
matter April 25. 1950. at the Post OBice in New York.
New York under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Seetion 1103. Act of anber 3. 1917, authorized May
1, 1924. Microtilms of current issues available Uni-

versity Microfilms. 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor.
Michigan.

Spare Representatives: Mark Minahan. 185 North Wa-
bash Avenue. Chicago 1. Illinois.

Copyright, 1960. by the
National Recreation Association. Incorporated

b Printed in the U.S.A. 
' «one 

’ Trade mark registered in U. 5. Patent OHice.

 

 

MARCH 1960

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES
Camps or Channel 9? (Editorial) . . . .Elizabeth B. Spear 100

The Four “F’s” of Camping . . . . . . . .JIrlI'an H. Salomon 106
St. Paul Revitalizcd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Robert A. Lobdell 110
Daniel Boone Roams Again . . . . . . . . . . . .Dorotlty Spear 116
Accent on Youth in Asia (Part II) . . . .Sterling S. Winans 124
Protection Against Lightning During Storms . . . . . . . . . . 128
ADDIINISTRATION
Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Are You Looking for Camp Land? . . .Stanley W. Stacker 132
A Stndy Report of Maintenance Problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134-

Contracting for Recreation Leadership

Charles F. Wecktoerth 135

State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136
PROGRADI
Campfire Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lois Goodrich 109
Day Camp Patterns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
Keep the Campfircs Burning . . . . . . . Joseph IV. Halper 119
The Family Outdoors
Camps and Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122

A Famin Vacation Night . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123

Suggested Camp Swimming Reguiations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123

Fun with Nature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126

A Progressive Camping Program . . . . . . . . . . .Diane Link 127

Don’t Take the Playground to Camp
Catherine T. Hammett 129

Recreation Afloat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William H. Rarlke 130

Successful Boating Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134

REGULAR FEATURES

   
 

Resources and References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98

Letters  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . ..102

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104

A Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120

Markcthws . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . ......138

Classified Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140
Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
Magazine Articles, Recordings, Books and

Pamphlets Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14-4
DU CATIONAL
EgggiATloN The articles herein printed are the expres-

OF sion of the writers and not a statement at
AMER [ CA . . policy at the National Recreation Association.
I O I

99

Editorial

CAMPS
0R

CHANNEL 9?

Elizabeth B. Spear

100

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
    
   
 
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
 

ORGANIZED CAMPING has proved its value in its first century. It proved
itself in its early years in a world relatively ordered and peaceful and,
even more convincingly, in later troubled decades. How much more vital
is its potential contribution today in a world grown suddenly smaller, a
world of tension, of cold war, crime, and confusion.

The American Camping Association is observing its golden jubilee in
1960. And the year 1961 will mark the one hundredth anniversary of the
establishment of probably the first organized camp in the United States.

What has happened in these hundred years that is worthy of commemo-
ration? Revealing answers could be found in the experiences of millions
of boys and girls and, in the past few decades, also of families and older
peOple, who have camped under private and public agency and individual
auspices.

What can a summer, or even a week or two, in a good camp give to a
girl or boy? Camp days can be more or less routine, a continuation of
activities campers have been experiencing; or they can open up whole new
fields of adventure, exciting interests and skills. It will be a sorry day for
camping if the cartoon depicting several campers complaining, “They
might at least have told us before they got us up here that they can’t get
Channel 9,” should ever actually reflect camp program patterns.

Friendships, learning of skills, adventure, healthful living, and fun are
normal expectations for a camping experience, and perhaps as far as many
campers go in anticipation. A children’s camp is a child’s world into which
he goes from an adult world. It is a world that exists solely for him, based
on his interests and geared to his needs. He has a part in planning what
goes on in his world—~a growing experiencc in itself.

In this world he is a person in his own right; his individual interests,
needs, abilities, aspirations count; he isn’t forced into the same mold as
all of his tent mates. In camp he can develop a measure of independen
and self-reliance, with understanding guidance, and yet not bc confuse
by undisciplined liberty.

The camper lives in a setting that provides a favorable climate for r
ducing differences to a common denominator. Differences in background
whether of color or creed, clothes or the number of cars in the family g
rage, are of comparatively little consequence—an individual is accepte
and respected for himself.

Instead of the clatter, the confusion, and, often, drabness of urban sur
roundings, he is living in a world of sunshine, bird songs, green trees, blu
waters, of timid little animals—~a world of beauty and friendliness. Dr
Harry Emerson Fosdick tells the story of a little girl who on secing her
first rainbow, exclaimed cxcitcdly, “0h, mother, what’s that advcrtising?’

What better place than camp to counteract this alarmingly increasi ._
emphasis on the material? What better place to encourage the idealism, to
often latent, but still there, in children? Spiritual eyes and cars can
opened in the midst of God’s handiwork.

Someone has said, “Camp provides good growing weather but w
haven’t always been good gardeners.” The values of camp for a chil

will depend on the skills, the convictions, and the vision of the camp-sta
“gardeners.” #

MRS. SPEAR is director of camping, Division 0/ Program Services, Camp Fire Girls, Inc.

RECREATION

Physical Fitness is
FUN

WITH SAFE-T-PLAY EQUIPMENT

 
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   

’

l

  

 

VARIED ACTIVITIES, not monotony, are needed

to deve10p and hold the interest and enthusiasm of
students. Unless they enjoy their activities, youngsters
can’t fully reap the potential benefits of a physical

. Polo-Hockey ond many other exciting gomes
education program.

are ployed with the Cosom Sofe-T-Mallet.

DOZENS OF ENJOYABLE GAMES can be played 
indoors with Safe-T-Play equipment: new adaptations
of softball, baseball, hockey, touch football and many
other well liked games that avoid the lethargy of
routine calisthenics.

THE SHORTER FLIGHT AND GREATER SAFETY

of COSOM polyethylene equipment permit entire classes
to take part in active indoor games. These items provide
a happy answer to the indoor physical activity needs of
hundreds of schools and institutions across America.
And, they can for you, too! Find out for yourself.
Investigate the Safe-T-Play line today.

   

COSOM

SAFE-T-Pllio

‘5 é
“Oouo‘

COSOM INDUSTRIES, INC.

6020 Wayzata Boulevard
Minneapolis 16, Minn.

Sofe-T-Bot and Scoop ore combined to bring
outdoor gomes safely indoors for entire closses.

  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
   

     
 

There is an end-
less variety of
Scoop Ball
g a m e s to r
every oge from
_ " first grade
through high
school.

 
 
  
   
 
  
   

This helpful new
book is FREE!
Ask your school
supply dealer
or write Cosom
for your copy.

   
  
  
  
 

 
 

Safe, puncture-proof Fun Football is ideal for touch
ond flog games, poss proctice ond play polishing.

“##-

MARCH 1960 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 101

102

 

’How-to’ instruction — Rules 
Advice of the experts "

RONALD
SPORTS BOOKS

From the publishers of
THE RONALD SPORTS lIBRARY

Baseball—Softball—

Baseball Play and Strategy,
Ethan Allen

Baseball Techniques Illustrated,
Ethan Allen

How to Pitch, Boh Feller
Baseball, Dan Jessee

Softball, 3rd Ed.,
Arthur T. N are»

Basketball—

The Bee-Norton Basketball Series,
Claire Bee 61 Ken Norton

$5.50
2.95
2.95
2.95

2.95

5 volumes: $14.75
The Science of Coaching,
2nd Ed. 2.95
Basketball Fundamentals
and Techniques, 2nd Ed. 2.95
Individual and Team
Basketball Drills, 2nd Ed. 2.95
Man-to-Man Defense and
Attack, 2nd Ed. 2.95
Zone Defense and Attack,
2nd Ed. 2.95
Basketball Illustrated,
Howard Hohson 2.95
Basketball Techniques Illustrated,
"Fordy” Anderson 2.95
Football—
Fundamental Football,
]ames "Gib" Holgate 2.95
Offensive Football,
Jordan Olivar 2.95
Touch Football,
John Gromhach 2.95
Football Techniques Illustrated,
Jim Moore 2.95
Six-Man FOOtball, Rev. Ed.,
Ray 0. Duncan 2.95
Other Sports—
Tennis for Beginners,
Bill Er Chet Murphy 2.95
Tennis Techniques Illustrated,
lVynn Mace 2.95
Modern Bowling Techniques,
Junie McMahon Er
M. Goodman 2.95
Riding Simplified,
Margaret Cahell Self 2.95
Jumping Simplified,
Margaret Cahell Self 2.95
Golf Illustrated,
Patty Berg Er Mark C03: 2.95
Archery, Natalie Reichart Er '
_ Gilmart Keasey 2.95

Selected Recreation Titles—

Recreation Activities for the
Handicapped, F rederich M.

Chapman 5.75
Social Games for Recreation,
2nd Ed., Evelyn Borst Er
Elmer D. Mitchell 5.50
Recreation Areas, 2nd Ed.,
George D. Butler. 6.00
Sports for Recreation, Rev. Ed.,
Elmer D. Mitchell et al 6.50

Write for complete list of books in the
Ronald Sports library

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY
15 East 26th Street, New York 10

 

-oo

' o . o . . ' o . o.
. . o o . . . . . . O . o.
0 o . ° 0 O o o 0'

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11 ——so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

My Child Was Robbed!

Open letter to all camp directors:

I sent my child to camp last summer,
and he was robbed blind! My young-
ster is an ordinary fellow except to his
mother and me.

Like most small boys, his packing
would have consisted of a fishing rod,
a supply of bent pins, a hunting knife,
two or three marbles, and my old army
kit bag. His mother naturally managed
to insert a few nonessentials like clean
socks and underwear, dry shoes. He
thought poorly ofuthem all.

“I’m gonna live in the water all day,”
he stated firmly. “W addya think I need

clean socks and shoes for?”

He had such high hopes for that
camp. He was going to fish whenever
he wanted, with his bent pins. He was
going to whittle a birdhouse and maybe
a pipe rack for me. Hc was going to
build a raft and a treehouse, and have
a secret club. He was going to learn
to ride horseback and swing a ropc,
like a rcal cowboy. He was going to
cook his dinner in a hilly can and sleep
on a rock. He was even going to swim
across the lake if he felt like it. He’d
learn to use a bow and arrow like Robin
Hood, and his trusty band would be the
scourge of Shcrwood. . . .

We assured him that we would not
consider him dead if we didn’t hear
from him, but I know his mother
fclt a little tearful. Not me, I was
thrilled. Now, for once, the boy was
going to be on his own——-away from his
parents who naturally were prejudiced
in his favour—away from TV and the
predigested books, away from the radio
and incessant canned music-—-away
from everything that was turning him
into a little vegetable.

What happened? We aren’t too surc.
The dircctor doesn’t seem aware that
[here was anything unusual about J im’s
summcr. He looks wonderful tanned,
strong, and an inch taller. His appctite
is biggcr than one would believe possi-
blc. Who knows what happened?

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

-—-The Editors.

“Did you get to play Robin Hood?”
we asked.

“Well, yeah, but there was this coun-
selor, see, who was in charge of archery
and he said we always had to be very
careful when we were shooting, so we
did it all to numbers. Then he arranged
a big tournament and made a lot of lists
and put them on the bulletin board, but
I dunno, we didn’t seem to want to
much. I think he was mad, sort of.
Then the counselors put on a demon-
stration of how you should shoot, but
me and Skinny went fishing. And heck,
was there ever a row! Mac said we
weren’t cooperating.”

“Did you make your birdhouse and
the pipe rack?” we asked again.

“Yeah, they had a dandy craft shop
with a whole lot of power tools. Course,
they were pretty dangerous, so the coun-
selors used them. When we wanted
something cut we took it to thc guy in
charge of crafts and he did it for us.
They had a lot of lcatherbnrning stuff,
too, with a littlc kit with pictures al-
ready on the stuff.”

“How about the tripping?” we asked
a littlc tcntatively. “Good food, I bct.”

“Yeah, it was all right, but the second
day out it started to rain and Mac came
and got us in the truck. The first night
out me and Skinny caught some fish and
wanted to eat them but the counselor
said we were having some of the jiffy-
pack stqu you add water to and that
we’d bettcr not cook the fish. I kept
mine for awhile but it started to stink.
so I threw it out.”

“What did you like best at camp?"
we tricd again.

“The swimming, you bet. Really got
my divc good and they passed my test.
Skinny couldn’t dive so good but they
passcd him too ’cause he wanted to go
on the trip and he couldn‘t without his
swimming tcst. Kinda corny, after I'd
worked so hard on mine."

“Did you manage to build your raft
and your trechouse?”

“Yeah, well, see, the raft wouldn’t
work cause the swim area was all roped

RECREATION

oil and that was the only safe place to
have it. But we built a dandy trechouse.
The counselor did all the hard parts like
the roof and around the windows, but
we carried the boards and sent them up
to him on a rope thing he’d rigged up.
But we didn’t play in it much. . . .”

Faint, but pursuing, we tried once
more, “The riding was a big success,
though, wasn’t it?”

“Oh gosh, that was real good fun.
We had to get up early when we were
on stable duty and turn the horses out
for water. Then we mucked out the
stables and put clean bedding down.
Then we fed the horses and cleaned
them and cleaned tack. Say, did you
know there were twenty-two parts to a
bridle and they all had to come to
pieccs? We had to know all about feed-
ing and care of horses, too. Bill made
us takc notes, and, at the end, we had
a quiz and I camc second. Those of us
who got highest marks got to groom
the horses for the big show the last
Saturday.”

“Weren’t you riding in the show?”
we inquired.

“Heck no, I wasn’t good enough for
that. But I sure learned a lot about
horses and I want a book for my birth-
day on care and feeding of horses.”

“Any wild animals up there?” we
asked.

“Well, I dunno. We saw a couple
of tracks and wanted to follow them,
but our bunk was supposed to be at
canoeing so we couldn’t. I looked them
up in a book and the guy starled telling
me all about them, but when I went back
to find them they were gone. We saw
a deer once, but we were on our way
to flag raising so we had to hurry. Us
kids had been late three times in a
row, and if we’d been late again we
wouldn’t have got to the movies. . . .”

“Movies?” we asked faintly.

“Yeah, you know, Westerns and stuff
like that there. They were keen. We
had ’em every Saturday and whenever
it rained. And speaking of rain, feel
my muscle. I got that building a wall
down near the beach. We had this great
flood one day, see, and half the bank
started washing away, so some of us got
out thcre in our bathing suits and
started tossing rocks into the holes.

We were having a good time, but of

course we could only do the rock part.
Mac got somc guys from the village and
they resodded and planted trees and
filled in the rocks with cement.”

The director phoned this spring to
see if Jim was going back to camp. We
asked Jim and he looked doubtful.

“I dunno,” he said slowly, “I think
I’d like to go to a ranch this summer
where they have a horse for every kid
and you do all your own work and look
after the horscs and clcan stables, and

MARCH 1960

 

mend fences and all that kind of thing.”

“It’s pretty hard work,” we count-
ered, “and they don’t have all the other
things you have at camp. No water-
skiing, no sailing, crafts, or riflery.”

“Yeah, I know,” he answered though t-
fully, “but I think you might really get
to learn something. Do you think I
could, Dad? Skinny wants to, too.”

Perhaps, I thought. Perhaps here,
too, they might rob him blind. But it
was surely worth a try—JOYCE BER-
TRAM, director, Camp Quareaa, Quebec.
Condensed with permission, from Cana-
dian Camping, June 1959.

Outdoor Nature Classrooms

Sirs:

Your magazine is doing a fine job,
but I would like to see more articles on
“outdoor nature classrooms.” Our
county is just embarking into the ficld
of buying land for forest preserves. Our
little grade school just built a new
school on a virgin twenty acres, and we
intend to landscape the grounds and
create an outdoor nature classroom as
we have natural logs and can acquire all
the trees, shrubs, wildflowers, and
mosses native to this area. We have al-
ready started a community landscaping
project and planted some shrubs and
bulbs so as to have spring flowers. If
any of your readers have started an out-
door nature classroom we would like
to know just what they have done or are
doing to create more interest in our
natural surroundings.

I was born in Chicago, in 1886, and
enjoyed the woods around Chicago as
a boy before Chicago and Cook County
acquired their now famous forest pre-
serves. I know the value of forest pre-
serves as recreational areas. As a 4-H
leader and Boy Scout counselor in
forestry, I realize that if more state and
communities do not plan on buying up
our native woods soon, they will for-
ever lose what God gave us to conserve.

Thousands of nature lovers travel
miles to visit the Morton Arboretum
at Lisle, Illinois, or Whitnall Park at
Halcs Corner, Wisconsin, made avail-
able by folks who had foresight enough
to save these wonderful spots so our
citizens can enjoy them.

WILLIAM R. LAECHELT, R. R. 2, Box
42, Mandelein, Illinois.

 

11)(3()
\‘S'l It'l’lo‘ I [()I.‘Hl¢
( 21.13.. I4'I'1Iu! [1' I\( 71:.

rs - M: an: '\

AT“ 3 m

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

You can raise $500
or more in 6 days
this easy way

Sell famous 11103011

Candies and in 4 to 15 days
your group can make

$300 to $2,500

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. If you decide to go
ahead you don’t risk a cent.—you pay noth-
ing in advance. We supply on consignment
your choice of FOUR VARIETIES of famous
Mason Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a hand printed
with your organization’s name and picture.
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don’t sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make
$12.00 on every 30 sales of our $1.00 box
(66%% profit to you on cost). There’s no
risk! You can’t lose. Mail in coupon today
for information about MASON’S PROTECTED
FliND RAISING DRIVES.

r ______________ __
Mr. EDWIN STOYE, Dept. RM-3 1

Mason, Box 549, Mineola. N.Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me, without

obligation, information on your Fund
Raising l’lan.

Age if under 21.
Address. .

()rganizatii .u

 

I’hone- . .

I |
I I
j I

I
I I
: Names. _ _ . I
l I
l I
I I
I I
I I
I 1

Mason (audios, Inc... Mineola, L. 1., N. Y.

103

WHEREVER

CHILDREN PLAY

Saree!

Recreation equipment with
engineered safety to meet
the most rigid requirements.

0 Playground Equipment
0 Indoor Basketball Backstops
0 Swimming Pool Equipment

Literature for each line avail-
able on request—please specify.

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED

RECREATION
EQUIPMENT CORP

Dept. R160 — 72-1 W. 8th St.
Anderson, Indiana

 

 

Eliminate old fashioned

basket checking
REDUCE PAYROLLS

Modern, serve-self Sentinel Lockers
do away with old-style bags and
baskets. prevent pilfering and rid
you of the risk of custody liability.

Patrons like the improved serv-
ice. too. No standing in line, more
privacy and higher security for
clothes and other personal pos-
sessions.

Coin-and-key operated lockers
mean a big increase in your rev-
enue as well as payroll savings . . .
enough to pay for the investment
over and over again.

Now is the time to get the com-
plete Sentinel story . . . there's no
obligation. Write . . .

. SENTINEI.

COIN - AND - KEY

OPERATED CHECKING SYSTEMS

THE. FLXIBLE COMPANY
_ LpUDONVILLE', omo

 

104

 

 

IMPORTANT

READERS ARE ASKED to answer the
following important questions: (a)
What is your thinking in regard to
the most useful type of publications
workshop for our National Congress
in Washington? Would you attend
an editors’ problem clinic? A train-
ing session? (b) Do you publish
any kind of printed material? An-
nual report? Promotion fliers? Bul-
letins? Programs? If so, please
send us the name of publications,
name of editor and length of his
term in this capacity, and address.

We are making up a mailing list so
that people working on publications
can exchange information, sample
products, get help.

Please send your answer to Dorothy
Donaldson, Secretary, National Ad-
visory Committee on Publication of
Recreation Materials.

 

) COMING NEXT MONTH! Your annual
Playground Issue of RECREATION, with
new playground ideas “bustin out all
over.” See that all members of your
staff have their own copy, if they don’t
now subscribe. ORDER NOW. Use as a re-
source in your playground planning
and in training playground leaders.
Supplement with your playground is-
sues of last year and the year before
that. They are still good.

> NEW ATLAS WILL LIST CAMPGROUNDS.
Initial printing of a new publication to
be called Campground Atlas, said to be
the first of its kind to include all fifty
states, as well as the provinces of Can-
ada, is scheduled to come off press on
April 1, 1960. One hundred and sixty
information-packed pages will cover
over 5,500 campgrounds, including fed-
eral, state, county, municipal, and pri-
vately owned; numbered and keyed to
index of states and provinces; gives
detailed directions for reaching each
campground.

Coauthors are staff members of a
well-known state university. Price will
be $3.50 and includes all shipping costs.
Order by sending cash, check, or money
order to Alpine CeOgraphieal Press,

When writing to our advertisers please mention REenEATION.

Pre-Order Department 21, Station A,
Champaign, Illinois.

) LOOKING AIIEAD to Library Week in
April, are your plans for observations
completed? Do you promote reading
as recreation, use it as background or
springboard to program? Well-known
educator Hughes Mearns, points out in
his book Creative Power, The Educa-
tion of Youth in the Creative Arts,‘
“Reading, including the dramatization
that goes with reading, silent or openly
played, is one of the important foods of

the creative life.”
1‘

) TIIE CONFERENCE FOR NATIONAL CO-
OPERATION IN AQUATICS, of which the
National Recreation Association is a
member, is conducting a Study of Sue-
cessfully Revived Water Cases (per-
sons recovered from the water who are
unconscious and not breathing and are
ultimately revived). The objective: to
gather information (a) 011 the ellieaey
of various methods of artificial respira-
tion, (b) a more effective way of rescue,
(e) that could be utilized for mass safe-
ty education.

Carefully prepared questionnaires
have been developed for use in the
study. One is intended for the rescued
drowning victim; the other is to be used
by the rescuer. An attempt will he made
to secure information on a worldwide
basis. Readers of RECREATION or NRA
members who have any knowledge of
instances of successfully revived water
cases are requested to participate. Ad-
ditional information about the study
and questionnaire forms may be ob-
tained from Richard L. Brown, Amer-

iean National Red Cross, 18th and E
Streets, N.W., Washington 13, D. C.

D THE 14TII ANNUAL SHORT COURSE for
editors is announced for state commis-
sioners, directors, editors, by Oklahoma
State University, from March 21 to 26,
1960. A separate section will be main-
tained for conservation editors. The
conservation section includes intensive
study of problems peculiar to the edit-
ing of conservation magazines. It will

be headed by Bruce Kilgore, editor of

*Dover Publications, (Rev. ed.). paper.
$1.50.

RECREATION

 

Vational Parks Magazine and assistant
0 the executive secretary of the Na-
ional Parks Association, Washington,

3. C.

’ WANTED: News and stories about any
lnique or “different” program gimmick
sr equipment that you used in your
‘lalloween program last year or are
)lanning to use this year. Deadlines:
day 1 or June l—our deadlines for the
September and October issues of REC-
tEATlON. Please be sure to enclose
good, clear, glossy photographs illus-
rating your story. Good pictures liven
1p an article or news note.

* NEW EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT of
(eep America Beautiful is Allen H.
Seed, Jr., assistant director of the tia-
ional Municipal League for the past ten
rears, and former president of the Na-
ional Association of Civic Secretaries.

* A REMINDER THAT the White House
:onference on Children and Youth
neets at the invitation of President Ei-
senhower March 27 to Anril 2. 1960.
An entire section will he devoted to the
)rohlems of “youth in conflict.”

* IN SESSION THIS MONTH: American
Samping Association National Conven-
.ion, California Masonic Temple, San
Francisco, March 2 to 5, 1960. This
narks the fiftieth anniversary of service
3y the American Camping Association.
:ongratulations ACA!

* PLEASE SEND A COPY of your annual
report to the National Recreation Asso-
3iation every year. We look forward to
seeing these. We use them! Do you
remember us?

t MANUSCRIPTS FOR RECREATION MAG-
AZINE: Please send us the original typed
zopy of your article, not a carbon; and
ion’t forget to enclose a stamped, self-
addressed envelope if you want it re-
turned—in case it is not used.

t DID YOU KNOW THAT your camp-
counselor trainingr can earn college
credit? Would you be interested in

having a college faculty man act as a
resource person at your training ses-
sions? If so, read Robert W. Harlan’s
article in the January 1960 Camping
Magazine.

     
 
 
 
 
   
   

ARE YOU ONE or THE PEOPLE who
has picked up Bob Kresge’s splendid
idea of having your playground con-
tribute to the Joseph Lee Fund? If
so, congratulations! This is the time

of year to be thinking about it again,
for 1960. ( For details see RECREA-

TION, April 1958, Page 109) .

MARCH 1960

 

How to Play

and Teach
VOLLEYBALL

J. EDMUND WELCH,
Editor

World’s third most pop-
ular team sport—fully
explained with illustrations by 12 top cx-
perts. \Vill help both experienced and tyro
leaders to teach and ofliciate the game. De-
tails exact patterns of play: the serve; the
pass; the setup; the spike; the block; rc-
covcry shots; offense; defense. Fully illus-

trated. $3.75

(AMP
WATERFRONT
PROGRAMS and
MANAGEMENT

RICHARD H.
POHNDORF

A complete aquatic pro-  " '

gram for any waterfront, covering: organi-
zation, administration; layout; health,
safety; boats, canoes, etc.; programs; sea-
manship; sailing; artificial lakes and
ponds. Including matcrial not found in
similar books, the information is practical,
adaptable. Illustrated, Large Format. $7.50

"meme
succsssrm
I TOURNAMENTS

E. DOUGLAS
BOYDEN 8: ROGER
G. BURTON

How to select, plan and
conduct all kinds of
tournaments in all sports. . . . A practical
loose-leaf handbook containing actual draw
sheets, easy to removc and use or copy.
Workable methods that simplify and solve
all the usual tournament headaches, such as
late entries and double challenges. $4.75

ASSOCIATION PRESS

 

AMERICA’S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS

 

269
acts and
stunts!

CLOWN
ACT
OMNIBUS

WES McVICAR

An old hand at clowning pre-
sents complete plans for 269
acts and stunts —— explaining
make-up, costumes, equip-
ment, props, role of the
MC or ringmastcr, program
planning and organization.
Acts and stunts are classi-
fied according to ability re-
quired. Includes elements
of clowning and sample pro-
grams. A unique compre-
hensive guide to one of the
oldest and most popular
forms of group entertain-

ment. Illustrated. $4.95

....-:.:ue....b sin-“u “mate 3

The
Science
at

SKIN

alld \ 
SCUBA DIVING

The complete, official guide to
skin and scuba diving, dcvel-
oped by the Conference for
National Co-operation in Aqua-
tics. Among major subjects
treated in detail are: safety;
first aid; physical require-
ments; equipment; skills;
planning a dive; organizing a
club. For professional and ad-
vanced divers, beginning stu-
dents, teachers, and for anyone
who plans to dive. Illustrated.

33.95

«m» .« me? “warm Mars 1" Jaw was nu
m
C")
C:
CD
’-

291 Broadway,
New York 7, N. Y.

FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,
PRICE OR SKILL—

NEW YORK TI
CHICAGO IT
LOS ANGELES TI

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATII‘LN.

 

 

 

105

What are camper hopes and

dreams? Do our camp programs
fulfill them adequately?

THE FOUR “F’s”
OF CAMPING

Julian H. Salomon

N CAMPING WE are trying to accomplish two basic aims:
I to give boys and girls a chance to do some of the things
they like to do in ways they like to do them; and,
through these activities, to instill qualities and awaken new
interests in our campers to help them lead happier and more
abundant lives. We need to remember that, while these are
compatible, they represent camping from the points of view
of the child and of the adult which are, of course, quite
different. As a Boy Scout camper is said to have remarked,
“Gee, chief, I didn’t come to camp to have my character
built.”

Camping has such a strong appeal to youth that some
adults have taken advantage of it and have used the name
as a sort of bait to attract boys and girls to pr0grams,
which, while they may have worthy motives, having noth-
ing in common with learning how to live simply in the out-
of-doors. We have lost some of our older campers because
they did not find in the camps they first attended the things
they expected, among which are Opportunities for freedom
and challenging adventure. In altogether too many cases,
these so-called camps are far removed from what children
have been promised and hope to find in places called by the
magic name of camp.

All too often we forget that boys or girls who have never
been to camp have some pretty clear ideas as to what a real
camp is like and what they want to do when they get there.
Fortunately, these things are not difficult or eXpensive to
provide. They do, however, require a director with a love
of young pe0ple, who is gifted with a lively imagination.

What are some of the things a camper expects of the
camp and why do we think it worth while to provide them?
First of all, there are the basic experiences; the desire for
which grows out of our American historical background.
Tales of Indians and pioneers and their adventuresorne and
romantic ways of life are heard at an early age and make
a strong appeal to the child’s imagination. These people
lived in the out-of-doors and in camps. The children hear

 

MR. SALOMON is a lamlsr-ape architect, camp consultant, and
planner, and a member a; hath the American Camping As-
SOClattOtl and the American hupr'et’r of Landscape Architects.

106

 

stories about them when they are very young and look for-
ward to doing likewise as they grow older. What they want
to do when they get to camp is to build a fire, cook a meal
over it, and sleep out in a tent or in the open. Unfortu-
nately, many children go to places called camps where op-
portunities to do these things never occur.

Now, beyond these simple basic experiences, there are
other things the campers expect of a camp, but which they
may never directly mention. These camper hopes and de-
sires may be called the four “F’s.” They are: fun and
adventure, freedom, feilowship, and food [or the spirit.
Outdoor fun and adventure come first because the camper
expects to find opportunities for a number of new and joy-
ful experiences in camp. He wants to he a part of nature
and to pit himself against the elements. He wants, as far
as it is possible to do so today, to relive the life of the
Indian and pioneer. He would like the camp to give him
the opportunity to become an expert vs'oodsman. He wants
his experiences to be real, and this becomes particularly
important as he gets older. It is the director’s and the
counselor’s job to discover ways of giving hint his chance
to have real adventures and to have them safely.

Now, there are always some parents and board members
who will question the value of such things as woodcraft and
camping skills. They will say, “How can such activities
possibly prepare a camper for the urban civilization in
which he will have to live? Are you not, in your camp-
craft, Indian lore, and nature study, providing an environ-
ment that belongs to the primitive past and an escape from
the realities of present-day life?”

One of the most valid objectives of camping is education
for leisure time. As industrial progress provides more and
more free time, and when the increasing demand for self-
directed activity during leisure is raising a multitude of
problems, the kind of education a real camp can give is
most urgently needed.

Family camping is now one of the most p0pular vacation
forms for our young adults and even older ones. The case
of automobile travel is turning so many people to the out-
of-doors that national and state parks and forests are having
a hard time keeping up with demand for camping facili-

RECREATION

ties. Perhaps a minor, but certainly not unimportant, value
of these activities is the training they give in survival skills
we hope we will never need.

While practical values like these are easy to understand,
it is the hidden ones that lie in learning to swim, building
campfires, hiking through the woods, learning to know
birds, flowers, and trees that develop the power of the
imagination. For the child who has had these experiences,
life has been broadened and enriched.

School and camp are both concerned with a child’s edu-
cation, but there is a difference in the way they work to-
ward their objectives. The education he receives in school
is largely a matter of books, formal instruction, and Class-
rooms. Camping, on the other hand, has to do with living
out-of—doors and physical activity. Schooling takes place
indoors and is, or should be, mostly hard work. While
there is, or should be, hard work in camp, it is part of the
fun of living and learning to live in the open. Efforts to
combine the two types of education have failed so far to
obtain broad acceptance or success.

Though camping is different from formal schooling, it
is not less important, and this is a fact we need continually
to impress upon the American parent. He has given his
children great freedom from reSponsibility and a great
amount of leisure. He then worries about how they are
going to spend it. Camp is one of the places where children
can learn to make wise use of leisure and have a lot of fun
in the learning process. Education for the use of leisure
Itime is one of the most important services the camp can
lperform.

Freedom is something else the camper wants, needs, and
should have—freedom from worry, hurry, and envy. This
freedom should be granted in broad degree. Freedom, of
course, does not imply anarchy. The freedom we want for
ourselves, others also want, so freedom in camp implies and
demands a respect for the rights of others. So, in camp,
freedom will be granted within broad limits; it will be well
regulated but it will be real.

The camper should be free to select activities and to do
what he wants without explaining why. He should have
opportunities to participate in large and small group ac-
tivities, but he should also have a chance to do things with

one or two other campers or by himself. He should also
have time just to “do nothing.” This freedom to eXercise
the power of choice is essential to character building.

Campers should have freedom to participate in program
planning and in camp government. A preplanned program,
devised entirely by grownups, is generally not good for the
campers. Certainly it is not, if campers are directed from
one activity to another in which they need do no thinking
and get no opportunity to exercise choice or judgment.
Camper participation in planning should begin in the tent
or cabin group and continue, both in the unit or section
and the entire camp, through camper representation on a
camp council or similar program planning group. Further
opportunities for choice and planning should be given in
daily section assemblies or similar meetings.

The camp that operates in an atmosphere of freedom will
not need coercion to get a good response from the campers.
The campers will readily respond to a program that is
really based on their own interests. These interests, in
turn, will be aroused and expanded by a campsite that pre-
sents a rich and stimulating environment. The fact that
the camper comes into a place differing sharply from city
and home is bound to evoke a great number of new interests.
There should be a time and place where these may be al-
lowed to deve10p, but this cannot be if the program is so
regimented that every moment has been planned for in
advance.

We also need to provide more freedom from the city——
its games and sports, TV, and spectator amusements. Over-
emphasis on city Sports unwisely limits the deve10pment of
of new camping interests, such as campcraft, nature, canoe-
ing, mountain climbing, archery, sailing, fishing, tracking,
and scouting games. Such formal games and sports as we
have should be aimed at helping the beginner become pro-
flcient enough to enjoy participation on a par with his fel-
low campers. Those sports the camper can carry over into
later life are the ones to be developed. Camps should not
attempt to develop stars or teams whose main purpose is to
defeat other camps. Such devices as “color wars,” that de-
velop tensions and intense competition, have no place in
a well-run camp.

we know from Sanders3 famous study that a camp’s

wo important “F’s” the camper wants are fellowship and food for the spirit.

 

.

 

I -  " i
hJ-sl ' .— 91‘ i . -

Campers should have freedom—to hefp pIan their own pro-
gram, freedom from hurry. There should be no need for
haste in. the woods. Camp provides scape for self-direction.

greatest failure lies in the possibility of overstrain and
overfatigue. The parent whose first concern on sending
his child to camp is health and safety may not realize that
he is defeating that basic concern by demanding competi-
tive emphasis and the artificial stimulation that goes with
the awareness of many prizes. Freedom from worry about
not making the grade, freedom from hurry to keep up with
the schedule, and freedom from envy of the champion and

prize winner—these are the freedoms campers want and
need.

Really, the third “F” would be first, had I not been con-

sidering these questions from the camper’s point of view.
For the feiIowship the camper is asking us to provide is not
only that with his fellow campers, but that with the staff.
This, of course, implies good leadership, which we all rec-
ognize as the most important ingredient in the camping
recipe. Without the right kind of leadership, opportunities
for the development of new and continuing interests would
never occur. Unless there are leaders truly and lovingly
interested in children and with enthusiasm for the out-of-
doors, the whole effort fails. If, when the Camper asks
questions, there is not a counselor or director present who
has a keen interest in trees and trails, and who can help
him find the answers, it is only natural that he will turn
away to basketball or baseball as a time killer.

We get a pretty good picture of the kind of adult leader-
ship the camper wants from the Study of AdoIescent Boys
made by the University of Michigan for the Boy Scouts of
America. Although the leaders came from various walks
of life, had different degrees of education, and were of
varied trades, professions, and ages, they all possessed four
traits the boys admired. They said (1) “He’s a nice guy,”
(2) “He understands us,”  “He can do things,” and 
“He has good character.”

Both director and counselor should be enthusiastic out-
doorsmen who get a sense of adventure from their camping
experience. They need to be healthy in mind and body and
possessed of the abundant energy camp life demands. Un-
derstanding the physical and emotional needs of the camp-
ers, they will provide ample opportunities for boys to use

108

their own initiative and carry out their own plans. The
camp leaders will try to understand the child’s inner drives
and be prepared to guide them.

The possibilities for real fellowship between staff and
camper depend partly on the size of the camp and its liv-
ing units or sections. Effectiveness diminishes when any
one counselor is given the responsibility for more than
eight campers, and when the camp staff is so big that the
director has little or no personal contact with the campers.
The infiuence of the director pervades the whole camp and
is more important than any other kind of education.

As the camper seeks and desires the fellowship and ap-
proval of his counselor and director, so does he also want
that of his fellow campers. Camp is an ideal place to learn
how to establish satisfactory relationships with one’s fel-
lows, and the small tent group is the ideal “class” for teach-
ing the subject. Here, the camper finds out that the business
of living is chiefly a matter of getting along with other
people. Here, he soon realizes that social techniques can
be learned and that one way to learn them is to do his job
in such a way that it wins the approval of his group. Thus,
the group molds and forms a boy’s way of reacting to so-
cial situations.

The boy from the city apartment or from a small family
does not have the same opportunity for learning these les-
sons of unselfishness, fair play, and good sportsmanship as
did his grandfather, who may have been from a large old-
fashioned, country-dwelling family. He may also miss the
lessons that are taught by older and younger brothers and
sisters. This, by the way, points to an advantage earlier
camps possessed, which we might once again provide. That
was the practice of having older and younger boys in the
same section, because they have so much to contribute to
each other in the matter of social adjustment.

The counselor’s job is helping campers establish the
right relationship to other campers, to teach them high
standards of honesty, and develol) in them the spirit of
cooperation with others. One of the best ways to develop .
cooperation is through sharing in the work of maintaining
the camp. Each camper should have regular chores or other-
wise participate in the necessary work of the camp. This
is most important as a means of develOping self-respect and '
self-reliance, based on a person’s real worth to the com-
munity.

There is no doubt that most boys prefer play to work, 1
but it is the business of the camp to keep their interests
balanced. In many camps, everything is done to keep the
campers excited over athletics, but very little is done to get
them to assume their share of the work. We must recognize
that the camper needs to learn to take responsibility and to
becomc independent, through doing his share, just as much
as he needs team play.

With the introduction of modern machines and mcthods,
we have done away with many of the jobs, such as dishwash-
ing, that wcre once shared by the campers. It is, I suppose,
all a part of the softening process that stems from the Ameri-
can parent’s desire to make a child‘s life easier than his mm
has been. But in so doing, he weakens rather than strength-
ens the ability to withstand life's buffetings. As is well

RECREATION

known, in every biological process, “too much may be as
fatal to life’s prosperity as too little.”

The camper looks to the camp to provide food for the
spirit, too; and here we have one of our finest opportunities.
The good camp stresses not only the physical but, perhaps
even more emphatically, moral, esthetic, and spiritual train-
ing. In camp we have endless opportunities to develop ap-
preciation for all that is noble, fine, and beautiful through
quiet hours around the campfire, upon the mountain tops,
under the stars, and on still waters. There are opportunities,
too, to deve10p a deepened appreciation for good music,
books, and the other arts.

Yet we find camps that assume a hard-boiled attitude
toward the lover of the beautiful as a sissy, where cultural
appreciation is looked upon as a form of intellectual snob-
bery. In these places, there is hesitancy in providing beauty
and food for the spirit. In such places, we are apt to find
ugly buildings, tents or cabins lined up in martial array.

It is the site and structures, as well as the leaders, that
reate the atmOSphere and Spirit of the camp. The physical
urroundings have a more profound effect on the formation
f a camper’s attitudes and culture than we might at first
ssume. We need, therefore, to create camp environment
hat will enrich spiritual values. Certainly, sensitiveness
0 beauty, in all its forms, will develop more easily where

ere is a sense of order, spaciousness, and simplicity.

The manner in which campers live and carry on their

activities also has much to do with the growth of the spirit.
Mass activities, crowded dining halls, and constant com-
petition create tension. Though everyone may seem to be
quite happy, the real test is in the raised voices, the con-
stant fidgetings and bickerings.

We have spoken of the camp as a community and the
values of living in the small groups that comprise it, but
now we need, again, to consider the individual. The group
and the team are important, but we have come to realize
that they are made up of individuals, and that the group
possesses no strengths or virtues that are not inherent in
its individual members. In camp, every individual is en-
titled to a sense of privacy and the freedom to grow in his
own way. We already have too many other influences
that are pushing today’s youth to achieve safety, security,
and conformity as the basic values of life.

Henry David Thoreau, who is one of our great prophets
of simple outdoor life, says in Walden or Life in the Woods:

“Why should we be in such desperate haste to succeed,
and in such desperate enterprises? If a man does not keep
pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a
different drummer. Let him step to the music which he
hears, however measured or far away.”

Youth is asking camping to provide for his needs and to
fulfill his dreams. It is a challenge that camping has suc-
cessfully met in its past, and one that should be the guide
to an ever-growing and greater future. #

 

AMPFIRE PROGRAMS

after the counselor had collected written
questions for a week from the campers,
about things they want discussed. And

' NE OR TWO campfires per week is

the recommendation for all camps

nd an everynight campfire for the

all group. These should be carefully
anned, with aims clearly in mind.

Campfire time is the most precious
loment of the day, an ideal time for
tting across the major goals of the
amp, and the little objectivcs or spe-
ial emphasis for the day. At it we aim
or joy, a new experience, a widening
f interests, growth of character, in-

iration, the unleashing of the shy,
losed-up camper. It can spark the
eative urge, bring about relaxation
nd a readiness for sleep, a peace of
ind.

The fire should be laid in advance
never with trash) and covered with a
iece of canvas to keep it dry. There

' ould be room for each camper to sit,

d extra firewood stacked nearby.
his is true for the overnight trip camp-
re as well. Never have a bonfire nor
rve food at the all-camp campfire. Co

[ARCH 1960

to it quietly and with respect. Always
begin the same way.

Start, perhaps, with a ceremony or
special song; have games and noisy
things near the beginning; and end
with soft songs, lullabies, perhaps a
prayer, a special hand squeeze. Co
quietly to bed with only whispers, no
talking.

The small group campfire should be
located very near sleeping quarters and
children attend in night clothes, all
ready for bed. In the small group (one
tent or one bunk), each camper feels
the warmth of the fire, and has a chance
to contribute. Often the camper will
open up as never before. The autobio-
graphical night for the small group
campfire is excellent. Each tells what
home is like and “who I am,” and this
includes the counselors, too.

One night you might have a special
event: a guest to talk to teen-agers on
their own vocation (for example, the
nurse). Another campfire might be held

then, on the appointed time, the coun-
selor draws one question out of the jar,
reads it and answers it; then another
question, and another; perhaps on dat-
ing or sex, or “what’s wrong with my
parents?” Or the counselor might dis-
cuss problems of the group itself. One
evening the teen-agers might, if the
leader is tops, try to evaluate them-
selves.

Campfires form a large part of the
campers’ memory of the summer. It has
been recommended that this not be a
time for awarding honors, but for en-
couraging the feeling of togetherness.

A closing quotation: “To his fireside
he brought his friends, and friendships
grew, and understanding. So hearth be-
camc home, and it has little changed
over the centuries. What deeper under-
standing is there than that which stands
back to hearth, and faces outer cold and
darkness?”—-—Presented by LOIS GOOD-
RICH, 1959 American. Camping Associa-
tion Region, 1! Convention.

109

 

Not very large but very tasty are the fish caught at one
of the St. Paul Bureau of Parks and Recreation day camps.

Robert A. Lobdell

HE “TWIN CITIES” of Minnesota—Minneapolis and
T St. Paul—form the nucleus of a large 1netr0politan
area, including a number of suburbs, with a total pop-
ulation of some million and a half persons. These cities have
produced many outstanding leaders in the field of parks
and recreation, names that have found their way into the
history of our movement: Theodore Wirth, Charles Doell,
Karl Raymond, Ernest Johnson, and W. LaMont Kaufman.
In St. Paul, recreation was developed by two wparate
bureaus—one, parks, and one, playgrounds. From 1919
to 1955, Ernest W. Johnson served as guiding hand of the
playground bureau. His sound concepts and knowledge of
recreation brought St. Paul to a position of prominence in
the Midwest. His constant hammering on basic principles,
without succumbing to internal pressures, paved the way
for public support in the 1953 bond program.

St. Paul is a city with an estimated population of 330,000.
It has a commission form of government, with a city coun-
cil of six elected members presided over by a mayor. A
comptroller is elected to handle the financial aspects of the
municipal operation. All elected oflicials serve a two-year
term. The city council meets each day, Tuesday through
Friday. Each elected council member is appointed by the
mayor as the commissioner of a department of city govern-
ment. It is a full-time job, and the elected ofiicials consider
it as such.

The tax structure of the city is unique; some critics even
label it archaic. It is categorized as a per capita limitation
type. The municipal charter provides two basic limitations
in financial operation. First, there is a limitation in the
amount that can be levied for taxes, based on the total popu-
lation or per capita basis. Second, there is the limitation

—-—-—-———-——

MR. LOBDELL is general manager of the Bureau of Parks and
Recreation in St. Paul, Minnesota. The general manager’s
job, recently established by city ordinance, is to coordinate
all activities of the newly consolidated bureau.

 

 

MO

ST. PAU

that all municipal expenditures cannot exceed so many dol-
lars per capita. The first limitation, of COUrse, is lower,
and the difference must be made up from revenues such as
license and permit fees. To change the limitation figures.
requires a charter amendment submitted to the voters. In
1959, the state legislature amended the city charter (don’t
forget the city is only a creature of the state). This changed
the required percentage of yes votes for charter amendment
from sixty percent to fifty-five percent.

0n the other hand, it merely takes a simple majority to
pass a bond issue. The irony of this situation was demon-
strated at a special election in November 1959. Two issues
were proposed to the voters: one for a $23,500,000 bond
issue for school capital improvement, needing only a simple
majority. The second proposal was a charter amendment
that would have increased the current operation budget by
about $1,750,000. This amendment needed fifty-five per-
cent of the yes votes to pass. What happened? The bond
issue for $23,500,000 received fifty-five percent of the yes
votes and the charter amendment for $1,750,000 received
50.3 percent of the yes votes. The bond issue passed; the
charter amendment failed.

Immediate financing for capital school improvements and
current Operation costs was submitted to the electorate
following the war. As in all cities, increased financing does
not come easily. The dire need for public school expansion
and upgrading was sold to the voting public. This was just
the beginning. By 1953, a united improvement committee
had surveyed the needs of all municipal operations and pro-
posed a $39,000,000 capital-outlay program. After an out-
standing job of public salesmanship by all leading organ-
izations in the citv. it Was successfullv passed bv the voting
public.

Progress and accomplishment have been the theme of the
recreation movement in St. Paul’s recent history. The bond
issue of 1953 helped provide a means for renovating ole
areas and the develOpment of new to meet the new challenge
of the 1950’s. The bond program played a secondary rolc
in the overall capital improvement program for recreatior
facilities. The real contributing factor to our program cam:
from an unforeseen windfall.

At the end of World War II, as in all cities, the neec
for veterans’ housing was acute. Through the foresight 0
people like Commissioner Holland and Superintendent 0
Recreation Ernie Johnson, lands that reverted back to tln
state because of tax delinquency and that were suitable f0
recreation purposes, were acquired by the playground bu
reau as tax-forfeited properties. Officials knew funds wer'
not available for development in the foreseeable futu re. hu
the old axiom that real estate was a good investment pel

suaded them to take advantage of the situation.
When sites were needed immediately for veterans’ hous

RECREATIOI

.EVITALIZED

ing, the playground bureau said: “Have sites, will build.”
Result: seven veterans’ housing areas constructed and op-
erated by the bureau until, by 1956, there was no longer
any need for the project. The state legislature enacted a
statute providing that all profits from the veterans’ housing
operation should be used to develop the sites into recreation
areas, and that additional funds could be used for capital
improvement throughout the playground system. Approx-
imatcly one million dollars were forthcoming from this
source.

Facts and figures are boring but sometimes necessary
to illustrate accomplishment. The following is a cold, hard
list of projects completed from the combined bond funds

This is one of the eleven seasonal
recreation shelter buildings
recently constructed with bond
issue funds. Cooperative agree-
ments have created other facilities.

and veterans’ housing project profits for the playground
bureau (which does not include the park bureau): four
year-round recreation center buildings; eleven seasonal
recreation shelter buildings; nine new playground areas,
including excavating, landscaping, apparatus, and fields;
thirty new hard-surface tennis courts; twenty new lighted
hockey rinks (making a total of forty-five); eighty new
baseball and softball backstops; fifteen old recreation center
buildings and grounds renovated; and an eight-battery
shufiieboard court with lights.

An interesting innovation in the construction of year-
round recreation centers came about as the result of an
agreement between the recreation bureau and the St. Paul
Public Housing Authority. The authority wanted to de-
velop a low-rent housing area in one of the blighted dis-
tricts near the downtown loop. The bureau had an old
dilapidated recreation center and grounds directly across
from the proposed housing area. After much negotiating,
a formal agreement was reached whereby the housing au-
thority would construct a new recreation center on its prop-
erty, with the bureau paying half the cost. In turn, the
bureau received a long-term lease on the completed struc-
ture at a dollar a year. The most unusual part of the pact
was that the housing authority would reimburse the bureau
for one-third the cost of utilities in the operation of the
building. In Minnesota, with long, cold winters, heat is
a big budget item; hence this was a very lucrative contract

' MARCH 1960

The challenge of the 50’s provided
a jirm foundation for the 60’s.

to help in the operation of the new recreation center.

Another windfall came from the public housing author-
ity’s urban renewal program. Two park and playground
areas will be financed and developed and turned over to
our bureau at no cost. There is a tremendous future in this
area of development as the urban renewal program gains
headway.

Perhaps the most significant development of the past few
years is the new thinking as to use of school buildings for
community recreation. Since 1950, the school board has
established an “open door” policy for the recreation bu-
reau to use public school facilities. The bureau uses these
schools in three different categories: to supplement regular

 

year-round centers; to serve as recreation centers in areas
where the bureau does not have facilities; and for the op-
eration of the indoor municipal athletics program. During
1959, the bureau used thirty-six public school buildings in
these three categories. The bureau operates twenty-five
year-round, full-time centers, and fourteen seasonal centers,
thirty-one weeks a year, in addition to the thirty-six school
buildings.

St. Paul’s final effort to meet the new challenge has been
the consolidation of the three saparate bureaus of parks,
playgrounds, and refectories into a single St. Paul Bureau
of Parks and Recreation. This became effective last Octo-
ber. Such a combined operation will give more service for
the tax dollar. Why don’t you come to St. Paul and see how
we are meeting the challenge? #

St. Paul will serve as host to the Great Lakes Dis-
trict Recreation Conference conducted jointly by the
National Recreation Association, the Bureau of Parks
and Recreation of the city of St. Paul, and the Minne-

sota Recreation Association, on April 4-7 this year.
Bernard T. Holland, commissioner of parks and rec-
reation, extends a warm invitation to delegates.

 

Ill

DAY CAMP PATTERNS

This roundup of current activity in the day camp held
throughout the country shows what’s new in program, facil-
ities, standards, and, above all, ideas—new ways of looking
at day camping and what it can do for the child who par-
ticipates.

Day camping has steadily grown since its inception dur-
ing the early days of the Works Progress Administration
(remember the WPA ?}. Development was fragmentary,
standards almost nonexistent, program elementary, but,
year by year, day camping has improved—in facilities,
standards, and program. It would be naive to suggest that
improvement is still not needed; in many instances, stand-
ards are still minimal and programs too simple-minded, but
maturity is on its way.

Among varying emphases in the notes that follow, each
adds a new dimension in day camping. Note: An outstand-
ingly popular facet of all these day camps was the presence
of animals of all kinds. For your convenience, we are also
including a digest of American Camping Association stand-
ards for day camps. Happy camping!

1- T TIIE Farm and Country Day Camp, near Albany,

New York, location and conditions practically die-
tate the program. First of all, it is an operating farm
of 150 acres, with leldS tilled, animals pastured and cared
for, and also contains a forty-acre woodlot where timber
and firewood are taken out. In addition, two streams pro-

Candy Mountain Day Camp in Leonia, New Jersey, has had
horseback riding as part of its program for the last ten
years without any casualties—refuting insurance experts.

 

vide swimming holes, paddle pools, and campsites; and
birds abound in six-foot tall ferns in a inarshland where
beaver also build their dams. There are springs, berry
patches, and a “sugar bush” of maple trees. Nearby are
limestone eaves to explore and mountains to climb.

The problem was to organize the program without spoil-
ing the spirit of adventure and also to allow time for relax-l
ation. A solution has been made along the following lines:
swimming is the only regimented activity, conducted under
strict Red Cross rules and under Red Cross-trained instruc-
tors. For the rest of the program, each of the five camp-l
site groups (arranged by approximate ages) is assigned a
day to participate in the following activities:

0 Farming. Chickens fed, watered, eggs collected. Sheep,l
horses, and other animals given needed attention. Horse-I
mansbip, too, is taught on this day.

0 Shop. Use of tools to make campsites more habitable or I
to benefit the whole camp with such projects as bridges,

ilagpoles, weather vanes, birdhouses, garden stakes, and
seareerows.

0 Naturecraft. A shop, where native clay, rocks, flowers,-
grasses, nuts, or other natural materials are worked with
for pleasure.

0 Canlpcraft. Shelter building, fire building, cooking. UseI
of axes and erosseut saws.

0 Exploration. Berry patebes, marshlands, streams, woods.

Farm and Country Day Camp near Albany, New York, is
an operating farm with holds to till and animals to pas-q
ture. Every moment is filled with “a sensc of the earth.”

 

RECREATION

 

Trips to caves, to climb nearby mountains, or a day at an
outpost camp.

Problems are quite different from those confronting resi-
dent camps. Leadership for most day camps has to be
found locally since the camp does not usually house the
staff. Then, too, this leadership needs to be especially camp-
minded so as to give every moment of the day a “sense of
the earth” and its elements.

The counselor-in-training program may prove a help here.
After three seasons of trial, the counselors here are enthusi-
astic ovcr the freshness and sparkle these teen-agers con-
tribute.———MAUDE L. DRYDEN, Farm and Country Day Camp,
Feura Bush, New York.

Work Camp for Teen-vAge Boys

A fine spirit of interagency cooperation between Fuld
Neighborhood House, Newark, New Jerscy, and the Essex

MARCH 1960

Campers and counselors traditionally join, in carving
an authentic totem pole from a log felled in, the
woods at Knights Camp, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey.

County Park Commission produced the Work Camp for
Teen-Age Boys. The work camp was developed out of ex-
periences with participants at Fuld House in a year-round
teen-age program. It had become evident to many staff
people that much irresponsible, near-delinquent, or delin-
quent behavior at this age level is rooted not only in the
basic insecurity of home environments, but also in the
youngsters’ general feeling of being unwanted, unappreci-
ated, with a resulting inability to dcve10p self-esteem and
positive orientation.

It seemed in order to offer them a program providing
warm but strong leadership, an occupation from which the
community would benefit, the self-esteem arising from such
an occupation, and an honestly earned income. Once Fuld
House evolved this policy, it approached the Essex County
Park Commission to help implement it, which the commis-
sion did with understanding and generosity. Fuld House,
it was decided, would be responsible for selecting partici-
pants, educational supervision, and transportation. The
commission would provide the location for the project,
work assignments, a foreman, tools, and wages for the young
camper-workers, approximating two thousand dollars.

The program ran during the summers of 1957 and 1958,
but was discontinued last summer because the commission
had to cut its budget. Both Fuld House and the commission
hope to get it going again in time for summer 1960. It
would be a particularly appropriate move in view of the
Youth Conservation Act of 1959, passed the end of last year
by Congress. The act “authorizes establishment of a Youth
Conservation Corps to provide healthful outdoor training
and employment for young men and to advance the con-
servation, development and management of national re-
sources of timber, soil, and range, and of recreational
areas?’

For complete details about the work camp, write Dr.
Antoinette Fried, former executive director of Fuld Neigh-
borhood House, now director of Group Work and Recrea-
tion, James Weldon Johnson Community Center, 1820 Lex-
ington Avenue, New York 29. Martin Livenstein, at Fuld
House, 71 Boyd Street, Newark 3, New Jersey, can tell you
what the camp’s future plans are.

Horseback Riding at Candy Mountain

Candy Mountain Day Camp has had horseback riding
for the last ten years without a single serious casualty, de-
spite the admonitions from brokers and insurance com-
panies; it is the camp’s most popular activity. The children
ride each day in a fully enclosed corral and become remark-

113

ably proficient within a few weeks. The stable is the most
popular place in camp on rainy days, the children vying
with each other to curry animals, fix bridles, repair halters,
polish saddles, and, yes, even muck out the stalls.

The program is successful only because of a rigid series
of rules which receive strict compliance. All riding is done
in the enclosed eorral under the constant and demanding
supervision of a mature horsewoman with many years of
experience. Nor are the animals plugs purchased the day
before camp. They belong to the riding master and have
been with her at least a year before they are permitted to
come to Candy Mountain. During that year they are “child-
broken” and the ornery and cantankerous weeded out.

In the corral the mounting section is separate from the
riding eorral proper. There is no confusion between those
who are riding and those who are mounting. For the be-
ginners, mounting is done on a Specially built mounting
block to which the horses have been accustomed before
camp opens. For the more advanced, the riding master
teaches proper approach and mounting in another section
of the corral. Specially mimeographed sheets are distrib-
uted through the camp paper, detailing each part of the
horse’s anatomy, names of each piece of equipment, and
other miscellaneous terminology.

For really advanced riders there is a riding clinic during
hobby periods, when they are taught advanced riding—seat,
posting, animal care, and so on. These are the only chil-
dren permitted outside the eorral on the many lovely trails
through the woods.

One of the largest problems has been with the insurance
companies, who charge an excessively high, almost pro-
hibitive, rate despite an excellent safety record. However,
we intend continuing the riding program at Candy Moun-

tain.—B. DREXLER, Candy Mountain Day Camp, Leonia,
New Jersey.

Camping Briefs

0 Ten years ago Camp J.C.C., in Stepney, Connecticut,
had about 100 campers; last year, 550, with approximately
110 counselors. Several factors have promoted this growth:
(1) the high ratio of counselors to campers; (2) excellent
facilities, plus plenty of wide, open spaces, wooded areas,
hills, and gulleys to explore, a brook for frog hunting
and catching erawdads; and (3) the most recent innova-
tion, a work-recreation program for the twelve-to-thirteen-
year-olds who, after several years of camp, have become
pretty blasé about the same old activities. Mornings, they
are put to work on projects; afternoons, they are free to
pursue any form of recreation they wish. The girls, for
example, were assigned as counselors’ aides to work with
the younger children. The boys’ work projects included
clearing a large wooded hillside area, which was then con-
verted into a shaded amphitheater. The boys also built
bridges across brooks, graded the path up the hill lead-
ing to new cabins, decorated the camp barn with murals,
among other activities. The satisfaction of seeing the
results of their own handiwork has exceeded anything we
dreamed of, and this project approach has also developed

114

in our campers a wonderful sense of responsibility and
identification with the camp, the latter qualities very neces-
sary at this age level.—ABE RABINOWITZ, director, Camp
].C.C., owned and maintained by Bridgeport Children’s
,Camp, Inc., Operated by Jewish Community Center of
Bridgeport.

o Campers and counselors traditionally join in carving an
authentic totem pole from a log felled in the woods be-
longing to The Knights Day Camp. It is carved, painted,
and raised with much ceremony. Among other different
projects initiated for the fourteen-year-old boys was the
rehabilitation of an old Chevrolet truck. So beat up it
had to be towed to camp, it was not long, with the guid-
ance of an enthusiastic counselor, before the motor was
taken down, cleaned, put back together again. And, what’s
more, it ran! The young campers also built themselves
a miniature golf course, which gave them an overall sense
of accomplishment, both in the actual building as well as
the use of it after it was finished. We found it an excellent
“quiet” activity for hot days or as an extension of the
rest period. We utilize no kits in our crafts program,
preferring basic materials. The youngsters use scraps;
when they weave baskets they first soak the reeds in the
stream—MAURICE STERNBERG, director, The Knights Day
Camp, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey, and chairman,
Day Camp Committee, American Camping Association,
New York Section.

0 Two years ago the Chicago Park District held an un-
usual one-day camp institute for its 150 recreation em-
ployees, in Columbus Park. The institute was organized
along the lines of an eighteen-hole golf course, utilizing
the gymnasium, all clubrooms, the grounds, and the la-
goon, with a different activity presented at each “green.”
Each small group was led around by a “caddy,” a staff
member wearing a red cap, who escorted each group from
green to green and kept it on schedule. Canvas caddy
bags, made for the occasion, contained mimeoed material
and project samples. A committee conducted twenty-
n1inute sessions on the specialty featured at each green.
Naturally, there were breaks for snacks and meals. The
method was not used so much for its novelty, but to add
variety and more intimate contact with lecturers and spec-
ialists assigned to each subject. It also provided an or-
derly, organized way of handling a large number of people,
where everyone had an opportunity to ask questions and
inspect samples of handcrafts, photographs, posters, and
various other camp projects—JOHN R. DALENBERG, area
supervisor, Chicago Park District.

Day Camp Standards

The following are among those standards planned to
assure a creative, educational camping experience for
every participant, as set up for organized day camping
by the American Camping Association.

PROGRAM—-
The camp program should afford an opportunity for the

campers to participate in a creative outdoor group ex-

RECREATION

 

.._._ U, , ,- w'i, .,_

1v:  ‘
 new.» Una—w

Camp ].C.C., in Stepney, Connecticut, offers a work-recreation
program to appeal to those blasé twelve-to-thirteen-year-0lds.

perience in a democratic setting, and should provide for
the development of each individual.

A. The camp should develop objectives in the following
areas:

1. Outdoor living.

2. Fun and adventure.

3. Social adjustment—for example, the development
of independence and reliability, ability to get
along with others, and values in group living.

4. An understanding of individuals and groups of
varied backgrounds.

5. Improvement of health.

6. Skills and appreciation, particularly as related to
the out-of-doors.

7. Spiritual values.

B. The program should be so planned, administered,
and supervised as to lead to the achievement of the general
objectives of camping and the special objectives of the
particular camp. It is recommended that these objectives
be stated in writing. Essentially, the program should be
related to the central theme of living together in a natural
environmcnt and learning to enjoy the out-of-doors.

C. Within the general framework of the program there
should be opportunity for cooperative planning of activi-
ties by campers and camp staff and an opportunity for
some choice of activities by individual campers.

D. Pr0gram activities should be geared to the ages,
abilities, and interests of the campers.

E. The program should provide opportunity for indivi-
dual activity, for rest and quiet, for small group activity
and for occasions involving the whole camp.

F. The pace, pressure, and intensity of the program
should be regulated so that campers will have time for
leisure and can participate in activities of their own will
and at their own tempo.

G. The program should include occasional parent-par-
ticipation activities and/ or other techniques to strengthen

MARCH 1960

   

family relationships and parent understanding of program
objectives.

H. Camps designed to offer a general program in camp-
ing should include a variety of situations in which the
camper will have an opportunity:

1. To acquire a feeling of competence and to enjoy
himself in the natural outdoor setting through
camp skills and other activities common in camp

life.

2. To participate in group projects, special events
and ceremonies, and social activities.

3. To share in the care of and improvement of the
camp.

4. To increase his knowledge and appreciation of
the world in which he lives.

5. To learn his relationship to his environment

through such media as nature crafts, using native
materials, etcetera.

CAMPSITE, FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT—

A. The campsite should provide a maximum of privacy
and wherever possible be located away from densely popu-
lated areas and undesirable resorts. It should be free
from unnecessary hazards and be properly drained. It
should be located within a reasonable distance from the
campers’ homes depending upon the transportation avail-
able.

B. The site should provide natural resources that will
make possible an outdoor living experience.

C. Buildings or other structures should be constructed
safely and in accordance with any building code applicable
to a given locality and maintained in safe condition.

D. There should be suflicient equipment and facilities
kept in safe Operating condition, to carry out stated ob-
jectives and program.

E. Adequate provision should be made for shelter of
caInpers during inclement weather.

ADMINISTRATION—

A. All published statements, such as brochures, public-
ity, etcetera, should be accurate and complete.

B. The camp should have the following records:

1. Budget, financial statement, food records, and
inventories.

2. All permits required by local and state authorities.

3. Written consent of parents for camper’s attend-
ance and participation in activities.

4. Registration card for each camper providing the
important information.

5. Record of health examination and a statement by
the camper’s parent indicating the child’s good
health and including the disclosure of any limita-
tions which would affect activities.

6. Record of first aid and medical treatment of
campers, staff, or other persons.

7. W’ritten agreements with all camp staff receiving

salaries or wages.

Statemcnt of insurance coverage.

Other records of the individual camper during the
camp season or period, as deemed desirable by
the camp administration. #

E990

115

Transportation to camp is not just a ride
but a get-acquainted adventure.

Handicapped children have the same
needs and desires as all children, and
they too respond happily to the friend-
ships, adventures, and new experiences
even a brief sample of camping o§ers.

INCE 1937, the St. Louis Society
S for Crippled Children has been

sponsoring handicapped children
in several residential camps in this
area. We have been fortunate in that
Camps Wyman, Sherwood Forest, Der-
ricolte, and River Cliff have been in-

DANIEL BOONE ROAMS AGA

— when the severely handicapped go day camping.

 

Dorothy Spear, MSW

 

Swimming and water fun, a health
activity for all, requires

careful supervision. From small

pool some are promoted to larger one.

116

 

terested in helping integrate the handi-
capped child into regular camps. Over
this period of time, we found a number
of children who could not and should
not go to a regular camp. These chil-
dren had a degree of disability so se-
vere that they could not handle them-
selves in regular camps and, in some
instances, were too immature or had
the kind of disabilities that automatic-
ally ruled them out.

In 1957, we received a grant to start
plans for these children so that they,

Daniel Boone still proves to be a good
shot in the wilderness. Infirmities
are quickly forgotten at camp. Here,
the handicapped child learns to get
along with others and with himself.

too, might have a camping experience.
We purchased thirty-eight acres in St.
Charles County, twenty-five miles from
the heart of St. Louis. Since this camp
is near Daniel Boone’s home, and near
the Daniel Boone Highway, the chil-
dren voted to give the camp his name.
We continued to use city and agency
camping facilities, reserving Daniel
Boone Camp for the severely involved.

We accept all orthopedic diagnoses
and have no limitations on the number
of children in wheelchairs for a ses-

sion. We accept children with such
diagnoses as spinal bifida, Legg-
Perthes, hydrocephalus, postpolio,
postencephalitis, post brain-tumor op-
eration, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, and
blindness.

We believe_that handicapped chil-
dren are, first and foremost, children.
When we plan day camping for them,
we want camping personnel, not spe-
cialists in the field of the handicapped.
Our children so often have relation-
ships with adults on the basis of ther-

handicapped, too, have their hopes
dreams which can be fulfilled
strengthened when living close to
beauties of nature. Their
'ronment is often too restricted.

The creative urge ignores handicaps,
brings individual purpose and
satisfaction to everyone alike. In
addition to creative arts, there

is also singing and storytelling.

 

11?

MARCH 1960

apy, through which the child is sup-
posed to achieve. This means the chil-
dren are being asked to do things. We
feel that the youngsters will benefit by
good camper-counselor relationships,
and this has turned out to be true. Our
children relate well to their counsel-
ors; here is someone who is paying at-
tention to them just for fun. We have
been fortunate in drawing counselors
of high calibre; these are young pe0ple
who, for the most part, are in college,
specializing in the humanities. They
accept our children wholeheartedly,
and there have been no morbid reac-
tions.

Out of this good counselor relation-
ship, and the opportunity for our chil-
dren to be in an out-of-doors setting
and in a group situation, have come
some specific physical and emotional
benefits. Most important is the height-
ened morale in child and parent. For
example, one youngster, involved in all
extremities, without much hope of
walking, got tired of crawling across
gravel and grass, got up in a walker
and the next year, on crutches. Some
youngsters, used to being
around, saw other children walking
and became more motivated in their
attempts to walk.

carried

CHILDREN have an ingrown growth

factor; they grow and learn by
play. Recreation to them is truly re-
creating. A child utilizes his growth in
exploring his environment. A handi-
capped child’s environment is often re-
stricted. We found camping a good ve-
hicle for this growth, providing a nat-
ural way for the child to learn about it.
In facilitating and fostering play op-
portunities, we are at the same time
helping the child to learn to get along
with others and with himself. So often,
handicapped children are left stranded
as others run away.

The camp program for these children
is the same as for any others, with some
slowing down, but with modifications
kept to a minimum. Since our staff is
camping-oriented, we provide the basic
activities and conduct our program as
in a residential camp, except that the
children do not stay overnight. We
have nature lore, swimming, hikes, rifle
shooting, archery, and large mobile
toys. We have singing, storytelling, and

118

skits, as well as creative arts. All of this
is done out-of-doors. The children rest
on pallets on the ground, which the
Missouri summer climate makes possi-
ble.

We have a small swimming pool, bath-
house, and farmhouse with screened-in
side porch, which we use as a dining
hall. In addition to our small pool, we
use plastic tools for the more handi-
capped or timid children, some of whom
graduate to the larger pool while attend-
ing camp. There is a log cabin on the
premises with a fireplace and an over-
hanging roof under which we conduct
craft activities. We do not plan for such
sedentary activities as TV or movies.
When the children are resting, they
either rest, read, or have a counselor
read to them.

Many of our children come from the
center of town; so nature lore is some-
thing brand new and wonderful to them.
In addition, our farm animals entrance
them. We also have a pony and all
children who wish to can ride the pony,
long leg braces or not. Our ratio is two
counselors to five children, but we also
have specialists in nature and crafts.

CHILDREN and staff meet at the re-
habilitation center and forty-five
minutes later are at camp. This is not
just travel time, for the children learn
songs and riddles and have a chance to
become acquainted with the counselors
and each other.

Before camp opens, wc arrange an
orientation meeting with staff, discuss-
ing each child and his condition. We
also provide the camp staff with a de-
tailed medical-social record. However,
we find that those with good camping
background go ahead, do not nccd the
record nor detailed 1ncdical
mation. Emergency medical care is
planned for in case the family doctor
cannot be reached, but in three years
no medical care has been necessary.

At present, we plan three sessions of

infor-

two weeks, each of which permits some
age groupinv. Our first session is for
the younger children, from about six
to eight years of age; the second, for
those around nine to eleven years; and
the third, for teen-agers. We enroll
twenty-five children per session.
Campers are accepted only after med-

ical clearance and evaluation of the doc-
tor’s recommendations in terms of the
child’s ability to benefit from camping.
In addition to the children in our own
rehabilitation program, we accept chil-
dren who are referred to us from outside
sources. One social worker, who has
worked for a number of years on camp
placements, is assigned to handle all
camp applications from outside refer-
rals. She, with the doctor, the family
and child, work out camping plans
either for regular camp or Daniel
Boone. Our experience in integrating
children with many different diagnoses,
including blind and epileptic children,
has demonstrated that this can be done
successfully in a camping program as
long as groups are small, program flex-
ible, and staff adequately prepared.

WE EXPECT to graduate some chil-
dren from day camp to regular
camp next year. There are some who
have been overprotected by parents and
others, to the extent that they do not
achieve a degree of physically possible
independence. These, through Camp
Daniel Boone, demonstrate what they
can do, to parents and other adults
taking care of them. This, in turn, lays
the groundwork for both child and par-
ent to face separation next year when
the child attends a sleep-away camp.

Handicapped children should not be
denied the many interesting facets of
nature, which we attempt to provide in
our own camp planning. These children
go to camp like other children they
know—they have something to talk
about—they have had a full day and
are no trouble to put to bed.

At Daniel Boone, we have tried to
provide a setting to foster emotional
and physical growth and a love of out-
doors. We do not want to baby-sit out-
doors. We believe there is a difference
between camping and baby-sitting out-
doors, and it is our policy to stress
camping by hiring counselors equipped
to do just that. Handicapped children
desperately need this experience; the
greater the handicap, the greater the

need. 

 

MRS. SPEAR is a caseworker [or the 5!.

Louis (Missouri) Society [or Crippled
Children, adilialed with {he Narional So-
ciety [or Crippled Children and Adults.

RECREATION

A community’s effort to

stimulate camping in an era of

shrinking “Open Spaces.”

KEEP THE CAMPFIRES

BURNING

Joseph W. Halper

 

Campers depart from school demonstra-
tion area for two-mile hike to
waterfront and takeoff by launch

for adventure on Pearsall’s Hassock.

TTEMPTS by suburban communi-
A ties to establish camping pro-

grams have been thwarted con-
stantly by the increasing lack of
suitable and easily accessible land. The
remnants of local wildernesses desired
by camping enthusiasts are yielding
to housing deve10pments and disap-
pearing from the scene. This problem
of vanishing open areas, which com-
pels long trips to reach suitable loca-
tions, has been one of the major deter-
rents to good camping programs in
many of the more crowded areas of
our country.

In the spring of 1958, the commu-
nity of Oceanside, New York, moved
to solve this problem and develop its
community camping project.
Oceanside is a heavily developed, unin-
corporated suburban community loca-
ted on the south shore of Long Island,
with a population of approximately

O‘VII

I MR. HALPER is director of recreation,
Oceanside, New York, Public Schools.

MARCH 1960

 

32,000. The community recreation de-
partment, which is five years old, is
under the auspices of the board of
education and is iinanced from the pub-
lic appr0priation for education.

Upon consultation with the Long
Island Park Commission, the commu-
nity was informed, unhappily, that be-
cause of the increasing preSsure of
population growth, Long Island state
parks could no longer support such
activities as group camping.

Oceanside then turned to its own
resources. After careful investigation,
two particular areas were selected with
specific purposes in mind; the lirst,
for its particular suitability as an area
of camping demonstration and educa-
tion; the second, for its appr0priate-
ness as an adventure campsite.

The demonstration site, a plot of
eight thousand square feet, is situated
in a corner of the high-school athletic
field where several good-sized shade
trees stand. This area was developed
as a joint community project by the
Kiwanis Club and the Girl Scouts, who
shared the expense. Other community
scout agencies assisted the recreation
department in planning facilities,
which included a iifteen-foot-diameter
teepee, an Adirondack leanto, a work
shelter, weather station, an ax yard
with ch0pping blocks, park-type lire-
places, several picnic tables, and a
handpump well. The area is enclosed
by a stockadelike rustic fence.

This facility was planned for the
handling of troop- or class-size groups,
one of its main functions being to
teach camping skills, such as lire
building, outdoor cooking, axmanship,
meal planning, weather prediction, and
other camp crafts in a camplike sur-
rounding. The camp was also intended
as a leadership training facility and

 

an outdoor education teaching station
for the school system.

After the basic skills are taught in
this demonstration area, the recreation
department utilizes an above-tidewater
sand bar, two hundred yards off the
shore of the community, for the adven-
ture phase of its camping program.
This gives campers an opportunity to
use the skills and knowledge learned
at the demonstration area in practical
living experiences.

It was a familiar sight this past sum-
mer for residents of Oceanside to see
groups of twenty to thirty campers de-
parting from the demonstration area
in the high-school grounds, to hike two
miles with pack and gear to the water-
front. Here a waiting motor launch
transported the groups to Pearsall’s
Hassock, situated in the middle of
Hewlett Channel, where they would
spend two days camping in natural
surroundings.

The Oceanside School District Rec-
reation Department met with gratify-
ing success in this two-phase camping
program and plans to expand the pro-
gram in seasons to come. The areas
are also being reserved by community
scouting groups. The camp demonstra-
tion area is under the Oceanside Board
of Education for control and mainte-
nance. Reservation for its use is made
through the school district ofhce in the
same manner as other school facilities.

Most communities have plots at least
this size, on school grounds or other
public lands, that can be develoPed at
costs of less than iifteen hundred dol-
lars, if the talents of the community
are properly organized and utilized.
Thus, the problem of securing suitable
land need not be as great a setback in
developing a community camping pro-
ject as may at iirst appear. #

119

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

A-Boating They Do Go

' Americans owned 7,800,778 pleasure
boats of all kinds at the close of 1959,
according to the Mobil Oil Company.
Of this total, 4,804,000 were boats spe-
cifically designed to use power. This
includes inboard gasoline- and diesel-
engine boats and those having transoms
for outboard motors. The company’s
latest survey showed 6,709,000 boat
motors of all types in the U.S. and its
principal territories. By far the largest
part of these, 5,845,000 were outboard
motors. In addition to
boats specifically de-
signed to use power,
the survey reported 2,-
500,000 rowboats and
dinghies and 496,000
sailboats. Many of
J“   these craft use motors
. “at times.

New York Statc con-
tinued to lead in thc total number of
power-designed boats with 457,000
(9.52% of the nationwide total). Other
states with more than 200,000 power-
designed boats each, with their percen-
tage‘ of the national total, were: Calif-
ornia, 340,292 (7.08%); Minnesota,
332,467 (6.92%) ; Illinois, 263,473
(5.48%) ; Florida, 251,287 (5.23%) ;
Ohio, 250,382 (5.21%); and Texas,
241,090, (5.02%).

° Water-borne “hot-rodders” have be-
come a major headache to waterfront
communities across the nation. The
New York City Police Department’s
Harbor'Precinct, with a thirtccn-launch
fleet, has clamped down on violators of
the state navigation law: operators of
inboard or outboard motorboats who
drop refuse in the water or use boats
with noisy mufflers or cutouts; specders
and cutups; reckless water skiers and
rash surfboard riders. In Fairfield
County, Connecticut. police depart-

#2:,

  

-1’

120

ments have taken to sending their men
to classes in waterfront activities to
cope with the rise in pleasure boating.
Their duties range from preventing ju-
venile vandalism and rounding up “joy-
riders” who abscond with boats to res-
cuing becalmed Sunday sailors. They
are also taking skin-diving lessons for
rescue work.

Spotlight on Youth

- Juvenile delinquency cases in Ramsey
County, Minnesota, have decreased for
the first time in five years and the chief
probation officer has commended Ber-
nard T. Holland, commissioner of the
St. Paul Bureau of Parks and Recrea-
tion, for his help in this area. Proba-
tion officer John K. Donahue stated,
“Good playground administration does
much to reduce delinquency.” The
county’s juvenile delinqucncy caseload
dropped from 1499 in 1958 to 1308 in
1959. (For other news of St. Paul, see
Page 110.)

' There are tens of thousands of chil-
dren who literally have never seen a
green hillside, and at the rate the coun-
tryside is receding, perhaps they never
will. Nature Centers for Young Amer-
ica (formerly the National Foundation
for Junior Museums) is now conduct-
ing programs in some dozen states to
aid the establishment of “Green Islands
of Naturc,” before subdivision and de-
velopment close the gates forever. The
organization offers professional advice
on how to set up nature centers and or-
ganize educational and recreation pro-
grams for nature study.

' In a recent New York State Regents
examination a student referred to
“people bearing the grant of heavy tax-
ation.”

- Authorities in Prince Georges Coun-
ty, Maryland, report that juvenile 0f-
fenders while away their time in jail
reading fan mail from teen-agc girls.

 

People in the News

Howard C. Hites has joined the Los
Angeles County Department of Parks

and Recreation as social and cultural
activities director. Un-
til recently Mr. Hites
was general manager of
the Southeast Recrea-
tion and Park District,
with headquarters at
Norwalk. Previously he held executive
recreation and managerial positions in
San Marino, with the Welfare Federa-
tion of Los Angeles, the city of Beverly
Hills, Beverly Hills Youth Center, and
Volunteers of America, Los Angeles.

After more than thirty-six years of
service as a city of Los Angeles em-
ployee, Ernest M. Reeves, senior park
foreman, recently retired. Mr. Reeves,
who had reached the compulsory re-
tirement age of seventy, entered city
service on September 2, 1924, as a la-
borer in the former park department.
He was appointed senior park foreman
in 1945.

Los Angeles reports that Edgar C.
Lindgren, Los Angeles City Recreation
and Park Depart-
ment scnior garden-
er, hasn’t used a sin-
gle day of his sick
leave in thirty-two

years! Congratula-

 

tions are in order
and best wishes for another thirty-two
sickfrce years.

Nuclear chemist Glenn Theodore Sea-
borg knows the difference between an
atom and a golf ball but finds thcm
both pesky. When he isn’t busy being
the chancellor of the University of Cal-
ifornia in Bcrkcley and winning inter-
national awards (Nobel Prize in chem-
istry, 1951, and the fifty-thousand-dol-
lar Enrico Fermi Award, 1959), Dr.
Seaborg joins his four sons (he also has
two daughters) and neighborhood kids
in the large lot next to his home in
Lafayette. He has converted this into a
playground with a baseball diamond
and a tennis court that doubles as has-
kethall and volleyball court. A discov-
erer of the plutonium used in atomic
bO'mlJS, Dr. Seahorg also tries to bc
scientific about his golf game.

Mrs. Maurine Evans is the new sn-
perintcndcnt of recreation in Spring-

(Conn'nned on. Page 121)

RECREATION

9

1 9 6 O
LOUISVILLE SLUGGEB

BASEBALL BATS
Wémée m 2/6”]... .¢%¢WWW§W/€/6f

--r-

 

    

I25 GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. Natural ash white finish. Turned from choice. open-air-seasoned white ash.
Genuine autographed models of the twenty sluggers listed below comprise the No. I25 line. An assortment _of not fewer than six different models is

guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Packed 4/33". 5/34". and 3/35" bats in each carton. Shipping weight. 27 pounds . _ ................ ,. Each $4.60
MODELS:

Henry Aaron Orlando Cepeda Nelson Fox Harvey Kuenn Duke Snider

Richie Ashburn Bab Cerv AI Kaline Mickey Mantle Frank Thamas

Ernie Banks Racky Calavito Harman Killebrew Ed Mathews Gus Trlandas

Yagl Berra Joe Cunningham Ted Kluszewskl Jackie Rabinsan Ted Williams

1253 SPECIAL AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGERuPOWERIZED. (Nat illustrated). Quality and‘finish identical to No. IZS above. but turned to
slightly smaller dimensions for the particularJequirements of High Schaal. Prep SchaalI Babe Ruth League. Pany Baseball. and other teen—age players.
Listed below are the autographed models in the [255 group. An assortment of not fewer than six different'models is guaranteed to each carton of one

dozen. Packed 4/32". 5/33". and 3/34" bats in each carton. Shipping weight. 24 pounds ...........................................  ............................................................... __Each $4.60
MODELS:

Henry Aaron Racky Calavita Harvey Kuenn Jackle Rabinsan

Rlchle Ashburn AI Kaline Mickey Mantle Duke Snider

Yogi Berra Harman Killebrew Ed Mathews Ted Williams

‘3 ASH FUNGO. GENUINE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. (Nat Illustroate_d). Quality and finish identical to No. I25 above. Each carton of
one dozen contains three (34") infield and nine (37" and 38") outfield fungoes. Shipping weight. 20 pounds_._._,.-....._....

...... .. .............Each $4.60

 

'25 EBONY FINISH—GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGERHPOWERIZED. Turned from choice. open-air-seasoned timber. Rich ebany
finish with gold branding. Six different models are guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Packed 4/33". 5/34". and 3/35" bats in each carton. Shipping
weight. 27 pounds..._...__.........-.--.............-...     .................................. .. ..   .. Each $4.60

'_ Quandle .

(III! III" Inlll

“4.— —-- a.

 

15' GRAND SLAM-—Natura| white finish. Turned from select northern white ash timber. Patterned after the original models of the famous sluggers
whose names they bear. Six different models guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Lengths 4/33". 5/34". and 3/35" bats in each carton.’ Shipping
weight. 26 pounds   .. ..     Each 53.60

F I503 SPECIAL GRAND SLAM--(Nat illustrated). Quality and finish identical to No. ISO above. but turned to slightly smaller dimensions for the par-
ticular requirements of High School. Prep Schaal. Babe Ruth League. Pany Baseball. and other teen-age players. Six different models guaranteed to
each carton of one dozen. Lengths 4/32". 5/33". and 3/34" bats in carton. Shipping weight. 24 pounds . .   .  Each-$3.60

 

I‘COIAL . I

.. E0 MATHEWS

   

HIS SPECIAL rowan DRIVE. Natural white finish. Turned from fine white ash. Patterned after the original models of the famous sluggers whose
I‘ names they bear. but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular requirements of High Schaal. Prep Schaal. Babe. Ruth. League. Pany
Baseball. and other teen-age players. Six different models guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Assorted lengths 32" to 34": shlpplng welght. ZS pounds.

Each $3.10
Bats for PONY BASEBALL Bats for BABE RUTH LEAGUE
Numbers 125$. 150$. 1403. and 1303 (also the Junior and Any baseball bat in the Louisville Slugger line not longer than
Little League numbers) are approved for PONY BASEBALL 34" may be used In BABE RUTH LEAGUE play. however. the
play. These numbers are particularly suitable for players of “speaals” (125$._150$. 1408. and 1308) are particularly suit-

this age group. able for players of this age group.

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY COMPANY. INC.. LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY
Also Makers of Grand Slam Gaif Clubs

 

'rinted In U.S.A. Copyright I960

H 8: B BASEBALL BATS

A. .a; --"- - -i—'.=l-"—"""'“"‘ — '3” '--
_- - - - - — -+ “Eh
- WW --"- _I. - [_._- ..—r
 ——,. . sauce
‘ .- .. ‘_ "AMY KUERN MODEL
" "'- —v--—--"‘_ — . -_-- "T - -

 

_ . _.__- ,__, — ‘—
._-. v

“W SAFE HIT. Finished in natural ash white and supplied in an assortment of famous sluggers' models in each carton of one dozen. Assorted lengths
from 32" to 35"; shipping weight. 26 pounds    ................Eoch32.70

.— —T"—T""
,H—IA—I‘nm“

   

“8 BIG LEAGUER. Black finish with white tape grip. An assOrtment of famous sluggers' models in each carton of one dozen. Lengths range from 32"
to 35"; shipping weight. 27 pounds............-..-...... '. ........................................................ ..  ..    och $2.30

W DER” MODEL

 

1303 SPECIAL SAFE HIT. Turned from ash with rich dark maroon finish. Patterned after original models of the famous sluggers whose names they bear.
but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular requirements of High School. Prep School. Babe Ruth Leogue. Pony Boseball. and other
teen-age players. Six different models guaranteed to the carton of one dozen. assorted lengths 32" to 34"; shipping weight. 24 pounds Each $2.30

   

9 LEADER. Light brown finish. Assorted famous sluggers' models. AsSOrted lengths. from 32" to 35"; shipping weight. 27 pounds ., Each $1.80

LITTLE LEAGUE

Performance makes them Famous

AND JUNIOR
BATS

 

 

125“- GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LITTLE LEAGUE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. Large-size iuniOr bat. Turned from select. open-air-seasoned white ash and
hickory. Each carton at one dozen contains approximatel half with natural white finish and half with antique finish. Autographs of Henry Aoron. Yogi
Berro. Rocky Colovito. Nelson Fox. Mickey Mantle. an Ted Williams. Packed 3/29”. 4/30". 3/3l". and 2,332" bats in each carton. Shipping weight.

2| pounds  Each $3.50

“TIL... m

.m—

mrnmu

 

12588 GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LITTLE LEAGUE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—EnONv FINISH. Large-size iunIOr bat. Turned from select open-air-seasoned

timber. Imprinted white tape grip. Autographs of Henry Aoron. Yogi Berra. Rocky Colavito. Nelson Fox. Mickey Mantle. and Ted Willioms. Lengths.
3, 29". 4/30". 3/3l". and 2.’32" bats in each carton. Shipping weight. 22 pounds  5"“ 53°10

 

125J GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LITTLE LEAGUE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. Medium-size iunior bat. Turned from select open-air-seasoned ash. Approxi-
mater half of the I25J bats have natural finish as shown above; the other half have an ebon finish. Autographs of Henry Aoron. Yogi Berra. Rock

 

Colovito. Nelson Fox. Mickey Mantle. and Ted Williams. Lengths 3/29". 4/30". 3/3l". an 2/32". Shipping weight. 20 pounds Each $2.7
.-' k—w— _—
 .I-I-I-n-u- — —
“i
Jl- LITTLE LEA?!“ . Louisville " Large-size iunior bat with two-tone black barrel and white handle finish. Each bat cantains the name of one
ofothise fam us h-t Aoron. YagI Berro. Rocky Colovlto. Nelson Fox. Mickey Mantle. and Ted Williams. Lengths 29" to 32". Ship ing
weight. 7' pm "  _ _ _ Eoch S .30

   

J2 LT'I‘LE LEAGUE ‘ brown finish. Each bat branded with name of one of these famous hitters: Henry Aaron. Yogl
39"“. ROC'IY CGIGV'M - rnd Ted Williams. Lengths 29" to 32". Shipping weight. 20 pounds  Each $1.30

LOUISVILLE... SLUGGER

Performance makes them Famous

SOFTBALL
BATS

 

 
  

t g 7

-.-

*1. -‘I

 

‘2- I _E ‘— _’*-:'§,-- i . .‘-l

I15? LOUISVILLE SLUGGEB OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—MODEL 12. For the consistent hitter. a small-barreled bat with gradual taper to small grip.
Antique fInIsh. Finest selection of second-growth ash and/or hickory. One dozen tO carton. 6/33" and 6/34"; shipping weight. 24 pounds. ..........Eoch 53.60

   

"53F LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "SLOW-PITCH" SOFTBALL BAT—ASSORTED OFFICIAL MODELS. Designed for the rapidly expanding game of slow-
pitch softball and the more experienced player preferring a bat with more heft. Antique finish hickory. One dozen in carton. 6/33" and 6/34"; shipping
weight. 28   .......................................................... .. .  . ................. ..   . . Each $3.25

 

  

I r ' "_'_‘_—“‘"-—-—- Y— —..—-— ;—— ' -—-—‘—- ‘-—"'—-~—r':l' “'-’- I": "-  " ' *“ DFHCI'AL . _—_ w L" J
I V __ r_  . .. c. - _ ‘ ' __ ‘ , 2 'I- _ 7
——- k «m... a- Ila—:5”... * ‘

115w LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assortment Of popular models packed in carton of one dozen. Turned from select ash and/or
hickory. and Powerized. Finished in natural ash-white. 'Lengths. 6/33" and 6/34"; shipping weight. 23 pounds .. . . .. . Eoch S3.25

F’_Wug__

 

 

I153 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "METEOR" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. A splendid assortment of models that will meet requirements of the various types
of hitters. Red maroon finish. Turned from select ash and/or hickory. and Powerized. One dozen in carton. 6/33" and 6/34"° shipping weight. 23 pounds.

' Each $3.25

 

use LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—MODEL B. "Fast-Swing" model for hitting fast pitching. Bottle-shaped large barrel~ that
tapers quickly to small grip. Natural white finish. Turned from select ash and/or hickory, and PoweriZed. One dozen to carton. 6/3I" and 6/32"; ship-
ping weight. 24 pounds.-...........     .  ..  .,_"...Eoch $3.25

Anorak -~'

F 2' “Cull '1

 

25.3 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "ROCKET" SOFTBALL BAT—ASSORTED OFFICIAL MODELS. A splendid variety of models—answers full team requirements.
Ebony finish. Turned from select ash and/or hickory. One dozen in carton. 6/33" and 6/34";.shIpping weight. 24 pounds. ..  .. ....-.............Eoch $3.25

‘5 lLSEST‘W‘o
RmHaamnsaYco "

MAUI INUIA

 

115T LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—MODEL 6. For heavy hitters—a bottle-shaped model with .Iarge barrel. tapering quickly to a
medium grip. Natural white finish. Turned from select ash and Powerized. One dozen to carton. 6/33" and 6/34": shIppIng weight. 24 pounds Each $3.25

 

15“? LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFIOIAL SOFTBALL BAT—MODEL a. "Fast-Swing" model for hitting fast pitching. Bottle-shaped—large barrel othat
quickly (tiapers to small handle. Ebony finish. Turned from select ash and/or hickory and Powerized. Each carton. 6/3I" and 6/32". Shippénghwgaggté
25 poun s    .. . ..  .    ........ .. ac .

 

"5L LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—MODEL I. For girl hitters. A small-barreled bat with gradual taper to a small grip. Natural
white finish ash and Powerized. One dozen in carton. 33" lengths. Shipping weight. 20 pounds  ................................................................ .. .Each $3.25

LOUISVILLE SLUGGER and H & B SOFTBALL BATS

 

.W

200A LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFIOIAL SOFTBALL BAT. supplied in assorted .softball models.
high-quality ash and/or hickory. One dozen tO cartonI 3l" and 32" lengths; shIppIng weIght, 22 pounds 

Finished in- brown antique and POw'erized. Turned from
...................... ..Each $2.90

   

I" LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorted popular .softball models of first quality ash and hickory. Oil Tempered and finished
in saddle brawn. Packed one dozen to carton, 6/33" and 6/34”; shipping weIght. 24 pounds . .   Each $2.90

 
  



 

IIIIISP LOUISVILLE SLUGGER SLOW-PITCH OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Turned from high quality ash and/or hickory and finished in medium brOwn.
One dozen in carton. 6/3l" and 6/32"; shipping weightI 24 pounds... ......  . .  . .. . . . .. .   Each $2.90

 , ‘ l\ .H - - .

      

  

OFFICLAL
LOUISVIUI Swan

.4 a

u... o.- .

know LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. AssOrted pOpular softball models. Turned from high quality ash and/'or hickory. Natural white
fInIsh and on Tempered. One dozen in carton, 6/33" and 6/34"° shipping weight, 22 pounds    . . . 

.....................Each $2.90

 

55 "it's a Lauisville" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT, Natural finish. Ash and/or hickory.
and 34" lengths; shipping weight, 23 pounds............_........-.....

54 "It's a Lauisville” OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorted models turned from ash and hickory.

Green zapon grip. One dozen assorted models in carton, 33"
.  .H— .. . . ..  ..   Each $2.20

.bn-uun-Ioo ououo-IQ- Cami-lam... OOI-ee econowouoe eem-“O. I-que-Iuoi

 

 

Brown finish and black zapon grip. One dozen in

   

carton. 6/33" and 6.334"; shipping weight. 23 pounds... ..  . . . .. . Each $2.20
-".1 T  “Q Are ‘—T -'-—--.~.' _
‘ It. If}. \ 4r  - 3 F - .1»
540 "it's a Lauisvilie” OFFICIAL SOFTB'ALL BAT—Bottle—shaped "Fast Swing" model. Made of ash and hickory. with ebOny brown finish. One dozen
in carton. 6;“3l" and 6/32"; shipping weightI 24 pounds.....  .   . . . . . . .  Each 52.20
'. __._. k _ -——I:IAL _
, C - I: as? y' ‘3: -' -- softball —-

 

weightI

54L "It's a Lauisvilie” OFFICIAL GIRLS' MODEL. Natural white finish ash with blue zapon grip. One dozen in carton, 33" length; shipping 2 2
 .. .. .  . .. ..  . ....  -- , Each S . 0

\XXX'V

52.“ . OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Turned from ash and/or hickory and Iinished in ebony. One dozen assorted models to carton. 33" and 34" lengths:
shlppmq welqht. 23 pounds    .   . .  . .. . .  Each 51.80

H-.. ego-o A ...r . .. .. w.” . . . r 4...... . ..r

   

.u. . . . .. 00H

 

5”! O'FFICIAL SOOFTBOALL BAT. Turrmd from ash and/or hickory with maroon finish and gray zapon grip. Assorted models. One dozen to carton .33"
. 34 lengths; shIppIng weIght 23 p Iunds. . .    . . ...... .. . .    .... ..  Each $1.70

?3\\\*

. JFTBALL BAT.

hf"

 

Brown finish. 0 * I : .. assorted models to carton. 33" and 34" lengths: shipping weight 22 pOunds Each $1.30

I .  {114, a}, @Ap/Ao/g Kayo. 7Ahn’aM/Mhé. 4152/06! ncIJAwAc/o.

field, Illinois, succeeding H. Francis
Shuster, who has resigned. Mrs. Evans
has been with the playground and rec-
reation commission since 1928 and was
recently elected vice-president of the
recreation division of the Illinois Asso‘
ciation for Health, Physical Education,
and Recreation.

Howard R. Stagner has been named
chief naturalist of the National Park
Service. He had been assistant chief
of the Mission 66 staff in the Washing-
ton ofiice of the Service. Mr. Stagner,
who joined as a ranger-naturalist in
Yellowstone National Park in 1933,
succeeds John E. Doerr, now superin-
tendent of Olympic National Park,
Washington.

As chief naturalist, Mr. Stagner’s du-
ties include direction of the service’s
development of naturalist’s programs in
park areas, wildlife, and other natural

sciences.

NRA Pacific Southwest district rep-
resentative John J. Collier was honored
recently by the Ari-
zona Recreation As-
sociation with its

Fellow Award for his

outstanding service
to the
and the recreation
movement in Arizona. Dennis McCar-
. thy, Awards Committee chairman and
director of the Arizona State Park
Board, said, “I can sincerely say that
the stature which the Arizona Recrea-
tion Association enjoys today to a great
extent can be attributed to this man’s
great efforts and interest, his vigorous
and zealous support for the aims and
objectives of the association during the
past five years.” Well done, John!

association

 

Community Art Week in Middletown Township, New Jer-
sey, was inaugurated in 1958, and packs a solid calendar
of cultural activities into four very busy days. The festival

Recreation USSR
In a report on social welfare in the
Soviet Union, the Social Welfare

Forum, 1959, reports “. . . other broad
areas of social services carried out by
thc Soviet government include sum-
mer camps for children and youth and
various recreation clubs (called “pio-
neer clubs”) in after-school hours that
are in addition to normal recreational
and cultural activities. Activities for
adults are largely concentrated in facil-
ities for recreation and education in
individual business enterprises, and at
so-called ‘houses of culture’ . . . estab-
lished through funds collected by the
trade unions. The latter provide group
recreational activities that include gym-
nasium and sport activities, libraries,
game rooms, and facilities for develop-
ing group talent in art, music, and
drama. The houses of culture are gen-
erally established by particular factory
trade-union groups, although other
people in the locality may attend. There
are some special houses of culture for
particular groups, such as the deaf and

dumb.”

 

3n ilrmnriam

 

o A. B. Graham died recently in Co-
lumbus, Ohio, at the age of ninety-two,
just fifty-eight years after he organized
what became the world’s first 4-H Club.
The movement, which began in Spring-
field, Ohio, on January 15, 1902, has
spread over the world ( see RECREATION,
February 1960, Page 60). Mr. Gra-
ham’s group, a boys’ and girls’ agricul-
tural club, joined with similar clubs

under the 4-H name in 1930. Mr. Gra-

ham was the last sUrvivor of a com-

mittee, which, in 1906, prepared the ini-
tial plan for junior high schools in this
country.

0 Eric L. Madisen, Sr., of Appleton,
Wisconsin, known in park and recrea-
tion circles as the publisher of Park
Maintenance and Parks and Recreation
in Canada, died recently after being
semiretired for about a year. He was
interested in furthering the cause of
park improvement and was ever-ready
with ideas and help to those who had
plans or problems.

0 Mrs. Amy Brighthurst Brown de-
Forest of Plainfield, New Jersey, was
killed in the recent plane crash in Ja-
maica, the West Indies, at the age of
eighty-two. Mrs. deForest and the late
Mr. deForest had aided the National
Recreation Association ever since 1913,
Mr. deForest having served as a spon-
sor for thirty-four years.

0 Dr. Caleb Guyer Kelly known as the
Methodist “baseball missionary,” died
in Casablanca, Morocco, in January, at
the age of seventy-three. Dr. Kelly,
who organized 160 ball clubs in Tu-
nisia, Morocco, Algeria, and Libya, was
also known by thousands of American
seamen for whom he organized over
two hundred international games. Dr.
Kelly once said, “Baseball teaches good;
sportsmanship and give and take—two-
qualities badly needed in the world to-
day.”

0 Henry H. Tryon, a consulting fores--
ter, and for twenty-two years director
of the Black Rock Forest in New York’s
Bear Mountain area, died recently at
the age of seventy-one. Most of his
adult life had been spent in forestry-
At one time he was extension forester

for South Carolina. #

uses the high school while it is vacated for a teachers’ con-
vention. The cafeteria is tranformed into an exhibition hall'
for the display of paintings, sculpture, ceramics and mosaics.

 

“MARCH 1960

121

 

THE FAMILY OUTDOORS

CAMPS AND CAMPING

FAMILY CAMPING is unique in the camping movement be-
cause it takes the family as a whole unit and places
it in a situation where members have a chance to observe
each other in activities other than those of the normal home
life. Each has an opportunity to see and appreciate the
other’s abilities. Family members get to know each other
better through this exhibition of skills; the children see
their parents take part in events they ordinarily don't en-
gage in. The whole effect is one of increasing family sol-
idarity, contributing to greater family activity as a unit.
Thousands of Americans are enjoying this type of vacation
every year, discovering for themselves the beauties of the
open—~woodland and lake, mountains and sea.

Family camping came into existence during the first dec-
ade of the twentieth century. There is now a marked trend
in the country, in state and national parks, and conservation
departments to provide more facilities for family camping.

Forms of Family Camping—Family camping takes many
forms. Individual families may camp out in state and na-
tional parks. Family camps owned and operated by private
or agency organizations may have each family living in
cottages or other dwellings. Family camps may have a
separate unit for children and another for parents. The
latter should not be termed a “family eamp.” It is, at best,
a camp for children and a vacation for parents. This, of
course, might be the parents’ reason for going to such
a camp. There are calnps that do not specialize in family

122

 

camping, but permit families to attend, along with their
regular program.

Objectives—The objectives of organized family camping,
as set up by the American Calnping Association, are: (1)
to help family members have fun together, (2) to provide
the activities that enrich family living and relationships,
( 3) to help families develOp knowledge and skills for their
own, (4) to stimulate pcrsonal development through family
group planning. National and state parks buzz with fam-
ilies in summer, most of them tent campers, and a growing
number of public recreation departments are helping com-
munity families to learn more about the arts of camping.

In New Hampshire, Wink Tapply, National Recreation
Association district representative, conducts a “Family
Camporee” in White Lake State Park after Labor Day.
Last year, over sixty-five families, representing twenty-
eight New Hampshire communities, attended this weekend
of family recreation. In writing about it in F orcst Notes,
New Hampshire conservation magazine, editor Leslie 5.
Clark says, “I predict that the attendance next year will
again increase greatly, with the danger of having no New
Hampshire campground big enough to hold all the families
that would like to participate. . . . lf educational programs
were available in the various state camping areas, it would
help develOp good recreational use of the outdoors and con-

tribute to a better understanding of our water, wildlife, and

forest resources.” The state Operates eight campgrounds.

RECREATION

A FAMILY VACATION NIGHT

EVERY RECREATION director and supervisor hopes to reach

as many families in his community as possible. Time
and effort devoted to this program are rewarding when large
groups participate and return time after time. To achieve
this means a constant search for new ideas with public ap-
peal. “F amily Vacation Night” is one of these.

Devotees of family camping are numbered not in thou-
sands but in millions. As knowledge spreads, numbcrs
continue to increase. Many who have considered family
camping have never put it into practice because they lack
the opportunity to see how it is done and to appreciate its
possibilities. A “F amily Vacation Night,” offering speak-
ers, films, slides, exhibitions of equipment and seasoned
campers to give first-hand information will kindle the Spark
for a lively evening.

It is easy to get a stimulating speaker, either from your
conservation department, natural history museum, or ranger
station. Any scout executive office can furnish a number
of individuals with practical experience. They are always
willing to cooperate in every way. As an added feature
find a shutterbug camper to show his skill with photography
of camp subjects. Include films that are loaned or rented
for a small sum by conservation departments, states, or
regions that wish to advertise their recreation facilities.

Each state will send you detailed information on its camp-
ing areas. The National Park Service, U. S. Department
of the Interior, and National Forest Service, U. S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture (both Washington 25, D. C.), will
I supply you with maps and booklets and tell you where camp-
ing is permitted. The National Campers and Hikers Asso-
ciation, 1507 National Newark Building, Newark 2, New
Jersey, will contribute copies of Tent and Trail. Manufac-
turers will set up demonstrations of their wares, contribute
piles of pamphlets, possibly donate prizes or samples of

dehydrated foods.

Undoubtedly, local merchants who handle camp equip-
ment will find it advantageous to demonstrate the latest
thing in tents, lanterns, stoves, and gadgets that make out-

door living such an easy and delightful way of life. At a
recent meeting one concern demonstrated its stove by serv-
ing hot dogs and hamburgers “on the house.” The Ford
Motor Company has a loan exhibition of every conceivable
type of equipment. The neighborhood library, always will-
ing to participate in community activities, will be pleased
to send a display of books and publications on camping.
All these things furnish material for an unusual evening.

Games for the evening should be suitable for camp use.
Contests should be devised that illustrate camp skills and
use of equipment. Can you imagine the laughter involved
during a skit on how to put up a tent with novice and in-
experienced campers as demonstrators? Or the hilarious
antics of new camp cooks flipping Hapjacks or flapping flip-
jacks? How about the technique of undoing a bedroll and
getting into a sleeping bag?

Additional Activities—Where space permits, a complete
campsite might be set up on a playground. Neighbors with
experience are more willing to cooperate, exhibit their gear
for admiring friends, and so on.

It is not unheard of to plan an actual weekend of camp-
ing as a practical demonstration, to further community un-
derstanding. You will find more participants than you’d
expect. Last year, in Connecticut, five hundred families
spent such. a weekend camping together. In May this year
families from New England and other Eastern states camped
in Pennsylvania under NCHA sponsorship.

One vital factor that lends great appeal to family camp-
ing is its economy. Lodging is the most expensive item of
any vacation, yet a family of six usually pays no more
than six dollars a week for a campsite, sometimes less, some-
times nothing! Add the slogan “How to rent a summer
home for six dollars a week” to your Hyers about “F amily
Vacation Night,” and you certainly extend an intriguing
invitation! Better plan plenty of seating capacity for you
will have a crowd and you will have funl—LOUISE MARTIN
NEss, volunteer worker for the National Campers and
Hikers Association, Newark, New Jersey.

 

SUGGESTED CAMP SWIMMING REGULATIONS

1. No one is to enter the swimming area without checking
in and obtaining permission of a waterfront staff mem-
ber or person in charge of the buddy board.

2. All swimming to be done with a buddy of the same swim-

ming ability.

. All signals must be immediately obeyed.

4. All persons must check in and out of the waterfront by
placing their buddy check on the proper board.

5. All changing of buddies, swimming areas, etcetera, must
be done at the board, each handling his own check.

6. No running, pushing, or horseplay on piers or raft.

CA3

‘MARCH 1960

7. No one is to push, splash, or bother the lifeguards in any
way. Instructions from any lifeguard must be immedi-
ately obeyed. Any refusal to follow instructions while
on the waterfront will result in the suspension of water-
front privileges.

8. No one is allowed to swim under the piers, raft, or on
the far side of the rafts.

9. Any person who makes a false cry for help will be im-
mediately sent from the waterfront and have his water-
front privileges suspended for a period to be determined
by the waterfront director.

123

 

Part II

ACCENT ON YOUTH IN AS

A continuation o f the story about

recreation in the Far East.

lives in one of the sixty-four thousand villages of a

province that is one of the most heavily populated
areas of the world. Unlike his countryman in West Paki-
stan, from whom he is separated by a thousand miles or
more, he cats and helps grow rice, whereas his counterpart
is more interested in wheat. Both of these Pakistani have
many things in common—one of them is a craving for a
chance to play and watch soccer football and field hockey.
But the delta country of East Pakistan, which is similar to
the state of Louisiana, does not always have a sport field
at every population center. So the recreation chairman of
a Chand Tara club, who could be either a boy or girl from
seven to nineteen years of age, finds his ingenuity some-
what stretched in leading activities for fifty to seventy com-
panions in a one-room school or a hamboo-and-matting
youth hut on a Saturday afternoon when everyone is full
of go.

At this point, he may turn for ideas to the village-aid
worker, employed by government as its link with youth
clubs, but primarily to help villages improve their economic
level, increase agricultural production, and enhance the
educational life of the people. The villagers know the worker
because he lives in one of the five to ten villages he serves
and makes his rounds by foot or sampan or, in the dry
season, by bicycle. Besides some ideas about the Chand
Tara club, the village elders may turn to the worker for
advice on vaccinating cattle, preventing poultry disease,
fertilizing rice fields, establishing a cooperative feed shop,
sanitizing a water well, or marketing fish. The village-aid
worker does not pretend to be a specialist in all of these
matters, nor even an expert in the organization and pro-
grams of youth clubs. But a government institute, set up
by Field Marshall Ayub Khan, has given him a year’s train-
ing to be a “generalist”—rather than a specialist—in sev-
eral fields of activity close to village life.

Government envisions the extension of the village-aid
program and an increasing amount of attention to Chand
Tara clubs since only a portion of East Pakistan youth now

’- CHAND TARA club member in East Pakistan probably

 

MR. WINANS, known to his friends in the recreation field as
“Ship,” has been a rccrcation consultant in the Far East
since 1958 for the Asia Foundation, a private nonprofit or-
ganization with headquarters in San Francisco. At present,
he is working in Malaya at Kuala Lumpnr as honorary rec-
reation advisor to the government.

124

Sterling S. Wil

 

Pakistani youth give a demonstration of “Kabodi” at the
Children’s Aid Society Lahori Cate Playground in Lahore.

have the opportunity to sew, knit, garden, raise poultry,
and fish with the inspiration of “doing something together”
with their peers. Chand Tara clubs are looked to by vil-
lage-aid officials as a program of nation building and as a
means of encouraging Muslim religious concepts, which are
part and parcel of the culture, economy, and political life
of Pakistan.

Singapore Is Young

The busy boulevards of the tropical island of Singapore
are full of beauty and of young peoplc——half the population
is under the age of twenty-one. You should be ready to talk
to these youth in Malay, since this language has been adopt-
ed oflicially by the new state government, but to really get ac-
quainted with all of these fine youngsters, you would need
to bring along your English, Tamil, Mandarin, or one of
several Chinese dialects. The million and a half people
living on the island’s two hundred square miles, and on
adjacent islands, represent many nationalities. But differ-
ence in tongues does not keep boys and girls far apart in
the recreation experience at youth clubs first established
following \Vorld War II.

Each of the forty-five youth clubs operating during 1958-
59 was an autonomous body, with its own constitution ap»
proved by the government’s Registrar of Societies and a
management committee made up of interested citizens.
Government and voluntary agencies were partners in the
plan. Club sponsorship, voluntary funds, and some leader-
ship came from the management committees supplemented

RECREATION

by some funds for improvement of premises and equipment
from the Ministry of Labor and Welfare (now named the
Ministry of Labor and Law) and timely advice from a staff
of men and women youth service officers.

Where can we get trained club leaders? Who are quali-
fied to instruct in sewing, folk dancing, woodworking, sing-
ing, basketball, and huntow (Chinese art of self-defense)?
Who will help us organize a new club? Will anyone lend
our club a movie projector or a public address system for
our Chinese New Year celebrations? Who will arrange an
interclub athletic meet? To supply these needs, the federa-
tions of Boys and Girls Clubs, organized several years ago,
have displayed commendable initiative. Their training
courses for volunteer leaders were so interesting that one
hundred young English- and Chinese-speaking adults strug-
gled through a three-month course of lectures and dem-
onstrations and hurdled a qualifying examination. The
government’s annual financial grant of three thousand dol-
lars and provision of a headquarters ofiice for the Federa-
tion of Boys Clubs helped strike a joint blow for youth and
club programs.

0n almost any late afternoon or evening, you could find
boys, girls, or mixed clubs meeting in village halls, com-
munity centers, public housing buildings, or in rented
premises. If you wanted to be an onlooker at a club on the
evening of a talent show or an exhibition you had better
postpone your last cup of tea if you want to find breathing
space. Even the club leader’s desk will be crowded. On a
normal evening sixty members would be an average attend-
ance.

Through the Federation of Boys Clubs, leaders and ac-
tivity instructors received a monthly honorarium from the
government of about thirty-five to fifty dollars to cover
transportation and incidental expenses. Activity special-
ists were compensated on an hourly basis. To encourage
young citizens in the idea that club membership is some-
thing to be respected, the two hundred or more members of
each club paid a minimal monthly membership fee of ten
cents.

This is not the whole story. During 1958-59, many of
the clubs received guidance and some help in improvements
and equipment from units of the British Royal Navy, Army,
and Royal Air Force. From this interchange of experience,
at a personal level, both club members and several men and
their families seemed to profit. And so did the everyday
policeman who made a monthly contribution to a fund for
the support of specific clubs. Rotary Club, Junior Chamber
of Commerce, and other civic organizations underlined their
interest in youth clubs in a substantial way, as did the
Asia Foundation.

Small quarters for a youth club are not a significant de-
terrent to intensive use, especially by youngsters who are
not in school or who are unemployed. Although the stand-
-ard of living in Singapore is relatively high as compared
to other Asian countries, the new state government, under
its young premier, Lee Quan Yew, is striving to increase
{employment opportunities for both youth and adults. Vo-
cational pursuits of youth clubs may be a cog in this con-
“structive effort of a new state struggling to find itself.

_MARCH 1960

 

 

M .v

Students at the Home Economics College for Women, Lahore,
Pakistan, beat out some rhythm on improvised instruments.

Voices in Unison

Government and voluntary agencies are attuned to the
value of recreation experiences for boys and girls as ex-
pressed in the accent on youth in several Asian countries.
Between recreation experience, on the one hand, and a
scheme of recreation activities, on the other, the differential
scems to hang on how much stress is levied on the prepara-
tion and quality of leaders. Whatever may be the must
qualifications of their leaders, clubs for youths between the
ages of ten and twenty-one years spice their programs with
much more than sports. Making things, putting on plays,
singing, playing instrumental music, dancing, picnics and
excursions, and, in some countries, camping together are
prominent features of programs that vary from a once-a-
month menu to a daily diet.

The government’s stress on youth is reflected in direct
subsidies to clubs or grants to federations of clubs, pro-
viding equipment or leadership or all of them for club
premises. A striking observation is that most countries
are now giving professional status to the club leader. If
activities are to be merged into enriching experiences,
guidance of clubs cannot rest wholly on the shifting avail-
ability of volunteers, however dedicated. The stress on
agricultural develOpment in many communities has given
a healthy and earthy tinge to youth club organization and
program. Some clubs orient their programs to the voca-
tional interests of their members and to language instruc-
tion and informal education. In Hong Kong, for example,
youth clubs serve as food distribution and relief centers.

Spaciousness, esthetic appeal, and' functional design are
sought by youth leaders for club premises in community
buildings, social welfare centers, public housing estates,
schools, rented quarters, and, sometimes, converted busi-
ness or residential quarters. The minimum in facilities and
equipment usually prevails, but from these Asian countries
one can learn some lessons about the intensive use of lim-
ited space and supplies.

Wherever and however clubs are organized, youth has
the magnetism to attract the interest and help of the very
finest citizens. An accent on youth is inevitable in the voice
of any people. #

125

 

FUN WITH NATURE

xploring the exciting miracles of
E nature is not only fun, but ex-

poses eager young participants
to the wonders of science and the de-
lights of discovery. Many new doors of
interest are thrown wide, and young
eyes are opened. Curiosity is rewarded
with a heightened awareness of the
world around us. In fact, nature activi-
ties have been known to lead to related

careers—-in science, conservation, and

other fields.

How to Look Inside a Pond

It is rather diflicult to look inside a
body of water because the water reflects
light and makes it hard to see below the
surface. Make a watersc0pe and use it
to peer into the water without even get-
ting your hair or face wet. The simplest
waterscope is just a large glass jar that
you submcrge halfway in the water.

 

Look down through the Open top of the
jar and perhaps you will see fish and
other water animals. The glass bottom
will magnify everything.

If you have a stovepipe handy—-—one
about two feet long—-—you can make a
better waterscope, which will go deeper
into the water. At the bottom end of
the pipe attach a circular piece of plate
glass with some putty. If you buy the
glass in a hardware store, you might
have it cut out for you there. Be sure
to let the putty dry before you put your
scope into the water.

Also be sure to tape the t0p of the
pipe so the sharp edges won’t scratch
you when you press your face against it.

 

Reprinted with permission from 101
Best Nature Games and Projects, by
LILLIAN and GODFREY FRANKEL. (New
York: Sterling Publishing, $2.50). Mr.
Frankel is a director of the Jewish
Community Center in Cleveland, Ohio.

126

Use your scope when you are in a row-
boat or on a float or bank.

Observation

Here’s another observation-type
game to play on a hike. The group
walks along in single file, with an adult
or one of the players acting as leaders.

The leader asks the first player in
line (loud enough for all to hear):
“What is this?” pointing to an oak
tree. If the player knows he gives the
answer in a loud voice and remains at
the head of the line. If he doesn’t know
the answer, he goes to the end of the
line. The leader then asks the same
question of the next player in line, and
so on until he gets the right answer.
Then he asks another nature question of
the player who has answered correctly
and has remained at the head. There are
no points awarded in this game. The
object is simply to stay at the head of
the line as long as possible.

Observation can also be played when
your group is around a campfire or in
a club room. The leader asks questions
of each player in turn, but in this case
a player receives a point for each right
answer. The leader keeps asking a
player nature questions until he misses,
then he goes to the next player, etcetera.

Often these games develop into stim-
ulating discussions on some curious
phase of nature activity.

How to Keep from Getting Lost
in the Woods

1. Know the area where you are hik-
ing. Draw a simple map showing groves
of trees, clearings, streams, hills, large
rocks, and lakes. Show the trails you
will take. Mark off the Spot you will use
as headquarters for camping, resting,
or just getting together. With your
compass to guide you, mark off direc-
tions—--north, south, east, and west. Sec
that each member of the group has a
copy of the map. Along with the map
be sure to have some chalk, small slips
of paper, tacks, safety matches, and, of
course, a compass. These things will
come in handy just in case you do get
lost.

2. There may be times when you hike

in an area that is unfamiliar to you.
If you have no map the first time you
cover this territory, you can use another
plan to get back to your meeting place.
As you hike along, mark with chalk
about every fifth tree in your line of
walk. Draw a circle around the trunk.

3. If you decide to leave the path
and veer off in another direction, mark
an arrow on a tree, rock, or stump, or
make one out of stones on the ground.
Point the arrow in the direction you
have turned. If you don’t have chalk,
use your notepaper and tack it to vari-
ous trees.

4. In winter, when there is snow on
the ground, you can simply retrace your
own tracks in the snow.

5. Watch the sun for directions. For
example, if the sun is setting you can
dctermine where west is. By facing west
you will be able to ascertain all your
directions, because then north would be
at your right, south at your left, and
east would be behind you.

Froggie Ride

If you and your friends would like
to have some fun watching frogs in a
pond go “boat riding,” you can rig up
a little contraption like this one. Get
a small board about three by two feet.
In the center set up a lighted candle.

 

You can make it stand upright by let-
ting some of the wax drip on the board
and then sink the candle in its own
drippings, or you can set the candle in
some clay. Attach a string to a nail in
thc board.

At night, sct the board afloat, holding
on to one end of the string. The light
will attract the frogs and some may
even hop on the board for a ride. You
can pull slowly on the string and board
and frogs will come toward you for a
closer glimpse. #

RECREATION

 

A

Diane Link

PROGRESSIVE

CAMPING
PROGRAM

Where the lucky camper can graduate from
a traveling day camp to eight days
of overnight camping in the mountains.

HE FINAL PIIASE of a three-step
T progressive camping program
was completed by the Torrance
Recreation Department this past sum-
mer with the realization of an eight-day
established camping session at Big Bear
Lake, California. This three-step pro-
gram enables children to advance from
the most elementary camping skills to
advanced camping techniques.

The first step is an introductory two-
hour session known as the traveling day
camp. The camp staff visits each school
and park early in the summer, in hopes

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

of stimulating interest and enthusiasm
for the camping program. A simple
craft item is made by each child, and
flyers explaining both day and moun-
tain camp are distributed. The children
are exposed to camp life through craft
display boards, lashing demonstrations,
live animals borrowed from the city
pound, survival techniques, nature
games, animal traps, etcetera. There is
no charge for the traveling day camp,

 

‘Mlss LINK is a recreation leader in the
:Torrance, California, recreation depart-
ment. This city is an A [LA merican C ity
award winner.

. ARCH 1960

and all children above six years of age
are welcome.

The second phase is day camping,
which is coed and limited to the seven-
to-twelve-year-age group. The charge is
five dollars. Four five-day camping ses-
sions are held at various parks in Tor-
rance during the summer. A session
begins on Tuesday and concludes on
the following Saturday after breakfast.
The campers arrive at 10 AM and return
home at 4 PM every day except Friday,
when they stay overnight to try out
their newly acquired camping skills.

 

These sessions include all basic camp-
ing skills, survival techniques, crafts
using native materials, cooking, and an

all-day field trip.

The final phase of this program, is
an eight-day mountain camp-out at Big
Bear Lake. Most of the children par-
ticipating in the mountain camp pro-
gram attend one or more of the day-
camp sessions, and are ready for the
experience of eight days in camp.
Mountain camp is limited to the nine-
to-thirteen-coed-age group. The thirty-
dollar rate includes meals, housing,
swimming and boating instruction,

craft items, horseback riding, classes in
basic and advanced camping skills, and
a well-trained and enthusiastic staff with
an interest in developing the skills and
integrity of the campers.

Day Camp

Early in July, after all the parks and
playgrounds of Torrance had been in-
troduced to camping by the traveling
day camp, the camping staff began a
series of four day-camp sessions. These
sessions, lasting five days and one night,
are designed to give the child as much
camping experience as possible within
a limited time and situation—Le. five
days in a city environment. Regular
classes in basic camping skills are in-
terspersed with games related to the
outdoors. At the end of the session
campers spend the night in a real camp-
ing situation to try out their new skills.

Areas that seemed to attract interest
and enthusiasm were the craft program,
isolated games, and the overnight ex-
perience. The craft program was de-
signed, not around those crafts ordinar-
ily available in the city, but around
items that could easily be made in the
mountains from natural materials. The
staff spent one day in the mountains
early in the summer collecting man-
zanita, pine cones, and other materials
which could be incorporated in the craft
program. From these, the campers
made candle holders, book ends, name
pins, earrings, medallions, and tie rings.
Candle holders were produced from a
piece of manzanita approximately one
foot long, having a three-inch diameter
and an irregular shape. Three holes
were drilled on the top for the candles.
It was sanded, lacquered, and candles
inserted. Book ends were made from
uniform pieces of wood (143” by 4” by
5”) gathered by the staff from homes
being built around the area. Two pieces
of wood are needed to produce one book
end. They are sanded well and ham-
mered together to form an L. A pine
cone is glued to the bottom of the L,
cone and wood are lacquered. For
variety a small piece of manzanita is
placed on the other half of the pair in-
stead of the pine cone. Earrings, pins,
name tags, and tie rings can be made
from varied sizes of manzanita cut

127

 

against the grain. After these small
round pieccs of wood have been well
sanded, they can be decorated with tiny
delicate shells, macaroni, small bits of
rope tied in interesting knots, India ink,
paint, and so on. After decorating, ap-
ply lacquer and pin backings, tie rings,
or whatever is required for completion.

Two games proved most popular in
all four of the day-camp sessions, one
of which involved using a compass.
The day campers were divided into two
teams and each was given a piece of
paper with a trail on it to follow. Each
team had the same distance to travel
and same number of compass changes.
The trail was laid ahead of time by the
staff, and both teams ended at the same
point. Compass use was thoroughly ex-
plained beforehand. Each number on
the trail list included a direction and
the number of paces they should go.
The campers sighted the given direction
on their compasses and proceeded the
correct number of steps in that direc-
tion. If they miscalculated, they were
forced to go back to the previous point.

The results of a day-camp program
of this type more than justify the time
and effort of production. The campers
took home with them not only a com-
pletely new experience and many basic
camping skills (survival techniques,
compass and map reading, knowledge
of various plants and trees, fire build-
ing, care and use of knife and hatchet,
craft ideas using native materials, bed
rolling, cookery, trail blazing, and new
songs), but, most impOrtant, they went

PROTECTION AGAINST LIGHTNING DURING STORMS

Lightning is a statistical phenomenon and its exact be-
havior under any specific circumstance cannot be predicted.
There are certain precautions that can be taken in case of

a storm, however.

1. Avoid a completely exposed location on top of hill or

mountain.

2. Avoid a location close to isolated trees since they are apt

to be struck and sideflash.

3. Locate the camp within or near a place where there are
a number of trees, preferably smaller than the others, a
short distance away. In this way the chances of a direct hit
at the campsite are greatly reduced. If, however, a direct

hit should occur, danger to life exists.

There is only one way to make sure that thc campsite it-
self is not struck. String a #6 wire between the trees over

128

home enthusiastic and with a better un-
derstanding of the outdoors.

Mountain Camp

The enthusiasm initiated by the day-
camp program carried over to the
mountain-camp program, which was
held during the last week of August at
Big Bear Lake, known as Camp Clat-
awa. This program was geared to a
slightly older group—nine to thirteen
years of age—and more advanced skills
were taught in scheduled morning and
afternoon sessions. These were quite
flexible classes, chosen by campers, and
included signaling, compass work, ba-
sic and advanced fire building, crafts,
swimming and boating, horseback rid-
ing, knife and hatchet, knots and lash-
ing, first aid, and methods of wilderness
survival.

Again, crafts using native materials
were greatly enjoyed. Special hikes
were taken to gather small pine cones,
bits of smooth driftwood, colored rocks,
dainty ferns, etcetera, to be incorpo-
rated in craft items. Transparent, glass-
like coasters and bowls were created by
putting an even film of lucite crystals
over a metal mold in thc desired shape.
Metal cottage-cheese lids or jar covers
make ideal molds. Bits of driftwood,
small fern leaves, rocks, etcetera were
then placed on the lucite and baked in
a 400° oven for five minutes.

Anothcr popular program was the
“Cat’s Eye Hikc.” This novclty hike is
held at night and creates enthusiasm
and high spirits. The campers are di-
vided into teams and start at intervals

 

purpose.

the campsite. This wire should be at least twelvc feet long,
above the highest ground. It should hang down the trees to
ground at both ends and trail ten to twenty feet along th
ground, away from the campsite. This may sound fantastic.
but it is the only safe way. The probability of lightning’
striking any specific spot is so slight that, in general, ve
few persons want to carry a spool of wire along for thi

Usc of an aluminum canoe in the woods does not crea .
any special hazard. In case of storm, however, it is recom-
mended that you pull up on shore, get out of thc canoe, and
camp in a grove of trccs, if available, or lic prone if you ar
on open ground, until the storm has passcd.—J. If. “Ach-
cU'rII, Pittsfield General Electric High Voltage Engineering
Laboratory, Massachusetts.

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
   
  
   
  

of ten minutes. Each team is timed.
The team that follows the Cat’s Eye trail
to the end in the shortest period of time
wins. The trail is marked by fluorescent
tape on rocks, trees, and stumps. The
gleam of the campers’ flashlights picks
up the tape and reveals a note directing
them to the general area of the next
piece of tape and clue note.

At the concluding campfire, the staff
asked the campers what activities they
enjoyed most. The answers were quite
amazing. They enjoyed having a camp
council representative, which made
them feel really part of program plan-
ning. These representatives were elect-
ed from the cabin groups and acted
both as cabin leader and liaison with
the staff. Each representative met with
his own cabin group and made an ex-
tensive list of activities wanted while at
Camp Clatawa. The staff then met with
the representatives and tempered the
campers’ desires into a well-balanced
camp program.

I

Staff

The entire camping program was
planned and operated by a staff of four
this past summer: a school teacher and
three college students, all of whom had
extensive background in both camping
techniques and leadership. \Vhen this
staff was not visiting the various parks
and playgrounds with the traveling
day camp early ill the summer, they
were busily kneading out the lumps in
their day-camp and mountain-camp
program. #

Rscaswrios

DON’T TAKE THE
PLAYGROUND

TO CAMP

Catherine T. Hammett

HAT MAKES A camp a camp?
W No two pe0ple will say the
same thing, even if both have
been in the same camp, but most peOple
will start with two words: people and
the out-of-doors. Campers, staff mem-
bers, committee members will make
lists that include trees, turtles, swim-
ming, campfires, hills, Open spaces, fun,
rocks, boating, adventures, singing, na-
ture———just to begin the list. Few will
include apartment houses, fences, city
parks, playgrounds, streets, schools,
museums—all of which do wonderfully
for us all through most of the year, but
somehow are to be left behind when we
head for that place called camp, be it
a day camp, a weekend camp, a two-
week, or an all-summer camp.

 

MISS HAMMETT is past-president of the
American Camping Association; coau-
thor, with Virginia Musselman, of The
Camp Program Book (Association
Press) and author of other camping
books. She is currently on the national

staff of the Girl Scouts of the USA.

 

Camp is where all of nature is close
at hand to give life a new dimension.

MARCH 1960

Water—to wade in,
to camp beside.

Youngsters think mainly in terms of
activities, of fun, of doing things that
are “different” as well as those that are
familiar, of doing things with other
boys and girls. Adults add benefits that
come from the living situation in an
informal happy setting. Parents may
think in terms of health, of skills for
their children difficult for parents to
give them, such as canoeing, mountain
climbing, cooking out, and the like.

About this time of year, camp direc-
tors are busy selling camp to campers,
parents, staff members, perhaps, to
board members. We talk about camp
as a place that is special, that adds
something to the in-town, year-round,
school, church, home, and club activity.

We talk about taking advantage of
the whole outdoors to eXperience new
things, to enjoy those activities that
cannot be eXperienced to the same de-
gree, if at all, in town; we talk about
the living situation in a camper-geared
community where young America may
practice democracy at his own experi-
ence level. We say all this, but some-
times when reports come back it seems
all camps do not take advantage of the
situation. Sometimes it seems that the
playground (wonderful as it is for the
stay-in-the-city boys and girls) has been
transplanted to camp.

Perhaps that is a black picture. Let’s
hope that your camp and mine really
lake advantage of the uniqueness of
the camping situation. For camps are
unique: they aren’t homes in the usual
sense, they aren’t playgrounds, they
aren’t schools, they aren’t in-town cen-
ters. They are camps, combining many
elements to make a special place for

 

special gains. Camps are places where
the outdoors predominates (even sur-
rounds); where the tempo is relaxed;
where clothes are informal, easy to care
for, easy to wear; where the waterfront
is just down the trail; where there are
counselors close at hand to help, to
guide, to teach, to be around all day,
although they sometimes keep hands
carefully off a project. Camp is where
all of nature is close at hand, present-
ing fascinating possibilities: snails or
polliwogs or raccoons to watch; water
to swim in, to boat on, or to look
through with a watersc0pe. Camp is
where you build fires to cook over or
to sit around; make shelters; have hills
to climb; find twigs for whistles or pins
or towel racks. Camp has the Big Dip-
per swinging overhead; rain to walk in
or to combat; horizons or setting suns
to scan—all outdoors!

Why call it a camp, if one doesn’t
camp there? Do we keep faith with our
young pe0ple when we offer them
chances to camp, and don’t give them
opportunities to experience the joys, the
adventures, the wonder that comes of
discovering 110w to live in and with the
out-of-(loors and how to love it? Do
we keep faith with parents, with educa-
tors, with our country if we do not make
the most of the opportunities to give
our campers eXperiences living with
others? Do we give them the chance
to grow in independence, to gain a
knowledge of and respect for the na-
tural resources of our land.

Camping can offer situations for ex-
ceptional eXperiences in growing, and
in. growing-up. Do we make the most

of it? #
129

 

RECREATION

AFLOAT

William H. Radke

The phenomenal growth in pOpularity of small boating
calls for water-safety education at the grass roots.

UTBOARD BOATING IN America
0 has taken unbelievable postwar

popularity strides to become a
front-ranking recreation interest. Per-
haps the greatest single factor in its
favor is that boating is generally family
recreation—and we professionals have
placed family recreation on the critical-
need list. Also, outboarding is a par-
ticipation sport.

The Brookheld, Illinois, playground
and recreation department has recog-
nized this latent boating value. This vil-
lage, without navigable waters, agreed
that the recreation department should
offer guidance in boating to enthusias-
tic youngsters as a means of providing
both recreation for the present and edu-
cation for the future.

A neighboring community had the
navigable but small DesPlaines river.
An enterprising boater had opened a
nearby sales-and-service shop with a
floating service dock. Contact with the
new businessman found him enthusias-
tically willing to conduct an eight-week
' course in outboarding. He offered his
shop as a classroom and his dock and

boat as a proving ground for the lessons
and himself as the instructor—~—all free.

Together we drew up a program sched-
ule of topics for inclusion in eight one-
hour meetings.

With a basic plan to teach rules of
outboard operation—safety, care, and
maintenance—the Outboard Boating
Club of America was contacted for ad-

 

MR. RADKE is recreation. superintend-
ent of the playground and recreation
department in Brook-field, Illinois.

130

vice and assistance, and was quick to
recognize the value of this course to
boys and girls in the twelve- to sixteen-
age bracket. OBC offered help with
pamphlet material, Hlms, consultation,
and program presentation.

This combination produced an in-
formative and workable course cover-
ing basic fundamentals of outboarding
as well as experience on the water in a
learning situation. Eight lessons were
assigned the following general head-
ings, which may be supplemented by
free films from several sources: (1)
history of outboarding, lecture plus
hlm; (2) types of boatconstruction and
discussion of advantages as to weight,
durability, cost and maintenance; (3)
what boat is best for an individual and
a water-skiing demonstration; (4) nau-
tical nomenclature and safety rules;
(5) matching motors and boats, safety
factors, on-the-water experience; (6)
safety rules and equipment, on-the-
water experience; (7) how to select,
use, and maintain a boat trailer; and
(8) summary review of general main-
tenance and care of boats and motors.

Classes were originally restricted to
twenty-ch members. In consideration
of “attendance fallout” for vacations
and so on, we added a few as the season
progressed. Here, under close supervi-
sion, members were afloat and operat-
ing an outboard—the hrst time for
most of them.

Members of our weekly classes en-
dorsed the course by such comments as:
“Gee, I hope I can get Dad interested in
this,” and “Gotta start saving for a

 

boat!” The marine dealer supports the
class wholeheartedly and is already
planning to add a room to his establish-

ment for meetings of groups such as
this. He has agreed to do an adult class
next spring, as well as a second summer
program for the junior boaters.

Brookheld’s outboard boating class
seems to be the first really landlocked
recreation program to join forces with
an enthusiastic marine dealer and CDC,
seemingly the hrst to bring to the
younger set information they will use
and value as they become part of Amer-
ica’s nearly eight million boaters——-—and
this at no cost to the recreation depart-
ment. ( F or further information on how
Americans are taking to life afloat see

Page 120.)

Boating can be enjoyed at all finan-
cial levels, from the simplest outboard-
powered rowboat to the fancy family
cruiser. The absence of local navigable
waters has been circumvented by the
development of safe and sturdy boat
trailers that know the highway maps as
their only limitations. Outboarding, a
great relaxer for all ages, is also a step
toward other equally absorbing rccrc-
ation interests including cruising, water-
skiing, swimming, fishing, and skin
diving. Like camping, boating is an
ideal activity for the family.

Look over your community—do you
see boating enthusiasts? Is there some
way of combining forces with a local
know-how man? You can have a worth-
while activity on a minimum budget
and meet the challenge of a growing

public interest. #

RECREATION

NOTES for the ADMINISTRATOR”

Land-Use Planning

A number of resolutions relating to park and recreation
problems were adopted at the 1959 Southeastern Park and
Recreation Planning, Maintenance and Operations Work-
shop, held at the North Carolina State College, cosponsored
by six state recreation agencies. Following are excerpts of

some of these resolutions:

(In) city, regional, state, and Federal land-use planning,
emphasis (should) be placed on the public acquisition of
land so that adequate provision will be made in all such plan-
ning to meet the great present and ever greater necessity of the
future for public park and recreation areas, and further, that
all pr0posals to divert park and recreation lands to other
uses be impartially analyzed and studied to determine whether
or not such pr0posals are, in fact, in the long-range public in-
terest, and that diversion of park and recreation lands to other
uses be permitted only if such diversion is found to be essen-
tial in the long-range public interest, and only if land so di-
verted to other uses is replaced by land of such quality and so
located as to serve that population which is deprived of park
and recreation services by diversion of park and recreation
land to other uses.

The group further resolved that the sponsors of the work-
shop “make a seven-state study of vandalism, including the
extent to which it exists, what facilities and/or equipment
are subject to vandalism, practices effective in reducing
vandalism, and an overall analysis.” It further enunciated
its support of the following policy:

That there be established in every state of the Union an

agency with legal authority and with its primary concern, on
a full-time basis, services to the field of recreation. That where
constitutionally possible, this state agency be established as a
separate and independent agency. . . .
That where existing agencies are now serving recreation in
some special capacity these practices continue, and that a pro-
gram of cooperation with the legal recreation authority be
established through a recreation interagency committee de-
signed to correlate and coordinate the various functions.

The following resolution dealing with metropolitan and
county planning for recreation was likewise adopted:

Whereas if it is found to be more efiicient and if it is dis-
covered to provide greater present community services through
c00perative use of recreation and education areas and facilities
such should be promoted, but in no case is it agreed that joint
operation of either recreation or education programs would be
in the greatest common interest of the community, and

Whereas it is further agreed, based on considerable experi-
ence, that recreation program aspects which are held in or on
school or other local government-owned areas and facilities
can, only, be considered as supplementary, in a full recreation
program, to that which is centered in those areas and facilities
which are acquired, owned, deveIOped and Operated, specific-
ally, for public recreation purposes and which are available at
all times, as service resources, to the local government’s rec-
reation, agency, and

Whereas it is agreed that one of our greatest local citizen-
needs will be served, only, when municipal recreation and park
programs are expanded into metr0politan and/or city-county
combination plans of recreation finance, organization and ad-
ministration in agencies whose primary purposes and basic
reasons for existence are to serve the recreation needs of local
citizens. . . .

Coordinated Planning

The importance of overall coordinated planning of Amer-
ican cities and individual neighborhoods was pointed out

MARCH 1960

 

in Forum (May 1959) in an article by James W. Rouse,
president of ACTION (American Committee to Improve
Our Neighborhoods). He stated: “A major consideration
in every public improvement contemplated by the city
should be its effect on the construction or destruction of
neighborhoods.” After referring to the significant high-
way developments that are certain to be achieved in the
next ten or fifteen years, he added: “Other public works-—
schools, parks, playgrounds, hospitals—must also be con-
sidered for their effect upon neighborhood formation, not
merely as isolated departmental projects in themselves.”

In commenting on the importance of the comprehensive
plan, he added: “I am convinced that it is a far more prac-
tical, achievable thing to plan for the whole city than it is
to plan small and in pieces. . . . Consider the huge savings
to local government if needs are properly projected and sites
for schools, public buildings, parks, and highways are plot-
ted and acquired well in advance of need, before land be-
comes highly developed and prices become prohibitive.”

Local Children Get Pool Priority

Through changes in fee schedules, children of local tax-
payers are gaining some priority in the use of the municipal
swimming pool at Monroe, Wisconsin. Nonresident ele-
mentary-grade students pay single admissions of twenty
cents and residents ten cents; those of high-school age
pay twenty-five cents and fifteen cents, respectively; and
adults, fifty and twenty-five cents. Season tickets for ele-
mentary-school children also are higher for nonresidents.
There are no season tickets available for other out-of-town
age groups. Identification cards are issued to Monroe resi-
dents who use the daily fee admissions.

The increase in resident and nonresident charges resulted
from higher operating costs as well as a growing number of
complaints over children coming by busloads from out of
town and crowding the pool to capacity while local children
waited in line. A survey of thirty-five other pools in the
state showed both fees and attendants’ salaries were on the
low side in Monroe—Park Maintenance, October 1959.

REQUEST PRICES

FREE LITERATURE 6: SPECIFICATIONS

* Playground Equipment (S: Playground Plans

* Basketball Backstops
Indoor 6: Outdoor Type

* Bleachers

Gymnasium 6: Athletic Field

* Trampolins
Choice of 14 models

* Score Boards—For Every Sport

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIP. INB.

HIGHLAND PARK, ILLINOIS

131

 

ARE YOU
LOOKING FOR
CAMP LAND?

Stanley W. Stocker

ANY ADMINISTRATORS AND leaders in the recreation

M field have forgotten, or are unaware of, the poten-

tial camp lands now in the hands of state and fed-

eral government agencies that still can be had for the asking

or very little more. In almost every state in the union areas

are available that might be considered by town, city, and
state recreation departments for community use.

State and federal governments are apt to give group
camping use of these lands a high priority, their interest in
recreation use of lands going back as far as the founding
of Yosemite Park and Mariposa Big Tree Grove, in 1864.
This is especially true when the camp is to be operated by
a recreation department and open to individual campers as
well as to organized groups.

As we all know, available lands for camping are rapidly
decreasing, even at high prices. Therefore, the availability
of public lands should be thoroughly eXplored before any
other arrangements are made. As a general premise, tax-
supported agencies will have first priority; nonprofit agen-
cies and organizations may also obtain use of such lands,
at a slightly lower priority.

As of January 1, 1955, there were 308 group camps on
public, state-owned lands reported, with a capacity of
35,546. Current reports indicate that many of these camps
are not used to capacity at present, and that Open time ex-
isted last summer. A total of 2,074,765 use days were re-
ported in 1958.

Some of the states have built new camps for group-camp
use in the past few years, and many have new group sites
in the planning stages to be activated when the demand
arises. Any recreation department considering a camping
program should certainly initiate early talks with various
state park and forest officials in their home state as well as
in surrounding states.

The federal government agencies offering possible lands
for organization camping are: the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, the Forest Service, the Corps of Engineers, the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority, the Bureau of Reclamation, Fish
and Wildlife Service, and the National Park Scrvice. The
policies and priorities for each of these agencies vary and

require direct contact with their local or national offices
for further information.

 

MR. STOCKER, executive director of the MetrOpoIitan New
York Council, American Youth Hostels, recently completed

the American Camping Association’s national survey of
youth camps.

I32

Bureau of Land Management—The lands involved with the
Bureau of Land Management are primarily in the Western
states. Recreation use of these lands may be requested by
nonprofit corporations and associations and government
agencies. No actual facilities are managed by the bureau
for camping use. Application for information and proce-
dures to obtain the special land-use permits should be made
to the State Supervisor, Bureau of Land Management, in
the Western states having such omces, or directly to the
Eastern States Supervisor, Bureau of Land Management,
Department of the Interior, Washington 25, D. C.

Forest Service—The U. S. Forest Service owns some 71
organization camps on Forest Service lands and had 644
special-use permit holders operating organization camps in
1958. Organizations are permitted to construct group
camps at suitable locations in the national forests. These
permits require construction of fairly substantial camps,
adequate sanitation, and compliance with other standards
deemed wise to protect the forest as well as the users. Sites
available in the national forest regions are well situated and
offer excellent campsites. The forest supervisor has the
authority to issue special-use permits and can advise inter-
ested parties as to the requirements and conditions for the
issuance of a special-use permit. Full information about
the available areas and sites can be obtained from the spe-
cific supervisor of a forest or the regional forester at any
of the ten regional offices.

The land-use fees for nonprofit groups are at a minimum,
often a dollar a year. All organization camp operators are
expected to make full use of their camps or to allow other
groups to use them for a charge commensurate with facili-
ties provided. The general basis for action on special-use
permits where more than one group is involved is to give
the authorization to the group planning a program for the
greatest number of persons.

Corps of Engineers—The Corps of Engineers manages Only
one campsite for organization use, but has two hundred
organization camps located under lease or license agrce-
ments on these properties. These organization camps range
from simple tent facilities to well-constructcd and developed
year-round campsites. The various district engineers can
supply information on any site in their own areas and on
the general conditions of licenscs and lcases. The fees in-
volved are very nominal for nonprofit, youth-serving groups
and others providing service to the general public.

Tennessee Valley Authority—The TVA’s lands provide
good potential areas for organization camping use. Thirty-
six group camps were reported in 1958 on the areas under
its control. These lands may be sold or lcased to quasi-
pnblic groups and organizations for recreation use. The
prevailing market values are used in the negotiations but
adjustments are made for the public scrvicc the group pro-
vides or will provide. Information may be obtained by
writing to the Division of Reservoir Properties, Tennessee
Valley Authority, Knoxville, Tennessee.

Bureau of Reclamation—In seventeen Western states, the
bureau operates over one hundred reservoirs, which offer

RECREATION

excellent potential areas for organized camping. As a gen-
eral rule, operation of recreation sites at these areas is
transferred to the most appropriate state department. Lease
arrangements on a limited basis are possible on the areas
that have not been transferred from the jurisdiction of the
bureau. However, full information can be obtained from
the Regional Director of the Bureau of Reclamation for the
areas involved. The National Park Service has the respon-
sibility for developing a master plan for recreation for each
of these reservoirs. The regional director of the National
Park Service for the area involved may be contacted for
information about these plans.

Fish and Wildlife Service—Organization camps are al-
lowed, under permit, on national wildlife refuges, but less
than thirty haVe been authorized to date. These areas cer-
tainly should be considered by local groups and preliminary
talks initiated with the refuge manager. Applications may
be approved when the primary purpose for which the refuge
was established will not be interfered with. The address of
the refuge manager may be obtained from the regional of-
fice that has jurisdiction over the one involved.

National Park Service—The service operates seven camps
maintained for use by various nonprofit groups conducting
group camping for children. Possibilities for the construc-
tion of organization camps exist on the national recreation
areas—Lake Mcad, Coulee Dam, and Shadow Mountain
(in Rocky Mountain National Park). Groups interested
should write the superintendents of these areas.

I' * * {-

Additional information about these opportunities for the
use of existing organization campsites, as well as special
arrangements for the constructing of camps, should be ob-
tained before deciding upon any new sites for camping
programs. The addresses of the proper officials may be ob-
tained by writing to the department indicated, Washington
25, D. C., with a request for the proper address and name
of the official in charge. Each federal agency has published
material eXplaining these services in greater detail. With
the ever-increasing land costs and operating budgets, the
use of public lands should be fully explored by each com-
munity agency before further expanding its camping areas
for group use. #

 

MAINTENANCE PROBLEMS

Three-fourths of 126 replies in a study report indicate that
municipal recreation departments have their own maintenance division.

STUDY OF THE cost of maintaining recreation and park
A areas facilities was made in 1958 by a subcommittee

of the National Recreation Association’s National
Advisory Committee on Recreation Administration. Sub-
committee chairman is Lorne C. Rickert, superintendent of
recreation in Wicomico County, Maryland. The subcom-
miltee’s report is based on replies received from 126 cities
(many supplied only partial information).

Respondent cities cover a population range from 4,000
to more than 2,000,000; only three, however, have popula-
tions under 25,000; more than half are over 50,000. All
sections of the country are represented. Replies are equally
divided between recreation agencies and park or combined
recreation-and-park departments; eight reports were re-
ceived from school authorities and a few returns from other
community agencies.

Three-fourths of the agcncies indicated they have their
own maintenance division. As might be expected, 82 per-
cent of the park or combined recreation-and-park agencies
have such a division, 70 percent of the recreation depart-
ments, and 50 percent of the school authorities likewise
have one. Maintenance work is usually handled by park or
public works departments when the recreation agency is
not equipped to handle it. Slightly less than half the cities

stated they have an active preventive maintenance program.

MARCH 1960

'The impression given is that available manpower must be

used to keep up with day-to-day tasks.

Such minor betterments as installation of drinking foun-
tains, new fencing, and small hard-surface areas are con-
sidered maintenance items in most cities. The regular
maintenance force usually takes care of them, although pri-
vate contractors are called in occasionally.

Duty hours of the maintenance crew coincide with hours
of operation of recreation areas in about half the cities;
the coincidence is more marked among recreation agencies
(62%) than among park or combined departments (40%) .
When special programs are conducted outside regular hours
of operation of the area, about three-fourths of the depart-
ments supply maintenance personnel. Half the cities sup-
ply such workers on a split-day basis.

Such routine tasks as lining fields, installing light bulbs,
and dragging baselines and infield are nearly always per-
formed by maintenance workers; so usually is the setting
up of chairs, though recreation leaders perform this task
more often than the other three. Both maintenance workers
and recreation leaders are responsible for removal of haz-
ardous obstacles; this is primarily a maintenance duty, but
if a recreation leader discovers such a condition, he is ex-
pected to rectify it.

In preparing a facility for immediate programing, rec-

133

 

reation leaders have authority over the maintenance as-
signee in only about a quarter of the cities. This authority
is usually vested in the maintenance supervisor, a foreman,
or department executive. On the other hand, in the absence
of the recreation leader, maintenance workers have au-
thority over the facility and its users in three-fourths of the
cities, although it occasionally was stated this authority is
limited.

Less than half the reporting agencies keep performance
records of individual maintenance men to ascertain how
much time each spends on such operations as mowing grass,
scarifying fields, lining ball diamonds, and so forth. Three-
fourths indicated they do not record cost of such work as
scarifying and matting an area or keep performance data,
such as the number of diamonds scarified and matted per
day. Likewise, very few agencies keep cost records of main-
taining specific facilities. Where such figures were given,
they varied widely from city to city; for example, the an-
nual maintenance cost for a softball diamond with a skinned
infield varied from $30 to $2,000. However, median an-
nual maintenance cost of a baseball diamond appears to
be slightly less than $300, regardless of whether the infield
is turfed or skinned.

Respondents were asked to estimate cost and number of
man-hours per year necessary to maintain each of three
hypothetical areas. The first area was described as a one-
and-a-half-to-two-acre playground with a shelter building,
softball field, two apparatus areas, a multipurpose, hard-
surface area, and a paved spray area. The median estimate
of maintenance time for this area was 720 man-hours per
year, although the individual reports varied from 25 to 7,680
man-hours. Maintenance costs per area varied from $60
to $17,280, with a median of 81,456.

For a three-to-four-acre neighborhood playground con-
taining a recreation building, baseball field, two apparatus
areas, a multipurpose hard-surface area, and a spray area,

median time estimate was 1,2161%; man-hours. Maintenance
costs varied from $100 to $21,000, with a median of $2,706.

The largest area, a nine-to~ten-acre playfield with a rec-
reation building, baseball field, two softball fields, two ap-
paratus areas, multipurpose hard-surface area, spray area,
and six hard-surface tennis courts, would require mainte-
nance time of some 2,180 man-hours per year, according
to the estimates of recreation and park executives. Here
again, individual cost estimates varied widely, from $250

to $50,000, with a median of $4,848.

Seventy-six agencies complied with maintenance expendi-
tures for the years 1950 and 1958. All but two cities spent
more in 1958; many reported budget increases of several
hundred percent over the eight-year period. Median rate
of increase was approximately one hundred percent, indi-
cating appropriations for maintaining park and recreation
properties have kept pace with rising costs and wages.

The response to the subcommittee’s questionnaire and
nature of the information supplied by the cities seem to
point to the following conclusions:

0 Most recreation and park authorities keep few accurate
records of maintenance costs or the performance of main-
tenance personnel. A need for more adequate record-keep-
ing procedures is therefore clearly indicated.

0 Recreation and park authorities have widely different
concepts as to the meaning of the term “maintenance” and
the functions it covers, thus indicating need for clarifica-
tion of terminology in this a8pect of recreation.

o The fact that relatively few recreation and park authori-
ties have an active preventive maintenance program sug-
gests the need for more widespread advance planning for
recurring maintenance tasks as an aid to budget prepara-
tion and better care of recreation property.

0 The limited degree to which personnel responsible for
the program at recreation areas have direct authority over
maintenance workers assigned to these areas raises a ques-
tion as to the desirability of reviewing the criteria that
should determine rcspectivc responsibilities and relation-
ships of personnel assigned to recreation areas. #

 

SUCCESSFUL BOATING EDUCATION

Small-boat safety programs for
youngsters have been inaugurated in
many communities. In Westport, Con-
necticut, for instance, a program started
by Tom Hutson in 1959 was accredited
by the American Red Cross. It was so
successful that the Conference for Na-
tional Cooperation in Aquatics is pro-
moting similar programs across the
country, in the interests of water safety.
The Westport program was an experi-
ment which grew out of the 1958 Con-
ference, of which Tom was chairman.

School Program—~A boating club,
started in the local junior high school,
attracted thirty boys ranging in age
from thirteen to fifteen. Their attend-

134»

ance at a course of about ten weeks of
lectures was excellent and interest kecn.
This course was set up and sponsored
by the Wcstport Recreation Commis-
sion, the talks were supervised by a
faculty advisor and given by members
of the United States Power Squadron.
Visual aids, demonstrations of knot ty-
ing, of small boats and their equipment
by the quadron and the American Red
Cross enlivened the program consider-
ably.

0n-the-Water-Program—On the basis
of this experience, two other consccu-
tivc ten-lesson ARC “Basic Boating
Courses” were set up in July and Au-
gust under the direction of a town

cmploycc trained and qualified by the
American Red Cross Small Craft School.
for the younger cight~to-twclve-ycar-
old group. The Saugatuck River Power
Squadron organized the program, pro-
vidcd the scholarship for training the
town instructor. The boating lessons
were held at the public beach and yacht
basin. At first, beach Ollicials, life-
guards, and dock superintendents were
very cool to the idea, but soon became
very cooperative as the local enthusiasm
grcw among parents and children. A

small~boat safety program will be in the
ARC budget for 1960, and assistants
qualified by them will again help the

growing program at “restport. #

Racaaniox

 

CONTRACTING FOR RECREATION

RECRUITING—THAT IS, inviting oth-

ers to join your own chosen way
of life—is a universal and very old
practice. Early Greece recruited only
the sons of citizens to be educatcd;
selection, however, played a key role.
Early Athens recruited foreigners to
take up residence in their fair city.
Again, selection played its forceful
role.

Constantine the Great built Constan-
tinople—now Istanbul—by recruiting
only the best of ideas and of leadership,
without which this famous city of cul-
ture could not have ruled the East for
a thousand years. Columbus had to re-
cruit selectively only those who would
dare to follow uncharted ways toward
a new life.

Today, we recruit people for politi-
cal parties, for associations and afiilia-
tions, financial and social causes; we
recruit teachers, lawyers, doctors, engi-
neers, and nurses; likewise, in our own
field of community services, we must
recruit potential recreation leaders.
Need is evident when value and validity
are present; but, unless need is at the
source of a new idea, a new problem, a
new service, it is futile to waste human
time, energy, money, and effort. There-
fore, we, the incumbent recreation lead-
ership, must see the need to select and
recruit potential leaders—dedicated
and inspired with vision; or this effort
too, will be futile, and our cause will
be lost!

How valid is our need for community
recreation leadership then becomes our
burden for proving. Let us look, first,
at what has happened as a result of
man’s curiosity. Second, let us take
note of the new facts of the day, all of
which document our drastic need.

Man has been experimenting with

 

DR. WECKWERTH is director of recrea-
tion, Youth Leadership and Community
Services, Springfield College, Mass.

MARCH 1960

S O N

LEADERSHIP

ideas and things for a long time. For
example, he invented the wheel—which
immediately created a need for power
to run it. Power and the wheel, in turn,
made possible other machines. These
three together caused man to produce
the factory; and people gathcring to
work in the factories contributed to the
development of the city. Cities multi-
plied, attracting streams of humans
away from the rural countryside. To-
day, urbanization demands recreation
leadership.

J. Frederic Dewhurst’s Twentieth
Century Fund report on our U.S.A.—
in New Dimensions identifies eight-sets
of facts to give validity to the need for
community recreation leadership and
services: the relationship between man,
his animals, and his machines; our trek
to the city; our great increase of pro-
ductive power; our increasing income
among all families; our rapid growth
in pOpulation; our new wealth in dwell-
ings, in the mechanical slaves being
used in our homes; and, lastly, our new
leisure.

The National Recreation Associa-
tion’s Recreation and Park Yearbook—

Mid-Century Edition, 1900-1950, and

George Butler’s descriptive overview in
The Social Work Yearbook 1957 iden-
tified the values accumulated by pub-
lic recreation leadership during the first
half of the century. A NRA Personnel
Service report on the highlights of 1957
also documents the dire need for rec-
reation leadership in today’s and to-
morrow’s market of community serv-
ices in America.

What Can We Do

About Recruiting?

These are four things each one of us,
as professional recreation people, must
do—not might do—about recruiting.

1. Get bitten by the bug—better yet,
bite yourself—but see the need for re-

N E L

 

Charles F. Weckwerth

cruiting and generate the desire to do
something about it.

2. Spread the contagion. The best
and simplest way is to be contagious.

3. Be selective—on all fronts—using
all sources of manpower. Pick men of
potential influence, men with vision
and a mission, men who appear as if
they have something to say and seem
willing to say it—and with gusto. Don’t
depend upon the colleges to meet more
than twelve to fifteen percent of the
need—at least in the near future.
Eighty-five percent of the task belongs
to you men in the field.

4. Demonstrate your belief to your-
self and to others—in action. The
simplest and beSt way to do this is by
the sweat of your own brow. Make a
pact with yourself and to others selec-
ted. Decide you will see one person,
each week or month or quarter, about
recreation as a career. See him any-
where, but see him. Bring these selec-
tees together regularly around your
community recreation problems. Make
them your unofficial advisors. Put the
brainstorming method to work. Sign
a contract on these two suggestions with
yourself. Personally obligate yourself
to be supervised by your National Rec-
reation Association district representa-

tives. #
Editor's Note
At the 1959 New England District
Recreation, at which Dr. Weckwerth
delivered the above address, fifty-two
contracts were signed by recreation

directors and superintendents. Since

then Dr. Weckwerth and Waldo Hains-
NRA district
have been keeping a cooperative rec-
ord and promoting the efforts of all
who signed these pledges. Records
show that the New England adminis-
trators followed through and made
good on forty-one percent of the con-
tracts at the close of 1959’s first quar-
ter.

worth, representative,

135

 

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

ALASKA. The new state has directed its department of
natural resources to plan, acquire, deve10p, and administer
a system of state parks and recreation facilities, to provide
consulting service on local park and recreation programs,
and clearinghouse services for other state agencies con-
cerned with park and recreation matters. It authorized the

establishment of a separate division within the department
to perform these functions.

of the parks and recreation commission, reports that the
major development will be Burns Park and city planners
are already mapping and laying out roads in this sccnic
area, which includes a historic graveyard and monument to
the first settlers in the territory of Arkansas. The city also
plans to enlarge its much-used nine-hole golf course to cigh-
teen holes. The commission will deve10p seven small parks
this summer and will start soon on an animal shelter with
adjacent childrcn’s zoo. The commission was also successful
in getting the city council to approve an ordinance giving it
a maintenance supervisor and four laborers.

IOWA. Pleasure craft facilities are expanding along the
Mississippi. In Muscatine, the chee Improvement Com-
mission is supervising construction of a small boat harbor
and marina approved by the U. S. Corps of Engineers. Nec-
essary funds have already been appr0priated by Congress
and the local city council. Davenport has come to the aid
of pleasure boaters who have been inconvenienced and
handicapped by the shallowness of the harbor there at low
stages. The city and the U. S. Corps of Engineers are con-
structing Credit Island Harbor and improvements will make
it one of the finest harbors on the upper Mississippi. Bet-

tendor/ has a new $175,000 youth centcr supplied by pub-
lic subscription.

LOUISIANA. Over 400,000 acres of privately owned for-

est have been Opened to public hunting, fishing, and other
outdoor recreation. the first project in the new FAIR pro-

gram (federation and industry recreation), under which
the National Wildlife Federation will cooperate with in-

136

dustry in opening private lands to sportsmen. The Louisi-
ana FAIR project involves forest holdings of the Olin
Mathieson Chemical Corporation near Winnfield and Mon-
roe in north central Louisiana. The 405,000-acre Olin For-
est offers squirrel, waterfowl, deer, turkey, and quail hunt-
ing, and fishing and boating on several water areas. A new
14,000-acre lake, Lake D’Arbonne, will be built by the state
in Union Parish and much of the lake will lie on Olin Forest

lands. Sites of scenic and historic interest will be preserved
wherever possible.

James Ledbetter, president of the Louisiana Wildlife
Federation, said the federation will “seek to promote and
deve10p recreation facilities in the Olin Forest and other
lands included in the FAIR program.” This may include
signs on the areas, preparation of maps, and development
of picnic sites, boat launching sites, and other facilities.

Mr. Ledbetter said, “There are millions of acres of pri-
vate land in Louisiana that offer an immense potential for
outdoor recreation. Any lands included in the FAIR pro-
gram will be open to the public and not just to members
of the Louisiana Wildlife Federation.” The initial pro-
gram will be directed by a coordinating committee of of-
ficials of the Louisiana Wildlife Federation, Louisiana
Forestry Association, Louisiana Forestry Commission, Lou-
isiana Wildlife and Fisheries Commission, and Olin Mathie-
son Chemical Corporation.

NEW’ JERSEY. A proposed $220,000,000 jet airport near
Chatllam in Morris County may well be jettisoned by some
detcrmined wildlife lovers who are taking legal steps to ac-
quire the cntire area as a public park. If the nature lovers
get the land first and turn it into a wildlife preserve under
county control, the Port of New York Authority could not
proceed with its pr0posed airport. A 1941 law prohibits the
authority from condemning public land without permission
of the municipality or county. The land in question consists
of picturcsque countryside, including an area known as the
Great Swamp (although much of it is not swampy at all).
The swamp, of perhaps five to six thousand acrcs, extends

 

This bandshell, designed [or a Lambertville, New Jersey,
recreation field by Jules Gregory, is constructed [rorn cin-
der block, called “partition” block, 6”-l)y~8' ’ -l)y-18”. The
red anthracite cinder gives it an oyster color. The con-
crete plat/arm is elliptical in shape, [ornzing a concentric
relationship to the wall used by the town and its schools
for concerts, pageants, and graduations. The ten-acre
field 0/ this historic town has ballfields, tennis courts,
and park area equipped with picnic tables and fireplaces.

RECREATIOX

HM?!” ____..__.

into the townships of Harding and Chatham. The authority
proposes to use the swamp acreage and peripheral land to
construct a 10,000-acre jet airport with four runways, each
12,000 feet long.

The nature lovers are a well-organized group known as
Wildlife Preserves, Inc., with membership centered in New
York, New Jersey, and Connecticut, dedicated to acquiring
land in the New York metropolitan area for wildlife conser-
vation. The group hopes to acquire the best areas of the
wetlands in the central Passaic Valley and already holds
title to 450 acres in the Great Swamp and 1,400 acres in the
Troy Meadows, both remains of ancient Lake Passaic, be-
lieved formed in the last Glacial Age.

NEW YORK. A twenty-acre estate overlooking the Hud-
son River has been given to the New York City Department
of Parks for an arboretum. The Perkins-Freeman estate
has been at various times the residence of Theodore Roose-
velt, Mark Twain, Arturo Toscanini, and British ambassa-
dors to the United Nations. The parks department must ob-
tain an amendment to the city’s administrative code through
an act of state legislature in order to accept the bequest be-
cause of the specific nature of the proposed park to which
access may be limited by a small admittance fee. The site
lies in the Riverdale section of the Borough of the Bronx
and is owned by Mrs. George Perkins, Sr. and her daughter
and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. Freeman. George
W. Perkins, Sr., a financier and partner in J. P. Morgan
and Co., who died in 1920, was for many years president of
the Palisades Interstate Park Commission (N.J.-N.Y.) .

George Perkins was president of the commission until his

death on January 10, 1960. (His successor is Arthur R.
J ube of Orange, New Jersey.)

0 The New York State section of Palisades Interstate Park
has indeed reached its saturation point, necessitating turn-
ing away visitors because parking space and other facilities
can hold no more. Further development of the area under
a ten-year program calls for another 4,000 parking spaces
and facilities for 25,000. The original aim of the ten-year
program was to accommodate at least 125,000 visitors on a
peak day, but the target may have to be upped to 140,000,
with an eventual potential of 300,000.

0 The town of Oyster Bay and the New York State Conser-
vation Department are cooperating to develop five hundred
acres of wetlands along the south shore of Long Island as “a
conservation model and showpiece for the entire state and
nation.” The area to be developed is the town’s existing
Tobay Sanctuary between Jones Beach State Park and To-
bay Beach on Great South Bay. The program is the first
planned under a new state conservation measure providing
financial backing for the preservation of wetlands.

TENNESSEE. Labor unions, Exchange Clubs, the state

restaurant association, and the Tennessee Easter Seal
Society joined in the construction of a camp for handicap-
ped children on Old Hickory Lake in Wilson County about
thitty miles from Nashville. The camp will benefit between
' four hundred and five hundred children each summer. The
I thirty-acre site was made available by the US. Corps of

1 MARCH 1960

 

This island in Lake Ontario, New York, complete with 150
cabins, tents, recreation equipment, meeting hall, boats,
and other facilities, including mainland installations, has
been presented to the New York State YMCA by the
General Electric Company. The island and facilities rep-
resent an original cost of more than $1,000,000. It is
located fifty-six miles north of Syracuse at Henderson
Harbor. For over forty years CE used “Association Is-
land” as a site for its summer workshops and executive
training programs. The Y will use it for summer work
with young adults and student groups, for leadership
training camps, and as a site for YMCA conferences.

 

Engineers and has thirty-eight hundred feet of shoreline
and large level areas for ten buildings. Members of nine-
teen labor unions volunteered labor, with much of the equip-
ment donated or provided to the society at cost. Labor
unions involved included the asbestos workers, boilermak-
ers, bricklayers, carpenters, cement masons, electrical work-
ers, glaziers, elevator constructors, iron workers, hod car-
riers, lathers, operating engineers, painters, plasterers,
plumbers, roofers, sheetrnetal workers, steamfitters, and
teamsters.

UTAH. The state has launched a $1,000,000 land acquisi-

tion program to remedy its dearth of recreation facilities.
The Utah Park and Recreation Commission hopes to ac-
quire woodland parks in the Wasatch Range adjacent to
populous Salt Lake valley and establish camp-style facili-
ties at Dead Horse Point and Goblin Valley in the Colorado
River canyon region. The state park system is still very
much in the planning stage, but state, county, and federal
cooperation has resulted in the establishment of Rockport
Lake State Park between the Wasatch and Uinta Mountains
and of Dixie State Park in Snow Canyon. Rockport Lake,
formed by the Bureau of Reclamation’s Wanship Dam,
offers boat docks, a store, and cluster of cabins. The state
commission has also received as a gift a former resort area
on Great Salt Lake, Saltair, a small-scale “Coney Island”
with a Gay Nineties motif.

0 With the help of some of the Western states, Utah was
able to get an amendment to Federal Law 387 which had
limited the amount of land a state could acquire from the
Bureau of Land Management to 640 acres annually. The
new amendment provides for raising the limitation to 6,400
acres with a limitation of three areas per year; and, in addi-
tion, there is the limit for the years 1960, 1961, and 1962
of 12,800 for each of the three years, plus six areas annually.
Utah also received authority to purchase an unlimited num-
ber of roadside parks, not exceeding ten acres, on land
belonging to the Bureau of Land Management. The bureau
administers over 24,000,000 acres of land in Utah (46.8%
of the state) on which there is no recreation development. 

137

 

 

NEWS

F or further information regarding!
any of these products, write directly:
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean Wachtel

 

This issue of RECREATION Magazine is devoted, almost
exclusively, to camping in all its divers forms. Therefore,
items for this column were selected with an eye for their
utility in camping; the first three, for water safety.

Three for Safety

0 Naturally, swimming areas
are never left unattended dur-
ing regular swimming periods,
but there is always the off-
chance that some youngster ,
might try a little aquatic ex-
perimentation of his own when
nobody’s looking. In order to
help circumvent any possible
tragedies, the Minneapolis-
Honeywell Regulator Com-
pany has devised a highly sen-
sitive electronic alarm that can
be adjusted so finely is will de-
tect a hand splashing in the
water. The system includes a
sensing element submerged ap-
proximately a foot below the
water surface and a remotely
located alarm panel (shown
next to each other in the pic-
ture) . Whenever an object falls into the water, the sensing
element detects the sound vibrations caused by the splash,
then electronically relays a signal to the alarm panel, which
can be located up to one hundred feet from the pool. An
alarm horn is then sounded to summon aid. Detailed infor-
mation on the swimming pool alarm system may be had by
writing Minneapolis-Honeywell Home Products Division,
2747 Fourth Avenue South, Minneapolis 8, Minnesota.

 

0 Another safety device, complete but still portable, is the
AMBU Rescue Breathing Equipment, which consists of both
a hand-operated resuscitator
and a foot-operated suction
pump in a plastic carrying
case. Lightweight and sturdy,
this equipment can bc used by
virtually anyone, anywhere,
without time-wasting setting
up, use of electricity, or of
compressed gases. Consisting
of face mask, self-inflating bag,
and nonrebreathing valve, the
rcsuseitator delivers adequate
volumes of air with the first
squeeze of the bag. The foot-operated suction pump delivers
intermittent partial vacuum for fast clearing of the airway,
which so often is clogged with water, mucus, or other for-
eign matter. \thil 1'.- offcred as a complete resuscitation-

138

 

suction unit, but either element may be bought separately.
Formerly manufactured in Denmark, the unit has been en-
dorsed by such European agencies as the Bavarian, Swiss,
and Austrian alpine rescue organizations, the NATO armies
medical corps, the Norwegian air force and merchant navy,
and Danish civil defense. For all details, write Air-Shields,
Ine., Hatboro, Pennsylvania.

0 In the event that you have a near drowning on your
hands, in either pool or natural body of water, either this
or the preceding resuscitator could prove to be invaluable.
The Mira tube, made of molded Tenite polyethylene plastic
is a device designed to bring immediate, effective aid to
nonbreath’ing victims of near drowning, asphyxiation, or
electric shock, particularly for the rescuerireluctant to use
mouth-to-mouth breathing. One end of the tube, which
looks like an elongated S, is placed in the victim's mouth
(once he has been placed on his back) until the flange rests
against his lips or teeth. The rescuer then breathes through
the tube at the rate of fifteen to twenty times per minute,
interrupting the artificial reSpiration to permit passive ex-
halation by the victim. Available in sizes for children and
adults, the Mira tube is resistant to most chemicals used in
cold sterilization. For complete information, write the Mira

Corporation, 2656 North Pasadena, Los Angeles 31. Cal-
ifornia.

0 Power failure is always likely in relatively isolated areas
such as camping grounds, in either state and national parks
and forests or out in the country. In such instances, stand-by
power is mandatory.
A unit that fills the
bill more than ade-
quately is thc \Vinco
Lite Portable Engine
Generator, which
compact portable
power plant delivers
up to 3000 watts AC,
starting at its ratcd
2500 watts. The
Briggs & Stratton 4*
cycle aluminum cn-
gine has nationwidc
service facilities, thus doubling its usefulness. ComngI
equipped with its own carrying handle and weighing 123
pounds, the \Vinco Lite offers many other advantages—such
as the exclusive AUTOMATIC CONSERv-cr Idling Control
and full power at either 115 or 230 volts, from one
outlet—and versatility. It can also be set up as an extra
light source wherever you want it, for whatever purpose you
want, such as near the pool for a water show. It is also
available with stationary base, a Speedy Shift 2-wheel dolly,
or carrying cradle. For complete information write thc
\V'iuchargcr Corporation, a subsidiary of Zenith Radio,
Sioux City 2, lowa.

 

RECREATION

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

Page
American Playground Device -_ Inside Back Cover

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: C0py must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish

 

 

 

  

ASSOCialion Press --~—----------~-----------*  replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.
Bear's Head -~--- ——- I——--- --—-------- - 141 Send copy with remittance to:
Champion Recreation Equipment ____ __‘_____ 131 RECREATION Classihed Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York ll. New York.
£95m" Indugnes '“   "' 101 HELP WANTED work. No experience re- on experience. MSW re-
Drmco-Gray ._.---._..........-..--..-.__...--... . 98 Recreation Therapists guired. Startinghsalary quired. Efraim H. Gale,
. . . , , 415.00 per mont ; promo- executive director, Greater
Exposmon Press "" “mm " ' “"' ' 139 for Cal‘fom'a State Hosp“ tional opportunities; liber- Miami Jewish Community
F, H, Noble __________ __ _ Inside Back rover “118- OPPOI‘IPHIEY, to Plan al employment benefits. Center, 450 SW 16th Ave-
aond COHdUCtolndIVIdUi-il 133' Write State Personnel nue, Miami 35, Florida.
FleBlE manna-mmum—mm- ——---— 105 Item. Iecreatlon as well as Board, 801 Capitol Avenue, SERVICES
Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. (book)  . 140 Space gron acum'es; Sacramento, California-
modem equipment and fa- AVAILABLE
   .-..............-----..- -._.-  Cilities availlellble. Pojtions Group Workers, branch Square Dance Caller, col-

' 0P8" ‘0 CO 838 870 Rates director and program as- lege, club, or convention.
Gin-"1.51m SUpplY ""'“"“ ‘" "'“""" """ 140 with major in recreation or sistant in decentralized Piute Pete, 55 West Eighth
HIIIerIch 8: Bradst __...-. ..__ .. -,-.. Center Insert recreation therapy, which countywide group—work Street, New York 11, New
InSIiIuII-onal Cinema Service 141 included supervised held agency. Salary dependent York.

James Spencer I ----------- n"  The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.
Jaytro Athletic Supply _-.._....---..-_-...-_---..- 139
Kalah Game “""“'“'""“""" ""““"  ' 140 - with the portable
     w Free to meERs snow moot.
Mason Candies _____.._.__ __..___..________,._..____ 103 . , You can 50 when
Monroe I 40 seeking a book publisher the events take place
N . Sm'm-"mm "mm" "mm" 'm 140 'E‘owo inletl-lfilled. iglusltrategl4%rochureiiitoell how ""md be hm;
anonal pom " '“" ' “'"' '“ tiorligl iioeiiiinfphiiionyagiiogitt'éi EQUIPMENT

National Studios ______ w____ __ _ _  E Free editorialpappraisal. Write Dept. R-3 co.

. . xoiti 3 4th .. .. r .M' .
New York Unwersny  iiii m “m  P S on ress/ 36 Ave NY 16 I we anna Inn
Recreation Equipment -  .... __...  104
Ronald Press _..__.__.___-_-..  __..-_. _- 102

e I C
T- F- Twardz'k  ~-  -- - I- —   98 zematwe Wagwe
U. S. Defense Bonds. _ . Back Cover
Voit ____________ __-  105 BINDERS

Wenger Music Equipment e -  . 139

° Opens flat for changes
- Holds one year's issues

° lieavy simulated leather
° Cold stamped

Price
New, impraxlted IGdaldfn Age it’liluiu Pin.
Now in rea ga pate wit tree in
green lewelers' enamel. Safety catch.  eaCh

50c each, including federal tax and
I pastage.

Minimum arder 10 pins
Available only to authentic clubs.

JAMES SPENCER & CO.
22 N. 6th Street Philadelphia 6. Pa.

(Includes 12 blades)

 

[Extra sets of looped rods available
separately for 3.65 per set]

 

 

 

    

I
| I
I/gf/ho MAIL I RECREATION MAGAZINE muss FILL IN _ I
I 8 West Eighth Street Year Number of COP"! I
  | New York 11. N. Y. 1958 .................  .......... .. I
| 1959 ............................... .. I
   : This is my order  REC- 1960 ------------------------------- -- l
 I REATION Magazrne binders. undated .......................... .. l
NOW I l
3 Years Guarantee! , I
omdoo" or "Ida," I lName ................................................................................................... .. I
Also eaturr’n .la ro’e custom built I  q I
      I  o o o e e e o o g e e o o e e e e o e e e e e e e e e o e e e e e o e e e e e e o o o o o e o o o o e e e o - . o o e e o e e e e o . . o o o o o o o - o o o o o o o o o o - o o o o - - o . o u I
' . VALUMINUM MULTl-PURPOSE STANDARDS .
wTETHEItsAu rates a. moot: sets I City ...................................................................................................... .. I
VWATER BASKETBALL STANDARDS | o I
VALUMINUM BATTING recs I Pull ....................................................................................................... ..
' Send for Free Catalog ' I o 1 q d I
Ice.I I ........................................................ u, orencoee ........................... ee I
Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN. I 603 i
139

VIARCH 1960

REVEILLE FOR CAMP BUILDERS

Julian H. Salomon’s Camp Site Devel-

opment — enlarged edition. Simplifies

water supply, sewage, road and power
systems; emphasizes camp planning. Ill.

Send $5 to Girl Scouts-uNES, Dept. B, 830 Third
Avenue, New York 22.

   

, __ se catalog. I
I nn'l'lnnnl.

51am prsqu
370 NORTH MAROOEITE. FUND DO I“. WIS.

NO. [-3 TABLE
TEMPERED HISGNITE
PUSTICIZED TOP

W

Fonz-Ki a

' FOLDING TABLE LINE

Kitchen committees. social groups, atten-
tion! Factory prices & discounts up to 40%
to Churches. Schtnls. Clubs, etc. Monroe
all—new FOLD-KING Banquet Tables.
with exclusive new automatic folding and
locking. super strength, easy seating. tilt models and sinus.

BIG NEW 1960 CATALOG FREE

Color pictures. Full line tables, chairs, table and chair trucks. plat--
form—risers. portable partitions, hullctin boards. Our 52nd your.

THE MONROE CO... 181 Church St., Colfax, Iowa

DIRECT PRICES
DISCOUNTS I. TERMS

NEW 64-PAGE
REFERENCE GUIDE

FREE
 - GYM APPARATUS '

GYMNASTIC UNIFORMS ' COILING DOORS
GRANDSTANDS 0 PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT 0
FOLDING BLEACHERS 0 BASKETBALL BACKSTOPS

REBOUND TUMBLING UNITS 0 SCOREBOARDS 0
WEIGHTLIFTING EQUIPMENT ' LOCKERS

OYMNASIIO SUPPLY COMPANY

250 Sixth Street San Pedro. California

 

Recreation leaders from Boston to
Los Angeles use thls means of solv-
lng many playground problems.

THE MORALE BUILDER

Ten Minutes of Special Coaching Can Pro-
duce a Kalah Enthusiast.

SEND FOR LEAFLET Na. 12. Shows how one In-

spired player can develop volunteer helpers who

will start a wave of sustained Interest that may
spread over a city.

Kr.th some

toaaaaa.
' 1's e__e a

Simple Ilalah rules reprlnled
from UNICEF Recreallon Man-
ual supplied will: each order.
llALAH GAME (0.

131 Slate SI.. Boston. Mass.

140

    

 

Have You Heard This One?
Jim Copp and Ed Brown have done

it again, this time with their recording
of Fable Forest, a reworking of fifteen
Aesop fables. Copp narrates clearly
and without flourishes, starting with
“when the world was very young, and
nobody knew how to act,” and goes on
from there, delightfully, spellbindingly.
My seven-year-old assistant critic also
got the moral inherent in each fable
without feeling clobbered by the ob-
vious.

For example, consider the story of
the lion and the mouse. The lion is
about to gobble up the mouse, but de-
sists when the mouse promises to help
him some day. That day comes when
he frees the lion from a trap by gnaw-
ing its ropes. As his reward, which the
lion says can be anything he wants, the
mouse chooses to marry the lion’s
daughter. During the resulting, reluc-
tant ceremony, the lioness trips and
squashes her about-to-be bridegroom.
The moral: “Don’t overstep yourself.”
The slightly gory ending is softened by
the lion’s roaring, “Somebody sweep
up that mouse . . . and let’s all have a
party; everybody dance, everybody
Sing.”

While more uneven in quality and
less of a whole than their first record,
Jim Copp Tales (reviewed September
1959), Fables is still an excellent re-
cord. Both are suitable for recreation
or camp story hour, rainy days, creative
drainatics, the sick bay, quiet hour—
use limited only by imagination. Avail-
able from Playhouse Records, Box
36061, Los Angeles 36, California
(Playhouse 202, 12”, 33 1/3, $4.95) .

Another charming Caedmon story-
telling record recently off the press is
the one of Boris Karloff reading “The
Ugly Duckling” and five other Hans
Christian Andersen stories, some well
known, others less so. Among the bet-
ter known are “The Princess and the
Pea” and “The Shepherchs and the
Chimney Sweep.”

Mr. Karloff is an expert on children’s
literature, in addition to his acting, and
reads with clarity, expression, and great
warmth. He utilizes no sound effects
nor outside voices, but the pint-sized
audience still sits enthralled, car glued
to speaker, listening to every word.
Available from Caedmon Records, 277
Fifth Avenue, New York 16 (TC 1109,
12”, 33 1/3, $5.95).=—J.W.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Recreation leaders who abhor pre-
fabricated do-it-yourself hobby sets will
find Elelczra’s Folk Song Kill a eat of
quite another breed. This beginner’s
guitar instruction course includes man-
ual, chart, and practice record. It
should propel those teen-agch who
have picked up a chord or two to settle
down to something more; would be a
fine pick-it-up for servicemen on iso-
lated stations far from a teacher (and
even for those in more accessible are-
as) ; and a special boon for the hospital-
ized, homebound, and people cut off
from usual channels. One side of the
record gives chord instruction by Billy
Faicr, professional folk singer, accom-
panist, and editor-publisher of Caravan
Folk Music Magazine; the other has
twenty favorite folk songs played and
sung by Milt Okun, teacher, arranger.
conductor, and performer. The manual
also includes a survey of American folk
music by Lee Hays, veteran folk singer
(The Weavers) and composer (“Kisses -
Sweeter than Wine”). Of course, the
success of any such course as this is
the seriousness of purpose (shown in
the seriousness of play) evidenced by
the practiccr. Available from Elcktra
Records, 116 West 14th Street, New
York 11 (EKL-KIT, 12”, 33 1/3, treat-
ed for heavy use, $5.95) .—E.D. I

Film Flashes

For All the Children is a sensitive
and moving film relating the story of

the New York Herald Tribune Fresh

Air Fund's experiment in integrated
camping for handicapped and nonhand-
icappcd children at Camp Hidden Val-
ley, Ridgeficld, Connecticut. (See write-

eep ’em SINGING

with these all-time favorite

SONG SLIDES

wonderful hours of fun for
young and old alike

SOo/slide
'I ,oo lslide

2" x 2'” slides
3‘ s " x 4‘3 slides

WRITE FOR CAIOLOGUI 5

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 48th Street
New Yeti: 36, N. ‘1'

Nelson 14926

 

RECREATION

 

up on this. camp in June 1955 RECREA-
TION, Page 260.)

The film opens with a brief history
of the Fresh Air Fund, illustrated by
film clips, showing the dismal slum con-
ditions that so shocked the Reverend
Willard Parsons, of Sherman, Pennsyl-
vania, that he decided to try to mitigate
them in some manner. He founded the
FAF in 1877 and served as its first di-
rector. Ever since its inception, the
Fund has operated under Dr. Parsonsa
credo: “What is done out of love can
never die.”

The major part of the film is devoted
to the Hidden Valley experiment: the
original idea of integrating the handi-
capped and nonhandicapped; would it
work; and how could it be worked out.
Ultimately the problems were resolved;
the children, previously screened by
recognized social-service agencies,
packed into buses, off to the country for
the first time.

The handicaps covered a wide vari-
ety of disorders, but once they came
upon the lush greenness of Camp Hid-
den Valley, “the burdens of disability
[were] forgotten.” The counselors were
regular college material, with some Jay
Cees included. All were given a short
orientation course to acquaint them
with the special needs of the handi-
capped. The entire experiment has
been called “a new concept in social
rehabilitation.”

..V. on“...

    
 

New York University Camp,
Lake Sebago, S/oatsburg, IV. Y.

Undergraduate Camp, June 4—-—June 26

in Physical Education, Camping or Recreation.

Graduate Camp, July 4—A ugust 12

Graduate professional courses in Health,

I Open to Undergraduate Students with a major
: Physical Education, Dance, Camping, Recreation

l Washington Square.
New York 3, New York

I Undergraduate and Graduate courses in
Health, Physical Education, Physical Therapy
l and Recreation.

Inter-session, June 6.-Ju!y 1.
Summer Session, July 5—August 12.
Post Session, August 15—September 9.

 

Courses lead to the B.S., M.S. and Doctorate Degrees.

|
|
l
|
|
|
l
I
|
|
|
l
.L

+

For further information write to:

  

Department of Physical Education,
Health and Recreation
School of Education

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY

Washington Square
New York 3, New York

     

 t s I") «has...
Narrator Mary Martin and two young-

ster actors of For All the Children.

This film was chosen when the United

States Information Agency and the
National Broadcasting Company were

looking for a representative social- -— M o v I E S —

service film to show at the American

. . . . L Full series of For Eve Occasion
National EXhlblt In Moscow, last July. 3 Indian contests ry
Though running only eighteen min- _ $23,, gSEgs’gggi: *
I utes, this 16mm, color film should be  I r‘igesequggg; airs? RECREATION - EDUCATION
an eye-opener to any camp or recrea- _ _ play. Puts real In- I 6MM SOUND
. tion department that has shied away .I 1': gggrfgf‘eggghiggf Bl k & Wh. C I
from the very thought of having the A " groorgeerd ggicgess. Egg? 0‘3 "e ' ° °r
. handicapped and nonhandicapped . moans, tfrserui iplfor- Represennng
- ° -' ' . ma on or an en-
chlldren camplng tOgether, utilizing the _ : tic-1m walmisney . Columbia _ Warner
same facllltles. It was produced, direct- .- Write for free catalog: United Artists .. paramount
ed and coauthored by Leo Trachten- , Beat”; Igeoq llrtrdiari: —
berg and Robert K. Merrick, photo- _ _. Ggfzesporbgcgvguee Sand for 64-page FREE CATALOG
graphed by Ross Lowell- Avallable on '  Pb Denim,” msmunoun (man sumo, INC.
' ° one:
free loan from Harvest Films, 90 Rlver- .- Tonawanda, New York 41 union square _ New Yuk 3, M, Y,

 

_ side Drive, New York 24.—J.W.

. MARCH 1960 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 141

RECREATION For The

 

III and Handicapped

Since the field of recreation for the
ill and handicapped has expanded far
beyond the conhnes of hospitals, this
regular column, formerly called “Hos-
pital Capsules,” is lihewise expanding
its title.

+ The Consulting Service on Recrea-
tion for the 111 and Handicapped of the
National Recreation Association knows
of a large number of unfilled positions
for recreation workers with the ill and
handicapped thoughout the country. It
does not have the funds for recruitment,
movies, literature, and staff, so it must
have your help. The Consulting Service
is initiating a nationwide recruiting
contest. Prizes will be awarded to the
three people who recruit the most per-
sons to the field of recreation for the
ill and handicapped.

Send the Consulting Service your
name if you are interested in becoming
a contest participant. Please tell other
recreation leaders. If the recruits are
not already trained in recreation, per-
suade them to go to a college or univ-
ersity giving specialized courses in this
area. If the recruits are trained in rec-
reation, but not in work with the ill and
handicapped the Consulting Service
will help them find positions where
they will be given careful supervision
while working with the ill and handi-
capped. Prizes, worth over $50 each,
have been donated by a kind friend of
the field.

Make it a point to speak at the high
schools and undergraduate colleges in
your community and any other place
where you think you are likely to find
interest. Everyone of you can recruit
at least one person to our field and

surely there are many who can recruit
more. How about it?

+ Presidents of the three professional
organizations working with the ill and
handicapped are having several meet-
ings this spring to dcvelOp feasible

 

MRS. HILL is director, National Recrea-
tion Association Consulting Service on
Recreation for the I ll and Handicapped.

142

methods of forming one strong profes-
sional organization. Let’s hope they will
find the answers so in 1961 we may
forge ahead as one united force. At the
end of February, the three chairmen of
the three organizations met at the Na-
tional Association and
worked out a formal description of ree-
reation for the ill and handicapped,

which, in turn, will be sent to the mem-

Recreation

bers of their organizations for ap-
proval. When this is accomplished, we
will have one answer, not three, when
asked, “What exactly is recreation in
the medical setting?”

+ An article in the October issue
(Pages 334-335) discussed the Sussex
County Project for a coordinated rec-
reation program for the ill, handicap-
ped, and aged in a rural county. At that
time the Consulting Service was trying
to find means to finance an on-going
program after the project, supported by
a foundation grant, had ended. Such
means have now been developed and
may be applicable in other areas of the
country.

The county welfare department has
agreed to pay a share of one recreation
worker’s salary, providing service for
three sessions a week in the welfare
homes caring for patients. The small
general hospital will pay for four ses-
sions, and each of the four proprietary
nursing homes will pay for one session
a week. This equals thirty hours a week,
with the remaining ten for recruiting,
training volunteers, and other program
responsibilities. The institutions will
pay ten dollars for each session, total-
ling $110 a week. Thus, the worker’s
salary will he 35200 a year. The auto-
mobile allowance equals approximately
another $500 a year.

As the project continues this year, the
Consulting Service hopes to expand the
program to include the noninstitution-
alized handicapped and older persons
living in boarding homes. It is confi-
dent that, once again, the community
will come to the rescue and find the
means to support this expansion of

service. If you have a small hospital
and a number of nursing homes in your
part of the country, they may be inter-
ested in knowing of this project, and
how they, too, can provide recreation
services.

In another project in which the Con-
sulting Service tried using the same
methods found so successful in Sussex
County and failed. It was impossible
to coordinate six institutions in six dif-
ferent towns, because each town, rather
than cooperate with one another, eomr
peted. C00peration is the keynote in
any coordinated project.

‘i‘ The NRA Consulting Service has
been working with the U.S. Children’s
Bureau to develop plans for a three-year
study of recreation for handicapped
children throughout the country. By
law, all handicapped children whether
mentally or physically handicapped,
get educational advantages. but there
is litlle evidence that communities make
much effort to include the handicapped
child in recreation plans.

+ Another Consulting Service study
concerns methods and techniques to
help the professional successfully moti-
vate the chronically ill aged person.
The Consulting Service has questioned
many eminent authorities on this score.
The majority seem to feel that a study
in this area will reveal that the person-
ality of the worker and his use of his
own assets is the most important factor.

+ The State of California provides an
example of the power of legislation. To
be eligible for licensure, it is now manv
(latory for nursing homes in California
to offer some recreation to patients.

4* The National Association for Re-
tarded Children and the NRA Consult-
ing Service are working on a plan to
develop a demonstration of how a cen-
tcr geared to social rehabilitation may
aid the mentally retarded. This will
prove that many who are considered
retardates with no job potential could
develop such a potential, once self-con-
fidcnce has been gained through educa-
tion and recreation. A place to go and
things to do under guidance every day
can be a great help, not only to the re-
tardate but also his family. #

RECREATION

 

Magazine Articles

 

TIIE AMERICAN CHILD, January 1960

Problems Before the Golden Anniversary
White House Conference on Children and
Youth.

AMERICAN FORESTS, January 1960
Let’s Go Trail Riding, Michael Fronie.
The Oregon Dunes, William B. Morse.
CAMPING MAGAZINE, January 1960

Havc You Tried “Spelunking”? John See-
ger.

HARPER’S February 1960

Exploring the Great Deeps (oceanography),
Leonard Engel.

Men to Match Japan’s Mountains, (sumo
wrestling), Allan R. Bosworth.

The Rebirth of Jonny (childhood schizo-
phrenia) , Mira Rothenberg.

Honsekeeping at the Big Museum (Metro-
politan Museum of Art), Edith lglauer.

JOHPER, January 1960

Education for Leisure—A Must, Jay B.
Nash.

First Lessons in Figure Skating, Barbara
Southward.

NCATE Accredited Institutions Offering
Degrees in Health, Physical Education,
Recreation.

NEA JOURNAL, January 1960

What Is a Good Art Program? Mary Ade-
line McKibbin.

Subtle Learnings of Little Children, Paul

i N. Van Ness.
iTRE OPTIMIST, January 1960

Curling——Hottest Project on Ice.

Bike Safety Hits the Big City, Barney Sing-
ernian.

PARENTS’, February 1960

What Makes Teens Try Dope, Edward R.
Bloomquist, MD.

Friendships by Mail. Gunltild Causing.

PARKS AND RECREATION, January 1960

How About a Par 3 Golf Course? Ben
Cltlevin.

Night Needs Light, Stacy Standley.

The Playground of Tomorrow, Frank Cap-
lan.

Public Boating on Small Lakes, Norville

Hall.

A Sailing Program for the Public, Laura

Slocombe.

ARKS AND RECREATION IN CANADA, January
1960
Memorial Sports Centre (Oshawa), R. A.

Stencel.

Outstanding Sarnia Tree Program, William

Palmer.

ECREATION FOR THE ILL AND HANDICAPPED,
January 1960

Creative Dance. Mary London Brooks.
How to Plan a Carnival, Ira Hutchinson, Jr.

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
     
  
  
  

Recordings

)AVE vAN RONK SINGS BALLADS, BLUES AND
A SPIRITUAL (FS3818). Folkways Records,
117 West 46th Strect, New York 36 (12”,
33 1/3, $5.95).

.lektro Records

MORSE CODE COURSE (CC-1) ; FOLK SONGS
FROM JUST ABOUT EVERYWHERE (EKL-

ARCH 1960

161), Theodore Bike] and Geula Gill;
SONGS OF A RUSSIAN GYPSY (EKL—151),
Theodore Bike]; THE LIMELITERS (EKL-
180) ; GOLD COAST SATURDAY NIGIIT (EKL-
167), Saka Acquaye and His African En-
semble from Ghana (all 33 1/3, 12", $4.98).
Elektra Records, 116 West 14th Street, New
York 11.

Books & Pamphlets
Received

Arts and Crafts

ADvENTURE IN STITCIIES (rev. ed.), Mariska
Karasz. Funk & Wagnalls, 153 E. 24th St.,
New York 10. Pp. 127. $7.50.

BEGINNER’S BOOK OF WATERCOLOUR PAINT-
ING, TIIE, Adrian Hill. Emerson Books, 251
W. 19th St., New York 11. Pp. 77. $2.95.

DEVELOPING, C. I. Jacobson. American Photo-
graphic Book Publishing, 33 W. 60th St.,
New York 23. Pp. 327. $4.50.

FUN WITH ARTIFICIAL FLOWERS, Joseph Leem-
ing. J. B. Lippincott, E. Washington Sq.,
Philadelphia. Pp. 95. $3.00.

HAND WEAVING, S. A. Zielinski. Funk & Wag-
nalls Co., 153 E. 24th St., New York 10. Pp.
190. $8.50.

MIRROR wITII A MEMORY (photography),
Charles Michael Daugherty. Harcourt
Brace, 750 3rd Ave., New York 17. Pp. 96.
$3.25.

MORE PLYWOOD PROJECTS, Robert Scharff.
McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York
36. Pp. 184. $5.50.

MOSAICS, Doris and Diane Lee Aller. Lane
Publishing, Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 96. Pa-
per, $1.95.

1960 INTERNATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHY YEAR
BOOK, Norman Hall, Editor. St. Martin’s
Press, 175 5th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 216.
$6.95.

ORIGAMI (Book Threc), Florencc Sakade.
Charles E. Tuttle, 28-30 S. Main St., Rut-
land, Vt. Pp. 32. Paper, $1.00.

POPULAR STYLES OF JAPANESE FLOWER AR-
RANGEMENT, Lida Webb. HeartlIside Press,
118 E. 28th St., New York 16. Pp. 124.

$2.95.

PRINTMAKING, Gabor Peterdi. Macmillan, 60
5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 303. $12.50.
STONEWARE AND PORCELAIN, Daniel Rhodes.
Chilton Co., 56th & Chestnut Sts., Philadel-

phia 39. Pp. 217. $7.50.

TIN CAN CRAFTING, Sylvia W. Howard. Ster-
ling Publishing, 419 4th Ave., New York 16.
Pp. 64. $2.50.

VANISIIING CRAFTS AND TIIEIR CRAFTSMEN,
Rollin C. Steinmetz and Charles S. Rice.
Rutgers Univ. Press, 30 College Ave., New
Brunswick, N. J. Pp. 160. $4.75.

 

Camping. Nature

CAMPING AND OUTDOOR FUN, Maj. Mauno A.
Lindholm. Hart Publishing, 74 Fifth Ave.,
New York 11. Pp. 192. Paper, $1.50.

CAMPING DIGEST, Kenneth Chasey. Box 6247,
Lamar Park Sta.. Corpus Christi, Tex. Pp.
225. Paper, $2.00.

CAMP SITE DEvELOPMENT, Julian H. Saloman.
Girl Scouts of the USA, 830 3rd Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 160. $5.00.

CAM PSITE FINDER (Vol. 1—1959), Pacific
Coast and Alaska, Richard and Jane Hartes-

veldt. Naturegraph Publishing, Box 46,
San Martin, Calif. Pp. 80. Papcr, $1.00.

CHILDREN’S ADVENTURE WITII NATURE AND
PEOPLE, A. J. William Myers, PhD. Exposi-
tion Press, 386 4th Ave., New York 16. Pp.
108. $3.00.

DEVELOPING CAMP SITES AND FACILITIES, John
A. Ledlie, Editor. Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 63. Paper,
$3.50.

ENDURING PATTERN, TIIE, Hal Borland. Simon
& Scllustcr, 630 5th Ave., New York 20. Pp.
247. $5.00.

FIELD GUIDE TO AMERICAN WILDLIFE: East,
Ccntral & North, Henry Hill Collins, Jr.
Harper & Brothers, 49 E. 33rd St., New
York 16. Pp. 683. $6.95.

HOW ANIMALS MOVE, Jamcs Gray. Cam-
bridge Univ. Press, 32 E. 57th St., New
York 22. Pp. 143. Paper, $1.75.

HOW TO SELECT A SUMMER CAMP FOR YOUR
CHIID, Irving Horowitz. Chilton Co., 56th
81 Chestnut Sts., Philadelphia 39. Pp. 84.
$2.95 (paper, $1.95).

LIvING EARTII, Peter Farh. IIarpcr & Bros.,
49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp. 172. $3.75.

LIvING WITII OTIIERS (teacher’s manual plus

junior canIper’s book), Carrie Lou God-

dard. Abingdon Press, 201 8th Ave. S.,
Nashville 2, Tenn. Pp. 114. Paper, $1.25.

MANUAL FOR OUTDOOR LARORATORIES, Rich-
ard L. Weaver, Editor. Interstate Printers,
19-29 N. Jackson St., Danville, Ill. Pp. 81.
Paper, $1.25.

THE NATURAL THING: The Land and Its Cit-
izens, Pieter W. Fosburgh. Macmillan, 60
5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 174. $3.75.

NORTII AMERICAN WATERFOWL, Albert M.
Day. Stackpole Co., Cameron & Kelker Sts.,
Harrisburg, Pa. Pp. 363. $5.75.

101 WILDFLOWERS OF CRATER LAKE NATIONAL
PARK, Grant and Wenonah Sharpe. Univ.
of Washington Press, Seattle 5. Pp. 40.
Paper, $1.00.

OUR GREAT OUTDOORS—What Are We Doing
About It? Center for Information on Amer-
ica, Washington, Conn. Pp. 4. $.25.

OUTDOOR REFERENCE GUIDE, Amelia R. Long.
Stackpole Co., Cameron and Kelker Sts.,
Harrisburg, Pa. Pp. 288. $7.50.

PACIFIC NORTHWEST, TIIE. Golden Press, 630
5th Ave., New York 20. Pp. 160. $2.50.
PLANTS TIIAT CHANGED THE WORLD, Bertha S.
Dodge. Little, Brown, 34 Beacon St., Bos-

ton 6. Pp. 183. $3.50.

POCKET FIELD GUIDE TO NATURE—Volume I.
Stackpole Co., Cameron & Kelker Sts., Har-
risburg, Pa. Pp. 96. Paper, $1.50.

RANGE LAND ANIMAL TALES, Sabina Carlin
Pratt. Exposition Press, 386 4th Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 58. $2.50.

SEA AND SIIORE, THE, Marion B. Carr. Golden
Press, 630 5th Ave., New York 20. Pp. 57.

$1.50.
SECRETS IN TIIE DUST, Raymond Holden.

Dodd, Mead, 432 4th Ave., New York 16.
Pp. 177. $2.75.

SPRING FLOWERS OF THE LOWER COLUMBIA
VALLEY, Clara C. Hill. Univ. of Washington
Press, Seattle 5. Pp. 164. $3.00.

STRANGE PARTNERS (cooperation among ani-
mals), Sigmund Lavine. Little, Brown, 34
Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp. 106. $2.75.

WORLD OF LIvING TIIINcs, Paul Griswold
Howes. DIIell, Sloan & Pearce. 124 E. 30th
St., New York 16. Pp. 232. $4.50.

WORLD OF PATTERN, A. Gwen White. Charles
T. Branford. 69 Union St., Newton Centre
59. Mass. Pp. 76. $3.95.

143

 

Camp Waterfront Programs and
Management, Richard Pohndorf. Asso-
ciation Press, 29] Broadway, New

York 7. Pp. 256, illustrated. $7.50.

This, the latest addition to the YMCA

Aquatic Professional Series, provides
long-needed coverage of the problems
of waterfront program operation and
administration. It is a key resource for
almost any phase of aquatic program-
ing in a resident or day-camp setting,
whether run by recreation department
or private agency. The book does not
deal specifically with the YMCA opera-
tion; most of the material can be easily
adapted to any program. The examples
are well selected and provide breadth
and scope for intelligent planning.

The seamanship program and stand-
ards of proficiency are excellent, espe-
cially when the high interest in small-
craft ownership and their use by the
general public are considered. It is
regrettable, however, that some refer-
ence to the existing American Red
Cross Small Craft Programs was not
included. Some of this material can be
applied to individual operation of small
craft outside the usual camp operation,
which is good or bad, depending on
your Viewpomt.

The somewhat incomplete bibliogra-
phy of up-to-date references does not
detract from the book’s overall value.—-——
Stanley Stacker, Metropolitan New
York Council, American Youth Hostels.

(See his article on camp lands, Page
132.)

Your Family Goes Camping, Doris
Patterson. Abingdon Press, 201 Eighth
Avenue, South, Nashville 2, Tennessee.
Pp. 160, illustrated. $2.50.

This summer you will be asked for
advice on family camping, if the present
trend continues—and it will. Or you
may wish. to take the family on a cross-
country jaunt, camping along the way.
In either case, this book will provide
answers to such questions as: Where
shall I go? What shall I take? What
about tents, sleeping bags, cooking,
sanitation? It is based on the long

144-

Corering tlw Leisure-time Finlrl

camping experience of Mr. and Mrs.
Patterson and their four children, all
inveterate campers. The style is con-
cise and enthusiastic.

The only criticism of this book con-
cerns two items. Mrs. Patterson does
not use the modern mouth-to-mouth
method of artificial respiration. She
also fails to give sufficient warning
about the removal of ticks, those car-
riers of Rocky Mountain spotted fever.
Never remove them by hand. Use tweez-
ers; never touch ticks with fingers.

Developing Camp Sites and Facili-
ties, Association Press, 29] Broadway,

New York 7. Pp. 63, illustrated. $3.50.

This publication, prepared by the
National Commission on YMCA Camp
Layouts, Buildings, and Facilities, is
another indication of the excellent ma-
terial on camp design and development
that is being issued by youth-serving
agencies. Designed to assist those re-
sponsible for planning and developing
camps, it is largely the result of work
done at the First National Consultation
of YMCA Camping held in 1957. Many
YMCA camp leaders served on commit-
tees that prepared the various chapters.

The handbook is profusely illustrated
with sketches, photographs, and plans
of camp structures and facilities. Of
special interest to recreation workers
are the sections relating to procedures
in developing a camp project, water-
front developments, and program facili-
ties. Most of the information is pre-
sented in the form of check lists that

facilitate the ready use of the publica-
tion.-———C. D. 3.

Light from a Thousand Campfires,
Kenneth B. Webb, Editor. Association
Press, 29] Broadway, New York 7. Pp.
375, illustrated. $4.95.

This compilation of camping mate-
rial reflects the light from thousands of
personalities and eXperiences that made
up the first thirty-four years of Camp-
ing Magazine and its predecessors. It
is not a how-to-do-it book but rather
a distillation of camping phiIOSOphy,
insights, values, aims, objectives. The

book covers four major areas: what is
camping and why? the staff, the pro-
gram, and the many kinds of camps. It
certainly should be well thumbed by all
camp directors and be available for the
camp staff. The wealth of eXperience
and inspiration of many of the pioneers
of good camping make this a must for‘
every professional recreation leader
who is in any way concerned with day'
or resident camping. Publication ofl
this volume marks the fiftieth anniver-l
sary of the American Camping Associa-
tion, to be celebrated at its convention

in San Francisco this month.—S. S.

Curiosities of Animal Life, Maurice
Burton, DSc, pp. 128, photOQraphs
and drawings, $3.95. A Butterfly l
Born, J. P. Vanden Eckhoudt, pp. 90,
over 120 photographs, $2.50. A Bir
Is Born, E. Bosiger and J. M. Guilcher,
pp. 92, Ht photographs, $2.50. Al
from Sterling Publishing Company,
419 Park Avenue, South, New York 16.

How

  
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
  

do animals find their way
home? What animals have built-in
weapons? Can animals talk to eac

other? In Curiosities of Animal Lif
Dr. Burton pinpoints the answers t
these and many other questions. Eac
bit of information presented is relate
to other unusual facts and to the who]
field of natural history so readers (1
not get just a miscellany of believe-it
or-not data, but a thorough understand
ing of animals. Did you know that
cuckoo from Africa migrates to Eng
land to breed, and the young birds re
turn to Africa, a land they have neve
seen? Why? Here is your chance t
find the answer. Accompanying th
text are 105 black-and-white and six
teen full-color photographs plus was
drawings by Anne Marie Jauss.

The miracle of birth and life of .
bird is graphically told in A Bird 1.
Born. through magnificent close-up an
X-ray photographs. In its conipanio
book, A Butterfly ls Born, the life of
butterfly is told in pictures.

All three books are treasures, hav
numerous, superb photographs, an
will delight any nature leader.

Verses from 1929 On, Ogden Nash '
little, Brown, 34 Beacon Street, 805
ton. Pp. 522. $5.95.

This comprehensive anthology, se
lectcd and revised from six previor
Nash volumes, is chock full of wr
gripes, unhlushing puns, elastic (an
snappy) rhymes. all quite gnashy bl
not nasty. Sample:

Song of the Open Road

I think that I shall never see

A billboard lovely as a tree.

lndeed, unless the billboards fall

I’ll never see a tree at all.

RECREATIO

F-

FoR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION
.AND I PERFORMANCE . . . FAR GREATER
STRENGTH. . . UNEQUALLED SAFETY. . .

   
      
     
   
   
   
   
   
 

,: PARK, PICNIC,
PLAYGROUND
AND SWIMMING
POOI. EQUIPMENT

Since l9” the finest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and construction

. specified by leading recreatianal
authorities for almost half a century.

Send for New Catalog

See Your Trqphy Dealer or write

I. H. NOBLE 8. COMPANY
559 W. 59th STREET - CHICAGO

 

WHEREVER YOU ARE—

You can’t get along without your copy of—
THE 1960 PLAYGROUND SUMMER NOTEBOOK.

Time: Around May 1.
Price: $2.50 (32 to NRA members).

  

Write for Folder
On AMERICAN'S
JIM PATTERSON

LIFETIME
Aluminum
DIV IN G

B O A R D
WORLD'S EINEST

OFFICIAL BOARD

1M

AMERICAN
PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.
WORLD'S LARGEST MANuEACTuRERS OF FINE

   

The 1959 edition was ALL sold out by June 15. Don’t
lct it happen to you this year!

National Recreation Association - 8 W. 8th St., New York 11.

PARK, PICNIC, PIAYOROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

l
1...,  _ ' - —-

 

CURRENT

1960 National Recreation Association District Conference Schedule

DISTRICT DATES LOCATION HOTEL
California and Pacific February I4-I7 San Jose, California St. Claire
Southwest
Middle Atlantic March 23-25 Pocono Manor, Pa. Pocono Manor Inn
Southwest March 30-3 I-Apr. l-2 Shreveport. La. Washington Youree and

Capt. Shreve Hotels
(connected by arcade)

Great Lakes April 4-7 St. Paul. Minn. St. Paul

Midwest April 6-8 Kansas City. MO. President
Southeast April IS-JO Edgewater Park. Miss. Edgewater Gulf
Pacific Northwest April |O-|2 Sun Valley, Idaho The Lodge

New England May IS-IS Swampscott. Mass. New Ocean House

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

You want her to grow up in a peaceful world. Bonds are one way to hcip make sure.

You Save More than Money
with U. S. Savings Bonds »

You can save automatically with the Payroll
Savings Plan - You now get 33- if interest at
maturity "'n invest without risk under
(LS. Gove- ' marantee - Your money
wnll never be ‘r-stroyed ~ You can get

Your money, rest, any time you

want it - You can buy Bonds where you work
or bank ~ And remember, you save more
than money.

The I LS. Government dors not pay for this admrtising. ‘0'" 93.1

The 'I'rmsury Department thanks The Adtrrtising Council g  ‘ g
and (h is magazine {or their patriotic donation. - I;
1%: «3°

 

