 

r 

I Y A

 
    

_ - “a
H‘énry.Pf‘é—i.f¥ef Ln -, -- -. --

- Mac Mg'r'ra - _
* M‘WKY C011 "'
 L: ‘ 4  ,

1H.

    

       
 

 
 
 

1- T

,1...“  .1 I, a... “if”: — v ' I. 1.. I
-h ‘d -  1 m - _ . . ah .I- ' gum t E .- 5 F

  

 

   

MACGREGOR

for good sports everywhere!

Whatever your in-season sports program, MacGregor athletic
equipment can help make it a popular success. Golf, tennis,
softball, baseball— just about any sport comes off better when
MacGregor balls and equipment are used. Generations of ath-
lctic-minded men and women, boys and girls, have looked to
MacGregor for the finest in all sports equipment. Give your
program a boost by providing the best . . . MacGregor for all
good sports. MacGregor equipment is available from sporting
goods dealers everywhere.

@cgzgyaz B

THE MACGIEGOR (20.. Cincinnoli 32, Ohio ' BASEIAll ' FOOTIAll ' BASKE‘I’IAll ' GOlF ' IEHHIS

A arunswick
Subsidiary

When writing to our advertisers please mention Rncnmrtoat.

   
  

WITHOUT

  ACCIDENTS

tive Ploy Indoors or Outdoors!

Perhaps the most important advantage of the use of Polyethylene
for play equipment is the near impossibility of accidents; particu—
larly the head injuries that are so frequent. Wounds, bruises and
fractures are practically eliminated with Polyethylene equipment.

The many, active ball games that are played with Safe—T-Play
products invite much of the “rough and tumble” children enjoy;
yet the carefully observed play of some hundreds of children dur-
ing the past summer did not result in anything more serious than
occasional stings when an enthusiastically swung Sc00p or Safe—T-
Bat struck another player.

The lightness and resilience of Polyethylene result in safety of
great importance to the supervisor or instructor with many chil-
dren to safeguard . . . and at the same time to keep busy in healthy,

active play.
FUN...with SAFETY!

ON PLAYGROUNDS. . . IN GYMS

101 FAMOUS GAMES ALL CONFINED, CONGESTED AREAS

PLAYED IN NEW SAFETY

Baseball, Softball, Hockey

LaCrosse, Tennis, Basketball
and Scores of Other Games

A few Scoops and Fun Balls (both Softball
and Baseball sizes) provide equipment for
scores of different, interesting and active
games. All are based on famous games. All
are adapted to be SAFE in spite of congested
playgrounds or confined areas . . . even for
indoor play. Write to Cosom INDUSTRIES,
Inc., for diagrams and descriptions of these
new games. No cost, no obligation.

 

All Cosom Safe-T—Play products (except the soft rubber regu-
lation type bowling ball for Bowlite, the Polyethylene bowling
game) are made of light, resilient SAFE Polyethylene. Fun
Ball is made in softball and baseball sizes. Safe-T-Bat. is a
regulation size 30 inch bat—so light even first graders swing
with good form and coordination. Ask your school supply
dealer or write to Cosom Industries, Inc. for complete details.

6020 WAYZATA BOULEVARD, MINNEAPOLIS 16, MINN.

 INDUSTRIES, INC.

It“than:

 

JUNE 1960 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 24].

‘ -'“‘\I~I —.‘o “.c

 

) AS WE GO TO PRESS. Joseph Prender-
gast, executive director of the National
Recreation Association, announced the
election of James H. Evans of Bronx-
ville, New York, as the new chairman
of the Association’s Board of Directors.

) TEEN CODE. Youth leaders, parents,
or teenagers interested in drawing up
a “teen code” will be glad to know that
a few samples of one of the best we’ve
seen are available. First come, first
served! Entitled the North Miami Teen.
Code, this is in the form of an attractive
and useful booklet, and is the product of
close cooperation of a teen council, an
adult advisory committee, and parents
of the North Miami School District,
Indiana. Supervised by Tri Township
YMCA of Miami County, Indiana, this
code of conduct is furnished as a public
service by the Wabash Valley Trust
Company (Denver Branch).

\Vrite and send a dime for handling
and postage to Stanley Prague, General

Secretary, Railroad and City YMCA of
Miami Company, Peru, Indiana.

) WANT TO SIIARPEN your editorial
skills? Publish a periodical bulletin or
news sheet? If you are seriously inter-
ested, you may find it worth your while
to subscribe to Impact, a new publica-
tion dedicated to such topics as: “Ways
to save Production Dollars”; “Writing
a Speech Script”; “Color—Its Use and
Cost”; and so on. For a sample copy
or further information write to 320

North Dearborn Street, Chicago 10.

b A TENTH ANNIVERSARY YEAR is being
celebrated in 1960 by the National As-
sociation for Retarded Children, Inc.
Articles on services for these children
will be appearing in the press and na-
tional magazines. “This whole field is
so new, it’s like going West to grow
up with the country,” writes Joseph E.
Van Dyke in the St. Louis Post Dis-
patch. He refers to his job as exccutive
director of the St. Louis Association for
Retarded Children. Like pioneers of
all times, Mr. Van Dyke and other lead-
ers see these children changing from a
condition of inertia and loneliness to
optimism and confidence. (What is the
municipal recreation department’s re-
sponsibility to these children?)

) THE NORTIIEASTERN AND MIDDLE AT-
LANTIC states may be the crucial'areas
in the years ahead, in the effort to pro-
vide outdoor recreation opportunities
for the American people, according to
Laurance S. Rockefeller, chaimian of
the Outdoor Recreation Resources Re-
view Commission. Mr. Rockefeller
noted that over a quarter of the nation’s
people live in this area, which com-
prises about five percent of the coun-
try’s land mass. He said that preserving,
acquiring, and developing recreation
areas and facilities in this rcgion is a
matter that needs prompt attention.

) MAKE YOUR WATER WORKS more than
a utility. Today, the American Water
Works Association is anxious that the
people of this urban nation of ours

 

xu—H'FU'RM 11" championship

weightiiiliger" "brand —
Kodgkae Hegem‘mended

fillet: Doutlefllollow Weave (Reinforced)

PANTS and BEtlr-Single Drill

Immediate Delivery tum Stuck In New Yuri: Clt

 

@aStleis FENBINE EQUIPMENT BUMPANY

Importers and Manufacturers of 'enetng Equipment and

IIYlIlIIHIB I.“

242

 

   

the H‘USWMUE- spit
fer your inter '
detain men

WRITE FOR Flt! CA‘IAlOG
. . . Include: valuable train-

in; with ” equipment
he (tub. elumtom tn-

emre'tiun. and variety
(melttion.

‘4
TIGER ® BRAND

I an MS! lllto Sllttll
HEW YIIIIK '3 ll Y.

    

91:50 mutton-Re

\\ hen writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

should not take this vital service for
granted. The people do not in Chicago,
where they cherish their historic water
tower, and at the same time have one of
the finest groups of water-works engi-
neers and technicians in the world. They
do not in Akron, where imaginative
planning by Wendell LaDue, whose
skill as water-works engineer and ad-
ministrator is world renowned, provides
boating, fishing and other recreation fa-
cilities at the city’s impounding reser-
voirs. The do not in Springfield. Illi-
nois, where manmade Lake Springfield.
serving as the city’s water supply, en-
hances the beauty of the area.

They will not take water for granted
elsewhere, either, if administrators, en-
gineers, and designers reSponsible for
this vital service adopt dynamic policies
such as these.——From editorial, The

American City, May 1960.

tTIIE RELATIONSHIP OF RECREATION
AND PSYCHIATRY is the subject of a pam-
phlet Recreation and ol’sychiatry, re-
cently published by the National Rec-
reation Association. it is a collection
of articles by such authorities as Dr.
William C. Menninger of the Mennin-
ger Clinic; Dr. Alexander Reid Martin,
chairman of the American Psychiatric
Association’s Committee on Coopera-
tion with Leisure-Time Agencies: Dr.
James S. Plant, director of Essex Coun-
ty, New Jersey. Juvenile Clinic; and
others. Order through the Association.

for $1.25 per copy.

t PLEASE SEND STORIES to RECREATION
Magazine on successful church-recrea-
tion programs, activities, leadership.
planning, facilities, financing. buildings
-——anytl1ing which may be posing prob-
lems for church leaders. We would like
to be more helpful to leaders in this
field Remembcr that wc like practical
suggestions, “how-to” matcrial.

b TIIE EXPANSION or WATERWAY REC-
RELATION—boating, fishing, swimming
——has inspired a new breed of water
pest: the sea-going littcrbng. Although
some states already havc adequate laws
prohibiting throwing litter in and
around waterways, the majority do not.
Recognizing this problem. Thc Coun-
cil of State Govcrmncnts has prepared
recommendations on the subject for in-
clusion in its Suggested State Legisia-
tion Program for 1960.

A kit of materials on litter-control
and snggcstcd laws is availablc from

Keep America Beautiful. Inc.. 99 Park
Avenue, Ncw York 16. Ask for Project
Guide #3—Litter Laws. A special kit
for National Safe Boating \Veck, July
3 to 9, containing postch and sample
promotion pieces. is available from the
Outboard Boating Club of America.
307 North Michigan Ave.. Chicago I.

RECREATION

JUNE 1960

 

Editor in Chief. JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

ASSISTANT EDITORS
JEAN WACHTEL ELVIRA DELANY

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

.
Business Manager, FRANK J. ROWE
Advertising Manager, ESTA GLUCK

 

VOL. LIlI. Price 50 Cents No. 6

0n the Cover

YOUNG BEACH RIDERS amble along in the surf

at sunset. This delightful pastime is just part of the
vacation fun to be had in Moclips, one of the many
scasidc towns along Washington statc’s beautiful
coast. Photo courtesy of Washington State Dcpart-
ment of Commerce and Economic Developmcnt.

Next Month

Between now and September, the entire staff Of
RECREATION Magazine will be in the process of de-
signing the magazine’s new look—~inside and out.
The magazine is being revamped to give you even
morc complete recreation coverage, in tbe clearcst
and most concise presentation. RECREATION has al-
ways becn your reliable recreation resource, pro-
vided as one of the services of your membership in
the National Recreation Association. Beginning
with the September issue, we hope to serve you even
better than before. In the meantime, happy summer!

Photo Credits

I’agc 24-7, Fabian Bachrach; 254 (and 255, left),
Abbie Roe, National Park Service; 259, American
Music Conference; 261, Clarence J. Seman, Tacoma,
Washington; 263, (tOp left) Mozert, Silver Springs,
Florida; 270, Jerry Nagler, News Alliance; 271,
(left) Chicago Park District, (right) Los Angeles
Department of Parks and Recreation; 283, Jim
Jcrnigan’s Studio, Ocala, Florida.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association. a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8
West Eighth Street. New ,York 11. New York. is on
tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re-entered as second-class
matter April 25. 1950. at the Post Ofiice in New York.
New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Secrion 1103, Acr of October 3. 1917. authorized May
1. 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-
versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor.
Michigan.

COpyright. 1960. by the
National Recreation Association. Incorporated

6‘. .0

Printed in the U.S.A.
@18

’ Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent ORice.

JUNE 1960

   
  
 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Grant Titsworth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
Recreation . . . a Nonpartisan lssne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
What Is Your “Boating I. 0.”? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .o . . . . . . 250

“These Are Our Children”
(1960 White House Conference on Children and Youth) . 251

The Nation’s Front Parlor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

The Performing Arts as Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

They Paddle Their Own . . . . . . . . . . . . Nathan L. Mallison 262

Stop-Over Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Geraldine Youcha 266

John D. Rockefeller, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
A DDIINI STRATION

Growth of a Weed Patch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Don Henkel 264

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275

State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 278

Filling the Job of Recreation Executive (Personnel)

Sal J. I’rezioso 280

PRoGRADI
The Patients Tee 01f . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Gardens Bloom for Everyone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260

Dancing in the Summertime . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268

Upswing in Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

Riverboat for Boys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Roy .Muschany 273

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .. 244

Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 284

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Classified Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
Books and Pamphlets Receiver],

Recordings, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

 

DUCATIONAL

gggglAT-ION The articles herein printed are the express

0F non of the writers and not a statement at
AM E“ I CA policy of the National Recreation Associatitm

243

 

“my grandfather makes the
best playground equipment

in the whole world...because

he loves little people like me! he makes
slides and swings and see-saws and all
kinds of things. they’re real strong and
they’re very safe. if you’re going to buy
playground things you better talk to my
grandfather or my father first. they're both
named mr. burke.”

 

EXTRA HEAVY DUTY MERRY-GO-ROUND...high-
est quality materials combined with traditionally
superior Burke construction make this model the
leader of any merry-go-round manufactured.

Please send me your complete play-
ground planning and specification file.

J. E. BURKE COMPANY

P. 0. Box 986 Dept. 3 4
New Brunswick,
New Jersey

P. 0. Box 549 oept.-3-4
Fond du Lac.

OR Wisconsin

Name:

 

Street.

City:___
244.

“State:

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters [or this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York II—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects 0/ concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

College Recreation Habits
Sirs: '

I wish to express an interest in
“Leisure-Time Pursuits in College,” by
Agnes M. Hooley in the February REC-
REATION. I have just completed a study
on “Recreation Habits of University
Freshmen and Sophomore Students.”
Questionnaires were answered by 107
students, with the following results:

The majority came from urban cen-
ters with populations of 25,000 or more.
Using a social-stratification scale of up-
per class, middle class, working class,
and lower class, nearly fifty percent of
the students questioned were from
middle-class families. A section of the
questionnaire was devoted to the deli-
nition of recreation. The results showed
that students thought of leisure and me-
reation as similar, and they weren’t able
to differentiate between play and rec-
reation. Some considered recreation
and sports as synonymous.

Of the students questioned. thirty-
seven percent belong to one or more
campus-related organizations. Of the
students that belong to organizations,
the majority belong to social groups or
specific activity clubs.

Most students participated in active
games and sports; freshmen partici-
pated more in sports, with the male stu-
dents in team sports and the female
students in individual and small-group
Sports. Music, drama, and dancing
were next in popularity. Nature and
outings were next on the list. particu-
larly for male students. Arts and crafts
were popular among female sopho-
mores.

The students averaged three activi-
ties per individual. There is a tendency
for sophomores to participate in a
wider range of recreation activities than
freshmen. Female students participated
in more social activities and belonged to
more organizations than male students.

It was apparent that students entering
the university tend to participate. in ac-
tivitics that were known to them before.
Sophomores. tended to participate in

\‘ hen writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

—The Editors.

more diversified activities than fresh-
men. The university recreation pro-
gram bas an important part in socializa-
tion by adapting the student to the role
expected of him.

It may be concluded that recreation
activities require the participant to play
certain roles. In our increasingly het-
erogeneous society, it is apparent that
recreation will be more depended upon
to convey the mores, folkways, and
standards formerly taught in more
closely knit and well-acquainted neigh-
borhoods.

B. ROBERT Txncuurc, 206 A Craig-

hcad Apts., Missouia, Montana.

Playgrounds and Coexistence
Sirs:

May I take this opportunity to tell
you how much we enjoyed the April
issue? It afforded a wide range of in-
formation about playgrounds and play-
ground programing throughout the
country available through no other
source.

I felt Kenneth Kindelsperger’s article
on “Recreation and Delinquency” made
some important points. . . . Ashe wrote,
too many people, with a kind of apolo-
getic and defensive approach to or-
ganized recreation, do harm to the
movement by prescribing it as the anti-
dote to delinquency. Of course, the rec-
rcation movement stands proudly on its
many feet and needs no such supportive
props! The article on “Culture Coex-
istence in Richmond” was also a very
useful and important one. . . .

BILL LEVENSON, Playground Corpor-

ation of America, 5 Union Square,

New York 3.

Takes Exception
Sirs:

I take exception to the statement by
Mrs. Kay Brook (April) that she would
enjoy seeing every swing in her play-
ground meltcd down and replaced by
creative play apparatus. I strongly
agree every playground should be
equipped with ereative playth in gs. llow-

RECREATION

ever, the old-fashioned swing still does
and will continue to serve an important
role on our playgrounds.

A swing can be many things other
than a swing. A child’s creative mind
will see a bucking bronco, a space ship,
a racing car, a jet plane, and many
other things. We don’t call something
“uncreative” just because we don’t see
the material results.

Quiet swinging gives an opportunity
for meditation and thoughtfulness. . . .
We, as rccreationists, are as much re-
sponsible for teaching people to relax
and to escape from daily pressures as
we are to foster creativity. If our chil-
dren cannot learn to relax in their youth
wc will breed future ncurotics and psy-
chotics. . . .

ROBERT R. NIARSH, Executive Direc-
tor, Department of Youth, Hudson,

New York.
Brutally Frank

Sirs:

My personal thanks for the last issue
( March) of RECREATION Magazine. It
was wonderful. The articles were time-
ly, even though at times brutally frank,
and of interest to all. I gained much
information, particularly what agencies
and organizations to write concerning
materials. So, hats off . . . you did a
bang-up job.

E. A. SCHOLER, Advisor in Recrea-
tion, Department of Physical Educa-
tion, State University of Iowa.

A Letter of Appreciation
Dear NRA:

We have waited until now to express
our appreciation to you for your dili-
gent efforts to help us with the problem
that arose when our $4,800,000 parks
bond issue was challenged, because we
wanted to be able to report the results.
. . . the circuit court validated the vote
on this issue and, barring an appeal
within the next fifteen days, the prob-
lem is resolved in our favor.

During the court hearing, effort was
made to enter the question of how our
explanatory brochure was paid for, but
the judge ruled the question out of or-
der. It was well, however, that we had
been prepared, with your help, to an-
alyze this matter had the question been
allowed.

Will you please express to all of the
officials who responded so wonderfully
to your request for information the
heartfelt gratitude of the Fairfax Coun-
ty Park Authority? The response was
magnificent and some agencies tele-

phoned cross-country to ensure we had
the data in time.

FRED M. PACKARD, County Director

of Parks, Fairfax County Park Att-
thority, 106 South Payne Street, Fair-

fax, Virginia. (Continued Page 246)

JUNE 1960

 

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts,
handing out bolls and paying tap prices for low

quality bolls. Install this attractive, cast-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

Leosed FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subject to refund. Trouble-free operotian
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V2 x 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 bolls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality bolls. Use profit to maintain and re-
ploce paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wasting Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK & (0.,

INCORPORATED

SHENANDDAH PENNA.

 

WRITE FOR
LITERATURE

    
 
 
  

CAN APPROVED

62mm

    

D l VI N 6 BOA R D

World's Finest Offlct'al Board
Rugged Aircraft Girder Construction,
Unequaled in Design, Durability and
Performance by any board built today.

Exclusive International Dlstrlbutars

 

 

_-‘-—_---‘5

rw raw Wu .. “u " '

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S. A.

WORlD'S lARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK, PICNIC. PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

   

 

EVER Y RECREA TION PROGRAM NEEDS THESE: i

 

 

@ ‘ cow MEDAL PRODUCTS (0.

308 E. THIRD STREET

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

$5,000 ANNUAL pROFIT! $149.50

Don't handicap your program for lack of funds.
ment Profits give you 10% more funds. Write for free 32-
page booklet which tells how easily your department can
earn them. Free I20-page catalog and descriptive literature
is also yours for the asking. Write today.

 
 

Whirlwind

II Cotton Candy
Machine

    
  
 

   

Popcorn 47 -- "' Sna-Konette 1
Machine  Ice Shaver
S I 99.00 ' H '

    
    

Refresh-

 
   
   
   

     

CINCINNATI 2, OHIO

2-1-3

 

 

  
  
  
 
 

 SuperLdiDesign, . etters
\ Construction and If YOU
PERFORMANCE want to (Continued)
’1 ,- ‘ pr0Vl de The National Recreation Association
A far reater has received many letters and telegrams
 strength and patrons of sympathy about Bill H ay’s death on
S A F E T Y !  the April 14. Mr. Hay represented the NRA

in its southern district. Many have
mOSt mOdern asked Bill’s address so they could write

his sister. F or everyone’s convenience,

a nd here it is: Miss Lenora Hay, 2563 MC-
convenient Curdy Way, Decatur, Georgia.

checking
service . . . I
and at the “'5‘

, All of us in Kentucky were so shocked

same tlme at the sudden death of our district rep-

- - resentatire Bill Hay. I had an oppor-

e' I m I “ate tunity to visit with Bill at length during

' the White House Conference on Chil-

ChECkmg . dren and Youth in early April and he
costs” ,erte seemed in such good health.

His great interest in planning facili-

Or phon e ties and maintenance will leave a lasting

0 " DEVICE ‘0 mark on this growing community and
"$ch 0 D . throughout the state. He was a great in-
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.5.A.

WORLD'S 'unotsr mouncrums or me T H E F  B L E c 0 M  N Y Splrlftlon to a1“ iv‘iung “mi-emit? arid
-. pg“. plcut..pl‘ycgouuo' swmmug  1’  par personne . Ills CllrISllal] I C “ as

POOL mo onzssmo coo» EQUIPMEM a great example, and we will all miss his
leadership.
J om: GETTIER, Director. Recreation
and Parks. Lexington, Kentucky.

 

About Bill Hay

AND SWIMMING l
a POOI. EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for nearly half a century.

WRITE FOR LITERATURE

M

AIcAN ,

 

COIN AND KEY OPERATED CHECKING SYSTEMS

      
     

AMERICA’S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS "

FOR EVERY AGE GROUP, Sir-“2
pRICE OR SKILL __ It was a sudden shock and dishearten-

ing to all of us in the Southeast when we
began our recent Mississippi eonierence
with the news of Bill Hay’s sudden
death. Mr. Hay represented everything
good in the recreation movement. He
meant man} things to many people. His
numerous contributions to recreation in
NEW ya the South will long he felt in hundreds
. RK 11 , , r».

CHIC of cities and In thousands of profes-
' s '.f.}0 _.-'n.
   10nd "\ 11‘! 1.1:... 1H“ 1.1“ drt l v o

1 share wlth . . . his many \ational
'ieereation Association colleagues my
deepest sympathy in his passing.

\\. J. (MLIIUI'V. .S‘upcrintemient.

;,4 do“ ERASO“ POSTERS .nd CHARTS' {itff‘mii’ti‘iif‘ ""““”~ 01"“
'  SAVE TIME. EFFORT, MONEY! 

\Vith real regret. we heard . . . the sad
news that Bill 11.1} had died at his home
in Decatur, Georgia. \Ve know the so-
(‘iety will express this loss to the mem-
bership at our annual meeting. and to
his sister. land will acknowledge the]

_ write for Catalog _ Dept: R — hell) 111211115 given to the (lei elopment of
r j '. ' .‘ ( b - ‘ :- 3.
THE PROGRAM AIDS COMPANY, INC. “m ' "‘ m“ "

Hmuan JEFFRt-Y. Executive Direc-
m. 1mm. 55° F'hh Avem’e ' New Y°"k 36' N- Y- tor. imcrican Rmrcation .S'ocict)‘.

Washington. [)1 '.

Now used by over 10,000 Schools, Colleges, YMCA's
Clubs, Recreation Depts., Camps, etc.

Available for all Sports and activities.

246 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RELRE \TION

GRANT
TITSWORTH

February 19, 1908—May 14, 1960

Chairman of the Board,

National Recreation Association

 

QUIET SOFT-SPOKEN MAN, Grant Titsworth did not

A need to raise his voice in order to lead or make de-

mands in order to get results. His lawyer’s mind

went straight to the heart of any matter. His own devotion

to service and especially his devotion to the work of the

National Recreation Association inspired others to follow
him.

Under his chairmanship the Association initiated and
completed studies of its program, its budget, and its admin-
istrative machinery. Shortly before his death he had, char-
acteristically, completed a review of retirement policies to
provide adjustments to changes in living costs that had
taken place since the NRA pension system was first installed.
He was also working on long-term plans for eXpanded fi-
nancial support to enable the National Recreation Associa-
tion to meet the greatly increased demands for service
caused by America’s overwhelming new leisure.

He had the vision to see that the leisure revolution of our
time required bold measures to help people of all ages seize
the unparalleled opportunities that leisure presents. He
recognized the National Recreation Association as the his-
toric instrument to accomplish this aim and he was de-
termined that it should have all the resources necessary to
do the job.

From the time he first became a member of the Board in
November 1946, he gave generously of his energies and re-
sources. He was elected a member of the executive commit-

JUNE 1960

tee in 1953, became third vice-president in 1954, first vice-
president in 1957, and was elected chairman of the Board
in May 1958.

In his service to the recreation movement he continued
and expanded a tradition begun by his uncle, Frederick S.
Titsworth, who, for nineteen years, was a member of the
Association’s Board of Directors. Grant Titsworth, how-
ever, made a contribution uniquely his own. He combined
practical local eXperience as a member of the Darien, Con-
necticut, Park and Recreation Commission with the thought-
ful penetration that also made him a member of the advisory
council to the philosophy department of Princeton Univer-
sity, of which he was a graduate.

He did not permit his business responsibilities as a prac-
ticing lawyer and as chairman of the board of the Pcase
Company of Stamford, Connecticut, to prevent his devoting
many hours to volunteer services. The Darien Family Coun-
selling Service, the Community Council of Darien, and agen-
cies concerned with the ill and handicapped were among
those that benefited by his active help.

Most of all, however, in addition to his devotion to his
family and community activities, he was concerned about
the creative possibilities of all Americans’ leisure. His
leadership has been a source of strength to all who were
privileged to work with him at the National Recreation As-
sociation. His influence will continue to be felt throughout
the nation. #

247

 

 

RECREATION . . .
a N onpartisan Issue "

“The future will belong not to the faint-hearted but to those
who believe in it and prepare for it.”—

Today, the two major political parties in the United
States are both expressing a concern for recreation in this
nation’s increasing leisure time, as well as the: problems of
conservation and land use which now confront it. Some of
their statements are quoted on this page.

From a nonpartisan point of view, we would hope that,
as in the case of the two English political parties (see “The
Politics of Leisure,” RECREATION, February 1960), both
our parties will come out with further discussion of these
matters and proposals for the provision of the necessary
areas and facilities for today and tomorrow. We all agree
that the need for adequate, supervised recreation must not
be overlooked in today’s world. Education for meaningful
use of leisure time is important, indeed, to the cultural
development of our people.

HE REPUBLICAN Committee on Program and Progress
'states:* “We hold that ‘the pursuit of happiness’ is
a vital part of the American dream. But happiness is best
achieved by a proper balance among recreational pursuits,
constructive self-improvement, and service to others.”
The following are further excerpts from its report.

LEISURE—The workweek of the future will become shorter
and paid vacations longer. Leisure-time activities will take
on an increasing importance.

There will be increased leisure time for culture and the
fine arts. There will be increased demand for more libraries,
museums, and concert halls. There will be increased demand
for more parks, more playgrounds, more swimming pools
and beach facilities, more camp sites, more waterways and
more picnic grounds.

In urban areas, supervised recreation will be a necessary
part: of programs to remove urban blight and to combat
juvenile delinquency. Training of professional recreation
leaders becomes increasingly important.

We prOpose that vigorous support be given to programs
which utilize wisely our natural heritage of seashore,
mountain, lake, forest, and stream. As a nation we must
make it possible to provide opportunities for the use of
leisure time which will enable our people to lead richer and
fuller lives, to improve their physical fitness to supplement
their education and to be more effective citizens.

A free society imposes an obligation upon its citizens to
exercise wisdom in directing their efforts vocationally, as

1“Decisions for a Better lrncrir‘a. by the Republican Committee on

Program and Progress. Doubleday 8t Company, Garden City, New
York. Pp. 190. Paper $.95.

248

Dwer'r D. EtSENHOWER

well as in the use of leisure time, to promote their own in-
dividual interest as well as the national interest. America
is dependent upon the free choice of its citizens to do those
things in building a strong nation that many other societies
attempt to achieve through compulsion. Our program for
the future expresses faith in the individual to make such
free choices as will result in the greatest good for the greatest
number, still preserving freedom for all.

CONSERVATION AND MULTIPLE LAND USE—Since the public
lands contain some of our most valuable resources, their
conservation and wise use are essential to the national wel-
fare. Sometimes the use of resources may conflict with
the preservation of public lands as scenic and recreational
areas unless the federal government acts wisely to safeguard
these values. Therefore federal land policy must include a
due regard for conservation of wilderness areas and preser-
vation of scenic and historic shrines. lt must seek a balance
of land uses in the best interests of all.

This committee favors the use of suitable public lands for
an expanding program of park and recreational develop-
ment. The number of people using our national parks in-
creases each year and is expected to exceed 100,000,000 by
1976. The present administration has under way a ten-
year program, “Mission 66,” to provide more roads, ae-
commodations, and services in an enlarged National Park
System. lt is establishing new national wildlife refuges and
providing new facilities for hunting, fishing, and boating.
Such programs should be continued and should be as nearly
self-supporting as possible.

Federal land policy should also recognize valid claims
of grazing, timber, water, mining, and industrial activities
to use public lands, where these uses do not conflict with
a reasonable conservation policy. Significant revenues ae-
erue to the federal government from commercial activities
on the public domain, and, wherever feasible, multiple use of '4
our land resources should be encouraged. However. we
suggest a careful weighing of the values involved in each
case, with due consideration for public recreation and wild-
life or wilderness preservation as potential uses. Such a
policy will, over the long run, serve America well, for it
will preserve both industrial resources and recreational op-
portunities for the growing needs ahead.

Tun DEMOCRATIC Party’s point Of view is expressed in the

Democratic Digest, official publication of the Demo-
cratic National Committee. Following are excerpts from
recent issues of the Digest:

RECREATION

iRBAN SPRAWL—. . . For millions of children the asphalt
ungle of the slums is a grim mockery of the American
ray of life. . . . Slums are neither inevitable nor hopeless.

Suburbia is a distinctly new American way of life. A
.ew family style of living, informal, friendly and comfort-
ble, has become an American goal. There is no doubt
hat Americans like it. In recent years, the move to the
uburbs has become a mass migration. . . . There inevitably
re problems in any mass migration. We must report that
he great expectations of suburbia are beginning to tarnish
n the face of the gigantic suburban population avalanche
nd increasing suburban sprawl. The suburbs confront
many) serious problems, (among them) a lack of public
rpcn space and recreation areas and the need for protec-
ion of natural scenic and physical resources. . . .

Flying over the mushrooming suburbs .
.round our major cities one sees that there will soon be

. growing up

[0 more open space in suburbia. It will take many years
.nd much money just to unsnarl the congestion . . .
llready here. .
public. policies and controls which will assure a balance
n the new uses of the land. . . .

. . What is lacking is not space itself but

There is an urgent need to preserve natural open space
[S well as the woodlands, hills, farmlands, and streams
vhich give rural America its charms and which can give
>leasure to both city-dweller and suburbanite. Solutions
vhich will preserve open space and retain local autonomy
lre imperative. . . .

Increasing family incomes, greater national wealth, and
nore leisure time all spell greater opportunities for recrea-
ion. Yet both urban and suburban communities lack space
1nd facilities for local, weekend, or vacation recreation.

Cities and suburbs lack recreation playgrounds, play-
ields, and parks for day-to-day recreation. Weekend and
racation spaces away from population centers are equally
iecessary in our society. But our remaining natural recrea-

tion areas—forests, lakes, rivers, and ocean frontage—are
disappearing rapidly. Our national parks are already jam-
med in season, and are overused. The vast Midwest today
lacks lake, river, and forest areas needed to accommodate
the present population, much less the greater population of
the future. Cities, metropolitan areas, even statcs cannot
meet these future needs in an era when 20,000,000 pe0ple
can drive across state boundaries on a brief weekend. . . .
NATURAL RESOURCES— . . . We should establish continuing
agencies in the executive and legislative branches of the
(federal) government which will provide the nation with
annual appraisals of each of our necessary resources, in-
cluding recreational facilities. . . . A national wilderness
system, not exclusive of sound long-range resource deve10p-
ment, and a system of lake and seashore recreation areas

should be established. . . .

REGIONAL PROBLEMS—We recommend the establishment of
a comprehensive national commission to survey the needs
of our country’s metropolitan areas and determine whether
the federal government should take a more active role, es-
pecially in coping with such interstate and regional problems
as . . . recreation facilities. . . .

THE ARTS—The growth and flourishing of the arts depend
upon freedom, imagination, and individual initiative. There
should be a federal advisory agency, as provided in several
bills now pending before Congress, with general authority
to assist in formulating plans to develop cultural resources
for the United States, and to promote general appreciation
of the beauty and educational value of works of art, literary
and musical compositions and of the contribution of per-
forming artists in all fields.

Legislation providing incentives for those who have the
talent to produce cultural assets for the nation should be
enacted by Congress to supplement measures in this field
providing scholarships and interchanges of scholars with
other countries. #

The National Recreation Association

and the

National Cultural Center

THE NATIONAL Recreation
Association is acting as
advisor to the National Cul-
tural Center on the recreation-
al and educational aspects of
the cultural arts. On March
31, 1960, the board of trustees
and the advisory committee on
the arts of the center, to be
constructed in Washington,
DC, oli‘icially invited the
NRA to participate, with ten
other national organizations.

The NRA will therefore
play a very real part in advanc-
ing the National Cultural Cen-
ter project and will participate
in making decisions regarding
the center. The board of trus-
tees also authorized its execu-
tive committee to explore, with
the National Recreation As-
sociation and the others, the
possibility of establishing the
participating organizations’
headquarters or liaison oli‘ices

in the National Cultural Cen-
ter.

The chairman of the Na-
tional Recreation Associa-
tion’s board of directors will
represent the NRA, ex ofticio,
on the advisory committee on
the arts. Joseph Prendergast,
the Association’s executive di-
rector, will continue on the
center advisory committee by
virtue of his appointment to the
committee by the President.

—_________________________—___———

JUNE 1960

249

What Is Your “Boating I. (2.”?

Match your boating knowledge against the following 8. While fueling, prevent gasoline nozzle from
twenty true-false questions prepared by the United States grounding to tank ................................... .. — —
Coast Guard Auxiliary. You are a “skipper” if your score is 9. In a crossing situation, vessel on your right
ninety percent or higher; “first mates” score better than has right of way ....................................... .. ——- —
eighty percent; less than eighty percent rates you a “land- 10. A junction or obstruction buoy is painted red — —
lubber.” Each correct answer counts five points. 11. A boatman is legally liable for damage
The correct answers appear on page 281_ caused by his wake ................................. .. — ——
12. Courtesy motorboat examination decals are
Instructions: Place check under “T” column if statement is issued by the USCG  _ _
true; place check under “F” column if statement is false. 13' Variation and deviation are noted on
T F nautical charts ..................................... .. — —
1. A dragging anchor will hold if you let out an 14. Hanging ignition keys under bilge hatch is
anchor buoy ................................................ .. —- — safe.boating practice _ _____________________________ __ _ _. _
2. The distance from waterline to gunwale is 15, Returning to harbor, keep red buoys on your
“freeboard” ................................................ .. -— —- starboard side _______________________________________ __ _ _— .—
3. Vessels thrown broadside to the sea have 16. A “burdened” vessel is one with a vesscl in tow — ——-
“broached” ................................................ .. -—- -— 17. Most single-screw vessels have “right-handed”
4. A Certificate of Award of Number is issued by propellers .............................................. .. —- —-—
the Coast Guard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. — —-  Rules of the road do not  t0 outboards
5. C02 fire extinguishers can be tested for under sixteen feet ................................... .. — —
capacity by weighing ................................ .. — —- 19. The “lubber line” is the chief support for thc
6. Carbon tetrachloride fire extinguishers are compass bowl .................................... ..; ....... .. — —-—
legal ............................................................ .. —— —— 20. The USCG Auxiliary sponsors free boating
7. Open all hatches prior to gassing a motorboat — -— instruction courses .................................... .. — ——-

    
 
    

O BALL-BOY
L' Simphfes and speeds up
(Itc Icarnfng process . . . . '
Guarantees success [or
both player and coach . . . \

Teachers can organizc and
t'nsIrnc! tt't'Ih easc . . . . .

hot 0 Absolute Accuracy!

    

Duplicates every 5
ors

 Safe °

 
 

 o Reliable

Order directly from :

 BALL-BOY CO... INC.
I 26 Milhurn, Bronxvillc. N. Y.

Send full information on Ball-Boy to:

 

m

250 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

I it 4"

.-
1 

Resolutions on recreation and leisure time,

\

it
"Hi
'55

d

 hese Are Our

Photo by Phoebe Dunn for exhibit, “These Are Our Children,” 1960 White House Conference on Children and Youth.

 

approved by the Forum on Free Time, 1960 White House Conference on Children and Youth

Children and Youth interested in leisure and recrea-

tion were assigned to Forum VI, one of eighteen.
Forum VI, on Free Time, was divided into three sections
of four work groups each. These sections were assigned
the topics (1) Resources for Leisure Time Learning,
(2) Cultural Enrichment and Participation in the Arts, and
(3) Participation in Religious and Community Life. After
a three-day discussion, these work groups submitted rec-
ommendations to Forum V1 for approval.

DELEGATES OF THE 1960 White House Conference on

The same procedure was observed by the other seven-
teen forums, and final recommendations covering the en-
tire conference were submitted to the final plenary session.
Time ran out, however, and final recommendations of the
conference will be mailed to delegates.

The following recommendations, therefore, are NOT the
final results of the White House Conference and may not
appear in their present form in the final recommendations;
they are solely the ones approved by Forum VI. In spite
of this, they will be of great interest to recreation leaders,
and are worth careful reading.

Government Action

The carefully worded Forum VI-Free-Time resolves rec-
ommended:

THAT . . . the Federal Communications Commission add a
leisure-time category, including cultural and fine arts, to the
listing of radio and television public-service programs.

. . . plans for a National Youth Council be explored for the
purpose of evaluation, coordination, and extension of fa-
cilities and activities for youth in their free time; member-
ship on this council to include majority representation of

youth.

. . . recreation agencies be established by local communities

‘JUNE 1960

to “plan, organize, and administer community recreation
programs; . . . increased effort be made to coordinate co-
operative use of the staffs and facilities of voluntary and
rural areas provide more opportuni-
ties for participation by young people in art, drama, litera-
ture, music, sports, and social activities.

. . . each state establish a recreation service for the purpose

public agencies; . . .

of providing advisory assistance to local communities in
the development of recreation programs and promoting
cooperation between public and private agencies.

. a federal recreation service should be created to pro-
vide information and advisory services to states and com-
munities.

. . . the Department of Defense and each of its branches
give equal priority to all aspects of leisure-time activity by
providing adequately trained professional leadership for
a balanced recreation program for youth in the armed
forces and for families of service personnel resident on
military installations.

. . . the National Cultural Center work closely with all rec-
reation, education, community, civic, and other nonprofit
groups and organizations on the local, state, and national
levels in developing its proposed programs, presentations,
activities, and its services to local communities and to the
organizations referred to above in the fields of music,
drama, dance, poetry, and opera designed specifically for
the participation, education, and recreation of our children
and youth and urge the enthusiastic and wholehearted sup-
port of the National Cultural Center in such endeavors by
such groups and by children and youth and all other citi-

 O a I

L311 (1 and Facilities

TIIAT . . . federal, state, and local government authorities
utilize every opportunity to acquire and develop new land,

25]

buildings, and water resources, and to safeguard from en-
croaehment and preserve existing facilities for leisure-time
use.

. . . facilities be provided, such as picnic areas, hostels,
camps, marinas, boat-launching sites, playgrounds, athletic
fields, recreation centers, libraries, museums, theaters, et-
cetera, and that large natural areas, such as forests, reser-
voirs, and defense areas, be developed for multiple reerea-
tion purposes.

. . . advantage be taken of private funds as well as exist-
ing legislation which provides for funds or matching funds.
. . . school land and buildings and private and commercial
facilities for wholesome recreation ,be fully utilized.

. . . all facilities present or acquired be available to all chil-
dren and youth without separation or discrimination based
on race, creed, or color.

Cooperation and Coordination

THAT . . . community agencies and organizations, both pub-
lic and private, should plan cooperatively programs of
leisui’b-time activity to secure optimum use of facilities and
resources, including year-round and evening schools.

Program for Leisure

THAT . . . in the use of leisure time, as in all other areas
of personal decision, all religious and secular agencies
working in the development of personality so plan their
program that persons may grow in understanding that ma-
turity exists in living effectively within the tensions be-
tween freedom and authority.

. . . youth be encouraged in their leisure time to participate
in civic, social issues, and world affairs.

. . . since the family is recognized as the basic unit through
which children and youth develop their values . . . religious
and community agencies (should) give increasing empha-
sis to family-camping recreation activities and make ap-
propriate studies of the role of recreation in family life
and the development of moral and spiritual values.

. . . programs of public and private organizations provide
for experimentation with art media leading to high stand-
ards in skill and the appreciation of their values.

. efforts be made to increase awareness on the part of
commercial recreation in America of its responsibility to
establish and maintain standards which contribute to the
health and well-being of children and youth.

Leadership Recruitment and Training

THAT . . . all organizations working with children and youth
in the leisure-time field cooperate to assist each other with
recruiting volunteer and professional leadership.

. . . more emphasis be placed on leadership training in edu—
cational institutions and that courses in each of the creative
arts, such as art, music, theater arts, creative writing, and
the dance, be provided by colleges and universities and be
required by state curriculum committees, or comparable
groups, in the training of leaders in the leisure-time field.
. . . communities avail themselves of the services of compe-
tcnt professional and service organizations in the training
of both professional and volunteer leadership; and con-
sideration be given to development of cornmunitywide
basic training courses.

. . . professional leadership accept the responsibility for the

252

training and supervision of volunteer leadership and fo
providing purposeful service experiences.

. Opportunities be provided for continuous professiona
growth and that agencies establish in-service training pro
grams.

Youth as Individuals

THAT . . . adults, in order to avoid the exploitation of yout

and to allow each youth to mature at his own rate, recogniz

children and youth as individuals and not as projects i

all leisure-time pursuits.

. . . youth be given the Opportunity to participate in leader-
ship responsibilities at nati0nal, state, and local levels a

members of boards and committees of such recreational
and cultural agencies as libraries, museums, eormnunit

theaters and symphonies, and other leisure-time organiza
tions concerned with youth with full privileges of member-
ship within legal restrictions.

Research and Interpretation

THAT . . . a continuing program of research in‘the ereativ4
use of leisure time be conducted by both public and volun-
tary agencies. 4
. . . the National Council of Arts in Education be requested!
to plan and undertake a national research, educational, and
promotional program to make clear to American citizens the
importance in their lives of all the creative arts. _
. . . a. continuing program of interpretation,r at all levels, tol
develop an awareness of the need for and the values of con-
structive use of leisure time under competent leadership.i

Moral and Spiritual Standards

THAT, since the recognition and the acceptance of a standard ,
of moral and spiritual values as inherent in the American
tradition are basic needs in the total development of chil-
dren and youth . . . in the next decade, the fabric of all
programs with children and youth (should) include ex-
periences . . . directed toward the goal of heightening the
understanding of God, His power, as Supreme Being, their
relationship to Him and their fellow man . . . that, as they
seek to achieve this goal, religious groups and leisure-time
agencies be encouraged to re-examine and re-evaluate the
objectives and philosophy of program, and recognize the
need for opportunities for quiet, meditation, reveric, and
being alone.

Further Action

THAT . . . local community authorities (official and volun-

tary) be encouraged to develOp methods of coordinating

and implementing the recommendations of The \Vhite House .
Conference, including the establishment of permanent com- |
mittecs of representative youth on state, county, and local 1
levels and by apprOpriate national organizations. In the;
establishment of such youth committees, all possible effort

should be made to utilize already existing committees andl
structures. I
. . . the national committee appointed to plan and program I
the 1970 White House Conference on Children and Youth

include a greater proportion of artists. or individuals. who 'I
represent organizations concerned with the arts, and that.
at least one of these members be appointed a vice-chairman

on the Presidcnt’s national committee. #

RECREATION

What can happen while other folks

are polishing their putters.

THE
PATIENTS
TEE
OFF

Golf For “Embedded Athletes”

This project, developed in a military
hospital, would be fun for youngsters
or golden-agers to work on for a hos-
pital, recreation building lounge, or the
service club, golden-age club, family
game-room, or schoolroom. It’s a craft,
a nature project, a service project, and
a game, all rolled into one.

SINCE IT WAS spring and people

were polishing their putters, we
decided to see what could be done
about golf for bed patients. The course
itself provided the primary problem.
How could a golf course be brought to
a bed patient? Then we thought of
those big mess-hall cake tins. Why not
try real moss for the greens? The
ground crew at this navy hospital has
always been cooperative, so, when we
prOposed a trip to gather moss, mem-
bers gulped, smiled, and said, “We’ll
try it.”
The Friday we chose to “go mossing”
on the hospital hills was warm and sun-
ny, and we started off with our trowels

and a bushel basket. We lined the cake
tin (2’-by-2%’-by-2’ ) with sand,soaked
in acid, and arranged the moss on top.
This was left at the hospital greenhouse
to “greenup” and settle over the week-
end.

On Monday one of the patients de-
signed the landscape, plotting holes and
hazards. Paper flags were stapled on
swabsticks to indicate the location of
the holes. Holes were made from bot-

JUNE 1960

tletops; greenery was created from odd
bits of shrubbery, laurel, evergreen,
and ferns, found nearby, and from
bouquets brought to the hospital. Some
artificial flowers were used for color
around water hazards. The larger lake
was made from a Junior Red Cross ash-
tray. The smaller pool was a small
mixing dish from a child’s paint set.

Sand traps were set into the moss.
The white sand for this was procured
from the hospital gardeners. A cactus
plant was used for one hazard. A high-
way was constructed of sand and
marked off by a fence made of inverted
birthday candles set about a quarter
inch apart. Plastic toy cars and trucks
added realism to this road.

A swabstick then became a club
while a marble became a golf ball.
Scoring was the same as in a regular
game. No tees were used. Two strokes
were lost when the ball went into the
water or off the course. A low score
was the object of the game. Par for
the course was about forty and most
people scored in the high forties or low
fifties.

Patient reaction was excellent. The
miniature tin-tray golf course was in
constant use. Some of the doctors tried
it, too. The greatest problem seemed to
be wheeling it down the ramp. Every-
one st0pped and wanted to play.

The course held up well. According
to the gardeners, it should last several

months.
We h0pe you can use this idea in

your recreation program—MARY ANN

SIEGFRIED, recreation worker, Ameri-
can National Red Cross.

Challenge in Miniature

The addition of updated miniature
golf to the recreation program at the
New Hampshire State Hospital in Con-
cord has certainly provided patients
with a popular activity. Along with
shuffleboard, it has offered a sport here-
tofore unavailable to the elderly or in-
firm patient. Many patients who had
never before entered into other games,
not even as spectators, are now playing
and enjoying themselves.

The course has been crowded every
fair day since completion of the first
nine holes. No other game, which has
been introduced to the athletic field, has
attracted such enthusiastic following.
This may be because it is not a “Spec-
tator sport.” Anyone, young or old, can
play miniature golf. It may be enjoyed
alone or involve competition among
several players.

Putting the ball undoubtedly develops
coordination, and achieving the ability
to make “par” consistently presents.
challenge. '

The project was started late last sum-
mer, with nine holes completed in
September. Foundations are now being
excavated by the grounds department
for the last nine holes. Searching for
ideas, visits were made to many minia-
ture golf courses in New England, oper-
ated as commercial ventures. They
were designed for fast play, with short
fairways, few real obstacles, and with
the first few holes, at least, being slight-
ly funneled to Speed up play. It was de-
cided to build one with more of a chal-
lenge.

The “Pine Links” have been given a
typical New England background—no
castles, turrets or Dutch windmills. Two
of the obstacles are small reproductions
of a church and a covered bridge and
were taken from photographs published
in This Is New Hampshire, official or-
gan of the New Hampshire Planning
and Development Commission: Water-
loo Bridge over the Warner River in
\Varner and the Baptist Church at Sand-
wich. The completed course will include
two ponds connected by a brook, as
well as plantings of native shrubs, bulbs,
and flowers.——-NORMAN B. BL'RBANK,
superintendent of grounds, New Hamp-
shire State Hospital, Concord.

253

 

Designed by Henry Bacon and dedicated in 1922,
the Lincoln Memorial has thirty-six columns

of Colorado marble, representing

the thirty-six states in the Union at the time

of Lincoln’s death. It houses this famed

huge marble statue by Daniel Chester French.

Information about Washington, D. C.
designed to help you plan

your trip ahead, for attending

the 42nd National Recreation Congress,

September 25-29.

THE NATION’S FRON'.

HE AURA 0F HISTORY about Washington is inescap-
T able, and the visitor feels it even if the facts about

the early days of our nation have become dim in
memory or have never been known at all. Familiar to all
of us arc the names of many of its monuments, buildings,
memorials, and art galleries, but most of us have not had
the chance to look upon them firsthand, to see and know
the only facc of America presented to the many diplomatic
visitors from other lands.

Our Congress, meeting in September, will give many of
us and our families the opportunity—even if a brief one—-
to explore the seat of our government, to contcmplate our
history, perhaps to watch it in action. To gaze upon the
the Washington Monument and the Lincoln and Jeffcrson
Memorials is to be reminded of our powerful historical
traditions and the men who moulded them. During this
coming summer it might be a good idea to hone up on your
American history, if you are going to be a delegatc this
fall. Many tourists have often realized—afterwards—that
such a brush-up would have given their Washington trip
more historical perspective, would have given all thc build-
ings, monuments, and memorials a frame of reference.

Washington is one of the few cities in the United Statcs
laid out according to a preconceived plan. President Wash-
ington appointed Major Pierre L’Enfant, a French cnginecr
who had come over with Lafayette, to plan the national
capital on an area not to exceed ten square miles. Although
many of L’Enfant’s plans were far too grandiose for prac-
tical application, many of them were utilized in a modified
form. For example, the layout of the city—with strcets,
malls, and avcnues radiating out from the U. S. Capitol

254

Building as the hub of a giant wheel—was used but on a
much less grand scale. Washington became the official
capital on June 10, 1800.

Noted historian Bruce Catton has said of this city, “Here,
as nowhere else in America, they (visitors) meet their own
history, and it has a curiously contemporary quality. His-
tory is real in Washington. . . .” This quality particularly
permeates the Lee-Custis Mansion in Arlington, Virginia,
where General Robert E. Lee lived for thirty years before
the Civil War. The house is now a national shrine, re-
stored to ante-bellum elegance with period furniture and
many mementocs of the man, including his chess set. Para-
doxically, one of the most dramatic vistas to be seen is
through his study window across the Potomac River to the
Lincoln Memorial. l

Thc old Supreme Court Chamber is as eloquent of the
past as any other place in Washington, dating back in his-i

tory to before the War of 1812 as part of the original Cap-
itol Building. After being burned by the British in 1814.

t

. . . . »
1t was redeSigned m the shape of a Greek amphitheater, and‘

was the Senate Chamber from 1819 to 1859. From 111153
room Henry Clay made his famous farewell address, and
Southern Scnator John C. Calhoun, famous for his oratory,
made this room his arena in lighting the bloodless battlc
over slavcry with Daniel \Vebster. From 1860 to 1935 thc
Supreme Court met here. Presiding justiccs included such
men as William Howard Taft and Charles Evans Hughcs.l
Tl1c nine mcn have handed down many vital decisions hcrc.
Statuary Hall in the old Capitol Building is also rcdolcntl
of history. This large domed room was originally designedi
to hold two statues of famous Americans to bc dcsignatcdl

RECREATION!

 

 

The legerson Memorial completes a five-point plan for the central area
of Washington, which embraces the Capitol, the White House,

the Washington Monument, and the Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials.
The circular-colonnaded structure is an adaptation of a classical style.

inside stands a heroic bronze figure of Jefferson by Rudulph Evans.

 

The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal was purchased by the federal govern-
ment in 1938. The area is a part of the National Capitol Parks
administered by the National Park Service. Special tours via
mule-drawn barge are conducted in the warm months.

ARLOR

and supplied by each state of its worthiest citizens. Some
states responded so promptly that monuments were erected
to people whose names are known only to the guide books
they inhabit, and now the floor is not strong enough to hold
I them all. The execution of the statues themselves goes from
the excruciatingly bad to the very good, the latter repre-
sented by such sculptors as J 0 Davidson, Gutzon Borglum,
and Daniel Chester French.

This room is a fragment of the original Capitol Building
into which redcoats swarmed during the War of 1812, and,
led by Admiral Cockburn, decided in a mock session of
Congress, to burn the Capitol, using the Library of Con-
gress for kindling. The gutted shell was later restored so
the House of Representatives could again meet here until
the space was outgrown.

As you go down Pennsylvania Avenue tOWard the White
House, turn north on 10th Street and see what is left of the
Ford Theater where John Wilkes Booth shot President
Lincoln. Although the exterior has been left pretty much
untouched, all the theatrical accoutrements inside have been
stripped off and nothing remains but the outlines of the
boxes and stage, which have been painted on the floor.
Imagination transports the spectator back to the infamous
night in 1864. Across the street is the Petersen House where
the President was taken to die.

The public image of George Washington is of an austere
man, more a figure of history than of Hesh-and-blood. A
visit to Mount Vernon helps dispel this image of the “man in
the marble toga,” for here you see, beautifully restored, the
home that meant so much to him. It was the focal point
of his life, despite the Revolution and the presidency.

JUNE 1960

Outdoor Attractions

Adjacent to the Anacostia tidal estuary in the northeast-
ern part of Washington are the Kenilworth Aquatic Gar-
dens, composed of fourteen acres of ponds, planted with
some of the most colorful water lilies and lotuses known to
man. Here visitors are able to study many associated native
plants and animals, typical of pond, marsh, and river hab-
itats and of the nearby forests of the Atlantic Coastal Plain.
Since many blooms close in the heat of the day, it is recom-
mended that you plan your trip for between 8:00 A.M. and
noon.

One of the most pleasant outdoor jaunts Washington has
to offer is a mule-drawn barge trip on the Chesapeake and
Ohio Barge Canal, which dates way back in history. After
the canal was given up by the railroad, the National Capi-
tal Parks System took it over and turned its 184 miles into
a naturalist’s joy. A park historian or naturalist ac-
companies each scheduled trip to interpret its natural fea-
tures and fascinating history along the way. Trips go out
regardless of inclement weather, so come prepared.

You can also see the canal by hiking along the towpath.
Several areas are of special interest: the Great Falls. most
popular part of the restored section of the canal, contains
the Great Falls Tavern whose main room houses the C 8: 0
Canal Museum. East of the tavern is a trailside exhilmit of
the flora and fauna found along the canal. A particularly
quiet and lovely haven is to be found in the Georgetown
Division. running between that town and Seneca, Mary-
land, around Locks 21, 22, and 23. These are long, quiet
levels not frequently \isitml that make this section of the
canal well suited for nature walks and canoe trips. H

255

Theodore Roosevelt Island, dedicated to our great con-
servationist president, is a beautifully preserved spot, ac-
eessible only by ferry boat. A park naturalist is on duty
during the hours the ferry operates and leads the nature
walks. These take about an hour, and follow along three-
and-a-half miles of foot trails leading through swamp,
woodland, and beside one of the few unspoiled marshes
left in the Washington region.

Fort Washington, Maryland, is one of the outstanding
examples of an early nineteenth-century coastal defense,
built to protect our new capital. Located across the river
from Mount Vernon, this fort lasted just five years. It was
destroyed by the British in August 1814. The tempestuous
and talented Major L’Enfant was appointed by George
Washington to supervise and design its reconstruction,
which had to be taken over by Lt. Col. Walter K. Armistead
because of the major’s constant refusals to sapply the War
Department with progress reports. Since its final recon-
struction in 1824, the fort has been little altered and has
never figured in a military engagement.

Descriptive fliers of the foregoing outdoor attractions
are available free from the Superintendent, National Capi-
tal Parks System, Washington 25, D. C. These include maps,
descriptions and history, visiting days, admission fees, if
any; describe available facilities and give directions on
how to get there.

Useful Booklets

Send for these ahead of time so that you can decide be-

forehand what you want to see in Washington.
0 National Capital Parks System booklet contains full de-
scriptions of the important park and recreation areas and
memorials administered by the system in Washington, Vir-
ginia, and Maryland; also lists interpretive services, spe-
cial events, recreation facilities, and other information.
Cost: fifteen cents.

The Washington Convention and Visitors Bureau, 1616
K Street, N. W., Washington 6, D. C., will send you other
handy folders and booklets free. Included are: Hotels and
Motels in the Washington Area, giving rates and locations:
Welcome to Washington, D. C., containing information on
how to get there, brief descriptions of what to see where,
and an excellent map; and Where to Eat, a handy, pocket-
size booklet briefly describing Washington’s many restau-
rants, listing prices, specialties, hours, locations, and tele-
phone numbers.

One guide well worth having is the indexed, sixty-four-
page, color-illustrated Visitors Guide of Washington, cost-
ing sixty-five cents. Write Capsco Wholesalers, 815 Pennsyl-
vania Avenue, N. W., Washington 5, D. C. This suggests
sevcn tours, each identified by a well-known and easily
found public building, memorial, or geographic area, and
eaeh section is so identified in the booklet. All adjacent
sites are covered, and all are within walking distance. A
concise historical description is given of each point of in‘
terest, and captions under accompanying photographs give
hours, admission fees, and location.

Miscellaneous Helpful Hints

«- Weather. Be prepared for warm, sticky weather, even

256

at the end of September. However, most public places atj
completely air conditioned. Bring a raincoat—just in ea
—and comfortable shoes for your sightseeing.

0 Tipping. Restaurant tipping adheres relatively close to
the nationwide fifteen percent, more if a great deal of serv
ice is required. Washington taxis do not have meters a
fares are computed on the zone system, maps of which ar
in each taxi. In tipping drivers you may wish to use th
standard for tipping followed by government finance office
in reimbursing government employees for taxi expenses:
ten cents for fares up to and including a dollar and ten per
cent of the fare for those over. However, many peeple ti
fifteen percent or more since ‘Vashington taxi rates are un
usually low.

Union Station makes a service charge of thirty-five cent
per piece of luggage of any size carried by a redeap. Porter
and redeaps at airports and bus stations are reimbursed b
voluntary tips. A suggested scale is twenty-five cents for
suitcase, plus ten or fifteen cents for a briefcase or over
night bag, five or ten cents more for a very large one. An
executive of a \Vashington hotel estimates the average tip
to bellhOps for carrying luggage to be those suggested abov
for porters, and gives twenty-five cents as the customary
tip for room service. Chambermaids and doormen in
transient hotels do not expect tips unless they have per-l
formed personal services beyond their regular duties. Hail-
ing taxis is not considered personal service. I
0 Transportation. Limousine service from National Air-_
port is available around the clock for $1.60 to the Shore-l
ham, $1.20 to downtown Washington hotels. Be sure the|I
vehicle you take is clearly marked since it is said that some;
taxis are painted to resemble them. Be most wary of all
about taking D. C. cabs at National Airport without a pre-
arranged fee. If this is your first trip to Washington, you
will be wise to stick to the limOUsine service.

To get around the city itself, you can buy tokens for

twenty-five cents each, five for a dollar, for travel within
Washington itself. Directions for travel between any two
points in the city can be obtained at any time by calling
D. C. Transit information at Federal 7-1300.
0 Street Identification System. The District of Columbia
has four geographical sections. N orth-sonth streets in each
section are numerical; east-west streets are alphabetical.
An exception to this general rule is found in the Mall area
where the driveways are named for presidents. No stand-
ards can be given for locating diagonal avenues. Beyond
designations in the first alphabet, streets have names in
alphabetical order of two-syllable names, for example;
Adams, Bryant, and so on; and the third alphabet goes into.
three-syllable names: Allison, Buchanan, etcetera.

‘Ve hope the foregoing information will help make your
visit to Washington, D. C., as well as to the 42nd National
Recreation Congress, a memorable one. #

“RESPONSIBILITY involves both a willing

participation in the chores of life
and a creative participation in the bettering
of “fan—HARRY A. OVERSTREET.

 

liECRl-ZATIOD-

    
     
   
 

ielmlt Frieswyk

PARTICIPATION IN THE performing

arts has grown markedly in the
past decade. Today, music, dance, dra-
ma, opera, and poetry receive major
consideration in recreation planning,
organization, and program. In Janu-
ary 1960, the National Recreation As-
ociation sent a questionnaire on the performing arts to its
ervice affiliates and associates. Its primary purpose was to
furnish Joseph Prendergast, NRA executive director, with
information and material that could be brought to the at-
tention of the board of trustees and the advisory committee
on the arts—of which he is a member—of the National Cul-
tural Center. The replies would also be helpful in various
ways to the National Recreation Association in its efforts
to further interest and expansion of the performing arts in
recreation.

Returns were encouraging, and, moreover, contained
much information and comment that not only served the
primary purpose of the questionnaire, but in many instances,
offered insight into various and stimulating program ac-
tivities. A statistical breakdown shows that a fair sampling
of cultural activities as carried on in various branches of
the recreation profession was obtained: 482 replies came
from public recreation agencies; 130, from private or volun-
tary agencies; 32, from colleges and universities; 47, from
institutions; 34, from the armed forces; 19, from miscel-
laneous sources. Altogether, 287 public recreation and park
agencies were represented.

Types of Activity. The returns produced a kaleidoscope of
performing-art activities. The 165 different types of musi-
cal groups reported ranged from skifile bands to symphony
orchestras; 39 drama types covered the field from drama
stunts to drama festivals; 35 dance types went from ball-
room to ballet; also included were 15 opera and 6 poetry
types. Poetry and Opera evidently have not yet come into
their own in recreation programs. The more common types
of musical choruses, bands, orchestras, and others were well
represented. Among the more exceptional ones noted were
a bell choir, carillon concerts, original composition contest,
use of instructional tapes, flute choir, madrigal-motet group,
old fiddlers club, percussion band, and opera film series.

Drama listings most frequently mentioned were creative
ldrama, playground drama, community theater. Rarer types
'included Bible readings, clown club, play-writing compe-
.tition, dramatic display of total recreation program, show-
-wagons, psychodrama, and socio-drama.

 

*MR. FRIESWYK is consultant in the performing arts for the
National Recreation Association.

IJUNE 1960

 

HE PERFORMING ARTS
AS RECREATION

Of course, social, tap, and ballroom dancing were re-
ported frequently. Other forms included baton twirling
(presumably a quasi-form of dance), Hawaiian dance,
(welcome, Hawaii! ) , Indian dance, dance choruses, creative
and interpretive dance, and ballet.

Support. Recreation agencies support the performing arts,
both financially and in the form of leadership and admin-
istrative office help. Assistance is also available through
use of facilities, supplies, and equipment. A registration
fee usually accompanies instruction programs, but not al-
ways. A sharing of responsibility is standard procedure in
reSpect to advanced organizations, such as adult orchestras,
bands, community theaters, and the like. However, excep-
tions exist. Apparently a flexible attitude prevails in work-
ing out the problems of support, and solutions are arrived
at on the basis of individual conditions and needs. It was
pointed out several times that groups which started out
under the aegis of a recreation agency have become im-
portant and independent community organizations.

Leadership. Full-time employment of specialized leader-
ship in the performing arts is confined largely to the big-
city programs. Part-time employment of specialists and
use of volunteer leadership answer most of the needs else-
where. It is important to note, however, that performing-
art groups and programs depend heavily upon nonspecial-
ized personnel in the recreation agencies. If it were not
for the broad approach to recreation needs on the part of

- administrators, directors, supervisors, and recreation lead-

ers themselves, performing-art activities would not fare
as well as they do.

Public Agencies by NRA Districts

New England ( 32 returns). All major activities were rep-
resented in returns from New England except opera. Most
commonly mentioned were choral, band, drum-and-bugle
corps, children’s drama, and community theater groups.

Extensive use of a show-wagon under the sponsorship of
The Community Recreation Service of Boston brings puppet
and Inarionette shows to playgrounds and recreation centers
throughout metropolitan Boston. Dartmoutll’s new HOp-
kins (cultural) Center, Harvard’s Loeb Drama Center, the
new cultural center planned for the Charles River Basin
area under Boston’s Metropolitan District Commission, the
Boston University Arts Center, and the Jewett Arts Centcr
at Wellesley are among the recent major cultural projects
undertaken in New England.

Middle Atlantic (89 returns). Public recreation is active in
the performing arts nithin this district. Several New Jcr-

257

sey departments are actively supporting community sym-
phonics and drama organizations. Departments in New
York State are making notable contributions to little theater
and community drama.

The returns refiect considerable variety in types of per-
forming-art activities and sponsorship of organized groups.
The recreation departments in this district’s larger cities are
well known for their cultural-art programs. However, sig-
nificant and comparatively extensive cultural programs are
going on in smaller departments. In New York, the West-
chester County Recreation Commission employs full- and
part-time personnel to conduct its music, drama, dance,
and other cultural programs. Other departments such as
Annapolis and Silver Spring, Maryland; Livingston, Lin-
den, Plainfield, Teaneck, and Union, New Jersey; Port
Washington, New York; and Butler, Greensburg, and York,
Pennsylvania, reported interesting and worthwhile per-
forming-art activities. New York City’s Lincoln Center and
the plans for the National Cultural Center in Washington
should have a vast impact not only in the Middle Atlantic
District but throughout the nation and the world.

Southern District (57 returns). The growth of the arts-
council movement in this area not only signifies progress
but also holds promise of continued expansion and im-
provement. North Carolina’s Winston-Salem Arts Council
exemplifies what can be done to further and encouragc all
the community’s artistic activities; Winston-Salem has con-
structed a magnificent cultural center.

Cultural centers have been and are being constructed
throughout Florida, and a handsome civic ccnter with fa-
cilities for all the cultural arts has been completed in
Charleston, West Virginia. Industry is also taking an in-
tcrcst in cultural growth as part of community rccreation;
for example, Callaway Mills in La Grange, Georgia, and
Tennessee Eastman in Kingsport, Tennessee.

Great Lakes District (113 returns). Here, public recreation
agcncies in large cities have a long-established arts tradition,
and continue to maintain a divcrsificd and extensive pro-
gram in the performing arts. Less densely populated com-
munities throughout the area, including Champaign, Evans-
ton, Oak Park, and Peoria, Illinois; Elkhart, Fort Wayne,
and South Bend, Indiana; Grand Rapids, Muskcgon, Ply-
mouth, and Sturgis, Michigan; Akron, Dayton, Paincsville,
and Springfield, Ohio, have also regularly carried on cul-
tural activitics as part of their total recreation program.
Sturgis, Michigan, is planning to organize a community
chorus and children’s theater; it sponsors a concert series,
has prescnted opera, and supports a ncwly organized com-
munity theater. Dayton, Ohio, has a spanking new little
theater which has already started to make history. Thc Wis-
consin Idea Theatre, a pionccr institution in community

drama. is today a leading force in this field throughout thc
nation.

Midwest District (26 returns ). Denvcr, St. Louis. and Kan-
sas City, like larger cities in other districts, have conducted

258

major programs in music, dance, drama, and opera fo
many years. Outstanding performing-art projects are re
ported in Colorado Springs, Colorado; Cedar Rapids, D-u-

buque, and Iowa City, Iowa; Wichita, Kansas; and Omaha,
Nebraska.

Southwest District (18 returns). One of the more important
opera developments in the country has taken place in New
Orleans. Opportunities for study, listening, and participa-
tion in the allied activities of opera production constitute the
main aspects of a vital interest in opera. The city govern
ment has elaborate and beautiful plans for a cultural cente
that will accompany the reconstruction and redevelOpmen
of large portions of the city now in progress.

Austin, Texas, reports playground and community sing
ing, summer band concerts, children’s concerts presented by
the Austin Symphony, rhythm bands, old fiddlers clubs
drama workshops, summer playground dramatics, junio
thespians, ballet classes, a fine-arts-under-the-stars program

which offers local talent a chance to perform publicly in a
outdoor setting.

Pacific Northwest (21 returns). The Portland, Oregon
recreation department offers one of the most outstandin
cultural-art programs in the country. It is broad in sc0pe
overall emphasis is placed upon art forms and standards 0
participation which have a strong education as well a
recreation purposc. The Portland Bureau of Parks an
Rccrcation sponsors a community music center that provide
various courses of instruction, including classes in recordc I
and classic guitar; a madrigal-motet group; cxperimcnta
drum sh0p; string orchestra; master-singcrs chorus; danc
rcpertory group; dancc apprenticcs; ballct workshops:
thcater workshop; a series of performing arts conccrts a
part of the Washington Park summer festival; a theate
in an extinct volcano cratcr (othcr cities mercly have ex-
tinct thcaters) , and scores of other cultural-art acitvitics.

Seattle, Washington, has a considerable program in tli
arts. Thcsc include, among othcr activities, choral instruc
tion, conccrts by the Seattle Symphony, drama instruction
leading to Opportunities to appear in littlc thcater plays.
and instruction in ballct.

Pacific Southwest (103 returns, 87 California). Public rcc

rcation agencies in California gencrally attach considerabl
importance to the pcrfornling arts. Burbank cmploys a cul-
tural activities coordinator; Clarcnlont supports a com-
munity orchestra and symphony; Crockett conducts creative
dramatics, puppetry, and play production; Fontana has an '
annual water l)allct program; Glendora, an adult jazz or-
cllcstra; Martinez brings children to concerts in licrkclcy;
Montclair tcachcs hula and modcrn dancc; Norwalk spon-
sors threc conununity thcatcrs; Rcdding holds a poctry Con-
tcst; Richmond has ballet and toe-dancing programs at it:
art ccntcr; Riverside employs a full-time handmaster;
Santa Fe is planning a cavalcadc of culture; Torrancc spon- '
sors a highly organized fun-througll-music program; Wal-
nut Crcck includes an annual pagcant of arts; Corina has
group singing with sing-along records and audicuce-par-

t

RECREATION

Many elderly pe0ple are rediscovering
the joy of creative participation

in music through the opportunities
afforded by community orchestras.

It keeps (lust of} player and instrument.

ticipation dramas. The performing-art programs carried on
in Los Angeles, Oakland, and other large California cities
are widely recognized.

Mesa, Arizona, cosponsors the local symphony, and spon-
sors the Mesa Writers Club and Little Theatre. Phoenix,
Prescott, Tucson, and other Arizona cities also offer notable
opportunities for participation in the arts. Ogden and Salt
Lake City, Utah, are among many other cities and counties
in the district noted for performing arts groups.

Other Public Agencies (19 returns). These returns relate
to programs conducted by county extension services, hous-
ing authorities, adult-education agencies, state parks, state
training schools, and state penitentiaries. The few returns
: from these sources limit comment to the fact that perform-
' ing-art groups and activities occupy a place in their respec-
tive programs.

Colleges and Universities (32 returns). The returns give
only partial insight into cultural activities as they concern
the recreation curriculum. Higher education recognizes the
arts as an essential element in training recreation majors
and requires that students obtain at least an introduction
to the more common forms of music, drama, and dance.

Volunteer Agencies (1.30 returns ). The returns from volun-
teer organizations are "not sufficiently adequate to allow for
a true sampling of what the various types of agencies do.

Institutions and Other Agencies (47 returns). The limited
number of returns offers only a glimpse of what is being
done in the performing arts by institutions and other agen-
cies. Returns were received from youth and child-care cen-
ters, state hospitals, veterans hospitals, homes for incur-
ables, homes for the blind, and social agencies such as the
Red Cross and Salvation Army. Music. dance, drama, Opera,
and poetry were repeatedly checked in all the returns. The

JUNE 1960

 

 

recreation division of special services of the Veterans Ad-
ministration states that these activities are used in all of
the VA’s 150 stations.

Personnel responsible in some way for recreation in state
hospitals, and identified as recreation director, supervisor,
therapist, adjunctive therapist or music therapist, utilize
the performing arts in many ways; for example, for body-
image therapy. The director of diversional therapy in one
institution makes extensive use of the performing arts in
the treatment of the emotionally disturbed.

Armed Forces (34 returns ). Completed questionnaires were
returned from SAC, USAFE, U. S. Army and NaVy by rec-
reation directors, entertainment directors, base youth di-
rectors, service-club directors, youth-activities directors,
and other personnel responsible for recreation activities in
the armed forces. The U. S. Army in Okinawa reports that
the Ryukyan Music Association sponsors many performing
art activities, and that the cultural center is flourishing.
The USAF in Europe service clubs have ballet, concerts,
and festivals of all kinds available. Jam sessions, talent
contests, and musical shows are all mentioned.

Conclusion

The returns furnished convincing evidence that the per-
forming arts in community recreation have reached the
stage and hold a promise of further growth which would
benefit from the full development of the education-recrea-
tion phases of the National Cultural Center now being es-
tablished in Washington, D. C. The National Cultural Cen-
tcr will perforce become a truly national center rendering
a much-needed service to the country as it carries out its
statutory duty to “deve10p programs for children and youth
and the elderly, and for other age groups as well, in such
arts music, opera. drama, dance, and poetry) designed
specifically for their participation, education, and recrea-
tion.” 

259

N SPRING AND summer, gardening
I offers creative outdoor recreation

in many forms—discovery of the
wonder of growing things, a closeness
to nature, and nature activities, pride
in creating beauty, even in bustling
cities. This proves to be therapy for the
well as well as for the ill or emotionally

disturbed.

Garden Therapy

New hope for emotionally disturbed
children is flowering in gardens at the
state hospital in Pontiac, Michigan.
Without the expenditure of one single
additional tax dollar, boys and girls,
sb'greatly disturbed that they have been
hospitalized by court order, are being
cultivated to take their places one day as
happy, useful, productive members of
society.

Through gardening
Bowers and vegetables, the troubled
young people are learning to grow out
of themselves, to build relationships
with the world outside of their own in-
jured personalities, to participate ac-
tively in life. They are acquiring that

with annual

sense of their own importance and ac-
complishment so vital to rehabilitation.

In addition, gardening is developing
their ability to learn. Such subjects as
English and mathematics are tied into
their work with the soil. \Vorking
alongside each young gardener is a
volunteer from the community who
gives support and love, a sense of be-
longing and worthwhile achievement,
felt, probably, for the first time in the
child’s life.

0f the children’s gardening program
at Pontiac, Dr. James McHugh, attend-
ing psychiatrist, states: “When these
youngsters enter the hospital, they come
rejected by their communities. They
regard' the hospital as a ‘one-way door.’
Within a short time, they have a gar-
den, and their efforts are praised and
acceptable. This program, through giv-

260

 

ing them a new level of participation,
brings them_out of the cycle of feeling
that they areii’mworthy, for the growing
flowers and vegetables are dependent
upon them.

“To place emotionally disturbed per-
sons out in a garden is good. In this set-
ting, space opens up and they no longer
feel hemmed in. They can run, shout,
have
molded them into incorrigibles. In a

and release the factors which

literal sense, these children are digging
their troubles into the soil.”

50 effective is the gardening therapy
at Pontiac that similar programs are
planned for Detroit’s House of Correc-
tion and various Chicago protective
homes. Children with troubles of an-
other sort—primarily physical disabili-
tics—are now receiving horticultural
therapy under the auspices of the Chi-
cago Horticultural Society in Chicago
schools for the handicapped.

New Purpose to Living

Elderly peoplc participating in pro-
grams for senior citizens in the Chicago
area are turning to gardening as a re-
warding, therapeutic hobby. Through
the work of a seventy-six-year-old rc-
tircd horticulturist for the Chicago Park
District, Rudolph J. Mohr of Palatine,
Illinois, the aged are beginning to bar-
vest the health benefits of gardening——
moderate exercise and stimulating ac-
tivity which gives new purpose to living.

Mohr’s efforts, cosponsored by the
Chicago Horticultural Society and
Mayor Dalcy’s Commission on Senior
Citizens, have institutcd gardening pro-
grams at the Lincoln Senior Center and
the Jewish Orthodox Home for the
Aged, both in Chicago, and at the Ben-
senvillc Home for the Aged, lienscn-
ville. Illinois, a western suburb of the
Windy City.

Gardeners at licnsenvillc bring fresh-
cut annual flowers to grace the chapel
altar and to brighten lounges and din-

't
In this month of blossoms, build toward
gardening activities, and bigger and
better gardens, in the year ahead.

Use with special groups.

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  

ing rooms of the residence. Flowers
from the gardens also cheer the rooms
of residents who are not able to get
about. In summer, garden-grown vege-
tables are featured on the home’s menus.
Some are canned for serving later in
the year.

Those residents who can’t participate
in outdoor gardening activities are en-
couraged to work with planters and
flower arrangements. In the winter, in-
door projects are offered. Many resi-
dents who are physically handicapped
have become active gardeners. For in-
stance, some of the gardeners who are
confined to wheelchairs can wield long-
haudled tools effectively. One
with a spine condition, which prevents

man

bending over, is very able with the hoe.

Children’s Harvest
The Children’s Garden at the Brook-

lyu Botanic Garden has been flourish-
ing since 1914. A great many things
grow in Brooklyn, New York, besides
a certain tree!
Through individual gardening proj-
ects and eXperiments, children from the
age of nine or more are taught to de-
velop interests and skills that continue
through their lives. The program is not
aimed at the “underprivileged,” but is
for all children who might gain from.
working with living plants and with.!
their fellows. Many children rcturnI
year after year to work in the green-
house, aud to plant and harvest in the]
Children’s Garden. \1
The original Children‘s Garden area. '
approximately one-half acre, was di-
vidcd into 136 small gardens, but in
1957 another quarter acre was added
and dividcd into an additional 66 gar-
dens. Each child is given a small piece
of ground to work by himself or with a
Partner. Vegetables have proven to be
the most popular with the children, both
from the point of view of the useful
(“on and the variety of plants available.

RECREATION

 

 

Preparation for the garden year
starts in January when a group of older
boys and girls are invited to draw the
plan for the annual flower garden which
borders the vegetable field. In Febru-
ary, children of the previous season are
invited to enroll. They pay a small reg-
istration fee for the whole season, or
for the spring classes, as their family
plans dictate. For five or six Saturday

 
     

During Garden Day at
Point Defiance Park,

Tacoma, Washington,
park horticultu rists

teach home gardeners
how to propagate and
nurture their plants.

mornings, they attend classes indoors,
planning the gardens, working in the
greenhouse, sowing tomatoes, cabbage,
lettuce seed, transplanting seedlings.

The Botanic Garden supplies the
seeds, fertilizers, and tools. Good, small-
sized tools were purchased in 1917 and
many of them are still in use at the pres-
ent time, for taking care of tools has
been an important part of the whole
gardening project. The big event is
Planting Day, usually the third or
fourth Saturday in April, and during
the Saturdays in May and June the
children go directly to the garden house
and work out-of—doors, caring for their
plants.

As crops mature for harvest, they are
taken, counted, weighed, and the total
registered so that each year there is a
record of what is taken from the indi-
vidual garden plots. When school ends
in June, the gardening schedule changes
to weekdays. Each child is encouraged
to come twice a week during the sum-
mer to harvest and care for his garden,
to learn about the flowers that are grow-
ing in the border and to do some of the
extra work necessary in maintaining
the permanent planting.

A plan for the 8’ -by-10' scale model
of the garden, along with planting di-

JUNE 1960

ia-W§~1*- 'y'f_ " ,_ "1"" .
9; s misog‘frma. am "4- s “u "-

. IO
uw»_'_..—-Ir“
a-r'" '

o J

. - wish“? - :‘o ~ ". '

i) — ' “ "1 an“ ‘ :—
‘ r: m ’ ‘

. Mann. ‘7‘“- ’* -'..--. v

mg...“ . t-I-Jf Dawn.

rections, is available on request to the

National Garden Bureau, 124 East 38th
Street, New York City 16.

Garden Center

A gala two-day flower festival marked

the dedication of the $225,000 garden-
center building in Lakeside Park, Oak-
land, California, last year. Sponsored

by the Oakland-East Bay Garden Cen-

      

 

H‘ I. ....... 4;? «.4»?

ter, Inc., a group of forty-two garden

clubs and societies, in cooperation with
the park department, the new center is
the culmination of an idea conceived
in 1951. The building is envisaged as
a focus for garden activities through-
out the East Bay area. Large meeting
rooms, capable of seating three hun-
dred, are on the main floor and in the
basement, with the latter equipped for
movie and slide projection as well.
There is also an attractive smaller meet-
ing room on the main floor with seating
facilities for 125. A library and several
large work areas, equipped in the most
modern fashion, will make the center a
place of practical value to students and
to display groups. An eighty-five-foot-
long indoor lanai will provide exhibit
area for continuous floral shows.

Nature in the Metropolis

In Baltimore, Maryland, a citizens
group, known as the Cylburn Wild-
flower Preserve and Garden Center Or-
ganization, the recreation bureau, the
parks bureau, and the department of
education have joined forces and re-
sources to further nature study, conser-
vation, education, and horticulture by
establishing a wildflower preserve and
garden center in Cylburn Park.

 

Baltimore, as Elizabeth Clarke of the
recreation bureau, points out, “has
changed from a city surrounded by
woodlands, Wherc an afternoon could
be spent admiring the beauty of native
flowers, listening to the song of birds,
or, in late fall, enjoying the tangy
flavor of the persimmon, to a busy
metropolis.”

Botanists, nurserymen, garden-club
members, retired teachers, bird lovers,
and naturalists helped develop the park
as a place where the interested public
could participate in available nature
activities. This group, sponsored by the
Baltimore Bureau of Recreation, plan-
ned best use of the facilities. Since 1954-,
they have identified plants, organized
groups to collect and transplant much-
needed wildflowers to designated loca-
tions on an intricate trail system,
wecded and cleared trails, labeled and
catalogued plants.

Miss Clarke reports, “Work on the
trails continues, adding more wild-
flowers each year. VVhen springtime
arrives, the plants are labeled, giving
the scientific name, the common name
in some cases, particularly on the edu-
cational trail. Those wildflowers need-
ing protection and on the Maryland
Federated Garden Club protected list
are so designated. And, now in 1960, the
bog area has been excavated and plans
are underway for a system of pools with
varying degrees of acidity to suit the
plants with these requirements.

“The activities committee of the Cyl-
burn Wildflower Preserve and Garden
Center last fall offered its first planned
program consisting of two walks to
identify trees, a six-week seminar on
winter characteristics of trees and
shrubs, and two.evenings to discuss
trail leadership. In the spring, when
flowers are at their best, members of
the organization will be in the preserve
to take groups of children and adults
on trips through the woodland pointing
out the interesting flowers. A trailside
museum and a greenhouse for instruc-
tion are planned for the future.

“The Ornithological Society conducts
bird walks for children every two weeks
and has erected bird feeders along the
bird walk. Through the club interest,
the feeders are supplied with seeds for
the more than ninety different kinds of
birds found in the area.” #

261

THEY PADDLE THEIR

_ . WHEN ONE OF
‘- i our paleo-
* lithic

found out that some

things floated and

some things sank

(including his own

body of muscle and

bone), his minute brain conceived a

device the dictionary calls a raft. He

used whatever was at hand. The re-
sults depended on geography; in one
place a few trunks of trees were bound
together with vines; in another the
skins of animals were blown up and
tied together. Both of these devices
floated downstream like a jellyfish.
Then, our thick-skulled ancestor dc-
cided he needed something light that
could be moved in a given direction, so
he covered a basketlike structure with

skins and attemplcd to propel it with a

crude paddle. It went around in cir-

cles and he became the first “big wheel”
of the boating industry. Later, he strad-
dled a log and paddled it; thcn he hol-

lowed out the log and bccame the owner

     

ancestors

of the first canoe—a dugout.

Time marched on. The Phoenicians
and the Vikings traveled extensively in
oversized canoes with oars and sails for
propulsion. As ships grew larger and
larger, man still continued to use
canoes. The Eskimos made kayaks for
hunting and umiaks for carrying their
wives, children, and household utensils.
The Indians further south sewed birch
bark on a frame, pitched the seams, and
created a maneuverable craft, easily
propelled and carried between water-
ways. A great deal of the eXploration
of North America was carried out by
canoe.

The graceful birch-bark canoe of the
Indians exists today in the form of
beautiful, easy-to-paddle, canvas-cov-
ered canoes, for the'n‘iost part manu-
factured in Maine. New materials have
come into use recently; today’s paddler

 

MR. MALLISON, cqmmodore of the A-
merican Canoeing Association and vet-
eran recreation leader, is superinten-
dent of recreation, lacksonvilie, Fiorida.

262

,1,

may choose a craft made of aluminum,
fiberglass, cedar planking, or molded
plywood. Uses have increased and
specialized types have been developed.
The C and K types used in international
and Olympic competition are the “400”
of canoeing society. These are light,
fast, tipsy craft of thin plywood, beau-
tifully constructed for expert usage.
The C or Canadian is the racing type
for one-, two-, and four-man crews, us-
ing single-blade paddles. The K, or
rigid kayak, is a sliver on the water
propelled by one-, two-, and four-man

crews hging double-blade paddles.

‘

Competition  L

Competitive rpaddling is controlled in
the United States by the American
Canoe Association, which is an allied
body of the Amateur Athletic‘Union,
and included in the US. Olympic Com-
mittee. Any young man or woman,
possessed of good health, determina-
tion, competitiVe spirit, and perserver-
ance in training may participate in di-
visional, national and international
paddling regattas. Every four years,
Olympic trials Open to citizcn amateurs,
are held. This year, the trials will be
held on Lake Sebago in thc Bear Moun-
tain section of Palisades Interstate Park,
New York, during midsummer.

Not all competition is contincd to
straightway racing on the thousand-
mcter course. A group known as white-
water enthusiasts is interested in eruises
on streams that are high and fast.
Shooting the rapids is one of the great-
est canoeing thrills. Organized groups
plan these trips with special attention to
safety and training in rescue techniques.
turbulent
streams. Competition may he a wild
twenty-five miles, like the annual race
through the Royal Gorge of the Arkan-
sas at Salida, Colorado, or a five-hund-
red-meter slalom, which is a supreme

Beginners learn on less

test of maneuverability in swift-flowing
water with obstacles. Turning points
and gates are designated hy striped
poles suspendcd from wires.

Devotees of white-water canoeing
have an organization known as the A-

OWN

Nathan L. Hallison

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
   
    
  
 
  
   
   
  
   

merican White Water Afiiliation whic
has a splendid publication known a
American White Water. The white-
water paddlers use decked canoes and
kayaks. An upset is not necessarily the
end of a race or slalom. The “Eskimo
roll” puts the contestant back on an
even keel and in the running again.

Sailing Canoes

sailors convert th
can oeinto a yacht and enjoy real sport
sailin'g. The thoroughbred of this ilk i
the'decked sailing canoe, a double-ende

seventcen feet long, forty-three inche

Wind ammer

wide, and limited to ten square meter
(107 square feet) of sail. It is one
of the world’s most highly develope
racing craft and can be capsized and
righted. Fully decked, and equippe
with a sliding hiking seat, these slec
aristocrats of canoe sailing have at-
taincd speeds of fifteen knots and w01
many one-of—a-kind regattas.

The ACA also has a cruising class
usually a wooden canoe with good lines
equipped with a lateen sail, leeboards
and steering paddle. A more refine
rig is found on the Class C canoes whic
utilize a stock canoe of any material
This is fitted with a mast step, leeboards
transverse tiller and a sail, usually 0
Marconi cut. The decke
sailers and cruisers are most numerou'
in the East while the C Class cente
around Jacksonville, Florida. Th
“spruce wind” (paddle) brings ’e
back alive when zephyrs take a holiday

dacron.

Camping Trips

Camping and canoeing go togethe
like ham ’11’ eggs. When the American
Canoe Association was formed at Lake!I
George eighty years ago, its member.
were mostly eanoe campers. Unless on
elects a eruise with portagcs, eruise-
camping is not laborious. Equipment
and supplies up to two hundred pounds
present no problcm for two paddlch in \
an eighteen-foot canoe if the streams
are a foot or more in depth.

The purist who cooks from scratch
over a wood fire and spreads his blan-

kets on pine houghs may paddle ten to

RECREATION

Does your recreation department sponsor a canoe program?

Here are the latest tacks.

fifteen miles a day and still take a few
pictures. The author uses inflated mat-
tresses, a miner’s or explorer’s tent with
ground cloth and mosquito bar sewed
in, a two-burner gasoline stove, and
provisions, mostly canned or prepared.
The day’s paddling then jumps from
twenty-five to forty miles a day. *

One day on the Suwannee comes to
mind. My boy paddler, a banker, who
left the “N” out of his title when we,
were camping, liked to cook. We'hadi‘
three hot meals a day, made and beoke
camp, washed our clothes, bathed, took’
some pictures, and covered f orty-miles.
One of us paddled while the other
washed clothes or went over the side
for a bath. One cooked while the other
handled the tent and bedding. A large
part of the equipment was carried in
big lard cans to keep it dry. The canned
soups, hash, vegetables, and milk were
carried in a duffel bag. As the high-
ways get more and more crowded, the
serenity of a camping trip becomes
more apparent.

The ACA owns a thirty-five-acre
island near Gananoque, Canada, where
its members and guests camp under can-
vas every year during August. While
the atmosphere is informal, campers
observe the code of the woods. A few
simple rituals, such as morning and
evening colors, nightly campfire pro-
grams, oflicer-of-the-day on duty and
bugle calls, identify it as the camp of
an organization with tradition. Each
camper is responsible for his own camp,
and no attempt is made toward uni-
formity. The daily program, as might
be eXpected, includes sailing races,
swimming, paddling races, novelty
events, and trips ashore for groceries.
Some campers bring their grandchil-
dren to enjoy the same spot they en-

joyed as youngsters forty or fifty years
ago.

Canoe Clubs

What about clubs? Numerous groups
of canoeists interested in one or more
phases of activity, organize a club, ac-
quire property, put up a boathouse and
social hall and then function much like

JUNE 1960

The racing kayak (above) , _ n 
comes in different sizes for 

h
a one-, two-, or four-man  '

crew. Cruising sailer ( right
above) steers with a paddle.
In slalom and white-water
racing (left), paddiers use
a fiberglass canoe which
has deck and waterproof
“skirts” for shooting rapids.

a yacht club. Officers are a commodore
(president) , Vice-commodore (in charge
of land activities), rear commodore
(in charge of water activities), and
purser (secretary and treasurer) . These
are known as flag oflicers. Members of
the board or board of governors usually
double as coInmitiee chairmen. Con-
committees are:
building and grounds, social, paddling,
cruising, membership, regatta, public-
ity, and so forth. The Washington
Canoe Club has been in existence sev-
enty-five years, others fifty.

ventional finance,

Another type of club owns no real
estate but has a dozen or more canoes,
a couple of trailers which will carry six
canoes each, and sails for several of its
canoes. These are-usually kept in a
member’s yard between trips. The
group is held together by a mimeo-
graphed bulletin which covers set
events, some technical material and cdi-
torial comment. Cartoons and jokes by
members round it out. The Buckridge
Ski Club, which goes in for canoe

cruising, white-water races and sailing

   

cruising, is such an organization. It

centers around Swarthmore but has
cruises and camps as far away as Ver-
In the winter its members ski
and skate.

InonL

Thousands of people learn some
canoeing in camps—Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, YMCA, Y\VCA, and private
clubs. Many thousands, who never af-
filiate with any organized group, might
have more fun if they did. A recreation
department might organize a canoe
club and then let the club function as
an aHiliated group, the same as a camera
club, square-dance club. craft club, and
so on.

Source Material

The following addresses and books

are helpful:

AMERICAN' CANOE Assocnriox (Doris
Cousins, secretary), 400 Eastern Street, New
Haven 13, Connecticut.

AMERICAN WHITE Warren Arrnurrox,
5525 East Bails Drive. Denver 22, Colorado.

BI'CKRIDGE SKI CLI'B Canon: COMMITTEE
(Robert E. \chair), 32 Dartmouth Circle,
Swartlnnorc, Pennsylvania.

Canaan», Oflicial American Red Cross
textbook. Obtainabln from any ARC chapter
oliice.

263

Vo lanteers line up
sights. In background
is the old baseball
backstop as well as
worn-d own base paths.

 

    

 - ' - ' ..
Members of local Brick-
layers Union spent many

free lioars constructing ce-
ment-block restroom. Note

arst level 0/ baclrstop poles.

Construction of baclrstOp took
many rnanliours and needed
specialized equipment, includ-
ing extension-ladder track.

204:

 

Men pour concrete for footings, floor,
and baclcstOp poles. All backstOp poles

were the donation of local companies.

 

GROWTH OF

WEEDS CREW
faster than
kids on a tract of
rather level, tree-
less land in the
eastern section of
Loveland, Colo-
rado, an area with

many kids and few
facilities. For the past twenty-five years

 

this has been owned by the school ‘

district, and has been more productive
of weeds than anything else. In early
spring, the kids swarmed over the area
playing ball.

This picturesque city of approxi-
mately eleven thousand is located along
the eastern slope of the magnificent
Rockies, about midway between Denver
and Cheyenne. These community resi-
dents are not much different than those
anywhere else—though they feel they
are “just a little nearer Heaven” (weed-
less and well watered, they hope).

A tax-supported recreation depart-
ment was set up in 1955 allowing for a
full-time recreation director. There
wasn’t much money allocated for oper-
ational expenses by big-city standards,
but each year the budget has increased.
However, money for large capital im-
provements was not available. For
three years the recreation program was
carried on in existing parks and athletic
fields, but as the program expanded and
became more p0pular, more space was
needed.

The idea of converting the vacant
weed patch into a playfieltl area began
to simmer, and finally came to a boil in
February 1958, when the Lovelaml
Recreation Commission helped organ izc
the nonprofit Loveland Improvement

 

__.___.________ _._7

MR. HENKEI... a [ormcr Indiana lull-
baclr, was dircctor o/ tlic recreation
commission in Loveland, Colorado. be-

fore becoming dircctor of recreation
in Villa Park, Illinois.

RECREATION

I
j
i

fEED PATCH

Association. This was composed of
volunteers dedicated to the creation of
recreation facilities and other com-
munity improvements. This is not a
storybook saga of thousands of volun-
teers rushing in to do a job overnight.
Indeed, it was only through the hard
work of a dedicated few that Sunny-
side Park ever became a reality.

The school board gave permission for
development of the property as a rec-
reation facility. Word was spread that
construction of the new area would be
discussed at a big meeting. About one
hundred people who thought they could
make the area a reality showed up.

Then came legal complications: “You
have to have a constitution and bylaws.”
“You have to incorporate with the
state.” “You can only go this far and
no further.” This all sounded logical,
but the people who came to that first
meeting had their shovels and rakes
outside ready to go to work. Three
months later, after the legal framework
was arranged, the dozen remaining men
set about the task of actually construct-
ing Sunnyside Park. Everyone was
made a chairman. There were more
chairmen than committees and—more
meetings.

The local Lions Club kicked off the
financial donations with a gift of $600.
This was followed by a combined gift
from the three local veterans organiza-
tions of $1,100. With this money in
hand, volunteer groups and individuals
went to work. Members of the local
bricklayers union spent three days of
their own free time laying cement bIOck
for the rest rooms. All of the lumber-
yards donated materials for the rest-
room roof and glass blocks for the win-
The plumbers reduced their
prices for installing plumbing fixtures.
A carpenter built the roof; a paint
dealer donated paint; a cement man
laid the floor; the local ready-mix ce-

JUNE 1960

do ws.

ment firm cut its bill considerably.

The core group of about a dozen men
in the Loveland Improvement Associa-
tion approved final detailed plans for
the area, sought ways and means of ob-
taining funds, solicited professional
volunteer help, and themselves gave con-
sistent volunteer help and guidance to
the entire project. The group’s presi-
dent, Ceorge Paine, is part owner of a
manufacturing establishment. Others
included a police sergeant, city building
inspector, city electrician, cement con-
tractor, semiretired man, two telephon e-
company employees, state highway-de-
partment engineer, meat cutter, and
stocks-and-bonds man.

The association built the facility; by
mutual agreement the Loveland Recrea-
tion Commission has charge of pro—
graming and maintenance.

The complete plans for Sunnyside
Park call for rest-room facilities; large-
size baseball-softball backstop; combin-
ation baseball-softball infield; complete-
ly grassed outfield, large enough to con-
tain a full-sized football field; parking
facilities; and a hard-surfaced concrete
area, allowing room for three tennis
courts, full-sized basketball and volley-
ball courts. The association built the
various sections of Sunnyside Park with
emphasis on maximum durability and
minimum maintenance costs only as
money became available.

Construction of the backstop and in-
stallation of the watering system were
the most difficult projects. Watering
eighty-five thousand square feet of grass
area with no hope of tapping off ex-
isting city water lines caused a great
deal of concern. There was an irriga-
tion ditch running along one side of the
property, but the use of this water
would be unpredictable, if available at

all.
We thought that water was available

just a short distance below ground

 

Don Henkel

since nearby homes had hit under-
ground water while digging sewer lines.
Luck was with us, and, at seven feet,
water was struck. At nineteen feet, the
casing was buried in shale and the well
sealed off. Fifty-six gallons of water
per minute were needed for our sprink-
ling system; the well tested at a mini-
mum of one hundred.

With financial help from the school
board, and volunteer assistance from
many sources, installation of the under-
ground watering system and grass sow-
ing proceeded. The hard dirt surface
was soaked to the point Where it could
be plowed and disked. Portable irriga-
tion pipe was borrowed from a local
farmer; a large portable pump, plus in-
numerable parts, were secured from
implement dealers in town. Tractors
and gas were obtained gratis and work
proceeded toward irrigation of the hard
ground.

The city water and cemetery depart-
ments brought in their equipment to
dig the waterline ditches. The entire
system was installed in such a manner
that all water in the plastic lines would
drain back to the well. A five-foot-deep
sump hole was dug around the well and
cemented, allowing the pump to be
placed about two feet above water line.
The sprinkling system is operated elec-
trically with an automatic turn-off.

Last year, Sunnyside Park had its
first full summer of usage. A kids' base-
hall program inaugurated the ballfield
in great style. Church and service-club
groups played softball there in a new
5-F League (Fisical Fitness For Fun 81
Fellowship). City league softball teams
practiced on the field.

Those persons directly involved with
Sunnyside are proud of what they have
done; and the community, as a whole,
feels a little bit richer for having a fa-
cility built by its own people that will
be lasting in usage and value. #

265

 
  
 

Geraldine Youeha

HEN WE STARTED on our forty-five-hundred-mile

v; camping and traveling trip last summer we felt

like pioneers but with a pint-sized covered wagon.
Ours was a 1958 Volkswagen, loaded every inch, inside and
out, with camping equipment, assorted crayons and toys,
two young children-—seven and three—and the two of us.
At home, three other COUples with children were waiting
in concerned anticipation for us to prove it could be done,
so they could try this year.

We not only proved it could be done, We loved it. We
swam in a mountain lake in Pennsylvania, were enchanted
by the lush beauty of the Shenandoah Valley, and even
played in snow in August in Colorado. No one got sick.
We never even filled the prescriptions we carried with us
from our understanding pediatrician. No one even got
really cranky, and we all learned to appreciate ourselves,
each other, and our country more than ever.

We started from Spring Valley, New York, about thirty
miles from New York City, early one August morning. We
headed south, then west to Colorado, then north and back
east to New Salem, Illinois. The rest of the trip home was
via old school friends and superhighways, and so is not
included in the calculations here.

When we first thought of heading for the Rockies, and
saving money by camping on our way, we talked to every-
one we knew who had camped. They gave us hints on equip-
ment, how to choose a campsite, and how to set up a tent.
Then we visited camping supply stores and collected cata-
logues. When we had bought or borrowed most of our
equipment, we camped for a trial weekend ncar home at
Lake VVeleh in Palisades Interstate Park.

This was, in some ways, disastrous, and might have dis-

The children had no

trouble. They slcpt cozily in their sleeping bags, although

couraged less stubborn pioneers.

they kept rolling off their overinllated air mattresses onto us.
They didn’t wake up, we (lid. \Ve also tried sleeping outsidc
in a “screened porch” in front of the tent. I fit, my husband
didn’t. His toes kept pushing against the netting so, at
about 3:00 A.M., we moved inside.

In a kind of Chaplinesque silent movie we maneuvered

MRS. YOH‘IIA, a former writer-researcher for Coronet Mag.
azine, is now engaged in a fall family life and freelance
writing. She n rote this article especially for RECREATION.

266

How to camp your way West—4n state and national parks—
with a family of four in a Volkswagen . . .

STOP-OVER
CAMPING

our sleeping bag into the tent and crawled into it, all in
pitch blackness. Then, claustrophobia struck. I woke to
see my husband standing at the open tent flap, desperately
taking deep breaths. We found later that what we had was
mild food poisoning, not claustrophobia.

In spite of this miserable experience, we drove wearily

home convinced that camping was fun, and that we liked it.
Our trip proved that our intuition, rather than our trial
run, was right. We got used to sleeping in the tent. It even
had one great advantage: when one of the children wanted
a drink I just reached out for the canteen, filled a paper
cup, handed it over, and went back to sleep without ever
moving more than my arm. Camping and traveling was
a real vacation, not an endurance test, despite dire predic-
tions. Whenever we st0pped at a campsite, skeptical and
amused fellow campers (many family groups among them)
gathered to watch us unload. This is what they saw:
0 From the luggage rack on' the roof we took down our
tent. Packed in its own canvas bag slightly larger than a
golf bag, it weighs only forty-five pounds. The tent is sus-
pended from an aluminum frame, sets up in about twenty
minutes, and has room to sleep five on air mattresses. We
invested about $125 in it, feeling that ease in setting up and
taking down, interior space unbroken by poles, and its
light weight were worth the expenditure. It is manufac-
turcd by the Draw-Titc company, and is called the Holiday
De Luxe. As extra equipment we bought mosquito netting
to enclose the canopy area, but we never used the netting.
0 The luggage rack also held two sleeping bags, two duffel
bags of clothes, towels, etcetera. and two lightweight alumi-
num folding chairs. ‘Vho said we were roughing it?

I

l
l

0 Out from under the hood (the Volkswagen’s trunk) came ,4

our two-burner gasoline stove, cflicient. compact, and easy
to use; and our gasoline lantern. In the trunk we also kept
our hatchet, rope, flashlight. first-aid kit, and so on.
Tucked in the back of the car, where my husband had
removed the scat and built a plywood platform for the
children to use as playing and sleeping space, were:
0 Our small borrowed ice chest, which we filled every other
day, and which efficiently kept our butter, fruit, and meat.
0 The cupboard, home-built especially to fit into a small
space and hold the packages of dehydrated SOUPS. instant
potatoes. salt. sugar. ctcctera.
0 Two sleeping bags and the deflated air mattresses used

RECREATION

1
I

The author with her
two children, Sharon

(left) and Victoria.

as padding for the sleep-and-play platform. Plus, of course,
toys, a plastic pail with kitchen odds and ends, the insulated
bag in which I packed lunch each morning, the canteen for
water, my husband’s rifle, the nested pots, pans, and silver-
ware, and so on and on.

We had bought our lantern, stove, air mattresscs, and
hatchet and borrowed the sleeping bags and ice chest. This
is standard practice among campers who acquire their
equipment gradually, and don’t want to invest too much
until they are sure they like the life. We spent about eighty
dollars on equipment, exclusive of the tent.

With the four of us and our equipment piled outside the
car, it didn’t see possible everything would ever fit back in.
But it did--—-by about nine the next morning—and off we
went to 'see more of the country, find a new campsite, and
sellle down for the afternoon and evening.

We picked our campgrounds from a booklet called Camp-
ground Cuide’for Tent and Trailer Tourists, revised every
year and available from Campgrounds Unlimited, Blue
Rapids, Kansas, for one dollar. It lists established camp-
grounds in the United States and Canada by states, tells
how to reach them, what their facilities are, and so forth.
Two other useful booklets, available from the Superin-
tendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Wash-
ington 25, D.C.: Camping Facilities Administered by the
National Park Service (15¢) and National Forest Vacations
(30¢), which describes recreation facilities available in
our 149 national forests. We never reserved space in ad-
vance, although we understand that for touring New York
and New England this is a necessity. Out West, no reserva-
tions were ever needed.

Wc stayed at state parks and at national parks, and liked
the state parks better because they were less crowded, off
the beaten track, and gave us a chance to know the people
in the local area. We liked Claytor Lake, Virginia, so well
we stayed two nights, went swimming, watched the water
skicrs, and cooked over an open wood fire.

That st0p, our second, could well have been our last.
During the night my husband felt something outside the
tent push against his feet as he slept. He pushed back. The
game of footsie went on for a while until my husband
peeked out of the tent, saw nothing, and went back to slcep.
Next morning, in the beautifully equipped bathhouse, with
hot showers and dressing tables, a woman told me, “We
usually warn new campers right away, but we didn’t get to
you last night. There are lots of the friendliest skunks

JUNE 1960

 

around here—just don’t bother them and they won’t do
a thing.” Our midnight visitor undoubtedly had been less

frightcned than we, since he kindly refrained from ruining
our tent.

The prettiest campsites we found werc in Missouri. At
the Meramec River our tent faccd a tree bent over the
stream. We ate watching the sun sparklc on the ripples and,
if we’d had a fishing license, we could have caught a dinner
of catfish while sitting at the picnic table. Another spot we
liked particularly well was at Sugar Lake, near St. Joseph,
Missouri. There, we walked a few feet from our campsite
to swim among the lily padsghit' was muddy but beautiful.

Camping in a different place evgry night added a lot to
our appreciation of each other as individuals and a family.
The children pitched in and really helped, gathering kind-
ling, carrying water, drying silverware. \They got some
understanding of what daddies do as they watched theirs
choose a level site, set up the tent, trench it as protection
against rain, and build the fire. Their help was not only
asked for, but really necessary, and they adapted well to
any situation. They also learned to appreciate their mother’s
skill in finding and preparing familiar foods in unfamiliar
surroundings.

We tried mapping our stopping places before we started
our trip, estimating travel time on American Automobile
Association strip maps, then finding a convenient camp-
ground in our guide. After one day’s traveling, we forgot
about our careful plans. For one thing, our heavily loaded
Volkswagen did not cover as much territory, particularly
in the mountains, as we had estimated. Then, we hadn’t
calculated the time-consuming bathroom and ice-cream
stops, most numerous in the early days. What we finally
did was decide on a stopping place as we started off in the
morning. Detailed state maps, obtainable from the AAA
or gas stations, were a great help here. Usually, we reached
the campground we aimed for, but in the thirteen days it
took us to get from. New York to Colorado, we twice stayed
at motels because darkness overtook us.

To keep the children amused while we traveled, we pre-
sented them with a new surprise toy each day. Some of
these were successful, some not, and we seemed to spend
most of our time straightening up the toys. Actually, the
most successful devices were a song book, a harmonica,
and a deck of cards.

We sang “Yankee Doodle” at Valley Forge, “My Old
Kentucky Home” in the South, and “Frankie and Johnny”
in the West. We played endless games of Old Maid 01] an
aluminum baking tray which came in handy for holding
crayons and paper, too. And we read aloud fron1 guide
books about the places on our route.

With our leisurely schedule we swam, explored caves and
canyons, searched abandoned mines, and visited historical
sites including Valley Forge and Lincoln’s town, New Salem,
Illinois. We talkcd to people in the Kentucky highlands
who couldn’t at first understand our accent, nor we theirs.
We came back home singing “America, the Beautiful” with
real appreciation of the lyrics for the first time and, corny
as it sounds, we’d like to camp our way next time “from
sea to shining sea.” #

267

DANCING IN THE SUMMERTIME

Community Square Dancing

ET YOUR MIND’s EYE take you down
L the long curving steps from Upper
Riverside Drive and 105th Street, in
New York City, to the viaduct over-
looking the beautiful Hudson River.
Pause there and watch the hundreds and
hundreds of people from every walk of
life, every age range, joyously square
dancing together. No, it is not a special
occasion, but a usual summer evening
of recreation.

In this area, nineteen years ago, an
experiment in community square danc-
ing was conducted under Lhc auspices
of the Division of Recreation, New York
City Department of Parks.
most humble beginning of twelve brave
souls, heckled by several hundred un-
believers, it was destined to become an

From a

enduring and outstanding program. Be-
cause of its tremendous success, it
spread to other areas in the city—

Central Park Mall, Prospect Park, Vic-
tory Field, Poe Park, and other places.

It grew, within four years, from an over-
all attendance of six thousand per sea-
son to an estimated two hundred and
sixty-three thousand. This is not a per-
capita hour count, but a count taken at
the peak of each evening of the season’s
forty dances. Its success may be attrib-
uted to many things:

' Peoples’ inherent sense of wanting
to join with others, to be neighborly;
' A return of community interest in a
wholesome form of recreation, bringing
all age groups together; and

' The simple and easy integration of
migratory people into the normal life
of a large city.

The development of the program,
naturally slow at the start, began to
take shape after the first few weeks. The
only publicity was a small poster,
“Square Dance Tonight,” at the top of
the steps. This meant that word-of-
mouth advertising had to be encour-
aged. To make this possible, thc pro-

RoundvDance F estirval '

on A NUMBER OF YEARS San Antonio,
Tcxas, has wanted to havc a state
or national round-dance festival. Last
June this became reality and a huge
success. However, at the outset we were
full of misgivings as to what it would
take to accomplish this dream and won-
dered if we could really get the job
done.

San Antonio has had a very active
round-dance program and many round-
dance clubs have been organized. We
realized we needed to create and estab-
lish the desire and then to plan this
festival around these clubs; we wanted
this to be their festival. Realizing the
tremendous amount of time, planning,
and work an undertaking of this type
would involve, it was necessary to have
their full support. At an organization
meeting it was decided that a round-

268

dance council, composed of one member
from each club to serve as the officers,
plus two members from each club to
serve as directors, would assure an or-
ganization that would work together.

In September 1958, representatives
from all clubs met in the municipal
auditorium and elected officers and di-
rectors. From this group gcneral chair-
man and cochairman were elccted. The
general chairman appointed chairmen
for the various committees to begin
their respective duties immcdiately.
San Antonio’s air-conditioned muni-
cipal auditorium was reserved, rentfree.

The workshop planning and faculty
committee was among thc first to get
started and scheduled a workshop for
the aftcrnoon prior to the evening fes-
tival. This committec made contacts

with teachers for thc workshop. 0f

gram had to be so simple and enjoyable
that those who attended would bring
others with them the next week. Lan-
guage barriers also had to be bridged
with the cooperation of the English-
speaking participants. This was very
necessary at Riverside Park because
of the influx of Puerto Ricans into this
section of the city.

There were other problems. The
average city dweller has the idea that
the square dance is “corny,” done only
by rustics. This was easily overcome
by showing how square dancing is
dancing at its best, not just skipping
and romping about; that, like music
for social dancing, square-dance music
has dignity and form. To make this
point, only the finest musicians were
used. Good deportment was encour-
aged, to eliminate the small amount of
horseplay displayed by a few to over-
come their natural nervousness first
time on the floor. la a few areas, good
grooming was encouraged to do away
with T-sllirts, form-fitting slacks, halt-
ers, and so on. This was accomplished
by calling attention, in a subtle way, to

course, it is very important to have
state and nationally known teachers on
a workshop program, preferably teach-
ers who are also choreographers.

The next committee to get under way
was fund raising. It had been decided
at the Septcmber meeting that one
source of revenue would be a thirty-
two-page souvcnir program. By April
1959, the entire number of pages allot-
ted for advertising had been sold, thus
assuring enough money to cover all
festival expenses.

The next step was to set up head-
quarters for the teachch and out-of-
town dancers attending the festival—a
downtown motel convenicnt to the au-
ditorium. The motcl manager had one
thousand flicrs printed giving the names
of the tcachcrs, datcs, time, location of
motel and festival. Tllcsc fliers were
sent all over the United States to round-
dancc clubs and groups.

Other committees wcrc also busy

RECREATION

 

New York City and San Antonio enjoy large-scale participation in community dancing.

those who were properly dressed. Not
that any particular groups were singled
out, but once or twice during the eve-
11ing a comment was made, such as,
“It’s nice to see so many dressed for
square dancing rather than in T-shirts
and such. You look wonderful.” Little
by little, those who were not dressed
properly changed.

Cooperation in absorbing the new
people as they came in was urged. This
paid off with tremendous dividends as
the years went by. Regular dancers,
finding a couple in their set who had
never danced before, immediately ex-
changed partners and cheerfully guided
them through.

The dance program itself follows the
round and square formulas that have
helped to keep square dancing alive
through the years. For each set of three
square dances, a round dance follows.
In the early days, those who came to
watch would first come out on the Floor
just for social dancing, but soon became
regulars.

To start each evening’s dance, the
orchestra leads off with sprightly music

making arrangements, including the
brunch, decorating, registration, and
The brunch,
given for the teachers and out-of-town
dancers, was held at a private home,
in a garden setting.

The decorating committee submitted
several sketches, and we finally selected
an hacienda scene, a full-scale replica of
an outside wall of a typical Mexican
hacienda with the authentic Mexican
adornments, serape, large sombreros,
Flowers, and a tile roof. By May, the
program committee had completed the
list of dances for the evening program.

after-party committees.

By sending out the list of dances in ad-
vance of the festival, the out-of-town
dancers had an opportunity to learn
those they did not know or to review
ones they had not been doing recently.

The registration committee, having
decided on the motif for the name
badges, were ready to take care of ad-
vance registration. A letter went to the

JUNE 1960

and everyone is asked to form one large
circle; we explain that no one has to
know how to square dance, just how to
walk. The formation is also used to
teach the basic figures, such as Forward
and Back, Baek-to-Back, Do-Si-Do,
Swing, and Promenade.

Following this, four couples are
asked to go to the center of the Floor,
join hands in a circle, each gent to have
his back to one of the sides of the area.
All then drop hands and the ladies are
asked to stand alongside of their part-
ners. Then all are instructed to extend
their free arm out to the side, not toward
any other person in the set, and when
their fingertips are about six inches
away from their neighbors’, they are
taking up the right amount of space.
All are then asked to make up their own
sets. From then on, the original figures
taught in the large circle are used in
various ways in square-dance forma-
tion.

All dances are for the enjoyment of
the greatest number, rather than for
those few who may consider themselves
“experts.” It has been found that the

leader of each state and out-of-state
round-dance group, asking for the
names of those who would be attending
the festival. Having these names in ad-
vance expedited registration on the fes-
tival day. (It may be of interest to
know that we had dancers from Kansas,
Colorado, California, and Oklahoma.)

By now the after-party committee had
selected the menu and made arrange-
ments with the auditorium manager to
have the tables placed on the dance
Floor immediately after the last dance
on the program. This was a time for
visiting, renewing acquaintances, dis-
cussing dances taught at the afternoon
Workshop, and enjoying the fellowship
of our friends in the round-dance move-
ment.

The other committees serving on the
festival were: reception and greeters,
Hoor, and
notes. The coordination committee was

coordination, workshop

a stand-by group, whose members

simplest combinations of figures bring
about the greatest applause. Instruction
is kept to the minimum so that a new
dance can be taught in not more than
a minute to a minute and a half. Some-
times even a walk-through is not neces-
sary, and a simple talk-through does the
trick.

To add variety, progressive circle
dances, as well as simple contras, Vir-
ginia Reel, Freeport Reel, waltz qua-
drilles are used. They are well liked,
even by the teenagers who make up
a large percentage of the dancers. The
social dances include fox trot, two-step,
waltz, polka, rhumba, samba, and, for
the young people, the Lindy and Rock’n’
Roll. Numerous mixers are also used.

No longer an experiment, the dance
program has proven an unqualified suc-
cess, both in re-ereating community in-
terest in a family activity, and as a
means of integrating a migratory people
into the community through a whole-
some form of recreation.-——ED DUR-
LACHER, one of the top square-dance
callers and teachers in the country, is
head of Square Dance Associates.

.
———_—————_————————————————_————_———___________————————————

would fill in on the festival day should
a committee member be unable to be
present. They were also to be ready to
serve in the event that more pe0ple were
needed on any other committee. The
workshOp-notes committee was respon-
sible for seeing that each dancer had
a copy of the workshOp notes, and a
list and directions for each dance taught
in the afternoon workshop. This book
of notes was compiled and mimeo-
graphed at our office.

Although the time from September
1958 to June 1959 seemed a long time,
it really flew for those working on com-
miItees. The day of the festival arrived
with everything ready. A dream was
being fulfilled, and we were all antici-
pating a day we would never forget.

P3. The following week the niunir‘i-
pal auditorium was reserved for the
1960 festival to be held July 16.~——LOU
HAMILTON, superintendent of recrea-
tion, San. Antonio, Texas.

269

 

HE TWANG 0F ball against racket
is heard in the land as recreation
tennis programs get under way

for the 1960 season. Tennis, once a
sport for the few, has enjoyed increas-

ingly greater popularity among more
and more people, particularly young-
sters, as more public recreation agen-
cies have incorporated this exhilarating
sport into their programs.

Some of the early problems surround-
ing tennis still remain. The game re-
quires a great deal of space, and, as
basically set up, can accommodate only
four people at one time. Tournament
play involves complications: varied
forms of play, such as singles, doubles,
mixed doubles, men’s and women’s,
senior and junior; proper seeding of
players; scheduling court time; and so
on. Yet many community recreation
departments are finding it an exceed-
ingly worthwhile year-round activity
which can be made generally available
through group instruction.

The following notes describe tennis
programs initiated by several recreation
departments to make tennis more gen-
erally available to all age groups, in
terms of time. court facilities, the play-

270

develOped his powerful game

ers’ physical condition and ability.

The Short—Set Match

Shortened matches are not new to
the tennis-teaching profession; for
years instructors have had to direct
tennis events for student and club mem-
bers where conditions limited the num-
ber of games to be played in a match.
If we are seriously trying to present
tennis to the American public through
community recreation and school pro-
grams, we must be realistic about our
demands for skill and endurance.

To see what we could accomplish
along these lines in Monterey, Cali-
fornia, we set up a peninsula-wide tennis
association for adults and youngsters.
For the first time, professional instruc-
tion was available in all the city recrea-
tion programs and physical education
classes of these communities. Here is
how we set Up our tournaments:

Using a new type of tournament
form, all tennis players were listed as
they arrived at the courts. Each match
consisted of one short set (first player
to win four games and to be two games
ahead.) Winners always played win-
ners and losers played losers. Each pcr-

The upswing

Richard A. Gonzales, better known as Pancho,

on the municipal courts of Los Angeles

under the coaching of Perry Jones.

After winning two straight national singles titles,
he turned pro in 1949, went on to greater fame.

son or team played three or four
matches in two to two and a half hours,
with matches averaging twenty minutes
of play. Five points are given losers
and ten points to winners plus the net
points (games) won or lost during each
match.

A survey of participants revealed
that:

' Most
singles.
° It’s fun to play several different op-
ponents. Each person tends to seek his
own ability level.

° Players like to play, then sit and gab,
then play again.

From the director's
point of view, the following are favor-
able factors:

° It‘s a happy tournament and there-
fore enjoyable to run.

° It takes only a couple of hours, thus
there is always a final result.

° There is only one complete loser for

players prefer doubles to

tournament

every eight participants. with three
matches played.

The Montcrey Peninsula Tennis As-
sociation recommends: (ll a four-game
set and match; (2) six-game set and
match: or ('3) an eight-game set and

RECREATtON

<1

\.

J

in tennis

The Chicago Park District conducts tennis clinics for
youngsters and adults. Here, an instructor at the dis-
trict’s Waveland Courts is demonstrating prOper service.

match. Each set must be won by two
games; i.e., 4-2, 5-3, etcetera.

Most players prefer to win by a tight
score, and tournament players general-
ly feel they have a better chance in two
out of three sets or, better yet, three
out of five. But winning by a tight score
requires proper matching of opponents
rather than longer matches, at least in
our estimation. In this respect, one-set
matches enable more tennis to get
played and thus allow of more proper
matching.

Tournament directors will quickly
rccognize the following advantages of
the short set. Tournament officials al-
ways face scheduling doubles, singles,
and mixed doubles. Then, there are the
thirty-one recognized divisions of play,
and one player can enter as many as
fivc different events in one tournament.
We recommend conducting a singles,
a doubles, or a mixed doubles event, not
all three categories. Since playing timc
is greatly accelerated, qualifying rounds
can be played to place players in several
divisions of elimination play that have
draws of sixteen or less. Then, too, the
championship division could have a
consolation tournament for first-round

JUNE 1960

losers. The losing semifinalists can play
off for third and fourth place.—PETER
J. ALDRETE, 546 Dutra Street, Monte-
rey, California; EARL ARNETT, City
Hall, Pacific Grove, California; and
WILLIAM WAKEFIELD, P.0. Box 600,
Carmel, California.

Any of the authors will be happy to
answer any inquiries you may have
about their program—Ed.

Upswing in Cincinnati

One of Cincinnati’s most unusual
tennis activities is a Novice Tournament
for nontournament winners, conducted
for the past seven years. Its purpose is
to reach players who have never won a
tournament or even reached the quarter
finals of any tournament having thirty-
two or more entries, or the semifinals in
a tournament with sixteen or less (ex-
cept the novice) . Even the novice win-
ner of any one year, in any age group,
cannot play the following year in this
tournament. Also ineligible are p'ayers
who have received a varsity letter in
high school or college. Our slogans
have been: “The tournament you can
win" and “Players from seven to sev-
enty can play.”

Now a game for “players
from seven to seventy.”

 

The clamor for lighted courts increases yearly in all
areas, and recreation departments are trying to meet the
demand. Here, girls practice under lights in Los Angeles.

We have utilized the following regu-
lations for the novice tournament. All
matches are limited to singles, with two
age groups (fifteen and over, fifteen
and under) for both sexes. Players must
come from their home community, and
all neighborhood tournaments start on
the same day. Neighborhood winners
ultimately meet in citywide finals. One
community may have as many as four
entries in each age classification, based
on total entries in an age group. For
example:

0 Up to 23 entries qualifies one

player

0 24 to 32 entries qualifies two

players

0 33 to 48 or over entries qualifies

four players
However, only one winner in each age
group from the neighborhood is award-
ed a trophy, the runner-up a certificate.
Wherever possible, clinics are conduc-
ted at the same time as the community
matches.

In 1959. this was Cincinnati’s largest
tennis event, with a total of 393 partici-
pants. Tllis type of tournament en-
courages the average player who feels
that he has at least a fighting chance

271

to win this event. We have also noticed
that the winners of the Novice play with
the more skillful players the next year.
More tournaments, plus this special one,
have been responsible for the upswing
in tennis in Cincinnati.——ROBERT E.
COADY, supervisor, tennis and special
events, Public Recreation Commission,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

The Novice Tournament has also
proved popular in other parts of the
country. It received its maior impetus
in Detroit, Michigan, where it has been
the “baby” of Harvey Barcus of The
Detroit News since 1933. He claims
it is “the world's largest tennis compe-
tition.” It is cosponsored by the De-
troit Parks and Recreation Department
and the Patrons Tennis Association.

——Ed.
Any Season, Any Hour

Brookline, Massachusetts, is a tennis
town. Long a mecca for tennis lovers
who have come there over the years to
watch the many National Doubles
Championships, it is also a town whom
public recreation department fosters an
extremely popular tennis program for
everybody. Jack Lynch, chairman of
the New England Tennis Development
Committee, sent us the following infor-
mation on the tennis setup in Brookline.

Each summer a tennis supervisor is
appointed to direct the program for the
many playgrounds with tennis courts,
and the playground leaders familiarize
themselves thoroughly with the game. A
top tennis expert is invitcd to town to
lecture these leaders on tennis funda-
mentals, rules, ways of developing top
players while still playing for enjoy-
ment, and so forth. Several methods of
instruction are described: hitting the
ball against the wall or a bang board;

 

W IIEN JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER, Jr.
died on May 12, at the age of
eighty-six, he left behind a new concept
of the American billionaire. Here was a
man who used his great wealth for the
betterment of his country and fellow
citizens, not for capricious self-indul-
gence. The parks and recreation field
will remember him as a philanthropist
who did much to conserve the natural
beauty of the nation’s landscape—for-
ests, mountain ranges, lakes, and parks.
While he and his family had explorcd
most of the national parks, he claimed
he had no favorite park—-“Like your

272

working in two’s for singles instruction,
in four’s for doubles; and the large
clinic group. In this method of group
instruction, pupils are broken down in-
to groups of from ten to fifteen pupils
per instructor, and all work on one
stroke a day.

The tennis clinic can be an effective
way of teaching, particularly when ex-
pert outside help is available in con-
junction with assistance from local in-
structors and volunteers. To obtain
best results and good publicity, such a
program should be planned to extend
over a six-to-eight-week period. This
is a good public service because it pro-
vides many youngsters and any interest-
ed adult beginners with expert free
coaching on an organized basis. Tennis
enthusiasm runs so high that, despite
the hour-long rain preceding a clinic a
couple of years ago, over six hundred
interested participants of all ages
showed up. Firemen and their friends
climb the playground fences at 5:30
in the morning, to get in a couple of
sets before eight, when the playgrounds
opcn but when they have to be at work.
Others have been known to shove] the
snow off thc courts in the winter to kecp
in tennis trim. The clamor for lightcd
courts increases yearly. In many New
England communities lighted tennis
courts are available for play until elcven
at night.

Onc of the devices to keep ’em play-
ing when the courts get overcrowded
is multidoubles. This form of tennis is
played with four or more players to a
team or sidc. Two players play two
Opponents for two games and thcn the
other tcam mcmbers substitute two play-
ers at a time. playing two new oppo-

chi‘drcn. you love. each one of them for
dilfcrent reasons.”

Among Mr. Rockcfcller’s contribu-
tions: ACADIA NATIONAL PARK—$3.-
571.000 for land acquisition and re-
lated projects.

“SAVE-Tun -Rsowoons” LEAGUE—$2.-
027,000 to protect California’s red-
woods in what is now Humboldt Statc
Park. He later gave an additional mil-
lion to save anothcr rcdwood grove.

YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK—$1,646,-
000 to save thc sugar pines in Yosemite.

JACKSON HOLE PRESERVE—$19,370,000
to add this Wyoming valley to Grand

nents for an additional two games. This
system continues to alternate every two
games. When the teams are of equal
ability, it is great fun and accommo-
dates many players.

The United States Lawn Tennis As-
sociation has a very successful Junior
Tennis Development Committee and
Program, headed by a capable chair-
man, Martin L. Tressel. Based in New
York City, this committee works closely
with fifteen local sectional USLTA as-
sociations, and is glad to refer any ten-
nis program inquiries to the nearest
sectional association. Thus, you can ob-
tain expert help in setting up such a
tennis program in your community.
Also, when you know that some top-
notch players are visiting in your area,
it is often possible to secure their en-
thusiastic participation in your tennis
clinics and exhibitions if you have the
Close cooperation of your local tennis
association.

Propcrly promoted, taught, and or-
ganized, tennis is a great game for rec-
reation programs—for champion or
novice, for boys and girls. parcnt and
child. oldster or youngster—during any
season and at any hour.

These variations on tennis have
been checked out by RECREATION
Magazine with the United States lawn
Tennis Association, and do not, in any
way, contravene any of its regulations.
If you have any questions about your
present tennis program, or would like
to set one up, write Ed Baker, United
States lawn Tennis Association, 120
Broadway, New York 5, for adult pro-
grams. For youngsters, get in touch
with Martin Tressel at the same ad-
dress.——Ed.

John D. Rockefeller

Teton National Park.

PALISADES INTERSTATE PARK (NY.-
NJ .)—SI.0,255,000 to prcscrve and dc-
ve10p the lower Palisades.
SHENANDOAII NATIONAL PARK—$164,-
000 to hclp construct Skyline Drive.
FonT Tnvox PARK (New York City)—
35,930,000 in land and $20,000,000 to
create thc Cloisters, a muscum of 111e-
dicval Europcan art. particularly church
art and architccturc.

WILLIAsIsBunc, VIRGINIA—more than
$60,000,000 for onc of the most ambi-
tions and pcrfcct restorations evcr ac-
complishcd.

RECREATION

Fishing, food and
fun for the
nine-to-hfteens.

The 8.8. OPTIMIST CLUB brings
a weary but happy crew cargo
into port after day well-spent.

Roy Muschany

 

Dr. M uschany, boys’ service chairman,
starts the trip by answering eager ques-
tions, shows boys how to bait a hook.

 

 

Fishing lessons are put into use. Now
to sec i] ,h‘sh bite. Eighty-hoe percent of better way to spend a summer after-

the youngsters had never been fishing.

Sunshine and a baited hook . .

 

. what

noon? This dream became actuality.

RIVER BOAT FOR BOYS

ARE A BOY from a crowded and
T smoky rundown section of the

city and put him on a boat in
the middle of a lake in the sunshine and
fresh air. Let him fish to his heart’s
content for a day with large, juicy
worms or dough bait, eat all the hot
dogs and cake and drink all the soda
pop he desires. Add to this the com-
panionship of an adult who can help
him bait his fishing poles and answer
the many questions that a boy will ask,

 

Reprinted with permission from. The
Optimist Magazine, January 1959. DR.
MUSCHANY is an active Optimist.

JUNE 1960

and you have a perfect formula for
happiness.

And this is exactly what the South
Side St. Louis Optimist Club did last
summer on the SS Optimist for 847
boys from nine to fifteen.

The idea for this project came to me
last February While I was gazing over
the Mississippi River from my living-
room window. Why not, I thought,
build a super-safe boat to take boys
fishing on beautiful Lake Alton above
St. Louis, and the Mississippi and Illi-
nois Rivers? There was no activity of
this kind for boys in the St. Louis area.

At the next meeting of our club I
presented my new boys work project to

the membership. They gave me a full
vote of confidence to see if my plan
could be accomplished by a service club
with only sixty-eight members.

Consulted Coast Guard

First I consulted with Commander
Ray J. Fugina of the United States
Coast Guard, from whom I received ex-
cellent cooperation and advice. Because
of his help we were able to build a safe
passenger boat without making costly
mistakes. His recommendations were
fully complied with and we passed our
inspection with flying colors.

George and Jerry Holtgrewe, owners
of the Humboldt Boat Sen ice. agreed to

9.73

 

,S/wp 970w
FUR SUMMER PRUERAMS

SHOOTING AND HUNTING

Helps in setting up and improving progroms
to teoch these skills in schools, camps, cal-
leges, recreotionol groups.

[I 1960 81/2x11 94 p. Illus. $2.00

CASTING AND ANGLING

Companion to SHOOTING AND HUNTING,
this how-to-da-it guide is useful to both
teacher and novice.

[I 1958 31/,x11 52 p. $2.00

Illus.

OUTDOOR EDUCATION

Gives practical examples of activities and
projects oppropriate to children 5-11 yeors
old.

[I 1956 32 p. 75¢

OFFICIAL GUIDES for Girls and
Women's Sports

[I Aquatics, 1959-61, swimming, div-
ing, synchronized swimming, smoll
croft .......................................... .. 75¢

E] Winter Sports and Outing Activi-
ties, 1959-61, camping, rinery,
fishing ........................................ .. 75¢

|:| Recreationol Gomes ond Sports,
1957 shumeboord, toble and deck
tennis, harsehoes, croquet .......... .. 75¢

E] Archery - Riding, 1960-62 .......... ..$1.00

El Tennis - Badmlntan, 1960-62 . ...$1.00

I: Group Gomes for Girls and Wam en,
1957 ..     50¢

I" — _ _ — — _ _ — — _ _ _ _ ——1
jAAHPER - NEA

I
.1201 - 16th Street, N.w., :
{Washington 6, D. C. |
I

[Please send copies as markedl
Iabove. (2-9 copies of one title,|

j10°/o discount,- 10 or more,j

I2oo/ol I

jCheck enclosed [:1 Bill me [1'

[Name

I
IAddress.. .____

I
I
I
I
I I
:City __ State :
I
I

I tEncIase payment with orders of $1.00
I or Iessl

 

 

build our boat for one thousand dollars
less than cost when they learned the
purpose of our project. Ron Brocking-
ton, of the Mercury Outboard Motors,
arranged for us to buy two sixty-horse-
power, Mark 75 motors at a huge dis-
count.

In order to complete the superstruc-
ture and pilot house it was necessary
for me to call on industrial and com-
mercial leaders for their donation of
services or products. Not a single com-
pany or individual refused my request.
In less than thirteen weeks a total of
$10,200 worth of material and finished
products had been donated and our
boat was ready for launching. We emp-
tied our boys work treasury of $4,798,
earned from the sale of Christmas trees,
and today we have a boat valued at
nearly $15,000.

Carpenters, welders, painters, plumb-
ers, roofers, electricians, and do-it-
yourself workmen contributed their
services and labor on Saturdays, Sun-
days, and holidays in order that our
dream boat could become a reality.
Some were Optimists, many were not,
but all these men had one thing in com-
mon—goodness in their hearts. Our
boat is docked at the Palisades Yacht
Club at Portage Des Sioux, Missouri,
one of the finest boat harbors anywhere,
thanks to Donald J. Miravalle, who gave
us this berth.

First Boat Ride for Most

Every Saturday and Sunday we take
fifty underprivileged boys from various
boys’ homes, community centers,
YIIICA, Cul) and Boy Scout groups,
juvenile delinquents, or any group of
worthy boys on a twenty-five-mile cruise
they will never forget. We have found
that ninety percent of these boys had
never had a boat ride and eighty-live
percent had never gone fishing.

All youth programs must have ade-
quate supervision to be successful, and
from the first trip we made to the last,
our club kept a ratio of at least one man
for every four boys. Our Optimist mot-
to, “Friend of the Boy,” had its fullest
meaning on our boat, as every man was
a buddy to four boys.

My wife can testify that these trips
give a boy an enormous appetite. She
prepared over 2,200 wieners and rolls,
cut up over 155 sweet cakes, and, above
all, was a perfect hostess and mother to
847 boys from June through September.
My two sons served as deckhands and
soda jerks.

For those interested in statistics. our
boat is forty-six feet long, sixteen feet
wide, draws only eleven and a half
inches of water, has two feet of free-
board and is made of 3/16-inch steel
plate. The hull has four watertight
bulkheads with hatch covers and, for
additional safety, a transverse steel
plate was welded in to prevent tipping
should all the boys run from one side
of the boat to the other. A forty-four-
inch chain-link fence with two gates,
complete with padlocks, protects the
boys from falling into the river. A
3500-watt electric generating plant sup-
plies all the current for a large refriger-
ator, electric appliances, air horns,
ceiling lights, running lights, search-
light, radio, and television.

Our plans for the future will lie to
book passage for over twelve hundred
boys next year, and, in a little over
eight years, we should go over the tcn-
thousand mark in our ship's log.

In addition, it is our 110pe that this
boat, and what it stands for, will bring
new blood into our club, strengthen
the fcllowship of our lncmbers and their
families and create a form of relaxation
so important to the fast pace in which

we live. #

 

EACH 0? US has need to escape occasionally from
the noisy world which surrounds us and find re-
frcsllmcnt in the grandeur of nature, Yet, year after
year, our scenic trcasu res are bcin g plundered by what
we call “advancing civilization.” If we are not. care-
fttl, we shall leave our children a legacy of billion-
dollar roads leading nowlIerc except to other congested
places like those they left f)€llffttl.-—GI~ZNI~ZRAI. or Tm:
ARM Y OMAR NELSON BRADLEY.

 

RECREATION

for the

Administrator

NOTE

Uses of a Park
Balboa Park in San Diego, California, is one of the

largest and oldest municipal parks in the United States.
Its 1,400 acres were dedicated for park purposes in 1868
when San Diego had a population of only 2,310. The park
has had an interesting history. It has been the setting for
two international expositions, the first of which led to a
number of buildings of unusual design being erected in the
park. Although intended as temporary buildings, many are
still in use.

Like other large city parks, Balboa Park has been sub-
jected to encroachment pressures, and portions of the park
have been assigned nonconforming uses. Because of the
present and potential significance of the area, a citizens
committee was appointed “to study the historical and exist-
ing facilities and uses of Balboa Park to ascertain present
and future problems relative to these facilities and uses
and propose solutions for these problems.” Among the gen-
eral policies recommended by the committee are the fol-

George Butlcr

lowing:

° Balboa Park, as a municipal endeavor, should conform
to that which is regarded as a true function of government
-—-the provision of services for the community which the
individual, the family, or the neighborhood cannot afford
to provide for themselves. The city charter sets forth that
the usage of Balboa Park should be confined to those ac-
tivities which are “cultural, educational, or recreational,
and which are open to the public.” Further exclusive and
permanent use of buildings and areas by limited interest
groups at the expense of the public as a whole should not
be permitted.

' As future cultural activities are developed, their location
within Balboa Park will augment the present great cultural
and educational assets of this area, thus creating a cultural
center for all our citizens.

° With the development of the program outlined by the
master plan of parks and recreation for district parks, rec-
reation centers, community centers and such, many organ-
ized physical recreation programs can be handled at the
neighborhood level.

° The deve10pment of freeways or major streets to the
north and south of the park, in order to accommodate all
east-west crosstown traffic, must be encouraged. This will
make possible the creation of a pedestrian island in the

central park-building group area.

' Many activities are conducted in Balboa Park simply be-
cause adequate building facilities are not available else-

where. . . . Those buildings retained only to serve such

extraneous uses should ultimately be removed as more suit-
able facilities for such nonpark activities become available

outside the park.

 

for the purposes of serving park patrons within the park
proper, are not inconsistent with municipal controls of
Balboa Park. Lcases, grants of land, or any lcgal agrec-
ment which would tend to grant the leaseholder a degree of
autonomy that weakens the direct responsibility of our city
government to the people for every phase of Balboa Park’s
operation should not be permitted.

' Increased public information should bc provided con-
cerning the multitude of cultural, educational, recreational
activities and displays conducted in Balboa Park.

° We must recognize and strengthen the spiritual, moral,
physical, and cultural values of Balboa Park—as a park—
as worthwhile in itself and as worthwhile in those activities
which it makes possible.

Coordinated Public Leisure

Fremont, California, has joined the ranks of the exceed-
ingly few communities in which all public leisure programs
are administered through a coordinated department. The
Fremont Department of Community Recreation is com-
posed of three divisions: libraries, parks, and recreation.
All three divisions will seek to develop a well-rounded leisure
program satisfying all recreation needs from a children’s
theater and after-school recreation program to senior citi-
zens groups and evening round tables. Establishment of the
coordinated department is designed to facilitate cooperation
with other agencies, such as the schools, the Alameda Flood
Control District, and private groups interested in cultural
programs.

Intercounty Cooperation

A Supervisors Intercounty Committee, composed of
county supervisors representing six counties in the Detroit
Metropolitan Area, is tackling the mounting problems of
metropolitan centers. The committee does not represent
another government layer, but rather a means of utilizing
to the fullest the inherent strength of existing government

—--
:35: 3
- ‘1

h
I
-
I
I'
I

, all“
Iltllllll
II
III!
III?

I7.
71"

. mill
Imam“

'1'.“ .

'I
A

IIBZ'IIIII
II

I!» x
/

IIIIIII
IIIIIIIII
.2
BEI'IIIIIII
ill-mm
neuron“
Elohim!!!“
Ina
III

THB‘3\TI I” \Y
EVLKING '05:

A

Copyright Curtis Publishing Co. 1949
Reprinted with special permission.

“Anyone who gets it over the net gets a point. Okay?”

' Private enterprise operations, both nonprofit and profit,

JUNE 1960 275

tools and agencies within the region. Five standing com—
mittees, one a recreation committee, were appointed by the
Supervisors Intercounty Committee, each to specialize in a
specific major area. Committee functions are to encourage
studies of specific problems and, after proposals have re-
ceived unanimous approval of the Intercounty Committee,
to recommend them to the respective boards of supervisors
for action.

Waterfront Zoning

The zoning of waterfront properties presents unusual
problems. William D. Welch, of the Tennessee Valley Au-

thority, discusses commercial waterfront zoning in an arti-

cle in the Tennessee Planner (April-June 1958) :

At present the principal use of a commercial nature on the
reservoir shoreline is that of the commercial boat dock. This
use is very essential for the enhancement of recreational bene-
fits. But, at the same time, it can he very detrimental to the
point of becoming a nuisance, due to bright lights, noise, hours
of Operation, etcetera, if not properly related in its location to
adjacent uses. DeveIOping criteria for delineating land for
waterfront commercial use is one of the most difficult prob-
lems. The solution appears to be in the designation of a “spe-
cial use” zone. This special use zone would be developed
around recreation as the principal use. Using this approach,
a commercial waterfront zone would not he created, and the
boat docks, concession stands, etcetera, although commercial
in nature when viewed independently, would become support-
ing or accessory uses in the recreational zone.

Mr. Welch listed a number of conditions that are to be
included in the TVA’s special zone in order to avoid the
utilization of too much of the area zoned for recreation use

and to control the nuisance factor of the boat docks and

concession stands. These are:

The applicant must own or control one thousand feet of con-
Iinnous shoreline parallel to the sailing line or the nine-foot
navigation channel.

If the prOposed location is on a tributary or in a cove. he
must own or control the land on both sides of the cove or tribu-
tary unless same is more than five hundred feet across at the
proposed site. If more than five hundred feet across, he must
own one thousand feet along one side of the cove, parallel to
the sailing line or main channel of this tributary.

He must have one-hundred-foot sideyards between any per-
manent or floating structure and his side property line.

He must provide adequate parking space depending on the
number of boat storage slips and boats for rent.

No recreational accessory use may be located on areas de-
veloped and designated as public access points by the Corps
of Engineers.

11 is felt that these conditions will control the detrimental in-
fluence on adjoining uses and conserve the recreational value

of the land.

In Brief

' The high cost of purchasing land in built-up areas is il-
lustrated by the eXperience in a large eastern city which
purchased an old car-barn site of 1.83 acres for a play-

ground at a cost of $600,000.

° Philadelphia has included $2,350,000 in its 1960 capital-
hndget authorizations for recreation and cultural agencies
or departments. In the approved 1960-1965 capital pro-
gram, 816,823,400 is included for recreation and cultural
purposes, including libraries. This represents two percent
of the city’s total capital program for the five-year

period. #

 

   

  
       
   
   
   
   
   
      

student publications, and student government.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING Co.
1041 New HAMPSHIRE
LAWRENCE, KANSAS

years.

Name ____.._  g?

—‘—n- ~--——-——‘-

Address- _. -_ .. _

City ...___ .

 

276 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

“Every Issue is Full of lined Ideas”

Gerald M. Van Pool, a leading figure on the national education scene, urges state Student
Council secretaries to subscribe to SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Magazine because “every issue
is full of good ideas to help us improve student eonncils.”—GEIIALD M. VAN POOL, Director
of Student Activities National Education Association.

Every student leader and faculty sponsor of an activity in your school will appreciate the down-to-earth
ideas and suggestions in SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Magazine. In your school library, it will help you

month after month in planning successful programs for assemblies, plays, clubs, athletics, debate, music,

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES is the only national magazine in the extracurricular field. Readers look to it

for expert leadership and rely on it to help them solve their problems in any student activity program.

Please enter my subscription to SCIIOOL ACTIVITIES for

State __ __

 
    
  
 
 
 

SUBSCRIBE NOWI

One Year $4.00
Two Years $7.00

Clip and mail

the order form to:

Recum‘nox

RECREATION for the

111 and Handicapped

+ Health, recreation, and welfare agen-
cies have been requesting advice, with
increasing frequency, from the NRA
Consulting Service on training workers
in coordinated agency recreation pro-
grams for servicing the homebound
chronically ill and handicapped. This
trend fits in with the current interest in
such planning for nursing homes and
homes for the aged, located in one area.

As such recreation programs for the
chronically ill homebound increase, we
need a whole new subgroup of recrea-
tion workers who will have to be trained
for this field—the subprofessional or
recreation aide. The Consulting Serv-
ice has found in its coordinated nurs-
ing-home programs, that no matter how
successful, there was a lack of continu-
ity in the program. One or two visits
a week from a worker, jointly paid by
several homes, left the patient with
nothing to do in between.

In several states, the owners, them-
selves, devised the idea of jointly pay-
ing a professional worker to initiate
and supervise the program, then en-
gaged a subprofessional to direct the
program under the director’s supervi-
sion. These pe0ple are paid from $1.30
to $2.00 an hour, work from three to
four hours an afternoon, three to five
days a week, depending on the size
of the home. Many persons—retired
nurses, school teachers, and recreation
professionals—are interested in such
part-time work.

+ The Consulting Service has begun a
study of some of the programs in our
larger hoSpitals. We find that many hos-
pital recreation departments do not use
arts and crafts, hobbies, or music to pro-
vide patients with recreation experience,
purely for pleasure. Many hOSpital rec-
reation departments do not offer adult
education and some do not offer dra-
matics. We agree that the use of music
and art as therapeutic tools should be
done by music and art therapists—and
occupational therapists can do a marvel-
ous job of using arts and crafts to bring
about functional improvement, but we
firmly believe that arts and crafts, music

and hobbies should also be used to
provide the sense of satisfaction, the op-

 

 

MRS. HILL is director, National Recrea-
tion Association Consulting Service on

Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped.
JUNE 1960

Beatrice H. Hill

portunity for self-expression, the re-
freshment of body and spirit, the pure
pleasure that is recreation. This is the
objective of recreation service, and
meeting this objective is completely our
responsibility. We would appreciate let-
ters from you telling us if you use these
activities for this purpose in your agen-
cy or institutions, and if not, why not.

We have also observed that very few
hospital recreation programs are set up
so that recreation therapists can work
closely with the physician in preparing
patients for their return to community
living. In any attempt at comprehensive
rehabilitation, it seems highly important
that patients be helped to make a suc-
cessful social adjustment to community
life.

The NRA Consulting Service believes
the recreation professional must take the
initiative in letting physicians know that

. the recreation Specialist is prepared to

assist in the process of preparing men-
tally or physically handicapped persons
for a successful return to life outside.
He must emphasize the following: (1)
patients need opportunities to learn
what they can do and enjoy doing, (2)
patients need to know about recreation
resources and facilities available in the
communities to which they expect to re-
turn, and (3) patients’ families, friends,
and others need help in planning and in
taking reSponsibility for seeing to it that
the patient has a happy time when he
returns home.

is Plans for the hospital sessions of the
42nd National Recreation Congress are
under full steam, jointly planned by
Sidney Acqu and me. Mr. Aculf is

recreation director of Eastern State
Hospital, Knoxville, Tennessee, also
chairman of the hospital section of the
American Recreation Society. At this
point, we are planning to devote one
entire afternoon to recreation for the
aged. If you have any suggestions for
this, please write the NRA Consulting
Service on Recreation for the Ill and

Handicapped or Mr. Acuff.

+ FLASH: A special fund-raising cam-
paign is now being planned for the Con-
sulting Service this fall. Funds will be
earmarked for the Consulting Service’s
on-going activities. As you know. much
of the Service’s program is based on
special projects but it wants to provide
more direct individual service to you.#

   
 

    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

Fun For Everyone!

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recree-
tion for all eges . . . leen enjoyment
for pleyers end spectetors.

Rugged. Dimco FreeGlide Shuffle-
boerd sets ere oveileble for both out-
door end indoor instelletion.

Easy to instell . . . low in upleepl

Write today for colorful folder, "Let’s
Play Sbufiieooard,” containing com-
plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

Keep ’em SINGING

with these all-time favorite

SONG SLIDES

wonderful hours of fun for
young and old alike

2” x 2” slides   50¢/slide
3V4 ” x 4” slides LOO/slide

WRITE FOR CATOLOGUE S

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 48th Street
New York 36, N. Y.

JUdson 2-4926

 

 
 

 

Change of Address

If you are planning to move, notify us
at least thirty days before the date of
the issue with which it is to take effect,
if possible, in order to receive your
magazines without interruption. Send
both your old and new addresses by let-
ter, card or post 05cc form 225 to:
Subscription Department RECREATION
Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11, N. Y.

When writing to ourndrextisers. .pleasetmention RECREATION. 27'}

STATE
AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

CONNECTICUT. A representative town meeting in West-

port approved purchase of a local beach and country club
as a community recreation facility. The town took over
operation of the setup on May 30. Purchase price was
$1,925,000, financed through a bond issue. The property
includes 169 acres on Long Island Sound, with a clubhouse,
an 18-hole golf course, eight tennis courts, 20 cottages
scattered through a wooded area, riding trails, an Olympic-
size swimming pool, cabanas, a boat basin, and a long,
sandy beach.

0 The new swimming center in Newington, built at a cost
of approximately $120,000, was completed in the fall and
is scheduled for dedication during June as part of the
town’s Recreation Month celebration. The pool’s divided
diving area is 40’-by-50’ with three-meter and one-meter
diving boards. The. swimming area is 75'-by-50’, so de-
signed that it can have six swimming lanes for competitive
events. The third area, for children and swimming instruc-
tion, is the same size as the diving area.

IDAHO. The federal General Services Administration has

turned over 4-2.4 acres of government surplus property to
Pocatello for park and recreation uses. The city will pay
a fraction of the property’s original value. Development,
scheduled on a ten-to-twenty-year basis, calls for a putting
green, swimming pool, wading pool and bathhouses, chil-
dren’s playgrounds, multiple-use area, net-game area, one
lighted softball field, one unlighted baseball-diamond field-
game area (for soccer, field hockey, and so on), a model
airplane area, one lighted regulation baseball and football
field with stadium, acres of family picnic area, and informal
game areas. John L. Brenna, director of recreation, esti-
mates the entire project will cost close to $1,000,000.

INDIANA. Martin M. Nading, Jr., superintendent of rec-

reation, reports that Fort Wayne is constructing two 18-
hole, par-3 golf courses, one at Shoaff Park and another at
Macmillen Park. Fred Shoaff and the Macmillen Founda-
tion have made substantial contributions for each of these
parks. Mr. Nading expects the Shoaff Park Golf Course
to be completed by the fall, the Macmillen course by 1961.
At Macmillen, some fairways will go into a wooded area.
Shoaff Park boasts beautiful rolling terrain and some holes
will be played over a 15-foot embankment.

278

0 Michigan City has purchased lakefront property totaling
three and a quarter acres from the U. S. Coast Guard. This
includes a large, old lighthouse, built in 1853, that will be
used as the city’s historical museum. The museum will be
developed by the local historical society in cooperation with
the recreation department.

MAINE. The Scott Paper Company has deeded a 576-acre
park to the state park commission as an outright gift. Lo-
cated in the Lily Bay section of Moosehead Lake, the area
includes four miles of shoreline and offshore islands. In
Portland, Karl Switzer, director of parks and recreation,
reports plans to convert a former city dump into a par-3
golf course and park area.

MICHIGAN. The new $1,500,000 youth center in Dear-

born has fourteen clubrooms designed for meetings of adult,
as well as youth, groups. Five have built-in kitchenettes,
including range and refrigerator, and plenty of storage
space. The rooms are 16’-by-24' and those with northern
exposure can be opened via an accordion type of wall to
form larger units as needed. The youth center is part of the
city’s developing civic center on fifty acres donated by the
Ford Motor Company.

MISSOURI. At Montauk State Park, an entirely new

campground has been laid out, equipped with modern rest
rooms, showers, and coin-o-matic laundry. The area will
be reservedafor picnicking only. Trailer parking facilities
are under construction in Trail of Tears and Table Rock
State Parks, making a total of four parks with this service.

The Mark Twain Memorial Shrine in Mark Twain State
Park will be dedicated June 5, and the General John J.
Pershing Boyhood Home Memorial Shrine will be dedicated
September 13.

NE‘V YORK. Facilities for family camping will be great-

ly increased this summer to meet growing demand. The new.
2,700-acre St. Lawrence State Park, near the overlooks and
exhibits of the New York State Power Authority and the
Eisenhower and Snell Locks of the seaway, will be in full
operation for the first time this season. The Coles Creek
development of the park promises to be one of the finest
camping sites in the East. Beautifully landscaped, St. Law-
rcnce State Park, on Barnhart Island, contains a white sand
beach on the 25-mile lake formed for the seaway. Shaded
picnic areas, equipped with tables and grills, overlook the
lake. On the mainland, a new marina for pleasure boats
and a tent and trailer camping area are available.

The Thousand Islands State Park Commission has bud-
geted $100,000 for camp sites, marina, and other facilities
at Wellesley Island State Park. Additions to the picnic and
camping sites throughout the state will provide facilities
for an additional 1,500 groups this year. Toe Path Morm-
tain Park in Schoharie County was opened last year with
1,200 picnic and 35 camping sites.

Sixty-five camp sites on islands along the easterly shore
of Indian Lake in the Adirondacks will be open this year
for the first time. These sites are accessible by boat only.
The state-owned Lewey Lake camping area is a convenient
point of departure for the islands. At the Lcwcy Lake area
60 new camping sites bring the total to 176 individual sites.

RECREATION

Two other camping and picnic areas arc in the process
of development. These are the Putnam Pond camp site off
Route 73, north of Ticonderoga and Bowman Creek, in cen-
tral New York near Norwich. The latter, in Chenango
County, is being developed on state reforestation land. At
Northampton Beach, Route 30, two miles south of North-
ville on the Sacandaga Reservoir, one hundred new picnic
sites have been completed and plans call for more additions
this year.

Development and expansion have progressed rapidly in
state parks on the Hudson River. The Taconic State Park
Commission has budgeted $700,000 this year to continue
development of M ohansic and Lake Toghkam'c State Parks.
The Palisades Interstate Park Commission has allotted
$750,000 to continue expansion at Lake Welch in the Har-
riman State Park section as well as $100,000 for group
camping modernization and $60,000 for docking facilities.

The Genesee State Park Commission has underway a
$300,000 development in the northern section of Letch-
worth State Park. Other appropriations in current budgets
for state park improvements include: Allegany State Park,
road construction, $75,000; Green Lakes State Park, bath-
ing area reconstruction, $68,000; Finger Lakes State Park
Commission, sanitary facilities, $30,000; Cayuga Lake
State Park, camping facilities, $50,000; Braddock Bay
State Park, comfort station and shelter, $45,000.

The Niagara Frontier State Park Commission has started
construction of a camp site with boating facilities, at Four
Mile Creek, to cost $150,000. Reconstruction and improve-
ment of buildings at Niagara Reservation is estimated at

$100,000.

OHIO. Visitors to the Professional Golfer’s Association
tournament at Firestone Country Club in Akron in July
will see one of the most beautiful new clubhouses in the Mid-
west. Finished in the late
summer of 1959, the modern
two-story building replaces
the one destroyed by fire in
1958. A reconstruction pro-
gram, designed to make the
country club’s 18-hole golf
course a major challenge to
the nation’s leading golfers, is
also progressing satisfactor-
ily. In the photograph on the
left Robert Trent Jones (left),
golf-course architect direct-
ing the revamping program,
and Raymond C. Firestone,
president of Firestone Tire
and Rubber, are inspecting a
recently built water hazard
at the sixteenth green. Plans
call for the size of this green
to be increased by fifty per-
ccnt. This course is open to Firestone employees only but
requires payment of small dues. Another Firestone course
in town is open to employees and public for a daily fee.

 

JUNE 1960

PENNSYLVANIA. Work on the new state park along the

Susquehanna River in Williamsport is expected to be fin-
ished in time for a July Fourth opening. This is the first
state park to be deve10ped with the cooperation of the local
recreation department and the Department of Forests and
Waters. The state has allocated a total of $34,500 to date
for the project, to be known ofiicially as Susquehanna State
Park. Many local groups also have had a hand in the un-
dertaking. The Williamsport Technical Institute will con-
tribute a great deal of work on the project. Last year, in-
stitute students rough-graded the area and clcared brush
and trees and, this year, will grade the beach area and build
a bathhouse.

The Industrial Properties Division of the Chamber of
Commerce donated land for the bathhouse and park areas.
Thc Pennsylvania Power and Light Company has made
extensive repairs to a dam across the river before turning
it over to the state without cost. The dam creates a lakelike
section on the river extending about ten miles upstream,
assuring ample water depth throughout the summer for both
swimming and boating. The company is also providing a
parking area on the land side of the dike.

The park, within a five-to-ten minute drive from the cen-
ter of town, will include a picnic area, eventually to accom-
modate 1,500 to 1,800. The 500-f00t swimming area will ac-
commodate thirteen hundred bathers. The third phase will
be a camping area.

TEXAS. The state legislature has passed a bill guarantee-
ing public access to Gulf Coast beaches. The bill gives the
county commissioners’ courts control over the beaches and
makes provisions for any county or district attorney to file
suits to remove fences or other barricades erected against
public access.

0 In San Angelo a newly acquired concrete building,
40’-by-100’, will be operated as a recreation center on a
year-round basis for all age groups. In Wichita Falls, the
parks and recreation department has cooperated with a local
improvement association to develop a playground. During
a mass tree-planting program, the department dug holes
and furnished plant material; neighborhood residents
placed the trees, backfilled, and watered them. In seventy
minutes 358 trees were planted.

WASHINGTON. A new forest-and-mountain playground

for Seattle-area campers, fishermen, picnickers, hikers, and
climbers, is being developed on the south approaches to
Mount Baker and Mount Shuksan. The development is part
of the U. S. Forest Service’s program of multiple-use of
lands it adniiniswrs. A new network of gravel-surface
roads is extending up Mount Baker’s canyon-split sides and
the Baker Lake Forest Highway cuts through Mount Shuk-
san’s heavy timberlands.

0 At Camp Long in West Seattle, park department person-
nel will use a dome-shaped covering used in mothballing
an old battleship to build an observatory for use by youth
groups. The project will cost about $2,000 with funds to
be donated. Amateur astronomers in the area will provide
a telescope. Any mothball fleets in your area? 

2T9

Filling the Job of . . .

PERSONNEL

RECREATION EXECUTIVE

Sal J. Prezioso

THE HEART of every community lies
in the city hall, for here one feels
the pulse of the community. Normal,
routine operations and plans of action
keep the beat at a steady tick. How-
ever, the unexpected often happens,
and it is then that the community
beat jumps, becomes irregular, and
its leadership must jump into action
to bring it back to normal.

 

The city of White Plains, a modern and progressive city
located in Westchester County, New York, with a popula-
tion of more than fifty thousand, had been routinely normal
for a nijmber of years. One day, however, the commissioner
of recreation, a man who had served his community well in
that capacity for more than twenty years, stepped into the
mayor’s office and tendered his resignation. Immediately
the question of how to choose a successor arose.

Naturally, the city administration wanted to obtain the
best man for the job, but it anticipated difficulty in recruit-
ing him because recreation is such a specialized field. How-
ever, the administration soon found there were plenty of
candidates. Political pressures were brought to bear; civic
and educational groups all had candidates they were sure
were “right for the job.” Subordinates in the department
felt they should be promoted merely on the basis of senior-
ity. Many a local yokcl felt that here was a soft job that
could be his if he just “pulled the right strings,” eitpecting
to fill this post with no special training nor real knowledge
of the administrative abilities required in recreation.

The city administration was certain that this could not
be a political job. The complexity of the position, together
with community demands for a “real professional,” evolved
a plan worthy of consideration by every community faced
with a similar problem.

The mayor appointed a committee of five persons for
recruiting and screening applicants, consisting of: chair-
man John Ebersole, member of the Conunon Council; John
M. Gapeo, city personnel director; Glenn Loucks, board of
education; Dr. Sal J. Prczioso, superintendent of recrea-
tion, Westehester County Recreation Commission—all from

 

DR. PREZIOSO, superintendent of recreation [or the West-
chester County Recreation Commission, White Plains, New
York, is aiso chairman of the National Advisory Commit-
tee on the Recruitment, Training, and Placement of Recrea-
tion. Personnel of the Nationai Recreation Association.

280

White Plains—and Willard C. Sutherland of the National

Recreation Association, who was asked to act as consultant.
The committee was asked to:

' Write a job specification embracing job title, required
knowledge, skills and abilities, minimum qualifications-—
education and experience—and recommended salary range.

' Decide on method of recruiting, screening, and appraisal
of applicants.

' Recruit all interested and available candidates.

' Screen and appraise applications and select outstanding
candidates for personal interviews.

' Conduct personal interviews and written examinations
and select candidates for further consideration.

' Select candidates worthy of further consideration for ap-
praisal of on-the-job performance in their present capacities.

' Recommend to the mayor and the Common Council names I
of qualified candidates considered by the committee to be
outstanding.

' Submit a written report detailing pertinent data. 4

Among the basic policies agreed upon were: (I) present I
employees of the White Plains Recreation Department
would be considered along with all other applicants; (2) re-
cruitment would not be limited to city, county, or state, but
would be open to all candidates regardless of residence;
(3) applicants would be evaluated on their records, per-
sonal interviews, written tests, and by the observations and
appraisal of the committee in their present job locations:
{4) a salary range of $9,690 to 312,540, the starting salary
to be commensurate with the qualifications of the success-
ful candidate; and (5) the committee would submit their
recommendations to the Common Council by March I,
1959. Job specificalions'werc submitted to the council for
approval. These described in detail: general statement of
duties; required knowledge, skills, and abilities; mininuun
qualifications of education and experience; the salary I
range; the required examination, consisting of evaluation II
of education and experience, personal interview, communi-
cation test, and observations and appraisal of ou-the-job
performance in present position.

Once specifications were approved, recruiting began. The
following methods were used to reach prospective candi-
dates: approximately four thousand “position vacancy I
notices” were mailed by the National Recreation Associa- 1
tion; the Westcllcstcr County Recreation Commission 
alerted other national, state, county. and local organizations;
notices were mailed to a select list of a hundred and fifty
peeplc by the commission. Notices appeared in National

RECREATION

l
l

Recreation Association Associate Newsletter under the
"Current Job Listings from the Files of the NRA” section,

E and in the New York State Recreation Society magazine

Empirec, and others. Personal contacts were made, en-
couraging all available and interested candidates to apply.

A total of eighty-five applications were received from
twenty-four states and, after careful screening, fiftecn ap-
plicants were selected for personal interviews. The appli-
cants were judged by the committee for education, experi-
ence, and other technical requirements. Field reports were
requested of NRA district representatives. Each candidate
was asked to discuss seventeen questions. This gave the
committee a chance to observe him and become acquainted
with his personality traits, judgment, maturity, professional
manner, stature, alertness, ability to present ideas, and
social adaptability. The questions covered a wide range of
subjects, such as why the candidate wanted to change jobs,
why he was interested in the White Plains position, and
what part he felt voluntary agencies should play in recrea-
tion. The questions became more specific on such subjects
as how much White Plains should spend for its public rec-
reation programs and against what standards should we
measure? Then the candidate was asked what qualities
he would look for in selecting recreation personnel.

A short written test was also given to determine the
candidates’ ability to write clearly. They were asked to ex-
plain in not more than two hundred words their objectives
as professional recreation leaders and to defend the follow-
ing statement: “Recreation should be a governmental func-
tion.” Members of the Common Council, the mayor, and
other department heads were invited to sit in on the inter-

views.

Seen at Home Base

Five applicants were selected from the fifteen interviewed
for further examination. Members of the recruitment and
screening committee, with the candidates’ permission,
visited them at home base to observe and further appraise
their abilities. They met with the local school superin-
tendents, city managers, school principals, and other de-
partment heads; they toured cities to observe programs in
action and methods used in operating and maintaining fa-
cilities; they met the candidates’ families; with the candi-
dates themselves, in their respective offices, to observe and
appraise their administrative work. After the field work
was completed, the committee submitted a written report
and made its recommendations to the mayor—five candi-
dates were recommended to the Common Council for their

:‘

consideration.

The success of this recruitment story was due in large
measure to the splendid cooperation and interest of mayor
and council members. The mayor personally escorted each
of the candidates on a tour of the city to show them first-
hand what the city had to offer and what was expected of
them. If the city fathers had not had the wisdom to take
this intelligent approach to their problem, it is quite prob-
able that the position might have become a political plum
or been filled by an unqualified person. They are indeed
to be commended! #

JUNE 1960

 

CERAMICS

the easy way I

Ceramichrome, the original one-fire ceramic colors. can
spark new life into a tired ceramic program! Recreation
leaders will soon discover its amazing versalility . . . . . per-
fect for children! Nonloxic,
easy brushing, intermixable!
Perfect results, time after
time.

FREE!

“Teach Ceramics the Easy
Way,” the information-
packed booklet designed
for recreation leaders,
teachers, occupational
therapists and others in-
terested in a simplified ap-
proach to ceramics. A
valuable addition to your
reference library.

SEND TODAY!

  
  
   

 

15215 SOUTH BROADWAY, GARDENA, CALIF.
Eastern Office: P. O. Box 4467, Pittsburgh 5, Pa.

 

REQUEST PRICES

FREE LITERATURE 6: SPECIFICATIONS

* Playground Equipment 6: Playground Plans

* Basketball Backstops
Indoor 6: Outdoor Type

* Bleachers
Gymnasium 6: Athletic Field

* Trampolins
Choice of 14 models

* Score Boards—For Every Sport

CHAMPIIIN RECREATION EIIUIP. INC.

HIGHLAND PARK, ILLINOIS

 

 

Answers to “Boating I. Q.” Test
011 page 250.

1. False 2. True 3. True 4. True" 5. True 6. True 7. False
8. False 9. True 10. False 11. True 12. False 13. False
14. True” 15. False 16. False 17. True 18. False 19. False

20. True

*This certificate is similar to car registration, but does not change
with the owner, staying the same throughout the boat’s life. Any boat
over sixteen feet must have it within ten days of purchase or there
is a ten-dollar penalty.

MIt is a safety factor in that one has to open the bilge hatch to
reach lhe keys: if there are accumulatitms of gas fumes you would
know it immediately and Ilul sldI'I the. molor. Many boat tires and
explosions have been started from bilge fumes by a spark from the.
ignition.

 

281

 

 
 
 

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

National Recreation Month Plans
During June New York City spon-

sors many popular activities in its parks
and playgrounds, among them the city-
wide photography contest and the bor-
ough track and field meets. This year,
the department of parks, in cooperation
with the Police Athletic League, is in-
troducing a festive weekend—June 11
and 12—of family-centered activities
at 110 parks and playgrounds and PAL
centers in the city. These dates coin-
cide with the national celebration of
Family Recreation Week.

The entire program is being planned,
organized, and administered by local
committees of district recreation super-
visors, recreation leaders, PAL officials,
leaders of local social agencies, and the
parents. The Family Fun Festival is the
ninth in this series of ten special pro-
grams made possible by the Robert
Moses-PAL Fund, an anonymous fifty-
thousand-dollar gift, for expanding the

regular program of both the depart-
ment of parks and PAL.

Three Cheers Department

0 Superintendent of parks and recrca-
tion Wendell Christensen has the dis-
tinction of having been twice honored
for outstanding service to his connnun-
ity of Nampa, Idaho. This year, he was
awarded the coveted Book of Golden
Deeds by the Exchange Club. in 1957.
he was so honored by the Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce.
0 The Department of the Interior
awarded its 1960 Conservation Service.
Awards to six organizations and indi-
viduals. These awards are made an-
nually to individuals or groups outside
the department for outstanding contri-
butions to conservation programs. Rec-
reation people will he particularly in-
terested in Secretary of the interior
Fred Scaton’s letter of citation to
Charles M. Coethc, long-time friend and
sponsor of the National Recreation As-
sociation. The letter said, in part:
“Millions of Americans annually
share in the benefits of the unique pro-
gram of personal interpretive services
in the national parks and monuments.
. . . in Switzerland, prior to World \Var
I, you and Mrs. Cocthc had observed
a recreational program based on nature
study for children that instilled in them

282

a sense of pride and patriotism. Trans-
planting this idea to America, you took
a step of tremendous initiative and vi-
sion when you launched, with your own
funds, the start of nature guiding in
this country. . . .

“Observing the success of your en-
deavor, the director of the National
Park Service urged you to transfer . . .
to Yosemite National Park. From this
. . . has grown the vigorous and effective
program of nature interpretation in the
National Park system today. . . .”

The Arts on \Vheels

Since the tremendously accelerated
nationwide participation in cultural ac-
tivities and arts and crafts, the Girl
Scouts have updated their training in
the specific fields of music and dance.
literature and drama, and arts and
crafts. The national organization pro-
gram department developed and de-
signed a mobile training unit, called
the Arts Caravan, to demonstrate the
latest techniques and practical aids for
Scout leaders engaged in teaching the
arts.

 

World traveler and group-work special-
ist. Ruth, Ward (right) demonstrates the
use of autoharp to Girl Scout lcadcr.
She is one of the three-member Girl
Scout Arts Caravan, headed by arts and
crafts consultant, Mrs. Alta Schroll.

Three staff members—educators in
these art fields—will travel to the coun-
cils in a specially outfitted station wag-
on. The caravan tour started in Octo-
ber 1959, and is slated to continue
through the fall of 1962, covering all
Girl Scout councils in the country.

  
    
   
   
   
 

From Coast to Coast

ARIZONA. Under the terms of a recipro
cal agreement, recreation leader Lorei
M. Thorson of the Davis-Monthan Ai
Force Base, Tucson, transferred his reg
istration as a recreation leader fro
Minnesota to Arizona. This agreemen
between these two states has been in ef
fect since March 13, 1959. The stat
also has a similar one with Pennsyl
vania.

 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
 

Mr. Thorson (left) receiving registr
tion certificate from Gilbert Ray, execu
tivc director, l’ima County Parks an
Recreation Department, and first chair
man of the Arizona Recreation Assoc
ation Board of Recreation Personne

FLORIDA. Temple Jarrell. director 0
recreation, Fort Laudcrdalc, took me
as president of the Florida Recreatio
Association in March.

OHIO. The Cincinnati l’laygroun
Mothers Association recently cstab
lishcd a scholarship fund to assist th.
city‘s rccrcalion personnel to takc ad
vanced or specialized courses of pr
fessional value to them in their wor
Three scholarships for sccond semestc
courses at the University of CincinnaLl
have been awarded from initial donut!
tions to this fund. First recipients we
recreation leaders from the followin
Ccntcrs: Mrs. Nola l. Brown, North-
side; Mrs. Sara Irving, Corryville: an
Robert J. Hughes. North Fairmounl.

   
   
 
   
 
 
    
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
   

Retirement and Appointment

0 After forty years of recreation scrv
ice, Walter L. Scott, director of nnmi
cipal and school recreation in Lon
Beach, California. is retiring. cflcclii

June 30. 1960. Born in llarringtm
Washington, in 1895. Mr. Scott ha
worked for Long Beach since 1932. wit
the exception of a year‘s leavc of ab
scncc to work for the National Rccrca
tion Association. llc was the first s
rctary of the newly created Federal ln~
[er-Agency Committee on Recreation
with headquarters in \Vashington. l).C.
from June 194-6 to June 194-7.

Prior to Long Beach, his Cchrienr
included supervision and adininistra
tion of health, physical education. am
recreation programs, teaching. an

Rscnnnm.

coaching of athletics. He has had a life-
long interest in physical education.

0 Alvin Dale Hoskins, currently as-
sistant supervisor of physical education
in Mr. Scott’s office, will be his succes—
sor. Mr. Hoskins served with the in-
fantry in EurOpe, taught in Los Angeles
junior high schools, and did a four-
year stint as coordinator of physical
education and youth services for the
Los Angeles County superintendent of
schools.

He was president of the California
Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation, and Recreation from 1956 to
1957, and has been a member of the co-
ordinating committee of thc California
Committee on Fitness since that group’s

inception in 1955.

Tennis Shorts

0 New York City youngsters hetween
nine and eighteen have been getting
free tennis lessons in city parks in Man-
tattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and the
Bronx since May 9. The Eastern Tennis
Patrons, in conjunction with the de-
partment of parks, is making it possible
for the youngsters to be taught by
skilled professional instructors, headed
by famed tennis coach Mercer Beasley.

The ETP has arranged with sporting
goods companies to supply free rackets
and balls to all boys and girls participat-
ing in the six-week series of lessons.
Prizes will also be awarded players
showing the most progress, and a city-
wide tournament will be held at the
finish of the instruction period. The
clinics, lasting two hours, end on

June 17.

0 Tennis didn’t add up to much in
Ocala, Florida, until nine years ago.
In the fall of 1951, the Ocala Recrea-
tion Commission embarked on an ex-
panded recreation program to meet the
needs of a growing community. Three
all-weather tennis courts, lighted for
night play had been built in Tuscawilla
Park. The commission hired ,lervey
Gantt for the newly created job of su-
perintendent of recreation, and Norman
Copeland, now on the Rollins College
faculty, as tennis coach and athletic di-
rector.

Under Mr. Gantt’s efficient direction,
Ocala established a sound tennis pro-
gram, on a continuous basis, by provid-
ing mass instruction, rackets, balls, and
coaching at no cost to the participant.
Three more courts were added at Tus-
cawilla in 1956. Competitions were in-
augurated and cooperation with the lo-
cal puhlic school system to teach tennis
institutcd. Mr. Gantt was particularly
interested in putting on tournaments
for the neglected group of men between
the ages of thirty-five and forty-five.
This led to the first Junior Veterans
Tournament in 1953, which became so

JUNE 1960

popular that a senior division for men
over forty-five was added. In 1960, thc
Florida Lawn Tennis Association offi-
cially designated these tournaments as
the Florida State Junior Veterans and
Seniors Hard Court Championships.

In rec0gnition of Jervey Gantt’s work
as tournament chairman, Pepsi-Cola
presented him with a plaque on April
17. The tribute typifies the continuing
support of friendship-building sports
activities by Pepsi-Cola bottlers

throughout the world.

 

Jervey Gantt (right) receiving plaque
from I. W. H oleman, president and gen-
eral manager of the Pepsi-Cola Bottling
Company, Jacksonville, Florida. Mr.
Cantt also serves as the president of
the Florida Lawn Tennis Association.

Obituaries

° Ncws has been received of the death
of Frank Kammerlohr, superintendent
of parks and recreation in Roseville,
Minnesota. Before his Roseville ap-
pointment, Mr. Kammerlohr had been
director of the Leisure Time Council
of Greater St. Paul. An old-timer in
the recreation field, he once attended
the National Recreation School in New

York City.

' The Chicago Park District commis-
sioners declared Wednesday, April 20,
an official day of mourning in memory
of fellow commissioner John F. Mc-
Guane, who had died the previous Sat-
urday at the age of sixty-six. He had
been appointed a park commissioner in
1956. The commissioners called him a
“great humanitarian” who gave “un-
stintingly . . . in assisting and encourag-
ing the young people of Chicago.”

' Dr. George J. Fisher, national Scout
commissioner of the Boy Scouts of
America, died April 20 in Madison.
New Jersey, after a long illness. He was
eighty-nine. From 1919 to 1943, he was
deputy chief Scout executive, to which
post he was invited after nine years of
volunteer Scout work.

Dr. Fisher’s long career of service
to youth started in 1906. when he ht!»
came secretary of the international com-
mittee of the YMCA and served as head

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

of its physical education department.
During World War I, he was director
of recreation and athletics for the
YMCA’s National War Work Council.
' S. Herbert Harc, well-known city
planner and landscape architect, died
April 18 in his home town of Kansas
City, Missouri. He was seventy-two.
The imprint of his talent can be seen
on such western cities as Fort Worth,
Dallas, and Houston, Texas; Topeka
and Lawrence, Kansas; and Kansas
City, where he designed projects. At
one time he served simultaneously on
the state planning boards of Missouri,
Kansas, and Iowa. #

—MOV|ES—

For Every Occasion
a:

RECREATION - EDUCATION
IoMM SOUND

Black 8. White - Color

Representing

Wolt Disney - Columbia - Warner
United Artists - Paromount

Send for 64-page FREE CATALOG

INSIIIUIIONAI. CINEMA SERVICE. INC.
41 Union Square — New York 3, N. Y.

I
. If

.6

 ninja/M  '

WHEREVER
CHILDREN PLAY

54M!

Recreation equipment with
engineered safety to meet
the most rigid requirements.

0 Playground Equipment
0 Indoor Basketball Backstops
0 Swimming Pool Equipment

Literature for each line avail-
able on request—please specify.

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED

RECREATION
EQUIPMENT CORP

Dept. RIGO — 724 W. 8th St.
Anderson, Indiana

233

 

 

' Any department or club that has Ping-pong as part of its
recreation program will be interested in a new idea in table-
tennis nets, manufactured by Perma-Net. The net, made of
eleven strands of horizontal cord similar to Venetian blind
cord, is threaded through pulleys attached to brackets of
14-inch cold-rolled, cadmium-plated, rust-resistant steel
and can be used for indoor and outdoor games. The cord’s
resiliency and the method of threading it through the
brackets keep the strands permanently at the regulation six-
inch height above the table, even if pulled or weighed down

with a heavy object. For further details, write to Perma-Net,
6478 Kemeywood Road, Parma 29, Ohio.

0 Just so you won’t come all unstuck, the Haas Company
has developed three new glues made of flexible, waterproof
plastic adhesives with high bonding strength that work well
with both porous and nonporous materials. Each type of
transparent Lyma Clue is recommended for a different pur-
pose: Type “A” in the blue plastic dispenser is for most
general craft applications. It forms a permanent bond, and
will even bond wet material. “C” Glue, in red dispenser, in-
sulates, is heat resistant, waterproof, and dries extra hard;
for use on pottery, porcelain, china, metal, glass, and wood.
The third type, Polystyrene Cement, in green dispenser, is
a special formula for use with thermosetting plastics (acryl-
ics) and for permanently bonding foam rubber to other
materials. Write for details to Haas Brothers, 19 North
Harrison Street, East Orange, New Jersey.

' Excited stadium fans, indoors or outdoors, always create
a maintenance problem by jarring seats loose from their
anchors. The Ski] Corporation has now developed a new
roto-hammer that simultaneously hammers and drills, cut-
ting drilling time in half, making it possible for one man to
replace seat fasteners in stadiums. For further information,
write the company, 5033 Elston Avenue, Chicago 48.

' Manual arts departments,
crafts, and hobby groups will
find their work made much
easier with a new work and
hobby bench that provides a
complete workshop in eight
square feet of floor space.
This bench is 341/2” high,
has a No-Mar 24”-lJy-28” top
made of l%"-thiek com-
pressed aspen board, and a
rigid all-steel frame with
smooth, finished edges. A
double tic 48”-steel tool rack,
with 64 openings of various sizes, holds a complete set of
tools, is attached to a peg-board back panel. The 12”-hy-
20” steel storage drawer, with a safety stop device to prevent
its falling out, is provided for small parts. The unit is easily

 

284

NEWS

  
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
   
  

For further information regardin;
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean Wachtel

assembled with prepositioned nuts built into the frames. For

complete information, write S. A. Hirsch Manufacturin
Company, 8051 North Central Park, Skokie, Illinois.

' The Palmloom Company has developed a new weavin
device that can be used by recreation groups of all ages
Using only strips of scrap materials which you wind on -
circular loom, you can make flat, springy, fabric circl
that can be sewn together as scatter rugs, table pads, dre-
ornaments, and so forth. The Palmloom adjusts to mak
fabrics of different thicknesses, is small enough to fit int
sewing basket or pocketbook, and comes in a kit complet
with circular plastic loom, directions, and special needles
The Palmloom Company, 507 Fifth Avenue, New York 17
New York, will be happy to give further details.

' A new free-standing multiple showe
is now available in units of one to six
stations, for use in recreation and com
munity centers, camps, gymnasiums
and so on. The basic stainless-steel uni
embodies concealed piping, a choice 0
hot and cold water compression valves
and an optional lather type of soap-dis
pensing system. All eXposed brass fix-
tures are triplc electroplated with c0p
per Hash, nickel, and hard chrome, an
all components have been field-tested it
make them vandal-resistant in desig '
and assembly. All functional parts ar
accessible from the outside for main-
tenance or servicing, and fixtures art
 factory tested, ready to install. Writ
Logan Manufacturing Company, P. O. Box 111, Glendal
California, for details.

 

' A new economical fire alarm that can be installed as eas
ily as hanging a picture on the wall has been develope '-
by Arandell Products Company. Lifeguard Alarm is mad
of aluminum in a gold-anodized finish, weighs less than 01 ’
pound, is installed merely by slipping it over a nail locate

anywhere near the ceiling. The alarm is designed to go o 1
when room temperature reaches 135°, 3 temperature a
which fircs normally are not out of control. No wiring i
required, and power to set off the siren is provided by tw1
ordinary flashlight batteries. When tripped, the siren
screams a continuous warning whose sound carries for one
fifth of a mile. For further details, write to Arandell Prod
ucts Company, 3915 Powelton Avenue, Philadelphia -
Pennsylvania.

JUNE is National Recreation Month
Are your plans made?

RECREATION

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

THE HANDBOOK OF

 

 

       
     
    

 
 

 

Page
 __h_________________________________’__   
A ' P ' . .
Bnltlegrcan Iayground Devrce  .245, 246 An Annual Descriptive Survey

a ' oy "“'“"'"""'"""""“""'  250 of Independent Education
CaueHo _"““__nn_nnn_“ns_n_s_uums 242
Ceramichrome ___.___,___________________,__________ 281 415t edition: 1960
Champion Recreation Equipment _..__..__- ._ 281 mus" 1280 pp" red Cloth} $1030
Cosom _-____.___-_..___-_-_.___._.______-_______.__. ,_ 241 The new 1960 HANDBOOK premnts the most current, unbiased data on
Dimcosray 277 over three thousand independent educational institutions, both primary and

"mm"  " " secondary, throughout the country. The HANDBOOK gives correct infor-
FI-XIBI-E ..__._ ___—_--—..------.   246 mation on enrollment, tuition, grades and faculty, as well as an Objective.
Go|d Meda| Products  WWW“,  __ 245 descriptive evaluation of each leading private school. It is extensively in-

. . . dexed and cross-indexed for easy reference. Newly added are a useful
Hillench 8. Bradst ..---..-- -- ~ I'mde Balik cover listing of special courses and facilities to meet individual needs and 3 Who’s
Institutional Cinema Service --_“..._.._-"..___. 283 Who of school administrators. ‘
James Spencer ____________.._______._.--- 285
 _‘ _____________ __    

.I. E. Burke mnwmw---------_.. s__-_...-_._ 244 11 Beacon St. Boston 8, Mass.
MacGregor  Inside Front Cover
 mun-_-.____-Fn__“n_____W-nnn  I '  the portable
. . S H 0 W WA G 0 N
National SlUdIOS __________._.__--_  277 G o I N G U P - you can 50 when
Porter Sargent Publishers  _ _____u__ ___ 285 In September, RECREATION Magazine "‘9 evegiuage Place
. prices go up on all domestic and foreign ‘ "a" Md
Fragran? Alds  """""""" '" ' "'"""'"'  subscriptions. (National Recreation As- Eat‘llgiigu'
Recreation Equrpment _._._____-_.____.....-.--- 283 sociation members will, of course, 0011- co.
School Activities __mw .__________________‘ 276 tinuc to receive the magazine as one of w°'°““"' Minn'
. their membership benefits. There will be
I"  Twardzlk "‘"mm' '“rr—rm'mmm"  no increase in membership fee.)    
U.  DBiense BOIldS ___" -_.-__ __-_____ Back Cover N ’ Bat 41 Watchung Plaza, Montclair, N. J. * PI 6-6310
United Flagpole Service  __________ 285 W” as * ruopou-z PAINTING. new JERSEY out a.
. One Year: 35-00; two Years: 53-75- Filly-star Flags" * Banners and Decorations
VOII ___-..----....--...._._..._.........__.._. ... -  One year (Canadian and foreign) : $5.75. Distributor for lorgesl flog company in the world
Wenger MUSIC EQUIpmenI ___.________________ __  Club and libraries: 34'50' * 25% discount to NRA members

 

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $25 each
Minimum ad accepted . . . . $3.00

New, improved Golden Age Club Pin.
Now in real gold plate with tree in
green iewelers' enamel. Safety catch.
I 50¢ each, including federal tax and
;. postage.

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of

the issue in which ad is desired.
Minimum order 10 pins

Available only to authentic clubs.

JAMES SPENCER 8. CO.
EXACT SIZE 22 N. 61h Street Philadelphia 6. Pa.

 

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send capy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

turnout
STEEL CHAIN '
nos

3 Years Guaranteel

outdoors or Indoors
Also eaturr‘n Jay ro’s custom built

MNYLON BASKETBALL NETS & BALL CARRIERS
VALUMINUM MULTI-PURPOSE STANDARDS

WTETHERBALL POLES 8. PADDLE SETS
VWATER BASKETBALL STANDARDS

VALUMINUM BATTING TE ES

' Send for Free Catalog '

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California

State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in. recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $413.00 per

month; promotional oppor-
tunities: liberal employ-
ment benefits. Write State
Personnel Board, 801 (.api-
tol Avenue, Sacramento.
California.

Assistant Service Club
Director. Salary: $373.00
per month. On-base hous-
ing available. This rvcrca-
tion work involves club ac-
tivities for airmen. The om-
ployee works directly “1th
them, planning social :1?-
tivities, shops, ]\.lrli1~

tours. ctc. Supervises other
employees. Requirements:
bachelor’s degree in rec-
reation or allied field. Ap-
ply: Captain Edward D.
Young, Special Services
OIhcer, Travis Air Force
Base, California.

SERVICES
AVAILABLE

Square Dance Caller, col-
ltge, club, or convention.

Piute Pete. 55 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New
York.

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
' Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

.- irumt advertised hrrr‘.

 

The publisher assumes no responsibility 3 or .- -

M

285

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

.JUNE 1960

Magazine Articles

AMERICAN JOURNAL OE CATHOLIC YOUTH
WORK, Spring 1960
A Fair Chance for Young People, Arthur S.
Flemming.
Fitness——How to Practice It and Impart It,
Shane MacCarthy
Looking Ahead for Rural Youth, Joseph
Meisner.
Youth in Community Affairs.
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, May 1960
Juvenile Jewelers, Dale E. Lale.
Adventures in Matter, Elizabeth Stein.
Torn Paper Gives the Big Picture, Karl C.
Wallen.
Etching for Ten Year Olds, Joseph DiBona.
THE CAMP FIRE GIRL, May 1960
A Unique American Art, Margaret DeSpar.
Look—I’m a Totem Pole.
CHALLENGE, April 1960
Leisure in the Soviet Union, Lawrence
Whetten.
COMMENTARY, February 1960
Youth in the Organized Society, Panl Good-
man.
JUNIOR LEAGUE MAGAZINE, March-April 1960
Teen Guide—A Community Code for and
by Youth.
The Voice of the Individual Spirit, Ilughes
Mearns.
MENTAL HOSPITALS, April 1960
Recreation: A Job for Everyone, Emanuel
1. Jacobs.
MUSIC JOURNAL, April-May1960
The Music of Hawaii, Charles K. L. Davis.
Music Is the Ilcart of a City (Honolulu),
Neal S. Blaisdell.
Folk Music, Unlimited, Herb Shriner.
Chamber Music as a Hobby, Mischa Elman.
PARENTS’, May 1960
They Shall Have Music Wherever They GO,
Emma Dickson SheelIy.
Let Them Play Cards, Jean Orcate.
The National Parks Arc Yours, Ruth Kirlc.
Boy Scout Pizza Party, Jean Wlielan.
PARK MAINTENANCE, March 1960
Annual Swimming Pool Issue.
PARKS AND RECREATION, April 1960
Maintenance and Construction Issue.

   

 

Recordings

CONQUEST OF SPACE: A Conversation Be-
tween Wernhcr von Braun and Willy Ley

(DL 522). Vox Productions, 236 West 55th

Street, New York 19 (two 12" records,
33 1/3, $11.90 set).

FAMOUS POEMS, AUDIO BOOK OF, rcad hy
Marvin Miller (CL 601). Audio Book
Company, St. Joseph, Michigan (four 7"
records, 16 rpm, $4.95 sct) .

Time Records, 157 West 57th Street, New
York 19 (12”, 33 1/3, $3.98).

SPACE SONGS, Tom Glazer and Dottie Evans.

Science Materials Center, 59 Park Avenue
South, New York 3 (12”, 33 1/3, $5.95 inc.

manual).

Books & Pamphlets
Received

 

 

American Scene: Physical and Social

 

ALASKA IN TRANSITION, George W. Rogers.

Johns HOpkins Press, Baltimore 18. Pp.
384. $7.00.

ALASKA, U.S.A., Herb and Miriam Hilscher.

Little, Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp.
243. $4.50.

AMERICAN VACATION BOOK, George 5. Wells.

R. C. Dresser & Co., 176 Newbury St., Bos-
ton 16. Pp. 221. $5.95.

CANALS, Fon W. Boardman, Jr. Henry Z.
WaIek, 101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 139.

$3.50.
CHANGING TIIE FACE OE NORTH AMERICA (St.

Lawrence Seaway), Patricia Lanber. Cow-
ard McCann, 210 Madison Ave., New York

16. Pp. 96. $2.50.
CIIURCII AND TIIE SURURRs, TIIE, Andrew M.

Greeley. Sheed 8: Ward, 64 University PL,
New York 3. Pp. 206. $3.50.

COMPLETE GUIDE To NORTIIERN CALIFORNIA,
Andrew Hephurn. Hongliton Mifllin, 2
Park St., Boston 7. Pp. 159. Paper, $1.50.

COYERED BRIDGES OE TIIE MIDDLE ATLANTIC
STATES, Richard Sanders Allen. Stcphen
Greene Press, 120 Main St., Brattlehoro, Vt.
Pp. 120. $6.50.

ECONOMICS OE AMERICAN LIYING. TIIE, Harry
W. llcckman, Ph.D. Rand McNally, Box
7600, Chicago 80. Pp. 168. Paper. $1.65.

FLORIDA, A WAY OF LIFE, Mike Smith. E. P.
Dntton, 300 4th Ave., New York 10. Pp.
272. $3.95.

HIDDEN AMERICA (archeology) . Roland Wells
Robbins and Evan Jones. Alfred A. Knopf,
501 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 264.

$5.00.
HIGHWAY AND TIIE LANDSCAPE, TIIE, W. Brcw-

stcr Snow. Rutgers Univ. Press, New Bruns-
wick, N.J. Pp. 230. $5.00.

HILLSWAY (8th ed.), Roland L. Hill. Hills-
way Co., Box 2090, Long Beach, Calif. Pp.
144. Paper, $2.00.

HILLSWAY’S GUIDE To LAS VEGAS, Roland L.
Hill. Westerner Club. 23 Fremont St., Las
Vegas, Nev. Pp. 40. Paper, $1.00.

HILLS OF SAN FRANCISCO. Nourse Publishing,
San Carlos, Calif. Pp. 89. $1.50. (deluxe
edition, $3.95.)

METROPOLIS AGAINST ITSELE, Rohert C. Wood.
Committee for Economic Development, 711
5th Avc., New York 22. Pp. 56. Paper,

$1.00.
MONTANA (new ill. ed.), Joseph Kinsey How-

ard. Yale Univ. Press, New Haven, Conn.
Pp. 339. $5.00.

MYSTIC SEAPORT. a Camera Impression, Sam-
uel ChamherIain. Hastings House, 151 E.
50th St., New York 22. Pp. 72. Papcr.

$1.00.

NIAGARA POWER FROM JONCAIRE 1'0 MOSES,
Cliff Spielcr and TonI llewitt. Niagara
Power Pnhlisliers. Box 381. Lewiston, N. Y.

Pp. 80. Paper, $1.00.

MARCHES: MARCIIES MILITAIREs FRAN-
CAISES (VX25-950); ENGLISH MARCIIES
(VX26-110); AMERICAN MARCIIES (VX25-
930). Vox Productions, 236 West 55th
Street, New York 19 (12”, 33 1/3, $3.98
each).

SKI SONGS, Boh Gibson (EKL-177). Elektra
Records, 116 West 14th Slreet, New York
11 (12”, 33 1/3, $4.98).

SKIl-‘FLE GROUP, ORIGINAL SOIIO (T/70005).

286

PITTSBURGII FESTIVAL, lda M. Collura, Editor.
Duquesne Univ., Pittsburgh 19. Pp. 158.
$2.00.

RACE AND CONSCIENCE IN AMERICA. Univ. of
Oklahoma Press, Norman. Pp. 53. $.50.
RACE RELATIONS AND AMERICAN LAW, Jack
Greenherg. Columbia Univ. Press, 2960
Broadway, New York 27. Pp. 481. $10.00.
ST. LAWRENCE, THE, William Toye. Henry Z.
WaIck, 101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 296.

$4.50.

SAN FRANCISCO: A Time and Place for Every-
thing, Jim Sehock, pp. 62, paper, $1.00;
POOR RICHARD’S GUIDE To NON-TOURIST
SAN FRANCISCO, Richard Lewis, pp. 48, pa-
per, $.75; NON-TOURIST GUIDE To LOS AN—
GELES, J. P. Bernhard, pp. 60, paper, $1.00:
and POOR PIERRE’S GUIDE To NON-TOURIST
PORTLAND, Jim Schock, pp. 48, paper, $1.00.
Unicorn Publishing, 2031 Union St., San
Francisco 23.

SOCIAL WELFARE FORUM, 1959, TIIE, Colum-
hia Univ. Press, 2960 Broadway, New York
27. Pp. 276. $5.00.

SOCIAL WORK YEAR BOOK-1960, Russell H.
Kurtz, Editor. Nat. Asmc. of Social Work-
ers, 95 Madison Ave., New York 16. Pp.
767. $8.50.

SOCIOLOGY AND TIIE MILITARY ESTARLISII-
M ENT, Morris Janowitz. Russell Sage Foun-
dation, 505 Park Ave., New York 22. Pp.
106. Paper, $1.50.

WESTERN CAMPSITE DIRECTORY, pp. 81, $1.50;
BRITISII COLUMRIA WITll CANADIAN ROCKY
MOUNTAIN NATIONAL PARKS, pp. 96, $1.75.
Lane Publishing, Menlo Park, Calif.

UNCLE SAM: The Man and the Legend, Alton
Ketehnm. Hill and Wang. 104 5th Ave.,
New York 11. Pp. 143. $4.50.

UNI-‘INISIIED COUNTRY, TIIE, Max Lerner. Si-
mon and Schuster. 630 5th Ave., New York
20. Pp. 733. $7.50.

WATER FOR YOUR EvER-ENRANDING NEEDS.
Delaware River Basin Rescarch. 928 Suhur-
han Station Bldg., Philadelphia 3, Pp. 20.
Free.

WIIAT AMERICA STANDS FOR, Stephen D.
Kertcsz and M. A. Fitzsimons, Editors.
Univ. of Notrc Dame Prcss, Notre. Dame,
Ind. Pp. 229. $4.75.

l
l
I

You AND TIIE WORLD TO COME, Maxwell ':

Droke. Harper & Bros.. 49 E. 33rd St., “(WV |

York 16. Pp. 203. $3.50.

YOUR FREE VACATION LANDs: Our National
Parks. William-Frederick Press, 391 E.
149th St., Ncw York 55. Pp. 15. $.25.

Conservation and Nature

 

4-lI CLUB CONSERI'ATION WORRROOK. Agri-
cultural Extension Scrviee, Univ. of Arkan-
sas. Box 391, Little Rock. Pp. 31. Free.

GAME WARDEN AND TIIE POACIIERS. TIIE. Lewis
C. ReiInann. Northwoods l‘IIhlislIers, 1725
Landsdowue lid... Ann Arhor, Mich.
196. $3.95.

GRASSLANDS, Delia Goetz. William Morrmv,
425 4th Ave., New York. Pp. 61. Paper.
$2.75.

MAN AND TIIE GOOD EARTH. Amahel Williams-
Ellis. G. P. Putnam's Sons, 210 Madison
Ave., New York 16. Pp. 64. $2.00.

STARS UPSTREAM (Current River), Leonard
llall. Univ. of Chieago Press. 5750 Ellis
Ave., Chicago 37. Pp. 252. $3.95.

TREES (rev. ed.), Herbert S. Zim and Alexan-
der C. Martin, Ph.D. Simon 8' Sclmster, 630
5th Ave., New York 20. Pp. 255. $1.75.

l

l
l

Pp. '

RECREATION 1

THOUSAND ACRE MARSH, Dudley C. Lunt.
Macmillan,, 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp.
174. $3.75.

TREES, SIIRUBS AND VINES (Northeastern
U.S.) , Arthur T. Viertel. College of Forest-
ry, Syracusc Univ., Syracuse 10, N. Y. Un-
paged. Paper, $1.25.

WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (2nd ed.), Ira N.
Cabriclson. Macmillan, 60 5th Ave., New
York 11. Pp. 244. $5.50.

WILD ANIMAL PETS, Roy Pinney. Golden
Press, 630 5th Ave., New York 20. Pp. 67.
$1.95.

WONDERS OF THE DEEP SEA, Boris Arnov, J r.,
and Helen Mindlin. Dodd, Mead, 432 4th
Ave., New York 16. Pp. 96. $2.95.

WORKING WITH ANIMALS, J. Myron Atkin and
R. Will Burnett. Rinehart, 232 Madison
Ave., New York 16. Pp. 67. Paper, $1.00.

WORKING WITH PLANTS, J. Myron Atkin and
R. Will Burnett. Rinehart, 232 Madison
Ave., New York 16. Pp. 58. Paper, $1.00.

Education

EDUCATING THE CIFTED, Joseph L. French,
Editor. Henry Holt, 383 Madison Ave.,
New York 17. Pp. 555. $7.50.

EDUCATION FOR CREATIVE LIVING, Frederick
Mayer, Ph.D. Whittier Books, 31 Union
Sq. W., New York 3. Pp. 154. $3.00.

EDUCATION OF WOMEN, THE, Signs for thc
Future, Opal D. David, Editor. American
Council on Education, 1785 Massachusetts
Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. Pp. 153. Pa-
per, $2.00.

IELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CUR-
RICULUM MATERIALS, Patricia H. Suttles

- and John Guy Fowlkes, Editors. Educators

l Progress Service, Randolph, Wis. Pp. 313.
Paper, $6.50.

'Humor, Comics, Cartoons

COMIC ART IN AMERICA, Stephen Becker. Si-
mon and Schuster, 630 5th Ave., New York

20. Pp. 387. $7.50.

DENNIS TIIE MENACE . . . TEACHER’S THREAT,
Hank Ketcham. Henry Holt, 383 Madison
Ave., New York 17. Unpaged. $1.25.

EIGIITEEN HOLES IN MY HEAD, Milton Gross.
McCraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York
36. Pp. 148. $3.75.

JAIL KEYS MADE HERE AND OTHER SIGNS, pho-

tographs by Lee Boltin. Meridian Books, 12
E. 22nd St., New York 10. Uupaged. Paper

$1.50.

NOTHING BUT MAx, Pericle Luigi Giovannetti.
Macmillan, 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp.
85. $3.50.

TEN EvER-LOVIN’ BLUE-EYED YEARS WITH

POGO, Walt Kelly. Simon and Schuster,

630 5th Ave., New York 20. Pp. 288. $4.95.

 
   
 
 
    
  
   
     
 
  
  

hilosophy

ADVENTURES OF THE MIND, Richard Thruelsen
and John Kobler, editors. Alfred A. Knopf,
501 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 285.

$4.50.
ART OF LIVING, THE (rev. ed.), André Mau-
rois. Harper 81 Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., Ncw
York 16. Pp. 234. $3.50.
ALE CARNEGIE’S SCRAPBOOK, Dorothy Carne-
gie. Simon and Schuster, 630 5th Ave., Ncw
York 20. Pp. 241. $4.95.
VOMEN, WORDS AND WISDOM, Solange Hertz.
Newman Press, Westminster, Md. Pp. 184.
$3.50.

UNE l960

   

    

"hi.
:-

‘ l MUM???“ «its.
4.__ 13‘s-

Police Work with Juveniles l2nd
ed.), John P. Kenney and Dan G. Pur-
suit. Charles C. Thomas, 301-327 East
Lawrence Avenue, Springfield, Illinois.

Pp. 383. $9.50.

Here is an invaluable resource man-
ual for anyone with professional re-
sponsibility related tO serving youth——
adjusted and maladjusted. The steady
rise in juvenile crime, out Of proportion
tO the increase in population, has been
a source Of major concern in metropoli-
tan areas throughout the country. In
the past, part of the difficulty of dealing
efficiently with this problem stemmed
from lack Of standardized reporting
systems and inadequate definition Of
the roles Of participating agencies. This
had led tO the current quixotic ap-
proaches and great debates.

The authors Of Police Work with [It-
veniles know their way through the
jungle of juvenile crime, community
neglect, and interagency bickering; and
their findings make interdisciplinary
communication possible. Their compre-
hensive statement on the sociological
and psychological causes Of JD is pre-
sented in terms meaningful to the lay-
man. Committees, organizations, and
agencies looking for ideas will be de-
lighted with the principlcs for dealing
constructively with the hard-tO-reach
youngster.—.lames Madison, National
Recreation Association Field Depart-
ment. ( Mr. Madison recently partici-
pated in a study of Police A tliletic Lea-
gue clubs in New York City.)

Clown Act Omnibus, Wes McVicar.
Association Press, 291 Broadway, New

York 7. Pp. 256. $4.95.

Mr. McVicar has, for the first time
tO my knowledge, made available to the
reader—be he amateur clown, profes-
sional clown, stunt chairman, program
chairman—some sound suggestions OII
skits, stunts, and acts that can be easily
used by a Clown club, stunt committee,
or someone just starting out in the
clown business.

TO test the material, the reviewer
called in Emmett Rodifer of Vallejo.
California, a very clever pantomimist
just starting to make entertaimnent a

  
  

full-time profession. He is adding the
character Of a bum to his routine. His
reaction should be typical Of many who
are forever searching tO find new ma-
terial: “This is just what I’ve been look-
ing for! Now I can work up a good act
that should sell!”

The author should mention the fact
that not all clowns are silent; many do
talk. I’d be sunk if I didn’t for I use
balloons in my own act, with a short
dissertation with each. A later edition
should also include a chapter on clown
outfits. Suggestions for clown ward-
robes could well include ideas on
color; figures on clown outfits such as
stars, numbers, crescents, diamonds,
half one color and half another; the
use Of ruiiles around the neck; ties,
either very short or knee length, and
six inches wide, made out Of Oilcloth
with fantastic colors and wild designs;
clown hats, either exceedingly large or
high or very small.

This book should be excellent for
every high school, clown club, college-
yell staff, high-school physical-educa-
tion director, and all those who are in
need Of stunt material. skits, and clown
acts—Keith Macdonald, executive di-
rector, Creater Vallejo (California)
Recreation District.

The Complete Employee—A Hand-
book for Personnel Appraisal, Robert

Winthrop Adams. Public Administra-
tion Service, 1313 East Sixtieth Street,
Chicago 37. Pp. 72, illustrated. $2.00.

There are seven thousand words in
Webster’s New International Diction-
ary (second edition) that may be used
tO describe people. From an unpub-
lished thesaurus Of these words two
thousand have been selected as appro-
priate for use in dealing with personnel.
With this reference, Mr. Adams ex-
plains how a person may be sized up
from each Of four points Of View: mental
capacity, work habits and attitudes.
stability, and ability to get along with
other people. The two thousand words
are grouped in a simple pattern accord-
ing to their meanings in a specialized
vocabulary of lmman nature.

The vocabulary will help the execu-
tiVe to summarize his knowledge of em-

28?

ployees; the four points set a pattern
for a complete description of any em-
ployee, helpful in the selection and ap-
praisal of a worker. The vocabulary
can also be helpful in writing and an-
alyzing references.

Organizations are built on human
qualities and these can he assessed more
carefully with the suggested four-point
pattern. Here is a unique handbook for
reference, well worth the price to any
discriminating executive who wants the
right word for the right place in dealing
with people—W. C. Sutherland, Na-
tional Recreation Association Recrea-
tion Personnel Service.

Roles of the Citizen: Principles and
Practices, William S. Vincent. Row,

Peterson & Company, 2500 Crawford
Avenue, Evanston, Illinois. Pp. 456.

$5.25.

The recreation director meets the cit-
izen on many levels: as program par-
ticipant, taXpayer, board member, vol-
unteer, parent, friend, and critic. Mr.
Vincent, who is executive officer of the
Citizenship Education Project, Teach-
ers College at Columbia University, of-
fers the citizen “a textbook on his level”
-——to give him “experience and insight
into the processes of citizenship.” As
he explains, “Citizenship is not a sci-
ence. It cannot be studied in terms of
neat formulas or organizational charts.
Rather, it is a dynamic, many-faceted
process. ln a free society citizenship is
concerned with the individual’s impact
upon the formulation and implementa-
tion of public policy. lt is not political
science, or sociology, or economics, or
any other social science considered
purely as a science.‘ The social sciences
make important contributions to the
student’s preparation for his role of cit-
izen. But they are not intended to teach
him all the skills he needs to be the best,
most active, and most responsible cit-
izen his talents qualify him to be. . . .
The prospective citizen needs training
for the practice of citizenship. For pol-
itics is a craft, an art, a science, all
in one.”

Mr. Vincent examines the nature of
citizenship in a free society and cx-
plains how to secure facts and dissemi-
nate information. He then pinpoints
how to influence public affairs through
voluntary grOUps and through ‘elec-
tions. We see the citizen participating
in the judicial process and the citizen
at bay in a world of big government
and pressure groups.

The individual citizen represents the
strength and weakness of a free society.
It is unfortunate that “people often take
sides without an adequate cornprcllcn-
sion of the facts involved. They buy
(public) issues the way they buy ciga-
rcttes and soap. . . .” While our courts

288

have declared that “everyone shall en-
joy freedom of inquiry and freedom of
criticism,” too few of our citizens ac-
cept the very rare responsibility this en-
tails. Mr. Vincent’s hook goes a long
way in defining the responsibilities the
citizen must shoulder in a democracy
if it is to remain such. Here is material
to generate much fruitful discussion. It
digs deep into fertile soil that all too
often has been left unturned.—E.D.

FIVE WlTH HANDICAPS

Give Us the Tools, Henry Viscardi,

Jr. Eriksson-Taplinger Company, 119
West 57th St., New York 19. Pp. 266.
$3.95.

Cape to Cape by Wheelchair, Ernest
M. Gutman. Erncar Publications, 730

Grand Concourse, New York 51. Pp.
225. $4.75.

The Helen Keller Story, Catherine
Owens Peare. Thomas Y. Crowell, 432
Park Avenue South, New York 16. Pp.
183. $2.75.

| Reclaimed My Child, Lucille Stout.
Chilton Company, 56th and Chestnut

Streets, Philadelphia 39. Pp. 89.
$2.75.

It's Good To Be Alive, Roy Campan-
ella. little, Brown and Company, 34

Beacon Street, Boston 6. Pp. 306.
$4.50.

All five books have significance for
those of us working in the recreation
movement. As Dr. Howard A. Rusk
says, in his introduction to Cape to
Cape, “Much has been written about
the ability of the physically handi-
cappcd person to compete successfully
in employment. . . . But modern reha-
bilitation recognizes that life is not
made up entirely of work. Our off-work
hours are far greater than the numher
of hours we spend in our employment.
Having new experiences and fun is an
essential part of living a wholly satis-
fying'lifc.”

Eleanor Roscvelt, in her introduction
to Give Us the Tools, says, “Human
rights and all that this phase implies
are based on the value of human worth
and of personal dignity.” This theme
runs through all five of these books
dealing with a variety of handicaps.
Mrs. Roosevelt’s further comments are
also strikingly appropriate to all: “They
are stories which pcrsonify and symbol-
izc the human rights and personal dig-
nity which we in the United States
strive to achieve for all of our citizens.”

Give Us the Tools relates the develop-
mcnt of Abilities, lnc., the first profit-
making business run by handicapped
individuals alone. “Abilities began in
a grimy, unfurnished garage with four
cmployces, who only had five good
arms among them and only one good
leg. In five years, it was a million dol-

lar business hiring three hundred dis-

abled people.”
Cape to Cape by Wheelchair is Mr.

Gutman’s own story of his return from
service with a medical discharge; his
law practice; his eventual inability to
work; and how he traveled fifty thou-
sand miles as a tourist.

The Helen Keller Story lets us see the
panorama of eighty years in thes
United States through the “eyes” 0
a hlind deaf-mute. We meet Alexander
Graham Bell. William Dean Howells,
Mark Twain. and many others; we he-
come aware of the tremendous chang
in the public’s attitude and services to

ward the handicapped; and we com
to know Helen Keller.

I Reclaimed My Child is a mothcr’

story of what it means to have a re
tarded child; what life is like in an in
stitution for the retarded; what i
means to “put a child away”: and wlta
this “putting away” does to child an
the family.

It's Good to be Alive is “Campy’s’
own story of his life as a major-leagn
ballplaycr before his accident whic
left him a helpless quadraplcgie. hi
days in the Institute of Physical Medi
cine and Rehabilitation. New Yor
City, and his outlook for the future. lt’
a warm and human story. As Dr. Ru,
says “. . . his courage and charact
have left an indelible mark on rchabih
tation.” Campy himself says. “All m
life l have fought. in my own way. fo
eonality. integration and understandi ,_
of minority groups. But from here on
l’ve taken on an even bigger jol
fighting for the cquality, intcgratiot
and understanding and acceptance
the severely handicapped.”

la the reception room at the institn
is a plaque with the words belicvcd t
have been written by an unknown Co
federate soldicr. Campy ends his boo
with it:

A CREED FOR TIIOS'IL‘
WHO HAVE SUFFERI'ID

I asked God for strength, that I might achie
I was made weak, that I
might Iearn hnmny to obey . . .
I asked for health, that I
might do greater things
I was given infirmity, that I
might do better things . . .
I asked far riches, that I might be happy
I was given paverty that I might be wise . .
I asked [or power that I
might hare the praise a] men
I was given weakness, that I
might feeI the need a] Cad . . .

I asked for aII things that I
might enjay Iife
I was given Iife, that I
might enfay aII things . . .
I gat nothing I asked for—hut everything
had haperI for
Almost despite myseIf,

my unspoken prayers were answered
I am amang men, most ricth blessed!

ltlzcm-zs'no.

 

one Trademark is Supreme

in baseball and Sofibull
1

 

How to Send
Your Baby

to College on
$959 Week

A good college education today
costs as: inuch as $65 a week.
But, the‘same education can be
bought with much less financial
strain if you start now, putting
$9.50 a week into U. S. Savings
Bonds. At college age there will
be more than $11,000 —and over
$2,750 of it "will come" entirely
from interest. That’s like getting
a whole year of college free.

HERE’S WHY U.S.”SAV.IHNGS BONDS
ARE §UCH A GOOD WAY TO SAVE

- You can save automatically with

the Payroll Savings Plan. - You

now earn 3%% interest at ma-
turity - You invest without risk
under a U. S. Goyernment guar-
antee. - Your money can’t be lost
or stolen. - You can get your
money, with interest, any time ybu
want it - You;save more than
money—you’re helping your Gov-
ernment pay for peace. - Buy
Bonds where you work or bank.

NOW every Savings Bond you
own —old or new— earns.y2%
more than ever before.

     
    

One word to your employer—and,
suddenly you're saving

All that anyone has to do to
start saving with Bonds is ask
his employer to include him in
the Payroll Savings Plan.
Thisymakeisv saving automatic
—and certain, too.

It you start right now, you'll never miss it. This baby’s college

 

education can cost her family only $9.50 a week with
the help of US. Savings Bonds. That’s easier to take
than the $65 a week a good college can cost today.

You save more than money with

U. S. Savings Bonds

The U. S. Government does not pay for this advertising.
The Treasury Department thanks Tthdvertising Couneil
and this magazine for their patriotic donation.

    
 

The government gives you $4
forneach $3 you invest

Your money grows, and it

grows faster than it used

to in US. Savings Bonds.

The new 3 if 9-3- interest rate
speeds Bonds to maturity
in just 7 years, 9 months.

 

