ffer Library

.iurray Vollege

i

e
f
P

Y
r

. n
e
H


Jacksonxilleq

lllinois

4.4-.—

 

.MA‘f M n In

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION.

   

for good sports everywhere!

Whatever your in-season sports program, MacGregor athletic
equipment can help make it a popular success. Golf, tennis,
softball, baseball— just about any sport comes off better when
MacGregor balls and equipment are used. Generations of ath-
letic-minded men and women, boys and girls, have looked to
MacGregor for the hnest in all sports equipment. Give your
program a boost by providing the best . . . MacGregor for all
good sports. MacGregor equipment is available from sporting
goods dealers everywhere.

@ngzgyaz B

THE MACGK.GOR (30.. Cincinnati 32. Ohio ' BASEBALL ' FOOTBALL ' BASKETBALL ' GOLF ' TENNIS

A Brunswick
Subs/diary

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  

 

ca.ifone

MONDAY A.M.: A Califone PROM ENADE
(Model 25V-8A) spins a record of essential rhythm.
lt’s Mrs. Stanley’s dance class. Over the music

her voice comes in sharp and clear,
“1-2-3 turn. 1-2-3 turni'

MONDAY, still A.M.: Same Califone PROMENADE,
but now Mr. Evans uses it as a PA. system
instructing his tennis star on the backhand swing.
She has a good chance of winning the

district championship.

MONDAY PM.: Mrs. Ellis calls out the cadence
for calisthenics. It’s a large and widespread group.
Again, loud and clear. No strain on her voice.

MONDAY, still PM.: Assembly—popular music helps
soothe excitable youngsters pouring into the
auditorium. Announcements; neophyte entertainers;
Mr. Stanley, the principal, gives a speech.

MONDAY NIGHT: Same Califone, now playing
music and "calling" to an adult square dance group.

TUESDAY A. M.: (In a note from the Principal to
the Board of Education) Please make provision in
our budget for an additional Califone
PROMENADE as well as a Califone COMMANDER
(40V-9). We have immediate need for these.

The COMMANDER will be particularly useful for
announcing games to forthcoming

basketball audiences.

 

   
  

Write for free catalog and prices
on all Califone models.

Dept. R-5
1020 No. La Brea Avenue
Hollywood 38, Calif.

:- sub-oh.

.0”
..ei

Califone ‘PROMENADE' Model 25V-8A _
Professional user net-$199.50

MAY 1960 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   

193

ifyou

want to
provide
patrons

with the
most modern
and
convenient
checking
service...
and at the
same time
eliminate
checking
costs.. .write
or phone

In
E
In
I...
U!
>-
U!
‘3
2
a:
U
In
I
U
Q
In
I...
q
a:
Lu
0.
O
>-
In
a:
Q
2
q
2
O
U

 

THE FLXIBLE COMPANY
LOUDONVILLE 1. OHIO

WWmWwMQdome

  
  

   
   
 
   

. 0510,»: EU!
emrrsv

g - .
I Write for Boga: use catalog. I
I n "I" I) II II I
5.9m Comm '
I “361 NORTH MAROUHTE, POND DU LAC. WIS.

  

NEW (rt-PAGE
REFERENCE GUIDE

 I GYM APPARATUS I

GYMNASTIC UNIFORMS " COILING DOORS
GRANDSTANDS I PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT I
FOLDING BLEACHERS I BASKETBALL BACKSTOPS

REIOUND TUMBLING UNITS I SCOREBOARDS I
WEIGHTLIFTING EQUIPMENT ' LOCKERS

GYMNASTIB SUPPLY COMPANY

250 Sixth Street San Pedro. California

 

194

 

 

} TWO NEW ENGLAND TOWNS have at-
tracted the attention of national maga-
zines by means of their comprehensive
recreation programs. A recent issue Of
The Ladies Home Journal carried an
article about the Bristol, New Hamp-
shire, recreation program, and the April
issue Of Pageant carries “What Every-
body Does in Brookline (Massachu-
setts),” by Al Silverman. At the same
time, the April Playground Issue of
RECREATION included a story about the
creative program on Bristol’s play-
ground, “Pirates in the Playground,”
by Beatrice McAuliHe Stone. The town
of Bristol will present a complimentary
copy Of the latter magazine tO Governor
Wesley Powell Of New Hampshire in an
especially planned, forInal ceremony.

} A NATIONAL COMMITTEE on the En-

croachment Of Park and Recreation

Lands and Waters, composed of repre-
sentatives from the American Institute
of Park Executives, American Recrea-
tion Society, National Conference on
State Parks, and National Recreation
Association, has been appointed to make
a study of encroachment. Its purposes
are to: (II determine the nature and
extent of encroachment: (2) determine

what is being done and what can be done

to meet this problem; (3i formulate
guiding principles for meeting the prob-
lem; and MI develop a program of
public information-education to alert
the nation.

As a means of gathering information
a questionnaire has been distributed by
the four cooperating organizations. Any
park or recreation agency that has not
received a copy and that has experi-
enced a successful or unsuccessful at-
tempt to divert its areas to nonconform-
ing uses is urged to write the National
Recreation Association. 8 West Eighth
Street. New York 11, for a copy.

b Two TIIOISANI) FORESTRY EIPERTS
from more than fifty nations will meet
for two weeks in Seattle, Washington,
starting August 29, for the Fifth World
Forestry Congress. This international
meeting of forestry authorities—many
of whom are world-fanIous—is the first
Congress for which the United States
has been host and the first ever held in
the Western hemisphere. IThe University
of Washington has made its dormito-
ries, auditoriums, press, radio. 'TV, and
other eaInpus facilities available.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

} A COURSE OF INSTRUCTION for out-
board mariners is available as a “pack-
age deal,” telling how to set up a class
tO be taught by marine dealers, boating
clubs, camp counselors and/or other
leaders, to give information on seaman-
ship, fundamentals of motor installa-
tion, and so on. Write Boating Services
and Education Department, Outboard
Boating Club, 307 North Michigan Ave-

nue, Chicago, Illinois.

} THE APRIL 1960 ISSUE of The In-

structor carried an editorial on fitness
written by Virginia Musselman, director
of National Recreation Association Pro-
gram Service. This magazine reaches
some 600,000 elementary school teach-
ers. This issue also contained very in-
teresting and useful articles on physical
fitness. Look it up; it will be assigned
in your summer work.

} A PUBLICATION, Research in Recrea-
tion Completed in 1959, has just been
issued by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation. It contains an annotated classi-
fied list of 267 study reports issued by
local, state, national Organizations, and
educational institutions. Most numer-
ous are studies dealing with recreation
for special groups, community surveys,
land-and-water areas, activities and pro-
grams, and leadership and personnel.
This thirty-eight-page bulletin is avail-
able from the Association at one dollar.

) WITII PERMISSION of the Conference
on National Cooperation in Aquatics
the National Recreation Association has
reprinted the booklet The Outdoor
Swimming Pool—A Study Report. The
first edition of this booklet was exhaust-
ed in 1959. but because Of the continu-
ing demand the second printing has
been made. Highly commended by
aquatic authorities. it deals with such
pool problems as site, activities. shapes
and sizes, construction features. facili-
ties and equipment, operating factors
and finance. A special section deals
with camp pools. Copies are obtainable
from NRA at one dollar each.

} HAVE you CALLED TIIE JANUARY ISSUE
of RECREATION to the attention of your
local church recreation groups? Many
churches need help with recreation
ideas. and RECREATION will be carrying
more Of them in the coming months.

RECREATION

MAY 1960

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

ASSISTANT EDITORS
JEAN WAOHTEL ELVIRA DELANY

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

e
Business Manager, FRANK J. ROWE
Advertising Manager, ESTA CLUCK

 

VOL. LIII. Price 50 Cents No. 5

 

0n the Cover

CHERRY BLOSSOMS around the tidal basin in
Washington, D. C., with Washington Monument in

the background.

Next Month

The June magazine, our last until September, is your
summer resources issue. Among its many features
you will find articles on tennis, on canoeing and
small boating, on family camping, and on square-
and round-dancing festivals. You will want to learn
how volunteers converted a weed patch into a park,
and you’ll want to see our page of summer equip-
ment ideas. 0n the national level you will read
about the relation of recreation to the new National
Cultural Center, a spread on what to do and see in
Washington, D. C., come Congress time, a discussion
of the philosOphy of the Democratic and Republican
parties concerning recreation, and a report on the
recreation use of national forests. Happy summer!

Photo Credits

Page 202, Sanborn Studio, Wilmington, Del.; 203,
Flint, Mich., Journal; 205, Hal Phyfe; 215, Arizona
Highways; 216, (center left) NYSPIX-Commerce;
217, (top right) Newark, N. J., News, (right center)
Ofiicial Tulip Time Photo, (bottom right) Hugh
Morton; 218, M/Sgt. Harry S. Brown, World-Wide
All Service Amateur Photography Contest, 1949;
223, Donald C. Blais, 1948 National High School
Photographic Awards; 226, The Optimist; 229, Fred
Behringer, Ambler, Penn., Gazette; 235, (Krestan)

Walter T. Cocker.

      

RECREATION is published monthly except July aod
August by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributioos, at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York, is on
£le in public libraries and is indexed io tbe Readert’
Guide. Subscriptioos $4.00 a year. Canadiao aod for-
eign subscriptioo rate $4.50. Re—entered as secood-class
matter April 25. 1950, at tbe Post Oiiice io New York.
New York, under Acc of Marcb 3, 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for io
Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May
I, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uoi-
versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Aoo Arbor,
Micbigao. '

Copyrigbt, 1960, by the

National Recreation Association, Incorporated

        
       
   
   
   
   
       
   
    

Printed in the U.S.A.
@18

' Trade mark regisrered in U. S. Pateot Otiice.

  
   

MAY 1960

 
  
 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

The Aging American and the Future

(Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Daniel G. Grady 
William Murray Hay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200
Our Washington Hosts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
Retreading, Not Retiring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
What’s Different About Retirement? . . Dorothy C. Stratton 205
Saying It With Flowers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elvira Delany 215

ADRIIN I STRATI 0N
Public Responsibility for Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207

The Varied Faces of Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 208

City Parks. . .Amenity or Necessity? . . . . . . George Hjelte 212

State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226

Don Koontz of Whitemarsh Township . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 228

Research Reviews and Abstracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 230
PROGRARI
The Return of Softball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wayne Bly 206

Have You Tried . . . A Block-Party Service? . . . . . . . . . . . . 211

Big Game Hunt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elliott 81. Cohen 219

Drama Is Ageless . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jean Wachtel 220

A Psychiatric Experiment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Pugh 222

Fact-Rising Slow-Pitch League . . . . . . . . . . . . Irwin Danzig 224

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 194

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .. 198

Resources and References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225

Obituaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 229

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 232

Recreation for the 11] and Handicapped . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 234

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 236

Classified Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 237

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 237

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . 238

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

DUCATIONAL

R E S S
s s 0 c I ATION The articles herein printed are the expres-

0F sian at the writers and not a statement at
AMER | CA policy at the Notional Recreotion Association.

195

 

THE

AGING AMERICAN
AND

THE FUTURE

Daniel G. Grady

Is THE recreation profession ready
and capable of meeting the leisure
needs and demands of the older citizen?
This is just one of the questions the
White House Conference on Aging, con-
vening in Washington, D. C., January
1961, will attempt to answer. The mem-
bers of that conference are currently
gathering with their respective governors’ committees on
aging in over thirty-one states to prepare recommendations.
Every area of human endeavor and its relation to the older
person is being scrutinized and discussed in the hope that
sensible, worthy plans for future services to older Americans
will be formulated. Some of the professional recreation
people involved in the state conferences will be at the White
House Conference.

Fewer complexities challenge the minds of men than plan-
ning the aging American’s future. Who is the aging Ameri-
can? He is that person somewhere in the United States who
has survived birth and is currently in possession of both
body and soul. As each individual moves from birth to
death, he experiences a continuing organic deterioration, to
which our tense culture, with all its components, contributes.
Despite evidence that nature is harder on us as we get older,
is it not also true that our culture can bc even harder on the
older member of the community?

Americans subscribe to a theory of obsolescence regard-
ing older people which is most inhuman and unscientifically
sound. Our culture has contrived a practice of declaring
an employee of sixty or sixty-five to bc occupationally ob-
solete, and arbitrarily enforccs a social control which pro-
hibits that person from his work. This is a nearly universal
practicc, despitc scientific evidence indicating that not all
pe0ple over sixty or sixty-five are incapable of working.
The most prevalent single misconception in this area is
that on a person’s sixty-fifth birthday, not the day before,
or the year before, or the day after, or the year after, but
on this one day, everyone in the Unitcd States is to be sub-
jected to specific attitudes, restrictions, and connotations.

I am convinced that our attitudes on aging should be
re-evaluated, and future planning be predicated on a new
set of appropriate humane and intelligent concepts. Somc

 

MR. GRADY is a consultant on services for the aging, Catli-
olic Charitirs of the Archdiocese of New York.

196

  
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
  

people feel attitudes cannot be altered. This is not true.
Do you remember the attitude a few years ago toward bor-
rowing money, credit, and pay-as-you-use? It was un-
thinkable—and considered by many downright immoral——
to be in debt, yet today we are a nation either individually
or collectively in hock.

America boasts of a culture based on Judeo-Christian
precepts, yet the word “mother-in-law” has near vulgar
connotations. In our qucstionable sophistication, we some-
times look at the Eastern and Far Eastern peoples and find
their cultures wanting. Yet the older person in China is
regarded with great respect. The mother-in-law maintains
an honorcd status in the family while the American mother-
in-law is constantly subjected to abuse in cartoons, pseudo-
humor, and plagued by so-called comedians. The fault lies
not alone with the comedian or the cartoonist; the fault
lies in the public which approves such diatribes and tllu
indicates acceptance of the basic idea.

Notcd anthropologist Dr. Ethel Alpenfcls regards our
prevailing attitude towards old age as symptomatic of our
youth-orienth culture. Churchill had more effect on th
future of the world at scventy than he did at thirtecn. I
have no quarrel with sincere efforts to provide for the real
needs of children—or of the aged. However, I do not be-
lieve that the older person should bc identified as one of a
special group in need of special services, which is a mis-
leading conccpt in itself. Wc should regard the older person
as a member of the community, not as a member of a spc-
cific group separated from other members of the community
by an artificial barricr. Thus we begin to think and plan
for the entire community, not artificially structurcd scg-
ments of the community. \Vc must treat the older pcrson
with dignity befitting any individual.

I advoeatc no program for all agcd people; however, op,-
portunities for dignified living and accessibility of necessary
services should be at the disposal of the older person when
and if he needs them. Some older people need medical carc
just as somc people of any age require medical care. Some
older people have problems peculiar to the aging process,
but, after all, who docsn’t? Thcrcforc, just as anyone clsc
may need community and social services, older people also
need these services.

How should we, then, as members of one of the social-
planning professions, plan for the future of our cldcrly?
First we must examine our attitudes toward the aged bcfore

RECREATION

we can begin to educate the public toward action, and cer-
tainly we must increase our knowledge of their problems.
Dr. N. P. Larsen of Honolulu says, in defining youth and
age, “Youth means a temperamental predominance of cour-
age over timidily, of appetite for adventure over the love of
ease. This often exists in a man of fifty more than in a boy
of twenty. Nobody grows old by merely reaching a number
of years. . . . Years wrinkle the skin but to give up your
enthusiasm wrinkles the soul. Worry, doubt, self-distrust,
fear, and despair—these are the long, long years that bow
the heart and turn the green spirit back to dust.”

Constructive thinking and planning are not to be simply
evolved nor speedily initiated. Dr. Michael Bluestone, for-
mer director of Montefiore Hospital in New York City
and a leading educator and pioneer in the study of geriatrics,
offers the following as a basic premise in planning for the
aging American, “Our goal for the elderly is to plan for
them so well that they will be able to die peacefully, in
sleep, at home, at a great old age, without leaving any re-
grets behind. To reach this goal, the family and community
must accept their proper responsibility; subsidy must be
equal to the varying requirements of misfortune; mental
senility must be faced squarely and dealt with humanely;
overinstitutionalization and overrehabilitation must be
avoided; and the maturity and experience must receive
greater recognition and respect from youth.”

Recreation activities, services, programs, clubs, and facili-

. . . A Sense of Contribution

“THE RATE at which . . . older people are Hocking
to senior citizens’ clubs and adult centers in-
dicates their hunger for social contact, conversation,
and some form of activity. . . . The real challenge of

aging lies in the need to create new roles in which
older persons can find opportunity for expression and
from which they can derive self-respect, recognition,
and a sense of contribution.”—-JAMES W. DOARN,
regional director, U. S. Department of H ealth, Edu-
cation and Welfare, Kansas City, Missouri.

 

tics also need a great deal of discussion. For some older
people, reversal of a life pattern of leisure illiteracy may be
difficult or out of their grasp. Leisure in later years is the
concern of every recreator in every area of service and
should not be handed over to a few geriatric specialists
of which I am one. We cannot, and should not, do the job
alone. At best, we can help you, the recreation specialists,
encourage you, and learn with you as we seek the return of
dignity for our older people. My purpose is to disturb you,
prod your intellect and your ability because I have faith in
your desire to serve people who profit from your efforts and
your profession. #

 

 

ON GOOD FRIDAY morning, the headquarters staff of the
National Recreation Association was deeply shocked
to learn of the sudden death of William Hay, NRA’s South-
ern district representative. He died unexpectedly April 14
at his home in Decatur, Georgia, at the age of fifty-four
from a heart ailment. He is survived by his sister, Lenora
Hay, 2563 McCurdy Way, Decatur, Georgia.

Bill Hay came to the NRA in 1947 as a special field repre-
sentative to assist state agencies and officials concerned with
recreation in the southeastern states. His previous eXperi-
ence provided an excellent foundation for his NRA work.
For ten years he had been director of the Division of State
Parks, Department of Conservation, in Tennessee. In this
capacity, he initiated the first state recreation consultant
service to assist towns and counties. Before that he had
served with the United States Forest Service and the United
States Park Service.

In 1950, he became the Association’s district representa-
tive for Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee. He was later

MAY 1960

--- WILLIAM MURRAY HAY -—

assigned to the district which includes Tennessee, North and
South Carolina, Kentucky, and West Virginia. One of Bill’s

concerns Was long-range planning for recreation areas, facili-
ties, and services. He had the opportunity in recent years to
implement this interest through his participation in a num-
ber of community, county, and metropolitan-area recreation
surveys, conducted by the NRA, for such development.

Born in Tennessee, Bill Hay studied landscape architecture
at North Texas Agricultural College and journalism at Iowa
State College. His love of the outdoors and of all growing
things and his interest in writing—~he wrote many articles
and reviews for RECREATION Magazine—remained with him
all his life. At the time of his death he was a life member,
board of directors, National Conference on State Parks, and
a charter and honorary member, Association of Southeastern
State Park Directors.

No one who has met Bill Hay will ever forget his humor
and integrity, his gentleness and sweet disposition.

197

NOW. . .The Profitable Solution to W
CHECK R00 M OPERAHONS 

Sirs:

Although I enjoy reading the issues
of RECREATION as I receive them, I am I
particularly impressed with the March I
1960 camping issue. My reaction is
extremely strong because the generalI
tenor of the points made in the several 1
articles reflects my own thinking as to
fundamental confusion as to what a
camp is and what a camp program
should offer. . . . (they) emphasize con-
centrating upon outdoors and simple
camp skills, utilizing native materials
and providing far greater freedom for
individual choice and more activity for
the small group than we generally do
in “camping” programs.

I was somewhat surprised that the
four objectives of organized family
camping, as set up by the American
Camping Association, did not nIcntion
the outdoors or camping in any way. I
say this because I think the vast differ-
ences in degree in the kind of camping
lumped together under the title of
“Family Camping” might make an in-
tcrcsting area to be explored by REC-
REATION in a future issue.

FRANK W. HARRIS, Executive Secre-

tary, Greater New Haven Council of

Soeial Agencies, 397 Tempie Street,

New Haven 10, Connecticut.

   

 

 

     
    
  
    

Save
labor
Costs

Improve
Service

Increase
Revenue

the heart of LOCKER
CHECKING

 
   

Special Enjoyment

Sirs:

Congratulations on your March is-
suc. I think it is one of the fincst that
I l have been privileged to reccivc. I

have enjoyed this one particularly bc-
causc of my camping alhliation; how-
evcr, I and my staff have also enjoyed
the other issues.

C OI N - L O K P | a n mail" 52:; 22:22:12,? “as

bury, jl'iassaehusetts.

 

AM ERICAN lOCKER COM PANY’S

o The Perfect Checking Equipment for Municipal
Swimming Pool, Parks, and Recreation Areas. M'OOI 01‘ MIOPSO

0 Provides automatic self-service on “pay” or Sits: _
“refund” basis. For some time, I have hecn wondcr-

1- o . . ing why the National Recreation Asso-
. E mates COStly labor and SUperVISlon' ciation seems to neglect the subject of

. can be applied to QXiSting 10011913 horscmanship with such conspicuous

0 You buy ——- or lease looks with no lock mainte- consistcncy. Surcly this organization
Dance to worry about, no replacement costs of must be aware of the nationwide intcr-

lost keys or broken locks _ American takes est in riding. as well as the incroeascd
over the whole job national importance of this sport in the

. . . . . li ht of our now civilian Olympic team.
0 Over 50 locker Sizes avallable In a nude chOIce 3

0f COIOrS* . . . A shocking passagc appcarerl in

RECREATION (March) in “Day Camp
COMPARE COIN LOCKS — COMPARE SPECIFICATIONS -— COMPARE PRICES Patterns”. . . . I refer particularly to

Write. foday for full information: “THIS the statement that “ ‘really advanccd'
Amrprcmq LOCKER COMPANY. INC.  RcHEcKING 5  riders . . . are taught sadvanced' riding
Dept. 55, 2“ Conuress Street, Boston, Massachusetts EOCKE r-ascat, posting, animal carc, ctc.” FOP

omega AND LARGEST com Locx MANUFACTURER clarification, may I point out that seat

198 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

and posting are the most elementary
skills taught to a beginner, and that ani-
mal care is not riding. As an analogy,
how would this sound: “The really ad-
vanced swimmers are taught advanced
swimming—floating, breathing, pool
cleaning, etc.”?

One remark on the safety record of

this camp: The use of the word “corral”
and the published photo are dead give-
aways to the fact that Western saddles
are used, and it’s practically impossible
to fall out of ’em. . . I
JILL BOSWELL, Box 308, Burlington,
New Jersey.

A Camp Is a Camp

Sirs:

After reading “Four F’s of Camping”
(March) I have gained new inspiration
to strive for the goal which I have al-
ways strongly believed in——that a camp
should truly be a “camp.”

The past five years I have been trying
to finance a camp for boys. Being a
man of dreams instead of means, I’ve
tried to raise the much-needed financ-
ing from men of logic and facts. Al-
ways I have been met with the same
questions: “How would this camp pos-
sibly prepare boys for our atomic
world of today? Isn’t a camp of Indian
and pioneer lore an escape from the
realities of ‘real-life’ problems?”

Now, at last, I have found the proper
words to answer these questions.
Thanks to (this) article I am going to
make another try at making a dream
come true, a dream of boys going to
camp, living in the great outdoors, shar-
ing an adventure together that will live
with them through out their lives.

HENRY M. STOCK, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Volunteer Service

Sirs:

I cannot tell you how pleased I am
over the article on our hospital volun-
teer program, “Vets with Volunteers,”
which appeared in the January 1960 is-
sue. It is most gratifying to our VAVS
Committee as well as our hospital staff,
to have our volunteer service publicized
in your nationally known magazine.

M. R. BROWNLEE, Chief of Special

Services, Veterans Administration

Hospital, Salisbury, North Carolina.

Fine Film Review

Sirs:

Many thanks for the very fine review
you gave to F or All The Children in
your magazine (March 1960) . You will
be pleased to know that this has resulted
in many inquiries for the film, and we
are most appreciative for this. Of
course, the Fresh Air Fund joins me
in thanks.

LEO TRACHTENBERG, Harvest Films,
90 Riverside Drive, New Y orh 24.

MAY 1960

  
 

['1- 30! E. mnro mm

 

 

y‘—
do.“

  

'. _ I Whirlwind
l- Cotlon Candy
' Machine

 
  
 

  

 
 

‘
7" Sno-Konette
Machine "  ’ Ice Shaver
$199.00 ‘ MM“

   $149.50

Don't handicap your program for lack of funds. Refresh—
ment Profits give you 10% more funds. Write for free 32-
poge booklet which tells how easily your department can
earn them. Free I20-poge catalog and descriptive literature
is also yours for the asking. Write today.

        
   
     
   
  

cow MEDAL pnonuas co.
____W,__WH___WWWWMMW .CINCIN-NATI 2. gig 3

 

 

—MOVIES—

For Every Occasion
It:

RECREATION - EDUCATION

IoMM SOUND
Black & White - Color

Representing

Walt Disney - Columbia - Warner
United Artists - Paramount

Send for 64-page FREE CATALOG

INSTITUTIONM CINEMA SERVICE. INC.
41 Union Square -— New York I3Ir N. Y.

Shulbourd

Fun For Everyone !

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-
tion for ell egos . . . Izeen enioyment
for players and spectetors.

Rugged. Dimco FreeGIide ShuFHe-
boerd sets ere eveileble for both out-

door end indoor instelletion.

Eesy to insiell . . . low in upkeepl
Write today for colorful folder, "Let’s
Play SbuEleboard,” containing com-

plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

  
    
  
   
   
 
  
 

 

Recreation leaders from Boston to
Los Angeles use this means of solv-
lng many playground problems.

THE MORALE BUILDER

Ten Minutes of Special Coaching Can Pro-
duce a Koloh Enthusiast.

SEND FOR lEAFlET Na. 12. Shows how one In-
spired player can develop volunteer helpers wha
will start a wave of sustained Interest that may

spread over a city.
KALAHEBOARD

~——-. . "'r.‘ ‘ “a

 at ._,;. . from UNICEF Recreallon Man-
"  I Hal supplied wllh each order.

' i "T Itth GAME (0.
131 Stale St. Boston. Mass.

Simple Kalah rules reprlnled

  

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. “ 199

   

DIVING BOARD  J ,, / sign surpasses an safqty
 /  ? standards, makes repairs ‘

      
    
  
     
 
 
 
 
   
   
  

RECREATION'S unnecessary.

   

1&2...

3‘ Designed 4,;
and built to be its
the finest diving  _
board ever developed. _
Offers the amateur and “1:,”
professional alike finest ac-

tion and maximum safety— 'w.
and pool owners prefer it because ‘E
it won’t break (3 year warranty) and

needs no service. Uniform thickness,
coupled with other design and construction
features, allows: (1) the “Dual Action" of flex-

ing on both sides of the fulcrum and (2) the very
important feature of eliminating toroue (twist) at the

tip. Insist on Townsend Dual Action Diving Board.

#9112-12'-$175. — #9114-14'-$270. — #9116-16'-$290.

  
 
  
  

,ti

   
 

-"|

   
   
   
   
    
 
  
 
 
    
 
  

 

RECREATION EQUIPMENT CORP. 7m, - l
' Write for

liecreation’s Colorful .

New Catalogs. Specify I

Dept. R-560, 724 West Eighth St., Anderson, Indiana

Manufacturers of Play Equipment for Swimming Pools,

' Parks, Beaches, Playgrounds: also Basketball Equipment. POOL P1 a y g r 0 u n (L

‘ ’43 r F Dealer Inquiries Invited BaSketball- 

Less than three years ago a business was conceived The TF'T Ball Meter is leased free to responsible
and predicated on the premise of service and quality. agencies and is now in use by public recreation
Proof that “service and quality” need not be a mere agencies, schools and universities, industrial recrea-
business cliche is attested to by the success of our tion centers, Y’s, resorts, camps, dude ranches, boy’s
company during this short period. During the past clubs, churches, hospitals, military installations, youth
:3: montlhs vige have Elvatchid with pgide, and somhe awe, clubs and country clubs.

9. ava anc e 0 or ers t at ace TFT Ball Ieters . . r - -
dispensing TFT table tennispballs in 46 states, the 01” concept 0f selwce and quality 15 now faCt'

District of Columbia and Canada. And now a line of May We be 0f SCl'ViCC:

paddles and nets also bear the TFT stamp of quality. T. F. Twordzik, PRESIDENT

 T. F. TWARDZIK AND COMPANY

SHENANDOAH. PENNSYLVANIA

. . __q.
- SAFE
THE ULTIMATE - DURAIBLE
‘ ADVANCED DESIGN
IN All aluminum and stain-
 3", less steel construction——
 \ ~ -_exclusive, scientific de-

 

200 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION I

 

The men largely responsible
forourcomfortandenjoyment
in the city of Washington,

from September 25-29, 1960.

Our Washington
Hosts

 

Milo Christiansen—Local Arrangements chairman and chief
host Milo Christiansen is a familiar figure in the recrea-
tion profession, known for his accomplishments in the field
and, since 1942, as superintendent of the District of Colum-
bia’s excellent public recreation department. Prior to this
he was state director of recreation in Kansas and regional
recreation planner and assistant regional director with the
National Park Service.

A graduate of the University of Minnesota, with a BS in
social sciences and education, and of Wisconsin Teachers
College, at Superior, in physical education and social sci-
ence, he is also an alumnus of the National Recreation
School sponsored by the National Recreation Association
in New York City. His skill in administration was further
strengthened by a year of graduate work in educational
administration at Rutgers University.

Mr. Christiansen is also serving on the Congress Policy
Committee and the Program Planning Committee. He is
an active member of the NRA’s Middle Atlantic District
Advisory Committee (see Page 228) ; also of the American
Recreation Society Legislative Committee, and the Com-
mittee on Citations and Awards. He is vice-president of
the National Federation of Professional Organizations for
Recreation, secretary of the National Advisory Committee
of the Athletic Institute, past-president of the American Ree-
reation Society (1945-47), and recipient of the Society’s
Fellow Award for outstanding contributions to the field of
recreation (1946). He received a citation from the Navy
Department for Meritorious Personal Service during World
War II, a Meritorious Service Award from the District of
Columbia Commissioners (1959), and a Merit Citation
from the National Civil Service League (1956).

THE STEERING COMMITTEE

 

Association’s Junior Golf Program.

MAY 1960

Edward H. lhaCkel—Mr. Thacker serves on the steering committee which was appointed to represent the Congress
Policies Committee and the D.C. Recreation Society, and also to serve as a “brain trust” for Congress planning. Cur-
rent president of the Washington chapter of the American Recreation Society, cooperating agency for the Congress, he
joined the D.C. recreation department in 1952 as a recreation analyst. As such he is responsible for conducting stu-
dies and research relating to all phases of recreation administration and program and for public recreation informa-
tion services. His research experience made him a natural for the National Recreation Association’s National Ad-
visory Committee on Recreation Research, on which he served a term. He was formerly a representative for the
American Recreation Society’s Middle Atlantic area, is currently its treasurer and a member of its Research and
Study and Public Relation Committees and serves on the Congress Policies Committee as well. Mr. Thacher served
with the U.S. Navy during World War 11 on duties related to physical fitness, welfare, and recreation.

Joseph  [Ole—Assistant superintendent of the District of Columbia Recreation Department, Mr. Cole was born
in Philadelphia, but was moved to W ashington by his parents three months later.

He attended Howard University and was graduated in 1935 with a BS in health, physical education, and recreation.

After his graduation, he was first employed in 1933 by the D.C. Playground Department as a summer playground
leader. He has held many positions with the department since then, including that of playground director, de-
taehed recreation leader, area supervisor, director of citywide. adult programs, and administratiie recreation assist-
ant in the department, before being appointed to his present position. In the latter, he is chiefly responsible for day-
to-day operation of the recreation program.

Among many affiliations, Mr. Cole is a member of the Omega Psi Phi Fraternity , president-elect of the D.C. Chap-
ter of the American Recreation Society, president of the local Re} ll (irlf ( ilub. and chairman of the Eastern Golf

201

RETREADING, NOT RETIRING

Today’s senior citizen has widening opportunities
for the pursuit of self-fulhllment.

Lighting the Way

PPROXIMATELY TWENTY-TWO THOUSAND older men and
A women in Genesee County surrounding Flint, Mich-
igan, have a growing chance to make their sunset
years a time of personal contentment and rewarding pro-
ductivity. F lint’s elder-citizen program recognizes the needs,
the fears, and the hopes of the individual, rather than see-
ing him as a “leftover” statistic whose remaining time must
be filled with harmless pleasures.

This philosophy, no longer unique in Flint or elsewhere,
has gained added vigor under the leadership of Gertrude
Cross, supervisor of Flint’s McKinley Senior Citizen Drop-
In Center. It is understood and augmented by the center’s
sponsors, the Flint Recreation and Park Board and the
Greater Flint AFL-CIO Council.

The McKinley Center opened on December 5, 1956. it

was not an auspicious beginning, for only 290 persons regis-
tered and, of that group only seven volunteered, upon invi-
tation, to make and paint toys for handicapped children in
the area. These senior citizens were given a special invita-
tion to attend the annual Christmas party of handicapped
youngsters; twelve additional members were persuaded to
go along.

This tactic paid off. The reluctant oldsters came, saw,
and were conquered by the sight of youth chained through
disability, but still challenging the world with laughter.
Within the next month, eight of the nonparticipants became
volunteer workers on the toy projects.

This same technique is still practiced because it is based
on very sound psychology. For many aged persons passiv-
ity, sclf-pity, or bitterness have filled the void left by the
removal of a familiar job or the task of raising a family.
Mrs. Cross intuitively hit on the right method of showing
them two basic truths—that age is not the worst thing that
can happen to a human being and that the ability to do
something for someone else is not measurcd by years or
rare talent.

Donald Sinn, superintendent of the recreation and park
department, says, “Our lives are measured in curves of com-
munication which determine our fullness as an individual
and as a member of society. As an infant, this communica-
tion is limited to one or two peeple, but, as we grow, our
world expands little by little to include school friends, neigh-
borhood acquaintances, coworkers and others. At our peak,
we have communication with a limitless number of other
people, and, correspondingly, an intercst in varied activities.
As we age, however, the graph begins to drop. We losc com-
munication with school friends, relatives, acquaintances,
and, on retirement, coworkers, until our world once more
becomes a limited place. More frightening now, because

202

we are left with the knowledge of what we once had, a

have no more. Our job is to re-establish as much of that lo
communication as possible and to build new lines acro
the chasm of loneliness.”

At the end of the third year of operation, the Flint senio
citizen group has made over two thousand toys and h
contributed over eighteen thousand man hours to helpil
others. The service projects have exPanded to take in ot
institutions and hospitals and the senior citizcns. inspire
by the reception of their contributions, branched out int
making special equipmcnt and furniture for the specifi
needs of handicapped people. Once each year, special rec
ognition, in the form of a dinner and a service pin, is giver
to members who have contributed one hundred hours 0
more toward the toy projects.

Thc Sunshine Crew consists of forty-nine members—two
eighty years ‘young,’ the rest averaging 7415 years. Tlli
group presented its first “sunshine program” to the patient
of a local county hospital where most of the patients were
over sixty, many of them alone and fricndlcss. The sun-
shine trips were so wcll received that the visits were set u u
on a monthly basis, at the request of the patients.

Independence is the watchword in this as in the other pro-
jects. Mcmbers pay thcir own transportation charges, us
their own cars for local trips or pay their own fare on char-
tered buses for out-of-town jaunts. They have contribute i
approximately two thousand service hours on the Sunshin
Crew project. Other organizations in Flint now call to re-
quest spccial programs by them.

Flint’s senior-citizen program is healthy and growing.
It has to be. For while the membership now is almost on
thousand, the achievement is clouded by the fact that in th
background, there are thousands more to be reached an
helped. The McKinley Drop-1n Center is lighting the way.
—RUBY MCDONALD, associate editor, Flint \Veekly Review.

A Separate, Qnieter \Vorld

The Golden Age Camp in South Coventry, Connecticut,
is designed exclusively for golden-agch. Operated by the
Southern New England Division of the Salvation Army the
camp immediately adjoins a well-established camp for chil-
drcn. sharing service from the children’s kitchen and clinic.
It is, all the same, a separate and quieter world. The senior
camp has paved walks—well-lighted at night—wand a cluster
of garden chairs at the pier where lake water laps at three
sides. The eight separate cottages provide privacy for two,
three, or even four occupants, heat to chase the mornin
damp, and good beds. The golden-agers are always welcome
at the children’s campfire programs, but mostly prefer to
gather in their own pavilion or down 011 the pier where they

RECREATION

 

service projects, including toys for handicapped children.

can listen to the camp songs from a comfortable distance.

Originally the cottages were built for summer rental and
they include kitchens, bathrooms, and screened porches.
The kitchens are not really needed now, but the campers
seemed to like the home touch and the possibility of making
an occasional (3111) of tea. The main house contains the camp
dining room, “diet kitchen,” and general housekeeping and
management headquarters.

The pavilion was designed for the camp and built with
funds contributed by the Hartford Foundation for Public
Giving. Its one great room, dominated by a fireplace, is
the place for music and television, card games, craft work
and special programs, and casual social gatherings, all day
and into the evening. Its porch overlooking the lake is a
favorite sitting spot, and a small kitchen by the entrance
facilitates preparation of snacks or an occasional supper.

While the usual stay last summer was five days, a few
remained for a second week, sometimes with the help of a
campership. For one woman the second week was a birth-
: day gift from her daughters. Several married couples came
l and several pairs of friends. Word of the new program has
lspread through Salvation Army offices, golden-age clubs,
and a variety of agencies serving the aging. The Bridge-
port Heart Association sent one patient and found her in-
creased self-confidence an important gain. The fee of $12.50
for the fifteen-day period was set with more relevance to
the purse of the guests than camp outlay.

Activities were as varied as the individuals in camp at
any given period—differing sharply from the scheduled ac-
tivities in children’s camps. One camper taught chess to
several others. Fishing, swimming (slightly supervised),
crafts and games all had their place; cards ranked high.
But an informal check suggests the favorite activities were
just talking and watching the changing light reflected in
the water.

“You see,” one woman said, “my window at home just
looks out on a blank wall.” And another, “What I like best
is the quiet-—just this little sound of water. Our boarding
house is on such a noisy corner.”——ESTIIER D. BARNETT,
research assistant, Institute of Gerontology and Commission

MAY 1960

Flint’s senior citizens have devoted themselves to many

on Services for Elderly Persons, University of Connecticut.

Reprinted with permission from Aging in Connecticut, Au-
tumn, 1959.

Indoor Pioneers

Oldsters in Hutchinson, Kansas, look forward all year to
the all-day, indoor, spring get-together called the “Pioneer
Picnic,” sponsored by the Hutchinson Recreation Commis-
sion’s Pioneer Club. Each year the “picnic” attracts a
larger crowd. In 1959, over one thousand people attended.
Golden-age clubs from other Kansas cities are invited to
attend as well as any over-sixty local resident.

Local service groups assist the recreation commission
with the Pioneer Picnic. Registration is taken care of by
the Gamma Pi Chapter of the Beta Sigma Phi Sorority;
hats and coats are checked by the American Legion Auxil-
iary; the Color Presentation is given by the American Wo-
men’s Relief Corps. Local stores and business firms often
cooperate by supplying materials free of charge or by giv-
ing discounts.

The morning program starts off with a welcome from the
recreation commission chairman, the Pioneer president,
and the mayor. The picnic is held in Convention Hall from
10:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. For the most part, the Pioneers
entertain themselves during the day. Members of the Hutch-
inson Club present talent acts, including acts by the Pioneer
Chorus. Men and women dress in old-time costumes, sing
songs p0pular during their younger years. Literary read-
ings are also p0pular.

Age is celebrated and awarded. An award is given to
the oldest teacher, oldest preacher, oldest person, the couple
married the longest, and to the person traveling the farthest
distance to attend. Last year the oldest person was ninety-
six and the couple married the longest had been together
sixty-two years. All couples who have been married fifty
years or longer are honored at the “golden-wedding” table.

Fun continues through the lunch hour. Each person at-
tending the picnic brings a sack lunch. Coffee is furnished
and served by the Hutchinson Club. Since the crowd has
become so large, the club finds it is most practical to have
the forty gallons of coffee catered by a local store. Tables
are set up for the out-of-town members and all local pe0ple
are asked to bring card tables. Those who have no table
simply eat from their laps.

After lunch is over, the fun continues. Contests are staged
to determine the best hog caller, the best fiddler, the biggest
liar, the best speller, and the best harmonica player. At
3:00 P.M. physical activity by the oldsters begins. The most
popular activity is social dancing spiced with an occasional
“old-time” square dance. Mixers and get-acquainted dances
are scattered throughout the two hours. Other activities
include card playing, dominoes, chess, checkers, and just
watching and visiting.

Activities cease at Convention Hall at 5:00 PM. only to
adjourn to the recreation center. Out-of-town guests are in-
vited to visit the center during the supper hour. Snack
lunches are available at small cost, and visitors may play
table games, watch a movie, or just rest. At 8:00 P.M. the
dancing begins again. This time, there is an orchestra, usu-

203

 

ally donated by the musicians' union. Those who wish to
compete with the noise may play table games.

By the time the evening is half gone, the recreation leaders
are exhausted but the golden-agers seems to be getting their
second wind. Lunch time is observed at 9:00 P.M. with
coffee and cookies furnished by individual members of the
Hutchinson Club. The festivities continue for another two
hours, and then the out-of—towners load their buses and
ears and head for home; another picnic passes into happy
memory.-———DOXIE A. and LESTER C. KELLER. Mr. Keller is
superintendent of the Hutchinson, Kansas, Recreation C om-
mission.

Outdoor Fete

In Wilmington, Delaware, the annual Old Timers Picnic
is a carefully organized affair. George T. Sargisson, execu-
tive director‘ of Recreation Promotion and Service, Inc.,
explains: “The program is organized by means of a small
committee of about twelve people. We have purposely kept
it small and yet have it large enough so it includes a repre-
sentative of all the various interest areas. We have tried
also to assign each member of the committee a specific re-
sponsibility. It has worked.

“We have prepared a communication that goes out to all
of the old timers with an application form inviting them to
attend. We obtained our original list from churches, asked
industries to submit a list of retired personnel, and asked
different people if they would give us names of those men
and women over sixty-five who they believe might be in-
terested. We have one person who cheeks over the obituary
columns and keeps our files up to date.

“At our first picnic we had about 250 present and have
had as high as 550. One year, after being rained out three
times, we still had over 4.50.

“We actually provide little leadership. We register eve-
ryone and make up advance name cards with stubs on them
for door prizes. These are given out as the members arrive.

“We have found that there is very little interest in horse-
shoes and other games. The old timers seem to want just
to be entertained. We have provided everything from ma-
gicians, acrobats, and brief talks by dignitaries to hillbilly
singing, puppet shows, and so on.

“We provide dessert and coffee or cool drinks. We have
tried various methods in setting this up. We have found
it more practical to take the food directly to the tables. . . .
The Red Cross provides its regular canteen service unit,

 

, ‘Ln‘v  "' _
A ride in the surrey with the fringe on top delights old-
timers at their annual picnic in Wilmington, Delaware.

204

   
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
    
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
    
   
  
  
 
  
   

which makes coffee on the spot. Before we had the Red
Cross, however, we borrowed five-gallon thermos jugs and
obtained the cooperation of some restaurants to make coffee
for us. Incidentally, each person is responsible for bring-
ing his own food. In the first two years, we made sand-
wiches for some who neglected to bring food but found it
difficult to dispense fairly so we cut this out entirely.

“We decided on the policy of not arranging to pick peo-
ple up with the car for the reason that everyone would have
made excuses to be picked up. We felt that getting there
and returning home was the individual’s responsibility.”

Planned Pot Luck

Many people had a hand in making the Aurora, Illinois,
invitational pot-luck program for older adults a successful
venture. The park district cooperated with the playground
and recreation department in setting up and reserving an
area in a beautiful park. The department’s own maintenance
crew dropped all other duties for the day, to set up all the
necessary equipment and to stand by for emergencies during
the party. The Aurora Section of the National Council of
Jewish Women acted as hostesses and conducted the bingo
games. The American Red Cross sent a properly staffed
standby unit for first-aid duty. Both local newspaper and
radio gave the event very impressive publicity 'and coverage.
Our older citizens are delighted to be in the “news.”

This type of gathering has proved itself one of the inos
successful programs planned for golden-age recreation ac-
tivity. It more nearly approximates the pattern of normal
living that was carried on by those in the older age bracket“
during the middle years of their life. Thirty to forty yea
ago big picnics, big parties, and big family reunions were
the rule rather than exception.

Every two or three months Aurora’s older citizens plat
to have some senior-age club from out of town as guests.
Then they sit back and hope to be invited to an afternoon
party out of town. The cnchantment of dressing 11p, board-
ing a chartered bus for the trip, eating in new places, seei1
new people, and being entertained can be enjoyed in antici
pation, in actuality, and in retrospect.

Along with its invitations to other clubs Aurora’s Friend
ly Center Club sends detailed directions for the trip to th
center. Too many times an uncaring bus driver has deliv
cred a group of older adult passengers in a state of nca
hysteria because he had lost his way and made them late.

Cake and coffee served at card tables in the big audi
torium and refreshment room is done with ease for a grou}
of over two hundred because willing hands are utilized, t
open the tables and unfold chairs and set up proper seatin
and serving areas. This is the hour when the golden-agcr
really get to know each other.

These gct-togcthers have been so successful, along witl
many invitational events to mark holidays or special clul
programs, that they have become a regular feature of th
yearly recreation schedule for older adults. The time an(
work involved in the planning of this special type of activity
are really negligible when measured against the pleasnr
experienced by the senior citizens—JUNE BENNETT, direc
tor, Friendly Center Club, Aurora, Illinois.

Racmm'no.

What's Different
About Retirement?

The author, for many years an administrator, points out
what retirement means to her. The spirit with which Miss
Stratton approaches this question is the spirit of recreation
as we see it. Any leisure-time activity performed for enjoy-
ment is recreation—be it study, gardening, reading, or just
settin’—and as such, it can, as Miss Stratton says, open up
whole new worlds—Ed.

Dorothy C. Stratton

THE COVER of a recent issue of a na-
tional magazine has a sketch of the
retired a-settin’ in the sun on benches,
pitching horseshoes, playing Ping-pong.
Their expressions are saturnine. Oddly
enough, there are no Women in this pic-
ture. Need retirement really be as dull
as this appears? If so, some of the sixteen million of us re-
tirees, or about-to-be’s, may not view the “golden years” as

 

unalloyed bliss.

I enjoy a-settin’ in the sun, but not as a full-time occupa-
tion. For men life would be unthinkable without work
and without study, as well as without those activities com-
monly thought of as recreation. I enjoy trying, and failing,
to get out of a sand trap on the first try as well as the next
duffer, but that improving a golf score should be the end-
all of life is not in my philos0phy. I like to work and I ex-
pect to go on working. I also like to play, but I like play
as a minor, not a major, theme of life. The obligation to
earn one’s space on the earth is not canceled on retirement.

What’s different, then, about retirement if one intends
to continue to work? The major difference lies, I think,
in the opportunity to have more control over the use of one’s
time. What’s different is that the person makes the decisions
as to what is most important to him rather than the job’s
making them. After years of planning how other people
would spend their working hours, the time has come for me
to see whether I can plan my own when I am no longer in
the familiar working routine.

When the earning of one’s daily bread is not quite so
urgent as in the earlier years of life, the opportunity is
offered to concentrate on areas in which one has always
been interested but which have had short shrift because

 

MISS STRATTON, national executive director, Girl Scouts
of the U. S. A., one-time head of the SPARS and former
dean of women and professor of psychology at Purdue,
is planning to retire next June 30.

r

MAY 1960

of other commitments. To achieve this retreading, one needs
a period of complete change in which to dig in the earth,
renew old friendships, knit up “the ravelcd sleave of care,”
catch up on all the personal matters one has kept deferring.
Then one can bite into the future.

In administration, as has often been remarked, one keeps
learning less and less about more and more. After a while
one becomes appalled by how little one knows—especially
after listening to the College Bowl (an intellectual quiz
competition among college students on television). So I
yearn for a chance to study again, to tackle a subject in
depth, to have a feeling of mastery in some one area of
knowledge, however small.

My major interest has always been in education and in
young pe0ple. I do not stand in the role of critic of either,
but as one who is deeply devoted to giving full Opportunity
to youth to develOp their abilities to the maximum. This
interest will not change by virtue of retircment from a speci-
tic job. What are the values going to be on which individual
young persons build their lives? This is a momentous ques-
tion for the country as well as for its individual citizens.
I care deeply about this.

I believe that each one of us must make a personal effort
to promote international understanding. This may be done
on a person-to-person basis, by correspondence, by intelli-
gent travel, by study of some one area of the world, or by
some combination of these approaches. This I regard as a
personal obligation, to be carried out regardless of whether
one is employed.

I am disturbed, but fascinated, by the questions involved
in our foreign policy. How can we put into words our ideals
of government so that we are understood by long-established
as well as by new nations? Is anyone wise enough to know
the anSWers? The series of studies now being made for
the Foreign Rclations Committee of the U. S. Senate pro-
vides the person who has time to study them with plenty of
material for thought. I hope to study them simply in the
context of a citizen trying to inform herself about issues
that matter to her country.

Perhaps highest on my list of things-I-want-to-do-when
is reading. My book shelves bulge with books that have
waited a long time. I have made a promise to them and to
myself.

I want some time just to enjoy the wonders of the world
around me. Seeing the world through the eyes of the young
is one thing; seeing it as you realize that the time for en-
joying it no longer stretches as a long vista into the future
is something else. Perhaps one sees more, or perhaps one
only feels more, about the things that are seen.

One field I havc been exploring the last few years as a
complete novice is the opera. The opportunity of getting
a ticket to the Metropolitan once in a while, or of listening
to the Texaco radio broadcasts, has Opened up for me a
whole new world of plcasure and of learning. Since opera
is purely a recreation for me, it presents me with delightful
new experiences. In addition to the enjoyment of the music
itself, opera sends me off into all sorts of new paths—the
lives of the composers. the sources of the themes. the politi-
cal setting in which a number of the operas were written,

205

the singers, the directors, the costumes and costumers, and
the languages. For full enjOyment of opera, one should
surely have enough Italian, German, and French to under-
stand who is stabbing whom and why. Here, alone, is a
whole lifetime of pleasure and of learning.

I want to do better about eXpressing appreciation to the
people who are making the tough decisions, charting the
way to the future, standing up and being counted on the
crucial issues. Almost every day I read in the paper that
someone I know has received an award or been put on the
spot for a stand he has taken or has made some special
contribution in his profession, and I vow to write a note be-
fore the day is out. But often I don’t. This is another

promise to myself.
For a successful retirement I must conquer fear—fear

—-——-THE RETURN

THE RETURN and growth of interest in softball as a rec-
reation activity in Lawrence, Kansas, a city of twenty-
four thousand, may have been duplicated in many com-
munities during the past three years, but the resurgence of
the sport has amazed us all. Following W’orld War ll, many
returning veterans were eager to play, and softball pros-
pered. Then its popularity began to wane locally until, in
1955, only six teams played in the adult city league and
twelve on the playgrounds.

Young boys were reluctant to play, having been told by
adults that softball would ruin them for baseball. We at-
tacked this problem by first having our baseball leaders
encourage all boys to play softball on playground tcams.
They enjoyed themselves playing the game and were sur-
prised to find it actually enhanced their baseball ability.

An adult church” league of six teams was organized in
1957, after a number of unsuccessful attempts. Boys over
fourteen were allowed to play so some cliurclies would have
enough participants to field a team. The league was or-
ganized on an informal basis with as few rules as possible.
Players on the teams had to be a member of, or regularly
attend, the church they played for. Enforcement was left
to team leaders. In 1958, fourteen adult teams entercd two
leagues, and six junior teams, composed of members four-
teen years and under, were organized. The growth con-
tinued into 1959, with twelve teams entered in thc regula-
tion adult softball and eight teams in the newly organized
slow-pitch league and eight teams in thc junior league. This
constituted a growth of from six to twenty-eight teams in
three years.

As a result of this interest in low-pressure softball, the
adult city and industrial leagues have grown from six to
ten teams, with more expected in 1960. The caliber of soft-
ball in this league is good, with the 1959 winner going to
the semifinals in the state ASA meeting. In addition, twenty-
two playground teams, including six girls’ teams, played
an informal schedule during the summer. Over one thousand

206

of the loss of income, fear of the loss of opportunity to
take an aetive part in the life around me, fear of loss of
my faculties, and, finally, fear of ‘death. These fears are
seldom admitted in articles about retirement, but they are
as real as the familiar quoits and fishing pole. Since much
of everyone’s life consists in overcoming fears of one kind
or another and since by the age of sixty-one one has had
much experience in this aspect of life, there is reason to
believe that this store of experience will serve one well in
overcoming the natural fears involved in setting forth on
a different phase of life.

What’s different about retirement? Why, simply that
the manner in which time is used is fully now one’s own re-
Sponsibility. Surely this is a blessing, not a burden. The
only trouble with time is that there’s too little of it. #

0F SOFTBALL —-—-

boys participated in our summer baseball program, and
many also played on church or playground softball team.

The attendance in all leagues has increased along with
the interest. Although we are attempting to encourage par-
ticipation and not promote a spcctator sport. it is gratify-
ing to see so many enjoying the game. We hope this will
continue, and that it can be kept on a recreation basis,
avoiding the entanglements and arguments that often de-
velop in high-pressure sports.

This is not written with the thought that we have done
anything unusual, since many communities our size doubt-
less have such programs, but as an indication that our grow-
ing population is becoming interested in softball partici-
pation, and that this game can be a factor in the overall
picture of fitness and enjoyment of life.—-\VAYNE BLY, Su-
perintendent 0/ Recreation, Lawrence, Kansas.

 

Copyright 1948, The New Yorker Magazine Inc.

“Certainly they cost a lot 0/ money,
but it’s time we started getting some [an out 0/ file!”

Itacmmriox

PUBLIC
RESPONSIBILITY
for RECREATION

A discussion of policy and goals.

gate Assembly oflicially adopted, in May 1958, a re-
port on Goals of Public Social Policy, prepared by
its Commission on Social Policy and Action and now avail-
able.* The commission emphasized that health, education,
and social welfare problems can be dealt with most effec-

THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION of Social Workers Dele-

tively internationally, nationally, and in local communities
through the establishment and maintenance of a flexible
network of public and voluntary programs designed to meet
our changing needs. The main body of the report dealt
with policy statements relating to various aspects of public
welfare. One of these, relating to recreation and leisure-time
services, is reproduced, in condensed form, with permission.

Public Recreation and Leisure-Time Services

The Problem. The human personality requires for its full
development the Opportunity for self-expression and devel-
opment of broad and absorbing interests; varied recreation
experiences; relaxation from tensions of work and respon-
sibility; constructive social relationships with people; broad
perspectives and satisfactions derived from cultural corn-
munication; and participation in responsibility for com-
munity life.

Technical advances have effected changes in living pat»
terns, resulting in more comfort for more peOple but less
satisfactions from the ordinary chores of living and work-
ing. Tensions mount for individuals, families, and com-
munities when basic social needs are not met or cannot be
met easily and naturally. Government at state and national
levels has a vital role in fostering conditions, facilities, and
programs that strengthen the capacities of individuals and
families for meeting their own recreation needs.

As public policy and support move to develop resources,
facilities, and coordination of the unique purposes and func-
tions of recreation, urgent attention must be directed to
recruitment and education of competent manpower, and to
research in methods, organizations, programs, and new ap-
proaches to training.

The Objective. PeOple in a democratic society should make
.use Of the instrumentality of government, wherever appro-
priate, to develOp and conserve those resources of nature
and man that make recreation a rewarding aspect of human

 

I"Available from the National Association of Social Workers, 95
Madison Avenue, New York 16. $1.00.

MAY 1960

development and offer Opportunities for putting to good
use the new leisure made possible by increasing productiv-
ity. The following recommendations are made:

Community Programs

Government provisions of recreation services in local
communities should include:

' Citizen participation on commissions and boards.

' Support of recreation services by appropriate govern-
ment bodies adequate to establish and operate programs,
maintain facilities, and finance a capital outlay program
Of land acquisition and facility develOpment.

° Employment of competent, well-paid, professionally
prepared leadership assisted by capable, trained volunteers.

' A variety of recreation opportunities provided ade-
quately and attractively throughout the year to meet the
needs of all people (including the physically and mentally
handicapped), regardless of age, sex, race, creed, or eco-
nomic status.

° A wide variety of recreation areas and facilities, in-
cluding parks, playgrounds, playfields, swimming pools,
beaches, camp grounds and other facilities for camping,
indoor recreation centers, libraries, art galleries, and stu-
dios, museums, and community theaters.

° A general long-range plan for land and facility ac-
quisition to meet the needs of an increasing population.

° Establishment and maintenance of adequate recreation
services for their therapeutic and corrective value as well
as for the leisure needs of individuals in schools, hospitals,
and institutions.

State and Federal Responsibilities

Measures in the governmental provision of recreation
services at the state and federal level should include:

° Provision by agencies of state and federal governments
of technical information and consultant services to local
communities.

° Grants-in-aid to state and local jurisdictions of gov-
ernment.

° Annual review by state and federal agencies concerned
with recreation, of the develOpment, conservation, and uti-
lization of recreation resources with subsequent recommen-
dations concerning areas, facilities, and programs that exist
or may be needed.

° EXpanded and adequately financed systems of regional,
state, and federal parks and forests, including access to
coastal waters and inland waterways for purposes of rec-
reation and conservation Of wildlife and natural resources

' and the preservation of sites of historical interest.

° Establishment and maintenance of adequate recreation
services for their therapeutic and corrective value as well
as for the leisure needs of individuals in state and federal
schools, hospitals, and institutions.

Government Support of the Arts

The contribution of the arts—broadly defined—in afford-
ing Opportunities for self-expression and development and
in enriching enjoyment of leisure should be recognized
through the sponsorship and support by government of the
arts at all levels. 

207

 

..
_. p
Hing. "i"

,.

New Marriott Motor Hotel near the ieart of Philadelphia,
combines travel and resort facilities, including patio and pool.

.. . . IN MOTELS

THE FOUR buildings of a new Philadelphia motel will
enclose a patio with two swimming pools. This unit:
will occupy forty thousand square feet, with half of all rooms
overlooking this area. A section of the handsomely land-
scaped patio will be reserved for outdoor dining, and spe-
cially planned young people’s recreation facilities will be
located in a “teen-agc room.” This is to be finished this
spring and will be similar to the world’s largest motel in
Washington, D. C., across the river from old Georgetown.

In California, motel and trailer parks, surrounded by
boat-launching facilities, picnic, swimming, camping, and
playground facilities, and a riding stahlc, are part of plans
for deve10ping a public recreation area on the Colorado
River in Riverside County.

These steps toward mecting recreation needs illustrate
a trend, which, gathering momentum during thc last few
years, points toward the general installation of recrcation
facilitics in today’s motels. They are finding recreation an
important attraction. In many parts of the country, motels
are expected to havc at least a swimming pool as a matter
of coursc. According to thc 1958-59 Motel Census, those now
equippcd with pools number 9,906, and those planning to
add pools during the next two years total 8,110.

 

Most people stopping at motels, as transient guests, are
probably not interested in having any organized pr0gram
of recreation, but certain facilities can be very welcome.
The National Golf Foundation rcports, for instance, plans
under way for combination motel-golf opcrations in twclve
key southcastern citics.

The playground prcscription for the averagc motel would
not 11ccd to include a large play arca, such as onc finds in
a city recreation system, but might have a limited apparatus
area for children up to tcn or twclvc years of agc, with a
swing or two, a slide, possibly a climbing apparatus and a
horizontal bar. Adjoining this, but separated by a low
fence or a hedgc, a small area might be set aside for pre-
school children. This should include benches for thc moth-
ers, a sandbox and some small-scale equipment, such as

208

me VARIED
FACES
0F RECREATION

 

This play area at New York Cit y’s Bay-
view housing project is typical of the
small playgrounds set up and main-
tained by the municipal Housing Au-
thority. These are not supervised,
hence the authority favors concrete
and sturdy construction materials.

swings, slides, and a climhcr. ln addition, a good lcvel
lawn arca could include simple outdoor facilities for older
young people and adults, with cquipmcnt for croquet, horse-
shoes, badminton, and volleyball.

Multiplc-use play courts for childrcn arc also appropri-
ate for motcl layouts. T hcse are usually constructcd in the
form of a single modcrate-siZc slab of concrete or asphaltie
material, and have lines for a number of different games
painted on the surface. Such gamcs can include badminton.
giant clteckcrs, deck tennis. handball, paddle tennis. hop-
scotch, marbles, shuflleboard, and volleyball.

In placing the playground in a 1110th layout. precautions
should be taken to insure thc children’s safety. llarcnts arc
more willing to havc thcir child rcn usc thc motcl playground
if it is fcnced. Location of the area in respect to the motel
buildings, thc main highway, and othcr roadways is an im-
portant factor in determining thc advisability of fcncing it.

It t-zcmzA'rtox

Play areas accommodating all ages
are now accepted in housing units of all types.

. . . IN MOBILE-HOME PARKS

Up-to-date U. S. mobile-home parks have also rolled out
the red carpet for recreation, by offering special games and
hobby classes, dinners and tours for the older pe0ple living
in them. Yet the idea is still far from a common denomi-
nator in mobile living. While one can find examples in
most of the fifty states, the best flourish in the retirement
centers of Florida and California.

Facilities usually include a large recreation hall, card
room, a swimming pool, and shuiileboard courts. One mo-
bile park, for example, offers a nine-hole golf course, billiard
room, table-tennis courts, and with two pot-luck dinners and
one stage show a month thrown in. Another, in California,
offers classes in leathercraft, rock collecting, writing, and
woodworking. Parks geared for other than senior citizens
usually include only the standard playground facilities for
children—slides, swings, pools—Condensed from statement

of Robert Lee Behme, editorial director of Trailer Life Pub-
lishing Company, California.

. . . IN SHOPPING CENTERS

Just published in observation of Youth Fitness Week—
May 1 through 7—is a brochure for supermarket operators,
put out by the Topics Publishing Company and signed by
its executive vice-president, Richard F. Tomlinson. In
A Plan for Supermarket Community Recreational Centers
for Youth Fitness he says, “It is my firm conviction that the
supermarket industry can again contribute enormously to
the national welfare through donating use of its parking
lots during off-hours as community recreation centers.”
This is in cooperation with the endorsement by the Presi-
dent’s Council on Youth Fitness of a plan that will attempt
to curb juvenile delinquency by converting supermarket
parking lots into play areas during nonuse hours. It is esti-
mated that nearly four million children could be provided
with recreation space if America’s thirty thousand super-
markets devoted their parking facilities to this program.

 

 

MAY 1960

Bear sculpture was meant
as a decorative piece in
New York housing proj-
ect, became children’s
favorite climbing device.

 

. . . IN HOUSING PROJECTS

An increasing number of recreation departments are
working in one way or another, and in varying degrees, with
local housing authorities to provide recreation and play-
ground services and programs and are helping, increasingly,
with the planning of recreation facilities in housing projects.
Ideally, the working relationship between the housing au-
thorities and the municipal recreation department should
include cooperation at the planning stage, before the project
is built—for the best possible results in recreation services
to be offered. This cannot be emphasized too strongly. This
working arrangement has not been frequent, and recreation
departments are usually approached by housing authorities
after the needs make themselves evident through sad experi-
ence. Both approaches are illustrated below:

 

Experiment in Connecticut. The present housing-
project recreation program was initiated just a year
ago, when the Greenwich Public Housing Authority asked
the local recreation board to provide recreation activities in
Armstrong Court, one of three projects in town. Since this
was a new undertaking for both the members of the recrea-
tion board and the housing authority, some research was
needed and Charles Reed of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation was asked for aid. He was most helpful, and through
information supplied by the NRA library, we drafted a
recommendation for our recreation board. We discovered
that precedent existed in hundreds of towns and cities of
every size. Many questions remained however:

' Connecticut is a governmental function state as regards
liability for recreation. Yet the act setting up the PHA
specifies that it is open to liability suit. How could this be
resolved?
' We had a playground near the area. Would this be a
duplication of facilities? And what facilities could actually
be used at Armstrong Court? There had been no preplan-
ning for recreation areas.

There were also the many personal problems arising from

having so many people living in such a restricted space.
(There are 144 families, with 220 school-age and 122 pre-

209

school youngsters.) A meeting with PHA officials resolved
some of the major problems, however, and we decided to
make a start, “playing by ear.”

The first step in actual organization was formation of the
Armstrong Court Recreation Council because we have al-
ways had a large measure of success operating through
neighborhood councils. The PHA gave us the names and
apartment numbers of twelvé tenants who might be inter-
ested. Letters of explanation and invitation to each family
insured a good attendance, and interest has continued ever
since. The minutes of every meeting are mimeographed and
distributed to each family.

Although Armstrong Court is a moderate-income devel-
opment, these people had tended to herd together and shut
themselves off from the rest of town. One of our major prob-
lems has been to prevent this and to encourage people to
mix into other townwide activities.

During the summer months, while the council was still
organizing on a formal level, the recreation board sent an
arts-and-crafts supervisor and baseball instructor over to
the area once a week. In both cases, enrollment and young-
sters’ interest was higher than on any other playground
in town; however, there was no significant drop in attend-
ance in these activities at the nearest or neighboring play-
grounds. This seemed to bear out the theory that these
youngsters were not attending existing playgrounds.

The FHA has turned two large adjoining basenlent rooms
and a small ball diamond play area over to the recreation
board. The town has leased these areas for one dollar a
year, which has solved our legal problems. Major mainte-
nancc for the rooms is provided by the PHA; custodial
services are assumed by the recreation board, with man-
power supplied by the Armstrong Court Rccreation Council.
The Greenwich parks department maintains the ball dia-
mond play area.

The rooms allocated for recreation had previously been
used for storage. The Armstrong Court Rccreation Council
conducted a block dance to raise the money to buy the
sorely needed paint for the new reercation Space. Many of
the male tenants pitched in over two weekends to (lo the
necessary cleaning and painting. I cannot overemphasize
the genuine interest and work-together attitude that pre-
vails among the tenants because of this project and the an-
ticipation of others to come.

The recreation board is operating an indoor playground
program for youngsters after school, and teen-age programs
in physical fitness and arts and crafts as well as a study
room in the evening. Mosaic tiling, jewelry making, and
music appreciation are currently offered adults. Also, we
have invited other agencies to participate.

Now that Crecnwich’s pilot study in housing is in suc-
cessful operation, the plan is to be extended to the other two
PHA projects. Currently, local and federal money has been
approved and a site picked for a housing project for the
elderly. The recreation board is in on the prcplanning this
time, with agreement on all sides,.to make this the center of
older people’s activity in Greenwich. Recreation in public
housing can be an exciting field all of its own, and should
one day stand alongside industrialvrecreation, llOSpilHl rec-

210

reation, armed forces recreation, and others, as a major di-
vision of the recreation field.——PETER A. DEIMEL, assistant
superintendent of recreation, Greenwich, Connecticut.

Preplanning in New York. Recreation in New York
City’s municipal housing projects comes under the juris-
diction of three separate agencies and is an integrated part
of the planning from the first blueprint. Since the thirties,
the New York City Housing Authority has evolved a definite
formula for the recreation areas in its projects and has pio-
neered some of the playground equipment now widely ac-
cepted across the country.

As a rule, each of the city’s housing develoPments has
a major play area, known as the “project playground,” and
several scattered smaller play areas. The large project play-
ground is developed from detailed plans drawn by the
housing authority after thorough consultation with the city
parks department. After construction, this area is turned
over to the parks department for operation, maintenance
and, above all, paid supervision. In some instances (10%),
the housing authority donates the land, and the park de-
partment constructs its own playground. In a very few
projects {5%) there is no project playground because of
prc-existing facilities or because a large park with adequate
facilities adjoins the project.

The smaller play areas are built and maintained by the
housing authority itself. These are unsupervised except for
mothers keeping watch over their small fry. lndoor pro-
grams in project community centers and children’s centers
are the responsibility of Community Services, which is also
allotted a small outdoor area to utilize when it wishes to
move some of its equipment outside for activities and games.

The question of supervision has more or less dictated
what equipment will be used and what activities will be eon-
ducted on the various areas in the city housing projects.
The playgrounds under parks department supervision have
equipment with movable parts, wading pools. sandpits,
handball and basketball courts, sometimes even football.
softball, and baseball fields or bocce courts. These areas
are fenced and padlocked at night; play equipment can be
stored; comfort stations are available.

For the smaller play areas the housing authority allots
from forty to fifty square feet per dwelling unit. Projects
in highly congested areas may necessitate fifty feet per dwell-
ing unit. In projects adjacent to beach or open land, the
space allotted is less. Since these areas are unsupervised.
insurance is high and lawsuits costly, so, over the years, the
housing authority has leaned more and more to concrete
and construction materials for play equipment, has given
up slides, never uses swings, seesaws, and sandpits.

llalf of the housing authority’s play areas are given over
to the six-to-twelve-year-old group, one-fourth to tots, one-
fourth to teen-agers. In the tot lots open space is restricted
and divided to discourage intrusion by the older age groups.
Here the authority places, among other equipment, sewer-
pipe tunnels, log piles (bolted down), concrete steps, a spray
showcr (limited use), eonercte tables, stepped discs. and
east concrete animals, such as turtles and starfish. This

RECREATION

—————

use of construction material stems from the early days of
the, housing authority when children happily appr0priated
building materials as play equipment. If the children wanted
to crawl through sewer pipes, why not‘ give-them sewer pipes
to crawl through?

In areas for the six-to-twelves, open space is more ex-
tensive than in the tot lots but smaller than that given the
teen-agers. Here are areas for chalk or pavement games—
hopscotch (potsy), nations (circle), tic-tac-toe, and Skelly
(checkers). There is roller-skating space and such equip-
ment as a wood dodger labyrinth or corral, tunnel tables,
and arch climbers. The teen-agers get hasketball courts,
limited bicycle areas, parallel bars, horizontal ladders, a
handball wall, among other facilities.

Pressure of work prevents the housing authority’s land-
scape architects and Wolcott Andrews, chief of landscape
design, from giving the play areas all the attention they feel

Have You Tried . . .

A BLOCK'PARTY
SERVICE?

ITIZENS in Modesto, California,
know how to get their block parties
and Fourth of July celebrations off to
a bang-up start. They simply call up
the city parks and recreation depart-
ment and ask for a do-it-yourself block-
party kit—complete with a recreation
specialist. Recreation superintendent
Kenneth Walts started the service on an
experimental basis as his department’s
June-Is-Recreation-Month promotion.

  

these deserve, but the landscape division is constantly ex-
amining new ideas in hopes of coming up with new safe,
inexpensive, and easy-to-maintain equipment. A recent
brainstorm,~still in a-gleam-in-the—eye-.stage,.is to .npend and
use the supports of concrete park benches as play “horses”
and other animals. (Mr. Andrews is one of the playground
designers given prominent attention in the recently pub-
lished Creative Playgrounds and Recreation Areas, a study
of playgrounds throughout the world, given a double-spread
picture review in RECREATION last month.)

The housing authority conducted an informal study sev-
eral years ago, keeping a record of_ the success of its various
play equipment from the point of view of safety, child ap-
peal, educational values, parental reaction, maintenance and
management. In New York City’s housing projects recrea-
tion is given careful consideration and detailed preplanninig.
It is an integral part of the essential service provided. #

     

I n ‘ I t
J _ -
.. “am 3 .II  3, - N

Planning committee holds a coyfee-lclatscli meeting.

Basketball
' Volleyball
' Plastic football
' Table games (chess, checkers,etc.)
' Sliufileboard

“The department then stepped out of
the picture, except for an occasional
check on progress, and let members of
the block handle the remaining prepara-
tions. That one party, through word
of mouth and publicity gained through

“Our department chose at random
one block to be used on an experimental
basis. Copies of our information sheets
were passed out to home owners.

“0n the following day a staff member
of our department was asked to attend
a ‘coffee break” meeting at one of the
homes to further explain the Workings
of a block party. The meeting was a
success and arrangements for Morlesto’s
first block party were under way.

“The blocking and barricading of the
street had to be cleared with the fol-
lowing city departments: fire, police,
parking and traffic, public works, and,
finally, with the city council. This, in

MAY 1960

Street was barricaded for block party
by special permission. Here, barefoot
resident takes a whack at batting-T.

itself, generated interest and curiosity.
“Games were planned which would

cause little or no damage to property

and participants. The following is a

list used for our first party:

' Plastic baseball, bat, and batting tee

(batter allowed one swing—no long

waiting for that one good pitch as if a

pitcher were involved)

' Plastic bowling sets

' Croquet

' Table tennis

our local newspaper for National Rec-
creation Month, was the beginning of
similar parties throughout our com-
munity.

“On July 4, the residents at a new
subdivision banded together and, with
ninety-six percent participation, blocked
off their entire area. They played
games in the afternoon, ate outdoors
in the evening, had fireworks and enter-
tainment supplied by residents of the
area, and, to t0p it off, after putting
their children to bed under the super-
vision of one baby sitter for every two
to three houses, danced in the street
until midnight.” 

21].-

f I

G‘-
I

{a EA-
5"". '1— .
t-F

I“

 

Los A ngeles acquired this nine-acre site at ndcr its $39,500,000 bond-issue program.

CITY PARKS . . .

Amenity 0r Necessity?

 

George Hjelle

Fern. Dell is one of many Iovely spots
in Unfit}: Park, Los Angclcs.
Most of the park was donated

to the city by the late
Colonel Griffith J. Crifith.

RECREATION

CITY PLANNERS generally agree that
local parks and other public rec-
reation facilities in large cities should
be distributed more or less uniformly
throughout the metropolis. Wherever
there are children residing in sufficient
number there must be a school; where-
ever there are people there should be a
park with more or less standard facili-
ties. All the people should have approximately equal op-
portunity to enjoy the advantages afforded by a system of
in-town parks.

As yet, no large industrial city in America has been able
to achieve a satisfactory degree of distribution. Probably
none ever will. Park and recreation systems as now consti-
tuted are largely the outgrowth of expediency rather than
orderly planning. Most park acquisitions are of substandard
or marginal unimproved lands. There has been no lack of
planning but means of implementing the plans have been

    

M r. H jelte

insufficient.

Most cities prepare master plans to indicate where, in
general, new lands should be acquired to provide a balanced
distribution of parks. Complete accomplishment has never
been possible; partial realization is sometimes achieved.
Thus far, no city has boldly determined its comprehensive
needs and proceeded forthrightly, at public cost, or other-
wise, to satisfy them in full and keep its supply abreast of
growing needs.

This is in contrast with common procedure among large
cities in providing schools and other necessary facilities.
Because schools are imperative in a democratic society, it
logically follows that there must be a dependable means of

 

MR. HJELTE is general manager of the department of rec-
reation and parks in Los Angeles, California. He recently
completed thirty years service with the department.

Robert L. Barns Park, located in
Los Angeles’ Wilshire district,
was also acquired under the

city’s 1957 bond fund program.

MAY 1960

providing them. There must be an agency, say, the board of
education, vested with power to acquire property, by emi-
nent domain if necessary, to build schools wherever needed;
and also to asscss taxes for these purposes. Few qucstion
the necessity for this.

It is true that the right of eminent domain may be exer-
cised for thc purpose of acquiring parkland, but it is rarely
exercised to acquire improved property or when determined
opposition develops in the chosen neighborhood. There
are exceptions, of course, such as when a given park needs
to be enlarged to extend its boundaries to nearby streets.
When the right of eminent domain is used, it is usually
because this is considered the most expeditious and fair
method of determining price.

Provisions of parks, playgrounds, and other public rec-
reation facilities is not a mandatory function of local govern-
ment but purely a permissive one. Cities will have parks
only to the extent that practicable opportunities occur to
acquire them by gift, transfer of land from other purposes,
or when legislative bodies appropriate current or borrowed
funds for acquisition and improvement. Occasionally the
city electorate will vote a park bond issue, but then usually
for a limited few projects—hardly ever to accomplish a
comprehensive distribution of park areas. Hence, parks are
an amenity in city living and not strictly a legal necessity,
important as they may be in the long view of social welfare.

Examination of the origin of the parks of any large system
reveals a history somewhat as follows:

‘ An early water reservoir became obsolete. To sell it, in
view of a need for parks, was repugnant to citizens and oili-
cials: it was therefore filled and deve10ped as a park.

' A family prospered in a community and developed, dur-
ing generation or more, a landed estate of beauty and utility.
Pained over the prOSpect of its dismemberment, as members
of the family grew up and moved away, the head of the

 

213

family willed the property to the city as a park or, perhaps,
granted it to the city before his death.

' A marshy, unsightly area, uneconomical to develop pri-
vately, was donated to the city. The city was in a position to
reclaim the area by filling with rubbish, sweepings from the
streets, or other material, and to improve the property for
use as a lake with landscaped borders.

' Steep and hilly prOperty, costly and difficult to build upon,
but on the tax rolls, proved a burden to its private owner.
If it were a park it would relieve congestion and otherwise
serve a public purpose. It was accepted and thereafter im-
proved and maintained by the city. The value of the gift
was deductible under the internal revenue laws.

One of the country’s best park systems is in Minneapolis.
The annual report of the Minneapolis Park Commission, for
the year 1958, lists 153 parks, of which fifty are off-street
triangles of less than one-half acre. Opposite each park is
a notation as to how it was acquired. Twenty-two parks and
a substantial part of other parks were gifts. Probably no
other city service rendered is supported to this extent by
gifts from citizens. Seven park properties of about seventy
acres were transferred to the park commission by other
jurisdictions.

The city of Los Angeles, with a total park acreage of
12,820, may be cited as another example. It has 169 parks
and playgrounds, not including off-street parkways and tri-
angles. Of this number, forty-one were gifts, totaling 3,472
acres. The largest single gift was thirty-two hundred acres:
Griffith Park, added to by purchases, and now the largest
urban park, 4,254 acres, in the United States. The donation
of land was followed by the gift of a million-dollar trust fund
to provide cultural facilities in the park. Other donations
include about two miles of extraordinarily fine public beach
property, a playground of thirty acres, next to a school
property of twenty acres, and another of ten acres also next
to a school pr0perty. The school properties were purchased
at market prices. Transfers of land from other uses or
jurisdictions have been several, including two notable ones
from the federal government: Hansen Dam Park, seventeen
hundred acres, and Sepulveda Dam Park, two thousand
acres. Five park lakes were once swamps and drainage
channels acquired by the city, as much to abate a nuisance
as to create useful and beautiful parks by filling and other
means.

The foregoing examples are quite typical of ways in
which cities add properties to their park and recreation
systems. The windfalls, however, are not always wholly
aecidental. They occur with some advertising of precedents
and the readiness of the city to accept them, and are often
the result of outright promotion. Administrators of park
and recreation systems are ever on the alert to seize op-
portunities of these kinds, to encourage generous impulses,
and to be imaginative in develOping plans for utilization of
submarginal land.

STATE AND NATIONAL tax structure in recent years has

operated to encourage the transfer of privately owned

land to local government for park purposes. Value of sueh
;

214

gifts may be deducted from taxable annual gross revenue.
To distribute the tax benefit, parks of a given parcel may
be donated in different years. The inheritance tax mightl
operate to encourage liquidation by public donations ofl
properties before demise. In 1959, the California State:
Legislature passed an act permitting local jurisdictions to
acquire less than fee title of lands for park purpoms; de-
ferred use of the property, for example, being equated as
part of the value, or continued public park maintenance
as a buffer to other property also being a part of the con-
sideration. A park may convey reflected benefits on ad-
joining property, justifying gift or sale to the public at
nominal cost. The former, that is, gift to the city in view
of reflected benefit, has been a motivation in the donation
of many parks in the past.

Funds expended by cities for the purchase of parklands,
and for facilities included within the definition of “recrea-
tion,” as used by the U. S. Census Bureau, are almost en-
tirely derived from sale of municipal bonds authorized by
vote of the electorate of cities, usually a two-thirds majority
being required. An estimate of the degree to which this
function is serviced by disbursement of capital funds de-
rived from the issuance of general-purpose municipal bonds
may be had from the relationship that bonds outstanding
for recreation bear to bonds outstanding for other purposes.
The Census Bureau reports that in 1957 the long-term gen-
eral debt outstanding of the country’s forty-one largest
cities (all over 250,000 population) was $6,323,822,000, of
which $294,629,000 was outstanding for recreation. This
was only 4.7 percent of the whole. The outstanding bonds
were listed under the following functions: public safety,
education, highway, hospitals, sewers and sewage disposal.
nonbigllway transportation, housing and community de-
velopment, recreation, and other nnalloeable functions.

The cities borrowed three times as much for education,
four times as much for highways, and three times as much
for sewers and sewage disposal as they did for recreation,
including all of the facilities listed under the latter term by
the Census Bureau. A large part, undetermined, of the bond
issues voted for recreation was for stadia. auditoriums,
zoological gardens, museums, and the like.

WHETHER parks and other public recreation facilities
will seem so necessary in the future as to be provided
for in the same manner as streets, highways, schools, and
public utilities is a matter of speculation. Certainly for-
tuitous circumstances are not an adequate base Upon which
to predicate the development of a complete system of public
parks and recreation facilities that meets the well-consid-
ered needs of the citizens of American cities according to
reasonable standards. It appears that the services, which
such lands and facilities provide for all citizens, must con-
tinue to be regarded as amenities and not necessities.

Meanwhile, however, it is not altogether unlikely that
the public demand for recreation areas and facilities will
gain such recognition in the light of our expanding leisure
time, that the public park function will eventually achieve
recognition as a necessary one, approaching the status, per-
haps, of the function of education. #

RECREATION

HE FLOWERS TIIAT hloom in the
T spring, tra la, certainly do have
something to do with the case.
So do the flowers that bloom any other
season and all the bounty of the harvest.
Has your community taken advantage
of the “natural” opportunities offered
by its public parks, private and public
gardens, conservatories, and open areas
to put on a large-scale floral festival?
Park and recreation departments, and
other agencies and organizations across
the country, are letting nature do her
work and then getting in the act—with
rose festivals, watermelon parades,
grape harvest celebrations, and all man-
ner of spectaculars.

Poets have sung of Kew in lilac time
but folks around Rochester, New York,
think their lilacs, too, put on quite a
show. Folks in Essex County, New Jer-
sey, feel their cherry blossom festival
equals its famed counterparts in VVash-
ington and Japan. Holland, Michigan,

of course, goes all out and dances in the

SAYING IT WITH

57/014761”

Elvira Delany

It is the season now to go

About the country high and low,

Among the lilacs hand in hand

And two by two in fairyiand.
—Robert Louis Stevenson

MAY 1960

streets at tulip timc. Flower and garden
festivals offer a chance for recreation
departments to invite a variety of com-
munity groups to participate actively.
Call out the photographers, the artists,
folk dancers, costumed nationality
groups, and really put on a show. In-
vite churches to hold sunrise or outdoor
services. Publicize via your local press,
radio, TV, posters, and sample displays
in strategic store or bank windows.
Let’s take a look and see what’s
sproutin’ around the country—from
New York City’s celebrated Bronx Bo-
tanical Gardens to Los Angeles Coun-
ty’s historic Descanso Gardens and the
lush foliage of Honolulu. The areas
cited are a sample representation, a
cross-section of many types and varie-
ties. Space alone prevents inclusion of
the numerous other gardens and festi-
vals that are equally noteworthy.
egg: 0n Washington’s Olympic Penin-
sula, all the sports, activities, and local
color of the Northwest logging camps

 

have been incorporated into the Mason
County Forest Festival held in Shelton.
Fifty thousand people have heen known
to crowd into this little city of seven
thousand for the jamhoree. W'ashing-
ton’s year-round series of festivals,
fairs, and public events includes the
\Venatchee Apple Bloom Festival in that
famed apple capital; the Puyallup Val-
ley Daffodil chtival, cosponsored by
the communities of Puyallup, Sumner,
and Tacoma; the Blossom-Time Festi-
val in Bellingham, with its vast acres of
tulips; and Spokane’s week-long Lilac
Festival.

cgga Peoria Park District in Illinois
adds a public-service touch to its Easter
lily and Christmas poinsettia shows by
handing out leaflets advising visitors on
home care for holiday gift plants. The
Christmas show, staged at Glen Oak
Park Conservatory, stars the tempera-
mental beauty of over seven hundred
red, rose, and white poinsettias against
a background of other plants in proper

a. I. - _ ‘ ‘

.‘frizona’s state flower, the sag":er cactus, in bloom.

215

Moon bridge is center

of interest in the Oriental
canyon section of the

Henry E. Huntington Botanical
Gardens in San M arino,
California, a privately endowed
garden open to the public.

 

SAYING IT WITH FLOWERS Continued

 

Washington Park in Alban}, "\ ew York, is a tulip lover’s paradise during the.
citys annual tulip festival in mid-May. As in Holland, Michigan ladies in
wooden shoes scrub the. main street to commemorate the city’s Dutch heritage.

Children learn how to sew
leis as part of summer
playground craft program
in Tacoma, Washington.

216

 

7'1""
-’-I

. l

J-

 

Lomsiana Forest Fest” al queen. is (i
Bunyan which greets visitors at the
field. She carries a replica of b‘nml:

RECREATION

The pony-tail set sketches away during cherry blossom festival in Branch

Brook Park, Essex County, New Jersey. The display is lighted at night.

i ‘l I I.‘

.. III}.
“a. .W. . .

A “Little Netherlands” was designed and constructed for the tulip festival
in Holland, M ichigan.——a charming setting of figures, houses, canals, boats.

by towering, eleven- foot model of Paul
e to festival exhibit building in Winn-
, traditional mascot of festival queens.

MAY 1960 217

Azaleas and cypress knees provide a reflective scene in municipally owned
Greenfield Park, Wilmington, \orth Carolina, heart of the azalea country.
Continued )——)

 

yuletide color, including cyclamen,
Christmas cherry, and Christmas be-
gonias. The Easter show offers an im-
pressive display of lilacs, backed by
palms, and accented with tulips, daffo-
dils, hyacinths, and cinerarias.

% During the Japanese cherry blos-
som festival in Branch Brook Park, Es-
sex County, New Jersey, twenty-two
hundred trees bring forth their pink-
and-white magic, accented by yellow
forsythia. In a sixteen-day period, over
675,000 persons have visited the specta-
cle, equally beautiful at night under the
lights as it is during the day. Scattered
through the other county parks are an
additional two thousand cherry trees.
On one occasion the Japanese Consulate
“loaned” some kimona-and-obi models
to lend an exotic note, an additional fo-
cus for the programs, decorations, and
photographers.

% Tulip time in Holland, Michigan,
had its beginning in 1927, when a high-
school biology instructor suggested
planting tulips as a civic project to
beautify the city. The tulip was chosen
because of the numerous inhabitants of
Dutch descent. In the fall of 1928, the
city bought a hundred thousand Dutch
bulbs and planted them in the parks and
along the street curbs, with no plans at
all for a festival. But in the spring an
announcement that thousands of tulips
were in bloom in Holland was made in
local and regional newspapers. Public
response was surprising, with thou-
sands of visitors, so the plantings were
augmented in the fall of 1929.

The high public interest induced the
Hollanders to search for added festi-
val atmosphere. One of the first spe-
cial features introduced was wearing
Dutch costumes and wooden shoes. The
youngsters—and oldsters—posed for
photographers, giving camera cnthusi-
asts a field day. Other Netherlands cus-
toms and pageantry followed naturally
to enlarge the program.

Each fall, from October 1 to Novem-
ber 15, the city park department plants
approximately 110,000 tulip bulbs in
freshly prepared soil. To keep frcsh.
large blooms, tulips are replaced each
three years.

The festival is officially opened when
the mayor and members of the Common
Council, decked in the traditional roln s

213

of their office, inspect the city streets.
The streets are declared dirty, after
which brigades of costumed Hollanders
begin scrubbing.

c%% The annual Texas Rose Festival in
Tyler is a tribute to that area’s harvest
season when the two-year-old field-
grown bushes are dug. In addition to
Tyler’s municipal rose garden, second
largest in the United States (largest is
in Columbus, Ohio), upwards of thirty
million bushes are planted in Tyler’s
fields annually by 325 commercial
growers.

Most of the formal roscbeds in the
municipal garden, with its twenty-five
hundred bushes in 395 varieties, now
have concrete borders, adding much to
the stately formality of the setting. The
terraced garden boasts all types, colors,
and varieties, from miniatures to the
giant Peace rose, and also has tree roses.
Winding walkways and stairways lead
the visitor through and among the for-
est of flowers.

 

Kahilis in, the sunset. Regal, silver-
tasseled sugar-cane blossoms in Hawaii

are backlighted by rays of setting sun.

% A million and a half hyacinths, tu—

lips, and daffodils are blooming for the
first time this spring in the 125-acrc
Sterling Forest Gardens in Tuxedo
Park, New York. For two years the
project has been under development on
a swamp site drained and landscaped.
A series of ponds and lakes has been
constructed for beauty and flood con-
trol. The gardens opened the end of
April 1. Expected to rival some of the
world’s finest, they are part of a cor-
porate research “campus” (industrial
park) in the foothills of the Ramapo
Mountains in southeast Orange County,
about forty miles from New York City.

(3% Louisiana’s great forest industry is
put on display each year at \Vinnfield
in an action-spiced State Forest Festi-
val. Symbolizing the tremendous size
and strength of the forest industry in

Louisiana is a giant eleven-foot model
of Paul Bunyan at the entrance to the
festival exhibits building.

One of the top crowd-pleasers at the

festival is the block-long, double row
of exhibits in the big entrance hall. The
exhibits demonstrate the past, present,
and future of the forest industry in a
series of professionally designed and
constructed displays. The exhibits pre-
sent figures on demand and production
and give a crystal-ball peek into the fu-
ture. Other exhibits show the multiple
use of forests for recreation: camping,
hiking, hunting, fishing.
% More than 250 years ago, Rosicru-
cians founded a garden of medicinal
plants along Philadelphia’s Wissahick-
on Creek. After a century, the gardcn
disappeared but the primeval beauty of
the valley remains as the loveliest part
of the city’s park system. Christopher
Witt in 1708 established a botanical
garden in Cermantown, which vanishcd
long ago, but John Bartram’s garden,
dating back to 1728, is still in existence,
as are many others which were begun
more than a century ago.

$ Although Florida’s Cypress Gardens
are known primarily for water-skiing
shows, perhaps just as many people
visit here just to view the floral dis-
plays. In Miami, Vizcaya, the former
Decring Estate, is part of the Dade
County park system. Its formal gar-
dens cover ten acres with fountains,
pools, statues, sculpturcd vases, and a
miniature theater.

<$ One cannot think of spring in the
Carolinas without picturing endless
vistas of azaleas. In Wilmington, North
Carolina, the municipally owned Green-
field Cardens, with their breathtaking
displays, are a key attraction, along
with privately owned plantations. The
display of more than a million azaleas
is the piece de resistance. The pre-
Revolutionary gardens in Charleston,
South Carolina, are legendary show-
places.
. * * 'H

Take a good look at what‘s around.
Be it primroscs or pumpkins, grapes or
gladioli, zinnias or zucchini, you have
a festival growing for you. #-

Subsequent articles will deal with
fall festivals and gardens for special
graups—schoal children, the elderly,
the emotianally disturbed.

RECREATION

 

BIG GAME HUNT

Table games that are a challenge to the
mental capacity of adults and a welcome
alternate to bridge. Usable in hospitals,
church groups, senior-citizen centers, or
wherever adults gather for socializing.

Elliott M. Cohen

OOKING FOR something special or
I I different in adult table and board

games? Recreation leaders, es-
pecially those who work in hospitals,
are demanding, “ . . . but what else can
they play beside Monopoly and bingo?”
Many ancient table games can open new
avenues in your search for interesting
and meaningful adult games, whether
for a hospital patient or the men on an
atomic submarine (see RECREATION,
February 1960, Page 56).
Here are a few games out of the long-
ago that merit current attention.

'00. One of the oldest board games in
the world, Go is simple yet intriguing.
In the past year, it has become so popu-
lar in New York City that it was im-
possible to buy a set at Chirstmas time.
The sets come from Japan and the Japa-
nese enjoy the game so much that they
hold an annual national tournament.
Recently, a simplified version has ap-
peared on the American scene known
as 8-Line Go. The traditional game is
nineteen by nineteen lines, and sets can
be purchased for from under five to
over one hundred dollars. In addition
to the board there is a box of white
stones and a box of black stones. The
game can last a half hour or a whole
week, depending on the players’ skill.
Go sets may be purchased throughout
this country. To find the source nearest
you, write the closet Japanese Consu-
late or The American Go Supply Com-
pany, 7 Morton Street, New York 14.

Co Booxs

Games of the Orient, S. Culin. (Rutland, VL:
Charles E. Tuttle, 1958)

 

MR. COHEN is assistant director, Na-
tional Recreation Association Consult-
ing Service on Recreation for the III

1nd Handicapped.
VIAY 1960

Co & Co-Moku, E. Lasker. (New York: A]-
fred A. Knopf, 1934)
The Game of CO, L. 8: E. Morris. (Hackensack,
N. J.: Lester Morris, 96 Cedar Ave.)
SIIOGI. Somewhere in India’s dim past,
a table game evolved which uses sym-
bols on a board in lieu of armics in the
fields. The object was to defeat the op-
posing army and kill the opposing ruler.
The Crusaders introduced this game
into medieval Europe and adapted the
symbols to represent medieval Euro-
pean society—kings, queens, knights,
bishops, and so on. We call this game
chess. The game went east as wcll as
west from India. The Eastern version
is called shogi. To many individuals
shogi is more interesting than chess.
Some say this is because it is a faster
game; some, because it is more color-

ful.

The Game of Shogi by E. Ohara,
(Rutland, Vt. Charles E. Tuttle, 1958)
is written especially for the Western
public and makes the game much more
meaningful for the player.

Shogi is composed of a colored board
divided into eighty-one squares as com-
pared with the two-color chess board
Shogi

twenty men in three ranks and chess

of sixty-four squares. uses
uses eighteen men in two ranks. Somc
of the shogi moves are different. When
shogi men are captured, they are not
out of the game; they just become a
part of the other army. lf shogi men
do an outstanding deed, they receive a
promotion, and are allowed to move
differently. True to the Orient, shogi
has no queen, because women. had no
social standing in the Orient in ancient
times; and of course it would be un-
thinkable to have two rulers; so in
shogi one side has a king, and the other
side is led by a pretender to the throne.

SHIU TSAI. Originally a party game,
shiu tsai is played very often by Orien-
tal families after the evening meal or
on holidays when guests are visiting.
The shiu tsai set includes six cups and
one die. Each cup is a little larger than
the other corresponding to the numbers
on thc die; Number Six being the larg-
est cup. The Number One is the smallest
cup and a musical note is substituted
for the single dot. Each player has a
chance to throw the die, and to get what
is in the corresponding cup (usually
candy, nuts, or wine). He must per-
form in an indicated fashion.

For the musical note he must sing a
song; for two, he must stump the group
with a riddle; three, tell a joke and
make the group laugh; four, do a cha-
rade that stumps the group: five, recite
an ancient proverb, and six, the most
difficult of all (for the largest cup),
make up a poem. Traditionally, this
poem is of the haiku type, composed of
three lines (unrhymed), five syllahles
in the first and third lines, and seven
syllables in the second line, making a
total of seventeen. A season of the year
should be implied in the poem.

HACHI-HACHI (88). This very popular
Oriental card game for adults is played
with a special deck of forty-eight cards.
There are only four cards in a suit, but
there are twelve suits—each represent-
ing a month of the year. Each month is
pictured by a different flower: January.
pine; February, plum; March, cherry;
April, wisteria; and so forth. The cards
are beautiful and colorful. Five people
can play. It is played much like casino,
the only difference being that one has
to match flowers instead of numbers,
and there are certain bonus points or
honors for taking special cards. The
game is fast and exciting. Cirnmi 88 by
N. Yoshino {New York; Katagiri
Brothers, 1929) is the best reference
on the subject of hachi-hachi.

We have touched briefly on four table
games adults play in the Orient, which,
incidentally, are not played by chil-
dren; children have their own. Perhaps
one of our problems as recreation lead-
ers working with adults centers around
our use of children’s games for adults.
Grown-ups deserve games to challenge
the adult mind. 

For other games and mental exer-
cises for adults see Page 240.

219

 

A flexible drama program
for the elderly

that can be initiated

in any community or
recreation center, nursing
home, home for the aged,
church group, or private
agency anywhere.

DRAMA IS AGELESS

Jean Wachtel

220

S A CRADUAL hush settled over the
A audience congregated in a large
Brooklyn backyard shaded by
elm, willow, and ailanthus trees one
September afternoon last fall, a drama-
tized version of The Story of Ruth un-
folded on the impromptu stage. Indoor
activity in the Mcnorah Home and Hos-
pital for Aged and Infirm almost came
to a dead halt as practically every staff
member—doctor, nurse, therapist, aide,
and so on—bung out the window or
peered around a doorway for a better
view of their favorite actors, the Men-
orah Players.

The players, founded about three
years ago, have a vociferous and de-
voted following among their fellows
and the staff. They do all their plays in
what they like to rcfer to as their “no
script” method. The group picks a
story, usually a Biblical one because of
its familiarity to almost everyone, break
it down, discuss characters and motiva-
tions. The members of the group then
block out scenes and cast parts. While
they have rehearsals, they use no script,
improvising and updating their dia-

 

 

logue as they go along. The no-script
style has particular merit for the aged
because of their occasional memory
lapses.

The Menorah Home—a Jewish non-
profit agency—has been a front runner
for fifty years in various innovations in
thc care of the aged, providing a full
range of services, consciously integrat-
ing them with the community. Since
1950, Menorah has Operated an out-pa-
tient nonsectarian day center, open to
all men and women in the neighborhood
who want to participate in the divcrse
activities planned and offered by the
home. The Menorah Players are an in-
tcgral and important part of its com-
pletc recreation program.

Other than being utterly bedridden,
there seems to be no physical limitation
as to who may participate. Most of the
actors are over scvcnty. Ban, played
by William Lcitncr, who is also editor
of the home’s rcsident newspaper,
played his role from a wheelchair, as
did his molhcr-in-law, Naomi, played
by liosc Seiden. The dancing girls in
the harvest scene were disturbed pa-

Itccnmnox

ticnts, led and assisted by recreation
leadcr Judith Berg, who was also re-
sponsible for the choreography. None
of these disabilities detracted in any
manner from the flow of the story nor
its dramatic impact. Considered within
l its own frame of reference, The Story
of Ruth was a dynamic and moving per-
iormance. The entire production was
under the direction of Henrietta Yur-
chenco, recreation director of the home
at the time.

Approximately one fourth of the peo-
ple in the home are involved in one way
or another with the plays. They build
the simple sets, execute the simple pr0ps,
and make the costumes—each actor
makes his own where possible—under
the supervision of the occupational and
recreation therapy departments. Others
print tickets and programs and perform
various necessary backstage chores.

Scene changes were efiected by two
men, dressed in clown costumes with
a touch of the Oriental, who display
. enormous signs, with large lettering so
as to be easily read by eyes that aren’t
as good as they used to be. To suggest
the harvest scene, these same gentlemen
spread out hay and dried ears of corn.
Backdrops consisted of large, but effec-
tively executed, black-and-white paint-
ings of Oriental-looking architectural
columns. The actors changed costumes
in improvised dressing rooms made of
several hospital screens pushed together.
A phonograph supplied background

music.

Last September the players had no

Boaz, in wheelchair center, wore robe embroidered with
black sequins and banded with rich needlework. These
elderly players add a new dimension to “oh-Broadway}

.VIAY 1960

 

 

Now at sixty what I see,
Although the world is worse

by far,

Stops my heart in ecstasy.
God, the wonders that

there are!
—-ARCHIBALD MACLEISH

 

mike and shouted their lines so they
could be heard. Since that time a pub-
lie-spirited individual has donated a
public address system for the produc-
tions done in the yard.

While not extravagantly opulent, the
costumes were more elaborate than
either props or sets. Ruth’s wedding
costume was an aqua net harem outfit
with very full legs and sleeves over
which was worn an embroidered gold
lamé tunic. In addition to a heavy gold
necklace, Ruth, played by Sarah Zeig-
lcr, wore a flowing blue veil with a
jeweled Star of David centered over
her forehead. Boaz wore a dark robe
of a silklike fabric embroidered with
black sequins, to give it richness, and
the robe itself was banded with em-
broidery. His turban was shot through
with a shiny metallic thread. The danc-
ing girls were costumed in harem out-
fits, carried baskets of fruit or pitchers
on their heads, and thumped on tam-
bourines as they danced down the ramp
leading to the yard and onto the stage.
To complete the illusion, their ankles

and wrists tinkled with tiny bells and
their necklaces swayed from side to
side as they moved.

Two of the Menorah Players had
been professional performers. Yehuda
Cogut had been an actor for fifty years,
was in the original stage production of
Elmer Rice’s Street Scene in 1927. Max
Heyman, who played the role of the
drunken clown in Ruth, complete with
red nose, red bows and bells on his
shoes, and a funny hat, had been a tra-
peze artist with Barnum & Bailey.

The glee club, accompanied by gui-
tar and fiddle, filled the intermission
with the singing of old favorites, oined
in lustily by the audience. The songs,
for the most part, were Hebrew and

Yiddish folk songs.

The Menorah Players program
proves that neither age nor physical
disability is a deterrent to living a full
life, replete with well-planned recrea-
tion. Drama is a particularly good ac-
tivity for many reasons. Planning and
staging a play requires many hands and
many talents, consumes much time and
thought. There are tickets and pro-
grams to be printed; costumes, props,
and sets to be designed and made; and,
then, any number of rehearsals. Once
the play is over, its production pro-
vides a topic of conversation for every-
body, for weeks afterwards, until the
next play is underway. And, during the
years left to these people, they will have
the warm memories of the day they
participated in a play, either behind the
footlights or as a spectator. #-

 

Dancing girls flunk a clown as scene changers hold one
of the signs with special, large letters. The show goes
art—despite infirmities and even mental disturbance.

221

A PSYCHIATRIC EXPERIMENT

The director tells of a successful summer camp-
ing program conducted in the hospital setting.

E STARTED A summer camp program so that emo-
 tionally disturbed children—aged two to fifteen——
at the Jewish Hospital in St. Louis, could benefit
from a structured recreation program on the in-patient unit
during August, the month the unit school is in recess.
Though recreational in nature, the program was also
planned as a learning experience. In form, it resembled a
grade-school playground program, with two exceptions: the
hospital setting and certain activities necessitating a shorter
interest span. Special care was taken to provide a variety
of informal and simply organized activities for indoors and
out, groups and individuals.

The program was characterized by fluidity, and, within
the schedule, a very flexible individual program policy was
determined by the current mood and interest of the children.
The activities were not accelerated nor necessarily competi-
tive, but were based on each child’s individual needs and the
staff’s ability to fulfill those needs.

Before the actual program began, all the stall (psychiatric
nurses and male therapeutic technicians) checked a recrea-
tion-interest form. Listed were all possiblc activities, and
three columns were labeled, respectively: Will Conduct, Will
Participate, Opposed To. The completed forms enabled us
to learn who could be eXpected to scrve as camp counselor
in certain activities and which activities most required the
recreation director’s presence. Activitics, therefore, were
detcrmined to a degree by the staff on duty on a particular
day. Most were willing to participate but reluctant to con-
duct.

Several all-staff planning meetings (for everyone—psy-
chiatrists, social workers, and the unit’s school teacher)
were held in July to consider camp activities and possible
problems. Once the program began, I met with the head
nurse and other stafl nurses and aides every morning to
discuss the patients” moods and behavior, the stafling, and
the weather in order to complete activity plans. When a de-

 

SalIy Pugh

ofi'icial greeting, and announced a tentative schedule for the
month. The group elected two chiefs who then selected their
tribal members, and the chiefs then held their own tribal
powwow to choose a tribal name. The children next selected
their own personal Indian brave names.

The chiefs agreed on equal areas for their tribal villages.
The village was constructed in a very small area outside
the nursing station, with the two tepees on each side of the
hall so close together that they seemed one village. Two
scouts requisitioned supplies from various hospital areas:
sheets from housekeeping, poles from the carpenter shop,
cardboard from purchasing, and tin cans from the kitchen.
All youngsters participated in building the village, erected
in several hours. Those who were artistically inclined drew
symbolic pictures on their tepees, some painted them. All,
however, were colorful and meaningful to the children.
Tribal members added tom-toms to their equipment. Young-
sters made these by stretching wet chamois over tin cans and
decorating them with tempera paint—being too cagcr and
excited to let them dry before painting.

Our frequent fishing trips
were scheduled early in the
morning or aftcr supper to avoid
midday heat. This activity
ranked first in popularity, and,
although the trips lasted sevcral
hours. the children always ’
thought there should be more.
“lasting longcr.” l’rizcd catches
of fish, crawfish, snails, dead snakes, shoes, bottles. and un- _
classified objects usually had to be sacrificed bcfore the .
youngstcrs left the lake.

Indian Activities
The first day cuded with privileged tribal members sleep-
ing, Indian style, on blankets in thc tcpees. This special

privilegc lasted as lonrr as the village was up. with alternat- j
- - cc ' as b D ’ ‘
ClSlOIl was reached I called a Rescrvatlon Roundup and

formed an Indian council ring with children and stall, and
presented the plans. Itiwas not uncommon for the childrcn
to suggest a completely dierrcnt recreation activity. A
powwow was held and a vote taken; with the majority de-
cision usually ruling.

ing boys’ and girls’ nights. A

Aftcr Indian sign language was introduced. I would say. '_
“good morning” in signs and wait for the gr011p to respond. 1
The children enjoyed this and faithfully studied from the
sign-language book, often digressing into their own sign '
creations. They lcarncd many phrases and repeated thcnl

t o 1 o o
I I a o o (1' ' ) f \ . '3 1' (7‘ \“
Imlml Acuvuws with good retention To amplify thc'lndlan tllenn, gamch
and sports were of Indian origin or influence.

Several outdoor Olympics wcre. hcld in the city park

across the street from the hospital. These included tribal

The camp began oflicially when thirteen children and
staff members joined hands in the council rinrr, gave the

———--——

MISS PUth is recreation director at The Jewish Hospital,
216 South Kingshighway, St. Louis, Missouri.

competition in Indian wrestling, boxing. canoe ball, Indian

0 y . l
darts, Indian bowl, stonc tossing. leathcr hurling, broad

222 Recaesnox

and high jumping, slam pan, Indian dice, relays, and Indian
kick stick. Quieter games such as identifying ranch brands,
Big Chief Says, and deciphering Indian codes were also
used. The children deviscd clever variations on basic games.

Tribal organization did not divide the group or create
any hostile competition. If anything, the group was more
united. Although members were loyal to their own tribe,
they voluntarily assisted the other tribe when help was
needed, especially in athletic activities when it was neces-
sary to have teams of equal strength. (Team strength some-
times became unbalanced when a child was too disturbed
to participate.) Destruction of play or craft materials and
unexpected emotional upscts did not discourage or threaten

group efforts.

Crafts

Since it was vacation time, we thought it important not
to use the school area unless the children suggested it. We
expected the area to be used, minimally, for messy work.
All school supplies were removed from the classroom and
tables and chairs replaced the desks. On the first day of camp
the children moved crafts to this area, which became known
as the crafts room. The success of, and demands on, the
craft program indicated a strong need and desire to exprcss
self and experience pride of accomplishment.

Crafts included: leathercraft (belts, bracelets, coin purses,
key cases, lanyards), knitting, making felt stuffed animals,
mosaics, metal craft, papercraft, pipe-cleaner art, clay mod-
eling, glazing and baking, tongue-depressor construction,
and costume making. The average attention span of our
children began with such a surge of interest that it quite
often produced a finished project before noon.

Then again, it was often difficult to get some youngsters
to finish. This problem was lessened by having the group
plan and set a date for an Indian Display Market during the
final week of camp, to be attended by the children’s relatives.
With an eye toward the market, they colorfully decorated
the craft room and display table with their labeled exhibits.

Staff members applied the grease paint under the indivi-
dual direction of the children, who had already held several
war-paint practices prior to the evening, to determine the
desired design. Although a few dabs of makeup were self-
applied, the patients generally requested “professional” ap-
plication from the staff.

Concurrent Summer-Camp Activities

Special events in the camp
program included birthday par-
ties, treasure hunts, recreation
tournaments, cook-outs, trail-
blazing, and nature activities,
trips to the zoo, concerts, plays,
and ball games. These activities
were all, in some way, Indian
flavored. For example, the trip
to an auto museum was publi-
cized as, “Red man sees replace-
ment of horses.” Outdoor sketch-

:il ing accompanied some outing

 

activities in the park. The older children tried primitive
art, which required painting landscapes with toothpicks
and thick tempera, while the younger ones selected imagina-
tive subjects, and, through preoccupation or excitement,
painted off their paper onto the grass.

Regularly scheduled year-round recreation activities were
interwoven into the camp program by once again applying
the Indian touch. The acrobatics class became “tumbling
in the tepee,” and highlighted chief and squaw ceremonial
dances. Social-dance instruction and square dancing re-
mained unchanged, but were called “foot stomping” and
“Indians go western.” Movies featured Indian history, folk-
lore, and ways of life. The regular swimming program re-
mained unchanged. Individual hobbies (particularly model
planes) and individual sports (Ping-pong, badminton, cro-
quet, horseshoes, baseball, bowling) were retained and
encouraged during free-play periods and at times when
patients needed to isolate themselves from large group
activities.

Evaluation

' The cost of the entire program was about one hundred
dollars, excluding staff salaries.

' The program kept a better-than-expected consistency in
continuity, attention, and cooperation. The spirit and in-
terest in it were so strong that differences in age, emotional
illness, and IQ, as well as the admission and disposition of
patients, affected it only slightly. Withdrawal from activi-
ties was limited by tribal responsibilities.

' We offered the stimulus and materials for an activity and
let the children take it from there. No deadlines were es-
tablished except those decided upon by the group. Happi-
ness through accomplishment made the craft program the
most vital, meaningful program and the fondest memory to
the patients.

' The patients’ parents were greatly interested in the ac-
tivities. One parent brought a technical book on Indian
life to his youngster, who readily loaned it to the group so
that all headdresses, costumes, dances, makeup, and crafts
would be authentic.

' Staff members considered the month well spent and a
constructive way of getting to know the patients.

' The clinical director of the child-psychiatry unit, Dr.
Quentin Rae Grant, summarized the summer camping pro-
gram as follows:

“This program was a highlight of the first year’s Opera-
tion of the unit. It was initiated in a spirit of experiment
and challenge, and revealed individual and group assets and
liabilities of the children. Useful clues on activities and
goals for children were obtained. Perhaps as important was
the spontaneous avenue for fostering group behavior and
participation and an experience in group living.

“Success was evident in the happiness, purpose, and in-
volvement the children radiated, reflected in the Optimism
felt by staff members. The experience has increased the
range of approach to the problem of rehabilitation and fully
justifies the aim to include this as a permanent feature. . . .”

All of us at the hospital are looking forward to another
Indian camp this summer. 

223

 

FASTvRISING
SLOWaPITCH LEAGUE

‘11-:
"Cl' .‘5
.l I .
. .

 

INCE SOFTBALL has become primarily a fast game, what

S happens to our “retired” players-—-—the fellows thirty-

two years old and over? An organized program that

makes use of the official slow-pitch rules and improvises on

a few others has helped us answer this question in Mt. Ver-

non, New York. For example, we use a fourteen-inch soft-
ball and have a minimum age limit of thirty-two.

Our reasons for making these two minor changes in the
regular rules are that the fellows in this league do not want
to spend the night chasing a softball all over the lot. And
the large ball? Let’s face it: A regulation-size ball that is
lobbed up to an ex-player can be belted a long way; but
the larger ball will not go nearly as far when hit. The bat-
ter doesn’t wait for balls and strikes in this game. When
that fourteen-inch ball floats up to the plate, it looks as big
as a basketball, and the urge to kill it is there.

Most balls that are hit with a mighty swing end up as
pop-ups or trickly groundcrs. This big-ball factor leads to
one of the most attractive features of this game. Very sel-
dom do our games last more than an hour, and seldom does
any game go into extra innings. Most of the seven-inning
games are decided by one run. We find the time elemcnt
just right for our men. Extra innings would call for sub-
stitutes. There have been cases where it only took ten
minutes for three innings to be played with the score only
1-0 at the time. This game really moves along.

For sheer fun and loyalty, this slow-pitch league has it.
The men bring carloads of fans to the games; many wives
show up with baby carriages and youngsters in tow. It is
a family night out and the kids and mothers have a great
time watching the “01’ man” play ball again. But the success
of the program didn’t come easily. In trying to organize
the league, we ran into obstacles right from the start. First,
it was very difficult to interest enough players to field four
teams. Finally, aftcr much prodding and talking, we put
together a four-team league made up of Little League mana-
gers and coachcs, post office employees, some very good un-
affiliated ex-players and, for the fourth team, a draft of the
oldest men in our slowest, regular softball league.

The teams agreed to play this game more as an eXperi-
ment than anything else. One of the gimmicks we used to
put it over to the city and to potential players was to schedule
the game as a preliminary, or curtain-raiser, to a game be-

224

 

  
  
 
 
    
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  

tween a group of all-stars and a touring four-man softball
team.

As our introductory slow-pitch game proceeded, explana-
tions were made to the fans about the purpose of the new
league and the different rules being used. The game was a
hit, and teams were cheered at its end. The league could
only play a total of twelve twilight games because it had
gotten off to a late start. The champions, at the end of this
abbreviated schedule, were the drafted players.

During the coming year, we optimistically expect to have
about twenty teams in our slow-pitch league. It has been
the talk of the Winter Hot Stove League. All over the town,
pe0ple are talking about the games and thc fun they had
in getting out to the ballparks again. Some of the teams
that will be back this season will sport T-shirts with the
names of their teams emblazoned across their chests.

These men are smart enough to realize their limitations
and responsibilities, so they don’t take any foolish chances
on thc field. Very seldom will you see a shoestring catch
or a batter trying to stretch a single into a double. Oh, they
will try it once (usually in that first game of the year), but
from there on in, it’s strictly a play-it-safe game. After all,
there are jobs to go to the next day.

With the inauguration of the slow-pitch league, the peOple
of Mt. Vernon now have a fully rounded softball program
to keep their softball fields in use. The slow-pitch league is
a natural addition to Mt. Vernon’s softball program.

The leagues haVe been classified according to the type
of pitcher and talent available on each team. An “A” lcague,
or major-league team, has the fastest pitchers and some of
the best players in the city. This leaguc can consist of six
or eight tcams, and they all play once a wcek. The othcr
leagues are then graded accordingly, with all four leagucs
playing under official softball rules. We also have an invita~
tional lcague made up of teams from eight conununitics.
This is top-notch softball, played on Friday and Saturday
nights, undcr lights, by the best fiehlers, batters, and pitch-
ers in the area.

Our slow-pitch league has scored a fast success. It has
given the city a program literally geared for all players from
the late tecn-agcr to thosc who had considcretl lhcmsclvc‘
retired.—--lmv1N DANZIG, Assistant Recreation Superintend-

ent, Mt. Vernoh, New York. .

Racamrmm

RESOURCES
nd

REFERENCES

The ABC’s of Illinois Festivals by

Gene Wallace establishes guideposts
for your community festival. As the
23-page booklet explains, “Most repre—
sentatives of various festivals have
stated there is no measurable economic
value received in the terms of dollars
and cents. However, most of them do
feel the festivals have contributed much
in the way of developing a favorable
community image . . . .” The grandfa-
ther of Illinois festivals would appear to
be the Burgoo Festival. “Some people
say the first burgoo (thick chowderlike
soup of many vegetables, oxtails, chick-
ens, and spices) was brewed during the
Civil War by soldiers who gathered
what they could from the countryside,
then let it simmer and brew for several
days over a campfire.” Be it apples or
pancakes, magnolias or mules, there are
any number of indigenous reasons for
a community festival, and this booklet
has rounded up a wealth of information
and know-how. Available for one dol-
lar from Bureau of Business Manage-
ment, University of Illinois, Urbana.

Your teen-agers, as well as your
senior citizens and other groups, will
be interested in the various publica-
tions of the National Dairy Council.
Among these are A Girl and Her Figure
( pp. 40, 3.15) by Ruth M. Leverton,
PhD; Go Places Gal ($.10); a leaflet
on Foods I Remember ($.05)—— do you

remember when oranges came only at
Christmas time, do you remember your
first Eskimo pie? The council also pub-
lishes a quarterly, Nutrition News, with
the latest on nutrition research, com-
munity nutrition clubs, diets for the
elderly, and other information. The
council’s catalogue of Health Education
Materials contains lists of folders,
booklets, posters, charts, films, and dis—
plays. Available from the council, 111
North Canal Street, Chicago 6.

Where To Get What tells arts and

crafts leaders exactly that—where to
get anything from adhesives, anvils,
and looms in various sizes to zippers,
and from all parts of the country, from
Epping. New Hampshire, and Dovcr-
Foxcraft, Maine, to Virginia City, Mon-
tana, and Compton, California. This
directory lists wholesale and retail
sources and is available for 3.50 from

Penland School of Handicrafts, Pen-
land, North Carolina.

I MAY 1960

   

 r1453: 1...,

WENGER RTBE anunwncliu

The Mobile Combination Band Stand
and Outdoor Stage

Ideal for use at music events. rallies. acts, demonstra-
tions, and for speakers, the Wenger Bandwagon pro-
vides comfortable quarters for performers, plus assuring
resonance and volume for the audience. At site, the
Wenger Bandwagon opens in minutes into a generous
stage or outdoor theater, or a complete, scientifically
designed music shell for band, orchestra, or chorus.
After event, it folds quickly into a handsome, completely
enclosed road trailer with ample locked storage space for
chairs, stands, instruments. or accessory equipment. May
be used indoors. too! Every community will want one!

Send for complete details and specif
a free demonstration.

AMERICA'S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS

FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,

Now you can

GO

where the events
take place
...and be heard!

 

OWATONNA  MINNESOTA

ications, or ask for

No obligation. of course.

PRICE OR SKILL—

NEW IORK II
CHICAGO 11
ms ANGELES II

THE HANDBOOK OF
PRIVATE SCHOOLS

An Annual Descriptive Survey
of Independent Education

41st edition, 1960
illus., 1280 pp., red cloth, $10.00

The new 1960‘ HANDBOOK presents the most current. unbiased data on
over three thousand independent educational institutions, both primary and
secondary, throughout the country. The HANDBOOK gives correct infor-
mation on enrollmenL tuition, grades and faculty, as well as an objective,
descriptive evaluation of each leading private school. It is extensively in-
dcxed and cross-indexed for easy reference. \ewly added are a useful
listing of special courses and facilities to meet individual needs and a Who’s

Who of school administrators.

 

PORTER SARGENT PUBLISHERS

11 Beacon St.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Boston 8, Mass.

225

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

CALIFORNIA. Representatives of fourteen cities and

communities of East San Gabriel Valley recently planted
several thousand seedling trees in Puddingstone Reservoir
State Park near San Dimas. The trees are gifts of organi-
zations interested in a major master plan to landscape the
barren shores of the reservoir within the 1800-acre state
park. Oflicials of the East San Gabriel Valley Area Recrea-
tion Committee have set a goal of ten thousand trees in the
voluntary reforestation of a barren area which has had few
trees in its known history. The planting program involves
more than fifty civic groups.

0 Los Angeles County’s new 56-acre John Anson Ford lic-
gional Park in Bell Gardens was officially dedicated in Jan-
uary. Honored guest at the occasion was John Anson Ford,
former member of the county board of supervisors, for
whom the area is named. Facilities of the new park include
a community building, 160'-by-50' swimming pool, lake.
picnic area, a baseball diamond, three lightcd softball dia-
monds, basketball and volleyball courts, three parking lots,
and play apparatus.

0 A festival of gardening lighting, held in Descanso Gar-
dens, La Canada, sponsored by the Los Angelcs County
Department of Arboreta and Botanic Gardens, engendered
such public interest it ran for two weeks instead of just the
originally scheduled one. The event demonstrated how
home owners could effectively and dramatically illuminate
gardens, patios, and outdoor living areas for greater night-
time enjoyment.

o In Playa Del Rey construction of the Marina Del Rey,
with some seven thousand slips and complete boating facil-
ities, will be completed in 1961. Long Beach has a new
marina with 1800 slips due for completion this spring, while

Young woodsmen in Ralston,

North Dakota, help clear dead trees
and underbrush from area

which will become a local park.

More than four hundred families
joined in. this project

sponsored by Optimists and

other service organizations.

226

its Bahia Marina in Alamitos Bay, with fifteen hundred
slips, was recently completed. An expenditure of $1,900 was
approved recently by the South San Francisco Council for
construction of a boat-launching ramp at the municipal

beach. The ramp will be used until a $300,000 small-craft 1
harbor can be constructed.

HAWAII. When Theodore F. Nobriga, director of the

Honolulu Department of Parks and Recreation, was guest I
speaker on the radio program, “Hawaii Speaks,” on KIKl,
he spoke on the responsibilities of the department and then
answered questions telephoned in by listeners. These dealt I
with such varied subjects as insufficient bath facilities at
Kuhio Beach, thorny trees at Kapiolani Beach Center, re-
storing of beach frontage at Haleiwa Park, removal of sea-
weed at Waikiki, and future park areas for rural connnu- I
nities.

The city has been busy refurbishing its facilities and
undertaking new construction. At \Vaikiki Shell, a new
box office and rest rooms have been completed and opened .|
for public use; a new park building is under construction 1
at Kahaluu Beach Park. At Kalaheo Playground a park I
building is under construction, and a parking area and
paved play area, which includes a basketball and volleyball |
court, are taking shape at Manoa Valley Field.

0 The playground and park conunission in Lafayette and
\Vaimanalo Beach Park, is now ready for use. Included are
the first units of a building which will eventually be a reg-
ular pavilion type of park building, as well as playing courts

and field.
LOUISIANA. The city of Lake Charles has been growing

rapidly and its recreation facilities have been expanding
apace. The city, and recreation superintendent O. D. J ohn-
son, have been kept busy providing playgrounds and park
areas for new neighborhoods. The developer of a big new

II

subdivision has donated a large central site for park and

 

playground purposes, which has been landscaped and util-
ized for lighted ballfields and play areas. Future plans in-
clude a swimming pool.

The playground and park commission in Lafayette and l
SUperintendent Albert (Mickey) Domingue have reason to
be proud of themselves. The city indicated its valuation
of its park and recreation services when it not only renewed
a two-mill tax for recreation. park, and playground opera-
tions but passed an additional one mill for maintenance and
operation, and a $300,000 bond issue to improve present

 

RECREATION

 

 

facilities and acquire one other large area. Recreation in
Lafayette has been expanding steadily. A quick appraisal
shows that in 1943 Lafayette had three areas, one obsolete
pool, one recreation center, and no shelterhouses. Now it
. has thirteen recreation areas, three modern pools and bath-
: houses, three recreation centers, eleven shelters. All city-
: owned areas are now lighted for night activities. There has
' also been a steady acquisition of play apparatus and main-
tenance equipment. The commission has operated and main-
I tained these facilities and leadership on approximately $.88
per capita. The passage of three-mill tax will give it $1.32
per capita, which will cost the people $.10 per $100 assess-
I ment above 3300, since the city has a $300 Homestead Ex-
' emption.

I 0 New Orleans has renamed three playground and park
areas in memory of persons prominently connected with
- sports and recreation. The Fred Dighy Playground honors
the former director of the New Orleans Mid-Winter Sports
Association and one-time sports editor of the New Orleans
I Item. L. Di Benedetto Playground honors a former director
I of playgrounds and one-time national president of the Ama-
I teur Athletic Union. The John P. Brechtel Memorial Park
' honors a former deputy city recreation director and one-time

high school coach.

NEW YORK. A recent and very generous gift from Hunt-
ington Hartford, philanthropist and patron of modern art
and drama, to the New York City Department of Parks,
I will make possible construction of a new restaurant with
 sidewalk service in the southeast corner of Central Park.
The restaurant will provide a conveniently located place
for al fresco dining at moderate prices. It will give the city
a restaurant similar to those so greatly enjoyed by Ameri-
' cans visiting such European parks as Copenhagen’s Tivoli

pavilion would not usurp an area serving any specific pur-
pose. The inclusion of such an establishment does conform
to the original plans for Central Park.

0 The New York City Department of Parks is completing
the filling and grading in Kissena Corridor and Kissena
Park (Queens Borough) with surplus excavated material
from the Clearview Expressway. A section of Alley Park
(Queens) will also be filled and graded with this material.
This was made possible by cooperation of the state public
works department. By careful planning, the placing of the
fill without cost will result in a saving to the city of ap-
proximately $1,000,000 and provide a basis for the further
development of the park.

0 When the residents of Greene, avillage in Chenango Coun-
ty, turned down a referendum to raise $40,000 through taxes
for a community swimming pool the matter did not end
there. A special committee began a fund drive for a
pool and collected $38,853. Construction starts this spring.
0 A 1200-acre tract of scenic Adirondack timberland, con-
sidered one of the finest examples of rugged terrain in the
state, has been donated as a public recreation area by the
International Paper Company, New York City, and Finch,
Pruyn and Company, Inc., of Glenn Falls. It is atop Wake-
ley Mountain, a 3600-foot peak near the town of Indian
Lake in Hamilton County, and adjoins existing lands al-
ready held by the state in the Adirondack Preserve.

PENNSYLVANIA. The state legislature recently appro-
priated $2,000,000 for the Department of Forest and Wa-

ters to acquire lands around Philadelphia and Pittsburgh
for regional parks. The department envisions development
of the Brandywine Creek Basin in Chester County to pro—
vide three new state parks for the Philadelphia metropolitan
area. These will be augmented by parks to he built around
reservoirs the U.S. Corps of Engineers has pr0posed for the

 

l Gardens, the Champs Elysées and Bois de Boulogne in Paris,
 and Rome’s Villa Borghese and Pincian Gardens. Mr. Hart-
., ford was prompted by the “pressing need in New York
i [City] for renewed emphasis on the out-of—doors and the
' happy leisure which ought to go with it.”
Some opposition to this gift has already been voiced.
j However, the area in question is an uneven, irregular piece of
L, terrain cut off from easy access by a busy traverse road and
'- bounded by an equally busy crosstown thoroughfare from
which it is divided by a stone fcnce. Therefore, the new

Delaware River.

a A number of Pennsylvania industrial concerns are plan-
ning and building employee recreation facilities. The rec-
reation center of the Scott Paper Company in Chester will
include a nine-hole golf course for twenty-four hundred
employees. The entire project will cover ninety-two acres.
The Brockway Glass Company in Brockway is also pro-
viding a nine-hole course; the I'nion Switch and Signal
Company in Monroevilfe, an eighteen-hole course.

 

.' MAY 1960 227

PeOple in Recreation

 

DON KOONTZ
of Whitemarsh Township

Heads important committee . . .

Our 42nd National Recreation C 0n-
gress, in Washington, 0.0., this
year, falls within the Middle Atlantic
District of the National Recreation As-
sociation. The NRA Advisory Commit-
tee from that district is headed by Don-
ald R. Koontz, director of recreation in
Whitemarsh Township, Pennsylvania.

The men who initiate and build up,
from scratch, a one-man recreation de-
partment that becomes a real community
force, are men to be reckoned with.
Such a man is Don Koontz. In ten years,
under Don’s leadership, his township
has developed the first full-time town-
ship recreation program in the state.

Despite this tremendous community
recreation job, Don has found time, too,
to accept the chairmanship of the Na-
tional Recreation Association District
Advisory Committee and additional re-
sponsibilities in his chosen field. He
really gets things done! He is now vice-
president and president-elect of his state
recreation society, after having served
as secretary of the society for two years
and on its board of directors for four
years. He is also serving as a member of
the 42nd National Recreation Congress
Program Planning Committee. (You
are bound to see him around Washing-
ton this fall.)

In the meantime, recreation is hum-
ming locally. Whitemarsh is one of the
communities on the receiving end of the
exploding population from Philadel-
phia; as a consequence, its population
has jumped from forty-eight hundred to
twelve thousand souls Since 1950.

Don came to W'hitemarsh with a
somewhat unusual background. He had

228

served as an electronics technician in the
U. 5. Navy from 1944 to 194.6, seeing
action in the South Pacific. Upon his
discharge, he went to Pennsylvania
State College (now University) to study
electrical engineering. After the first
year, however, Don realized that he
would be happier working with people.
This realization, added to his love of
swimming, hunting, and fishing, won
him over, finally, to the recreation field.

In 1950, he received his BS in rec-
reation, and accepted a job in White-
marslt Township. At that time, the town-
ship was without a recreation program.
but this did not daunt him. He started

by working, first with the PTA and a

playground committee which had been
running the two existing playgrounds.
Although he rolled up his sleeves and
worked hard, it was obvious that he
would have to have assistance. Thus, he
started working with volunteers. multi-
plying himself as much as possible. By
now, this method of getting things ac-
complished has increased to such an ex-
tent that hundreds of volunteers in the
township are helping with recreation.
Now Don initiatcs new activity, then
organizes volunteer operating personnel
groups to handle much of the operation
and administration. Thereafter, he acts
as advisor.

Among those helping are volunteer
organizations such as Little League,
Babe Ruth League, Biddy Basketball
League and a little theater group. Many
people give part-time assistance, such as
school teachers for the playgrounds,
physical education people for coaching,
and so on. The program includes sports,
athletics, games, dramatics, arts and
crafts, adult education classes. The last

 

were set up as “adult recreation,” in the
early days, until attendance grew to such
proportions that now the program is
school administered as an “evening
adult school,” which offered forty
classes this year.

The township is currently developing

two township parks, one of twelve acres,
the other, three acres. One park was
donated by a local industry.

It is predicted that the townships pop-
ulation will reach twenty-five thousand
by 1980, and Don Koontz has his eye
on the future. He is a man with a dream.
He hopes one day to have a community
recreation building for the township,
with skating rink, indoor and outdoor
swimming pool, gym, meeting rooms,
and so on. The program includes sports,
more land, for playgrounds, playfields,
and just open space. His work with the
NRA District Advisory Committee has
demonstrated this same ability to fore-
see needs and, combined with his flair
for getting along with people, this has
raised him to a position of leadership.

Middle Atlantic
Advisory Committee

This committee meets four times a
year. Members (rccreation Sllpcrin-
tendcnts or directors) are:

Richard S. W'estgate. district representa.
tivc; Miss Elizabeth Shine. district execu-
tive secretary: Donald R. Koontz. chairman,
Whitemarsh Township. Lafayette llill. Penn-
sylvania: Thatcher 1T. Bowers. Smith Memo-
rial Playgrmmds and Playhouses. Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania; Jack A. Claes, Vineland.
New Jersey: Charles ll. Cranlord. Philadel-
phia. Pennsylvania; Milo P. Christiansen.
Washington. D. C.: George T. Cron. Union
County Park Commission. Elimltetlt. New
Jersey: Elizabeth Dnda. Caldwell. \‘ew Jer-
sey: William ll. Dnnlevy. Neshaminy Valley
Youth Center. Newton, Pennsylvania; Wil-

RECREATION

r

 

Iiam L. Foley, Searsdale, New York; Glenn
E. Hines, Community Workers Association,
Newburgh, New York; Frank M. Krysiak,
Linden, New Jersey; Warren G. Leddick,
Greenbelt, Maryland; William Lederer,
Creenburgh, New York; Robert Reis, Balti-
more County Recreation and Park Depart-
ment, Towson, Maryland; Edwin Shellen-
berger, Pottstown, Pennsylvania; Graham M.
Skea, East Orange, New Jersey; Leroy Tin-
tle, Hempstead, New York; James B. Tyler,
Kingswood Community Center, Wilmington,
Delaware; and Earle D. Whitney, Butler,
Pennsylvania.

Committee Projects

One of the Committee’s projects has
Don
Koontz’s first project on the committee.
He feels strongly that recruitment is an

been a recruitment brochure,

urgent responsibility of recreation exec-
utives, that they must go to the high
schools and colleges and sell the recrea-
tion profession to students. He says,
“Recruitment is a personal problem with
each recreation leader.” The Committec
has also published a Guide for the Eval-
uation of Community Recreation; study
projects on “Retirement Practices in
Local and Governmental Recreation
Agencies in the Middle Atlantic Dis-
trict”; “A Typical Recreation Book-
shelf ;” and one on “Awards and Cita-
tions.” A salary study is about to be
launched, with each state conducting its
own—on budgets, salaries, and some,
program. Results will be tabulated for
the district. If-other districts feel this
is a good idea, the committee will be
glad to help with suggestions growing
out of its current experience. #

Zuatdédw

. . . can an old dog learn new tricks?
Psychologists, cultural anthropologists,
and teachers answer, “Emphatically,
yes!” If I were to prescribe an elixir
of youth, it would include . . . get(ting)
into anything that seems as though it
might be interesting or fun (there is so
much to do and find out about—family,
church, social things, political pursuits,
the many fields of entertainment, handi-
crafts, artistry, collecting . . .) ; staying
put—old people should avoid moving
from the home and neighborhood they
find satisfying; a wide circle of friend-
ships, including a satisfying relation-
ship with a doctor; maintaining per-

sonal appearance. . . .—DAVID D. STONE-
CYPHER, MD.

MAY 1960

 

3111 .tlIiIanriam

 

' Leah Chubbuck, former National Rec-
reation Association staff member, died
March 15th at the age of sixty-seven. At
the time of her death she was working
on plans to open a “Reading Improve-
ment Center” in Woodmere, New York.
She had retired recently from Wood-
mere Academy where she had been a
reading specialist.

Miss Chubbuck joined the NRA staff

in 1929 as a field representative and
was director of its Local Employment
Service (now Recreation Personnel
Service) from 1928 to 1934 when she
resigned. She will be remembered by
many workers whom she aided in en-
tering and advancing the recreation pro-
fession, including National Recreation
School graduates whom she supervised
in their field work.
' Roscoe M. Marker, executive director
of the Whitin Community Gymnasium
in YVhitinsville, Massachusetts, died of
a heart attack in March. He was active
in local, state, and national athletic and
recreation organizations.

' Mrs. George Perkins, philanthropist
and civic leader, died in March at the
age of ninety-four. She had recently
deeded her estate in the Riverdale area
of New York City to the city as an ar-
boretum.

' Mrs. Adele Rosenwald Levy, charter
member of the New York City Youth
Board and former member and secre-
tary of the New York State Youth Com-
mission, died in New York City in
March at the age of sixty-seven. She
had been active in thirty-five charitable,
artistic, and community organizations.
' Harry Hicks, a leader in the develop-
ment of winter sports in this country,
died in Lake Placid, New York, in
March at the age of eighty-eight. He
served as director of the Third Winter
Olympic Games held in Lake Placid in
1932.

' Mrs. Ludolph Conklin, long-time
friend and sponsor of the National Rec-
reation'Association, died in Basking
Ridge, New J crsey, in April.

' Judge Willard M. Benton, National
Recreation Association sponsor since
1948, died in Kansas City, Kansas, in
April.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

5/1142 970w
FOR SUMMER PROGRAMS

IE SHOOTING AND HUNTING

Helps in setting up and improving pragrams
to teach these skills in schools, camps, col-
Ieges, recreational graups.

C] 1960 31/,x11

ITWIN CASTING AND ANGLING

Campanian ta SHOOTING AND HUNTING,

this how-to-da-it guide is useful to both
teacher and novice.

C] 1953

94 p. lllus. $2.00

 

31/,x11 52 p. $2.00

lllus.

OUTDOOR EDUCATION

Gives practical examples of activities and

praiects appropriate to children 5-11 years
ald.

C] 1956

32 p. 75¢

OFFICIAL GUIDES for Girls and
Women's Sports

I] Aquatics, 1959-61, swimming, div-
ing, synchronized swimming, smoll
craft ......................................... .- 75¢

C] Winter Sports and Outing Activi-
ties, 1959-61, camping, rierry,
fishing ........................................ -- 75¢

C] Recreatianal Games and Sports,
1957 shuf’fleboord, table and deck

tennis, harsehoes, craquet ........ -- 75¢
C] Archery - Riding, 1960-62 ----..-.....$I.00
C] Tennis - Badminton, 1960-62 .- --$I.00
E} Graup Games for Girls and Wamen,

1957 ........ _- . 50¢

I
.1201 - 16th Street, N.W.,

:Washington 6, D. C.

IPlease send copies as markedl
|above. (2-9 copies of one title,|

IIO% discount; IO or more,|

moo/.1 I

:Check enclased [:1 3111 me [1'

|Name

I
I
l I
: Ad dress_______________________|
I
: City State I
I
I

IlEnclose payment with arders at $1.00
I0r less)

 

"let’s Have 0 Picnic!”

PICNIC MANUAL

CONTAINING:

OVER 100 SUGGESTED
GAMES AND CONTESTS

 

In eluding

 

Planning Charts 0 Sites $1.00 EACH
Themes 0 Finances 6 FOR $5.00
Publicity, etc. POSTPAID

PROFITABLY USED BY HUNDREDS OF FACTORIES, SCHOOLSIr
AND CLUB RECREATION lEADERS

“Your Publication Let's HaveaPicnicis one of the most Helpful Booklets
For Planning An Outing 1 Have Ever Seen. We Should Have Had Some-
thing Like It In Our Club File Years Ago.”-——Reynolds Metals Company,
Richmond, Virginia.

“Fills A Real Need."_..'l‘hompson Products, Inc.. Detroit.

“Last Summer 1 Used Your Manual For Our Picnics and Found It Most
Useful and Benciicial."-—-Defensc Plant of Procter d: Gamble, Milan.

Tennessee.

ORGANIZATION SERVICES, Inc.

'8259 llVERNOIS AVE. ' DETROIT 4, MICHIGAN

 

D Please Send C] Check Enclosed [:I Bill Us
[I Send FREE Literature (In Ntnelties, Prizes, Toys, and Awards.

Manuals

Address

Your Name

 

CHANGE OF ADDRESS

If you are planning to move, notify us at least thirty
days before the date of the issue with which it is to take
effect, if possible, in order to receive your magazines
without interruption. Send both your old and new ad-
dresses by letter, card or post oHice form 22S to:

SUBSCRIPTION DEPARTMENT
RECREATION MAGAZINE
8 WEST EIGHTH STREET
NEW YORK 11, N. Y.

The post olIice will not forward copies unless you pro-
v1de extra postage. Duplicate copies cannot be sent.

      

JUNE is National Recreation Month
Are your plans made?

There is Still Time
to order your

PLAYGROUND SUMMER NOTEBOOK

$2.50; $2.00 for NRA members

National Recreation Association

8 West 8th Street New York 11, N. Y.

 

230 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

Research Revic

Attitudinal Differences Survey

The reluctance of agencies and individuals that have
not had experience in dealing with handicapped children
to include them in their programs was indicated by a 1958
mail survey of directors of group-work and recreation
agencies in New York City, as part of the demonstration
project in group work with handicapped children sponsored
by the Community Council of Greater New York. Replies
by ninety directors revealed attitudes concerning the pro-
vision of services for handicapped children, particularly
the orthopedically handicapped and the cerebral palsied.
A brief summary of some of the returns should be of in-
terest to recreation departments that have hesitated to initi-
ate programs for the handicapped or to include these chil-
dren in their programs.

Sixty-eight percent of the directors responding were
from agencies that included children with some kind of
handicap in their programs, and, unlike the 'other group.
a large majority had previous experience with handicapped
children. Answering a question as to whether the handi-
capped should be served by special group-work agencies
for the handicapped or in programs of existing agencies,
most of these directors favored “existing agencies”; the
others tended to suggest “Specialized agencies.”

Directors of agencies serving handicapped showed a
greater tendency to believe that handicapped children
should be recruited by their own agency in its own neigh-
borhood, just as it recruits other children. They also were
more prone to say that additional costs entailed in serving
the handicapped should be absorbcd by their agencies, as a
legitimate function. Asde what degree of dilliculty they
would anticipate if orthopedically handicapped or cerebral-
palsied children were included in their agency’s program,
most forcsaw no dilIiculties or only minor ones. Most di-
rectors of agencies without handicapped participants, on
the other hand, expected major or prohibitive (lilliculties,
even though they were asked to assume that the cases would
be ambulatory.

Respondents were asked how they felt their professional
group-work stall would view the inclusion of handicapped
children in the program. Directors from agencies already
serving such children reported more favorable attitudes.
whereas the other group indicated a considerable negative
reaction. In response to questions “as to the program ac-
tivities in which they believed the two typcs of handicapped

’ respondents from agencies without

could not participate,’
handicapped participants tended to believe that participa-
tion would be far more restricted than did the other direc-
tors. They also anticipated more added costs for budgetary
items they believed would be needed if handicapped chil-
dren were to be served. Both groups realistically recognized

the need for funds for “special transportation.”

RECREATION

and Abstracts

George Butler

All group-work and recreation agencies include children
who have some mobility and skill limitations, be they tem-
porary, like a broken arm, or more chronic, like obesity or
muscular developments. The handicapped can be viewed
as differing only in degree—not in kind—from the non-
handicapped. Professionals with experience with handi-
capped children know this and find that with some proper
orientation and some ingenuity and programing, these chil-
dren are neither as restricted in participation potential
nor in need of new and unusual services as the uninformed
people (including group-work professionals) might assume.

Commenting on the experiences and findings, Dr. Law-
rence Podell, who served as research consultant to the
project, expressed the belief that perhaps they “can aid in
dispelling the stereotypical notions and invalid assumptions
of the directors without prior experience with the handi-
capped who, in the main, lead agencies that do not provide
group work and recreation serviccs for handicapped chil-
dren.”

Growing Interest ill School Facilities for Recreation

The growing interest in city-school cooperation in the
acquisition, development, and operation of properties serv-
ing both school and community recreation use is illustrated
by a study recently conducted by a committee representing
school and city agencies in Albuquerque, New Mexico. In-
formation was secured from nineteen cities, only one of
which reported no joint use. A few items are here sum-
marized:

' Eighteen cities report that the city is responsible for super-
vision of school facilities during the periods in which the
city operates programs in them.

' Seventeen cities report rest rooms are available to the
public only when a recreation program is scheduled and
there is supervision.

' Four cities reported schools were fenced off from adjoin-
ing parks; eleven reported no fencing; three indicated some
areas are fenced, whereas others are not.

' Responsibility for the operation of recreation programs
rests with a city employee in twelve cities; with a school
employee in one city; on a joint basis in five cities.

011 to Washington!

WATCH for the article on the city of Washington
that will appear in the June issue of RECREATION,
and read about what to see there. The September, or

Congress Issue, will carry a story about the Washing-
ton recreation department setup—facilities, equipment,
interesting speakers lined up for Congress general ses-
sions. Last-minute instructions to delegates also appear
in September.

MAY 1960

 

 

 

 

 

CERAMICS

the easy way I

Ceramichrome, the original one-Tire ccramic colors, can
spark new life into a tired ceramic program! Recreation
leaders will soon discover it’s amazing versatility . . .. . per-
feet for chil'lrenl Nontoxic,
casy brushing, intermixable!
Perfect results, time after
time.

FREE!

“Teach Ceramics the Easy
Way,” the information-
packed booklet designed
for recreation leaders,
teachers, occupational
therapists and others in-
terested in a simplified ap-
proach to ceramics. A
valuable addition to your
reference library.

SEND TODAY!

 

15215 SOUTH BROADWAY, GARDENA, CALIF.
Eastern Office: P. O. Box 4467, Pittsburgh 5, Pa.

REQUEST PRICES

FREE LITERATURE é} SPECIFICATIONS

* Playground Equipment (S Playground Plans

* Basketball Backstops
Indoor 6: Outdoor Type

* Bleachers
Gymnasium 6r Athletic Field

* Trampolins
Choice of 14 models

* Score Boards—For Every Sport

BHAMPIUN RECREATION EIIUIP. INC.

HIGHLAND PARK, ILLINOIS

amptons

For The Finest in Prize Awards
See Your Trophy Dealer or write

F. H. NOBLE 8: COMPANY
559 w. 59m smear - CHICAGO

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 231

WRITE FOR
LITERATURE

  

CAN APPROVED

_ ‘

NU. r-a TABLE
TEMPEREO msomtr
msttetzzo tor

   

W

Fo'Lo-Ki G

' FOLDING TABLE LINE

Kitchen committees, socml groups. atten-
tion! Factory prices it discounts up to 40%
to Churches. Schools, (tubs. etc. Monroe

   

DIRECT PRICES

DISCOUNTS 8. TERMS all-new FOLD-KING Banquet Tables,

with exclusive no“ automatic folding and
locking. super strength, easy seating. 68 model:- and was.

BIG NEW 1960 CATALOG FREE

Color pictures. Full line tables, chairs, table and chair trucks, plat-
form-risers. portable partitions. bulletin boards. Our 52nd year.

THE MONROE C0.Ir 181 Church St, Colfax, Iowa

eep ’em SINGING

with these all-time favorite

SONG SLIDES

wonderful hours of fun for
young and old alike

2” x 2” slides . .. 50¢/slide
3%” x 4” slides LOO/slide

WRITE FOR CATOLOGUE S

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 48th Street
New York 36. N. Y.

JUdson 2-1926

  

D I V I N 6 BOA R D

World's Finest Official Board
Rugged Aircraft Girder Construction,
Unequaled in Design, Durability and
Performance by any board built today.

Excluslvo Internatlonal Distributors

     

 

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD'S [ARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
I’ARK, PICNIC, PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING
'OOI. AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

  

“Solves our locker room problem . . .
My Control Key opens every padlock.”

  
  

 
   

NO. 1525
COMBINATION PADLOCK

} DURABLE - tOW cosr
) KEY CONTROLLED

} STAINLESS STEEL CASE
CONSTRUCTION

Master Combination Padlocks
give you 2-way budget relief—
low initial cost and long-lasting,
trouble-free service! Double wall
construction . . . hardened steel
locking latch . . . automatic re-
locking mechanism . . . and other
security features.

   

MASTER NO. 1525
KEY CONTROLLED

2 YEAR GUARANTEE

—._——_-——————u——————————q—

Builders at the World Famous
Master laminated Padlaclrs

Master Padlocks

 

MASTER NO. 1500

Some design and con-
struction as Na. 1525
. . . but without key
. control. Full two-year
guarantee.

Favorite of America's“ Coaches
Master Lock Company. Milwaukee 45.Wis.

   

 

  
   
   

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

LISTENING

and

VIEWING

To Go On Being Somebody . . .

The spirit of a community center for
the aged is caught in a poignant sound
filmstrip, All the Years, which was shot
on location at the William Hodson
Community Center, Bronx, New York.
Only the closest collaboration and most
sensitive working relationship between
producer and eenter could have brought
forth sueh an inside story. At times it
is heartwarming, at times heartrending,
but at all times heartfelt.

As the strip points out, “. . . the
chance . . . to go on being somebody
all the years of one’s life is what every-
one wants. . . .” To some, this may
mean merely opportunity for a sociable
cup of eoifee, gossip, and comparing
grandchildren (with snapshots there-
of); a chance to kibitz a card game,
chess duel, or other activity; an invita-
tion to observe a program before ven-
turing into it. '

The filmstrip has an accompanying
record, narrated by Aline MaeMahon,
and seript. It can he used without nar-
ration to point up and stimulate group
discussion or it can be used with on-
the-spot live narration or leeture to fit a
loeal situation. Here is the filmstrip to
show your staff, board. soeial agencies,
eitizen groups, churehes, service clubs,
and fund-raising groups.

The IVilliam Hodson Community
Center has, for fifteen years, pioncered
programs for senior citizens, in coop-
eration with the New York City De-
partment of Welfare. It presented this
Iihnstrip to the retiring chairman of its
board, in lieu of the usual silvcr tray
or other parting gift—certainly a deep-
er eXpression of appreeiation.

All the Years runs fifteen minutes
(72 frames), eomes in blaek and white,
with record and script, costs $9.00 post-

paid. Available through Leo Seltzer As-
soeiates, 368 E. 69th Street, New York
21.——E.D.

 

If you can't come up with a player
piano for your next old-time sing,
Player Piano Cents (Vol. I.) will pro-
vide the proper nostalgia. "cm is song
fare for senior-citizen programs (and
tecn-agers loo) , as well as hospital ward
parties. picnics, and any outing. It of-
fers a range of old favorites to sing to,
hlnn to. or cven whirl to: “In a l.itltlc
Spanish Town,” “Carolina Moon.” “Al-
ways.” “Rose of I’ieardy,” and others.
Available from Duff lieeords, Box 176.
Palisades l’ark, N. J. (LP 41410], l2",
33 1,3, $41.98).

RECREATION

" ECREATION for the

The White House Conference on
hildreu and Youth was a most exciting
onference. Large group meetings were
ollowed by meetings of small groups
ith specific assignments to work on,
ollowed by workshops in the after-
oons. More than sixteen hundred rec-
.mmendations were made by the vari-
.us groups, and it is h0ped that many
ill be acted on within the next ten
ars.
In rclation to recreation for thc ill and
- ndicapped, it was emphasized that re-
- bilitation is becoming international in
ope, but is doomed to fail unless re-
ruitment of more professional person-
I- is undertaken immediately. Dean
oberts, executive director of the Na-
ional Society for the Crippled and Dis-
led, pointed out that many jobs are
pen in rehabilitation therapy and there
s widc public recognition of the need
or occupational and recreational thera-
.y. Unfortunately few pe0ple are quali-
ed to fill existing positions. Mr. Bob-
t’s remarks echo what we have been
epeating constantly: please try to re-
rait potential recreation therapists in
our community.

One of the major issues brought up at
he White House Conference was the
roposed system of mandatory national

gistration of all handicapped children.

me people are strongly in favor, some
trongly against, this pr0posal that the
ttending physician register any handi-
ap evident at birth and any chronic ill-
css or handicap that occurs during in-
ancy and childhood.

Those in favor say such registration

ould provide a case-finding instrument

. or school boards, health, and other

ervice agencies. It is currently esti-

nated that thousands of unknown hand-

capped children are not receiving edu-

.ation, health, or recreation service. A

ecommendation was made that govern-

aent funds be made available to pay the

r laries of counselors who, on a demon-

lration basis, would bring handicapped

I ildren to the attention of suitable

encies and also inform parents and

.. uardians about community resources
or needed services.

RS. HILL is director, National Recrea-
‘on Association Consulting Service on
'ecreation for the Ill and Handicapped.

‘iAY 1960

Beatrice H. Hill

The feeling against mandatory regis-
tration arises from prevalent attitudes
that a handicap is a shameful social de-
fect, and thus parents are unwilling to
register their children as such. Please
write and tell us how you feel about this,
and what you think can be done to help
resolve the controversy.

+ Dr. Howard A. Rusk recently dedi-

cated a million-dollar rehabilitation cen-
ter in Los Angeles. On April 1, in an
article in The New York Times, he spoke
of the rehabilitation center as the ideal
place to restore a person physically,
socially, emotionally, and vocationally.
This is a victory; it is the first time
Dr. Rusk has given the word “socially”
so prominent a position in his writ-
ings. What is more, in the same arti-
cle he lists the workers at the center and
places recreation therapists right next to
physicians and nurses. We have not
fared so well, however, at the hands of
other author-physicians, whose discus-
sions of rehabilitation for the mentally
ill dismiss recreation as mere entertain-
ment or diversion, while occupational
therapy is seen as a more purposeful and
productive discipline. Obviously, the
recreation profession has a responsibil-
ity to interpret its purposes constantly
to physicians, nurses, and members of
allied profcssions.

+ The Consulting Service is preparing
a paper for presentation to Alabama

Congressman Carl Elliott’s subcommit-
tee concerning the Bill for Independent

Living (H.R. 3465). In gathering data
for this paper, we have been impressed
with the quality of recreation services
for the ill and handicapped in Cali-
fornia. More than most other states,
California providcs for the ill and hand-
icapped in its parks, playgrounds, cen-
ters, and homes.

+ Watch for results of the spring meet-
ings of the National Association of Rec-
reation Therapists and the executive
committee of the American Recreation
Society. We hope these meetings will
lead to the formation of one strong pro-
fessional organization. The formation
of such a group is the essential primary
step that must be takcn before recreation
for the ill and handicapped can begin
to meet the growing challenge of pro-
fessionalization. #

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

You can raise $500
ll and Handlcapped ormore'in6days

this easy way

 

Sell famous illusoa
Candies and in 4 to 15 days

your group can make

$300 to $2,500

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. If you decide to go
ahead you don’t risk a cent,—you pay noth-
ing in advance. We supply on consignment
your choice of FOUR VARIETIES of famous
Mason Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a band printed
with your organization’s name and picture.
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don’t sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make
$12.00 on every 30 sales of our $1.00 box
(66%% profit to you on cost). There’s no
risk! You can’t lose. Mail in coupon today
for information about MASON’S PROTECTED
FUND RAISING DRIVES.

I. ______________ __
Mr. EDWIN STOYE, Dept. RM-S l

Mason, Box 549, Mineola, N.Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me, without

obligation, information on your Fund
Raising Plan.

Name
Age if under 21
Address

Organization. _

 

Phone

 

 

 

 

P———————————_—

Mason Candies, Inc., Mineola, L. I., N. Y.

233

 

   

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Hats Off I

CALIFORNIA. Two of the highest
awards the California Recreation So-
ciety can give have been bestowed upon
Keith M acdonald, executive director of

the Greater Val-

lejo Recreation

District, and

Janet Pomeroy,

director

originator of the

Recreation Cen-

ter for the Hand-

icapped in San
was described as
“an outstandingly dedicated individual
who has accomplished in ten years what
it would take most people a lifetime. . . .”

Mrs. Pomeroy has pioneered rec-
reation for the handicapped up and
down the Pacific Coast, and has con-
ducted special training conferences for
leaders interested in this work. She
contends that the recreation executive
has a responsibility to handicapped res-
idents of his community, if he is to live
up to the accepted credo of the recrea-
tion profession, “Recreation for All.”

CONNECTICUT. The Town Crier,
weekly ncwspaper in Newington, con-
siders Clem Lemire such an excellent
parks and recreation director that it de-
voted an entire editorial to him in its
January 13 issue. Says the Crier: “Onc
would have to look far and wide to find
another man as dedicated to youth work
as is Mr. Lemire. His tireless energy
has deve10ped the finest recreational
program, we feel, in the state. . . .”

FLORIDA. NRA’s Southeast district
representative, Ralph Van Fleet, was
honored at the Florida State Conference
at West Palm Beach in March. Van was
presented with a solid gold lifetime
membership card in the Florida Recrea-
tion Association, the only one evcr is-
sued in the Southeast.

and

 

Keith

Francisco.

234

NEW HAMPSHIRE. Bert George, direc-
tor of recreation for the city of R0-
chester, started out on a cold January
night for what he thought was the reg-
ular annual meeting of the Community
Activities Association.
find himself the guest of honor at a
testimonial banquet, patterned after
TV’s This Is Your Life, and also a can-
didate for the local Junior Chamber
of Commerce’s first Man-of—the-Year

He arrived to

award. The entire affair was conceived

and planned by the Babe Ruth League
Mothers’ Club.

 

Bert George (le/t) receiving copy of
his Li/e [rom school-board member and
toastmaster Paul Lamie at the dinner.

VIRGINIA. The
Outstanding
Young Man Dis-
tinguished Serv-
ice Award was
recently pre-
sented to James
E. Barnett, su-
perintendent of
parks and rccreation in Winchester, by
Mayor Claude B. Snlalts, Jr., for the
local Jaycees. The presentation cited
J im’s dedicated work among the youth
and adults of the community.

 

WASHINGTON. Across the continent,
the local Junior Chamber of Commerce
in the Benton County area awardcd a
Man-of-the-Year award to John Clark,

  
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  

county superintendent of parks and re
reation. He joins Ernie Craner in b
ing the second recreation man to be s

recognized this year (see RECREATIO.
April, Page 185).

United Fund News
‘ Across the country, in twenty-tw
hundred cities and towns last year, t
United Funds and Community Chest
collected $455,000,000. This is 5328
000,000 more than that contributed i

the previous campaign. A share of t
National Recreation Association’s i
come derives from community chest
° Oliver G. Willits, chairman of th
board, Campbell Soup Company, w
named national chairman of the Unite
Community Campaigns of America f
1960, taking over leadership fI'OIl] R
chard R. Deupree. He had been vic
chairman. Mr. Willits has long hee
active in Community Chests and Unite
Funds. He was one of the founders
the Camden, New Jersey, Connnunit
Chest in 1942 and later‘ helped organiz
the UF there.

To Foster International Recreatio

Dr. E. A. (Swede) Scholcr, adviscr i
recreation at the University of Iowa. at
nounces that the rccreation majors’ clu
is initiating a project to aid in fosterin
international recreation by sending su
scriptions to RECREATION overseas. Tl
club is financing one subscription and
getting in touch with other stude
groups to seek their cooperation in th
enterprise. In addition to current su
scriptions, the students are looking f
back copies of RECREATION to sen
abroad, feeling that these would be
great help in providing resource mat
rial for persons responsihlc for recre.
tion activities in other countries. Thos
interested may writc to the State Un'
versity of lowa, c/o Dr. E. A. Scllole'
121 Field House, Iowa City, lowa. H
will clear all names of foreign recipien
to avoid duplications.

Board-Member \Vorkshops

The Second Annual Board Menlhe
Workshop of the Detroit nletrOpolitaI
area met in February at Wayne Sta
University, under the sponsorship of th
health education division of the unive
sity, to discuss three major topics: lmd
eting, coordinatcd connnunity progran
ing, and priorities and criteria f
recreation programs. Twenty-eight con

RECREATIO

munities were represented at the meet-
ing, and there were 155 registrants pres-
ent, including recreation-board or ad-
visory-committee members, recreation
directors, Wayne faculty members, may-
ors, city managers, city councilmen, and
NRA district C. E.
Brewer.

Dr. Harlan Hagman, dean of admin-
istration at Wayne, opened the sessions
by emphasizing the need for recreation
in this scientific age. The discussions
included an examination of the duties
and responsibilities of board members,
with an increase in public information
services; means of obtaining finances,
with a general agreement that the fi-
nances should come either from taxes
or from a recreation levy; and discus-
sion of the development of community
programs, which, it was felt, should be
coordinated with private agencies. This
last point included debates as to whom
the programs should include, and wheth-
er or not school facilities could be used.
Attendance at this meeting increased
greatly over last year, and all members
expressed the wish for another work-
shop next year.

representative

Youth to the Front

' Episcopalians with special training in
recreation leadership or psychiatric
counseling recently heard an urgent
plea to make their skills “available” for
the guidance of troubled youth. The
Right Reverend Horace W. B. Donegan,
bishop of the ten-county Protestant
Episcopal Diocese of New York, has ap-
pealed for church leadership in dealing
with delinquents. The bishop com-
mended Governor Nelson Rockefeller’s
work-camp program as being “of great
value” in preventing youth delinquency
and said the Episcopal Church will
work with the authorities in antide-
linquency measures.

° The New York governor has set up a
six-point state program to combat ju-
venile delinquency. Part of the plan
calls for “work opportunity camps” for
potential juvenile offenders “who show
signs of aggression in the community.”

' With the addition of a supervisor of
women’s and girls’ activities, the Cort-
land, New York, Youth Bureau and
Recreation Commission now has a full
personnel complement. Staff has child
guidance leader and case worker.

MAY 1960

Recreation in a Pushcart

Public housing management and set-
tlement workers have joined forces to
provide mobile community centers
wherever youngsters from New York
City housing projects congregate.
Youth workers, with mothers and older
brothers and sisters trained by them,
bring a pushcart full of games and pro-
jects for youngsters, mostly three to
thirteen.

During the past three summers an
average of 225 children from the Alfred
E. Smith Houses attended. This year,
the settlement houses plan to bring this
form of recreation to teen-agers, out-
doors where they congregate in the
summer.

Hit the Deck!

° In Seattle, Washington, one of every
six families owns a boat—outboard, in-
board, or sail (the national average is
one in ten). Seattle buys one-sixth of
all outboard motors in the country.
Boating in Seattle, already going full
sail, will gain even more headway with
the opening of the seven-million-dollar
marina at Shilsole Bay, a combined
US. Army Corps of Engineers and Port
of Seattle project. Six floats will be
completed this spring with moorings for
about four hundred boats. Final install-
ation of all nineteen piers is planned

for this fall.

° Eleven outboard skippers took off on
a cruise from Seattle to Alaska last
summer, to prove that small craft can
make long hauls. The trip, cosponsored
by the Puget Sound Outboard Cruising
Club and Alaska Sportsman magazine,
drew boaters from several parts of the
United States. The Seattle-Juneau “
side passage,” with its magnificent
scenery, is destined to become one of
the world’s great small-boat cruise

in-

I'OlItBS.

People in the News

MICHIGAN. Howard C rowel! has been
appointed general superintendent of the
Detroit Department of Parks and Rec-
reation, replacing John J. Considine
who retired recently. Mr. Crowell, fifty-
seven, has been an administrator and
second in command in the department

since 1944.

NEW JERSEY. F. S. Mathewson has
retired as general superintendent and

secretary of the Union County Park
Commission after more than thirty-five
years of service. His retirement will be
effective on June 1. Rudolph Kreszan
has been named as his successor.
Originally su-
perintendent of
recreation in
Union County,
Mr. Mathewson
was believed to
be the first per-
son in the coun-
u try ever appoint-
ed to that position by any county park
system. A graduate of Springfield Col-
lege, Massachusetts, he was also grad-
uated from the Chicago School of Rec-
reation conducted by the National Rec-
reation Association.

 

Mr. Krestan,
who has been
with the Union
County Park
System for thir-
ty-five years in
various capaci-
ties, is currently
editor of Our
Parks, the agency’s monthly publication.

' NEW YORK. Edwin S. Burdell, Na-

tional Recreation Association board
" member and presi-
dent for the past
twenty-two years
of the Cooper
Union for the Ad-
vancement of Sci-
ence and Art, New
York City, has retired from his latter
post to become president of the new
Middle East Technical University in
Ankara, Turkey. He goes under the aus-
pices of the United Nations Educa-
tional, Scientific and Cultural Organiza-
tion.

 

 

' Newbold Morris will succeed Robert
Moses as New York City park commis-
sioner. Mr. Moses is retiring, after twen-
ty-six years in the post, to become pres-
ident of the 1964 World’s Fair Corpora-
tion. Mr. Morris, fifty-eight, is a former
president of the New York City Council,
a former member of the City Planning
Commission, and has been active in the
Park Association of New York and as
chairman of the New York City Center
of Music and Drama.

235

 

NEWS

For further information regarding
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean Wachtel

 

o A bituminous emulsion sealer that gives asphalt tennis
courts the appearance of a grass court with permanent, uni-
form color, and that also adds years of extra life to the
surface has been developed by the D. C. Harris Company.
Called Cosmicoat Green, it is easily applied to new or used
surfaces and seals the aSphalt so thoroughly that heat, frost,
and other elements cannot penetrate the asphalt to cause
destruction. Red and black sealers are also available. The
sealers can be applied directly from the container, and dry
by evaporation in a few hours to a tough rubberlike, seam-
less film that is continuous over the entire area. The colored
coatings reflcct the heat of the sun, rather than absorb it,
thus keeping the surface cooler and helping reduce eye
strain. Cosmicoat is manufactured and distributed by the

D. C. Harris Company, of Wooster, Ohio.

0 Floats and piers
have always presented
a maintenance prob-
lcm because of their
size, weight, and
wooden materials,
which eventually rot,
causing safety haz-
ards. Now, the Hussey
Manufacturing Com-
pany has dcsigned a completely ncw lightweight float and
pier, easily assembled with ordinary tools, and designcd
for use in either salt or frcsh water. They do not rot, rust,
corrode nor “freezc” tight; maintenance requires a coat of
paint every couple of years. The six-by-ten-foot float wcighs
325 pounds, can be lifted by two average people. It has
skids for sliding over rough tcrrain, three full-size Styro-
foam planks for flotation that can support 1,350 pounds,
and yet maintain a seven-inch freeboard. To extend beyond
a five-foot water depth, the three-by-ten-foot deck section
of the pier, weighing 144 pounds, is hinged at both ends
to join the pier to float scctions. Two or more pier scctions
fit together, end to end, end to side, or side to side, to pro-
vide any width of deck or layout design, and are so stable
that they can be used by marinas. Both pier and deck have
nonskid surfaces. Ladders, diving boards, and other ac-
cessories can be added. For complete details, write to
Hussey Manufacturing Company, Inc., North Berwick,
Maine.

 

o A new, heavy-duty pool vacuum recently placed on the
market by the Paragon Swimming Pool Company features
a newly designed, exclusive swivel. This device enables the
vacuum head to move in any direction with a mere twist of
the wrist, and the entire pool floor can be covered quickly
and thoroughly. The 18-inch nickel bronze hcad looks like
polished chrome, yet is resistant to scuffing. \Vith white
rubber nonmarking whecls and adjustable brush, there are
no sharp corners or bolts to damagc pool walls and lloors.
The Vacuum Cleaner Kit contains 29-foot lengths of hcavy-

236

duty, golden-hued anodized handles, from 25 to 50 feet of
wire-bound, smooth-bore rubber hose, floats, hose couplings,
and a spanner wrench. More complete information can be

obtained from the Paragon Swimming Pool Company, lnc.,
12 Paulding Street, Pleasantville, New York.

0 A piece of equipment designed
to increase safety and decrease
clutter on playground or ballfield
is the Bat-N-Ball Tote, which will
hold up to twenty-four bats and
twelve balls. It can be easily folded
and transported without removing
the bats, which are held firmly in
place by an elastic cable. Write the
Bat-N-Ball Tote Manufacturing

Company, Jefferson City, Iowa, for more information.

 

' Spring is clean-up time, and one major playground main-
tenance problem is keeping game lines sharply and clearly
marked. For easy maintenance of playgrounds, grass sports
fields, and game courts, the H. C. Sweet Company has de-
veloped two new models of their Florline Marking Machine.
The smaller one has a 'M-gallon paint capacity, to permit
frequent marking and inexpensive touch-ups, and the 21/;-
gallon machine, which fills the need for paint capacities be-
tween the regular 11/-_- and S-gallon sizes. Both models
feature the multiple feed and roller application. are of
heavy-duty construction, with a rear-wheel assembly that
keeps the machine upright. Line widths come in a choice
of 2”, 3”, 4”, and, for the first time, 5" and 6” widths are
now available. Linc widths are interchangeable on all

models. Complcte information may be had from the II. C.
Sweet Company, 56861 Grand llivcr, New Hudson, Mich.

' Nature doesn’t always water the grass, particularly if you
are located in a dry region. To help your garden and grass
-— a grow in parks, recrea-
(Slang - , tion areas, and so
 f forth, investigate the
' new Rain Jet Rotary
Garden Sprinkler. It
sprays in a square
pattern, designed to
save water waste by
eliminating overlap-
ping and also to pre-
vent puddles. The Rain Jet Sprinkler Operates on a patented
rotary pop-up pendulmn principle that simulates a gentle
rain, with even distribution from sprinkler head to edge of
area at a very low angle of throw, with minimal water pres-
sure. Thc company also manufactures other spray patterns
to satisfy other sprinkling requirements. The Rain Jct can
bc mounted on its own sturdy portable stand or installed
underground. Both stand and sprinkler are guaranteed for
one year. For details, write the llain Jct Corporation, 301
S. Flower Street, Burbank, California.

  

Racaewnox

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

 

 

Page
AAHPER-NEA ._._-...-.-..-,.-..__-----.._--._--....,___ 229
American Locker -...__-- .... ._-_.-.._-__..  -... 198
American Playground Device  .-..-  232
Ceramichrome _._-m___--_.___-_.___-_._--._----_ 231
Champion Recreation Equipment _._...-_--_.. 231
Cosom Industries ___...___.. Inside Back Cover
Dimco-Gray _...---____._-__-n__-..______-_-__ 199
F. H. Noble ..____..____ --___.--_-__.- _-_..... 231
FLXIBLE H_.___._-__._.________-___._-_-. _ 194
Gold Medal Products ______._..___._._______ 199
Gymnastic Supply m___.______.__._ . 194
Heatab -..--....________.__..- ....-__________._.__ 237
Hillerich 8. Bradsby _______ ...______ . 238
Institutional Cinema Service _______ _.._._. _ 199
lamesSpencer _________________ _-__ 237
layfro Athletic Supply -_..-.........-_.._---._ -..-.. 237
Kalah Game .__._..__..__n-_..___-___._-n_-____..-. 199
MacGregor __ ............ __. _____ -_ Inside Front Cover
Mason Candies ______-_____________-__.._..,__--_. 233
Master Lock _.._.____.-__..-____..______________ ,__ 232
Monroe __..___.._-__.__._- - 232
National Sports _.._--_ ._ ______________ __ . 194
National Studios ____ __ _. ______________  . 232
Organization Services_. . __________ __.. . 230
Porter Sargent Publishers -_  - 225
Program Aids “mumw ______ -r 237
Recreation Equipment _ .._____.- 200
Rheem Califone “Hm -_ _.. . 193
T. F. Twardzik __._.._ __ ,_,., 200
U. S. Defense Bonds. -  .  .. Back Cover
Voit __.___-.____,___-_.__,.  225
Wenger Music Equipment.-- ._ . .. .. . .. 225
MAY 1960

SAVE TIME, EFFORT, MONEY!

Now used by over 10,000 Schools, Colleges, YMCA’s
Clubs, Recreation Depts., Camps, etc.

Available for all Sports and activities.

— Write for Catalog—Dept: R —

THE PROGRAM AIDS COMPANY, INC.
550 Fifth Avenue - New York 36, N. Y.

Patent Office

 

     
   
   
   
    

Write to HEATAB DISTRIBUTOR, 227 Eu-
genie St., Chicago 14, re HEATAB, the
safest, most compact of portable fuels for

BASKETBALL
STEEL CHAIN
NETS

3 Years Guaro nteel

outdoors or indoors
Also ealurin Ja ro’s custom built

VNYLON BASKETBALL NETS 8. BALL CARRIERS
VALUMINUM MULTl-PURPOSE STANDARDS
VTETHERBALL POLES 8. PADDLE SETS
VWATER BASKETBALL STANDARDS
VALUMINUM BATTING TEES

' Send for Free Catalog '

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

indoor and outdoor use.

 

 

 

 

New, improved Golden Age Club Pin.
Now in real gold plate with tree in
green lewelers’ enamel. Safety catch.
50¢ each, including federal tax and
 postage.

Minlmum order 10 pins
Available only to authentic clubs.

JAMES SPENCER a. co.
EXACT 5'15 22 N. 6th Street Philadelphia 6, pa.

  
 
 
    

 

MAKE YOUR CONGRESS PLANS EARLY. TO GET THE
MOST OUT OF THE 1960 NATIONAL RECREATION
CONGRESS IN SEPTEMBER.

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
Words in boldface type $.25 each the fifth of the month preceding date of
Minimum ad accepted .. .. $3.00 the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

 

ional line. Leads furnished

HELP WANTED

Recreation Therapists
for California State Hospi-
tals. Opportunity to plan
and conduct individual pa-
tient recreation as well as
special group activities;
modern equipment and fa-
cilities available. Positions
open to college graduates
with major in recreation or
recreation therapy. which

included supervised field
work. No experience re-

quired. Starting 5 al a r y
$415.00 per month; promo-
tional opportunities; liber-
a1 employment benefits.
Write State Personnel
Board. 801 Capitol Avenue,

Sacramento, California.

Salesman 1Wanted for
sales of refreshment equip-
ment to the park, pool, and
recreation field. Prefer
representatiw Twho is"- cur-
rentl} calling on this livid,
who can tak. on an .ulrlit

by factory. Write now to
(i 01 d \I e d al Products,
world’s largest refreshment
equipment manufacturer,
322 E. Third Street, Cin-
cinnati 2, Ohio.

SERVICES
AVAILABLE

Square Dance Caller, col-
lege. club, or convention.
Piute Pete, 55 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New
‘Iork.

The publisher assumes no respo'nsibilit r for ear: ices or items advertised here.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

W

23'.’

Magazine Articles

 

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, April 1960
Wire Sculpture That Keeps in Shape, Ger-
ald F. Brommer.
We Make Our Own Box Looms, Vernon D.
Schwarzkopf.
Plastics Lead in New Directions, Thelma
R. Newman.
Wily Wool Gathering, Constantine Aiello.
CAMPING MAGAZINE, March 1960
The Unique Mission of Camping, C. Walton
Johnson.
Orienteering, Niels Jorgensen and Bent
Nielsen.
CATHOLIC CHARITIES REVIEW, March 1960
Specialized Services for the Aging, Kath-
erine Dagger.
HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT, April 1960
Therapeutic Recreation, Howard A. Rush,
M .D.
Recreation Counseling, Frances B. Arje,
R.N.*
Recreation in a HOSpital Center, Randolph
A. Wyman, M .D. and Norma A lessandrini.
Recreation for the Chronically Ill, Beatrice
H. Hill* and Philip Walsh.
Recreation in 9. Rehabilitation Center for
Children, Betsy Thomas.
We Held a Hobby Fair, F. W. Hannesett.
JOHPER, March 1960
Edward E. Bignell.
Pasadena’s Outdoor Recreation Program,
Teach Roller Skating Skills, Herbert C.
Price, Jr. and Claire B. Koch.

*National Recreation Association stall.

Techniques for Teaching Tennis, William

E. Murphy.
MENTAL HOSPITALS, March 1960

A Rehabilitation Challenge, Jack Bacham,
Ph.D.

Team Work on an Exit Ward for the Chron-
ically Ill, Bede F. Howard, M .D.

The Sports Day—That Grew—and Grew—
and Grew, J. W. Borthwick.

Books & Pamphlets
Received

Aging:

BIBLIOGRAPHIES
THE ECONOMIES OF AN AGING POPULATION,

Walter H. F ranke and Richard C. Wilcock,
pp. 57; THE PSYCHOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF
AGING, Raymond G. Kuhlen and Woodrow
W. Morris, pp. 30; THE SOCIOLOGY 0F AG-
ING AND TIIE AGED, pp. 35; SOCIAL WELFARE
AND TIIE AGED, Gordon J. Aldridge and
Fedele F. Fauri, pp. 51; AN INTERDISCI-
PLINARY COL'RSE IN SOCIAL GERONTOLOGY,
Bernice L. Neugarten, Robert J. Havighurst
and Claire F. Ryder, pp. 31. Institute for

Social Gerontology, University of Michigan,
1510 Rackham Building, Ann Arbor, Mich.

$.15 each, 3.50 for the set.

80,000 SENIOR CITIZENS. Supt. of Documents,
U. S. Government Printing Office, Washing-
ton 25, D. C. Pp. 17. 3.15.

How TO ENJOY LIFE APTER SIXTY, Pierre
Boucheron. IIerman 8' Stephens, 1776
Broadway, New York 19. Pp. 224. $3.95.

 

MIDDLE AGE——THREAT OR PROMISE? Harry
Milt. Public AEairs Committee, 22 E. 38th
St., New York 16. Pp. 20. 3.25.

NATURE OF RETIREMENT, THE, Elon H. Moore.
Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 11.
Pp. 217. $4.50.

PLANNING HOMES FOR THE AGED, Geneva
Mathiasen and Edward H. Noakes, Editors.
F. W. Dodge, 119 W. 40th St., New York 18.
Pp. 119. $12.75.

PROGRAMS-RESOURCES FOR OLDER PEOPLE.
Supt. of Documents, U. S. Government
Printing Oilice, Washington 25, D. C. Pp.
83. 5.30.

RETIRED MAN LOOKS BACK, TIIE. Senior Cen-
ter, Winnetka Community House, Winnet-
ka,Ill. Pp. 11. 3.25.

WHEN OUR PARENTS GET OLD. Metropolitan

Life Insurance Co., 1 Madison Ave., New
York 10. Pp. 19. Free.

Conservation

CANVASBACK ON A PRAIRIE MARSH, THE, H.
Albert Hochbaum. Stackpole Co., Cameron
& Kelker Sts., Harrisburg, Pa. Pp. 207.

$4.50.

CONSERVATION AND THE GOSPEL 0F EFFICIEN-
CY, Samuel P. Hays. Harvard Univ. Press,
Cambridge 38, Mass. Pp. 297. $6.00.

CONSERVATION DIRECTORY, 1959. National
Wildlife Federation, 1212 16th St., NW,
Washington 6, DC. Pp. 116. 5.50.

CONSERVINC NATIONAL RESOURCES (2nd ed.),
Shirley Walter Allen. McGraw-Hill, 330
W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 370. $6.75.

FOREST FIRES: Control and Use, Kenneth P.
Davis, George M. Byram and W. R. Krumm.
McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York
36. Pp. 584. $12.00.

 

Only in the
.LUUISVILLE SLUGGER

but line will you finch.

In.

. . . the GENUINE

AUTOGRAPHED MODELS

of these

FAMOUS SLUGGERS

FOR SOFTBALL 8. BASEBALL
HILLERICH & BRADSBY CO., LOUISVILLE, KY.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

RECREATION

obbies, Games, Pets

LL ABOUT TROPICAL FISH, Derek McInerny
and Geoffrey Gerard. Macmillan, 60 Fifth
Ave., New York 11. Pp. 480. $15.00.

ARPENTRY FOR CHILDREN, Jerome E. Leavitt.
Sterling Publishing, 419 4th Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 91. $250.

OMINOES, Dominic C. Armanino. David Mc-
Kay, 199 W. 40th St., New York 18. Pp.
194. $4.50.

AMES WE LIKE TO PLAY, Grace H. Gardner.
William-Frederick Press, 391 E. 149th St.,
New York 55. Pp. 34. Paper, $1.00.
HOST-HUNTER’S GAME BOOK, A, James Went-
worth Day. S portshel f, Box 634, New Roch-
elle, N. Y. Pp. 22. $4.50.

ANDWRITrNc ANALYSIS, David 0rd. Philo-
sophical Library, 15 E. 40th St., New York
16. Pp. 54. $3.00.

OW TO RAISE AND TRAIN A PEKlNCESE, Alice
Scott. Sterling Publishing CO., 419 4th
Ave., New York 16. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.00.

ow TO BUILD A COIN COLLECTION (rev. ed.),
Fred Reinfeld. Barnes 8: Noble, 105 5th
Ave., New York 3. Pp. 159. $1.50.

ow TO SOLVE MAGIC AND CARTOON PUZZLES,
William Sunners. Arco Publishing, 480
Lexington Ave., New York 17. Pp. 124.
Paper, $3.00.

erTATION .TO CRYPTOGRAMS, AN, Eugenia
Williams. Simon 8: Schuster, 630 5th Ave.,
New York 20. Pp. 126. $2.95.
ATHEMATICAL PUZZLES 8: DWERSIONS, Mar-
tin Gardner. Simon 8: Schuster, 630 5th
Ave., New York 20. Pp. 178. $3.50.

[ODEL BOATS FOR BEGINNERS, H. H. Gilmore.
Harper 8: Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York
16. Pp. 97. $2.50.

ODERN OPENTNC CHESS STRATEGY, H. Golom-
bek. Pitman, 2 W. 45th St., New York.
Pp. 351. $6.00.

00 INDOOR PLANTS, A. C. Muller—Idzerda.
Emerson Books, 251 W. 19th St., New York
11. Pp. 114. $2.95.

01 TOYS CHILDREN CAN MAKE, Robert and
Katherine Kunz. Sterling Publishing, 419
4th Ave., New York 16. Pp. 124. $2.50.

ETS FOR PLEASURE AND PROFIT, L. Hugh
Newman. Sportshelf, Box 634, New Roch-
elle, N. Y. Pp. 25. $4.25.

OCKET HANDBOOK FOR AMATEURS, THE, Lt.
Col. Charles M. Parkin, Jr. John Day CO.,
210 Madison Ave., New York 16. Pp. 306.
$5.95.

OAP BUBBLES, C. V. Boys. Dover Publica-
tions, 180 Varick St., New York 14. Pp.
193. Paper, $.95.

REASURY OF CIIESS LORE, THE, Fred Rein-
feld, editor. Dover Publications, 920 Broad-
way, New York 10. Pp. 306. Paper, $1.75.
REASURY OF GAMES AND PUZZLES, TIIE, Carl-
ton Wallace. Philosophical Library, 15 E.
40th St., New York 16. Pp. 256. $6.00.

eferences

IHILDREN’S ENCYCLOPEDIA, THE, Chandler
Whipple, Editor. A. S. Barnes, 11 E. 36th
St., New York 16. Pp. 1147. $8.95.

IOSMOPOLITAN WORLD ATLAS. Rand Mc-
Nally, Box 7600, Chicago 80. Pp. 174.
$14.95.

}RAPHIC GUIDE TO WORLD HTSTORY, A, Mich-
ael Rheta Martin. Henry Holt, 383 Madi-
son Ave., New York 17. Pp. 243. $6.00.

’ICTORIAL HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY, Dagobert
D. Runes. Philosophical Library, 15 E. 40th
St., New York 16. Pp. 406. $15.00.

.IAY 1960

 

Recreation Activities for the Handi-
capped, Frederick M. Chapman. Ron-
ald Press, 15 East 26th Street, New
York 10. Pp. 309. $5.75.

Dr. Chapman, a well-known practi-
tioner in the field of recreation for the
ill and handicapped, and director of the
hospital recreation curriculum at the
University of Minnesota, has written
a practical volume applicable to the
handicapped in many settings. He
brings to it the understanding of one
who has actually worked in recreation
with the handicapped and taught young
leaders in the field. He attacks the
problems inherent in suCh day-to-day
work: you find out what people are in-
terested in, what activities might be
planned for specific diagnostic groups,
how to design a program for patients
in a confined setting.

Almost three hundred pages describe
and eXplain specific activities Dr. Chap-
man feels are applicable to the handi-
capped. A handy diagnostic guide is
available for use by the uninitiated—
whether doctor, nurse, teacher, or vol-
unteer. Here, for the first time, students
majoring in recreation for the ill and
handicapped have a text for their pro-
gram courses.

Success Through Play. D. H. Radler
with Newell C. Kephart, Ph.D. Harper
& Brothers, 49 East 33rd Street, New

York 16. Pp. 140. $3.50.

Readiness to learn depends upon ba-
siC growth. Recent research and Clin-
ical work have proved that a readiness
skill, suCh as reading, is a complex Clus-
ter of even more fundamental abilities
—the ability to locate Objects in space,
and to “track” a line of type from left
to right. Such skills depend upon CO-
ordination of eye, arm, and leg muscles.
In many Children, these develop spon-
taneously in the first six years; in other
Children, they are retarded or absent.
Research has proved, however, that
these skills can be improved and even
supplied through new teaching teCh-
niques. These techniques can be used
by the average parent and teacher, by
means of a series of play experiences
requiring little equipment and eXpense.

PUBLICATIONS

They are not therapy but education.
This book will be very helpful for

parents, teachers, and leaders interested
in the basic problem of developing
readiness in Children. It is the result
of research and Clinical experiences at
the Achievement Center for Children in
Lafayette, Indiana, sponsored by the
U. 5. Children’s Bureau. It has direct
implications for serious recreation lead-
ers interested in the optimum develop-

ment of Children.———V.M.

The Character Dimension of Camp-
ing, Richard S. Doty. Association Press,

291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 192.
$4.75.

It is now possible, according to Mr.
Doty, to measure objectively the
Changes in Character that occur within
the camp setting. His book is based on
ten years of study at Camp Chingach-
gook, part of the Character Research
Project of Union College, Schenectady,

New York.

The oft-quoted “Character is caught
—-—not taught” is now proven to be with-
out validity. It is both caught and
taught. Failure to teach will assure de-
creased results according to the author.

Any professional person with camp-
ing interests will find this book pro-
vocative. Camp leaders have long felt
that desirable Changes in habit patterns
and attitudes take place in a camp ex-
perience; Mr. Doty’s work indicates
that this can be proven. I found this
book most intriguing and highly recom-
mend it for recreation personnel as well
as camp directors. Its publication rep-
resents a real milestone in the camping
professiOII.——Stanley W. Stacker, Met-
rOpOIitar: New York Council, American
Youth Hostels.

The Games of New Zealand Chil-
dren, Brian Suttan-Smith. University of
California Press, Berkeley 4. Pp. 194.

$4.00.

Some of our readers may remem-
her the research project conducted

by Brian Sutton-Smith and Paul V.
Gump, “The Peer Status of Children,”

239

prepared for Wayne University and
reported in condensed form in RECRE-
ATION as “Games and Status Experi-
ence,” April 1955. ( See also Mr.
Sutton-Smith’s “The Migration of
Games,” December 1953.)

This new study is one of the Folklore
Series of the University of California
Press. The author’s major purpose is
to record the games of New Zealand
children; and, as a secondary purpose,
to record the changes which have taken
place in the past hundred years. It is
the latter that makes this book a very
interesting document. Since the history
of planned British settlement in New
Zealand only dates from 1840, this re-
search gives a fascinating picture of
children’s play—their own recreation
activities without assistance or adult
leadership. Here is the picture of the
slow rise in team sports, followed by
a regression of singing, circle, and run-
ning games to a much lower age level
than evinced in early days.

The autlior’s epilogue, in which he
sums up the free play of nineteenth and
twentieth centuries and compares them,
is a most interesting and perceptive
chapter. He points out that children in
every century do preserve, in their free
play, the traditions of the past, but, at
the same time, they constantly whittle
down those traditions as they adapt the
games of their fathers. He also points
out that with the increase in leisure in
a child’s life, with the end of pioneer-
ing, organized and supervised play is
inevitable, but it supplements, not su-
persedes, free play. Playgrounds now
give wider opportunities to more chil-
dren, with the result that play has bc-
come more orderly. The days of dan-
gerous activities, bullies, and powerful
group members who often forced small
children out or treated thcm with crucl-
ty are over, replaced by freer, more
democratic situations.

Those interested in the history of
play and childhood activities will enjoy
this study, with its picture of the play
culture in one specific area of the world.
The recreation movement needs more
people like Sutton-Smith, with encr-
gctic curiosity about the why of play.
\Ve hope he will continue in this field,
and that others will join him.—V.M.

Grassblade Jungle, Nesta Pain, Cow-
ard-McCann, 210 Madison Avenue,
New York 16. Pp. 207, photographs
and drawings. $3.75.

The World of Insects, Paul Pesson.
McGraw-Hill, 330 West 42nd Street,
New York 36. Pp. 204, photographs.
$15.00.

Nature groups and students alike
will be interested in thesc; both also
have a definite appeal for the general

240

reader. Nesta Pain writes with sim-
plicity and in detail of the violent lives
in the strange miniature jungle of ci-
cadas, grasshoppers, the praying man-
tises, honeybees, termites, and scor-
pions. Her stories are of their strug-
gles to live and to occupy the same
small world.

Paul Pesson’s beautiful book is more
technical, more elaborate—with more
than two hundred extraordinary photo-
graphs, fifty of them in color—and is
for the trained naturalist and instructor
as well. Its contents range from the
common household cockroach to such
beautiful insects as the dragonfly and
more exotic forms of insect life.

Professor Pesson, a distinguished en-
tom010gist, also traces the descent of
insects from the prehistoric trilobites
to the species we know today and de-
scribes the measures man can take to
control those that menace his activities.
We highly recommend the addition of
this book to all nature libraries.

Japanese Ink-Painting: lessons in
Suiboku Technique, Ryukyu Saito.
Charles Tuttle Company, Rutland, Ver-
mont. Pp. 96. $3.95.

Mr. Saito presents a kind of “do-it-
yourself” approach to suibolcu, an
ink-painting technique, in a simple,
straightforward manner. He has had
ovcr thirty years of eXperience teaching
“Westerners,” and he will make many
an interested reader want to try suibo-
ku. His book is planned to introduce
the beginner to the fundamental steps
of this unique oriental art. The numer-
ous photographs include several paint-
ings by the author’s pupils, and the
nearly sixty illustrations include six in
delicate color.

The publishers have provided us not
only with a book, but a thing of beauty.
One does not think of the volume as a
lesson book, but as a work of art in it-
self-——from its delicatc soft gray bind-

ing to the selection of the print upon
the page.

RECREATION MATHEMATICA

There comes a time when a recrea-
tion leadcr, especially a hospital recrea-
tion worker, needs something “special”
—to appeal to an egghead, for someonc
bedridden, isolated, or severely handi-
capped, to attract an intellectual group
of oldstcrs, to pep up a teen-age math
club or to add variety to the usual rep-
ertoire of stunts and games. llere,
mathematical puzzles may supply the
answer. Try hexallexagous or their
cousins. Books on chess and chcss
problems may also be a help.

Hoxallexagons are a type of mathe-
matical puzzlc that the English call
mathclnatical recreations. C. L. Dodg-

son, otherwise known as Lewis Carroll
creator of Alice in Wonderland. wag
one of the great proponents of mathe
matical recreations. Dover Publica
tions offers paperbound volumes 01
Dodgson’s Pillow Problems and A Tan-
gled Tale (2 vols., $1.50 each), The!
Game of Logic, and Symbolic Logi

(both books bound as one, $1.50) .

1n the early part of the centur

“thought-twisters” were in great vogue
For some, it was the golden age of
puzzledom. Here then is a veritable gol

mine of program possibilities for al
recreation leaders and hours of pleasur

and satisfaction for participants. Fol]
lowing is a list of books on hexaflexa-
gons, trihexaflexagons, and triple hexa»l
hexaflexagons, as well as books 011
simpler forms of puzzle stunts plu

some on chess problems. i
MATHEMATICA

Amusements in Mathematics, H. E. Dudeneyl

Pp. 258. Paper, $1.25. 1

The Canterbury Puzzles, H. E. Dudeney. Pp.

255. Paper, $1.25. I

Mathemagic (magic, puzzles and games with
numbers), Royal Vale Heath, edited b
Jerome S. Meyer. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.

Mathematical Puzzles for Beginners and En;
thusl'asts (2nd rev. ed.), Geoffrey Mott

Smith. Pp. 248. Paper, $1.00.

Mathematical Puzzles of San: Loyd, Marti
Gardner, Editor. Pp. 167. Paper, $1.00.

Mathematical Recreations (2nd rev. ed)
Maurice Kraitchik. Pp. 330. Paper, $1.75

Mathematics, Magic and Mystery, Marti
Gardner. Pp. 174. Paper, $1.00.

101 Puzzles in Thought and Logic, C. R.
Wylie, Jr. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.00.

0!: Mathematics and Mathematicians (Me
orabilia Mathentatica), Robert Edona‘i‘:
Moritz. Pp. 410. Paper, $1.95.

Puzzle Quiz and Stunt Fun, Jerome S. Meyer!
Pp. 174. Paper, $1.00. . 'I
(All of the above are available from Dovct'

Publications, 180 Varick Street, New Yorlq

14.) I

Classical Mathematics, Joseph E. llofmannn‘
Philosophical Library, 15 E. 40111 St., New
York 16. Pp. 96. $3.75.

The Math Entertainer, Philip Heallord. Eml
erson Books, 251 W. 19th St., New York 11
Pp. 176. $2.95. I

CHESS AND CHESS PROBLEMS

The Art of Chess, James Mason (rev. and ed
by Frcd Reinfeld and Sidney Bcrnstein)
Dovcr Publications, 180 Varick St., Ne
York 14. Pp. 340. Paper, $1.85.

The Art of Chess Combinations, Eugcne Znos:l

koborovsky. Dover Publications, 180 Varic '
St., New York 14. Pp. 212. $1.45.

Chess for Beginners: A Picture Guide, A
Horowitz. Barnes & Noble, 105 5th Ave
New York 3. Pp. 138. Paper, $1.25. 1

Combinations: The Heart of Chess. Irvin
Chernev. Thos Y. Crowcll. 432 Park Ave. S.
Ncw York 16. Pp. 245. $4.50. .

The Development of a Chess Genius, Freq
Reiuleld. Dover Publications. 180 Varic ‘
St., New York 14. Pp. 273. Paper, $1.35.

Modern. Chess Openings (9th ed.), Walter
Korn. Etlilul‘. Pitman Publishing. 2 \V. 45d.

St.. New York 36. Pp. 360. $6.00. J
1001 Chess Sacrifices and Combinations, Frc
Reiulcltl. Barnes 8' Noble, 105 5th Avc.‘
New York 3. Pp. 252. Paper, $1.50.
The Way to ltetter Chess, Fred Rciulcld. Mao-1
millan Co.. 60 5th Ave" New York 11. l‘
229. $4.95.

HECREATIO.

   
 

SAFE-T-PLAY GAMES

Safe-T-Play games provide ‘~._ -
fun-filled activities the year \
around; scores of interesting

games that take the boredom

out of physical htness programs and
turn them into Stimulating sports for

glilrglslgirgghetgl: elementary grades S  
iV1 1
of Act

INDOORS AND OUTDOORS

Safe-T-Play games open a new world of physical
activities for girls; not just the athletic few but for
all. The games and the Safe-T-Play equipment are
closely adapted to the physical capacities of girls.
The many different games
are active but not stren-
uous; calling for alert-
ness, nimbleness and poise
While avoiding rough con-
tacts.

0050M

sm-I-mw

k;
“Opuc‘e

 

MADE TO “VARSITY” STANDARDS RESILIENT AND LIGHTWEIGHT

All Safe-T-Play equipment is precision molded to stand- resilient, first-graders play eagerly and without danger
ards equal to “Varsity” equipment; designed and bal- of injury. The “short flight” and “safety” features more
anced to challenge the skill of “Varsity” players and than double the usefulness of indoor space as they elim-
to endure hard usage amazingly long. Yet so light and inate the hazards of active games indoors.

Tell Your Sporting Goods Supplier to Show You the Complete Safe-T-Play Line

I t .  -~.- i, 
   a  / 

FUN BALLS - SCOOP BALL - SAFE-T-BA'I' - FUN FOOTBALL- SAFE-T-MALLET - BOWLI'I'E

cosom INDUSTRIES, Inc. J£i°e§§23£§i‘2,?é¥fa.

  
 

./ '      “ Governm ent Pay You

1 . for saving for something you want

An installment plan that pays you interest
sounds surprising, doesn’t it? That’s what
happens when you buy U.S. Savings Bonds.
They now pay you 33/49}; compounded semi-
annually when held to maturity. With this
new rate, $3 becomes $4 fourteen months

Dreams need some help. Saving with US. Savings , faster than before—“11311513 73783”, 9 months'
Bonds is a good way to turn a dream into reality. Make our dreams _Come true: faSter than
The Payroll Savings Plan makes saving auto- ever, Wlth U.S. Savmgs BOI‘ldS.

matic. .It doesn’t let you forget—doesn’t let

you dnbble “3 away- ADVANTAGES WORTH THINKING ABOUT

0 You can save automatically with the Payroll
Savings Plan 0 You now earn 3%% interest to
maturity 0 You invest without risk under a
US. Government guarantee 0 Your money
can’t be lost or stolen 0 You can get your
money, with interest, anytime you want it
0 You save more than money ——you help your
Government pay for peace 0 Buy Bonds where
you work or bank.

NOW every Savings Bond you own—old

or new—earns 1/6.“; more than ever before.

 

a

; ‘beéYou save more than money
3,, a5 with U.S. Savings Bonds

09 “5‘0

The U. S. Government does not pay for this admrtising.
The Treasury Department thanhs The Advertising Council
and this magazine for their patriotic donation.

Collecting pictures
of Presidents
for fun and profit

A different US. President

appears on. each Bond
denomination-“George

 

Washington on the $25
Bond (cost, $18.75);

.‘eace is what makes money worth having. Money buys a Grover Cleveland on the
m  "'nols toys—a good life in a world of $100 Bond (cost' $75)‘
" ' peace' 8 ' 1 ’11 be lad
Ta. -. an, t d htd l 9T1 _ erlbusy,you g
spoken m: 'or to that question is why many people 3onds as you can.

 

buy B “ls;

 

