 Henry Pfeiffer Library
MacMurray x ollege
JackSOHVIItB. tillajIJlS

 

ATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 0 JANUARY 1960 o 500

 

on U.S. Savings Bonds

The Treasury explains why the new ones you buy and the ones

0:

you own now are better than ever

How does the new 3 3A % interest rate benefit me?

A: With Series E Bonds, the rate turns $18.75 into

$25.00 fourteen months faster than the old
rate. Your savings increase faster, because your
Bonds mature in just 7 years, 9 months.

With Series H Bonds, the 10-year maturity
period stays the same but more interest is paid
you each six months. With both E and H
Bonds the new rate works out to 21/295 for the
first year and a half; then a guaranteed 4%
each year to maturity.

0: When did the new rate become effective?
A: June 1, 1959.

0:

A:

Does the new rate change the Bonds I bought be--
fore June 1, 1959?

All older E and H Bonds pay more now —an
extra 1/2'% from now on, when held to maturity.
The increase takes effect in the first full interest
period after June 1.

: Will the Bonds I own automatically earn their

new rate?

: Yes. You don’t need to do a thing—just hold

on to your Bonds.

: When my E Bonds mature, will they keep on

earning interest?

0

: Yes. An automatic 10-year extension privilege

went into effect along with the new interest
rate. This means your E Bonds will automat1-
cally keep earning interest after maturity.

: With the new interest rate, should I cash in my

old Bonds and buy new ones?

:No. The automatic V29}. increase makes it

unnecessary—and in almost every case it is to
your advantage to retain your present Bonds.

: How safe are U. S. Savings Bonds?

: Savings Bonds are an absolutely riskless way

to save. The United States Government guar-
antees the cash value of your Bonds will not
drop, that it can only grow.

: What if my Bonds should be lost, stolen or de-

stroyed?

: You can’t lose. Every Bond purchased is re-

corded by the Treasury. If anything happens to
your Bonds they are replaced—free.

: How do I help strengthen America’s peace power

when I buy U. S. Savings Bonds?

: Peace costs money —money for military strength

and for science. And money saved by individu-
als helps keep our economy sound.

YOU SAVE MORE THAN MONEY WITH

U.S. SAVINGS BONDS

The U.S. Government does not pay for this advertising. The Treasury Department thanks
The Advertising Council and this magazine for their patriotic donation.

“m “'i
in...

" ' "i ‘l

'—l_-—I-' H—l—F-“q—l—h—l—H—l—

 

for good sports everywhere!

   

Whatever your in-season sports program, MacGregor athletic
equipment can help make it a popular success. Golf, tennis,
softball, baseball— just about any sport comes off better when
MacGregor balls and equipment are used. Generations of ath-
letic-minded men and women, boys and girls, have looked to

MacGregor for the finest in all sports equipment. Give your
program a boost by providing the best . . . MacGregor for all

good sports. MacGregor equipment is available from sporting
goods dealers everywhere.

"The Choice of Those Who Play The Game" 8 Subsidiary

'IHE MACGREGOR CC).Ir Cincinnati 32, Ohio ' BASEBAll ' FOOTBAll ' BASKETBAll ' GOlF ' TENNIS

hmunv 1060 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts,
handing out balls and paying top prices for low
quality balls. Install this attractive, cast-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

 

leased FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V2 x 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wasting Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

INCORPOIUED

SHENANDOAH PENNA.

 

Looking for more

POOL PROFITS

next season?

Here’s one sure solution . . . install
a Sentinel Coin-and-Key Locker
System and do away with your old-
fashioned bag or basket checking.

Customers like the security and
the serve-self convenience. You
eliminate checkroom payrolls and
liability risks.

Patrons are happy to pay for the
better service these beautiful lock-
ers provide . . . you retire the locker

costs quickly, out of the increased
revenue.

The proof? Hundreds of pools and
beaches will confirm all these ad-
vantages. Get the facts now. Write:

. summer.

COIN-AND-KEY
OPERATED CHECKING SYSTEMS

THE FLXIBLE COMPANY
LOUDONVILLE, omo

4 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11—50 that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Friend to Friend
Sirs:

As a regular reader of your esteemed
magazine at the United States Informa-
tion Service Library in Colombo [Cey-
lon], I am writing with the fervent hope
that our society and its members could
come in contact with youth clubs and
the youth of America in general.

About a year ago our society, known
as the Ceylon America Youth Society,
was formed, its chief aim being to pro-
mote better understanding between the
youth of America and Ceylon. The So-
ciety has a mixed membership of over
three hundred members between the
ages of fifteen to thirty years. We
believe that our aims could be achieved
not only by personal contact [but] by
means of correspondence with each
othcr. We therefore invite youth clubs
and young Americans to write to us on
a peOple-to-people basis, thus creating
a closer bond between our two nations
and further to make this world a better
place to live on.

On behalf of the members of the Cey-
lon America Youth Society, I assure
you that we Ceylonese are eager to cor-
respond with you all and every one of
you will find many friends among us.

WINSTON L. MALAWANA, Honorary

Secretary, Ceylon America Youth

Society, C 14-, Mangala Road, Man-
ning Town, Colombo 8, Ceylon.

Don’t Turn Art into a Circus!

Sirs:

I am disturbed by the reporting in
your November issue of an art fair in
New Jersey under the title “Art Comes
to Main Street.” The cause of my dis-
tress is Cpitomized by one of your pic-
ture captions (of pe0ple looking at
paintings), which reads, in part, “don’t
be infiuenced by the experts.”

What is good recreation—and I am
sure this art fair was—is not neces-
sarily good art. And, judging from
your illustrations, this was not; yet
your “booster” approach implies that
they are the same thing. Now I do not

—The Editors.

expect your magazine to provide art
criticism, and I agree that everyone has
a right to his own tastes; but I regret
your completely undiscriminating atti-
tude, as exemplified by the aforemen-
tioned quotation, as well as the contents
of most of the rest of the article.

The point may seem trivial. I rise
to it, however, because a similar trans-
formation of art exhibits into virtual
circuses in my city has been bad for art,
in my opinion, and in the opinion of
many working artists (as distinct from
suhurban housewives who enamel cuff-
links). Don’t get me wrong: amateur
art fairs can be good recreation, but the
implication that what’s gobd for recre-
ation is good for art (“don’t be influ-
enced by the eXperts”; don’t learn;
don’t think; have fun) can lead only to
furthcr mediocrity in intellectual and
artistic exprcssion, of which we already
have more than enough.

WILLIAM FRIEDLANDER. Associate

Executive Secretary, Division on

Recreation and Informal Education,

Metropolitan Council of MetrOpoli-

tan Chicago, Chicago 2. Illinois.

Rotating Specialist

Sirs:

We must consider how we can have
“children’s recreation planned by peo-
ple of training and vision. even profes-
sional training and broad vision” (as
envisioned by Karla V. Parker in
“These I Would Like. . .” RECREATION,
October). Specialization within the
field of recreation would be the answer.
. . . In the urban complex of today in-
stead of having a few childrcn intercsted
in a given program you might have a
few thousand all ovcr the city. A rec-
reation leader at a given area may be
able to fill this need at his area but at
other areas around the city the interest
of the leaders may differ; hcnce the
need will go unmet. Thus we see that
the recreation dcpartmcnt should struc-
ture itself around needs; and, as those
needs become larger and more specific,
so should the structure put around that

RECREATION

THIS IS lEOAl — IS YOURS!

Where da you stand for legal serve? Are
your players using a legal bat? learn more
abaut the greatest carry-aver sport of them
all.

Send for “Table Tennis for You"-—-T 0¢

UNITED STATES TABlE TENNIS ASSOCIATION
202 Brookside Boulevard
Pittsburgh 34, Penna.

WFOLD'KING

NO, K3 TABLE
TEMPEIED HASDNITE
PLASTICIIED TO?

 

  

 

  
    
     

mks" ° FOLDING TABLE LINE

Fol-9:53.!“ Kitchen committee, social groups. atten-
; E tion' Factory prices d: discounts up to 40”:
to t. hurches. Schools. t‘luhs, etc. Monroe
all-new l-t)l.|')-Kl7\'h Banquet Tables.
\IrllII escluuivc new automatic folding and
locking. super strength. easy seating or. models and sires.

BIG NEW T960 CATALOG FREE

(‘alar pictures. Full line tables, chairs. table and chair trucks. plat-
form-risers, portable partitions, bulletin boards, Our 52nd scar

THE MONROE (0., 18! Church St, Colfax, Iowa

  
  

DIRECT PRICES
DISCOUNTS I. TERMS

          
    
    
    
     

BASKETBAll
STEEl CHAIN
NETS

3 Years Guaro nteel

outdoors or Indoors
Also eaturr’n Jo fro’l custom built

VNYLON BASKETBALL NETS 8- BALL CARRIERS
VALUMINUM MULTI-PURPOSE STANDARDS
VTETHERBALL POLES 8. PADDLE SETS
VWATER BASKETBALL STANDARDS
VALUMINUM BATTING TEES

' Send for Free Catalog '

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY C0.
Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

Keep ’em SINGING

with these all-time favorite

SONG SLIDES

wonderful hours of fun for
young and old alike

2” x 2" slides   Soc/slide
3% ” x 4” slides LOO/slide

WRITE FOR CATOLOGUE S

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 48th Street
New York 36, N. Y.

, .lUdson 24 926

 

JANUARY 1960

supervision of all personnel in the city
concerned with arts and crafts would be
under one person and the same for ath-
letics, dances, trips, and so on. This way
we could have “a program to fit their
needs in a world day by day growing
more complicated, built on knowledge
that is increasingly difficult for each one
of us, children and adults alike, to find
himself, his skills, his capacity for indi-
vidual eXpression.”

The supervisor in the recreation de-
partment should be Specialized in a
given program, such as tiny tots or the
like. He should not be confined to a
district within the city but should be
confined to an interest group within the
city (or a need group). Recreation
leaders will be specialized and will ro-
tate from area to area daily with their
special talent.

Needs or program arc thc work unit
of recreation, much the same as the nut
and bolt in the factory are the work
unit. You should structure your depart-
ment around the work unit and the most
cfficient way to get it produced.

F. THOMAS, Senior Recreation Lead-

er, San Diego, California, Recreation

Department, Cabrillo Community
Center.

Clear Concept
Sirs:

The editorial “Concepts of Recrea-
tion” by C. Frank Brockman [October]
is the briefest, clearest statement on the
nature of recreation that I have read
or heard in some time. Mr. Brockman’s
observations reminded me of some bits
of philosophy I picked up as a young
man when exposed to the late Lebert
Weir in the early twenties. He cata-
logued the great leisure-time interests in
a most logical fashion and then con-
cluded:

“If an all-wise Creator endowed each
of us with interests that impel us to
constructive activity, the least man can
do is provide the facilities and leader-
ship for these activities.”

Mr. Brockman has expressed this
basic idea in most eloquent and con-
vincing fashion.

NATHAN L. MALLISON, Superinten-

dent of Recreation, Jacksonville, F lo-
rida.

Valuable
Sirs:

RECREATION Magazine has so im-
proved in its content in recent years
that I must write you and say how valu-
able we find it in this department. The
articles which have been selected bear
nearly always upon interests and prob-
Tents of professional recreation person-
nel, and are exceedingly valuable in
improving the quality of community
recreation service. It seems to me that
one could base an in-service training

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

You can raise $500
or more in 6 days
this easy way

5:“_  

 

Sell famous Mason
Candies and in 4 to 15 days

your group can make

$300 to $2500.

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. If you decide to go
ahead you don’t risk a cent,—you pay noth-
ing in advance. We supply on consignment
your choice of THREE VARIETIES of famous
Mason Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a band printed
with your organization’s name and picture.
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don’t sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make
$9.00 in net profit on every 30 sales of our
75¢ box. Or you can make $12.00 on every
30 sales of our $1.00 box (66%9 profit to
you on cost). There’s no risk! You can’t lose.
Mail in coupon today for information about
313150le PROTECTED FUND RAISING DRIVES.

l' — — — — — — — — — — — — — — ——-|
Mr. EDWIN STOYE, Dept. RM-l
Mason, Box 549, Mineola, N. Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me without
obligation, information on your Fund
Raising Plan.

(Check one)

I am interested in your . . . .

I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
: I
I 75c Package Plan [I i
| I am interested in your . . . . |
| $1.00 Package Plan [:1 |
I Name T ._. -. - _ .— —__.._ I
: Age if under 21 :
| Address ., I
: Organization :
I I
I I

Phone . .

Mason Candies, Inc., Mineola, L. 1., N. Y.

program for department staH upon the

EVER 7 3mm no” mom»! NEEDS 1/1555: * egggrgggggiggaggggg periodically in

i GEORGE HJELTE, General Manager,
Department of Recreation and Parks,
Los Angeles, California.

  
   
 

  
     
    
 

COTTON CANDY . . SNO-KON ES

/  - ’7 fir-iii... . 

 

 

 

- Whirlwind
f Cotton Candy

Mochine
$275.00

“ I ._eosily,./_,.

 

 

Popcorn .----- ‘r S -K tt

 ADQ. 33:23.: 5

$199.00 “mam” . $149.50

$5 000 ANNUAL PROFITI
I O . u a J ' .w .

Hundreds of Recreation Departments awn one or more of I 0.8073? Hlehe (above) ’5 refewl-Hg

these profit-making machines. Refreshments belong in all his tlilr‘y'year pl.” from All-5' Ray 
- Recreation Facilities. Accommodate the Public‘s desires and I geildgrfer, PTC’ZSIdFRt  the Civil

make huge profits in the process. Write for complete catalog 537'va COmmLSSlOH, m recognition

 
   
 

of his thirty years’ hard-working serv-
ice to the City of Los Angeles, Calif.

and detailed brochures an how YOUR Department can easin
get Thousands of dollars every year.

Q 

@  cow MEDAL PRODUCTS. (0.

30: E. rams mtg, _ cmcmn 2. tilt-0 _;

‘u—t—I-l-r‘w-o-II" Wu...

 

Sirs:

I am commencing a sludy on “New
Ideas in Recreational Sports." This
Nu, Immune cold... A9. cm, pl", study, I hope, will furnish material for
N" l" "°' 9°” 9"" “'"h l'“ '" class lectures in recreation leadership,

green Iewelers’ enamel. Safety catch. _ . .
50: ouch. Including federal tax and poSSIbly some actwrty course research

 Any New Ideas?

-____.............._..............____,__,.__._._.___..._. *“W --. ....__.__.. —___.__..__.,- -..._.__.__.._......__,.___.__m ________,__. -_._..

 

 

STORIES, CRAFTS AND SONGS

Recreotionol ideos for boys ond girls in schools,
camps, playground, and recreotionol programs.

   

Send $1 for hve different ori inal stories with crofts postage. . . . .

ond song moteriols. 9 Minimum orderlO pt... m physmal education, a class project

Story, craft and song service Avot’lzbhlneESon‘lsyPEgreglléalubs. paper, and fperhapst, 1iI all gags \hell,
' ° ‘ c S \V

B" “7 °"°‘”°r """°" EXACT 5'15 22 N. on. sum Phllodelphlo 6. Po. some sort 0 piper 0 "are I I 0 er

recreation leaders over the country.
On hand I have about twenty new

 

 

ideas which have been Gathered b .
Now you can checking personally or 1)? mail with
commercial concerns and recreation de-
partments over the United States. I 5
would like more, if possible. Therefore,

this is a plea to any public department.
private recreation agency, industrial
recreation department, service recrea- l
tion department, hospital recreation de- I
take place partment, or commercial concern (in
business to sell only) to send me details. .

 ' ' ' and be heard! rules, pictures, etcctera of any new
+I . game they have devised or used. If the
WENGER PORTABI.

where the events

E  games are slanted toward use by the

The Mobile combination Band Stand handicapped, send those along also, as
and Outdoor Stage I plan a follow-up later on this phase of I
[deal for use at music events, rallies. acts, demonstra- “gamery.” 

tions, and for speakers, the Wenger Bandwagon pro-  report will of course. dive 
vides comfortable quarters for performers. plus assuring , ‘ b

resonance and volume for the audience. At site. the - credll. [0 the persons or organization
wmg" B‘M‘Vag” “9"” in “mm” “"0 8 tenuous MUSIC ' ENT CO. sending,Ir me the data. del endeavor to

stage or outdoor theater, or a complete, scientifically , ' . ..
designed music shell for band. orchestra. or chorus. send {lllo‘lhofmdl a cop} 0f m} report
once it IS finished.

After event, it folds quickly into a handsome, completely I
ROBERT L. LOEFFELBEIN. Physical

enclosed road trailer with ample locked storage space for owaronna
Education Dcpartmcnt, U nivcrsity of 1

chairs, stands, instruments, or accessory equipment. May
be used indoors. tool Every community will want one]
Send for complete details and specifications, or ask for Southern California 3518 Univcr. I
a free demonstratlon. No obligation. of course. o ,
srty Avcnuc, L05 Angcles.

    

MINNESOTA

 

6 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

 

WHICH
SYSTEM
SHALL
PREVAIL?

We have but to think back over the major changes that
have occurred in the world over the past ten years and to pon-
der on the swiftness of change today to realize how much of it
is before us as we look to the next ten years.

To mention only one aspect of our changing world, we

 

should remember that scarcely more than ten years ago our

country held unquestioned economic and military leadership
in the world. Red China was only just born, and our power as against that
of the Soviet was clearly preponderant.

The change that has occurred in this comfortable balance of power is
easy to perceive. Mr. Khrushchev’s confident activities, Russian photographs

Frank Pace, Jr. of the other side of the moon, and Mao’s mobilization of China’s millions
speak for themselves. They promise a future that will require the best that
is in us if we are to live on as a rich and powerful nation dedicated to the
ideals of freedom.

Thus we will have to be at our best if we are to survive. This means that
whether at work or at leisure we must occupy ourselves with worthy pursuits,
those that strengthen and refresh. An ancient Greek leader once said that a
man could be judged by the type of thing that captured his intent. In a period
of remarkable leisure our strength can be sapped by the luslmess of our mate-
rial privileges and our abundance of leisure.

Our competitors for world leadership have made tremendous strides
through a system that budgets and closely supervises not only the productive
activities of their citizenry, but also their recreation pursuits and their private
thoughts. To me it seems apparent that the world of tomorrow will be an in-
finitely more complex place in which to live; a world that will place an in-
creasing premium on the knowledgeable man of subtle understanding.

In such an atmOSphere, the free inquiring mind, of its nature, is clearly
superior to the product of any system of regimentatiou, provided its fullest
potential is realized. The abundant leisure provided by our brilliantly suc-
cessful economic system provides the people of the West with the greatest store
of means for individual self-improvement in the history of civilized man.

The next ten years will be the testing period in which it will be decided
which system will prevail. Our adversaries have already made sobering gains.
But the culture of the West, based on human desires and human dignity, can
lead the world to a new golden age of peace and prosperity if we use our re-
sources of time and wealth vigorously and wisely. #3

 

MR. PACE is a former Secretary of the Army and former director of the Bureau of the
Budget. He is currently, among other things, a member of the executive board, Greater
New Y orh Council of the Boy Scouts of America; a member of the President’s Council
on Youth Fitness; a member of the national board of the Boys’ Clubs of America; presi-
dent of the National Institute of Social Sciences. Mr. Pace is chairman of the board of
directors and chief executive offcer of General Dynamics Corporation, New York C ity.

F!

lANUARY 1960 l

 

Coming Upl—-—The 1960 Congress

 

anyone you know on the committee.

Get your suggestions for the 1960 National Recrea-
tion Congress Pregram in now! The recently appointed

Program Planning Committee includes: Thomas W.

Lantz, chairman, R. Foster Blaisdell, Milo F. Christian-
sen, Anne L. New, Lillian Summers, and Willard B.
Stone, secretary. You can send your suggestions di-
rectly to Mr. Stone at the National Recreation Congress,
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, or give them to

The recent meeting of the Congress Policy Committee in Washington,
D. C., approved the appointment of the Program Planning Committee mem-
bers and adopted the Congress theme: “Recreation in America—Today and

Tomorrow.”

Also approved was the idea of setting up an advisory committee to the
Program Planning Committee. Members of this committee will be an-

nounced soon.

Meanwhile, reserve the date: September 26-30, 1960, the Shoreham Ho-

tel, Washington, D. C.

More About the White House

Conference on Children and Youth

0 The accompanying symbol for the
Golden Anniversary White House Con-
ference on Child-
ren and Youth was
designed by one of
the world’s largest
advertising agen-
cies, J. Walter
Thompson, in New
York City. Use of
the symbol indi-
cates that “we are participating in the
Golden Anniversary White House Con-
ferenee on Children and Youth, March
27 to April 2, 1960.

0 Mrs. Rollin Brown, National Recre-
ation Association board member and
chairman of the President’s National
Committee for the Conference, an-
nounced that the seven thousand invi-
tations to participate in the conference

will be issued by President Eisenhower
on January 10, 1960.

o Organized labor is supporting the
conference to the tune of a ten-thou-

sand-dollar gift from the AFL-CIO. The
presentation was made by AFL-CIO
vice-president Peter T. Schoemann, a
member of the President’s National

8

1£)(3()

‘\’l I l'l'l". I I()I"HI“.
(.‘(JNI’l’llil‘iNl‘Ie

, m
{fei‘i

H‘s (‘ 1 Bi: V:
-\'..‘ n“ n;

 

Committee of the conference, and Wil-
liam F. Schnitzler, AFL-CIO secretary-
treasurer, on behalf of George Meany
(see Page 14). Ephraim Comberg,
conference executive director, accepted
the check in a brief Washington eere-
mony.

P NEW YORK CITY’S MAMMOTH COLI-
SEUM was the setting for the December
meeting of the National Swimming
Pool Institute. It was claimed to be
“the most comprehensive diSplay of
swimming pools, equipment, and acces-
sories ever assembled.” In addition,
the NSPI presented six seminars for
persons whose work brings them in di-
rect contact with swimming pools. One
seminar was conducted under the aus-
piees of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation and run by Al Cukierski, direc-
tor of recreation in Garden City, New

York.

P THE 1960 WINTER OLYMPICS will
take place in Squaw Valley, Lake Ta-
hoe, California, February 18-28. You
can obtain a complete guide to the
games—including a map, housing ap-
plication, ticket application, and vari-
ous kinds of useful information—from
the 1960 Olympic Winter Games, 333
Market Street, San Francisco 5.

) WANTED: playwagons, show-wagons,
playmobiles, roving playgrounds, play-
go-rounds, rambling theaters, stagemo-
biles, zoomobiles. If you have any of
these facilities and are using them,
please send pictures, specifications, and
descriptions of their use. We would
like to have up-to-date information.
Send all information to Siebolt Fries-
wyk, Program Service, National Rec-
reation Association, 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11.

) RECREATION RESEARCH PROJECTS
completed or published in 1959 can be
included in the National Recreation As-
sociation’s annual listing only if we
know about them. So, please, any in-
dividual or organization who, completed
any such research, send word to George
Butler at the Association, 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11. Forms for sub-
mitting such information on projects
are available on request from the As-
sociation.

) A SERIES or ARTICLES describing the
work of the NRA Consulting Service on
Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped
in nursing homes for the aged and the
aged infirm has been running in the
New York Journal American in the
“Life Begins at Forty” column. Author
Robert Peterson describes the spirit-
sapping conditions existing in most of
these homes and what the Consultingl
Service is doing and plans to do about
them. He gives the NRA a big hand
and full credit right down the line.

) THE CONSULTING SERVICE, in con-
junction with the School of Education
of New York University, is holding an
institute January 21-22. Subject isl
“Recreation: a Dynamic in Rehabilita-l
tion.” For further information. write
to: Mrs. Beatrice Hill, director, Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the Ill
and Handicapped, National Recreation
Association, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11, or to Dr. Edith Ball, School
of Education, New York University,
Washington Square East, New York 3.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
   
 
  

) THE CONSULTING SERVICE also has its
lingers in another seminar, this one at
Teachers College, Columbia University.
New York City, where Dr. Elizabeth
Rosen will give one on recreation for
the emotionally disturbed, in coopera-
tion with the Consulting Service. It is
particularly ainch at tcachers, grou
workers, and recreation leaders work-
ing with the mentally ill in hospitals
special schools, and institutions. Fo
all information about costs, credits, reg
istration dates, and so on, write Dr.
Rosen, Box 70, Department of Health,
Physical Education, and Recreation

Teachers College, Columbia University
New York 27, New York. #

RECREATIOI

The 86th Congress during its first
session passed a number of bills affect-
ing recreation. Among the more signi-
ficant legislation were bills to:

0 Amend Section I of the June 14, 1926,
Act, which authorizes acquisition or
use of public lands by states, counties,
or municipalities for recreation pur-
poses, to provide that that such convey-
ances shall not be subject to the 640-
acre limitation if the land is to be used

for public recreation purposes. P.L.
86-292, 9/21/59 (5-1436)

0 Authorize exchange of certain lands
in the vicinity of Everglades City, Flor-
ida, to permit development of Ever-
glades National Park and provide for
addition of certain donated lands to the

park. P.L. 86-269, 9/14/59 (5-2390)

0 Authorize the Secretary of the Inte-
rim to carry on comprehensive study of
migratory marine fish of value to rec-
reation fishermen to develop sound
management and conservation pro-
grams. The measure authorizes an an-
nual appropriation of a whopping $2,-
700,000 for research investigations.

P.L. 86-359. 9/22/59 (HR. 5004)

0 Amend the so-called Pesticide Re-
search Act:r passed in 1958, to increase
from $280000 to $2,565,000 annually
the amount spent on studies of effects
of insecticides, herbicides, fungicides,

and other pesticides upon fish and wild-
life. P.L. 86-279, 9/16/59 (5-1575)

Inter-Agency Recreation
Conference

The 8th Annual Conference of the

State Inter-Agency Committees on Rec-
:reation will be held in Washington,
ID.C., May 25-27. William M. Hay,
Southern district representative of the
National Recreation Association, will
-act as secretary. Mr. Hay will also act
-as assistant executive secretary of the
Federal Inter-Agency Committee on
Recreation during the leave of absence

of George Dickie from January to
March.

*JANUARY 1960

Access to Public Lands

The Bureau of Land Management is
conducting a survey to determine to
what extent “cut-offs” by private land
owners interfere with the access to pub-
lic recreation lands in the West. This
augments efforts of the Forest Service
which has been trying to solve the ac-
cess problem for several years. In many
Western areas, ranchers and other pri-
vate enterprises staked out land claims
long before the government acquired
large holdings of public land.

The government is seeking agree-
ments with the private owners to as-
sure access to these large blocks of rec-
reation lands. If necessary, according
to Edward Woozley, director of the Bu-
reau of Land Management, “The Gov-
ernment can institute condemnation
proceedings to obtain access routes
across private land.” In a policy state-
ment, the Interior Department said
such condemnation would be used,
“but only after” the bureau had been
frustrated in obtaining rights-of-way
“through more acceptable methods of
negotiation and cooperation.”

Recreation in Forest Lands

The Forest Service’s recently organ-
ized research center at Warren, Penn-
sylvania, will study outdoor recreation
in the Northeast as well as wildlife hab-
itat, forest management, and multiple
use of forest land. The center, first of
its kind in the nation, was created be-
cause of rapidly growing demands for
recreation use of forest lands, both pub-
lic and private. Such recreation re-
search is especially pressing in the
Northeast where every day more pe0ple
with more leisure time are turning to
outdoor activities.

Researchers at Warren and in nearby
Pennsylvania and New York areas will
tackle the many problems involved in
forest recreation. They will try to find
out how camping, hiking, picnicking,
hunting, and fishing, and other outdoor
activities fit into the concept of mul-
tiple use of forest lands and how one
activity can harmonize with another. #-

 

 

-u r -r*-'

     
  

-._ SLiperLIri- Design,
  '- Consyuction and
l;0RMANCE

far greater
‘ strength and

SAFETY!

 

P lAYG R O U N D
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

I The wise choice of experienced
buyers for nearly half a century.

a WRITE FOR LITERATURE

l .

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

wonio's URGES! MANUFACTURERS OI" FINE
PARK elcmc. MMGROUND. SWIMMING
POO! AND DRESSING ROOM mummy

—MOVIES.—-

For Every Occasion
a:

RECREATION - EDUCATION

IéMM SOUND
Black & White - Color

Representing

Wolt Disney - Columbia - Warner
United Artists - Paramount

Send for 64-page FREE CATALOG
INSTITUTIONAL CINEMA SERVICE. INC.

41 Union Square — New York 3, N. Y.

 

W

MJGGIWWMW. . .

     

A conversation piece ., -  .
for home or office. ‘ ’ '
Useful for ashtray,

candy dish, nuts, etc.

Send $1. 00 and complete kit
will be sent to you postpaid.

 

 

and T.

W Wiener;

When writing to our advertisers please mention Rscnsn'rlox. 9

 

Editorially Speaking

Dorothy Donaldson

 

Things to Stress in the New Decade

America, if it is not to lag behind
other world powers in today’s race for
a placc in the sun, must help its children
develop into well-balanced and strong
citizens—the leaders of tomorrow. In
this situation, recreation leaders are be-
ing called upon to play a vital part.
Among the many things, therefore, that
recreation departments must stress in
the new decade are:

Good Leadership—This comes first of
all, for it is the key to good recreation,
something we cannot do without. You
can have a good program without fa-
cilities if you have good leadership; but
even with the most beautiful facilities
in the world you can’t have a really
good program if you don’t have good
leadership.

Constructive Leisure—The present clar-
ion call from our halls of learning is
for more emphasis on technical and
scientific subjects. In the demand for
technical specialists, educators are, in
some measure, overlooking the need for
architects, designers, artists, and so on
to work with the mathematicians and
engineers.

This leaves the challenge of educa-
tion-for-leisure squarely on the door-
step of our leisure-time lcaders. From
them must comc the stimulation of in-
terest for creative activities and the arts
—activities for the soul, the mind, the
spirit of man—and those activities re-
lated to health and character building,
all so necessary for balanced living.

We will need, therefore, the best and
finest recreation leaders we can get,
leaders with training, sensitivity, initia-
tive, and vision. Such leadcrs will not
be afraid to plan, will have the heart
and thc courage to put their plans into
eerct. We must stress the very best
training for recreation leadership; we
must adhere to the highest standards.

Education [or Leisure—We must edu-
cate thc general public to the impor-

10

tance of constructive recreation in our
rapidly expanding leisure time; and of
the importance of recreation literacy,
so that this leisure can enrich individual
lives and through these our society and
our nation.

For there is bad recreation, too, and
people must be educated to tell the dif-
ference between the good and the bad.
They must be given standards to mea-
sure recreation by; they must recognize
good recreation and know why it is
good and what its value are. There is
a great need for an ethics of leisure.

The public must realize that, by par-
ticipating in constructive leisure activ-
ities, they are not “fiddling while Rome
burns,” that recreation is not a frill.
Pe0ple must be more knowledgeable
about recreation, if this great new lei-
sure is to mean anything—and who is
to make them so?

Development of Individuals—We must
also keep our eyes open for potential
leaders among our young, and for the
gifted, and help them develop their tal-
ents and gifts. Sherwood Gates wrote
in RECREATION, in June 1958,* “Where,
I ask you, can the creative aptitudes
and abilities, and the leadership pro-
clivities of children be discovered, en-
couraged, and exerciscd more readily
and effectichy than in their frecly chos-
en recreation activitics? If freedom and
democracy are to prevail, we must find
and use talents and skills of all kinds
in the decades ahead.”

In the light of all of this, we must
stress thc great importance of individ-
ual recrcation and plan our programs
with the individual, and the individual’s
needs, interests, growth, and develop-
ment ever in mind. Therc, perhaps, has
been too much stress on “togctherness”
and not enough on what the individual,
the nonjoiner can accomplish, create,
contribute to today’s society.

"‘ Mr. Gates is chief of education, Libraries
and Community Services Branch, U. S. De-
partment of the Air Force.

A Plea for Apartness*

Drugged with the togetherness hap-
piness pill, are we losing track of the
important fact that each human being
inhabits a separate world of his own?
And if he is to inhabit that world suc-
cessfully, there are many thing he must ,I
do alone and on his own? . . . I

One can—and does—see . . . charm-
ing youngsters planning a picnic or en-
joying a barbecue, or looking at TV, or i
going to the movies, or swimming at
the beach, sun-tanned and carefree. But I
one cannot, by any stretch of an elastic
imagination, think of them apart, asl
separate and distinct individuals, going
their separate ways to read a book,
paint a picture, invent a gadget, write |
a poem—or even just to sulk. . . .

The solitude demanded for creative
and intellectual effort, the search for
self, needed for real emotional and spir-
itual growth, obviously just isn’t in the I
cards for this amiable group of “look-
alike” youngsters. . . .

Even a young child needs to sit back
from life now and then and let his ex-
periences soak in, to judge their value
and his reactions to them. How can he
ever do this if he is constantly plucked
and snatched from one activity to an-
other? How can anyone who is never
alone learn to evaluate himself—and to
continue the evaluation in the light of
new living? . . .

This nation was born, let us not for-
get, in rebellion and revolution, con-
ceived by men of independent mind and
adventurous spirit who questioned old
ideas and attitudes, thought boldly and
acted boldly. . . . We need to provide
our children with Opportunities for
growth and independcncc so that they
too can become individuals in their own
right. That’s what constructive apart-
ness means to me.

Something to Think About

In 1956, there were. four times as
many children killed in streets or on
highways than by all the leading child-
hood diseascs put together. In 1957,

thcre were 410 children killcd and 15,-
560 injured; ill 1958, thcrc were 530
killed and 19,910 injured while playing
in the strcet (Metropolitan Life lnsur-
ance Company statistics).

"‘ Dorothy K. While, in Every-woman’s, Feb-
ruary 1958.

RECREATION

Five of the courts at Memorial Park
Note night lighting.

Tennis Center.

 

 

Memorial Park Swimming Pool. Houston has scheduled five major
swimming pools for completion in next two years to meet growing need.

PATTERN
FOR
ACTION

 

Telecast at the zoo. Lively commentary on various animals is
periodically worked into one of Houston’s morning TV shows.

Gus H. Haycock

l

OUSTON’S EXTRAORDINARY GROWTH in population and
H area the past few years has created an almost over-

whelming demand for expanded recreation facilities
and programs. Each city has its complexities directly af-
fecting the complicated job of providing the most suitable
municipal recreation program under the conditions existing
in each specific city and with funds made available for this
purpose. Houston is expanding vigorously as are many
other cities on the Gulf Coast, with new industries continu-
ing to locate here, in addition to the cotton, cattle, and oil
business already here. Its deep-water port is second in ton-
nage in the United States, naturally accelerating all facets
and functions of the city and its responsibilities.

Perhaps a few comparisons of Houston today with Hou-
ston five years ago will point up some of these complexities.
Although a 135 percent increase in land area and a 33 per-
cent increase in population in the last five years is consider-
able and has placed a heavy burden on the city, the parks
and recreation department has been able to secure an 88 per-
cent increase in total budget. The recreation division has
had a 29 percent budget increase. The budget includes only
operating expenditures for the department. Capital im-

MR. HAYCOCK is director of the parks and recreation de-
partment in. Houston, Texas.

J ANUARY 1960

provements are made from park improvement bond funds,
$9,000,000 of which have been approved and allocated for
this purpose in the past five years, half already spent.

Influenced by a setting that contains many natural bar-
riers that interrupt traffic flow, and located near large nat-
ural recreation areas and resources (within forty miles of
the Gulf of Mexico), Houston’s most pressing needs have
been best satisfied by concentrating on the acquisition and
development of neighborhood park sites of from five to fif-
teen acres.

An analysis of the accompanying statistics will show some
of the progress Houston has made in this direction. Al-
though park acreage increased by 57 percent, the number of
parks increased by 47 percent. Newly acquired parks are
partially developed very quickly after acquisition. Picnic
tables, barbecue pits, playground equipment, and ball fields
are immediately placed on the park site after the completion
of such preliminary work as is required (clearing and grad-
ing). Thus, the number of major ball fields has increased
51 percent while the number of lighted ball fields has in-
creased by 86 percent. Picnic tables and barbecue pits for
these new areas have increased by 90 percent, playground
equipment by 52 percent, and landscaped parks by 48 per-
cent.

The development of major facilities has been primarily

11

 

FIVE YEARS IN HOUSTON

1954 1959

Population 714,000 950,000
Total Department Budget $1,108,596 $2,082,025

(Parks, Recreation, Zoo, Golf Courses)
Recreation Division Budget $440,215 $569,249
Land Area in City Limits 150 sq. mi. 325 sq. mi.
Number of Parks 87 128
Total Park Acreage 2,753 4,330
Neighborhood Recreation-Center Buildings 28 36

with year-round program
Swimming Pools 11 (incl. 2 school pools) 35 (incl. 16 school pools)
Ball Fields (Major) 59 - 89
Lighted Ball Fields 29 54
Schools used full-time during summer months 17 26
Recreation Staff (complete) 312 331
Recreation Staff (full-time) 60 74

 

confined to construction of neighborhood recreation-center
buildings, eight of which were constructed and placed in
operation last year, all air-conditioned. A 25 percent in-
crease in this type of facility gives Houston a neighborhood
recreation center building for each twenty-nine thousand
residents. In addition to these, ground-breaking ceremonies
were held on November 20, 1959, for the construction of a
half-million dollar downtown recreation-center building,
which will be completely air-conditioned, with a seating
capacity for 1,800, and which will serve as a district or re-
gional center in our program. This building will include
two major gymnasiums in addition to rooms for arts and
crafts, golden-age groups, and social recreation. All rec-
reation-center buildings are used for a full-time, year-round,
supervised recreation program and are designed to meet the
needs of a well-rounded and balanced recreation program
for the entire community and for all age groups.

A typical program in one of the neighborhood recreation
center buildings during this time of year would be as fol-
lows: preschool (for children four to six years of age) two
mornings each week; cake decorating one morning each
week; garden-club meeting one morning each week; one
baton-twirling class for preteens and one for teen-agers each
week; a square dance, round dance, or couple dance for
preteens, for teen-agers, and for adults each week; three
league basketball games each week; one civic-club meeting
each week; a Boy Scout and Girl Scout meeting each week.
The remainder of the time would be utilized by free play.

During the summer the department operates a recreation
program in twenty-six schools in addition to the programs
at its own thirty-six year-round centers. This program is
in operation from 8 A.M. until 5 P.M. during weekdays for
three months. The program is similar to that of the neigh-
borhood centers. Schools are chosen so they fit into the
geographical pattern with the neighborhood recreation cen-
ters. In this manner it is possible to cover the entire city
with a well-balanced summer program.

In order that this program be continued, Houston has
tentatively allocated funds (from park-improvement bond
funds approved by vote in September) for the construction
of the following: five neighborhood recreation-center build-
ings; two regional recreation-center buildings; five major
swimming pools; thirty tennis courts and two tennis cen-
ters; ten neighborhood shelter buildings; thirty lighted ball
fields; and ten concrete outdoor basketball courts. These
are scheduled for completion within the next two years.

The above statistics reflect none of the major improve-
ments made in the golf or zoo division during the past five
years, nor the proposed projects for the next two years.
However, they do reflect the type and scope of program to
which the recreation division devotes much of its time. As
we enter the new decade the challenge is to keep up this
pace and provide a well-rounded recreation program with
proper, adequate personnel and facilities that will be an asset
to the community and mold our citizens into happier and
better adjusted individuals. #

 

unicipal planning is often condemned by the uninformed as visionary and impractical. It is
confused with starry-eyed dreaming. Planning, on the contrary, is merely facing facts. It is
advance thinking which recognizes that conditions seldom remain static for long. Change is
inevitable, and he is wisest who anticipates the trends of the times and prepares for them to
the best of his ability. Intelligent foresight is employed by business organizations in working
out successful programs. Methods which have proved effective for the individual components
of urban society should also be turned to advantage of those individuals acting collectively

as a City.—CLAUDE J. DAVIS in Municipal Planning in West Virginia (Bureau for Govern-

ment Research, West Virginia University.)

12

RECREATION

This is the type of neigh-
borliood recreation
center built in 1940’s.

This is a neighborhood
center constructed
in the early 1950’s.

Garden Villas Parlc center
finished in 1959

shows modern transition.

 

Another 1959 center has

Qnonset roof, slatted r
ends, is open on sides.

 

L JANUARY 1960 13

WHAT IS EXPECTEE

. . . BY LABOR

 

George M eany

. . . BY MANAGEMENT

 

14

Rudolph F. Bannow

Seldom has any segment of the American social-welfare
field been presented with challenges as profound as those
now facing organized recreation. The solutions to many of
our most crucial social problems are currently being sought
in that area.

The spotlight of public attention is on recreation services
and facilities, paving the way to greater public understand-
ing of the aims of recreation and opening an avenue to in-
creased support for sweeping changes and experimental ap-
proaches. The manner in which recreation measures up to
these challenges and opportunities may well make the next
ten years the most significant decade in the history of the
recreation movement.

MR. MEANY is president of the AFL-CIO and has been a un-

ion man all his life, starting as the son of a trade unionist.
On August 9, 1957, President Eisenhower nominated him
as a U .S. delegate to the United Nations General Assembly,
the first time a labor leader has been so honored.

l
1
I

 

Management is counting heavily upon recreation activi-
ties to adjust to the changes that are taking place in the
American way of life, and the ways in which Americans
earn their livings. Nothing is more important to the physi-
cal and cmotional health of the men and women of industry
than propcr recreation activities.

So important is this considered that few 1nodern com-
panies would consider locating a new plant or facility in a
community without first surveying its recreation possibili-
ties. Managemcnt knows that, in secking c01npetc11t and
gifted personnel, its ability to attract and hold the n1cn and
women it wants often is decided by thc little theater, the park
systcm, or thc Little Lcague. The intelligent person indus-
try desirés as an employee is certain to insist upon living
in a cominunity worthy of his family.

Industry now spends ovcr eight hundred million dollars
each year on recreation—in and out of its plants. Many

MR. BANNOW is national president of the NatiOnal As-
sociation of Manufacturers and president of the Bridgeport
Machine Company. He is currently, among other activities,
trustee of the Bridgeport YMCA, a director of the Crippled
Children’s Bureau and of the United Fund of Bridgeport.

RECREATION

  

In The Next Ten Years

 

DF RECREATION

The labor movement, as a pioneer in, and a supporter of,
social welfare, would like to suggest three areas on which
recreation must concentrate to meet the challenge of the
times. First is the need for recreation for the growing num-
bers of older citizens. The increase in our aging population,
the shift from a predominantly rural to an urban society,
and the ability of many millions of mass-production workers
to retire because of pension programs—all these factors de-
mand the time and attention of organized recreation. Just
as the AFL-CIO Community Service Activities have made
retirement planning a priority program this year, recrea-
tion, too, must consider this nation’s older pe0ple as top pri-
ority in the next decade.

At the other end of the scale is the youth of America, who
should also be a prime focus of the recreation movement.
It is evident from today’s headlines that the Special needs
of our young people are not being adequately met. Organ-
ized recreation must initiate bold, new programs and re-

companies offer a wide variety of after-hour activities and
some even provide programs for lunchtime and piped-in
music during working hours. Besides supporting recreation
activities for employees, industry heavily supports com-
munity activities open to all.

But yesterday’s plans will not cover tomorrow’s needs.
The decentralization of cities and the changing nature of
work and of the work force will present new problems. The
migration from the cities, for example, confronts us with
a need to offer recreation to replace the commercial kinds
of recreation left behind in the metropolis. If this is not
done, the employees who leave the cities for smaller com-
munities may feel that they have lost heavily in the move.
Somc familiar kinds of recreation—theater, big-league
baseball, four-channelITV—may not be transplanted, but
other forms of recreation can be substituted, and many who
move may find themselves happier as participants than they
were as spectators.

Progress in our factories has eliminated much hard labor,
and has “upgraded” millions of the work force by employ-
ing their minds rather than their muscles. It also has en-
abled us to shorten the workday and the workweek, afford-

IANIJARY 1960

shape its existing services if it is to play an important part
in the prevention of uvenile delinquency. In addition, rec-
reation can help to improve the physical fitness of our youth,
a subject receiving national attention through the work of
the President’s Council on Youth Fitness.

Finally, we must consider the increase in leisure time
for the American worker that will result from the shorter
workweek that is sure to come. Part of this leisure time will
fall within the province of recreation.

It is the hope of the American Federation of Labor and
Congress of Industrial Organizations that labor can work
side by side with recreation in these areas and others as
well. It is our hope also that through the facilities of the
AFL-CIO Community Services Activities, cooperative pro-
grams can be developed at the community level. For it is
in the community that recreation programs are most likely
to succeed—recreation that is wanted, provided, and sup-

ported by the people themselves. #

 

ing more time for outside activity. The result has been that
Americans have become more active, physically and men-
tally, in their play. The ever-rising level of education is
causing a great growth of the cultural forms of recreation.

I would expect to see rapid growth of amateur music and
drama groups, art and photography clubs, literary and phil-
osophical societies, and other such activities, which have
shown rapid growth in recent years. There is a definite
trend to study as recreation, and established recreation in-
stitutions are providing the necessary space and instructors
in many localities.

Those in recreation fields may find that their jobs will
call for catering to a wider variety of individual tastes be-
cause we are abandoning the illusion of a “mass culture”
and recognizing that creative individuality is to be encour-
aged.

Thus, Alnerican recreation will serve the opposite from
the mass gymnastic program of our Communist rivals. Our
emphasis will bc upon individual development and competi-
tiveness in all forms of recreation; characteristics that will
allow each citizen to realize his greatest possibilities and
allow our society to be best served by its members. #

15

Wherein the author takes a highly controversial
position . . . What do you, the reader, think?

Careful reading will help you know how to

strengthen your art activities.

Howard Conant

CREATIVE ART TEACHING
IN RECREATION PROGRAMS

The author began his art teaching
career in the public recreation pro-
gram in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In
subsequent years he has developed a
deep and abiding interest in the teach-
ing of art‘in many types of recreation
centers. In a very real sense, there-
fore, the criticisms made here are
“within the family” of recreation
workers, and are in no way intended
as snobbish. The author has decided
to lay his professional cards on the
table, honestly and forthrightly. He
believes that such a confrontation, with
possibly displeasing statements, is
made imperative by many factors,
among which one of the most impor-
tant is the rapidly increasing threat
of conformism and cultural mediocrity
with which individuals are faced in
contemporary society.

HE CASCADE of books and maga-
T zines being published today has
caused many professionals to

feel frustrated and overwhelmed. How-
ever, it is possible that teachers of art
( including arts-and-crafts leaders) are
unusually deficient in their familiarity
with the literature of art, art educa-

tion, and education. This is caused

 

———n—r- .-——-' «nu--

DR. CONANT is professor and chairman,
Department of Art Education, New
York University, and former director

of The Children’s Creative Art Founda-
tion, New York City.

16

by many factors: among them the
great amout of time necessitated by

 

such day-to-day duties as supply order-
ing and clean-up; the tendency to read
only in one’s extremely Specific field
of interest, as enameling, for instance;
a lack of knowledge of art education
philosophy and psychology; and a re-
grettable absence of the desire to read
continually, which only a few high
schools and liberal arts colleges have
been able to develop in their graduates.

Many who offer guidance in art ac-
tivities in recreation programs have
not had college-level preparation in
teaching or in art, but have developed
an avocational interest in some realm
of the arts through an adult education

program, or a friend said, “Why don’t
you try it?”, as a result of past ex-
perience in some art activity in school
or camp. A few art-activity leaders
learned their “subject” by reading a
how-to-do-it book or article. With
rare exception, people who have come
into positions of art-activity leader-
ship by one of these or related means
are, by the standards of professional
art education, not well qualified for
such work. They may, indeed, be do- l
ing more harm than good by passing 1
on to others their recipes for making
various “art” objects.

Art is a strange, even bewildering,
subject. Nearly everyone knows that
what he likes he believes to be art;
and nearly everyone is offended when
a professional artist or art educator
tells him that such preferences are
usually outside the hard-to-define
realm of the arts. As André Malraux
has asked: “What is it, then, that is
shared by the communion whose medi-
eval half-darkness fills the cathedral
naves and by the seal that the Egyp-
tian groupings stamped upon immen-
sity? What is it that is common to all,
forms that, in their turn, have cap-
tured some portion of the inapprehen-
sible? They impose or insinuate the
presence of another world. Not nec-
essarily an inferno or a paradise, not
even a world after death. but a present
beyond. For all of them. to different
degrees, the real is appearance: and

RECREATION

something else exists which is not ap-
pearance.”

Somewhat related to the presumptu-
ous, but often naively innocent, know-
what-I-like attitude toward art is the
belief, unfortunately supported by end-
less pieces of pseudoprofessional lit-
erature, which asserts that “anyone
can draw,” “you, too, can be an art-
ist,” and so on. It is perfectly under-
standable, therefore, that adults even
might go one step further in faulty
logic, by thinking that “anyone can
teach art,” at least to children in rec-
reation programs where it matters less
if you don’t know all the answers be-
cause it’s “not a real school.”

To clarify any misunderstandings in
the light of the above, let us state a
few principles which are more or less
widely accepted by leading profession-
als in the closely related fields of art,
art education, and education:

0 Most people do not know anything
about art, but know what they like;
and what they like is seldom art. They
could learn to understand the arts
through education.

0 Not everyone can be an artist, not
anybody can paint (or draw, or model
in clay), unless by these terms one
means “do something in paint, or
clay,” with little referenCe to quality.
0 Many people (youngsters and
adults) can deve10p considerable artis-
tic proficiency. A few can develop pro-
fessional or near-professional skill;

but in both cases, considerable time and
patience, coupled with the finest crea-
tive teaching is necessary. And the
fact still remains that art is much more

 

than mere fun, and learning to pro-
duce this very rare commodity is nei-
ther quick nor easy.

0 One does not learn to teach art crea-
tively and effectively, merely by read-
ing a book, taking a course, “profes-
sionalizing” a hobby. Four years of
full-time, intensive college study, with
a major in art and art education, is
considered minimal.

0 Creative art teaching is not just let-
ting participants do what they please.
It is a special kind of highly skilled
teaching which requires at least five
or six years of professional prepara-
tion and experience. It is infinitely

more complex, time requiring, and
arduous than the usual kind of con-
ventional teaching with which most of
us are familiar.

0 Art is a type of experience—and the
product of such experience—which is
unique and extremely high in quality.
It is unusally rare, on a level of human
cxpression seldom achieved. It con-
tributes richly to our culture and is
essential to the continuance of civiliza-
tion.

0 The experiences—and products of
such experiences—resulting from how-
to-do-it, short-cut, and pseudo-art ac-
tivities (such as predesigned mosaic
kits, numbered painting sets, assemble-
your-own precut belt kits, and imitate-
the-teacher-or-his-patterns) are decid-
edly not art, since they are neither
unique nor high in quality. Stereotyped,
pseudo-art experiences and products
do nothing to improve our culture or
strengthen our civilization. In fact,
they probably weaken our culture by
diluting it.

o The “art” experiences and resulting
products in most recreation groups
(and adult education) classes in draw-
ing, ceramics, painting, jewelry, enam-
eling, woodworking, sculpture, weav-
ing, leatherwork, and photography
are little better than the experience of
assembling the parts of a jig-saw puz-
zle. Also unfortunate is the fact that
most participants are led to believe
that the amateurish products of their

 

GIVE ME, amidst the confusion of my day, the
calmness of the everlasting hills. Break the tension
of my nerves and muscles with the soothing music of
the singing streams that live in my memory. Help me
to know the restorative power of sleep. Teach me the

SLOW ME DOWN, LORD

art of taking minute vacations—of slowing down to

look at a flower, to chat with a friend, to pat a dog, to
read a few lines from a good book.

REMIND ME each day of the fable of the hare and

JANUARY 1960

the tortoise, that I may know the race is not always
to the swift; that there is more in life than increasing
its speed. Let me look upward to the branches of
the towering oak, and know that it grew strong be-
cause it grew slowly and well.

S LOW ME DOWN, Lord, and inspire me to send my

roots deep into the soil of life’s enduring values, that

I may grow toward the stars of my greater destiny.
Amen.——-DR. WILLIAM H. ANDERSON.

17

classwork can be regarded as art. They
(particularly adults) are encouraged
to display it in their homes, enter it in
art exhibitions, even sell it to fellow
classmates or unsuSpecting “laymen.”
0 With a few exceptions, participants
in the type of pseudo-art classes de-
scribed above would be well-advised to
re-enroll in an activity in which they
might gain really worthwhile informa-
tion or practical skills, such as: the
study of the subject of art (modern,
Renaissance, 19th Century, Greek, and
Roman) ; the study of interior design,
community planning, industrial de-
sign, and so forth, aimed at improved
consumer knowledge; and such courses
as home management, child care, cook-
ing, sewing, electricity in the home, the
use of simple tools, and other practical
activities.

The foregoing principles are stated
honestly, as a warning against cultural
decay and increased individual super-
ficiality. They are presented straight-
forwardly, in the manner of a physi-
cian who points out the dangers of
certain home medical practices or by
a scientist who warns us of the dangers
of amateur rocketry or the making of
eXplosives. These principles do more
or less represent the thinking of lead-
ing professional artists, art educators,
and general educators of many years’
eXperience.

ESTHETICS AND CRITICISM:

Strengthen Your Art Activities
0 First there is no pat or simple an-
swer to this.
0 Some elements of the answer are
contained in the foregoing portions of
this article. A significant, and possibly
not widely known, fact is that many ele-
mentary- and secondary-school and col-
lege art teachers are interested in part-
time employment, not only to increase
their incomes but to offer much-needed
professional service to the field of rec-
reation.
0 A nucleus of the most significant lit-
erature (see list at end of article) of
art, art education, and education
should be read by art-activity leaders
and program directors of recreation
programs.
0 St0p the purchase and use of these
kits, patterns, and related materials,
which are not only harmful to partici-
pants’ creative growth and are further
diluting our already watered-down
culture, but which are also more ex-
pensive than the art materials used in
creative teaching.
0 Replace, rather than try to convert,
art-activity leaders who rcly upon
stereotyped [caching methods, kits, or
manuals. Secure the part-time services
of school or college art teachers or, if
funds permit, securc a full-time art

educator as teachcr-director.

0 Realizc that creative art activities

Suggested for Referenee

include tangible, useful, take-home
products just as extensively as those
abounding in old-fashioned, stereo-
typed arts and crafts activities. As a
matter of historic fact, tangible, useful
art products originated in the legiti-
mate arts. Only in recent decades have
they been standardized and made into
projects by arts-and-crafts teachers and
kit manufacturers.

It is likely that a careful examina-
tion of the highest aims of the recrea-
tion profession would show a philoso-
phic kinship with the highest aims of
art education which, in brief, are
centered about a theory of esthetically
Like
the field of recreation as a whole, art
education strives for the best possible
quality of performance, not in super-
ficial skills or by means of sure-fire
short cuts, but through patience, under-
standing, continuing study, and in-
creasingly capable leadership. Just as
art educators should heed the advice of
recreation specialists who tell them a
life of all work and no play is ill-advised
and of the need for recreation to be con-
structive as well as entertaining, so in
turn, recreation leaders and program

oriented creative-art teaching.

executives should give careful attention
to the suggestions of reSponsible art
educators who evaluate the weaknesses,
strengths, dangers, and values of art ele-
ments of recreation programs. #

book: Scranton, Pa. (1953).

Beam, Philip C., The Language of Art. Ronald Press: New York
(1958).

Faure, Elie, The Spirit of the Forms. Harper: New York (1930).

Focillon, Henri, The Life of Forms in Art. Yale University Press:
New Haven (1942).

Gardner, Helen, Understanding the Arts. Harcourt, Brace: New
York (1932).

ART EDUCATION:

Bland, Jane Cooper, Art of the Young Child. Museum of Modern
Art: New York (1957).

Conant, Howard and Randall, Arne, Art in Education. Charles Ben-
nett: Peoria, Ill. (1959).

D’Amico, Victor, Creative Teaching in Art (rev. ed). International
Textbook: Scranton, Pa. (1954).

Faquner, Ray; Ziegfeld, Edwin; Hill, Gerald, Art Today (3rd ed).
Henry Holt: New York (1956).

DESIGN:

Bassett, Kendall T., and Thurman, Arthur B. (in collaboration with
Victor D’Amico), How to Make Objects with Wood. Museum of
Modern Art: New York (1951) .

Duncan, Julia Hamlin and D’Amico, Victor, How to Make Pottery
and Ceramic Sculpture. International Textbook: Scranton, Pa.
(1947).

Emerson, Sybil, Design: A Creative Approach. International Tcxt-

18

Johnson, Pauline, Creating with Papcr. University of Washington
Press: Seattle (1958).

Kaufmann, Edgar Jr., What Is Modern Design? Museum of Modern
Art: New York (1950).

*Long, Lois Culver, Ceramic Decoration. American Art Clay Co.:
Indianapolis (1958).

Lord, Lois, Collage and Construction. Davis Publications: Worcestcr.

Mass. (1958).

*Mattil, Edward L., Meaning in Crafts. Prentice-Hall: Englewood
Cliffs, New Jersey (1959).

Nelson, Ceorgc, Editor, Chairs. Whitney Publications: New York
(1953).

Newhall, Beaumont and Nancy, Masters of Photography. Ccorge
Braziller: New York (1958).

Rilcy, Olive L., Masks and Magic. Studio Crowcll: New York (1955).

Winebrenner, D. Kenneth, Jewelry illaking as an Art Expression.
Intcrnational Textbook: Scranton, Pa. (1953).

DRAWING AND GRAPHIC ARTS:

erllcr, J ulcs, Print Making Today. Henry Holt: Ncw York (1958).
Nicolaides, Kimon, The Natural Way to Draw. lIouglIton Milllin:

Boston (1941).
Sachs, Paul J., Modern Prints and Drawings. Alfred Knopf: New

York (1953) .

*Availahle from National Recrcation Association liecrcation Book
Ccnter, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11.

RECREATION

. . . in Kentucky——
year-round recreation.

Joe Creason

from throughout the state have

decided almost unanim0usly that
the most pressing need for Kentucky
children today is year-round organized
recreation in all sections of the Com-
monwealth. They rate this need as
greater than the need for modernized
schools, more and better trained teach-

ers, and expanded health and welfare
programs.

These 1,500 Kentuckians have stud-

ied their communities and submitted
separate reports that have been sum-
marized and were released at the Ken-
tucky White House Conference For
Children and Youth in Louisville in
October.

Recreation is one of five areas per-
: taining to children that have been sur-
'veyed. Other areas studied include
moral and spiritual values, education,
health and welfare.

The recreation report, which was
made over a period of six months,
revcals what the summary calls “a
deplorable lack of year-round public

programs of recreation” and “a tremen-

FIFTEEN HUNDRED KENTUCKIANS

dous amount of recreational frustra-
tion” in Kentucky.

It also points to the lack of supervised
lecreational outlets as being a major
contributor to juvenile delinquency by
“driving our boys and girls out of town

 

 

Reprinted with permission from the
Louisville (Kentucky) Courier-Journal,
on which Mr. Creason is a staff reporter.

JANUARY 1960

 

33

to questionable places. . . .
Among many others, these four facts
emerged from the study to indicate
the critical need for recreation.
0 Only nine full-time professional rec-
reation directors are employed in Ken-
tucky, and only five of these outside
Jefferson and Fayette Counties, where
two each are employed to direct separ-
ate city and county programs.
0 Only twenty-one counties have pro-
grams which even vaguely measure up
to being organized, and which offer
more than summertime activities for
both boys and girls. ‘
o Fifty-two counties have what they
call recreation programs, but which
consist only of athletics—almost al-
ways Little League baseball—a sea-
sonal activity which affords no oppor-
tunity for girls; twenty-eight counties
supplement athletics with swimming at
pools or beaches; fifteen counties have
no kind of organized recreation.
o In fewer than a dozen counties are
school buildings kept open for after-
hour or summer recreation purposes.
Some schools even refuse to allow out-
door playgrounds to be used during
summer months.

Full-time, professional recreation di-
rectors are employed in Louisville and
Jefferson County, in Lexington and
Fayette County and in Bowling Green,
Elizabethtown, Frankfort, Glasgow, and
Mayfield.

The Jefferson County plan, whereby
local communities cooperate with the

playground and recreation board, long
has been regarded as a model and has
been copied all over the country.

In other counties or cities where an
effort has been madc to set up planned
recreation, a director, usually a high-
school coach, is hired to conduct a lim-
ited J une-through-late—August program.

Civic clubs often conduct the summer
athletic program, which constitutes the
only kind of planned recreation avail-
able in so many counties. Until Little
League baseball caught on in the last
ten years or so, most'counties which
now point to that as their one recreation
activity had no program at all.

In a very real sense, many of those
participating in the report say Little
League baseball can hardly fit into com-
munity recreation. That’s because only
the more skillful boys make the teams,
leaving the younger and less talented
boys and girls without any activity.

In addition to pointing up the short-
comings of recreation in Kentucky, the
report recommends:

0 that Kentucky employ a state recrea-
tion consultant to advise and assist local
communities in setting up programs;

0 that the state providc $1,000,000 an-
nually to assist—on a dollar-for-dollar
basis up to $10,000—counties and ci-
ties willing to help themselves financial-
ly with recreation;

0 that candidates for public office at all
levels be asked to state their attitudes
toward organized recreation.

One of the first duties of a state rec-
reation consultant would be to explain
to local communities that Kentucky has
one of the nation’s best and most work-
able enabling laws for the development,
acquisition, and operation of public
recreation programs. Under the law, it
is possible for either a city or county
government to set up separate or joint
recreation boards, or for cities and
counties to join with boards of educa-
tion in creating playground and ree-
reation boards.

Sincc it is so easy for a program to
be initiated in Kentucky, the report
assumes that tWO factors explain why
so few areas have taken action—a lack
of know-how and a lack of money. The
state consultant would provide the

know-how; tlle $1,000,000 would sup-
plelneut locally raised funds. #

19

I In The Next Ten Years I

CURRICULUM STRATEGY

stitute the psychological moment

for a backward look at profes-
sional preparation for recreation leader-
ship and the strategic time to plan for the
future. Most of the major recreation cur-
ricula developed during and since World
War 11. In 1940 there were five schools, on record, that of-
fered recreation programs. The number increased to thirty-
five by 1948, and at present sixty-five colleges and universi-
ties report major recreation curricula. Thirty-five of these
confer both undergraduate and graduate degrees.

Present Status. The majority of schools reporting a ma-
jor recreation curriculum today have an adequate recre-
ation faculty, in terms of quantity or quality, based on
standards agreed upon by National Training Conferences on
Professional Preparation of Recreation Personnel. Schools
are uneven in faculty make-up and some have very few first-
class instructors. In many schools the recreation curriculum
lacks status in comparison with other disciplines and, all
too often, also lacks status with the employing agencies and
the recreation profession in general.

Nationally, the schools are operating at about fifty per-
cent under capacity and a number of institutions with a
major recreation curriculum are graduating no students
with recreation degrees. Many schools have not yet mobil-
ized important resources they have on the campus, and the
prevailing atmosphere does not inspire a creative approach
to professional recreation education. Neither are they util-
izing, effectively, community, agency, and professional re-

sources that could help enrich their programs and enhance
their status.

1- NEW YEAR and a new decade con-

 

Fortunately, some new deve10pments will force curricu-
lum changes and may relegate the weaker schools further to
the sidelines and the stronger ones to the forefront. Parents
are demanding, increasingly, that rccreation for their chil-
dren be planned by qualified leaders with broad vision.
Adults, increasingly, are determined to live on the higher
level of their natures and are becoming more discriminat-
ing, thus challenging the quality of professional recreation
leadership. Pressures from Operating agencies and profes-
sional groups are forcing the development of specialized
curriculums. For example, agencies providing service and
recreation leadership for the ill and handicapped, industrial
groups, park administration, community recreation, and
camping are claiming, with increasing evidence, that they
poswss a special body of generic knowledge. Such special-

 

MR. SUTIIERLAND is director of the National Recreation As-
sociat'ion Recreation Personnel Service.

20

W. C. Sutherland I

izations are demanding not only additional, but also differ-
ent, types of facilities and faculty members. I

INCREASING POPULATION, more leisure, more money, better '
traveling, urbanization, and other complex changes in
American and world society are placing recreation in a l
prominent position. This places new demands on leadership II
and raises questions as to the qualifications and quality of
recreation leaders.

The National Cultural Center pr0posed for Washington,
D. C., is destined to stand as a monument to America’s cul-
tural maturity and may well speed the demand for special-
ists on the staffs of both public and private recreation
agencies. In any event, future executives, supervisors, and
program pe0ple will have to keep abreast of these new de-
ve10pments or accept a minor role in community leadership
as more progressive leaders and agencies establish them-
selves in the forefront of indispensable community services.

The 1961 White House Conference on the Aging is fo-
cusing the spotlight on another emerging specialization and
capturing the attention of politicians, civic clubs, and re-
ligious groups, as well as professional recreation leaders.
The schools will have to take this important segment of our
growing population into consideration as they plan future
recreation curriculums and concern themselves with the
Special needs of this important group.

The Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission
also has implications for our training centers, especially for
leadership at the state, regional, and national levels. The
vast scope of this act, to determine the types and locations
of outdoor resources of land and water, will undoubtedly
turn Up a need for trained leadership oriented in such fa-
cilities and resources.

Likewise, thc 1960 White House Conference on Children
and Youth should bring to light new nceds, new methods,
new information, and new emphasis as we attempt to serve
more adequately this important part of our nation’s popu-
lation. Rccreation and youth leaders serving in highly
dclinqucnt neighborhoods are finding that they must draw
on disciplines rclated to but outside the present recreation
curriculum. Herc, again, the builders of future recreation
curriculums must be concerned with the special needs of
these leaders and cut across department lines when neces-
sary.

The 1960 Survey of Social Welfare Manpowcr, which in-
cludes recreation personnel, will be of special intcrcst to
the recreation educators. For one thing, it will give the rec-
rcation profession its first national personnel inventory. For
the first time in our history, wc will learn the national statu
of our profession: the number of leaders, their salaries,

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 

Rscnsnro.

the job levels, educational preparation, experience and spev
cialization, together with certain basic information on work-
ing conditions. Such information will be valuable in plan-
ning for the future: for recruitment purposes, improving
personnel practices and standards, for raising the quality
of personnel, and for planning education programs.

O THER INFLUENCES on the recreation curriculum, which
will result in curriculum changes, include the accelera-
tion of activities and forces represented by such issues as
accreditation, voluntary registration, certification, self-
evaluation of curriculums and standards imposed by pro-
fessional groups. National training conferences, composed
of both educators and recreation agency personnel, are be-
ing held more frequently and are resulting in curriculum
improvement.

How can we as recreation leaders fit effectively into an
orbiting future? We can’t afford to coast and hide behind
a lot of “ifs” and “it all depends.” To be sure, our future
strategy may be influenced by, and to some extent, depend
upon what labor and management may demand or expect
of recreation; whether we are stuck with a cold war or get
into a hot one; whether we have a depression or continue
to expand our economy.

We are going to continue to hear a lot about automation.
We are also going to hear more and more about human-
ization, regardless of what happens nationally or interna-
tionally. This Opinion is supported by recent research con-
firming new concepts of leadership and by the modern and
progressive concepts of management with emphasis on per-
sonal development, leadership communication, and human
relations.

Our future strategy must be one of action, beginning now,
today, as we begin another decade in planning programs
for the professional preparation of recreation leadership.
For this forward strategy consideration should be given
to the following additional concerns and observations:

# We need to produce lay leaders for the recreation move-
ment as well as professional leaders.

# Education for policy-making at a high level is impera-
tive, as federal, national, regional, state, and metr0politan
agencies and services expand in an increasingly complex
society, undergoing constant change.

# The identification of recreation with other related move-
ments and community forces is blurred and needs clarifica-
tion.

# Representatives of various agencies must get away from
vested interests, narrow agency lines and structures, and
get down to a personal basis with one another if they are
to represent the larger citizenship.

# Goals and objectives must be defined and redefined as
the recreation movement reaches outWard, Upward, and on-
ward.

# There are vast, unrealized powers and resources still to
be discovered and developed in facilities and personnel.
# There is need for greater intellectual emphasis. Mental
laziness and superficial offerings must be replaced by more
-vigorous and creative effort.

# The recreation movement must produce its share of

JANUARY 1960

scholars to write the books, conduct research, and occupy

academic and professional offices so our destiny may be
guided wisely.

# The future will demand more of board members, not
just to set policy, but also to interpret, together with pro-
fessional leaders, both policy and philosophy.

# Conferences, meetings, and training programs will be
vitalized by more visual resources, careful planning, and
attention to both short and long-range goals.

# There will be unlimited opportunity for the alert rec-
reation leaders to relate their programs to industry, civic
clubs, and cultural centers.

# Opportunities are now wasting away for recreation pro-
grams to tie into such technical subjects as electronics, avia-
tion, space, chemistry, mechanics, automation, and other
branches of science.

# Imaginative, creative, and intellectual action must keep
pace with our expanding structural and organizational ac-
tivities.

# Not only the large percentage of noncollege graduates
now holding positions, but others, are in dire need of im-
proved on-the-job training programs.

# Future training programs, both academic and on the
job, will stress more the importance of communication in
all its many forms: speaking, reading, writing, graphic arts,
counseling, interviews, and the philosophy and art of dis-
cussron.

# Future administrators will come out of training back-
grounds steeped in the humanities, and such subjects as lit-
erature, history, art, and philosophy. They will not consider
administration as just a matter of techniques.

# The transition from academic training to independent
job responsibility will be bridged in part by more intern-
ships, with close cooperative relationships between school
and agency.

# There must be a continuous, never-ending training ex-
perience from the time the individual enters the professional
curriculum until he retires, in at least three broad areas:
functional skills and ability; leadership and human rela-
tions; and comprehensive understanding. The latter is be-
ing neglected, yet is fast becoming one of the most important
areas of learning as the recreation executive attempts to
understand the various political, economic, social, and spir-
itual forces constituting the total matrix of which he is
only a part.

# There will be more critical evaluations of what is being
done.

# There will be more research to validate existing philoso-
phies, concepts, and principles.

 There will be a more strict adherence to high standards.

# Curriculum patterns will be kept flexible, and the bal-
ance between general education and specialized professional
education will be maintained.

The recreation movement and its profession depend upon
leadership. Professional preparation, therefore, is the heart
of our concern. Can the schools meet the challenge? I
think they can, provided they, along with the operating
agencies and professional workers, all team up together in
one common and cooperative task. #

21

 

   

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

People in the News

The appointment of Robert A. Lob-
dell as general manager of the parks
and recreation bureau of St. Paul, Min-
nesota, was approved by that city’s city
council in November 1959. The ap-
pointment followed consolidation of the
three bureaus of parks, playgrounds,
and refectories into one—parks and
recreation. RECREATION readers will be
hearing more from Bob Lobdell as he
is writing an article for the magazine
about recreation in St. Paul, where the
Great Lakes District recreation con-

ference will be held the first week of
April 1960.

National Recreation Association
member Arvid Olson is the new editor
of American Squares, the magazine of
American folk dancing. Until recently
American Squares had been published
in Newark, New Jersey. Its new ad-
dress is 2514 Sixteenth Street, Moline,
Illinois. Send all dance dates, unpub-
lished dances, news of general interest,
and other items there.

More news from the square- and
folk-dance field concerns Rickey Hol-
den’s worldwide tour. Reputed to be
the most widely traveled professional
caller in the world, Rickey leaves in
mid-January on a tour to include coun-
tries in Asia, Africa, and Europe, where
he plans to teach square and other
dances.

The city of Wilmington, Delaware,
became the richer, recreationally, by
an eighteen-hole golf course, later aug-
mcnted by adjoining undeveloped land,
all donated by Mr. and Mrs. William
du Pont, Jr. Both gifts were designated
to be used exclusively for public use.
(See RECREATION, April 1959, Page
149.) In appreciation of this, Recrea-
tion Promotion and Service (executive
secretary, George Sargisson) presented
the du Ponts with a testimonial certif-

22

cate, thanking them for this and the
many other donations of time and
money they have made during the four-
teen years of RPS’s existence.

At a joint meeting of the Missouri
Recreation Association and the Mis-
souri Parks and Recreation Society in
November, these two organizations de-
cided to consolidate and become a new
agency, henceforth to be known as the
Missouri Parks and Recreation Asso-
ciation.

The most recent news from Texas is
of the appointment of Beverly S. Shcf-
field, Austin’s director of recreation, to
a three-year term, both as a member
and chairman of the NRA’s National
Advisory Committee on Recreation Ad-
ministration. He succeeds Robert W.
Crawford, Philadelphia’s commissioner
of recreation.

Youth Appreciation Week in Mem-
phis, Tennessee, was climaxed with the
presentation, to Marion Hale, of a
plaque honoring him for his outstand-
ing youth work. The plaque was award-
ed to Memphis’s superintendent of rcc-
rcation by that city’s Optimist Clubs
on November 19, 1959. Upon receiving
his award, Mr. Hale said, “In the rec-
rcation department, we work on the ba-
sis that the kids of today are the adults
of tomorrow. . . .”

It Pays to Advertise

The Provident Bank of Cincinnati,
Ohio, thinks so highly of its recreation
commission’s drop-in centers for older
people that it has taken out ads in
the Cincinnati Inquirer to tell about
them. One such ad, with a large photo-
graph of activities in one of the cen-
ters, appeared in the November 24th
edition. ln addition, at the bottom of
the ad, the following invitation is ap-
pended: “Know someone who would

like to join the fun? Call the Recrea-
tion Commission, CArlield 1-1652.”

More About Mr. Bannow

A write-up in The New Y ork Times
about Rudolph Bannow, RECREATION
magazine author (see Page 14 this is-
sue) and new president of the National
Association of Manufacturers, provides
some information about what he does
with his spare time. As an ex-pattern
maker for metals, he still keeps his
hand in by developing new patterns for
his Bridgeport, Connecticut, company.
For further relaxation, Mr. Bann ow has -
been a member of the all-male North
Star Singers for twenty-six years, with
whom, every Wednesday night, he
raises his bass voice in song. At one
time he played soccer for the Swedish
Athletic Club (Mr. Bannow was born
in Coetcborg, Sweden) in Bridgeport,
but has now, as he says, “degenerated
to golf.”

Pennies, Nickels, and Dimes

During the early part of last sum-
mer the children on the playgrounds of
Charleston, \Vest Virginia, some of
them from very poor areas, collected
$109.58 to contribute to the Joseph Lee
Recreation Leadership‘Training Fund.

 

For the second year each playground
made a tremendous effort to amass the
pennies, nickels, and dimes as their
share of the contribution. Charleston’s
superintendent of parks and recreation,
Bob Kresve, said, “We are still heping
that this idea will catch on in other cita.
ics. lt seems to have every merit.”
New Camping Council Formed h
Campers and outdoor enthusiasts will
soon be hearing much news about the
activities of the just formed Camping
Council for Travel and Wilderness
Campers. One of the council’s maim

aims is that of binding together more

RECREATION

 

closely the interests of both campers
and the camping industry, for the bene-
fit of both.

According to its founder and direc-
tor, Rea Agnew, a director of Ameri-
can Youth Hostels and an experienced
camper, the council will assist campers
as an information agency responsive to
their needs. It will also promote camp-
ing, with planned programs designed to
foster the growth of more and better
campsites, wider government develop-
ment of camping areas, continuing im-
provement of camping equipment, and
the education of camping enthusiasts.

With the help of manufacturers, the
council intends to make the public more
camping conscious by carrying its pro-
gram directly into federal, state, and
local government channels.

Mr. Agnew was a speaker at the 41st
National Recreation Congress in Chi-
cago. This last summer he completed
a thirteen-state tour of national and
state campgrounds, found, among other
things, that campsites are growing far
more slowly than camping and that
there is a great need for better adminis-
tration of camping areas. Recreation
departments wishing to get in touch
with the Camping Council can write to

it at 17 East 48th Street, New York 17.

Special Services News

0 Dallas girl Dorothy J. Schmid has
been named First U. S. Army Craft Di-
rector at Governors Island, New York.
In her new assignment, Miss Schmid
will supervise craft sh0p programs at all
army installations in New England, New
York, and New Jersey. She was previ-
ously stationed in Germany and Japan.

0 Upon completion of four years’ out-
standing service in USAREUR Miss
Jean Tague, Northern Area Command’s
assistant service club director, was hon-
ored with a citation, early in October,
in Nurnberg, Germany, home of Special
Services Branch of Special Activities
Division, Hq USAREUR. Before her
promotion to assistant command direc-
tor in NACOM, she was a service club
director in Berlin, Niirnberg, and Mu-
nich. Her future plans included work
for her recreation doctorate at UCLA.

 

3n i‘iirmnriam

 

I National Recreation Association
sponsor for thirty-four years (1925-59)

JANUARY 1960

and honorary member, Dr. Tully C.
Leon Knoles, died November 30 at his
home in Stockton, California. He was
eighty-three. He is survived by his

widow Emily, three daughters, and five
sons.

0 Mrs. John Mills, eighty, died Decem-
ber 17 in Greenwich, Connecticut. Long
active in civic affairs, she was on the
Greenwich Recreation Board of which

she was elected an honorary life mem-
ber when she retired.

0 Mrs. Bella Printz, one of the Nation-
al Recreation Association’s many de-
voted sponsors, died in October on her

was the Monday Musical Club.

0 Montgomery B. Angell, seventy, died
November 26 in Peekskill, New York.
His many activities included Princeton
University’s alumni affairs, member-
ship in the Century Association, vari-
ous memberships in associations con-
nected with the legal profession, and as
a commissioner in the Taconic State
Park Commission.

0 Julian Reiss, the businessman who
each Christmas played Santa Claus to
needy children throughout the North-
east United States and eastern Canada,
died December 13 in Lake Placid,
New York. His Operation Toylift
(written up in the December 1956
RECREATION, Page 472) this year deliv-
ered fifteen tons of toys by plane to
sixty-four thousand orphans and needy
children in thirty-eight communities.
His other activities on behalf of chil-
dren included the founding of the Pius
X Youth Camp for Needy Children at
Lake Placid.

0 Ralph Warner Harbison, former
president of the Young Men’s Christian
Association and an active YMCA work-
er for more than thirty-two years, died
December 12 in Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania, after a long illness. He was
cighty-three. As a young man he
worked in his father’s company, of
which he later became a director, then
retired from active responsibility be-

cause of the increasing pressure of his

Y work. He served that association in
many capacities, ultimately becoming
president, which post he resigned in
1941.

0 Frank S. Land, founder of the Order
of DeMolay and its director for forty
years, died in Kansas City, Missouri,
November 9. He was sixty-ninc. Mr.
Land became interested in youth work
right after World War I when he be-
came aware of the plight of the many
boys left fatherless by the war. He or-
ganized his group in 1919 with a nu-
cleus of nine boys, and lived to see it
grow into a worldwide fraternal organ-
ization for youths from fourteen to
twenty-one, with more than two thou-
sand chapters in the fifty states and
twelve foreign nations. The Order of
DeMolay is connected with the Shriners.

o J. Alfred LeConey, former Olympic
track star died recently at the age of
fifty-eight. He was the lCAAAA 100-
yard-dash and 220-yard champion in
1922 and set the ICAAAA 100-yard-
dash record of 9.7 seconds which stood
for nine years. In the 1924 Olympic
games, held in Paris, Mr. LeConey was
anchor man on the victorious 400-meter
relay team that set a record of forty-
one seconds. Because of his many out-
standing contributions to the Olym-
pics, his picture appeared on a United
States Olympic commemorative post-
age stamp. Last year he received a
plaque honoring his twelve years’ serv-
ice to the Plainfield, New Jersey, Rec-
reation Commission of which he had
been president three times.
0 Elizabeth Burchenal, founder of the
American Folk Dance Society and the
Folk Arts Center, author of many fine
collections of folk dances from many
lands, died on November 22 in Brook-
lyn, New York. She was among the
first to bring the idea of folk dancing
into the physical education programs
of the New York City public schools,
and was the first to organize the big
folk-dance festivals still conducted an-
nually in New York City’s parks.
Many recrcation leaders will remem-
ber Miss Burchenal’s workshops at sev-
eral National Recreation Congresses
and will recall with affection and re-
spect her boundless energy and enthusi-
asm that placed folk dancing among
the programing arts. The recreation
movemcnt owes her a debt of gratitude.

23

     
 

IF—

. .'. _

n

I 'l-

   

a.
‘i.

. I" I

Shelters were partially assembled in the reserve training center. Reservists on the floor in the left foreground are assem--
bling part of the shelter. In the background men are sawing wood for the shelters. 0n the right, two privates arc discuss-H
ing next step in the operation; behind them a staff sergeant and captain drop in to survey the project, see how it’s goingl':

   
  
 
  
   
   
   
    

COMMUNITY I  _  »
COOPERATIVE       

Here, the reservists begin building one of the bridges t
carry pedestrian tra175c to Lynch Field without having t
use heavily traveled Route 119. Rights-of-u'ay were secure
P R  from a railroad, an oil company, and a private individua

Army reserves join the local recreation
board in building shelters
for youngsters in Greensburg, Pennsylvania.

Wallace J. Kallaugher

(ireensburg recreation director Wallace Kallaugher (i
civvies) and personnel from the Army Reserves look ovc
the site of some of the buildings. The property of? t 1

the right was the donation of the Pennsylvania Railroa
I

24 RECREATION

country, Grecnsburg is ever faced with the problem

of stretching the budgct dollar. We have millions of
dollars worth of ideas but not the money to make them a
reality. Most of the money goes for leadership, which is as
it should be, and the rest for maintenance and program.
Capital improvcment was something needed and talked
about but out of the question, until a benefactor left the
Greensburg Recreation Board a yearly income, which im-
mediately was earmarkcd for capital improvement. In spite
of the income, there wasn’t enough to do what had to be
done——the building of new shelters, bridges, masonry work.
Sharpening our pencils, we found that we had enough to
buy the material, but the high cost of labor was something
else again. How did we meet this problem?

In the fall of 1958, I went to see Major Tex Meyers,
Senior Unit Advisor of the Greensburg Area Army Reserves
to inquire about the possibility of using the Army Engineer

I IKE MANY RECREATION departments throughout the

MR. KALLAUGHER is director of recreation in Greensburg.

-_£_-

 

..-- 'd w 

A shelter goes up! Here, the reservists assemble one of
the shelters. One group tackles putting on the roof while
another group-’worhs on the lower part of the building.
The result is fine array of new shelters for the community.

 

Reservists begin to lay the foundations for another bridge
to the park. All material and equipment were furnished
by recreation board. Army supplied manpower and pro-
fessional stag. New cooperative projects are in oping.

JANUARY 1960

Reserve in a joint community project. They could help in
the building of structurcs needed for the normal function-
ing of our dcpartmcnt. Our request was approved and a
meeting was set up with the oflicers and men of Company A
of the 326th Engineering Battalion under thc command of
Captain Koloney.

An agreement was reached that all material and equip-
ment would be furnished by the recreation board; the army
would supply the manpower and professional staff. Two
drills were schedulcd a month for thesc projects; one on
Wednesday evening in which rafters and other features were
assembled and the following Sunday for putting the struc-
tures together. In addition to the shelters, bridges were
built at points crossing Jack Run, thus allowing pedestrian
traffic access to our Lynch Field Park without using heavily
traveled Route 119.

New plans for new projects have recently been discussed
with the army and Greensburg will further benefit by the
cooperation and community spirit shown to us by this
branch of the armed services. #

 

‘
t '*
.6». ’F
a“
I!
1

One of the bridges nears completion as reservists tighten
guard rails and finish of} approaches with gravel. At the
far end of the bridge some of the men are cleaning up; on
the near side others load gravel for approach to bridge.

 

-‘_I

Reservists

Here is a completed shelter at Northmont.
were all members of Company A 326th Construction Bat-r
talion, stationed at Greensburg. The project began in
1958, was finished in time for use in summer of 1959.

25

RECREATION
FOR THE ILL AND HANDICAPPED

Beatrice H. Hill

the recreation personnel working

with the ill and handicapped will
have hospital jobs. This may seem like
rank defeatism on the part of a person
who has devoted more than twenty
years to promoting hospital recreation,
but it is just the opposite.

What I mean by my prediction is
that modern concepts of comprehensive
rehabilitation are creating a growing
demand for professional recreation
services for the ill and handicapped—
wherever they may be. The broad
world of medicine is beginning to rec-
ognize the fact that patients in nursing
homes, homes for the aged, home-bound
programs, and rehabilitation programs
need recreation services. Some of us
even venture to predict the day isn’t far
off when more and more of the commu-
nities and industries where the handi-
capped live and work will look for help
in providing handicapped persons with
opportunities to live more fully and be
more productive.

So when I say that fewer than half
of today’s hospital recreation workers
will be working in the hospital setting
ten years from now, it isn’t bccause hos-
pital rccreation is on the way out, but
because new career opportunities in
recreation for the ill and handicapped
are on thc way in. First, let’s take a
look at what’s been happening in recre-
ation for the ill and handicapped aged.

Government statistics show that there
are some twenty-five thousand prOpri-

IN TEN YEARS time fewer than half

etary nursing homes in this country.
These nursing homes house approxi-
mately four hundred and fifty thousand

—-—I——- 1’ _-———-—..‘

MRS. HILL is director, National Rec-
reation Association Consulting Service

on Recreation for the Ill and Handi-
capped.

26

so-called guests. Two years ago, the
National Recreation Association’s Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the
Ill and Handicapped found that less
than one percent of these nursing
homes offered their patients a regularly
scheduled recreation program. The
Consulting Service knew recreation was
a vital necessity to these patients, and
many of the nursing home proprietors
knew it, too. But they said they just
couldn’t afford professional help in pro-
viding recreation services to their pa-
tients. “After all,” they argued, “with
the average home housing only eight-
een patients, it just isn’t economically

feasible.”

The staff of the Consulting Service
chewed on this bitter pill, swallowed it,
and digested it. Then it set up a series
of pilot projects to demonstrate the eco-
nomic feasibility of coordinated rec-
reation programs for nursing homes.
These pilot projects were carried out
in Ncw York City; Westchester County,
New York; and Connecticut.

In each of thcse locaiities, Consulting
Scrvice staff members prevailcd on four
to six nursing home proprietors to
share the cost of (1) “heavy equip-
ment,” such as phonographs, rccords,
niovie projectors, screcns, and the like,
to be used in cach of the homes on a
rotating basis; and (2) the salary of
a profcssional recreation worker to re-
cruit, screcn, train, and supervise the
work of volunteers in cach of the par-
ticipating honics.

At the cnd of the year, dctailed re-
ports of these pilot projccts were pub-
lished in scvcral national professional
nursing home journals. Rcsults were
phenomenal. Requests for assistance in
setting up similar programs poured in
to the Consulting Servicc from all ovcr

the country. Since then it has helped set
up projects in numerous states through-
out the country, and is in the process
of responding to additional requests for
help in getting coordinated recreation
programs under way in hundreds of
nursing homes.

For example, the New Jersey Associ-
ation of Nursing Homes asked for help
in establishing coordinated recreation
programs in all one hundred and twen-
ty-five of its member homes. To date,
the Consulting Service has placed four
professional workers among thirty of
these homes. Their salaries range from
fifty-two hundred to six thousand dol-
lars.

Ill Philadelphia, where the Consult-
ing Service is deveIOping coordinated
programs for twenty-two
homes, the recreation director has been
cngaged at sixty-live hundrcd dollars.
Approximately forty-live hundred dol-
lars is in the budget for each of the
two assistants who will join the project

nursing

shortly.

In other words, the new era in rec-
rcation for the ill and handicapped in-
cludes aiming for better salarics for
recrcation workcrs. Alrcady the nurs-
ing homes are competing for the serv-
iccs of spccialists in this huge new field
of recreation; the competition will

grow. Think what this Incans in [CI‘IIIS\ 1

of salary levels!

Nor SATISFIED with thc success of its
coordinated rccrcation program
idea in relation to nursing homes, the
Consulting Scrvicc has several othcr
dcnionstration projects working. These
arc dcsigncd to bring recrcation scrv-
iccs to the ill and handicapped in many
placcs besides hospitals and nursing
lIOIIICS. Such projects as thosc that fol-

RECREATION

I
l

low will open up career opportunities
galore.

The Sussex County Project. Because
many rural communities have too few
private nursing homes to make sharing
of costs practical, the Consulting Serv-
ice has set up a demonstration project
involving a community general hOSpi-
tal, the county welfare home, and four
proprietary nursing homes in Sussex

County, New Jersey. ( See “Recreation
[or the III, Handicapped, and Aged,”

RECREATION, October 1959, Page 334.)

The director of this project will soon
engage an assistant, whose job it will
be to develop recreation services for the
home-bound and the boarding-home
residents of this rural area.

The Monroe County Project. The
Consulting Service is currently work-
ing with the city of Rochester, New
York, to develop a program with a large
professional staff, to service all the hos-
pitals and nursing homes in Monroe
County. A similar program in Albany,
New York, is in the planning stage.
The Rochester project is attempting to
limit each worker to about six institu-
tions within reasonable distance of
each other. Since the worker should
not be responsible for more than three
hundred patients, each is assigned to a
number of institutions with a total cen-
sus of three hundred or less. The Con-
sulting Service tackled this project to
demonstrate the practicability of setting
up coordinated recreation programs for
small towns and cities as well as for
rural communities and groups of pro-
prietary nursing homes.

The Home-bound Project. Under a
grant from the Office of Vocational Re-
habilitation in Washington, D. C., the
Consulting Service will demonstrate
ways in which recreation personnel can
collaborate with a visiting nurse service
and a hospital with a home-care pro-
gram to bring recreation to the home-
bound ill and handicapped. It hopes
also to show how the home-bound can
be brought into participation in com-
munity recreation programs. This
three-year project is scheduled to begin
some time in the next few months.

JANUARY 1960

 

The Sheltered Workshop Project.
This study, to determine the need for
recreation services among clients of
sheltered workshops, began in August
1959 under another grant from the 0f-
fice of Vocational Rehabilitation. The
objective is to arrive at some practical,
down-to-earth recommendations for us-
ing recreation as a force in enriching
the lives, and perhaps increasing the
productivity of, handicapped workers
in sheltered industry. The Consulting
Service then hopes to carry out these
recommendations to actually prove
their value. So far, findings indicate
that recreation services in this area
should be mainly on an advisory or
counseling level, to help clients take
advantage of opportunities for social
rehabilitation through available com-
munity resources.

IN ADDITION to these projects, the Con-

sulting Service is keeping an eye on
other areas where opportunities for ca-
reers in recreation for the ill and handi-
capped may be expected to arise. For
example, playground leaders want to
know how to set up programs for handi-
capped children. Many want to know
where to find professional recreation
workers skilled in working with the
handicapped. The Consulting Service
has been gathering data in playgrounds
and camps throughout the country,
and finds that an increasing number of
them include handicapped children in
their programs. At present, three hun-
dred camps and one hundred and twen-
ty-eight playgrounds offer this service.
There is evidence that this trend will
continue and that career opportunities
in this area will increase.

The much publicized Bill for Inde-
pendent Living (HR. 3465) indicates
a broadening interest in meeting the re-
habilitation needs of handicapped per-
sons not potentially employable. When
this bill becomes law, persons who are
not now capable of realizing benefits
from occupational and vocational ther-
apy will undoubtedly be entitled to re-
ceive activity therapy.

A congressional committee ( of which
the author is a member) will explore
unmet needs in the areas of the handi-

In The Next Ten Years

 

capped and chronically ill of all ages
and develop ways and means for the
government to help to meet these needs.
It goes without saying that, here again,
are unexplored career opportunities.

The work being done at Fountain
House, New York City, and in the mu-
nicipal recreation department of Kan-
sas City, points the way for social re-
habilitation of the physically and the
mentally ill. With increased emphasis
on recreation counseling for patients
before and after discharge from hospi-
tals, new positions are opening up for
recreation specialists in rehabilitation
centers, half-way houses, and the like.
WorkshOps and schools for the mental-
ly retarded and the emotionally dis-
turbed are asking for help in providing
recreation services to meet the special
needs of their clients.

You must agree that the present and
future career opportunities are wonder-
fully promising and challenging. The
new era is here! The tragedy is that we
are not quite ready for it. Even now,
there are not enough qualified recrea-
tion people to fill the positions that
exist. How, then, are we to produce
enough recreation workers for the new
era?

AT THIS POINT the crystal ball grows

cloudy. Peering through the murk,
I see that our first and foremost profes-
sional responsibility is to find an an-
swer to this question by taking three-
basic steps: (1) we must join forces in
a single determined movement dedi-
eated to the formulation of a working
philosophy embracing present and fu-
ture meanings of recreation for the ill
and handicapped; (2) we must develop
a unified concept of education for the
recreation specialist of the future; and
(3) we must design an effective recruit-
ment campaign to attract well-qualified
young people to the profession.

We must also come to terms with our-
selves and with each other to solidly
establish recreation for the ill and hand-
icapped as a recognized professional
discipline. If we do not chart our own
course, others will do it for us, lead-
ing us into heaven knows what dark
waters. #

27‘

VETS WITH VOLUNTEERS

 

American Legion Auxiliary volunteers
assist in education therapy. Here, they
are teaching typing and geography.

HE STAFF OF THE Veterans Ad-
T ministration Hospital at Salis-

bury, North Carolina, are suc-
cessful and seasoned veterans in the
meaningful use of volunteers. This
story tells how, through a carefully
worked at and worked out system, vol-

unteers can be used to distinct advan-
tage, to both themselves and the pa-

MR. HAY represents the National Rec-
reation Association in the Southern
District.

tients. Awards for meritorious service
go to the former; rewards of a life-
worth-living go to the patient, some-
times a volunteer himself.

Citizens of the Salisbury area,
through various groups-—-not the least
of which is the city recreation depart-
ment—work closely with the hospital.
Volunteers come from several counties
and a number of cities within a radius
of over sixty miles. As a result, total
number of volunteers is approximately
five thousand.

Five thousand volunteers in a year’s
time sounds like a dream or a tall tale.
To top this is the news that they all
work and make real and lasting contri-
butions. Much is due, in part, to the
fine way this program is handled. The
recruitment, training, and handling of
volunteers—giving them a real job to
do that is rewarding in itself—goes a
long way. The hospital’s method of
awards, by means of an annual recog-
nition program, adds stimulation to
this outstanding volunteer effort as well
as the personal touch that means suc-
cess. Some individual volunteers have
given hundreds of hours, some several

\Villiam M. Hay

thousand hours, and at least one, more
than ten thousand hours. Organiza-
tions have given a minimum of four,
eight, and twelve annual programs in
special activities for which they receive
special certificates of recognition.

The story of the value of volunteers
in the recreation program has been
expounded over and over. Sometimes it
is accompanied by a sigh of misgiving
and a look of doubt, but at the Salis-
bury Veterans Hospital positive use of
volunteers reaches a peak through the
Veterans Administration Volunteer
Service.

“They do things the regular staff
cannot do. Without the staff for the
core program, however, volunteers
would be fairly useless. With a good
staff, the volunteers can provide em.
bellishments to the core program that
are like icing on the cake, or spice in
the pudding, so to speak.” These are
the enthusiastic words of M. R. Brown-
lee. chief of special service.

Like any fruitful effort, the use of
volunteers does not come easily or
without careful planning, good public
relations, training and assisting the

Volunteer Service Committee representatives gather for meeting. Volunteers must be trained for most effective use.

 

28

g.

‘0

’t’

C .

'1

.5!
.73'3

' 1-

RECREATION

 

 

Volunteers receive certificates and pins at recognition ceremony.

volunteers, and recognition. Personal
recognition and appreciation are pri-
mary requisites, and the keys to the
success of any volunteer program.

Mr. Brownlee explained some of the
mechanics that make the machinery go
at Salisbury. He emphasized the im-
portance of first having a well-trained
professional staff to work with the
volunteers: “This program could not
have got off the ground without them.”
The stafi must be prepared to use the
volunteers, and the volunteers trained
to work with the staff, on specific as-
signments for which they are recruited.
This is done through special training
for both, a continuing process by
means of special institutes and staff
meetings. After the orientation course,
applicants are screened to see if they
fit into one of the established categor-
ies. The first ten hours of service pro-
vide a probationary period to see if
the volunteer can do this important
job.

In order to attract people of special
talents for specific jobs, a carefully
prepared booklet Assignment Guide
for Recruitment of Volunteer Workers
is in use. Contained therein are more
than thirty assigment guides. Each
sets out the nature of the job, skills
needed, duties, personal character-
istics, and person to whom the volun-
teer is responsible. This booklet is
first distributed to the VAVS commit-
tee, composed of representatives from
the various civic, service, church, and
fraternal organizations. Each commit-
tee member takes the Guide for Re-
cruitment to his organization for help

JANUARY 1960

Member or-
ganizations send people from their
own ranks to serve, while the organi-
zation operates as a volunteer group.
The VAVS committee meets eight
times each year regularly and on spe-

in securing volunteers.

cial occasions. Its work is accomplished
through subcommittees, which are as
follows: program and publicity, social
activities, Christmas gift wrapping,
flower, reviewing, patient gifts, carni-
val, hospital day, Veterans Day, volun-
teer awards, and recruitment.

These various committees work on
special assignments the year round, or
at the time indicated by seasonal pro-
grams. Some of these major events
call for additional volunteers and
considerable time. Then, the various
organizations will provide an outing,
picnic, party, trip, or an activity of
some sort for which it is solely respon-
sible in planning, executing, and fi-
nancing. The volunteer working in the
ward gives an afternoon or evening
once a week, while the organization
helps several times during the year.

The individual volunteers who come
to thc hOSpital for special assignments
work closely with the staff. The values
are not limited to an activity such as
crafts, or sports, or dancing. The per-
sonal association of the volunteer with
the patient is very worthwhile. An
outside person—not regular staff—
with a fresh approach gets a greater
response. “This is part of the job the
volunteer does that a staff person can-
not do,” Mr. Brownlee explains.

The volunteers working the wards
on individual assignments are invited

to attend medical staff meetings. Here,
they learn more about various types of
patients. In turn, the professional staff
gains first-hand information from the
volunteer, benefiting from his some-
times intimate person-to-person con-
tact with the various patients. Dona-
tions provide canteen books for pa-
tients without funds.

Volunteer service opportunities are
not limited to nonpatients, but are
open to some “open-ward patients” as
well. They can, and do, serve through
the hospital’s “Helping Hand Society.”
These volunteers go even further with
the person-to-person aspect of the
volunteers than any others. They are
able to get closer to other patients and
secure a response more readily. This
is particularly true with the “continu-
ous treatment” patient. The society
chose its own name and drew up its
own constitution. It contains ten to
twenty members, who remain members
even after discharge from the hospital.

Patient Sam Smith (fictitious names
for patients are used throughout) be-
came a member-employee and worked
in the recreation service where he
supervised volunteers. Later, through
a volunteer, he became a supervisor of
a playground in the city. He is now
attached to a college physical educa-
tion staff. Bob Jones, through volun-
teers, worked in a supervisory capa-
city for a local hatchery. He now
operates his own service station.

These two stories reveal, to some ex-
tent, the manner in which the total
volunteer program bridges the gap
from hospital to community life.
Volunteers in the surrounding com-
munity are invariably willing to as-
sist the discharged patient in his social
and economic adjustment to home life.

This method has much to offer any
organization, public or private. More
cfiective and fuller use of-volunteers
can be realized. If you are not using
them, then find out more about this
excellent method of the Veterans Ad-
ministration Hospital at Salisbury,
North Carolina. #

29

RECREATION AN

A PROTESTANT VIEW

Earl R. Barr

changes in the traditional programs of the church.

With leisure time increasing, many persons will de-
mand more and different activities in the church. The use
of leisure time calls for skills that many persons have not
developed. To call forth these skills will be the task of the
church and the recreation specialists. In the creation of
such programs and skills, churches may need to re-examine
their use of staff and time.

Traditionally, the Protestant church relies on its clergy-
man to serve as preacher, pastor, administrator, and pro-
gram director. Continuously the clergyman discovers that,
while the first two portions of his responsibility receive
less of his time, his training has centered on these activities.
The individual clergyman may be able to coach basketball,
teach photography, or guide golden-age activities, but rarely
can he do all three. This means the church can meet the
challenge by adding to its staff a recreation-trained person
or by accepting partial responsibility for a community pro-
gram.

Since many churches lack sufficient financial resources
for a program and do not have enough persons in any one
age level for adequate grouping, recreation leaders may be
asked to deve10p programs for different ages, using total
resources of several churches. For example, in one com-
munity several churches have worked together to set up a
program for each age group in the community. One church
operates an after-school program for children from eight
to twelve years; a second church staffs a center for teen-
agers, and the third has developed a program for older peo-
ple. In a situation such as this a trained worker could help
and supervise church volunteers in programs for the vary-
ing age groups.

In “the church or in the community, the recreation di-
rector will play a more meaningful role. The passage of
needed laws against child labor, the increase in employed
women, and growing urbanization make it difficult for teen-
agers to find part-time work. Tasks or chores around the

CHANGING PATTERNS OF work and leisure will require

MR. BARR is executive secretary, Department of Christian
Education, The Protestant Council of the City of New York.

30

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
  

house have decreased rapidly in this era of appliances. This
places a responsibility upon recreation as a learning ex-
perience, for in his play a youth learns how to relate to
others. In his hobby-shop activity, he learns how to work
for the pleasure of the task. In planning activities in rec-
reation, he learns to plan, to make a realistic budget, and
to evaluate a program’s effectiveness. Here, the recreation
director in the community or on a church staff will serve
as guide, teacher, and friend as youth learns these aspects
of adult life.

Coupled to the need for staff is the challenge of “shift”
and weekend work. Churches tend to center religious ac-
tivities on Sunday mornings. The need for worship services
at varied times may force the clergyman to limit his role
to the first two parts of his function. In addition to the
change in worship scheduling, the varied work patterns may
mean that recreation staff persons and facilities should be
available at different hours. Adults might enjoy recreation
opportunities in the morning or late at night. Programs for
parents may be possible during the school hours if the father
works the four to twelve shift. Church and recreation lead-
ers will need to think through the possibilities in the chang-
ing work hours. -

Another church recreation custom has been to design
programs for age groups. Some churches have instituted
family nights, but these programs mean that the family
comes to the church and is separated into age-level activi-
ties. Possibly the church contributes to family life dis-
ruption through this type of program. Juvenile delinquency
serves as a violent indicator that family life in our society
needs strengthening; one explanation offered for delinquent
behavior stresses the failure of parents to provide adequate
“images” for juvenile identification. The urban society,
the commuting society, and the age-level recreation rein-
force the pattern of individual activity. Children and adults
need activities to permit interaction. Children and parents
rarely work or learn together, but the church can provide
opportunities for other experiences for families. Worship
for families has become a part of many churches, but rec-
reation for a family has not.

Family recreation could provide an opportunity for chil-
dren and parents to discover each other as persons. 111
today’s culture children rarely see how parents relate to
adults, how parents solve problems, how working together
strengthens family ties. Last summer the writer participate
in a family folk game. Children over five years joined with
adults over seventy to play. For both, this game provide
a meaningful opportunity to know more about each other.
In this particular group the adults remained adults relating
to children. Our families need many opportunities to play

RECREATIO

I In The Next Ten Years I

HURCH GROUPS

together, but the church and the recreation leaders have
not provided such. During the next decade, the church will
need the help of recreation leaders to provide programs for
family unit leisure time.

Finally, the church will need more lay leadership to guide
and to aid these new activities. One of the basic problems
in any local church is leadership. Hopefully, recreation
workers could aid the church in training leaders by helping
adults and teenagers learn the skills of committee work,

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
 

A CATHOLIC VIEW

Maurice M. Hartmann, PILD.

 

a"

In attempting to Speculate upon the theme of this sym-

posium from the point of view of Catholics, it is helpful
to base our predictions upon the Catholic attitude towards
leisure time and recreation. This attitude was touched upon
by His Holiness Pope John XXIII in a letter written in
September 1959: “According to the Christian vision of
life, all time—working and leisure time-——is a value en-
trusted by God to the freedom of man, who must utilize
it to the glory of God Himself and for the greater perfec-
tion of his own person. . . .
The Catholic bishops of the United States in 1932 stated
' hat “leisure time should be used only for wholesome en-
'oyment and entertainment, such as one may look back to
vith a good conscience and a satisfied heart. To our own
eople we appeal that they should further resolve to use
art, at least, of their leisure time in attendance at daily
VIass; in frequenting the other services of the church and
indeavoring to acquaint themselves with the meaning and
he message to them of the liturgical year.”

The Catholic views leisure time as an occasion for whole-
some recreation not merely in the narrow sense of the word
)ut also in its broadest sensc—as an Opportunity for a
'uller family life, for worship, for cultural, social, and Spir-
tual growth, for the development of the whole man.

The concept of Recreation permeatcs all Catholic rec-

eation—Catholic Youth Councils, CYO’s, Catholic Young
\dult Clubs, day and summer camps, recreation programs

 

9R. HARTMANN is director of program for the National
' -'atholic Community Service, Washington, D. C.

ammnv 1060

the planning and administering of programs in recreation.
Skills learned in this process would enlarge the church’s
pool of leaders.

The church will need help in the next ten years to con-
tinue its total ministry, in the name of God, to all men.
Man’s use of his leisure time may well indicate what im-
pact the church has upon our society. To make this impact
a creative one, the church will call upon persons trained in
recreation.

of schools, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, parish
and diocesan social activities, and so on.

During the next few years, we can look forward confi-
dently to a continued growth of these activities and organ-
izations. Programs for youth will increase in number, vari-
ety, and participation. There will be an even more greatly
accelerated development of recreation for adults, including
those in the golden years of their lives. During the next
decade there will also probably be a noteworthy increase in
activities engaged in by family groups, both inside and
away from their homes.

It is expected that the members of the armed forces of
the United States and dependent members of their families
will be numbered in the millions during the foreseeable fu-
ture. No doubt, therefore, the National Catholic Commu-
nity Service, as a member agency of USO, will continue to
employ a large number of professional workers to help meet
the leisure-time needs of the military.

Certainly, the overall increase in leisure time will result
in an increased use of trained and experienced recreation
workers in church-related activities. There will be more
diocesan directors of recreation, coaches, playground su-
pervisors, camp counselors. Also more volunteers will do-
nate their time to recreation.

Catholic youth councils and other Catholic groups, or-
ganized locally and nationally under the National Council
of Catholic Youth, will undoubtedly increase in number.
The Right Reverend Monsignor Joseph E. Schieder, director
of the Youth Department of the National Catholic Welfare
Conference, in which the National Council of Catholic
Youth is based, recently stated that in the last two years
there has been an explosive increase in the number of dio-
cesan youth councils and an even greater increase in the
number of parish youth councils.

“The NCCY program, executed on the diocesan and paro-
chial levels, encourages a highly Christian use of leisure.
not only among the youth on which it focuses primarily,
but also among those professional persons and adult ad-
viscrs which it engages,” said Monsignor Scllieder to this

31

writer. “The proper use of leisure time must be understood
as a formative process for young people. Thus the fourfold
program covering the youth’s spiritual, cultural, social, and
physical activities relates integrally to his development as
a competent and mature Christian, whose adult use of his
leisure will reflect the good patterns of his youth. This
concept, plus our recent experience, permits us to project
validly that the next three to five years will see an almost
maximum introduction of the council plan.”

There will be other changes, of course. But, during the

 

A JEWISH VIEW

Sanford Solender

 

Few problems today are more perplexing than the all-
pervasive crises in values. Social philos0phers decry the
lack of a sense of purpose in our social and political organ-
ization. Peeple hesitate, in doubt about the values with
which to guide their actions. Youth is left bewildered by
the inability of adults to resolve this dilemma.

Perhaps it is a fortuitous circumstance that this condi-
tion emerges at the same time that man’s leisure is on the
increase. Expanding recreation programs to fill this new
leisure can be vehicles for helping people to find answers to
their search for values.

As people play together in physical education, cultural,
or social activities, leaders have an incomparable oppor-
tunity to deal with these sensitive points of urgent need.
Doubts and confusions about values can be brought to the
fore and considered where they have a direct impact upon
daily living. Skillful leadership has the chance here to in-
fluence substantially the judgments of pe0ple in small and
large areas of concern.

All recreation—whatever its auspices—can deal impor-
tantly with this problem. Recreation programs under sec-
tarian sponsorship have an additional impetus—and a vital
resource—for attacking this need. The moral and social

MR. SOLENDER is director of the Jewish Community Center
Division, National Jewish Welfare Board, New York City.

Looking ahead ten years,

from the ever—present danger of war, we stand on
the threshold of the 1960's aware that leisure will
be one of the major problems and one of the perti—

nent questions in the Western World. I think you
had better be ready for the challenge that will be
imposed on you.——HOMER C. WADSWORTH,

President's Advisory Committee on the Fitness of

American Youth.

32

I believe that, apart

 

next ten years, it is likely that they will be quantitative and
qualitative rather than related to essentialities or basic
structure. In recreation there will still be an emphasis upon
wholesomeness, moderation, morality. There will be an un-
derstanding that increased leisure time provides opportuni-
ties not only for rec-reation but also for re-creation—mental
and spiritual, as well as physical and social. Above all,
primary emphasis will be directed, as always, towards the
direct or indirect objective of the sanctification of souls—
in recreation as in every Catholic activity.

 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  

goals animating the establishment of their programs pro-
vide the motive power for their concern here. The rich
value reservoir inherent in the way of life they aim to com-
municate can have enormous relevance and meaning for
participants. It is for the leaders of such programs to find
the consummate skill which will enable them to convey this
effectively to participants. Given a profound respect for
human diversity, a commitment to the right of each person
to find his own way, and keen insight into the aspirations
and needs of the human personality, leaders of sectarian
recreation programs can make a telling contribution to this
great need of our times.

Jewish community centers and Young Men’s and Young
Women’s Hebrew Associations exemplify the translation 0
these purposes into action. These organizations afford op-
portunities for persons of all ages to make creative use of
their leisure through rewarding group associations. Com-
petent leadership enables members to derive enjoyment
from varied recreation pursuits, along with the rich moral
and social learnings inherent in these experiences.

Thesc centers and YM and YWHA’s employ leisure-time
programs to further their members’ well-rounded develop-
ment. Members are aided to find fulfillment as Americans
and as chs through identification, knowledge, and partici-
pation in respect to both of these integral facets of their
lives. Activities based upon civic concerns and communit}
living further their sense of the meaning of democracy.
Programs drawing upon their Jewish heritage enable them
to comprehend the vital ethical and social values inheren
in their religion, history, art forms, and experience as a
people. Combined with appreciation of the harmony 0
these values with thc American democratic tradition, thi
understanding of their Jewishncss significantly strengthen
the capacity of Jews to meet the pressing challengcs of lif

today. #

chairman,

Recamno.

LOCAL

AND

STATE
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

CALIFORNIA. Under a triparty interagency agreement
335 acres of brushland have been cleared to provide a
“browseway” for propagation of deer in the Sierra Pelona
region of Angeles National Forest. “Browseway” is a newly
coined word among foresters and game wardens to denote
an area established especially for wildlife habitat feeding.
The U. S. Forest Service, the Los Angeles County Fish and
Game Commission, and the Los Angeles County Department
of Parks and Recreation have joined forces to provide bet-
ter foraging areas for deer. The commission is providing
funds for the three-year development program. With the
first year’s allotment of $6,500 the Forest Service cleared
125 acres of brush in checkerboard pattern and 50 miles of
strip (the equivalent of 200 acres) and mashed ten acres
of brush for burning. This cleared area will be seeded to
provide a feeding area.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

HAWAII. The Honolulu Zoo has a new memorial drinking
fountain, set up as a unit with masonry picnic tables and
benches, financed by funds willed by Mrs. Clara Moore
Tower, at one time a storyteller for the recreation division.
Mrs. Tower left funds for a fountain for dogs and people
in Kapiolani Park. Since dogs are not encouraged to come
in the park it was decided to set up the fountain in the zoo.

Waipahu Field, in Honolulu, now has a completely por-
celain-enameled comfort station, first of its kind in the is-
lands. The parks and recreation department hopes that this
type of structure will withstand vandalism. According to
DcLos A. Seeley, director of planning and construction, the
building, with its roof and walls of porcelainized enameled
steel panels, should be practically indestructible. Since the
color is fused into the enamel no painting is necessary and
therc will be no fading; maintenancc is also simplificd. The
lightweight structure is particularly suitable for unstable
ground conditions such as exist at the Waipahu park site.

I

NORTH CAROLINA. With funds from $550,000 general-
obligation bond issue passed in 1955, Wilson now has a new
forty-thousand-square-foot community center; was able to
improve a recreation building dating from WPA days, add-
ing twenty-five thousand square feet to it; and built a

. 83,000 fan-shaped swimming pool, 68’-by-45'-by-105’ (an

JANUARY 1960

additional apprOpriation from the general fund helped with
the latter). Burt Gillette, director of parks and recreation,
and his staff are now develOping fifty acres of parkland and
installing lighted fields. Plans for 1960 call for additional
land acquisition and lighting another field. All development
at the present time will be neighborhood areas, no large
parks. Later, attention will turn to a large outlying area as
a major development.

The park and recreation department is proud of its new
128’-by-114«’, laminated-truss gym which can accommodate
anything from a basketball game to club conventions. The
gym has two full-size basketball courts plus the main court.
It also has a self-supporting health club complete with mas-
seur and steam bath.

The department’s tcen club program is also virtually self-
supporting except for supervision. The teen-agers were
able to pay for their own equipment with money from con-
cessions and fees from pool-table charges and record rental,
as well as to donate a hundred-dollar scholarship to the high
school. Teen activities go on every day and on Friday and
Saturday nights. The original bowling area was given a
smooth-trowel finish for skating and dancing parties. A
rifle range will be set up adjacent to the teen area, with an
archery range to come. Plexiglas windows will separate
the areas.

The Wilson department also boasts a seven-acre day camp
occupying the last wooded area left inside the city. Lest
anybody has any designs on this precious area he had better
be prepared to run Mr. Gillette out of town. (He seems
firmly entrenched, having just been elected president of the
North Carolina Recreation Society.)

TEXAS. W. Cecil Winters, superintendent of parks and

recreation in Garland feels his city needs a park-and-rec-
reation bond issue every two years “to keep up, not
catch up” with a steadily growing population and increasing
demand for areas and facilities. In the past year Garland
has developed five neighborhood park and playground
areas, exhausting funds from a $460,000 general-obligation
bond issue which also provided a recreation building, a
fifty-meter swimming pool and a major park site of approx-
imately 125 acres. The department has a staff of twelve
full-time and forty-five part-time personnel.

A new bird island is being developed on Copano Bay near
Bayside through the efforts of the Copano Sportsman’s Club.
The area covers about two‘hundred acres of shell bank near
the mouth of Mission Bay and is covered with scrub oak
and cactus. The club has asked that the land belonging to
the state he turned over to the National Audubon Society
as a sanctuary.

The Houston Parks and Recreation Department has taken
over on the responsibility for recreation activities on Lake
Houston. The lake covers 12,600 acres and is about four-
teen miles long. The department operates a lake-patrol boat,
manned by the park patrol. The boat is equipped with a
two-way radio operating through the Houston Police dis-
patcher frequency. (For further news of Houston’s rapid
expansion and future program see Page 11 #

33

GAMES OF THE HANDS

“These are old as human play itself . . .’

Frequently a small party or other in-
formal recreation gathering drags for
lack of planned, competitive 'amuse-
ment; or the setting may preclude ac-
tivities requiring special equipment or
facilities.
family of games that requires little or
no equipment nor previous experience.

“Games of the Hands,” activities

There exists, however, a

The Slapping Game. The Slapping
Game is a hilarious skill contest, involv-
ing strategy, reaction time, and the
guess factor. It is playable only in
pairs, members of the group matched in
any way desired. Each pair decides
who shall be on “offense” first. The
two combatants face each other, hands
and arms extended, elbows somewhat
bent. Hands are placed in a horizontal
plane at chest height, about one foot
to eighteen inches apart, with the fin-
gers relaxed, but extended.

The player first on defense places
his hands palms down, at the height,
width, and degree of extension he de-
sires; thus assuming the “on-guard”
position. The offensive player brings
his hands palms up to a point immedi-

9

played solely with the hands, are as old
as human play itself. Impromptu shill
contests of various sorts involving hand
movements are found in the culture of
many ethnic groups, their origins lost
in antiquity. In the United States, the
intermingling of various races and na-
tionalities has created a treasury of
games of many kinds. Five such games

ately below those of the defender, close,
but not touching.

The defender signals “ready,” and
the offensive player attempts to slap
either or both backs of the defender’s
hands, whichever and whenever he feels
success likely. The defender is allowed
to withdraw his hands quickly at any
time, to avoid being slapped, but must
return them to “on-guard” position
within a reasonable time.

Score is kept by the offensive player,
who counts aloud cumulatively, one
point for each slap, including two
points for a “double” (both hands si-
multaneously) until he slaps and misws.
A miss ends his turn on offense, and
rolcs are rcversed, the former defender
now doing the slapping, the previous

Glenn C. Dalllem

of the hands, all of an informal and

spontaneous nature, are listed here.

MR. DAIILEM completed his master’s

degree at Winona (Minnesota) Statel
College in 1959, now teaches sociali
studies and assists in coaching sports
at a Yakima, Washington, senior high
school. He is writing a cultural anthro-
pology of athletics and recreation.

offensive player assuming the palms
down “on-guard” position.

After the second player has missed
in a slapping attempt, the totals of each
are compared, the highcst declared win-
ner, and a new game commences. After
several games, such as two out of three
or four out of seven, winners of differ-
ent contests may be matched.

The Slapping Came becomes very
strategic; the offensive player has a
choice of right, left, double, or right
and left cross-slaps in his arsenal. Turn-
ing of the head and variations in timing
are also important strategic consider-
ations. The defcnder may withdraw his
hands in different directions or planes,
and at different times, to confusc the
offensive player.

 

Rock-Scissors-Paper. Rock-Scissors-
Paper may be played in pairs or trios.
Three hand positions are involved:
Rock, symbolized by clenched fists;
Scissors, represented by the index and
second fingcrs only, extendcd in the
shape of a scissors; and Paper, both
hands held Hat with all fingers extended.

Threc rules of precedence determine
victory, loss, or draw: Rock smashes

34

Seissors, Scissors cuts Paper, Paper
covers Rock; in other words, each hand
position defeats and loses to one of the
other two, and draws with itself.

The players sit facing each othcr,
and, when ready, the hands are placed
and withdrawn twice simultaneously
from the table or floor. Thc third si-
multaneous placing is a “showdown,”
and hands are left in the center of the

playing area, in one of thc three play-
ing positions. The winner becomes ap-
parcnt, and exacts a penalty from the
loser or losers with a two-fingered slap
on fleshy forearm. or on the forehead.
Rock-Scissors-Papcr may bc played in
rcgular fashion, with both hands Show-
ing the same symbol or “splits,” in
which two different combinations may
be givcn in the same game.

RECREATION

Button-Button. “Button, button,
who’s got the button?” is a group
guessing game involving deception and
alertness. It is best played in a grOUp
of ten to fifteen participants. The game
is of German origin.

Equipment used in this game is a
long thread, string, or cord, tied at the
ends; and a button, small spool, or
other object with a hole in the center
through which the cord passes. The
object must slide freely along the cord
and be easily concealed in a fist.

To organize play, a Leader and an

It are chosen. The players sit on the
floor in a circle, with the It in the cen-
ter. The Leader is also a member of
the circle. The string or cord passes
through the laps of the members of the
circle, who hold it in their fists. The
Leader is in possession of the button.
The activity commences when the
Leader passes the button from his fist
into that of the player on either side.
The button is then transferred from
player to player, with its location kept
secret from the It if possible. Faking
of passing and possession is permissi-

ble. When the Lcader feels the It is
thoroughly confused, he calls out, “But-
ton, button, who’s got the button?” Af-
ter this, all movement and faking of the
button ceases, and the It is compelled
to guess the button’s location. He
chooscs a likely player, who must show
the button if in his possession. If the
It has guessed correctly, he changes
places and roles with the player whom
he has caught. In event of a wrong
guess, It remains in the center; and the
player holding the button becomes a
new Leader.

 

Indian. Indian is a memory activity
played by means of signs made with
hands and fingers. It is suited to groups
of from six to fifteen. Members stand
in a circle, and each, in turn, demon-
strates and explains his or her Indian
Sign. The Indian Signs are hand-and-
finger portrayals of some phase of In-
dian life, such as a bow-shooting posi-
tion, wearing of feathered headdress,
delivering a war whoop, making the
sign of peace, waving a tomahawk, and
so on. Each member of the group is
given a chance to show his own sign

Pease Porridge Hot. Pease Porridge
Hot is a hand-clapping activity involv-
ing memory and reaction time. It is
played in pairs. This game requires
recitation of the old familiar nursery
rhyme at an accelerating tempo, prefer-
ably by a third party.

To organize play, the group is di-
vided into pairs, in any manner desired.
If an odd number is present, a particu-
lar individual is designated Caller; if
the group is even-numbered, different
members alternate as Caller. Members

and to observe that of every other.

To begin, one member of the group
is chosen Chief. When all are ready,
the Chief gives his own sign, followed
by that of one other player. The player
whose sign was given immediately re-
peats his own sign and gives that of any
other player, except that of the Chief,
who preceded him. The third player
immediately repeats his sign, and gives
that of a fourth player, who must like-
wise repeat and give a new sign, and
so on, until the last player is reached.
The last player repeats his sign and

of each pair stand or sit facing each
other about three feet apart.

The game is played by means of a
series of clapping actions, synchronized
with the words of the rhyme. The se-
quence of claps and words is boxed.

To begin a game, the Caller recites
the rhyme at a slow pace, and all pairs
execute the prescribed claps in cadence.
Succeeding repetitions of the rhyme be-
come faster and faster, until the Caller
can no longer say the words at an in-
creasing rate of speed. When this oc-

gives that of the Chief, and the game,
or round, is completed.

Very rarely does play go all the way
around in this manner, as someone in-
variably forgets the remaining signs or
gives one that has already been used.
In this event, the person breaking the
continuity is declared Goat, and after
being “scalped,” or penalized in some
manner, becomes Chief for the next
game. Players should be encouraged
to speed up play, as the faster the signs
are given the more pressure is put on
the memory.

curs, he becomes silent, and the pairs
increase the speed of their clapping, if
this is possible, at their own rate.
Victory is determined, within indi-
vidual pairs, when a player misses, or
executes a wrong clap. The offender
must drop out of that game, and admit
defeat. The winner within the pair that
lasts the longest is the champion of the
entire group. After several games, it is
desirable to swap opponents with a
nearby pair. This game is an excellent
icebreaker for a mixer, using couples.

 

Sequence of Words and Claps for Pease, Porridge, Hot.

WORDS: Pease porridge
CLAPS: (1 ) own hands on (2) own hands together,
own thighs chest height
Pease porridge
(4) own hands on (5) own hands together,
own thighs chest height
Pease porridge in the pot nine
(7) thighs (8) together (9) own right to (10) together
opponent s
right
Some like it
(13) thighs (14) together
Some like it
(16) thighs (17) togther .
Some like it in the pot nine
(19) thighs (20) together (21) rights (22) together

hot,
(3) both hands to opponent’s,
chest height
cold,
(6) both hands to opponent’s,
chest height
days old,
(11) own ()2) both
left to to
opponent’s both
left
hot,
(15) both to both
cold,
(18) both to both
days old.
(23) lefts (24) both
to both

W

JANUARY 1960

35

Paul Opperman

THE
COMPETITION
FOR LAND . . .

How It Affects

Recreation

Exploding Cities and Regions
WE ARE ACCUSTOMED these days to dramatic phrases

and startling statistics affecting our communities.

I hope we do not become insensitive to their mean-
ing simply because they are repeated so often and so vigor-
ously, at all times and on all occasions.

A friend who visited Chicago recently left a report with
me on recreation that included some of the most startling
p0pulation forecasts I have seen. In the report’s quoted
United States Census p0pulation forecast for 1975 is a high
national figure of 228,500,000. The high forecast for thc
year 2000 is 300,000,000, the low is 245,000,000. A fore-
cast for the year 2050 has a low of 300,000,000, a mean of
375,000,000, and a high forccast of 450,000,000 inhabitants.

This report also contained a table on recreation use of
California’s national parks and forests, with projections into
the year 2050. In 1946 there were 23,000,000 actual visitor
days; in 1955, 35,500,000. The estimate for 1975 is 109,-
000,000 visitor days. All figures included highway users.
The 1975 estimated figure cited is, of course, three times

the 1955 figure. The projection to the year 2050 is 450,-
000,000 visitor days!

Taking Stock

Some of you will remember that students and practition-
ers of both recreation and planning benefited from the fact-
gathering and analysis that went on during the days of the
depression in the mid-1930’s. That was a quarter of a cen-
tury ago. The picture of recreation in the United States
was very sobering by today’s standards and so was that of
city planning. Measured against the conditions today, it
can be truly said that the record of those earlier years us-
tifies the queries: Did we then have a recreation program?
Did we have any city planning in those days?

There are some heartening signs at the present time in

 

MR. OPPERMAN is executive director of the Northeastern
Illinois Metropolitan Area Planning Commission, Chicago.
The article is a condensation of a paper he presented at the
4Ist National Rccreation Congress held in Chicago, 1959.

36

 

Metropolitan areas mean high concentrations of peopl
and high concentrations of land-and-improvement values.

the growth and acceptance of your field and mine, even if
we admit to one another that today the tasks assigned rec-
reation people, and to planners as well, seem almost over-
whelming. All these years the National Recreation Asso-
ciation and its affiliated persons and organizations have
been at work developing the concepts of today’s far-flung
recreation “empire” (forgive the word). Thc Association
has been developing a strong corps of professional and lay
leadership; it has been formulating principles and stand-
ards and tcsting them in countless operating programs. Very
distinguished performances have been turned in by indi-
viduals, by communities, by many recreation departments.
and, of course, some are not up to par. Generally there is
real s0phistication in recreation today—in knowing the
problems, in tackling the “market demand,” a dcmand that
is tremendous and one growing without any signs of letup.

The rcsources and conservation people support planning
and rccreation objectives and programs. They have been
loyal allies over the years and have been coming closcr as
the country and time and distance have been shrinking. The
work of the Resources for the Future organization is a casc
in point.

The recent cstablishment of the National Outdoor Rec-
reation Rcsonrccs Review Commission, under the chairman-
ship of Laurance Rockefeller, following Congressional ac-
tion in the fall of 1958 is, in the words of Marion Clawson:
“An encouraging sign of a human nationwide concern, and
of a comprehensive new approach to the recreation prob-
lem.” There are other significant dcvelopments.

A valuable report entitled A Uscr Resource Recreation
Planning Method, first of several reports of the National
Advisory Council on chional Recreation Planning, was
issucd last summer. A state report, published in 1956 by
the California Committee on Planning for Recreation, Park
Areas and Facilitics, is entitled Guide for Planning Rccrea-
tion Parks in California: a Basis for Determining Local Rec-
reation Space Standards.

The rccreation publication to which I I‘BfCI‘I‘C‘tl earlier,
and from which I took the estimates (Appcndix A) to thc I
ycar 2050, is the consultants’ rcport to the California Dc-

RECREATION

 

.. .- _ . . ‘l' ..  :-

In these places the struggle over who is to acquire what
land for wlzat purposes reaches its most explosive form.

partment of Water Resources, concerning investigations of
the Upper Feather River Basin Development. The study’s
full title is: Recreational Benents from Upper Feather River
Basin Development. Time does not permit detailed refer-
ence to any of these publications.

Planning

Accompanying urbanization, the rapid growth of urban
populations—especially during the last decade—the field
of physical or area planning, official planning of cities and
of entire metropolitan regions (to a more limited extent,
state planning also) has shown tremendous expansion, and
some marked changes in technique and program emphasis.
The working relationships of planning agencies and recre-
ation agencies also seem, happily, to have progressed. I
cite my personal experience as city planner of San Francisco

from 1949 to 1958 and what I observed in California as at
least partial evidence and support of this view.

 Competition for Land

The competition for land is universally evident—0n the
part of all governments, federal and state, throughout our
metropolitan areas, in our counties, among the tens of thou-
sands of incorporated municipalities, not to mention the
very substantial number of special district governments.
Conspicuous examples of this are lands required by the
federal interregional highway program supposedly equal in
land area to all the currently occupied urban areas of the
country today. There are civil airport requirements, greatly
augmented by the advent of the Jet Age.

So far I have not mentioned recreation. No reference
has been made to a vastly expanding urban population, on
which the spotlight is placed more and more frequently to-
day in reference to nearly 180 metropolitan areas, the con-
stellations of American cities in which practically all pop-
ulation growth and urban expansion is currently taking
place and is expected to continue occurring.

Let us focus on these, where the land competition is more
intcnse than anywhere else. Here are the high concentra-
'tions of people and the high concentrations of land-and-

JANUARY 1960

 

improvement values. In these places the struggle over who

is to usc what land for what purpose reaches its most intense
form.

Planning and the Recreation Program

I see community planning figuring prominently among
the approaches to the problem of managing and regulating
competition for land that exists everywhere in our com-
munities. The land requirements of all federal government
agencies and of all the agencies and departments of the
state governments are met and are served “on the ground,”
in one of the counties of these same states. In perhaps the
overwhelming majority of cases, likewise within an in-
corporated municipality—those of the largest population
and area down to some very small units indeed—the federal
and state government have no other place to go to acquire
land for their purposes.

This being a readily established fact, each of the local
units of government should have an official plan to guide
any growth, development, or land-use changes; as a device
to enable it to have a basis upon which to negotiate, or
arbitrate with an “outside public agency.” Or it can simply
be uscd as an aid in refereeing the question of how the
city’s land, over which the city or the county government
has urisdiction, representing its citizens, is to be used. The
bulk of a community’s land is, of course, privately owned
land. The local government regulates its use and is charged
with ensuring its continued usefulness and value, and its
planning powers are for this purpose.

Most of the metr0politan areas of the United States con-
sist of a single county, one central city, plus a number of
cities, towns, and villages of lesser importance. Metropoli-
tan areas of the largest dimensions may comprise hundreds
of local governments and thousands of square miles of
land. Such an area is the Northeastern Illinois area. It
can supply many suitable illustrations of the competition
for land, which is fairly general, and which has its familiar
aspects, locally. Chicago is the central city of the six-county
Northeastern Illinois metropolitan area, now containing
nearly six million people. It measures thirty-seven hundred
square miles, or about a third the size of Holland, a country
with twice this area’s present population.

In twenty years or less it is expected that three million
pe0ple will be added to the present population of these six
counties—the equivalent of the population of Detroit and
Cleveland. This new population will need a lot of housing;
to go with the homes, we must build a lot of schools and
hospitals; three millions more will take a lot of recreation
area. The expanded metropolitan area will bring some ad-
ditional heavy concentrations of traffic.

A crude and oversimple way of graphically highlighting
the competition for land ahead, in meeting the needs of an
additional three million pe0ple, expected to be added in
twenty years, might be so stated. Estimate the amount of

land needed for:
0 industrial expansion, likcwise for commercial districts;

37

0 housing, and for community facilities that go with hous-
ing such as schools, parks, recreation areas;

0 municipal, county, state, and federal administrative serv-
ices and institutional needs, found in all jurisdictions;

0 all transportation needs, including freight railroads, com-
muting services, highways, local streets, airports—major
and minor—rights of way and easements for all utilities,
waterways, all sorts of terminals, and parking;

0 flood control and drainage, for water supply and waste
disposal.

Then add up these estimates, on the basis of measures
and standards of land use applicable to each category of
land, and allocate them to the total vacant land remaining
in the metropolitan area.

Crude and over-simple estimating and allocating of land
by land-use categories or functions and in relation to time
periods is, however, not the same thing as comprehensive
planning for communities or metropolitan areas. It will
not suffice to identify clearly and correctly the needs of
groups of land users——eompetitors for land——- including that
representing recreation. Fortunately, the last quarter cen-
tury, perhaps especially the last decade of it, has seen the
development of improved ways of doing business in your
field and mine and others. The changes have brought meas-
ureable advances in public understanding and support both
of the need to plan and program city and regional develop-
ment, including recreation planning, from the local levels
to the national ones, whichever level you start from.

I should like to undertake to discuss, in somewhat more
specific terms, some uses of the physical planning programs
designated city planning and metropolitan planning. I will
attempt to relate this general planning to recreation plan-
ning at the municipal and metropolitan levels, adding a
footnote or two on the planning of the resource-area type,
which is becoming increasingly important to the broad na-
tional picture of recreation.

Making the Plans and Implementing Them

City and recreation planning in San Francisco is a good
example of city planning and one with which I am familiar
because I was director of planning. The following good
definition appears in Guide for Planning Recreation Parks
in California:

Master Plan or General Plan. A unified, long-range, com-
prehensive, general (rather than detailed) scheme to guide
the future physical development of a city, county, planning
area, or metr0politan region. The plan designates official
policy concerning the proposed general distribution and
general location and extent of the uses of the land for hous-
ing, business, industry, recreation, education, public build-
ings and grounds, and other categories of public and private
uses of land; it relates to the designated uses of the land,
the general location and extent of existing and proposed ma-
jor thoroughfares, transportation routes, terminals, and other
major public utilities and facilities; and it establishes stand-
ards of population density and huilding intensity for the
various areas included in the territory covered by the plan.
Integral with the plan are the maps, diagrams, charts, and
descriptive matter necessary for its proper understanding.

Working with the recreation and park department of
San Francisco, the city-planning department first prepared

38

a report on a plan for the location of parks and recreation
areas in San Francisco. This report was the research basis
of the adopted citywide recreation-park plan, an element of
the city’s master plan, directed toward the fulfillment of
two major objectives: (1) the provision of areas for active
and passive recreation for all age groups, equitably distrib-
uted throughout the city; and (2) the protection, provision,
and enhancement of areas of natural scenic beauty, and the
provision of open landscaped areas equitably distributed
throughout the city. The plan was adopted after public
hearings and is being carried out.

Implementation of the plan is aided by the six-year capi-
tal improvement program, long in operation in that city.
This provides that city departments annually submit their
programs for six years ahead. Each project included is{
reported by the planning department as in conformity orl
not in conformity with the city plan. The city council relies I
upon these reports and rarely takes an action in opposition. I

Some Concluding Thoughts

Recreation is very hard pressed in the present and con- I
tinuing competition for land. The recreation movement
has millions upon millions of supporters. In the years and
decades ahead recreation, like planning, must have clear
objectives and effective leadership. The pros can be counted l
upon to work away as a dedicated group, to try hard to‘
perform their technical and administrative functions and ‘
work assignments to the satisfaction of the public we serve. 1
Far more important in meeting the challenge of the com- .
petition for land than those of us who have full-time ca-
reers at these tasks is a well-informed citizenry, a strong,
informed, and courageous lay leadership. This leadershipl
should have specific programs to work for. Recreation pro-
grams can be very tangible, can be made to lend themselves I
effectively to concerted campaigns to establish recreation’s
claims in this competition—if official plans of the various
jurisdictions have been competently prepared, officially
adopted by their governments. Through such administra-
tive leverage as is provided in the land-use plans, zoning.
firm policies, and land-subdivision dedications or cash con- .
tributions, specified in state law and local ordinances. in
capital improvement programing, through the use of public4
powers of acquisition (including excess condemnation),
acquisition of easements and developments rights, the rec-
reation program featured in such plans is kept clearly in
public view and is integrated with oflicial plans and annual:
appropriations of the public jurisdictions.

The recreation program of the country, like the planning
program, is moving steadily toward a more comprehensive
approach now emerging in national, state, county, and mu-
nicipal administration because it has everywhere a “related '
ncss” to all other aspects of city and regional development.
There are abundant signs that this type of thinking is in-I
creasing its p0pular appeal, is widening its support, andI
is finding its way into program and into administration.

Somewhat as an aside may I conclude by saying that your
group and the one I have attempted to represent in these
remarks should hang together, so that in the competition
for land our competitors do not hang us separately. #-

 

1

RECREATION

 

MONTHLY OUTDOOR songfests, square

dancing, Sunday afternoon band
concerts, parties and other interesting
activities are now a part of the fare for
patients at the Georgia Warm Springs
Foundation, for a recreation depart-
ment was added to its medical services
in January 1957.

According to Clara S. Simon, recrea-
tion director, individual bedside activi-
ties are scheduled during the day to
dovetail with the patient’s treatment
periods, and group activities in after-
treatment hours—evenings, weekends,
and holidays. The program is designed

to bring a normal atmosphere to an ab-
normal situation.

Staff and volunteers presenting the
program have the use of a modern thea-
ter, recreation room, outdoor facilities,
and portable equipment. All activities
are, of course, adapted to meet indi-
vidual or group limitations. At the
present, there is a marked increase in
referrals from the medical staff for in-
dividual, specialized recreation needs.
These special needs stem from the fact
that Warm Springs patients have a
longer than average hospitalization
(more than fifty-nine days) and/or

some degree of emotional disturbance.

In order to provide varied diversion
for the patients and staff of this rather
isolated foundation, the recreation de-
partment sometimes schedules perform-
ances of professional entertainment in
the theater or, when weather permits,
on the outdoor “campus,” and sched-
ules movies as well.

After dismissal, nostalgic notes of
appreciation are received from patients
and parents; and there seems to be no
doubt that the addition of this to the
other services offered at Warm Springs
has been more than justified. #

 

HEARING'IMPAIRED CHILDREN

ANY CHILDREN with handicaps
are perplexed when they are
rejected from participating in
community recreation and social pro-
grams provided for the nonhandicap-
ped. They are rejected by leaders and
“normal” youngsters, either because of
their handicap or inability to partici-
pate in existing programs.

The Baltimore Hearing Socicty be-
came particularly concerned about the
need for accepting hearing-impaired
children in camp, Scout, and recrea-
tion programs. In April 1955, after
approval of the need by a Baltimore
Council of Social Agencies’ study and
with the financial support of the Com-
munity Chest, the society began a five-
ycar demonstration recreation project
for the purpose of integrating deaf,
hard-of-hearing, and aphasic children
with hearing youngsters, in camping,

JANUARY 1960

scouting, and recreation activities.

The demonstration project has just
completed its third year; at present
more than one hundred children are
participating with hearing youngsters.
Camp, Scout, and recreation personnel,
once informed of the important need
for these children who have severe au-
ditory and language disorders to be-
come part of the hearing world, have
performed an outstanding service by
including them in existing programs.

For many of these one hundred chil-
dren, the recreation therapist of the
society has established “readiness” pro-
grams that were conducted in the health
agency setting. Thesc programs were
designed to teach childrcn basic rcc-
reation and related communication
skills, either individually or in a group.
Once these skills were learned and the
society staff had a thorough knowledge

of the children’s capabilities, they were
placed in existing community recre-
ation and camping activities.

The society, at this time, believes
strongly that the project should become
a community program, which would
serve not only the hearing-impaired,
but all children with handicaps. It is
convinced, however, that a recreation
therapist should become a permanent
member of the society staff. Such a staff
member should also be included in other
health agencies to providc the neces-
sary “readiness” programs so children
with handicaps will be afforded the nec-
cessary preparation before moving into
their respective communitics to parti-
cipate with the nonhandicapped.———
RALPH DOMBRO, of the Baltimore H ear-
ing Society in the third annual report,
Hearing-Impaired Children in Recrea-
tion and Camping Programs.

39

 
  

RESEARCH

Assistance Needed for Research Project

As every recreation professional person knows, there are
no instruments now available that can predict an indivi-
dual’s potential in recreation leadership. It is the purpose
of this research project to identify traits of successful rec-
reation leaders and to develop instruments useful to rec-
reation administrators in hiring personnel, to colleges and
universities, which are training leaders, to directors of
in-service training programs, in better diagnosing the needs
of their employees, and to guidance counselors in helping
youth to decide whether the recreation profession is for
them. The help of the entire profession is needed to under-
take successfully a research project to deve10p these pre-
dictive measurement instruments.

T 0 develop job applicant screening tests, municipal de-
partments are needed, willing to administer a short-form
test to ob applicants and then, later, rate on a scale pro-
vided, the quality of work of the applicants employed and
indicate why others were not employed.

Hospital recreation departments may help by conducting
an exploratory aptitude inventory among their employees
and rating the quality of leadership of each. After analysis
of the exploratory form to determine traits significant for
success, additional aid will be needed as described for
municipal departments.

To make possible a longitudinal study designed to deter-
mine traits of potentially successful recreation leaders at
various stages in their preparation, colleges and universi-
ties with major programs are needed to minister a battery
of tests to their freshmen and secure high-school informa-
tion; administer in the senior year the same battery to these
same majors and secure college academic and extracurricu-
lar information; and aid in follow-up of such majors after
they have been on the job several years, administering the
same battery, securing information on community activities,
and obtaining a quality rating of their work.

To work on keys for present vocational tests and explore
other possibilities, persons interested in research and in
undertaking other phases of the study are needed; there
are some good thesis and dissertation topics available. Self-
attitude tests, Q-technique, forced-choice tests, and other
methods of success determination need to be explored for
the recreation field. Perhaps you are already working in
this field; we would be happy to hear about it.

To finance the costs of prinling, mailing, and statistical
analysis, foundations and persons interested in the advance-
ment of the profession through research are also encour-
eged to participate in this project.

Anyone interested in helping or who has suggestions

40

about this project is encouraged to write codirectors Dr.
Shirley Kammeyer, Sacramento State College, Sacramento,
California, or Dr. Betty van der Smissen, State University
of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa.

Citizens Advisory Committees Useful

A study of practices of Citizens Advisory Committees
in Public Recreation was conducted by Laura J. Weckwerth
as a partial requirement for a master’s degree at the Uni-
versity of Illinois. The study was confined to recreation
committees in school and recreation departments in the
New York Metropolitan region. One of the major findings
was that, in spite of the difficulties encountered in their
relationships with the committees, almost all recreation ex-
ecutives and committee chairmen said they anticipated con-
tinued use of the citizens advisory committees.

The major recommendations that grew out of the study
follow:

1. An adequate written policy statement should be es-
tablished for the committee, reviewed frequently, and agreed
upon and clearly understood by all concerned.

2. The board’s responsibility ought also to be clearly
understood. The board should either accept the advice of
the committee and act upon it or explain why it has not.

3. New members should be formally oriented to the com-
mittee.

4. The committee’s work should be periodically evaluated
in terms of its objectives.

5. More time could profitably he spent in committee
meetings on policy discussion so the committee could give
careful and valuable counsel, recommendations, and infor-
mation to the appointive board and the executive.

6. The recreation executive interested in having an ef-

'fective citizens advisory committee must devote the nec-

essary amount of time and effort to doing his part and ought
to familiarize himself with the principles and practices of
eITective committee operation.

National Forests and Their Recreation Resources

The United States Forest Service has published a work
plan for its survey of the outdoor recreation resources of
national forests. The survey is directed toward obtaining
the information needed in planning the recreation aspects
of its own program, but much of the information obtained
will also be useful to the Outdoor Recreation Resources
Review Commission.

Five separate tasks are to be accomplished in making the
study:

1. Projections of future demand for recreation on the

RECREATION

 

national forests will be deve10ped for the base years 1966,
1976, and 2000.

2. Converting factors will be developed so that recrea-
tion demand in visits and visitor-days can be expressed in
acres, sites, areas, or resource requirements needed to ac-
commodate satisfactorily the projected demand for recre-
ation on the national forests. .

3. An inventory will be made to determine the amount,
kind, quality, and location of available and suitable recre-
ation lands administered by the Forest Service and usable
waters related thereto.

4. National forest recreation resources and opportunities
located and descrihed by the inventory will be compared
with projected demands to determine how the suitable and
available lands can be best utilized to serve anticipated
needs by the years 1976 and 2000; also to what extent the
recreation resources can provide for the different kinds of
recreation demands in those years.

5. Present policies and programs will be reviewed in the
Iight of the study findings and recommendations will be
made for a recreation program to include: (1) modification
of present policies or ad0ption of new policies for the pro-
tection and administration of the outdoor recreation re-
sources; (2) deve10pments and services needed, with es-
timated costs, to meet the projected recreation demands in
1976 and 2000; (3) research needs in the recreation field;
and (4) procedure for keeping thc recreation view current

in the future—Work Plan for National Forest Recreation
Study, August 1959.

Use of Schools for Community Recreation

In the report A Study of Recreation in Kentucky, pre-
pared by Charlie Vettiner, the rcluctance of some school
principals to permit school buildings to be used for recrea-
tion by community groups is discussed. Mr. Vettiner re-
ports that a survey made by the principals of 23 schools in
Jefferson County, following the close of the winter program,
revealed that 164,098 men, women, and children had used
the buildings and that damagc amounted to $82.50 or an
average of $3.44 per center. This damage was not paid for

by the school board but by the community recreation com-
inittees.

New Center for Urban Studies

A Joint Center for Urban Studies has been established
by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard
University through a grant of $675,000 from the Ford
Foundation for the initial financing of the center’s program.
The aim of the project, according to President Stratton of
MIT, is “to establish an international center for advanced
research, for documentation, and for stimulating interuni-
versity efforts and collaboration in the urban field.” It is
designed to serve as a center with extensive research 0p-
portunities for eminent scholars on the faculties of the two
institutions.

Among the problems of initial interest to the Joint Center
are comparative analyses of cities; urban growth and struc-
ture; methods of public and private control over urban
change; social values and the community; urban design;

JANUARY 1960

and decision making and the planning process in metropoli-
tan communities. The principal responsibility of the center
will be basic research, the findings of which will be made
available through published materials. Professor Martin
Meyerson, Williams Professor of City Planning and Urban
Research, and director of Harvard’s present Center for Ur-
ban Studics, has been appointed director of the joint center.

Another project, involving a $900,000 grant by the Ford
Foundation, is making possible the preparation of a com-
prchensive deve10pment program for eleven counties in
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delawarc. Parks and rec-

reation comprise one of the aspects of the survey project,
which is known as Penjerdel.

Physical Education Facilities in Schools

A bulletin entitled Physical Education in Early Elemen-
tary Schools, issued in 1959 by the United States Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare, reports on the
status of physical education for elementary-school-age chil-
dren in city school systems. This information is based upon
replies received from 532 school systems, representing a
total of 12,217 schools. In view of the increasing use of
the school plant for community recreation, the following
findings are of special interest.

Of the 12,217 elementary school buildings, 6,584, or 54
percent, are reported to have excellent or adequate gym-
nasiums or playrooms. Of this number 34 percent are gym-
nasiums and 20 percent playrooms. Indoor swimming pools
are found in 110 of the schools, or less than one percent of
the total; 50 percent of these are located in schools in the
eastern district.

Five thousand nine hundred school sites, or 48 percent
of the total, provide excellent or adequate all-weather play
area; 47 percent have a basketball court, 14 percent a
baseball field, 53 percent a softball field, 24 percent a soccer
field, 44 percent a volleyball court. Only four percent, or
466 schools, include tennis courts. Less than 25 percent
of the school sites have such developmental equipment as
horizontal bars and ladders.

Forty-nine percent of the school systems reporting in-
dicated that community facilities are used to obtain more
adequate space for physical education; 84 percent of them
state that physical education facilities are used by the com-
munity in out-of-school hours during the school year and
63 percent that school physical education facilities are used
by the community during vacation periods.

C0pies of the bulletin are available from the Superin-
tendcnt of Documents, United States Government Printing
Officc, Washington 25, D. C., for forty-five cents each.

On the Ball

According to a release from the National Golf F ounda-
tion, golf courses of all types increased in number from
4,901 in 1948 to 5,745 in 1958. During this ten-year period
the population of the United States increased by 19 percent
whereas the total number of golfers playing at least ten
rounds a year increased by nearly 45 percent. Total golf
equipment sales, based on factory selling prices, increased
by 98.5 percent during this ten-year period—The Golf
Beat, July 1959.

41

for the

Administrator

NOTES

Maintenance of Community Quality
Some two hundred public officials and citizens represent-
ing conununities in Westchester County, New York, met
with the county executive to discuss “Local and County
Responsibilities for Public Recreation.” Dr. Sal J. Prezi-
oso, superintendent of the County Recreation Commission,
set the tone for the meeting when he said:
Here in Westchester County neither county gov-
ernment nor any of the local communities can af-
ford to go it alone on matters pertaining to recrea-
tion planning and administration. Neither can we
in this day and age prOperly and effectively do our
work via the long-distance lines of communica-
tion.

Commenting on the need for acquiring and planning
areas Hugh R. Pomeroy, county planning director, stated:
Provision Of land for parks and recreation has
an importance tO the community well beyond the
value of the land for the particular park or recrea-
tion function to which it is assigned, in that this
land constitutes part Of the Open space Of the com-
munity. The maintenance Of community quality
and the protection Of prOperty values depend in
substantial degree, and in increasing measure, on
the provision Of ample areas of Open space.
TO repeat something that we have often said, it
is the land that is Off the tax rOlls for community
purposes that is responsible for most of the values
that are on the tax rOlls. Open space as such,
where it. contributes tO the maintenance Of com-
munity quality, in accordance with comprehensive
community planning, falls in this category.

County population is outstripping park acquisition in
Westchester County as in many other metropolitan areas.
Charles E. Pound, county park superintendent, stated that
between 1922 and 1932 approximately seventeen thousand
acres of land were acquired for county park and parkway
purposes, or an average of 18.6 acres per 1,000 pOpulation.
Today this acreage represents only 12.6 acres per one
thousand persons. Constant increase, however, was reported
in the park attendance and in the use of special facilities,
such as golf courses.

William L. Foley, president of the County Recreation
Executives Association, commented on the degree to which
localities have fallen behind in their capital projects. He
addcd:

It may very well be that if recreation on the local
level continues to find itself on the bottom of the
priority list we will have tO look tO the county gov-
ernment for the facilities we need.

Edward Michaelian, county executive, outlined the fol-
lowing pressing problems in the county that he considered
resulted from a lack of continuing communication between

42

county and local officials responsible for recreation plan-
ning and policy making:
DevelOpment of better coordination between
county and local park, planning, and recreation
officials; realization that local and county govern-
ment retain present park and recreation lands as
well as acquire additional lands for future devel-
opment, as indicated by growth factors; a need
for officials to set aside sufficient funds for capital
projects required tO meet future plans and to make
budgetary provision therefor; a reappraisal of our
overall recreation policies relating tO the reSponsi-
bilities of local and county government; collab-
oration in deve10ping an overall recreation master
plan in each of the communities and for the
county, including the integration Of local plans
into the master plan; finally, adOption of a sound
policy of public relations.
In conclusion, he strongly urged that local and county
officials concerned with recreation continue tO meet fre-

quently and understand mutual recreation interests.

Golf Courses in Subdivisions

The recreation, esthetic, and economic values resulting
from a golf course planned as a part of a large residential
deveIOpInent are pointed out as follows in a bulletin pub-
lished by the Urban Land Institute of Washington, D. C.:

The golf course is an asset to the real estate sub-
division in many ways. Its aesthetic qualities not
only heighten the initial value of the land immedi-
ately adjacent tO and in the general vicinity Of the
course, but also tend to maintain heightened prOp-
erty values and to stabilize them over a long pe-
riod Of time. Because Of this linkage between resi-
dential lots and a golf course, the course creates
additional value for such lots and increases their
marketability. This increased value has been esti-
mated at approximately $2,000 for an average lot.

How to Obtain Additional Revenue

0 Park and recreation authorities are continually seeking
additional sources Of revenue in ordcr to meet increasing
dcmand for recreation facilities and services. Hialeah, Flor-
ida, for example, has approved capital improvements for
parks and playgrounds tO cover a four-year period, the ex-
pense to be met through a five percent utility tax. Sanford,
Florida, has completed two new facilities: a new civic center
with youth wing and a Negro swimming pool paid for
through a bond issue to be retired from power franchise
receipts (see RECREATION, December 1959, Page 436, [or
photograph and further information regarding the civic
center). Among the many facilities recently constructed in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, are two contemporary apparatus
areas installed with the help Of two local civic groups.

0 A small community near Yakima. \Vashington, has an
unusual method of raising funds to help meet the cost of
Operating a community building. All of the farmers in the
area agreed tO donate the apples from one Of their trees:
the people pick and sell the apples and turn the money over

to the building fund. #-

RECREATION

LISTENING AND VIEWING

 

A Group Picture Program
for NeurOpsyehiatrie Patients

Most hospital libraries Sponsor group
programs for neur0psychiatric patients
with the aim of stimulating use of the
library and thus aiding the resocializa-
tion of patients. Various programs have
been deveIOped, such as discussions,
reading aloud, contests, and showing of
films, filmstrips, and slides.

When such a program was initiated
at the Veterans Administration Hospi-
tal, Leech Farm Road, Pittsburgh, in
February 1956, the use of filmstrips
and slides was decided upon as best
suited to the needs of the patients, and
most adaptable to the schedule. Sixteen
groups of closed-ward patients made a
weekly visit to the library, for a one-
hour period. Some liked all such pro-
grams and took seats near the screen as
soon as they entered the library; others
participated only in those of interest to
them.

In order not to disturb readers, the
program was held in one corner of the
library where blinds are drawn and
lights turned out. A librarian operated
the projector, commented on the pic-
tures, and asked questions. At first, a
comprehensive coverage of the subject
was attempted, but comments pertain-
ing to each individual picture proved
more effective. Whenever the subeet of
a program is a geographic area, the
librarian inquired whether anyone pres-
ent was familiar with it and invited him
to participate.

Books on the subject under discus-
sion were first displayed on a peg board
near the screen. However, as patients
seemed reluctant to disturb displays,
even when urged to do so, such material
was then diSplayed on a library table
and thus used more freely. Books on
display during this period were avail-
able for loan the succeeding week.

Each program was held for one week
for all wards, but comments were modi-
fied to meet patients’ needs. They were
simplified for regressed patients and
made more complex for the ones in
good contact.

Most patients spoke up whenever one

JANUARY 1960

aspect of the program interested them.
During a showing of the filmstrip Moby
Dick, patients asked about the length
of time a whale can stay under water,
whether it is true that a whale can de-
stroy a wooden ship, and whether there
is international c00peration in the whal-
ing industry. A patient seeing slides of
government buildings in Washington,
D. C., became interested in Greek archi-
tecture and spent a library period read-
ing about it. During a showing of the
filmstrip Japan Today, the librarian
stated that Japan ranks next to Great
Britain as the world’s largest shipbuild-
er. A patient who had, until then, re-
mained silent, questioned this statement
and was induced to consult reference
books. Another patient did not react
to a filmstrip about the national forests
until he saw a picture of a ranger using
a surveying instrument to determine the
exact location of a forest fire. He re-
marked that he had used a similar in-
strument as a member of a tank crew.
He then read up on surveying instru-
ments for two succeeding library peri-
ods. One who had never previously
participated in a program, volunteered
to identify American and foreign states-
men during a showing of The U .S. and
Its Alliances.

Two programs utilizing slides and
filmstrips of animals were among the
most successful. Many patients partici-
pated for the first time, identifying ani-
mals, making comments, and asking
questions. One patient diSplayed an
amazing knowledge of birds and was
complimented on it. Since then he has
been persuaded to borrow books on the
outdoors occasionally. During a pro-
gram about New York, the discussion
became so lively that the librarian
found it best not to speak at all and
limited himself to Operating the pro-
jector.

A good many filmstrips are produced
for use in schools, and manuals are
supplied with them so some of the facts

needed for presenting a program are

easily available. However, it takes some
effort to formulate comments that will
arouse interest and also to decide on
the proper time to make them.

During a showing of a filmstrip Port
of New York, the best chance to men-
tion the Dutch origin of some street
names occurred when a photo of a
Dutch engraving of New Amsterdam
was shown. The librarian remarked
that New York was already quite large
at that time and then explained how
Broadway and Wall Street were named.
When a picture of a crane operator at
one of the wharves was shown, it was
mentioned that one out of eight persons
living in New York earns his livelihood
in shipping or allied occupations. When
a picture of an ocean liner was on the
screen, the librarian stated that every
twenty-two minutes a ship leaves or en-
ters New York harbor.

It is essential to avoid a schoolroom
atmosphere, as many neur0psychiatric
patients are oversensitive and tend to
resent anyone not treating them as in-
telligent adults. Therefore, the librarian
must be very careful making comments
and go out of his way in showing a will-
ingness to be contradicted or corrected.

Once the projector, screen, and a
small stock of filmstrips and slides had
been purchased, the cost of the program
proved slight as the bulk of the material
used is lent, free of charge, by the Penn-
sylvania State Library. The New York
Times filmstrips on current affairs are
purchased on a subscription basis, and
a small number of newly published film-
strips are bought occasionally. While
the service given by the Pennsylvania
State Library is excellent and could not
be improved upon, it is necessary to
own a small stock of material and not
depend entirely on loans. There are
occasional obstacles, such as ordering
an unsuitable filmstrip, based on an un-
clear title, or a shipment may be delayed
in the mail.

While group programs have not
greatly augmented circulation, they
have led to a considerable increase in
use of library books. They have stimu-
lated interest, induced many patients to
speak up ill a grOUp situation, and
helped them in their resocialization.-——
HENRY DREIFL’SS, chief librarian, V et-
erans Administration Hospital, 408

First Avenue, New York 10.

43

 

NEWS

F or further information regarding
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean Waehtell

 

0 A small, silent, automatic
night electronic watchman has
been developed by Energy Kon-
trols to protect buildings and
property from vandals and
prowlers at night. The Protect-
O-Lite is an automatic light-
control switch activated hy the
presence or absence of light,
turning on electric power or lights at night and OH at dawn.
Requiring no installation or maintenance, it is almost ideal
for guarding recreation buildings and installations, com-
munity centers, and the like. You simply plug into a power
outlet with the photoelectric eye facing the outside natural
light. Weighing less than twelve ounces, the Protect-O—Lite
is 3” -by-21/2” -by-1”, comes with 6-foot cord and plug, uti-
lizes 110-125 volts AC with 600-watt capacity. Direct all
inquiries to Vernon Wiberg, Energy Kontrols, Inc., 11
South First Street, Geneva, Illinois.

 

0 A tamperproof, vandalproof
lighting fixture for public build-
ings and areas has been devel-
oped to accommodate Up to two
100-watt A lamps in its double
14-gauge steel housing. Theft
and vandalism are prevented by
steel mesh welded to the outer
housing to protect the Corning
fresnel lens and by spanner-head
screws requiring a special screwdriver for access to the
lamps. Other safety features include seating the lens in a
shock-absorbing foam-rubber gasket, a fiberglass insulation
between fixture and ceiling, and a safety chain to hold the
outer steel housing to the inner housing to facilitate re-
lamping. For further details write Light & Power Utilities
Corporation, 1035 Firestone Boulevard, Memphis, Tennes-
see.

 

o The flow of new plastic materials continues virtually un-
abated—one of the newer ones being Plastic Mastic, which
can perform practically any repair job. This epoxy-poly-
amide compound has proved practical and economical for
repairing floors, walls, ceilings, driveways, curbs, masonry,
bricks, machinery, fixtures, tanks, pipes, plumbing, furni-
ture. It also fills leaks, breaks, holes, and cracks; is perman-
ently effective with almost every known material: concrete,
metals, wood, ceramics, glass, rubber, cloth, paper products,
and most plastics. Application is easy and curing time de-
pends on room heat. At room temperature, cured Plastic
Mastic is hard to the touch in four hours, can be walked on
in eight. This reaction time can be speeded by applying
heat. The compound is nonflammable, contains no volatile
solvents, and has almost no irritation potential. For com-
plete information about the Plastic Mastic General Repair
Kit, which comes in several sizes, write Williamson Adhe-

44

 

sives, Inc., 8220 Kimball Avenue, Skokie, Illinois.

  
 
 
 
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
  
   
 
   
    
 
    
  
  

o Slipping and falling on stairs are always a hazard in large
public buildings, such as recreation and community centers,
school buildings used for recreation, and the like. A slip-
proof stair tread has been designed having a flat, abrasive
surface that provides a sure grip when the foot touches each
step. The Super Stairmaster, made of heavy-duty aluminum
with a special abrasive formula bonded in, has passed oil
and grease tests more severe than those encountered in most
factories and packing plants. Treads are nine inches wide
with beveled back and fit all steps up to thirteen inches wide,
length to twelve feet as required. A deep 11/3” nose of heavy
aluminum extends over the edge of the step to protect the
face. Treads are simply fastened down with screws on wood
steps or on masonry steps with screws and lead expansion
shields. For bulletin containing complete information on
these treads and the repair of worn stairs, write Wooster
Products, Inc., M-R Division, 1000 Spruce Street, Wooster,
Ohio.

1

o The Castello Fencing Equipment Company, long known
for its fencing equipment, has recently been appointed ex-
clusive agent and distributor in the United States for Pigeon-
brand Judo uniforms. These uniforms are recommended by
Kodokan, the oliicially recognized organization supcrvisin
Judo activities in Japan. Castello will stock them in five
sizes (by weight) and by color (color signifying degree of
experience). They are of championship weight with coat.
made of double-hollow weave (reinforced) cotton and the
pants and belts of single drill fabric. Write Castello Judo
Equipment Company, 30 East 10th Street, New York 3.

0 The versatility of wall-hun
fixtures is now available in a
water cooler, to accommodat
various age-group heights and
to keep floors free of clutter
where desired or required. The
compact On-A-Wall Oasis wa-
ter cooler is mounted directly
on the wall, comes in seven—
and thirteen-gallon capacities.
Among its features are a plas-
tic vinyl laminate finish 011 20
gauge steel, removable fron
panel and grille, mirror-polish
ed stainless steel t0p, with anti
splash ridge; wall protecto
back extending 3%" abov
bottom of basin; Dial-A-Drink bubbler and provision fo
glass filler. Mounting bracket and template are provided.
Accessories include glass fillers, special masonry wall hang-
er. and special bracket for framed construction. Further
details can be had from The Ebco Manufacturing Company.

265 North Hamilton Road, Columbus 13, Ohio.

RECREATION

 

 

IIIDEX 0E ADVERTISERS
Page

American Playground Device Company  9

Baltimore, Maryland. Board of Recreation

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

 

 

 

and Parks H ------------- " lns'de BaCk cover RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 1], New York.
Chlcago Roner Skates "" “‘"'“'“‘"‘ BaCk cover HELP WANTED modern equipment and fa- quired. Starting 5 al a ry
_ 0 Recreation Therapists cilities available. Positions $415.00 per month; promo-
Exposrtlon Press _...__..._. ..- ........ _- 45 for California State Hospi, open to coilege graduates tional opportunities; liber-
tals. Opportunity to plan with major in recreation or al employment benefits.
The FLXIBLE company __ ____ __ 4 and conduct individual pa- recreation therapy, which Write State Personnel
tient recreation as well as included supervised field Board, 801 Capitol Avenue,

Gol d Medal Products company 6 special group activities; work. No experience re- Sacramento, California.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

 

 

Harper 8. Brothers ___.______.__. Inside Back Cover -
Institutional Cinema Service. Inc. ___--________ 9 Free to WR|TERS Elrmrnate Gate-Crashers
. . "Invisible" HAND STAMPING INKS
James Spencer 8. Company _.________-._____-_,_ 6 seekmg a book publlsher 59°" °"'Y ""de' BLACKL'GHT “ml”
The modern RE-ADMISSION system. Foolproof 0 low-
}‘til‘owo ftjalctilt'illed. iélusgrated‘larochuretitoell how cost a Slmple 0 For fairs, dance-halls, beaches, etc.
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company .....-.  5 with tivei‘iliinfpaiiissidi‘iiiiita‘éii Camv'e'e Kits from $29-

Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. R-l 5""! f‘" F'” c°'°'°9-

 

  

Kabat A” & crafts, Inc. ____m______m _____ 9 Exposition Press / 386 4th Ave... N..Y. 16 SlROBlllE (0- Dept. R. 75 W- 45th St" N-Y-C- 36
Maceregor company """"”'"'” " 1 Congress Proceedings will be ready in

“35°” Candi” '"c'  -  - 5 January, [960, price $3.50.

“mime CompanY  - - - - 5 Order your copy immediately.

National Sports ..... _.   _ 45

National Studios ___.._.u- -__ ___ 5 2 , .

Story. Craft and Song Service _  -- -_ 6 ematw“ Mme
Stroblite Company _._..._.________.._.A  45 BINDERS

' Opens flat for changes
' Holds one year’s issues

' Heavy simulated leather

Superior Industries Corporation - Gold stamped

Inside Back Cover

T. F. Twardzik a. Company 4 New Prlce
$3.50 each
U. S. Defense Bonds __-__-..-" Inside Front Cover (lndudes |2 Hades)
U. . ' ' '
' S Table Tenms Assouahon "um-mm“ 5 [Extra sets of looped rods available
Wenger Music Equipment Company .... -. ,_ 6 separately for 3.65 per set]

 

MAIL RECREATION MAGAZINE PLEASE FILL IN . I

8 West Eighth Street Year Number of Came: I

THIS New York 11: N- Y- 1959 ............................... .. I
This is my order for ................ ..copies 1960 ------------------------------- .- |

COU PON of the RECREATION magazine binder. undated .......................... .. |
___________________________—___— I

NOW |

Name ................................................................................................... .. i I

Address ................................................................................................ .. I

City ...................................................................................................... .. I
Bill ....................................................................................................... .. I

 

 
 

I"
I
I
I
I
|
I
I"'
I
I
I
I
|
|
I
I
I
r

51°“ c'ww ........................................................ ..; or enclosed ........................... .. |
370 NORTH MARQUEUE. FUND D" “t. WIS. 571 l
------- ———————- ———— ———- —————————— __.!

ANUARY 1960 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 4.5

 

Periodicals

 

FOLK MUSIC GUIDE USA, 110 MacDougal St.,
New York 12. Ten issues annually, $.15 per
c0py, $1.00 per year.

IDEAS UNLIMITED (“Odds-N-Ends” Projects).
Shulman-Graff Inc., 5865 N. Lincoln Ave.,
Chicago 45. Ten issues annually; $.25 per
copy, $2.00 per year.

. Magazine Articles

THE AMERICAN CHILD, November 1959.
Industry Programs for Youth.
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, November 1959.
Special Crafts Issue.
CHALLENGE, November 1959.
Leisure. an Economic Fact of Life, Ray-
mond D. Bateax.
PARENTS’, December 1959.
Telling the Christmas Story, Harriet D.
Pennington.
Ground Rules for Teenage Parties, Eric W.
Johnson.
Holiday Crafts for the Very Young, Wini-
fred Bryan Horner.
SAFETY EDUCATION, December 1959.
It’s All in the Game, Helen Manley.
SWIMMING POOL AGE, November 1959.
Two Municipal Pools, George T. Bell.
Tacoma’s “Grading System" Turns Out
Skilled SWimmcrs, Thomas W. Lantz.
TODAY’S IIEALTH, December 1959.

Everybody’s Square Dancing, James C. G.
Connifi.

   

Recordings

Activity Book-Record Sets:

LET’S LOOK AT GREAT PAINTINGS (IO-inch
33 1/3-rpm record, eight full-color paint-
ings, and manual); AN INTRODUCTION TO
BALLET (two 10-inch 33 1/3-rpIn records,
and manual), narrated by Katherine Scr-
gava; LET’S PUT ON A PLAY (10-inch
33 1/3-rpm record, manual, and script for
seven plays). $4.95 each. Ottenheimer:

Publishers, 4805 Nelson Ave., Baltimore
15, Md.

 

Honor Your Partner:

 

Albums 14 and 15 of square dance scries
by Ed Durlacher. Each album contains
four 12-inch, 78-rpm records. $12.00 pcr
album. Square Dance Associates, 33 S.
Grove St., Freeport, New York.

Tradition Records:

CIIILDREN’S SONGS, Ed McCurdy (TLP
1027), $4.98; ODETTA SINGS BALLADS AND
BLUES (TLP 1010) , $4.98; TRADITION FOLK
SAMPLER (TSP-1), $2.00. All l2-inch,
33 1/3-rp1n. Tradition Records, Box 72,
Village Station, New York 14.

46

 

Books & Pamphlets
Received

Administration, Personnel

ADMINISTRATIVE THEORY, Daniel E. Griflith.
Appleton-Century-Crofts, 35 W. 32nd St.,
New York 1. Pp. 123. Paper, $1.95.

ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS MADE EASY, John
Donald Peel. Chilton Co., 56th 8: Chestnut
Sts., Philadelphia 39. Pp. 318. $5.00.

AUTOMATION: Its Impact on Business and
Labor, John Diebold. National Planning
Association, 1606 New Hampshire, N.W.,
Washington 9, D. C., Pp. 64. Paper, $1.00.

CITY EXPENDITURES IN THE UNITED STATES,
Harvey E. Brazer. National Bureau of Eco-
nomic Research, 261 Madison Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 82. Paper, $1.50.

COMMUNITY FACILITIES PLAN for Lakeland,
Florida, Parks 8; Recreation. Planning 8:
Zoning Department, Lakeland, Fla. Pp. 36.
Paper, $1.10.

COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION IN ACTION, Ernest
B. Harper 8: Arthur Dunham, Editors. As-
sociation Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7.
Pp. 543. $7.50.

EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES, Alida H. Hisle,
Editor. Association for Childhood Educa-
tion International, 1200 5th St., N.W.,Wash-
ington 5, D. C. Pp. 93. Paper, $1.50.

GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION:
The Quest for ReSponsible Performance.
John D. Millett. MeGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd
St., New York 36. Pp. 484. $7.95.

INTRODUCTION To GROUP DYNAMICS, Malcolm
& Hulda Knowles. Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 95. $2.50.

LEARNING To WORK IN GROUPS, Matthcw B.
Miles. Tcachers Collegc, ColunIhia Uni-
versity, New York 27. Pp. 285. $5.00.

MANAGEMENT OF EMPLOYEE TRAINING (Pro-
ceedings of Institutc of Training Ollicers
Conferencc). Benjamin J. Ludwig, 2113
Conovcr Pl., Alcxandria, Va. Pp. 46. Pa-
per, $1.00.

MANAGEMENT’S MISSION IN A NEW SOCIETY,
Dan II. Fcnn, Editor. McGraw-Hill, 330 W.
42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 345. $6.00.

PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION: Evaluation and
Executive Control, James ll. Taylor. Mc-
Graw-llill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36.
Pp. 326. $7.00.

PURLIC PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION, Fclix A.
Nigro. Henry Holt, 383 Madison Ave., New
York 17. Pp. 499. $7.00.

REVENUE BONDS FOR STATE PARK ANII REC-
REATION AREA DEVELOPMENT, 1959, Ernest
E. Allen. National Confercncc on State
Parks, 901 Union Trust Bldg., Washington
5, D.C. Pp. 93. Paper, $1.00.

SUMMARY OF PURLIC USE AND PROJECT DATA:
Civil Works. Corps of Engineers, Dcpt. of
thc ArnIy, Washington 25, D.C. Pp. 4. Frce.

USER-RESOURCE RECREATION PLANNING METR-
OD, A. National Advisory Council on Re-
gional Rccreation Planning, Hidden Valley,
LoouIis, Calif. Pp. 80. Paper, $2.00.

TWELFTII ANNUAL REPORT 1958-1959. State
Division of Recreation, Dcpartment of Na-

tural Rcsources, 722 Capitol Ave., Room
3076, Sacramento 14. Calif. Pp. 70. Free.

Audio-Visual

ADMINISTERING AUDIO-VISUAL SERVICES, Arl-

ton W. H. Erickson. Macmillan Co., 60 5th ‘
Ave., New York 11. Pp. 477. $6.95.

A-V INSTRUCTION: Materials and Methods,|
James W. Brown, Richard B. Lewis and
Fred F. Harcleroad. McGraw-Hill, 330 W.
42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 554. $7.95. ll

DO-IT-YOURSELF FLANNELGRAPH LESSONS, Syl-
via M. Mattson. Zondervan Publishing,
1415 Lake Dr., S.E., Grand Rapids 6, Mich.
Pp. 31. $.50.

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE FILMS, 19th An-
nual Ed. 1959, Mary Foley Horkheiiner and
John W. Diror, Editors. Educators Prog-
ress Service, Randolph, Wis. Pp. 639. Pa-
per, $7.00.

GUIDE TO FREE FILMSTRIPS, 1959, Mary Foley
Horkheimer and John W. Diror, Editors.
Educators Progress Service, Randolph, Wis
Pp. 190. Paper, $6.00.

PICTORIAL HISTORY OF TELEVISION, A, Daniel
Blum. Chilton Company, 56th 8: Chestnu
Sts., Philadelphia 39. Pp. 288. $10.00.

TAPE RECORDER IN THE CLASSROOM, TIIE, Juli
Mellenbruch, Editor. VisuaI Instructio

Bureau, University of Texas, Austin 12. Pp
67. Paper, $2.00.

 
   
   
  
    
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
   
    
  

Sports, Physical Education

EDUCATION THROUGII PIIYSICAL ACTIVITIE.
(3rd ed.), Pattric R. O’Kecfe and Anit
Aldrich. C. V. Mosby, 3207 Washingto
Blvd., St. Louis 3. Pp. 377. $4.50.

FOOTRALL MADE EASY, George Young. Sport
shelf, P. 0. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y

Pp. 124. $3.75.

GLORY OF SAIL, TIIE, Frank and Keith Beken
John chraiI, 31 E. 10th.St., New York 3
Pp. 183. $10.00.

HANDBOOK OF BASEBALL DRILLS, Archie P
Allen. Prentice-Hall, Englewood ClilIs, N.J
Pp. 212. $4.95.

NEW INVITATION TO SKIING, Fred lsclin an
A. C. Spcctorsky. Simon and Schuster, 63
5th Ave.. New York 20. Pp. 243. $4.95.

PIIYSIOLOGY OF EXERCISE (3rd cd.) . Laurcnc
E. Morehouse and Augustus T. Miller, J
C. V. Mosby, 3207 Washington Blvd., S
Louis 3, Mo. Pp. 349. $4.75.

TABLE TENNIS—A New Approach, Ken Stan
lcy. Sportshelf, P. 0. Box 634, New Ro
chcllc, N.Y. Pp. 108. $3.25.

TACKLE LAWN TENNIS TIIIS WAY, Angcla Bu.‘
ton. Sportshelf, P. 0. Box 634, Ncw R
chcllc, N.Y. Pp. 132. $3.25.

TACKLE SOCCER TIIIS WAY, Duncan Edward
Sportshelf, Box 634, New Rochclle, N.
Pp. 111. $3.25.

TEACII YOURSELF BADMINTON, Fred Brunt"
Sportshelf, P. O. Box 634, New Rochcll
N.Y. Pp. 173. $2.00.

TENTIIOOK or ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY (51
ed.) , Catherine Parker Anthony. C. V. M
by, 3207 Washington Blvd., St. Louis 3. P
574. $5.35.

TRACK AND FIELD FOR COACH AND ATIILET

Jesse P. Mortensen and John M. Coopc
Prcntice-Ilall, Englcwood ClifIS, NJ. P

246. $4.95.

WOMAN'S BOWLING GUIDE, TIIE. Sylvia Wen
David McKay, 119 W. 40th St., Ncw Yo
18. Pp. 113. $2.95.

YOUTII AND FITNESS (National Confcren
1958). AAPI-lER, 1201 16th St., N.\
Washington 6, D.C. Pp. 80. Papcr, $1.

VERDICT OF TIIE SCOREBOARD (college at
lctics), Ade Chrislcnson. American Pro:

489 5th Ave.. New York 17. Pp. I90. $3.

RECREATIO

    

  

ii. I

    
 
 

3i
' in”!

     
 

{9'- "I'fi‘li'q'l'T‘I‘T
as}. '

w .

  
  

is.

4t a.

  

. A3
3731151} l

.c-"

_ , :.ii‘,‘,_,’;

_ . t _ “9‘5"”

  

Community Theatre—Idea and
Achievement, Robert E. Gard and Ger-
trude S. Burley. Duell, Sloan & Pearce,
124 East 30th Street, New York 16.
Pp. 182. $3.75.

Robert Card is well-known as the di-
rector of the Wisconsin Idea Theatre
at the University of Wisconsin. He is
a member of the National Recreation
Association’s National Advisory Com-
mittee 011 Drama. Gertrude Burley, his
assistant, has developed a notable series
of theater classes for children and is a
firm believer in drama education for
the young. Their combined efforts have
produced a book of real significance.

Thosc interested in knowing more
about community theater, its objectives,
its varying types of sponsorship, its
policies, and so on find this book well
worth careful study, as well as inter-
esting reading. It throws the search-
light of experience on every aspect of
community theater, and answers key
questions about professionalism, ori-
ginal plays, leadership, management,
and community relations.

Over half of this book consists of
conversations with drama directors of
community theaters in various cities
representing every section in the United
States except New England and the
Northwest. It is through these conver-
sations that the problems and the an-
swers f when there are answers) are dis-
cussed. This is the meat of the book.

An excellent bibliography and a rep-
resentative list of American community
theaters. listed by states, add to the
value of the book. Highly recommended.

The Playground as Music Teacher,
Madeline Carabo-Cone. Harper &
Brothers, 49 East 33rd Street, New
York 16. Pp. 247. $5.00.

Here is how to teach the rudiments
of music through the use of musical
games. More than one hundred games
are described and can be played on a
music staff marked on a playground.
Recreation leaders, as well as children,
will find this book an easy and pleasant
introduction to the single, basic ele-
ments of music. Directions are detailed,
clear, and accompanied with appropri-

JANUARY 1960

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

ate diagrams and musical illustrations.
Those who are already acquainted with
the symbols of music will also enjoy
these games.

Fifty Years with Music, Sigmund
Spaeth. Fleet Publishing, 70 East 45th
Street, New York 17. Pp. 288. $4.95.

This entertaining and informative
book is a treasure chest of photographs
and writings from the pen of Sigmund
Spaeth, one of the most significant and
inf1uential musical figures of our time.
Dr. Spaeth treats of everything from
the poet Milton to the facts of life in
popular song. He writes of music ap-
preciation for the uninitiated, grand
opera, rock ’n’ roll, and barbershop with
equal enthusiasm and soundness of
judgment.

Here is a book that will be read with
joy by laymen and sophisticates alike,
for it is replete with the vitality and
enthusiasm which have characterized
Dr. Spaeth’s long career and faithful
service to the musical world.

Creating a Climate for Adult Learn-
ing. Adult Education Association, 743
North Wabash Avenue, Chicago 11.
Pp. 116. $1.00.

This is a report of the Conference on
Architecture for Adult Education, held
in Lafayette, Indiana, in December
1958, in connection with the formal
opening of the adult education facilities
in Purdue’s new Memorial Center build-
ing. The idea for the coufcrence was
conceived by the Commission on Arch-
itecture for Adult Education of the
Adult Education Association. Except
for a brief report of a discussion group
session on community centers, there is
little specific reference to recreation in
the volume. However, much of the ma-
terial can be directly applied to recrea-
tion programs, especially for adults.
Many valuable suggestions for the plan~
ning of recreation buildings appear in
reports relating to design, equipment,
research, planning, and environment,
as well as reports of significant adult
education program trends affecting ar-

chitecturc. 0f spccial intercst is an
analysis of over two hundred replies
submitted by administrators and pro-
gram personnel to a questionnaire re-
questing opinions with rcferencc to thc
physical facilities now provided for
thcir programs.

Public Personnel Administration, Fe-

lix A. Nigro. Henry Holt & Company,
383 Madison Avenue, New York 17.
Pp. 499. $7.00.

This publication deals with the vari-
ous phases of public personnel admin-
istration. The basic problems in each
personnel area are considered in thc
light of the latest developments. The
book is written quite as much for the
layman as for the personnel specialist
and gives quite a clear picture of the
planning involvcd in carrying out an
effective personnel program. For com-
parison and contrast, frequent refer-
ences are made to personnel develop-
ments in industry.

Readings in Human Relations, ed-
ited by Keith Davis and William G.
Scott. McGraw-Hill Book Company,
330 West 42nd Street, New York 36.
Pp. 473. $6.50.

The authors have attempted to pre-
sent the integrated social science ap-
proach that recognizes that human rela~
tions uses ideas from many disciplines.
Although the material is management
oriented, it draws from the fields of psy-
chology, sociology, economics, labor re-
lations, and ethics.

There is considerable treatment of
such subjects as the philosophy of hu-
man relations, employee morale and
motivation, leadership and supervision;
and, in general, it deals with the trends
in human relations. This book should
be helpful to those interested in semi-
nars and discussions in human relations
and it could be good personal rcading
for executives and students.

The Study of Leadership, Dr. C. G.
Browne and Thomas C. Cohn. Inter-
state Printers and Publishers, 19-27
North Jackson Street, Danville, Illinois.

Pp. 487. $5.75.

This book contains selected material
concerning the major current thinking
by psychologists and sociologists on
the subject of personnel. It is the re-
sult of the broad survey of leadership
literature in the attempt to select pub-
lished studies that have some signifi-
cant contribution to the various aspects
of leadcrship.

The book attempts to analyze leader-
ship and leadership behavior and also

47

deals with the training and the dynam-
ics of leadership. It is a very helpful
volume for those who want to keep up
with current concepts and philosophy
of leadership.

Growth Through Play, Albert M.
Farina, Sol H. Furth, and Joseph M.
Smith. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs,

New Jersey. Pp. 246, illustrated. Spi-
ral bound, $5.75.

This very attractive book is a com-
prehensive source of play activities for
kindergarten and elementary school
children. Its Opening chapters contain
excellent discussions of the value and
meaning of play, selection of games,
and leadership techniques.

The remainder of the book is devoted
to characteristics and activities of chil-
dren from four through twelve. Each
age-group section includes classroom
games, creative play, action games,
song play, self-testing activities, folk
dancing, party games, pencil-and-paper
games, ball games, and the like.

Music is given whenever needed.
Game formations or layouts are illus-
trated. A bibliOgraphy, sources of rec-
ords, and an index are further aids that
make this a very well-planned and use-

ful book.

Pictures Tell Your Story, Daniel J.
Ransohoff. National Publicity Council,
257 Park Avenue South, New York 10.
Unpaged. Paper, $1.75 (plus $.09
postage).

Even if you feel you know all there
is to know about taking, buying, or us-
ing photOgraphs, this book may still
give you some information you don’t
have or some ideas you can use. On
the other hand, if you feel you need a
good deal of help and advice this book
is an easy-to-follow guide. Unlike many
books on photographs, it also includes
some discussion of the way photo-
graphs are reproduced, as well as sec-
tions on controlling the use of photo-
graphs, their eare, and credits.

The book is lavishly illustrated with
pictures that make the point, including
some that deal with such hard-to-photo-
graph subjects as the physically and
mentally handicapped. Not just any
picture but the right picture in the right
place can help to get better understand-
ing for the job you are doing and the
support you need.

Amazingly low in cost, this book is
inexpensive enough to make it easy to
add to your personal as well as your
office library.—Anne New, National
Recreation Association Public Infor-
mation and Education Department.

48

RESOURCES AND REFERENCES

Pamphlets and other aids [or the recre-
ation leader:

Spectator Control at Interscholastic
Basketball Games by Glenn C. Leach of
the athletic department at Rider Col-
lege, Trenton, New Jersey, covers a
tapie and situation only too prevalent
in basketball and other sport events,
whether under school or other auspices.
The number-one factor causing prob-
lems, according to Mr. Leach, is the
crowd’s reaction to officiating. “This is
usually the result of poor knowledge of
the game and the rules on the part of
the spectators.” Anyone responsible
for the administration of atheletics will
be interested in the solutions offered in
this booklet. Available for one dollar
from Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New
Rochelle, New York.

A Planning Report on Zoos is one of
a series of workmanlike reports being
issued by the MetrOpolitan Planning
Department of Marion County, Indi-
ana. While its immediate purpose was
to analyze and evaluate George Wash-
ington Park as a possible site for a zoo
for the city of Indianapolis, it presents
general planning guides and principles
for zoo-site analysis in any locality. It
was edited and compiled by Carl B.
Generieh, Jr., administrative assistant,
and is available for fifty cents from the
department, Room 405, City Hall, In-
dianapolis, Indiana. (Ask also for a
list of the department’s other reports.)

Everglades—The Park Story by Wil-
liam B. Robertson, Jr. is the before-and-
after report of an unusual and timeless
area. It is illustrated with striking
black-and-white and color photographs
by Dade W. Thornton and others. The
author is a field research biologist of
the National Park Service. This excel-
lent presentation of a national park is
available for one dollar from the Uni-
versity of Miami Press, Coral Cables

46, Florida.

Social Changes & Sports is the report
of the National Conference on Social
Changes and Implications for Physical
Education and Sports Programs, held
in Estes Park, Colorado, in 1958. Over
two hundred college educators and na-
tional authorities in women’s sports and
athletics attended this meeting along
with some of the country’s top econo-
mists, psychologists, and anthropolo-
gists. Among other interesting material
are an address by Mrs. Rollin Brown,
chairman of the White House Confer-
ence on Children and Youth, on the
“Challenges of Today”; a discussion by
Margaret Brown Clark of the Univer-
sity of California School of Health, 011

“Play and Cultural Values”; and an-
other by Margaret Lantis of the U. S.
Public Health Service on “Foreseeing
\Vomen’s Recreation in the 1960’s.”
The report is available for two dollars

from AAHPER. 1201 16th St., N.W.,
Washington 6, D. C.

Know Your Congress is published
every session of Congress for ready ref-
erence and contains over one hundred
pages of pertinent information about
the current Congress, its members and
committees, as well as useful facts about
jurisdictions, powers, and functions.
Next issue will appear January 3, 1960.
Available for two dollars from Capital

Publishers, 1006 National Press Build-
ing, Washington 4, D. C. (Also avail-
able for fifty cents is a digest of mate-
rial on our individual states and capital
city, entitled Know Your Country.)

How to Keep Fit and Like It (2nd ed.
rev.) is by Dr. Arthur H. Steinhaus,
professor of physiology at George Wil-
liams College, Chicago, and one of the
session speakers at the 41st National
Recreation Congress. This covers every
aspect of fitness, from sleep and how to
get it, to dancing, to growing old grace-
fully, and certainly has many implica-
tions for the recreation program. Avail-
able for fifty cents from the Dartnell
Corporation, 4660 North Ravenswood,
Chicago 40.

The C alcndar of Musical Activities in
the Uniterl States for 1959-60, issued
by the President’s Music Committee of
the People-to-People Program. is four
times bigger than the committee’s initial
effort last year. Information from fifty
states covers over six thousand music
performances in 580 cities and includes
symphony, choral, band, and jazz con-
certs; ballet, dance, and chamber music
performances; recitals; folk festivals;
and various music workshops. Each
event is defined as to date, conductor,
soloist, and Sponsoring organization.
The 168-page calendar is available for
one dollar postpaid from the committee

at 734 Jackson Place, N.W., Washing-
ton 6, D. C.

Troubled Pc0ple on the Job offers

good advice to those of us who super-
vise other peeple and may have to han-
dle difficult employees and situations.
The pamphlet was prepared by the
Conunittee on Ocellpational Psychiatry
of the American Psychiatric Associa-
tion and is intended for supervisory
personnel in almost every setting. Avail-
able for fifty cents from the Mental
Health Materials Center, 104 East 25th
Street, New York 10.

RECREATION

 

  

Outdoor Séafing leinéd
wifA Wafura/ jog

CONSTRUCTION
MAINTENANCE
OPERATION

CONSTRUCTING THE RINK: Selecting the Site, Pre-

paring the Area, Building the Rink by Flooding,
Building the Rink by Spraying.

   

  
  

  

      
  
 

MAINTAINING THE RINK

OPERATING THE RINK: Providing for All Types of

Skaters, Safety Measures, Protecting the Rink,
Services at the Rink.

  
    
  

  

P264 Price 50 cents

  
 
  

 
 

A Publication of the

National Recreation Association

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

8 West Eighth Street New York 11, New York

    
 

    
 

DIRECTOR OF RECREATION AND PARKS
BALTIMORE, MD.

APPLICATIONS: WILL BE RECEIVED FOR THE ABOVE POSITION
NOW VACANT

SALARY RANGE: $11,664. to $14,160.

QUALIFICATIONS: Must be a person lamiliar with sound, modern
practices of community recreation and park operations and of high
prolessianal standing in this field.

MAIL: Complete details ol persanal background and experience to:

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
BOARD or RECREATION AND PARKS
DRUID HILL PARK

BALTIMORE 17, MD.

 

CHANGE OF ADDRESS

If you are planning to move, notify us at least thirty
days before the date of the issue with which it is to take
effect, if possible, in order to receive your magazines
without interruption. Send both your old and new ad-
dresses by letter, card or post ofIice form 225 to:

SUBSCRIPTION DEPARTMENT
RECREATION MAGAZINE
8 WEST EIGHTH STREET
NEW YORK 11, N. Y.

The post oHice will not forward copies unless you pro-
vide extra postage. Duplicate copies cannot be sent.

 

 
   
   
 

A unique and easy-to-teach
method of music education
for children

THE
PLAYGROUND
AS MUSIC TEACHER

An Introduction to Music Through Games

 

By MADELEINE CARABO-CONE
Ca-authar al How to Help Chlldran Learn Muslc

In terms of the games children love best—Blindman’s
Bluff, Follow the Leader, Drop the Handkerchief, etc.
—Madeleine Carabo-Cone has dramatized the written
language of music—the bass clef, the treble clef, notes,
the lines and spaces of the grand staff.

Through these games, played on either an indoor or out-
door tield, the children absorb a working knowledge of
the whole music staff. This original and creative method
of making music a part of childhood experience will be
valuable to teachers (who need no previous musical
training to use the book) from kindergarten through
junior high school, to playground directors and to par-
ents. Illustrated with over 100 line drawings.

$5.00 at your bookstore or from

HARPER & BROTHERS, N. Y. 16

 

  

SAVES SPACE . . . FOLDS FACE TO FACE!

 
 
  

  

Easi-Fold Rolling

TABLE TENNIS TABLE

  

    

(9 69

Easy as 1-2-3 . . . for busy institutional worker or harried house-
wife. Folds automatically! Has large wheels on steel chassis;
solid-edge protected steel frame; built-in. metal-end net; granite-
hard Formium playing surface. Write today for color catalog.

SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORPORATION

     
     

520 Caster Sheet. New Tart. 59, N. Y I DAytan 96300

When writinar In our advertisers: release mpntinn Rrrnrarrnw

= c
‘ :
' "“ ‘u "‘5:
I .f I' '5
"T 3“... 3? THE " r
o _ .
. a

 

 éirécrearth'om that m fez/mm; more people

a i“. _.   2'74 [655 spam. ..

Roller skating is a sport enjoyed by the
young in heart. A gym, hall or any Other
smoorh surface makes a fine skating area,
and there is no damage to the floor if
proper skates are used. Little equipment is
needed . . . little supervision is required.
That’s why more and more schools and
churches have roller skating programs-—
and mm] off/39m make money by charging a
nominal fee for skating. Write today for
free information.

   
 
  
    
     

New Rubber-Plastic Wheels are kind to gym floors

Not only do these new Duryte rubber-plastic wheels
outwear Others, they give the skater more tracrion
and smoorher rolling. They are guaranteed nor to
mar or scratch the floors. Write for free details on
roller skating programs and skating equipment.

 

4490-A West Lake, Chicago 24, Illinois

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

