elTIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

‘-

OCTOBER 1960

 

 

SPECIAL SCHOOL PRICES

You save 12% by purchasing the
Group Kit below. It provides equipment for 20 or
more children to play at once. You also save on space
as feather-light, resilient Polyethylene prevents dam-
age and accidents so groups play close together in
safety. You save on supervisory time. You can bring
outdoor games indoors; making group activities easier
to plan. more fun for participants, more healthful.

Safe-T-Play equipment promOtes physical fitness the
economical way.

SAFE-T-MALLET GAME KIT

I9% savings)

At 9% below their sepo-
role cost you have (I) o

4
J game book (2) two little
t_ Q Fun Balls (3) 2 Fun Balls (4)
‘7 I2 Sofe-T-Mollers (5) 4

goal morkers. $27.35
volue.

m f_.

-._..I.I-..

SCOOP-BALL AND SAFE-T-BA'I' GAME KIT

(I 2% savings)
AI 12% below their sepo-

e) rote cost, you have (I a
F n r‘ . but Iee (2) two Sofe-T-
_ f "I. \ Bots (3) I2 5:00;): (4)
2 3 , \Lf ‘- book of 26 games (5} 2
- {57 ~ - Little Fun Balls (6) 3 Fun
_, "'9’ Balls. $23.30 volue.

    
 

 

FOR SPECIAL CLASSES

The remedial student. the shy or awkward child take
part more readily with light, safe Safe-T-Play equip-

- ment. The normal aggressiveness of healthy children

has a safe ()utlet. The subnormal aggressiveness of
backward children is stimulated to expression. At the
other extreme. varsity teams are conditioned by run-
ning games and contests organized around Safe-T-Play
equipment for fast. hard activity that is safe.

ORDER SAFE-T-PLAY EQUIPMENT FROM YOUR SCHOOL SUPPLY DEALER

  
 

snrt-I-va «a

A
RODUGTQ

 

cosom INDUSTRIES. INC.

6024 WAYZATA BLVD.

MINNEAPOLIS 16. MINN.

CircIn iflbl nn enunnn

   
 
 
 
  
  
  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  

I

 

UL mm.” 1901)

With one pledge you give
a helping hand to so many

When you make your one big pledge to
your town’s united campaign, you are
actually giving to many campaigns in
one. Your contribution fights disaster
and disease, works to prevent juvenile
delinquency, and attacks the problems
of the aging and the breakdown of family
life. United Way pledges support 27,700
local, state, and national agencies which
serve 77,400,00 Americans. When a
United Way Volunteer asks you to give,
welcome him with your pledge.

GIVE THE UNITED WAY

 

RECREATION

 

GENERAL

ADMINISTRATION

PROGRAM

DIGEST

EACH MONTH

346

OCTOBER I960 VOL. LIII NO. 8

Recreation/The Final Product (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Senator Robert S. Kerr
The ultimate goal of conservation programs

Recreation in our National Forests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Theodore C. Fernow
The M ultiple-Use Program.

Church Canteen Hangout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Katherine Sullivan
An, inter-church neighborhood program

The Recreator: Therapist of Therapeutic Agent? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ralph W. Meng, I\I.D.

Clarification of common misconceptions

People to People Through Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Neil A. Ofsthun
How to foster international rapport

The National Cultural Center (Part II) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joseph Prendergast
National and community recreation aspects

Recreation—Arctic Style . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gerald W. Pelton
Programs at our remote Air Force stations

A County Geared for Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dean Kastens
How to keep pace with a population explosion

Research: A Primary Need . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Earle F. Zeigler, Ph.D.
Recreation must have organized knowledge

State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plans for New Jersey’s largest county park

Research Briefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Concerning Upkeep . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Give Your Teenagers a Chance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William J. Pitkin
They can make valuable contributions

Christmas Puppet Pageant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

S.R.0. in Chicago

New Program Ideas and Needs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frank II. Riley
The ‘who’ and ‘why’ in planning

Prograln Aids for Church Leadcrs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New material

Conserving Open Space by Easement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William H. Whyte, Jr.
How to channel metropolitan growth and urban sprawl

A Deeper Look at Volunteers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Arthur Blumberg and Seth Arseniau
Wltat motivates tltese important people

Britain Builds a National Recreation and Sports Centre . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert McKinnon
A bold and comprehensive structure

As “70 Go To Press 353

Letters 350 Resources and References 352 A Reporter‘s Notebook

Obituaries 385 Market News 386 Trade Mart: Index of Advertisers, Free Aids, and Rcaders' Serv-
Books and Pam-

ice Coupon 387 Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 390 New Publications 394

phlets Received, Magazine Articles 395

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation

Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth Centrist". 1960. by the Nation-I

Street, New York 11, New York, is on Iile in public libraries and is indcxed in the Readers’ “rcrrltion Assert-“on. Incorporited :G‘

Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Rc-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Ollice in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microlilms of current
issues available University Microlilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Space Representatives: East Coast—onen'rismc MANAGER, RECREATION Magazine, 8 W.
8th Street, New York 11; Midwest—MARK MINAIIAN, 185 N. Wabash Boulevard, Chicago
1, Illinois; and West Coast—Amos: ROTIIHNHERG & Assocurss. 8845 W. Olympic Boule-
vard, Beverly Hills, California.

-16

Printed in the U.S.A.

DUCATIONAL
RESS

SSOCIATION
OF
AMERICA

   
 

lion Association.

RECREATION

PRICE 60

The ortlclss herein
printed or. the expres-
slon of the writers end
not a slalomont of policy
of the Notional Recrea-

      
 
     
  

34

35.

35

382

383

   
  

RECREATION 

  
 

 

 
   

F
l E

I“ I- :

(iitor in Chief, JOSEPII PRENDERCAST

 

    
  

 

'- I
 r
s: _.

In—

 3" t'- ‘_h.' "I .
WHEN ALL ..‘ u *-

i.  _‘ F

 

     
  
   

Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

  

Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

   

II.-

 
 
 

Associate Editors _'
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER

l1 I—--- ' ‘ .l. \-
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN ' *tvfo,  A  - ‘ ‘-
h I‘ I. Fl ‘ ‘
i I I _, g, I  - _ .1. -,
i;  w t-  i ' ‘- - IF" . _ A!

   

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

r i  .  ,  H
Advertising Manager   u   D
l._ -. _, _. a -_ 1» _t I
. 1"! i i

n
1 'l' J.-

ESTA GLUCK

-. F.

J—

  
 
 

  
 

On the Cover

Have you ever played a trout to the
sound of rushing water in the cool
green fragrance of the forest? If so,
you are aware of the relaxing and heal-
ing values of forest recreation (see ar-
ticle on Page 355). This picture was
taken on the Feather River, Plumas
National Forest, in California. Photo
courtesy U.S. Forest Service.

Next Month

Stories with good ideas for pre-
Christmas planning will make the No-
vember issue a helpful one. “Extend-
ing Your Service,” will tell the success
story of a truly cooperative recreation
program in a low-income housing pro-
ject. There will be articles on agree-
ments with part-time personnel and
planning for family camping. “Young-
sters Take the Stage,” tells the story of
an exceptionally successful community
theater; “Enlightened Leadership” will
deal with supervision; “No Recreation
Director Is an Island” stresses the im-
portance of cooperation with other
agencies.

Special from the Congress: Roy
Sorenson’s speech at the general ses-
sion on “Directions for the Future,” a
discussion of the implications of the
White House Conference on Children

and Youth.

the heart
-. of LOCKER
CHECKING

   
 
 

AMERICAN'S
carefree, profitable

COIN-LOK* PLAN

_ ‘ .7 0 Offers maximum checking convenience and security.

 

0 Provides automatic self-service on “pay” or “refund”
basis.

0 Eliminates costly labor and supervision.

Photo Credits 0 Can be applied to existing lockers.

Page 362, Maj. Lesley C. Wood, US.
Army, fIrst place winner, Third Inter-
Service Photo Contest; 360, Duane's
Photo, Shenandoah, Iowa; 363. Larry

D You buy — or lease locks with no lock maintenance
to worry about, no replacement costs of lost keys or
broken locks. American takes over the whole job.

0 Over 50 locker sizes available in a wide choice of

Cornwell, Downey, California; 370-1, - colors_

US. All‘ Force; 375, B1" Barrett, Lon- , .

don ' 383 (Stro an) Whitefoot Studio T'M""A'“""°" “ck” C°~ h"
i ’ . . . COMPARE COIN LOCKS—COMPARE SPECIFICATIONS

Vancouver, British Columbia; 384. Sun COM pARE pRlcEs

Valley (Idaho) News Bureau. 5 *
AMERICAN LOCKER COMPANY, mo. “69,515”
Dept. 510, 211 Congress Street, Boston. Mass. “ER CHEC
Circle #l56 on coupon —> DLDEIT AND LARGEST cum anx MANUFACTURER __'-°

OCTOBER 1960 347

 

I; l.

V ’t I

" 11H
BAT of the

   

CHAMPIONS

1g '* .

 

   

 

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

l' ECREATION / THE FINAL PRODUCT

The Senator from Oklahoma sees recreation

as the ultimate product of conservation programs

‘ enator Robert S. Kerr

PSYCIIOLOCISTS PROBINC deeply into

the minds of our restless age have
discovered that man must feel he is a
useful part of a vast, orderly scheme.
Without this, he is subject to “intoler-
able aloneness and demonic fears and

pressures.” The farmer worked under

 

ever-changing skies. The seasons were
neaningful. He saw water, sun, soil, and the gentle decay
. f time produce life and death and life again. He had a
ense of personal creation when he broke the soil, planted
he seed, and cut the grain. How many of us today are able
0 sense thc moving majcsty of nature and its eternal pat-
ern? The only glimpse millions have is on summer week-
nds when they jam onto crowded beaches. Many jobs are
nonotonous, repetitive, and uncreative. Life too often
moves along on an assembly-line basis.

Man must be able to escape from his problems and relax.
When the farmer’s work was done, the ground planted or
the crop harvested or the fence repaired, he would set out
with his dog and gun for a hunt or with his fishing pole for
a quiet, clear-water stream. Or his wife would pack a lunch
and the whole family would go to the river to fish and swim
y day and sleep under the stars at night. A curse of our
times today is an inability to relax.

We have truly reached that stage President James A. Car-
field saw prophetically in 1880. He said, “We may divide
the whole struggle of the human race into two chapters;
first the fight to get leisure, and then the second fight of civ-
ilization—what shall we do with our leisure when we get
it.” Bertrand Russell adds, “To be able to fill leisure intel-
ligently is the last product of civilization.”

The trouble is that recreation, until very recently, has
been treated as a luxury. When, before the Civil War, the
great American poet, William Cullen Bryant, proposed that
New York City buy a large tract of land for a “Central
Park,” he was hooted down as a wild and extravagant
dreamer. Some years later it was bought and today Central
Park is a great treasure. How much peace it has given to
sick and lonely hearts can never be measured.

Fifty yea1s ago, a boy could go five miles from Boston,

 

SENATOR KERR is chairman of the Select Senate Committee
on National Water Resources. This material is excerpted
from his recent book, Land, Wood and Water, with permis-
sion of the Fleet Publishing Corporation, 230 Park Avenue,
New York 17.

OCTOBER 1960

i

spend the day digging mud clams and seldom see anothei
human being. Even around New York City, if you did noj
like the crowds of Coney Island, there were miles of nearly
deserted sand beaches along Long Island. This, of course,
is no more. In 1934, some five million people visited New}
York state park beaches; twenty years later the figure was

sixty-one million. i

O . . . i
The state parks are jammed with vISItors. No longer can»

. Q . . t

the camper or tourist travel across the land and drive into
. . L . d

a state park Without a reservation or Without at least reach-

ing there early in the day. .,

\Vhere will we find the land and water we need? The
answer to this is for cities and states and the federal gov-
ernment to scour the countryside for recreation sites. This
can easily be a part of the overall water conservation pro-
gram. An almost unexpected gift to the American people
is the recreation advantage derived from the water conser-
vation program. In replanting the forests to hold the water
and in building earthen or concrete dams to check the
floods, irrigate the land, and provide low-cost power, the
government—somewhat to its surprise-——-has declared a
huge recreation dividend. The Army Corps of Engineers
and the Bureau of Reclamation have built 263 artificial
lakes and reservoirs, which, in 1958, drew more than a hun-
dred million visitors.

We know that large sums must be spent by the federal
govermnent, state, and local agencies, but how can we mea-
sure the health and happiness of our children and grand-
children in terms of dollars? We might well take the ads
vice of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United
States in answering the question, “Why is leisure impor-
tant?”

“Because . . . we Americans have more leisure than any
people have ever had before in the history of the world——

a challenge to us all.

“Because . . .
how much he loves his work or how useful it is—without

nobody can work all the time, no matter

harnL

“Because . . . the complications and strains of modern
life cause tensions—and unless we get enough enjoyment
and relaxation to make up for them, tensions cause illness

or depression or, at best, just plain grouchiness!

“Because .
opportunities we need for creative, free, satisfying. and

. most jobs fail to provide us with all the

, .3 . . ,,, 4,
tamed act1v1ty. .,,.

3-19

“my grandfather makes the best play-
ground equipment in the whole world
...heeause he loves little people like

me! he makes slides and swings and see-
saws and all kinds oi things. They’re real
strong and they’re very sate. it you're
going to buy playground things you het-
ter talk to my grandfather or my lather
tirst. they’re both named mr. hurke.”

 

UNIQUE SPACE SAVER SLIDE...Sate fun in 1A
of the space required by standard slides, featur-
ing bright weather-proof colors over galvanized
iron and stainless steel bedway.

O O I O I I I O O I I I O I U U I C C U U U O I O I I I O I O I I I O O I I I I O I I I I U U U C I I I O .-

Please send me your complete play-
ground planning and specification file.

J. E. BURKE COMPANY

P. O. Box 986 Dept. 41 P. 0. Box 549 Dept. 41
New Brunswlck, Fond du Lac.

New Jersey 0R Wisconsin
Name:._______. _. .TT _,_ _,
Streetzr

Clty:__ State:

350

   

 r ’e‘

A Vital Factor

Sirs:

Since we were active when the events
described took place, we read with in-
terest the article in your June issue on
“Filling the Job of Recreation Execu-
tive” for White Plains. we believe that
some important items should be added
to Dr. Prezioso's account.

We believe the vital factor was the
community climate which had been cre-
ated. It was the National Recreation
Association itself, consulted by com-
munity leaders, which assisted enor-
mously in helping those who cared to
get at the facts, to awaken the public to
good standards, and to an understand-
ing of the sort of recreation department
our city needed. The local Council of
Community Services, the PTA Council,
the Civic and Business Federation.
neighborhood associations. 3 Mayor’s
Coordinating Committee on Recreation.
and many individuals became inter-
ested and voiced their concern.

We think it was precisely this build-
up of citizen pressure “for a real pro-
fessional," and for a change in the sta-
tus quo which finally led to action. Our
White Plains recreation program had
been limping along for years and public
oflieials were aware of it. yet nothing
drastic happened until public opinion
mounted high. Only then things began
to happen at the top and happen fast,
and in all the good directions, as Dr.
Prezioso points out.

In other words, only after enough of
the public became aroused, informed.
and determined that the highest stand-
ards guide the selection of a new exeen-
tive, did it heeome inevitable that the
elected oflieials responsible would take
every possible step to insure the hiring
of the best recreation man available
[Joseph Curtis].

ANNA D. CLOW (Mas. HOLLIS), JEAN

S. Fonsrerr (Mas. IvaN), MILDRED

CALEF (Mas. GABRIEL), and COLDIE

R. ZEITLIN (Mas. ALEXANDER).

White Plains, New York.

* 'I' 43' *

Dr. I’rezioso’s article was excellent.

Many recreation departments in Calif-

    

 

<—- Circle #I7l on coupon

Readers are invited to share thei
views on these pages. Comment
of general interest are always wel
come. — The Editors.

ornia use similar procedures, but on .

smaller scale, in selecting personnel f0

supervisory and executive positions.
STANLEY SILVER, Supervisor of Rec
rearion, Alameda, California.

Paddle Enthusiasts

Sirs:
The fine article written by Commo

dore Mallison, “They Paddle Thei
Own.” (June) . . . is a remarkably con-
cise story and tells as much as possibl
about the American Canoe Associatior
in the space provided. I believe I can
honestly say that all members who rear
the article will be just as delighted with
it as I am. Thank you for plugging the
ACA.

Also enjoyed “The Nation’s Fron
Parlor” along with pictures. I often
paddle my own canoe on the Chess
peakc and Ohio Canal and my club
(The \Vashington Canoe Club) some-
times utilizes its waters to train jnvenilc
racing paddlers. As the canal is not
more than five feet deep anywher
along its length, and is relatively nar-
row, it makes an ideal training ground
for youngsters who are not sure of
themselves over deep water.

WILLIAM J. RHODES, V ice-President.

President’s C up Regatta Association.
Washington, D.C.

9 I' 'I- I'

I wish to thank you for publishing
the article about canoeing, “They Pad-
dle their Own” by Nathan L. Mallison
in your June issue. Mr. Mallison is one
of the most famous American boaters.
and all boaters who read the article will
realize that you certainly picked an arr-
thority to write your article.

Let me take this opportunity to offer
to your staff and readers any assistance
that the American White \Vatcr Aflilia~

Circle #l70 on coupon

 

New. Improved Golden Age Club Pin.
New In real gold plate with tree In
green lewelere' enamel. Safety catch.
50: each. including federal to: and

P‘.‘ postage.
Minimum order 10 pins
Available only to uthenllc clubs.

JAMES SPENCER a. co.
EXACT 5'15 22 N. are Street Phllodelphlo 6. Po.

 

 

RECREATIOI‘J

tion can give them. The AWA is made
up of about eight hundred members and
twenty-seven affiliated clubs. We are a
nonprofit group, open to anyone inter-
ested in canoes, kayaks, rafts, etcetera.
CLYDE JONES, Executive Director,
American. White Water A filiation,
5525 East Bails Dr., Denver 22, Col-

orado.

0 Write for the “AWA Safety Code.”
—Ed.
* 'H‘ * *

As an ex-commoclore of the Ameri-
can Canoe Association, let me thank
you most heartily for [publishing]
“They Paddle Their Own,” in the June
issue. The many phases of the sport are
most expertly touched on in the article.
It gives a most comprehensive view of
the sport without tiring the reader. Let
us have some more!

W. VAN B. CLAUSSEN, Silver Springs,
Florida.

Park Desecralion

Sirs:

tinued to maintain in the editorial
makeup. The new features you have
added to the magazine should be most

helpful.

ARTHUR L. SCHULTZ, Director, Pub-

lic Information Service, Chicago
Park District.

'I 'I 'I 41'

I wish to congratulate you on your
new format and excellent September is-
sue. . . . I like the use of color pages and
everything.

H. S. DE GROAT, Director, Newtown
Recreation Department, Newtown,
Connecticut.

Time Saver
Sirs:

Congratulations on your new system
of obtaining free information, cata-
logues, etcetera (see Page 387). This is
certainly welcome in the field. Have en-
closed my order for information which
saves writing forty-six letters. This is
certainly a great hclp and a great sav-
ing of valuable time: Thank you. Keep
up the good work!

CHARLES A. BOUCHER, Base Youth

Director, Cri§iss Air Force Base,

New York.

0 A great many others ioined Mr.

Boucher in flooding us with requests.
—Ed.

Because we are all interested in the
desecration and conservation of recrea-
tion areas and scenery, it is very fitting
you have written articles recently point-
ing out vividly its dangers. As greater
areas are carved out to meet the increas-
ing insatiable needs of the motor vehi-
cle this situation will definitely grow
worse. As it is, many of our limited
city park areas are cut up into criss-
crossing “parkways,” not to accommo-
date the park user but the fast-moving
motorist.

There is a conflict between the motor-
ist and pedestrian for space, freedom of
movement, and safety, but nowhere is
this more vividly brought out than in
our park areas. By bringing the city
and vehicle into the heart of the park
we desecrate and destroy its original
intention.

LE0 WILENSKY, Secretary, Pedestrian

League of America, Box 1308,
Church St. Station, New York City.

 

does more for

# more people in less space!

For maximum gym use many schools,
churches and recreation centers have
roller skating programs. Everyone
can participate, little supervision

  
   
 
 

is needed, and if desired, it can be

a profit-making activity. Write today for
free information.

Information Pleasers

Sirs:

This is to tell you how much I like
the two departments, “A Reporter’s
Notebook” and “State and Local Devel-
opments.” These pages indeed carry a
lot of valuable information.

GEORGE T. SARGISSON, Executive Di-

rector, Recreation Promotion and

Service, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware.

Duryte Plastic Wheels
Do Not Mar Floors

Our New Format

Sirs:
We want to congratulate you on the

new format for RECREATION Magazine
and for the high standard you have con-

M

Circle #l59 on coupon —)

OCTOBER 1960

a bmd- 4490 West Lake Street, Chicago 24, Illinois

3 3 l

Circle 3;: |63 on coupon

    

cllmb Everest...

. . . Just write for our catalog
illustrating thousands of trophies
and awards. It’s probably the larg-
est in-stock selection of ‘To The
Winner’ awards anywhere.

We manufacture all trophies and
are able to offer the lowest pos-
sible prices. Letters engraved are
only 21/2¢ each.

And yes, same day shipment 'of
all trophies is standard . . . direct
from our stockrooms.

EMBLEM 8. BADGE MFG. CO.
BOX R

68 Pine St, Prov. 3, R. l., DExter 1-5444

CRAFTS

for BHRISTMAS

CRAFTS

for SENIOR CITIZENS

CRAFTS

for YOUTH GROUPS

Why not deal with a a
prime national supplier.

ANNOUNCEMENT:

 

Cleveland Crafts los
Angeles warehoure
will be opened Jon-
uory Isl, 1961

I960 Catalog! Free, if On Hand, Ask
For Special CHRISTMAS FOLDER

CLEVELAND BRAFTS 80.

4707 Euclid Ave., Cleveland 3, Ohio
5832 Chicago Ave... Chicago 51, III.
4 East 16th St., New York 3, N. Y.

-— Av at:

332

 

RESOURCES AND
REFERENCES

The sucrtess of any discussion group
depends mainly on the skill and experi-
ence of the leader. However, the leader
can utilize many devices and tools de-
veloped to vitalize participation, such
as films, programs involving role play-
ing, and buzz sessions. Now the Guid-
ance Center of New Rochelle, New
York. has worked out a series of mono-
logues for stimulating a group in a spe-
cific area of interest. The impact of a
“live” presentation is often greater than
that of films, and monologues are easier
to perform than plays. Included are
monologues for both parent and teen-
age groups. Excerpts from Anne Frank:
The Diary ofa Young Girl (3.25) might
well serve as the jump-off for a discus-
sion about adolescence today. The cen-
tcr has found that an especially fruitful
discussion can emerge from a consider-
ation of the differences in Anne’s at-
titudes and feelings at thirteen and at
fifteen years of age. Volumes I and II
of Monoiogues for Group Discussion
(3.50 each) are Copyrighted mono-
logues that deal with children at differ-
ent stages of growth. The center also
has a list of other pamphlets available.
For further information write to the
center at 81 Centre Avenue, New Ro-

chelle, Ne w York.

 

There is more to table tennis than
just pinging a ball about. The [illited
States Table Tennis Association offers
a quartet of publications to help you
legalize the game. These include Ref-
erees” anti liaipires’ Manual {3.25),
Courts, (Hubs and Leagues .‘lianuai
(8.2m, Tabie Tennis for You. (3.10)
and The Laws of Tabie Tennis ($.02l.
These are axailable from L. C. Guyer,
IYSTTA. 202 Brookside Boulevard.

Pittsburgh 3-1, Pennsylvania.
0

International study opportunities are
listed in ITNESUO’s Study Abroad, a fat
annual flast edition had 755 pages)
that covers scholarships, fellowships,
visiting professorships, and sources of
grants and funds. Fields of study cover
such areas as social anthropology, art.
culture and customs, drama (theatrical
presentatimt i . folklore. forestry. games,
plastic arts. social sciences, sports, town
planning. tradition. and zoology. (\vail-
able for three dollars from i-‘le-jsco Pub-
lications Center, 801 Third “\venue,

Vein York 22.

Circle #IBO on coupon ——)
*— Circle # I60 on coupon

 

Circle #l76 on coupon

. i
_. I
if" i . 'J
1"“ .

 lira/{pm

WHEREVER

'1'. .
a .

CHILDREN PLAY

Recreation equipment with
engineered safety to meet
the most rigid requirements.

0 Playground Equipment
0 Indoor Basketball Backstops
0 Swimming Pool Equipment

Literature for each line avail-
able on request—please smurfs”.

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITE“

RECREATION
EQUIPMENT CORP

Dept. R160 -— 72-1 “2 8th St.
.--\nderson, Indiana

 

      
 
  

  

"Siationory" racks
in single or double
face units snap-lack
rigidly together to fit
any space or provide
capacity required.

I .

.l

7’

I

COAT and HAT RACKS -

Stvle DP. 1-40. Portable Checker Root: tillustratcdi
is 4 it 2 in. tour: holds 40 coats: ind hetr‘ coca
whcrct-cr nccdcd on toruc. ball-bcorlnmmuvcl
*custcrs. Comcs with or without checks and anon-on
numbers. Strongly wcldcd at squarc tubular. hcary
Enunc and hit!th cmbosscd furniture stccl Smar‘.
in modern baked imishcs. Oivc hictimc scrvice -
never "in. crank or rway 3 it . 4 a 5 it. units orni-
nbtc. a" wctl as other cmcicnt soacc snvlnc equin-
rncnt tor every church. school. commcrclnt.
industrial and institutional need.

Write for Buiiclin C82

VOGEl-PETERSON CO-

RECREATION

 
 

 

     

 

AS WE GO TO PRESS

Get Out and Vote!

 

A $75,000,000 bond issue for recreation and parks is being requested by Governor Nelson Rockefeller of New
York State in a “Now or Never” campaign to save more lands for present and future use. He says that $35,000,000
will be allocated for state recreation purposes; the remaining $40,000,000 will go to cities, counties, and towns for
local parks. The National Recreation Association, and New York Recreation Society are Spearheading the cam-

paign. New York Staters, unite! What are other states doing to meet this'urgent need to protect their open spaces
through immediate legislation? Please let us know. I

Last-Minute Briefs

) AN EXCELLENT SPEAKER has been
signed up for the Editor’s Luncheon at
the National Recreation Congress, Wed-
nesday, September 28, 12:15 in the
Park Room at the Shoreham. Cody
Pfansteihl is the man of the hour. Di-
rector of public relations for the Wash-
ington Evening Star, he has an excel-
lent background of professional experi-
ence for pertinent and stimulating re-
marks. If you are, or have been, on the
staff of a recreation publication—so-
ciety bulletin, annual report, or other
printed communication—you will be
eligible to attend this closed meeting.
Come prepared to exchange some down-
to-earth ShOp talk; and be on time!

D NEW BOARD MEMBER: Mrs. James C.
Parker of Grand Rapids, Michigan, has
just been elected to the board of direc-
tors of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation and will be a member of its Pol-
icy and Program Committee. Mrs.
Parker is president of the National Con-
gress of Parents and Teachers, a former
president of the Camp Fire Girls and
the Adult Education Association, and a
member of the Advisory Committee on
Young Workers to the! U.S. Bureau of
Labor Standards. She has been sccre-
tary' of the Grand Rapids Recreation
Commission since 1939 and is a mem-
ber of the Michigan Youth Commis-
sion. Just one year ago she wrote
an article for the Congress issue of
RECREATION (October 1959), entitled
“These I Would Like . . .” wherein,
speaking as a mother, a citizen and vol-
unteer, she tells leaders what she would

like a public recreation department to
offer her children.

F TIIE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIA-
TION regretfully announces the death,
on September 10, of a board member,
C. Sewall Clark, who had given twenty-
four years of devoted service to the rec-
reation movement. Mr. Clark belonged

OCTOBER 1960

to a family long dedicated to sports and

recreation. Both his father, Clarence

M. Clark, and his aunt, Mrs. Louis C.
Madeira, had hem directors of the
NRA. His uncle, E. Walter Clark, gave
the city of Philadelphia two play-
grounds. A quiet, exceedingly well-in-
formed businessman, Sewall Clark was
also familiar with and a promoter of
recreation and its human values.

) CURRENT CHANGES IN THE FIELD. M.
Esthyr Fitzgerald is retiring after thir-
ty-eight years as director of recreation
in Utica, New York. Miss Fitzgerald,
who has done much for the youth of
Utica, has expanded the city recreation
services through the years and has seen
facilities increase from a half-dozen
areas to a modern playground system
of twenty-two playgrounds, three swim-
ming pools, and many wading pools.
(Utica was the seventh city in the Unit-
ed States to realize that youth must have
a place to play, according to the local
press. The idea was “suggested in 1898
by Joseph Lee of Boston.”) Present day
community center activities, through
Miss Fitzgerald’s efforts, use school
building facilities during the long win-
ter evenings.

0 REPORT FROM THE WEST COAST
tells of the retirement of Leo B. Cal-
land, first park and recreation direc-
tor for the city of San Diego, Cali-
fornia, as of September 1, 1960. Mr.
Lester E. Earnest, former budget ofii-
cer and Mission Bay Park director for
San Diego, was appointed to succeed
him. Miss Pauline des Granges will
continue to serve as assistant park and
recreation director.

«- LOUIS F. TWARDZIK, recreation con-
sultant of the Tennessee Division of
State Parks, announced his resignation,
effective September 2, to accept an ap-
pointment as assistant professor at
Michigan State University in East Lan-

sing. Mr. Twardzik, a ten-year veteran
of state park service, will teach at both
undergraduate and graduate levels and
will also act as park and recreation con-
sultant to the cities and counties of
Michigan, similar to his work with
Tennessee municipalities. Michigan
State University, through its Depart-
ment of Resource Development, offers a
degree in park management.

Things You Should Know

) WORKERS IN THE FIELD OF FAMILY
WELFARE should examine the cultural
patterns on which our society is struc-
tured, to see if they are adequate today,
according to Mrs. Katherine B. Oettin-
ger, chief of the Children’s Bureau in
Washington. Mrs. Oettinger was ad-
dressing the plenary session of the In-
ternational Conference on the Family,
in New York, recently. “One of the
most distinctive characteristics of the
1960 White House Conference on Chil-
dren and Youth,” she said, “was the de-
gree to which it reflected a national
uneasiness about the present state of
the American family, and a national
awareness of the need for more effective
programs to strengthen and preserve

family life.”

D AN ORDINANCE MAKING IT UNLAWFUL
for any person to willfully interfere
with, disrupt or prevent the orderly
conduct of any supervised play or
amusement program being offered by
the recreation departInent has just been
passed by the city of Austin, Texas. It
covers activities in buildings, swim-
ming pools, playgrounds, golf courses,
or park areas located on or in any pub-
lic property within the city, according
to Beverly S. Shefheld, director of rec-
reation in Austin. It also specifies that
it shall be unlawful for any person to
remain in a building or facility after
being advised by the supervisor that he
is interfering with or disrupting the

353

orderly conduct of the activity and the
supervisor asks him to leave.

) UNITED NATIONS DAY—OCTOBER 24:
We hope you’ve planned a fair or ba-
zaar, festival, or some special ceremony
for this day. If not, how about whip-
ping up a UN birthday party, with an
international flavor? Decorations, re-
freshments, songs and games shouldn’t
take long to prepare. Some communiti-
ties are planting a “United Nations
Tree” with proper dedication ceremony.
Some of the participants will wear for-
eign costumes. Perhaps you can tie in
with any school program planned. See
if this is possible. Whatever you do,
please write and tell RECREATION maga-
zine about it._

) UNICEF GREETING CARDS are now

available and are beautiful this year.
Write for catalog to US. Committee for
UNICEF, Greeting Cards, P.O. Box 22,

Church StIeet Station, New York 8,
New York.

> PERMISSION TO FIRE ROCKETS IN
PARKS was denied by the Essex County
Park Commission in New Jersey, where
a fifteen-year-old high-school sopho-
more applied for a permit, according to
the Newark News. In trying to assure
the commission of the safety precau-
tions he and his colleagues practiced,
he succeeded in alarming it instead.
“We clear, advise, and warn spectators
of the coming firing,” wrote the boy,
“and we ‘take care of’ those who don’t
want to cooperate with us.” He identi-
fies himself as “head” of an organiza-
tion he calls the Northern Astronautical

Research Association, New Jersey Di-
vision.

} RECREATION AT THE POLLS:

The Democrats promise: Improvement
and expansion of recreational Oppor-
tunities in national parks and monu-
ments, forests, river development proj-
ects and near metropolitan areas. A
National Wilderness System is pro-
posed and inclusion of the “few re-
maining suitable shorelines” in the
National Park System is pledged. In
disposing of federally owned lands, the
Democratic platform would consider
the recreational needs of the surround-
ing areas.

The Republicans pledge: completion of
“Mission 66” for the improvement of
national park areas and Sponsorship of
a new “Mission 76” to encourage pro-
vision of adequate recreational facili-
ties in local, state, and regional parks
for the expanding population. The Re-
publican platform also endorses estab-
lishment of a citizens’ board of conser-
vation, resources and land management
experts to inventory federal lands and

354

to study the future needs of the nation
for parks, seashores and other recrea-
tional areas, as well as the possibility
of restoring lands not needed for fed-
eral programs.

> A RECORD $43,000,000,000 WILL BE
SPENT by Americans this year for lei-
sure-time pursuits, predicts Robert D.
Sidel, chairman, Sports Arenas, Inc.-——
the nation’s largest chain of bowling
alleys — in the September 9, 1960
edition of the New Y ork Herald Tri-
bane. Boating still holds first place.
Americans will spend a thtal of $3,500,-
000,000 on this sport in 960. In sec-
ond place is bowling. M re than 27,-
000,000 bowlers this ye/a will spend a
record of $3,000,000,000 at their neigh-
borhood alleys. Fishing, once Amer-
ica’s favorite leisure-time activity, is
now in third place, with $2,000,000,000
a year spent by fishermen.

) THE LARGEST FEDERAL BUILDING PRO-
CRAM ever authorized for the nation’s
capital city will add thirteen buildings
to Washington’s downtown area. In-
cluded in the $290,414,000 project will
be a $1,700,000 building for National
Capital Parks operations and three new
Smithsonian Institution buildings; a
$36,000,000 Museum of History and
Technology (already under construc-
tion) ; a new $40,000,000 air museum,
and new wings, costing $19,610,000,
for the Museum of Natural History.
The old Patent Office will become a na-
tional portrait gallery when the Civil
Service Commission now occupying it
moves into its new $2,031,000 home.

} A NEw DEVELOPMENT at the Univer-
sity of Missouri is significant for recre-
ation in the state. As of July 1, all ex-
tension and off-campus educational
services of the university were com-
bined into a single administrative unit
called the University Extension Divi-
sion. Significant for recreation is the
fact that a trained recreation consultant
will be available to the entire state, and
more will be added if the need arises.
This restores the state recreation serv-
ice formerly providcd by the Depart-
ment of Resources Development.

I find that before you retire you

promise yourself to do all sorts
of things, but. a great deal of your
time is taken up with putting them

off, and eventually you devise a sys-
tem of putting things off that takes
up all of your time.—SIR SYDNEY
SMITH, British crime expert (rc-

tired

 

 

} SANTA’S PACK will be loaded with do-
it-yourself science toys this year, as in-
dicated by a preview of toys for the
1960 Yule season. Among the items: a
assemble-it-yourself solar system, a
Geiger counter kit, a junior-size elec-
tronic computer, a car riding on a cush-
ion Of air, a reproduction of the air
force’s rocket sled.

} OLYMPIC RESULTS: Among the medal
winners at the Olympics in Rome the
United States was second to Russia.
Medals for the first three countries
stack up as follows:

Gold Silver Bronze
Soviet Union 43 33 30
United States 34 21 16
Italy 13 10 13

Gold is for first place, silver for second,
bronze for third.

The games were magnificently staged
this year, and the symbolic torch was
extinguished before a saddened crowd
of 75,000—saddened because this great
sports spectacle was over. The New
York Times reports that it was not a
financial success, and that it will be a
long time before any nation can hOpe
to again stage the Olympics in so Ina-
jestic a manner. Allison Danzig writes,
“But the glory that was Rome in the
days of the Caesars was recaptured.”
So endeth a Roman holiday.

) OPERATION MULTIPLE USE is the re-
sult of a directive issued by Congress
earlier this year for an accelerated pro-
gram of development of our national
forests to match our exploding popula-
tion and its expanding needs. In its
recent publication Operation Multiple
Use (PA 424), the Forest Service out-
lines its program for action as it races
against time in the 181,000,000 acres
of national forests in thirty-nine states
and Puerto Rico. ( F or the story of rec-
reation in our national forests see Page
355 and this month’s cover.)

RECENT BOND ISSUES

Alamedn, Idaho: $185,000 for an 18-
hole golf course and two parks.
Austin, Texas: eight-point 360,000,-
000 bond issue (largest in Austin’s his-
tory) includes $450,000 for parks.
Opelikn, Alabamn: $385,000 for two
cOImnunity centers, two swimming
pools (including wading 'pools, tele-
scopic folding bleachers, furniture and
gymnasium equipment).

Portland, Indiana: $139,000 for new
swimming pool, bathhouse and other
facilities.

Seattle, ‘Vashington: $4,500,000 to
expand and upgrade park and play-
ground system.

Tupelo, Mississippi: $248,000 for
two swimming pools, wading pools, and
hathhouscs.

RECREATION

 
 
 
  

N OUR
ATIONAL

ORESTS

CREATION

v.1,

‘Tranquillity without tranquilizers is an integral part

   
 

lCOdOI‘e C. Fearnow

I IAVE YOU ever

stood alone in
in the cathedral-
like atmosphere of
a deep forest at
sunset? Have you
ever wakened from
a night’s sleep un-
_ er a canopy of trees and, from the
varmth and comfort of your bedroll,
istened to the early morning sounds of
: forest as it undergoes the transition
rom night to day? If you have known
hese or other meaningful experiences
ssociated with outdoor life you are
aware of the recreation—the “re-cre-
tive”—value inherent in a forest.
Whether one is experiencing this for
the first time or as a seasoned veteran
who has lived with the out-of-doors a
lifetime seems to make little difference.
The magic influence never wears off.
Because of this, recreation is one of the
gifts—a resource——of our forests.
Americans are becoming better ac-
quainted with their great forest empire
each year—especially the national for-

ests and the facilities they offer for pub-

MR. FEARNOW is assistant regional [or-
ester, Eastern Region, U.S. Forest Serv-
ice, Upper Darby, Pennsylvania. He
lcelebrated his fortieth anniversary in
iconservation work this past June, hav-

ing started with the U.S. Bureau of
Fisheries while in high school.

OCTOBER 1960

f the national forest program.”

lic use. A total of 151 national forests,
covering 181,000,000 acres, is located
throughout the United States, Alaska,
and Puerto Rico. Even in the densely
populated East, several million acres of
national forest “high country” along
the Appalachian Range, afford oppor-
tunities for public recreation use and
enjoyment.

The increase in the use of national
forests for recreation over the past half
century has been phenomenal. Fifty
years ago, estimatestindicated that this
use could reach “the staggering total of
one million visits per year.” Forecasts
made as recently as five years ago are
also proving too conservative. In 1959,
recreation use on the national forests
totaled more than 81,500,000 visits, or
more than 95,500,000 man days of use.
This is an all-time high. lt represents
an increase of 19 percent over 1958 and
a growth of 347 percent since 1946.
Camping, picnicking, hiking, winter
sports, organization camps, wilderness
area visits, hunting, fishing, and other
typical forest recreation uses are in-
volved in this total. When this use is
considered in the light of projected
population growth for the nation, tre-
mendous problems loom on the horizon.

Recreation is only one of many uses
provided by the national forests under
the policy of multiple-use management.
If outdoor recreation were the only de-
mand upon these lands, it might be

 

solved by simply withdrawing substan-
tial areas for recreation. But a growing
country such as ours has urgent needs
in many directions. \Ve need more wa-
ter for recreation, industrial, and do-
mestic uses. We need more sawtimber,
with particular emphasis on quality,
and more wood to supply paper, along
with many other closely related prod-
ucts. ln many national forest areas we
must maintain and improve forage ca-
pacity for livestock production. Mil-
lions of hunters and fishermen are con-
cerned with the production of game and
fish in the national forests, so this be-
comes another very important facet of
multiple-use management. Wioven. as it
is, throughout this fabric of many uses,
recreation is actually an integral part of
the entire national forest program.
The future demands on
forests by outdoor-recreation-minded

national

Americans seems almost limitless. One
hard-working forester recently stated
his problem thus: “We had a shortage
of forty campsites at the lake—finally
we were able to finance the construction
job and they were installed. Now we
have a shortage of one hundred camp-
sites at this area!” For every picnic ta-
ble or camp unit installed, avid, recrea-
tion-minded Americans are literally
standing in line.

Forests can absorb a tremendous
number of people and still provide a de-

sirable measure of isolation. Spaced

355

 

 
  
   
    

HE SIGHT OF the felling of great trees,

which seems to thrill the average movie
audience, arouses in me only the most un-
pleasant sensations, similar to those more con-
ventionally experienced when the hero of a
story finally loses his life.

—DR. KARL MENNINGER

A family picnic at the Twin Lakes
Recreation Area in Allegheny National Forest
in. Pennsylvania. Thousands of Americans
now plan their vacations to take advantage

of the activities and resources offered

by the National Forest multiple-use

program. I n these areas, families choose
their favorite form of relaxation.

Clear-running mountain streams provide ideal trout-fishing
opportunities. Hunters and fishernicn are welcome guests.

A black bear cab is having a struggle with a stubborn weed
in the wilds of Monongahela National F orest, West M'rginia.

A Wisconsin (leer enjoys a refuge in Missouri National Forest
which now combines M ark Twain and Clark National Forests.

 

l
l
I

356 RECREATION

at one-hundred-foot intervals, with a
screen of trees between, campers are
almost completely unaware of their
neighbors. In a multiple-use forest the
opportunities for this type of diffused
use are numerous. By rotating use on
campsites they may be retained in an
attractive, unspoiled condition. Indeed,
rotation is being considered as a means
for maintaining the forest setting for
other recreation uses as well.

Foaasrs CHARACTERISTICALLY pass

through stages of growth which
favor certain uses. The cut-over forest
has lush sprout growth and reproduc-
tion, benefiting deer and other brows-
ing animals. The next stage, a brushy
type of forest, favors other game spe-
cies, such as the ruffed grouse. As the
forest deve10ps further, the leafy can-
opy shades out low-growing plants and
creates conditions that are attractive as
a playground for people. At this stage
of maturity the forest is also at its op-
timum as a squirrel and wild-turkey
habitat. Later, with a certain amount
of decadence setting in, these areas may
be hazardous to heavy recreation use.
However, in multiple-use forests, where
sustained yield is sought, mature tim-
ber is harvested before decadence sets
in.

Public campgrounds provide tent
and trailer facilities for hundreds of
pe0ple, where they may escape summer
heat while enjoying low-cost family va-
cations. Later in the year this same
campground will be dotted with tents
and trailers occupied by sportsmen who
are hunting deer, wild turkey, and other
game on the national forest, secure in
the knowlcdge that they are welcome
guests. Thousands of Americans now
plan their vacations to take advantage
of national forest hunting and fishing.

Autumn color in the hardwood for-
ests of New England attracts thousands
of people to the White Mountain and
Green Mountain National Forests.
Some stay at local hotels and lodging
facilities. Many camp out. In nlidwin-
ter thousands of winter-sports enthusi-
asts, skiing in colorful garb, dot the
steep mountain slopes of the national
forcst. \Vinter-sports areas are usually
developed within national forests by
private capital under a permit from the
U.S. Forest Service. Many ski lifts con-

OCTOBER 1960

tinue to operate during the summer
months to carry tourists to high peaks.

During midsummer, vacationing
families are camped in the national for-
ests all over the nation. This type of
vacation is within the reach of virtually
every American family, and actually
costs little more than staying at home.
With larger families common since
World W'ar II, millions of Americans
find these family camping trips the an-
swer to their vacation problem. It is
difficult to put a dollar value on recrea-
tion of this type, where a young family
shares outdoor living experiences and
acquires a deep-rooted love for the
land. Add to these scenes countless
thousands of berry pickers, bird watch-
ers, botany students, wildflower enthu-
siasts, hikers, geology students, and a
host of other users too numerous to

llllllll|lllllllIIl|lllllllll|lllllllIIIll||lllllllllIllII|llllllllIIll||l|l|Illl||lllllll|IIllllIlIIIlllllII|||l|IIIIllllllllllllllllllll

There is virtue in the open; there is
healing out of doors;

The great Physician makes his rounds
along the forest floors.

-——BLIss CARMAN
I|||11lltlllllttlll|||||Iltlllllll|lltllll|||l|||llllllllllllllIII|lllllllltllllllIllIlIllll|llllIlllllllIlIIlIllllllllllllllllllllllll

mention, and you get a picture of a na-
tional forest in operation.

IN CARRYING 0N this nationwide multi-

ple-use forest program it is impor-
tant that the public know and under-
stand the nature of problems in the
realm of renewable resources. Educa-
tion and information are two important
elements of U.S. Forest Service re-
sponsibility, and many media are used
to fulfill the obligation. Publications
based on research findings provide sci-
entific management guidance on a wide
variety of forest problems. Film librar-
ies located at field offices throughout
the Service are available for public use
and show, in a dramatic way, the re-
source problems which are handled un-
der multiple-use management. National
forests serve as demonstration areas il-
lustrating scientific forest management.

Foresters were quick to appreciate
the fact that “seeing is believing,” and
thousands of Americans have enjoyed
the privilege of accompanying forcst
officers on field trips to see “on-the-
ground” important aspects of resource
management. “Show - Me - Trips” for
groups of wildlife enthusiasts, timber

operators, recreationists, and other na-
ture lovers, with a ranger or other for-
est officer as a guide, produce a depth of
understanding that can never be ob-
tained through use of the printed word
or pictures. Many dedicated forest of-
fices utilize their weekends to guide
interested groups through the forest
where they may study, observe, and
evaluate management programs.

Wilderness is one of the forest assets
that is receiving more and more public
interest and acclaim. Under the spon-
sorship of the Forest Service, this clas-
sification of lands was recognized many
years ago, and today approximately
14,000,000 acres are set aside for this
purpose. The establishment of wilder-
ness areas in the national forests looks
beyond the conservation of material re-
sources and recognizes that solitude is
an element in helping man understand
his relationship to the world in which
he lives while reinforcing the spiritual
side of his nature. Wilderness areas are
usually accessible only by foot travel or
on horseback. Trail riders and others
who make use of wilderness recognize
the inspirational value associated with
remoteness. Many Americans who may
never visit the vast wilderness areas of
the West find similar inspiration in the
restored forests and smaller dedicated
wild areas typical of the Appalachian
National Forests.

A National Forest Recreation Survey
is currently gathering additional infor-
mation for future programing. Projec-
tion of timber needs, outdoor recrea-
tion, and other demands to the year
2000 give the professional forester, em-
barking on a career with the U.S. For-
est Service, a clear-cut picture of the
job that lies ahead.

People come to the national forests
to enjoy silnple forms of outdoor rec-
reation and to be in the forests and the
mountains. The resulting benefits to
physical and mental health are difficult
to measure. but forests provide an es-
cape and diversion urgently needed to
offset the high pressure of modern liv-
ing. “What this country needs is tran-
quillity without tranquilizers,” a promi-
nent medical man recently told an as-
sembly of outdoor writers. Relaxation
in the quiet of a national forest is help-
ing many Americans to attain this ob-

jective. 

35?

CHURCH
héh RECREATION

 

A Chur

Katherine Sullivan

at hot s u hangout without a
inho-hox? The Church Canteen
is no c‘xccption. The ten top
tunes are ahrays among the
(lance records provided [or the
Youngsters of this changing
Cohunbns neighborhood.

 

Stand by [or shufflcbourd! I’arthrrpunts . J
include two z‘ohmtcor h’adrrs: Mrs. -
Margo Given (ate/t). about to take her
turn, and Tom L. Patterson.

social u'orhor (kneeling, in dark suit}.

 

l.__—-

35:; RECREATION]

 

 

These teenagers won’t get lost in the
shu§le. While a friendly card game
goes on in foreground, another pair
takes a whack at Ping-pong.

.nteen Hangout

he pizza joint and the drugstore
hangout are being replaced by

the Indianola Methodist Church,
n a changing northside community of
:olmnbus, Ohio.

Young people swarm into the $260,-
IOO annex, to enjoy themselves in its
16W teen canteen. They dance, play
ards, play the juke box, buy hot dogs
ind pop. Nobody preaches. They feel
It home. Tom C. Patterson, twenty-six-
lear-old handsome social worker, is

eir friend, not their judge. So is Mrs.

arge Given, a volunteer from Indian-

la Presbyterian Church who often is
ere.

 
 
   
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  

No publicity was given the cheerful
enage gathering spot. The word went
ut by grapevine when it opened about
a year] ago. Now, hetween 3:30 and
PM. as many as seventy-five gather
ere.

Some of the kids used to be members
f the tough Michigan-Third gang.
thers have been in trouble, hut now
.em to be staying out of it.

A unique church program, the can-
en is one of several efforts by the
lurch to reach out to serve all of the
ople in its neighborhood, not just its
embers. Dr. Lee C. Moorehead, the
1stor, said the church’s Commission
Education spent several years of
udy before action was taken. Attor-
ey Ralph W. Lucas, lay leader, among
hers, felt the church should serve the
)mmunity in which it is located.
Some churches pull their skirts aside
len their neighborhood changes and
embers move to suburbs. Dr. Arthur
Irohlers, chairman of the Commission
1 Education, and Bob Warner, chair-
an of Christian Social Relations, and

CTOBER 1960

other church leaders felt Indianola
Church had a responsibility in preserv-
ing a healthy community. Dr. W'ohlers,
Ohio State University, Bureau of Edu-
cational Research, said the university is
interested in the church’s goal.

“lt is an interchurch movement,”
said Dr. Moorehead. “Reverend John
Duley, associate pastor at Indianola
Presbyterian Church, among others, is
interested in forming a neighhorhood
council like the one operating in the
near northside.”

Dr. Moorehead said the Mary Elsie
WolHey Trust Fund made the canteen,
the hiring of a social worker, and other
community service work possible. Mrs.
WolHey, a member for nearly fifty
years, gave ten thousand shares of Ran-
co, Inc., stock.

“We helieve a church ought to make
a difference in a community—or quit,”
Dr. Moorehead explained. Young Pat-
terson makes home visits to parents of
youngsters who visit the canteen.

Recently, he helped start an outpost
Sunday School at Windsor Terrace, the
new low-income housing project, which
is about a mile and a quarter east of
the church—a rather distant neighbor.
Yet, a survey several years ago showed
all but one of the trustees lived more
than a mile from the church.

Patterson and others will help the
people in Windsor Terrace gain under-
standing on how to live in new homes,
how to begin a new neighborhood.

Schools send Patterson names of
newcomers in his neighborhood, and he
calls to welcome them. 

 

Reprinted with permission from the Colum-
bus (Ohio) Citizen-Journal.

Program Aids for
Church Leaders

T 15 ENCOURAGING to see new, excel-
I lent, written material planned spe-
cihcally for, or eminently suitahle
for, church recreation. One of the most
attractive of these is Storytelling, by
Laura S. Emerson of Marion College,
Indiana (Zondervan Publishing House,
Grand Rapids, Michigan, $3.50) . Lim-
ited strictly to religious stories, it
stresses use of storytelling for a pur-
pose and includes a special chapter on
how to use Bible stories.

Besides excellent advice on the selec-
tion of the story, its preparation, and
the art of telling it, the author has in-
cluded fifteen stories for telling. Don’t
miss the shortest, “Little Hector Heli-
copter,”—it’s fun and youngsters would
love to dramatize it.

Another new book from the same
publisher is How to Raise a Christian
Family ($2.00) by Doris Anderson, au-
thor of the Encyclopedia of Games.
The title sounds a bit forbidding, but
the subtitle “A Mother Shows That Liv-

ing Together Can Be Fun” explains the
book better. A very large part of the
book could be classified as home play
or family fun. \Vritten in a series of
short, titled paragraphs, each on a spe-
cific subject, this book has a sweet na-
turalness about it that parents will en-
joy while getting valuable ideas from it.

A third book, this time a paperback,
is “Anywhere” Songs, edited by Paul
Beckwith (Inter-Varsity Press, 1519
North Astor, Chicago 10, 31L This is
an excellent, unhackneyed collection of

hymns, choruses, spirituals, sacred
rounds and graces, secular rounds, and
camp and folk songs. It should be very
useful for fellowship meetings, daily
Vacation Bible School, church groups,
golden-age clubs, and any other singing
groups. The print, while small, is very

sharp and clear.

Two brochures, The Church and Sen-
ior Adults (3.10), and Camping with
Senior Adults ($.10), prepared by the
Senior Adult Committee Board of
Christian Education of the United
Church of Canada, are available from
The Literature Distribution Centre. 299
Queen Street West, Toronto 23, On-
tario, Canada.

359

\

...the psychiatrist looks at )he recreation leader

Ralph W. Meng, M.D.

PSYCHIATRY IS A highly intellectual

field. The lengthy academic prep-
aration and other, more complex fac-
tors, make the psychiatrist a pensive
man rather than a man of action. This
kind of person is certainly valuable and
and makes a potent contribution to our

 

civilization, but it doesn’t mean that all
other members of the health team should go and do likewise.

For example, the recreator who thinks of himself as a
therapist tends to meditate on all sorts of interpersonal phe-
nomena. And his usefulness as a recreator can be very
quickly destroyed by ill-advised and immature therapeutic
efforts. It is traditional for the physician to look for some-
thing wrong in his patient; but we aren’t all physicians,
so let’s not all spend our time searching for pathology.

If we sidestep drugs, surgery, knowledge of physical
pathology, psychopath-
ology, and other tools
of the physician, I am 
unable to think of any-
thing other than the self
that the recreator and
other members of the
health team can use
therapeutically. They
may use theories,
games, activities, inac-
tivities, psychoanalytic
orientation, buttermilk,
hot coffee, or whatever.
But all these things are
dead, inanimate, and only capable of meaning as meaning
is given to them by a human being. 50 if we don’t think
we use ourselves as therapeutic agents, what in heaven’s
name do we use? All of us, including physicians, may use
ourselves well or poorly, constructively or dcstruetively, but
we certainly do use ourselves, if we use anything.

To make appropriate therapeutic use of himself, it isn’t
necessary for the professional recreator to know a great
deal about sickness. Nor is it necessary that he be a psy-
choanalytically oriented psychotherapist. What he does
need to know is enough about the structure and function of
the human body to understand how people run, cat, sleep,
listen, see, feel, and so on. Rcereators also need to have a
good working knowledge of human personality, its devel-
opment, and the dynamics of human behavior. This should
be built into the reereator’s professional perspective.

Most persons who work in the health field think taking
therapeutic action means doing something that is diflicult,
a bit esoteric, and certainly intellectual. There is too much

"—1

DR. MENG is assistant superintendent of the Mental Health
Institute, Clarinda, Iowa.

360

recreator

theraptbs't'
therapeutic

agent?

 

._/

confused thinking about what is therapeutic and what is
therapy. These ideas inhibit and may destroy the spontane'
ous, free-flowing joy which I believe professional recreatioi
workers can express, and evoke, better than practitioner:
in any of the other so-ealled helping professions. To di
happily and spontaneously the things we do best and witl
full enjoyment is the best way to make use of ourselves a:
therapeutic agents.

The recreator who enjoys living is best equipped to teaellI
others the joy of living. The recreator who tries to be 5
therapist, who deals in what he thinks of as difficult, eso
teric, and intellectual, is bound to communicate this feeling
to patients. Then the recreator and the patients are like];
to have an experience that can hardly be considered reerea
tive. Neither is it likely to be very therapeutic for the pa
tient. Nevertheless, anyone who works successfully with ill
handicapped, or just plain people is, in a sense, engagec
in therapeutic action
So it is with the truly
professional reereat01
in any setting.

To use himself thera
peutically, the action!
of the recreator 1nust b4l
governed by an under}
standing of his trclnenj
dous significance to the
mentally or physically
ill patient. W'henever 1’
person is ill, fatigue
hungry, or in any wa
out of sorts he heeomel
less capable of participation and more absorbed ill his on
processes. When illness, fatigue, or other type of diseas
is prolonged he regresses to further self-absorption and be!
comes unable to participate in “other” activity.

Although physical handicaps may call for activities of
a specifically physiotherapeutie character, the basic prol
lem of teaching the physically handicapped to recreate (
would prefer to say create) is essentially a psychiatri
mental health problem. I will even go further: learnin
about the joy of living is essential for all people, regardle:
of their handicaps. And we all have some. To show 113 thti
our potential for self-expression and satisfaction makes ou'
handicap really unimportant, is, perhaps, the major tas
all reerealors must perform for all the people with whm
they work.

To A MENTALLY ILL patient the members of the therapet
tic team take on significant roles. The sick pcrso
feels thOSc who try to help him have the power and inHt
cnce he once ascribed to his parents. In this extremely it
fluential role the recreator has a nnique opportunity to tcae
the art of living to his patients. If he wishes to serve a

Racnmrto
l

 

a therapeutic agent, the recreator must realize that his spe-
cific function is to help the mentally ill or the handicapped
person learn how to play—and how to live.

A young recreator just beginning to work with thc ill
and handicapped needs a lot of support and help to under-
stand that what he does is not essentially different from
what is done by members of his profession who work in
other fields. If we teach him that this field is different, we
do him a distinct disservice. It doesn’t require a special
kind of understanding, or personality makeup, or other es-
pecial peculiarity. We can do the young recreator a great
service if only we help him understand that he faces just
one special challenge: it is harder for his clients to have
fun, and it may take them longer to learn how to have fun
without his help. When the leader believes in man’s essen-
tial worth and in his desire and capacity to grow, the work-
ers in the therapeutic community “catch” this belief and
this faith and then use it for helping patients. When a
worker is free to trust his own impulses and act on them, he
expects, accepts, and profits from critical evaluation of his
activity. This critical evaluation comes 'not only from his
colleagues, but from himself.

A recreator, or any other person who works with patients,
should be encouraged to talk with his professional col-
leagues. A good work schedule is not so filled with confer-
ences and teaching programs that the workers have no time
or energy left to talk informally with their colleagues.
Through such free exchange of ideas and feelings, everyone
involved can experience professional growth and a con-
stantly rising level of real sophistication.

All educators and administrators must avoid making the
joy of discovery seem laughable, unsophisticated, or un-
desirable. This is particularly important in the formal
courses and training programs designed to prepare workers
in the health field. It is time educators and administrators
recognize that it is unrealistic and inhumane to demand that
health workers never consider their own feelings but do
things solely in “the patient’s best interests.” Human beings
are not machines or automatons. We cannot possibly spend
our working days panting for the moment when we can be-
gin to live and express ourselves. We must be able to derive
real and important satisfactions in our day-to-day Work
Iwith patients, colleagues, or just plain people.

Yes, the patient’s welfare is of prime importance. It gives
those of us who work with the ill and handicapped our
raison d’étre. But, to work effectively with patients, we have
.0 consider our own likes and dislikes if we are to radiate
3ptimum good feeling to and with those around us.

In turn, the recreator who works with ill and handicapped
)ersons need not be concerned with teaching according to

ny planned curriculum, nor need he demand that his “stu-
ents” learn any particular lesson or any particular con-
stellation of ideas. What he does need to teach is the joy
f learning. He can help people find out that learning is

Jerana 1960

   

R FOR THE ILL

AND HANDICAPPED

 
 

    
     

0 UR crisis is a crisis in values, in the things men
live by and for. . . . It can be resolved for the
better only through a change in the quality of
human relations . . . reaching out to the ends of

the world.——Robert J. .lavighurst, Ph.D.

 
 

not necessarily painful; it is a natural process; and it is the
only way for human impulses to find their way out of limbo
into a rich and full expression.

I have associated with fairly large representative groups
of professional recreators on several occasions, and have
worked with a few intensively. As a professional discipline,
the recreation profession is quite young. Yet as a human ac-

tivity it is older than any profession.

HE RECREATION PROFESSION has a great responsibility

to the world. Fun is something which we must have
to survive. And to the extent to which we do not achieve
fun or satisfaction, we die. This kind of partial death we
call illness—of mind or body, function or tissue. To the
extent to which a person has disease lie is unable to find
ease, fun, satisfaction, or contentment. The professional
recreators are the experts. They know how to have fun and
they know how to help others have fun. A professional
recreator can arouse response in any group of people in
any setting. Moreover, the experienced professional re-
creator is able to use these responses to foster, maintain,
or promote physical, social, and emotional health. That is
why I think the professional recreator’s function never var-
ies, whether he works with youngsters on a playground,
young adults, aged persons, general hospital patients, or
patients in a mental hospital.

On the playground, in the churches, in the armed services,
in schools, hospitals, and in the community at large people
can find many satisfactions. The people of this nation are
beginning to understand that they must look for satisfaction
to keep their health. They are beginning to camp in our
national parks in constantly increasing numbers, to square
dance, and to go on fishing expeditions. They buy boats;
organize baseball, bowling, and bridge leagues; go to mov-
ies; watch television; buy stocks; go to horse races; drink
beer; and talk with friends.

The task of the professional recreator is to encourage
this search for meaning in human life, to study it in all its
philosophical and technical implications, to foster it wher-
ever he can. The professional recreators come to us with
a fresh viewpoint. They are the professional allies of the
human impulses. To all recreators, I say: please don’t lose
your dedication or your sense of direction. Please don’t
succumb to the notion that making therapeutic use of your-
sclves means that you have to be therapists. Please lcad
us all toward real awareness of fun as a source of joyful,
healthy living. #-

361

,

p!

' unlit.‘

.———-"'

 

RECREATION

'eil A. Ofsthun

"s"!—

-m—
i-

_.i- -

Recreation can be a powerful force.

ANY AMERICAN CITIZENS are
M aware and concerned with the

sudden upsurge of anti-Ameri-
can feelings in many countries. Al-
though most of us lack a face-to-face
experience with this issue, it is clearly
evident that the space age will destroy
the myopia of exclusiveness and isola-

tion so characteristic of our foreign

policy prior to World War II. In kecp-

'—'_I-——_-—____--

MR. OFSTHUN, recreation. director at
the United States Naval Air Station,
Atsugi, Japan, for [our years, returned
to the States this past August.

362

ing with the spirit of the President’s
People-to-People Program, military, re-
ligious, and recreation leaders have at-
tempted to promote greater understand-
ing bctwcen the Japanese pcople and
United States military personnel serv-
ing in thc Far East.

Establishing rapport betwecn thc
American and the Japanese has meant
overcoming racial, language, and cul-
tural differences. Thesc are not insur-
mountable problems, and. in many
cases, the differences have bccome a
rallying point. Some American and
Japanesc families have formed mutual

v V v V
Don’t Forget
United Nations Day
October 24!

A A A A

bonds of friendship because of their
Through

the medium of recreation we have been-

difierent cultural interests.

able to strengthen desirable relation-
ships. People are hrought together in
a neutral atmosphere where common-
interests are magnified and differences-
of opinion, race, and religion, or other
areas of prejudice are minimized.

Atsugi Naval Air Station, like many
U.S. bases throughout Japan, has a rec-
reation program that facilitates inter-
cultural exchangc. It offers reciproca‘
golf matches —- men and women; a
hockey team, which participates in th
Yokohama Commercial League; an
eight Little League teams, each tean
evenly divided as to Japanese and|
American players; two Pony Leagu
teams, also half Japanese and ha]:
American.

The base is the setting for a joiml
celebration of Bon-Odori Day, in whicbl
Japanese from the neighboring village1
are invited to Atsugi and perform ritual
dances dressed in bcautiful costumes]
and grotesque masks, joined by simi-'
larly attired Americans. Special plat-l
forms are constructed on the baseball
field and prizes are given to outstand
ing costumes. The basc also runs re-a
ciprocal duplicate bridge matches; th
Turkcy Bowl, a football game comj
posed of Americans of 175 pounds and
less versus the Japanese collcgiate all
stars; painting, scwing, doll making.
flower arranging, and Japanese danc-l
ing classes; track, baseball, basketball.
and volleyball games with outstanding
Japanesc teams; and so on.

To fully undcrstand a foreign coun
try, one must be aware of and recogniz 1-
certain differcnces and similarities. AI
intercsting expericnce occurred whet
the .L iihon Kokan Stcel Corporation
scnt its semiprofcssional baseball team
to Atsugi to play thc Atsugi Navy-Ma-I
rine Flyers varsity team. Two Japanestl
officials uinpircd the game. Thc scorcl
was 2 to 1 in favor of Atsugi in thc'
latter stagcs of thc game. whcn a ClOSt.
play occurred at first base. The umpir
called the Japancsc runncr safe. much

Continued on Page 39

Rncnmnm

 

 

Downey, California, Children’s Theater’s Alice in Wonder-
land. It is hoped the Center will present such programs.

HE NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY recreation aspects of
the National Cultural Center to be constructed in
Washington, D. C., are of great importance to all of

s, in view of expanding leisure and the steadily growing

  
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
   
    
 

'nterest in all the arts, performing and creative. Everyone
's concerned to know just what it will mean at the local as
sell as national level.

Let us hear in mind, therefore, the stipulation under the
ern1s drawn up in September 1959, that the Board of Trus-
ees of the Center develop programs for children and youth,
he elderly, and other groups as well, in classical and con-
en1porary music, drama, dance, poetry, and opera from
his and other countries “designed specifically for their
.articipation, education, and recreation. Let us remember,
00, that the Advisory Committee appointed by President
isenhower has the duty and responsibility of advising and
:onsulting with the Board and making recommendations
.egarding prospective activities to be carried on in the Cen-
.er, including the development of these programs. Interest
'11 this development is bound to gain impetus as adjustment
:0 the new leisure moves forward and people realize its

in. PRENDERGAST, executive director of the National Rec-
cation Association, is a member of the Advisory Committee

m the Arts appointed by President Eisenhower, April 1959.

)CTOBER 1960

CULTURAL
CENTER

PART II

I ts national and
community recreation
aspects

demands for new dimensions in leisure-time activities and
programs.

“There is occurring across our country a remarkable in-
crease of popular interest and participation in the arts.”
said John D. Rockefeller 3rd, president of the Lincoln Cen-
ter for the Performing Arts in New York City, last October.

“Various publications have called it a ‘cultural explosion’.
. . . Others see it only as another evidence of our national
maturity, a natural and predictable deepening of interest
in artistic matters. The people want art and are making it
for themselves in a characteristically American way. They
are taking what is at hand, working hard to improve it, and
meanwhile enjoying it immensely. The most significant evi-
dence of this would seem to be how, all at once, dozens of
American cities are planning and building cultural facili-
ties—Winston-Salem, North Carolina; Fort Wayne. Indi-
ana; Phoenix, Arizona; Boston, Milwaukee, Honolulu, and
Los Angeles, to mention a few.

“A basic cause of this increased interest in the arts is
man’s need and desire for what I can only call creative ful-
fillment. It is a need for positive self-expression; a need
for modern man to assert, or to reassert, his individual-

’

ity. . . .
“It is a clear call that we accept the arts as a new com-

363

munity responsibility, that we place them alongside our al-
ready accepted responsibilities for the health, welfare, and
education of our community.

“The people’s manifested need, and the fruitful oppor-
tunities of well-used leisure, leave us no choice but to ac-
cept. This is a responsibility of the whole community and
its elements—business, foundations, individual citizens, and
government—and one that is properly to be shared by all
of them. . . .

“Positive action in this direction can make us feel this
new responsibility for the arts not as a problem but rather
as an opportunity—as a lift rather than a load. This basic
human force, this urge for creative fulfillment, guided into
constructive channels such as the arts, can lift us high to-
ward our American goal of a richer, fuller life for all.”

In developing the Center’s presentations and programs,
its leaders must recognize three basic principles. First, the
Center is to be a “national” center as distinguished from a
local, state, or regional center. It is not to be a community
center for the Washington, D. C., community; nor is it to
be a center for the State of Maryland or for the Potomac
River Basin area. A local, state, or regional ccnter does
not become a “national” center just because it happens to
be physically located in the federal district containing the
nation’s capital. Nor does it become a “national” ccnter
because it will be visited by tourists from all parts of the
nation and the world, nor because those who attend it will
be, in large part, officers and employees of the national gov-
ernment and representatives of foreign countries.

THE CENTER will be a “national” center only if its pre-

sentations and programs reach out and influence the
entire nation and all Americans wherever they may be and
only if such presentations and programs in turn draw upon
and utilize the talents of our citizens from all parts of our
country. This national conccpt may be difficult to achieve
and maintain but any departures from it should be inci-
dental to the total picture.

There may be some of us who do not like the word “cul-
tural” in the Center’s official name or who wish the Center
had been given a concern for other art fields, such as paint-
ing, sculpture, and architecture as well as for those perform-
ing arts listed in the enabling act. Personally, I would prc-
fer the name “The National Center for the Performing Arts”
because the National Cultural Center Act, in providing that
the Center’s Board of Trustees shall present and develop
programs of “classical and contemporary music, opera,
drama, dance, and poetry from this and other countries,”
has granted the Center a very broad charter in these fields.
It seems to me that the other fields of art, such as painting,
sculpture, and architecture can he a concern of the Center,
under the act as it now stands, only insofar as they are rc-
lated, in any particular case, to one or more of the per-
forming arts listed in the act. For example, the Center
might well have exhibits of paintings whose subjects rcpre-
sentcd one of such arts, or there might be special exhibits
of the architectural aspects of the stage. In any case, there
is nothing any of us can do as to the Center’s name and
areas of concern until such time as Congress amends the

364

J

act. The important thing is to make the Center the most
outstanding of its kind in the world.

The third principle to be kept in mind rests on the basic
meaning of the word “center.” This word refers to a part
of a whole and therefore implies something more around
the “center.” The National Cultural Center must therefore
become the “center” of a nationwide concern for and ac-
tivities in the various performing arts. This concept of
“center” complements the concept of “national” referred.
to above and makes it clear that the Center should be an
aggregate of facilities physically located in Washington,
D. C., toward which things How and from which things will
be diffused throughout the nation. The Center, therefore,
should be a central organization serving the entire nation in
those performing arts named in the National Cultural Ccn-
ter Act.

 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
  

ONE or THE IMPORTANT ways the Center can so serve
the nation is through the various national, state, and
local agencies concerned with the performing arts as a form
of recreation. In this connection, it is interesting to note
that Forum VI, of the 1960 White House Conference on
Children and Youth, adopted a resolution recommending
that “the National Cultural Center work closely with all rcc--
reation, education, community, civic, and other nonprofit
groups and organizations on the local, state, and national
levels in developing its proposed programs, presentations,
activities, and its services to local communities and to thcii
organizations referred to above in the fields of music, dra-
ma, dance, poetry, and opera designed specifically for the
participation, education, and recreation of our children and
youth and urge the enthusiastic and wholehearted support
of the National Cultural Center in such cndeavors by such
groups and by the children and youth and all other citizens
of America.”

As a national cultural center for the performing arts, the
transmission of ideas, words, music, scenes, and so on to
and from the Center is of the utmost importance. While
there should be the maximum number of equal accommo-
dations at the lowest possible price for those who can attend
Centcr presentations, programs, and other activities, there
should also be the best possible facilities for broadcasting
all presentations, programs, and activities.

In addition, there should be the best possible facilities
for the communication of information from and about the
Center and its presentations, programs, and activities by
means of all mass media such as newspapers, films, maga-~
zines, books, and other audio-visual material. This will
mcan physical facilities for the convenience of writers, pho-
tographers, recorders, and all others who will be engaged
in the transmission of ideas in any shape from the Center.
The Center should contain a special audio-visual library and
museum in its fields of interest and should provide for in-
formation, advisory servicc, rcscarch, correspondence, com
sultation, and other clcaringhousc services in the fields of
the performing arts.

In developing its programs and presentations for various
age groups for their participation, education, and recrea-

Conh'nucd on Page 392

RECREATION

   
  
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
   

illiam J. Pitkin

NB OF THE most precious natural
resources in any recreation pro-
gram is the teenage group fre-

uenting the recreation centers and

laygrounds. The recreation staff of

. e Hartford Department of Parks and

ecreation realized the majority of the

ity’s adolescents were sincere, compe-
nt, intelligent, and fully capable of
ontributing, in a cooperative way, to

n existing program that ranks, nation-

lly, as one of the best of its kind.
Recreation director James H. Dillon

. ut his stamp of approval on the idea of

. Recreation Youth Council when it

5 'as proposed in 1957. He said he

'anted to see the teenagers organized,

; 'anted to hear their ideas. wanted

-—-——v—-———-—

[R. PITKIN is recreation supervisor,
outlt District, Hartford, Connecticut.

 

ltrwnnvn 1060

PROGRAM

Hartford’s teenagers to have a voice in
their own program. In November 1957,
teenagers in each of the fifteen recrea-
tion centers voted for one boy and one
girl to represent them on the city’s first
Recreation Youth Council.

The group planned to meet every
month to exchange ideas about what
was being done in the various recrea-
tion centers; to engage in organized
discussions on such topics as what
could be done further to curb delin-
quenev through recreation. to visit
other centers to sludy effective proce-
clures in diflerent areas of Hartford:
and. finally. to hear from cil‘ oflicials
and exchange ideas nith them.

The program. from its wry inexp-
tion, demonstrated IlOl'llOtiI'al‘) in at.-
tion. Election competition “as keen

 

ive Your Teenagers a Chance

City recreation director Jim Dillon says, “Give Hartford’s teenagers a voice in
our program. . . . They are capable of making valuable contributions. . . .

99

and campaigning went full blast. Post-
ers adorned the walls of all centers;
campaign promises were made. It was
obvious the teenagers really wanted this
council and were willing to work hard
for it.

’\t the first meeting the two district
reereation outlined the
goals of the organizations and then set

superi isms

up the maehinerx [or eleeting council
ofheel's. \fler two hours ..f ram-using.
group ..m-.etings. and political maneu
wring delegates elected the llI‘rl om-
eers of the \ ultlt wunuil.

During tln first llteeting  mun;
ladx 1ire-light up a prohltm for Hiatus-
sine. She sdltl tle girls at her write.
liked to plan pool but that! the mile.»
:ra. llt'll that prix Urge to how's onlx She

lull hu thoughts in tllr- form :f .1

 

 

Hartford teenagers meet their mayor. Left to right, William Pitkin, recreation su-
pervisor, Mayor James H. Kinsella, Sandra Ramsey, Reid Oslund, Eileen Craven.

tion and it carried unanimously. The
president then called on the recreation
supervisor, who explained the reasons
for such a ruling and then said he
would be glad to discuss the matter with
Mr. Dillon. By the time the delegates
reached their ccnters the following eve-
ning, pool for girls was a reality—and
the first suggestion from the newly

formed youth council had been ap
proved and acted upon.

At all meetings thereafter the dele-
gates felt free to inquire about many
subjects and suggested various ideas.
Some were accepted and acted upon,
others rejected with full explanations.
One delegate moved there he a morc ex-
panded dance program. He was told
that this had been tried in the past, and
it had been found that in thc best inter-
ests of recreation the best solution was
programed dancing on the neighbor-
hood center level. The delegate with-
drew his motion and the council passed
a resolution to improve upon the dance
programs already in operation.

ONE OF THE HIGHLIGHTS of the coun-
cil’s activities is a joint niceting
with the city mayor and other city offi-
cials. At this meeting, officials and de-
partmcnt heads explain to the council
city-government operation, how money
is appropriatcd for recreation, and how
city planning helps provide adcquate
facilities. The city officials thcn listen
to the delegates’ opinions and suggcs-
tions, such as that of the center repre-
sentativc who successfully made the
motion, at thc first joint meeting in
1957, that the name “community cen-

366

ter” be changed to “recreation center.”
She explained her reasoning as follows:
“recreation” means fun and activity,
and this would aid parents in under-
standing the expression, “I’m going to
the ‘ltec’ center tonight, 0K?”

Each year the youth council makes
field trips to all the centers. The dele-
gates bring back many ideas from this
trip, which they incorporate in pro-
grams at their own centcrs.

District supervisors brought to the
youth council for approval an idea which
cnlanated from staff in-service training
meetings. In the sunnner of 1957 the
city wanted to honor ccrtain selected
children as “Citizens of the \Veck.”
Local jcwcler Bill Savitt thought so well
of the idea he offered to sponsor a large
banquet for all the weekly winners if
the Council approved. The youth coun-
cil wholeheartedly approved, and, since
then, the “Youth Citizen” awards have
been the most highly coveted honor on
every Hartford playground.

Last summer, for the first time, the
youth council reviewed the nominations
for thc citizen awards and decided who

MISUEMEANOR REPORT

Pool

Park -.

Date Age Name Infraction of Rules Penalty llee. Leader Confirmed
and Serious Offense. Notify: by
Address (Length of Dismissal) Police. 9 Supervisor
Parents

5/6/58 If) John Smith

11 lloyt St.

I.— --—— —

Destruction of park
property-“carving in- ltified by

itials into table. top. - whom and
Indefinite dismissal. I l
pending investigation l
by area supervisor.

the recipients should be. In the past
the choice had been left to staff.
When time came for the annual talen‘
show sponsored by the Hartford Recre
ation Division, the council asked if i1
could help. Members decided they-I
could elect a master of ceremonies and-—
to the bewilderment of the district su-
pervisors, they unanimously electe
their most reserved delegate. Althougl
considered dubious, the decision stood:
The high-school junior selected walked
onto the stage the night of the show and
conducted himself in an almost profes-
sional manner. “\Ve knew he could do
it,” explained one of the council menu-:4
bers. “He just needed the opportunity.
and we wanted to give it to him.” I
During the winter of 1959 the coun-
cil, thinking again of the girls, endorsed

   
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
     
   
  
      
   
 
  
    
 
  
      
      
       
   
   
     
 
 
  

a citywide, teenage volleyball tourna-
ment. It was a huge success, and all th
participants were trcated to a socia
hour provided from funds set aside it
the recreation budget for club activitie,

Two of the things presently unde
consideration by the Youth Council in
volve review of a plan for reportinL
misdemeanors in Hartford playground.'
and the institution of merit awards 01
city playgrounds where children, (
their own initiative, help to make [11
playground centers a better place it
which to play. Badges have bcen pro
poscd for those children so observe(
and selected by staff mcmbers.

Thrce ycars ago, when the idea of '
Recreatiop Youth Council was first in
troduced, few thought a group of teen
agers could make its presence fclt am
contribute to thc bcttermcnt of the cit
program. The youth council plan ha
been tremendously successful in Har
ford, and all who have been in contac
with it feel it has unlimited possibil
ties.

Center

_ ——__' —_ 

Parents no- Rorisky l‘itkin

l

etter.

Recnmno

 

@PROGRAM

 

CHRISTMAS
PUPPET
PAGEANT

In Chicago, puppets play to S.R.0.

URING THE EARLY part of Decem-
ber hundreds of posters go up
all over the city of Chicago and

volunteers stand on street corners pass-
ing out handbills to advertise the Chi-
cago Park District’s Christmas Puppet
Pageant. Chicago newspapers donate
full-page coverage and local TV celebri-
ties stand by to promote this annual af-
fair. The response each year has been
“standing room only” as thousands
crowd the park fieldhouses.
Costumes,
puppet stages, more than one hundred

elaborate scenery, two
string and hand puppets, puppeteers,
actors, music scores, a skilled instru-
mental section, and an original script
are all a part of this puppet pageant.
Hundreds of boys and girls design and
make puppets, costumes, and scenery
for the big show, rehearse lines and ac-
tion. The park district drama shop pro-
vides additional costumes for the live
actors who may take part, and the back-
dr0ps.

Thcme of this year’s pageant will be
“Little Christmas,” recreating, in mini-
ature, Santa’s village, the night before
Christmas, and trimming the Christmas
tree. Last year’s was‘ “The World of
Dramakins,” based on Around the
World in Eighty Days.

Jack Mulqueen, Chicago Park Dis-
trict puppeteer, had long felt the Yule
season was an excellent time to promote
puppetry, although many thought there
were too many conflicting activities at
this time. The response proved their
theory wrong. During the first year.

performance was limited to one park.

OCTOBER 1960

 

Puppeteer Jack M ulqueen briefs students for Wizard of Oz.

Since then it has branched out into
three parks. The first year, the show
was entitled Sensational Dramakins, to
help popularize a new word, “drama-
kin.” being used as the new title of pup-
pet classes in Chicago parks.

Mr. Mulqueen coined dramakin to
describe his instruction classes, which
have expanded to include a puppet
workshop for adults. He defines it as a
study of puppetry involving the arts of
craft, drama, and art. He originated
twenty-six clubs in the Chicago Park
District and presented four annual
Christmas puppet pageants having dra-
makin in their title. Mr. Mulqueen’s
experience has shown that the word
“puppet” is misunderstood and limits
the person to visualizing only the char-
acter itself, not the drama and craft
that are so necessarily a part of this
field. The majority of boys and girls
frown on the words “puppet classes”
and interpret them as outlets for play-
ing with dolls. One reason for this is
that puppets are sold as toys on the
commercial market.

The Christmas pageant is the climax
of the park district’s highly successful
puppet program for which the district
supplies all the necessary equipment
and publicity. Costs are included in the
general operation budget. There is no
charge for instruction classes but stu-
dents provide their own materials.

Mr. Mulqueen conducts a six-week
course in puppetry in addition to his
own presentations at parks and day
camps and his TV appearances. More
than a thousand students—grade school,

 

Dramakin clubbers reharse Ali Baba.

high school, and college—have been en-
rolled in the park district’s puppetry
classes during the past few years. These
students have presented a number of
major TV shows. The course includes:
FIRST WEEK, ORIENTATION CLASS: brief
history; slides on how to make a puppet
and scenes behind a puppet stage; a
demonstration on the puppet stage and
class session of testing out puppets and
stage; puppet assignments when stu-
dents select puppets to make.

SECOND WEEK, PUPPET MAKING: draw
and cut patterns, use sewing machine.
THIRD WEEK: VOICE CHARACTERIZA-
TIONS: puppets in last stages; voice ex-
periments; tape-recorder test.

FOURTII WEEK: HOW TO WORK A PUP-
PET: movements and position; voice
and puppet combined; Showmanship.
FIFTII WEEK, TIIE PLAY: script read-
ing; paint scenery; assemble props.
SIerI WEEK, FINAL PERFORMANCE: re-
hearsal; prcsentation to families and

audience. 

367

@PROGRAM

 

NEW PROGRAM IDEAS AND NEEDS |

Traps to avoid in planning “new” programs . . .

Frank H. Riley

HENEVER A program planner be-

gins to think about “new” pro-
grams, he is immediately confronted
with two traps, and if he does not heed
them, his chances of success are slim.
The first trap is that he becomes so
concerned with the desire to make his

program new that he forgets all other
considerations. Newness in itself is not a virtue. What is

more, it is very doubtful if there really is such a thing as a
new program.

Get a print of Jan Brueghel’s famous painting, “Child-
ren’s Cames”——-remembering that it was painted before
1600—and study it. Here is every game that you ever heard
of, plus a few no one remembers. So it seems a waste of
time to struggle too hard to come up with a program that is
absolutely the first of its kind in the world. Not only are
the chances great that you will never find it, but, what is
worse, you will probably get so involved in the process you
will overlook wonderful possibilities staring you right in the
face. The result will be programs simply employing exotic
gimmicks. (See “Let’s De-Sophtlsticate,” RECREATION, 0e-
tober 1959.)

The second trap is that we tend to become enraptured
with our creation, the program itself. It is very important
to remember always that we do not deal in programs but
with people. Our objective should be the satisfaction of
individuals, not the creation of a pattern of perfect pro-
grams. When we begin to look for the perfect program we
begin to evaluate from the planner’s or the administrator’s
or the leader’s point of view. We look for the program that
runs smoothly, that looks well in the newspapers, that is
spectacular, that has showmanship.

We develop enthusiasm for such programs because of the
wonderful way they publicize our activities and not because
of what they may or may not be doing for people. The test
of a good recreation program is not how different or how
exotic it is, but rather how new (or renewed) it makes par-
ticipants feel; how well it lifts people out of thc same old
rnt; how well it opens new horizons, new enthusiasms, new
desires, skills, and goals; how well it produces new satisfac-
tions for the participant. In such a test a program must
meet certain criteria and must:

0 Be based on definite need of definite people in a definite

situation. The planner must know for whom he is planning
and why.

—-—_______.___________________ z___
MR. RILEY IS the director of the Sturges-Young Civic

Auditorium and Community Center in Sturgis, Michigan.

 

 

368

0 Be able to make the participant independent of the pro-
gram, so that if he leaves it, he can still continue the activity
on his own. Programs too often become a device to control

people, to demonstrate how dependent they are upon a de-
partment or agency.

     
  
   
 
   
  
    
  

0 Be fresh and stimulating and creative in approach, even
though it may deal with familiar subjects. There are new

concepts in planning programs to suit people rather than to
suit planners.

Program Planning

Here are some new approaches that have been effective in

programing in Sturgis, Michigan:
GRADED INSTRUCTION—Do you have bowling alleys? If so
you naturally promote all the usual leagues. But have you
set up a graded instruction program for school children?
Here is where new customers come from, of course, but
here also is a chance to teach a fine carry-over activity. In
Sturgis this instruction was accepted as part of the physical
education credit in the local schools. Another very fine use
of alleys is a married-couple bowling league.

Speaking of young marrieds, this is a neglected group in
most program plans. A club for this group will often run
itself and plan its own activities, if you will provide the
steam and incentive to start it. (See "Your Program for
Young Marrieds,” RECREATION, December 1958.)

CRAFT AND HOBBY SHOWS—If you have a craft program,
then you must also have a craft and hobby show. Be sure
to open the show to everyone even though all participants
do not attend your classes. This will give your own staff new
ideas, encourage your own participants to try new media.

Closely related are art shows, either open to anyone or
limited to recognized artists in the area. Visiting shows can
be arranged, also shows of original paintings owned by
local residcnts.

PETS—Dog-obedience-training classes are a rcal public serv-
ice, are extremely popular. and usually run at full capacity.
TEEN PROGRAMS—ls your youth center in a rut? Have you
evcr tried having talented people give “quickie” exhibitions
of their skills on regular center nights? Teens seeing such
exhibitions have asked for, and gotten, dance lessons, fenc-
ing, a student City Government Day, their own weekly col-
umn in the newspaper, exchange visits with other youth
centers, and a magicians’ club. A short conrse for balmy-
sitters, possibly followed up by a self-operath employment
service will set many babysitters and “manhandlers” np in
business. (For more on teenagers see Page 365.)

A pcrmanent youth center often stands idle. Among other
effective programs that can be scheduled in this facility are:

RECREATION

young-marrieds club, challenge nights, in which various
service clubs (including women’s clubs) compete at Ping-
pong, pool, and other table games.

SPECIAL INSTRUCTION—Many scouting badges require in-
struction from specially qualified persons. Offer to take a
troop or larger group through a series of once-a-week ses-
sions by which every member meets the badge requirements.
MORE SQUARES—In many places square dancing is confined
to “closed” clubs. Introduce public dances with no “high-
level” nonsense and some simple instruction. Participation
will double or triple.

SAFE SHOOTING—In some areas hunting is practically sa-
cred. Junior rifle clubs have done much to reduce hunting
accidents in these areas, besides providing a bang-up ac-
tivity. Be sure to include the girls! Related is a fall “safety
roundup” for hunters and outdoorsmen. The Red Cross,
National Rifle Association, state conservation and wildlife
agencies, state and local police, and your local sporting
goods dealers will all willingly contribute to a program if
you will provide the place and the organization.

 

DRAMATIC EMPHASIS—Many community theaters are falter-
ing, yet this is a vitally effective creative program. Have
you tried introducing more experimental workshops, new
concepts in staging and lighting, a training program for
actors? You must be sure to do more than just “put on a
play."

PROGRAM SERVICE—Let all club program chairmen in your
city know that you have books and ideas, that you will help
them plan good meeting, banquet, and party programs.
FAMILY RECREATION—A program that unites family mem-
bers in an activity serves a real need. Have you tried a
family picnic night? If you do, you also better plan to have
picnic kits, camping kits, and backyard kits available for
rental or loan.

The challenge to drop stagnant activities and dissipate
spectator complacency has never been greater. The recre-
ator’s new program must be one of discovery, of adventure,
of finding the new and exciting and satisfying in what at
first appears to be merely the obvious. To the degree that
we serve people, we meet this challenge. #

BRIDGE YOUR COMMUNITY . . .

Most recreation people will admit
hat there are certain groups who par-
icipate seldom, if ever, in any activi-
ies. Perhaps one of the largest groups
f this type is the middle-aged or
lder adult in the above-average income
racket.

Such a group is particularly hard to
ttract into the average community
rogram. Cortland, New York, popula-
ion 18,000, has found a partial solution
0 this problem, however, by organizing

eekly duplicate bridge games.

In Cortland, bridge formerly con-
isted, in the main, of an evening four-
ome or a ladies’ card party, but now

any adults congregate at the local ho-
el for a weekly fling at duplicate.

Duplicate bridge requires neither
laborate facilities, equipment, nor per-
onnel to begin or maintain and should
dapt nicely to the smallest or largest
ecreation department. Because it is
exible, from eight to one hundred
-ight persons may participate at any
me time.

* The recipe for a successful program
".s simple. Announce a meeting well in
dvance to organize a duplicate bridge
:lub in your community via all com-
nunication means at your disposal.
give your publicity time to work for

.DCTOBER 1960

you. Select carefully one meeting place
with ample room, good lighting, ven-
tilation, and plenty of tables and chairs.
Sprinkle with a handful of people and
stir in some enthusiasm. Carefully
blend in one director and watch the ac-
tivity begin to bubble. Slowly put some
fire under the concoction, for a most
successful program.

Basic equipment needed includes
either a leader with experience direct-
ing tournament bridge or a bridge
player armed with a good book ad-
vising duplicate directors. Duplicate
boards, cards and other equipment
may be borrowed, or purchased and
financed through membership fees. The
club director may either be a volunteer
or a paid person, financed through the

recreation department or the bridge

club.

In Cortland’s case, equipment
(boards and cards) was borrowed

while tallies were mimeographed at the

recreation oliice. However, the club

now purchases tallies, recapitulation
sheets, and so on, which, though slightly
more expensive, are more compact and
easier to use. The club has also been
able to purchase its own boards, cards,
and additional equipment. The Cort-
land Duplicate Bridge Club director is

the recreation supervisor who, prior to
the inception of the club, had had no
duplicate experience, but had played
for many years. By consulting with
lournament players, reading about du-
plicate bridge, and trial and error, Cort-
land soon had a smoothly running
weekly session, as well as a spring tour-
nament and several special bridge
events.

The Cortland Duplicate Bridge Club
is cosponsored by club members, who
buy their own supplies and equipment
through a fifty-cent playing charge per
session, and the Cortland Youth Bureau,
which sapplies the director.

Attendance has been increased from
the original six to a membership of two
hundred! Weekly games are generally
made up of twelve tables.

Perhaps the recreation department
derives a certain feeling of accomplish-
ment from the fact that it now has a
new and different activity to offer a por-
tion of the population seldom enticed
into a program. The bridge players of
Cortland have responded by increasing
weekly attendance figures, and with
thanks for a program that would not
have been begun had the department
not believed that recreation should be
for everyone—MRS. SUSAN C. SCALES,
former recreation supervisor, Cortland.

369

@ PRO GR A M The mszde story of programs developed 111 the

in. our new state—Alaska

Summer scene at one 0/ the Iarger sites Iocated on an isiand near Anchorage.

I ‘ -I- - I

Leatlrercra/t ciass in session a! Ehncndor/ A F B cra/t (raining schooi. Typica! winter SCCNC—H‘mpc

370 Ream-2.x“.

 

orce stations

yerald “7. Pellon

WHAT DO you do for a recreation

program when temperatures are
sixty below zero, winds howl by at fifty
miles an hour, and the nearest gym or
other structure large enough to house
any activity more strenuous than check-

 

ers is at least five hundred miles away?
“Never happen!” you say? Maybe not
1 California, Illinois, Missouri, or Pennsylvania, but at
lany of the remote stations of the Alaskan Air Command
US is the norm, not the extreme.
Locations for these aircraft control and warning stations
re chosen because of their strategic value in the national
fense program. Some are precariously perched on moun-
in tops accessible only by helicopter or aerial tramways.
'lrge steel cables are stretched taut over the structures to
ep roofs in place against the ferocity of hundred-mile-an-
our gales. Buildings in these areas are necessarily kept to
minimum and provide little more than space to eat, sleep.
1d work. Other sites are more fortunate and can he
ached by airplane. However, many of the landing fields
x the skill of the most experienced pilots. Landing strips
e short and often located on slopes too steep for even a
ftball diamond. They would be better as ski slopes, but

R. PELTON is recreation. director for the Alaskan Air
omtnand, United States Air Force, Anchorage, Alaska.

   
 

F” I m i it”? 3.. -
1.5" 114*-

Any amenities of “home” can be five hundred miles o§.

 

a to sixty below.

1 ' OCTOBER 1960

 

“Wanna buy 0. Husky pup?" hskim-o children shon air force men their pets.

37]

even this sport cannot be pursued in temperatures of thirty
to forty degrees below zero.

Conditions are ideal for a “Cabin Fever” epidemic but
site personnel don’t know the meaning of the Word. This
disease, caused by idle minds and idle hands, has no chance
among the busy men at these Alaskan stations. Survival
alone occupies much of their time. Workdays are long and
many often work a seven-day week. For others, there are
activities they never knew or enjoyed before, but activities,
services, and modern conveniences, previously taken for
granted, are unavailable. The family automobile, the corner
malt shop, the indispensable TV set, the community swim-
ming pool, the Saturday ballgame and even the companion-
ship of wife or girl friend are out of reach for the twelve
months the airmen are assigned to these sites. For the first
time in their lives, the majority of these men are dependent
upon their own resources for their leisure pursuits.

A few familiar programs and activities are provided. Li-
braries are constantly restocked by a rotation system of
books and periodicals. Sixteen-MM motion pictures provide
entertainment five days a week. Pool tables, table tennis,
and shqueboard are found at most sites. A few stations are
lucky enough to have summer fishing facilities.

“Tonight We Improvise”

With no bowling alleys, gyms, swimming pools, baseball
fields, or other facilities for strenuous exercise, other means
must be found for release of mental and physical tensions.
Many sites have taken advantage of the geographical assets
of their location. Personnel of island sites in the Gulf of
Alaska, the Aleutian chain, and the Bering Sea have deco-
rated their lounges, dining halls, and quarters with items
gathered on beaehcombing expeditions. One site has de-
veloped a gold mine which, according to the site command-
er, has produced far more sweat, blisters, and callouses than
gold.

Another station, having an extremely heavy snowfall dur-
ing the winter months, has initiated a winter softball league.
Games are played under standard rules, but there the re-
semblance to one of America’s most popular pastimes ends.
Each player is provided with a pair of snowshoes and not
even donkey baseball provides more laughs than the antics
of a cheechako charging down the first baseline in these out-
size spikes, or a shortstop digging into three feet of snow
to field a “hot one.” One enterprising group has undertaken
the production of a “feature” movie depicting life at its
site. When completed, this film will be used to orient newly
assigned personnel to what will be their home for the next
twelve months. Such events as Fourth of July activities,
Christmas dinner, USO shows, winter storms, and unusual
occurrences, such as the arrival of a new fire truck in a huge
cargo plane, are being filmed by these amateur producer-
actors. Even pets have been obtained locally.

Without the many diversions found in an average com-
munity, men have an opportunity to pursue activities which,
for one reason or another, have always been put off until
“someday.” Many high-school diplomas, and even college
degrees, have been obtained during a remote duty tour. Ed-
ucation courses are available through correspondence stud-

372

ies or group study classes. Statistics show that a higher per-
centage of remote station personnel take advantage of these
opportunities than at main air-force bases.

“Don’t Know How to Begin”

Hobbies and crafts have long been recognized as out-
standing activities for mental relaxation, physical dexter-
ity, and psychological adjustment. Because of long periods
of confinement imposed by climatic conditions, hobbies and
crafts programs have been given high priority in the Alas-
kan Air Command. A large amount of equipment, from pot-
tery wheels to swivel knives, has been sent to each site dur-
ing the past few years. Leather for carving, modeling kits,
paints, and other supplies were made available. But even
with all this, a fourth-rate, fifteen-year-old Western outdrew
the hobby shop fifty-to-one. In 1957, John Kelly, then ree-
reation director for the Command, made a concerted effort
to determine the cause for this lack of interest in h0bbies*
and crafts. Wherever he inquired, the answers were the
same. “We stored all that stuff in a warehouse. It sat
around the recreation hall for two months and nobody used
it. How are you going to make something when you don’t
know where to begin?”

Leadership Training

The major lack was qualified leadership, but hiring crafts
instructors for each site was impossible. A traveling in-
structor was impractical because of the distances and the
uncertainty of flying schedules. So Mr. Kelly sold the idea
of a training school. Each site was requested to send an
airman to the selected main base for two weeks of special-
ized training. In April 1957, twelve airmen attended the
first course held at Ladd Air Force Base, where sessions in
ceramics, photography, leathercraft, copper enameling, and
model building were given. Trainees were not expert crafts-
men when they returned to their stations but they did know
how to use the tools and equipment. By their enthusiasm,
and by trial and error, thev slowly developed the crafts pro-
gram at their individual sites.

The success of this first training course resulted in the
present semiannual hobbies and crafts training school. Cer-
tificates are issued to all airmen completing training and an
notation is made in their military records. By holding a.
school every six months, each site is assured of a trained,
man in its hobby shop. This also allows time for the incom-
ing person to work with his predecessor and develop skills,
which could not be accomplished during the two-week train-
ing period. The results of this program are exemplified hjg
a recent five-hundred-dollar order for leathercraft supplies]!
from one of the sites. The instructor stated that he hoped
these materials would last for three months. This station
has less than three hundred men—quite a change from the
1957 query of, “How do we use what we have?” Procedure,
personnel, facilities, and equipment will undoubtedly shiftII
as we gain more knowledge of the leisure-time requirements\
peculiar to duty in areas of isolation and climatic extremes.
It might well be that the programs developed at the remote
stations of today are the forerunners to activities on the

space stations of tomorrow. #

ltaeaaniox'

 

ADMINISTRATION

Adams County, Colorado, is feeling

the impact of a papulation and recreation explosion.

A County Geared for Recreation

Flean Kastens

HE PROBLEM: WAS RECREATION; the
year, 1948; the place, the southern
part of Adams County, Colorado. A
group of representative citizens were
discussing the recreation needs of this
fast-growing area. Thus the South
Adams Recreation Association was
born, with Richard E. Benson of Iron-
ale as president. During the next four years other areas in
Ire county also formed recreation associations, leading, in
952, to the formation of the Adams County Recreation \s-
ciation with the tireless Mr. Benson as president. (He
erved until last January.)

Meanwhile the county was feeling the full blast of a pop-
lation explosion—from 41,100 in 1952 to 68,000 in 1955,
3,500 in 1958 and 119,793 in 1960! Recreation had to
eep pace.

At first, ACRA operated under the Community (Illest.
1ter under the Mile High United Fund; now is supported

 

 

R. KASTENS is director of the Adams County, Colorado,
ecreation Association.

CTOBER 1960

by the United Fund and county tax monies. Its board mem—
bers increased from twelve in 1952 to the present thirty-five.
At the beginning, its principal program consisted of base-
ball, tap dancing, baton twirling, music, and some swim-
ming—when swimming facilities could be found in local
sandpits.

In 1955, the #50 Metropolitan Recreation District was
created in the southwest portion of the county adjoining: the
city of Denver ( which is a county unto itself! . It comprised
approximately one-third of the counth densely populated
portion. Recreation in District 30 was tax supported- In
June 1956 the district succeeded in passing a £150,000 l-ond
iSSUP and constructed its first swimming pool. In addition.
the district constructed one lighted baseball field and four
tennis courts.

In February 1958. \dams County hired its first full-ti at
rount)’ director. His first major taék “as a count} wide
study of tax programs for capital improvement. [infer a
law passed by the Colorado legislature. ".X school district
may operate a system of public to: ‘reation and pla} grounds:
acquire. equip, and maintain land, buildings. or other rw-

'"l

reational facilities, and expend funds for the operation of
these.” Any city, town, village, county, or school district
“may operate such a system independently or may cooper-
ate in its conduct in any manner in which they may mutually
agree; or may delegate the operation of the system to a rec-
reation board created by any or all of them, and appropriate
money, voted for this purpose, to such hoard. and may take
charges and require thc payment of fees for the admission
to and use and enjoyment of such recreation facilities and

playgrounds.”

In May 1958, School District #14 passed, by a four-to-
one Vote, a $270,000 bond issue for an indoor-outdoor
swimming pool at Adams City High School, one lighted
baseball field, one neighborhood park, and tennis courts.
In August 1958 the district hired a full-time director to su-
pervise construction and establish a year-round program.

The county director’s second major task in 1958 was aid-
ing the #50 Metropolitan Recreation District in setting up
and passing a second bond issue for $250,000, carried by
three to one on November 28. This was used to construct
additional sun-deck space on the first pool, an indoor-ont-
door pool located at a junior high school, six tennis courts.
one lighted baseball field, four neighborhood parks, and six
park-school playgrounds. The district also hired a full-
time recreation director.

A third task completed in April 1959 was development
of a master plan on parks and recreation facilities. It en-
compassed the six years, 1959 to 1965, and the projected
population growth, land needs, and such facilities as swim-
ming pools, lighted baseball fields, nonlighted baseball
fields, tennis courts, community centers, playgrounds, play-
fields, park-school playgrounds, neighborhood and county

parks.

In accordance with thc master plan, the county commis-
sioners purchased 356 acrcs of land for 3176.500 in De-
cember 1959. This tract will become the county's first park.
Its facilities will include an 18-hole golf course, large picnic
areas, day-camp areas, and other recreation facilities be-
yond the financial reach of the recreation districts Willtilt
the county. Plans for additional large tracts of land for fu-
ture parks are under consideration. At the present time,
Adams County is more than six hundred acres short for its
present population of 119,793 plus and will need an addi-
tional five hundred acres for its anticipated 1965 popula-
tion of 155,000.

ACRA is cooperating with the Intercounty Planning
Commission, Regional Parks Association, and the state
parks and recreation department on the future development
of regional and state park areas to be located in thc county.
The Intercounty Planning Commission is developing a
metropolitan plan based on drainage-basin land usage. The
area under considcration is the Dcnver metropolitan area,
which consists of approximately 900,000 popnlation and
portions of four countics.

To meet mushrooming county growth, the commissioners,
in 1955, adopted a resolution requiring all new subdivi-
sions: “to set aside eight percent of its total land area for
schools, parks and/or recrcation." Until 1958 very little
land had bcen set aside for parks and recreation, but where

3 7t].

recreation districts are now in operation, joint planning and
development of the land for school and recreation use is
being carried out.

In November 1957, the city of Brighton passed a bond,
issue of $100,000 for the construction of a swimming pool
and development of a twenty-seven-acre park. In February
1960, two metropolitan recreation districts were proposed,

one being approved. In April 1960, a $150,000 bond issu
carried six to one in the newly created North Glenn Metro

‘politan Recreation District and its new swimming pool i

under construction (see below).

 

CapitaI Improvement Funds

Tax monies approved for capital improvements: The f
lowing tables reflect the rapid growth of recreation
Adams County:

1948 to 1955 S 0
1956 150,000
1957 100,000
1958 520,000
1959 176.500

1960 to date 150.000

Total—31,096,500
Operation Funds

Tax and United Fund monies approved for operation '
poses (excluded are dues and fees) :

1948-55 (under) $ 12,000 (per year)
1956-57 50.370
1957-58 62.153
1958-59 78.340
l959~60 127.907
Attendance in all programs:
1918-56 (under) 30,000 (per year)
1957 32,395
1958 169,237
1959 455.005
FACILITY DEVELOPMENT
(Proposed)
1957 1960 1965
Swimming Pools 2 6 10
Lighted liollfields 2 3 15
Tennis Courts 10 12 38
Playgrounds
Park-School Playgrounds 4 30 51
Neighborhood Parks
Community Centers 0 1 8
Gymnasiums 28 33 38
County Parks 0 1 3
Racncxm

Research: a primary need

Earle F. Zeigler, PILD.

BEFORE RECREATION has the right to
call itself a true profession, it
needs a much stronger body of organ-
ized knowledge based on research. De-
spite the phenomenal progress of the
recreation profession in recent years,

 

there is still a primary need for an or-
ganized body of knowledge based 011
legitimate research.

If it is true that a profession needs an organized body
of knowledge based on research, the answer appears to be
simple—~—-go out and get it! This raises several most difficult
questions. Who goes? Who sends them? Where do they
go? What are they after? How do they get it? What do
they do with it then? Where do we stand?

tho Goes? We need intelligent men and women with
curiosity and imagination. They will need sound health,
keen observation powers, devotion, patience, retentive mem-
ories. and innumerable competencies, such as knowledge of
the various research techniques and the ability to write
clearly. Naturally, we realize there will be relatively few
research workers within the recreation profession in propor-
tion to the total number of men and women within the field.
But we cannot escape the fact that the discovery, develop-
ment, and retention of such individuals will ultimately di-
rectly influence the success of our field and its efforts.

W'ho Sends Them? If sound recreation is as important
to people as we believe it is, then it is up .to universities,
government agencies, and private foundations to finance
this research with gradually increasing appropriations.

there Do They Go? In addition to any research con-
ducted by professional recreation researchers who may be
at work in universities, government agencies, and private
foundations, we must seek help and coordination of effort
from such fields as anthropology, economics, education, his-
tory, philosophy, psychology, sociology, physical education,

physiolog , gerontology, and law.

that Are They After? Although recreation and the use
of leisure are most fruitful areas for research, the area
shows a variability and complexity which will force the indi-
vidual researcher to specialize. What are the sorts of things
we need to know? A few suggestions follow:

0 ‘Vhat should he the role of the voluntary agency in rec-

reation?

o What is the relationship between people’s needs and their
rccreation interests?

0 Can we develop a formula to guide long-range planning?

DR. ZEICLER is supervisor of physical education for men,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

OCTOBER 1960

@ADMINISTRATION

 

Recreation needs a body of organized knowledge

0 What methods of financing programs are most effective?
0 What is the best way to conduct a recreation survey?

0 What is the relationship between recreation participation
and mental health?

o Is the park-school movement worthwhile as presently
constituted?

o What contributions are interagency councils for recrea-
tion making at the state level?

How Do They Get It? We will not get the answers from
master’s and doctoral candidates working on theses, al-
though occasionally some of these efforts do represent
worthy contributions. In the main, however, they are gath-
ering dust on library shelves, although Harrison Clarke’s
Microcard Project at the University of Oregon has helped
disseminate results of these studies and deserves increased
support.

Despite the need for intensive specialization on the part
of individuals, we should encourage a broad approach from
the standpoint of the entire field. Historical and philosoph-
ical studies are needed every bit as much as surveys depict-
ing present status of one sort or another. Although the
experimental method is receiving increased emphasis in
physical education, its use is ust about unknown in recrea-
t10n.

What Do They Do lVith It Then? They write it up as

clearly and interestingly as possible and figure out some
way to get it published so that practitioners can use it. This
places a responsibility on the people in the field to be pro-
fessionally alert and informed. Only through experimenta-
tion with research findings can we tell whether they will be
useful and practical. Of course, much research effort will
not be in such form that it can be used the next day. How-
ever, this does not mean it will not serve to round out thc
body of organized knowledge that recreation needs to be-
come a full-fledged profession.

Where Do We Stand? Although some studies have been
made in recreation research, it has lagged far behind many
other fields. We have many able administrators, but, gen-

erally speaking, they do not have the time for research. The
bulk of our research simply cannot and should not come

from this source.

The National Recreation Association is doing much in
this area; but help is needed from universities, government
agencies, and. private foundations. There are some encour-
aging signs from the universities. The University of Ore-
gon, for example, has inaugurated as one of its functions

The Institute of Recreational Research and Community

Service. This offers consultation, studies, and appraisals of
community recreation needs and research projects as the
Continued on Page 391

373

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

ALABAMA. In Anniston a ceramic program is busily fir-
ing away on the recreation department’s five kilns. Ceramic
classes are housed in the basement of a defunct nursing
school rented by the department for fifty dollars a month.
When the local general hospital finishes its convalescent
wing the ceramic program will be open to hospital patients
as well. The general public responded so enthusiastically
to this as a part-time program activity, that it is now on
full-time schedule. Some of the kilns were acquired at a
nominal fee as surplus from a nearby army base.

0 Way down south in Mobile future development of Mu-
nicipal Park, a picturesque forest area, includes a municipal
art gallery and a children’s theater, the latter now in the
fund-raising stage. The park already has a beach, play-
ground, and picnic area with lighted shelters. A day-camp
area is al‘so planned.

CALIFORNIA. Restoration of some of the historical

buildings of the Los Angeles State and County Arboretum
at Arcadia include interesting spots dating back to the eras
of Hugo Reid in the 1840’s and E. J. “Lucky” Baldwin in
the 1880’s. Under supervision of the State Division of
Beaches and Parks Architectural Division, the historie
Hugo Reid adobe has been restored and is now being rc-
furnished by the National Society of the Colonial Dalncs of
America, Pasadena-Los Angeles Committee. The adobc
grounds display Gabriele Indian wickiups, outdoor masonry
stoves, vineyard and winepress, tanning and tallow-rcnder-
ing facilities.

The Rancho Santa Anita boathouse, built on the site of
the original structure on the shore of the lagoon adjacent
to Baldwin’s “Queen Anne Cottage,” is authentic to the full-
est. Old photographs of the original boathouse were used
to guide reconstruction. Bordering the Baldwin coach barn
is the historical rose garden now being installed by the
state, with an extensive system of trellises for climbing
roses. These, to a great extent, will be plants from the Vic-
torian era when Baldwin lived at Rancho Santa Anita. The
unique “Lueky” Baldwin tally-ho coach is now being re-
furbishcd to the clcganec of the gay 1880’s and 1890‘s.

GEORGIA. The Cobb County Recreation: Authority dedi-
eated its new park near Kennesaw this summer. Already
completed are an Olympic-size swimming pool and club-
house. Scheduled to open in Oetobcr arc the 0. li. Keeler

376

Memorial Golf Course, a large driving range, and praetice
greens. Still to_ be developed are picnic areas, tennis eourts,
boating, nature study areas, and a kiddieland. The park
contains three lakes, the largest being twenty-two acres.
Construction was finaneed through a million-dollar bond
issue. This initial million was invested in blue-chip seeuri-
ties in 1958 with a suffieient return to meet the 1959 bond
payments. Park revenues are expected to meet the 1960
payments. The recreation authority will also offer lI150
choice building lots to home builders desiring to locate in
the new park. No tax moneys have been used to date. Carl
I. Pirkle is recreation director for the new area.

ILLINOIS. The W est Chester Park District, formed late
in 1957 after years of litigation, is finally functioning on
a full-time basis and has passed a $540,000 bond issue to
acquire property and build a community center. Five neigh-
borhood parks have already been acquired and two have
been partially developed with money from the bond issue.

NEW JERSEY. Ground has been broken for the state’s

largest county park, a 2,000-acre, $4,000,000 recreation area
along the Raritan River in Somerset County. The park
represents the first phase of the county’s five-stage, 10,500-
acre program. When completed, Raritan River'County Park,
Somersct’s first general park, will be nearly three times
larger than New YOrk City’s Central Park. Start of con-
struction, delayed by the washout of the Headgates Dam
on the Raritan River last year, was speeded by Doris Duke’s
gift of half the cost of restoring the dam.

An unusual feature of the park plan is the combination
pavilion-boathouse, to be located on the banks of the Rari-
tan Canal. Since the Raritan overflows its banks every few
years, the pavilion has been so designed that the second-
story pavilion deck can remain in service if the ground-floor
boat deck is flooded.

In addition to the boathouse-pavilion, the park will
include:

An island picnic area, accommodating 3,500 persons and
970 cars. Situated between the Raritan River and the canal,
this area will include attractive picnic facilities, separate
basins for model sailboats and model motorboats, a model
airplane flying ficld, walks and trails.

A county fairground, which will have a show ring, a 6,000-
square-foot cxhibit-and-dcmonstration building, a livestock
show pavilion, a food-sales pavilion and bleachers for 2,500.

Fiefd sports area, including a football field with portable
blcachcrs seating 13,000 spectators, a baseball diamond, and
space for other field games.

County recreation center, which will provide a swimming
pool, a skating and dancing terrace, a football field with
permanent seating for more than 15,000, an archery range,
and playficlds for field sports of all types, such as baseball,
softball, badminton, lacrosse, horscshoc pitching, and others.

A county center building with administrative offices,
space for social gatherings, club incctings, lectures, craft
and hobby work, basketball games and other events that

require protection from the weather.
A bog garden. This unusual feature will be planted with

Rscnantox

 

Plan for pavilion-bathhouse

marsh plants, which, because of their normally inaccessible
habitat, are seldom seen by plant lovers.

A boat lagoon and boatyard for small rowboats and sail-
boats.

An outdoor amphitheater, to be developed south of the
Raritan River, to provide for the dramatic, musical, terpsi-
chorean, and educational needs of the county. It also could
be used during the summer for straw-hat summer-stock
productions.

A wildlife area on a heavily wooded island between the
Raritan and a small artificial stream will be left in its natu-
ral condition as a wildlife preserve.

Picnic facilities are planned throughout the park, with
shelters, fireplaces, groves, lawns, tables and benches.

Bridle paths. The park will be covered with a network
of carefully laid out bridle paths. Also provided are stables
and an equestrian bridge.

It will probably take between twenty and thirty years
to complete the park. Of its two thousand planned acres,
nearly five hundred have been acquired or are under con-
tract. In addition to the Raritan River park, other areas
slated for eventual deveIOpment are: Watchqu Mountains
-—-—1,450 acres in the vicinity of Chimney Rock in Bridge-
water Township; Millstone Valley—3,700 acres along the
Millstone and Delaware and Raritan Canal from Lake Carne-
gie at Kingston to the confluence of the Millstone and Rari-
tan Rivers near Manville; Dead River—1,650 acres beyond
the junction of the Dead and Passaic Rivers in Bernards
Township; and Ravine Lake—1,950 acres along the north
branch of the Raritan River.

0 Johnson Park, principal park in Middlesex County, has
received an additional eight acres from Johnson and John-
son, surgical goods manufacturers. The park was originally
established by the Johnson family twenty-five years ago. The
present gift is important in long-range plans for extending
the park for about seven miles along the Raritan River.

0 The New Jersey Audubon Society is marking its golden
anniversary this year. The society has four sanctuaries in
the state: one at its headquarters at the Lucine L. Lorrimer
Sanctuary in Franklin Lakes; the Bennett Bogs Wildlife
Sanctuary in Cape May County; the Beecher S. Bowdish
Island Sanctuary on Great Bay, Cape May County; and the
new Montclair Hawk Lookout Sanctuary in Essex County.

OCTOBER 1960

NEW YORK. Caumsett, the 1,426-acre estate of the late
Marshall Field at Lloyd Harbor on Long Island’s north
shore, will be developed as a state park, wildlife refuge, and
arboretum. The state will spend $4,275,000 for the property
which includes more than two miles of shorefront, rolling
fields and woodlands, a manor house and other buildings.
About two-thirds of the property will be left in its present
state as a wildlife refuge; the rest will be used for a beach,
picnicking areas, bridle facilities, and two golf courses.

0 The town of Oyster Bay is acquiring a nineteen-acre tract
for development as a community park to serve residents of
the recently consolidated Plainview-Old Bethpage Park Dis-
tricts. The land is expected to cost $6,000 an acre. The
park will include swimming pool, bathhouses, sanitation
facilities, ballfields and play areas, an area for court games,
and a parking field. Deve10pment cost is estimated at
$800,000.

0 The New York City Department of Parks will construct
a new outdoor artificial ice-skating rink in PrOSpect Park,
Brooklyn, scheduled for completion by the fall of 1961. The
rink will be similar in size and its related facilities to the
Wollman Memorial Rink in Central Park, Manhattan, which
has been one of the most popular and intensively used fea-
tures of the city’s park system since it was first opened in

1950. The Prospect Park rink, 28,000 square feet, is being
made possible by a $300,000 grant from the William J. Woll-
man Foundation. The remaining $500,000 needed to meet
the estimated cost of construction, amounting to a total
of $800,000, will be contributed by the city as an item in
the park department’s 1960 capital budget.

PENNSYLVANIA. The new eighteen-hole golf course in
Scranton was financed by a $400,000 bond issue. The fa-
cility is managed by a seven-man municipal golf authority.
0 The new Pine Street Recreation Center in York is the
result of an exchange under which the city received a former
school building and $17,500 in return for giving the school
board part of White Rose Park for construction of a new
school. The center was set up in the old school through
joint planning, public financing, volunteer help, and do-
nations from public bodies, business firms, and individual
persons. A local dance studio donated a piano and two
record players; the Soroptimist Club, the draperies for the
senior citizens’ lounge; a typewriter shop provided files
for the main oflice and folding chairs at cost; the lawn
was made possible through cooperation of men in the city
highways and parks departments. The manual arts and
creative craft program for children is based on scrap ma-
terial from the city’s industrial and business houses which
include a ribbon mill, pottery factory, tile company, and
hosiery plant.

0 A pilot ski project, initiated by the state department of
forests and waters, has resulted in development of a state
park exclusively for winter sports. The $200,000 Denton
Hill State Park deve10pment, in Potter County between
Coudersport and Galeton, includes two ski lifts, temporary
shelters, and parking Space for 250. Another $300,000

will be Spent on an ultra-modern, glass-enclosed ski lodge.
Continued on Page 391

377

RESEARCH
BRIEFS

 

 

George D. Butler

State Park Progress graphy of 304 articles appearing in 53

periodicals during 1958 (not including
park and recreation journals) and a
listing or brief abstracts of 284 unpub-
lished master’s and doctorate theses. Of
588 listings, only two of the articles and
fourteen of the theses are classified in
the index under the heading “Recrea-

The National Park Service recently
issued State Park Statistics—1959.
This annual bulletin records the signifi-
cant progress in state parks during
1959. The following table indicates the
nature and extent of this progress.

Percentage _ _ _
of Increase tion.” The report is available from the
Orer I 958 r r
Total Attendance 255,309,602 7.6 AIAHFER’ 1201 16th §trfeh ’ ' W 
Tm, and Traner 11 ashiiigton 6, D. C.. at 51.50 per copy.
Camping 13,733,510 5.0
Expenditures by State
Park Agencies 3 88,268,419 20.0
Expenditures for
Lands 3 14,834,071 96.0
Funds Available for
Expenditure $139,340,618 3.0
Revenue from
p Opera'ions 3 203173233 “in”??? A study of public outdoor recreation
ersonne . ' . . . .
unchanged facilities, designed to produce conipara-
TO‘?IAN“mber 2433 40 tive data on the cost of development
0 was , . . . . . .
Total Acreage 5,530,909 5,0 and operation of selected facilities in

relation to the attendance and the in-
vestnient involved, was conducted in
1958 by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation for thc Outboard Boating Club
of America. Information relating to
their facilities submitted by 488 rec-
reation and park authorities covered
such facilities as tennis courts. golf

bath-

The total number of areas at the end
of the year was 98 more than the previ-
ous year. This acquisition included
251,089 acres which, considering the
disposal of 9,948 acres and acreage re-
vision in certain states, makes a new

high in state park acreage of 5,680,909.

In spite of the marked growth since

courses, swimming pools,

1946 in the increase in acreage it has

not begun to keep up with the rate of

increase shown for attendance.
Prorating the total 1959 expenditure

by state park agencies among the iiuni- INVESTMENT"

Postwar

3,235
I 1,144)

I’rewar

r -

3 2.043 $
t 868)

$116,816
(23)

1' $323,166
(42)

$1 67.318
(175)

$101307
(61.)

‘——-_.r~——-——-

Launrhing 3 2.590 1 $
Ramps (13)

5.1113,; 3 03.500
( 15)

Centers

TYI’E

Tennis Courts

ber of visits brings the cost per visitor
to 5.34. Of this amount $.20 is spent

for operation and maintenance, and

9-1101e Golf

Courses

18-llole Colt
Courses

5.14. for capital improvements. The net

. . (20.)
cost for operation and maintenance per

visitor is $.12, if the amount of revc-

. . . (17)
nues from operation is taken into ac-

—-.—.-.—._.'

Swinun ing
Pools

Count. (286)

.___-__—-—._.._..—

S 87,430
(87)

Biatbing m
Beaches

w—I—I—r—-

Research Bibliography

The Research Council of the Ameri-
can Association for Health, Physical
Education, and Recreation has issued

3.788
t 180)



a listing of research in health, physical (53)

education, and recreation, completed in

1958. The report contains a hiblio- was reported.

3 78

$125296
$274,248

(5105.797

1..— ——— 1

I

Studies of Baseball Accidents

The May 1960 issue of Amateur
Baseball News contained the following
data on injuries suffered by Babe Ruth

League players in 1959. Causes of the
injuries were classified as follows:

Cause Percentage
of Accident of Total Injuries
Running or sliding 36.4
Hit by pitelied balls 20.5
Collisions 18.9
Batted balls 15.4
Thrown balls 8.8

Lacerations and contusions were the
inost'common result, 4—4 percent of all'
injuries. Fractures occurred in 21.4,
percent of the cases. Contrary to gen-
eral belief, the ratio between injuries on!
defense and offense was about even.
Defense suffered 47.2 percent of inju-'
ries; runners, 36.8 percent, and batters,
only 16 percent.

mm-

PUBLIC RECREATION FACILITIES STUD'Y

ing beaches. launching ramps, andI
boating centers. In order to secure
more significant figures for dollar in-
vestments, separate data were requested
for facilities built before and after
World War II. A summary of the basic
data secured through the qucstionnair
inquiry appears in the acconipanyin

table. It records the average dollar iii-
vestinent and the average 1957 attend-
anccs, revenue and operating cost fig-
urcs for each of the seven types of fa-

cilities studied.

AVERAGE UNIT INVESTMENT. ATTENDANCE. REVENUE AND
COSTS OF PUBLIC RECREATION

FACILITIES
1957

Attendance

1.452 3
(1,830)

2-1.396— '
((18,)


(95)

.- -——-——q—' u—

36.851 l
(556)

95.310
(215)
3.657
(115)

18,136
(50)

1957
Cost

183
(1.827)

$211125
((17)

543.2.”
(102)

$ 7.477
(5-17)

5 6,537
(203)

1957
Revenue

81 S
(785)

319.812
(67)

I $50,509
( mm

s 
(476)

$ 4,164
(167)

-_.-.- ——-——-.- -

$ 2.038
(21)

$12,002
(84)

#3152399
( 66)

 

NOTE: Figures in parentheses represent the number of facilities for which the information

tincnnnto.

RECREATION

DIGEST

 

Conserving Open Space

by BASEMENT

\Villiam H. \Vllytc, Jr.

ASICALLY, TIIE PRINCIPLE of emi-
B nent domain is simple. The pub-
lic can acquire property if it will

serve a public purpose and if the owner
is given just compensation. In acquir-
ing property, the public does not have
to buy all of it, but that element of
it that will serve the public purpose.
Economists and lawyers are now agreed
that we should think of “property” not
as the tangible thing owned, but as a
composite bundle of rights. The public
can acquire these rights in land by gift,
purchase by voluntary agreement, or by
condemnation. It may buy the whole
bundle of rights—that is, acquire the
land in fee simple—or it may acquire
less than the full bundle. It is this latter
aspect that we are concerned with, and
in the form of easements it has been
common practice for generations;
though the particular purpose for which

I OCTOBER 1960

the public acquires the easements has
Shifted, the basic principle involved has
remained the same. Today, we have
channel-change easements, slope and
drainage easements, scenic easements
for highway and parkway purposes,
highway development rights, air rights,
sight-distance easements, easements of
view, building protective easements and
many others; whatever the variation,
they are essentially a purchase from a
landowner of one or more of his rights
in land so that the public interest may
be served without having to purchase
the entire bundle. Such easements have
had a statutory basis for many years
and have been upheld by the courts as
a valid exercise of governmental power
in the public interest.

While in many states there already
exists a statutory basis for purchasing
easements for the purpose of securing

Open space, the urban sprawl problem
is so new—or at least, seems to be so
new—~—that there are few cases directly
bearing on this kind of use. The Mas-
sachusetts legislature authorized the
Boston Metropolitan Park Commission
to acquire rights in land in the basic act
of 1893, and in 1898 additional powers
were granted “to acquire by agreement
or otherwise, the right forever or for
such period of time as said board may
deem expedient, to plant. care for.
maintain or remove trees, shrubs and
growth of any kind within said regu-
lated spaces [along or near rivers and
ponds].”

Back in the nineteen twenties. a study
for the park needs of the Washington
I). C., area recommended six methods
for “withdrawing land from urban or-
cupation”; one of them was the acquisi-
tion of rights in land, or easements, as

3 T“

well as outright purchase. In the Fed-
eral Rights in Land Act of 1928, Con-
gress gave the National Capital Park
and Planning Commission authority for
such acquisition, and in the Capper-
Crampton Act of 1930 authorized the
Spending of $32,500,000 for three kinds
of park and open-space projects. In
1956, in the act establishing the Bay
Circuit surrounding metropolitan Bos-
ton, the Massachusetts legislature au-
thorized acquisition of a variety of
rights in land in order to preserve open
spaces. But though the authority has
existed, up until now park officials have
not sought recourse to it, and have con-
centrated on the acquisition of land for
parks.

THERE CAN BE no substitute for out-

right purchase of park lands, but
easements can greatly complement—
and protect—parkland, and they pro-
vide some definite recreation benefits
of their own. Even if the public doesn’t
go onto the land itself, it can enjoy the
fact of it; the drive through the coun-
tryside is enjoyable because there is
countryside.

The existence of countryside—#some
countryside, at least—has considerable
effect on any rcgional park system. Big
parks are not so dependent on their
surroundings, but smaller ones are;
there is, for one thing, their water sup-
ply, and if their lakes and dams remain
good to swim in, conservation of farm-
land upstream may have a lot to do
with it.

It should also be pointed out that,
while public use does not necessarily
go with an easement, there are many
opportunities for limited use. We tend
to underestimate how much public rec-
reation takes place on private land.

One of the great benefits of an easc-
ment program is that it provides a way
of channeling metropolitan growth; it
should be valuable, not just for the land
it saves but also for the way it helps
concentrate development in the land
around. The economic benefits of this
can be clearly demonstrated; the case
against sprawl has been documented to
a fare-thee-well, and though eascrnents
are only one of several tools that must
be used, any brief for establishing the
public purpose of easements should
bear down heavily on sprawl.

380

THERE ARE other points that should
be made—the relationship of open
space to our air pollution, for example,
or how it can lead to a more economic
spacing of highway interchanges. But
in whatever order the arguments are
advanced, they must be brought to fo-
cus on one simple clearly stated propo-
sition: that open space is a public bene-
fit in its own right. This is the critical
part of any legislation, for it is the rock
on which favorable court “construc-
tion” and tax decisions can be based.

Let us consider one other potential
benefit: the reservation of future 0p-
tions. In conserving open space by ease-
ments, we may have a relatively inex-
pensive way of reserving land, even
though we may not be sure at the time
exactly what future use the community
might need to make of it. In the ease
of a possible park, for example, the
community could lose nothing by se-
curing an easement on suitable land; if,
subsequently, the community decided
that a park was desirable, then it would
still have to pay for the land, but the
easement would have insured that the
land remained open and that there
would be the choice to make.

This is an attractive argument, but it
can be a dangerous one too. There
must, of course, be an Opportunity for
the public to adjust to changed condi-
tions. But valuable as easements might
be in giving us future choices, to stress
this is to stress the hypothetical and
thereby to undercut the force of the
major argument. To repeat, open space
tnust be established as a benefit in its
own rigltt attd a benefit now. For an-
other thing, landowners might reason-
ably become suSpicious that the author-
ities were using the device as a back
door to make sure they’d get the land
later for a park. Do they want me to
keep tny land open for the reason they
say they do, he may well ask, or are
they buying time at my expense? We
should take care that the issue is not
clouded by the hypothetical. Present
use is the best yardstick, legally, politi-
cally, and otherwise. In selecting land.
and advocating a program for doing
it, the key question is not what open
space might provide bttt what it does
provide.

It should not follow from this that
the land must be frozen, or that ease-

ments cannot be used to prepare for fu-
ture conditions. Take, for example, the

advisability of reserving land for reser- l

voirs that may be needed in 1990 or
2000. Planners in the Delaware River
Basin area have just such a problem,
and they are studying the applicability
of the easement device. One question
has been that of futurity: would the
courts approve the acquisition when the
needs are so far off in the future?
Whatever the answer to this question, it
might well be possible to justify the ac-
quisition to the courts on the basis of
present benefits. Even if the reservoirs
were never built, the existence of these
open areas might serve a readily per-
ceivable public purpose in water reten-
tion, silt control, recreation, or whatnot.

To SUM UP: The cardinal require-

mcnt of an open space casement is
that it provide a public benefit. It may
provide future benefits not yet clear,
but though the courts .are becoming
more liberal on this score, it is not nec-
essary to ustify open space on what it
might do; we have abundant reasons to
show that it is a benefit now, and it is
this propositiott that we must pttt be-
fore the public.

It is true, unhappily, that people most
readily recognize a benefit only when
is being taken away from them. About
the time an open space is threatened——
whether by a highway, a subdivision,
or one of the many crews of tree cuttcrs
that seem to be everywhere these days
—the public begins to get arouscd. At
this very moment, undoubtedly, there
are scores of protest meetings over out-
rages to be committed—and if events
run true to form, the outrages will be
committed just the same.

The public ltas an equity in the open
spaces it has long taken for granted; if
it is to be persuaded to preserve this1
equity, the fact of it must be graphically
and forcibly demonstrated. #

 

an. —— I—u—r-qm-n—t—

Condensed and reprinted with permis-
sion from Securing Open Space for Ur-
ban America: Conservation Easements

by William. I]. Whyte, 1 r. (Washington,
D.C.: Urban Land Institute, 1959). MR.
Wm‘Tt-‘J is an author (The Organization
Man) and lecturer. He took leave of
absence as assistant. managing editor of
Fortune magazine to make this study.

Rscumrtox

RECREATION

DIGEST

 

A DEEPER
LOOK AT
VOLUNTEERS

What motivates these important people?

Arthur Blunlberg and Seth Arsenian

of community organization need

to be reminded that the recruit-
ment, training, and supervision of vol-
unteer workers constitutes a major
problem, and that this problem will
become more intense in the immedi-
ate future. The continuing high birth
rate can only result in greater demand
for the services of youth agencies, and,
eventually, for those programs aimed
at adults. Even if it were advisable that
staff demands for these services be filled
by professionals, the prospect of secur-
ing a sufficient number of career peo-
ple amounts to a literal impossibility.
Rather, we are faced with the indisput-
able fact that program services and ef-
fectiveness will only be achieved—in
the great majority of cases—by obtain-
ing the time and energies of large num-
bers of new volunteers.

With the above points in mind, we
conducted a pilot study in an attempt
to investigate, in more depth than had
been done previously, the characteris-
tics and motivations of a group of vol-
unteers in a particular organization.
Rather than expecting to find the an-
swers to the problem we felt that our
primary contribution would be one of
highlighting some central areas for
further study, and, possibly, providing
impetus for such study.

I i1 EW PEOPLE WORKING in any type

Condensed and reprinted with permis-
sion from Adult Leadership, June 1960.
DR. BLUMBERG is assistant professor of
sociology, Group Dynamics Center,
Temple University, Philadelphia. DR.

ARSENIAN is professor of psychology
and director of graduate studies,

Springfield College, Springheld, Mass.

OCTOBER 1960

Our interest focused on a group of
nearly one hundred people fairly evenly
split between group leaders and board
members. We wanted to find out, if we
could, what these people were like, what
their interests were, what attitudes and
values they held, the satisfactions they
derived from volunteering and—the
sixty-four-dollar question —- why they
volunteered. In order to get this infor-
mation, each of the participants was
sent a questionnaire and three psycho-
logical inventories (Allport-Vernon-
Lendzey Study of Values, Kuder’s Pref-
erence Record, and The Opinion Sur-
vey) which they completed and re-
turned to us.

What We Found Out

First, some general information: Al-
though the age of the total group stud-
ied ranged from quite young to quite
old (14-78), about fifty percent were
from thirty to forty-seven. We found
almost twice as many board members
had been to college than had group
leaders; twice as many board members
occupied positions thought of as execu-
tive, supervisory, or professional than
did group leaders; and board members,
on the average, engaged in sixty per-
cent more community activities than
group leaders. Further, in this regard, it
developed that board members tended
to hold leadership positions in other
community programs much more often
than did group leaders. Two additional
items of interest, with implications for
recruiting, were these: A majority of
both groups studied indicated they had
had previous involvement in the organ-
ization and that their parents had, like

themselves, been active in community
volunteer services.

Values. In their hierarchy of values
these volunteers place religious values
at the top and esthetic values at the bot-
tom. The relative dominance of the six
values assessed takes the following or-
der: religious, social, theoretical, eco-
nomic, political, and esthetic.
Interests. The outstanding finding here
was that both board members and
group leaders indicated a very high
preference for occupations of a social-
service nature. Average scores of both
groups pointed to the fact that they
showed more interest in social-service
work than eighty percent of the general
population. Of corresponding interest
to us was finding that only fourteen per-
cent of these people actually were em-
ployed in occupations categorized as
being of a social-service nature. One
may speculate, on the basis of this in-
formation, that for a large percentage
of volunteers, these off-the-job activi-
ties gratify some rather basic need that
is not satisfied in the course of their
regular employment.

Why Do They Volunteer?

The nagging question persisted,
“Why do volunteers volunteer?” By
any measure, problems of motivation
are complex. Such things as personal-
ity, subconscious needs, nature of the
volunteer situation, and family, com-
munity, and job pressures would all en-
ter the picture.

The primary reasons, in order of im-
portance, given for their present in-
volvement by both board members and
group leaders were these: asked by an-
other member or professional worker,
a sense of civic duty, previous agency
experience (not necessarily on the vol-
unteer level), and a liking for a particu-
lar activity.

If one reads between the lines, an
assumption can be made that relatively
few people simply walk into an organ-
ization, uninvited, and proceed to offer
their services. The “asking” process
must take place first. But who can be
asked with some assurance that he will
give an afhrmative answer? On the
face of it, it would seem that a person
should be singled out who is known to
have a sense of civic duty, has had pre-

Continued on Page 393

381

 

BRITAIN BUILDS . . .

National Recreation

and Sport Centre

announced its intention to go ahead with the con-

3- T THE END of last year, the London County Council

struction of a bold and imaginative national sport

and recreation centre at the Crystal Palace at a capital cost
of £2,185,000 ($6,137,850). One matter remained to be
settled, however—namely, the terms on which the Central
Council of Physical Recreation would administer the centre.
These terms have now been agreed . . . for a project which
can be said to symbolise the new outlook to the whole ques-
tion of active leisure and coaching in Britain.

 

Construction work on the new centre began this summer
and is expected to be completed within three years. 1t will
occupy over 36 acres of the old exhibition grounds and will
comprise a stadium with accommodation for 15,000 people
——one of the most remarkable, comprehensive sports build-
ings ever designed—and a hostel providing residential ac-
commodation for more than 130. One side of the compre-
hensive sports building will be devoted to swimming and
diving. There will be three pools, a swimming pool and a
diving pool, up to full-scale international specification, and
a shallow teaching pool. An upper and lower gallery to-
gether will provide accommodation for about 1,700 spec-
tators. The other side of this building will contain a large
general-purpose hall 150'-by-100’ with retractable seating
for 1,320 spectators. Here contests in boxing, wrestling,

n—u-u—u—u—x

 

_--__——n—n—.—.—_—-__—-—

MR. MCKINNON is erlitor 0/ Sports and Recreation, the
quarterly journal of the Central Council of Physical Rec-
reation, London, England. This material is reprinted, with
permission, from Sports and Recreation, A pril/Jnne. 1960.

3:")

“’

Robert McKinnon

 

badminton, basketball, etcetera can be held or the floor area
can be divided by netting into three smaller areas for train-
ing and practice. In addition, this building will house a
cricket school. six squash courts and tennis practice area,
and three practice rooms, each 60'-by-36', for gymnastics,
fencing, judo, dancing, keep-fit, etcetera. Adequate chang-
ing and showering facilities are provided. There is a lecture
theatre and first-aid room. Because it is hoped that the
building will be used to stage competitive events. facilities
have also been included for the press and commentators.

The sports hall will be ringed by open-air games pitchcs
and practice areas and a stand, with covered centre portion.
for 12,000 spectators. This arena will cater for all track and
field events and is designed to A.A.A. and N.P.F.A. speci-
fications. It will have a running track with seven lanes
ll nine on the straight) lit by low-level lighting units. lnside I
the track perimeter there is space for a soccer or Rugby
pitch, and elsewhere there will be pitches for cricket. hock- .
ey, basketball, football and four hard lawn-tennis courts.

The hostel and residential centre will include an 11 -storey
hostel block, with 46 single and 46 double rooms, linked to
a two-storey building containing a cornmonroom. dining-
room, and kitchen. There will also be a few flats and houses
for residential stall. Towards the cost of this accommoda-
tion the King George VI Foundation have contributed
£100,000 ($281,000).

Many uses are envisaged for the centre. . . . courses for
training leaders and coaches and for young people who wish
to bettcr their standard of performance in some sport or
activity. . . . conferences, displays, amateur sports meetings
and matches. Another important feature will be the recep-
tion and training facilities for visiting overseas teams.

The C. C. P. R. played an important part in the design of
the centre, a job in which its experience was to prove in-
valuable. Now, the Council is charged with the running and
maintaining of the centre, [made] possible only through
the generosity of the London County Council, the Ministry
of Education and the City Parochial Foundation. . . . The
Foundation have asked for an assurance that due promi-
nence will be giveu to courses to provide leaders for youth
organisations in the metropolis, and this assurance has been
given.

The ollicial title of the centre is the Crystal Palace Na-
tional Recreation Centre. #

Keenan-10x

 
 
  

Goblins in the Air

Come Halloween, school children in
Memphis, Tennessee, will be glued to
the family TV set, watching “Goblin
Give-Away,” a local program that, by
keeping children at home, has been tak-
ing the destructive shenanigans out of
Halloween. Conceived by Marion Hale,
superintendent of recreation, the pro-
gram started on a trial basis eight years
ago, and has gained momentum each
year, now reaching an estimated audi-
ence of 144,000 in about 45,000 homes.

“Goblin Give-Away” begins when
one hundred thousand tickets are dis-
tributed among the city’s schools, where
they are filled out and returned by stu-
dents of all ages. On Halloween night,
a drawing determines the lucky stu-
dents who have won a variety of prizes,
including bicycles. Winners are an-
nounced and called by volunteer em-
ployees from the Southern Bell Tele-
phone Company. Supported hy the
park commission, WHBQ-TV, Mem-
phis newspapers, the Press Scimitar
and Commercial Appeal, and Southern
Bell, “Goblin Give-Away” is now a per-
manent feature in the park commis-
sion’s annual program, and money for
buying gifts is appropriated in the com-
mission’s annual budget. (Mt. Vernon,
New York, also has a similar, though
less extensive, program.)

On the International Scene
Norway. Says King Olav V, “The or-
ganization and administration of recre-
ation programs is quite different in
Norway from that of the United States;
here it [recreation], like Topsy, just
grew.” His Majesty made this remark
to Dr. E. A. Swede) Scholer, advisor
in recreation, department of physical
education at the State University of
Iowa, in Iowa City, during a private
audience. King Olav, even prior to as-
cending the throne of Norway in 1957,
had projected numerous resolutions to
the Storting [Norwegian Parliament]
that have directly or indirectly influ-
enced leisure-time activities in Norway.
It is not uncommon for the king to be
r a spectator at various sports contests
- and his participation as an official is
likewise accepted as a matter of course.
The contestant in an orienteering cham-

OCTOBER 1960

 

pionship (cross-country running with
map and compass) would not be sur-
prised to learn that the judge at a check
station was his ruler. The picture above
was taken at such an orienteering cham-

lHis Majesty on the

pionship meet.
left).

Dr. Scholer and his family spent nine
months in Norway in 1959 while col-
lecting data for his doctoral thesis “An
Analytical Study of the Puhlic Recrea-
tion System of Norway.” (An article
based on this will appear in a future is-
sue of RECREATION.)

AMF Awards

American Machine & Foundry Com-
pany, in cooperation with the National
Recreation Association, has announced
the establishment of AMP awards for
distinguished reporting of major devel-
opments in the field of physical recrea-
tion. The purpose is to honor journal-
ists who have contributed to a better
public understanding of such programs.
Awards will be given in four catego-
ries: newspaper, magazine, radio, and
television. *

All entries will be screened by NRA
and top selections sent to a board of
judges. Awards, to be given annually,
starting with May 1961, will consist of
a citation and $1000. Forms are being

sent all NRA Associates and Affiliates.
St. Matthews’ Triple Crown

Eight years ago the small town of St.
Matthews near Louisville, Kentucky,
started a community project to “give
the kids a place to play.” This year St.
Matthews teams took the state champi-

A REPORTER’S
NOTEBOOK

onships in Connie Mack, Babe Ruth, and
Little League baseball. “This startling
and perhaps unequalled result,” com-
mented the Amateur Baseball News,” is
the outcome of . . . plenty of hard work
on the part of the citizens and many
volunteer(s) .”

People in the News

PHILIP B. STROYA N,
superintendent of
parks in Vancou-
ver, British Can-
ada, received a ci-
tation for merito-
rious service to
parks and recrea-
tion in Canada at
the annual meeting of the Parks and
Recreation Association of Canada in
St. Catherine, Ontario, this summer.
The citation covered his twenty-three
years with the Vancouver Board of
Parks and Public Recreation.

The parks have grown with the city.
lt now boasts 122 parks.

 

THOMAS J. PUR-
CELL has been ap-
pointed park com-
missioner of St.
Louis, Missouri.
Thirty - nine - year -
old Mr. Purcell has
worked for the city
for the past eleven
years; five years as administrative as-
sistant, one year as superintendent of
city parks, and, since 1955, as execu-
tive assistant to the Department of Pub-
lic Welfare. In this position he has ad-
ministered and directed the bond-issue
program improvements.

 

HAROLD S. MORGAN, director of mu-
nicipal athletics for the Milwaukee, Wis-
consin, Department of Municipal Rec-
reation, received three youth awards
this spring for distinguished service in
behalf of youth in Milwaukee. He re-
ceived the 1960 youth award of the St.
Mary’s Athletic Club for outstanding
achievement in working with youth for
the past thirty-seven years. the “Joey
Award” of St. Joseph’s Children’s
Home Athletic Association for distin-
guished service in behalf of youth, and

383

Circle #l77 on coupon

ADD Emma“

ED DURlACHER
TO YOUR STAFF

Milwaukee Chapter of Unico National
for various projects to help youngsters
and underprivileged children.

Notes from Headquarters

The National Recreation Associa-
tion’s executive director is extremely
well-traveled, having, in the course of

his duties, to attend meetings all over
the country. In the accompanying pic-
ture Joseph Prendergast is shown

with

HONOR YOUR
PARTNER RECORDS

Freeport. N. Y.

 

Unique, Progressive Recorded
Talk-Thru, Walk-Thru Method

0 Physical Fitness Activities to Music

 

o Square Dances 0 Play Party

. Couple Dances and  from left, rear I’OW) taking in the
3. Mixers Singing Games Sun Valley, Idaho, scenery with other

. Rhythms . Marches recreation officials at the 1960 Pacific

0 Folk Dances Northwest District Conference. Stand-

ing at Mr. Prendergast’s left is Barney

o Rope Skipping

 

 

 

l HONOR YOUR PARTNER RECORDS I Berger, president, Montana Recreation
l 3°“ N°"—' F'eepmt' N' Y“ l Association, Lewistown; to his right is
l E] Please Send FREE BROCHURE I _ . .

a Enclosed is 50¢_ {or 331/: rpm DEMONSTRA- Don H. Cook, President, Washington
l [Tllsct’gd‘igggvgo 8"“ excerptsmmthe mums I State Recreation Association, Seattle.
: ' I In the front row are: Robert F. Us-
| Name I borne, immediate past-president, Brit-
I Address , I ish Columbia Recreation Association;

__ _____._____- .

I I Mrs. Dorothea Lensch, director of rec-
L__.._...__.._ ______ _ _ _.l reation, Portland Oregon; and Charles

 

H. Odegaard, NBA Pacific Northwest
district representative. Mount Baldy is
in the background.

After this conference Mr. Prender-
gast was off again, this time to partici-
pate in a recreation symposium held at
Boston University to investigate and
discuss Boston’s goals and deficiencies
in public recreation. The other panel
members Were: Fred Smith, Prudential
Life Insurance Company vice-presi-
dent; George A. Warmer, Boston Uni-
versity’s vice-president for university
affairs; Boston’s Mayor John F. Col-
lins; and moderator Erwin D. Canhanl,
editor of the C bristian Science Monitor.

NEW tut-PAGE
REFERENCE GUIDE

    

CATALOG

I GYM APPARATUS I
GYMNASTIC UNIFORMS " COILING DOORS

GRANDSTANDS I PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT 0
FOLDING BLEACHERS I BASKETBALL BACKSTOPS

REBOUND TUMBLING UNITS I SCOREBOARDS I
WEIGHTLIFTING EQUIPMENT ' LOCKERS

GYMNASTIC SUPPLY COMPANY

San Pedro. California

r.

o M r s . E d n a
Vaughan Bran-
cher, wife of the
late Howard S.
Brancher, sec-
retary and then
president of the
National Recrea-
tion Association
for forty years, has been made an hon-
orary member of the Association by the
Board of Directors in recognition of all
Mrs. Brancher’s work for NRA and the
national recreation movement. Since
Mr. Brancher’s death in 194-9, Mrs.
Brancher has continued her active in-

terest in the work of the Association.

-————_..._._________
(— Circle #l75 on coupon

  

250 Sixth Street

I

    

the Citizen of the Year Award of the

SAYING WHAT WE MEAN

After giving con‘
siderable though1
to Charles K.
Brightbill’s article
on recreation ter-
minology, “Let’s
Say What We
Mean,” (RECREA-

TION, February

1959), Dr. Jay S.
Shivers, associate professor and head
of the recreation department at Missis-
sippi Southern College in Hattiesburg,
wishes to offer a rebuttal. Dr. Shivers
agrees that the recreation field is con-
tinually plagued with terminology that
none can understand or which is mis-
leading and misrepresentative. “What,”
he asks, “are we doing about it? In-
stead of precisely defining terms already
in use or even giving them common.
meaning, we choose to add new terms
to compound the ignorance so blatantly'
apparent.”

He declares a pox on ‘recreology’l
and all the interminable jargon that.
goes along with it. This field needs!
some practical, contributory explana-
tions of the terms which many practi-
tioners and educators misuse or whose
connotations they do not understand.

“Let’s begin with the word which is
most used and ill-used—‘recreation.’
Recreation is derived from the Latin
recreatio and recrcams which mean to
create anew. Recreation is a noun re-
ferring only to a state of being which
the individual enjoys. Recreation may
be defined as a nondebilitating, con-
sunnnatory experience, which is, in the
most literal sense, a re-creation of the
individual.

“No theory can be found which de-
scribes recreation in destructive terms;
the very word has the opposite mean-
ing. To recreate means to build anew,
to heighten prowess, to strengthen the
ego, to reconstruct in a way that is held
to be satisfying. It may not be a de-
bilitating experience. The element of
consummation is characteristic of rec-
reation. This is a process whereby the
individual loses himself in the expe-
rience; i.e., becomes completely ab-
sorbed. At this point the human organ-
ism is integrated and equilibrium isi
restored. thus bringing about a re-cre-
ation of the individual. In this sense.
consummation and re-creation is an end
in itself.

“The term ‘recreational,’ on the other
hand, is an adjective which describes
a particular activity. The word may be .
defined as describing any activity vol-
nntarily engaged in, which contributes
to the satisfaction of individual needs
in a socially acceptable pattern. It mod-
ifies; therefore must be used before
such words as: activity, living, experi-

 

.5

Jay S. Shivers

‘6

  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

RECREATION

ence, opportunity, worker, department,
agency, facility, in proper context.

“We are all in the held of recrea-
tional service and we should refer to the
field with these terms; for this is what
we do and what we perform. We do not
provide recreation. We provide serv-
ices, experiences, and facilities of a rec-
reational nature which people may use.
Only the individual may provide recre-
ation for himself, since this is a highly
personal feeling which he alone expe-
rtences.

“Now, let us consider terms relating
to professional practice. According to
Webster’s New Collegiate Dictionary,
the sufhx ‘ist,’ added to agent nouns,
denotes one who does or makes a prac-
tice of. The ‘ist’ suffix is further identi-
hed as ‘one who practices a given act;
one professionally occupied with, or
skilled in, a given department of knowl-
edge; or a given subject or thing.’ The
term recreationist would denote an in-
dividual who is occupied with the pro-
fessional practice of recreational serv-
ice

“The noun suffix ‘or,’ on the other
hand, has a connotation of agent or
doer; or one who does. Thus, if these
terms were used consistently, which ap-
pears not to be the case among theo-
rists writing in this held, it is likely that
the word would take on added meaning
and clarification.

“The following is illustrative:
or

1. Administrator: one who administers

2. Conductor: one who conducts,

3. Donor: one who donates I

4. Educator: one who educates

5. Legislator: one who legislates

6. Creditor: one who credits

7. Executor: one who executes

8. Auditor: one who audits

9. Sailor: one who sails

O. Recreator: one who recreates, i.e., par-
ticipates in recreational activities

1

ist

1. Dentist: one who professionally practices
dental medicine

2. Internist: one who professionally prac-
tices internal medicine

3. Therapist: one who professionally prac-
tices therapy

4-. Scientist: one who professionally prac-
tices in a science

5. Botanist: one who professionally prac-
tices botany '

6. Biologist: one who professionally prac-
tices biology

7. Pianist: one who professionally practices
piano playing

8. Educationist: one who professionally
practices education or teaching

9. Physicist: one who professionally prac-
tices physics

10. Recreationist: one who professionally
practices recreational services

“We must initiate a logical approach
to the usage of terms in this field. All
too often, practitioners and educators

OCTOBER 1960

make a fetish out of jargon. Words
have particular signihcance when used
in context, and advantage should be
taken of this fact. Let’s standardize our
terminology so there will be greater ac-
ceptance and clarity with use.” #

 

Obituaries

 

0 Marion Shelmerdine, a leader in the
held of women’s and girls’ recreation
and a bulwark of the Reading, Penn-
sylvania, Recreation Department for
thirty-seven years, died this summer at
the age of hfty-hve. As a local news-
paper commented so aptly, Marion
“was in all ways, a young woman, even
when she died, with a warm affection
for the outdoors and physical recrea-
tion. . . . Because of this, children and
adults loved and respected her. . . . It
will be a long time before another Ma-
rion Shelmerdine comes along. Indi-
viduals like her are rare. . . .”

0 Dr. W. J. K. (Bill) Harkness, one
of Canada’s leading authorities on the
outdoors, died in Toronto this summer
at the age of sixty-four. He had been
chief of the Fish and Wildlife Division
of the Ontario Department of Lands
and Forests since 1946. His chief in-
terest was hsh research and he Was an
officer of the International Association
of Game, Fish and Conservation Corn-
missions and a former president of the
American Fisheries Society.

0 Leon A. (Jake) Swirbul, a founder
and president of the Grumman Aircraft
Engineering Corporation in Bethpage.
New York, and an active proponent of
employee recreation, died this summer
at the age of sixty-two.

A “shirtsleeve boss,” Jake Swirbul
recognized the monotony of turning out
thousands of planes and built a baseball
held for every Grumman department.
pushed plant bowling, basketball, and
softball teams. “You’ve got to give a
man a chance to pitch a ball around
or play his violin in front of his work
bench,” he once explained. “When he
goes back, he has other things to talk
about besides his work.”

0 Composer Clarence Cameron White
died recently in New York City. Dr.
White was a former music specialist on
the staff of the National Recreation As-

sociation.

0 Ralph Keating, a retired ['nited
Fruit Company executive, died in Au-
gust at the age of sixty-six. Mr. Keating
had been chairman of the Recreation
and Public Safety Committee in Scars-

dale, New York.

M

Circle # I69 on coupon ——>

 

Circle #l65 on coupon

ifyou

want to
provide
patrons

with the
most modern
and
convenient
checking
service . . .
and at the
same time
eliminate
checking
costs. .write
or phone

THE FLXIBLE COMPANY
LOUDONVILLE 1, OHIO

Functnamcuuduwmidofjiockw

 

ENAMEL on COPPER
AND
CREATIVE CRAFT IDEAS

ion log;

one“!!! am“
I” ..-  u.

a“... rune-arr t. sorts
..u- 3014 “I‘ll. AVUIU!
(I‘VCKAN. Ii OHIO

a, 'I...

 

@w/Wr

WMZM

: Only lmmerman's (migr. oi kilns. tools and'
: supplies widely endorsed by schools. institu-
: tions .and recreation programs) offers you
1 such a completely satisfying. direct channel
: to supplies and "Here's How" information!
: Explore enameling, mosaics, metal tooling.
: . etching, jewelry, marquetry, etc.. etc. Send

° for these valuable reference volumes today.

IMMERMAN 8: SONS

Dept. CH-7 0 i924 EUCLID " Cleveland 15, Ohio
A-2795

 

’

385

  

F or further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to as.

it * l- l-

0 Every room can become multi-purpose for entertainment.
education, or training programs, with a small Autolectric
projection screen, available in standard sizes of 50”-by-50”,
to 60"-by-60”, and 70”-by-70”. Operating from any stand-
ard electric outlet, it may be raised and lowered automati-
cally at the touch of a switch, is quickly installed on wall or
ceiling by its hammerloid blue, extruded aluminum D-shape
screen case with mounting brackets. It also can be hung
invisibly behind a cornice or recessed above a ceiling. Its
center-turn, removable toggle switch assures no tampering,
and its built-in stop mechanism halts the screen surface
when it has been lowered to desired length. Easily converti-
ble to oblong, the screen serves for slide, filmstrip, or mo-
tion-picture viewing. The white projection surface, of fun-
gus- and flame-resistant glass-beaded Vyna-Flect, acts as a
lens to reflect a maximum of projected light toward the au-

dience. Circle #100.

0 Where to put small items in a nar-
row locker has been solved by the West-
ern Binding and Pad Company, which
manufactures a locker-door valet,
equally good for storing personal items
and tools or small game equipment. It
is suspended from the inside of the
locker door by a heavy cord. is 5’ long.
11” wide, has six pockets: four, 8” by
11”, and two, 4” by 6”. The heavy-(hit y
fabric is reinforced at all seams, mak-
ing it practical cven for small heavy
pieces. This should solve innumerable
problems in recreation centers. craft
rooms, game rooms, woodworking
shops, and even in the maintenance (le-
partment. llere is a neat answer to
where to put shuttlecocks, Ping-pong

balls, odds and ends. Circle #101.

 

o A new aluminum-and-steel striping machine, weighing
only forty pounds, paints straight lines, circles, and curves
for gym floors, tennis courts, grass turf, or wherever
paint striping is needed. Lines are painted in a one-
man operation, with a wool-felt applicator roller that comes
in 1”, 2", 213”, 3” and 4” widths. There are no nozzles or
valves to bccome clogged, and paint is under control of op-
erator. Machine has 3” rear swivel casters and 8” rigid
wheels, facilitating movement in large areas; can be dis-
mantled quickly for cleaning and storage. Circle #102.

0 Nothing is a better antilitter salesman than a clean, un-
cluttered waste disposal container. National Receptacle has
developed a cast-aluminum unit with a baked enamel finish
that is rustproof and fire resistant. lts one-piece construc-
tion has no bolts, rivets, or parts to loosen or break. A fire-

336

MARKET NEWS

  

resistant canvas bag liner, with five-bushel capacity, is eas-
ily reached through the flip top, and the interior of the
receptacle is ventilated. A cast-aluminum sign frame at-

taching to outside of container to display ads is one of avail-
able extras. Circle #103.

0 An official-size table-tennis table, that folds and locks into
position in seconds and opens in one easy motion, has been
developed by Brinktun. The iii", plybend top with a plasti-
cized, hinged 5’-by-9' surface, folds inward to 41/2'-by-5'.
protecting it when closed. Frame is constructed of 11/2”-
by-l” heavy angle iron, and four roller-bearing 3” casters
support the 1” heavy-duty tubular understructure. The net
remains in playing position at all times. Circle #104.

0 The ball storage problem has been solved by National
Sports Company’s new, space-saving ball carrier for basket.
volley, or soccer balls. Also good for multipleiuse buildings
where equipment has to be carted about, the carrier holds
up to eight balls. It is made of chrome tubular steel. has
four swivel wheels. Circle #105.

o A portable two-way radio unit, smallcr than a quart milk
carton, equipped with a collapsible antenna, and weighing
less than two pounds, can be used for boat-to-shore com-
munications, camping, and other outdoor activities. It has
a simple one-hand Operation and a range of from a half
mile to several miles. An exclusive “squelch” device keeps
thc instrument silent until signals are given. It requires no
FCC license, utilizes crystals meeting government specifica-
tions, and is powered by a choice of four battery types with
an operating life range of 50 to 300 hours. The case has
withstood 500-hour salt-spray tests and can support one half
ton without damage. A leather carrying case can be pur-
chased separately. Circle #106.

0 Portable folding stages with
wheels have a tendency to get
away from you, as anybody who
has ever worked with them well
knows. To offset this problem. the
Detroit Stamping Company has
devised a toggle-clamp-aclualcd
floor stop that will lock the stage
in any desired location. The De-
Sta-Co Model 605 clamp bases are
welded to U-shaped brackets,
which, in turn, are bolted to the corner legs of the stage.
The ends of the clamp spindles are fitted with nonmarking
Neoprene caps which touch the floor when in the locked
position. The st0p operates by depressing a handle on the
clamp. This lifts the corner-leg caster one-eighth of an inch
above the floor surface, securely locking the stage in place.
The clamps have been tcsted for loads up to 180 pounds
per square foot. Circle #107.

 

CORRECTION: The Berlin Mechanized Gym Dividing Cur-
tain described in September is ten feet high.

Recap: \TION

i _
WIIMHWWWW

IDEX or ADVERTISERS

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   

 

Page

HPE8R -._- ....-.,H_..._..._.-___._.-..-_.__..- 396
erican locker ...-. __...--___..---__-..__--. 347
erican Playground Device .-.-_._.-...._. 392
erican Trampoline _.____---.__‘_... Back Cover
icago Roller Skate -.__.--_._._.._...._...._..__... 35 I
veland Craft ............. _-_ 352
' om Industries _________ ___ Inside Front Cover
vid McKay _.__._ _________ _H__ 395
blem 8. Badge  ._____  352
H. Noble .. ___________  ..... .....-_. 392
IBtE -...--__.____._.__-_____._____-_______ _,._ 385
Medal Products  .............. .. 393
mnastic Supply __._-.t---...-h---..-___...__.-_ 384
ndweaver 8. Craftsman -_._.___-___...__- 390
Ierich 8. Bradst __..._____.__________.._r.__ 348
merman 8. Sons ____.._._...._..___--___-___... 385
es Spencer --_.-_.___,._.____ .. 350
E. Burke -.___._.____.r__________-_.___-_....__- 350
roe Company _._____._.__.._,-____...L__.____ 390
tional Studios __-_.__.-._____.....____,_ _______ .- 390
rk Maintenance __.__-._____.__.___._--.___..._-.._ 389
tter's Wheel  384
creation Equipment ____-__..._.____.-__-r_._- 352
ool Activities ______________________ ____. 391
are Dance Associates . ..._._.-__.._-._.... 384
rior Industries ........... _. Inside Back Cover
F. Twardzik   ._..._____r__--._ 389
ited Fund ..___._--_.__.__.  - 345
t   ,-._- 393
gel Peterson _ ____  .......... ... \ _____ .. 352

MIMIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIlIllIIlllHlIIlIIlHIlIlllllllIIlllllllllHIlllnlllllllllIIMIIHI

CTOBER 1960

@

FREE AIDS

TRADE MART®

 

The following Free Aids briefly describe free materials—catalogs,
brochures, hlms, booklets, services available, samples, and so on—that
will help you in your recreation work. Circle on the coupon the key
number corresponding to the same number above an ad or beneath any
keyed item about which you’d like more information.

Fill in the coupon, cut out, insert in envelope, and mail to us. W e’ll
take care of the rest. There is absolutely no obligation whatsoever to you.

ARTS AND (RAHS

HOW ABOUT CLOVEMAKING as a Christmas
project for your craft groups? Tandy Leatber
Company’s 96-page catalog lists and describes
materials needed in all phases of leathercraft,
including instruction books. Glovemaking for
Beginners, fully described in catalog, gives all
necessary information and how-to, plus full-
size patterns for men’s and women’s gloves.
Get the leather story by circling #111.

CLEAR PLANS AND macaxms of eight wood-
working projects available in brocbure from
manufacturer of Nevamar, high-pressure plas-
tic laminate. Projects include coffee table
with planter, end table, student desk, home
table, and so on. Easy to make for anyone
with basic woodworking skills. Full direc-
tions given for bonding plastic tOp to wood
surfaces. For free copy circle #112.

COMPLETE BOOK on chenille-craft projects, de-
scribes items that can be made with pipe
cleaners and chenille. Over 350 projects de-
scribed and illustrated with easy, step-by-step
directions. A natural for quiet activities. Just
one of thousands of crafts items in compre-
hensive, 148-page catalog listing every kind
of craft material, equipment, and activity
imaginable: leatherwork, mosaics, jewelry,
ceramics (including kilns), candlemaking,
woodwork, and so on. For further informa-

tion, circle #113.

HARD PUT FOR IDEAS in your arts and crafts
program? Free booklet describes poster

100 101 102 103 104 105 103 107
117 113 113 120 121 122 123 124
134 135 130 137 133 139 140 141
151 152 153 154 155 155 157 150
133 159 170 171 172 173 174 175
135 183 157 155 133 190 131 192

Name
Organization

Address

-———-—--—---_-_-__-m

 

paints, which can be used on almost any sur-
face—paper, cardboard, wood, cork, plastic,
glass, clay, and so on. Booklet tells and
sbows: “How to Mix and Use Dry Poster
Color,” “Poster Paint for Murals and Die-
plays,” “Making Posters,” “Spatter and Spray
Makcs Pictures Gay,” and “How to Take Care
of Brushes.” Circle #114.

SOAP CARVING complctely described and illus-
trated in free 23-page booklet. Details given
on necessary tools, preparing the soap, from
idea to soap, choosing a design, blocking out
the design, carving details, and polishing.
Ideal inexpensive recreation activity for pro-

grams in nursing homes, homes for the aged,
hospitals, and for children. Circle #115.

HOW TO MAKE inexpensive Christmas decora-
tions for doors, halls, gifts, mirrors, and so
on. Booklet gives designs for Christmas
wreath, Star of Bethlebem, white-bearded
Santa Claus, colorful striped candy canes,
candles, and countless others. Follow tbese
or design your own witb an eHective self-
sticking tape. Only tool required is pair of

scissors. Circle #116.

HOW TO MAKE Christmas and other holiday
candles is described in booklet published by
well-known paratiin manufacturer. Plan now
to make your holidays bright with candles
trimmed witb sequins, colored bcads. Other
budget-wise items are Santa Claus, star, holly
berry, and tree. Circle #117.

H

Clip  mail today. to

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. BB. 8 W. 8th St.. New York 11
Please send me more information on circled products.

 

100 100 110 111 112 113 114 115 110
125 128 127 120 129 130 131 132 133
142 143 144 145 145 147 140 14! 150
153 150 131 102 133 104 185 135 157
175 177 173 170 130 131 152 103 104
103 194 135 195 137 103 153 200

W

Title

W

Zone State

City

 

13-8

387

Fon PUPPETS AND MARIONETTES, send for pub-
lication describing various types and ways of
making these small actors. Circle #118.

AUDIO VISUAl

TO HELP YOU speak up loud and clear, the
manufacturers of the tran sistorized Voice Gun
offer a descriptive brochure. Provides com-
plete data and specifications on power mega-
phone, including a cutaway diagram of 3%,-
lh. Voice Gun. Brochure also lists various
uses in recreation, camps, playgrounds, safety
instruction, and so on, as shown in photo-

graphs and drawings. Circle #119.

FREE 12-PACE CAMERA PAMPilLET offered by
Kodak, especially compiled for youth group
leaders and others in charge of any kind of_
camera elub. Provides a thorough outline of
seven-unit course in box-camera photography:
what it can do, loading and handling, analysis
of picture-taking errors, use of flash, prop-
er film selection, close-ups, better pictures
through printing and cropping techniques,
and so on. Reference material for both stu-
dent and teacher and useful publications, as

well as materials needed, are also listed.
Circle #120.

FOR YOUR CAMERA BUGS, a famous Optical com-
pany has prepared the following useful book-
lets: Photography, Bubbles in Lenses, Color
Correction, Depth of Focus: Depth of Field,
Lens Coating, Photographic Optics, and Pho-
tographic Resolution. Circle #121.

EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE

FREE SEIuES or DIAGRAMS, showing choice of
riser setups for large group musical produc-
tions, available on request. If you have spe-
cial problems created by size and shape of
your space and size of performing group, a
music equipment company offers advice of its
engineers at no charge. For catalog of com-
plete line of equipment and information on
company’s customer services, circle #122.

FIND OUT what vending machines can do for
your recreation setup. Frec copies of Census
of Vending give you up-to-date figures of
growth of automatic selling, complete with
graphs showing number of machines on loca-
tion, averagc weckly sales per machine, and
total annual vended sales. Circle #123.

SNACK CONCESSIONS are money makers and
time savers in recreation and park areas—
inside or out. Manufacturer of popcorn-pOp-
ping, cotton-candy, and ice-cream machines
is marketing two new counter-model popcorn
machines: one, 14-02. capacity; the other, 8-
02. Free 120-page catalog and other literature
describes these and others. Circle #124.

HANDY REFERENCE GUIDE offers complete field
and court dimensions and illustrated diagrams
for baseball, softball, basketball, tennis, and
volleyball. Also suggests and illustrates Stan
Gard (chain-link fencing) prepackaged units
available directly from manufacturer, for each
type of recreation area. For your copy, circle

#125.

SEND SKETCH showing size of plot, location of
obstructions, and amount of money available
for your recreation facility, new, planned, or
to be redone. A recreation equipment corpo-
ration's engineering sales and engineering de-
partments will provide recommended layouts
of equipment without cost or obligation. For
catalogs describing this company’s complete
line of play equipment for playgrounds, swim-
ming pools, parks, and benches, as well as of

basketball equipment, and other information,
circle #126.

PROTECTION AND GOOD DEStCN are rolled into
one in the Cornell rolling metal grilles.
Grilles, operated manually or by motor, can
be bad in stainless or galvanized steel, bronze,
and in silvery satin or color anodized alumi-
num. Out of sight rolled up; rolled down
provide steel-door protection without obstruct-
ing light, air, or vision. For free descriptive
catalog, circle #127. .

INvESTICATE rttE new colored plastic coating
which protects and improvcs appearances of
asphalt pavcments used in recreation and
park areas. Vynatex 23 comes in grass green,
concrete gray, brick red. Manufacturer Oflers
“color reaction” chart, to demonstrate how
different colors create feelings of tranquility,
warmth, coolness, and so on. Also ineludetl in

literature are light rcflection and absorption
charts. Circle #128.

FREE, EIGHT-PAGE COLon CATALOG describes
complete line of padlocks so necessary in any
recreation program, anywhere, where valu-
ables or clothing mnst be stored. These lam-

KNOW and USE
ALL

National Recreation Association services

RECREATION Magazine is only one of many services the National Recreation Associa-
tion offers its service affiliates and associates. For more than fifty years. professional
specialists on the NRA staff have served the recreation field through the Association's
many departments, with on-the-spot advice, through correspondence and consultation.
with program information. at annual district conferences. and at National Recreation

Congresses.

The NRA is your service agency. Know it and use it. For complete information, write
Executive Director, National Recreation Association, 8 West Eighth Street. New York 11.

388

 

inated, hard-wrought steel or brass padlo
are built just like a bank vault door, thus gi
greater strength,.dependability. security.”
cle #129. _ I ' I

SPORTS All) SAKS

BOOKLETS, FILMS, MACAszs, KITS, and so I
give directions for using a trampoline. i’i _
has free instructional wall charts for teachi
or for diSplay purposes, showing basic and
vanced techniques for using. A must for ev
beginner's class are twelve easy-to-follow- I
understand lesson plans. Also, two 15-min
films, either in color or black and white,
available on a free loan basis. For cata
and other material, circle #130.

BE ON TARGET IN ’60 with your copy of 32-p
archery catalog, giving valuable informnt'
about material available and listing books .

sound-color rental films for group showin
Circle #131.

FREE ENGRAVINC on majority of this a:
pany's complete line of trophies, descri
and illustrated in 35-page catalog. llave
handy when award-giving time comes a . .
Company manufactures trOphies and pleq
for every imaginable occasion, in (Her
metals, bases, and designs. Circle #132.

PLAN voun [CE-SKATING program now. B
let contains everything from tips to beginn
to advanced figure skating. Describes
techniques; gives ice-hockey rules; rink
grams, ice-dance charts; and other useful
formation. Circle #133.

FREE Intromuraf Handbook is primarily
signed for use in organization sports .
grams, and made available by Rawlings.
tains six pages of field and court diagrams
all major sports; two pages of suggestions
running a basketball tournament: he]:
hints on arranging schedules; four pages
sources of oEicial games and spot-ts rul

plus other useful information. For your c
circle #134.

NEED IDEAS for indoor winter games?
for free canasta booklets One contains
for Samba, Chile, Bolivia, Uruguay, .
cana, Tampa, Quinella, Pennies from Hea
Cutthroat, and Hollywood Canasta; the ot
How to Run Canasro Tournaments, gives .-
eral information, plus specific directions
Progressive, Knockout, and Mitchell tou
ments. For your eopies circle #135. .

IN ADDITION TO CATALoc describing Dis
Magic Scorebrain, new and different b . .
scoring method, manufacturer will «,
literature giving all costs, how to sell . '
sors, listing specifications, and even d-es
ing financing available to reliable orga
tions. Circle #136.

DETAILED TENNIS AND COLv INsrnucrION l .
books and development manuals avail
from Jayeees to any organization inte -

in either program. Contain cnormous awe
of useful information. (Copies limited.l i

cle #137.

BIKE BOOK, now in its tenth edition. cont
rules for safe bike riding, suggestions
games, races, tours, bike hikes Also gi
information on forming a hike club and

to receive a free sweatcr emblem. Ci

#138.

RscnsAr

"tr" ‘

 

HE Essex COUNTY Park Commis-
sion, in its excellent and attractive
' 959 Annual Report, gives special at-
ention to thc importance of upkeep.
he report says “Increased use of parks
y the public quite naturally means
101‘6 maintenance. . . . Care of the park
ystem has become increasingly diffi-
ult during the last few years for two
‘easons: a shortage of funds and a
hange in the concept of park use from
hat of extensive landscaping to the con-
truction of specialized recreation facil-
ties. Statistics for the year 1959 indi-
'-te a continuation of the pattern of
ncreasing play on such specialized fa-
'lities as ball diamonds, picnic areas,
me fields, bocce courts, basketball
ourts, and archery fields. Of course,
more] participants mean not only
-dded maintenance of facilities but also
1 buildings that serve the areas. . . .”
This growing interest in reducing
)ark and recreation area maintenance
' osts is indicated by reports from two
ocalities. The July 1960 American City
ecords how Jacksonville, Florida, low-
red park mowing costs by two-thirds
)y using small, fast, maneuverable trac-
or units. According to George G. Rob-
nson, executive secretary of the city’s
'ecreation department, one tractor with
: mower can replace three power mow-
rs and three operators. The single
ractor not only costs less than the mow-
rs, but requires less gasoline, and does
ot need a truck to haul it.
The June 1960 Public Management
I ecords economies achieved in Glen-
lale, California, where improvements
eveloped by the parks and recreation
livision will save the city over $90,000
I year. enhance employees’ safety, and
)rovide better public service. These

mprovements include mechanization

R. TODD is assistant executive director
)f the National Recreation Association,
ad was formerly the Association’s
-" idwest district representative.

.3CTOBER 1960

I CONCERNING K E E P

Art Todd

of lawn sweeping; use of power
lawn edgers; installation of automatic
sprinkler controllers to eliminate hand
watering; and equipping maintenance
trucks with complete tool and supply
boxes to reduce the number of return
trips to maintenance yards. The de-
partment adapted a skip loader to op-
erate like a fork lift for moving heavy
picnic benches and tables and installed
a hydraulic lift gate on trucks for haul-
ing refuse collected in parks—all im-
provements for employees’ safety.

Another annual report, this one from
the park division of Evanston, Illinois,
commends the work its maintenance
staff performed beyond the regular call
of duty. When a severe windstorm
struck the city on a Saturday night, a
call was made to all workers. The ten
men who were located at home respond-
ed promptly and worked into the late
night hours. Sunday, all park person-
nel reported for duty. According to the
report, “These men continued to work
daily into the late hours for several
weeks in order to bring Evanston back
to normal.”

I wonder if we overlook giving our
maintenance workers a pat on the back
once in a while. After the big celebra-
tion is over and the crowds and the
bands and the speakers have gone
home, who goes to work to clean up
the mess? Who put the place in shape
before the activities started? When
praises are passed out to those respon-
sible for the success of the event, are

the maintenance workers mentioned?

Probably not.

il- il- k

Have you something for this column:
a money-saving maintenance idea, a
simpler, better way of doing something,
a problem you want help on? If some-
one on your maintenance staff has come
up with a good idea, give him recogni-
tion and share it with others by sending
it to “Concerning Upkeep.” #

 

 

Circle # I79 on coupon

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recording inventory costs,
handing out balls and paying top prices for low

quality balls. Install this attractive, cost-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWl

Leased FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V2 x 8V2 x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality bolls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free falder: "Stop Wasting Their Time."

T. f. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

“(ORPORITED

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

EXTRA HELP

FOR PERPLEXED PEOPLE

At fingertips, the advice and counsel of
the eXperts in allied fields. High priced
for only pennies.

Park Maintenance

should be a “member” of
every progressive staff

* GOLF COURSE
at: CAMPUS

* PARK
* PLAYGROUND
*RINK on P001.

Readers look to PM for latest news of
developments and personalities. All
readers are "keepers." too. of those

information-packed back issues.
only $3.50 a year,- $8.75

P 0 Me
for 3 years and in groups

of five or more, $2.50 a year for one
person.

PARK MAINTENANCE

DEPARTMENT R
P.O. BOX 409 — APPLETON, WIS.

RECREATION readers ~—
Get Park Maintenance for

389

Circle #l73 on coupon

eep ’em SINGING

with these all-time favorite

SONG SLIDES

wonderful hours of fun for
young and old alike

2” x 2” slides ..,.,--.-.. 50¢/s|ide

3%” x 4” s1ides LOO/slide
wms ron caroroous 5

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 49th Street
' New York 36, N. Y.

.JUdson 2-1926" 

Circle #l72 on cOUpon

mscoums WWW-KING

N0. K-J Tilt!
181?th MASON!“
MSTICIHI TOP

FOLDING TABLE LINE

Kitchen committees. social groups. atten-
tion! Factory priCes a discounts up to 40%
to Uiurches. Schools. Clubs. etc. Monroe
all-new FOLD-KING Banquet Tables.
with exclusive new automatic folding and

locking. super strength. easy seating. 63 models and sizes.

BIG NEW 1961 CATALOG FREE

Color pictures. Full line tables. chairs, table and chair trucks. plat-
form-risers. portable partitions, bulletin boards. Our 53rd year.

THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St., Colfax, Iowa

isi‘ér

Fun-Ki e

DIRECT PRICES
DISCOUNTS I. TERMS

You will find stimulating
ideas for weavers of all

ages in every issue of

Handweaver

8- Craftsman

Published since 1950,
a complete file
will give you
a valuable

weaving library

Write for brochure and

prices of back issues

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

1 yr. $4 2 yrs. $7.50
3 yrs. $10 5 yrs. $15

Pan-American and foreign rates
$1 a year extra

Please send checks or money orders to

H and weaver €99 Craftsman
246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK 1

390

   

 

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

THE WEEK OF August 28 to Septem-
ber 2 was an exciting one, indeed.
The International Society for the We]-
fare of Cripples held its Eighth World
Congress at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel
in New York City, with over four thou-
sand delegates attending from sixty-one
countries—the first time this interna-
tional meeting has been held in the
Western Hemisphere. This year also
marked the changing of the society’s
name to The International Society for
the Rehabilitation of the Disabled, thus
showing a significant shift in thinking.
The congress opened on a great high
note of enthusiasm when Mrs. Mary
Switzer, director of the Office of Voca-
tional Rehabilitation, US. Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare, an-
nounced that the United States had just
granted $930,000 to be used for re-
search in rehabilitation in foreign
countries in 1961. The subjects of the
congress panels were carefully picked
to avoid repetition, and panel members
in each session came from different
parts of the world. Tours to the vari-
ous medical centers and hospitals were
beautifully coordinated. Many charm-
ing volunteer hostesses saw that every-
one made friends with everyone else,
and a hospitality center was open day
and evening where delegates could have
cold drinks and coffee on the house.
One of the most interesting work-
sheps was “The Viewpoint of the Dis-
abled on Their Own Problems.” Natur-
ally, the discussion revolved around the
negative attitudes of communities to-
ward the handicapped, in all their
aspects. The disabled participants
claimed the activities in which they feel
most uncomfortable are the social ones.
Workshop leader Karl Montan, secre-
tary of the Swedish Central Committee
for the Care of Cripples, and the entire
workshop group drafted a resolution
asking that all countries devote atten-
tion to educating school children to the
fact that handicapped people are not
different, frightening persons, to be
shunned upon being met. The resolu-
tion calls for integration of the handi-
capped in schools wherever possible,
and also states that there are some in-
dividuals too severely handicapped to
be happy whether at school or at play
unless assigned to a specialized class or

center.

 

MRS. HILL is director, National Recrea-
tion Association. Consulting Service on
Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped.

Beatrice H. Hill

“Seven Steps to Living,” presented
by The American Theatre Tiling. was a
very dramatic demonstration for pre-
paring children and youth for working
and living. It showed exactly how dif-
ferent types of handicapped children
can be successfully educated both in the
hospital and at home. Not very much
is done on an international basis in edu-
cating the handicapped child, and real
patients were used to show delegates
very forcefully that, if the will is there,
a child is never too handicapped to re-
ceive some education.

The New York Times and the Con-

gress newspaper both claimed that
Comeback, the presentation planned
and put on by the National Recreation
Association Consulting Service on Rec-
reation for the III and Handicapped on
the role of recreation in rehabilitation,
was the highlight of the entire congress.

The ballroom of the \Valdorf was
packed with over two thousand dele-

gates who witnesscd a trio of profes-
sional actors and sixty disabled patients
from Bellevue and Goldwater Memorial
Hospitals acting out the theme with
dance, music, and sports. The program
opened with piano solos by Ray Leiser,
a composer with arms amputated above
the elbow, illustrating what accomplish-

ment in the arts and creative activities
can mean in broadening and enriching
the lives of the handicapped.

His performance was followed by
NRA’s dramatic production, utilizing
a “living-newspaper” technique. which
combined live performance with color
slides flashed on a screen. This showed
a doctor of the eighteen seventies,
whose ghost revisits his hospital and
there encounters a director of recrea-
tion and a young polio patient who re-
fuses to talk after losing all interest in
life. What then occurred before his
eyes not only astonished the old-time
doctor but also deeply moved the audi-
ence. Most of the handicapped per-
formers wcre in wheelchairs, but they
played volleyball with a balloon and
“swung their partners” in a gay square
dance. Retarded children played in a
rhythm band, artists painted without
use of their arms. The Goldwater Me-
morial Hospital Glee Club closed the
program with a group of international
songs. Afterwards, hundreds of doc-
tors literally swampcd the Consulting
Service staff with questions pertaining
to recreation therapy. #-

RECREATION

i

Research: a primary need
Continued from Page 375

 

needs arise. Similarly, the University of Illinois has estab-
lished a consultative service. It seems feasible that such
services should be available within each state either from a
major state university or from a government agency. In
Michigan, for example, the executive secretary of the Inter-
Agency Council for Recreation serves many communities
as a consultant during the course of the year. In this con-
nection he works very closely with the district representative
of the National Recreation Association.

The Need for More Research. What is needed of course,
is more research and coordination of research efforts. At
the present time it does not appear that any university is
ready to hire a person who could devote the large share of
his time to research in recreation. Private foundations are
certainly worth considering as sources of financial aid for
future research projects as the public becomes increasingly
aware of the values recreation holds.

Research in recreation is not keeping pace with develop-
ments in the rest of the field. Such a trend is indeed alarm-
ing. The future of our society will depend increasingly
upon the provision of sound recreation for our citizens of
all ages. Historical research, philosophical research, survey
research, and experimental research can point the way.

This gap must be filled! if:

State and Local Developments
Continued from Page 377

 

Funds for both the lodge and ski lifts comcs out of revenues

from gasoline and oil leases royalties on state-owned forest
and park lands.

TENNESSEE. The new West Park Community Center in
Nashville is the first of six to be completed with funds ob-
tained from a $1,625,000 bond issue. The one-level build-
ing cost $92,000 and has a combination lobby and game
room, clubroom, kitchen, and special arts-and-crafts equip-
ment. The gymnasium features prestressed wooden beam
construction and the new structure has ten thousand square
feet of floor space.

0 The Rutherford County Quarterly Court has appropri-
ated $20,000 to help develop a city-county park in M urfrees-
boro.

0 The new pool in a Elizabethtown city playground will
be 110'-by-4r2’ and cost somewhat over $46,000.

0 An extensive improvement program for Pillow Park in
Columbia will include lighting the area, reworking and
draining the baseball field, and building a press box.

0 The Signal Mountain Parks Commission will coordinate
the beautification project initiated by various clubs this
year which include planting one thousand new trees and
clearing park areas. if:

"Every Issue is Full of Bond Ideas”

Gerald M. Van Pool, a leading figure on the national education scene, urges state Student

Council secretaries to subscribe to SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Magazine because “every issue
is full of. good ideas to help us improve student councils.”—GERALD M. VAN POOL, Director

of Student Activities National Education Association.

Every student leader and faculty sponsor of an activity in your school will appreciate the down-to-earth

ideas and suggestions in SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Magazine. In your school library, it will help you

month after month in planning successful programs for assemblies, plays, clubs, athletics, debate, music,

student publications, and student government.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES is the only national magazine in the extracurricular field. Readers look to it

for expert leadership and rely on it to help them solve their problems in any student activity program.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING CO.
1041 NEW HAMPSHIRE
LAWRENCE, KANSAS

Please enter my subscription to SCIIOOL ACTIVITIES for

years.

 

OCTOBER 1960

SUBSCRIBE NOW!

One Year $4.00
Two Years $7.00

Clip and mail

the order form to:

3'31

Circle #IST an coupon

FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION
AND PERFORMANCE . . . FAR GREATER
STRENGTH . . . UNEQUALLED SAFETY. . .

       

P I. AY G R O U N D
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

Since 19” the finest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and constructiOn

. specified by leading recreational
authorities for almost half a century.

'Send for New Catalog

   

Write for Folder
On AMERICAN’S
JIM PATTERSON

 
   
   
   
 

AMERICN

 
   
 

LIFETIME
Aluminum
D I V I N G PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
B O A I D ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.

 
   
 

WORLD'S “"557  ‘ won-rs enesesr mourns-muses or our
OFFICIAL BOARD  _ wwr Motif. eta-fat INI. «mm:
' ’ POOL AND DKlCSlNu ”'."'IM “'3' I.- 

  

amp tons

For the Finest in Prize Awards
See Your Trophy Dealer or write

F. H. NOBLE & COMPANY
559 w. son. 5mm - CHICAGO

NEW SUBSCRIPTION RATES

New rules are as follows:

One year ..  ,. -_ ,  ..  85.00
Two years . 8.75
Canadian and foreign 5.75
Clnb’lg and library subscriptions «1.50
Single copies ._    .60

“Tea or more individuals subscribing at mw. time
Send subscriptions to: Subscription Department

RECREATION MAGAZINE
Eight W'th 8th Street. Vow York 11

 

392

National Cultural Center

Continued from Page 364

tion, as provided for in the act, such programs and presenta-
tions should not be developed for the residents of the Dis-
trict of Columbia alone. They should be developed for usc
all over the country, as well as for bringing groups from
various parts of the nation to the Center. It is believed that
such programs and presentations can best be developed
through conferences and workshops attended by those
groups interested in the particular types of programs and
presentations and that national and community recreation
agencies and organizations have an important part to play
in such conferences and workshops.

The 1956 Yearbook of the National Recreation Associa-
tion reported the following community recreation activities
in the fields of the performing arts:

Music—307 cities sponsored choral groups; 294-, instru-
mental groups; 33, opera groups; 123, orchestral groups.
Drama—Q45 cities sponsored children’s theaters; 259, festi-
vals; 188, little theaters; 241, pageants: 390. presented
plays other than little theater or children’s theater; 268,
puppet and marionette groups.

Dance—240 cities reported sponsoring ballet or modern
dance; 535, folk or square dance.

As reported in the June 1960 issue of RECREATION, by
Siebolt Frieswyk, the Association’s special consultant on
the performing arts. participation in the performing arts
as recreation has grown markedly in the past decade and
has made the performing arts an essential part of I'ecrca—
tion planning, organization, and program. A survey of the
Association’s service afliliatcs and associates reported on
in that article revealed community recreation programs of
the country included 165 different types of musical groups
ranging from skiflle bands to symphony orchestras; 39
drama types covering the field from drama stunts to drama
festivals; 35 dance types from ballroom to ballet; 15 opera
and 6 poetry types.

The survey also revealed that support of the performing
arts on the part of community recreation agencies was both
financial and in the form of leadership and administrative
office help. Assistance was available through the use of fa-
cilities, supplies, and equipment. A sharing of responsi-
bility was standard procedure in respect to advanced organ-
izations such as adult orchcstras, bands. community thea-
ters, and the like. The potential for the expansion of com-
munity recreation programs in the fields of the performing
arts is almost hcyond belief.

THE CREATIVE FULFILLMENT to which Mr. Rockefeller

referred requircs wide-scale amateur appreciation of
and participation in all the arts. Amateur apprceiation of
and participation in the arts arc forms of recreation that
are both stimulating and satisfying. The National Cultural
Center can do a great deal to inspire, counsel. and hclp make
possible this crcativc fulfillment for all Americans through
the development of its prcsentations and programs ill the
performing arts dcsigncd spccilically for thcir participation,
education, and recreation. ii:

Part III, concluding this series, will appear next month.

RECREATION

Circlo #lbb on coupon
Volunteers

Continued from Page 381 i E VERY RECREATION PROGRAM NEEDS THESE: I

vious experience in the agency, or who
enjoys certain kinds of activities. This
might be a step in the right direction .
but it is only a step. That is, if a list of '
potential volunteers is narrowed down
to those who fall into the above cate-
gories, we may stand a better chance of

 

securing their services.

But securing a list of most likely
prospects does not help too much
unless they perceive they will achieve
some need satisfaction through offering
their time and energy. People are not

   

motivated in a vacuum. Nor do we mo-
tivate others. What we can do is try to

   
 
 

Pop A lot

Popcorn - I- I Sno-Konolte
Machine A D is l h
$199.00 ' D ‘7‘, ‘ co 5 over

$5,000 ANIQDAL PROFIT! 

Don‘t hondicop your progrom for lo'ck of funds. Refresh-
ment Profits give you 10% more funds. Write for free 32-
poge booklet which tells how eosily your department can

eorn them. Free l20—poge cotolog ond descriptive literature
is also yours for the asking. Write todoy.

GOLD MEDAL mus C0.

cmclnign 2, onto ____'

    

 

    
 

present them with the possible satisfac-

 
 

tions they can obtain by volunteering r
for a specific job and then hope these
satisfactions will take precedence over
others in their hierarchy of needs.

The five most important satisfactions
gained by board members, in the order I

of their importance, were a feeling of . %

being of service, fellowship, a sense of

upholding one’s civic duty, being part  
of a developing institution, and having  30" 5 ml" “Rm
onc’s belief in the agency’s purpose re- “a 
inforced.

Asfarasthegroupleaderswerecon-  

cerned, the most important satisfactions

      
 
      
  

 

 

J...  __.__ “my...
“mug-“Lumn—n‘u—MIW —u-—-—- --—....--— WW a...“ _—-..——-.._..-—-.———..._._-

 

 

 

f 1. f - f . h . RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each DEADLINES: COpy must be received by
were 3 33 mg 0 hemg 0 Sermcee em? Words in boldface type $.25 each the fifth of the month preceding date 01

able [0 work with and see individuals Minimum ad accepted $3.00 the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish

and "rou s develo Getting ridc in
D p p, D C p replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

one’s accomplishment, learning to work , ,
Send copy with remrttnnr‘e to:

wlth Others’ and gettmg a feelmg 0f RECREATION Wrtising, 8 West Eighth Street. New York 11, New ank.

helping others as they themselves once ———————
w re hel ed HELP WANTED equipment and facilities Starting salary .5415.00 per
6 p ' Therapists for California available. Positions open to month; promotional oppor-

Thus: we Were able to illfel' that, for State Hospitals. Opportu- college graduates with ma- tunities; liberal employ-

nity to plan and conduct for m recreation or recrea- ment benefits. Write State
the merit part” those faCtorS that made individual patient recrea- tion therapy, which includ- Personnel Board, 301 Capi-

Volunteering meaningful and worth- tion as well as special ed supervised field work. tol Avenue, Sacramento.
group activities; modern No experience required. California.

i ' orr r f a different . _ .
“hlle for one D oup we 6 0 The pubiisher assumes no responsibility for services or Items advertised here.

nature than those for the other. The
hoard members related their satisfac-
tions to a broad community or agency

point of view. The group leaders, on AMER'CA'S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS
FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,

the other hand, seemed to have their
needs satisfied because they were ac-

tively-engaged in interactlon and act1v1- “‘51
t1es w1th people. ""

People become motivated as they see * S  E G A M E

themselves participating on a level that
will be gratifying to them—and the

sooner the possibility of such gratifica- NEW max 1'
tion the better. This is not selfishness: nutmeg 1]

it is a human characteristic. # [as ANGQES 11
Circle #I8l on coupon ——)‘

OCTOBER 1960 593

PRICE OR SKILL—

 

 

 

Fun With Shapes in Space, Tani
Hughes. E. P. Duttan, 300 Park Ave-
nue, South, New York 10. Pp. 225,
illustrated. $5.95.*

Readers may remember the glowing
review of this author’s previous book,
How To Make Shapes in Space (REC-
REATION, April 1957). Her new book
will be even more useful to recreation
arts-and-crafts leaders, for it specific-
ally applies the techniques of three-
dimensional construction to projects
such as masks, banners, posters, cards,
lanterns, costumes, and party decora-
tions. Her suggestions for booths and
gates for a bazaar, costumes and Boats
for a parade, decorating a gym for a
dance, or making Christmas trees and
decorations for and with hospital pa-
tients will solve many problems.

This beautiful book is a worthy suc-
cessor to the previous one; together
they make a fine set. It is good to find
an artist and craftsman who looks at
her work both in terms of utility and
creativity.

It's All in the Game, James J. Shea
(as told to Charles Mercer) . G. P. Put-

nam's Sons, 210 Madison Avenue, New
York 16. Pp. 285, illustrated. $4.00.

James J. Shea has been president of
the Milton Bradley Company in Spring-
field, Massachusetts, since 1941. For
several years he has spent a great deal
of time collecting and organizing old
diaries and early records of the life and
times of Milton Bradley, founder of the
company. A draftsman by trade, Brad-
ley learned lithography to expand his
employment opportunities, and with
New England inventiveness devised a
new board game called “The Checkered
Game of Life.” Putting several hun-
dred packets of the game in a suitcase.
he peddled them in New York—and
sold them all.

When the Civil War broke out, he
continued with any drafting work that
would help the Union cause, but de-
voted the rest of his time to preparing a
kit called “Games For the Soldiers,”
containing nine games all fitting into a
pocket-size lightweight kit. A pioneer
in developing educational games and
toys his career was closely bound up

I"Available from National Recreation Asso-
ciation Recreation Book Center, 8 W. 8th
Street, New York 11.

394

with the growth of recreation in the
United States. Along with the life of a
very interesting man, this book tells the
story of the growth of play in this coun-
try. Milton Bradley indirectly has af-
fected the life of every recreation leader
—and his games are still in demand.

Fun on Wheels, Dave Garroway.
McGraw-Hill Baak Company, 330
West 42nd Street, New York 16. Pp.
125, illustrated. $2.95.‘

TV star Dave Carroway may say he
has “no special skills as a leader of
children, a gamemaster, or a recreation
eXpert,” but his book belies him. It is
full of wit, humor, common sense, and
good ideas.

With the acknowledged help of Dr.
Richard Kraus, professor of physical
education and recreation at Teachers
College, Columbia University, and the
American Automobile Association (the
former for games ideas, the latter for
child safety), he has written a book
that parents and anyone in charge of
children while traveling will enjoy and
use. He has included games, puzzles,
quizzes, and simple crafts, all pretested
on automobile trips with his wife and
three children. Better still, he has
proved that traveling with childien

CAN be fun!

The Professianal Hauseparent, Eva

Burmeister. Columbia University Press,
2960 Broadway, New York 27. Pp.
244. $4.00.

This book is bound to be of major
interest to anyone in the field of recrea-
tion. Two excellent chapters, particu-
larly pertinent for recreation workers
are “The Importance of Play” and
“Play Equipment.” The author not only
is an international authority on child-
ren’s institutions but also has directpd
a children’s center in the Midwest and
is currently institutional consultant for
the Federation of Protestant ‘Vellarc
Agencies _in New York City. Two pre-
vious books by her are Forty-Five in
the Family and Roofs for the Farrzily.

Miss Burmeister reminds the reader
that children in institutions usually
have had more negative than positive
experiences in life; therefore, they need
positive hours of fun and satisfaction.
The area of play can he one of the most
constructive of cottage-parent’s duties.
Equally important is that each child

be permitted to select the toys or games
which appeal to him. and to proceed at
his own pace.

The therapeutic values of play in-
clude release of tension and hostility
and relief from anxiety. A child, while
playing, can act out some of his past
experiences. If toys and play equip-
ment have been carefully chosen, the
child has an immediate feeling of suc-
cess, with a wholesome increase in self-
confidence. Miss Burmeister empha-
sizes that the average child in an insti-
tution needs more suggestion, support,
and direction in program, leadership,
and equipment to help him develop
skills and creative initiative on his own.
——Carol Lucas, recreation consultant,
Division on Aging, F ederation of Prot-
estant Welfare Agencies, New York
City.

The Driftwood Baok, Mary E. Thomp-
son with photagraphs by leonid Skvir-

sky. D. Van Nostrand Company,
Princeton, New Jersey. Pp. 200.
$5.95.

Here is the ne plus ultra of drift-
wood. It is practical because of its
chapters on where to find driftwood (or
ghostwood in desert areas), how to pre-
pare it for cleaning and polishing, how
to mount it. It is creative because of its
chapters on how to use it as an art ob-
ject and as an aid in developing uuus-
ual and beautiful Howcr arrangements.
Whether you are at the seacoast, near
a lake, in the mountains, on the desert.
driftwood can he found. Its discovery
and creative use for self-expression will
make a fascinating hobby, or an inter-

estiug art or craft project for a club or
class.——V.M.

Rope Roundup, Bill Severn. David
McKay, 119 West 40th Street, New
York 18. Pp. 237. $2.95.

After the invention of the wheel.
someone realized he could put a rope
around it, thus invented a pulley; and
civilization took a giant step forward.
The author devotes sixty pages to the
history and romance of rope and rope
making; the remainder tells how to
choose and use rope, how to knot and
tie, how to do tricky knots and puzzles.
There's also a ehaptcr on rope crafts
and games and one on magic tricks
with rope. Altogether, au extraordi-
nary and interesting book.

RECREATION

\

Books & Pamphlets
Received

Audio-Visual

AUDIO-VISUAL MATERIALS AND TECHNIQUES
(2nd ed.), James S. Kinder. American
Book Co., 55 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp.
592. $7.00.

EXHIBITION AND DISPLAY, James Gardner and
Caroline Heller. F. W. Dodge, 119 W. 40th
St., New York 18. Pp. 192. $13.75.

GUIDE TO STEREO SOUND, A, David Tardy.
POpular Mechanics Press, 200 E. Ontario
St., Chicago 11. Pp. 192. $4.95.

HOW TO GET TIIE MOST OUT OF TAPE RECORD-

ING (stereo ed.) , Lee Sheridan. Robins In-
dustries, 3627 Prince St., Flushing 54,

N. Y. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.00.

RADIO AMATEUR’S HANDBOOK, THE, 1960.
American Radio Relay League, 38 La Salle
Rd., West Hartford 7, Conn. Pp. 580.
$3.50.

 

Fairy and Folk Tales

 

CELTIC FAIRY TALES, Joseph Jacobs. Roy Pub-
lishers, 30 E. 74th St., New York 21. Pp.
183. $3.00.

FAIRY TALES OF GERMANY, IRELAND, RUSSIA,
all retold by Barbara Ker Wilson; FAIRY
TALES OF CHINA, Peter Lum. E. P. Dutton,
300 Park Ave. S., New York 10. All un-
paged. $1.00 each.

FAIRY TALES OF INDIA, retold by Lucia Turn-
bull. Critcrion Books, 257 Park Ave. S.,
New York 10. Pp. 170. $3.50.

FOURTEEN WHAT-DO-YOU-KNOW STORIES,
Leila Berg. Roy Publishers, 30 E. 74th St.,
New York 21. Pp. 107. $2.75.

NEW GUINEA FOLK-TALES, Brenda Hughes.
Roy Publishers, 30 E. 74th St., New York

21. Pp. 80. $2.00.

SPANISH STORIES, Angel Flores, Editor. Ban-
tam Books, 25 W. 45th St., New York 36.
Pp. 339. $.75.

TALES FROM THE STORY HAT (African folk
tales), Verna Aarderna. Coward-McCann,
210 Madison Ave., New York 16. Pp. 72.

$3.50.

VINEGAR PIE AND OTIIER TALES OF THE GRAND
TRAVERSE REGION, Al Barnes. Wayne State
Univ. Press, 4841 Cass Ave., Detroit 2,
Mich. Pp. 184. $5.00.

Holidays and Parties

CHRISTMAS BOOK, TIIE, Marion Todd, Editor.
William-Frederick Press, 391 E. 149th St.,

New York 55. Pp. 107. $5.00.
CHRISTMAS GIFT, Frances Parkinson Keyes.

Hawthorn Books, 70 5th Ave., New York
11. Pp. 95. $2.95.

CHRISTMAS PLAYS AND PROGRAMS, Aileen
Fisher. Plays, Inc., 8 Arlington St., Boston
16. Pp. 344. $5.00.

COMPLETE BOOK OF HANUKKAH, TIIE, Kinneret
Chiel. Friendly House, 65 Suffolk St., New
York. Pp. 108. $2.50.

EASTER FIRES, Wilma Pitchford Hays. Cow-
ard-McCann, 210 Madison Ave., New York

16. Pp. 62. $2.75.
FAMILY BOOK OF HOME ENTERTAINING, TIIE,

Florence Brobeck. Doubleday & Co., Gar-
den City, N.Y. Pp. 452, $4.95.

OCTOBER 1960

 

GESELL INSTITUTE PARTY BOOK, THE, Frances
L. llg, M.D., Louise Bates Amcs, Ph.D.,
Evelyn W. Goodenough, Ph.D., Irene B.
Andressen, M.A. llarper & Bros., 49 W.
33rd St., New York 16. Pp. 115. $2.95.

MASTER BANQUET AND PARTY BOOK, TIIE, Bea-
trice Plumb. T. S. Denison, 321 5th Ave. S.,
Minneapolis 15. Pp. 304. $3.95.

PARTIES FOR TIIE BRIDE. Dennison Mfg., Fra-
mingham, Mass. Pp. 31. $.50.

PARTY FUN, Margaret E. Mulac. Harper 8'
Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp.
368. $4.95.

TALES OF TIIE JEWISH HOLIDAYS, Charlotte

Bronstein. Behrman House, 1261 Broadway,
New York 1. Unpaged. $2.95.

International

 

CHILDREN OF MANY LANDS, Hanns Reich, Edi-
tor. Hill and Wang, 104 5th Ave., New York
11. Pp. 120.

EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTAND-
ING, UNESCO. Columbia University Press,
2960 Broadway, New York 27. Pp. 126.
Paper, $1.50.

EUROPEAN SEMINAR ON SHELTERED EMPLOY-
MENT. Internatl. Rehabilitation Informa-
tion Service, 701 First Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 171. Paper, $1.50.

FINAL EXAMINATIONS IN THE RUSSIAN TEN-
YEAR SCHOOL. Science Materials Center,
59 Park Ave., S., New York 3. Pp. 23. Free.

HI NEIGHBOR (Nigeria, Ethiopia, Greece,
Chile, Thailand) . United States Committee
for UNICEF, United Nations, New York.
Pp. 64. Paper, $1.50.

JAPANESE CHILDREN’S SONGS. Shuichi Tsu-
gawa. Internatl. Publications Service, 307
5th Ave., New York 17. Pp. 32. $2.95.

OTHER SIDE OF THE WORLD, THE, Laura Ban-
non. Houghton MilHin, 2 Park St., Boston
7. Pp. 48. $3.00.

PEOPLE OF TIIE WORLD (Vol. II), Geoffrey
Whittam and others. Henry Walck, 101 5th
Ave., New York 3. Pp. 128. $2.75.

THIS IS ROME, * M. Sasek. Macmillan Co., 60
5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 60. $3.00.

YOUNG RUSSIA, Rita & Wm. Vandivert. Dodd,
Mead, 432 Park Ave., S., New York. Pp.

60. $3.00.

Leadership Training, Personnel

COMPLETE EMPLOYEE, THE, Robert Winthrop
Adams. Public Admin. Service, 1313 E.
60th St., Chicago 37. Pp. 68. Paper, $2.00.

GROUP DIMENSIONS, John K. Hemphill, pp.
66; LEADER BEHAvIOR: ITS DESCRIPTION
AND MEASUREMENT, Ralph M. Stogdill and
Alvin E. Coons, pp. 168; LEADERSHIP AND
ITS EFFECTS, Donald T. Campbell, pp. 92;
LEADERSHIP AND PERCEPTIONS OF ORGANIZA-
TION, Ellis L. Scott, pp. 122; LEADERSIIIP
AND ROI.E EXPECTATIONS, Ralph M. Stog-
dill, Ellis L. Scott, and William E. Jaynes,
pp. 168; LEADERSHIP AND STRUCTURES OF
PERSONAL INTERACTION, Ralph M. Stogdill,
pp. 90; METIIODS IN TIIE STUDY OF ADMIN-
ISTRATIVE LEADERSIIIP, Ralph M. Stogdill
and Carroll L. Shartle, pp. 77; PATTERNS
OF ADMINISTRATIvE PERFORMANCE, Ralph

M. Stogdill and Carroll L. Shartle, pp. 108:
PREDICTIvE STL'DY OF ADMINISTRATIVE WORK

PATTERNS. A, Ralph M. Stogdill, Carroll 1..
Shartle, Ellis L. Scott, Alvin E. Coons, and
William E. Jaynes, pp. 68. Bur. of Business
Research, College of (.OlnnlCl‘Ct‘ 8; Admin..

 

*For younger readers.

Ohio State Univ., Columbus 10.
$2.00 each.

MUNICIPAL RECREATION ADMINISTRATION (4th
ed.). Internatl. City Managers Assn., 1313
E. 60th St., Chicago. Pp. 409. $7.50.

ORAL lNTERPRETATION IlANDIIOOK, Anne Sim-
ley. Burgess Publishing, 426 S. 6th St.,
Minneapolis 15. Pp. 62. Paper, $2.00.

READINGS IN PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
(2nd ed), Paul Pigors, Charles A. Myers
and F. T. Malm, Editors. McGraw-Hill, 330
W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 554. $6.50.

RECREATION LEADERSHIP (2nd ed.), 11. Dan
Corbin. Prentice-Hall, Englewood ClilIs,
N. J. Pp. 463. $6.50.

VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP IN COOPERATIVE
HOUSING, Clara Fox. Play Schools Assn..
120 W. 57th St., New York 19. Pp. 56.
Paper, $.75.

Paper,

Photography

ADVANCED YASHICA GUIDE, Kenneth S. Tyd-
ings. Chilton, 56th 82 Chestnut Sts., Phila-
delphia 39. Pp. 95. Paper, $1.95.

BABY AND CHILD PHOTOGRAPHY, Burt Murphy.
Universal Photo Books, 915 Broadway, New
York 10. Pp. 18. Paper, $1.95.

BETTER PIIOTOGRAPIIY FOR AMATEURS, D. X.
Fenten. Universal Photo, 915 Broadway,
New York 10. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.95.

CAMERA TECHNIQUES FOR TIIE COLOR MOI-IE
MAKER, Dick Ham. Camera Craft Publish-
ing, 95 Minna St., San Francisco 5. Pp. 96.
Paper, $1.95.

CLOSE-UP PICTURES OF FLOWERS IN COLOR.
Eastman Kodak Co., 343 State St., Roches-
ter 4, N. Y. Pp. 7. Free.

Continued H

 

Circle #162 on coupon

 

     
     
     
       
   
   
   
   
     
   
     

All the Popular

Social Dances

EASY TO LEARN
EASY TO TEACH
WHEN YOU USE

BETTY WHITE’S

FAMOUS SELF-TEACHING

DANCE BOOKS

Fully illustrated with

pictures and diagrams

showing every position
and step

ETTY WHITE’S TEEN-AGE DANCEBOOK

Illustrated with 140
pictures and diagrams $4.50

BETTY WHITE’S DANCING MADE EASY
Illustrated with 196
pictures and diagrams $1.50

DAVID MCKAY COMPANY, INC.
119 West 40th St., N. Y. 18

*PLEASE SEND ME . ..

Marksmanship tor Young Shooters

Assists in teaching use of the spring-type
air rifle, especially to elementary-school
child. Ready November.

D 1960 24 p. lllus.

$1.00

Equipment and Supplies tor Athletics,
Physical Education, and Recreation

Complete guide based on recommendations
of a National Warkshap. Ready November.

[:1 1960 34 p. $2.50

Physical Education tor
High School Students (Revised)

Handbook of sports, games, recrealian, ath-
letics, for 7-12th grade bays and girls.

E] 1960 Clathbaund 416p. 111115. $3.00

Shooting and Hunting

[J 1960 81/2x11 94 p. lllus. $2.00
tasting and Angling
[:1 1958 31/,x11 52 p. lllus. $2.00

Girls and Women's
Sports Technique [harts

Basic techniques, title strip, references. 8-12
charts in envelope. $1.00 set

D Speedboll D Basketball 1:] Volleyball

Girls and Women's Otticial Guides

Aquatics, 1959-61 5 .75
Archery - Riding, 1960-62 . . . . . . ..$1 .00
Baskelball, 1960-61 ..   $1.00
Bowling - Fencing - Golf, '60-62 $1.00
Field Hockey - LaCrasse, 1960-62 $1.00
Soccer - Speedboll, 1960-62 .... .. $1.00

Softball-Track/Field, 1960-62 s .75

CIDCIEICICIEICI

Tennis-Badminton, 1960-62 .. $1.00
D Volleyball, 1959-61   $ .75
1:] Winter Sports/Outing Activities $ .75

1:] Recreational Games and Sports 5 .75

F — — — — - - — — — - — - — --1
jAAHPER - NEA

l
I 1201 - 16th Street, N.W., l
[Washington 6, D. C. j
l

l‘Please send me copies as marked abave. I
(2-9 copies of one title, 10% discaunt;|

:10 or more 20%) |
ICheck enclosed E] Bill me 
jName .  . ._  . 
:Address  ... .. ..  :
lCity .... ..  . .  Stole  I

| IOrder blank attached]

I_ _____________ __1

I {Enclose payment wllh orders of $2.00 or loss) I
|

EDITmG YOUR COLOR Moles, George W.
Cushman. Camera Craft Publishing, 95
Minna St., San Francisco 5. Pp. 96. Paper,
$1.95.

HOW TO CAPTURE ACTtON IN PHOTOGRAPHY,
Dan Daniels. Universal Photo Books, 915
Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 128. Paper,
$1.95.

KODAK CAMERA GUIDE, THE. Pocket Books.
630 5th Ave., New York 20. Pp. 224. $.50.

KODAK HOME MOVtE CAMERA GUtDE, THE.
Pocket Books, 630 5th Ave., New York 20.
Pp. 200. $.50.

MtNOLTA-16 CAMERA GUIDE, Joseph D. C00-
per. Universal Photo Books, 915 Broadway,
New York 10. Pp. 112. Paper, $1.95.

TEEN AGEas’ GUIDE TO PHOTOGRAPHY, Burt
Murphy. Universal Photo Books, 915
Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 128. Paper,
$1.95.

ULTRA-MINIATURE PHOTOGRAPHY, Joseph D.
Cooper. Universal Photo Books. 915 Broad-
way, New York 10. Pp. 160. $3.95.

Magazine Articles

AMERICAN JOURNAL OF OCCUPATIONAL TIIEu-

APY, May—June 1960

Therapeutic Crafts, Donald L. Weston,
Ph.D.

AnTs AND ACTtvtTrEs, September 1960

Fall 1960 Buyers’ Guide

New Conquests in Space (toothpick sculp-
ture) , Dale Gleason and Eugene E. l’ool.

CAMPING MAGAZINE, June 1960

Camp Health

Three Common Faults of Camping, Mario-
rie Camp and Barbara Ellen Joy.

CATIIOLIC CuAtuTtEs REvIEw, May 1960

Volunteers and the Aging, Elisabeth C.
Plrillips.

A Senior Citizen Day Center, Rev. William
C. Zennes.

A State Looks at Its Senior Citizens, Very
Rev. tllsgr. Leo 1. Candy.

MENTAL HosrtTALs, Septemlger 1960

Toastmasters Pop Up at Ilospital, lorries
W. McDaniel.

The Circle F Club: A Community Social
Rehabilitation Project (Minneapolis),
Thomas H. Walz, .11.S.W.

RECREATION ran TIn: 1LL AND IIAMHCAI‘PED,

July 1960

Creative Recreation, Jahn E. Davis, SC.D.

Therapeutic Aspeets of Reereation, Walter
H. Obenattl, 111.0.

Reereation Programming for the Mentally
Retarded, John A. Friedrich, 1’h.D.

Instant Folk Danee Fun, A Tested Group
Activity for the Mentally Ill, Cy Gross-
man.

SHOWCASE, Music CLI'us MAGAZINE, May-
June 1960

Music in Public Recreation, Siebolt Fries-
u-‘ylr.

SWIMMING POOL AGE, July 1960

Working with the llandieapped, Leo lter-
tier, illarrrice Case, Jack Brady, Mart/red

Hall, Darothy Orr, Gil Wall, and Don
Wise.
WOMAN’S DAY, Septerrrber 1960
The P.T.A. Discovers Art, Katharine T.
Kinls'earl.
TOIIAv’s HEALTH, August 1960
He Puts People on Ice, Jim Liston.

 

 

 

People to People

Continued from Page 357

 

tO the chagrin of the Atsugi coach and
players. The coach vehemently con-
tested the decision. The umpire. calm
and unrufHed, strode to first base and
asked the runner if he were safe or out.
The runner said that, in his opinion. he
was out. This unprecedented turn Of
events led the umpire tO reverse his de-
cision and call the runner out. The vast
majority Of American spectators had
certainly never seen anything like this
in the States.

Many Americans believe Japanese
women are dominated primarily by
their menfOIk. However, Japanese wom-
en have been enjoying greater freedom
and status. Female membership at pri-
vate golf courses in Japan has in-
creased, for example. In a recent match
with the Tamagawa CO‘If Course, in
Tokyo, one of the members of its “six-
teen-man” team turned out tO be a Mrs.
Watanabe. This lOG-pound. 58-year-old
woman made par on most Of the holes.
Her 78 turned out tO he third best for
the Japanese team, and, needless tO say,
she defeated all three of the other men
in her foursome.

The Atsugi Little League and the
Pony League formed learns composed
Of dependents Of military personnel
and dependents Of Japanese nationals
working aboard NAS Atsagi. Rosters
of each team consist of Japanese and
American players and coaches. Japan-
ese and American mothers and fathers
sit side by side and cheer their teams.
Japanese and American players. as
teammates, form mutual bands while
the parents are drawn together in their
joint support of the team.

Recreation can be a powerful force
uniting individuals, communities. and
nations. In an endeavor tO improve re-
Iationships throughout the world. our
government should evaluate and exploit
this area as a definite medium of inter-
national goodwill. Field representa-
tives assigned the responsibility of pro-
moting activities that foster desirable
rapport may be one solution. The At-
sugi program has had immeasurable
success. and Japanese and Americans
have indicated a desire for continu-

ance. #

RECREATIOX

NOW...A'DD EXCITING, LIVE-ACTION

Pom.

   
 

 

TO YOUR YEAR-ROUND PROGRAM!

SUPERIOR’S IMPORTANT NEW
ROLL-A-WAY FEATURE GIVES

YOU A FOLDING POOL TABLE
THAT CAN BE ROLLED, USED
OR STORED...TO MEET THE
PROGRAM NEEDS OF THE DAY.

THIS YEAR... PROGRAM POOL!

 

1
1"";

SUPERIOR lNDUSTRlES‘bORPORKTION - 520 cdsTER STREET - NEW YORK 59, NEW YORK

Circle #l58 on coupon

 

I H e
l I In Your RECREATION PROGRAM
...with AMERICAN Trampolines

 

The boom in trampolining can
be a real boon to your recrea-
tion program. With trampoline
centers popping up all over the
" country, trampolining has be-
come America’s fastest-grow-.
ing sport. Take advantage of
this unprecedented popularity.
Schedule trampolining on your
program and watch how fast
interest and excitement. mount!
But get the best — Specify
American Trampolines! Only
American Trampolines offer
you triple-bridged leg con-
struction and other exclusive
features for longer life . . . bet-
ter balance . . . and superior
performance. With American’s
newly increased production fa-
cilities, you'll also get imme-
diate delivery. Write today for

our new catalog and prices.
Yours FREE for the asking!

 

No special skill needed to trampoline—
all the bays (and girls) can participate!

 

American Trampolines fold up easily. and
qunckly for storage and transportation

  
  

FR££-Wall Charts, lesson Plans and lARRY GRISWOLD "Trampoline
7 Tumbling" Textbook with each AMERICAN TRAMPOLINE

  
       

’-

American Trampolines Meet All
A:A.U. and N.C.A.A. specifications
—Are Guaranteed Highest Quality

