   
 
 

  

«Zury= Pteiffer U’ib'rar )
 Mac Murray Collage if

 chksoigvillg, Illinois 

 
  
    

V

 

|
nee Upon a time  there was a

chairmanVHegjwr she®lwas respons-

ihle for ohtaig trophies Q‘I/ 
" for club events, salesmen’s
-. and tournaments  The
chairman wrote 5% for the Emblem and

Badge catalngwhich seem-‘3’“:t him 50%

off list price. Everyone"}':-""“;g “has so

   

Dated and Undated

'  0 Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in geld

\L—\ I -/t/,_/

him his very own trophy :

// II \\\
0 Opens flat for changes

Emblem 8‘ Badge.Mfg' C°‘ RECREATION MAGAZINE
68 Prne Street, Provrdence, R. I. 8 West Eighth Street, New York N

. FOLD w
J— ‘ ROLL-A- WA Y

uper'o
POOL TABLE

0 Each holds one year’s issues

 

   
  

  
  
   
 
    
     
      

       

  

.   .  YEAR-ROUND HIGHLIGHT 0F
FOLDé    YOUR RECREATION PROGRAM!

ail-ROLLS AWAY  '

:jgl'N' LESS THAN

 2 MI NUTESE  

-; . r g.-. ‘-

 

Steel dollies, " -  2 fittings 
with rubber casters, -  support steel 

slip into fittings ~. -  dollies. Table
on side of table. legs fold flat.

 

Now . . . even in tight, crowded areas . . . make pool a regular part of your program!
With easy-to-use Roll-A-Way accessory, every Superior pool table

folds and rolls away for flat, compact storage — freeing your floor .

for other activities. Write Superior for price list today! . 

  

SUPERIOR ,INDUSTRIES CORPORATION o 520 COSTER STREET 0 NEW YORK 59, N.Y. - DAYTON 9-5100
MApIUFACTURERs OF FINE FOLD 'N ROLL-A-WAY TABLE TENNIS TABLES

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

l k In Your RECREATION PROGRAM
...with AME RI CAN _ Trampolines

The boom in trampolining can
be a real boon to your recrea-
tion program. Trampolining
has become America’s fastest-
growing sport. Take advan-
tage of this unprecedented
popularity. Schedule trampo-
lining on your program and
watch how fast interest and
excitement mount! But get
the best — specify American
Trampolines! Only American

 

 

Tr.amp0hnes Offer you: trlple- No special skill needed ta trampoline—
brldged leg 90nstructlon and all the bays (and girls) can participate!
other exclus1ve features for
longer life . . . better balance

. . . and superior performance.
With American’s newly in-
creased production facilities,
ypu’ll also get immediate de-
livery. Write today for our
new catalog and prices. Yours
FREE for the asking!

 

American Trampolines fold up easily and
quickly for storage and tranSportatuon

FREE—Wall Charts, Lesson Plans and LARRY GRISWOLD “Trampoline
Tumbling" Textbook with each AMERICAN TRAMPOLINE

  
 
  
 

American Trampolines Meet A"
A.A.U. and N.C.A.A. specifications
—Are Guaranteed Highest Quality

uls-

[1:59

4 ll

   
  

AMERICAN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY,JEFFERSON 24, IOWA
If it's an AMERICAN Trampoline. if}: the FINEST

NOVEMBER, 1961 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

HE C HEATION

 

NOVEMBER l96l

GENERAL

PROGRAM

EACH MONTH DIGEST ADMINISTRATION

442

VOL. LIV NO. 9

In High Gear—at Your 43rd National Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Interesting highlights as events roll into action

A Measure of Success . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .r . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Conrad L. Wirth
We need concerted land acquisition on all government levels

Want a Park Named for You? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Reese Wells
Cain immortality by donating land for a park '

Art for Johnny’s Sake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William R. Fortner

Dynamics of Programing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dan W. Dodson
From the National Recreation Congress keynote speech

Homehound Holiday . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Morton Thompson

A group of formerly homebound handicapped have a farm vacation
National Recreation Association Services: Encouraging Personnel
How NRA serves recreation personnel needs

a o o o a a a o a a o o - a a o o a a o o a a a o .1-

Critique on Recreation . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Harold B. White, Jr.
Community recreation can take a cue from commercial enterprise

The Making of an All-America City (Santa Fe Springs) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gene Heer
Recreation’s part in building a new, prize-winning community

Storm Center . . . . . . . . . . . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mary Jane Lewis

Hurricane evacuees are helped by local recreation department
National Recreation Association Life Insurance (New Low-Cost Plan) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Winter Sports Contests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charles Plimpton
Ice skating and sledding events
On Stage, Teenagers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lilly Ruth Hanson

A highly successful recreation department drama program

Let’s Talk Turkey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Games for Thanksgiving '

The Naming of the Fawn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Christmas program ideas

Off with the Old—0n with the New . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Twelfth Night bonfire ceremony

School and Recreation Cooperation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John B. Geissinger
Fundamentals for joint use of facilities

Quick-Change Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . ._ . . . . . . . .
Los Angeles Sports Arena converts from one sport to another

Fish Out of Water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . Joel Carter

N o lakes for fishing? Use your community p ool.’
State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
California restores a Gold Rush area

Church Recreation Leadership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Role of the church in recreation
Behaviorism of the Actor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Code for the amateur

Van H. Cartmell

Letters 444 As We Go To Press 449 Reporter’s Notebook 464 Market News 482 Trade Mart 483

Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 487 New Publications 489

Copyright, 1961, by the-National
Recreation Association, Incorporated

@115

RECREATION is plibli‘shed'vrhoiithly except July and August~by the National Recreation“ *

Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Primed in the U'S'A’
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current

issues available University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

DUCATIONAL
RESS

S SOCIATION
OF

AMERICA

   
 

RECREATION

 

PRICE 60c
446

The articles herein-
printed are the expres-
sion of the writers and
not a statement of policy
of the National Recrea-
tion Association.

451
453

  
  
  
  
    
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

454
455 ~

457
458
460
462
463
485
465 .

466 ~
468?
469
470

471
473 ’
474
476

479
481

\

RECREATION

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERCAST ” '

Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON  t .
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY 0 8  o 0
Associate Editors

Administration, GEORGE BUTLER Quit]; c'  N E

Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Business Manager

The new Cali fone Promenade 1! Model 42V
FRANK ROWE

portable sound system always performs loud
Advertising Manager and clear —— indoors and out -— always without

ESTA GLUCK strain. N 0 strain on the voice. No straining
to hear. N 0 strain on the instrument itself.
And no strain on the budget.

 

On The Cover

THE FAMILY AT HOME. Even back

in 1836 the family played together.
This picture suggests the true spirit of
Thanksgiving and of early American
life. It is a detail from an oil by H. ‘
Knight, one of “101 American Primi- ‘ : with; - m
tive Paintings from the collection of i'“ 'l“"'ftll “mm.
Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler litilltlllw'li" "m t ""
Garbisch,” which begins a national ' qlmlnnndu,“
tour of museums with a showing at the

Metropolitan Museum of Art in New
York November 17 to January 7. This
collection is considered the largest and
most comprehensive group of Ameri-
can primitives ever brought together. , -
Watch for it in your city! Photograph _ " ' ' ‘ ' "‘
of painting courtesy of the Metropoli- - i
tan Museum.

 

- Itnv ‘tllh" ‘

Iii". 

  

lllllllllllll‘lll'll'llll'l'llll  ,1

|
-- iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii

   

Next Month
Look for further report of the 43rd

National Recreation Congress and ad-
ditional Congress pictures ( see also
Pages 446-8 in. this issue The Decem-
ber issue as always carries RECREATION
magazine’s annual index of articles and
advertisers. An excellent discussion of
“Recreation Site Selection,” by Rich-
ard I. McCosh, landscape architect for
the State Parks Division of the Oregon
State Highway Department, will be pre-
sented in the special section for admin-

PROFESSIONAL NET: $209.50
Added attractions —

Califone’s exclusive Ciiemaster,
providing immediate selection
of any groore on any record.
$12.50 EXTRA

All-chrome player base -
$12.50 EXTRA

The Promenade’s two extended-range speakers fulfill all public address require-
istrators. “Air Base Recreation” de_ ments for games and other major events requiring maximum amplificagion. As a
scribes the excellent training program phonograph] sound system. it offers superlative fidelity, plus remarka le sprTIEg
for volunteers conducted at Keesler Air float suspension which insures against groove jumping from floor Vibration. e
Force Base in Biloxi, Mississippi, and Strobeselector variable speed motor requues no warmup, and may be adjusted
“Antidote for T arnish” discusses pro- to any desired speed for rhythm and movement classes. Two additional 20-watt

gr‘am planning for the aging. The Di- speakers mounted in matching dividing baffle cases (Model SP42) are optional.

$301263? :u 3;: Ht 0:21;: yasseylggilregggg For full information on the Promenade ll Model 42V and other Califone variable

and Land_Use Planning” and “A C0m_ SPEGd models from  write Dept.  iOdOY.

munity Center for Exceptional Chil-
dren.” There will also be a seasonal

emphasis on Christmas programs and Keep pace E

caHfone.Mm“nM

5922 BOWCROFI’ STREET, LOS ANGELES 16, CALIF.

winter sports. with

Photo Credits

Page 453, (.leHerson Davis) AP

Newsfeatures Photo, (John James Au- FOREMOST MANUFACTURER or snacnv: AUDIO-VISUAL PRODUCTS FOR EDUCATION
dubon) Wide World; 473, “Dick”

Whittington, Los Angeles.

NOVEMBER 1961 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 443
9

You can raise $500
or more in 6 days
this easy way

Sell famous Mason

Candies and in 4 to 15 days
your group can make

$300 to $2,500

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. If you decide to go
ahead you don’t risk a cent,—you pay noth-
ing in advance. We supply on consignment
your choice of THREE VARIETIES of famous
Mason Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a band printed
with your organization’s name and picture.
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don’t sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make
$12.00 on every 30 sales of our $1.00 box
(66%% profit to you on cost). There’s no
risk! You can’t lose. Mail in coupon today

for information about MASON’S PROTECTED
FUND RAISING DRIVES.

I. ______________ __
Mr. GEORGE H. RAUSCH, Dept. RM-9 1

Mason, Box 549, Minedla, N .Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me, without

obligation, information on your Fund
Raising Plan.

Age if under 21

I

I

I

I

I

I

|

I -——_._______
: Address. _
I

I

I

L

I

I

I

I

I

N ame_______________ :
I

I

Organization :
|

I

 

 

Mason Candies, Inc., Mineola, L. 1., N. Y.

444

 

 

 
   

Verb. Sap.
Sirs:

Our learned professor (Jay Shivers,
“Terminology Revisited,” September
1961) speaks well Of the ancient
Greeks and their fondness for recrea-
tion. Unfortunately, my knowledge Of
philOlogy is limited tO what I read from
the lexicographers, while our erudite
Southern gentlemen apparently has ac-
cess tO a more disciplined knowledge.
I wish, though, as a researcher (ex-
cuse me, researchist) he would cite his
source.-

I suppose even Adam and Eve en-
joyed recreation at times. If we knew
by what word they called it our trou-
bles would be over. We- could all
agree that this was the basic root-word.
Then, if we could know what suffix they
added to describe their occupation
when they taught their children to play,
we would know what to call this breed
Of modern man who tOils that others
may enjoy themselves.

I have a personal aversion tO com-
pound suHixes, thus my desire to hold
to the Latin (or Greek) root recreat.
If we don’t, I can see the day when we
speak of recreation (the result); re-
creationology (the science Of) ; recrea-
tionologist (the provider of); and, fi-
nally, recreationologister (one who
teaches the providers Of) . Ah yes, leave
it to the Greeks tO have a word for it!

EDWARD H. THACKER, Recreation

Analyst, District of Columbia Recrea-

tion Board, Washington, D. C.

Pay Scales
Sirs:

Mr. Sutherland’s article, “From Bad
to Worse,” September 1961, was in-
teresting. He is very much concerned
with the current loss in the number of
professional recreation graduates. It is
interesting that though the recreation
profession is losing personnel, the
teaching profession is gaining. An
answer might be that school systems
are improving their pay scale from the
executive level on down tO the teacher
with no eXperience. Is this the case
in recreation?

We all know that top administrative

LETTERS

Readers are invited to share their
views on these pages. Comments
of general interest are always wel-

come. -—- The Editors.

 
 

jobs in recreation are improving in

salaries. This is fine, but it does not
appeal tO the college student who is try-
ing tO decide upon his profession. Many
Of these college students are interested
in the pay scale just after graduation.
This may not be the best way Of choos-
ing a future, but it is being done.

After my graduation in 1959 from
the University Of Illinois recreation
curriculum, I was interested in three
positions. TWO Of these positions were
in the so called wealthy Chicago area,

' yet the pay for these two positions were

$4,000 and $4,200. These positions

were not in the top level Of administra-
tion. I did not expect tO secure a top
level job because Of lack Of experience.
It would have been possible at that time
tO take a job in the Lincoln, Illinois
school system at $4,500. The teaching
position would have been for only nine
months providing an opportunity to
earn another $500 tO $1,000. In other
words, a public school teacher with no
eXperience can earn more than a rec-
reation graduate trained in administra-
tion. This is a very big reason why it
is becoming increasingly difhcult tO re-
cruit recreation students.

I would like tO see:

1. A study comparing teachers’ sala-
ries with recreation personnel salaries
in respective position, keeping in mind
the yearly work requirement.

2. Top-level recreation administra-
tion make certain that salaries are at
least equal to the teachers’ salaries in
their communities, remaining cognizant
that the school teachers work only nine
or ten months Of the year.

These two proposals, . . . may assist
. . . in improving the number Of recrea-
tion graduates.

SAM HILL, Superintendent of Recrea-

tion, Lincoln, Illinois.

Complaint \

Sirs:

I have a complaint! Why must you
make RECREATION so interesting and so
appealing that my wife, who is not a
“recreator” reads it thoroughly before
I get home! The stimulating format
and material is a real credit tO your pub-

RECREATION

i

lication staff. But I do lose some of my
professional thunder when my wife gets
to new developments in the field first
. . . guess I’ll have to secretly subscribe
to a special air-mail edition!
RALPH LAUDENSLAYER, supervisor of
recreation, West Covina, California.

. Making It a Habit

‘ Sirs:
‘ Through the service of the USIS Li-
rary in Port of Spain I have, for the
first time, come upon your periodical
RECREATION and I propose to make it
a habit to read it. Since I am a member
of the Field Naturalist Club of Trinidad
and Tobago, this publication will be of
particular interest.

E. FOURNILLIER, F .A.C.T. Agencies,

61 First Avenue, Mt. Lambert. Trini-
dad, W. I.

Music Camps

Sirs:

I was very much interested in the ma-
terial on music in recreation in the May
issue and look forward to further cov-
erage of the performing arts in recrea-
tion but I was disappointed at the lack
of attention to what I believe to be a
very significant form of recreation mu-
sic programing; namely, music camps.
To my knowledge not too many munici-
pal departments offer such programs
and this may be a reason for the lack of
coverage, but it is a very worthy and
attractive approach to “music in recrea-
tion” and many departments might un-
dertake such programs if they knew how
others have handled them.

Last year we offered our first pro-
gram of this type but it was such an out-
standing success that we have broad-
ened our service and expanded our pro-
gram this year and advance registra-
tions indicate that we have still “under-
shot” the potential.

I am enclosing a brochure covering
our current program and in passing
would like to point out that a local shop-
ping center, being sold on the merits of
such a cultural program coupled with a
camping experience, paid the entire cost
of publication.

M. C. THILTGEN, superintendent of

recreation, San Mateo, California.

Improvements

Sirs:

Congratulations on the continued im-
provements in RECREATION magazine.
Members of our staff and I have en-
joyed reading it each month, and find it
has been helpful to us as we carry out
our responsibilities in the area of rec—
reation.

C. CARSON CONRAD, Chief, Bureau of

Health Education, Physical Educa-

tion, and Recreation, State of Cali-

fornia Department, Sacramento.

NOVEMBER 1961

 

ECU-ER. SKATING

does more for

In Imspace!

For maximum gym use many schools,

more people

 
  
  
 
 

 

churches and recreation centers have
roller skating programs. Everyone

can participate, little supervision
is needed, and if desired, it can be

a profit-making activity. Write today for

free information.

' U V c .

Duryte Plastic Wheels
Do Not Mar Floors

 

Note from ASCAP

Sirs:

I have read “Music Is Recreation”
with much interest and Want to con-
gratulate you on an excellent job.

RICHARD F. FROHLICII, Director of

Public Relations, American Society

of Composers, Authors, and Publish-

ers, New York City.

Ways and Means

Sirs: .

I wish to take this opportunity to
acknowledge my appreciation for the
timely article on the handicapped by
Beatrice Hill [September]. She points

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

out a real problem in many communi-
ties today, but I seriously question her
method of solving it. If something
doesn’t work, namely, the planning
body for special groups, must another
group he created to compete for leader-
ship, funds, and the public’s ear?
There are too many splinter groups
all clamoring for attention today with-
out any strong voice acting as spokes-
man as noted in the Rockefeller Ad Hoc
Committee on Voluntary Health and
Welfare Organizations in the United
States.
PAl‘L GEZON, Executive Secretary,
Council of Social A gencies, Reading,
Pennsylvania.

445

IN HIGH GEAR

—your 43rd
National Recreation Congress

The camera focuses on interesting people
and events during the busy and colorful 43rd
National Recreation Congress in beautiful

Coho Hall, Detroit, October 1-6, 1961.

 

Above. The crowds wait impatiently while the Honorable
Louis C. Mariani, mayor of Detroit (left), cuts the ribbon
and officially opens the enormous 43rd National Recreation
Congress exhibit area. Host Edward T. McGowan, first
deputy superintendent of parks and recreation, shares his
electric cart. Standing, left to right, are Ray Butler, new
executive secretary, American Recreation Society, and lo-
seph Prendergast, executive director, National Recreation
Association (the two agencies cosponsored the Congress).

 ti “II-n .1 Milk A
m: «:9: e-nssv 

Left. The concrete floors of the exhibit hall were made to
bloom with grass, trees, and flowers by the creative staff of
the Detroit Parks and Recreation Department." In this
oasis delegates gratefully sat and chatted on the benches.

 

Left. A panorama of one the most spa-
cious exhibits area Congress delegates
have ever had. Over one hundred ex-
hibitors took advantage of the plenty
of elbow room to show their products to
best advantage. There was room for
program demonstrations, games of all
kinds, conference areas and a Cracker
Barrel Corner for impromptu meetings.

 

Left. Charles Hartsoe (seated), secre-
tary of the Congress, and Ed McGowan
take time out from a social evening for
some further checking of Congress ar-
rangements and business. The big meet-
ing kept them both on the go all the time.

Right. William F rederickson, J r. (left),
new president of the American Recrea-
tion Society, and Dr. Dan Dodson, key-
note speaker on “The Dynamics of Rec-
reation Programing” (see Page 455)
check the full day of program sessions.

 

Right. Ed McGowan (far left) cues in
his locaLarrangements committee and
staff. Standing, left to right, Wilma
Clizbe, Barbara Tait, Harold Manches-
ter, M ihe Loncar, Lorenzo Blount, Walt
Gillette, Harold Myron, Rod Early,
Richard Fanning, Ray Riker. Seated,
left to right, Peg H ossack, Teresa W ag-
ner, Betty Lloyd. A hard working crew.’

 

Governor John B. Swainson of Michi- The National Recreation Association Luncheon is an annual affair. The head
gan and Susan Lee, vice-president of the table included members of the NRA Board of Directors and noted guests. James
National Recreation Association, enjoy Evans, chairman of the NRA board. spoke. of the many forward strides being
an informal moment at a reception pre- made in NRA’s liaison with the field including the first joint meeting of the
ceding Congress Banquet and Dance. NRA Board and members of its National Advisory Council held last Spring.

Right. Walter Laidlaw (left), executive
vice-president of the Detroit United
Foundation, chats with Vernon F. H ern-
lund (center), recreation director for
the Chicago Park District, and NRA’s
Joseph Prendergast before addressing
the 6th Annual National Institute in
- Recreation Administration sponsored
by the National Recreation Association.

 

Continued on next page.

NOVEMBER, 1961

   continued

 

The Congress is cosponsored by the National Recreation
Association and the American Recreation Societ

The Challenge
Can we take this growing leisure and create a civilization
which will flower in greater beauty and excellence than has
ever been dreamed? Can we be sensitive to its problems
which are created by every change, so that man’s fulhllment
is not thwarted by the threats of each new labor saving de-
vice? Can we work with those we serve to create a new
value which will help us literally create a new heaven and
a new earth? . . . Can we free those with whom we work
so they can be creative? It means liberation from supersti-
tion and outmoded myths and rituals. It means a continu-
ous pursuit, an ever-increasing progress, but never arriving.
It means a professional leadership which is not the “blind
leading the blind,” but an alert dynamic programing with
which we can all:
Add one more mile to the tally,
Of the long grey miles left behind,

In search of that one perfect beauty,
God put me (us) here to find.—MASEFIELD.

This is a summing up by Dan Dodson, director of New
York University’s Center for Human Relations and Com-
munity Studies, in his excellent keynote speech, “The Dy-
namics of Programing” ( see Page 455

Place Your Bets

Secretary of the Interior Stewart L.
Udall told delegates at the All-Congress
Banquet that we spend thirteen times
more each year legally betting on the
horses than we do for the entire cost
of Operating its national park system.
. “As a nation, we legally wagered ap-

Secretary Udall proximately a half billion dollars on
horse racing during 1960,” he said, “while our 1961 budget
for operating and maintaining thirty national parks and
159 other facilities came to $37,890,000.”

He continued: “The combined expenditures for national
park operations plus all those of the fifty states came to less
than $125,000,000 during 1960—a year that resulted in
323,000,000 visits to park facilities. . . .

“America must assume a new sense of fiscal priority and
responsibility if future generations are to enjoy the park
and recreational areas they deserve, and I suggest that if
this nation would earmark a sum equal to one percent of
the $20,000,000 it spends each year on horse race betting,
liquor, tobacco, and cosmetics, it could win its race for

 

green Space in one barrage.”

Here and There

% Remembered, too, will be the production of Rodger’s
and Hammerstein’s Carousel by the Detroit Department of
Parks and Recreation at the beautiful Ford Auditorium by

448

 

the river. The weather was so perfect all week, that delegates
were easily convinced that “June Is Bustin’ Out All Over.”-
The cast included over two hundred dancers and singers.

f The young and handsome Governor of Michigan, John
B. Swainson, addressed the Congress on Wednesday, giving
an overall idea of current development of state plans and
objectives for recreation in Michigan. Among them is a
coordination of facilities and recreation opportunities which
will encourage all agencies and levels of government to as- q
sume their responsibilities for it without abrogating rights |
of home rule or usurping perogatives of federal agencies.

’g‘ All-Congress applause to our host, Edward T. McGowan,
first deputy superintendent of the Detroit Department of
Parks and Recreation, and to his locaLarrangements com-
mittee members. They created miracles, making the arid,
concrete floors of the exhibit area bloom with grass and trees
and fragrant flowers; and they infused the long shining cor-
ridors and endless space of Cobo Hall with their hospitable
spirit by means of the red-carpet treatment to all———turning
every least delegate into a VIP! A special thank-you cer-
tainly goes, too, to Frank Vaydik, Detroit’s superintendent
of forestry and landscaping, and his hard-working staff, for
the long hours they contributed to bringing the park indoors
and making it a thing of beauty.

0 Speaker, Walter P. Reuther, president of the United Au-
tomobile, Aircraft and Agricultural Implement Workers
(UAW), could not appear and the text of his speech was
presented by UAW Vice-President Leonard Woodcock. In
relating recreation and the use of leisure time to wider prob-
lems affecting the entire nation, he emphasized the impor-
tance of federal legislation, the fight against land encroach-
ment, and_the extending of recreation services to those under»,
the middle-income bracket who are “economically and cul-
turally disadvantaged” and can ill afford even the moderate
fees now required for park facilities and recreation pro-
grams.

Watch for further reports and pictures from the
Detroit Congress in our December issue.

RECREATION

 

  
  
  
 
 
   
  

:nd Pacific Northwest.

_LASH—Aunouncement has just been made (October 18, 1961) of
he appointment of John Collier and Arthur Todd as assistant directors
f the National Recreation Association’s Field Department. Their new
esponsibilities will begin November 1.

ohn Collier, in addition to his present duties as district representative
.or the Association’s Pacific Southwest District, will have a special con-
em for the other three Western NRA Districts: Midwest, Southwest,
He will also handle such other duties and re-
ponsibilities as Charles Reed, director of the Association’s Field De-

,I artment, may assign him. John was at one time the Association’s rep-
. esentative in the Great Lakes District.

Arthur Todd, recently assistant executive director of the Association
in charge of administration and formerly NRA district representative
in the Midwest, will have a special concern for the four NRA Eastern
Districts: New England, Middle Atlantic, Southern, and Great Lakes,
and will handle such additional assignments as the director of the Field
Department may determine. Art at one time was loaned to the U.S.
Air Force to head up its recreation program in Europe.

} A PROPOSAL that planning begin now
to place a portion of Vermont’s wilder-
ness in the National Park System in
honor of poet Robert Frost has been
advanced by Secretary of the Interior
Stewart L. Udall. It was made to 3 Ver-
mont audience following discussions
with Governor F. Ray Keyser, Jr., and
Senator George D. Aiken. “We should
keep part of Vermont unspoiled to give
fresh meaning to Robert Frost and his
image of New England beauty,” Sec-
retary Udall said. “In creating a Robert
Frost Memorial Park encompassing an
area around his summer home at Rip-
ton, we would be forever preserving for
future generations a small piece of the
New England he has celebrated in verse.
The park would create a unique living
memorial to one of the two or three
greatest pastoral poets of human his-
tory.”

The exact dimensions of the tract
would be determined after consultation
with Vermont political and conserva-
tion leaders.

} DEDICATION CEREMONIES for the new
Children’s Zoo in Central Park, New
York City, were being held just as we
took off for the National Recreation
Congress in Detroit. This addition was
made possible through a generous gift
to the city by former Governor Herbert
H. Lehman and Mrs. Lehman in cele-
' bration of their fiftieth wedding anni-
versary in 1960.

The various exhibits and animals in-
clude the houses of straw, sticks and
bricks, which indicate part of the story

NOVEMBER, _1961

of the Three Little Pigs; a barn with
cow and calf; a llama’s shelter; Mac-
Donald’s barn with sheep and donkeys;
a contact ring where children may pet
and be close to small animals, such as
chickens, rabbits, ducks, small lamb
and goats; a raccoon pit; a castle; a
bird cage with talking mynah bird; a
Mouseville with live mice; a water mill;
a deer house; ponies and donkeys; Jo-
nah’s whale; a pond with geese and
ducks; Noah’s ark; and a water mill.
The entrance will be through ornamen-
tal gates designed by Paul Manship and
through a glass building constructed in
Alice-Through-the-Looking-Glass fash-

101’}.

I OPPOSITION T0 gocart racing for any
youth under legal age has just been
voiced by the National Congress of
Parents and Teachers. In a statement
issued on behalf of the Congress’ board,
President Mrs. C. N. Jenkins of Roslyn
Heights, New York, pointed out that
they are registering disapproval be-
cause such racing “is too competitive
for the emotional maturity of these
children, as well as being physically
hazardous.” She cited two gocart deaths
in Indiana. (Will anyone who disa-
grees state his opinion by sending a
letter for RECREATION’S Letters-to-the-

Editor page?)

> PRESIDENT KENNEDY has just given
natural resources development a boost
by endorsing and sending to Congress
the Department of Agriculture’s Devel-
opment Program for National Forests.

Transmitted to Congress for consid-
eration when it next convenes, the pro-
gram outlines specific proposals for de-
veloping all renewable resources of the
National Forests during the next ten
years and beyond to the year 2000.

Secretary of Agriculture Orville L.
Freeman said, “It means more and bet-
ter water from National Forest water-
sheds; greater opportunities for camp-
ing, picnicking, hunting, fishing, and
other recreation; more timber for com-
merce; and better grazing conditions

for livestock on 186,000,000 acres of
the National Forest System.”

The Development Program for the
National Forests is an expansion and
updating of the program submitted to
Congress in 1959. A National Forest
recreation survey completed in 1960
forecasts 195,000,000 recreation visits
to the National Forests by the end of
1972 as compared to the 130,000.000
visits predicted previously.

-I- I' I' *
} WE ARE SORRY to announce the death
of the National Recreation Associa-
tion’s very dear friend, honorary mem-
ber, and former sponsor, Mrs. Walter
Strong of Winnetka, Illinois. She aided
the Association in many ways, and at
one time offered the use of her beautiful
castle at Oregon, Illinois, for a district

recreation conference.
l‘ l‘ * *

Carl Waite, who served the White
Plains, New York, Recreation Depart-
ment for twenty-eight years, died re-
cently at the age of fifty-nine. Mr.
Waite started with the department as a
playground leader and came up through
the ranks until he was recreation com-
missioner prior to his resignation in

1959.

} NEW OFFICERS of the American Rec-
reation Society who took oflicc Novem-
ber 1 are: President. William Frede-
rickson, J r.. (see also Page 446); Pres-
ident-Elect, Dr. Edith Ball: First Vice
President, Edward Thacker: Second
Vice-President. Stewart Case; Treas-
urer. Louis Twardzik: Assistant Treas-
urer. Graham Skea: and Secretary.
Henry Swan.

} PROCEEDINGS of the Fifth World For-
estry Congress. the most comprehensive
compilation of world forestry knowl-

449

edge in existence, are now being pub-
lished, according to Dr. V. L. Harper,
chairman of the Congress Executive
committee. Directing the compilation
and editing is the US. Forest Service.
The congress was held in Seattle, Wash-
ington, August 29-September 10, 1960.
The proceedings cover a wide variety of
forestry subjects.

MEETINGS

} THE FOURTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING
of the Gerontological Society, Inc., will
be held November 9-11, at the Penn-
Sheraton Hotel in Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-

vania.

) THE ANNUAL CONFERENCE of the

American Occupational Therapy Asso-
ciation is being held at the Sheraton-

Cadillac Hotel, Detroit, Michigan, No-
vember 6-8.

> THE FOURTH ANNUAL TRAINING IN-
STITUTE of the Society of Directors of
Municipal Recreation Of Ontario is tak-
ing place at Vineland, November 9-11.
It’s theme: “Communications.”

> THE FOURTH NATIONAL FILM FESTI-
VAL is announced by the Educational
Film Library Association, for April 25-
28. It will be held at the Hotel Biltmore
in New York City. All 16MM films and
35MM filmstrips released in the United
States in 1961 are eligible. It would be
wonderful if the recreation field could
enter enough films to establish a recre-
ation category. Entries must be filed
with EFLA by midnight, January 20,
1962. Forms may be obtained from
EFLA at 250 W. 57th Street, New York

19.

* i- i- l-

> CHILDREN’S ART MONTH will be ob-
served again in March 1962. It is en-
dorsed by the National Art Education
Association and Sponsored by the Cray-
on, Water Color and Craft Institute.
The latter will supply a reprint, Chil-
dren’s Art M onth—An Opportunity for
Art Education, and a multilith sheet on
Planning a Successful Children’s Art
Exhibit upon receipt of a stamped, self-
addressed envelope. The Institute’s ad-
dress is 420 Lexington Avenue, New

York 17.

> THE NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT
OF PARKS AND COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
have entered into a long-term lease au-
lhorizing construction by Columbia Of
an $8,000,000 university gymnasium
and community recreation center at the
south end Of Morningside Park. In ad-
dition to paying the city an annual
rental for the use of the land, the uni-
versity will raise funds for the con struc-
tion of a building and will arrange and
supervise an organized schedule of ac-
tivities for the community center. Co-

450

lumbia, at its expense, will staff, oper-
ate, and furnish heat for the community
center, and the parks department will
maintain and repair that portion of the
interior used by the community.

) A NEW JOURNAL, Freie Zeit—Recre-
ation in Europa, is being published in
Stuttgart, Germany, and is “dedicated
to the service of our modern society in
the field of leisure time.” For further
information, write to Verlag Karl Hof-
mann, Schorndorf bei Stuttgart, Post-

fach 49, West Germany.

D MORE AMERICANS took to the hills—
and seashores——-during 1960 than in
any preceding year, a fifty-state De-
partment of the Interior survey has dis-
closed. Conducted by the National
Park Service at the request of the Na-
tional Conference on State Parks. the
survey shows that visits to state parks
and related recreation areas totaled

259,000,000 during 1960, exceeding by
nearly 3,700,000 the record set in 1959.
Attendance in national parks in 1960
totaled more than 72,000.000 for a
grand total of 331,000,000 visits Of

Americans and foreign guests in an-
swering the lure Of mountains, lakes.

and seashore, according to National

Park Service Director Conrad L. Wirth
(see also Page 451).

A booming popularity in camping
was reflected in a gain of eighteen per-
cent in “camper days” Of those using
tents and trailers, compared tO a slight
gain of half a percent in use of day
facilities at the state parks. Participat-
ing in the survey were ninety-five agen-
cies in the fifty states, which maintain
2664 parks and other recreation areas.
Their compilations disclosed that since
1946 state park attendance has zoomed
from approximately 92,500,000 visits
in 1946 to 1960’s total Of 259,000,000.
Visits to national parks increased in the

same period from nearly 22,000,000 to
more than 72,000,000.

) FOUNDATION GRANTS for recreation as
reported in Foundation News of July
1961 are as follows (grants of less than
$10,000 and renewal grants were not
generally listed) : Aiken Foundation,
$10,000 for Florence, South Carolina,
to encourage civic interest in horticul-
tural and floral beauty; Grand Rapids
Foundation, Michigan, $20,000 to John
Ball Park ZOO, for construction of multi-
purpose building; Hanna (Leonard C.)
Jr. Fund, Ohio, $2,000,000 to city of
Cleveland for construction of mall plaza
over underground exhibition hall; In-
dianapolis Foundation, $50,000 tO F lan-
ner House toward construction of com-
munity education-recreation center;
James Foundation, $25,000 to Christo-
dora House, New York City, for current
work; and $40,000, Federation Of Jewish

Pittsburgh Department of Parks and
Recreation for three-year tree planting
program; and $362,000, Highland Park,
Pennsylvania, Zoo for subterranean zoo
for nocturnal animals; West Point
Foundation, Georgia, $54,500 to Chame
bers County Board of Education for de-
velopment of recreation center at Rebo-

beth Negro High School, Alabama;
Wickes (Harvey Randall) Foundation,
Michigan, $10,000 tO city Of Saginaw
for enlargement of Wickes Park; Will-
son (Alfred L.) Charitable Foundation,
$25,000 to United Community Council,
Ohio, toward land purchase for camp.
Grants to youth agencies during the
same period numbered roughly fifty-
three agencies, and included among
others: Boys Clubs, Girls Clubs, Play
Schools Association, youth centers,
Girl Scouts, YMCA’S and YWCA’S, Boy
Scouts, camps, Camp Fire Girls, PALS,
and others.

) BOND ISSUES: The Pennsylvania Rec-
reation Society Newsletter reports on
bond issues around the state include:

ERIE—Recently approved a $650,000

bond issue for the construction of a
municipal golf course.

SHENANDOAH BOROUGH in Schuykill
County has set $50,000 aside for im-

provements to recreation areas.

Philanthropies of New York for Suffolk
County day-camp building for Greater
New York children; Sciafe (Sarah
Mellon) Foundation, $15,000 to city of
UPPER DARBY in Delaware County has‘
approved $40,000 for the construction
Of streets, signals, etcetera, including
land acquisition and improvement of
land for parks purposes.

} A NEW HIGH Of 2,833,298 youngsters
participated in baseball leagues and
teams in 1961, according tO a youth
baseball survey conducted by the Ath-
letic Institute, as reported in its bulle-
tin, Sportscope.

} THE FACT that only ten percent Of
comic books examined during the past
year before publication needed correc-
tion tO meet established standards was
recently announced by Mrs. Guy Percy
Trulock, administrator of the Comics I
Code Authority. Her office reviewed

1,040 comic books.

} A SUMMARY REPORT of the Commis- |
sion on the Rights, Liberties, and Re-
sponsibilities Of the American Indian,
A Program for Indian Citizens, is avail- .
able from the commission, Route 3, Box
3030, Albuquerque, New Mexico. 
Single copies are free. One of the com- .
mission’s members, W. W. Keeler, is at
present chairman of the task force ap-
pointed by Interior Secretary Udall tO
recommend a program for American

Indians. *

§
RECREATION

 

 

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

A MEASURE 0F SUCCESS

Conrad L. Wirth

AS A BOY, there was not an acre of

woodland that I didn’t personally
claim for my own, and I stood ready to
defend it against all Indians, outlaws,
wild animals, or other interlOpers.
There is no disputing the eminent do-
main of a small boy; he needs no gen-
eral warranty deed; his estate is carved
out of the universe in fee simple.

Strangely enough, many years later, I still have the same
feeling—that every acre of Open space is mine, and I am
either pleased when the occupant of the land has taken
prideful care in preserving it, or I am righteously indignant
when he has allowed his land to become gullied and eroded
or sacrifices it to unplanned urban expansion. It is not
that I am covetous when I claim this personal ownership.
In essence, it is an attitude that I feel every American should
have. The farm I do not own is still mine to enjoy visually
because it is part of the American landscape, and I feel a
deep personal loss when I see a beautiful natural setting
leveled for development.

Unlike Don Quixote, I do not intend to challenge the
bulldozer to mortal combat. I recognize that landowners
cannot be blamed entirely for responding to the dynamics
of a changing economy. I am concerned, however, about
the vanishing recreation opportunities in America and about
the steps we must take to reverse this trend.

The ceaseless motion and transformation of our society
calls for a dynamic and forward moving program to meet
new demands brought on by changing developments. I am
especially concerned with the paradox of rising population
and vanishingiopen Space, further complicated by the in-
creasing demand for this self-same Space in response to in-
creased leisure time and money to be spent in recreational

pursuits.

 

CITIES RESPOND to population pressures by expanding up-
ward as well as outward. How convenient it would be

if we could just expand our natural parks vertically as well
as horizontally. As a matter of logic, however, there is no
substitute for extensive open space, and once it has been
developed the price of reclaiming it becomes prohibitive—
even assuming that we could restore the original natural
value. Thus, we have the dual problem of acquiring addi—
tional recreation lands now while they are still available

 

MR. WIRTH is director of the National Park Service.

NOVEMBER, 1961

How do we achieve individual satisfaction

when there are so many to satisfy?

and of protecting the parks we already have against en-
croachment.

We cannot say that all urban expansion to date has been
undisciplined and without plan. On the contrary, there have
been hundred of plans behind our urban renewal projects,
our growing suburbs, and our expanding system of high-
ways. The obvious weakness has been a lack of coordina-
tion. The need now is to draw all of these plans together,
insofar as they are related, into a cooperative national plan
in which all levels of government, individual citizens and
civic groups will participate. It is my sincere belief that
adequate parks and recreation areas go hand in hand with
good public policy and sound government.

I see the job of park-minded people as being more than
just the administration of parks—our job is to see that
provision is made f0r outdoor recreation opportunities ade-
quate for all the people. And it is not a job solely for the
national government, or for the state government, or for
the local government, or for individual citizens and civic
groups alone. It is a cooperative effort in which we must
join unselfishly—but the individual rewards will be great.

Our objectives, of course, depend on our individual con-
cept of recreation. My own philosophy has always followed
the democratic principle of the greatest good for the great-
est number, but this does not mean that each area must
meet the needs of everyone. I favor a recreation plan that
will be truly balanced in quality and one that will reSpond
adequately to the needs of our high urban population den-
sities. At the same time, the ultimate success of such a plan
must be measured in terms of individual satisfaction.

HOW DO WE ACHIEVE individual satisfaction when there

are so many to satisfy? We need a variety of public
parks and recreation areas, ranging in kind and location
from remote wilderness to highly developed playgrounds
near densely populated areas. I would like to see the Na-
tional Park System rounded out in sufficient breadth to por-
tray the major exhibits of our natural and cultural heritage
—the best scientific and biological exhibits, characteristic
and spectacular views, historic monuments, and natural mu-
seums. These would include, among others, natural sea-
shores, free-flowing streams, prairies, swamplands, moun-
tains, deserts, canyons, and wilderness areas. These would
be the irreplaceable exhibits and treasures that are of na-
tional interest and which we want to pass on to future gen-

erations unimpaired.
Then, I would like to see throughout the nation a system

451

of parks and recreation areas in sufficient depth to provide
all segments of our present and future population with ade-
quate nonurban areas near their homes for frequent day
and weekend use, as well as remote areas for vacation use.
At the same time I am particularly concerned about the fact
that the numbers of campgrounds for our youngsters are in-
adequate for the demand. No matter how our population in-
creases, the amount of land remains the same. Moreover,
the capacity of the land is limited and~with the numbers of
young campers certain to increase, more and more sites are
needed. This is an area where private enterprise is render-
ing exceptional public service, supplemented by organiza-
tion and government programs. It is only through family
camping and organized group camping that many of our
youngsters today obtain their most lasting impressions of
nature and outdoor living. In planning for our future needs,
let us, therefore, assure the perpetuation of our conservation
ideals through our children by providing them with ade-
quate camping opportunities to develop an appreciation of
the great outdoors.

L ET US ALSO CONSIDER the dynamics of our motorized
population. We must continue to give increasing at-
tention to highways and roads of the nation. As Secretary
Udall recently stated: “We can do a better job of wedding
roads and recreation. It has seemed to us there has been
too much tendency in the past to keep them in separate
compartments. Our country badly needs a modern high-
way system; but, above all, it deserves a system that works
with nature and makes our highways places of beauty and
recreation as well as avenues of commerce.” '

I would like to. see included in all future highway rights-
of-way hundreds of acres, here and there along the route,
selected for scenic advantages and providing areas for fu-
ture campsites, picnic areas, or historical and scenic turn-
outs. These would provide pleasant variety and opportunity
to enjoy motor travel on the ride-a-while, stop-a-while basis.
Additional campgrounds and other attractions of scenic and
historical nature en route mean that vacation motorists will
be able to enjoy the entire trip instead of driving hard and
fast each day in order to reach a destination—ma park for
instance—where thousands of others have congregated. The
important thing is to acquire the necessary Open space at
the same time the right-of-way is acquired; development
can follow at a more leisurely pace.

WE CANNOT EXPECT future generations——fifty to a bun-
dred years from now—to do retroactively what we
fail to do now. The next ten years are crucial. Within the

l
next forty years the population of our country will prob- .

ably double. In setting aside these areas—and the present
area of the present National Park System is less than one
percent of the land of the United States—it is not a question
of holding lands idle; it is a question of devoting exception-
ally attractive and significant sites to the kinds of use that
will make the adjoining lands more valuable, stimulate com-
merce and its related employment, and, at the same time,
make it possible for ourselves and our descendants to en-
joy these choice places as we have enjoyed them in the past.

We are not actually demanding very much. The princi-
pal question seems to be whether the. community, the state,
and the nation can find suitable means to set aside these
relatively small areas to keep as historic sites, parks, rec-
reation areas, and other attractive Open space for the people
of our country to enjoy fOr all time. The National Park
Service is presently cooperating at all levels of government
-—-local, state, and federal——in studying park and recreation
area needs of all the states, looking toward a nationwide
program that will provide adequate outdoor recreation op-
portunities for everyone.

While the primary responsibility of providing close-to-

,home recreation areas is largely that of local and state

governments, there is evident need for a concerted and co-
operative program involving all levels of government—par-
ticularly in planning and land acquisition. It is my per-
sonal feeling that the need for immediate acquisition of
lands for city, county, metropolitan, state and national
parks, including open spaces and shorelines, is such that
only a nationwide c00perative program of land acquisition
will suffice. Under present parkland acquisition programs,
park needs cannot be met. Moreover, with present financ-
ing, it does not appear possible to undertake an extensive
land acquisition program without the necessity for some kind
of federal grants-in-aid program. I am hopeful that some
means can be devised by which federal aid can be provided
for the acquisition of park and recreation lands by state,
regional, and local governments on a matching-fund basis.
We must remember that although such land acquisition will
be for the states and for local use, the problem remains a
national one, and aid now is actually an investment in the
future welfare of the entire nation.

Perhaps our success will best be measured one hundred
years from now when some small boy stands on an open
stretch of seashore or on a mountain top rising out of a
natural wilderness—monarch of all he surveys and wonder-
fully appreciative, but little realizing the struggle that went
into its preservation. #

 

A MERICANS OF TODAY are obviously farther from the outdoors and the qualities associated with
outdoor life than their fathers and grandfathers. The overpowering shift from a rural tO an
urban society has brought many benefits but it has had the unfortunate effect Of taking Americans
away from the environment which was so much a part Of their heritage. Asphalt and telephone
poles have replaced grass and trees in the lives Of tOO many Of our children. Is it possible that
West Side Story may be replacing Tom Sawyer as the leading tale Of American adolescents?—
LAURANCE S. ROCKEFELLER, Chairman, Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission.

 

452 /

WWW

RECREATION

   

l

 

  

l

l

 

o
a

De Soto Park was not really Hernando’s hideaway, just named in his honor.

 
   

Jefferson Davis

J. .l. ldubon

NAMED
FOR YOU?

Reese Wells

One way to accomplish this
is to donate land for one—
at least in Memphis,

Tennessee.

NOVEMBERL 1961

 

.’ ..‘ 1.

 

Hernando De Soto

Gen. Forrest

ANT TO JOIN the ranks of Her-
A A  R K nando DeSoto or Nathan Bed-

ford Forrest? It’s easy. Do-
nate land for a park. It’s about the only
way to perpetuate your name in the an-
nals of the Memphis Park Commission
while you are still around to enjoy it.
“We don’t generally name parks after
living people unless they’ve given us the
land,” explains H. S. Lewis, parks di-
rector.
The alternative is to be gone but not

forgotten.

This posed a problem when the City
Commission considered approval of the
names of two parks. Commission mem-

bers didn’t recall L. B. McFarland and

 

Reprinted from, The Commercial Ap-
peal, Memphis, Tennessee, March 9,

1961.

“1 ' o o
J. R. (:odwm, former parks commissmn
chairmen, whose names were to be used.

Mr. Lewis says there is no set rule
for naming parks. Many bear names of
famous people. Deb‘oto Park, of course,
honors the gentleman who discovered
the Mississippi River, presumably at
that spot—although many historians
will argue the point. Davis Park, also
overlooking the river, was named after
Jefferson Davis, president of the Con-
federate States of America which hap-
pily bombarded federal gunboats from
the spot where the park is now located.

Forrest Park got its name from rip-
roaring Nathan Bedford Forrest, Con-
federate cavalry general whose body
rests beneath the monument. Young-
sters play in Pershing Park, named af-
ter Gen. John “Blackjack” Pershing.
Courthouse employees look across the
street at a flyspeck of a park, Columbus
Park, named after (you missed) the
Knights of Columbus.

Parks also get their names from fa-
mous artists. Audubon Park, which the
late E. H. Crump, Memphis political
leader, wanted named Bluebird Park,
got its name from the bird painter
James Audubon.

HOWEVER, park names are not re-

served solely for the nationally
known. The park commission has fre-
quently borrowed names of Memphians
who have made civic contributions.
Overton Park was named after John
Overton who bought the land for the
city. Galloway Park hears the name of
the late Robert E. Galloway, once chair-
man of the park commission.

Negroes have been included. Most
Memphians are familiar with W. C.
Handy and Tom Lee but some, includ-
ing members of the City Commission.
might scratch their heads when asked
about Robert Howse Park. “He
trimmed the roses in the sunken gar-
dens,” says Mr. Lewis.

Attorney Walter Chandler, former
mayor and l'nited States Representa-
tive, has a park bearing his name. For-
mer Mayor Frank Tohey’s park is at
Central and Flicker. The park commis-
sion has bought the old Cobb tract
south of Municipal Airport as McKellar

453

Park, for the late Senator Kenneth D.
McKellar.

GEOGRAPHY offers a clue for naming

some parks. South Side naturally
is in South Memphis. Clenview is in the
Glenview community, same as Charjean
is in the Charjean community. Now
that the park commission buys land
jointly with the Memphis Board of Ed-
ucation for park-school use (at a sav-
ings of about twenty-five percent, Mr.
Lewis reminds) a new source of names

is available. Logically, Sherwood Park
and Sherwood School are on the same
grounds.

Finding suitable names is a growing
occupation with Mr. Lewis. In the last
fifteen years, Memphis has increased
its recreation facilities from fifty-eight
parks with twelve hundred acres to one-
hundred-fifty parks with 3,750 acres.
This amounts to about .65 acres of land
per one hundred persons compared
with a recommended ratio of one acre
per one hundred persons.

Donating land is a fine way to in-
crease the ratio—a civic gesture merit-
ing the recognition one receives by hav-
ing a park named in his honor. It’s too
costly, though, for the average impe—
cunious citizen.

Sam M. Williamson found a way
around that in 1926. He buttonholed
residents in the neighborhood of Peach
and Tutwiler to contribute money for
land. What could the park commission
do? “It named the park after him,”
says Mr. Lewis. #

 

ART for
JOHNNY ’S
SAKE

William R. Fortner

A is for art, B is for bus, and C is for the Cleveland M u-

seum of Art, according to children in Euclid, Ohio,
where the recreation department has developed a program
of “Art for Johnny’s Sake”—or Mary’s, or any other Euclid
child for that matter. Realizing that a municipal recreation
department has a reSponsibility to provide for the cultural,
as much as for any other emphasis in a balanced program
for leisure activity, the Euclid department has included art
education among its numerous endeavors.

On Saturady morning at 9:15 AM a chartered bus leaves
the parking area behind the Euclid City Hall on an eight-
mile jaunt to the Cleveland Museum of Art. On board are
the driver, a supervisor, and fifty children. The bus ride has
become a novel part of the program with song fests en route
and home-packed box lunches on the return trip. The Euclid
Recreation Department office and the supervis0r prepared
a songbook folder with the children’s favorite songs in-
cluded.

Upon arriving at the museum the children, all above six
years of age, are taken to classes, determined by their age
and grade. Often classes are held on the newly constructed
terrace. Part of the two-hour stay at the museum is spent
learning art skills under the expert care and with the skilled
guidance of a museum supervisor. The remainder of the
time is used f0r visits to the many museum galleries. The
armor room brings the most response from the children,

 

THE REV. FORTNER was recreation supervisor for the Euclid,
Ohio, Recreation Department before becoming minister of
education at E pworth-Euclid Methodist Church in Cleveland.

454

with many other corridors also conjuring up bygone days
of adventure and daring. The children are permitted to use
the galleries as an authentic studio where they may create
their own impressions of the visit.

Three times a year new classes are begun. The children
attend on alternate Saturdays during the fall and winter
sessions, with a group going every week, thus allowing one
hundred children to participate in the program at a given
time. Since the program’s inception six years ago, over five
hundred children have had the benefit of professional in-
struction at this leading cultural institution.

The values are numerous. The program allows the con-
structive use of the children’s leisure time. It is centered
on a definite interest and skill, yet is broad enough to be of

 

help to the casually interested as well as the budding artists.
It is an added assist to the school art curriculum.

With the museum located in the cultural center of Cleve-
land, there is opportunity for the growing child to see the
intellectual “nerve center” of his metropolis. Certainly the
program contributes to the child simply by bringing him
to such a magnificent building, which soon becomes more
than just a building, but an idea in action. All too often,
suburban children are close to the many fine opportunities
of a large city, yet the very proximity seems to be a barrier.

All too often, suburban children are close to the many fine
opportunities of a large city, yet the very proximity seems
to be a barrier. Euclid students interested in art have no
cause to inquire as to where or what is the Cleveland Mu-
seum of Art. The Euclid Recreation Department offers am-
ple opportunity for “Art for Johnny’s Sake.” #

RECREATION

From the 43rd

National Recreation Congress—

THE
DYNAMICS

OF

PRO GRAMIN G

Dan W. Dodson

Keynote speech sums up
the basic considerations
for recreation program

planning in today’s world

upon an understanding of the dynamics of the era

in which we live. We are overdue for a new look at
the leisure-recreation concept as we have known it. There
are perhaps three reasons why this is necessary:

First, the nature of the workweek has changed. Man now
has seventy-two waking hours of leisure and forty of work,
whereas he formerly had seventy hours of work and forty
of leisure. Stated another way, one hundred years ago the
average American workman had just a little more than thirty
minutes of leisure for each work hour. Now he has almost
has two hours leisure for each hour of work. The question
now is, “How much recreation does modern man need?”
Obviously, leisure has far outstripped the recreation needs
to which it was so completely devoted in the past.

A second reason is implicit in the nature of the change of
work itself. In the past work was the principal way through
which most people achieved their self-realization. It was
thought that people had special aptitudes or “bents” and
that these, if discovered and followed, would lead the indi-
vidual to his self-fulfillment. John Dewey would have con-
tended that these talents were not “natural”; that they were
brought out by the interaction of the person with his groups,
but that a total life would be integrated “in terms of a call-

DYNAMIC PROGRAMING IN today’s agencies depends

 

DR. DODSON is director of the center for human relations
and community studies at New Y ork Universzty.

NOVEMBER, 1961

ing, a vocation.” Many felt that one was called to his voca-
tion 1n the same way that the priesthood was called, and that
serv1ce through work was as virtuous as service through

any of the helping professions. One famous layman’s for-
mula for a self-fulfilled life was, “Make all you can, Save
all you can, Give all you can.”

Today, this concept of work is rapidly passing. For the
vast body of labor in America, work is no longer self-ful-
filling. One reason is that status has changed from being
vested in skill and excellence of artisanship to status being
based on capacity to consume. A second reason for work
no longer being a vehicle for self-fulfillment is the changed
nature of production. Robot production has relegated man
to the sideline. He sees the machines deprive him of that
which 'gave life meaning and purpose; namely, work.

THE THIRD REASON for the new look at the leisure-recrea-

tion problem is closely allied with automation. It is
the growing pattern of bureaucratization which structures
the work life of so many in the helping professions and
service trades. Giantism in production, which is probably
necessary if we are to continue to have the standard of liv-
ing we now enjoy, produces giantism in labor and in gov-
ernment. In order to administer such a structure there has
appeared a vast army of bureaucrats. These are persons
whose jobs are carefully prescribed in fine print in manuals;
whose promotion is more dependent upon seniority than
upon performance; whose perogatives and responsibilities
are those of the ofiice, rather than the person; and they re-
late to each other in a chain of command which pyramids
to the t0p administrator. Increasingly, community service
is provided by such persons who have no part in making
the policies which guide them, and whose aspirations are
limited by the knowledge that their upward progress is or-
dered and often circumscribed. The narrow training to do
one specific job leads to lack of integration of perspective
and over-conformity. Above all else, bureaucracy tends to
1'outin_iz__£jobs of those in thh public and private employ,
s0_~t;h’§.t-1he-trend-is._awayfrom seeking theiullillment of self
fggmhgjLIncreasingly the job is fgll0\s'ed for a live-
liho$and in the remainder of otherwise unoccupied time,
the individual must look for the self-realizations which will
lead—to shanghai/es.

Thus, there has combined the shortening of the work
week, so that leisure as a time for re-creation is oversub-
scribed, and the change in the pattern of work, making it
necessary for increasingly large numbers of people to find
in sources other than work the opportunity to develop those
“bents” which are uniquely theirs. Hence, the professional
leadership needed to serve this newly developed aspect of
American life must possess competencies which are not by
any means entirely re-creational in nature—although the
undue emphasis still placed on athletic activities indicates
that too, too many of our program designers have not recog-
nized this profound change which leadership is called upon
to meet. Dynamic programing will, of necessity, continue
to meet the very real need of assisting people to find those
outlets from work which will provide in a part of their lei-
sure time the recreation of body and soul in the varied as-

455

sortment of activities which meet their interests. On the
other hand, a program which concentrated solely upon rec-
reation objectives would miss the point of this transforma-
tion of the life of America. (See also Page 460 for a frank

discussion of this matter.)

A REAL CHALLENGE to programing comes from the changes

in group living. Since World War II there has been a
tremendous movement toward homogeneity in group living.
A few of these trends are: ‘

Residential Living. A major number of the residences
created since the war have been in projects large enough to
have an identity of their own, built to attract a homogene-
ous population. Fundamentally, they have been of two types;
on the one hand, suburban developments erected on a mass
scale; or urban-renewal projects within the inner cities,
built, again, sufficiently large to have an identity of their
own and be homogeneous in nature. An illustration of the
suburban pattern in the New York area would include Levit-
town on Long Island where six-and-a-half square miles of
potato fields in 1947 were transformed by 1954 into fifteen
thousand houses for forty-five thousand people. All were
beginning families, all of a narrow segment of income. This
community is where young couples with modest incomes
go to make their start. Once the family is on the way, a
third bedroom is needed, and, if the expected promotions
come through, the family moves to the next type of special-
ized neighborhood—the project with the three bedrooms,
most often of split-level architecture. Here is a community
again with homogeneous age and family status peoples, that
has an entity all its own.

In the inner city a comparable thing happens. New York
City is the extreme example, but its pattern indicates the
trend elsewhere. Practically all urban renewal is of a proj-
ect nature, large enough to be identified as a neighborhood
of its own, designed to serve a homogeneous population.
Whether it is Stuyvesant Town, built by Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company to serve thirty-five thousand middle-
income people; Penn Station South, designed to serve ten
thousand low-middle-income people as a cooperative; or
Grant Houses, erected to serve seventy-two hundred low-in-
come people, who must move as soon as their income im-
proves—the story is ‘the same. The agencies which provide
services of a neighborhood nature are faced with dealing
\ with a homogeneous population.

4/ Increased segregation on a faith basis. Even where
peoples are brought together as neighbors, there is no guar-
antee that they will associate with each other except where
they are members of the same faith. Churches are rapidly
becoming community centers for the flock. Too many are
becoming places where upwardly mobile people find a safe,
respectable association which is endlessly involved in meet-

Protestant, we are moving toward a triadic culture in which
we make a tri-faith approach to community life, instead of
an interorganizational or interpersonal one. Dynamic pro-
graming in the years ahead will have to learn to deal sensi-
tively with these pressures. In the name of “moral and
spiritual values,” “God and country” and other slogans, we
foster faith differences by marching Catholic and Protestant
children in one direction at meals and Jewish children in
another at many camps. On Sundays we divide them up and
march each faith in a different direction to worship in many
of our modern recreation facilities. Religion is a basis of
grouping in American life, and any dynamic programing
had better be sensitive to it.

Grouping On a Racial Basis. The great migration of
Negroes and Spanish-speaking peoples to the larger cities
of America has accentuated segregation. In spite of a Su-
preme Court decision in 1954 desegregating public educa-
tion and most other facilities, the defacto segregation is more
pronounced perhaps than at any other time in America. In
part, this stems from segregation in neighborhood living;
in part, it grows out of other patterns of homogeneous
grouping which makes associations across lines of racial
identity difficult. The great challenge to leaders dealing with
use of leisure time will be to learn how to provide intelligent
leadership in communities torn by tension, those deadlocked
in power fights between the groups, and those which are
mandated by public policy, including law, to desegregate
against the wishes of the dominant power groups of the local
community.

Age is another significant aspect of homogeneous
groupino'. Reisman and Whyte have written tellingly of
the passing of inner direction as a part of American char-
acter, and its being replaced by “outer” or “peer group”
direction. One author seems to think this is due to the age
change of the population, and the attendant passing over
to a consumer society. The other thinks it is in no small

part because of the passing of the Protestant ethic. I doubt
if either are correct.

I believe the reason for “peer group” domination is be-
cause of the “peer grouping” which has dominated practi-
cally every aspect of American life in the past fifty years.
For instance, when I went to my first school in the back-
woods of Northeast Texas we had only one teacher for the
thirty pupils. This teacher taught all the community’s chil-
dren from the first grade as far as the student wanted to go,
which was usually the seventh grade. While she did not
teach as much content as do modern schools, she would, by
comparison, not come off too badly—especially if she were
compared to teachers in some of the changing inner city
neighborhoods.

Today, a teacher claims she can’t teach unless the chil-
dren are homogeneously grouped on achievement tests and

59.1-

she has the “bluebird” section—leaving the “peckerwoods \
l
to someone else. I never cease to be amazed that the older};

ings of the brotherhoods, sisterhoods, and church suppers,
but seems to serve only the same exclusive clientele. Instead

of churches being places where dedicated peOple meet to
marshall resources and deepen commitment to move out to
change life, they seem to be becoming a sanctuary from life.

Will Herberg has pointed out that now since it is also
respectable in America to be Catholic or Jew as well as

456

boys in my neighborhood take the younger ones in tow when
they are quite young, and teach them how to figure baseball
percentages before the teachers can teach them to do simple
multiplication. We have so homogenized in grouping that

Continued on Page 485‘
K

RECREATION

 

HOMEBOUND HOLIDAY

A heart-warming story of how a

group of severely handicapped adults,

previously homebound, are helped

' : to tackle a farm vacation

Morton Thompson

HIS JULY, TWO station wagons ar-
T rived at a farm in Pennsylvania.

The vacation-bound passengers
were seven severely handicapped per-
‘ sons who had been homebound until a
year ago. They were part of a group
participating in a pilot project con-
cerned with meeting the social and psy-
chological needs of the handicapped
through recreation experience. This
project is being conducted by the Na-
tional Recreation Association for the

US. Oflice of Vocational Rehabilitation:

Seven patients plus the mother of one
and wife of another, went on the week’s
vacation to Harvest Moon Farm near
Stroudsburg, in the Pennsylvania Po-
conos. The project director, his wife,
and a member of the project staff su-
pervised the trip. The wife of one of the
patients who was a registered nurse was
a valuable addition to the group. Three
other patients who were to go on this
trip changed their minds a few days be-
fore the trip date. Many of the home-
bound are timid, withdrawn, and are
afraid of leaving their home base.

The patients, six women and one
man, represented a variety of physical
and emotional disabilities. These in-
cluded heart and circulatory cases, an
arthritic, 'one neurological case, a multi-
ple-sclerosis victim, a double amputee,
two cases each with one lung and ar-
rested tuberculosis, and an elderly lady
of eighty-two with a heart and hip con-

 

DR. THOMPSON is acting director of the
National Recreation Association Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the Ill
and Handicapped and director of the

- ‘ Association’s Homebound Project.

' NOVEMBER, 1961

Two were wheelchair cases.
These people had different- religious
backgrounds, an age range from the
thirties into the eighties, and an edu-
cational range from no formal educa-
tion to a master’s degree.

In planning for this vacation trip, the
director first had to find a place that
would accept the handicapped. After
writing to thirty farm resorts in three
states he screened afiirmative replies

dition.

and narrowed them down to the few
that seemed most adaptable as regards
location, levelness of terrain, steps in-
volved in cottages, etcetera. After con-
sidering all elements and after several
letters and long-distance calls, the di-
rector selected Harvest Moon Farm and
made a trip to the Poconos to make final
arrangements. The Harvest Moon man—
agement not only rented the project
three cottages but built several ramps
which would make it possible for the
wheelchair patients to get in and out
of their cottage without difficulty.

0N JULY 29th, 1961, two special
Volkswagen station wagons
brought the group to the farm cottages.
Then began a momentous experience
for this group of handicapped, a ma-
jority of whom had never been in the
country. Here was a group who before
entering this pilot project in recreation
a year before were homebound, with-
drawn, unhappy, too shy and lacking
in confidence to attempt physical and
social activity.

The patients took to country living
like ducks to water. They shared the
cooking, cleaning, and other household
duties. The daily activities were rarely

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

 

organized, yet informally they took an
active or passive role in swimming,
boating, games, cards, discussions, fish-

ing, reading, knitting and other recrea-
tion activity.

The project director shopped daily
for the group’s food needs. Most of the
meals were prepared in their own cot-
tages. The evening meal was usually
a cookout with the staff alternating. A
large picnic table was placed between
two cottages making it physically ac-
cessible for all to eat the evening meal
together.

On Friday before the return trip to
New York City one station wagon ar-
rived in the morning to take the group
on a tour of areas of interest in the
Poconos and in the evening to a movie
in Stroudsburg.

PERHAPS these experiences would
seem routine for the average per-
son, but for this group, the results were
amazing. The young woman with ar-
rested TB, one lung missing, and asth-
ma, assumed leadership in preparing
meals, cleaning up, and seeing to the
group’s many individual needs. The
double amputee, who had not been in
the water for twelve years, swam once
again under the project director‘s prod-
ding and supervision. Each day he im-
proved in body balance, distance, and
confidence. The anlputee's wife, the
nurse, claimed that the project has had
a remarkable effect upon her husband
mentally, emotionally, and socially. as
well as making a real contribution in

making their life more bearable.
The young woman with multiple scle-
Continued on Page 478

457

NATIONAL
RECREATION ASSOCIATION
SERVICES . . .

 

ENCOURAGING
PERSONNEL

If you are a recreation executive, leader, or employer,
a college professor, or a student, you will be concerned
about recreation personnel-—-job opportunities, avail-
ability of qualified leaders, standards, professional
preparation, personnel policies and practices, and
trends in personnel administration. Therefore, you
will be interested in knowing how the National
Recreation Association serves your own needs
Through Its Personnel Service Which Reaches from

Coast to Coast and Overseas.

i
458 RECREATION

THE RECREATION PERSONNEL SERVICE OF THE NATIONAL
RECREATION ASSOCIATION is the national central Clearing-
house On matters pertaining to recreation personnel. Since
its organization fifty-five years ago, the Association, a serv-
ice organization for the recreation movement in America,
has operated a personnel service for the recreation field.
As need for Specialized personnel services has accelerated
during recent years, with the wider general acceptance of

1. Career Workers

An opportunity is provided for the individual to register
as a professional worker in the recreation field. This regis-
tration assures each person that, so long as he wishes, his
professional record will be maintained at Association head-
quarters. A standard personnel form, adapted for the place-
ment service, is used. As each person registers, he is classi-
fied according to education, experience, skills, and positions
desired. References are accumulated with the candidate’s
permission and filed for immediate or future use. Such in-

2. Communities

Park and recreation departments, hospitals, institutions,
voluntary agencies, civil service commissions, industries,
and the armed services turn to the Recreation Personnel
Service for consultation and advice. The central personnel
service maintains a constantly changing pool of people

3. Colleges and Universities

The Association keeps in touch with colleges and uni-
versities and continues to provide opportunities for their
graduates to register for personnel service. Association
staff members visit schools for the purpose of interviewing
students and advising them with reference to the field. Uni-
versities are assisted with problems related to their recrea-

i NOVEMBER, 1961

recreation as a public service, the NRA Recreation Person-
nel Service has grown and extended its services accordingly.
It serves managing authorities, public and private recreation
agencies, prospective employers, and professional leaders in
the interest of expanding and enriching the recreation move-
ment. Its staff works throughout the year recruiting, regis-
tering, classifying, and assisting in the placement of recrea-
tion workers. It offers Specialized services for:

formation is made available with the candidate’s permission
and in accordance with his wishes. Periodic checkup ques-
tionnaires make it easy for workers in the field to keep the
cumulative record up-to-date.

Guidance, counseling, and response to inquiries regard-
ing professional opportunities, sources of training, types
of positions, job requirements, worker qualifications, sal-
aries, working conditions and trends are important supple-
mentary services.

qualified for and interested in recreation positions of many
types in all geographical areas of the country. Employers
may draw from this group of people, and Recreation Per-
sonnel Service will assist in various ways in accordance
with their wishes.

tion curriculums and are kept informed regarding the de-
mand for leaders and the types of positions available.
Up-to-date lists of colleges Offering major recreation cur-
riculums are maintained and made available. and their train-
ing programs are interpreted to prospective students. enl-
ployers, and to the recreation profession.

459

CRITIQ UE o n RECREA TION‘

Harold B. White, Jr.

IT Is NOT without pride that those

within the ranks of organized com-
munity recreation look upon the past
two decades as successful and satisfy-
in terms of leadership, facilities, and
program. Today, through the efforts of
professional leadership, thousands of
towns and cities have taken advantage
of public assistance in the deveIOpment of organized pro-
grams. However, at the same time, the development of com-
mercial recreation and the do-it-yourself attitude of the pub-
lic toward recreation has all but eclipsed the relatively lim-
ited efforts of public recreation. This paradox is continu-
ously becoming more apparent; open-minded investigation
is imperative.

A community of twenty thousand has a recreation budget
of $30,000 which is, at best, inadequate. Yet, observe where
the real money is going for recreation. Here are but a few
examples: The local bowling alley, resplendent in every at-
tractive way, will gross a minimum of $64,000 per annum
on leagues alone. Local veterans’ groups will spend $60,000
on new buildings and facilities. The motion picture houses
will gross many thousands more than the community rec-
reation budget. Members of country clubs and private or-
ganizations will spend far more for their privileges than
any recreation director would ever dream of asking in his
budget. The same citizen who would violently object to a
few more cents on his tax statement for recreation will turn
around and spend hundreds of dollars on the same type of
recreation the community recreation program could provide
for less than half what he is spending for the same purpose.
This attitude indicates that something is radically wrong
with the planning for and methods of carrying out public-
supported recreation programs.

 

THIRTY YEARS AGO, when many communities were becom-

ing concerned about recreation, our society was in the
midst of a depression and the general attitude was one of
working together to get the country on its feet. Federal
aid in a number of areas, such as CCC, NYA, PWA and
others, was instituted and recreation received a great boost.
Many of the facilities that were developed during that era
are still being used for recreation. This assistance was
needed, and it was very effective during a time when people
needed leisure-time activities to occupy their time and minds
in order to maintain at least a minimum of emotional sta-
bility. Community projects developed within this atmos-
phere and the need for recreation was being felt more than
ever. Even during this era of depression, it is interesting to
note that in spite of greatly lowered individual incomes,

MR. WHITE is associate professor of physical education at
Pennsylvania State University in University Park.

460

commercial enterprises thrived—movies made money, and
miniature golf brought out thousands. However, since the
depression a number of changes have taken place in our
society which would seem to dictate changes in recreation
programing (see also Page 455). But corresponding changes
in public recreation have not come about; in fact, the
present-day recreation outlook in many ways is geared to
the 1930’s instead of the 1960’s.

Most people are aware of the major changes that have
come about since the mid-30’s, but many fail to realize the
impact of these changes relative to the basic principles and
philosophies of recreation. It is not being suggested that
basic philosophies and attitudes be compromised, but it is
suggested that a reevaluation of recreation progress be made
in an objective manner so that public recreation can be
brought up to date and adjusted to present-day society.

RECREATION HAS ALWAYS BEEN IDEALISTIC in its attitude
that a community recreation program, tax-supported
at $6.00 per capita,- would provide recreation for everyone.
There is no doubt that this figure can provide, according
to present standards, some leadership, a few facilities, and
a limited program, but evidently our society has different
ideas of what it wants to do with the recreation dollar. Ac-
cording to Fortune Magazine and a recent issue of Life
Magazine, recreation is big business in America today——
some forty billion dollars a year is estimated to be spent on
recreation pursuits. In both magazines, little attention is
paid to the efforts and effects of community or municipal
organized programs. There can be at least two obvious
conclusions:
0 That the total effort and the amount of money expended
in organized recreation is so minor in public interest and
economic significance that it may be disregarded in the
large view.
0 That the American public is chiefly interested in doing
what it wants to, when it wants to, and prefers to spend its
money on this basis rather than on community programs
of organized recreation.

These statements may come as a shock to many who have
devoted a lifetime in support of outdated recreation pro-
grams, but recreation will not progress unless it faces facts
and then plans accordingly. Quickly think through Life
Magazine’s special issue on “The Good Life” and see what
Americans are doing on their own. Actually, our present-
day society is filling its leisure time at a breakneck pace,
but on an individually chosen and paid for basis. Today,
the combined incomes of beef cattle and citrus fruit in
Florida do not compete with the income from the charter-
boat industry. We have enough automobiles so every Amer-
ican can ride in the front seat of an automobile even if all
took to the roads at the same time. Weekend skiing vaca—
tions are made to Europe.

RECREATION

 

' A reminder . . . Anyone taking issue with Mr. White’s challenging statements

is invited to do so on our Letters Page.

TODAY, instead of each little community being a self-suffi-

cient institution with the ideal of a packaged recreation
program being developed for its citizens, the globe is the
play area for some, the United States for many, the state
and county for multitudes; and the community recreation
program dogs along doing its best for a relatively few, op-
erating on a miserly budget, trying to justify its existence
by juggling attendance figures and “making do” with in-
adequate facilities and limited leadership. The community
schoolhouse lighted the year-round for recreation is no
longer a center of community action. Townships for miles
around send their youngsters to schools which are located
in distant areas accessible only by vehicle. These consoli-
dated schools, many of them planned with the idea of rec-
reation, have movable chairs, multi-purpose rooms, and
many wonderful facilities which can be used for recreation.

 

But these schools are not community schools and in many
respects are very difficult to adapt to a regular recreation
program. Also, with the steady increase in population, these
buildings are already filled to capacity and, shortly, may
have to be used on a double-shift basis for formal class
purposes.

In light of these tremendous expenditures by the public
for nontax-supported recreation, we should examine our
present programs and standards with a rather critical eye.
If forty billion dollars is being spent each year for recrea-
tion, wouldn’t it seem logical to think that those who have
had formal training in the promotion and supervision of
recreation should play an integral part? Today’s recreation
leaders like to think of themselves as educators of man in
the selective use of his ever increasing leisure time—yet
relatively few of the total public are ever seriously affected
by these teachers.

If, on the other hand, recreation were to take its cue
from commercial enterprise, it might find answers to finan-
cial and educational problems that it has been pondering
for many years. Let us consider recreation as an economic
resource, which it is—forty billion dollars worth—analyze
how this money is being spent and then see where and how
we fit into the picture. For years the recreation departments
have been submitting budgets with the hope of having them
accepted only to have them returned with the request that
costs be cut down. Is it not within the realm of possibility
that, through new programing and structural design. the
recreation department could have not only all the money it

NOVEMBER, 1961

wants, but even enough to help support other areas?
Through trial and error our American universities have al-
ready arrived at this position; for example, almost any self-
respecting college or university will have to admit that the
football team is no longer just an expensive item in the bud-
get but a vital interest which unifies students, faculty,
alumni, and even townspeople. In many universities its
p0pularity makes possible the financial maintenance of
many other areas of student activity. If, in some way, the
recreation departments could combine business with plea-
sure by promoting recreation on a dollars-and-cents basis,
not only would recreation leadership contact a greater per-
centage of the population but it would be able to stand on
its own two feet, directing expenditures rather than begging.
This sort of program would of course have many obstacles.

PRIVATE ENTERPRISE would not appreciate the competi-
tion of the community for the private recreation dollar,
and it would not be fair, in many cases, for the community
to operate on this basis where commercial recreation has
been firmly established. However, each community should
have some resource which has not been tapped. Name any
one of a hundred different activities. Somewhere each one
can be found to be earning hard cash for commercial enter-
prises. Surely each community should find some activity
which can be a “money crop” and start breaking ground.
Bowling is a billion-dollar-a-year business today because
of aggressive business acumen—not because of a desire to
provide family recreation in a wholesome atmosphere or
to give the office worker a little exercise. This is not meant
to be a refiection on the bowling industry, for it has done
an excellent job of promotion in an attractive way which
few recreation departments could duplicate or even attempt.
It is reasonable to suppose that, within the next decade,
other areas of sport and recreation activity will become
commercialized into money-making programs. Will the
recreation departments he in on the ground floor?

Last year in the New York Titties Magazine an article by
Bruce Bliven of Stanford University, “The Revolution of
the Joneses,” pointed out that the bulk of our society is now
decidedly middle-class. He states that in 1957, twenty-six
million taxpayers had a gross adjusted income of about
$156,000,000,000 or over half of the individual incomes.
It is generally recognized that families with money to spend
are more inclined to spend it upon recreation pursuits of
their own choosing, and usually these choices are. shaped
by atmOSphere, privacy, and convenience more than econ-
omy. If it only costs a dollar or so more to go first class.
that is the way most Americans will go.

ls it difficult to understand this apparent paradox of
American expenditures for recreation? Historically.
Americans have constantly directed their efforts toward

Continued on Page 485

461

 

ROM THE HUNDREDS OF CITIES throughout the United
F States entered in the 1960 competition for the All-

America City award, Santa Fe Springs, California, was
chosen. It was the youngest city ever to receive it. The com-
petition, cosponsored by Look Magazine and the National
Municipal League, is judged each year by a panel of na-
tionally prominent men and women.

In February 1960, four high-school youngsters traveled
to Springfield, Massachusetts, to tell the Santa Fe Springs
story to the judges. The youngsters presented the report
of citizen participation in local government so dramatically
that Santa Fe Springs was selected as one of the eleven
All-America Cities.

In 1957 when the city was incorporated, half of it was
within the boundaries of a park and recreation district,
but this represented only ten percent of the district’s pop-
ulation. The other half was under the jurisdiction of the
county parks and recreation department but had no pro-
gram or park facility. Therefore, it was almost completely
overlooked in programing and facility development.

The residential area of the new city was a series of

MRS. HEER was the jirst parks and recreation director of
Santa Fe Springs, is now interim director of recreation and

parks in Commerce, California.

The role of recreation in winning recognition

for a brand new municipality

The MAKING of an
ALL-AMERICA CITY

The author examines the results of a crafts
project conducted by the recreation department.

Gene Heer

tract developments. Incorporation had come about because
of the strong enthusiasm that existed among residents. This
enthusiasm f0r incorporation was transferred to a desire
for better recreation services and park development. A 10-
cal citizens’ committee was formed to investigate the situa-
tion. Then, the new city council formally appointed a citi-
zens” Park and Recreation Study Committee. As apart of
thisistudy, high-school students conducted a door-to-door
recreation-interest survey throughout the city. After eight-
een months of study, the committee completed axcomprehen-
sive report of the recreation situation, community needs,
interests, as well as recommendations for action. As a result
of one of these recommendations, the city formed a munici-
pal park and recreation department and assumed responsi-
bility for services at a new park which had been developed
with county funds.

The department began operation in 1959 and offered a
wide variety of scheduled weekly activities and special
events. Citizen participation continued in the planning, the
residents working as volunteers, and local civic and service
groups cosponsoring numerous city-wide special events,
with the cooperation of a recreation-minded city manager
and a city council willing to finance the best possible rec-
reation service.

Youth activities predominated since forty-five percent of

 

This year’s eleven All-America Cities included three
cities and one county specially cited for parks and rec-
reation progress:

Las Vegas, New Mexico: “Brightest signs of prog-
ress: a community swimming pool and a high-school
gymnasium.”

Worcester, Massachusetts: “. . . Citizens for Neigh-
borhood Improvement . . . (an organization of)
fifty-three neighborhood associations . . . grew from
a slum survey by students of Worcester Polytechnic
Institute . . . has upgraded health, housing, traffic,
and playground facilities.”

Salem, Oregon: “Citizens of the area . . . met
throughout 1959 to create a voluntary Intergovern-
ment Cooperation Council (ICC) and a program

called Massive Cooperation. During 1960, thirty-
two of the eighty-one recommendations of the ICC
were acted upon; eight major programs were started
in such fields as port development, parks, sewage
disposal and joint purchasing.”

Marin County, California: “A whole array of con.
servation groups have fought the subdividers and
encouraged creation of county, state, and federal
parks. . . . In Marin County, so far, beauty has been
the standard of excellence.”

Hearings for next year’s awards will be held during the
National Conference on Government, November 20-De-
cember 2, at the Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami Beach,
Florida. For applications, write to the National Munici-

pal League, 47 East 68th Street, New York 21.

 

462

RECREATION

the city population was under twelve years of age. The
women’s club cosponsored a bicycle safety rodeo featuring
safety demonstrations and riding events that attracted hun-
dreds of youngsters. Fifteen hundred people attended a
Sunday afternoon Mexican fiesta; the J ay-Cees cosponsored
a Halloween program; the G.I. Forum and Junior Chamber
of Commerce cosponsored, with the Parks and Recreation
Department, an Easter Egg Hunt. I

- Volunteer contribution extended beyond programing.
The Santa Fe Springs Baseball Association constructed two
complete Little League-size ball diamonds on land leased
by the city for industry. On this site, the association erected
backstops, dugouts, protective fencing, and constructed a
“snack shack” all by volunteer labor. The baseball program
conducted entirely with volunteer leadership is outstanding.
Coaches’ clinics sponsored by the department are good
shape-ups for rusty Dads.

In addition to the usual activities offered by a municipal
agency, the department initiated several others, including
conversational English classes for adults; good emergency-
mother substitutes, a training course for baby-sitters; dolly
tea party, a mother-daughter dress-up affair; charm, fash-

ion, and wardrobe planning classes; a Christmas toy party;
and a Twelfth Night observance.

A close working relationship developed between the city
and the various school districts within its boundaries, which,
in one year’s time, led to several dynamic programs, such
as plans for joint city-school development of recreation fa-
cilities on school sites, contractual arrangement whereby the

city conducts summer recreation program at the high school
and the costs are shared by the city and the school district.

Future department plans are centered on facility devel-
opment and include acquisition of more park sites; con-
struction of a swimming pool; building of a modern, air-
conditioned multipurpose recreation facility in the town
center; construction of a gymnasium-type building and
fieldhouse on two school sites; general development of
school sites for community recreation use according to exist-
ing plans for joint city-school district site deveIOpment.

The All-America City Awards are based upon citizen par-
ticipation in local government. Residents feel that the rec-
reation achievements of Santa Fe Springs contributed to
making it an All-America City. #

 

STORM CENTER

Evacuees find refuge, relief, and recreation as a hurricane raged

Mary Jane Lewis
at a later date.

THE STORY which unfolded in the

spacious comfort of the Municipal

they were to receive the other two shots

The health director and recreation

son, program director, were at the cen-

ter.
The recreation personnel supervised

 

Garden Center building of Tyler, Texas,
on September 12 was a story of emo-
tion—the varied emotions of some three
hundred refugees from the areas strick-
en by Hurricane Carla. At the Garden
Center, famed for its thousands of rose
plantings, the city of Tyler took a step
forward in another field-—the art of
open hands and open hearts. The cen-
ter provided refuge, relief, and recrea-
tion to the hurricane victims.

Within one and a half hours on the
afternoon of September 12, Dr. Jesse
Goldfeder, director of the Tyler-Smith
County health unit, gave more than one
hundred typhoid inoculations. To the
adults in the evacuee group, the shots
were a necessary thing-—a precaution
definitely to be taken before they re-
turned to their ravaged homes in South
Texas. The children in the group took
the shots as stoically as their parents——
with hardly a whimper from the littlest
tot up. The evacuees were given cards
to take back to their home towns where

_______________________.___..—-———-

MISS LEWIS is on the staff of the
Courier-Times and Morning Telegraph
in Tyler, Texas.

NOVEMBER, 1961

officials made plans to keep the Garden
Center open all that day Wednesday.
Children who had Spent the past several
days in cramped quarters romped
through the large area.

At one end of the central room, the
Red Cross workers were handing out
steaming cups of coffee and doughnuts.
Some of the refugees were sitting
around tables talking in quiet groups
while others read newspapers. Gerald
Emmons, athletic director of the Tyler
parks department and Mary Lynn Wat-

 

The center became a health center as
evacuees poured in fleeing the storm.

games and other activities for the chil-
dren. Two Ping-pong tables were in
continual use during the afternoon with
the ping of the balls constantly zipping
through the air. One room was set aside
for quiet games where couples watched
the rain while engaged in dominoes,
checkers, and other games—or just
read, listened to the radio, or watched
television. Some of the evacuees wan-
dered through the inside garden at the
Rose Center, looking at the shrubs and
birds.

But as the more than three hundred
refugees found comfort, recreation. and
typhoid shots in the municipal center——
with hundreds more coming to the cen-
ter September 13, the events and sights
provided a lesson and experience well
worth the trip to the center.

For the refugees. the experience was
one showing man’s generosity to others
in time of need; for the workers. the
afternoon was one full of satisfaction
gained by helping others. The on-
lookers saw the gratefulness of the evac-
uees and the eagerness of the helpers.
And not only the women turned away

with tears in their eyes. #-

463

 
     

Program Pointers

° In Richmond, California, part-time
playground leaders are being used on
operating committees to .solve many
day-to-day problems. Committee mem-
bers are chosen from a list of volun-
teer leaders and are appointed for a
four-month period. The committees——
sports and special events among others
—-meet to deve10p new program ideas,
to evaluate past programs, and to solve
human relation problems. General
Program Supervisor Wilma O’Donohoe
and her staff of Frank Haeg and Ken
a Hurst initiated the idea which has al-
ready resulted in several program re-
visions and improvements.

° Everything is cricket in Cleveland,
Ohio, where the recreation board has
added that good old English sport to the
program at the Woodland Hills Park.
Quite a few groups have taken advan-
tage of the new activity.

' City officials and private citizens have
been explaining and discussing munici-
pal improvement in Des Moines, Iowa,
on a series of thirteen TV programs en-
titled “Our Changing City.” Develop-
ments in city planning, urban renewal,
street and highway construction, and
park and recreation facilities have been

 

464

discussed. Use of visual aids, film and

interviews livened the series. During
some programs, citizens were permitted
to phone in questions to be answered

by participants on the program.

° The second annual Battle of the
Bands —— cymbals crashing, drums
booming, horns tootling—was held
recently by the Los Angeles County De-
partment of Parks and Recreation. The
contest, which is for amateurs aged
twelve to twenty-one runs through
March and April preliminaries to finals
at the Hollywood Bowl.

° The Jefferson County Recreation
Board in Kentucky doesn’t let winter
weather stop its sports activities. The
board has created an indoor driving
range large enough for ten golfers. The
range is open from ten to four every
day and there’s usually a golf profes-
sional to instruct for a fee. Max Macon,
a basketball official for the department,
initiated the program and has brisk
business from lunch-hour golfers.

° Throwing punches is encouraged on
the Los Angeles municipal playgrounds,
where ten playgrounds hosted four
weekly ninety-minute bag-punching
classes instructed by Labe Safro,
world’s champion bag-puncher. Ac-

 

Oahland, California, is busily adding
new attractions to Peralta Playground
on Lake ‘Merritt. The. latest innovation
is pony-driven miniature sulhies left),
which are captivating the young fry.
Another favorite is Lil’ Belle, the mini-
ature Mississippi River boat (right),
which plies the inlet waters leading to
the lake. Other attractions include a
miniature railroad modeled after the
Southern Pacific Daylight line, lion
swings, tiger slides, clown teeter-totters,
a circus merry-go-round, and other fan-
ciful play equipment which makes
youngsters head for the playground.

 

A REPORTER’S
NOTEBOOK

cording to the department, bag-punch-

ing is one the best exercises for devel-
Oping all-round physical fitness.

Yo-yo classes were also sponsored by
the Los Angeles department in prepara-
tion for top-and-string contests held by
the department and the twirling school.
Playground and district eliminations
were held, leading up to a city-wide

hnaL

° The woodchoppers clop, the foot-’n’-
fiddlers stomp, and the handbell ringers

swing out at the annual international

music-and-dance nights sponsored by
the Washington, D.C. Recreation De-
partment. Nationality groups from the
greater Washington area perform the
dances and songs of their old home-
lands. Spanish, Scottish,
Japanese, English, Swiss, Latvian, Es-

Bavarian,

tonian, Arabian, Indian, and Greek
groups perform, and the audience takes
part in the fun under the leadership of
the department’s folk-dance director,
Dave Rosenberg.

' A Parkarnaval in Chehalis, Washing-

ton, last year drew one thousand peOple
the first night. The McKinley Stump,
a huge fir stump, which has been a land-

Continued on Page 487

 

RECREATION

 

 

WINTER SP 01? TS C 0N TE S TS

Charles Plimpton
ICE SKATING CONTESTS

Straight Skating Races: Can be conducted in general ac-
cording to the same regulations governing foot racing. Cir-
cular courses add interest in that they require skill in turn-
ing. The turns are marked by movable blocks of wood with
flags inserted in them. Customary distances are as follows:

11 years and under, 110 to 220 yards; 12 and 13 years,
110 to 220 yards; 14 and 15 years, 220 to 440 yards; 16

and 17 years, 220 to 880 yards; 18 years and over, 220

yards to one mile.

Backward Skating Races: Line up with backs to starting
line and skate backwards to finish line, 110 yards.
Skateless Skating: No skates. “Skate” with the soles of
shoes for 25 to 50 yards.

One-Skate Race: A great funmaker. Contestants wear one
skate only and proceed by skating with one foot and run-
ning with the other for one hundred yards.

SLED CONTESTS

Sled Swimming Race: The contestants lie on their stom-
achs on the sleds at the starting line. The course is thirty
yards over level ground or ice. At the signal they propel
themselves by pushing with their hands and feet on the
ground. Player finishing first wins.

 

MR. PLIMPTON is assistant secretary of the Cheshire County,
New Hampshire, YMCA. He prepared this material for
Recreation in New Hampshire, a newsletter issued by Rich-
ard (Wink) Tapply, New Hampshire field representative

far the National Recreation Association.

NOVEMBER, 1961

Skate and Sled Race: Players compete in pairs, both
wearing skates. One sits on the sled and the other pulls.
They race to the turning line 220 yards distant, where they
change places and the rider becomes the skater as they race
back to finish at the starting line. Variation: Two skaters
pull the sled with one rider. They race to the turning line,
swing around, and race hack to the starting line.

Broom-Sled Race: If old brooms are available, broom is
used for sled. One player sits on it, and another pulls, fifty
yards over smooth snow. Variation: Run the event on ice
with the contestants wearing skates.

CONTESTS WITH SNOW

Snowball Throw: For distance: each contestant is given
three throws from behind throwing line, longest throw wins.
For accuracy: designate a three-foot target. Each contestant
is given ten throw‘s, one each turn, from a throwing line
sixty feet away. One point is scored each time the target
is hit. A tree makes a good target.

Snowball Twenty-one: Make a large snowman with arms

outstretched, holding a barrel hoop. Players line up about
twenty foot distant and attempt to toss snowballs through
the hoop. Coals score one point and the player wins who

scores 21 (or lll points first.

Snow Tug-of-War: Make a snow wall about four feet high
and burrow a hole through it just large enough to run the
tug-of-war rope through. 'l‘wo teams take hold of the rope
on opposite sides of the wall and pull, attempting to pull
the other team through the wall or cause them to let go the
rope so that it can be pulled through. #

14:5

@PROGRAM

 

This drama program

has received wide recognition

as an example of what can be done
in children’s dramatics

in a recreation program

ON STAGE...
TEENAGERS

 

Above, the father meets the beast. The
young players found a real challenge in
putting on productions for an audience
of children. Productions included Beau-
ty and the Beast and Winnie the Pooh.

Left, the butler did it! The Stevenson
Players won particular acclaim for their

mystery plays. They also put on dance
plays, radio programs, summer outdoor
pantomime, even tackled an Operetta.

d-
.‘m

{‘5

 

RECREATION

Lilly Ruth Hanson

66 I IORROR STALKED RAMPANT at

Hamilton Theatre Friday

night when the Stevenson
Players presented the old favorite Jane
Eyre written by Charlotte Bronte 150
years ago. No modern horror mystery
could have evoked shriller shrieks than
came forth from young fry in the audi-
ence on Friday night.” This rave review
in Oak Leaves, an Oak Park, Illinois,
newspaper continued, “Although a
heavy drama, the Stevenson Players
chose this from the selection of plays
offered by their director: and the cast,
without exception, gave a fine perform-
ance, with no evidence of strain. The
play has some difficult situations, all of
which were handled with eclat closely
bordering upon the professional.”

The Stevenson Players were organ-
ized in 1940 when a small group of
enthusiastic high-school persons an-
swered the call of the dramatic director:
“Do you want to be in a play? Study
dramatic acting, makeup, speech, and
other phases in the theatre—stage crew,
costumes, scene design, lighting and
properties?”

Since then the club has met weekly——
or oftener when in rehearsal—at Ste-
venson Playground with a trained
drama director to learn stage technique,
common stage terms, and study voice,
diction, projection, and body coordina-
tion, along with production of one-act
plays. Acquiring the tricks of the trade
—up-staging, making an entrance, dou-
ble takes, playing to the audience, and
projecting stage personality-——fasci-
nated these new actors and brought re-
sults. The program aimed at the kind
of teaching and the kind of theatre
which would stimulate imagination,
provide more opportunities for student
expression, and strike home to some the
speech, personality, and social adjust-
ments needed by those participating in
a dramatic group.

In the two years that followed the
Stevenson Players flourished, produc-
ing one-act plays at service clubs,
churches, playgrounds, the theater, Vet-
erans Hospital, and servicemen’s center.

 

MISS HANSON is director of playgrounds
and recreation in Oak Park, Illinois.

NOVEMBEB, 1961

Publicity in the local newspapers with
pictures and stories were enthusiastic.
Members also participated in weekly ra-
dio programs which included drama-
tizations of fairy tales for a “School
Time” series that ran for eighteen
months. The program was produced,
written, and directed by the playground
department and used children and high
schoolers from Oak Park.

THE STEVENSON PLAYERS were now
established with a membership of
fifty boys and girls eager to produce
three-act plays. In succeeding years
their repertoire consisted of an annual
three-act play, participation in the all-
playground productions at Christmas in
Dickens’ A Christmas Carol, The Little
Princess, and The Silver Thread and
again in the summer outdoor panto-
mime including King Midas and the
Golden Touch, Rip Van Winkle, and
Robin Hood with scenes from these
plays presented at the annual Fourth of
July celebration for five thousand spec-
tators. The annual dance festival, ballet
and tap, using three hundred children
was interwoven with pantomime and
dialogue by the Stevenson Players in
such dance plays as The Emperor’s
Newest Clothes, Ceres and Persephone,
Cinderella and Snow White and the
Seven Dwarfs. They continued to excel
in their own productions
throughout the years, winning fame
and wide acclaim for their mystery
plays. In other plays the bulk of the
characters were teenagers, and the plot
involved typical situations experienced
by them such as in Our Miss Brooks,
Men Are Like Streetcars, I’m a Family
Crisis, Mother Is a Freshman, Johnny
on the Spot, Our Hearts Were Young
and Gay, Stardust, Cheaper by the
Dozen, and so 011. More recent plays
have included The Little Dog Laughed
and Father Knows Best, with an attempt
at an operetta, Jerry of Jericho Road.
Membership remained at fifty to
sixty with a yearly turn-over as some
actors entered college. Always new
members entered the ranks as they be-
came high-school freshmen, in particu-
lar those who had come up through the
grades in the children’s dramatics

annual

classes held weekly at all playgrounds.
The social side of the activity was em-
phasized with a cast party after a tri-
umphant performance, holiday parties,
and Halloween costume affairs. As
membership increased there was a need

for plays with larger casts. The direc-
tor added one-act curtain-raisers such

as Splints and Bandages, Flash of Red,
and The Leading Lady.

It is fun to belong to the Stevenson
Players as it is exhilarating to be part
of a show, any part, in it or around it.
The members who have gone on to col-
lege have never forgotten their rich ex-
periences and roles played in the Ste-
venson Players. To quote Broadway’s
Mary Martin, “My happiest period was
probably that in high school when l

was . . . in our school plays back home.”

AN INNOVATION which proved a

worthwhile experience for “the
high-school actor was playing shows for
children. In 1953, the playground de-
partment had initiated the Community
Children’s Theatre which provided six
performances a year produced by pro-
fessional touring theatre groups. The
Stevenson Players were afforded the op-
portunity of providing one of the series
each year including such plays as W in-
nie the Pooh, Jack and the Beanstalk,
and Beauty and the Beast. The high-
school folks found Children’s Theatre
one of their favorite projects. Accord-
ing to these young artists. there is a
greater thrill and a real challenge in per-
forming for an audience of children
than for adults. They found an instant
audience response to improvisation,
such as a chase on the stage. and even
into the audience to the back of the
theatre. The children in the audience
live the characters in the story and will
jump up and shout out. “He‘s over
there, can’t you see?” They are ever
considerate of the good, and attempt to
help, but remain silent when mean and
wicked characters are gaining in a
chase.

Values are innumerable for the stu-
dent who belongs to a dramatic group
-—include poise. skill, and confidence.
Self-expression is another satisfaction
along with appreciation of the best of

467

world literature. Of greatest impor-
tance, however is helping the casts to
acquire adequate speech so that they
are audible, understandable, and occa-

sionally impressive. Another value is
training in responsibility of being,
memorizing lines, and cues, regularity
and promptness at rehearsals.* N 0 at-

tempt is made to make stars of the stu-
dents but often an avocation becomes a
vocation, as is evident in following some
of those in such careers’ as the Holly-

* The highest standards in theatre are
always maintained. Since the plays are pre-
sented by high-school students it is important
that scripts be screened. The core of the
story must be sound and clean, blasphemy
and swear words eliminated.

wood films, TV, and the stage.

“The river finds its way to the sea
by the support of its embarkments.”
The Oak Park Playground and Recrea-
tion Department believes that it has
given support for guidance to many
high school young folks to become bet-
ter actors and better human beings. #

LE T’S TALK TURKEY

HE FOLLOWING GAMES for a Turkey Talk Thanksgiving
T Party are taken from the 1960 Thanksgiving Bulletin
issued by the Playground and Recreation Board in
Wilmette, Illinois. Invitations can be in the shape of a tur-
key or pumpkin; decorations and table decor can reflect all
the color and glory of the autumn and harvest time; refresh-
ments naturally include such favorites as apple pie and cider.

COUNT YOUR BLESSINGS. This is a game to keep

early guests busy. Lay out several objects on a large table

or tables, spaced
so that guests will
not have to crowd
to look at them.
The objects might
include an ear of
corn, large bunch
of grapes, a chrys-
anthemum, a
pumpkin, peanuts
in a jar, and beans
in a jar. Let each
guest guess and

 

write down the number of kernels on the ear of corn, grapes
on the bunch, petals on the flower, seeds in the pumpkin,
peanuts and beans in the jars. To the one with the closest
grand total or to those with the nearest correct answer for
each separate object give a prize. N0 guest may touch an
object; he may only look at it and write the number down.

THANKSGIVING STEW. This is a good ice-breaker.

Pin on the back of each guest the number of an ingredient
of a Brunswick Stew. These ingredients, fifteen in number,
are beef, potatoes, turnips, carrots, salt, rice, pepper, onions,
parsnips, water, celery, tomatoes, aitchbone, pork, and but-
ter. Each guest has paper and pencil and attempts to write
a complete list as quickly as possible, looking at slips pinned
on the backs of other guests, while at the same time trying
to keep the name on his own back from beingrobserved. A
prize goes to the first with all fifteen ingredients listed. The
guests should be told there are fifteen names to list.

A TURKEY SHOOT. This is an appropriate and amusing

contest. A member of each team shoots alternately at a card-
board turkey head sticking up out of a box. The ammunition
is a cork on a string shot from a toy gun. The prize may
be a cardboard turkey filled with candy, going to the team

468

which makes the most hits. (If a cork gun is not available,
have the guests blow matches from soda straws.)

THANKSGIVING HARVEST. At the head of each team
place a wastebasket or cardboard box. At the other end of
the room, opposite each team, place another container in
which is a potato for each member of the team. On the “go”,
Number 1 runs to the other end of the room, takes a potato
from the field, runs back to place it in the “barn” or box
at the head of the line. Player Number 2 then runs to the

“field” and so on. The first team to harvest its potato crop
wins.

APPLE BALANCE. The team stands in lines, each behind

its leader. At the goal, in line with each team, "is a chair.
Each leader, carrying an apple balanced on his head, walks
to the chair, sits down, and returns to give the apple to the
next player, who does likewise. If the apple falls, the player
must replace it before he continues.

THANKSGIVING HIDDEN FRUIT.

1. Harold ate his dinner at 2 o’clock. (Date)

2. With shield and spear he conquered. (Pear)

3. Every man went forth to grapple for his life. (Apple)

4. By this great ship lumber is carried. (Plum)

5. The sulky cur ran towards home. (Currant)

6. For anger he did not come. (Orange)

7. By that pitcher rye is easily handled. (Cherry)

8. He has but little money. (Lemon)

9. We must eat in order to live. (Olive)
10. Will you help each one to find the answers? (Peach)

Give each guest a piece of paper with the above ten sen-

tences on it. The one to correctly name the ten hidden fruits
first wins.

THANKSGIVING MENU. Give each person a typewrit-
ten sheet of paper with the square of letters on the left.

K E R S M S T A Beginning at any letter in the chart
C A P S A S B E
G A R L A B E V
T E B C H E S I
U L G R E A D V
A C O A N M N E

and moving (one letter at a time) in
any direction, have the players Spell
out the names of foods and season-
ings. You may use the same letters
and squares as often as necessary,

K R O P S O N A and begin a word at any point in the
E I S E C A N L square. For example, the second let-

ter down in the first column is C, to its right is an A, diag-
onally up to the left is a K, and right of the K is an E. This
spells cake.

RECREATION

'-

Here are a few of the words which can be spelled from
the squares: lamb, beets, beans, bacon, peas, rice, cake, pork,

pecans, ham, bread, grapes, cream, veal, corn, bananas,
spice, and crackers. There are more than forty words.

F ARMER AND TURKEY. For this game, the players
stand in equal parallel lines with hands clasped along the
lines. Two extra players, one the farmer and the other the
turkey, chase up and down between the lines. When the
chase becomes close, the leader blows the whistle which is
the signal for the players in the lines to turn right face and
clasp hands to make rows at right angles to the original
rows. The chase must now proceed in the new direction.
Neither turkey or farmer may break through the lines. If
the farmer catches the turkey both choose successors. The
whistle should be blown at frequent and unexpected inter-
vals.

PILGRIM SCRAMBLE. Pass out sets of seven letters to

each one. The letters in each set will all be the same as seven
P’s in a set or seven I’s, etcetera. One letter, known only

THE NAMING

of the FAWN

to the leader, will be your key letter. For instance, C, hav-
ing only one set of this letter, which is given a confederate.
Of the others, have as many sets as are required to supply
your crowd. After the sets are distributed a general scram-
ble ensues, in which the players exchange letters with a view
to getting the letters which will spell “Pilgrim.” It will be
possible for only seven players to accomplish this, since only

seven G’s are available. Each of the seven lucky ones may
be awarded a prize.

MY NEIGHBOR IS THANKFUL. The players are seated
in a circle with an extra player who is “It” standing in the
center. Each player must learn the initials of the player on
his right. The “It” will point to one player at a time and
ask “What is your neighbor thankful for?” While “It”
counts ten the person addressed must use the right hand
neighbor’s initials in reply. For instance, Grace Alice Peter-
son might be thankful for green apple pie, or Harry Thomas
Harper might be thankful for holding Thelma’s hands. Any

player who cannot think of what his neighbor might be

thankful for has to take the place of “It.” #-

 

latest. Mr. Macdonald tells what this
entails:

“After obtaining the fawn, one has
about three weeks of walking the deer
at least twice a day throughout our park
to get her or him used to the handler
petting its neck and head and feeding

No ONE, BUT NO ONE, in Vallejo, Calif-
ornia, would dream of calling a
reindeer “Rudolph,” whether the ani-
mal was rednosed or not. In Vallejo,
come about the Halloween time, the
children go around with “the running
of the deer” humming through their

heads as they dream up names for “San-
ta’s newest reindeer.” As Vallejo’s rec-
reation director, Keith Macdonald, ex-
plains:

“Each year about October I begin
scouring the surrounding cities which
have miniature zoos for a young fawn
which will be about four to six months
old by the time Christmas rolls around.
Last year’s fawn came from the Mo-
desto City Recreation Department.

“Next comes a picture of the fawn
in the newspapers with a writeup that
all children in the Greater Vallejo Rec-
reation District between kindergarten
and the eighth grade may enter the con-
test to ‘Name Santa’s Newest Reindeer’
and that the winner will receive a $25
savings bond, donated by the publishers

NOVEMBER,“ 1961

 

of the two local newspapers, and a Fam-
ily Swim Pass to the Vallejo Plunge.
“As soon as the papers hit the street,
hundreds of entries begin to pour in.
Even the adults in the city are eager to
read a running account of the contest.
Two district secretaries and the book-
keeper make the final choice out of well
over a thousand entries. Last year’s
winning name: Christmas Eva.”
While all this is going on the recrea-
tion director is babysitting with Santa’s

  

Santa ( Keith Macdonald) and Christ-
mas Eva pay a visit to the Mare Island
Naval Shipyard during their round 0]
pre-holiday visits. Santa Macdonald
makes sixty-jive such. visits a season.

it rolled oats by hand.

“If it is young enough and will feed
out of a bottle, this adds to the thrill of
at least two youngsters who hold the
bottle while it nurses. Whoever handles
the young fawn shouldn’t be too dis-
turbed by the fact that it will jump
about four feet off the ground and ap-
pear slightly wild the first few times
it is taken for a walk. One must also
watch out for the front paws which will
strike out. A firm grip on the harness
or leash will keep the fawn under con-
stant control.

“The thrill that well over fifteen
thousand youngsters in schools alone
experience when Santa visits them is
reward enough when at last the deer
appears. Each year I put 011 some sixty-
five half-hour programs at parochial
and public schools, banquets. military
bases, lodges, reunions, company par-
ties, meetings and private homes, all in
behalf of the recreation district. It is
truly one of our finest forms of public
relations.” #

469

 

Old Father Time plays an important role in any Twelfth Night drama.

OFF
WITH
THE
OLD

 

ON
WITH
THE

NEW

4170

Catherine Simpson

HE CHRISTMAS TREE too soon be-
T comes a withered, drab hang-
over of the glorious Yuletide.
Often, the tree lands in the backyard
in fond hopes that the sanitation de-
partment will haul it off as a special
favor. Sometimes, the neighborhood
children collect these “memories of that
exciting day” and build a fort. The
animal fancier often looks for the dis-
carded evergreens for his deer pens.
The man who sells Christmas trees
wants to find a place to unload his un-
sold ones. Nothing on the commercial
market is as dead as a Christmas tree
come December 26th.

Twenty-one years ago, the Oklahoma
City Parks and Recreation Department
determined to study the possibilities of
utilizing the trees in a recreation activ-
ity and at the same time accommodate
the public and the sanitation depart-
ment. The dictionary informed us that
the twelfth night after Christmas, J anu-
ary 6, is known as Twelfth Night, the
day the Feast of Epiphany, the conclud-

ing period of medieval Christmas fes-

MRS. SIMPSON is superintendent of pro-
graming in Oklahoma City.

tivities. We learned that it was the time 1
to cast “off the old and take on the
new.” Thus was born the Twelfth Night
Bonfire which is a p0pular activity to '
this good day. '

The wheels of planning and organiza-
tion were put in motion with repre-
sentatives from the newspapers, radio
stations, fire and police departments,
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company
and public school ofiicials meeting with
parks and recreation staff members. A
suitable location for the bonfire was
selected after due consideration of traf-
fic and safety factors, and a platform
erected on park property. The Okla-
homa Gas and Electric Company of-
fered to provide electrical service for
lights and public-address equipment,
the traffic division of the Oklahoma City
Police Department agreed to handle the
parking and traffic: the fire department
offered floodlights and safety coverage;
the newspaper and radio stations were
eager to give publicity coverage. (We
now include the media of television.)

HERE’S HOW the plans worked then

and now: On the morning of Jan-
uary 6 a park ranger reports to the bon-
fire site to be host to the citizens who
bring their trees. Some express a sad-
ness in parting with something which
has become “so much a part of the
family.” Late afternoon a fire depart-
ment crew ropes off the pile and makes
an aisle to the flat-bed truck, parked 250
feet from the trees, which will be used
as a stage. The Twelfth Night Bonfire
program starts at 7:30 P.M., so it is
important that the traffic officers arrive
early. The firemen also arrive early
with fire extinguisher equipment and
floodlights to illuminate the area as well
as the stage.

At 7:30 PM. all eyes are turned to-
ward the stage where a “sing song” of
appropriate numbers opens the festivi-
ties. This is followed by a skit, with
musical accompaniment, which ends
with little New Year pushing old Father
Time off the stage. New Year is then
carried by the fire chief down the roped- 
off aisle to the pile of Christmas trees 
and sets it afire. At this point all lights .
in the area are turned out and the crowd
watches with mixed emotions of excite-
ment and some tears while their trees
go up in smoke. #

RECREATION

 

ADMINISTRATION

 

SCHOOL and RECREATION COOPERATION

“If problems are anticipated and solutions sought

through cooperative etiort, much difficulty

and ill-will can be avoided.”

John B. Geissinger

provement as well as in school and recreation mat-

ters. All of us have pressures: problems of finance
and personnel together with added requests by our clientele
for increased services. Therefore, instead of recreation pro-
grams that “just grow,” let us have intelligent planning on
a cooperative basis.

For example, my own town of Tenafly, New Jersey, is
presently studying several projects of community import:
a municipal center including a public library, borough hall,
police and fire headquarters, ainature center and science
museum, a swimming pool—all of which will be of value
to the schools and the recreation program as well as the
municipality. Whether the recreation program is a newly
contemplated one only in the planning stage, one of recent
origin, or a long-time established one, some problems are
bound to turn up. If they are anticipated and solutions
sought through cooperative effort, and after study and dis-

! LL OF US are interested in community welfare and im-

..c___—.—v

 

DR. GEISSINGER is superintendent of schools in Tenafly, New
Jersey. This material is adapted from, an address given be-
fore the New Jersey Public Recreation Association last year.

NOVEMBER, 1961

cussion, much difficulty, expense, and ill-will can be avoided.

In planning for new facilities which will be used by both
the recreation commission and the schools. the principal
consideration is to make the new building, or swimming
pool, or playground usable to a maximum number of people
for a maximum number of hours a day, and for a maximum
number of days, weeks, and months in a year at the lowest
cost to the community.

The first step calls for the organization of a planning
board, appointed by the mayor, to study and evaluate plans
for future land use or future development. This body then
makes recommendations to the city or borough or township
governing body in accordance with a master plan. Not all
communities have a master plan odicially adopted, but most
have some sort of a long-range general idea about the de-
velopment of the community.

The master plan is often prepared by an expert in IllUlllt‘l-
pal planning. It usually divides the community into areas
or neighborhoods—anueh as does a zoning code -and in-
dicates the future location of chic and municipal buildings.
schools, parks. playgrounds. museums. nature centers. et-
cetera. Sometimes the areas or neighborhoods fall naturally

171

@ADMINIS TRATI ON

 

into elementary school districts, other times into functions
determined by natural land use.

Before submitting the proposal to an architect for final
plans and specifications, the board of education and the
recreation commission should confer in an effort to make
these facilities give maximum service to the entire neigh-
borhood. In addition to the joint conferences, the board of
education should have representation on the recreation com-
.mission and vice versa. Each group should write its own
description of the proposed new area, building, or play-
ground, in terms of people to be served, functions of the
new facility, size of the area or building needed, and pro-
vision of room for expansion.

L ET US CONSIDER the construction of a new elementary

school being planned to accommodate four hundred
pupils: An elementary school should obviously have a play-
ground adjacent to it. It should be adequate in size and
properly graded for use as a recreation area and community
playground. For school purposes playground equipment is
not needed, usually not even desired because of the danger
factor. For recreation use after school, weekends, and sum-
mers, playground equipment is desired. Here is an area for
discussion and compromise.

Another problem centers about the all-purpose room in
the contemplated building. The elementary-school authori-
ties do not need larger shower and locker rooms; the rec-
reation program wants at least one dressing room with
showers for use during the evening basketball program.
The elementary physical-education teachers want eight-foot
baskets; the recreation director wants the standard ten-
foot height. Once more, discussion and mutual understand-
ing are necessary.

The school staff does not want “outsiders” to use the
school toilets and washing facilities of the elementary pu-
pils. Also, they feel that fixtures should be small and low;
while for use by adults in the recreation program stand-
ard fixtures and heights are required. Before instruct-
ing the architect on how to proceed these questions must
be resolved. One solution is to have toilet and lavatory
facilities of a size and height appropriate to elementary-
grade pupils in one location and another room or rooms
for adults. The community must decide and tell the archi-
tect which to provide. To the question of cost of duplica-
tion of facilities, the usual answer is that the cost is insig-
nificant in view of the gains realized. Certainly, it is cheaper
this way than if two complete gymnasiums were built-mono

for use in the daytime by pupils and the other at night only
by recreation.

THE PROBLEM of damage to property, whether accidental.

or intentional, is serious and sometimes costly. Pro-
tection of school property-molassrooms, OH'lCCS, etcetera—-
during afternoon, evening, Weekend, or summer use by rec-
reation is most easily and effectively realized by providing
separate entrances and exits and by installing folding gates
to restrict Visitors to the area being used.

After the building is completed and in use another prob-
lem arises: maintenance of facilities. This too should be
anticipated and arrangements made mutually agreeable to
the board of education and the recreation commission.
Some communities=have the school maintain the building-
and the town employees maintain the outdoor areas. This
plan has the advantage of putting all outdoor maintenance
in one central agency, and all indoor maintenance in one
agency. It eliminates billing between the board and the
recreation commission—sometimes an area of much unhap-
piness. Its success depends upon local conditions and upon
the attitude of the board of education and its staff and the
recreation commission and its resources.

Another plan is for the board, which usually owns all
facilities, to take care of all maintenance, billing the rec-
reation commission for costs over and above those of the
normal school program. This plan is successful only when
all ,of the facets of the recreation program and of the school
needs are talked over and mutually understood. If one unit
feels that it is being imposed upon by the other, trouble will
result and both programs will suffer. Also the public will
view both with suspicion, and charges of inefficiency and
waste will result. Whichever arrangement is used, review
and evaluation must take place periodically to provide for
revision in the light of changing conditions.

AN ARGUMENT IN MIDSEASON about who is to line the ten-

nis courts or cut the grass in the outfield or sweep the
floor of the school shops is an indictment against the fore-
sight, interest, and ability of both school and recreation offi-
cials. Such an argument must be anticipated long before
the program begins and avoided by mutual and cooperative
planning. A school principal who resents the use of “my
building” for evening recreation activities is equally at fault
with the recreation superintendent who plans for use of the
school as a “vested right” without consulting the school
principal.

It is not enough to agree that there must be 000perative
planning, if it is not done; nor is it going to solve your prob-
lem to say that “it’s too late now; the building is built; we
weren’t consulted; we get no cooperation, etcetera.” There
is always time to improve a program. Before new facilities
are provided is the best time; after they are provided and
in use is better than not at all. #

A city is a community of equals for the purpose of enioying the best life possible.—AR|$TOTLE

472

RECREATION

'?

C

\

 

Before: Freezing is done by the piping in the sub-flooring.

OZENS 0F square dancers were
D happily doing their turns in the
Los Angeles Memorial Sports
Arena. They were unaware that if they
were to linger on the floor for a few
hours after the dance was to end, they
would wind up with cold feet. Why?
An ice-hockey game was booked in the
sports arena for the following evening.
As a result, arena officials had already
started reducing the floor temperature
to the 32°F. at which they would start
hosing in water for freezing. Less than
twenty-four hours after the dance,
skaters would be slamming a puck
across the same area in which the
dancers had cavorted.

“There Was no danger of the floor
cooling off so rapidly that the dancers
would be affected in any way,” Austin
Mahr, assistant manager of the sports
arena, explains. “And we actually
didn’t have to start cooling off the floor
that early. But the sports arena was
new at the time, and we had to be cer-
tain that it would be ready for the
hockey game.”

Since then, changeovers have been
handled more confidently and casually.
Experience has shown the arena man-
agement that, under virtually any fore-
seeable circumstance, they have a siza-
ble margin of time in which to make
whatever changes are necessary. The
sports arena, now approaching the end

NOVEMBER,” 1961

 

After: The completed interior ready for an ice hockey game.

How the Los Angeles Sports Arena
converts rapidly from one sport to another

Q UICK- CHANGE AR TIS T

of its second year of use, has proved its
right to be known as one of the most
efficient in the
world.

convertible arenas

AS RAPID as the square dance to ice

hockey conversion might seem,
the time used in that case actually was
at least twice what was necessary.
Arena officials explain that they gener-
ally take about eight hours to reduce
the floor temperature to thirty-two de-
grees, after which they start spraying
water. Freezing starts as soon as the
water hits the floor.

Then, if ice hockey is the coming
event, lines are painted on the ice, and
a second layer of water is then hosed
on to provide another layer of ice to
protect the painted lines. It hasn’t been
necessary yet, but if the occasion de-
manded, the entire conversion could be
made in just twelve hours. As a rule,
however, temperature is reduced dur-
ing an eight-hour period on one day,
and freezing over is completed the next
day. The arena’s refrigeration provi-
sions for the ice rink are actually
closely related to the huge building’s
air conditioning system.

When planning of the building was
started by Welton Becket and Associ-
ates, architects and engineers for the
arena, an analysis was made to deter-
mine the anticipated maximum air-eon-

ditioning load for the various types of
events to be held there. The study re-
vealed that the maximum air condi-
tioning load would occur at night box-
ing matches with twenty thousand peo-
ple in attendance, and that proportion-
ately less would be necessary for a ca-
pacity crowd of eighteen thousand peo-
ple at basketball games, fifteen thou-
sand people at hockey matches. and
ninety-five hundred people at trade
shows.

A further study revealed that when
the sports arena was to be used fOr ice
shows and hockey games, approxi-
mately one-third of the plant’s refriger-
ation capacity would not be in use. As
a result, the excess plant capacity is
used to provide refrigeration for the
ice rink. Two sets of refrigeration com-
pressors are used in the bulldlllg"~Olle
fer the air conditioning, and one for
brine refrigeration for the 200'-by-85'
rink. A total of four thousand feet of
piping, varying in size up to sixteen
inches in diameter. is located beneath
the floor for brine refrigeration.

Styrofoam, 8 Dow Chemical plastic-
foam insulation, is used to help pro-
mote fast freezing while protecting the
floor from damage. First step in the
floor construction was laying a four-
inch concrete slab. This was followed
by two two-inch layers of bh rnfoanl.

C onttnued on Page 178

473

Don’t let lack of a pond or river
keep fishing of)t your program '

FISH OUT OF

WATER

Joel Carter

’I‘HE FISHING is

fine in Arling-
ton Heights, Illi-
nois, even though
the community is
waterless so-to-
speak. During the
Fall Fishing Days
hundreds of adults and youngsters try
their luck in one of the large swimming

 

pools.

Pool fishing isn’t as easy and sport-
less as it may sound. Some seventeen
hundred kids and 150 adults found that
catching the elusive trout and wily cat-
fish requires the same combination of
skill, knowledge, and just plain luck in
Pioneer Pool as in the blue lakes of the
distant North Woods. The fish some-
times bite well; at other times quit bit-
ing altogether, just like their wild cou-
sins.

This event was included in the au-
tumn recreation program because of the
lack of fishing waters within kid-travel-
ing distance of town. Good spots to
which adults may go without expending
considerable time and money are
scarce, too; so fishing is a rare treat to

many. In fact, some of the pool anglers

MR. CARTER was superintendent of rec- ~

reation for the Arlington Heights Park
District in Illinois, is currently superin-
tendent of parks and recreation for,

the Dundee Township Park District in
Illinois.

474

were city-born newcomers to this boom-
ing suburb and caught the first fish of
their life during the Fall Fishing Days.

The event is one of the most popular.
and comment-provoking activities that
the park district ever offered. It would
be worthwhile in almost any commu-
nity. Even towns with plenty of natural
fishing spots would find the event a pOp-
ular one, because the inhabitants would
have had a prior interest in angling.
The possibilities of contests, demonstra-
tions, and exhibits as part of such an
event in a fishing-conscious town are
innumerable.

WE PLANNED Fall Fishing Days in

Arlington Heights more or less
out of thin air, in an effort to keep our
program imaginative and have it ex-
pand with the community. The neigh-
boring Des Plaines Park District had
held a fishing event as part of its spring
Vacation and Outdoor Show, but could
offer little concrete advice because the
fishing there was managed differently.
Consequently, our planners were faced
with an imposing list of unknowns.
Would fish live in the water? Would
they bite well enough or bite too well
and all be caught quickly? Would kids
fall in the cold water? Would there be
a nightmare of tangled lines or hooked
fingers? Could you let enough people
fish long enough to satisfy them, yet
give everybody a chance? If so, how

 

do you handle the crowd? What bait is
most practical? What about fishermen
bringing cheese, liver, minnows, and
other supposedly “unfair” baits? The
unknowns were faced with caution and

a minimum of restrictions. Many ex-
pected problems failed to materialize.

Cold, natural water is essential for
trout to survive. We wanted to hold the
event as early in the autumn as possible,
so we shut off the filters and bromina-
tors immediately after swimming ended
in early September. Measurable traces
of the bromine disappeared almost im-
mediately, and when the water tempera-
ture had dropped to sixty-five degrees
we ordered ten pounds of test trout from
a live-fish dealer. He delivered the beau-
tiful creatures in a tank truck from
which they were scooped into the pool,
where they made a dazzling sight in the
crystal water.

When the experimental trout were
still alive and biting well a week later,
we set the date for our event and or-
dered two hundred pounds of half-
pound trout plus a few larger fish of
whatever specie the dealer could sup-
ply. The large order was given to a
dealer whose supply was considered re-\
liable, and whose fish were thought to
be worth their higher price.

Advance publicity included some
newspaper stories, school announce-
ments, and store-window posters. This
seemed almost unnecessary because the

RECREATION

rumor had spread that there were going
to be fish in the swimming pool and the
oddity of the idea hastened its spread
by word of mouth. The fishing was an-
nounced for a Saturday and Sunday af-
ternoon from one to five PM.

B Y THE OPENING DATE, a natural al-

gae growth had obscured the pool
bottom, giving the look of natural lake
water. This was fortunate because it
prevented anglers from chasing their
quary visually and bunching up when-
ever the fish schooled. Such crowding
would have caused hopeless confusion
and frustration.

Half the fish were delivered Saturday
and half were delayed until Sunday
morning to insure that some would be
left for the Sunday anglers, but this pre-
caution proved unnecessary. Ten-foot
bamboo poles with a like length of ny-
lon leader line were made up with a wet
fly and a small sinker. Numbers were
chalked at six-feet intervals around the
150’-by-75’ pool, and a pole was placed
at each number in preparation for the
fishermen. These numbers were to serve
the same purpose as reserved seat num-
bers and the last few places were left
without a pole for those who might
bring their own equipment.

The anglers bought tickets from a
cashier and lined up alongside the pool
fence. As each entered he exchanged
his ticket for a written place number
and people were admitted until all sev-
enty-five spots were taken. When every-
one was inside, the public-address sys-
tem was used to give a few fishing tips,
announcing that the thirty-minute fish-
ing period was beginning, and explain-
ing what to do when a fish was caught.

We had a few volunteer workers who
netted the fish whenever anyone needed
help, removed hooks, and generally as-
sisted with the event. The caught fish
were taken to a weighing station where
a local sporting-goods store donated
prizes for the three biggest fish caught.
Here, a store employee weighed each
fish and kept the contest leaders’ names
posted. Because there was a one-fish
limit per period, successful anglers were
directed to the exit gate after wrapping
their catch in newspaper. Fishermen
who brought their own bait or tackle
were allowed to use anything they liked
but casting was prohibited for safety’s
sake.

NOVEMBER, 1961

At the end of their half hour, the re-
maining fishermen were asked to bring
in their lines, put them on their num-
bers, and use the exit gate. When the
pool deck was vacated, a quick check
of the equipment was made and needed
repairs effected before the next group
was admitted.

The shifts were run off as quickly as
possible throughout both afternoons,
with a capacity crowd every time, de-
spite threatening skies and a chilling
wind. Although the fish bit steadily,
they didn’t bite well enough to deplete
the supply. Only about seventy of the
estimated four hundred trout and twen-
ty-five catfish were landed so we de-
cided to repeat the event on the follow-
ing weekend. Most of the expenses were
met by the first weekend’s receipts, and

 

A happy catch! If you can’t take the
child to the hashing hole, bring the fish-
ing hole to the child—even if you have
to convert a pool into a trout stream.

admission prices were reduced from
$1.00 to 3.25 for adults and from $.25
to $.10 for children.

Adult fishing under the lights was
tried on Friday, but attendance was
poor. Saturday and Sunday afternoon
sessions were again up to capacity,
though, and the trout were so coopera-
tive that everybody had an exciting
time.

The Arlington Heights event almost
broke even financially but considering
the public’s enjoyment and enthusiasm
we would have been glad to subsidize

it considerably. The following is our
financial report:

INCOME
48 adults (I? 31.00 .......................... .3 48.00
797 children (I) 8.25 .......................... .. 199.25
110 adults 6!) 3.25 ................. .. . ....... .. 27.50
896 children 6w $.10 .......................... .. 89.60
1351 total P $364.35
EXPENDITURES

10 lbs. sample trout «:7 $1.15 lb..... 3 11.50
200 lbs. trout (I) 31.35 ll). .............. .. 270.00
25 lbs. catfish @ $1.00 lb. .......... .. 25.00
100 cane poles .................................. .. 15.00
tackle .................................................. .. 20.00
cashier’s wages @. $1.20 hr. .......... .. 25.00
$366.50

ANOTHER RECREATION ORGANIZATION
might be able to cut expenses con-
siderably by obtaining free fish from a
state hatchery or by having supporters
catch and collect fish over a period of
time. For such a purpose game wardens
might even permit netting, trapping, or
some other method of obtaining fish.
To save money fishermen could be
required to furnish their own equip-
ment. With this arrangement it might
be worthwhile to let a local store sell
tackle on the pool premises. If your
pool is filled for a fishing event. be sure
it is done well in advance, so chemical
additives can dissipate. Even the small
amount of chlorine used in most city
water is deadly to trout. The practice
of stocking a few experimental fish be-
forehand is highly recommended.

Oxygen in the water is not a problem
if the wind hits the surface enough to
ripple it. The hatchery manager said
our five hundred thousand-gallon pool
would easily sustain one thousand
pounds of fish or more. Water can be
aerated, however, by shooting it into
the air or spilling it from a height with
a pump. Fish kept a few weeks or less
don’t have to be fed; if feeding is de-
sired they will eat commercially made
trout pellets, ground meat. or crumbled
bread.

A pool fishing event offers several
incentives which make it a desirable
feature for recreation programs. it is
an off-season use of an expensive facil-
ity usually unused three-quarters of the

year. Also, it attracts many people who
have no interest in athletics, music,

drama, or other activities normally in-
cluded in a public recreation program.
These people pay taxes too, and often
represent the opposition to recreation

expenditures. #

475

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

CALIFORNIA. The Gold Rush created the town of Colum-

bia and when the rush was over the town was left asleep in
the sun, dreaming of its heyday. Today, a new boom has hit
the colorful old community, now part of California’s Colum-
bia Historic State Park, and a big rush is on to restore the
glory of its yesteryears. Many organizations have pitched
in to help the state Division of Beaches and Parks in the
restoration ob.

Today, Columbia, a few miles from Sonora, boasts a
period restaurant, open every day of the week during sum-
mer (closed Mondays, otherwise) serving a regular menu
as well as red-eye gravy and other “delicacies” of a boom-
ing 1860’s mining town. The waitresses are in calico, and
there is an open marble sink immediately inside the entrance
in which to wash your hands (and face, if you want).

The old red schoolhouse up on the hill is open, at least
on weekends. Because of budget restrictions imposed by
the State Department of Finance, the park won’t be able to
keep open all the buildings which are fast being completed.
The schoolhouse has old iron desks, lunch pails, and is ust
as it was when it opened its doors on November 6, 1860.
Of $60,000 going into restoration, $52,000 was contributed

through the California Teachers’ Association by students
(it cost $4,898 to build in 1860).

Then, of course, there are the old-favorites like the inu—
seum, the theater, and the fire department. The last, inci-
dentally, will also be housed in restored quarters this year.

 

Drugstore of the 1860’s in Columbia State Park restoration.

476

Tuolumne Engine Company #1 is being refurbished by the
Columbia Volunteer Fire Department.

Soon to be under construction is an old printing and news-
paper ofhce, to be developed through cooperation of the
California Newspaper Publishers Association. And now un-
der restoration are the Magendi, Boehner, and Solari build-
ings. The former will be the postofhce, the second will be
the grocery store (to be set up in period style, as will be the
postofiice) , and the third will house temporarily the Native
Sons of the Golden West while their quarters are under
restoration.

And so it goes in the old town.

0 The state Wildlife Conservation Board’s new $32,300

Heeser Drive access project on the Mendocino coast opens
a mile-and-a-half of ocean shoreline for abalone picking,
rockfishing, and other recreation uses. Facilities include an
access road, parking areas, and a system of walkways to the
beach. The facilities will be turned over to Mendocino
County for operation and maintenance.

0 The state Department of Fish and Game will construct a

three-lane concrete boat-launching ramp on the southern .

shore of Salton Sea. To cost $80,000, the project will pro-
vide boating access to fishing and hunting areas. The nec-
essary funds have been allocated from the state’s Wildlife
Restoration Fund. Development will include a turning ba-
sin, an access channel, two protecting jetties, two miles of
access road, ten thousand feet of parking area, and sanitary
facilities.

ILLINOIS. The Chicago Park District, in conjunction with

the Montgomery Ward estate, is planning a new music court
and amphitheater in Grant Park. The estate will contribute
$1,500,000 to the project, with the park district contributing
the remainder of the estimated $3,000,000. The new facility
will be located to the north of the existing bandshell which
was built in the early 1930’s and is a frame structure, ori-
ginally erected as a temporary structure and badly in need
of repairs. Some of the features of the new music court
include: a

Location: Butler Field which lies between Monroe Street and
Jackson Boulevard and Columbus and Lake Shore Drive.
This site measures 818 feet north and south and 784 feet east
and west, and is contiguous to extensive parking facilities
of the Monroe Street Parking Lot. Preliminary plans call
for it to be oriented with the stage on the east side of the
site and the audience facing east.

General Character of the Structure: The stage structure will
be erected below the grade of Lake Shore Drive. The upper-
most limits of the stage structure will be approximately
forty-three feet over the pavement elevation of Lake Shore
Drive. The stage Hoor level will be approximately seven feet
below the surface of this drive. The amphitheater floor, be-
ginning at the orchestra pit, will be approximately sixty‘two
feet above the level. The width of the shell-shaped amphi-
theater at its widest part will be five hundred feet, and will

seat approximately 22,800 people.

The Stage: Tentatively, the stage is designed as a huge semi-
circle, 170 feet in diameter, with the curvature facing the

RECREATION

 

Table model of Chicago’s music court and amphitheater.

audience. The radius of the stage will be approximately
eighty—five feet. It is planned that only from forty to sixty
feet of this depth will be used for performances. The pro-
scenium width will be eighty-six feet, the height thirty-five
feet. The total stage area, which includes service space, will
be 11,350 square feet. The anticipated performance area
is now figured at 3,326 square feet.

Audience Accommodation: A feature of the new design calls
for ramps and concourses to lead the audience into the seat-
ing area from Columbus Drive. Beneath the ramps and
concourses there will be comfort stations and other service
facilities.

NE“r JERSEY. Vineland is seeking state or federal funds

to help develop the 51.2-acre park site acquired last year -

for one dollar from the estate of Frank H. Stewart. Under
the terms of the will, the Woodbury Trust Company as
trustee was instructed to buy and donate to muncipalities in
five southern New Jersey counties lands with a flowing water
course or bounded by water for the purpose of public parks
or recreation areas. Vineland’s Ellis Pond site was pur-
chased from the OWners fer $18,000 by the bank and turned
over to the city for one dollar. However, the will also stipu-
lates that “. . . in the event any municipality accepting the
gift of lands shall fail or neglect to provide care and main-
tenance of said lands and that such failure or neglect shall
continue for a period of five years, the lands shall revert to
my trustees.”

0 A new deicing system in Ocean Beach is solving protect-
ing the marina from ice damage. Repair of lifted pilings
in the three-hundred-slip marina had been costing $1,500
per season. The deicing system keeps the surface water free
of ice because water along the bottom is warmer and is
brought to the surface by air bubbles emanating from pipes
installed on the bottom of the marina area. The currents
of warmer water induced by the bubbling action warm the
surface water and prevent ice from forming. This system
has some flexibility in that areas can be deiced independ-

NOVEMBER, 1961

ently of one another. Plastic pipe is used and is laid at
depths varying from five to eighteen feet.

0 The state will swap seven hundred acres of wasteland for
four thousand acres of recreation land and water supply
facilities. The other party in this exchange is the New Jer-
sey Power and Light Company, which will use the seven
hundred acres of virtually inaccessible wasteland in the
Kittatinny Mountains in Warren County in developing high-
level reservoirs. The state will receive 158 acres in l’aha-
quarry Township, 76 acres in Knowlton Township, includ-
ing Columbia Lake, and $250,000 worth of additional land
to be selected. The state will also be able to use 715 acres,
deeded to the power company, for a park.

OHIO. A Corps of Engineers Lock Improvement program
along 981 miles of the Ohio River will create a chain of lakes
which will provide excellent boating opportunities. The
lakes, actually great pools created by the new locks, will
average fifty miles in length, some exceeding one hundred
miles. There will be special mooring facilities for pleasure
boaters. The program is scheduled for completion by 1965.

OREGON. It took nearly half a century but Tillamook

finally gained title from the federal government to a plot of
ground at the north edge of the city. The site fronts on the
Hoquarton Slough and its development will make it possible
to launch boats literally in the heart of the city.

TENNESSEE. The new Salvation Army Recreation Center
in Chattanooga is considered the finest SA recreation center
in the East. The building cost $204,000; the land is valued
at $71,000. The funds were received from several anony-
mous donors. Other funds have been donated for a standard-
size L-shaped swimming pool to cost approximately 360,000.
The center includes the usual club and game rooms plus a
gymnasium and the SA plans to develop the somewhat lim-
ited playground area in the near future.

VIRGINIA. The state Game Commission is building a 218-
acre lake in Fairfax County. Land for this project was ob-
tained and deeded to the commission by the Fairfax County
Park Authority, some of it having been purchased and some
donated. Fish biologists plan to stock the new lake with
bass and bluegills and open the lake to the public in the
summer of 1962. It is estimated that the lake will support
twenty thousand to thirty thousand fishing trips per season
with an annual harvest of about the same number of pounds
of fish. The lake will be fertilized in order to produce more

fish of catchable size.

\VASHINCTON. 1n Spokane many service clubs have
adopted park facilities as service projects. The Manito
Lions Club is constructing the tennis courts in Hamblen
Park. Last sunnner Boy Scouts of the neighborhood had a
cleanup day for the unimproved portion of the park. The
Hamblen School PTC has given the park a service building.
In Manito Park the Rotary Club has donated a picnic shelter

building.

477

 

Portable
Hat and Coat Racks

These multi-purpose Wardrobe racks ‘go
wherever needed or store away like folding
chairs when not in use. They come in 3 ft.
or 4 ft. lengths. have two hat shelves and
1 or 2 full length hanger bars for coat
hangers or coat hooks. (Two sided hooks
snap over and straddle the bar. see detail).
Standard units come on glides or casters;
stand rigidly under a full load. CHECKER-
ETTES are also available in two sided units
(double capacity); add—on units for making
long continuous racks. and matching wall
mount units.

Write for Catalog.

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.
1127 West 37th Street I Chicago 9, Illinois

 

TABLE AND 
CHAIR rnucxs

PEDESTAL TABLES

Direct from factory sav-
 ing ta Churches, Schools,
 Clubs, lodges and all organi-
 zations. MONROE T962

Falding Banquet Tables are
unmatched for quality, dura-
bility, canvenience and hand-
some appearance. 68 models and sizes for
every use. Write far prices, discounts, terms.

FREE—BIG 1962 CATALOG

Coiar pictures. Fuii line MONROE tables, chairs,
table and chair trucks, platform-risers, port-
able partitions. Write todayi

THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St., Colfax, Iowa -

Folding Chairs

A - 5i,
 Ti-
". 7.3! c:._.
j: .
fr.
|

Eartltlons

 

 

      

X-ING OUT THE “X”

by Dave Stanley. A new, modern Christmas drama
in one act for 6 men, 4 women, that has a ringing
challenge. Books 65: (TO copies required for license
to produce).

THEATRE HOUSE, INC.

P. O. Box I337 Cincinnati 1, Ohio
WWW/J

478

Homebound Holiday
Continued from Page 457

 

rosis, who had been bedbound prior to
the project and who only vocalized with
incoherent mumbling, began to speak
clearly this week. The amazed staff re-
alized that she always could speak but
did not because of her self-conscious-
ness regarding her physical appearance
and palsied movements. Here, in this
serene atmOSphere with friends and
family, she finally relaxed and felt that
she belonged.

One of the women had never been on
a vacation in the country before. Dur-
ing the first year of the project she had
visited the center weekly, but had sat
quietly in the background seemingly
enjoying her role. At the farm, she be-
came the life of the party, with humor
and active participation in the group’s
communal activities.

ANOTHER PATIENT, with a series of

neurological involvements which
included brain surgery, loss of a cir-
vical disc, a stroke, and the loss of her
hair, was extremely timid, walked with
a halting gait and was extremely fearful
of making such a trip. As a result of
the vacation trip away from home she
has a new confidence in her ability
which will help her in her quest for a
more normal social life.

The oldster of the group, eighty-two
years of age, prepared one of her store
of famous recipes, took daily walks with
a cane, and contributed to the entire
group’s pleasure. A young lady with a
very severe case of arthritis who walked
with much difiiculty and who was in
constant pain was always cheerful and
a leader in planning for the group. She,
a former teacher with an M.A. degree,
asked the project director whether the
cost of the trip made it worthwhile. His
reply, was, “Can you measure the effect
of this week upon the human beings in-
volved in terms of cost? In my opinion,
moneywise, it was very inexpensive.
This type of program can save the gov-
ernment large amounts of money by
keeping many of these people out of
hospitals, welfare institutions, and
nursing homes.”

Actually, there were many problems

involved. Some patients needed assist-
ance in getting out of bed, in standing
from a seated position, in petty argu-
ments, and in costs involved. Perhaps
some day permanent centers and vaca-
tion farms for the homebound will be-
come a reality.

But measuring the results in terms
of resocialization of the handicapped,
the vacation trip was most revealing
and remarkably worthwhile. Ask the
nine adults involved—they drove off
with tears their

faces. #

streaming down

Quick-Change Artist

Continued from Page 473

 

The piping runs above the Styrofoam,
and is topped by a three-fourth inch
layer of concrete. 6

The $6,000,000 arena utilizes four
packaged water-chilling plants, two of
which are able 'to chill either brine or
water. The air-distribution system was
designed to service the arena floor, the
concourse, and the seating area, inde-
pendently of one another. When the
arena floor is in use, there is minimum
usage of the seating area and con-
course. Conversely, there is minimum
usage of the other areas when the seat-

ing areas are in use.

AS FAR AS rapid conversions are con-
cerned, the arena’s versatility is
most important during the winter,
when ice hockey and basketball seasons
are under way simultaneously. It
hasn’t happened yet, but it is conceiv-
able that the time will come when ice
hockey will be played there one night,
basektball the next, and ice hockey
again the third night. It would be pos-
sible to freeze, defrost, and freeze again
for each event, but the arena manage-
ment actually foresees a simpler solu-
tion than that.

“In such a case,” Mrs. Mahr explains,
“we would simply cover the ice rink
with a floor for the basketball game,
and then take it off again for the second
hockey game. We’re confident that the
basketball players would have no reason
to realize that they would actually be
dribbling and throwing the ball over an
expanse of ice.” #

RECREATION

L



.P

"l

\T

 

     
   
    

I'll-III II
IIII r

I

V

   

A.- I.“
4": I'll;
an... I-Igr

“II II'

RECREATION

IIOICCII.

DIGEST

How is church recreation leadership

provided and a dynamic church program. developed?

. CHURCH RECREA TI 0N

HE CHURCH IS BUILT on the knowledge, interest, and

T action of the church member in cooperation with

other church members. The church cannot move

very far in any interest area until the membership accepts

the idea or plan. Recreation can become a dynamic part of

the church when church members become aware of the need
and place of recreation in Christian living.

The church recreation program, if integrated properly, .

takes its place along with the regular church programs such
as the religious education program, the service program,
the preaching program, the mission program, the music
program, and the stewardship program. Recreation is no
less important than these; in fact, recreation complements
these efforts, helping to make each one more meaningful
and successful. Leaders in each of the programs will find
recreation a useful tool in reaching their goals. The role
of recreation in enriching human life, in attracting new
members, in developing and deepening fellowship, in main-
taining good morale, in complementing the whole program

 

Excerpted with permission from Recreation and the Local

Church, Frances Clemens, Robert Tully, and Edward Crill,
Editors. Brethren Publishing House, Elgin, Illinois.

NOVEMBER, 1961

LEADERSHIP

of the church, needs to be recognized by each church mem-
ber. He needs to know the values of recreation as they af-
fect his children, his family, and his church. as well as
himself.

The awakened, responsible church member may ask him-
self these questions about the church recreation program:
0 Does it reach everybody in the church: children. youth,
adults?

0 Are certain racial, economic, and ethnic groups being
neglected?

0 Are there enough recreation leaders and are they well
trained?

0 Does the church have the needed recreation facilities?
o Is the program financed as a part of the church budget?
0 Do the standards of the recreation program coincide with
the best interests of the church?

The regular church member serves on boards and com-
mittees as a group oflicer and in these roles helps to estab-
lish policies for the church recreation program. 01' course,
he can help support recreation through donations and regu-
lar church giving. And finally. he can actively participate
in the program, making the most of the activities especially

r179

‘ CHURCH
RECREATION

 

designed to serve him. In brief, here are the responsibilities
of every church member in the recreation program:

1. Every church member should come to understand the
purpose, place, and values of recreation in the lives of the
members and the importance and place of recreation within
the church.

2. Every church member should discover what is avail-
able in his church and community toward meeting the rec-
reation needs of all of the people of the community—not
only the members of the church.

3. Every church member should evaluate in his own mind
the adequacy of his own church’s recreation resources of
leadership, facilities, and program. This is to be determined
in the light of local needs and conditions.

4. Every church member should plan to give time, energy,
and money to the support of church recreation. Enthusi-
astic leadership is needed not only in local churches but also
on district, regional, and national programs. Standards of
performance should be held high.

CERTAINLY the major responsibility for guiding and de-

veloping church recreation rests with the general board
of the local church. This board may select special commit-
tees to help establish the policies and to carry out the train-
ing of leadership. The most effective board member is one
who takes the time to learn what church-centered recreation
means in the lives of people, how it strengthens individual
life and the life of the church, how it develops morale and
solidarity, and how it gives the church fellowship drawing
power. He also should learn what is needed in the way of
leadership and facilities to give the church and its commu-
nity adequate recreation service.

The interests and concerns of the board members must be
directed toward the total needs of the total church. Rec-
reation should never assume the major role but it should
also never 'be neglected. Only as the total needs are con-
tinually and systematically appraised is the board member
able to act intelligently. His criterion is always that which

is the best for the total needs of the church and the commu-
nity which it serves.

HE CHURCH-SCHOOL TEACHER, with his knowledge of how
students—children or adults—grow and develop, has
specific responsibilities for some phase of church recreation.
1. Recreation experiences should be an integral part of
the religious education program for all ages, and particu-
larly children and youth.

2. Many activities should provide learning experiences
and at the same time develop recreation skills. Handcrafts
may help in teaching Biblical facts and Christian attitudes
and at the same time develop manual skills and appreciation
for beauty. .

3. The teacher can easily encourage or use recreation

skills to help those students who may need adjustments in
their social relationships.

4. The role of the teacher in recreation leadership need

480

not be confined to the church-school room. He can lead
and serve at class socials and other church functions.

’ I ‘HE MINISTER is concerned with the spiritual and moral .

growth of persons through their work and leisure. The
recreation leader is concerned with personality development
through wholesome and satisfying use of leisure time. Both
are working to achieve abundant, fruitful, and joyous liv-
ing for all people.

It is a recognized fact that the high standards of the
church and religion are either practiced or ignored during
free time. So the minister needs to know what kinds of
recreation are available to church members, where they find
it, and what opportunities can be provided to help them
find decent recreation and a wholesome living in the com- '
munity.

The minister can be a supporter of church and commu-
nity recreation projects that meet the standards of the
church. He can substitute positive action for negative re-
actions by becoming a rallying point for those who desire
wholesome recreation. ’ Degrading free-time outlets and
wholesome recreation are in constant competition for time,
money, and energy. The minister is in a unique-position
to make his influence felt, to help what is good and oppose
the bad. More often the decreative, unwholesome activity is
best controlled by offering something more attractive and
valuable. Under the guidance and support of the minister,
the church recreation leader can do something positive for
the church and the community.

Finally, the minister can often urge others to combine
recreation with the education, worship, and service pro-
grams of the church. Social activities help build fellowship;
family nights strengthen families; arts and crafts enrich
education and appreciation. Recreation facilities and ac-
tivities should become integral parts of the minister’s con-
cern for the church program.

In brief review, the minister’s responsibilities for recre-
ation might lie in the following areas:

1. To become aware of the recreation needs, interests,
and opportunities of his church members, as individuals and
as Christian groups.

2. To lend his support, in and out of the pulpit, at board
meetings, in committee meetings, to help secure adequate
and wholesome recreation facilities and leadership for the
people of the church and the community.

3. To praise quickly those recreation conditions that
strengthen family life and the general social life of the
community and to condemn quickly those activities which

disintegrate personal character, family life, or social organ-
ization.

4. To encourage and help plan for recreation and social
experiences within the entire church program. #

 

'15
Recreation’s purpose is not to kill time but rather to
make time live; not to help the individual serve time but
to make time serve him; not to encourage peOple to hide
from themselves but to help them find themselves.—
G. Orr ROMNEY.
it

RECREATION

 

 

K RECREATION

I DIGEST

 

“BEHAVIORISM” for the ACTOR

Van H. Cartmell

THE FOLLOWING code for actors has

proved valuable in the regular
work of the Amateur Comedy Club,
New York City, one of the oldest ama-
teur dramatic organizations in the coun-
try. It might well be posted on the call-
board Of every little-theater group in
the United States. It suggests a pleasant
way of saying very important things, and was compiled by
Henry C. Smith, Christopher La Farge, and Philip Kobbe
of the ACC.

('I) You Mr. Actor, are cast for a part. First, write down
all the dates Of rehearsals and what time they start. See that
you arrive early enough to remove your hat and coat, get
rid of rubbers and miscellaneous gossip, and be ready to
rehearse at the appointed time. Being on time is courteous.

(2) You take direction from the director only. You take
all other information from the production manager. Don’t
argue! If a coach sees that what he gave you was wrong, he
will gladly change it all by himself. Watch others being re-
hearsed and you will learn much. Be ready for your en-
trance cues. If you like entertaining girls with parlor tricks,
do it in a parlor.

(3) Always be on the job. If some actor in a large part
suddenly drops out, you will probably be given the part.
Diligence is a virtue and virtue is always rewarded.

(4) Take nice care of your sides. Hand them in to the pro-
duction manager when you are finished.

(5) Find where you are to get your costume. CO early. Tell
the production manager what your rig is going to cost.
Take care of it—it is worth money.

(6) Get a hanger and brush if necessary. Keep the box the
costume came in. Keep the string. Have it in your dressing
room so that when the play is finished you can pack the
costume properly and return it to the costumer or place it
with the other costumes.

(7) Treat your wigs with respect. Unless you enjoy paying

______________________—____________-———

This material is taken with permission from The Amateur
Theater, published recently by D. Van Nostrand Company,
Princeton, New Jersey. MR. CARTMELL, director of special
projects for Hearst Magazines, New York City, has directed
many amateur groups. He has written plays, has compiled
anthologies of plays ( with Bennett Cerf), is author of three
books on Shakespeare, and has been a member of the Ama-
teur Comedy Club of New York City for forty-three years.

,' NOVEMBER, 1961

for lost wigs, find out to whom to return yours. or return
it to the wigmaker. If you are going to make yourself up,
see that the makeup box contains what you need. If it does

not, speak to the production manager and tell him what you

want. Unless invited to do so, do not use other people’s
makeup.

(8) You are responsible for all properties which you carry
on stage. If you buy any props, give the receipt to the pro-
duction manager, so that he can repay you. Don’t wait until
weeks after the show is over to try to collect money.

(9) Keep a list of props used in each act and fasten it to
your makeup mirror. Look at it each and every time before
you go on stage. If you carry a prop 05 stage, give it back
promptly to “props” before you go to your dressing room.
('I 0) Bring soap, towels, and a drinking glass if you are
naturally thirsty. Don’t borrow (particularly without per-
mission). The borrowee may have urgent need for that

which you have filched.

('I 'I ) 0n the first performance night, look at the posted list
for dressing-room assignment. Every night, when leaving.
throw all truck into the hall. Leave your dressing room
clean. Cover up your makeup. Act as a gentleman should
when he is visiting.

(12) Be in the theatre on time. Do not interfere with the
makeup time of others.

(13) Behave off stage as you would have others behave
when you are on. Be quiet. Try to help the show—keep out
of the stagehands’ way. DON’T touch anything in the prop
room, eat property sandwiches, bring strangers backstage,
upset other actors with free advice, tell them the scenery is
lousy—let them guess, grouse until the show is over. he
temperamental. You are neither Mansfield nor Bernhardt.
Plays are supposed to give pleasure, at least to the players.

(14) Don’t go out front in costume. There are better ways
Of retaining your amateur standing.
('I 5) Wash your hands before you go on. Don’t lose your

things, make others wait on you, eat onions. chew spear-

mint, or drink C2H50H, so that it is unpleasant to act op-
posite you. Flowers are not passed over the footlights.

('I 6) Don’t smoke on the stage level; smoke is visible to the
audience. Smoking is dangerous. Into the alley If you must
smoke! Report each night to the stage manager, as soon as

you reach the theatre.
(17) Each night, when leaving, kiss the prompter good.

night. #
481

 

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

0 Looking for unburied treasures? A leading New York
City diSplay house is overflowing with materials for stage
scenery, crafts projects, seasonal displays, party decors,
pageants, or even new touches for your center or oflice. The
company offers free booklet by Toni Hughes, F un with T is-
sue Paper, along with samples of tissue paper available in
sparkling jewel-tone colors, as well as leaflets on the myriad
display items manufactured. Need Christmas decorations?
Here are artificial trees, ornaments, spunglass angels. Scen-
ery and props? Here are Spanish scroll doorway cutouts in
cardboard; heraldic felt on felt panels; finials, r0pings, and
tassels in rich gold tones; fish netting; and on and on. Need
props for Victorian setting or for a Roaring Twenties
drama? You’ll be amazed at the range and originality avail-
able here. For your costumes there are baubles, sequin
shapes, jewel ornaments, chains. For booklet, samples, and
listing of standard line of accessories, circle #100.

2 o A new art medium with surgical
. origins has entered the field. Paris-
craft is a high-strength surgical gauze
to which has been applied a thin coat-
ing of plaster of Paris. When dry, it
 can be filed, drilled, or sanded without
" chipping. When wet, the material can
be used like papier-maché over a
,- chicken-wire base; can be draped for
unusually realistic costume effects; can
be used for making puppets over bal-
loons (deflating the balloons later) ; is
wonderful for pr0ps and scenery, and
as a texturing device for either paintings or theatrical flats.

It dries quickly, comes in individual rolls five inches wide.
For full information, circle #101.

 

0 Let the sun in. Glass curtain wall system solves problems
of insulation and adequate daylighting for recreation and
youth centers, senior citizen facilities, and other build-
ings. Colorful prefabricated panels, have hollow glass
tiles two inches thick which have prism system for filter-
ing sunlight; have high insulation value; light-trans-
mitting glass filters out glare. Units include panels in white,
yellow, and green; ceramic color-accent panels in eight col-
ors; transparent glass panels; accent and spandrel panels;
and windows. Special panels may be ordered. For informa-

tion on these panels, used successfully in recreation build-
ings, circle #102.

‘ A completely self-contained, two hundred-gallon fire-
fighting unit that can be loaded onto a small truck or trailer
is ideal fire protection to facilities in inaccessible areas.
Camps, conservation and forestry areas, picnic sites, etcet-
era, can use this unit well. “Fire Master” Slip-On Pumper

482

contains a two hundred-gallon water tank with corrosion-
resistant coating, a Hale model FZZ gasoline-powered pump,
a five hose reel with fifty yards of hose, and a combination
spray-fog nozzle. Can project an eighty-five-foot stream at
one hundred pounds pressure, giving eleven minutes con-
tinuous operation. Auxiliary suction port permits pumping
from ponds, wells, streams, etcetera to supply over one hun-
dred gallons per minute at seventy-five pounds pressure to
two 11/3-inch hoses from auxiliary discharge lines. For
further information, circle #103.

0 Candles burn bright with no fire hazard. For musicales,
dramatic productions, candlelight services, white plastic can-
dles with prism-cut plastic translucent flame operate on same
principle as flashlights. Complete with batteries and color
filters in eight or twelve inch sizes. Red, blue, green, or yel-
low colored light. For further information, circle #104.

o It goes where you go——on the green and in between. New
golf cart has square steel tubing, adjustable all-position han-
dle, fulcrum bal'ance, ball-bearing wheels, green hammer-
tone finish, leather straps. Weighs about ten pounds. For
further information, circle #105.

from tack points passé. Excellent for displays and all man-
ner of decorating and program purposes, Thum-Tacker fits
into palm of hand, comes loaded with tacks, eliminates pos- j
sibility of tacks falling to floor. Can be used to remove and
store tacks also. For further information, circle #106.

o A new thumbtack dispenser and inserter makes injuries |

0 Don’t miss the “Showboat”! Display lettering firm offers
styles created by top designers, including the Showboat, to I

 

dress up your bulletin directory, and sign boards, posters,
doors, desk signs, displays, charts, and chalkboards. Many
styles available in a wide size range come in three types:
pinbalc, for thumbtack application; sanbak for gluing; and
tralclc with a lug base to stand upright in track moldings.
For stunning booklet on these invaluable aids, circle #107.

  
   

,.

0 Forest, park, and recreation personnel who take to the\m
open road can well use a car desk for reports. Families can '1‘
use it for their backseat small fry as a card table, picnic
table, or play table. Measures 12”-by-20”, adjustable both
horizontally or vertically to fit writing habits. N 0 tools re-
quired to install. Comes in masonite or plastic surface. For
further information, circle #108.

RECREATION \

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS
Page FREE AIDS

@

TRADE MART®

 

Here are resources—catalogs, brochures, films, booklets, services
available, samples, and so on—to help the recreation leader. Circle
the key number following any item about which you want more in-
formation. Cut out the coupon, insert in envelope, and mail.

IF YOU’RE SHUTTLING ALONG GETTING xo-
WHERE with your weft and warp, it's time for
some background reading. West Coast book
service Olie-rs many helpful books. For cata-

logued list, circle #125.

NEW TRACKS IN INDIAN LORE can Open inter-
esting program trails. Tips on kits and crafts

and dances a la redskin. For pamphlet, cir-
cle #126.

EQUIPMENT

PREVENT ACCIDENTS on your playgrounds with
Safety-Surf under your equipment. Made of
precision molded rubber designed to fit to-
gether with square-type interlocks arranged
in a zigzag pattern. Beveled transfer border
on complete perimeter to prevent tripping or
stumbling. Withstands years of scuiiing, im-
pacts, weathering. For information, circle

#127.

IT PAYS T0 WINTERIZE . . . Your pools will be
in swimming condition come Spring if you
follow cleanup and winter storage procedure.
Checklist for pool Winterizing reminds you of
things best not forgotten. For copy, circle

#128.

PIERS TAILOR MADE to your community's wa-
terfront needs. All parts are heavy-gauge
steel with baked-on marine enamel finish.
Fasteners are cadmium plated for durability.
All corners rounded for extra safety. Nonskid
deck provides safe footing even when wet.
For information, circle #129.

PFSST! Maintenance chores are easier with
Pfsst spray detergent-disinfectant-deodorant.
Eliminate pails, soaps, rinses, and long semb-
bing. For ground-in dirt stains, grease spots

PLEASE NOTE EXPIRATION DATE

American Playground Device  487
American Trampoline ................ --... 441
Association Press .._ ........ ....__..__-__. 491
ARTS AND CRAFTS
BBISOH Manufacturing Company ___-_..-__ 433 PAPERBAG PUPPETS are simple and inexpen-
sive. Ten-minute film shows how to make
 S   _________________________ n 8 the-Inn Available in Either COIOI' 0r blaCk and
99 g 4 6 white. For listing of this and other films, in-
_ eluding a music film featuring the National
Chicago Roner Skales -—----------------——- 445 Music Camp and one on little-known birds in
their natural habitat, circle #120.
Classified Advertising __....a-_..----...-_..,._- 492 . .
WOODEN ACCEsomEs to palnt or carve. Hinged
_ box, letter holder, bookend, salt and pepper
co   --- ------------------------ ---  shakers, belt blocks, trinket box. American
Indian and Pennsylvania Dutch designs—
Emblem and Badge ____________ Inside From Cover over fifty of them—with color suggestions and
other information also Included in this arts
and crafts catalog. Rama craft, mosaics, clay
60” Mada] PmdUCIS -------------------- 488 and other supplies. For copy, circle #121.
Handweaver and craftsman _____-_______*__M__ 436 SAMPLES of silk, wool, and cotton threads for
weavers. Marvelous textures and mouthwa-
, . tering colors in tussah silk (nubbies and
How“ Handlcrafis ----------------‘--—-----  slubs) and imported wool. Circle #122.
[arson Crafts __________ ______ _____________ __ 436 DON’T THROW IT AWAY. Scrap wire makes
animals, paperbags become masks. Film, Art
_ from Scrap, shows children using ingenuity
M350" candles -------——-~---------—----———-----—— 444 and imagination to create interesting scrap-
sterpieces. For further information, circle
Miracle Equipment Inside Back Cover #123-
SPECIAL GIFTS FOR SPECIAL PEOPLE on special
Monroe sales -------------------------- -- 478 occasions. Projects with a secret ingredient:
imagination. Bazaar and party prizes, holi-
Rheem Califone ________h___________‘_____________ 443 day handcrafts, small fry specials. All prpj-
ects are useful and more and more attractive
. . . as imagination grows and grows. Wonderful
SuperIor IndustrIes _-_--_.____ InSIde Front Cover for days when the sun (108811., $11,118,,“ ham
dicapped programs, for senior citizens, wo-
T. F. Twardzik _____ _._.__. ______________ H... 487 men’s clubs, holiday times. For booklet on
easy-to-make gifts for the small budget, crrcle
124.
Theatre House __ ______________ ._..._..___-- 478 #
Vogel-Peterson _---_-_-_________.#__,..-.__ 478

M

Change Of Address

If you are planning to move, notify us
at least thirty days before the date of
the issue with which it is to take eflect,
if possible, in order to receive your

magazines without interruption. Send
both your Old and new addresses by let-
ter, card or post office form 228 to:
Subscription Department, RECREATION
Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11, N. Y.

NOVEMBER, 1961

 

Clip and mail today. to

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R961. 8 W. 8th St.. New York 11

This coupon expires January 1. 1962
Please send me more information on circled products.

W

100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107
117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124

103 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 116
125 126 127 128 129 130 131 132 133
142 143 144 145 146 147 140 149 150

________________________———————-———-

Title

W

Organization

Zone State

City

W

|
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
i 134 135 136 137 138 139 140 141
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

R961
483

and scqu marks on doors, walls, tables,
benches. For information, circle #130.

SILENT TREATMENT for footeasy floors. Inter-
lock rubber tiles in marvelous range of colors
cushion feet, prevent noise. Can be laid over
concrete slabs for comfort and quality. For
further information, circle #131.

RECORDINGS

STIRRING REBEL TUNES FROM IRELAND, smoky
blues and baleful ballads from the United
States. Cockney carousers, sea shanties,
children’s songs included in quality records
of East Coast company. For listing, circle
#133.

 

PERCUSSION UNLIMITED in albums with a
south-of-the-border tang, jazz spectacular,
Hutes, guitars, voices in song and drums,
drums, drums. For more information, circle

# 134.

OFF TO THE SOUTH SEAS at 33 1/3 RPM. Take
a holiday in Canada, be a student prince in
old Heidelberg, see Japan in cherry-blossom
time, and finish in the heart of Paris. Local
color in song and bands included in varied
catalog of folk, jazz, popular, classical re-
cordings. For copy, circle #135.

MEET MR. TOAD of The Wind and The Wil-

lows. Jessica Tandy and Hume Cronyn re-
count the tale. Other recorded books include
The Jabberwocky; The Elephant’s Child, and
selections from The Hunting of the Snark.
Dogwood Soup, a collection of folk songs,
is another selection. For leaflet, circle #136.

COME To THE SQUARE DANCE JUBILEE. Record-
ings of instrumental hoedowns, instrumental
singing calls, round dances, square dances
with calls. For a partner-swinging time,
dance on down and circle #137.

ANYONE CAN DANCE ALL NIGHT with educa-
tional records on tap, ballet, ballroom, jazz,
and song and dance. Excellent for musical

and variety show rehearsals. For leaflet, cir-
cle #138.

FOLKSONG PANORAMA. Actor-singcr Theo
Bikel and versatile Oscar Brand are among
excellent singers included. For catalog of
offbeat and traditional songs, circle #139.

SCIENCE AND NATURE

TOOLS OF THE TRADE for your nature and sci-
ence programs: Atlases, space kit, star finder,
map of mankind, weather kit, antique maps,
plants and animals, sports atlas and others.
For catalog, circle #140.

FROM THE HIGH SEAS, pirated from the blub-
berous whale. Whale teeth can add new
bite to nature club programs and study of
aquatic animals. Teeth from sperm whales,
largest of the toothed whales, go from under
six ounces to over one pound each. For in-
formation on whale teeth and how to fit them
into your program, circle #142.

FOR FLOWERS THAT GROW IN THE SPRING, tra-
la-la, it’s good to know about planting and
blossom time. Your nature groups and gar-
den clubs can get pointers from this booklet
on flower gardens—soil preparation, how to
winter seedlings, rock garden plants, and
flowers listed by planting dates, height, and

season of bloom. Circle #143.

YOUR NATURE CLUBS WILL BE ABUzz about the
dances of the bees with a bee colony close by
to study. Shut-ins, too, benefit from observ-
ing the bees in their honeymaking, busy buz-
zing metropolis. For booklets about the lan-
guage of the bees, bee colonies, and hobby
hive, circle #144.

GROW YOUR OWN CHRISTMAS TREES for per-
manent planting or cutting. Pamphlet de-
scribes evergreens, lists prices. TranSplants
from this nursery are guaranteed to live. For

booklet, circle #146.

SPORIS

“LOOP” MOVIES which run continuously until
stopped show slow-motion sports skills—bas-
ketball, tennis, baseball, golf, swimming, div-
ing, football, trampoline, track, cheerleading.
Available from leading sport-supply house.
For information, circle #147.

 

FIVE WALL CHARTS ON TRAMPOLINING cover A
to Z—from fundamentals to complicated rou-
tines for skilled performers. Set includes
“spotting techniques” for trampoline. Each
chart is 17"-by-22”, has simple explanations,
clear illustrations. For set of charts, circle

# 148.

me 40m pang/lama. 111. Mm? Undo/L
MUSIC IS RECREATION

First in a series on the performing arts in recreation

$1.00 each 0
25 or more $3.75 each 0

[:I Send

11-24 copies—$.85 each
100 or oven—$65 per hundred

copies of Music Is Recreation

[:| Check or money order enclosed

[:| Bill agency

( Be sure to fill in name and address on reverse side.)

 

484

[OW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

Two NEW MAPS, one of the United States and
one of the world, 25"-by-38" each, are printed
in ten or more colors. The U.S. map contains
mountain ranges, major bodies of water, time
zones, major cities, state capitals, and na-
tional parks. It is executed in conic projec-
tion. Both are available from Ottenheimer ‘
Publishers, 4805 Nelson Avenue, Baltimore I
15, Maryland, for 8.25 each.

0
A STUDENT MANUAL, Skin and Scuba Diving,
details the history of the sport, basic require-
ments, and equipment by way of excellent '
photographs, sketches and text, to show you
how. Available from the Athletic Institute, l
Merchandise Mart, Chicago 54, for $.50. i

o
A BOOKLET ON FAMILY CAMPING, Try Cami;-
ing This Summer, explains the why, where,
and how. Includes details on what camp-
grounds are like, lowdown on tents, campers’
etiquette, cost of camping, etcetera. Available
for $.25 from Pamphlet Distributing Com-
pany, 391 East 149th Street, New York 55.

o
CARTOON BOOKLET, Help Keep Our Land
Beautiful, depicts what one family learned
during a summer tour about the problem of
soil conservation. Single copies of the six-
teen-page, four-color booklet are $.20 from
the Soil Conservation Society of America, 838
Fifth Avenue, Des Moines 14, Iowa (quantity
rates available on request).

0

MEMBERSHIPin the National Council of Junior
Outdoorsmen is open to children six to nine.
teen years of age. The council supplies free
gifts, among them a lovely, color-illustrated
booklet on fish, to every member who joins.
The council’s chief concern is conservation
and promoting a knowledge of nature. Mem-
bership is $1.00. For further information
write to the National Council of Junior Out-

doorsmen, Laceyville, Pennsylvania.
0

WEEKENDS can offer unexpected vacation fun.
A sixteen-page booklet, 50 Extra Vacations a
Year, tells how to plan something dierrent—
explore a cave, attend a dogshow, have a win-
ter cookout, stargaze a bit, ride the strawhat
trail. Available for $.25 from Employee Rela-
tions, Inc., 19 West 34th Street, New York
City 1.
0

REPORT ON PUBLIC YOUTH WORKCAMPS is
available for $.50 from the National Social
Welfare Assembly, 345 East 46th Street, New
York City 17. It contains a report of Work-
groups on work camps to provide treatment
and rehabilitation for youth in trouble, work
camps to provide work Opportunities, train.
ing, and counseling for unemployed youth
and youth unprepared for employment. A

chapter of leisure-time-recreation is included. ,
\

o
A FILM BIBLIOGRAPHY of Selected Films for»:
Program Planning in Mental Health Educa-
tion includes descriptions of seventy-eight
films covering community problems related
to mental health, recreation, education, et-
cetera. Available for 3.75 from Education De-
partment, Manhattan Society for Mental

Health, 11 West 42nd Street, New York 36. .\

RECREATION

Critique on Recreation
Continued from Page 461

w

more freedoms, and freedom of choice is basic. Change is
one of the constants of our society and applies directly to
present developments in recreation. With the changes in
science, transportation, and economics, society has inde-
pendently developed a selection of recreation pursuits while
organized recreation has continued to build upon founda-
tions conceived in the ’30’s.

RECREATION HAS BECOME much more than an organized

movement; it is a way Of life for every American based
upon newly earned economic freedom. Individuals want to
travel “Recreation First Class” and are willing to spend ex-
tra for the privileges which include freedom from organ-
ization and regulation; personal choice in activity, and pri-
vacy in a group of their own selection. American society
has had the ability tO adapt itself to new situations as they
arise. It has not been bound by tradition nor has it been
afraid tO try new methods in achieving goals. It is not only
important tO wonder why the recreation dollar is being
spent, but it is also important to know hOw it is being spent.
The professional in recreation is going to have tO adjust to
a new philosophy Of recreation in order tO gain voice as
well as status in this new era. Goals do not have tO change,
but methods can be altered.

Commercial cousins Of professional recreation continue
to attract more Of the American public annually and ex-
tract from it in a most painless manner forty billion dollars.
The tail is wagging the dog. The challenge to professional
recreation is obvious. #

  

SOMETHING FREE for you! Don't miss Page

483, in color, with its Trode Mort listings, telling
how to get free materials.

  

 
 

Dynamics of Programing

Continued from Page 456

 

the only meaningful reference group a person has today is
his peers.

ANOTHER DIMENSION Of this problem relates tO the impact
upon personality because such grouping tends to sever
the thread of historical continuity between the generations.
A Levittown makes no provision for uncles, aunts, grand-
fathers, and grandmothers. This contact with the genera-
tions is shortened and in many instances severed. Family,
in the larger sense, is weakened. Hence the controls are
those Of the peers, rather than of family tradition.

Dynamic programing faces nO more serious issue than
this of grouping in its many ramifications. Sensitivity to
the trends, and intelligence in dealing with them may be
one Of the major tasks facing those whose job in the years
ahead is that of assisting America use this growing amount
of leisure time to achieve more fulfilled lives. #

NOVEMBER, 1961

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Low-Cost Life Insurance
for Recreation Employees

THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION has developed a
very attractive low-rate term life insurance plan for rec-

reation personnel (including secretarial, maintenance and

custodial workers employed in recreation) who fulfill the

following basic requirements:

0 Are employed full time in recreation

0 Are Service Associate members Of N RA

0 Are below the age Of 66

An applicant can apply for as much as $40,000, with
$5,000 as the minimum. A medical examination will nor-
mally not be required if the applicant is under 46 and is ap-
plying for no more than $10,000. Policies are renewable
to age 70. Should the insured leave the recreation field, he
has the right tO convert to a permanent plan without a phys-
ical examination.

The initial reaction in the field has been extremely prom-
ising, especially in municipalities where group life insurance
is either not available tO recreation employees, or, if it is,
the coverage is limited to 55100035000. The plan is par-
ticularly attractive tO the many young people who in increas-
creasing numbers each year are making recreation their
profession.

AGE NEAREST SEMI-ANNUAL
BIRTHDAY AT PREMIUM FOR
BEGINNING OF $5,000 OF
POLICY YEAR INSURANCE
20-24- 5 6.40
25-29 7.70
30-34 9.70
35-39 12.75
40-44 17.45
50-54 24.60
55-59 35.50
60-64 77.40
65-69 115.55

Premiums for additional amounts are proportional and
renewable premiums are based on the attained age Of the
insured at each date Of renewal. For example, an insured
aged 36 pays $12.75 semi-annually for $5,000 Of insurance
until the policy anniversary nearest his fortieth birthday.
Then his premiums increase to $17.45 semi-annually for the
next five years. Every five years thereafter his premiums
increase in accordance with the above table until age 70.

Brochures and applications are available through your
recreation agency or National Recreation Association

Headquarters, 8 West 8th Street, New York 11. REMEM-
BER THE DEADLINE 15 DECEMBER Isl, 50 YOU MUST
ACT IMMEDIATELY.

FREE CATALOG
of HANDICRAFI' KITS

IDEAL FOR CLASSRDDIII, RECREATION. FUND RAISING
Complete Ready To

Use Easy To Do

Rays of Delight to
light a Rainy Day Tool

COSTS AS “THE AS

7V“ EACH IN QUANTITIES

KITS CONTAIN EVERYTHING
NEEDED TO MAKE PRACTICAL OR
DECORATIVE GIFTS WITH
EASY-TO-FOllOW INSTRUCTIONS

' leather 0 Jewelry 0 Boshetry ’
0 Copper 0 Ceramlcs 0 Decorations '
and Donne of other '
Fosclnating Hobby Crafts 0
Constructlvo Croft Kits to III 0
I

All. Ages 7 to 70 plusl
Send Today For Free Catalog

HOlIDAY HANDIERAFIS. |llC..APPlE Hlll. WIIlSIED SI, (Ollll.

 

 

Handweaver

8r Craftsman

The magazine
with new weaving ideas
and helpful projects
in each issue

Four issues a year
A complete file of back issues
will give you a valuable
weaving library

Write for brochure
and prices of back issues

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

1 yr. .... -- $ 4 2 yrs. ____ __ $ 7.50
3 yrs. $10 5 yrs. .... -_ $15

Pan-American 8. foreign rates
$1 a year extra
Single copies $1.25

Please send checks
or money orders to

Handweaver 8. Craftsman
246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK 1

THE ATR E
FOR CHILDREN
PLAYS DANCE

Booking ’61-’62 TOURS Now

Contact .
FRANCES SCHRAM

BRIGGS MANAGEMENT

1475 Broadway, New York 36, N. Y.
Bryant 9-6780

 

2 RELDCRAFTS CATALOGS

F-R-E-El

     

0 Latest Project Ideas

' Beginners or Advanced
' Complete Supplies, Kits
0 Top Quality and Values

LARSON's, serving schools and institutions
by mail for 26 years. is your headquarters for
all popular handcrafts. LEATHER, METAL,
MOSAICS. WOOD, CERAMICS, PLASTER
MOLDS, BASKET WEAVING, ETC. Also
Dennison paper. clays, paints, etc. You will
want these valuable illustrated catalogs on
hand. Contain latest low price lists and at-
tractive quantity discounts. Top quality
guaranteed. Value priced. Many inexpensive
projects without tools. Complete stocks to fill
any size order. Same-day shipment. Write
today for FREE reference catalogs.

J. C. LARSON CO., INC.

Dept. 1405 820 S. Tripp Chicago 24, III.

486

 

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED'

 

n

XCITING INNOVATIONS are being made

in the recreation services provided

by sheltered workshops to their clients,
the direct result of a recently completed
study of sheltered workshops. The pro-
vocative recommendations made by the
project team have aroused great interest
in the field of comprehensive rehabilita-
tion. The Sheltered Workshop Project,

July 1959 to June 1961, was conducted
by the National Recreation Association

Consulting Service on Recreation for
the III and Handicapped, under a grant
from the Office of Vocational Rehabili-
tation of the U.S. Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare. Its primary
purpose was investigation of the recre—
ation needs of sheltered workshop cli-
ents and formulation of practical rec-
ommendations for action to meet such
needs.

Some needs of the 240 clients inter-
viewed in twelve workshops include:

1. Education to develop an aware-
ness of personal responsibility for meet-
ing one’s basic need for recreation and
to develop recreation skills.

2. Education, information, and mo-
tivation to enhance the self-image so the
client perceives himself as a potentially
active participant in the social and rec-
reation life of the community and to
minimize atypical appearance and be-
havior so the client will be more readily
acceptable to nonhandicapped persons
in recreation settings and social situa-
tions.

3. Information to help clients find
out about available community re-
sources for free or inexpensive recrea-
tion and existing opportunities for
learning and practicing recreation skills.

4. Recreation counseling to enable
clients and their families to participate
successfully in a variety of recreation
activities.

5. Activity programing and leader-
ship to encourage clients in exploration
of possibilities for enjoying a variety
of recreation experiences.

6. Assistance in obtaining free or in-
expensive transportation to and from
recreation settings and events.

7. Special programs and opportuni-
ties for clients whose disorders affect
appearance or behavior to a degree

 

MRS. HILL is executive director of
Comeback, Inc. and consultant to the
National Recreation Association Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the

Ill and Handicapped.

Beatrice H. Hill

which precludes the possibility of ac-
ceptance by nonhandicapped persons in
recreation settings or social situations.

BASED ON THE ABOVE findings, recom-

mendations were made to sheltered
workshop staffs which will also be use-
ful to other vocational rehabilitation
agencies, health and welfare institutions
and agencies, public and voluntary rec-
reation agencies, and others concerned
with comprehensive rehabilitation of

the chronically ill and handicapped.

So effective was the work of the proj-
ect team that, of nine shops reporting
on follow-up action taken, seven indi-
cated inaugurating a more extensive
range of activities. Where formerly
most of the twelve shops visited pro-
vided from one to three yearly events,
such as an annual dance, dinner, or pic—
nic, or all three, and one or two offered
weekly events, now they have been suc-
cessful in working out many programs
of interest.

After conducting a survey of the rec-
reation needs of handicapped persons
living in the county, a county recrea-
tion department not only decided to in-
clude the workshop clients ‘in its pro-
gram, but broadened its recreation ac-
tivities to include the ill and handi-
capped on a county-wide basis. Several
workshops make use of community
resources to obtain such services as
transportation for clients to and from
recreation events, establishment of a
swimming program for blind clients,
and dissemination of information about
recreation opportunities for handicap-
ped persons. One shop persuaded a
state health association to take respon-
sibility for providing weekend activities
for some clients. Another provided tick-
ets for handicapped persons to attend
local sports events. These inspiring
moves will lay the groundwork for ac-
tion in these and other communities.

it The Office of Vocational Rehabilita-
tion has awarded Comeback, Inc. a
grant to implement some of the recom-
mendations made in the Sheltered Work-
shop Project report. Scranton, Penn-
sylvania, a medium-sized city, and

Warren County, New Jersey, a rural
county, have been selected as demon- it

stration sites. John Gehan, formerly
director of activity-therapy program for
the Forest Park Foundation in Peoria,
Illinois, is conducting the demonstra-
tion in Scranton- and Mary Jane Cas-
sidy in Warren County.

RECREATION

Reporter’s Notebook
Continued from Page 464

 

mark in Chehalis since the turn of the
century, was rededicated with a reen-
actment of political rally “stumping”
complete with band. A synchronized
water ballet with colored lights and

moving arc lights completed the big
jamboree.

' The Grand Rapids, Michigan, Recrea-
tion Board sponsors after-school classes
_—over sixty weekly sessions—in vari-
ous elementary schools throughout the
city. Activities include arts and crafts,
play, music, dramatics, dancing, and
foreign language instruction, among
others. Over/fifteen hundred youngsters
participated in the language sessions,
which offer lessons in French, German,

and Spanish.

' “I started by taking them out of that
sordid neighborhood—showing them
how other people could live,” says a so-
cial worker on a New York tenement
project where seventeen children were
saved from gangs. The three-year proj-
ect began by the Henry Street Settle-
ment to help eighteen preadolescent
boys resulted in many successes—only
one boy got into trouble, neighborhood
cohesion began, and the twenty-four
tenement families now come to the so-
cial worker with their problems.

' The Riverhead, New York, Recrea-

tion Commission advises citizens: “If
you don’t see it, ask for it.”

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS
Bret McGinnis,

formerly superin-
tendent of recrea-
tion in Evansville,
Indiana, was ap-
pointed Indiana’s
first State Recrea-
. . .. tion Director as of
September 1. Mr. McGinnis will work
directly under the Governor’s Advisory
Committee on Recreation with offices in
the State Board of Health. He is under
civil service. James Peterson, formerly
superintendent of recreation in Em-
poria, Kansas, will succeed Mr. Mc-
Ginnis at Evansville.

  

Dr. William E. Stirton, vice-prcsi-
dent of the University of Michigan and

NOVEMBER, 1961

r.

 

director of its Dearborn Center, is the
new chairman of the State Cultural
Commission. He will lead a campaign
to encourage cultural activities through-
out the state and to make Michigan’s
achievements in cultural fields better
known among her own people and thc
rest of the world. The commission has
been in existence for several months.
Its activities thus far have been chiefly
background studies of the state’s facili-
ties and programs in art, music, litera-
ture, the dance, and other cultural ac-
tivities.

Jay M. Ver Lee,

superintendent of
recreation in Oak-
land, California,
was feted at a testi-
monial dinner in
September. The
event was held in
recognition of the contributions of Mr.
Ver Lee and his department to the
city. Proceeds of the dinner, sponsored
by the Oakland Junior Chamber of
Commerce, will be donated to the rec-
reation department’s Camp Scholarship

Fund.

In Long Beach, California, the first
two Walter L. Scott recreation schol-
arships were given to Anne Murdy
and Katy Stone. The scholarships
were established in honor of the city’s
retired director of municipal and school
recreation. Miss Murdy will major in
recreation at Long Beach City College
and Miss Stone, graduate of the Uni-
versity of California, has selected spe-
cialized study in the field of administra-
tion and supervision of recreation and
will attend Long Beach State College
where she previously obtained a mas-
ter’s degree.

Nine present and former Oakland, Cal-
ifornia, recreation department craft in-
structors are among the award winners
in the first California Craftsmen’s cx-
hibit shown at the Oakland Art Mu-
seum. They included \Villiam Under-
hill (purchase award), Stephen De
Staehler, Elizabeth Irwin, Ragn-
hild Kingshury, Wayne Taylor,
Ted Bielefeld, Viola Frey, all 111crit
award winners; and Jody Rohhim

and Kenneth Dierck. Works by the

     
   
  

_ Superipr Design,
\ Construction and
PERFORMANCE

far greater
strength and

tlltltIIIAN

5%, zoom/-

PLAYGROU N D
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for nearly halt a century.

WRITE FOR LITERATURE

   

 

O-F

 7 _777 7

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA. [INS-.A.

woata's mam sunrise?! are; as 3 -;r‘
"leg-IE al’ a. .0" I...
a ‘3 w I . -I one '

PARK FUN
’00 we web-9..

 

Stop wasting time recording Inventory casts,
handing out balls and paying tap prices for low
quality balls. Install this attractive, castscutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

leased FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V2 x 8‘!) x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 balls-
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free ialder: “Stap Wasting Their Time."

T. F. IWARDZIK & (0.,

mf1llfrll":

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

 

merit award winners will be included
in a fall exhibit by the American Crafts-
men’s Council at the Museum of Con-'
temporary Crafts, New York City.

 

Obituaries

 

 

l
0 WALTER WRIGHT, head of Chicago’s

Forestry Service for nearly fifty years, :
died recently at the age of seventy-
seven. Mr. Wright became head of the
Forestry Service in 1912, keeping this
top position under various titles as thel

agency expanded. From 1927 to 1947

     

    

 

 

 
 
    
   
  
  
  

 

 

f' 10 .

f;.,_'°;,',iipm‘;:r, an; 1115 bureau was known as the Bureau of
Yes’ hundreds Of park and rec' supplies C05? under Parks, Aviation and Recreation. In his

I- 1" d t t 'u - $300.00. Over 50? . .
.ea '0" “‘13P” :19"; “if I:l) m: of your pawns wi‘I’l three-hatted capac1ty he played a major
mg on e, re res m2" Ono ' buy 6 b‘19- role in the growth of Madison Airport.
wagon' You ” Side! 10% to 29A) 1  Until the merger of the city and park
to your available operating _. . -   district governments in 1959, Mr.
funds'  i  Almost 9c profit per Wright also had responsibility for many
10c sale. Equipment ' k h t h d' t ° t k

All Gold Medal Equipment can and supplies $300.00. City par S  a t 6 park 15 not 0,0
a for itself out of Frans, Extremely popular over. He estlmated the Forestry Servme

P y . giih12" Children "'1' had planted 750,000 trees in Chicago.

er . i

Write my fo_r Egg 1961 cota-
log and detailed book on re-

freshments. We have everything
you need for HOT DOGS, POP-

. WALTER I. KENNEY, superintendent
of the New Haven, Connecticut, Park
Department, died recently at the age of

 

     

      

8c profit per 10c.
Equipment and sup-

CORN, SNO-KONES, COTTON Plies costs "p d e I' fifty-nine. Mr. Kenney joined the park
CANDY AND ALL OTHER RE- figio'iliéasg‘flmgier: department in 1927 as a tractor driver,
FRESHMENT ITEMS' body loves Sno-Kones working his way through the ranks to

-—the most refreshing
drink you can eat.

----‘-----------1

Send more information on
REFRESHMENT PROFITS to:

Bill PRDDHBTS COMPANY :3;

1821-31 Freeman Avenue, Cincinnati 14, Ohio

the position of superintendent.

0 LEO CARRILLO, a California state park
commissioner, perhaps better known for
his roles as a lovable bad man in the
melodramatic movies, died recently of
cancer at the age of eighty-one. Mr.
Carrillo was a most active member of
the State Parks Commission from 1942
until ust before his death. He was par-
ticularly interested in restoring historic
missions and was responsible for the
Will Rogers estate becoming a state
park. Mr. Carrillo left part of his estate
to further help state parks. Mr. Carril-
lo’s autobiography, The California I
Love, has just been published by Pren-
tice-Hall.

City

The most trusted name in Refreshments Today! ' Stale

   

you can get all your

JEWELRY MAKING SUPPllES

in one place

CRAFT METALS—Sterling and Fine Silver,
Karat Gold, Copper, Brass, Pewter, Alu-
minum

T0 0 LS—For jewelry making, metalsmithing

JEWELRY FINDINGS—Sterling, gold filled,
copper, brass, nickel, karat gold

ENAMELING—Over 150 colors of domestic
and imported enamels, hundreds of cop-
per shapes, kilns, etc.

STONES—Tumble polished baroque stones

. and sterling mountings.

Send for FREE CATALOG and price list.
Prompt service our specialty.

C. R. HILL COMPANY

35 W. Grand River Detroit, Michigan

 
   
      

Belson

CHAR - WOOD

Campstove and grill

burns charcoal
or wood

 
   
     
 

   

o GEORGE C. HAMMER, supervisingrigl
specialist of training in the Oakland,
California, Recreation Department,
died this summer at the age of thirty-
two. He had been with the Oakland de-

partment since 1950.

 
   
    

write for complete catalog & factory prices

BELSON
MANUFACTURING co.. com AURORA 4, rumors

 
         
     

0!

\

488 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

 

Amateur Theatre, Van H. Cartmell.

D. Van Nostrand Company, 120 Alex-
ander Street, Princeton, New Jersey.

Pp. 220. $3.50.*

Here is a fine handbook for begin-
ners and those who need brushing up
in amateur dramaties, covered in an in-
structive yet witty manner. Mr. Cart-
mell fully understands the problems of
amateur acting and succinctly yet amus-
ingly underlines the pitfalls. It contains
many useful items on all phases of pro-
duction. Mr. Cartmell has included a
delightful one-act farce of his own,
George, designed to illustrate his points.
A glossary of stage terms is included in
the book which also contains two ap-
pendices. One is a pithy, illustrated list
of do’s and don’ts and the other, a prac-
tical listing of duties of a production
manager.——-Harold H. Wilcox, assistant
to the executive director, National Rec-
reation Association.

Block and Silk Screen Printing, G.
Ahlberg and O. Janeryd. Sterling Pub-

lishing Company, 419 Park Avenue,
South, New York 16. Pp. 91. $3.95.

This book was originally designed by
two Swedish craftsmen and was print-
, ed in Sweden. A number of printing
techniques are covered, including
block, potato, and silk-screen printing;
other techniques such as batik and tie
dye are briefly mentioned. Many of the
features in this book are highly com-
mendable——the spacious layout, the
easy-to-read print, and the artistic illus-
trations. The sections on the history of
block printing and on types of design
should be quite helpful to students of
textile printing.

However, in some instances, the ma-
terials and tools suggested seem out-
dated. Commercial textile paints have
been on the American market for many
years; yet this book suggests using oil
paints or vegetable dyes for silk-screen
printing. The same holds true for the
tool with which the silk screen is cut.
A sharp knife is suggested and leaves
this reviewer wondering just what kind

l|lAvailable from National Recreation Asso-
ciation, Recreation Book Center, 8 W. 8th
Street, New York 11.

NOVEMBER, 1961

is meant! Here again a commercial cut-
ter especially designed to cut stencils
has been available on the American
market for many years. Since the book
is appealing to the beginner, “the ama-
teur of any age,” the use of available
simple-to-use paints and cutting tools
might make satisfying results easier to
achieve. And since students are always
asking where to purchase supplies this
type of information might have been
helpful as wed—Shirley Silbert, chair-
man, National Recreation Association
Arts and Crafts Subcommittee.

Finger Play Approach to Dramatiza-
tion, Mary Jackson Ellis. T. S. Denison
and Company, 321 Fifth Avenue South,

Minneapolis 15. Pp. 80, illustrated.
Pp. 220. $3.95.*

Here is a progression so simple it
seems impossible it has not been written
up before! The author describes, with
words and sketches, twenty-one finger-
plays, including several seasonal and
holiday ones. She then takes these same
fingerplays and builds up simple dra-
matizations for each—just enough to
give the leader an idea on how to de-
velop the idea. From quiet words with
finger movements to groups of children
interpreting the words with body move-
ments is a logical sequence of develop
ment. The illustrations throughout are
in full color, very lively, natural, and

descriptive.

Paper Folding for Beginners, Wil-
liam D. Murray and Francis J. Rigney.
Dover Publishing Company, 180 Var-
ick Street, New York 14. Pp. 96, illus-
trated. $1.00.

Here is a revised, paperbouud ver-
sion of one of the first———and best——
books on paper folding, or origami,
published originally in 1928 under the
title Fun with Paper Folding. The au-
thors say that the book is intended for
children. Maybe so—youngsters are
smart and dash into corners where an-
gels fear to fold. Given patience. there’s
no doubt that most people would enjoy
these projects. We have a feeling that
they are best learned from a person,

however, rather than from a book. This
inexpensive booklet, however, makes it
possible for any leader to try his hand
at origami. If he succeeds, and then
shows the youngsters, he’ll be a hitr—
and so will the activity!

American Negro Songs and Spiritu-
als, John W. Work, Editor. Bonanza
Books, 419 Park Avenue South, New
York 16. Pp. 256. $5.00.

The 230 songs in this collection oc-
cupy slightly more than four-fifths of
the volume’s 250 pages. The majority
of the spirituals, blues, work songs,
hollers, jubilees, and social songs are
authentically and simply arranged for
choral singing. The critical survey of
these songs, by John W. Work of Fisk
University, although not extensive, is
objective and scholarly. The reader
will find not only a number of well-
known Negro songs but many wonder-
ful less familiar songs as well in this
comprehensive collection.

IN BRIEF

How To MAKE TulNcs OUT or PAPER,
Walter Sperling. Sterling Publishing
Company, 419 Park A venue South. New
York 16. Pp. 124, illustrated. 52.50.
This is a translation of a German book.
Projects include a number of “magic”
tricks with paper, plus decorations, ani-
mals, houses, and paper games. evi-
dently selected for child interest and
pleasure. They are much less involved
than origami and books on paperfold-
ing as an art. Take the old pinwheel
everyone has made. Here it is—with
interesting variations involving logical
progression. And did you ever make a
windball? A windwheel? A magic cor-
nucopia? Do you know the secret of the
Japanese puzzle fan? They're all here,
with very precise directions and clear

drawings.

JUMP THE ROPE JINGLES, collected by
Emma Victor W orstell, illustrated by
Sheila Creenwald. .llaemillan Com-
pany, 60 Fifth Avenue, New York 11.
Pp. 55. $2.75. Like Impseotch. jacks.
counting-out rhymes and childhood
chants, jumping rope and its jingles be-
long to childhood and are part of grow-

189

ing up. Their ancient and honorable
history, plus their amazing adaptability
make them worthy of preservation.
Jumping rope, like most of the games
that have become traditional, goes far
back into antiquity. Here are the ingles
that have passed from generation to
generation. Also included are instruc-
tions for jump-rope games.

OUTDOOR LIVING, Robert 0. Bale. Bur-
gess Publishing Company, 426 South
Sixth Street, Minneapolis 15. Pp. 200,
illustrated. $3.00.* Mr. Bale, boys’ pro-
gram director of the Elmira, New York,
Neighborhood House, is no stranger to
the camping field. Readers will remem-
her his Creative Nature Crafts and Step-
ping Stones to Nature.

This book is designed for use by
either campers or instructors in camp-
craft skills. lts outline form, its many
sketches illustrating the subiect matter,
and its Spiral binding make it a helpful,
clear and concise addition to camp
literature.

FIELD BOOK OF NATURE ACTIVITIES,
{ revised edition), William H illcourt.
G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 200 Madison Ave-
nue, New York 16. Pp. 432. $4.95.* As
any good nature counselor knows, this
book has always been a valuable source
of information on all sorts of nature ac-
tivities and projects. This new edition
adds to its value. The author lists five
points of View—knowing nature, prob—
ing nature, using nature, doing nature
and conserving nature, and concen-
trates on the last two.

THE ADVENTURE BOOK OF NATURE
CRAFT, Richard F. Dempewolff. Capitol
Publishing Company, 737 Broadway,
New York 3. Pp. 95, illustrated. $3.95.
The Eastern editor Of POpular M echan-
ics magazine has written a very inter-
esting book leading the boy or girl into
scientific explanations Of the world of
nature. To the counselor or recreation
leader seeking to arouse and sustain in-
terest in the out-Of-doors, the informa-
tion and the projects in the book will
be very helpful. To a youngster who
likes to read about what he can see and
do outdoors, the book will be a real
“find.” Remember it for that coming

birthday.

SONG BOOKS

MOTHER GOOSE IN HAWAII—Songs and
Color from the Islands,.Troy E. Tabor,
illustrated by Lloyd Sexton. Charles E.
Tuttle Company, Rutland, Vermont. Pp.
32. $2.75. The author was “born and
raised” in Hawaii. For fear that Ha-
waii as a state might become more and
more “mainland” and her children for-
get their native tongue, Mrs. Tabor has
taken native tunes and nursery rhymes

490

and combined them into a Hawaiian
version. Along with the English and
Hawaiian words and the tune for the
rhyme, she has added interesting notes
about Hawaiian customs, legends, na-
tive birds, animals, trees, and flowers.
A beguiling book, with full-color illus-
trations.

SHANTIEs FROM THE SEVEN SEAS, col-
lected by Stan Hugill. E. P. Button,
300 Park Avenue South, New York 10.
Pp. 609. $12.00. Stan Hugill, on'é‘of
the last deepwater shantymen, has col-
lected the songs of sailors around the
world and has given us a rich and most
comprehensive book of shanties. These
worksongs have a lusty tune, a powerful
rhythm, and colorful words and stories.

CHILDREN’S SONGS FROM JAPAN, Flor-
ence White and Kazuo Akiyama. Ed-
ward B. Marks Music Corporation, 136
West 52nd Street, New York 19. Pp.
92. $4.95. This charming collection

contains folks songs, singing games,
and dances. The arrangements are sim-
ple and illustrations imaginative. Any-
one wishing to cultivate international
goodwill and understanding among
children will find these songs just right
for the purpose. r

SONGS FOR SWINGIN’ HOUSEMOTHERS,
collected by Frank Lynn. Chandler Pub-
lishing Company, 660 Market Street,
San Francisco 4. Pp.341. $1.95. More
than three hundred Old-time favorites
are brought together in this volume.
Only tunes and words are given; chord
signs are indicated for each tune. This
compendious selection of songs which
can be sung by anyone alone or in a
group is particularly useful to recrea-
tion leaders.

 

HURRAH FOR BOOKS
Book Week November 12-18

W

SCIENCE BOOKS

THE AIR this year is supercharged with

scientific blastoffs and a plethora of
children’s science and nature books is
flooding the market. Many of these are
exciting even for adult perusal. The
main criticism of new science books as
a group is unimaginative layout, drab
use of color and lackadaisical design.

MAN-MADE MOONS, Marie Neurath.
LothrOp, Lee & Shepard, 419 Park Ave-
nue South, New York 16. Pp. 36, illus-
trated. $2.00. As far as it goes, this
book is clear and the illustrations com-
plement the text very well. The mos:
basic mechanics of rockets and satellites
are covered: making electricity from

the sun, explanations of orbital flights,
and the first animal passengers in space.
One drawback to “reportorial” books.
Of this nature is that they are so quickly
superseded by new developments.

WONDER WORKER, The Story of Elec-,
tricity, Walter Buehr. William Morrow,-
425 Park Avenue South, New York 10.‘
Pp. 96, illustrated. $3.00. An excellent'

text gives clear explanations of elec-
tricity. Good illustrations, amusing
anecdotes, and a fascinating history of
electricity make this book worthwhile
for an inquisitive mind of any age. A
subject which is oftimes as dull as a
burned-out bulb crackles with adven-
ture in this book.

MAN ALIVE IN OUTER SPACE, Henry B.
Lent. Macmillan Company, 60 Fifth
Avenue, New York 11. Pp. 147, photo-
graphs. $3.00. Teenagers on up to sen-
ior citizens could read and enjoy this
account Of man in space and what went
on before the blastoff. Excellent photo-
graphs and a gripping text report on
US. astronauts’ physical and psycho-
logical requirements, tests, and prepa-
ration for the mammoth projects.

MORE RESEARCH'IDEAS FOR YOUNG SCI-
ENTISTS, George Barr. McCraw-H ill
Book Company, 330 West 42nd Street,
New York 36. Pp. 158, illustrated.
$3.00. This book for ten-year-olds and

over is an appetizer in the scientific
menu. such a tasty one that youngsters
will drool for the next course. It is a
collection of morsels which can awaken ‘
a child’s mind to whole fields of endea-
vor. Can you pipe light? Where can
you see the breakdown of atoms? A
dig-right-in book.

A FIRST LOOK AT THE SEA. Franklin
Watts, 575 Lexington Avenue, New
York 22. Pp. 72, illustrated. $1.95.
Whales and walruses and skindivers
and galleons, all things in and on the
sea, are colorfully illustrated. The text
is lively and affords entertaining possi-
bilities for younger readers.

CAVE MAN TO SPACE MAN, Margaret
Friskey. C hildrens Press, Jackson Boul-
evard and Racine Avenue, Chicago 7.
Pp. 64, illustrated. $2.95. Wonderfully
bright illustrations in shocking pink,
lime green, and purple bubble all over ,
the pages of this picture-history Of\.
transportation. Illustrations are taken ill
from original cave drawings, stone
sculptures, manuscript drawings, and
vases. The text is good, though moral-
istic about ancient history, and provides
an interesting survey of transportation
through the centuries—GAIL MADONIA. Q

RECREATION

 

 

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

Areas, Facilities, Equipment

' ARCHITECTURAL FOLLIES IN AMERICA, Clay
Lancaster. Charles E. Tuttle, Rutland, Vt.
Pp. 243. $7.50.

AUDITORIUMS AND ARENAS, Francis R. Deer-
ing, Don Jewell, and Lindsley C. Lueddeke.
Public Admin. Service, 1313 E. 60th St.,
Chicago 37. Pp. 86. Paper, $5.00.

BUDGET LANDSCAPING, Carlton B. Lees. Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison Ave.,
New York 17. Pp. 152. $3.95.

CITIES IN CRISIS, Dennis Clark. Sheed &
Ward, 840 Broadway, New York 3. Pp.
177. $3.50.

CONCISE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF ARCHITECTURE,
Martin S. Briggs. E.P. Dutton, 300 Park
Ave. S., New York 10. Pp. 371. $5.00.

FABRITECTURE, Oscar A. Turner. Pageant
Press, 101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 137.
$3.00. ,

FROM STONES TO SKYSCRAPERS, Thea and
Richard Bergere. Dodd, Mead, 433 Park
Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 91. $3.50.

FUTURE METROPOLIS, THE, Lloyd Rodwin,
Editor. George Braziller, 215 Park Ave. S.,
New York 3. Pp. 253. $5.00.

How TO TURN CONCRETE INTO GOLD, V. S.
Flowers. Concrete Machinery Co., Drawer
60, Hickory, N.C. Pp. 88. Paper, $2.00.

IDEAS FOR ENTRYWAYS AND FRONT GARDENS.
Sunset Books, Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 80.
Paper, $1.50.

LEGAL PROBLEMS AFFECTING PRIVATE SWIM-

MING POOLS, F. Reed Dickerson. Hoffman-

Harris, 425 Park Ave. S., New York 16.
Pp. 126. $7.50.

MANUAL OF PARK EQUIPMENT FOR CITIES OF
150,000 POPULATION OR LESS, Carl Fenner.
Amer. Inst. of Park Executives, Oglebay
Park, Wheeling, W. Va. Pp. 32. Paper,
$2.00 ($1.00 for members).

METROPOLIS AND REGION, Otis Dudley and
Beverly Davis Duncan, William Richard
Scott, Stanley Lieberson, and Hal H. Wins-
borough. John Hopkins Press, Baltimore
18, Maryland. Pp. 587. $8.50.

METROPOLIS 1985, Raymond Vernon. Harvard
Univ. Press, Cambridge, Mass. Pp. 252.
$5.00.

METROPOLITAN AREA PROBLEMS, Stanley
Scott, Editor. Bureau of Public Administra-
tion and University Ext., Univ. of Califor-
nia, Berkeley, Pp. 249. Paper, $2.50.

MOTOPIA (urban landscape), H.G.A. Jelli-
coe. Frederick A. Praeger, 64 University

Pl., New York 3. Pp. 165. $9.50.
NEW APPROACHES TO RESIDENTIAL LAND DE-

VELOPMENT: A Study of Concepts 8: Inno-
vations. Urban Land Inst., 1200 18th St.,
N.W., Washington 6. Pp. 151. Paper,
$6.00.

OUR HOUSING JUNGLE AND YOUR POCKET-
BOOK, Oscar H. Steiner. University Publ.,
59 E. 54th St., New York 22. Pp. 180.
$3.95.

PLAINVILLE,» U.S.A.,. James ,West. Columbia
Univ. Press, 2960 Broadway, New York 27.

Pp. 238. Paper, $1.55.
PLANNING INFORMATION FOR PRIVATE COUN-

TRY CLUBS. Natl. Golf Foundation, 804
Merchandise Mart, Chicago 54. Paper,

min. Service, 1313 E. 60th St., Chicago 37.
Pp. 94-. Paper, $3.00.

NOVEMBER,_ 1961

RESIDENTIAL RENEWAL IN TIIE URBAN CORE,
Chester Rapkin and William G. Grigsby.
Univ. of Pennsylvania Press, 3436 Walnut
St., Philadelphia 4-. Pp. 131. $3.75.

SEQUENCE & TIMING IN RIVER BASIN DEVELOP-
MENT, John V. Krutilla. Resources for the
Future, 1145 19th St., N.W., Washington 6,
DC. Pp. 34. $.75.

SHOPPING TOWNS, U.S.A., Victor Gruen and
Larry Smith. Reinhold Publishing, 430
Park Ave., New York 22. Pp. 288. $13.50.

SUNSET PATIO BOOK (rev. ed.). Lane Book
Co., Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 165. Paper,
$2.00.

TOWN AND SQUARE, Paul Zueker. Columbia
Univ. Press, 2960 Broadway, New York 27.
Pp. 287. $15.00.

USEFUL CURVES AND CURVED SURFACES, H.
Seymour Howard, Jr. School of Architec-
ture, Pratt Inst., 215 Ryerson St., Brooklyn,
N. Y. Unpaged. Paper, $2.00.

Holidays, Special Occasions

BEST WITCHES, Robert Heitmann. Golden
Press, 630 5th Ave., New York 20. Un-
paged. $1.95.

BIRTHDAY CANDLES BURNING BRIGIIT, Sara
and John E. Brewton. Macmillan Co., 60
5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 199. $3.50.*

FATHER’S DAY COMES ONCE A YEAR, Harold
H. Martin. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 210
Madison Ave., New York 16. Pp. 192.
$3.75.

FIRST EASTER RABBIT, THE, Hertlia Paul. Ives
Washburn, 119 W. 40th St., New York 18.
Unpaged. $2.95.*

46 DAYS OF CHRISTMAS, Dorothy Gladys Spi-
cer. Coward-McCann, 210 Madison Ave.,
New York 16. Pp. 96. $3.50.

G’DEE’S BOOK OF HOLIDAY FUN, Helen Fine.
American Hebrew Congregations, 838 5th
Ave., New York 21. Pp. 96. Paper, $1.50.

IT’S TIME FOR EASTER, Elizabeth Hough Sech-

rist and Janette Woolsey. Macrae Smith,
225 S. 15th St., Philadelphia 2. Pp. 255.

$3.75.

LITTLE LEFTOVER WITCH, THE, Florence
Laughlin. Macmillan, 60 5th Ave., New
York 11. Pp. 107. $2.75.*

LITTLEST RABBIT, THE, Robert Kraus. Har-
per & Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16.

Pp. 32. $1.95.*

MARSHMALLOW GHOSTS, THE. Priscilla and
Otto Friedrick. Lothrop, Lee & Shepard,
419 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 38.
$2.95.*

PATRICIA AND CHRISTMAS TREE LAND, Eleanor
Mogenson Madsen. Exposition Press, 386
Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 26.
$2.75.*

ROSH HA-SHONO AND YOM KIPPUR: The High
Holy Days; SHOVUOS: The Birthday of the
Torah; SUKOS AND SIMCHAS TORAII: Fes-
tivals of Thanksgiving; TU BI-SII’ VOT: The
New Year’s Day for Trees, all by SOphia N.
Cedarbaum. Union of American Hebrew
Congregations, 838 5th Ave., New York 21.

Pp. 30 each. $.59 each.

n

Science, Nature

 

ATOMS TO GALAXIES, James Stokley. Ronald
Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp.
360. $6.00.

AUDUBON AND HIS JOURNALS, Vol. 1, p. 432
and Vol. II, pp. 554, John James Audubon,

 

* For younger readers.

0 Step-up their FUN and
FITNESS

with the complete new guides
to tip-top health published by
the YMCA; recommended by
by the AMA

Via" The Boy's Book
of Physical

Fitness
I Hal 6. Vermes

 
 
  
   
    

  

AND 3-

The Girls Book
of Physical

Fitness

Jean C. Vermes

   
    
        
   
   
   
 
    
   
   
     
    

H-

“Any boy . . . any girl would
benefit now and later by reading
these books.”—W. W. Bauer, M.D.,
Dir., Health Education, American
Medical Association.

Boys and girls approaching junior high
and up will enjoy these fun-to-follow
steps to "feeling tops." Well checked
programs of exercise, diet, sports and
recreation, personal hygiene and good
habits show each youngster how to
LOOK, FEEL, and BE his (or her)
best. Here's expert support for your
fitness program. $1.95 each

   
 
 
 
 
  
     
    
   
  
   
    
    

0 IOO  ready-to-use patterns

and instructions for eosy-to-malte
things that keep small fry happy.

Scrap Wood Fun for
 by Robert F. Endicott

Teach your 6-to-12's useful woodworking
fundamentals with these tested projecrs . . .
they'll be fascinated; you'll find it easy and
inexpensive. 4.95

“Any book by Allan Mac/aria" is
a welcome arlrlition to a recreation

library”——RECREATION

Here's a new one

FUN WITH
BRAND-NEW
GAMES

Over 200 original,
amusing games for
all ages, indoors and

out. $3.50

ASSOCIATION PRESS
291 Broadway, New York 7

 

491

Edited by Maria Audubon. Dover Pub].,
180 Varick St., New York 14. Paper, $2.00
each.

FADS AND FALLACIES IN THE NAME OF SCIENCE,
Martin Gardner. Ballantine Books, 101
5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 238. $.50.

FIRST BOOK OF THE OCEAN, THE, Sam and
Beryl Epstein. Franklin Watts, 575 Lex-
ington Ave., New York 22. Pp. 72. $1.95.

GATHERING OF SHORE BIRDS, A, Henry Marion
Hall. Devin-Adair, 23 E. 26th St., New
York 10. Pp. 242. $10.00.

GOLDEN BOOK OF CHEMISTRY EXPERIMENTS,

THE, Robert Brent. Golden Press, 630 5th
Ave., New York 20. Pp. 112. $1.95.

MORE RESEARCH IDEAS FOR YOUNG SCIEN-
TISTS, George Barr. McGraw-Hill, 330 W.
42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 158. $3.00.

NATURAL HISTORY OF THE SOUTHWEST, THE
William A. Burns, Editor. Franklin
Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New York 22.
Pp. 141. $4.95.

OPERATION NEW YORK (nature project).
Board of Education, 110 Livingston St.,
Brooklyn 1, N. Y. Pp. 117. Paper, $1.00.

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each DEADLINES: Copy must be received by

Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you Wish

the tifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as Special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $436.00 per
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liberal employ-
ee benefits. Write State
Personnel Board, 801 Capi-
tol Avenue, Sacramento,
California.

Youth Director, Pease
AFB, New Hampshire. To
plan, supervise, and direct
the overall program for de-
pendent youth. Salary
$4800-$5500. Position Open
to college graduate with a

major 1n recreation or al-
lied iield. AlthOugh not a

civil service position, please,

submit application on SF
57, addressed to Major
Walter Dreibelbis, Recrea-
tion Services Division,
Pease AFB, New Hamp-
shire.

Manager for administra-
tive and operational du-
ties for new county park
reserve system. Desire man
capable of developing with
system with future as fully
qualified superintendent.
Salary $7,000 to $10,000,
depending upon qualifica-
tion. Requirements: at
least five years experience
in business or public ad-
ministration, some of which
was in a responsible capac-
ity and some in the admin-
istration of parks or allied

fields. Specialized training
desirable. Write for appli-
cation blank to Hennepin
County Park Reserve Dis-
trict, 440 Hennepin County
Courthouse, Minneapolis
15, Minnesota.

Recreation Director ——
City of Coronado, Califor-
nia. Population, 18,000.
Administrate and direct
Operation of community
recreation program, includ-
ing playgrounds, municipal
swimming pool, ocean
beach. Degree in Recrea-
tion, PE. or allied field,
plus minimum of three (3)
years experience in com-
munity recreation. Salary
$569-692 month. Retire-
ment, Social Security, Opt.
Group Insurance, vacation
and sick leave. Closing
date for filing, November
6, 1961. Address City
Manager, P.O. Box 566,
Coronado 18, California.

Recreation Leader VIII

-— Bachelor’s Degree in
Recreation or an allied
field. The salary range
$335.00 to $425.00 per
month. Full maintenance
available for single appli-
cants. Recreation program
in a state mental hospital.
New recreation building
now under construction.
Presently using recreation
facilities in the community.
May work with all age
groups. Apply Ralph B.
Cary, Personnel Ofiicer, Lo-
gansport State Hospital,
LoganSport, Indiana.

Recreation Supervisor X
Master’s" Degree or
Bachelor’s Degree plus two
years of recreation experi-
ence in a medical setting.
Supervise special section of
the recreation program or

supervise inexperienced
leaders and recreation
aides in a psychiatric hos-
pital. New recreation build-
ing now under construc-
tion. Likewise using com-
munity facilities for vari-
ous recreatiOn programs for
all age groups. Apply
Ralph B. Cary, Personnel
Officer, Logansport State
Hospital, LoganSport, Indi-
ana.

Community Planning
Associate. Generic com-
munity organization posi-
tion with primary duties in
the Recreation - Informal
Education field. Challeng-
ing opportunity to work
with outstanding volunteer
and professional leaders.
Range $7500-$10,500, with
excellent benefits and per-
sonnel practices. Send re-
sume or enquire Myles
MacDonald, Community
Council, 12091/2 Capitol,
Houston 2, Texas.

Recreation Instructors
—-— The City of Detroit
needs qualified Recreation
Instructors and Junior Rec-
reation Instructors for its
diversified recreation pro-
gram. Positions are avail-
able for college graduates
with a major in recreation,
physical education, or a re-
lated field who have some
recreation experience. J un-
ior Recreation Instructor
salaries start at $5.272 and
age limits are 20 to 25.
Recreation Instructor sal-
aries start at $5.689 and the
minimum age limit is 201/2.
Applications may be Ob-
tained by writing to the De-
troit Civil Service Commis-
sion, 612 City-County Build-
ing, 400 Woodward Avenue,
Detroit 26, Michigan.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

W

492

Storybooks

BEAR FAMILY, THE, George F. Mason. Wm.

Morrow, 425 Park Ave. S., New York 16.
Pp. 96. $2.75.

BIG BROTHER, Charlotte Zolotow. Harper 8:
Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Un-
paged. $1.95.

Bo Bo, THE ROUND-EARED CAT, Mary G.
Montgomery. Exposition Press, 386 Park
Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 28. $2.25.

BUNNY RABBIT’S DIARY (rev. ed.), Mary
Frances Blaisdell. Little, Brown, 34,Bea-

con St., Boston 6. Pp. 91. $2.75.

CHILDREN’S BELLS, THE, Eleanor Farjeon.
Henry Z. Walck, 101 5th Ave., New York 3.
Pp. 212. $3.50.

CHUBBY’S FIRST YEAR, Flavia Ga’g. Henry
Holt, 383 Madison Ave., New York 17. Un-
paged. $1.95.

COME TO THE CIRCUS, Charles Philip Fox.
Reilly & Lee, 64 Jackson Blvd., Chicago 4.
Pp. 30. $2.50.

CURIOUS ADVENTURES OF TABBY, THE, E. H.
Lang. A. S. Barnes, 11 E. 36th St., New
York 16. Pp. 122. $2.75.

DESPERATE DRAGONS, THE, Norris Lloyd.
Hastings House, 151 E. 50th St., New York
22. Pp. 61. $2.75.

DIGCERS, THE, Margaret Wise Brown. Harper
& Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Un-
paged. $1.95.

DOLL FOR LILY BELLE, A, Dorothea Snow.
Houghton MifIlin, 2 Park St., Boston 7.
Pp. 52. $2.50.

ELEMENTARY FRENCH, (work-text, Grades 5
and up). Joy Humes. Childrens Press,
Jackson Blvd. 81 Racine Ave., Chicago 7.
Pp. 64. Paper, $1.00; cloth, $2.50.

ENTER IN, Laura Lewis. Pilot Press, 274 New
Jersey Ave., Uniondale, N. Y. Pp. 31.
$2.00.

FASHION FOR CINDERELLA, Laura Vitray.
Dodd, Mead 81 Co., 432 4th Ave., New York
16. Pp. 241. $3.00.

FUN WITH SPANISH, Lee Cooper. Little,

Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp. 117.-

$3.00.

GAY COLORS, THE, Matias. Henry Z. Walck,
101 5th Ave., New York 3. Unpaged. $2.00.

GETTING To KNOW JAPAN, Alan Jakeman.
Coward-McCann, 210 Madison Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 64. $2.50.

GIANT GOLDEN BOOK or NATURE STAMPS, A,
Anne Terry White, John Wallace Purcell,
Howard Curran, D.Sc., and Paul R. Schaf-
fer, Ph.D. Golden Press, 630 5th Ave., New
York 20. Pp. 192. $1.95.

GOOD MORNING AND GOOD NIGHT BOOKS,
Golden Press, 630 5th Ave., New York 20.
Two unpaged volumes. $2.95 set.

HEART OF CAMP WHIPPORWILL, THE, Alice P.
Miller. J. B. Lippincott, E. Washington
Sq., Philadelphia 5. Pp. 125. $2.75.

HERE’S TO YOU, MISS TEEN, Mary Sue Miller.
John Winston, 1010 Arch St., Philadelphia
7. Pp. 233. $3.95.

LEMONADE TRICK, THE, Scott Corbett. Little,
Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp. 103.
$2.75.

LIONEL, THE LAZY LION, Marty Everds.
Thomas Y. Crowell, 432 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 41. $2.50.

LION’S PAW, THE, Jane Werner Watson.
Golden Press, 630 5th Ave., New York 20.
Unpaged. $1.00.

THREAD SOLDIER, THE, Anne Heathers and

Esteban Frances. Harcourt, Brace, 750 3rd
Ave., New York 17. Unpaged. $1.95.

RECREATION

A
1

Al

*1

\ I
if

PLANNING ON A WHOLE PLAYGROUND OF EQUIPMENT...

7:"  MIRACLE

  
  
  
 
  
 
    
    
  
  
    

' \ JACK 'n JILL
,‘ - . The perfect “can.
.- " "- ‘1. lerplece" for your

4‘. playground. Sale.
healthlul exercise:
‘ imaginative play.
Two climbers. stair-
. way, ski slide and

“lookout tower.”

  

MORE FUN — that's the extra bonus built into every
piece of Miracle Playground Equipment. Miracle’s vivid

    

colors, modern designs and unusual equipment ideas ap- I MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY— GRINNELL 12. IOWA I
peal to young imaginations. Children enjoy themselves far I P|ease send me at once the fo||°wing brochures, :
longer . . . get plenty of healthful exercise . . . play safely I U world ofWhir|5 f“. To: Land “ems I
without supervision. Whatever you need in playground I [:1 Swing to Pleasure 1’; Shelter Houses I
equipment. Miracle makes it better— 116 items in all! I II Safe Climbers and Body Building Slides I
Mail coupon today for new color brochures on the equip- I Ci “50 trend ian'matiO" 0" 3’01" free P'aYB'OUnd I
ment you need or send us your ideas and dimensions —- a l mammg 59m“ '
custom-designed playground layout is yours for the asking. : NAME.................  . :
' I
M I R A c E EQUIPMENT co. : ADDRESS ...................................... ..  :
L Grinne", Iowa I CITY ............................................... .. STATE ................. .... I

 

1962 National Recreation Association District Conferences

DISTRICT DATES lOCATlON HOTEL

l4th Annual Feb. ll-l4 Berkeley. Calif. Claremont Hotel
California and
Pacific Southwest
Recreation and
Park Conference

Southern March" Charlottesville. Va.“
Mid-South Section
Great Lakes April 2-5“ Chicago. Ill. Hotel Congress
Southern April 8-l0 Jekyll Island. Ga. Wanderer Motel
Southeastern Section
Southwest April l0—l3 Santa Fe. NM. La Fonda Hotel
Midwest April l7-20 Wichita. Kan. Hotel Broadview
Pacific Northwest April 29-May 2 Vancouver. B.C.. Canada Hotel Vancouver

District Recreation
and Park Conference

4|st Annual New York May 6-9 Grossinger's. N.Y. Grossinger's Country Club

State and Middle
Atlantic District
Recreation Conference

New England May |3-|6 Wentworth. NH. Hotel Wentworth-by-the-Sea

* To be announced ** Tentative

How to s ave up
the tourist fare and

 

  S Successful saving takes Will power. And

0 the Payroll Savings Plan gives you automatic
will power! You just Sign a card at work, and

your company sets aside the specified amount

from each paycheck, buys your Bonds and
delivers them to you.

The journey of your dreams may
still be a few years off. But if you
start today to save for it with
U.S. Savings Bonds, you’ll have
an even grander journey than
you imagined. For every three
dollars you put into U.S. Savings
Bonds, you get back four at ma-
turity. That means more luxuri-
ous accommodations, perhaps.

Or a longer trip. Why not start
saving today?

 

Uncle Sam’s got the picture! Every
U.S. Savings Bond you buy is recorded on
microfilm for absolute safety. If anything
happens to a Bond, it is replaced free. You
can’t lose your money.

Interesting Facts About
U.S. Savings Eonds

- You invest Without risk under a
U.S. Government guarantee - You

, f

 

now earn 3_%%interest to maturity Save the money that helps save the peace. The money you _
0 You can save automatically on invest in U.S. Savings Bonds not only grows to enhance your personal buying 
the Payroll Savings Plan . You can power, it also helps your Government keep the peace. Peace costs money 
buy Bonds at any bank , Your these days. It’s Worth it. _ ’
Bonds are protected against loss,
fire, even theft - You can’t lose You saYe more.  money
your money - You save more than g““‘"°°°o., w1th U. S. Savmgs Bonds
money—you buy shares in a f '1‘ Thisad t” . d tdb ' "

. U8? ismg 38 mm 8
Stronger Amenca- $30.; 35185, The Advertising Council andJihis magazine.

 

