   

OAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION - FEBRUARY 1961 o 

- .. . t 'i—J‘g-‘m‘nl' W

 

nry Pfeiffar Library
Mac Murray ,jg, * {a
facksonvxt;, ,‘

   
  

«.3

b, ;5 ‘30.]

i.

Circle #I77 on coupon

Zia/m. LI, the W221, . . 
PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Fifty-one page report of

the Fifth National Institute

in Recreation Administration. l

Four nationally known personnel

specialists tackle your problems: ‘
l
l

T“? CECIL E. GooDE

GAME-T|ME-s NEW : ,3 LOUIS J. KROEGER

TU   M  R 7‘? KENNETH O. WARNER

7’? O. GLENN STAHL
In Myrtle the Turtle, children find a playground

version of a favorite pet that they’re bound to love!
‘ This fascinating, new climber is 23” high by 82” long, . . . . . .

and made of fugged fiberglas_ Reinforced by Steel Important bibliographies on leadership and training ‘

tubing, it stands like Gibraltar against abuse. Port-

able, it’s in bright life-time impregnated green, with $2 00*

orange and black pattern stripes. Recessed footholds ' 1

allow tots to stand on sides, climb, or sit on top.

Writel for free Literature (:31 the
comp ete Game-time line 0 park
and playground equipment. 8 West 8th Street, New York 11 I

Order from the National Recreation Association

 

GA‘A M  M E , IN C. * Member’s discount. I

Bll'llonesvilleRd. - iitchrieldwichigan ' I

 

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION DISTRICT CONFERENCES
1961

DISTRICT DATES LOCATION HOTEL
New England May 22-25 Manchester, Vermont Equinox Hotel
Midwest April 4-7 Cedar Rapids, Iowa Roosevelt Hotel
Great Lakes April ll-l4 Muskegon, Michigan Occidental Hotel
Southern April 4-6 Jacksonville, Florida George Washington Hotel
Pacific Northwest April 9-l2 Tacoma, Washington Winthrop Hotel
Southwest April 4-7 Tulsa, Oklahoma Hotel Tulsa
California and Feb. 25-March l Los Angeles, Calif. Statler Hotel

Pacific Southwest

 

 

Cirle #l78 on coupon

 

f
. ._ V ._. g
at
I

ups personnel morale, cuts absenteeism,

Controlled
helps increase production. That’s

a pretty good case for in-plant athletic
programs. Studies prove it out—plants with
I I I sports participation for employees

are more productive.

Just having the program isn’t enough, however. Your plant needs the right athletic program,
correctly planned and executed, and supplied with the right equipment. Your MacGregor dealer is an
expert on setting up and operating leagues of all kinds, and he. certainly has the finest sports
equipment available right in his own store. He can assist you with initial planning, scheduling,
tournament bracketing, selection of equipment, and even sanctioning by local athletit' groups if
necessary. He’s also adept at giving tired old programs a vigorous boost. Get your plant's athletic
program started, or rejuvenated, now. Keep your employees’ after-hours energies and tensions

in control by giving them controlled conflict. A call to your MacGregor dealer. or a

a visit to his store, will get things moving. Do it today.

The MacGregor Co., Cincinnati 32, Ohio
DIVISION OF BRUNSWICK

 

WORLD LEADER IN RECREATION

TEBRUARY 1961 53

RECREATION

 

GENERAL

ADMINISTRATION

PROGRAM

EACH MONTH DIGEST

54

 

FEBRUARY l96l VOL. LIV NO. 2 PRICE 60

Outdoor Recreation Planning (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Ben H. Thompson 5
Setting our sights for major goals

Recreation Is a Basic Need . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Official Policy Statement, 1961 White House Conference on the Aging, Section I

1961 White House Conference on the Aging—Official Recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

Official recommendations of Section 12, Free Time Activities; Recreation, Voluntary Services
and Citizen Participation

A Woodland Refuge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pete Brown (1
Campus retreat at Southern Illinois University

Cooperative Planning in Norway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. A. Scholer (I
In this forward-looking country, recreation is a joint a‘gair

George E. Dickie—An Appreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
A recreation pioneer retires

Fun and National Strength . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lt. Col. Adolph H. H umphreys 7-
Building a strong America ‘

A Golden Year in Columbus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melvin B. Dodge 7:

How one department put over a year-long celebration

Physical Rehabilitation and Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Three sports programs for the handicapped

   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
   
  
     

Is.‘

Citizen Action Achieves Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . R. C. Renfree
Master plan leads to land acquisition and development

A Small Town Shows How . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Edward Ericson '2
Setting up a recreation program where there wasn’t any
Signs of the Times (Part II) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elvira Delany

How man is extending recreation areas and services

Volunteers in Public Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ross Cunningham
The job of the volunteer-service coordinator ‘

Missile Town Launches Tree Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dick M ilkovich 1
Seed of a bright idea Sprouts into 914 trees

The True Purpose of Arts and Crafts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Covey E
Concern with saleability may defeat program

Parties from the Heart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Roma Burnett and Evelyn Wyatt E
Valentine magic

Clown Tricks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Keith A. Macdonald f

How to fascinate an audience with balloons

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Keith A. Macdonald Inside back cov

How to turn them into animals, hats, etcetera

Balloons

Leisure in the Soviet Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lawrence Whetten 9
Use of free time in a collective society

Letters 59 As We Go To Press 61 Reporter’s Notebook 88 Market News 94 Trade Mart 9
Concerning Upkeep 93 Personnel 97 Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 100 New Publications ]\

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current
issues available University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Space Representatives: East Coast—ADVERTISING MANAGER, RECREATION Magazine, 8 W.

t13tthOtreet, New York 11; Midwest—MARK MINAHAN, 185 N. Wabash Boulevard, Chicago
, 111018.

Copyright. 1960. by the National
Recreation Association. Incorporated .‘

@16

Printed in the U.S.A.

The articles here

printed are the expr
sion of the writers c

  
  
 

DUCATIONAL
BESS

S SOC I ATION not a statement of p.
OF of the National Rec «

A M ER [CA tion Association.

RECREATK

l

RECREATION

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

 

Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editors
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

On The Cover

WE ARE LOOKING FOR A CIRCUS. Are
you planning one? If you read “Clown
Tricks” by Keith Macdonald, on Page
87 and look at his instruction chart on
the inside back cover, the circus “bug”
will probably bite you. (There will be
more about circuses in a later spring is-
sue of RECREATION.) The photo Of “Gi-
raffes,” by Mark Kuhner, aged 15, of
Columbus, Ohio, won a $25 special
award in the 1959 Kodak High School
Photo Contest.

Next Month

If you are interested in summer
camping or nature recreation, the
March Camping and Outdoor Summer
issue of RECREATION is for you. (The
Playground Issue follows on its heels in
April.) We are proud of the March
issue’s coverage and distinguished list
of authors; among them: Sidney Geal
of American Camping Association;
Rey Carlson, professor of camping, In-
diana University; Stanley Stocker, ex-
ecutive director of Metropolitan New
York Council of American Youth Hos-
tels who recently was in charge of the
American Camping Association sur-
vey; Hadley Irwin, recreation super-
visor Of the Missouri State Park Board;
Maurice D. Bone, counselor in camp-
site development for the Presbyterian
Board of Christian Education; Bert H.
Snow, camping director, YMCA, Keene,
New Hampshire, and others. There will
be articles on family camping, state
camping services, day camping, trip
camping, church camping, a camping
experiment with street-gang boys, facil-
ities for a camp for the cerebral palsied,
camp insurance, trail shelters, and so
on. Don’t miss it!

Photo Credits

Page 57, U.S. Forest Service; 69,
U.S. Army; 74, (center) Winfield J.
Parks, Jr., 74, (bottom) William R.
Whitteker, Cincinnati, Ohio; 79, (cen-
ter right) Power Authority of the State
of New York; (top right) Arthur

Holmes, National Park Service.

FEBRUARY 1961

Circle #IBO on coupon

   
 
   
   
 

  Want a Bigger and Better Program
' ‘ i 1 " with a

M are Satisfied Public .’

The Key to Success Lies in Your Undeveloped
Refreshment Profit Potential

y'.
'I

   

   
  

POPCORN

8c profit per I0c sale.
Machines start at $199.00.

SNO—KONES

7l/2c profit per I0c sale.
Machines from $149.50.

COTTON CANDY 

8'/2c profit per dime sole.
Equipment only $275.00.

 

    
    

 

   

   
    
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 

 

Hundreds of Park and Recreation
Departments annually add 10 to
20% to their available funds with
 ‘ refreshment Profits. You can, too.
,   'Detailed free booklets tell what you

' - , i need, how to order, and how to pay

’ ' out of profits as you operate. No

obligation, write today sure for cem-
plete details.

1835 FREEMAN AVE.
CINCINNATI I4, OHIO

 
 

 

Circle #I82 on coupon

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. & R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

Circle #IBI on coupon

-MOV|ES—

Special Programs for Lenten

 
 
  

* 5 DIFFERENT MODELS
RECREATION - EDUCATION ,mm m, ., .00, cm",
16MM SOUND E:L‘.:.‘1“.3'.;i‘f'f:f

Black 8. White - Color pociw.

Shaker In Hopper for
Constant Flow.

 

Representing

Walt Disney - Columbia - Warner
United Artists - Paramount

Adiusloble Control on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL

Send toiDept. R for booklet on four other models
H. 8. R. MFG. CO... LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

 

Send for 64-poge FREE CATALOG

INSTITUTIONAL CINEMA SERVICE. INC.
41 Union Square — New York 3, N. Y.

 

 

 

Circle #I84 on coupon

DISCOUNTS WFOLD'KING

Circle #I83 on coupon

um

BUIII’ to last a long time.
Approved dimensions.

Satisfaction guaranteed.

 

no. In nut:
nurture Insert!!!
rusnnm Tor

Expertly made. RR

Send for new base circular.

FOLDING TABLE LINE

Kitchen committees. social groups. atten-
tion! Factory price! 5: discount: up to 40"
to (‘hurche~.. Schools. ( dubs. etc. Muan
all-new I’Ul D-KIiVCi Banquet Tables.
with exclusise new automatic. folding and
locking. super strength. eaay soiling. 68 models and shoes.

BIG NEW I961 CATALOG FREE

Color pictures. Full line tables, chairs. table and chair trucks, pinat-
form-nsers. portable partitions. built-tin boards. Our 53rd \ear.

THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St., Colfax, lows

tau-3f

“:3!er

DIRECT PRICES
DISCOUNTS I. TERMS

   

36I N. Marquette
Fond du Lac, Wis.

 

3|
J.

Circle #179 on coupon

NOW- AMERIC ‘

ANNOUNCES THE 1
EXCITING NEw DEV

IN COIN-OPER
SELF-SERVICE CHE i:

g) am noon

i" mm 919!

‘ anudsuaacnte’ci Inc
KKK)“ MALI
I

THE PROFITABLE ANS ll’ER
FOR ALL CHECKR OOMS

American Locker Company en- 
gineers and designers proudly if
present completely NEW maxi- I
mum security locks and lockers E
with wanted features never
before available -- made to op-
erate on a "pay" or “refund”

cabinets, equipped with Ameri-
can’s exciting NEW locking
features, will gain the confi-

basis. 
Beautiful to look at, easy to use ' .
} .
f
dence of your patrons —will i

t.

AMERICAN LOCKER COMPANY, INC.
DEPT. 25. 211 CONGREB STREET.

.DBTDN 1D. MASSACHUETTB

Please sencl without obligation important information about 
the checking Industry's latest development in self-service coin- 9‘3»
operated lockers and locks.

2%»

v %

ADDRESS

NAME

3

ClTY..........................ZONE......STATE........

56

AMERICAN Lo ’ i

give top performance for years
to come!

Your investment can become
self-liquidating in a short time,
return a high profit thereafter.

Send coupon today for these
NEW facts.

RECREATION

 

The major goal should be access to clean
unpollated waters—streams, rivers,
lakes, and all coastal waters and beaches.

Ben H. Thompson

 

OUTDOOR RECREATION PLANNING

HY DO WE talk about outdoor recreation? I sup-
W pose it is because every one of us-—-pe'rhaps in-
stinctively—wants to get out-of-doors, for fun; for
peace of mind; for the beauty of the marsh, the woods, the
mountains, the prairies, the desert; for the beauty of rivers,
lakes, seashores; or even the beauty of things growing along
the roadside or in our own backyard—40 mention only a
few glimpses of nature that have made it appealing to peo-
ple since time immemorial.

I suppose we talk about outdoor recreation because that
is something we all want. We want it at all times of our
lives—from the time we are children, exploring with “ter-
rifying energy,” until the time we are content to sit and

contemplate the scene and feel the warmth of the sun and”

the coolness of the breeze. We are a part of the earth and
its life. We sense it, we know it, we revel in it. We do not
worship it but we love it, and that is something which every
one of us understands in every other.

Why do we take time out of busy occupations to discuss
the future of outdoor recreation? I suppose it is because
we see the ax, the bulldozer, and the great earth movers
tearing at the woods, the fields and the countryside, around
every city, along every major river, around the shores of
lakes, along the seashore, across the desert and mountains
and, all too often, even in our own backyards.

We see the opportunities for outdoor recreation changing
and diminishing. We see the native habitat of wildlife van-
ishing. We see clean waters and clean air being polluted
from such development. We see the open spaces which we
once thought would be with us always now vanishing at a
rapid rate. In short, to preserve the outdoor recreation

 

MR. THOMPSON is chief, Division of Recreation Resource
Planning, National Park Service, Dept. of the Interior. This
material is taken from his speech given at the 40th Annual

National Conference on State Parks, Rochland, Maine, 1960.

FEBRUARY 1961

opportunities we want and which we want our children to
have, we must do something about it, on an adequate scale,
now.

FOR SEVERAL SUMMERS my children went to a summer

camp in Vermont, where they swam, canoed, hiked,
played games, learned some of the lore of the woods, met
often at the camp counsel ring, made new friends, and had
a healthy summer. At each summer’s end, we were amazed
at what the camp had done for them. We used to say that
two months of summer camp was worth nine months or
more of school. The kids thought so, too!

As we plan for the future of outdoor recreation, should
we not plan so that it will be possible for all children who
wish to, to have the fun and the benefits of such summer
camps? If we answer that question in the affirmative, the
implications are very large, in terms of adequate camps and
the means to operate them.

Another major goal in the future of outdoor recreation
is that of providing access to clean waters—-streams, rivers,
lakes, and the ocean. Most communities are on or near
water. Keeping that water clean and keeping the opportu-
nity for people to get to it for pleasure would help the rec-
reation needs of nearly all people, wherever they are. By
and large, we have not done so well in this area of recreation
resource planning and conservation. . . .

Related to the need to preserve the shorelines, is the need
to preserve primarily for recreation some of the best of the
country’s free-flowing streams and natural lakes. I refer to
the desirability of preserving in their natural condition such
famous canoeing waters as the Allagash River in Maine, the
Current and Eleven Point Rivers in Missouri, the Rogue
River in Oregon, and adequate lake country in northern
Minnesota. Such waterways and related wilderness will he
wanted more and more by people as they learn about the

57

opportunities of using them and as the country becomes
more highly urbanized.

This is not to say that reservoirs and logged forests do
not provide recreation. They do. But free-flowing streams
and natural forests conserved and managed primarily for
wilderness recreation provide something more—a quality of
outdoor pleasure and mental and spiritual stimulus that is
unique to each such place. It is worth working for.

Related to canoe routes and other waterways are trails
for hiking, riding, and even bicycling. Hiking and riding
trails are standard facilities in most public reservations,
parks, and forests, and I need say no more about them here.
Regarding bicycle trails, however, we estimate that there
are between twenty and twenty-five million bicycles in the
United States. Yet, where can you ride one with safety and
pleasure? The youth hostel program reportedly means
much to people in Europe. At least one reason why it has
not succeeded in the United States is that bicycle trails be-
tween points of interest are practically nonexistent. To meet
this deficit, the towpaths of old canals, such as the Chesa-
peake and Ohio Canal through western Maryland, would
seem to hold much promise, if the potentiality is realized
and developed. The canals are usually through scenic coun-
try, the tOWpaths are relatively level, and they are free from
automobile traffic. A park planner once said to me: “I
didn’t suppose that anybody over twelve years old ever rode
a bicycle.” Suitably located bicycle trails in many parts of
the United States could provide pleasant and healthy out-

door recreation for millions of people who seek the same
outlet by driving taut nervcd in overcrowded traffic.
There is, however, great need for pleasure drives, par-

ticularly within reach of large centers of population—lei- I
surely, scenic drives that are designed ust for that purpose ‘

and are not merely connecting links in major trafiic arteries.
Such scenic roads, together with essential bordering lands,
could give access to wild areas or historic regions off the

beaten path.

BASIC TO ALL is the need for far more adequate systems

of parks and related recreation areas than we have yet .

achieved or visualized—systems that will preserve the best
of our natural and historic areas and will be within reach
of the people who want to use them. The incidental use for
recreation of lands and waters, that are developed and
managed primarily for other purposes, may provide stand-

ardized recreation for great numbers of people but inci-_

dental recreation use is not a substitute for parks.

Space does not permit a complete enumeration of the

major forms of outdoor recreation; but the few that have
been mentioned show clearly, I believe, the fundamental

need to classify our natural resources for their dominant.

values and potentialities, to be followed by the formulation
or perfection of appr0priate programs to realize those val-
ues and potentialities. From the outdoor recreation point
of view, this means planning of the most searching and
objective kind, which must be done cooperatively by gov-
ernment agencies and by citizen groups. #-

 

FOLDS AND
ROLLS AWAY
IN LESS THAN
2 MINUTES! 

Steel dollies.

with rubber casters.
slip into fittings

on side of table.

Circle #l85 on coupon

FOLD ’N
ROLL-A-WAY
POOL TABLE

YEAR-ROUND HIGHLIGHT OF
YOUR RECREATION PROGRAM!

2 fittings
support steel

dollies. Table
legs fold flat.

 

Now. . . even in tight. crowded areas . . . make pool a regular part of your program!
With easy-to-use Roll-A-Way accessory, every Superior pool table
folds and rolls away for flat, compact storage — freeing your floor
for other activities. Write Superior for price list today!

SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORPORATION - 520 COSTER STREET - NEW YORK 59, N.Y. o DAYTON 9-5100
MANUFACTURERS or FINE FOLD 'N ROLL-A-WAY TABLE TENNIS TABLES '

58

 

RECREATION

 

Circle #l86 on coupon

 
   

LETTERS

Readers are invited to share their
views on these pages. Comments
of general interest are always wel-
come. — The Editors.

 
 

Recruitment Brochure received great assistance along the way
Sirs, from the National Recreation Associa-

The National Recreation Association “on Whmh IS dOing an OUtStanding jOb

is to be congratulated on The Future Is for the natlon' I" memorlamr I recall:

Yours, the brief, concise, and educa-  finath pralyerv 113133111 ngwelradg
tional brochure concerning our profes- 6 ma 6 man' W011 a 50 1 3 t0 3

. - - ' 1 thanks to Jose h Prender ast
slon. I hOpe that through Its use during Spiela p . g ’
the “career days” in the various schools Wlllard Sutherland, John Collier, Rob-

3
in the Pontiac area and through my per- (fag: alfrinen Enid 31,1 {ERA : Riletieaderi
‘sonal contacts with the various high 6 r DU 5 an mo 00“ H 11 10115-

schools in the area that We may stimu- WOUld like to add aword 0f SPeCial 00m-

late some students to enroll in our grow- Elendatlon for Robert Homey [NRA
. ing profession. reat Lakes Dlstrlct representatlve]

DAVID R. EWALT, Director, Parks and Who SO Willingly aSSiSted.me in Screen-
Recreation’ Pontiac, Michigan. mg the fifty-seven appllcants [to re-

place me] and extending many words “my grandfather makes the

 

. Excellent Material of wisdom to my board on the necessity .
m of obtaining a professmnal man for thls best playground Eqmpment
blrs: _ . position. Thomas William Belton of _
C After the 42nd Nauonal Recreauon Pontiac, Michigan, will replace me. In the whole world...because
ongreSS I reported to my Staff Some Of HARRY STRONG, Director of Parks

he loves little people like me! he makes
slides and swings and see-saws and all

the ideas presented by Messrs. Cecil B. and Recreation Department, Austin,

Goode, 0. Glenn Stahl, Louis J. Froe- Minnesota,
g?“ and Kenneth 0' Warner. 3} the.” kinds of things. they’re real strong and
.stltute on Personnel Admlnlstration. The Twelve Days

They were enthused with my reports— Sirs. they’re very safe. if you're going to buy

' tth t I h t' 1 t’ t -
Eat plililna§§$§él§auzengifl $h?%;:§?:ni From cover to cover the December is- playground things you better talk to my

material that was presented during the sue Of RECREATION is Worthwhile in grandfather or my father firSt- they're bOth
institute. All of us hope that you will be coin?“ and.m piggram {Juds' The mgg' named mr burke."

able to produce in written form much azme S Styling ls eSpemaHY attracuve .
of the information presented during the and. appealmg'. The Twelve. Days Of
Institute. Chrlstmas motlf 1s symbolic of the

CHARLES J. REITZ Superintendent twelve-months-a-year service we receive
Recreation and P’ark Department, from the staff of the National Recrea-
3

Yuma, Arizona. tlon Assoc1atlon. I
DONALD V. JOYCE, Supertntendent of

Recreation, Tenafly, New Jersey.
4(- * ‘K‘ *

 

o The report of the Fifth National In-
stitute in Recreation Administration is

available for $2.00 from the National

Recreation Association! 8 West 8th May I congratulate the staff of REC, EXTRA HEAVY nun MERRYoGO-RUUND...high-

. . . . . . "y
REATION on the December cover! It est quality materials combined wuthtradltlona
Street New York 1 1' was Without doubt the most appropri_ superior Burke COHSthCthH make this model the
9 9
On Retirement ate and attractive cover 1 have ever leader of any merry-go-round manufactured.
Sirs. seen on any magazine. It was truly in ..................................................... ..
' keeping the Christmas season. Please send me your comp|ete play-

I am retiring on April 1 after spend-
ing more than a quarter of a century
working in the leisure-time field. I have

E- A- SCHOLER, ASSiStant Professor ground planning and specification file.
of Recreation, State University of

 

 

 

Iowa. J. E. BURKE COMPANY
C I #176 on co“ on * * it * P. 0. Box 986 Dept.34 P. 0. Box 549 Dept.3-4
"6 e P The Christmas issue of RECREATION New Brunswick, Fond‘du Lac,
New, impro‘red Gdoldfn Age Iflu!» Pili'l. is one of the best. . . . I particularly en. New Jersey 0R Wisconsm
__ New in rec: got put. wit tree n . . 7
 green lewolers' enamel. Safety catch. Joyed the creative cover of the T.Wel.\e Sec. B
“ 5°" “‘hr i"""°“"9 i°d°'°' "3" “‘5' Days of Chrlstmas and the nlagazme 1t- Name: ________.  _.
. pos age. . .
Minimum ml" 10 pin, self [was] colorful and Interestlng.
Available only to authentic clubs. STANLEY STENEK, Superintendent of Street:____ _ . - __ F
JAMES SPENCER 3' (30- Recreation Port Huron Micki an.
' EXACT 5'25 22 N. on. Street Philadelphla 6, Po. ’ ’ g

H City:_______State:.

 

FEBRUARY 1961 5”

Congratulations on your new style
magazine. The articles and features
make one realize the depth and educa-
tion plus application required in this
most interesting of all professions.

GERALD W. FERGUSON, Recreation

Specialist, Royal Canadian Air Force.

‘X' * 'K' ‘36

Recreation Magazine is tops! It
seems to get better and better.

JOAN BL'RWASH, Palo Alto, Califor-

nia.

Swing of the Pendulum

Sirs:
It is always interesting to note the

“swing of the pendulum,” especially

 

Circle  I87 on coupon

 

when it happens within a relatively short
period of time. As many professionals
will recall, a few short years ago the
infant recreation program operated in
a welter of parks administration. To-
day, we find an ever-increasing reverse
situation practically everywhere. The
question in my mind: is the pendulum,
as usual, swinging too far? Is the rec-
reation program, however grand, going
to suffer because of the over-emphasis
on recreation itself?

For generations people on every level
of life used parks for play and the open
spaces for their spiritual recreation. To-
day, even with greater mobility, only a
relatively small proportion of the popu-

 

does more for--

more people in less space!

For maximum gym use many schools, .

churches and recreation centers have

    
  
 
 

roller skating programs. Everyone _

can participate, little supervision

is needed, and if desired, it can be -
a profit-making activity. Write today for '

free information. '-

Duryte' Plastic Wheels
Do Not Mar Floors

/' 
Mm 4490 West Lake Street, Chicago 24, Illinois

60

lace avail themselves of park or pla
ground facilities. The reason is not
be found in programing, because “we
give ’em Whatever they want.” Let’s e
amine, for a change, the matrix of t
program ——— the physical environme
and the park areas. People go whe
they feel good. This is spiritual recre
tion. Our third-rate parks and fir:
class playgrounds just “ain’t got it'
Only the more primitive areas, gt
courses, the great parks and open are
still draw people of all kinds for the

intrinsic spiritual values.

HERB GRADE, landscape designc
Mission Hills, California.

Quotablca

 

As we observe Brotherhood Week . .

We owe to man higher succors tb:
food and fire. We owe to man, man.-
RALPH WALDO EMERSON.

a]:

We derive benefit from scientific di
coveries made in foreign laboratorie
we sing the folk songs and dance t]
folk dances that have come dov
through the generations among peopl
far removed from our shores; our s
cial institutions are molded and devr
oped according to ideas and philos
phies many of which have their roots
distant countries. In' fact, at every tu1
of the road We encounter evidences i
the debt We owe the foreigner.——OT1
C. HOIBERG in School and Society.

The world is my country, all ma
kind are my brethren, to do good is n
religion, I believe in one God and 1
m0re.—-THOMAS PAINE.

*

September is a curious month.
It made the nations brothers
By awarding one the Davis Cup
And enraging all the others.
—OGDEN NASH

*

We should be low and lovelike, and let
each man to other, '
And patient as pilgrims, for pilgrim

are we all.
—-WILLIAM LANGLAND,

*

Down in their hearts, wise men kn
this truth: the only way to help yours
is to help others—ELBERT HUBBAR

*

Men work together, I told him fr.
the heart, l
Whether they work together or apa
—ROBERT FROST

BROTHERHOOD WEEK

February l9-26

 

RECREATH '

l:

l
l
r
l
T
I
l
i
' he Regional Plan Association has just
' nnounced the formulation of a New

[10
.5 ,

33

\.

ll

AS WE GO TO PRESS

1» FINAL CALL for applications for Na-

‘ tional Recreation Association Graduate

Assistant Awards. Closing date is
March 15, 1961. Write to the Consult-
ing Service on Recreation for the Ill and

l Handicapped, National Recreation As-

sociation, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11.

) JUST RETURNED from inaugural hon-
ors in Washington, DC, is the drum
and bugle corps of Rochester, New
Hampshire, sponsored by the Rochester
Recreation Department. Invited to play
in the inaugural parade, the group
traveled to Washington on funds raised
by a volunteer committee. Bert George,
Rochester’s recreation superintendent,
received the J aycee “Man of the Year”
Award last year, while this year it went
0 Ray Turmelle, director of the corps,
for his work with this group. To get it
- arted, he invested several hundred
- ollars, which have since been paid
Jack by fund-raising activities.

Ii AMERICA’S YOUTH Is PHYSICALLY UN-
fIT asserts Robert Kennedy, in an
article in the January 11th New York
Jerald Tribune. The United States At-
torney General told a meeting of foot-
‘u all coaches that his brother, the Presi-

ent, is “deeply concerned about what
has been happening to our country,”
nd he indicated that John F. Kennedy
will “call for action within the next
three months, in the important area of
physical fitness.”

1 . .
.I To INCREASE EFFECTIVENESS of cm-

zen participation in planning and de-
veloping the northern New Jersey area,

ersey committee. It will work in nine
ounties designated by the group as

I metropolitan. C. McKim Norton, ex-

ecutive vice-president of the association,
. ‘ id the new group would meet a “long-
it need for a citizen’s group that will
ocus its attention on “proper plan-
' ing.”

A RESOLUTION calling for the creation
Of a Special Senate Committee on Aging
as been introduced in the Senate by
enator Pat McNamara (D) from

r lichigan. The proposed committee
vould replace the present Subcommit-
ce on Problems of the Aged and Aging,
i which Senator McNamara is chair-

»EBRUARY 1961

man. The subcommittee is part of the

Senate Labor and Public Welfare Com-

mittee.

} THE NEW YORK STATE SUPREME COURT
has just set back a law to aid parks.
The New York Times of January 19,
1961, announced that Justice Hugh S.
Coyle has declared unconstitutional a
law adopted two years ago by the state
legislature. The law had enabled com-
munities to collect cash payments from
real estate developers to erect new parks
elsewhere in town, if new developments
did not have satisfactory park areas.

“The basic issue,” Justice Coyle
wrote, “is whether the legislature may
constitutionally provide for the pay-
ment of money as a condition to ap-
proval of a subdivision plat (layout),
which amount shall be available for use
by the town for neighborhood parks,
playgrounds or recreation purposes.”
He said this was “not necessarily for
the benefit of the future residents of the
area covered by the plat.

“It may be spent before the develop-
ment of the subdivision is undertaken
or completed. In effect, the statute
compels a landowner who proposes to
subdivide to pay more than his propor-
tionate share of the moneys to be spent
on parks, playgrounds and recreational
facilities for the town as a whole.”

In view of the importance of this de-
cision to recreation and park authori-

 

ties in New York State it is hoped the
issue will be appealed to a higher
court—Ed.

RE U. S. BUDGET FOR 1962

President Eisenhower’s Budget Mes-
sage for the fiscal year 1962, presented
to Congress January 16, has several
items of interest to readers of RECREA-
TION Magazine. For example, it points
out that expenditures for the “recrea-
tional use of natural resources” have

increased from $30,000,000 in 1953 to
$59,000,000 in 1957, to $86,000,000 in
1959, and to an estimated $101,000,000
in 1962.

In a paragraph entitled “Recreational
Resources,” under the general heading
of “Natural Resources,” the message
states: “The rapidly expanding use of
public recreational facilities is placing
great demands on the resources of our
national parks. The estimated increase
of $14,000,000 in expenditures of the
National Park Service from 1961 to
1962 will provide for needed mainte-
nance and rehabilitation of the park
areas and for operation of new facilities
and areas added to the system in recent
years. Prompt action should be taken
on legislation, as recommended last
year, to permit the Secretary of the In-
terior to acquire three of the remaining
undeveloped seashore areas for the na-
tional park system. Such action will en-

Senior Citizens9 Charter of Rights

A Senior Citizens’ Charter of Rights was adopted by the White
House Conference section on population trends. The charter states
that each senior citizen, regardless of race, color or creed, is en-

titled to:
° The right to be useful.

° The right to obtain employment, based on merit.
' The right to freedom from want in old age.
' The right to a fair share of the community’s recreational, edu-

cational and medical resources.

° The right to obtain decent housing, suited to needs of later years.
' The right to moral and financial support by one’s family so far
as is consistent with the best interests of the family.

' The right to live independently.

° The right to live, to die, with dignity. .
 The right of access to all knowledge as available on how to 1m-

prove the later years of life.

—THE RECREATION REPORTER

61

able these areas to be preserved for pub-
lic benefit.”

The President then stated that “the
forthcoming report of the_0utdoor Rec-
reation Resources Review Commission
will provide a comprehensive survey of
outdoor recreation resources and needs.
The report should be useful as a guide-
for federal, state, local, and private in-
terests in their plans for meeting in-
creasing needs for recreation.”

In referring to “forest resources,”
the message states: “Some increases in
expenditures of the Forest Service in
1962 are needed to carry forward the
long-range development program for
the national forest. These increases
will be for forest roads and trails and
for forest protection and utilization, in-
cluding forestry research, fire preven-
tion, and recreational facilities.”

With reference to “water resources”
the message states: “A large share of the
construction of these agencies (Corps
of Engineers and Bureau of Reclama-
tion) will be for multiple-purpose river
basin projects, including flood control,
navigation, irrigation, water supply,
hydraulic power, and in some cases re-
lated recreational and fish and wildlife
benefits.”

Referring to the federal rural de-
velopment program, the message calls
to attention that “among the impressive
gains reported in participating areas”
is the fact that “income has increased
from nonfarm sources such as recrea-
tion, tourist sources, and expanded
business activities.”

I' t!- 4|!

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

} IN ITS REPORT submitted to President
Kennedy, ust before he took office, the
Natural Resource Advisory Committee
stated in part: We believe that the wid-
est enjoyment of benefits of our natural
resources should be made possible for
the greatest number of people at the
lowest possible cost.

Under “Wildlife Conservation,” it
said, “We recommend Congressional
passage of legislation which will assure
perpetuation of wilderness values. A
sympathetic administration can help
eliminate confusion and misconceptions
which have blocked passage of this leg-
islation in the past. We need to protect
specimens of our old frontier just as
we need to protect national shrines and
art treasures.”

While under “National Parks,” the’
report reads, “Shoreline parks which
should be made available for public
recreation are the most critically needed
additions to our national park system.
They must be acquired before all po-
tential sites are lost to urban develop-
ment and commercial exploitation.”

62

} MAIN SPEAKER at the 1961 Southern
Regional Institute on Recreation in
Hospitals will be Dr. Karl Menninger

, of the Menninger Clinic in Topeka,

Kansas. The institute will be held in
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, April 20
to 22, sponsored by the Recreation
Curriculum of the University of North
Carolina; North Carolina Recreation
Commission; North Carolina Recrea-
tion Society; Hospital Section of the
American Recreation Society; National
Recreation Association; National As-

sociation of Recreational Therapists;

American Red Cross; Athletic Insti-
tute; and the Veterans Administration.

} IT IS WITH REGRET that we announce
that Judge Ira W. Jayne died suddenly
on January 20, from a heart attack, at
the age of seventy—eight. Judge Jayne
was the first superintendent of recrea-
tion for the city of Detroit, when the
first recreation commission was organ-
ized. He was a member of the Munici-
pal Athletic Commission and was one
of the ten recreation executives selected
by the National Recreation Association
to work with the War Camp Community
Services during World War I. Judge
Jayne served as superintendent of rec-
reation from 1914- to 1919, when he
was elected to the Circuit Court of
Wayne County, on which he served for
thirty-seven years, longer than any man
in the county’s history. He was the ex-
ecutive judge of the eighteen—member
court for twenty-seven years. At the
time of his death, Judge Jayne was
chairman of the Michigan State Advi-
sory and Interpretation Committee of
the National Recreation Association.

) THE STATE OF WASHINGTON can swell
with pride over the goodly number of
recreation bond issues approved recent-
ly throughout the state. Among these
are:

Tacoma—The Metropolitan Park Dis-
trict approved a $1,390,000 special
millage. The money is for park and
playground improvements including a
new aquarium; automatic chlorination
and filtration of wading pools; Ft. Nis-
qually restoration; and some automatic
sprinkler systems for parks.

Moses Lake—The city passed a $188,000
bond issue for a swimming pool. On
the same ballot with the pool, but unsuc-
cessful, was a $55,000 park improve-
ment bond that missed receiving the re-
quired sixty per cent favorable vote by
less than one percent.

Everett———A six-mill levy for park im-
provements, which will amount to ap-
proximately $280,000, will be used to
bring park areas and facilities up to
standards to meet current needs.

Port Angeles—A $300,000 bond issue

for the construction of a indoor-out-

 

door swimming pool was passed by the
city.

Waitsburg—The city voted heavily in .

favor of a $27,000 bond issue for reno— '
vation of its public pool.
Bellingham—A $490,000 bond issue !
was approved for a new civic field
grandstand including lighting and new 1
track. 1

Kelso—Voters passed a $25,000 bond

issue insuring the completion of Tam

0’ Shanter Park. To date, the develop-
ment has been a community project on 7

a volunteer basis. The $25,000 is slated '
for improvements to the athletic fields .
and for additional land acquisition.

} NEW, TEMPORARY ADDRESS of Mrs.

Beatrice Hill, formerly of the National

Recreation Association C o n s u l t i n g

Service on Recreation for the Ill and

the Handicapped and now executive

director of the new “Comeback, Inc.,
the National Society for the Social Re-
habilitation of the Ill, Handicapped and
Aged, is 386 Park Avenue South, New

York 16.

O

} THE FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE AND'
EXHIBITS on Revenue Producing Facili-
ties is being sponsored by the American
Institute of Park Executives at Oglebay
Park, Wheeling, West Virginia, March
5 to 8. Get details from AIPE at the

above address. I

} TOP-TEN FAVORITE IIOBBIES of the
nation’s youngsters are, according to a

preference study conducted by the
American Hobby Federation, photogra-

phy, stamp collecting (Number 1 last
year), doll collecting, model making,
painting, followed by collecting match-
box covers, postcards, autographs,
coins, and butterflies.

COMING EVENTS

Feb. 7-13 Boy Scout Week

Feb. 12-18 National Crime Preven-
tion Week.

Feb. 12 Abraham Lincoln’s Birth-
day 

Feb. 19-26 Brotherhood Week

Feb. 22 George Washington’s
Birthday

Mar. 17 St. Patrick’s Day
Mar. 19-25 National Wildlife Week
Mar. 31 Good Friday

April 1-7 National Arts and Crafts
Week

April 8-15 National Model Build-
ing Week

April 2 Easter Sunday

April 16-22 National Library Week

April 24-30 Good Human Relations
Week

RECREATION

   

    
  
   
 
  
  

THE OFFICIAL STATEMENT OF POLICY of the 1961
5' hite House Conference on the Aging, Section 12—
ree Time Activities; Recreation, Volunteer Services, and
itizenship Participation as presented by its chairman,
oseph Prendergast, to the Second Plenary Session on Jan-
#ary 11, 1961. (The Ohicial Recommendations on recrea-
'on appear on next page.)

HERE ARE, in the life of the senior citizen as an indi-
vidual or in a group, opportunities for recreation,
voluntary services, and citizen participation in pub-

c and private projects and interests.

In the general pattern of social change affecting the aging,

ee-time activity assumes an ever-increasing position of im-

ortance in individual and social well-being. Extended

eriods of free time in later maturity present one of the
reatest challenges of our present society. Not only to live,
ut to live fully, may be the test of our civilization.

Therefore, effective use should be made of senior citizens

the continuing life of the community, state, and nation.

t is every citizen’s concern that senior citizens participate
' nd become actively involved in recreation, voluntary serv-
es and in citizenship participation.

Recreation is a basic human need; together with work,
ducation, and religion it makes up the full life. Recreation

recognized as any wholesome free-time activity chosen
oluntarily for the satisfaction inherent in the activity. Pat-
rns of recreation, shaped into stimulating programs of
ctivities, constitute a MUST for the senior citizen.

The involvement of participants in the total planning and

e executing of the program is basic and essential. To meet

e diversity of interests of all the aged, a broad range of
rogram offerings, creative, cultural, physical, social, volun-
er service, and citizenship participation must be im-
lemented by every available public and private agency

rough coordination of effort in utilization of facilities,
adership and funds.

There should be increasing opportunities made available
hrough a reevaluation of existing programs, through the
evelopment of wider variety of activities in existing facili-
ies, through the establishment of more senior-citizen and
imilar centers, and through the extension of this service to

ursing homes, hospitals, shut-ins, and institutions for the

’ handicapped.

Voluntary services and citizenship participation repre-
sent a traditional American ideal of value in the develop-
fnent of individual and national character; and habits of
voluntary service and citizenship participation on the part
;of all Americans should be developed early in life to carry
over into later life.

1

  

    
  
  
  

STEREOTYPED ATTITUDES about old age, both on the part
_ of the community as well as of older people about them-

Selves, can limit the continued participation of senior citi-
‘ Hens in recreation, voluntary service, and in civic and gov-
ernmental affairs. To remedy this situation, we need to

   
 
 

FEBRUARY 1961

ecreation is a basic need

*

develop a better public image of old age based on the poten-
tial contribution senior citizens can make plus a more posi-
tive self-image through opportunities to achieve skills and
accomplishments which would preserve and restore a sense
of belonging and usefulness.

Basically, the primary responsibility for creating a more
realistic attitude toward old age rests with senior citizens
themselves in terms of demonstrating that some of the tra-
ditional concepts of old age are no longer justified. But
older people cannot accomplish this without the sympa-
thetic cooperation of society and the removal of barriers"
that prevent older people from contributing theirservice.

The enjoyment of the later years depends on one’s prep-
aration earlier in life so that retirement will not come as a
shock but as the culmination of the life span with its own
rewards—not as the termination of usefulness but as the
continuation or as the beginning of a new usefulness char-
acterized by maturity and fulfillment.

There is the challenge to plan ahead for the recreation
literacy of future generations. Effort must be made to help
the citizen acquire in earlier years, skills, attitudes, and un-
derstanding in recreation activities which will extend into
the expanded leisure of retirement years.

Since it is recognized that effective leadership is the most
important single factor in successful program effort, ade-
quate professional leadership is essential, supplemented by
trained volunteer leadership. The quality of professional
and voluntary service should be improved through pre-
service and in-service training programs.

Senior citizens should be utilized in so far as possible
in the directing of recreational activities; and retired pro-
fessional persons should be used in leadership positions.

Progress in understanding and appreciation of the recre-
ation needs of the aging must be rooted in a firm foundation
of study and research. An informed public is essential.

Communities should set up some type of coordinating,
information and referral service whose function shall be to
coordinate the activities and services within existing facili-
ties, to stimulate the provision of new facilities and pro-
grams, and t. bring together elderly people in need of
service a t er elderly people who are able to supply
those nee 5 or the mutual benefit of both groups.

In behalf of those older people who do not or cannot
avail themselves of community resources (such as the shut-
ins and those who have always been reticent about becoming
involved in group or formal programs, who are known to
be unhappy because of their isolation), communities should
devise programs to bring services to the home.

Intelligent attitudes toward the importance and values of
meaningful leisure for enriched living at every age must be
fostered so that the aged who withdraw from the work force

may retire to, not from life. # )——>

  
 
 

*An amendment, supported by more than one—third of those“dele-
gates present and voting, inserting after the word “barriers the
phrase “such as limited income, ill health, Inadequate housing and

those of a social nature” was not accepted.

63

1961 White House Conference on the Aging
OFFICIAL RECOMMENDATIONS

OFFICIAL RECOMMENDATIONS ADOPTED by Section 12

Free Time Activities; Recreation, Voluntary Serv-

ices, and Citizenship Participation of the 1961 White
House Conference on Aging.

IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT:

Emphasis be placed on the need for greatly extended pro-
grams with a broad range of activities sponsored by public
agencies, civic organizations, service clubs, Churches, men’s
and women’s groups, voluntary welfare organizations, edu-
cational institutions, libraries, hospitals, nursing homes,
homes for the aged and other institutions with old age resi-
dents. Such programs should include day centers, clubs,
social and cultural activities, outings, travel, camping, li-
brary services, informal education programs, volunteer serv-
ice by older people to their contemporaries and other age
grOUps, active participation in community affairs, central
counseling, referral and information services. They should
be available to older persons of all socio-economic grOUps.

Opportunities for recreation, voluntary service and cit-
izenship participation now current or that will be established
be available to all aging persons through free choice regard-
less Of economic status, race, creed or national origin.

Older persons should be assisted in retaining contacts-With
younger groups. Some programs are more appropriate
when they include several age groups, while in other in-
stances they may be best conducted for the aging alone.

Family-centered projects, in which older persons may
help to plan and implement the programs, should be en-
couraged, and more should be done to seek and assist older
persons living in their homes to use their leisure more
advantageously.

More free-time activities be directed toward the special
needs of the ill and handicapped, whether institutionalized
or homebound.

Aging persons and representatives of aging persons be
encouraged, and that opportunities be open to them to par-
ticipate in the planning, implementation and administra-
tion of all recreational voluntary services and community
participation programs. The process of program develop-
ment and evaluation and the inclusion of creative partici-
pation by individuals are to be considered a part of the
recreation program.

In the concept Of adequate income, recreation be recog-
nized as a basic human need and that schient income be

provided to permit older people to participate in recreation.
Facilities

Recognizing that leisure services for the aged should in-

clude opportunities to participate freely with other ages, IT
IS RECOMMENDED THAT:

64

Existing public and private areas and facilities be ma
more available for the leisure activities of the aged and th
where necessary, and practicable, these facilities be adapt
for the special needs of the senior citizen.

Communities be encouraged to provide, whenever nec
sary and feasible, special facilities for exclusive use of old
citizens.

Special needs of the aged be considered in the planni

and construction of all future private and public areas a
facilities for recreation.

people provide indoor and outdoor recreation facilities.

Suitable legislation be initiated at state level to add
licensing requirements, mandatory provisions for adequa
recreation programs, facilities, and leadership for all instit

tions, governmental and nongovernmental, which house t1
.
aged.

    
    
   
   
 
 
    
     
 
   
    
  
 

Organizations such as youth-serving agencies, recreatio
departments, Churches, libraries, and schools—which hav
facilities that are not in full-time use be urged to make the
facilities available for use by elderly citizen groups.

That private national organizations be encouraged to e.
pand facilities and programs for recreation for senior cit
zens; and urge their local branches to make facilities an
funds available for leisure time activities and, wherev
possible, to establish programs.

Financing
IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT:

Public funds from all levels of government and priva
funds from interested voluntary organizations and agencie
and contributions from individuals should be available t
assure needed facilities and services.

Adequate financial provisions be developed through pr
vate and public apprOpriations so that aging persons ma_
have the opportunity to participate in continuing educatio

Organization
IT 15 RECOMMENDED THAT:

Proper provision be made for cooperative planning an
coordination of services on all levels of government.
Well-designed legal authorities, where nonexistent, be in
itiated to Offer recreation services and consultation at ti:
federal, state and local levels. (An amendment adding t '
following words, “and to work cooperatively with the exis

a vote of 63 to 54.)

There should be an agency at national, state and 100
levels to effect cooperative planning development, and c

RECREATI

Resolutions adopted by Section 12
Free Time Activities; Recreation,

Voluntary Services, and
Citizenship Participation.

 
    
   
   
 
   
 
  
  

rdination of services of public and private agencies which
'rtain to recreation for all ages.

There be appropriate governmental agencies on federal,

late and local levels to provide coordination, consultation,
’ 'd and services to senior citizens for Free Time activities,
Icluding: recreation, voluntary services and citizenship
art101patlon.

There should be in every community a core group or
uncil of concerned citizens and/or organizations who,
ith professional guidance service, will make it their busi-
ess to initiate, coordinate and foster opportunities for older
ople to remain actively in the stream of life.
Mechanisms should be developed for the sharing of re-
ponsibility among public and private agenciesHat local,

‘ate and national levels—concerning leisure activities and
oluntary services.

 

- adership
T IS RECOMMENDED THAT:

Recognition be given to the constant and continuing need
or the recruitment and training of leaders in this field.

Wherever possible all programs dealing with the aging
- under the leadership of professionally trained leaders.

This leadership be supplemented by carefully selected pre-
nd inservice-trained and supervised volunteers.

Institutions of higher learning be encouraged to initiate

d enrich curricula at the undergraduate and the graduate
vel, to train professionals.

Departments and agencies involved be encouraged to pro-

'de institutes and workshops for both professional and
olunteer workers.

1

Federal, state, and local private and public organizations
‘ encouraged to provide scholarships for training recrea-
‘on professionals.

Volunteers should be recruited from the older adults as
ell as from the other age groups.

Older people should be recruited also for volunteer serv-
e to other community programs and projects.

A vigorous campaign of recruitment of persons for train-
1g in the recreation and group work professions be initiated
t local, state and national levels.

I‘ esearch
I‘ IS RECOMMENDED THAT:

There is essential need, at all levels of operation, for con-
nuing sound research and special studies to determine
eeds and interests, to evaluate programs; to formulate
l‘Oper standards and procedures; and to determine quality
lhd roles of leadership, extent and type of facilities, and
eds of older people in special situations.

' Institutions of higher learning and foundations, both pri-

  
  
   
   
  

=RUARY 1961

vate and governmental, be made aware of research oppor-
tunities.

Research be activated and results studied for enrichment
of individual and group relations.

Action be taken to implement the collection and dissem-
ination of results of such research data.

Preparation for Retirement

Remembering that a satisfying life at each stage has its

roots in the preparation of the earlier years, IT Is RECOM-
MENDED THAT:

Emphasis be placed upon the urgent need for the devel-
opment of attitudes at every age toward the importance of
active and meaningful use of leisure. There is a desperate
need for preparation in the earlier years for the develop-
ment of interests, skills, and habits in recreation activities,
involving community service, that will carry over into the
expanded leisure of the later years.

Pre-retirement counseling give equal emphasis to the
triad of concern: time, money and health.

Stress be given to the importance of preparation in ear-
lier years for the use of leisure in the later years through
the development of interests, skills, attitudes and habits in
recreation and service activities by all schools and inter-
ested community organizations and those in business, indus-
try and labor.

Educational programs be set up through schools, labor
groups, business, industry, churches and other institutions
and organizations looking to the creation of positive atti-
tudes in anticipation of retirement—and that such programs

include citizenship participation as one of the meaningful
uses of free time.

Public Information
IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT:

Continuing programs of public information be developed
using all available media. Programs should aim to develop
attitudes of understanding and appreciation for and by
older people, and be directed to stimulating community ac-
tion, to recruiting professionals and volunteers, to under-
standing the scope and potentials of recreation, to develop-
ing interest in participation by older persons, to making
free-time facilities known to older people, and to stimulat-
ing older people to take responsibility for organizing and
conducting activities.

Action and educational programs be developed at the
home, local, state, and national levels to create a more fa-
vorable and realistic public image leading to a maximum
appreciation of the place elderly people can and do occupy
in our society.

Each community set aside by proclamation a week or
month to coincide with “National Senior Citizens Month”
to emphasize the extent of the activities of senior citizens;
that training programs and exhibits be included; and that
gatherings include and highlight senior-citizen activities.
That through such Observances will be developed programs
designed to focus attention upon the community called aged
in order to underscore the wealth of trained, mature ex-
periences available but unused. #

65

 

Left, cleared picnic area shows one 0}
four striking shelters in form of parasol
“icosahedron caps,” designed by Buck-
minster Fuller, SI U research professor
of design, an avant-garde planner.
Below, left. Young fisherman tries his
luck from one of twenty cast-cement
Jishing piers. In background are two
units of a nine-building student group
housing project bordering woodland.

 

WOODLAND
REFUGE . . .
ON

CAMPUS

Pete Brown

Southern Illinois University
opens a campus

Lahe-in-the-Woods

as student retreat

66

HE NEWEST RESOURCE of Illinois’
T fastest growing university isn’t
an atom smasher, a gleaming
Iieldhouse, or a live-acre parking lot—
it’s a “refuge for human conservation.”
Completed and put in use for the first
time last spring at Southern Illinois, a
65-acre woodland and lake retreat bor-
dering the main campus hugs the back-
yards of two new student residence hall
projects but is strategically located in
relation to future campus expansion. It
is to act, in a few years, as a natural,
unspoiled “island” for recreation, rest,
and solitude in the middle of a teeming
educational setup.

With automobiles fast becoming a
lost luxury for SIU students, planners
envisioned the campus Lake-in-the-
Woods as a “place to go to escape mass
group pressures, to pursue wholesome

 

MR. BROWN is on the staffr of the South-
ern Illinois University Information
Service in Carbondale.

   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  

recreation or merely get away from it
all for a while.” _

Toward the realization of such an
end, the university in 1956 had one tan-
gible beginning: a forty-acre lake set
in a tangle of wild and sometimes
swampy woods. At one end of the lake,
a dozen derelict shacks leaned out of
the undergrowth, remains of a time
sixty years ago when Thompson Lake
was the country club of the area. At the
other end, a leaky dam sagged forlornly
against springtime Hoods and the ac-
cumulated alluvium of a half-century’s
neglect. The fish population had degen-
erated to carp, turtles, and a few hardy
bass. Seepage from the dam had turn
portions of the forest floor into a ran:
and impassable jungle.

The university began a massive face-
lifting program in 1956 by chopping a
hole through the dam’s ancient timbers
and draining the entire lake. Bulldozers
scraped out tons of ooze, opened u'
shoreline areas, and deepened coves. A

RECREATION

1

l

16W dam was built with a galvanized
.ron core and a water-control valve sys-
lem. Twenty cast-concrete fishing piers
lvere spaced around the cleaned-up
Ihoreline and a 650-foot sloping beach
was graded out of the brush and coated
with 2,400 tons of sand. A pumphouse
[or chlorination and bathhouse for
swimmers went in at the beach area and
a boathouse, dock, and concession were
'uilt at the lake’s shallow east end,
losest to access for students. Among
e most eye-opening physical improve-
ents were five “parasol” picnic shel-
ters, virtually free-span structures based
I the geodesic-dome designs of R.
' ckminster Fuller, research professor
design at Southern. The shelters,
lled “icosahedron caps” by Professor
ller, are 26-foot diameter open-air
i' airs situated throughout designated
'cnic areas in the woods.

' John Lonergan, SIU landscape arch-
ect, and 1. Clark Davis, dean of stu-
ent affairs, both wanted to retain as
uch of the sylvan naturalness as pos-
ible while still providing some ingress
: d egress for students. The answer
as a basic network of paved and
Uhted footpaths through the woods
(1 a loop road encircling them, con-
l ecting a main campus road on the east
nd the student group housing develop-
. ent on the lake’s far west shore. When
e lake refilled in 1958, Southern’s Co-
perative Fisheries Research Labora-
ory stocked it with breeder bass and

veral hundred quickly multiplying
luegills.

Diving pontoons were floated out and

chored in an area outside of the
v ained-of'f swimming lagoon. Brush
lumps and logs were sunk in selected
pots to facilitate fish reproduction. In-
. ead of thinning the woods to make
com for basic facilities, Mr. Lonergan
. nd his staff built around them, thread-
ng the walks through more than two

iles of unmolested scenery. The
Voods were actually enlarged as part of
n over-all campus reforestation—one
hat has seen two hundred thousand
rees planted in the past four years. Red
nd yellow pine were introduced along
vith a thousand cedars and thousands
f beech and oak seedlings. Planners

he area that, if a dead tree falls, it is
- t to rest in its own decay. When the

' ‘BRUARY 1961

lake opened last spring, eighteen row-
boats and canoes awaited students and
bluegill were biting around the piers.
The lake’s natural biology is in flne
flourish and, as a result, the water is
extremely clear. At mid-summer peak,
as many as six hundred students at a
time toasted themselves on the beach.

OVERSEEING the whole Lake-in-the-
Woods layout is a corps of student
workers whose function is perhaps

 

A student couple enjoy a campus wood-
land trail. Woods were left virtually
undisturbed in development of area.

unique in US. college life. The Saluki
Patrol is a uniformed student auxiliary
of Southern’s official campus security
office, and it includes among its respon-
sibilities everything from guiding visi-
tors to checking locks and parking cars.
The Saluki Patrol’s lake unit is in
charge of safety, security, and mainte-
nance: protecting users from harm and
the areas from abuse.

Of the dozen or so students on patrol,
half are assigned to the woods and pic-
nic areas, covering their beat on bicy-
cles and in brogans. The rest operate
the boat dock, bathhouse, man life-
guard stations, and, in general, concern
themselves with the watery side of rec-
reation activity. Patrol members must
attend hour-long inservice training ses-
sions each week and failure to attend
two consecutive meetings is grounds for
dismissal. Techniques of canoeing and

. re so pernickety about not despoiling boating and use of a resuscitator and

powered emergency boat (the only mo-
tor on the lake) are taught in the classes,

along with such fundamentals of psy-
chology and diplomacy as are needed to
handle fun-seekers.

With eight thousand students on its
Carbondale campus and some thirty-
five hundred more on campuses at Alton
and East St. Louis; with classes run-
ning six days a week from 8 A.M. to as
late as 9:15 P.M. to make maximum use
of classroom space; with a new student
union building still more than a year
away from completion—add to these
the no-car rule and increasing demands
on student time, and you have a crying
need for a “place of repose and
change.”

THE LAKE will provide completely

new types of recreation and enter-
tainment—concerts by floating bands,
canoe ballets, noncredit instruction in
canoeing, boating, casting, and swim-
ming and even, eventually, a lakeside
ice-hockey and skating rink are among
development plans—but beyond these
apparent rewards, Dean Davis and the
SIU administration foresee a much big-
ger return. “Sheer boredom and un-
mitigated laziness has overtaken many
people in America today because, with
fewer work hours and more leisure,
they simply don’t know what to do with
themselves,” says Dean Davis. “There
is virtue in learning about the out-of-
doors, of discovering the simple pleas-
ures of communion with nature and
oneself. Many students from big cities
come down here with such a limited ac-
quaintance with nature it almost appalls
you. They have no idea what it’s like
to be away, far from the maddening
crowd. If we must give the area some
institutional identity beyond a Lake-in-
the-Woods, we can call it a University
Center Extension, Open-Air Division.
But, in essence, it must remain as un-
regimented as possible—just a place
for students to go to get away from
organization.”

Because of the growth of outdoor ed-
ucation as a respected and valuable
teaching method, Dean Davis believes
that by 'itlle 70’s students coming into
college will be more attuned to the out-
of-doors than are those of today. For
this reason, he also regards the cam-
pus Lake-in-the-Woods education-
recreation area as a kind of pilot model
of the “campus of the future.” #

67

Planning developmen
ofareas and facilities in
Norway is done by loca ‘
committees, city and
county. Above, Ulvoya,
rocky beach near Oslo.

Beautiful recreation
area in Frogner Park,
Oslo. Youth organifo
tions meet portion. 0';
construction. costs, con-
tribute voluntary labor.

RECREATION

 

Observe Brotherhood Week—February 19-26.

Cooperative Planning in Norway

'Elnier A. Scholer

AS SOON as Norway was liberated af- as to the local topography and climate. Swimming pool
ter World War II, the question of construction must be according to the minimum standards
a State Office for Sport came up again drafted by the swimming section of the Norwegian Federa-

as it had prior to the war. The Nor- tion of Sport, and the division uses these standards as guides
wegian Federation of Sport and other for their basic plans.
voluntary organizations considered The state intends that the money provided be used as

 

state financial assistance necessary to help for self-help. Usually the money is provided to initi-
provide everyone with the opportunity ate a program or complete a construction program, but not
or sport and recreation activities. In 1946 a State Office to underwrite the total program. A majority of the funds
or Sport was created with Rolf Hofmo, a former leader in for the project must be supplied by the organization and/or
he Workers’ Sport Association, as its chief. At the time municipality; and volunteer labor must be a part of thc
‘sports” were defined as being “closely connected with the project for it to qualify for state funds. Areas with great-
vord voluntary; they are recreation or free-time activities.” est need receive first priority for funds.

 
  
 
   
  
 

Also in 1946 the Storting (parliament) had created the Plans for development of recreation areas and facilities
Torwegian Tipping Company, Limited, a betting agency. begin at the local level where municipal committees for
rofits from legalized betting on soccer competition are di- sport and/or youth work form the link between the office

vided between sports and science. For example, the first and the municipality. These committees are composed of
million kroner ($140,000) goes to sports; above that five to seven members, one of whom is also a member of the

amount, scientific activities receive a percentage that gradu- school board, assuring contact between the school board
ally increases with the profits. and the State Office for Sport and Youth Work. The aim

The Ministry of Church and Education took over the ad- of the committees is to provide the most favorable condi-
ministration of the company three years later. In a report tions for youth and sport activities in the area, both by pro-

submitted to the Norwegian parliament, the ministry sug- moting such activities, and constructing the facilities. In-
gested that the State Office for Sport be enlarged to include terest in providing such activities has increased at a rapid
a division for youth work and a division for the construc- rate since the war. These committees aid other organiza-
tion of community centers. In addition to all sport matters, tions with cultural programs and serve as coordinators be-
the office now assumed reSponsibility for all matters per- tween them and the municipality. Working with the local
taining to youth not specifically the province of other oches citizenry,'the committee investigates the need for the various
in the central administration, and was placed in the Ministry types of facilities and presents plans and recommendations
of Church and Education, because the scope of its authority to the county sport facilities committees and the Norwegian
included both school and sport. I Federation of Sport. They, in turn, make recommendations
This action, according to Helge Sivertsen, undersecretary to the State Office for Sport and Youth Work for the distri-
of the ministry, reflects the fact that cooperation is needed bution of grants. Final approval must be given by the State
between schools and the culture-spreading work outside the Advisory Sport Council.
school. Thus, the Norway State Office for Sport and Youth Cooperation between the State Office for Sport and Youth
Work came into being in 1949, with technical, health, com- Work, counties, municipalities, and voluntary organizations
munity-center, school-sport consultant, and youth divisions. extends beyond the distribution of funds. There is an in-
The office is the official agency linking government authori- creasing trend toward coordinated planning of areas and
ties and voluntary agencies engaged in sport and youth facilities used for sport, play, culture, rest, and relaxation.
work. It is responsible, through the central leadership, for The interrelationships of all voluntary organizations and
he overall development of recreation facilities in Norway. government units can be understood only by recognizing
his responsibility includes the appraisal of all applications the role of voluntary organizations in the history of Nor-
for grants from tipping-pool surplus funds allocated to way. Often referred to as the backbone of Norwegian de-

   
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
 
 
  

Port 1156- mocracy, the voluntary organizations have played an im-
The original mandate of 1946 specifically called for the portant part in the emancipation of women, the rise of labor,
echnical division, the oldest in the office, to provide assist- and education. Today, these organizations figure promin-

nce to all who desire aid in constructing parks, sport ciitly in the projection of recreation opportunities by con-
reas, and facilities. It prepares functional, standard plans tributing financial asistance, voluntary labor, and donated
or the construction of small facilities that may be adapted materials. Though they receive monetary grants from the

to the needs and desires of the individual community as well state for facility development and program activities. the
voluntary organizations bear the cost and respons1bility for

their administration and organization.
A brief resume of the various agencies and their part 111

 

_ R. SCHOLER, or “Swede,” as he is more generally known,
's assistant professor of recreation at Iowa State U nwerSLty.

EBRUARY 1961 69

l:4—‘
TH: STOITIHG
_, _. __J

—— .a .
HINIHIY O! CHURCH I
AND EDUCATDN

._._.____|
q

____.I sun-c1: um CULruat .. .. - .. - - star: ADVIDIY
P---" i nan-mun vou‘l'N cowcu. 7,
- 7 _ I
’

 

 

,_._————-

STAT! ADVth
no" COUNCIL

 

   
  
    

 

 

;_____._———x _ _. _,1
“\ I,
___. I "Tm
" coonunnc mats ‘\ I,  A“
0' LOCAL \ I mn-

oovnmm ‘\ x! ORGANIZA'I'DHS

‘T— NOSIIGIAH

— I run-narrow I
:1
 g or sport
SI'O” t'JIi‘TNC'l's s‘n‘l'l: orncz you In 
3'0 '0 .—
mg-iE-Es “.— "' n “0 mu“ i com-nun:
"TS-5";me r I | I sun: vou-ru
alumnus I 7—" ' L oncmuunous
I.—.—-——-—
r_._—.__ -1 _ _ I
l l moor. . spout
TICWOIGAL mun - smrmmsnm CONSULT“?
WW Gum“ DIVISDN DIVBDN
L_._._.__. _. .'_____|

 

EMA-IT “WM 1" “INITIATIVE OIGANIMTDN
OF Yul STATE OFFICE POI IPDI‘I' AND 7611'!!! WORK

the construction of the largest recreation area in North
Norway, Geitvagen, referred to as “the Riviera with moun-
tains,” will help to visualize a part of these complex inter-
relationships.

During 1948, members of the sport and youth committees
of both municipalities which surround this area met with
representatives from the local sport clubs, the district office

 

GEORGE E.
DICKIE

 

AN
APPRECIATION

EORGE E. DICKIE, one of the real pioneers of the na-
G tional recreation movement, retired as executive sec-
retary of the Federal Inter-Agency Committee on
Recreation and Washington representative of the National
Recreation Association on December 31, 1960. His retire-
ment ended twenty-six years of service with the Association,
embracing two periods: 1917-1930 and 1947-1960.

Mr. Dickie’s broad experience fitted him admirably for
service as the Association’s liaison contact with many or-
ganizations in addition to federal agencies concerned with
recreation for the public.

Mr. Dickie was the first director of municipal recreation
in Oakland, California, Whose recreation department cele-
brated its fiftieth anniversary in 1959. On the Oakland staff
of two hundred, which he brought together, were such men
as Jay B. Nash, George Hjelte, and others who later became
outstanding leaders in the recreation field. He was also one
of the earliest professional leaders to teach recreation and
conducted courses in the early days at the University of
California.

When the Playground and Recreation Association of
America was selected by the government to create and con-
duct the World War I program of War Camp Community

70

 

  
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
  
  

of the Norwegian Federation of Sport, the youth hostels
the school district, and interested individuals to draft plan
for the total recreation site. A steering committee wa
elected to supervise construction. After the initial plan
were drafted and presented to the group, the entire bod
voted to seek government subsidy from the tipping pool t
aid in planning and in the initial construction. The count
facilities committee approved the request and forwarded i
to the State Office for Sport and Youth Work which als
approved it and allocated funds. In this manner the OHIO
became a partner in the project, and the technicians an
consultants in the technical division began working wit
architects, planners, and committee members for the deve
opment of the area.
Regulations concerning government grants stipulate tha
a portion of the cost of construction must be met by yout
organizations and there must be a contribution of voluntar
labor; hence, local youth clubs, sports clubs, and indivi
uals gave freely of their time and labor. Even women too
their turn digging ditches and clearing land.
The two municipalities surrounding “the Riviera” are
Continued on Page 8

Service, tremendous staff expansion was immediately nec
essary. One of the first additions to its staff, in 1917, wa
George E. Dickie, who served in the demanding key posi
tion of manager of WCCS.

In 1925, when, as a result of the postwar boom in publi
recreation development over the country, the National Rec
reation Association created the National Recreation School
George Dickie was chosen as its first director. He als
served in the field on the Pacific Coast and in the South
west. Mr. Dickie was chairman of the Committee on Recl
reation in Industry of President Coolidge’s Outdoor Rec-.
reation Conference and was active on committees of the]
1930 White House Conference on Child Health and Protec-l
tion. He also served as advisor on parks and recreation td
Mayor Walker’s Committee on Plan and Survey in New

York City. |

RECOGNIZING THE need of voluntary coordination and
cooperative leadership among the agencies of federal
government active in any phase of recreation, several agen-
cies organized the Federal Inter-Agency Committee on Rec-:
reation in November 1946. The National Recreation As!
sociation offered to provide executive leadership for the
committee. After its initial year of service, Mr. Dickie, inI
August 1947, was made available to serve in VVashingtorfII
as executive secretary. .During the thirteen years since then,.
the committee has grown in breadth and depth. Although
its ten agencies have a common interest in recreation, the

also have diverse interests and responsibilities. The verg
nature of the committee’s work has demanded the dipldi-
matic and statesmanlike qualities possessed. by Mr. Dickie.
Other qualities that have always made him “wear well,”'
and that will be remembered by his many friends, are his‘
understanding of people, his personal friendliness, his ever—I
ready smile and deep sincerity, his ability thoroughly t .1
enjoy the practice of recreation. # °

RECREATIOIN

FUN and

 

1

:Lt. Col. Adolph H. Humphreys

NOW, MORE than ever before, we must

find a way of producing more and
better trained citizens. From all sides,
in newspapers, as we listen to radio, and
watch TV, we keep hearing that we need
more scientists, engineers, athletes, art-
ists, and so on. You name it, we need
it. Our educators are being harassed,
first by one group and then another, to produce more in all
fields of human endeavor.

How can we achieve this explosion of both quality and
quantity? There is no panacea, no single solution to the
problem; however, recreation offers some outstanding pos-
sibilities in the development of both quantity and quality.
Recreation in our modern world must outgrow the concept
of fun and games, bees and bunnies, puff and sweat, and
take on the mantle of another form of education, designed
to be fun and diversion. This is not a new concept to the
professional recreator, but it has not as yet come of age in
the lay community.

The Foreign Languages for Elementary Schools (F LES)
program presents an excellent example of how language can
be taught in the atmosphere of fun and games. Children
are taught to converse by playing games, mimicry, panto-
mime, and plays, in very much the same manner children
begin learning their native tongue. Since it is fun and rec-
reation, and not at all like the academic schoolroom, chil-
dren take to it easily. Its appeal is such that many children
will gladly participate in the study outside of school activi-
ties. Our late Secretary of State, John Foster Dulles, testi-
fied before the 85th Congress that a surprising number of
our foreign service officers had no practical command of
language other than English and that interpreters cannot
substitute for this shortcoming. Is such a program valuable
as a recreation activity? Can recreation meet the chal-
lenge? Very' definitely.

Debating teams were a particular interest in my teens
and I have always been grateful to the man who encouraged
me to participate. Many skills are inherent in this form of
recreation: communication of ideas, argument and counter-
argument, preparation of material, thought, and tactics, the
same skills we have seen demonstrated time and again in

LT. COL. HUMPHREYS (USAR) is head of the Camouflage
Branch, U .5. Army Research and Development Laboratory,
' Ft. Belvoir, Virginia. In 1960 he received a National Rec-
. reation Association award for his contributions to leisure-
time organizations and projects in Fairfax County, Virginia.

 

 

FEBRUARY 1961

Things to watch out for . . .

NA TI ONAL S TREN G TH

the United Nations, in our Congress, in our city halls, and
our civic groups. It is fun, but requires ingenuity and per-
severance. It is valuable beyond imagination in later life
when the boy or girl must deal with real problems as a citi-
zen, a supervisor, perhaps as a Congressman, or as a rep-
resentative of our country in world affairs.

A game like chess can also play a part in developing the
thought processes of youth of all ages. A small group of
boys in our community has played chess for two years and
they are now only eleven years old. They play a very good
game despite their youth. Can it help them as an education
tool? Yes! The elements of chess are not unlike the ma-
neuvers, moves, and countermoves in the conference room
or on the battlefield, where every move means you win or
lose something much more valuable than a plastic knight
or bishop. Such a game for fun and education develops a
more searching mind through exercise of the mental proc-
esses. Recreation scores again.

Sculpture, painting, and woodcarving are enjoyed by
both children and adults. The value of the arts has always
been recognized as a leading medium of expression and the
cultural development of nations is measured by the quality
of their arts. They are as necessary today as any time in
history. The arts have a faculty of developing creativity—
something we need beyond any measure to maintain our
world leadership as a cultured as well as technological na-
tion. Today’s academic curriculum cannot possibly provide
enough of this kind of fun in the development of our youth.
Recreation can. (See also Page 85.) 7

Music, because of the press of the academic, has been
reduced in recent years in many communities to an unim-'
portant, “nice-to-have-but” program in many schools. Yet,
when you read the newspapers, you find that our concert
pianists and violinists have captivated vast audiences, even
those' of hostile political beliefs. Are such artists important
in the reduction of tensions in the cold war and in winning
uncommitted nations to our encampment? Beyond a doubt
they are tremendous influences or we would not send such
artists and our service bands on good-will missions over-
seas. Here also, recreation can assist in the education of
our youth by encouraging those children with musical bents.
School bands, drum-and-bugle corps, and small dance hands
all have their place and are beneficial to the mental health
and development of the participants.

The advantages of sports—sportsmanship, fun, and relax-
ation—have been much publicized. Our country needs

Continued on Page 101

7].

Melvin B. Dodge

How DO YOU add
up the score af-

ter an all-out, year-

long anniversary ob-

servance of the

founding of a city

recreation depart-
ment? Is it a matter

 

of bulging scrapbooks, of friendly edi-
torials, or fulsome praise from out-
standing civic leaders, of assistance by
the community’s business men, of a “big
splash” in every conceivable attention-
getting media? Yes, it is all that; but
it is also something more. In Colum-
bus, Ohio, the golden anniversary of the
city recreation department—centering
around July 15, 1960, as the date fifty
years before when enabling legislation
had been signed into law—not only
provided the theme for an entire year’s
celebration but also had far more tan-
gible benefits. Proof that the anniver-
sary celebration had been successful in

“projecting a favorable image” f as

MR. DODGE is a supervisor of recreation

in Columbus, Ohio.

Madison Avenue would put it) came on
November 8, 1960, when the electorate
passed overwhelmingly a $5,278,000
bond issue for the acquisition of new
parks, playgrounds, recreation centers,
and swimming pools and the improve-
ment of existing recreation facilities.

What’s the jumping off point in an
anniversary celebration ? Well, “scratch
the average successful Columbus busi-
ness or civic leader,” as the saying goes,
“and you’ll find an ex-Buckeye ( Ohio
State) varsity man.” So from the very
first the recreation staff knew it would
center the climaxing anniversary ban-
quet around former or current Ohio
State University athletes who had gone
on to high honors in the sports world
and who had either participated in the
programs or worked on the staff of the
Columbus Recreation Department.
More of that later.

One of the first things the department
did was to invite eighty prominent lo-
calites to serve on the fiftieth anniver-
sary committee. The fact that seventy-
six of these readily assented augured

well for the entire observance. Anothel
vital preliminary step was deciding 011
an emblem to be used in promoting
public awareness and recognition of tht!
anniversary. A contest, with $100 in
donated prize money, brought in forty-
seven entries. The design had to be rep[
resentative of department services and
reference to the anniversary itself had
to be worked into the emblem. In No-
vember 1959 a panel of art critics seI
lected the winner. Their choice was
especially fortuitous in that a simple de
letion of the anniversary reference irl
the design’s outer border provides an
emblem that can serve the departmenl

for the next half century.

The emblem was immediately repro!
duced and used in,.a variety of ways.
First use, of course, was on the official
anniversary stationery and envelopes;
but it was also used on lapel buttons,
pins, tie bars, belt buckles, ashtrays,
decals for department vehicles, and
shirts for men and women leaders on

the playgrounds. It served as an unify-
ing theme for all exhibits, brochures,

A Golden Year in COLUMBUS

 

    
  
   
  
   
  
  

Columbus Recreation Depar -
ment “alumni”: front roux
left to right, Dick F urrj‘
Jesse Owens, Lee Snoots, Eu
gene Riccardi, Hop Cassaday,
and Joe Roberts. Standing
left to right: Dr. Jimmy H all,
H ank Gowdy, Lew H inchman
Jack Keller, Opal Moler, Bil.
Willis, Carl Smith, Ral I

Slot and Bob Walstori

RECREATIO;

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
    
 

pamphlets, and media publicity. All
contest ribbons for the entire year,
membership cards, and other program
accouterments featured the design.
Gold foil, gold-paper stock, and gold
paint by the gallon were used also to
promote the golden anniversary.

A large reproduction of the emblem
was erected at the Columbus Jets base-
ball stadium and it was impossible to
enter city hall without walking directly
under a huge banner featuring the em-
blem and the anniversary in the hall
outside the recreation department of-
fices. Newspaper mats of the emblem
were made available to and by the com-
munity’s merchants and businessmen in
an extensive “anniversary advertising
tie-in” campaign. National concerns,
such as the Kroger supermarkets and
the Grange Mutual Casualty Company,
joined local firms in advertisments of-
fering “Congratulations to the COlum-
bus Recreation Department for fifty
years of service to the youth of our
city.”

 

LOCAL SPORTS WRITERS, pleased at
the steady flow of newsworthy
publicity centering around the observ-
ance, took it upon themselves to form a
committee to select a “Golden Girl” tO
reign throughout the celebration. All
who later saw or met her at anniversary
events concurred in the choice of the
lovely blonde secretary who had been
an active participant in the program at
one of the recreation centers. Mean-
while, all press, radio, and television
media cooperated in locating old-timers
vho had been participants in programs
ffered by the department in its early
' ays. Many of the old-timers gave
reely Of their time in locating and re-
newing old friendships with members
‘ f recreation department teams of by-
one years. These “pioneer alumni"
'ere honored at the big anniversary
nquet.
A definitive early history of the de-

EBRUARY 1961
h

partment was compiled and utilized in
a feature-length, illustrated article in
the Sunday newspaper magazine sec-
tion. A color photo of the newest rec-
reation center was used as the section’s
cover. A twenty-six-page, golden-anni-
versary supplement of text and photos
was distributed to more than eighty
thousand Columbus homes by a pub-
lisher of weekly community newspa-
pers. A mass-distribution brochure, de-
signed in three colors by a leading
advertising agency, was prepared with
the aid of donated funds. All these
printed pieces went far beyond the his-
torical treatment, pointing to solid
achievement in fifty years Of service
and projecting future recreation needs
in Columbus.

NIANY OTHER ASPECTS of the year-
long anniversary observance:
Championship under the
golden-anniversary banner, were held
for both sexes and all age groups in
archery, weightlifting, wrestling, bas-
ketball, volleyball, track and field,
swimming, horseshoes, tennis, baseball,
softball, and football. The city council,
in a formal resolution, commended the
department for its fifty years of service
to the community. Congratulatory let-
ters came from President Eisenhower,
Ohio representatives in Congress, state
and local ofiicials, and from Joseph
Prendergast, executive director of the
National Recreation Association. A 10-
cal high school provided the stage for
eight hundred youngsters from seventy-
three city playgrounds to produce their
own “spectacular” pageant of the
growth and development of the recrea-
tion movement. Several thousand par-
ents applauded the varied skits, each of
which featured props made by the
youngsters themselves under the guid-

tourneys,

ance of playground supervisors.
Besides the wholehearted support of
fellow departments at city hall, the ob-
servance enjoyed the helpful coopera-
tion of other local government units.
Without the aid of the board of educa-
tion, for instance, many of the special
events would have been impossible.
The public library got into the act, too.
with displays of recreation books and
anniversary posters in all thirteen of its

   

‘

Golden-anniversary emblem was used as
blouse insignia by playground leaders.
Mrs. Mary Hartman models blouse.

L ‘“ "13,. a’ --

units. An unusually complete booklist
of “how-to” books concerning all activi-
ties sponsored by the recreation depart-
ment featured the golden anniversary
emblem on its cover. .

Biggést post-summer boost to the an-
niversary was the revival-size tent and
surrounding display area, visited by
well over five thousand people. at the
Ohio State Fair. Inside the tent were
action photos of department sponsored
programs, a thrice-daily puppet Show,
craft and other activity demonstra-
tions, plus, of course, the omnipresent
anniversary emblem. A completely
equipped model playground featured
all equipment painted in anniversary

gold.

WITHOUT QUESTION, though, the
piece de résistance of the anni-
versary observance, which covered the
entire calendar year, was the banquet
staged on July 15Ttlle exact anniver-
sary of the department’s birth.—_—in the
Ohio Union Building at Ohio State Uni-
versity. More than five hundred paid
$3.50 each for the privilege of congrat-
ulating the department and joining iii
honoring fifteen outstanding athletes
who had either worked for or partici-
pated in the recreation department’s
program and “Obtained recognition
through the field of sports from July
15, 1910 to July 15, 1960.”

The “all-star” gallery included Jesse
Owens, outstanding athlete of the half
century; Howard Cassady, Heisman

Continued on Page 98

73

(m a, ,  33;;
'w {cw/{- - c- :7

Buoyancy in the water assists the hand-
icapped in enjoying muscular motion,

gives relaxation to unwieldy joints.

 

Skating is social fun for the whole
family, as well as exercise, especially

when refreshments are also included.

 

Bowling, popular with most teen and
adult groups, holds forth a challenge

for noncompetitive score improvement.

74

   

 

FOR THE ILL

3’
2
U
m
P
z
E
o
i9
«1
ru
[11
U

 

Physical Rehabilitation

and Recreation

r I ‘ODAY, RECREATION IS providing

some of the newest and most dy-

namic approaches in rehabilita-
tion of the physically handicapped.
Recreation is an all-important phase of
the rehabilitation cycle, since it offers
the chance for self-expression, motiva-
tion, achievement, and learning to get
along with others.

Swimming is an enjoyable and chal-
lenging recreation for the handicapped.
It does not have to be competitive; is
physically rewarding as well as stimu-
lating; and offers all people satisfactory
achievement with a minimum of effort
and skill. The principles of swimming
m—relaxation, slow and easy movements,
and conservation of one’s strength—
make it a highly desirable choice for the
handicapped.

The post-polio patient will find that
his buoyancy, resulting from the effects
of the disease, will assist him. The
muscular-dystrophy patient can, with
proper safety equipment, move muscles
that are too relaxed and deformed to
function outside the water. The partici-
pant with multiple sclerosis will dis-
cover an easier method of exercising
that will enable him to help maintain
what range of motion is left after the
remission period. An arthritic will ex-
Derience welcome relief from his aching
joints and muscles in the heated pool,
and the cerebral-palsied will discover a
new way to establish patterns of co-
ordination and relaxation for over-
active muscles. These are but a few of
the handicaps that see swimming as a
friendly ally in rehabilitation.

In order that the handicapped person
may have the utmost in rehabilitation
it is necessary to educate or orient peo-
ple with whom he will be associated.
It is often difficult to show people the
need for this well-rounded approach,
for all too often they feel that it is the
medical profession’s problem, or the
handicapped person’s problem, but not

theirs. Sometimes they are so over-
protective that they deny the individu
ality of the person; so an effort mus
be made to help people achieve a happy
medium in living with the handicappe

individual.

In an organized recreation progra
for the handicapped there is ample op
portunity to do something about thi
problem. In the swimming progra
alone, family swims, splash parties, an
special occasions prompt a situation in
which much can be done toward under-
standing the individual being rehabilis
tated. Out of such family get-together
can come group-therapy programs,
bringing in outside help such as social
caseworkers, family counselors, teach-
ers, instructors, doctors, and rehabilita-
tion workers.

When parents get together to see the
progress their children are making in
their swimming class, they find that
they can talk with other parents con-
cerned with the same problems. When
handicapped adults get'in for the swim
class, working out a good exercise pro-
gram with the physical therapist in
charge, they find that they have prob-
lems in common with others and ears
willing to listen. A coffee hour after the
swim, can, with careful steering, turn
attention to something constructive; the
conversation need not be morbid; it can
be a discussion, an exchange of ideas
by the participants about their own sit-
uations. Understanding can be fostered,
through good public relations—films,
speeches, and swimming demonstra-
tions as well as through volunteers who
provide transportation, teaching and
clerical work. 
Teenagers are excellent teachers?
when given proper training by profes-
This opportunity to
give to others, to be of service, can help
in molding many good prospective
teachers in special education work. Cola,

Continued on Page 105

sional workers.

RECREATION

 

  

R. G. Renfree

ACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA, like many other American
S communities, experienced a period of building ac-
tivity following World War II that created serious
problems in planning" for recreation and parks. This in-
crease of building activity rapidly filled vacant land areas
and, in most cases, no consideration was given to the rec-
reation and park problems. Along with this intense activity
there occurred several annexations of open land which pro-
vided the city with area required for continued growth, but
presented another problem of proper planning for this
growth. Sacramento’s recreation and park system has main-
tained its pace in this growth as indicated in the 1959-60
fiscal budget, totaling $1,800,000, which ranks with the top
cities in per capita expenditures for recreation and park
purposes. ‘

During the past few years the rapid growth of the park
system resulted in planning problems being faced without
the benefit of an overall master plan for development. The
lack of such a plan resulted in new areas being acquired
and new facilities developed on the basis of appeals by
the citizens to the city council, with many decisions being
reached by reason of pressure groups convincing the coun-
cil that their needs deserved the greatest priority.

About three years ago, the city council, acting on the
recommendations of the planning director and the director
of recreation and parks, ordered preparation of a compre-
hensive plan for future acquisition and development of rec-
reation and park areas in the city. A preliminary plan was
prepared and submitted to the council in 1957, with a rec-

 

IMR. RENFREE is director of recreation in Sacramento.

’FEBRUARY 1961

 

CITIZEN ACTION ACHIEVES RESULTS

Master plan leads to land acquisition.

-‘ommendation that a citizen’s committee, representing all
phases of recreation and all areas of the city, be appointed
to evaluate this preliminary plan and to prepare a final set
of recommendations along with a suggested list of priorities,
a time period for development, and a method of financing
the entire plan. The council accepted this recommendation
and the committee members were chosen so as to achieve
a group of citizens representative of all communities and
varied activities which have a distinct interest in the rec-
reation and park system of Sacramento.

This committee subsequently divided itself into six dis-
trict subcommittees in order to evaluate the preliminary
plan on a community-by-community basis. The recommen-
dations of each individual subcommittee were then pre-
sented to the committee as a whole and each recommenda-
tion weighed against the overall plan. The committee then
finalized all recommendations and a list of priorities for
acquisition and development were indicated.

Inasmuch as Sacramento’s recreation and park system
had been thoroughly developed over the years, the total
cost of the final plan for capital expenditures and improve-
ments amounted to only $1,812,675. In attempting to make
a recommendation on the method of financing, considering
a time period of ten years for complete development, the
committee took into consideration that during the past eight
years an average annual capital expenditure of $250,000
had been made for recreation and park purposes out of the
city’s general fund, without resorting to bond issues. In
view of the consideration given by the administration for
such developments the committee recommended that the
plan be accepted as a ten-year plan with approximately

75

$180,000 appropriated annually to accomplish the develop-
ments of the plan in line with the priorities established.

HE GRATIFYING RESULT of this committee recommenda-
tion was the acceptance of the total plan by the city
council on November 18, 1958, and, one week following this
acceptance, at the next regular council meeting, an amount
of $218,500 was appr0priated as the first step in carrying
out the provisions of the plan. This immediate action by the

council was accepted by the citizens of Sacramento without

one voice being raised in objection, which indicates the
reSpect Sacramento citizens have developed for their rec-

reation and park department.

The results of the acceptance of such plan can be con-
sidered as a compliment to the citizen’s committee activities

 

Edward L. Ericson

croachment, mass participation,
municipal programs,
and staggering budget demands, the
small-town or one-man departments
seem to fade into the background.
Does the basic human need for leisure

IN THIS PRESENT age of land en-

large-scale

activities, based upon intelligent use
of leisure time, necessarily become
secondary when everything becomes
bigger, and the complexities of pro-
graming engulf the basic tenets of our
our profession?

We often hear of the city youngsters’
desire for activities, but seldom of the
small-community situation. Is there a
vast difference in their basic needs?

Take, for example, Wilton, Connecti-
cut, a town of approximately seven
' thousand persons. It is located between
the cities of Danbury and Norwalk,
about fifty miles from New York City.
Most family breadwinners commute
daily to New York and are in an upper
middle-class salary range.

Its location places the community
“betwixt and between,” in relation to
any commercial recreation facilities.
There are no movie houses, bowling al-
leys, roller rinks, or soda sh0p hangouts
for youngsters. The situation of peo-
ple living closely together, in crowded

MR. ERICSON, former director of recrea-
tion in Wilton, Connecticut, is now base
recreation director in Aviano, Italy.

76

California.

A SMALL TOWN
SHOWS HOW

housing situations, is completely re-
versed.

Since a neighborhood in a small
town covers several square miles, the
youngster faces the problem of little
or no neighborhood play groups to fill
his leisure time. His needs, however,
To offset the broad
geographical problem, mothers become
taxi drivers or chauffeurs, spending

remain the same.

countless hours transporting their
youngsters all over town and back
again. We find the demands for leisure-
time activities in the small town are the
same, if not greater, than in the city.
How are the needs being met? What is
being accomplished to use all available
space and facilities to provide recrea-
tion activities?

An overall program of diversified
activities, for all ages, began in Wil-
ton with full-time leadership. Facilities
were improvised. Dead spaces became
live areas, and every available possibil-
ity exploited. The program has been
in existence almost four years, and tre-
mendous changes have been effected.
Youngsters now have after-school ac-
tivities to fill leisure hours. Mother no
longer runs a taxi service because we
have a school-bus service along the
main roads. Adequate facility opera-
tion and activities are scheduled over
evening and weekend periods. Parents
bring their youngsters to a centrally
located activity.

They, themselves, have developed

and Sacramento residents can look forward to a well-deve
oped extension of the park and recreation system they hav
enjoyed for the past many years. While the final decision
and recommendations on the plan were voted upon by th
citizens committee, the complete staff of the recreation an
park department and the planning department worked ver I
closely throughout the committee’s activities and provide .
their fullest thinking and professional guidance for th '
committee’s consideration in making their final decision. a I

COpies of the completed plan containing detailed in
formation and comments on the policy considerations or
available, without charge, from R. G. Renfree, Director 0
Recreation and Parks, Room 200, City Hall, Sacrament

   
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
    
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   

'5’: 4(- 45' '2!-

many new interests to ease the tension
of everyday living. New skills and op
portunities for participation are 0pen'
ing new horizons for wise use of thei
leisure time. Facilities and programin
for family recreation tighten the famil
bond, which is a by-product of partici
pating as a group. ‘
Use of volunteer leadership for yout
activities is another form of adult par
ticipation, and helps give parents I
more thorough understanding of reel
reation operation. Many of them, f01
example, had thought of the teen can
teen as a wild gathering, where all teen
age inhibitions broke down. After on
evening of chaperoning, their entir
outlook on teenage behavior change
considerably. Since then, many parent
have expressed a desire to serve agai
on a call basis rather than wait for th
next assignment period. .
Community solidarity has increase
tremendously. Individuals are contin
ually making new friends, deveIOpin
new skills, and finding a common out
let for satisfying pent-up needs. '
In conclusion, we have found th
same needs, desires, and problems exis
in the small town as in the city. T r
main difference is the size of the pro
lem in relation to the number of partici
pants. We must remember that mos
large-city programs start small an
then grow. The basic root of all recrea
tion still remains the individual, in t

small town as well as the city. 

RECREATIO

- lvira Delany

O KEEP UP with all the current trends in recreation,

one must start at the top of ski runs, drop down to

‘ sea level, and even go underwater! One must visit
rban renewal projects, dam sites, causeways, swamps, drop
on sheltered workshops, and stroll through reconstructed
olonial villages. Recreation is everywhere you turn, every-
‘here you look. Part I, published last month, discussed

ve major currents in today’s recreation stream. W e con-
inue with five others.

ALLED CITIES. In an effort to halt downtown decay and

0 give the man in the street some footage thereon, cities
ave been experimenting with, watching, and adopting
he idea of traffic-free pedestrian “malls.” These parklike
‘shoppers’ see-ways” are small island paradises in the midst
f the big city and offer grass areas, potted trees, flowers,
ivic exhibits, music, children’s playgrounds, benches, and
ometimes even a penguin pond. As the result of a pioneer-
ng mall project, Kalamazoo, Michigan, got a real uplift
owntown: business boomed, property values went up, and

million-dollar store went up. In Miami Beach, fashion-
ble Lincoln Road, long a famed shOpping boulevard, is
eing turned into a mile-long, sub-tropical, semi-enclosed
,arden with bubbling fountains and graceful archways. The
1ew promenade was financed by a $600,000 bond issue.
noxville, Tennessee, will revamp its Market Square area
to a downtown mall after having successfully experi-
lented with a “promenade” having a moving sidewalk.
oledo, Ohio, and Hempstead, New York, have both tried
mporary mall setups during the summer and during the
‘hristmas shopping period and are considering permanent
alls. Other cities experimenting with traffic-free down-
wn shopping include Boston; Grand Haven, Michigan;
'pringfield, Oregon; and Fort Worth, Texas. Abroad, Es-
n, Germany, and Stevenage, England have constructed
rmanent shopping malls and Stevenage has canOpied the

tire fifty-five acre area. Already, Professor John W. Hyde
»f the University of Michigan’s College of Architecture and
)esign is warning us that, “There is real danger that lack

IEBRUARY 1961

 

A young potter learns from an old-
timer at the potter’s wheel in re-
stored Old Sturbridge, Massachusetts.

of planning may permit some cities to be “malled to death.”

RECREATION BY MANDATE. In the wake of man’s ef-

forts to control his environment and change the countryside
have come a great expansion in recreation facilities (in
many cases, recreation has been an unexpected dividend).
As man creates dams, reservoirs, seaways, lakes, causeways
and dredges harbors and shores, more and more new recre-
ation areas appear. The Coulee Dam National Recreational
Area, behind the great dam in north-central Washington,
is being developed as part of Mission 66. The area with its
660 miles of shoreline provides a changing type of scenery
from the sagebrush at the dam itself to the ponderosa pine
region up the river.

Lake Mead, behind Hoover Dam in southern Nevada, is
the nation’s largest man-made reservoir and has opened
up a whole desert playground (including the city of Las
Vegas). In Missouri, the Lake of the Ozarks, formed by a
hydroelectric power-dam on the Osage River, is the state’s
largest lake and one of the most extensively developed re-
sort areas in the nation. Its coves, peninsulas, and rocky
outcrops form a shoreline of 1,372 miles. In southwest
Missouri, the White River has been impounded thrice, cre-
ating a fishermen’s paradise of lakes—Bull Shoals, Taney-

como, and Table Rock.
From one end of the land to the other stretch other man-

made areas—the TVA lakes; the Welland Ship Canal,
one of the more spectacular sections of the Great Lakes-St.
Lawrence Seaway; the 1,836-acre Puddingstone Dam Reser--
voir Recreation area in the San Jose Hills of Los Angeles
County, California; San Diego’s Mission Bay Park, part of
a $35,000,000 redevelopment and dredging program.

New acres for recreation areas are being created by using
the tons of mud, silt, and gravel resulting from various types
of dredging operations in all parts of the country. For ex-
ample, millions of tons of material being dredged from the
Delaware River, in an upstream channel widening by the

US. Corps of Army Engineers, are being used to transform
Continued on Pages 78-80 H

77

.-1’" . >-

ents of the arid Southwest. Water skiing at ranch resort in Tucson, Arizona'

I.

Left, before reclamation. U nsightly old pit was danger-
ous spot where several children lost their lives. Below,

after the same site was filled in and equipped for play.

 o - ‘ 7

Members of recreation department-sponsored Windward New man-made lakes are creating recreation areas in the ,7
Boat Club learn art of sailing in city-owned craft at M is- land of the sagebrush and cactus, opening up play areas .
sion Bay Park, San Diego, California, water wonderland. in the dry, desert states of Arizona, Nevada, and Utah.

70 RECREATIOI '

()

 

_._ I ‘

North and of Florida’s Sunshine Highway is put to good rec- You swim when you like at this campsite on Roosevelt Lake
reation use, with sixty-four picnic tables protected by shel- "1 the Coalee Dam National Recreation are“: WeShingtO’l-
ters and outdoor grills. Two structures are bathhouses. The great dam Proleet created 650 miles of new Shoreline-

First permanent pedestrian shopping mall in Kalamazoo, One of the spectacular developments of the St. Lawrence
M ichigan, two-block landscaped span in the heart of the Seaway, Barnhart Island Beach is proving to be a favorite
downtown area, evolced enthusiastic response from shoppers. playground in the North Country Of upper N ew York State-

. ,_  ' k *'     ,_  ‘ra,  ;r-\.' x 7?
Bill Bonyun, folk singer at Old Stur ridge Village, sings earl;
New England ballads on the village green. Repertoire in-
cludes such Yankee folhsongs as “The Boston Tea Tax Song."

Dredging in San Diego’s Mission Bay produced these man-
made islands, coves, points ideal for recreation. The ocean
is at bottom, dredged sand used for beaches at upper left.

FEBRUARY 1961. 79

 

Continued from Page 77

thousands of acres of marshy wasteland along the Pennsyl-
vania and New Jersey banks into areas useful for recreation,
farming, and industrial purposes. In earlier operations
material was pumped into the low-lying Cramer Hill section
of Camden, New Jersey, which is now a public park.

New beaches, picnic grounds, and fishing sites are ap-
pearing along Florida’s Gulf shore as the result of cause-
way fills dredged up from bay bottoms. For Florida, this
is not a recent development. Tarpon Springs was one of
the pioneers to utilize fills as recreation areas and St. Peters-
burg’s famed Spa Beach is a fill that dates back to the
1920’s. A nine-mile causeway between Clearwater Beach
and Tampa, consisting of narrow, dredged-up islands con-
nected by bridges, was constructed during the 1930’s and
provided such excellent beaches that the state road depart-
ment added picnic sites. Today, fills are creating many
more miles of new recreation areas. Along Florida’s At-
lantic or “Gold Coast,” Dade County has developed 890-
acre Crandon Park on Key Biscayne, a four-mile island.

In New York City, thousands of acres of new parklands
along the waterfront have been made available by extend-
ing the existing shore with fill to a new bulkhead line, and
by filling swamps and reclaiming blighted areas. In East
River and Inwood Hill Parks, Manhattan, historic water-
fronts have been reclaimed and new areas made available
for recreation. On Randall’s Island in the East River, de-
veloped in connection with the construction of the Tri-
borough Bridge, marshlands were filled and reclaimed for
recreation and many additional acres for ballfields and
other play areas are still being added.

Along New York City’s Coney Island shorefront, reclama-
tion and acquisition programs provided forty-six acres of
additional beach. Large areas were filled for the Belt Park-
way, and in Queens, Flushing Meadow Park, Grand Central
Parkway along Flushing Bay, Jacob Riis, Juniper Valley,
Kissena Corridor, and Baisley Parks were reclaimed for
public use. In the Bronx, Orchard Beach and Soundview
Beach are major parks created in large part by sanitation
filling. On Staten Island, Great Kills Park was opened for
limited use in 1949, and will, when completed, be one of
the most important oceanfront areas in the city, reclaimed
by the placing of controlled garbage fill.

An earth-fill project has raised the level and doubled the
recreation area of City Terrace Park in East Los Angeles,
California. Excavation for the Los Angeles Civic Center
area provided six hundred thousand cubic yards of earth
for the park.

Old automobile bodies and obsolete trolley cars are be-
ing dropped into coastal waters to create artificial reefs and
improve fishing. Coats of bryozoans and barnacles soon
cover these foreign bodies, and these growths, in turn, at-
tract crustaceans and small fish, the first step in the cycle
of big game fishing. The Texas Game and Fish Commission
has created three artificial car reefs at Port Isabel, Port
Aransas, and Freeport. In Florida, Jacksonville has its
own “Operation Barnacle” and has sunk wrecked cars and
wornout kitchen appliances to make a reef.

New York City rubble (stone, brick, concrete) is also

80

creating an artificial reef, off Lavallette, New Jersey, and
so it goes along our coasts. In Europe the “junk” play-
grounds are above ground, here they are underwater.

THE BRIDGE BACK. The dramatic role of recreation in
rehabilitation was movingly presented during the 8th World
Congress in New York City last summer in a living-news-
paper presentation by the National Recreation Association
Consulting Service on Recreation for the Ill and the Handi-
capped, called Comeback.’ Foreign delegates were as-
tounded at our extensive recreation programs for these
people.

The increasingly rapid development in this area of recrea-
tion service over the past decade has seen the expansion of
recreation programs not only in long-term hospitals but in

' rehabilitation centers, homes for the aged, nursing homes,

institutions for the retarded, and many other agencies.

Recreation service is now reaching the homebound, the
sheltered workshop client, and recreation is providing the
bridge via which many “fringe” members of society are
finding their way back into the community after leaving
the protective custody of the institution. The White House
Conference on the Aging last month mapped many new fron-
tiers for our aged and every day, studies are going forward
to meet the recreation needs of our exceptional children and
adults.

GLORY OF Y ESTERY EAR. In the section on “themed”

recreation last month we touched on the return to yesterday
in Wild West playgrounds, pioneer villages, and Americana
museums. This yearning to protect pieces of our heritage
before they get buried in the onrush of our fast-change-over
living can be seen in the increase of reconstructed communi-
ties—-—both nonprofit and commercial. These range from
the glory of Colonial Williamsburg and Greenfield Village
to Mystic Seaport to Old Sturbridge—and to some of the
most blatant of tourist traps. Elaborate commercial setups
include a Gay Nineties Gaslight Village at Lake George,
New York, and a half-million-dollar Wild West Frontier at
North Hudson, New York (complete with the latest in swim-
ming pools).

Greenfield Village, the two-hundred-acre “museum” of
Americana supported by the will of Henry Ford, has now
set up a travelling exhibit depicting a nineteenth-century
“Main Street, USA.” It is currently on a five-year tour
of the country, on two specially designed railroad cars.
Both the federal government and the individual states are
striding ahead in a desperate effort to protect historic sites
before they are lost in a tide of “progress.” (See RECREA-
TION, January 1961, Page 9).

THERE IS NO TOMORROW. Despite all warnings that

open space must be acquired now or never there are too 

many indications that lack of forceful action will make us
forfeit many of few remaining wilderness and public sea-
shore areas. Despite the encouraging wave of bond issues
approved in November’s elections, a sad percentage were
voted down. In recreation, there is never room for com-
placency. There is always a shortage and lag in land ac-

quisition, facilities, services, and personnel; there is never 

enough keep-up, let alone go-ahead. #

RECREATION

@ADM INI S TRATI ON

VOLUNTEERS
IN PUBLIC
RECREATION

What is their role?

 

 

Ross A. Cunningham

O VOLUNTEERS H AVE a definite and regular place in V ice-mayor Val Gill, Councilman. Bill Seurstedt and volun-
D the Operation of your recreation agency? To some teers Glen. Alan and Mrs. V. Brown, Jr. meet at reception.
recreation agencies, this question might seem naive.
For, without volunteers, numerous organizations rendering
leisure-time services would not be able to operate at all.
Scouts and other youth-serving organizations—and these
are certainly-recreation agencies—depend largely on volun-
teers for leadership and other contributions which make
their programs go.

But what about volunteers in public recreation agencies?
Is not their role here apt to be less definite and regular?
Certainly, they do contribute to our public recreation de-
partments. The assistance of commissions and boards is
practically universal, while both adult and youth volunteers
are involved in regular program activities, special events,
Observances, and other functions. However, there is a great

 

 

deal of difference between the assistance of volunteers in

these ways and a volunteer services program, integrated into Volunteer Pat Pullman directs a weekly puppet show in. San
Leandro’s Washington Playground for engrossed audience.

I)» -
..

overall agency operation.

In June 1959, the San Leandro, California, Department
of Recreation established the position of volunteer services
coordinator. This is an upper-echelon administrative posi-
tion involving the services of a professional recreation su-
pervisor devoting time exclusively to volunteers.

In embarking upon such a program, the department had
decided it would deliberately strive to involve volunteers
in all facets of its activities and operations. Accordingly
it made necessary changes in all agency units to facilitate
adjustment to this change.

At the outset, it was necessary for all staff members to
understand, accept, and become committed to involving
volunteers in this manner. Such acceptance was crucial to
the success of the new program and it required changes in
some long-established ways of working. One of the volun-
teer-service coordinator’s first tasks was assisting in staff
orientation and training to the new approaches which ap-

ye. ..

Tennis has boomed with volunteer playground instruction.
Here Arvid Segerquist and Don Hagen meet eager learners.

plied to everybody—from the newest part-time leader to the (3) training, (4) assignment,  supervision. 4'6) evalu-
department director. ation, (7) detachment, and ( 8) recognition. Incidentally,

It was clear that a thoroughgoing volunteer program and very important, the department requires all volunteers
required the following: (1) job definition, (2) recruitment, to be processed-——fingerprinted and clearance given- -l)y our

city police department just as we do regularly employed
personnel. The volunteer-service coordinator has been in-
volved with all of these measures, as have all other employed

staff members. l-—->

MR. CUNNINGHAM, formerly director of recreation, San Le-
a-ndro, California, is now assistant general manager of E. P.
Finigan Co., of San Francisco, supplier of playground and
physical education equipment.

.FEBRUARY 1961 81

Now, the distinction between assistance from volunteers
—as traditionally utilized by public recreation departments
—and a volunteer services program must be emphasized.
The latter involves all department personnel, with the vol-
unteer services coordinator serving a staff rather than a line
function. The department’s simplified organization chart
clarifies this point.

The role of the volunteer services coordinator is com-
parable to that of an auxiliary personnel ofhce serving the
department in connection with regular personnel. The chart
also reflects the fact that supervision of volunteers is pri-
marily the responsibility of line staff members, whether
full-time professional personnel or part-time leaders. This
makes apparent the need for a thorough understanding of
the volunteer services program by all staff members and the
necessity for training them to their responsibilities in con-
nection with it.

HAT HAVE been the results of our new volunteer serv-
ice during the first year? We feel they have been
outstanding. A total of 438 adults and youth volunteers
have contributed 7,695 hours of service. This reflects more
than meets the eye; remember, all of these volunteers were
carefully recruited through interviews, then oriented,
trained, supervised, and recognized with an appropriate
award.

We can honestly say we could not have operated our two
swimming pools last summer, within our budget, had it not
been for volunteer attendants, instructor aids, and assistant
guards. The forty-one people serving at the pools contrib-
uted 1,987 hours of service. At our summer day camp,
twelve youngsters donated 1,217 hours, serving as assistant
counselors.

Recently we held a reception to honor our volunteers of
this past year. Adult volunteers came with spouses and
families; youth volunteers brought parents, brothers, and
sisters. City councilmen, recreation and park commis-
sioners, the city manager, and the recreation department

staff were the welcoming committee. Organizations, as well I
as individuals, were awarded certificates and pins in a brief,
formal program. Appropriately, volunteer service hours,
had been recorded by volunteers. The reception was most ,
successful. While enjoyed as a pleasant social event it
brought together all the volunteers for the first time and.
made each one aware of his contribution to something much
bigger than he had first thought. Moreover, the event con-
tained much inherent public relations value.

Indeed, public relations is one of the strongest aspects of
the entire volunteer services program. Carefully recruited,
assigned, supervised, and recognized—in short, made to
succeed—-—volunteers become a highly effective corps of sup-
porters for the agency, its program, and what it stands for.

For the future, we foresee two major advantages of the
volunteer-service program. First, it will provide opportuni-
ties for the kind of public service that appeals to many peo-
ple—such service being a form of recreation for them.
Second, with increasing demands for recreation programs,
it will help the department provide them within its budget.

The importance of the volunteer services coordinator in
the picture cannot be overemphasized. We were very for-
tunate in having Mrs. Zilpha Ambrose accept this new posi-
tion. We have benefited from her thorough grasp of recre-
ation, clear understanding of the position and its role in
the agency, exceptional.ability in working edectively with
the regular staff, and success in arousing the interest and
enthusiasm of volunteers. Having previously served with
the Oakland, California, Recreation Department as super-
visor and general supervisor, she is well-suited for her key
position.

We believe this has been a very successful innovation.
Furthermore, having no knowledge to the contrary, we claim
(until set straight by another with a prior claim) to be the
first public recreation department in the nation to establish
a volunteer-service program with a key staff member having
no other responsibility than volunteers. Are we correct? #

 

Cooperative Planning
Continued from Page 70

 

continue to include funds for the project in their annual
budgets because no recreation site in Norway is ever con-
sidered “completed.” The swimming beach, priority item
of the project, was an engineering feat. A lock at the sea
entrance of the area allows the sea water to enter at high
tide. Then the water is trapped in the excavated sand basin
to be heated by the sun and may be changed when necessary.
After its completion the campsite and athletic fields were
developed. The group assigned lowest priority to vacation
cabins which are extremely popular, and may be rented by
the week. They are often all booked by March for the sum-
mer months. Construction of the restaurant with rooms for
meetings and social affairs constituted the final project of

82

the original plan. Although leased to a private operator,
it is run under committee-established policy.

An interesting condition imposed on all areas receiving
state subsidy is that all organizations with legal purposes
must be allowed to participate. Legal purpose in Norway
applies to practically everything that does not endanger
another life, health, or personal freedom. All state-financed
programs must be available to persons regardless of politi- ’
cal belief, race, or religious creed. ‘

Under dynamic leadership, the State thce for Sport and
Youth Work, organized under the Ministry of Church and
Education, is promoting cooperation and coordinating ef-
forts of schools, municipalities, and voluntary organizations
with the state in planning, not only for the immediate future,
but for overall long-range development of recreation areas
and facilities for the people of Norway. #

RECREATION

 

Missile Town Launches Tree Program

Dick Milkovich

HE SEED of a

bright idea
grew into 914 trees
for Sunnyvale, Cal-
ifornia, 1960 win-
ner of the Plant-a-
Tree competition
in the San Fran-
cisco Bay area. The Plant-a-Tree Week
program was originated in the Bay
area by radio station KCBS, as part of
its area-wide community service pro-
graming, to provide an opportunity
for all communities to participate in the
beautification of their city through
planting of trees on public and private

properties. KCBS offered a handsome

 

MR. MILKOVICH is director of parks and
recreation in Sunnyvale, California.

FEBRUARY 1961

In the almost perfect state,

no man shall be allowed to cut down a tree
unless he plants at least two—Don Marquis

perpetual trophy to be kept by the win-
ning community for one year. The pro-
gram was coordinated as part of the
celebration of Arbor Day.

In Sunnyvale, hub for the missile and
electronic industries in the Bay area,
the program was instituted by a com-
mittee composed of representatives
from the Chamber of Commerce. city
parks and recreation department, Pa-
ciiic Gas and Electric Company, Pacific
Telephone and Telegraph Company,
and the Cereza Floral Garden Club. The
committee outlined the plans for each
day of the week:

SUNDAY: the Council of Churches for
Sunnyvale would announce to their
congregations that Plant-a-Tree-Week
would be celebrated that week.

MONDAY: trees would be planted in

front of the new Pacific Telephone and
Telegraph Company building.
TUESDAY: the new Chamber of Com-
merce building would be landscaped
through donations of the local Rotary
Club.

WEDNESDAY: each school within the
city, through PTA sponsorship, would
plant trees.

THURSDAY: trees would be planted by
various civic organizations at Sunny-
vale’s Home Garden Arboretum.
FRIDAY: tree planter boxes would be in-
stalled on the main business street as
part of downtown Sunnyvale’s beauti-
fication plan.

A second meeting was attended by
over forty civic and service organiza-
tions of the community. The wheels
were set into motion by the parks and

83

recreation department, which prepared
fifty posters to be placed in strategic
locations throughout the city announc-
ing the program. A brochure prepared
by the Pacific Gas and Electric Com-
pany, titled Trees for Homes and Gar-
dens, along with a brochure prepared
by the parks and recreation department
on Do’s and Don’ts of Street Tree and
Parkway Plantings, were placed with
the posters. A letter was prepared by
the parks and recreation department
announcing Plant-a-Tree Week and ask-
ing all citizens in the community to
participate in the event. Over fifteen
thousand of these letters were sent home
to the parents through the public
schools.

MANY CALLS from organizations and
individual citizens followed, of-
fering assistance in planting trees and
donating trees to be planted. The Girl
Scouts, Boy Scouts, Cub Scouts, service
clubs, homeowner groups, YMCA, and
local business gave time and trees to the
program. The trees were planted in
memory of departed friends and loved
ones; to enhance the beauty of store
fronts; to commemorate the fiftieth an-
niversary of Scouting; and to beautify
existing schools, parks, and churches.

The Sunnyvale School District and
the parks and recreation department
provided services for procuring and de-
livering the trees and assisting, where
needed, in their planting. The local
newspapers gave full coverage prior to
and during Plant-a-Tree Week.

The strong community effort during
Plant-a-Tree Week resulted in the plant-
ing of 914 trees in Sunnyvale, described
as “far and away the best of the San
Francisco Bay area.” The Sunnyvale
School District contributed the heaviest
effort; a total of 594 trees were planted
at various school sites. The president of
the Sunnyvale Sixth District PTA Coun-
cil and the assistant superintendent of
schools headed this phase of the pro-
gram. The parks and recreation de-
partment was credited with 256 tree
plantings.
Fremont High School District, down-
town beautification program, Chamber
of Commerce, Home Garden Arbore-
tum. and many clubs and organizations.
The San Francisco radio station which
sponsored the Plant-a-Tree Week con-

84

Other plantings included-

test judged Sunnyvale the winner
among twenty-eight other communities
in active competition.

THE FOLLOWING general program can
help your” community get started
on a Plant-a-Tree Week.

0 Appoint a master committee to pre-
pare the plans for the program. Ap-

    

  

v

\.

  
 
 

L- .Jlf‘b— —

'

point a chairman; in most cases, it is
best to choose a woman of the com-
munity who is well known, who genu-
inely believes in this program, who can
devote time to lining up participants.

0 Call a meeting immediately of repre-
sentatives of all the groups who can be
expected to help form subcommittees.
Don’t try to have two or three people
do the work. Examples of organizations
that may serve as committee members
are: garden clubs, nurserymen’snasso-
ciations, PTA, service clubs, women’s
clubs, local park and recreation de-
partments, local utility representatives,
school board, street-tree supervisors,
civic-minded businessmen,
ment associations, Boy and Girl Scouts.

improve-

0 There are two basic goals to achieve:
first, plant as many trees as possible
working through groups and individ-
uals; second, get as much publicity as
you can for these tree-planting activi-
ties. This way thousands of people will
be aware of the event and will join in.
An important note to remember is that
citizens should be aware of any local
laws which govern planting of street

trees.

0 It is best to plan several events, be-
cause they provide more publicity op-
portunities. The success of Plant-a-Tree
Week is in its cumulative effect. Pos-
sible events: school tree-planting cere-
monies; garden clubs add a clump of
trees or a small grove in a park or other
well-protected area; service clubs plant
trees to honor past members or to beau-

'| ._  ,-
" '“‘ 
l

tify club buildings; individual home-
owners plant trees for the benefit of
shade and improved appearance; serv-
ice stations plant trees to beautify their
grounds; church youth groups plant
trees around their churches; downtown
businessmen plant trees in either planter
boxes or other suitable planting areas;
blocks of homeowners organize to plant
a uniform row of street trees;
high-school youth groups or-

   
 

ganize to clean up and plant

  

trees in a rundown area;
nurserymen stage a big sale
of bare-root trees, with spe-
cial planting instructions and
help in selecting the right
trees; civic officials ofliciate
at planting a tree in front of
city hall or other civic spot.

0 Once events are set, detail one per-
son to take full charge of each. Make
sure that everything is ready to go
ahead on schedule. Get all the publicity
you can, arrange for announcements in
all service clubs, send flyers home
through your local school districts, pre-
pare posters, write stories for the local
newspapers and radio stations, provide
pe0ple f0r radio interviews, arrange
photographs for local newspapers.

0 Arrange for the mayor, local board
of supervisors, or your local governing
agency to issue a proclamation for
Plant-a-Tree Week with special refer-
ence to its local importance.

0 Keep careful records of all trees
planted locally during the event.

0 Keep a graphic record of your pro
gram and its events (scrapbook or snap-
book). This can be valuable in future
years and can be loaned to community
groups to stimulate interest in the fol-
lowing years.

1‘ HIS A GOOD PROJECT where every-
body wins. The important work—-
making the plans, organizing commit- I
tees, arranging the plantings, and hand- l
ling the publicity—is done by hundreds
of people; the results are lasting and
can be viewed by thousands. Partici-\i
pating groups have completed a project "
of which to be proud. Each community
has a new bit of beauty to display, some- '
thing which will grow more attractive
each year. The entire community will
have the satisfaction of big results from
cooperation in a Vital venture. if:

I

    
   
 
 

&

RECREATION

Are our programs too “product centered?”

The True Purpose of
ARTS AND CRAFTS

Stephen Covey
HILDREN PARTICIPATE IN arts and
C crafts because it is fun to create
things and to see the result of the
creative experience. Recreation leaders,
in introducing these experiences to the
children, can only teach procedures;
that is, demonstrate the proper uses of
tools and materials, to enable the child
to explore their usefulness as well as to
understand their limitations. However,
it is while these procedures are carried
out that the child performs continuous
selections or decisions. He may decide
that one particular shape or color is
“better” than any other or he may select
or eliminate to arrive at what he c011-
cludes to be the “best ” result. This we
call aesthetic judgment: a decision
which all children, and adults, are cap-
able of making. The selecting or the
deciding is the child’s or the adult’s spe-
cific technique. When we introduce arts
and crafts to adult beginners the ap-
proaches and methods of teaching are
often very similar to those utilized when
working with youngsters.

At this point many of us disagree as
to the matter of teaching or outwardly
controlling the creative experience—-—for
many adult leaders and teachers are un-
able to distinguish between procedures
and techniques. Procedures are the
various activities which can be ex-
plained within the general framework
of the project being introduced; tech-
nique, on the other hand, is the highly
individualized use of the materials in-
volved. It is, therefore, extremely lim-
iting and frustrating to the child when
one attempts to control a technique
which naturally grows out of his need
to express himself. Such attempts will
ultimately become handicaps. One can
safely teach procedures and in so doing

 

MR. COVEY is an arts-and-crafts special-
ist with the Phoenix, Arizona, Parks
and Recreation Department. This ma-
terial is taken from a lecture given at

an arts-and-crafts workshOp at the
Phoenix Public Library.

FEBRUARY 1961

automatically encourage the child to de-
velop his own technique. An aesthetic
choice can only deve10p when the child
has the freedom to make choices.

It is extremely dangerous to become
so bound by traditional concepts that
we exclude the many exciting possibili-
ties of experimentation with new mate-
rial and new processes. We are all
aware that it is very easy to conduct a
crafts program without depth or mean-
ing. This is what is known among edu-
cators and recreation leaders alike as
a “product-centered program.” If the
children are becoming overly concerned
with the sales value of the product or
project, the program they are pursuing
has lost all creative value.

Those children who participate in a
recreation arts and crafts program are
seeking, through a creative activity, a
feeling of deep personal accomplish-
ment. The need for this type of recrea-
tion, where attention ideally is focused
on individuals, is particularly strong in
those children who gain less satisfac-
tion in participating in sports or games,
or competitions with others, or a situa-
tion where team ability is of major im-
portance. Bearing in mind that the
creative experience is of utmost impor-
tance, attention should be paid to the
ideas expressed rather than to the per-
fection with which the end product is
accomplished. Care must be taken to
avoid rules and formulas which will re-
veal nothing but the child’s ability to
imitate or conform. Examples of what
type of thing may be made with the
materials at band should only be used
(if they are used at all) to stimulate an
idea of the limitations or the advan-
tages of the medium rather than to
force the child to copy the example.

It is a mistake and a serious handi-
cap to approach any recreation activity,
whether it be arts and crafts, games and
sports or music and dance with a “baby-
sitting” attitude. We are not merely
entertaining the children. If we are at

all seriously interested in carrying out
a meaningful program of varied ac-
tivities there are, of course, several edu-
cational methods which must be em-
ployed. Not all of us are trained to
educate in all areas of recreation, but
it must be assumed that we are inter-
ested in providing a program which is
“child focused” or centered around the
uppermost interests of the child. And
in a recreation setting our education
methods must be geared in such a way
as to encourage the child to return to
the area and participate chiefly because
he enjoys the experience.

We must take time to get to know and
understand to some degree the children
who express an interest in arts and
crafts activities. Such time taken, in
talking about recent experiences the
child (or the adult) has experienced,
can help considerably to break through
and establish rapport. If we conduct
our activities on an altogether too im-
personal basis, and herd the children
around like cattle, we will have an im-
possible barrier to break through.

Finally, the children need to be rec-
ognized—especially for creative efforts.
Unlike group-participation activities re-
quiring teamwork, where achievement
awards may be given to the outstanding
group or individual, we cannot place
the arts-and-crafts activity on such a
competitive plane. But all children seek,
and deserve, recognition for their crea-
tive efforts, and we must encourage
them, individually, and display as much
of their work as possible in order that
others may share their enjoyment of
what is for them a deeply moving ex-
perience. Just as we want to offer an
enjoyable and stimulating recreation
program on our playgrounds, there is
no reason why, with some extra effort,
we cannot all offer an arts-and-crafts
program which will make an outstand-
ing contribution to the children’s lives.
This is the true purpose of arts and
crafts in recreation. #

85

@PROGRAM

 

PARTIES

FROM THE HEART

Roma Burnett and Evelyn Wyatt

SUCCESSFUL PARTY does not just
A just happen. It must be care-

fully planned. In the Los An-
geles City Recreation and Parks De-
partment, planning begins well in
advance with inservice education ses-
sions for all directors. Weeks before a
holiday, such as St. Valentine’s Day,
directors learn techniques of party lead-
ership and gain experience with party
programing, games, plays, dances, and
music. In these sessions leadership
techniques are adapted to parties for
the preschool age group and children
from seven to twelve.

For Preschool Children

To plan and carry out a successful
party for the preschool age is a re-
warding experience. “Tender loving
thought” put into party plans helps to
insure its success. This includes: the
extra valentines for those who forget;
the little treat for younger brothers and
sisters; coffee served to the mothers at
refreshment time; special effort to in-
clude the shy child; favors for all rather
than prizes for a few; and group activi-
ties so all may participate. All these
should be considered in the planning.
If the party is planned well in advance,
party materials assembled beforehand,
and committees organized to assist with
activities, then the director is free to
enjoy the party with the children. The
enjoyment will be heightened by care-
ful preparation.

Let us consider a party plan for ap-

MRS. BURNETT and MISS WYATT are
recreation directors in the Los A ngeles
City Recreation and Parks Department.

86

NI?
'4
.
<
a
. 2w," I.
-  o
c ” «2231»
a C -

3"“

proximately fifty preschool children.
First, the area is attractively decorated
by a committee of mothers. As children
arrive, a heart-shaped tag is pinned on
each. This badge helps each child to
feel he belongs. Each child then places
in a decorated box a valentine he has
brought. The children then sit in a cir-
cle around a valentine tree, made by
tying valentines on a sturdy branch set
in a bucket of sand. The leader, with
eyes closed, takes a valentine from the
tree. The entire group proceeds to imi-
tate the action suggested by the valen-
tine such as sky rocket zooming, bunny
hopping, skipping, and so on. Carefully
chosen valentines offer an opportunity
for all to participate in a variety of
creative activities; suitable music adds
zest to this game.

After this active game children enjoy
singing valentine songs as “The Queen
of Hearts.” After this, the children
march around the room to music. At
a signal from the leader, mother helpers
divide children into four circle groups
and all sit in this formation on the floor.
They are now ready to play “A Tisket,
A Tasket,” which is similar to “Drop
the Handkerchief.” All join in the sing-
ing of this familiar tune. The “letter”
mentioned in “A Tisket, A Tasket”
should be decorated and sealed with a
big heart. This singing game continues
until every child has had a turn to skip
around the circle and drop the letter.

The highlight of the party is the re-
freshments. To some children this is
the party. These should be easy to serve
and eat and should have a party flair.
Cookies shaped like hearts placed on a

   

II~ ' I r‘

 iii—kutwa

Children at El Serena Playground, Los  “has up
their hearts as they play a game of “Valentines Out.”

decorated napkin and served with pink
punch and a red sucker attached to a
valentine, valentine candies in a red nut
cup—all these delight children of this
age. If low tables and benches are not
available, then table tops decorated in
a valentine motif can be placed on the
floor.

The recreation director, as hostess,
stands near the exit so the children may ,
say good-by and ask—as they always
do—“When will the next party be?”

For Older Children

A valentine party for children aged
seven to twelve may well be the high- r.
light of the February special events at 
the recreation center. Here is oppor- ,
tunity to draw many volunteers into '
participation. These should be organ-
ized into committees, and members can 0
be drawn from boys and girls clubs and
women’s groups. Committees are as-
signed to decorate the party; assemble ‘
party material; act as hosts; welcome ‘
guests; lead games; act as scorekeep-
ers; prepare and serve refreshments;
and help clean up.

When guests arrive they are greeted
at the door by hosts, given identifica-
tion tags to divide them into groups for i
the planned games. These should be
hearts, bows, arrows, or cupids. Under ‘
the leadership of a captain, each group\
assembles in the area marked by itsf‘
symbol. The group which assembles
first receives twenty points. The score-
keeper assigned each group keeps'an '
up-to-the-minute score. A good openerl
is the simple dance, “Ach Ya” and each

Continued on Page 98 "

    
  
   
  
  
  

RECREATION

i

l
r

National Circus Week—June l-7—falls during Recreation Month

 

There’s something about a balloon! It’s light, colorful,
active and unpredictable. N 0 one ever plays with a balloon
without laughing. Many of our readers in the West may
have watched Keith Macdonald keep a roomful of people
helpless with laughter as they followed his balloon-trick in-

 

Keith A. Macdonald

to add zest to his act; many use

E VERY CLOWN USES some gimmick

magic. I use balloons and a con-
tinuous line of chatter, starting with, “I
have no talent but you have to give me
credit for courage.”
Scotty-the-Clown act for the past ten
years in my spare time, having ap-
peared at fairs, gas-station openings,
banquets, supermarkets, football and
baseball games, parades, PTA carni-
vals, Christmas parties, and what-have-
you.

Eight years ago I observed Bozo the
Clown, one of the cleverest artists in the
trade, making animals out of balloons.
From then on, balloons were my gim-
mick and I’ve never let an opportunity
pass to show how to inflate, tie, twist,
and construct balloons to anyone who is
interested.

One of my latest attempts at instruct-
ing was at the district fair in Auburn,
California. I was in front of a rapidly
filling grandstand making some twenty
different type hats, hair decorations,
and animals for the youngsters before
the variety show started.

By the time I had completed my in-
structions everyone was trying to do
something with the balloon; some, I’ll
admit, had given up because they just
couldn’t inflate the balloon; others had
followed instructions and had com-
pleted the hat.

MR. MACDONALD is executive director
of the Greater Vallejo Recreation Dis-
trict, Vallejo, California.

 

I have done my

u . p \ \.

 

Youngsters are fascinated watching Slcotty the. Clown (Kth Mcdonald)

structions. It took several years of nagging to get him to
put these tricks down on paper—but here they are! Try
them at a 4-H club meeting, a picnic, a banquet, or on the
playground —- everyone loves balloons. —— Virginia Mussel-
man, National Recreation Association Program Service.

 

fia— - ‘4 r.

turn balloons into animals and hats with a few deft twists of his wrist.

HOW TO DO IT

When you inflate the balloon, breathe
from your diaphragm, not from your
cheeks. Take a big lung-full of air,
tighten your stomach muscles. Hold the
closed end of a long ten-inch balloon
with the left hand, place the open end
in your mouth, and give a quick gust of
air into the balloon to get it started.
Place the end of your tongue at the end
of the balloon to hold the air in while
filling your lungs again. Expel the air
and your balloon should be full.

To tie off, simply hold the balloon in
your left hand to close off the air, pull
the neck out about four inches, wrap it
around the fore and middle fingers of
your left hand, tuck the neck into the
loop, and pull your fingers out. This to-
tal operation takes seconds to complete.

To make a simple Davy Crockett hat,
place the inflated balloon in your left
hand, grasp it four inches from the end,
and, with your thumb and other fingers,
squeeze into the balloon and twist to-
ward you. With the right hand—using
your hand as if you were about to pick
up an apple—grasp the small end of the

balloon and twist it to the right, make
at least two complete turns with this
part of the balloon and hold it. Tuck
this end under your left armpit and
hold it while you do a similar twist
about eight inches from the other end.
Hang onto these twisted parts, other-
wise they will untwist. Remove the bal-
loon from your armpit and merely in-
sert one twisted part into the other,
Wrapping the two twisted parts of the
balloon around each other twice. Place
the balloon on the youngster’s head: if
the long tail is down at the back. it’s
a Davy Crocket hat; if it sticks up at
the back. it’s a Heap-Big-Chief-One
Feather.

Order the balloon from any of the
following firms; ask for four-inch air-
ship type balloon, ten inches in length:

All State Balloon Co., 3289 Fletcher
Drive, Los Angeles 65, Calif.

Lee-Tex Rubber Products, 13151
South Western Ave, Cardena, Calif.

National Latex Products Co., 3637
San Fernando Rd., Glendale 4, Calif.

Maple City Rubber Co., Norwalk,

Ohio.

 

For balloon—twisting diagrams and instructions see chart on inside back cover

FEBRUARY 1961

87

   

Welcome Service

International understanding begins
at home. In Hartford, Connecticut, the
Greater Hartford People-to-People
Council has for several years worked
closely with local Puerto Rican authori-
ties to develop an adult educational pro-
gram in the Hartford schools. The
council sponsored a series of radio pro-
grams in Spanish, offering useful infor-
mation and suggestions for new Puerto
Rican inhabitants, and several People-
to-People TV shows have been dedi-
cated to help the Puerto Ricans inte-
grate into the community.

The council was initiated in 1957 to
promote understanding between indi-
viduals from different cultures and is
associated with many community or-
ganizations, such as the Council of
Churches, the International Cultural
Society of Connecticut, and the Kiwanis
Club, and others. The council has not
only sponsored worthwhile interna-
tional projects, but has brought under-
standing on a much-needed level—
within the city itself—-in its attempts to
aid newcomers in learning the ways
and mores of the community.

Old Stamps, New Friendships
What do you do with your cancelled

stamps? Most of them probably head
for Destination Waste Basket. How-
ever, at the State University of Iowa.
the recreation major clubs is collecting
cancelled stamps to promote interna-
tional friendship and goodwill through
recreation. “Stamps for Recreation”
involves Wholesale, extensive solicita-

tion of cancelled stamps by the students ‘ a

to aid leaders of Skrammellegepladsen,
the junk playground in Copenhagen,

Denmark, in raising funds for a “mixer
house” (recreation building). A gov-
ernment subsidy will pay for part of the
building, the rest will be financed

88

through sale of old stamps and other
money raising schemes.

The Cedar Rapids Playground and
Recreation Board, the Iowa City Rec-
reation Commission, the Recreation
Section of the Veterans Administration
Hospital at Iowa City, and many staff
members at the State University of
Iowa, as well as students are pledging
their symbols of postage paid to this
worthwhile project.

“Stamps for Recreation” is not an ex-
clusive project of the student recreators
at SUI; any individual or group who
desires to do so may contribute. All
efforts will be appreciated by the mem-
bership of Skrammellegepladsen. Here
is a service project for your youth,
playground and senior citizens groups.
Any stamps will do, even the everyday
four-cent variety. Contributions and in-
quiries may be addressed to Dr. E. A.
Scholer, Assistant Professor of Recrea-
tion, State University of Iowa, Iowa

City.
PROGRAM BRIEFS

o In La Canada, California, children
are digging into a nature and gardening

 

A REPORTER’S
NOTEBOOK

 
 

program. Free instruction, sponsored
by the Los Angeles County Department
of Arboreta and Botanic Gardens, is
available at Descanso Gardens to chil-
dren in grades one through six. The
youngest children learn propagation of
plants by seeds and cuttings; third and
fourth graders explore nature in the
plant and animal life of pond and chap-
arral and the gardens of the Descanso fl
Oak woodland; older children have
their own plots to prepare, plant, and
cultivate for eighteen weeks.

0 A novel program was begun by the
Lubbock, Texas, Recreation Depart-
ment, when it arranged for Explorer
Scout Post N o. 18 to visit and work in
all of the various departments of the
city government. The boys will be di-
vided into interest groups and will work
on this project two nights per month.

0 You can be a mouse or a louse or an
unpainted house or a droopy elastic
band—the tots enrolled in the Gramma
Drama program in Hewlett, New York
seem to enjoy the opportunity to “be
things.” The program, originated and
directed by Mrs. Joyce MCGinn, has
won a sizeable following among the dis-
trict’s first- and second-graders. It is
run for about twenty Saturdays, is
bright and new, and has resulted in a
great deal of creative fun for the young-
sters. ( See RECREATION, April 1960, for
article on Mr. & Mrs. McGinn’s out-
door painting program for “dungaree

daubers.”)

o A royal grant from the Dukes and I
Duchesses Social and Civic Club in
Oakland, California, added $500 to the
Alta Sims Bunker Recreation Scholar-
ship fund. To show its appreciation of
what the recreation program had done 
for its members, the club sponsored a

RECREATION

public dance with live music at the boat
house overlooking Lake Merritt in the
heart of Oakland. The door prize, do-
nated by a service station adjacent to
the recreation center, was one hundred
gallons of ethyl gasoline. Additional
money was raised through the sale of a
program brochure and advertising.
With printing and publicity by radio
and newspaper offered at cost, or prac-
tically donated, there was little expense
involved. The club presented the $500
to Dr. C. L. Nordly, chairman of the
Department of Physical Education at
the University of California, who rep-
resented the fund. The first scholarship
recipient, Fred Brooks, now working on
his master’s in recreation at San Jose,
was able to start his graduate career
last September.

\\l/

E

/
/

#-

\
0 In Baltimore, children from the
Elmer Henderson Recreation Center
took part in a nature-study program
which really caught fire and went right
on glowing. To learn the names of
flowers grown in the neighborhood,
they visited several blocks which par-
ticipate in the Annual Afro Clean Block
Project—part of “Keep Maryland
Beautiful.” They were delighted with
the cooperation from residents, some
of whom invited the children back to
see plants which bloom at other times
in the year. Notes were taken on the
trip and all information was shared
with the entire group registered for the
summer program. One thing that de-
lighted them was the fact that every

house had flowers on display in the

blocks that participate in Afro Clean
Blocks.

0 A craft class for the adult blind is
one of the fifteen weekly classes con-
ducted by the Fitchburg, Massachusetts
Parks and Recreation Department. Now
in its fourth year, this class provides its
members with a means for making use-
ful, attractive articles so skillfully that

FEBRUARY 1961

 

Go where the money is! Bank windows
offer a wonderful opportunity to tell
about your program. Here is striking
display the Los Angeles Department of
Recreation and Parks set up in window
provided by the Home Savings Bank.

 

they may be sold at a Christmas sale.
Transportation and leadership diflicul-
ties were solved when the Lions Club
provided transportation and Mrs. E.
Kenneth Hough agreed to act as leader.
Last year, Mrs. Hough, who has had
many years’ experience in craft leader-
ship and work with handicapped chil-
dren, instructed the grOUp in making
napkin holders, mats, baskets, plywood
keyboards, and colorful clown dolls.

0 Jack Frost and his chilly queen, Miss
Snow Flake, will again reign over the
annual Winter Carnival in Winona,
Minnesota. The carnival, second larg-
est in the Mid-West, has developed since
1930 to a three-day spectacular with an
ice show, coronation ball, street parade,
stage show, ice-fishing contest, square-
dance festival, treasure hunt, speed skat-
ing, torchlight parade, and snow melt-
ing contest.

Iowa Workshop

A week-long recreation workshop
will be held in Iowa at Camp Wesley
Woods, Indianola, April 9-15. The
Hawkeye: Recreatory will hold classes
in creative crafts, folk and square danc-
ing, party planning, social recreation,
music, nature, and camping. Dr. E. A.
Scholer, ;assistant professor of recrea-
tion at the State University of Iowa, will
conduct a series of sessions on the phi-
los0phy of recreation. (See Dr. Scho-
ler’s article on Norway on Page 68.)

No Gnus Is Bad News

A male gnu, donated to the Griffith
Park Zoo by the Fresno Zoological So-
ciety, has arived in Los Angeles, and is
expected to finally solve a problem
which has long plagued the Fresno Zoo-
logical Society and the Los Angeles City
Recreation and Park Department. Be-
cause the Grifiith Park Zoo had several
female gnus but no male gnus and
Fresno had a male gnu but no female
gnu, Fresno offered to donate its male
to Los Angeles, provided that if healthy
offspring are born to the Criflith Park
Zoo gnus, the first and third calves will
be sent to Fresno, which will then have
no more claim on Los Angeles gnu-wise.

Thus, although for the time being,
Fresno has no gnus and Los Angeles is
gnuly rich, it is hoped that within a
reasonable span of time both cities will
have more gnus. (The word gnu is de-
rived from nqu, which is Cape Bush-
manese for an African-style antelope.)

Birds of Extinction

The expansion of civilization in the
form of drainage, flooding, cultivation,
water pollution, and insecticide spray-
ing is driving our bird population to
extinction. The National Audubon So-
ciety is launching a nationwide survey
on the bald eagle, for one, to ascertain
the causes for this proud old bird's
rapid evanescence. Loss of nesting
areas may be the reason, along with
pollution which kills off the fish that

this bird feeds on.

Winter Exchange

Ski and skate exchanges are increas-
ing in popularity in Vermont as a win-
ter recreation service. All recreation
departments sponsor such exchanges,
and in smaller communities the PTA
organizes the sale of used equipment.
most of which is simply outgrown.

In Brattleboro, the recreation depart-
ment exchanged $2,641 worth of winter
sports equipment in one week. There
were 99 pairs of skis, 132 pairs boys’
skates, 97 pairs girls’ skates, 170 pairs
of ski boots, 35 sets of ski poles, 21
pairs of rubber boots, 3 sets of bind-
ings, 29 items of ski clothing, 9 sleds.
and 3 car ski carriers. The department
was assisted at the sale by volunteers

from the Outing Club.
H

89

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

Ben Evans, who
retired after forty-
three years with the
Seattle, Washing-
ton, Park Depart-
ment, was feted at
a surprise party by
more than one hun-
dred long-time friends and associates.
Ben, was greeted by a vociferous, but
warm “For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow”
by the crowd of well-wishers. The eve-
ning’s entertainment included a “This
Is Your Life” panorama covering the
years that Ben was engaged in meeting
the recreation needs of Seattle.

     

James H. Gately ight), president of the
Chicago Park District was awarded one

of the annual Founders’ Day awards at
Loyola University for his service to the
cultural and recreation life of the city.
The awards were made by the Very

Rev. James F. Maguire, SJ (left).

#

Ralph Cornell, Los Angeles land—
scape architect, and Frank G. Mc-
Innes, director of the Detroit, Michi-
gan, Zoo, have been hired by the Los
Angeles City Recreation and Park Com-
mission to assist in the preparation of
a preliminary planning program for the
construction of the Los Angeles World
Zoo in Elysian Park. Mr. Cornell also
had a hand in preparing the master plan
for Elysian Park, as well as in the plan-
ning of Cheviot Hills and Palisades

Park in Los Angeles.

Mrs. Charlotte Butler, folksong spe-
cialist, has been added to the staff of
the Oakland, California, Recreation De-
partment. Mrs. Butler, a talented young
guitarist and singer, was the “Singing
Lady” for the Albany and Piedmont,
California, Recreation Departments
during the summer months. She will
now sing her songs of Sixpence in Oak-
land’s playgrounds and centers.

Ruth McIntire, extension. recreation-
ist at the University of Massachusetts,
has retired after being with the univer-
sity since 1934. In December, 170 rec-
reators and close friends honored Miss
McIntire with a program highlighting
the many activities she has developed.
Miss McIntire helped with the 4-H rec-

reation program, started programs in

Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, retired
Army Chief of Staff, has been named
president of the Lincoln Center for the
Performing Arts in New York City.
The new center, now under construc-
tion, will bring together the city’s major
cultural organizations, such as the New
York Philharmonic and the Metropoli-
tan Opera, in a vast redevelopment
project on the city’s west side.

Ephraim R. Gomberg, who directed
the White House Conference on Chil-
dren and Youth, has been appointed
executive vice-president of the Crime
Commission of Philadelphia, Inc.

Alvin G. Kenney, director of the
Community Recreation Service of Bos-
ton since 1947 and long active in the
recreation field, retired from his posi-
tion in December. Lois Eddy, his as-
sistant, will succeed him. Mr. Kenney
will continue as secretary-treasurer of
the Massachusetts Recreation Associa-
tion.

Ruth M c] ntie
90

from the principal each year will be
used to send a young person to an insti-
tute or conference on recreation train—

ing.

sociations and societies affiliated for
service with the National Recreation

Association include :

creative retirement for the aging, pub-
lic affairs, and citizenship. To date,
many people have contributed to a Ruth
McIntire Award, which, it is estimated,
will reach $1,000. Interest collected

 

     

STATE ELECTIONS

New ophcers of state recreation as-

HAWAII
Taro leaves and squid were on the

agenda and more than a hundred peo-
ple feasted happily at a luau held by the
Recreation Association of Hawaii when i
it installed new officers. Aina K. Keawe |
is the new president; Lillian Chan, vice-
president; Lillian Ito, secretary; Ed-
ward Fujita, treasurer; Hamilton Yap,
auditor; Ruth Kondo and Nancy Cor-

bett, directors.

l

 

ALABAMA

    

The city of Mont- ,
, gomery went all out i
 to welcome dele-
l gates to the Ala-
bama State Recrea- I
tion Conference in
December. A num-
ber of mayors from
all over the state at- I
tended the conference and participated
in a lively session, discussing recreation
projects in their hometowns.

Society ofEcers for 1961, elected at
the conference, are: Martha Maitre,
superintendent of recreation in Mobile,
president; Henry Andrews, assistant
recreation superintendent in Montgom-
ery, president-elect; and Lenore Strick-
ler, recreation supervisor in Mobile,
secretary-treasurer.

 
   

Martha Maitre

 

Obituaries

 

0 James S. Stevens, Sr., former super-
intendent of recreation in Greenwich,
Connecticut, died recently at the age of
sixty-five. A graduate. of Springfield
College, Massachusetts, Mr. Stevens
first served as superintendent of recre-
ation in Springfield for twelve years.
He also taught recreation at Springfield
College for a number of years on a part-
time basis. In 1933 he became super-
intendent of recreation in Greenwich.
During the time he served in Greenwich
he was known throughout New England
as an active, efiicient leader in the field.
He served on a number of the National

Continued on Page 101

RECREATION

 

IIIIIIII
III. 7 I
‘II A.

“’ All

é'u'i

A

‘EIII
qIII

    
  
 

   

  

 
      
   

RECREATION

DIGEST

 

i LEISURE in the SOVIET UNION

1 Lawrence Whetten

the state for reinvestment and the type

’ I ‘HE RUSSIAN CITIZEN’S introduction
of products these investments will pro-

mate objective the attainment of into the group commences early

COMMUNISM DEFINES AS its ulti-

a communal mentality and mor-
ality. An intermediate goal on the way
to this objective is increased indus-
trialization which, in turn, requires im-
proved “socialist discipline.” In the
Russian system economic expansion in-
volves stringent controls over all as-
pects of life, including the use of leisure
time.

In fact, leisure activities are vitally
important in a controlled society. Un-
less leisure time is carefully regulated,
the “sense of sacrifice” which the
worker is taught on the job could de-
sert him in the hours he is away from
it. Furthermore, the nature of leisure
activities will, to some extent, deter-
mine the amount of capital available to

 

Condensed and reprinted with permis-
sion from Challenge, ( a publication of
the Institute of Economic A jffairs, New
York University) April 1960. MR.
WHETTEN is a specialist in Soviet af-
fairs and was in the Soviet Union on a

graduate exchange scholarship pro-
: granL

I FEBRUARY 1961

duce. Realization of the state’s ulti-
mate goal thus depends, at least in part,
on its success in controlling leisure
time.

In the past, leisure has carried an
evil connotation of lazy, selfish indul-
gence. The Soviet citizen has been ex-
pected “to rest and gather strength for
new labors and successes.” Rest, there-
fore, became a social responsibility as
well as a constitutional right. The aim
of this approach was increased indus-
trial productivity; personal happiness
was a secondary pursuit. Illness, bore-
dom, and emotional restlessness were
registered as a failure to observe cor-
rectly prescribed rest procedures. Such
conditions were, at times, considered
offenses against the state.

In the United States the basic social
unit in leisure pursuits is still the
family. But in Russia this basic unit
is the group or collective, since the pro-
ductive energies of society can more
easily be controlled by units such as
these.

in life. State nurseries supervise com-
munal training, recreation, and dis-
cipline of children. Playing “cops and
robbers” is strictly forbidden. Instead,
the children memorize Aleksei Tolstoi’s
axiom, “There can be no happiness for
a child outside of his society, as there
can be no life for a plant that has been
uprooted and flung on the barren soil.”
As the Russian child becomes older, the
Pioneer organization plans his leisure
time. When he reaches his teens, the
Komsomol organization takes over.

Many adult workers, for financial or
other reasons, remain at home during
their annual vacations, but those able
to leave usually apply for a berth in a
rest home along the Black Sea coast.
These workers often vacation by them-
selves, since working wives have a dif-
ficult time synchronizing their holidays
with those of their husbands.

Whether the rest home is at Soeki,
Alupka, or Yalta, the prescription is the
same—enforced rest. The day consists
of nourishing diets, casual bathing, oo-

91

 

Children play in an international lan-
guage all their own, as these Russian
small fry prove. This is one ofmany pho-
tographs of everyday life in the Soviet

which appear in Young Russia by Rita
and William Vandivert (Dodd, Mead).

casional strolls in parks, lots of sun-
ning, compulsory two-hour naps in the
afternoon, and early retirement at
night. There might be an occasional
dance or cultural show. Resting is a
solemn business. Restful it is, but fun
it is not!

Again it must be noted that recently
this approach to rest has been some-
what relaxed. Today, for example,
Soviet citizens can own their own fish-
ing equipment and fish by themselves.
And it is much easier now to build a
summer dacha for weekends and sum-
mer vacations, by oneself, away from
the collective.

EVERY EFFORT is made to fill leisure
time during the working year with
as many culturally and educationally
rewarding activities as possible. Local
groups, such as hobby clubs, apartment-

A

house councils, civil-defense units, the
factory show study group, and the
Komsomol or party cell, are organized
and supported by the government. Ac-
tivities of these groups center around
150,000 local palaces of culture, which
are often the most impressive buildings
in sight. Though the individual is not
forced to join specific organizations, so-
cial pressure is strong enough to bring
nonconformists to heel.

It is hard to estimate accurately the
amount of time these activities con-
sume. The average workweek is forty-
six hours. Daily life is plagued with
time-consuming queues. Group meet-
ings are scheduled for most of the eve-
nings. All told, the average Russian has
little time for other leisure pursuits.
Even if he had the time, he would find
his choice of cultural activities very
limited. Moreover, the nature and con-
tent of those that are available are al-
ways state controlled.

There are approximately five million
participants in amateur art and music
groups, but who would dare play a Hin-
demith or Bartok number? In 1957,
twenty-two million people participated
in physical culture clubs. These pro-
grams are directed by state supervisors
and they feature a series of progressive
tests which culminate in the coveted
award, “Ready for Labor and Defense.”

Foreign travel is possible, but care-
fully controlled. Domestic travel is also
controlled and generally crowded.
Where a car is available, a family has
a much larger scope for self-reliance
and a better opportunity for a family-
centered life.

THERE ARE 130,000 public catering

houses in Russia similar in design
and service to military messhalls. HOW-
ever, in the entire city of Moscow, there
are only thirty restaurants and no

nightclubs. After 12:30 A.M. the only

 

bar or restaurant open is the Ukrania
Hotel.

As a result of all these limitations on
leisure activities, many Russians re-
main at home in the evening or stroll
in the park. The home is often a com-
munal apartment, since the living space
legally granted to each citizen is only
nine and three-tenths cubic meters, less
than the floor space of a cell in an
American penitentiary. Entertainment
at home is usually centered around
books, radio, and television in that
order.

In 1958, Russia had in use two mil-
lion television sets. There is only one
channel and that one operates only
three or four hours at night. At the
same time, eighty-five percent of Amer-
ican homes had TV sets. Americans
also have a wide choice of program list-
ings and listening hours. Two years
ago thirty-four million radio sets were
distributed in Russia. These were given
at a ratio of one for every four urban
dwellers and one for every eight rural
inhabitants. Meanwhile, there were
nearly enough radios in the United
States to allow one per person.

There has been a steady improve-
ment in the quality as well as in the
quantity of consumer goods available
in Russia, though it will be some time
before the Soviets meet Western stand-
ards. When that time arrives, one of
the most effective social controls of lei-
sure time will dissolve.

More than ever before the Soviet peo-
ple have the opportunity to be individ-
uals, to satisfy personal desires and in-
terests, to combine imagination and
leisure time for maximum private en-
joyment. True, such extravagant uses
of leisure time are still in the foetal
stage. But if the present trend contin-
ues, social controls on the national,
group, and personal level will grow,
more fragile and less adhesive. if: V

HUNDRED YEARS AGO, even fifty, perhaps even fifteen, to speak of world brother—
hood was, I suspect, to adorn with rhetoric what was at most a remote ideal.

Today, brotherhood has become an insistent, demanding reality, thrust upon us
whether we accept it or not by a science that has broken down the fences which had

before separated the peoples of the W01'ld.—ADLAI E. STEVENSON, United States
Ambassador to the United Nations.

92

RECREATION

 

 
 

B OB BOYD, recreation-leadership con-
sultant of the Southern Baptist
Convention at Nashville, Tennessee,
sends us a problem discussed a great
deal around the country:

“My question centers around the use
of gymnasium floors for skating. The
question arises directly from the fact
that a great many of our churches are
building recreation facilities and skat-
ing on the gymnasium floor. I’m sure
this question will have implication as
far as many school people are con«
cerned.

“As far as I know, there have not
been any objective researches at this
point. We have floors that have regular
gym finishes on them, with large four-
by-twelve Masonite sheets for skating,
and some of our churches are begin-
ning to experiment with asphalt and
vinyl-tile fioors in their gymnasiums.
The choice of skate wheel is also a moot
question. Most of our people are using
the Chicago Seventy-Eight P wheel.

“It is my personal opinion that roller
skating is a very widely used recreation
activity which has not been given much
study. If you, in your column, could
enlighten us some as to this flooring
question, I believe you would be doing
a great service to RECREATION readers.”

What has been your experience, good
or bad, with skating on gym floors? We
have sent Mr. Boyd the information we
have on the subject but we would like
any additional facts you may have.

I It is ice-skating time in many parts
of the country. At the twelfth Annual
New Hampshire-Vermont Recreator’s
Weekend held in Stowe, Vermont last
year, the question was asked, “How do
you keep ice skates from nicking up
hard-surfaced warming-shelter floors
and vice versa?” Two answers were
given:

_ ' Use special ribbed-plastic mat. This
comes in rolls. However, it is difficult
to clean.

' Use a ribbed-rubber door matting.
This also comes in rolls. Worn-out sec-
tions may be replaced. The cost is rea-
' sonable and it is easy to clean.

 

MR. TODD is assistant executive director
of the National Recreation Association.

FEBRUARY 1961

NCERNING  E P

Arthur Todd

' Recently a committee of fathers in
Darien, Connecticut, started a survey of
physical hazards in the school system
after two accidents to pupils. Their re-
port notes that only two percent of the
education outlay goes toward building
maintenance and calls this amount “in-
adequate.” Also cited is a need for
“greater alertness” on the part of school
staffs in “noticing and reporting exist-
ing hazards.” Among the hazards re-
ported are loose electric outlets, buck-
led Hoors, loose fiberboard ceilings, de-
fective steps, inadequate lighting, sharp
metal corners on equipment, and unsafe
backstops on athletic fields. One of the
examples reported was a loose play-
ground fence with projecting metal
ends. An eleven-year-old girl ran into
the fence and received a severe cut over
her left eye.

The moral is clear—don’t let main-
tenance deteriorate to the point that the
parents have to get into the act. Regu-
lar thorough inspection with follow-up
remedial action is the answer.

I Park Sanitary Facilities, an excellent
booklet prepared as a part of a Michi-
gan State University and the American
Institute of Park Executives coopera-
tive program, covers such matters as
making sanitary facilities efficient and
attractive; design; waste disposal meth-
ods; and building interiors. It contains
detailed information about a wide vari-
ety of types of sanitary facilities, com-
plete with pictures and plans; even de-
scribes a mobile comfort station. Order

for $.75 from the Bulletin Office, Mich-

igan State University, East Lansing.

l Here’s an idea that washes! Ever
mix liquid detergent and tempera paint
for a washable basketball court? The
San Angelo, Texas, Recreation Depart-
ment, when granted permission for the
use of the new San Angelo Coliseum on
the promise that permanent courts
would not be painted, did just that. Ef-
fective and washable—-—a good sugges-
tion for multi-use facilities.

It i * It

Have you discovered any good ideas
in upkeep? Send them to this column

so others may use them.

Circle #190 on coupon

You can raise $500
or more in 6 days
this easy way

 

Sell famous llfason

Candies and in 4 to 15 days
your group can {nuke

$300 to $2,500

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. If you decide to go
ahead you don’t risk a cent,—you pay notll.
ing in advance. We supply on consignment
your choice of THREE VARIETIES of famous

Mason Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a band printed
with your organization’s name and picture.
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don’t sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make
$12.00 on every 30 sales of our $1.00 box
(66%% profit to you on cost). There's no
risk! You can’t lose. Mail in coupon today
for information about MASON'S PROTECTED
FUND RAISING DRIVES.

r Ma. GEORGE M. RAUSCH, Dept. RM-ll 1

Mason, Box 549, Mineola. N. Y.
Gentlemen: Please send me, without

obligation, information on your Fund
Raising Plan.

 

Age if under 21.- A
Address __ ..
Organization.

 

 

Phone

 

|
|
|
|
|
: Name
I
|
|
|
l
l

Mason Candies, Inc., Mineola. L. 1.. N. Y.

93

 
   

'5 MARKET NEWS

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

II- -l- l- l-

o A new felt-nib marking applicator is guaranteed to be
completely free of any annoying or contaminating odor-—a
common complaint. This marking device dries instantly on
porous surfaces and is smudgeproof, waterproof, and in-
delible on any surface. It comes in eight brilliant colors and
is guaranteed for forty-nine thousand inches of writing.
The felt nib can be used for marking personal belongings,
storage identification, coloring code files, addressing mail
and parcels, sketching, making charts, graphs, and all kinds
of visual aids. For further information, circle 100.

o A contact sheeting, earth-support system for deep, tight
excavations saves labor, time, money, and material. '1 he
system works equally well with straight or misaligned sol-
dier beams. This horizontal sheeting eliminates all hand
excavation between soldier beam flanges and largely min-
imizes subsequent replacing needed with conventional sheet-

ing. For brieflet, circle 101.

0 Where analysis
of body motion is
important—for in-
structors of golf, ten-
nis, football, basket-
ball, dancing, and so
on—there is a new
movie film ready for
viewing a few min-
utes after it is shot. A new rapid-process technique has
evolved a chemically pre-saturated roll that develops and
fixes the movie film as it is exposed, producing a negative
film. For literature describing this product, circle 102.

 

0_ A free colorslide projector comes with a year’s subscrip-
tion to a new audio-visual program begun recently by a
major recording company. The subscriber receives a
monthly package that includes a set of thirty-two single-
frame 35MM colorslides, an illustrated authoritative book,
and a companion seven-inch 331/3 recording describing the
subject matter of the slides to the strains of appropriate
background music and sound effects. Three subject cate-
gories are available in this program: travel, art, nature and
sc1ence, and a special omnibus program which will draw
from all three categories on a rotating basis. Each book in
the art program will be written by the curator of a great
museum. Narrators include Charles Boyer, Vincent Price,
and Walter Cronkite, among others. Current releases in-
clude Digging for Dinosaurs, a colorslide tour of the
Louvre, and a tour of Paris and the provinces. For further
information, circle 103.

94

  

0 Vinyl latex paint is now available in fluorescent colors.
This new line was formulated specifically for use with black
light in outdoor and indoor theatrical, commercial, fine and .
amateur arts presentations. The six daylight fluorescent
colors are bright in ordinary light, intensely fluorescent in
black light. The flexible, washable, crackproof surface of
these high visibility colors provides increased permanence
and utility for banners, posters, and theatrical props. Thea-
trical costumes and background, painted with invisible
colors which blend with colors which can be seen in ordi-
nary light, can depict a different scene when illumination
is switched to black light.

The manufacturer’s other fluorescent paint lines are oil-
base bulletin, water-resoluble showcard colors, and artist
oils, in visible and invisible colors. Literature describing
uses of the new product line, with black light and free color
chip cards, available on request. Circle 104.

   
    
   
    
   
  
 

o A new Rheem Califone tape recorder with a detachable
twelve-inch speaker is capable of handling auditorium and
playing-field activities. It offers a continuous-duty syn-
chronous motor; easily operated, chrome-plated, two-speed
tape deck which cannot spill or break the tape; a sixteen-
watt, peak-to-peak, push-pull amplifier; simplified scale VU
meter; resettable digital “tape position” indicator for in-
stantly locating desired part of recording; provision for use
as a powerful public address system, outfitted with a high
impedance crystal microphone. The case may be closed
with seven-inch reels in position. For further information,

circle 105.

o Are you dis-
 tressed about bald
   spots? Seeded grass

  blankets now put
grass where it would-
n’t grow before. A-
real problem solver,
this is economical to
put down, grows
‘  rapidly and well
. .. .  , .  . . with only average
care. The fiber blanket contains not only grass seed, but
fertilizer, moisture retainers, and other nutrients. No spe-
cial equipment necessary, no ground preparation needed,
either. For information, circle 106. R
0' Do your bulletin boards really get your messages across?\l(£
You can focus attention on an important notice by cement- 1
ing a red-painted picture frame onto a pegboard sheet. The
frame is large enough to enclose a letter-size bulletin which
simply is inserted into the clip-like fixtures that fit into the
perforations. A hand-lettered sign, “This Week’s Notice,”
further accentuates the section. For further information
and direction, circle 107. X

RECREATION

Q

,- 1' MWIWWWIWIHHWMWW

DEX 0F ADVERTISERS

@

TRADE MART®

 

s erican locker 

w erican Playground Device 

I icago Roller Skating .................... W... 60
ssified Advertising  102
IBlE  98
me-Time ......  ...... -- Inside Front Cover
I Id Medal Products _. .........  _____________ __... 53
& R Manufacturing ........................ __n 55
titutional Cinema  55
' E. Burke.. _____________________________________ _-_. 59
l mes Spencer .......  ................... -_....... 59
C. larson ..................................... -- 97
tro ........................................... -- 100
i cGregor ........................................ -.._ 53
son Candies  93
nice Company __..... ....................... _._ 55
tional Sports  55
erior Products ................................. -- 58
I F. Twardzik  99
i 'eI Peterson 1...- ............................. _- 100
nger Music .................................. __.. 98
I
I

:---»' - - IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEIIIIIIIIIIIIIiillllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIiilillIIIltIIIlIIiIIiIllilltI

 
     
 

Change of Address

If you are planning to move, notify us
at least thirty days before the date of
the issue with which it is to take eHect,
I. if possible, in order to receive your
' magazines without interruption. Send

 
   
   

   
    
    

both your old and new address by let- -
Lter, card or post office form 228 to:
!Subscription Department RECREATION

Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street, New

-" York 11, N. Y.
s.-

i

.SBRUARY 1961

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
: 168
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

“3; FREE AIDS

The following Free Aids briefly describe resources—catalogs,

99 brochures, hlms, booklets, services available, samples, and so on—to

help the recreation leaders. Circle the key number corresponding to
the number above an ad or beneath any keyed item about which you
want more Information. Cut out the coupon, insert in envelope, and

mail to us.

ARTS AND CRAFTS

LIQUID TEMPERA COLORS in hreakproof plastic
containers should be cut down drastically on
the mess that children’s craft projects can
create. These temperas will not harden, sepa-
rate, or settle; no bleeding or chipping. They
come in thirty colors, including five fluores-
cents. For catalog, circle #120.

FLOWERS AND CORSACES from old nylon hose.
Booklet explains how to shape them and dye
them. For c0py, circle #121.

STAINED GLASS you can do yourself. Rich, col-
orful, leaded glass projects can be used as
wall panels, room dividers, mobiles. No spe-
cial tools, equipment, or skills needed. Twelve
contemporary designs, created by well-known
artists, are available in kits which includc all
necessary stains, lead, brushes, instructions,
and special textured glass. Finished panel

measures 8"-by-16". For information, circle
#122.

INDIAN CRAFT PROJECTS to make children
whoop for joy. Among those listed are head-
bands, armbands, moccasins, breech cloths,

and suggestions for other projects. All in new
free catalog. Circle #123.

CREATIVE CERAMICS. Booklet contains many
suggestions for potters and craftsmen, is filled
with photographs and sketches. Circle #124.

EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE

BRIGHT COLOR SURFACINC for asphalt pave-
ment. Does not darken with age, is resistant

Clip and mail today. to

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R261. 8 W. 8th St.. New York 11

This coupon expires March 15. 1961
Please send me more information on circled products.

to weather and wear, color pigments are high-
ly sunfast. Available in grass green, concrete
gray, brick red, matte black, glossy white. For
attractive color brochure, circle #125.

NEW RAKE SWEEPS CLEAN—levels, grades,
rakes stones, spreads t0psoil, clears debris
from unpaved areas. Has forty-eight teeth of
heavy duty steel alloy, with one-inch spacing.

Comes with warranty. For details, circle
#126.

CIRCULAR SPRINKLER SINK savcs space, water,
and maintenance costs. Takes the place of
eight ordinary sinks, is extremely attractive,
available in sand, black, and sage-green Stone
and marble aggregate mixtures, varicolored
marble and colored stones. Standard and jun-
ior height. Company also 011ch other func-
tional products. Circle #127.

NEW BMM MOVIE CAMERA has electric eye
which keeps lens opening set correctly, ad-
justs even for a subject passing from bright
sunlight into deep shade. Film speeds from
ASA 5 to 40 can be chosen. Haze filter screens
out ultra-violet rays which cause loss of con-
trast and image sharpness. Circle #128.

PLASTIC-COATED DUCK GYM MATS available with
all pOpular tillers, from hair, felt, and foam to
Ensolite. Safety wall mats, as well as other
accessories, visual aids, and baseball bases.
For catalogue, circle #129.

PROGRAM AIDS

FOR CHURCH RECREATION LEADERS! Teacher-
leader books for sectarian groups, religious

 

100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107
117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124
134 135 136 137 138 139 140 141
151 152 153 154 155 156 157 158

169 170 171 172 173 174 175
185 186 187 188 189 190 191 192

108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 116
125 126 127 128 129 130 131 132 133
142 143 144 145 146 147 148 149 150
159 160 161 162 163 164 165 166 167
176 177 178 179 180 181 182 183 184
193 194 195 196 197 198 199 200

__————_-—_—-_n——u—u—I_————m-—b

Title

Name
WM

Organization
Wm

Zone State

City

R261

95

awards, handcraft projects, and other aids for
church groups. For catalogue, circle #131.

STORY OF THE KIWI—the curiOus bird that is
eight million years old. Booklet gives low-
down on the kiwi, from its thick hairlike
feathers, no tail, beak one third as long as its
body, to nostrils at the tip of its beak and
nonflying wings. For c0py, circle #132.

CLUB BULLETIN put out by national women’s
service organization describes party-time ideas,
homemaking, travel, grooming projects, and
available materials and kits. Circle #133.

IN A FOG ABOUT CLOUDS? Film shows how they
affect our lives. Shows work of M. Dessens,
director of the Observatory of the Puy de
Dome. Circle #134.

PARTIES THAT SPARKLE. Decorations, menus,
invitations, and etiquette included in booklet
that details how to make your festivities a
dazzling success. Especially useful for youth
clubs and canteens but also good for parties
in general. For cOpy, circle #151.

NO WALLFLOWERS HERE. If your dance pro-
grams need a pick-me-up you should learn
about services of a nonprofit organization that
offers tax-deductible membership entitling
you to projection service, photographers for
making 16MM motion pictures, still photo-
graphs, slides and filmstrips, and services of
a lecture bureau. For free catalog of 1651M
dance films and membership information cir-

cle #152.

RECORDINGS

AN INTERNATIONAL POTPOURRI of folk songs-—
Icelandic, Portugese, Chilean, and many na-

tionalities. For booklet describing many types
available, circle #135.

C

SQUARE DANCING is for everyone——urban rubes
and country slickers. West Coast company of-
fers square and round dances galore, hoe-
downs and instrumentals with calls. For in-
formation, do-si-do and circle #136.

TALKING BOOKS can bring a new dimension to
rehabilitation centers, the homebound, senior-

citizen centers, the playground (when you lack
a storyteller), and work with the visually
handicapped. Pamphlet describes recordings,
which range from The Great Gatsby, Grimm’s
Fairy Tales, and Black Beauty to Ellery Queen
thrillers. Circle #137.

SPORTS

Two SPORTS EQUIPMENT CATALOGS are neces-
sary to cover all the equipment offered by
leading manufacturer. Spring-summer catalog
describes golf, baseball, softball, track, tennis
equipment. Fall-winter catalog covers equip-
ment for basketball, football, boxing, volley-
ball, etcetera. Both are profusely illustrated,

fully indexed, easy to read. For your copies,
circle #138.

BICYCLE MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY. Booklet
gives rules of the road, lists accessories for
safe cycling. For your copy, circle #139.

BOWLING FILM entitled Splits, Spares and
Strikes shows women bowlers in action. Be-
sides instruction sequences, also shows slap-
stick bowling, a Spare bowling demonstration,

trick shots. Twelve minutes with sound,
16MM. Circle #140.

DON’T PLAY IN TIIE DARK. Light up your
miniature golf course. One-page bulletin pro-
vides simple diagrams and lighting specifica-
tions for four sizes of miniature courses. In-
cludes examples of how to calculate lighting
levels required, with placement and quantity
of floodlights needed. Tables give connected
load ratings, mounting heights, and footcan-
dle levels for specific equipment recommend~

ed. Circle #147.

KNOW THE RULES. Official lawn tennis rules in
handy pamphlet. For copy, circle #148.

NIELSEN METHOD of artificial respiration is
explained clearly in booklet offered by insur-

ance company. Photographs add to its value.
For COpy, circle #149.

FISHING HOLIDAY—-free film, in full color,
shows how to get the big ones—tarpon and
snook fishing in Florida waters. The 16mm,
sound film runs twenty minutes. Circle #150.

djniandin. 942251.?

Do you have a friend in need of AGBOR?
(A Guide to Books On Recreation, of course)

AGBOR is the “must” reference and ordering catalogue Of books

and pamphlets on all phases of recreation. Everyone interested in
recreation needs and uses AGBOR.

For the leader, counselor, parent, teacher, director, specialist—ate
help them select the best recreation publications.

Just circle #160 for your FREE copy. Another NRA service to you.

96

LOW-008T AIDS

These excellent resources and referenc
must be ordered directly from the sou
given (enclose remittance). t

l

How To JUMP FOR JOY in proper fashion

shown in a trampoline manual which descri - (
stunts and details achievement tests. It a (
contains suggestions for awards. Availab 

for 3.50 from Trampoline Inc., 1525 W. M
nolia Boulevard, Burbank, California. I

o 1
YOUR SENIOR-CITIZEN GROUPS will find D .
After Tomorrow a “lifesaver.” This heal
counseling booklet discusses such subjects
good health habits, overeating and obesi
mental health, and disease common to 01
people. Single cOpies are $.35 (discounts .

quantity orders) from the Health Educat'
Service, P.O. Box 7283, Albany, New York.

HOW DOES YOUR GARDEN GROW? The Juni
Garden Workshop of Indiana University off.
an attractive booklet, Gardening with You
giving pointers on garden groups for you

sters, including plant care, merit awards i
good gardening, and proper care of too
Available for $.50 from Dr. Barbara Shaluc

Department of' Botany, Indiana Universi
Bloomington, Indiana. }

CAMPS FOR YOUNG MALE OFFENDERS are c "
ered in a guide, Camps for Delinquent B
issued by the Children’s Bureau of the I I
partment of Health, Education and Welf ‘
and written by George H. Weber, Childre
Bureau institutional consultant. It stres
the importance of helping boys prepare ‘
work outside of camp, of helping them u
velop constructive work attitudes, of involv'
them in constructive experiences. Availa
for $.25 from the Superintendent of Do

ments, U.S. Government Printing th
Washington 25, D.C.

A PHYSICAL FITNESS REPORT, complete w'
descriptive graphs, outlines trends in fitn
Authors of Implications of Longitudinal ’
search in Fitness Programs are Robert

McCammon, MD. and Alan W. Sexton, Ph
It can be obtained from the Child Resear

Council, University of Colorado School
Medicine, Boulder, Colorado, for 8.15. .

AN OCCUPATIONAL RRIEPLET on recreati
workers is one of a series put out by Scie
Research Associates. Information comes fr
original research,‘government sources, p l
fessional societies, trade associations,
labor unions. W. C. Sutherland of the
tional Recreation Association Recreat'
Personnel Service checked the material
this brief which is #78 in the series. Sin
COpies are $.45 from Science Research
sociates, 259 East Erie Street, Chicago 11.\

' :~
BUYERS 0F ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT will
many helpful tips in How to Budget, Sela
and Order Athletic Equipment, a new bo
let prepared by the Athletic Goods Ma
facturers Association. Single copies $.25 (
for $.10 each) from Athletic Goods M
facturers Association, 209 South State Str

n.

Chicago 4. . ‘-

RECREAT

 

PROMISE FOR THE FUTURE

Dear Mr. Recreation:

There comes a time in everyone’s life
when he stops and takes account of
things that concern the past, the pres-
ent, and the future. Now that my under-
graduate days in the recreation curricu-
lum are slipping behind me and I see
my new career before me, I feel that this
is an appropriate time to take stock of
myself and to express the thoughts that
are within me. I feel that I speak not
just for myself but for all students in
. the field of recreation, whether they at-
} tend the large state university campuses
or the smaller private colleges.

Let us start in the past. How many
of us remember the day we first set foot

 

on the grounds of the institutions of
l learning? For many of us, this was the
‘ first break from home; to others, our
first act as a new civilian fresh from
Uncle Sam’s forces. Some were tall;
others, short; different names and dif-
ferent backgrounds were to be seen, yet
all had one thing in common.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 

As students, green as we may have
been, we were already starting to be-
come members of the big family which
one finds among recreation students.
We poured out our hearts in classes and
cheered the alma mater on the playing
fields. We had our good times in cam-
pus life and our dark moments when we
looked like the classroom idiot.

As each year went by, some of our
members left us for other interests, but
the dedicated ones stayed, and the fam-
ily spirit kept growing. We read our
books by the Meyers, Brightbills, and
Butlers, and as each page was turned,

we grew another inch in professional
tature.

In the fall, the’National Recreation

 

“IR. BUCKLEY is currently a recreation
' em with the Milwaukee Recreation
epartment.

EBRUARY 1961

Daniel J. Buckley

Association Congress always opened its
arms to the students and our friend,
W. C. Sutherland of the NRA Recrea-
tion Personnel Service, arrived on cam-
pus to interview the latest group ready.

We may pat each other on the back
for our efforts, but the unsung heroes
were our teachers. These wonderful,
dedicated people were not only our in-
structors, but our guiding light and our
friends. It was they who planted in us
the seed of professional spirit and then
helped it to bloom into the recreation
person. Without them we strongly feel
that there would be no profession. May
we someday give a similar helping hand
to our new people starting out.

THIS BRINGS us to the present, Mr.

Recreation! Here we stand with a
diploma in our hand and four years of
professional preparation behind us. We
are well aware of the fact that we are
just starting to learn. We know that
our intellectual appetites have just been
whetted, and if we are to grow with our
work we must never lose the habit of
study. We are in a discipline that is
growing so fast that if we were to fall
behind it would not only be a disaster
for us, but also to the people who
worked so hard to give birth to the
field.

As for the future, Mr. Recreation, we
have our hopes and dreams. Some of
us will become the executives and others
the leaders in leisure-time activities.
Some will take up the roles of scholars
and teachers of the new disciples. What-
ever our destiny, we wish to assure you
we will not let you down.

We can look at the field of recreation
in the United States as a military man-
euver. The first part of the maneuever
is the attack, the second is the holding
of the position with the reserve force.
Mr. Recreation, the attack has been
made and the objective won. It is up

PERSONNEL

 

to us, the reserve forces, to hold the ob-
jective, which you so dearly won, and
to strengthen it. We must then prepare
ourselves for the assault upon the new

grounds of the problems of expanded
leisure.

WE REALIZE that one of our big jobs
is to interpret the field. Our am-

munition is spirit, preparation, and a
firm belief in what we are doing. We
must use the knowledge we learned in
our “basic training” of college and be
forever proud of membership in the
crusade of the profession.

Mr. Recreation, we know we do not
have an easy ob before us. There will
be times when we will be hit hard and
a feeling of “what’s the use?” will find
its way into our thoughts. All of us are
aware that there will be heartaches and
disappointments, but people who be-
lieve in something as strongly as we do
have a tendency to spring back with
more determniation than before. We
will have our good moments, be it pub-
lic recognition for a job well done or a
child’s saying “thank you” for a few
hours of fun you gave him.

We do not promise miracles, Mr.
Recreation, but we do pledge our effort
not only to you but also to those to
whom in the twilight years of our ca-
reer, we will turn and say “It is now up

toyou....” #-

 

Circle #l95 on coupon

   

0 Latest Project Ideas
0 Complete Supplies, Kits

' Beginners or Advanced
Top Quality and Value:

LARSON’s, serving schools and institutions
by mail for 25 years. is your headquarters for
all popular handcrafts. LEATHER. METAL,
MOSAICS. WOOD. CERAMICS, PLASTER
MOLDS. BASKET WEAVING. ETC. Also
Dennison paper, clays, paints. etc. You will
want these valuable illustrated catalogs on
hand. Contain latest low price lists and at-
tractive quantity discounts. Top quality
guaranteed. Value priced. Many inexpensive
projects without tools. Complete stocks to till
any size order. Same-day shipment. Write
today for FREE reference catalogs.

J. C. lARSON CO., INC.
Dept. 1005 no 5. Tripp Chicago 24, m.

 

97

Parties
Continued from Page 86

 

group, in place, joins in the dance. Re-
maining in circle formation, groups en-
gage in a balloon-passing contest. On
signal, the balloon is passed around the
circle from one player to the next until
it reaches the captain. Then the entire
teams calls out to signify the
balloon has passed once around the cir-
cle. They continue to keep score in this
fashion until one team successfully an-

€601,169?

nounces ten times or whatever number
has been previously agreed upon. The
winner is awarded twenty points.

The next event can be an adaptation
of “Statues.”
ment each captain leads his group ser-
pentine fashion until all participants
are joined in one large circle. The par-

To musical accompani-

ticipants strut, walk, or dance, moving
When
the music stops, all freeze or pose. Any-
one moving after the music stops or be-
fore it begins again is eliminated. A
time limit for the game is announced
beforehand. When this time is reached
the group having the greatest number
of participants left in the circle scores

counter-clockwise in the circle.

twenty points.

From the circle each captain leads
his team into line formation. They are
then ready for a relay, “Building a
Pyramid.” The captain stands at the
head of his line. For building the pyra-
mid, blocks of wood painted red and
white may be used. If not available,
empty milk cartons may be substituted.
At the signal, each captain picks up a
Carton, runs to the goal line about
twenty feet away, and places the carton
to help his group build the highest pyra-
mid, runs back, touches the next mem-
ber of the team, and so on. In placing
his block the player cannot touch blocks
already stacked. If the stack gets high
and topples, this adds to the excitement,
and the group has to start building all
over again. After the game is played
for a designated time, the stacks are
measured for height. Twenty points are
awarded for the highest, ten points for.
the next highest, and five points for the
third highest.

After this, a quieter game should be
introduced. For “Valentines Out,” all
groups form one large circle and sit on
the floor. A valentine is given to each

98

captain and, when the music begins, the
valentines are passed clockwise around
the circle. When it stops, those holding
valentines are out. This continues for
a designated time. The group having
the greatest nUmber of participants re-
maining in the circle when time is up
scores another tWenty points.

All groups then assemble to watch a
play or program prepared by the drama
group. Afterwards the winning group
is announced and given a special treat.
Guests then move on to the decorated
table from which they receive packaged
refreshments. As they leave, members
of the hospitality committee bid them
good-by and remind them of future rec-
reation center activities. #-

Golden Year
Continued from Page 73

 

trophy winner, twice All-American and
outstanding pro football player; Eu-
gene Riccardi, district amateur golf
Bill Willis, former All-
American and noted professional foot-
ball player; Hank Gowdy, one of base-
ball’s all-time greats; Bobby Walston,
all-pro end; Jack Keller, participant in
the 1932 Olympic games; Jimmy Hull,
Ohio State University’s first All-Ameri-
can basketball player; Dick Furry and
Joe Roberts, co-captains of the Ohio
State University NCAA championship
basketball team; Opal Moler, outstand-
ing softball player; Lee Snoots, captain
of 1911 champion basketball team;
Carl Smith, member of 1912 champion-
ship basketball team; Lou Hinchman, a
three-letter man in the early thirties at
Ohio State; and Harold Cooper, gen-
eral manager of the Columbus Jets pro-

champion;

fessional baseball team.

The great track star, Jesse Owens,
now a member of the Illinois Youth
Commission, set the spirit of the eve—
ning, when he sweepingly gestured to-
ward the seats occupied by his fellow
sports stars and declared, “Without the
community centers, you would not have
these men before you tonight.” Each of
the others, in turn, commented on the
importance of organized recreation.
Many of them cited the single act, the
single program, or the individual who
had set their feet on the path of cham-
pionship.

Hop Cassady, for instance, said,

 

  
   
    
 
 
    
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  

“The recreation department owes me
nothing, but I am indebted for life to
the department and its interest in the
welfare of all youngsters.” He paid
special tribute to a former supervisor at
one of the larger recreation centers as
“the man who inspired me to get out
and work for my laurels.”

The “Golden Year” far exceeded

fondest expectations in terms of a full
scrapbook. Best of all, with the passage
of the bond issue, it has given both the
general public and everyone connected
with recreation in Columbus a new in-
sight into the responsibility and chal-
lenge of city recreation for today and
tomorrowm—and that is how you total

t!

the score when it’s all over. :g:

Circle #192 on coupon

ifyou

want to
provide
patrons

with the
most modern
and
convenient
checking
service . ..
and at the
same time
eliminate
checking
costs. .write
orphone

H
E
Lu
|-..
v.
>—
v;
Q
2
a
x
U
In
I
U
G
u...
|-..
<
m
l-u
CL
0
>-
u...
M
Q
2
q
2
E
o .
U

 

THE FLXIBLE COMPANY
LOUDONVILLE 1, OHIO

FMWMHowdeobMow

L
Circle #I9I on coupof’;
- with the portable '

_. SHOW WAGO

you can GO where
the events take plea

...and be heard

MUSIC
EQUIPME

CO.
watonna, Min

RECREATIO;

 

LIGHTS, CAMERA, ACTION I

HEN A RECREATION department
wants to publicize its program it
an use media such as radio, television,
>r personal talks to parent-teacher asso-
iations and service clubs. In Illinois.
he staff of the Rockford Park District
lecreation Department received an av-
rage of two to three requests each week
or talks about its recreation program.
The talks presented were a half an hour
n length, consisted of a ten-minute in-
roduction, fifteen minutes of color
lides, and ten minutes of questions and
mswers. The color slides were good vis-
Ial aids, but we felt they lacked the ac-
ion needed to tell the recreation story.
fherefore, we turned our thoughts
‘ om still to motion pictures.
We investigated the possibility of
aving a commercial film company
ake a twenty to twenty-five minute
olor sound film of our department’s
ctivities, and found that a commer-
ially produced film would cost approx-
ately $1,000 per minute or about
20,000 for the type film we wanted.
ikenmost other recreation departments
ur budget would not permit such an
penditure. Our only other alternative
as to try to produce our own film.
Shopping around at local photogra-
dealers, we found we could either
nt or purchase a 16MM camera. We
ose to buy a camera because we were
rtain that we would want to make
)me training films in the future. We
rchased a used 16MM Victor camera
ith a 25MM and 75MM lens for $135.
fter further investigation we found
at voice and sound effects could be
t on the film by using a magnetic
und projector which could be rented.
his magnetic sound film could then be
nverted to optical sound for use on

ndard 16MM optical sound projec-
rs.

 
 
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
    
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
 
 

l3"
'~<

DETAILED SCRIPT, outlining all film
sequences and narrations, was
itten and served as a complete guide
r all filming. The script included a
053 section of recreation activities
ered by our department, including
grounds, camps, and community

BRUARY 1961

centers. All scenes were shot in accord-
ance with the prearranged script, so
that the cost of film and final editing
would be kept to a minimum. As an
area supervisor for the recreation de-
partment, I was able to shoot most of
the scenes while performing my routine
supervisory duties. Because the film
was to have a sound track, it was nec-
essary that all film footage be taken at
twenty-four frames per second.

It took approximately one year to
film the department’s activities in order
to include activities in all seasons. A
total of seven hundred feet of color film
was used at a cost of $85 for film and
processing. The film was edited and
spliced together when shooting was fin-
ished and was then sent to a commercial
company for the magnetic sound strip-
ping which was put on at a cost of
$14.54. We then “dubbed on” the mag-
netic sound strip, using a rental projec-
tor in much the same way that you
would use a tape recorder. The narra-
tion and music were furnished by a
local radio station which offered its
recording studios, records, and sound
effects, free of charge. The film was
again returned to a commercial com-
pany which converted the magnetic
sound to optical sound at a cost of $195
for conversion and one 16MM optical
sound color print. The total cost of pro-

ducing the film was $295.54.
The film, Public Recreation, Rock-

ford, Illinois, has been shown to ap-
proximately five thousand people since
its completion. At all showings it has
been warmly received. We feel that the
work in producing the film, and the

original cost, has been well worth the
effort. With this film we have been able
to show the taxpayers of the Rockford
Park District, in a meaningful way.
how their recreation tax dollar is spent.
A copy of this film may be obtained by
writing to D. James Brademas, Super-
intendent of Recreation, Rockford Park
District, 813 North Main Street, Rock-
ford, IllinOiS.-—-CHARLES R. FIDUccn,
area supervisor, special events, Roe/c-
ford, Illinois, Recreation Department.

Circle #l88 on coupon

NE‘V ALL-A311}: IIICAN

PICNIC GRILL

It’s tops in grills! Positive six-way draft
control provides faster, easier lire kin-
dling, saves fuel, guarantees tenderer,
juicier charcoaled steaks, chops and bar-
becues. American’s many plus-features
assure perfect lifetime performance.

Shipped fully assembled.

 

        

STATIONARY I’ O R 'I‘A B L E

Weight 180 lbs. Weight 205 lbs.
C01“ I'LETE COM PLE'I‘ E
$4370 $4985

PATENTS PENDING

v

Order Your All-American Grill TODAY!

ADIERICAN

PLAYGINDI'ND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA

 

Circle #l89 on coupon

Leased FREE!

StOp wasting time recording inventory costs,
handing out bolls ond poying top prices for low
quality bolls. lnstoll this ottractive, cost-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

 

Leosed FREE to responsible agencies on $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attroc-
tive hord wood and metal cabinet-7V2 x 8']: it IS
inches high. Easy to instoll. Holds 120 bolls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of

tap quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send

for free folder: "StOp Wasting Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK 8 (0.,

tNCOlPORAIID

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

 

"Stationary" rocks I
in single or double
foce units snop-lock
rigidly together to fit
ony space or provide
capacity required.

 

COAT and HAT RACKS; I

Style D.F. 550. Portable Checker Rack (illustrated)
is 4 ft. 2 in. long: holds 40 coats and hats: goes
wherever needed on large. ball-bearing-swivel
'casters. Comes with or without checks and snap-on
numbers. Strongly welded of square tubular. heavy
gauge and highly embossed furniture steel Smart
in modern baked finishes. Give lifetime service -
never sag. creak or sway. 3 ft.. 4 8.: 5 ft. units avail-
able. as well as other efficient space saving equip-
ment for every church. school. commercial.
industrial and institutional need.

.Write for Bulletin: CK-5 T 5

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.

Rt. 83 and Madison St., Elmhurst, III.

 

    
  
 

Circle #l97 on coupon
jg fa Nationally identified
1 with the ability to
create, originate and custom design
the finest equipment tailored for
your needs.

FIRST IN THE USA. TO INTRODUCE
in19SO—STEEL CHAIN BASKETBALL NETS

guaranteed 3 years indoors 8: out
I955—ALUMINUM MULTI-PURPOSE
STANDARDS

used 12 ways indoors and out

HST—NYLON BALL CARRIERS

different sizes to suit your needs

l959—ALUMINUM WATER BASKETBALL
STANDARDS

portable for indoor 8. outdoor
pools

1960—ALUMINUM LOW PARALLEL BARS

featuring adjustable widths

1960—PORTABLE BASKETBALL
STANDARDS

official size 8. height or adjustable

 NOWIan entirely new and functional
NYLON GOLF PRACTICE CAGE

4 different portable models

  
 
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

Send for your FREE copy of our complete
CATALOG describing many other top quality
playground, gymnasium 8. recreation items
manufactured and distributed by—

d ['0
ATH my SUPPLY CO.

85 UNION ST. ° NEW LONDON. CONN.

 
   
      

     

100

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPEU

 

HIS YEAR we will see the realization
of some fond hopes in recreation
for the ill and handicapped. In 1952,
one could dream, but dared not hope,
that recreation could be brought not
only to the millions of patients in hos-
pitals and nursing homes, but also to
the country’s countless hidden home-
bound. By 1960, thousands of hospi-
tals and hundreds of nursing homes
had asked the National Recreation As-
sociation Consulting Service on the Ill
and Handicapped to set up recreation
programs. But the plight of the home-
bound was still with us.

Therefore, as director of the Con-
sulting Service, I asked the Office of
Vocational Rehabilitation of the US.
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare to finance a demonstration and
study program for a group of home-
bound persons. On July 1, 1960 a two-
year project, “Meeting Some Social-
Psychological Needs of Homebound
Persons through Recreational Experi-
ence,” was initiated.

Five members of the Consulting
Service made up the project team:
Morton Thompson, Ed. D., director;
Sheldon I. Reid and Marilyn Heischo-
ber, recreation specialists; Dorothy De-
Lisser, executive secretary; and Mary
MacRostie, case-study editor. Patients
for the study project were selected from
two New York City agencies: the Visit-
ing Nurse Service of New York, a non-
profit voluntary organization, and the
Bellevue Hospital Home Care Program,
a tax-supported city agency. Now, six
months after the program’s inception,
the project team has found out some
interesting facts about homebound pa-
tients. Following are some of the ques-
tions frequently asked about the proj-
ect’s setup and procedures.

Q: Why is the homebound project a
day-time program?

A : The loneliest hours in the life of the
homebound are between 11 AM and 4
PM. In the earliest morning hours these
people are usually busy with self-care
and visits from doctors, nurses, and
agency representatives. The evenings
also have various diversions.

Q: Has the project team been able to
recruit a suyicient number of volun-
teers for day-time visiting?

A: The homebound project has been

MRS. HILL is executive director of
Comeback, Inc.

Beatrice H. Hill

successful in recruiting numerous voll
unteers through the following method

(1) appealing to department store erj
ployees. Most are free one day duringt
the Week because they work on Satu1l
days. (2) The team speaks to numen
ous college groups. Students have fr
hours in the middle of the day. (3
Project team members personally co

tact potential volunteers by telepho
and mail. (4) The team sponsors sm ‘
social events, which give the worke
an opportunity to meet personally wi .
potential volunteers and explain t

pro ect.

Q: Why are the participants hom
bound? Is it because of their 0
self-consciousness or are they tru
disabled to the point where outsi
activities are physically impossible

A: Twenty-one of the first group c

thirty patients are now engaged '

group activities outside their home

Prior to the homebound project, the

participants had not been out of the

apartments from one to twenty yea
Some reasons Why patients are hom
bound are: (1) lack of funds—*the

need money for taxis and admission t

movies, theaters, and sport events. Mo

of the participants are on welfare st
pends or small pensions. (2) Po "

housing conditions—many live in t

slum areas of the city. It is not llIlCM

mon to find a paraplegic or arthritic p

tient living on the top floor of a bui -.

ing with no elevator and six doub

flights of stairs-between him and t

street. (3) Lack of perspective—p

tients do not hesitate to ask a friend i

neighbor to take them to a doctor’s n

fice or a clinic. However, most consid

it an imposition to request help in g

ting to a social event.

Q: Is the goal of the homebound pro
ect accomplished now that patien
are leaving their environments an
taking a part in project-sponsore
activities?

A : N o .’ The first phase of the progra

involves the worker and the voluntc’

teaching the patient recreation in h

home. The second phase, group recr

tion in an activity center, is sugges

to patients when they show a readin .

or curiosity about outside activiti,

The third phase is community partic

pation—movies, sport events, visits I

museums, and so on. These three stag

are preparation for the fourth phas
referral of the patient to existing co
munity facilities. #

RECREATI u

  
  
 
 
   
  
    
    
 
 

n and Strength

Continued from Page 71

_ ung men and women physically fit and alert, not only as
ldiers but as businessmen, governors, presidents, and citi-
ns in all walks of life. Men and women, even those with
ysical defects, can find sports enjoyable and profitable
r keeping in shape and alert on their jobs. We are en-
ged in an ideological war, a war for men’s and women’s
inds; we must find ways of educating our youth in the
lue of our ideology and its meaning to them. We must
ach them to reason, to be good leaders, and to be good
llowers. Recreation presents us a method of teaching
ese things in a relaxed play atmosphere which makes such
arning appealing to our young people. Young people like
have fun, but they also want to know what makes the
rld tick. You can lead them, but you cannot drive them.
ey willingly give something in return for value received.
ris in this atmosphere that education can be enhanced and
oadened without taxing the educator beyond his endur-
ce. It will take imaginative, persevering, trained people
(I volunteers to plan and remain with such a program.
Specialization has perhaps been overemphasized in mod-
n society. We should attempt to develop people who are
ept in more than one field, people with primary, second-
ry, and tertiary interests. There is no reason why a chem-
Ial engineer cannot be interested in Beethoven or why a
hysicist cannot have an interest in Van Gogh. We must
velop people of multi-interests and multi-skills. Here
creation can play a vital part.

* *- * *-

Dr. Frederick M. Chapman also has ideas on how recrea-
n can help build a strong America. Dr. Chapman, asso-
ate professor of recreation at the University of Minnesota,
lent May through September 1960 in Singapore, Sarawak,
runei, North Borneo, and the Philippines as an American
creation specialist, under auspices of the U .S. Department
'State. His duties included lectures and consultation in
e field of recreation for the pe0ple of southeast Asia. He
Hints out that the informal educational atmosphere of the
' b, youth center, or playground in the United States could

be a starting point for realization of the following goals
through planned recreation programs:

0 Strengthen democratic processes as well as learn about
other governing methods. Use democracy in the club and
team activity, so that all participants know the steps in par-
liamentary procedure, self-government, and group sharing.
Teach a concept of democracy so that every boy and girl
can defend it as a practical system of government. Learn
about the problems of communism and other governing
methods.

0 Strengthen desirable features of the American culture.
Seek ways to show children basic values inherent in what
the United States of America stands for in its history and
tradition. Show an appreciation of the nation. flag, and
national anthem in group activities. Aid in building a na-
tional spirit and unity that will help people feel a sense of
patriotism.

0 Lead activities that aid in physical fitness and survival
techniques. Remember that survival of the fittest requires
people who are mentally alert and physically strong. Direct
more emphasis to games and physical outlets which encour-
age healthy bodies. Do not seek clubs of musclemen but
include physically exerting skills in youthful activities. Pro-
vide challenging activities that take children and youth away
from “televisionitis.”

0 Reach as many people as possible in recreation and group
activities. Include larger numbers of participants in clubs,
teams, events, and programs rather than the few chosen
skilled performers. Make the program so attractive that
more people want to participate. Include all races, religions,
and creeds in the program with equal opportunity for every-
one. Make democracy a working reality with children
through setting examples in group activities.

0 Recognize the wealth and material abundance in the
United States of America. Develop a sense of appreciation
for food, clothing, and shelter—which too many Americans
take for granted. Help children see their privileged material
status as compared with the plight of youngsters in certain
other parts of the world. Show youth how to share, use, and
conserve natural resources. Teach children how to be ap-
preciative and not spoiled. #

 

'tuaries

Continued from Page 90

 

creation Association’s national ad-
ory committees and was also active
various official capacities in the
erican Recreation Society. He was
a member of the Federal Security
ncy during the Depression. Upon
retirement last year he became a
tildent of Raleigh, North Carolina,
ich is the home of his son, James S.
vens, Jr., associate director of the

th Carolina Recreation Commis-
n.

Jacob Joshua Levison, landscape
itect and former chief forester for

city of New York, died in January
he age of seventy-eight. Mr. Levison

.S‘RUARY 1961

was one of the small group of crusading
forest conservationists who organized
the United States Forest Service under
President Theodore Roosevelt. During
his service with the city he planned and
developed many of its large parks. He
also was associated with garden proj-
ects for the city’s medieval museum, the
Cloisters, as well as gardens for the
Metropolitan Museum of Art and the
John Pierpont Morgan Library.

When Mr. Levison was honored by
the Forest Service in 1955 for his work
“which helped lay the foundations of
American forestry,” he said, “It was the
sordidness of a treeless existence that
caused me to choose forestry over other
vocations. Then, as now, the esthetic
aspects of trees appealed to me as much
as the practical ones. By nature I had

a philosophy of life that centered on a
world of forestry.”

o Willam J. Willsey, an organizer of
the Cranford, New Jersey. Recreation
Commission, died recently at the age
of eighty-three. A former health oilicer,
Mr. Willsey had been a leader in public
health in the state.

0 Maude Robinson, nationally known
teacher and writer on pottery making,
died recently at the age of eighty. For
more than twenty-five years she con-
ducted the well-known pottery school at
Greenwich House in New York City.
She also served as a pottery consultant
to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and
contributed technical articles on the
subject to the Encyclopedia Brittanica
and other publications.

101

Physical Rehabilitation

Continued from Page '74

 

lege students are also excellent volun-
teers in helping with a swim program.

The teenager and the college student
often stands for more than just a
teacher when viewed from the eyes of
the handicapped child or teenager.
Every child needs someone to look up
to, to model himself after, someone who
cares about him, who is near his own
age. Of course, adults, parents and rel-
atives, can act in this capacity, but the
relationship is one of polite respect.
When you are a handicapped young
person. you often are not able to have
close friends. Yet friends are needed to
help in the emotional maturing of each
individual. Careful supervision, train-
ing of teenagers and college students as
teachers can offer more to a program
than just a happy solution. It can offer
substance and quality.

As the children in the program grow
in size, age, and experience, allowing
them the opportunity to help others
gives each a stature that can not be du-
plicated otherwise. The basic skills for
the younger children can be taught by
the older handicapped children. They
realize the importance of learning.

To be rehabilitated each person must
recognize the need for it. Each person
wants to belong, to achieve and to mo-
tivate. This will come with a chance for
self-expression. Recreation offers con-
tinual expression and is one outlet that
everyone can enjoy.—BARBARA STER-
LING, director of program for the handi-
capped, YWCA, Spokane, Washington.

Roller Skating is Good Medicine
WHEN A registered physical thera-

pist who works with seriously
handicapped children—those who can-
not walk, those who need training in
sitting, those whose bodies are not fully
“integrated"———suggests an activity like
roller-skating it is time to pay attention.
Nancy D'Wvolf is staff physical therapist
at Meeting Street School, a children’s
rehabilitation center in Providence.
Rhode Island. Her philosophy is based
on physical therapy for the body as a
whole; so it was natural for her to ac-
cept an invitation to bring her children
to the Warren Roller Rink to learn to
skate.

102

The first session was arranged for
February 18, 1959, and mothers and
children were included. It was a huge
success; everyone had a good time. The

rink supplied shoe skates for all who
needed them, and one child who had

special shoes with braces attached had
clamp-on skates. Staff and parents all
wore shoe skates supplied by the rink.

Children who needed support in skat-
ing were given it by one or two of the
adults as required. When they had all
had several trips around the rink and
were getting tired, Raymond Schmidt,
their host, brought out some hobby-
horse-like objects which had skate
wheels instead of rockers. The children
sat on “horseback” and had rides
around the rink pushed by the adults.
The final gift of the rink at the end of
the hour was hot chocolate and cookies.

The ingredients of success of the
roller-skating plan, which continued
weekly from February to June, were
many. The first was the generosity of
the roller-rink owner, Salvatore Ro-
mano and of his professional, Ray
Schmidt, in supplying the rink, the
skates, and the refreshments. The sec-
ond was the imagination of Mr.
Schmidt and Miss D’Wolf, that the ac-
tivity could be learned by children aged
three, four, five and six and was bene-
ficial to the total integration of body
parts for children with physical impair-
ments (cerebral palsy, post polio,

speech and hearing disorders). It took

the leadership of these two to car
along the rest of the staff and the p‘
ents that this was a good idea. A thi
ingredient of success was the contin'
ance of the program weekly. Four (1 ‘
ferent family groups skated in rinks I
Saturdays or Sundays, not regular:
but enough to maintain interest and
increase skill.

The Meeting Street School, an East
Seal agency, has often led the way

developing the basic philosophy t

crippled or physically impaired ch
dren are children first; that the medic
care and therapy they need can be val
able and helpful when it is center:
around a child’s natural growth pro
esses; that having childlike natural ft
is one of the best medicines in rehabi
tation.—MARGARET LANGDQN, executi
director, Meeting Street School, Prat

dence, Rhode Island.

Don’t Overlook Bowling
THE UNITED Cerebral Palsy Assoc'

tion reports that a number of i
344 affiliates have bowling progran

These include the UCP of Western Ne
York (Buffalo), Cincinnati, Pittsburg
New York City, and Boston. Bowlir
programs are growing in populari
with these groups. In some instanc
local bowling alley owners provide u:
of their facilities without charge or

a very nominal fee. Transportation

provided by volunteers in the respecti

affiliates. #

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California tunities;

liberal employ-

college degree plus four

State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised )ield work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $436.00 per
month; promotional oppor-

ment benefits. Write State
Personnel Board, 801 Capi-
tol Avenue, Sacramento,
California.

Recreation Consultant
needed for St. Louis Coun-
ty, Missouri. New position
to develop and promote
recreation in communities
in the county. Challenging
opportunity for someone
adept at community organ-
ization work. Requires a

years of administrative
or highly responsible or-
ganizational work in recre-,_
ation or group social workh
Salary range is $6,972 tog;
$8,076, with starting salary
depending upon qualifica-
tions. Liberal auto allow-
ance. For further informa-
tion, write Earl R. Cham-
bers, Personnel Director,
County Division of Per-
sonnel, 115 North Mera-I
mac, Clayton 5, Missouri.\

W...

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

 

RECREATIO

 

How to Make Athletic Equipment,
Joel W. Carter, illustrated by Barbara

Enid Grosvenor. Ronald Press, 15 East
26th Street, New York 10. Pp. 390.
$6.95. ’

Here is much
needed help for
the harrassed rec-
reation, camp, or
athletic director la-
boring with an in-

adequate budget!
Joel W. Carter,

superintendent of
parks and recrea-
tion for General Park District of Dun-
. dee Township, Illinois, explains how to
make your own necessary program
equipment. In this book (which every
recreation director has promised him-
self to write—some day) he tells how
to make nearly four hundred pieces of
equipment, from basketball backstops
to barbells. Here is a handy manual of
do-it-yourself athletic and recreation
equipment which can be made by per-
sons of average skill and with the or-
dinary handtools usually found in any
maintenance shop.

Excellent organization makes this an
easy book with which to work. Various
pieces of equipment are grouped in ap-
propriate categories with one chapter
devoted to baseball and softball equip-
ment, another to football. yet another
to basketball, etcetera. Each chapter
contains a chart-form checklist telling
what items can be made practically and
which would be more wisely purchased.
The do-it-yourself instructions include
a careful description of the item, a list
of necessary materials and tools and a
step-by-step procedure. All of this is
further enhanced by fine illustrations
by Barbara Enid Grovesnor and a de-
tailed index.

How to Make Athletic Equipment is
a practical work that will earn its place
in every recreation or athletic library.
——ROBERT E. COOK, Superintendent of
Recreation, Belleville, New Jersey.

 

Joel Carter

Hand—Built Pottery, Josephine R.
Krum. International Textbook Com-

pany, Scranton 15, Pennsylvania. Pp.
115. $6.50.

The author has done a good job of
covering the subject and making it eas-

FEBRUARY 1961

ily understood and enticing. Her mate-
rial is simply written and can be used
in teaching adults as well as children.
The book is laid out artistically and
beautifully with a color frontispiece,
many fine black-and-white photographs,
and ink sketches by the author. It is
well written, has the endorsements of
several educators known in the creative
art field, and has a good bibliography.
It would make a fine gift for a teacher
or a leader in recreation and would
help anyone working with classes in
ceramics—M. B. Cummings, National
Recreation Association Consulting Serv-
ice on Recreation for the Ill and H andi-
capped.

How to Be a More Creative Execu-
tive, Joseph G. Mason. McGraw-Hill
Book Company, 330 West 42nd St.,
New York 36. Pp. 281 . $5.95.

Referring to a characteristic of the
present age, the president of a well-
known national advertising agency is
quoted as saying that we are in an era
of “mediocrity.” He refers to “the half-
done job,” “the goof-off,” and a “stam-
pede away from responsibility.” In a
national survey nearly half the people
interviewed agreed with him (ten per-
cent had no opinion).

If one has not read all the current
literature on “how to be a creative per-
son” (and who has?) , this book will be
both interesting and helpful. It dis-
cusses how to apply the power of crea-
tive thinking to the problems of man-
agement and gives a brief preview of
what may happen to our familiar world
in the future as the result of creative
thinking. Some of the proposed devel-
opments are fantastic and startling—-
even the law of gravity may be on the
way out.

Mr. Mason, an advertising executive
and management consultant who spe-
cializes in personnel relations, divides
the mental circle into three parts: work.
self, and others, and discusses these as
they make up the basic relationships of
living. He also gives some common
sense warning about the “mind-weak-
eners” which divert attention and roh
us of our concentration, mental energy,
and initiative. An excellent bibliogra-
phy of books, reference works, and se-
lected articles related to creative think-

ing is appended—W. C. Sutherland,
National Recreation Association Recre-
ation Personnel Service.

Handicrafts and Hobbies for Recre-
ation and Retirement. Marguerite lckis,
illustrated by Miriam F. Fabbri and Dr.
Michlos Foghtuy. Dodd, Mead and
Company, 432 Park Avenue South,
New York 16. Pp. 276. $4.00."'

Here is a very comprehensive sam-
pling of a wide variety of activities that
can be developed for the pleasure to be
derived from them, and that, at the
same time, may develop into a profit-
able hobby. These range from needle-
crafts to raising orchids; from painting
in oils to bricklaying or building a dry
stone wall; from collecting buttons to
raising earthworms. The author has in-
cluded projects in all seven basic media
H-wood, metal, leather, clay, paper, tex-
tiles, and plastic. She also shows how
skills in ancient crafts, such as tapestry
and oriental rugmaking, and in ancient
hobbies, such as gardening, collecting.
painting, and mosaics, can be adapted
to modern-day decor and usage. She
has not skimped on the “how to.”

Obviously it would be impossible to
give full instruction in so many projects
in one book, but Miss Ickis gives more
than enough to arouse the interest and
to give the “feel” of the activity. The
only criticism that seems warranted is
in the illustrations. They seem too
quaint, too naive, too “folksy,” too
cluttered with detail. This, however, is
a small point, since they serve the book
adequately if not brilliantly.———V.l\'l.

Folksingers and Folksongs in Amer-
ica, Ray M. Lawless. Duell, Sloan 8.
Pearce, 124 East 30th Street, New
York 16. Pp. 662, illustrated. $10.00.

Professor Lawless, chairman of the
English department at the Junior Col-
lege of Kansas City. has provided 3
“Who’s Who” of twenty-two singers, a
full description of typical folk instru-
ments, major and minor folk compila-
tions, folk societies and festivals, a
checklist of 8441. folksong titles in re-
cord collections, and a detailed index.

 

*Available from National Recreation Asso-
ciation Recreation Book Center, 8 W. 8th

Street, New York 11.

103

 

Beaks & Pamphlets
Received

Arts and Crafts

ANYONE CAN PAINT PICTURES, Alfred (Paddy)
Kerr. Pitman Publishing, 2 W. 45th St.,
New York 36. Pp. 128. $3.95.

AFRICAN DESIGN, Margaret Trowell. Fred-
erick Praeger, 64 University FL, New York
3. Pp. 77 and 76 plates. $7.50.

ART AND ILLUSION, E. H. Gombrich. Pan-
theon Books, 333 6th Ave., New York 14.
Pp. 466. $10.00.

ART AND TECIINICS, Lewis Mumford. Colum-
bia Univ. Press, 2960 Broadway, New York
27. Pp. 162. Paper, $1.25.

ART GUIDE, Carvel Lee. T. S. Denison, 321
5th Ave. S., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 111. $4.95.

ARTS OF THE UNITED STATES, William H. Pier-
son and Martha Davidson, Editors. Mc-
Graw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36.
Pp. 452. $9.95.

BEGINNER’S BOOK OF POTTERY, THE, (Part 1:
Coil and Slab Pottery; Part 2: Throwing,
Casting, Decoration, Firing), Harold Pow-
ell. Emerson Books, 251 W. 19th St., New
York 11. Each, pp. 64. $2.50 each.

BOOKBINDINC MADE EASY, Lee M. Klinefelter.
Bruce Publishing, 400 N. Broadway, Mil-
waukee 1. Pp. 86. $3.00.

CERAMICS, Glenn C. Nelson. Holt, Rinehart
& Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York
17. Pp. 236. $5.95.

HOME CRAFTS HANDBOOK, Ray E. Haines,
Editor. D. Van Nostrand, 120 Alexander
St., Princeton, N. J. Pp. 1008. $7.50.

HOPI KACRINA DOLLS (rev. ed.), Harold S.
Colton. Univ. of New Mexico Press, Albu-
querque. Pp. 150. $8.00.

How TO MAKE FISH MOUNTS, Edward C. Mig-
daski. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New
York 10. Pp. 218. $5.50.

IDEAS FOR TIIE CHALK ARTIST, George Sweet-
ing. Zondervan Publishing, 1415 Lake Dr.,
S.E., Grand Rapids 6, Mich. Pp. 59. Paper,
$1.50.

INDIAN ARTS OF THE AMERICAS, Donald Col-
lier. Chicago Natural History Museum,
Roosevelt Rd. & Lake Shore Dr., Chicago
5. Unpaged. Paper, $1.00.

Flowers, Gardens, Trees

BOOK OF WILD FLOWERS, A (2nd series), Elsa
Felsko. Thomas YoselofI, 11 E. 36th St.,
New York 16. Pp. 207. $8.50.

DESIGNS FOR OUTDOOR LIVING, John Burton
Brimer. Doubleday & Co., Garden City,
New York. Pp. 460. $3.95.

GROW CACTI (2nd ed.), Cyril Marsden. St.
Martin’s Press, 175 5th Ave., New York 10.
Pp. 178. $4.50.

IRIS, THE (2nd ed.), N. Leslie Cave. St. Mar-
tin’s Press, 175 5th Ave., New York 10. Pp.
240. $7.50.

JAPANESE GARDENS FOR TODAY, David H. En-
gel. Charles E. Tuttle, Rutland, Vt. Pp.
270. $15.00.

LANDSCAPE COMPOSITION IN COLOUR, Leonard
Richmond. Pitman Publishing, 2 W. 45th
St., New York 36. Pp. 87. $6.95.

LITTLE TEXTBOOK ON CONTEMPORARY FLOWER
ARRANGING, Leona R. Daughtridge. Green-
wich Book Publishers, 489 5th Ave., New
York 17. Pp. 104. $2.50.

104

 

 

ROCK GARDENS, E. B. Anderson. Penguin
Books, Inc., 3300 Clipper Mill Rd., Balti-
more, Md. Pp. 176. Paper, $1.50.

TREASURY OF JAPANESE FLOWER ARRANGE-
MENTS, A, Tatsuo Ishimoto. Crown Pub-
lishers, 419 Park Ave. S., New York 16.

Pp. 127. $7.50.
USEFUL TREES AND SHRUBS, Florence B. Rob-

inson. Garrard Press, 510 N. Hickory St.,
Champaign, 111. File of approximately 500

cards. $6.00.

International

COMPLEAT TRAVELLER IN GREAT BRITAIN, THE,
Albert B. Brushaber. Vantage Press, 120
W. 2lst St., New York 21. Pp. 268. $3.95.

DANNY KAYE’S AROUND THE WORLD STORY
BOOK. Random House, 457 Madison Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 216. $4.95.

HAMMOND’S WORLD TRAVELOG. C. S. Ham-
mond, Maplewood, NJ. Pp. 256. $7.50.
HISTORY OF MODERN JAPAN, A, Richard
Storry. Penguin Books, 3300 Clipper Mill

Rd., Baltimore, Md. Pp. 287. $1.25.

INDIA’S CHILDREN, Bani Shorter. Viking Press,

625 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 175.

$3.00. "

INTRODUCTION TO JAPAN, AN, Herschel Webb.
Columbia Univ. Press, 2960 Broadway, New
York 27. Pp. 145. Paper, $1.25.

J AUNT BY MEXICAN BUS, A, Alzina B. Franck.
Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave. 8., New
York 16. Pp. 74. $2.50.

JEWISH DANCE, THE, compiled by Fred Berk.
Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 46. $1.50.

LA CHINA POBLANA, Louise A. Stinetorf.
BobbS-Merrill, 1720 E. 38th St., Indiana-
polis 6. Pp. 256. $3.95.

LAND AND PEOPLE OF ISRAEL, THE, Gail Hoff-
man. Lippincott Co., E. Washington Sq.,
Philadelphia 5. Pp. 119. $2.95.

LET’S VISIT INDONESIA, John C. Caldwell.
John Day, 62 W. 54th St., New York 36.
Pp. 96. $2.95.

N ORSE FAIRY TALES, Dorothy Visju Anderson.
Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 51. $2.50.

NOW YOU CAN SAY IT IN RUSSIAN. Taplinger
Publishing, 119 W. 57th St., New York 19.
150 Hip-cards in plastic box. $1.95.

OUR JAPANESE PLAYMATES, Ruth Nugent.

Charles E. Tuttle, Rutland, Vt., Pp. 64.
$2.50.

Youth

ABC OF CHILD CARE, THE, Allan Fromme,
Ph.D. Doubleday, 575 'Madison Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 352. Paper, $.95.

ADOLESCENT CITIZEN, THE, Franklin Patter-
son, Editor. Free Press, 119 W. Lake St.,
Chicago 1. Pp. 387. $6.00.

BRINGING UP CHILDREN, Grace Langdon and
Irving W. Stout. John Day, 62 W. 45th St.,
New York 36. Pp. 295. $4.50.

DELINQUENCY AND OPPORTUNITY, Richard A.
Croward and Lloyd E. Ohlin. Free Press,
119 W. Lake St., Chicago 1. Pp. 220. $4.00.

EMOTIONAL ASPECTS OF SCHOOL DESEGREGA-

TION. Group for the Advancement of Psy-
chiatry, 104 E. 25th St., New York 10. Pp.
47. $.50.

52 WORKABLE JUNIOR HIGH PROGRAMS, Theo-
dore W. Engstrom and Warren Wiersbe.
Zondervan Publishing, 1415 Lake Dr., S.E.,
Grand Rapids 6, Mich. Pp. 116. $2.00.

How TO WORK WITH TEEN-AGE GROUPS, Doro-
thy M. Roberts. Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York. Pp. 62. $1.00.

 

 

J UNIOR-HI KIT NO. 16—Annual Program Re-
sources for Advisors of Junior High Groups;
J UNIOR-HI KIT NO. 17, edited by Mary Lou-
ise J arden. Westminster Press, Wither-
spoon Bldg., Philadelphia 7. Each, pp. 160.
Paper, $3.00 each. “

JUST FOR EARLY TEENS, Dorothy Haskin. Zon-
dervan Publishing, 1415 Lake Drive, S.E.,
Grand Rapids 6, Mich. Pp. 60. Paper,
$1.00.

JUVENILE DELINQUENCY: Its Nature and Con-
trol, Sophia M. Robinson, Ph.D. Henry
Holt, 383 Madison AVe., New York 17. Pp.
546. $6.75.

PHILOSOPHY FOR CHILDREN, Virginia Geiger
Wesson. Vantage Press, 120 W. 3lst St.,
New York 1. Pp. 43. $2.00.

SOCIOLOGY OF CHILD DEVELOPMENT, THE, (3rd
ed.), James H. S. Bossard and Eleanor
Stoker Boll. Harper 81 Bros., 49 E. 33rd St.,
New York 16. Pp. 706. $8.50.

THOSE WONDERFUL TEENS, Willard Pyle Tom-

linson. Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave. S.,
New York 16. Pp. 90. $2.75.

TWIXT TWELVE AND TWENTY, Pat Boone. Dell

Publishing, 750 3rd Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 189. $.35.

WEST BEND PARENT-TEEN CODE OF ETHICS,

West Bend Public Schools, West Bend,
Wisconsin. Pp. 6. Free.

YOUTH AND DELINQUEch IN AN INADEQUATE
SOCIETY, LeRoy Bowman. League for In-

dustrial Democracy, 112 E. 19th St., New
York 3. Pp. 47. $.35.

Magazine Articles

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, December 1960

Starchy Snowflakes for Sparkle, Edith
Brockway.

Christmas Festival, Jejj‘ie L. Rowland

A Visit to an Art Laboratory, Robert
Erickson.

Plastics Lead in New Directions (Part 3—
Christmas Ornaments), T helma R. New-
man.

JOURNAL OF REHABILITATION, November-De-
cember 1960
The Fine Arts as an Adjunct to Rehabilita-
tion, Frances Burton Arje, RN.
NATIONAL PARKS MAGAZINE, January 1961
The Battle of Walden Pond, Truman
Nelson.
Urbanization of the National Parks, Wel-
don F. Heald.

NURSING HOME ADMINISTRATION, November-
December 1960

Motivating the Aged Patient, Beatrice H.
Hill.
THE OPTIMIST, January 1961
Culture Can Be Fun.
Lessons Learned from Russian Youth Work.
Dynamo in the Desert (Hoover Dam) .
Youth Fights the Smut Racket.
PARENTS’ Magazine, January 1961
President-Elect Kennedy Talks About Our
Children, John F. Kennedy.
How to Create Facilities for Fun, Frank
Burgmeier.
“Then What Happened?” (storytelling),
Margaret Steele.
PROFESSIONAL NURSING HOME, January 1961

Creativity—The Goal of an Arts and Crafts
Program, Beatrice H. H ill.

   

RECREATION

BALLOONS . . . with a new twist

Hats — Hair Decorations — Animals

For extra copies contact Keith Macdonald, 122 Napa Street, Vallejo, California.

 

Instructions for “Clown Tricks” (Page 87)

 

HORSE DOG

A. Inflate I0” balloon to near full. Use left A. Inflate IO” balloon, bend to farm neck Use I0” ballaan, inflate 7/3 full of air. Make
hand to pull ballaan up and dawn to shape and head. Tie off. B. C. 8. D. Use 4” bal- two balls at each end and twist into each
neck and head. B. 8. C. Use l0” balloons, loan, inflate to near full, twist in middle and other. Secure ends of braids ta ends of bal-
thst In muddle and insert at arrows l 8. 2. insert at arraw, vary length of body, neck, laan.

D. Use 4” ballaan far ears, insert at 3. legs and ears.

SPREADIN EM

ooqo

B

HAIR DECORATIONS

Use a 4” ballaan, inflate 1/; full of
air, tie off the end, grasp balloon
in left hand and squeeze. At the
same time use right hand and twist
to right. Make two complete turns.
Place in left hand and twist three
more knots. Insert "A" into "B."

 

SHORT HALO

Make standard hat again using 10”
balloon. Inflate second IO” bal-
laan, twist a ball in each end. Twist
together and insert at arrow. Place
"A" on women's head.

 

DESIGNER’S NIGHTMARE

A. Make a standard hat. B. Use
10” ballaan, inflate 7/; full. Tie
aff, insert at arrows I 8: 2. C. Use
4” ballaan, inflate, twist in middle
and insert at top arrow.

HEAP BIG CHIEF ONE FEATHER

Do not inflate tight. Grasp balloon
in left hand at point "A" and
squeeze. Use right and twist inta
ball. Place under left arm pit,
make another twist at "B" 8” from
end. Put "A" into "B" and wrap
twice.

HIGH HALO WITH PRONGS

A. Inflate l0” ballaan, make balls
at each end and twist together. B.
Use 10” ballaan. Place inside of
boy's shirt or coat. C. Use 4”
ballaan, twist in middle and make
inserts at arrow.

OSTRICH

A. Inflate I0” balloon, bend as
you blow to farm neck and head.
B. Use two I0” ballaans, blow to
full length, insert at arrow. C.
Use IO” balloon, inflate, tie off and

insert at arrow.

 

TEXAS STEER HAT

Make standard hat shown in Na. 2,
inflate a 10” balloon, twist in the
center, make "A" into a ball and
and insert "B" into arraw. Wrap
twice to hold.

 

KNOT IN THE HEAD

A. Make a standard hat. 3. Use
a IO” ballaan, inflate to near full,
tie a knot in it as you would a
piece of string. Insert at arrow
and twist.

SWAN

A. Inflate l0” balloon, bend as
you blow to shape neck. B. 8. C.
Inflate 4—10” balloons to near full-
ness. Tie necks of all balloons to-
gether. Twist ball In each balloon
and insert at tail.

(IA/56R 7'

HALO WITH KNOTS

Inflate a IO” ballaan 1/; full. Tie
off using directions in diagram No.
l. Twist a series of knots inta
balloon and insert at arrow. At-
tach ta girl's hair.

11/56". 1"

QUESTION MARK HAT

A. Use a 10” balloon, make a
standard hat. B. Using a l0”
balloon, and as you inflate pull
closed end of balloon and make a
complete circle. Tie off and insert
at arraw.

 

AIRPLANE

A. Inflate I0” ballaan. B. Inflate
similar size balloon. Twist in mid-
dle and insert A (I). C-D-E. Use
4" balloon, inflate. Tie off. Twist
In middle and insert for motor and
tall.

How to make
more money on

payday Without  A l_ 3     I,
getting a rais e       ..   -~  '   ,    1

 

Will his income keep pace with his expenses? .-
A sure way to plan extra income is through the I -
Payroll Savings Plan for U.S. Savings Bonds. ' ’
Once you join the Plan, you never need worry

about“ sav1ng again.

Why wait for a raise“
when you can.do some- '
thing now about in-
creasing your income?
More than 8 million
Americans are doing it
every payday by buy-
ing U.S. Savings Bonds
on the Payroll Savings
Plan. It works like this:
each payday your "pay-
roll clerk sets aside

U .8. Savings
Bonds
are good to

buy
and hold

Why it" 
, 1
‘.

 

You can save automati- .
cally on the Payroll Sav- c

whatever amount «« you
Wish, buys your Bonds,
and delivers them.
When you cash ; your

ings Plan, or buy Bonds
at any bank - You now
earn 33/4% to maturity,
1/2% more than ever be-

fore -,A_You invest Without “I
risk under a U.S. Govern-

ment guarantee - Your,“
Bonds are replaced free

if lost or stolen ,1 You can

get your money‘with in-

terest anytime you want

it - You save more than

money—you buy shares

in a stronger America;

4's

a

mature Bonds for a trip
or college for the. chil-
dren, or retirement, you
get back one-third more
money ——$4 for every $3
you put in, guaranteed.
Why not start planning
a bigger payday 
easy Way today?

   
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   

 

on saveore than money. You make sure of
enjoying the things you’re saving for. Every U. S.
Savmgs Bond helps your Government keep the Peace.

A

Start an album of presi-
dents. There’s a different
U.S. President’s picture, on
each of the 7 denominations
r of Series E Savings Bonds.
More than two billions of
these “portraits” have been
collected by Americans
since the first E Bond was
issued on May 1, 1941.

1

(A5,

1‘-

You save more than money‘

with U.S. Savings Bonds

 

  

‘ ¥¥ ¥¥
I» ¥
«W g” 20‘—" a
.  c2 " ANNIVERSARY I
. . . . . . ". ' ' $3 ' a ; I94! I” .
Thmaduertzsmg l8 donated by The Advertising Counczl and this magazine. 0b sci-d, » ‘ ‘* “5g. 2‘
o- . i

t

r" - ‘k *
x“ **¥4+**

’1

' I"

