r- ‘V a

A TI ONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION °

 

 

PACKAGE #2:?

Powerful Mansfield Projector
plus 50 All-time song slides.

50 2”x2”slides (122' .50 25.00

 

Save substantially with

. Nationals New
pTOJaJtOT-TL ’-slzde packages!

You simply can’t beat “sing-along” sessions when it comes to perking up group spirits!
Now, National offers FOR THE FIRST TIME AT THESE LOW PRICES three outstanding
“Projector-’n-slides" packages! Quantities are limited, however, so please place your

order promptly!

 

Projector $44.95

mun—“II.-

$69.95 Value f
You Pay $54.95 ’

SAVE $15.00

1. A Pretty Girl 17?.
13., Alice Blue Gown 161.
-' 22. Alouette 182 .
26. America the Beautiful _. 201.
40. April Showers 202.
56. Baby Face 204.
60. Band Played On .  207.
63. Battle Hymn Republic 218.
69. Beer Barrel Polka 221.
74. Bells of St. Mary 259.
79. Bicycle For fl‘wo . 265.
100. Bye Bye Blues  237.
104. By the Light Silvery Melon 289.
105. Cassions Go Rolling Along 294.
113. Carolina in Morning 297.
114. Carolina Moon 298.
121. Chasing Rainbows 300.
129. Clementine ' 309.
150. Danny Boy 310.
156. Dear Old Girl 3 13.
159. Deep in Heart of Texas 331.
163. Dinah 337 .
167. Don't Fence Me In ’ 341.
170. Don‘ t Sit Under Apple Tree 346.
171. Down By Old Mill Stream 348.

PACKAGE #1:

Powerful Mansfield Projector plus 25 All—time song siides.

25 2”x2” slides @ .50

This is the Mansfield SKYLARK 300 Automatic
Projector. This compact unit is the culmination of

Projector $44.95
12.50

m

$57.45 Value

You Pay $45.45 
SAVE $12.00 

modern styling and engineering. The excellent
optical system incorporated in the “Skylark” gives

your pictures the snap and clarity necessary
for real projection enjoyment. 300 watt Tru-Focus

lamp. F/3.5 coated lens. Manual changer. Tilt
controls. Turbo type fan impeller to insure maximum

coolness at all times!

Drifting 8: Dreaming

Easter Parade

East Side. West Side

Five Feet Two

Flow Gently Sweet Afton

For Me 8: My Gal

Frivolous Sal

Girl of My Dreams

God Bless America I).

Home on the Range is

How Deep is the Ocean

1' ll Be with You in Apple B ’1‘
I’ll See You in My Dreams

I' m an Old Cowhand

l‘ m Dreaming of White Xmas
1‘ m Forever Blowing Bubbles
I'm Looking Over 4 Leaf Clover
In My Merry Oldsmobile

In the Evening by Moonlight
In the Good Old Summertime
it' s A Grand Old Flag

I've Been Working on R
IWant a Girl, etc.

 

356.
358.
375.
379.
380.
391.
395.
414.
420.
422.
433.
450.
454.
460.
473.
435.
492.
494.
497.
500.
513.
520.
524.

I Wonder Whol s Kissing Her Now 528.

Iingle Bells“.

532.

J a POPULAR-“SONGS AMERIC

Just a Song at Twilight

 _' E537.
K~kv~k~Katy ~ ' “ 576.
Let Me Call You Sweetheart 578..

Let's Sing Like Birdies

Let Rest World Go By 584.

Little Red Schoolhouse 586.
Look for Silver Lining 594.
Man on Flying Trapeae 616.
Marching Along Together 629.
Margie 635.

Meet Me in St. Louis 644.
Moonlight & Roses 651.
Moon over Miami 656.
My Bonnie 663.
My Wild Irish Rose 691.
Oh Dem Golden Slippers 715.
Oh Susana 718.
Oh You Beautiful Doll 73 1.
Old‘Gray Mare 734.
Old MacDonald Had a Farm 742.
On the Road to Mandalay 749.
Pack Up Your Troobles 751.
Peg Of My Heart 760.
Polly Wolly Doodle 763 .
Poor Butterfly 780.

" PAcKKGE #39  

 Powerful Mansfield Projeotor
 pltls 100 All—time song slides.

100 2”x2”slicies @ .50 50.00

582 f "

  
  

 

Projector $44.95

w

$94.95 Valu
You Pay $77.45
SAVE $17.50

Select The Slides You
Prefer From This
Star-Studded List!
"Keep 'em singing
and you’ll keep ’em
happy!” Send for our
complete listing of
over 850 Song Slides.
Ask for Brochure R.

Put Your Arms Around Me,“ I
Shanty in Old Shanty TOWn
She'll Be Comin Round M.

.. Shine on Harvest Moon

show Me Way to Go Home
Silent Night

smiles

Springtime in the Rockies
Sweet-Adeline

Sweetheart of Sigma Chi
Take Meput to Ball Game
That Old Gang of Mine

That' 5 Peggy O' Neil
There's a Long Long Trail
Till We Meet‘Again

Wagon Wheels  ._

Wait Till Sun Shines Nellie
When Irish Eyes are Smiling
When I Lost You ‘3 "

When You Wore a Tulip
Whiifenpooi Sang ’  
Whistle While You Wot-'1; \,
Winter Wanderland ' a 'l'
Yankee Doodle Dandy  ' _
YOu‘re a Grand Old Flag ~

 

 

SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER:
SEND $1.00 FOR A SAMPLE SELECTION OF 3 ALL TIME FAVORITES TO:

  42West48 Street 0 NewYork City

’
'5-
'5
’

A
J
. a

.r"

 

ups personnel morale, cuts absenteeism,

Controlled
helps increase production. That’s

a pretty good case for implant athletic
programs. Studies prove it out—plants with
I I I sports participation for employees

are more productive.

Just having the program isn’t enough, however. Your plant needs the right athletic program,
correctly planned and executed, and supplied with the right equipment. Your MacCregor dealer is an
expert on setting up and operating leagues of all kinds, and he certainly has the finest sports
equipment available right in his own store. He can assist you with initial planning, scheduling,
tournament bracketing, selection of equipment, and even sanctioning by local athletic groups if
necessary. He’s also adept at giving tired old programs a vigorous boost. Get your plant’s athletic
program started, or rejuvenated, now. Keep your employees’ after-hours energies and tensions

in control by giving them controlled conflict. A call to your MacGregor dealer. or a

a visit to his store, will get things moving. Do it today.

The MacGregor 00., Cincinnati 32, Ohio
DIVISION OF BRUNSWICK

 

WORLD LEADER IN RECREATION

APRIL 1901 163

RECREATION

PROGRAM GENERAL

ADMINISTRATION

EACH MONTH DIGEST

164

 

 

APRIL l96| VOL. LIV NO. 4 PRICE 60c

Creativeness . . . Which Way? (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charles K. Brightbill 167
The relation of creativeness to self-fulfillment '

Playground Countdown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 174
Special adventures for a playground summer

Recreation for All Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 177
What can and is being done with retarded children

Recreation—Las Vegas Style . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gordon D. Hunsaker 178
Where public recreation is not a gamble

Plans for Your 43rd National Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180
Planning Committee activities

Tennis Serves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
Free tennis clinics attract over 40,000 youngsters

A Church’s Summer Recreation Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William R. Strunk 182
Variety is the key word

Have Horse, Will Travel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Thomas C. Miller 183
Riding program at Pompano Beach, Florida

Add Something New . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 184
Ideas to try

Aloha, Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Isabel Havel 186
Playground program in Tacoma, Washington

Silver Bells in Summer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Maxine M cSweeney 188
Children’s matinees offer .hne educational results

The Lions Roar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Bret McGinnis 190
Story of a playground zoo-wagon

Summer Playground Attendance Formula . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. George D. Butler 191
Results of National Recreation Association Study

From Dream to Drawing Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gene Rotsch 193
Plan your playground equipment according to needs

State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 196
A revolving lookout and a downtown oasis

Research Briefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
Senior citizens in the swim '

Children’s Behavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Edward H. Stullken 199

The problem that is ever with us

Letters 168 Editorially Speaking 170

Market News 204 Trade Mart 205
Upkeep 210 Resources and References 212

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current
issues available University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Space Representatives: East Coast—ADVERTISING MANAGER, RECREATION Magazine, 8 W.
8th Street. New York 11; Midwest—MARK MINAHAN, 185 N. Wabash Boulevard, Chicago

1, Illinois.

As We Go To Press
Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 209
New Publications 213

171 Reporter’s Notebook 201

Concerning
Copyright, 1961, by the National “a.
Recreation Association, Incorporated : Tex.
' e
...®‘.
@18 Printed in the U.S.A. ’*m' A
DUCATIONAL The articles herein

   
 

RESS
SSOCIATION

printed are the expres-
sion of the writers and
not a statement of policy
of the National Recrea-
tion Association.

1

\
RECREATION

RECREATION

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

 

Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

no strain...
with CAI—"=0" E

The new Califone Promenade I I Model 42V
portable sound system always performs loud
and clear — indoors and out — always without
strain. N 0 strain on the voice. N o straining
to hear. N 0 strain on the instrument itself.
And no strain on the budget.

Associate Editors
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

0n the Cover

 

   

I (I I”

I u. t I (I; ,
y t _ i ‘I i I .lv  at,
hill?rilllti‘illntllllhlll p u

‘ 'l’g HI  
' lliilfiilil'l File‘lllrunl Elana.
“manual trillll’wmlil ‘ “' ' ' " " ’ " "' "“' '

r  lllllll'l'lllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
" WIilHlHllll-Hllfllllllllllllllllllll
, “in. l... "‘l‘ i"  llllll'lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllil
W.    ' '  nmuunmmunmn

    
is! s1 a “FEM”. 1' '
MIL Mlmmm IIIIIllIllllllI

l-lllllllllll-lllll‘lllhmlillllllll }

lllll lI,llljj~

      
 
 

     
 

“SLIDING POND,” by night. A child’s
delight, this imaginative Danish play
sculpture is also shown on the cover
as it looks by daylight. Designed by
Torsten Johansson, sculptor-designer,
for the children’s playground in Tivoli
Gardens, Copenhagen, it serves for play
by day, is illuminated in the evening
and stands as an intriguing abstract
work of art. A creation Of iron, and
painted yellow, it is one Of a group of
five such designs, among them a “Fire-
works Tree.” Photos courtesy Georg
Jensen, New York City.

PROFESSIONAL NET: $209.50
Added attractions —

Califone’s exclusive Cttemaster,
providing immediate selection
of any groove on any record.
$12.50 EXTRA

All—chrome player base —
$12.50 EXTRA

Next Month

Watch for Music Is Recreation, the
first in a series of supplements to REC—
REATION, bringing subscribers, free, an
additional sixteen pages on “The Per-
forming Arts in Recreation.” (These
supplements will subsequently be sold
as separate pamphlets. Price to be an-
nounced.) May being Senior Citizen
Month, we will discuss some new fron-
tiers for senior citizens, the importance
of recreation in their lives, and how
programs have been set up for them.

Photo Credits

Page 177, Al Daigle, Greenfield,
Massachusetts; 178-9, Las Vegas (Ne-
vada) News Bureau; 183, Bill Bates, Ft.
Lauderdale, Florida, Daily News; 184,
(top) Baltimore News-Post and Sunday
American; 190, Newmans Photo Serv-
ice, Evansville, Indiana; 193-95, Cour-
tesy, The Daily News, Garden Grove,
California.

The Promenade's two extended-range speakers fulfill all public address require-
ments for games and other major events requiring maximum amplification. As a
phonograph/sound system, it offers superlative fidelity, plus remarkable spring
float suspension which insures against groove jumping from floor vibration. The
Strobeselector variable speed motor requires no warmup, and may be adjusted
to any desired speed for rhythm and movement classes. Two additional 20-watt
speakers mounted in matching dividing baffle cases (Model SP42) are optional.

For full information on the Promenade ll Model 42V and other Califone variable
speed models from $99.50. write Dept. R-4 today.

E

FOREMOST MANUFACTURER 0F SELECTIVE AUDIO-VISUAL PRODUCTS FOR EDUCATION

Keep pace
with

caHfone.ummnM

I020 N. LA BREA AVENUE. HOLLYWOOD 38. CALIF.

APRIL 1961 165

G’ROU’P
“A CTIUITY

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SPECIAL SCHOOL PRICES

You save 12% by purchasing the

GrOup Kit below. It provides equipment for 20 or
more children to play at once. You also save on space
as feather-light, resilient Polyethylene prevents dam-
age and accidents 50 groups play close together in
safety. You save on supervisory time. You can bring
outdoor games indoors; making group activities easier
to plan. more fun for participants, more healthful.
Safe-T-Play equipment promotes physical fitness the

economical way.

 

SCOOP-BALL AND SAFE-T-BAT GAME KIT

$2 10 (12% savings)

0
1 At 32% below their sepa-
G) rote cast, you have (I) o
,q bot tee (2) two Sofe-T-
.l I " Bots (3) l2 Scoops (4)
2 3 r \ book of 26 games {5) '2
j .- Little Fun Balls (6] 3 Fun
 Bolls. $23.80 volue.
4 ..

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

$25”"
SAFE-T-MALLET GAME KIT

I9% sovingsI

At 9% beIOw their sepo.
rote cost you have (I) o
gome book I2) two little
Fun Balls (3) 2 Fun Balls (4)
l2 Sofe-T-Mollets (5) 4
gool markers. $27.35
value.

   
 

.-:(-:'-‘.- 

FOR SPECIAL CLASSES

The remedial student, the shy or awkward child take
part more readily with light, safe Safe-T-Play equip-
ment. The nOrmal aggressiveness of healthy children
has a safe outlet. The subnormal aggressiveness of
backward children is stimulated to expression. At the
other extreme, varsity teams are conditioned by run-
ning games and contests organized around Safe-T-Play
equipment for fast, hard activity that is safe.

     

0050M
“SAFE-I-PIAY“ cosom INDUSTRIES, INC.
““ODUG‘Q 6020 WAYZATA BLVD.

MINNEAPOLIS 16, MINN.

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

Creativeness . . . Which Way?

Charles K. Brighthill

MARIO PEI, the distinguished philolo-

gist, who gave us the Story of
English, wonders if we would be able
to understand the American of 2061.
Language, meanings, and consequently
the interpretations and infiuences of
words, change with time. The word
recreation is not an exception. Unfor-
tunately, over the years, many of us have gotten away from
the real meaning of recreation. We have come to associate
it not with what it originally was, and really is—living crea-
tively, over and over againu—but rather with the shallower
pursuits of amusement and frivolity. We have come to so
misuse the word that there are many people who think of
leisure activity as recreation only if something is being done
for them rather than by them. In this sense, recreation
tends to achieve the direct opposite of what was originally
intended. We are long overdue in bending it back toward
what it was first meant to convey—living creatively. The

 

accent is on living—full living—repeatedly and continu-
ously. Life and creativeness are much alike in their form
and nature. Change is the essence of both.

Not only is creative effort the road to inner peace and
harmony, it is also the instrument for self-fulfillment and
the prime mover of individuality. Modern living is group
living. It has been said that as crowds grow, individuals
disappear. Thus, as the population multiplies, and we be-
come more dependent upon one another in the affluent
community, the chance to preserve and strengthen individ-
uality may become more elusive unless we learn how to im-
bue our leisure-centered lives with creative behavior.

Creativeness should be cultivated in the home; but too
often the discipline which accompanies the raising of chil-
dren washes out the free-wheeling spirit necessary to nur-
turing and fostering the curiosity which precedes creativity.
,The school should be the propellant of creative activity in
:the “breakthrough” to new frontiers of full living, but the
probing, questioning, dynamic approach to uninhibited self-
expression, so essential to non-imitation, does not square
with uniform assignments, regurgitating stale facts and
covering a given amount of knowledge in a predetermined
period of time. ’

What of the church? Here there is some opportunity,
but because of its inherent nature often the channels of

 

PROFESSOR BRIGHTBILL is head of the Department of Rec-
reation at the University of Illinois in U rbana.

APRIL 1961

self-expression are largely confined to issues of social re-
form and those talents which are best expressed in service
to others, the latter a worthy, if not always fertile, field for
creative growth!

We ought to get from work, and certainly from the hours
we spend in our homes, schools, and churches, whatever
opportunities can be extracted for creative living. It seems.
however, that the most promising setting of all, now and
increasingly in the future, for generating creativeness and
individuality, is in our leisure and our recreative use of it.
Here we can live as uninhibited and as unencumbered as
the rights of others and the ground rules of society will al-
low. Here is the opportunity for knocking routine and the
perfunctory state of mind into a “cocked hat.” Here we
can slip off the shackles of tradition without weakening the
underpinning of our most precious democratic institutions.
The attractiveness of our leisure, as a force for sharpening
individuality and self-making, is in its unique environment.
It is an environment quite different from our work setting
and one which permits new forces to play upon our imagi-
nativeness and unused talents. It is the time for new occu-
pations and novel preoccupations, for unheralded experi-
ences and unhurried expectancies, for broad horizons, new
frontiers, and bright hosannas.

L ET US give this non-fraudulent, self-perpetuating human
resource which we call creativeness a real chance to
germinate and blossom. Let it be encouraged everywhere——
in our homes, in our schools, in our churches, and in our
communities. Let it be nurtured in our recreation centers
and accommodated in our playgrounds. Let it begin with
the natural imaginativeness and curiosity of the young and
continue with the patience and understanding of the old.

Creative imagination sprouts best in an atmosphere of
spontaneity where there is a real opportunity to explore
according to our own sweet wills—in our leisure. But if
we are to give creativeness the chance it deserves, we shall
have to let it take us where it will. We shall have to accept
the idea that where original and unique thinking and action
develop, independent thought and action take precedence
over conformity and concurrence, and that there are limits
to the distance which logic can take us. We shall have to
remember, too, that the price we must pay for creativeness
parallels that which we must pay for freedom—open

minds! #
167

ADD Pmamed

ED DURLACHER
TO YOUR STAFF

with

HONOR YOUR
PARTNER RECORDS

Freeport, N. Y.

Unique, Progressive Recorded
Talk-Thru, Walk-Thru Method

0 Physical Fitness Activities to Music

a Square Dances 0 Play Party
a Couple Dances and

& Mixers Singing Games
0 Rhythms o Marches

0 Folk Dances o Rope Skipping

HONOR YOQR PARTNER RECORDS
Box No. Bob R, Freeport, N. Y.

[3 Please Send FREE BROCHURE

[j Enclosed is 50¢ for 33% rpm DEMONSTRA-
TION RECORD giving excerpts from the albums
listed above.

Name

_#—————-_-

51

WITH NEW IDEAS
Program Aids

NOTHING builds better programs

and stronger teams than these ori-
ginal. one-of—a-kind problem-solving
work-savers. Get never-before results
with:
0 ERASO‘ Posters 8: Charts
0 SPOT AWARD? Trophies 8: Cups
‘ O RECORD-MAST!” "Hall-oI-Fame" Displays
PLAYMASTER‘ Coaching Aids
SCORE-KING' Magnetic Scoreboard

’Reg. U. S. Pat: .0”.

See your Sporting Goods Dealer
or vmto For FREE catalog to—

THE PROGRAM A105 C0. nit.
Dept. n. 550 5m in. II. v. 36, n. r.

 

168

 

 
   

An Objective Look

Sirs:

Mr. Mose Leibowitz of our recrea-
tion commission was so interested in the
article by Marion Harper, Jr., “The
New Confiict of Time and Money,” in
the January issue that we were all alert-
ed and ended up having the article re-
produced and sent out to three hundred
local residents on our active mailing
lists. While most of us who are actively
engaged in recreation are aware of the
tremendous changes taking place in our
living patterns and are convinced of
recreation values, it is always very help-
ful to “get a look” at the picture more
objectively, through the eyes of a per-
son who is not directly involved in our
field. I am taking the liberty of writing
to Mr. Harper expressing our apprecia-.
tion of his article.

SYLVIA C. NEWCOMBE, Superintend-
ent, Recreation Commission, Y ork,

Pennsylvania.

0 This letter illustrates one of the
many values of sharing RECREATION
Magazine with your boards and com-
missions.—Ed.

Rebuttal

Sirs:

I should like to take exception to the
insinuations in Herb Grade’s letter to
the editor in the February issue. To
make the all-encompassing implication
that the smaller parks and “first-class
playgrounds” are going unused is, at
best, a misconception or a lack of
knowledge. It would seem to me that
there is an “old guard” among land-
scape designers and certain park super-
intendents who would still set out the
signs reading “Don’t Walk on the
Grass.” Aesthetic values notwithstand-
ing, I can think of no prettier sight than
an area where the grass has been worn
or scufHed away, through use, play, and
enjoyment.

A certain lack of knowledge of good
leadership technique is also apparent in
Mr. Crade’s letter. I do not believe that
we “give ’em whatever they want” as
such. A good recreation leader, know-
ing which activities are likely to best
suit his charges, now and in later
life, is able, unauthoritatively, to guide

LETTERS

Readers are invited to share their

views on these pages. Comments

of general interest are always wel-

come. -— The Editors.

participants so they will want to do
what the leader believes they should.
This encompasses the contrived envir-
onment technique.

PETER A. DEIMEL, Assistant Super-

intendent of Recreation, Greenwich,
Connecticut.

0 Mr. Deimel has just become superin-

tendent of recreation in Wilton, Con-
necticut.—Ed.

Not All for Autos
Sirs:

I believe the attitude of the public
roads officials toward parks and other
recreation facilities very dangerous. I
enclose an editorial from the St. Louis

Post-Dispatch [February 1, 1961] that

is certainly a case in point:

NOT ALL FOR AUTOS
On the theory that parks are as im-

portant as streets, especially when a
city has fewer parks than streets, the
City Plan Commission ought to modify
its proposed new major street plan as
it affects the center of Forest Park.

The state already intends to use more
acreage from Forest Park on its south-
ern and eastern edges for the Boone
route widening and Kingshighway
straightening and interchange. The city
is cutting into the northern edge of the
park for a local expressway. Yet the
Plan Commission now suggests linking
Union boulevard and Hampton avenue
through the middle of the park.

Has not Forest Park suffered enough
for the automobile? Would the pro-
posed north-south link really relieve
park traffic, or would it divide the park

into two parks ?
* * * ‘13

The automobile does not yet dictate
all facets of urban living, and it is the
City Plan Commission’s responsibility
to guard a balanced use of our city’s
assets. Of these diminishing park space

 
 

certainly must command some priority?

JAMES V. SWIFT. 7363 Liberty Ave-

nue, St. Louis 30, Missouri.

Thank You, Thank You

Sirs:
Congratulations on the new look in
RECREATION. Being a relatively young

RECREATION

F

1'\

\

worker in the recreation field, your
magazine has helped me a great deal
and I look forward to continued assist-
ance.

BEN C. BOOZER, Director of Recrea-

tion, Camden, South Carolina.
* ‘3!- N’ '3!

We enjoy the interesting format of
your magazine and the many wonderful
articles you have been running.

KENNETH R. ANDERSON, Planning

Consultant, 205 East Grant Street,

Roseville, California.

it * 49 'ii-

. my congratulations to the REC-
REATION Magazine staff for the newest
format and the unusual excellent arti-
cles. . . . For over ten years I have been
clipping articles, filing them in note-
book covers under suitable classifica-
tions. Not only does our staff use these
materials, but other community and
area agencies find these materials very
helpful.

JOHN H. CRAIN, JR., Executive Direc-
tor, Leominster Recreation Center,
Leominster, Pennsylvania.

Catalogues Wanted
Sirs:

May we ask you to obtain for us, and
as soon as possible, all the available
information on resources from your
March [Trade Mart] coupon? This en-
deavour to inform our graduates and
undergraduates on the purchase and
buying of material was undertaken re-
cently by the Information Centre.
Hence, we call on your cooperation to
help us. Duplicates of requested infor-
mation would be greatly appreciated
for students” consultation.

ROBERT MATTE, Correspondent, Uni-

versity of Ottawa, Department of

Physical Education, 90 Wilbrod
Street, Ottawa 2, Ontario, Canada.

0 We have been receiving many sim-
ilar requests. Other countries report a
paucity of catalogues of equipment
and supplies. Recreation departments
would be doing their counterparts
overseas a real service by sharing sur-
plus or duplicate catalogues and liter-
ature with them. Manufacturers and
suppliers would also promote interna-
tional goodwill by forwarding such
materials. Other requests for any
available catalogues and literature on
supplies, materials, and equipment
have been received from:

Mahboob Alam
“Adara Falah Bahbood”
30/79A, Samanabad,
Lahore (West Pakistan)
and
Salvador C. Grapa, Jr.
Central Azucarera de Bais
Bais Central, Negros Or.
Philippines

APRIL 1961

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

/’ r ,-

 ,‘ ,“ Want a Biggie! and Be tter Program
2 V _ .,' lwnb'a
: * ‘ ’" Adone.£anulhnlladwhn?

The Key to Success lies in Your Undeveloped
Refreshment Profit Potential

  

POPCORN

8c profit Per I0c sale. r‘i‘ 
Machines start at $199.00.
SNO-KONES _-

7t/2c profit per 'IOc sale. ,-  3
Machines from $149.50. ,. We

COTTON CANDY “we

81/2c profit per dime sale.
Equipment only $275.00.

3

Hundreds at Park and Recreation
Deportments annually odd to to
20% ta their available funds with
refreshment Profits. You can, too.
Detailed free baoklets tell what you
need, how to order, and how to poy
Out of profits as you operote. No
obligation, write today sure for com-
plete details.

OLD MEDAL PRODUCTS CO.

1835 FREEMAN AVE.
CINCINNATI 14, OHIO

    
 

for Immediate
Service!

North . . . South . . . East . . . or West . . . wherever
you are there’s a CLECO warehouse to serve you . . .
all stocked with a complete line of exciting crafts
for recreational activities.

Write for Our FREE 1961
Catalog of Handicraft
Supplies and Ideas

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.

4707 Euclid Ave. 5832 Chicago Ave. 4 E. 16th St.
Cleveland 3, Ohio Chicago 5], III. New York 3, N. Y.

CLECO CRAFTS CLECO CRAFTS

2112 8th AVe., S. 2800 Sunset Blvd.
Nashville 4, Term. los Angeles 26, Calif.

Have You Seen Our Ball and Chain Craft?

 

169

  
  

     

W

murmur: swam

GENUth

c3), .
89

2‘22-
HtltERlCH a. BRADSBY

'lr"

 

This book is a ready reference for maior
and minor league batting statistics, World
 Series data, photographs of famous slug~
V gers and historical baseball highlights. Also
contains an article “Practice To Hit” written
I expressly for the Yearbook by Ernie Banks.
A

I

. SOFTBALL RULE 300K

? Contains complete official 1961 softball
 rules, pictures of the 1960 World's Softball
. Champs and other valuable information.

 SEND me tell THE
LOUISVILLE swarm BAT
 AND GRAND SLAM cllllolls

MAE}; ,m LLS,A

.
'4‘

   
 
  

“rm...
 ‘6 ' We will be glad to
send you copies of
the 1961 Louisville
Slugger Bat and Grand
Slam Golf Club Cata-
logs for your ready
reference in ordering

from your dealer.

HRAUSHYE9

   

  

Write for this FREE material to
Hillerich 8. Bradsby Co., Louisville l, Ky.
Box 506, Dept. R-l

   

 

       
 

EDITORIALLY
SPEAKING

'\
u- ’
" - \xl‘l

a

   

WHAT IS A PLAYGROUND?

Too many annual reports issued by recreation depart-
ments read as if they were written for IBM machines or
turnstiles rather than human beings. However, the 1960
annual report of the parks and recreation'department in
St. Louis Park, Minnesota, is a simple and warm account
which sets forth, among other matters, the following philos-
ophy and aspirations motivating its activities. Dorothea
Nelson is recreation superintendent in St. Louis Park.

A

chance to play any number of games (with equipment and
without), to play by themselves, with someone, or with a
group. It offers an opportunity to sit on the grass, to wade
in a pool,“ to swing, to make a craft object, to have conver-

PLAYGROUND OFFERS children an opportunity to run,
to jump, to holler, to climb—it gives children a

sations and storytelling, to join a group who are putting
on a little play, to join a team in softball, volleyball, box
hockey, tennis, or to build castles in the sand box.

There are no “stay off the grass” or “don’t make so much
noise” signs. If you have fifty to one hundred children on
a skating rink, a playground, or in an athletic event, it
is necessary to have a leader who can make things move
smoothly, teach the rules, and prevent domination by the
few. A child’s education is gained in many ways—in school,
at home, in church, and on the athletic field and playground.
A leader helps to direct, to advise, to show, and to teach.
Leaders are there to see that everyone has an enjoyable,
profitable time. A public department has personality only
in its leadership. That gives it life in a community.

We all know what the ideal would be in recreation—a
river, a forest, or a lake in our back yard, a few vacant
lots, a barn, a tree to climb—but these are gone for
the cities and suburbs. So we substitute. We have a play-
ground program, a swimming (teaching) program, a mu-
nicipal athletic program for adults and children, a tennis
teaching program, groups for tiny tots and golden agers,
classes to learn skills, plus skating, baseball, hockey, and
football programs. As we look around every city in the
country, even towns of one thousand people have some kind
of organized program. . . .

One of America’s foremost religious leaders, Dr. Harry
Emerson Fosdick, said: “Did you ever stop to think that
nothing beautiful ever came into life until we started to
play? The spirit of play, which is the crown of work and

home life, is also the crown of religion.” # 
,,

Childhood knows no frontiers and all is grist to the mill
when it comes to play time.——“Mtss READ” (English
author).

\
RECREATION

 

) A YOUTH CONSERVATION CORPS of
male teenagers to work on conservation
projects across the nation is proposed
by the Kennedy Administration. A De-
partment of Labor study group has
completed recommendations, which are
under review by Secretary of Labor
Arthur J. Goldberg. The department
report calls for a combined education-
work program for 150,000 boys from
17 to 19. The volunteers would draw
token wages, live in special camps, and
work under such conservation agencies
as the National Park Service, the F or-
est Service, and the Bureau of Reclama-
tion. The Youth Corps would most
closely resemble the Civilian Conserva-
tion Corps of the depression-ridden
thirties. It would have no connection
with the Peace Corps.

D HOST TO CHILDREN’S THEATRE CON-
FERENCE: Janesville, Wisconsin is ex-
pecting a gathering of between three
hundred and five hundred children’s
theater representatives of Region 8,
May 6-7. Among those who will attend
are teachers, community leaders, club
leaders, recreation department direc-

tors, leaders Of Boy Scout, Girl Scout,
YMCA and YWCA units, psychologists.

} ESTABLISHMENT OF PUBLIC RECREA-
TION AREAS along the nation’s shore-
lines before the cost of acquiring such
property becomes prohibitive has been
urged by witnesses before a Senate
Public Lands subcommittee. It is con-

l sidering a bill calling for study Of sea-
shore park proposals and authorizing a
$10,000,000 appropriation tO help in-
dividual states purchase lands and set
up seashore recreational areas. Charles
Deturk, California’s chief Of parks and
beaches, strongly endorsed the bill but
said the amount provided as a match-
ing fund for states was “woefully in-
adequate.”

} COVERING THE WATERFRONT with

safety-conscious boaters and batherS is
the goal Of the national'aquatic and
small craft schools scheduled to be Op-
erated by the American Red Cross this
summer for the fortieth consecutive
season. Designed to train instructors,
the schools’ graduates are prepared tO
Share their skills and knowledge with
the nation’s water-loving amateurs.

APRIL 1961

Prospective students of either aquatic

or small craft schools must be eighteen
or older and certified by their physi-
cians as physically fit. Fees for the
schools range from $50 tO $60 and in-
clude board, lodging, texts, and other
materials. Further information and
applications can be obtained from local
Red Cross chapters or from area offices
of the American Red Cross in Alex-
andria, Virginia; Atlanta, Georgia; St.
Louis, Missouri; and San Francisco,
California. Ask for a list of the schools,
locations, and dates.

) THE UNITED STATES VOLLEY BALL
CHAMPIONSHIP will be played off May
10 to 13 in Duluth, Minnesota. It iS
believed that about sixty teams will par-
ticipate in the Duluth events. The Du-
luth committee is working full steam
to make this tournament as successful
as any past competitions.

D A 'NATIONAL ENTERTAINMENT COM-
MITTEE is announced by COMEBACK,
the new organization for social rehabili-
tation. The committee is interviewing
singers, actors, and other entertainers
to work with hospitalized, homebound,
and aging folk in greater New York.
For further information write Mrs.
Ruth Kaufman at committee head-
quarters, 214 East‘62nd Street, New
York.

} SOS! Members Of the National Ad-
visory Committee on the Publishing of
Recreation Materials, we are still wait-
ing for volunteer writers for our re-
maining Manual chapters! Please write
your chairman or committee secretary

immediately as to which chapter you
feel best qualified to prepare. An out-
line guide for authors will soon be
ready.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

F BETTER HUNTING AND FISHING in the
National Forests will be available to
sportsmen during the next ten to fifteen
years because of a wildlife habitat man-
agement program announced recently
by the U. S. Department of Agriculture.
This plan, called National F orest Wild-
life, is Part 2 of Operation Outdoors.
Highlights Of the program will include:
planting Shrubs, grasses and herbaceous
plants on a million and a half acres of
game range; clearing openings, food
patches, and game ways for wildlife in
dense vegetation on four hundred
thousand acres; and improvement of
seven thousand miles of fishing streams
and fifty-six thousand acres of lakes by
stabilizing banks, planting stream-side
cover, and constructing channel im-
provements. The cost of improvements
is estimated at $25,600,000 over a ten
to fifteen year period.

} PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, an avid
boatman and sailboat racing skipper,
has placed the full authority of his high
Office behind the promotion of boating
safety through a recent Presidential
Document urging the observance of
National Safe Boating Week in 1961,

July 2-9.

F QUESTIONS BEING ASKED. To deter-
mine what substantial groups Of Ameri-
cans think our national purpose is and

QUOTIN G THE PRESIDENT

J OHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY is proving one Of our most quotable presi-
dents. The following are culled from a number Of JFK speeches:

WE MUST eradicate slums and urban blight. We must expand our
park system and provide greater recreational opportunities in order that
our cities will be healthy communities in which our children may grow
up free from fear, tension, and want. . . .

’l‘ *

I! It

AMERICA’S health, morale, and culture have long benefitted from
our national parks and forests, and our fish and wildlife opportunities.
Yet these facilities are resources not now adequate to meet the needs Of
a fast—growing, more mobile population—and the millions Of visitor-days
which are now spent in federally owned parks, forests, wildlife, refuges,
and water reservoirs will triple well before the end of this century.

 

171

should be, nine national organizations
will cooperate in a countrywide inquiry
in 1961-62. The National Recreation
Association will coordinate the project
under a grant from Life magazine.
Joseph Prendergast, NRA executive
director, points out that the study differs
from previous inquiries in that it seeks
the opinions of a broad range of citizens
rather than of a selected group of
experts.

Cooperating organizations include
the General Federation of Women’s
Clubs, Kiwanis International, the AF L-
CIO, the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture Extension Service discussion
groups, the National Council for the
Social Studies, the US. National Stu-
dent Association, the Boy Scouts of
America (Explorer Scout program for
boys 15-18), the Girl Scouts of the
U.S.A. (Senior Scout program for girls
14-17) .

Approximately one thousand groups
from each cooperating organization or
a total of nine thousand groups repre-
senting organizations with an aggregate
membership in millions, are being se-
lected to take part in the discussion.
The NRA estimates that about a quarter
of a million persons will actively par-
ticipate in the project, and that several
million more will be involved through
follow-up meetings that will not be re-

uired to make formal reports and
therefore will not be counted in the
final returns. -

Discussions will take place through-
out 1961 and early 1962. Reports will
be analyzed and tabulated in the spring
of 1962 and the final report to the na-
tion is scheduled for mid-1962.

) THE 1961 CONFERENCE of the Na-
tional Association of Recreation Thera-
pists will be held in Cleveland, Ohio,
April 4-7. The National Recreation
Association will be represented by
David Langkammer, the Association’s
Great Lakes District representative, and
Morton Thompson, acting director of
the NRA Consulting Service on Recrea-
tion for the Ill and Handicapped.

P CELEBRATE AMERICAN BIKE MONTH
during May. To help you launch a bike
program or expand your present one,
the ‘Bicycle Institute of America has
prepared a booklet of America’s All-
Time Ten Best Bike Games which in-
cludes twelve official rules of safe rid-
ing. The free booklets are being dis-
tributed across the country in every
retail bikestore. The BIA is located at
122 East 42nd Street, New York 17.

> THE 9TH ANNUAL CONFERENCE of

State Interagency Committees for Rec-
reation will be held May 23-25 at Bear
Mountain Inn, Palisades Interstate

172

Park, New York. Caswell M. Miles,
chief of the Bureau of Physical Educa-
tion, New York State Education Depart-
ment, is conference director.

) A NATIONAL AQUARIUM has been pro-
posed by Representative Michael Kir-
wan of Ohio in a bill (HR. 111) he

recently introduced.

P THE NATIONAL FOLK FESTIVAL has
incorporated as the National Folk Festi-
val Association, Inc., and has settled
down in a permanent home in Washing-

ton, D.C., in the John Kilpen Hotel,
2310 Ashmead Place, N.W. The 25th
Annual National Folk Festival will take
place on May 17-19 at Constitution
Hall in Washington. '

) OUR COASTAL WETLANDS are fast dis-
appearing, according to the US. Fish
and Wildlife Service. Drainage and
other measures are ruining fish and
game habitats. The Atlantic States
Marine Fisheries Committee, an associ-
ation of states, and the Gulf States
Marine Fisheries Commission are
studying the effects of marsh burning
on vegetation, soils, wildlife popula-
tion, run-off, and water quality, as well
as the after-effects of draining, filling,
water diversion, dams, revetments on
natural habitat. -

} SMOOTH AND ROUGH ICE will be skated
over at the Ice Skating Institute to be
held in Chicago May 2-4. Over one
hundred operators and builders from
all parts of the country will attempt to
solve problems of operation and
maintenance. A series of round-table
meetings will divide participants into
public-rink operators, commercial-rink
managers, studio operators, builders
and suppliers, and ice hockey adminis-
trators.

} GUIDEPOSTS FOR RECREATION in the
medical setting will be implanted dur-
ing the Fifth Southern Regional Insti-
tute on Recreation in Hospitals, to be
held in Morehead Planetarium at the
University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, April 20-22. Among the ten spon-
soring organizations are the North
Carolina Recreation Commission, the
North Carolina Recreation Society
(Hospital Division) and the National
Recreation Association. Doris Berry-
man of the NRA Consulting Service on
Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped
will be one of the leaders for a workshop
on expanding horizons of personnel.

1} A NEW RECORD. Travel to twenty-nine
national parks and 147 other areas

administered by the National Park
Service totaled 72,288,000 visits in
1960, based on a new counting system
inaugurated during the year. Since the

visitor-count system was changed, 1960
figures for individual park areas cannot
be compared in every case with 1959
figures for the same areas. Had the
previous system been continued in 1960
the total park travel for the year would
have been shown at 65,587,000, an

increase of 4.8 percent over the 62,-

812,000 recorded in 1959. While there
are 186 areas in the National Park Sys-

tem there are nine small areas where
no count is taken. In addition; the
total count does not include the other
unit, National Capital Parks in Wash-
ington, DC. and environs.

) FAMILY CAMPING know-how is pro-
vided as a public service by the depart-
ment of recreation of the University of
Illinois, which will stage its annual
Family Camping Show at Illini Grove,
Urbana, May 20-21. First held in 1958,
the show has grown steadily in scope
and attendance. More than seventeen
thousand who attended the 1960 Show
saw fifty commercial and noncommer-
cial exhibits. The 1961 show will em-
phasize new types of equipment, home-
made equipment, and such camping
techniques as back packing, canoe trip-
ping, outdoor cooking, and basic skills.

) LOCAL ANTI-LITTER CAMPAIGNS will
get a pickup during the spring regional
conferences of Keep America Beautiful,
Inc. On schedule are one-day work-
shops in Concord, New Hampshire,
April 14; Memphis, Tennessee, May 4;
and Jackson, Mississippi, May 5.

P NEW ADDRESS: Camp Fire Girls, Inc.,
is now located at 65 Worth Street, New
York 13.

DATES TO REMEMBER

May 1-31 American Bicycle
Month

May 1- 8 American Camp Week_

May 1- 7 National Youth Fitness

. Week

May 7-14 National Family Week

May 1330 Let’s Go Fishing Time

May 14 Mother’s Day

May 14-20 National Girls Club
Week

May 30 Memorial Day

June 1-30 National Recreation
Month

June 14 Flag Day

June 18 Father’s Day

June 19-25 Swim for Health Week

June 2- 8 National Safe Boating

Week 'r

Independence Day

J Oseph Lee Day

July 4
July 28

 

RECREATION

“my grandfather makes the best lay—

ground equipment in the whole world

because he loves little people like me!
he makes slides and swings and see-saws and all kinds
ofthings. they’re real strong and they’re very safe.

if you’re going to buy playground things you better
talk to my grandfather first. his name is mr. burke.”

Extra Heavy Duty Merry-Go-Rounda—éié”, .  Rugged Heavy Duty Swing-atriangulatend, . Kiddie Glider and Hobby Horse Swing-

,o.d.: galvanized steel 'pipensupport pies '  pipes’plos center p'ipe‘sopports. . - self-propelled with maximum safety. Can
finest select hardwood make this a life- t . ‘ . a . t ‘ be: assembled with various swing units.

time sewice'unit. - '

Unique Space Saver Slide features bright Regulation Ufiset Basketball Backstopw- Climb-A-Round—diversitied play for ?5 to
weatherproof caters over gaivanized iron Safest design in outdoor backstOps. Sup- 85 children, depending on size 0! unit.
and a stainless steel bedway._ .  gort pipes set back 2% from play area.

" ’ ‘ ' aoart.

, At No Cost Please send me your complete playground
Mail RequestTo: “ " ptanning and specification file.

J...    Name:. a . ,7, a- - __ 

P. 0. Box 986 Dept. 126 New Brunswick. New Jersey street;

OR ~ .
P. 0. Box 549 Dept. 126 Fond du Lac. Wisconsin“ City:...._ A

._—--——-'

APRIL 1961

 

 

‘ wk 1'  ‘ - .-. a I Y
.2  '__‘ __ '74 I ' “"1
we ,, -- ft,” «

 

In the shadow  M. Idymwinners of the Charley Weaver contest at Y ork’s Tryouts for Y ork’s Traveling Theate.
Flotilla Day. The children dressed as the saggy-baggy TV rapscallion, read their Youngsters from all the playgrounds
kracklebrained “letters from mamma,” peering out craftily over their specs. had a chance to test their talents.

Future astronaut tries on a'Navy space suit on Middletown New worlds to explore! New Jersey youngsters examine
playground. He seems a likely prospect for enlistment in display of models of Cloud-Cover Satellites, V anquard
another decade. Navy also showed lighter-than-air ships. Rocket, Explorer Satellite at exciting _outer-space events.

\’

174 ' RECREATION

YVD COUNTDOWN

 

“.-
.l'

.-_.-' - ’.
ma"

Flotilla Day .1; 

<5:

    

at twilight with a pa

a.

rude of lighted floats
lowed by special contests and entertainment. Each playground made a booth on

   
 
  

     

“a”

on Kiwa

 
 
 

,.
r
r
g . f}
, ,o) 5
a . <o

nis Lahe, fol-

a country fair theme. Miss Country Fair ( center) was the fete’s reigning beauty.

Left, can’t have a fair in the
Pennsylvania Dutch area
without some shoo fly pie,
so these bonneted misses set
up a pie booth on Flotilla
Day. Simple Simons met
some pie ladies at this fair.

Winning float of the 1960
Flotilla was a frilly castle
from birthday-cake land,
complete with moat, draw-
bridge, and topiary garden.
In the candlelit gloaming,
a scene from Y orlc of yore.

, 9:
3F 1»
' fa

-i

a"?

J
9..

a,“

,
I
a

r
.9;  :6 g”?

 

This Traveling Theatre was built and donated to the city playgrounds by
the Junior Chamber of Commerce, is pulled by a park department jeep on
its rounds. Here, playground “rubes” present a “Country Fair Musical.”

 

  
 
 

Many of today’s special activi-
ties reflect the events and
trends of the world

and space around us.

LAYGROL'ND PROGRAMS ARE adven-
P turing into many realms these

days—land, sea, and outer space.
Here are some of the special activities
to be found at the spin of the compass:

In Outer Space

It’s no wonder children in Middle-
town Township, New Jersey, think of
outer space as their own backyard. The
township lies within the New York
Metropolitan Defense perimeter and
has a Nike Battery and Missile Master
installation within its boundaries. The
U.S. Signal Corps headquarters at Fort
Monmouth and the Naval Air Station at
Lakehurst are nearby. Therefore. Rec-
reation Superintendent Jack W. Moody
decided to update the time-honored
playground balloon launching and hunt
by expanding it into a Satellite Launch-
ing Day for both children and adults.
Incidentally, the local military wel-
comed this opportunity for an excellent
bit of public relations.

Adding to the atmosphere of Bod-
man Park during the event were mobile
and static displays exhibited through
the cooperation of the military installa-
tions. The I'.S. Signal Corps head-
quarters at Fort Monmouth and the
Naval Air Station at Lakehurst are
nearby. The U.S. Army Signal Re-
search and Development Laboratory.
Fort Monmouth, exhibited models of
the Cloud-Cover Satellite, Vanguard
Rocket, Explorer Satellite, and an elec-
trical model Missile Master site installa-
tion. The Naval Air Reserve Training
['nit from the Y\Taval Air Station
brought along models of lighter-than-
air ships, a life raft including survival

gear, and a space suit, the helmet of
which the children could place over
their heads. Battery “B”, 4th Missile
Battalion of the 71st Artillery brought
to the park “Middletown’s Own” Nike-
Ajax rocket complete with launcher
which was elevated into firing position
every five minutes.

Once the program release hit the
papers other local groups and individ-
uals offered their services to fill out the
schedule of events. The commander of
the VFW Post 2179 furnished the post
drill team to open the activities with a
five-gun four-volley salute. Drill team
members remained as launching pad at-
tendants. A local Boy Scout troop as-
sisted in crowd control and guarding
the displays. Local police reserves vol-
unteered to direct traffic and park auto-
mobiles.

The program involved lofting five
hundred helium-filled, multi-colored
balloons with attached return addressed
cards bearing the sender’s name and a
request to the finder to record his name

and address and mail back to Middle-

town.

On Land and Sea

Many traditional playground events
have been developed into a fine science
in York, Pennsylvania. Three of the
most popular activities are Flotilla Day,
The Boat Regatta, and The Traveling
Theatre. Mrs. Sylvia Newcombe, su—

perintendent of recreation, sends the
following details:

Flotilla Day is well on its way to be-
ing an annual city-wide event, popular
with children and adults alike. The pro-
gram brought out eight thousand adult
spectators last August. This is a play-
day type of event, starting in the early
afternoon with all playgrounds in the
city actively involved. The central fea-
ture is at twilight, when a parade of
lighted floats is toured about the Ki-
wanis Lake. The city’s Spring Garden
Band plays music for this spectacle of
light and the city swans are usually in-
trigued and curious and follow the par-
ade in a stately row.

Each playground constructs its own
float on a base approximately six feet
square which is lashed to inflated inner-
tubes. to ensure good floating. Last
year’s theme, “Holidays Aglow,” al-
lowed each playground to select a fa-

176

vorite holiday. Candles were made
from discarded candles donated by city
churches and poured in glass holders
to protect them from the wind. The
pouring was done in the department’s
craft workshop by playground directors
on rainy-day staff sessions, sometimes
with a selected group of older volun-
teers. The candles were then mounted
on the floats on holders made of tin
cans. In addition, each playground
constructed a booth on a country fair
theme and sold a food item, as in a
country fair. Special contests and en-
tertainment were held during the eve-
ning. Playground prizes were awarded
both for floats and booths. The evening
closed with a public concert. The proj-
ect is not only beautiful for the public
to witness but allows latitude for each
playground to choose and develop its

own colorful project for the event.

The Traveling Theatre is a show
wagon for playground talent and enter-
tainment. It has a stage which, when
extended, measures 12’4”-by-9’ and is
equipped with footlights and sound.
This theater was built and donated to
the city playgrounds by the York Jun-
ior Chamber of Commerce. Talent try-
outs are open to playground children
and entertainment routines are pre-
sented. Local dance and music studios
are invited to present outstanding pu-
pils, thus giving a professional touch to
the program.

The theater is pulled by the park de-
partment jeep, on a scheduled number

 

Illustration by Syd Hoff
from Letters from Camp
(Chilton Company, 1961)

of visits throughout the city. This pro-
gram will be expanded this coming
summer both as a development of play-
ground talent and as to number of
showings.

The Boat Regatta is a traditional
playground event featuring boat mak-
ing as a playground craft. All wood
used is donated scrap wood from local
lumber firms. This is cut into boat
bottom shapes by the boys of the city
high school manual arts department,
and thousands are made available to
city playground children who carve,
sand, and further build boats from
them. The following classifications are
followed: sailboats, tugs and speed-
boats, houseboats and showboats. bat-
tleships, freighters, liners, and miscel-
laneous f from soap, paper, aluminum,
etceteral .

One of the nice features of this event
is the creativity and imagination used
by the children in the boat building—
radio equipment, houseboat furniture,
aircraft carriers, battleship equipment,
and all manner of ideas find expression
in this project. There are hundreds of
boats in the final craft judging. The
races are held on a playground stream
which is dammed up in advance to as-
sure a good current for the races. While
considerable luck is involved in the race
awards, the races are the final fun for
the playground children and top off a
very popular event.

Filling a Void

Since many of the playground areas
in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, have become
rather void in nature resources, the
park and recreation department de-
cided to transport the children to other
sites where a complete nature program
could be conducted. This accomplished,
the department was happy to note an
immediate improvement in the quality
of the program, and the excellent leaf,
flower, and insect collections.

4? '1" i9 *-

In Houston, Texas, August was Post-
ermalcin g Month for all of the children’s
craft classes and a poster contest was 
sponsored by the Junior Chamber of
Commerce and the Texas Society for
the Prevention of Blindness. Over one
hundred posters were displayed and
judged at Dodson Lake on the last day
of August.

RECREATION

 

 l a» .;. ‘

A puppet-making session in Greenfield, Massachusetts. The
youngsters also made a display for the playground parade.

RECREATION
FOR ALL
CHILDREN

Recreation must be a part of the life of
every child—even of the handicapped.
These examples of what can be and is being
done with retarded children are supplied
by the National Association for

Retarded Children, New York City.

A game of dodgeball. Adequate opportunity for play and fun
is an important form of self—help for the mentally retarded.

APRIL 1961

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

ECREATION IS A human need and should be a part of
R the life of every child, and the job of a professional
recreation worker includes a concern for the recrea-
tion of all children. Authorities agree that recreation activi-
ties for children who are handicapped, either physically or
mentally, are important not only as health, educational, and
training tools but also for the social group experience.
More and more such activities are being conducted on play-
grounds, in camps and recreation centers. Some of the
groups are isolated for the various activities, and some are
integrated with so-called normal children. Recreation
leaders are learning that retarded and otherwise handi‘
capped children resemble normal children more than they
differ from them. They do, however, develop at different
rates of speed.

Local units of the National Association for Retarded
Children, while carrying out such programs on their own,
are cooperating with municipal recreation departments or
other community agencies throughout the country in setting
up such programs and in providing facilities such as play-
grounds, day camps, social dance classes, swimming. arts
and crafts, scouting, sleep-in camps, teen canteens, and most
of the activities open to “normal” children and adults.

Activities

Scouting-“In Massachusetts, the Hampshire County Asso-
ciation for Retarded Children has organized a group of girl
scouts whose ages range from seven to twenty-one. In
Gardner, retarded boy scouts have been integrated into a
local troop. A cub pack is being organized in Lynn under

the guidance of the North Shore ARC.

Swimming-HA swim program has been launched in Glouces-
ter, Massachusetts. Boys and girls from Berkshire and
North Berkshire ARCS take advantage of pool facilities at
the Pittsfield Girls’ Club on Monday nights. The scout troop
in Brockton goes swimming as a group.

Playgrounds—III Kentucky, the Bluegrass Association for
Mentally Retarded Children sponsors a four-week summer
playground program, with one trained playground director
and one volunteer helper for each four children in attend-
ance. One day is devoted to handwork and play. Two days
are devoted mainly to rhythm band and singing, games, and
music. One day a dancing teacher teaches simple tap rou-
tines and folk dancing. Fridays the group uses one of the
municipal pools before it is opened to the public.

Clubs—The Association for the Help of Retarded Children
in Eugene, Oregon, was able to start a teen club for the
retarded. They have received free dancing lessons from the
Arthur Murray Studios and swimming instructions from the
American Red Cross.

In Michigan, the Kalamazoo School for Retarded Chil-
dren has a program for young adults, seventeen to thirty.

They are picked up and arrive at the school about 4. PM for

Continued on Page 207

177

The gambling capital does not take chances
when it. comes to its public recreation program.

RECREATION . ..
LAS VEGAS
STYLE

Gordon D. Hunsaker

T 0 SOME ten million Americans who
visit Las Vegas, Nevada, each year
it is a neon city of festooned nighteries
and gaming casinos; but to the 125,000
men, women, and children who live in
and around it, Las Vegas means home.
The community has gone to some ex-
traordinary lengths to provide its young
with the recreation facilities they need to grow up prop-
erly. In glittering Las Vegas there are many types of legal
“games.” There is the kind played on the fabulous “Strip”
and equally fantastic Fremont Street downtown—in the
multi-million dollar establishments with their pale-green
covered crap tables and flash of roulette wheels. Then, there
are the games played on those verdant ball parks and school
grounds wrested from the desert by the parks department.
Recreation for the city’s children and other residents is
the result of sound planning by city and school oHicials
backed by the people of Las Vegas. Like any other city,
Las Vegas is concerned with the welfare of its children, as
regards recreation, parks, schools, juvenile. delinquency,
and related children-parent-school-city problems.

Las Vegas is a twenty-four-hour town. Split shifts are
commonplace; often both parents are working; and chil-
dren find lonesomeness a problem. The heterogeneous pop-
ulation continues to climb at an amazing rate. Within the
shadow of the city are the huge Nellis Air Base and Lake
Mead Naval Base. Therefore, the recreation department
must provide an extended program of activities geared to

.the pace of the town and the social backgrounds of its citi-

 

 

-—-u—y—

MR. HUNSAKER, former assistant superintendent of recrea-
tion in Las Vegas, Nevada, is now superintendent of parks,
recreation, and forestry in Hazel Park, Michigan.

 

178

zens: pit bosses and agronomists; teachers and air force
pilots; laborers and 21 dealers; promoters and preachers.

As well as a full-scale sports program for all age groups,
the Las Vegas Recreation Department has gradually devel-
oped a diversity of activities. It has promoted a major scale
roller-skating program. Thousands of dollars were spent
acquiring proper skates; instructors were found and floor
guards hired. Every evening and most afternoons finds
young and old skating to waltz music supplied through a
hi-fi set.

The golden-age club for those over fifty has had aston-
ishing results. Many have come from the shell of old age
into a bright new aura of comradeship. They elect their
own officers and plan their own activities: anything from
chess-and-checker tournaments to picnics and other types
of outings.

Slim-and-trim classes have been organized and a new
municipal health association is offering weightlifting and
other health programs. Arts-and-crafts classes are present-
ing new ideas to all ages. School playgrounds are kept open
by recreation-department personnel during the summer
months and trained recreation leaders plan programs for
the neighborhood children. The city’s four swimming pools
accommodate thousands. Municipal officials and the school
groups recently have worked out agreements regarding the
use and care _ofn.the schools and their playgrounds and facili-
ties and the-T‘city facilities, including parks, recreation-
department facilities, and other city-owned and operated
areas. The 'written agreement leaves no doubt as to the
singleness of pUrpose of the city and schools: that of sup-
plying better recreation for the citizenry of Las Vegas.
Schools are available to the city primarily during the sum-
mer months; city facilities are used by the school system
primarily during the winter months. New junior-high

RECREATION

 

‘-
1

Left, the glittering neon city of gam-
ing casinos and festooned nighteries
known for its fabulous “Strip” and
equally fantastic Fremont Street down-
town, for multi—million dollar establish-

ments, the flash of roulette wheels,
and pale-green covered crap tables.

Right, a rugged landscape against the
blue waters of Lake Mead behind giant
Hoover Dam makes unforgettable scen-
ery like this for boating enthusiasts
visiting Las Vegas. Thousands of fish-

ermen go after the black bass which
make the man-made lake their home.

schools have been constructed, each with a beautiful, fully-

equipped all-purpose room which includes gymnasium, stor-
age rooms, stage, and office space. The city, with recom-
mendations from the recreation and parks departments, is
constructing park-type areas adjacent to the schools.
Parks and recreation, being two distinct departments
Within the city framework, have also found that through
mutual cooperation each department functions with a sin-
gleness of purpose. Through the astuteness of Bruce Trent,
superintendent of recreation, and Kenneth Hadland, super—
intendent of parks, a comprehensive program involving ac-
tivities of both sections of city function has evolved.

BEING A PART of the only state with legalized gambling,

Las Vegas accepts the gambling industry as a segment
of its community. Through cooperation of the gambling
houses many recreation projects have been furthered. Some
time ago the recreation department, realizing the need for
expanded baseball facilities, undertook the construction of
a large, complete, and fully equipped municipal baseball
diamond adjacent to the municipal golf course. It was to
be fully lighted for night games and outfitted to the “nth”
degree. Baseball had captured Las Vegas. Literally thou-
sands of boys of all ages were swarming to both public and
private recreation organizations during baseball season for
instruction and competition. The city recreation depart-
ment, alone, through the organization of seven full leagues,
including eight-year-olds up through adulthood, provided
activity for over eleven hundred persons.

The recreation department needed financial assistance to
make the ball park a reality. Through cooperation of one of
the TV stations and sportscaster Chuck Hull a marathon TV
program was started. Over $20,000 was realized for the
baseball fund, with a substantial amount contributed by the
various gaming houses. The ball park is now a reality, a
$60,000 facility. A large number of the teams are managed
and coached by employees of the various gaming houses.

Recreation-department personnel have also been instru-
mental in forming and aiding various community better-
ment groups. Mr. Trent acts as an advisor to the Youth
Advisory Council which delves into the problems of Las

APRIL 1961

 

V egas’ youngsters. He participates in the Southern Nevada
Community-Armed Forces Council created to develop better
rapport between the city and the members of the Armed
Forces. Through the efforts of Bill Lewis, the council’s co-
ordinator, tours have been arranged so new Air Force,
Navy, and Marine personnel can become acquainted with
the area and its people.

OTHER AGENCIES, both public and private, also play an
active part in recreation for Las Vegas. The Clark
County Fair and Recreation Board, organized primarily to
construct a $6,000,000 convention center, has invested over
half a million in the past few years to construct seven swim-
ming pools, two parks, and several other recreation facili-
ties in the area. The board recently acquired a six-square-
mile area which it intends to develop into a recreation area
for archery, golf, and other outdoor activities. It has con-
tributed $40,000 for a youth camp at Mt. Charleston and
another $15,000 for an honor camp for problem youngsters.
The PREWIN Foundation has sponsored many projects.
The organization takes its name from Milton Prell and A]
Winter, two executives of the Hotel Sahara, one of the city's
major resorts, and is supported by them and other execu-
tives of the hotel. Among other things, PREWIN has li-
nanced the activities of the city recreation department rifle
team; has bought extensive rehabilitation equipment for the
local Easter Seal Treatment Center; has assisted financially
in the recreation department’s junior baseball program; has
financed Las Vegas participation in the Junior Economy
Run; and finances such annual events as the Ram-49er bas-
ketball game and football clinic and the National Fast Draw
Championship.

The local Variety Club sponsors a very costly undertak-
ing, a school for special education for handicapped young-
sters, and the Sisters of Divine Providence run a day
nursery for children of working mothers. Many other social
and civic organizations have their own projects.

Considering the multiple problems which a city of this
type experiences and its diversity of population and inter-
ests, we are indeed proud of our recreation program—Las

Vegas style! 

ie Planning Committee in Session—A recent
ork session in Detroit has resulted in
top program for this year, with a new
1d unique format developed around
e theme “Recreation in a Mobile
merica.” A detailed report of this will
)pear in the earliest possible issue of
ECREATION. ( See committee names

210th.)

 

PLANS for
your 43 "I

"in p PT'V'F‘ m“ f. r

J

‘ "\r“.”

DETROIT, MICHIGAN
OCTOBER 1 to 6, 1961

180

Site OI MeeIIngF—Detroit’s new Cobo Hall

and Convention Arena is outstanding
among the world’s auditoriums for
sheer size and flexibility. It offers more
than four-hundred-thousand (nine
acres) square feet of almost totally un-
obstructed space to house trade shows,
expositions and exhibits. One hundred-
thousand square feet in one unit, three
hundred—thousand in another, can be
combined to house one major event, or
partitioned to hold as many as four
events simultaneously. The main audi-
torium holds up to fourteen thousand,
and thirty-three smaller rooms will hold
meetings ranging in attendance from
eighty to three thousand. The two
larger rooms can be combined to seat

five thousand or a banquet of three
thousand.

Policy and Program Committees—Standing,

left to right: Edward T. McGowan, first
deputy superintendent, Detroit Depart-

Detroit Skyline—

Cobo Hall in Foreground

ment of Parks and Recreation; Howard
Jeffrey, executive director, American
Recreation Society; Charles E. Hartsoe,
secretary, National Recreation Con-
gress; William F rederickson, J r., ARS
president-elect; Dr. Norman P. Miller,
Federation of National Professional Or-
ganizations for Recreation; Arthur
Williams, associate executive director,
National Recreation Association; and
Herbert E. Kipke, president, Recreation
Association of Michigan. Seated, left to
right: Frank J. Rowe, Congress exhibit
manager; Willard C. Sutherland, direc-
tor, NRA Recreation Personnel Serv-
ice; Mrs. June Braaten, executive sec-
retary, Ontario Recreation Association;
Joseph Prendergast, NRA executive di-
rector; R. Foster Blaisdell, ARS presi-
dent; Donald B. Latshaw, RAM; Dr.
Edith L. Ball, ARS first vice-president;
and Thomas W. Lantz, NRA National
Advisory Council. (Not in Photo: Betty
J. Lloyd, Detroit Department of Parks
and Recreation.)

RECREATION

 

 

TENNIS SERVES!

Free tennis clinics provide an antidote for delinquency

for over forty thousand youngsters in San Francisco Bay area

T TAKES A racquet to beat a racket.
I This is being proven in the San
Francisco Bay area where commu-
nity leaders were seeking another way
to combat juvenile delinquency and de-
cided to try tennis as an antidote. They
hoped to interest youngsters in taking a
tennis racquet in hand during their most
formative years by providing the best
qualified instructors. They agreed that
the principal ingredients of a successful
program for children are the good,
health-building Sports and the reSponsi-
ble leadership that can help build char-
acter; and they felt that tennis could
provide both.

But the basic idea had to be tested.
Letters of inquiry went out to recrea-
tion and physical-education leaders in
Northern California, asking many ques-
tions about community need in relation
to well-conceived program of free ten-
nis instruction. Surprisingly enough,
the response was immediate and defi-
nite. Department heads spoke up; say-
ing: “We would be greatly interested in

APRIL 1961

a free tennis-clinic program for our
public playgrounds; but, we have nei-
ther the equipment nor instructors to
carry out such a plan. . . .” “Because
of budget difficulties we have not been
able to supply the necessary equipment.

. .” “Our gym teachers are so heavily
preoccupied with team sports that little
emphasis has been placed on tennis. . . .”
“There are no tennis courts connected

with our school.”

The need was clear enough: to create
a program was the question. Fifty men
started the ball in play by signing arti-
cles of corporation and becoming the
board of trustees of the Youth Tennis
Foundation which is now bringing the
teaching of the game to well over forty
thousand youngsters in the bay area.
The emphasis is on beginners, children
between the ages of eight and fifteen
who have never held a racquet before.

Facilities were selected with the aid
of recreation supervisors for the pres-
entation of the eight-week clinics, first
in the more depressed areas. How ever.

an equitable, city-wide coverage was the
goaL

Children from all backgrounds
responded; some of the classes had
twenty beginners, others seventy-five;
and all of them stayed with the pro-
gram. Now, at the end of spring, sum-
mer and fall instruction periods, the
youngsters congregate to receive their
winner and runner-up trophies; and
what a proud moment it is for them!
However, the real reward is to the ob-
server who sees the expression of pride
and satisfaction on the young faces.

SCHOOLS IN San Francisco, Oakland.
Berkeley. l’ittsburg, San Leandro.
and San Mateo have been treated to

 

A well set-up recreation program
is one of the most potent factors in
the prevention of juvenile delin-
quency. -—-KENNETH J. SCUDDFR,
chief probation ollicer, County of
Los Angeles, California, in The
Offender in the Community.

 

181

 

CHURCH
RECREATION

 

»...M---

HE SUMMER RECREATION prOgram
at Idlewild Presbyterian Church

in midtown Memphis, Tennessee,
has grown rapidly since the program
began nine years ago in a large house

eight blocks from the church. Now
there is a spanking new building,
opened in September 1960. The pro-
gram offers a rich variety of activities
from instruction in French and lecture-
discussions on Japanese culture (high-
lighting again the educational trend in
programing) to golf-by-mail.

The summer program starts the first
of June and continues until the last of
August. Some of the activities include
a day camp, Boy Scout camp, Girl
Scout camp, archery instructions, ten-
nis clinic, golf team, departmental class
nights for pioneers (grades 7, 8, and
9), senior (grades 10, 11, and 12) , and

college and young adults, junior first-

 

MR. STRUNK is recreation director of
the Idlewild Presbyterian Church in

Memphis, Tennessee.

182

Brooks Rawlins, a Youth Tennis Foun-
dation instructor, and trophy winners.

demonstration clinics. The turnouts in
the schools ranged from two thousand
junior high students at rallies to fifty
or sixty children in their regular gym
classes. This exposure to the game at
the junior-high-school level has helped
stimulate participation in the after-
school tennis clinics. It has also re-
newed the interest of gym instructors
in carrying tennis as an elective sport.

Today, there are more children on
tennis courts in the San Francisco Bay
area than at any time since the golden
days of the game. The delinquency rate
in the same geographic area is lower
than in other metropolitan areas of the
United States. The foundation does not
pretend to account for this variance.
For, in concert with other fine youth
activities, the foundation feels that even
one youngster dissuaded from a path of
wrongdoing makes the entire program

worthwhile. #

William R. Strunk

A Church’s Summer Recreation Program

aid courses, beginner conversational
French classes, bowling team for adults,
two Pee-Wee basketball teams (ages 10
and under), two junior baseball teams
(ages 11 and 12) , senior baseball team

(ages 13, 14, and 15), major baseball
team (ages 16, 17, and 18).

The church formed a swimming and
diving team in 1958, which was the first
one formed by a church group in the
Southeastern Amateur Athletic Union.
Instructions in all Red Cross courses
are given to about three hundred people
of all ages participating in the swim-
ming program. The summer recreation
program is mimeographed and mailed
to each family in the church.

The recreation and education com-
mittee has a combined budget. The
largest percent of the recreation pro-
gram is paid out of this allotment.
Sometimes there is a fee for various
activities enabling the church to pay the
instructors. All athletics in the church
are played in Presbyterian Leagues or-
ganized by the Presbyterian Athletic

Association. The Memphis Park Com-
mission furnishes diamonds and um-
pires and makes up the schedules.

The recreation committee is respon-
sible for the program. This committee
is made up of an elder, a deacon,
women of the church, junior deacons,
the youth fellowship, the children’s di-
vision, scouting, Recreation Director
William R. Strunk, the Christian educa-
tion director, minister, and members
from the church at large. The function
of this committee is to plan and super-
vise an active recreation program for
all ages, and to counsel with the direc-
tor of recreation regarding the activi-
ties of the recreation program. The rec-
reation committee is a subcommittee of

the Christian Education Committee ap-
pointed by the session of the church.

The Idlewild Presbyterian Church

invites the church members and people
from the vicinity to join in its summer
activities. The proof of the program is
in its expansion. #

RECREATION

HAVE HORSE,
WILL TRAVEL

Thomas C. Miller
THERE IS a real Wild West aura in

Pompano Beach, Florida, where
the recreation and parks department
sponsors a riding program. Most of the
fifty-odd horses and ponies are Western
saddle horses; there are even a few
English riding horses and two or three
fine jumpers. The program began over
four years ago when the writer and the
city athletic director, Les Parsons,
watched several local children riding
their horses along the city streets. As
the horses approached athletic fields or
playgrounds, other children gathered
around to pet them, unaware that there
was any danger of being stepped on or
kicked. This led to the decision to be-
gin a riding program for children.

Pompano Beach, controlling 525
acres of airport property, is one of the
few cities fortunate enough to have am-
ple areas for recreation and park ex-
pansion. Several years ago, the local

Kiwanis Club had built a fine riding
ring complete with lights for night ac-

 

@PROGRAM

 

The pet that adds
glamor to program!

Three years ago the city paid the
Kiwanis Club for the property and has
completely taken over management of
the park. The city’s budget now pro-
vides for its maintenance and for a per-
manent custodian who lives in a trailer,
and is continually on hand in case of
an emergency. There is also a laborer
assigned to the stables who keeps riding
rings, restrooms, and the public area in
good condition.

F IFTY CHILDREN and young adults re-

cently formed the Mavericks, a
club run by junior officers, but super-
vised by a board of adults. Here, they
learn the elements of safe riding, how
to care for, feed, and handle their
mounts. These things are necessary if
the young people wish to compete in the
monthly Western Horsemen’s Associa-
tion circuit shows Where riders are in-
troduced to more advanced precision
riding and spectacular drills. The de-

partment recently acquired an electric

tivities, underground sprinkler system,
well, and pump. When the recreation
department learned that the club aver-

Alley-00p! Maverick Club members
learn precision riding and drills, com-
pete in Western Horsemen’s Associa-
tion shows, a tribute to their skill.

timing device to help precision riders
performing musical chairs and: Other
drills. A tribute to the Mavericks’ rid-

aged only one horse show a year, it re-

quested that this area be used to instruct children to ride
safely, build their own stables, and, with the aid of the de-
partment, to conduct their own horse shows.

The department assumed responsibility for getting the
riding ring and surrounding area in good condition by fer-
tilizing the grass, painting the ring, setting up bleachers,
and constructing a building with restrooms, storage space,
and a small patio where adults could watch the children
ride. The department also interested riding enthusiast Al-
bert Smoak, then city commissioner, in the clearance of
more than eight miles of bridle paths.

When local residents learned that stable space was being
provided, many purchased horses for themselves and their
children, and the original six-horse participation has grown
to almost sixty. Owners of horses, as participants in the
program, are responsible f0r building their own stalls and
stables according to city specifications, as well as cleaning
stalls, feeding, watering, and grooming the mounts, and pol-
icing the park area. These enthusiastic adults have since
formed the Saddle Club, which, along with the recreation
department, has held many Western horse shows, barbe-
ques, and moonlight rides.

APRIL 1961

ing skill is their recent permission to
hold the first Western Horsemen’s Association winter cir-
cuit show—never allowed a junior club before.

Even for beginners, cleanliness is a must, and stalls and
tackrooms are inspected twice a week to assure that every-
thing is in good condition. Demerits are given for dirty
stalls or other disorder and a rider receiving one is
grounded from riding for a day or more except to exercise
his horse. In line with the emphasis on cleanliness, the de-
partment has recently purchased a dump truck to haul away
manure to the city nursery and a new spray machine that
attaches to the truck to disinfect the area in minutes.

The recreation department is planning many shows,
moonlight rides, barbecues, and visits to ranches near the
Everglades this winter. With the help of a new supervisor,
an experienced horseman who has judged and directed
many shows in the South, the program will become even
more exciting as time goes on. The growth of this activity
since its beginning has been very encouraging. You don’t
have to live out West to feel at home on the range. #

MR. MILLER is director of recreation and parks in Pompano

Beach, Florida.
183

1 8-1

 

Highly popular at Balti-
more’s Patterson Park fair
was Ring-the-Bell, a mini-
ature of the strength-tester
seen at most carnivals. It
was made from wooden
boxes in which park show-
er pipes had been packed.

ADD SOMETHING NEW

 

The parade that clirnaxed summer playground activi-
ties in Newington, Connecticut, represented every
facet of the program. Local residents really found
out what the youngsters had been up to all summer.

 

HILE FESTIVALS, circuses, parades,
W and even gold rushes are nothing
new historically speaking, they can be
the newest—and newsiest—thing in
town if you are inventive enough. They
can certainly provide the high spot of
any summer playground program. The
four special events outlined here may
inspire you to go and do likewise—or
think up variations on similar themes.
Frequently, something new is merely
something borrowed from something

old.

Klondike Gold Rush

Even the dog days of August can be

stirring if you reenact the famous Klon-
dike Gold Rush of August 16, 1896.
Here’s how:
EQUIPMENT: Postage stamp; weighing
scale; several rolls of gold wrapping
paper depending on size of group);
and several rolls of yellow or gold-like
wrapping paper or wallpaper, gold or
with streaks of gold.

RECREATION

PREPARATION: Tear paper into small
pieces; crumple into various sizes.
PROCEDURE: It is very important that
the leader signifies that there is “gold
in them thar’ hills” without divulging
until the weighing-in at the assayer’s
office that there is fool’s gold in them
too. Children must not know that some
of the paper scattered and hid about is
fool’s gold; otherwise fun is lost.
STAKING CLAIM: Have each child regis-

ter his name and age with the assayer '

before the event begins. A sign on door
or desk could read:

U.S. GOVERNMENT ASSAYER

AND

PAWN SHOP FOR PROSPECTORS

PROSPECTORS _
REGISTER HERE

(signed) Sam Mint and

‘ Hank Goldmine, Mgrs.

(Have assayer’s desk roped off, or be-
hind table and bench.)

While the children are registering
their “staking rights,” the assistant
hides and scatters gold and fool’s gold
across playground, near trees, behind
rocks, in crevices, etcetera. Anybody
late or peeking through window is auto-
matically disqualified.

Arrange children in age groups, de-
pending on size of group and area to
be covered. Send them out in age
groups, one right after the other, start-
ing with the youngest. Explain to each
group that it is to search in its own
area, each group having a particular
area clearly defined from the others.
This will give slower children a chance
to find gold, too, and also prevent
crowding in any particular area. Re-
member, do not tell them that some gold
is fool’s gold. They will discover this
later.

At a certain prearranged time, or
when whistle blows, assayer’s ofiice is
open for weighing in the gold. Make
sure all children have returned before
opening assayer’s office. (This will pre-
vent any child from telling others still
prospecting that there is a difference in
the gold and what" the difference is.)

After all children are seated in assay-
er’s oliice, talk to them about prospect-
ing for gold—how some prospectors

don’t always find real gold. “What do

APRIL 1961

they find sometimes?” Some children
will eventually answer “Fool’s gold.”
Now they know they not only have real
gold, but fool’s gold too. The leader
can ask, “Well, what have you found?”
Much moaning and hilarity will result.

Now, call each child registered and
weigh in his real gold. Whenever fool’s
gold is brought to the table, say loudly,
“Fool’s gold.” Soon all children will
identify with each person while waiting
their turn and say “fool’s gold” along
with you. This helps to keep control
and interest.

On postage stamp scale, let one six-
teenth of an ounce equal one ounce of
gold. I had a paper plate taped to t0p
of scale to hold crumpled gold paper.
Person with most ounces wins game.
Or let each ounce of gold equal one
bubble gum or lollipop. At end give
something funny to those with fool’s
gold as booby prize—VICTOR DIMEO,
Director, Lynhurst Playground, Bureau
of Recreation, Baltimore, Maryland.

The U.S.—-—-
A New Game Court

The map of the United States, which
provides the central theme for a sprawl-
ing commercial enterprise called Free-
domland in New York City, can also be
the pivot of some new games on your
playground’s hard-surface area—as
well as a project in decoration. The fol-
lowing instructions and games origi-
nated with Jack Isenhour, principal of
the Benjamin Franklin Elementary
School in Pueblo, Colorado, who passed
them on to Mrs. Maud V. Stanford, sec-
retary to the Penndel Borough School
District in Pennsylvania, when she was
casting about for new playground
games.

Mr. Isenhour explains that you begin
with a small outline map of the United
States, an opaque projector and some
large sheets of heavy paper. “I used a
small outline map of the United States
and, with the aid of an opaque projec-
tor, projected the 1nap on the wall so 1
could make another outline map of the
United States about twelve by eighteen
inches. I then took this larger outline
map and projected it on the wall with

@ PROGRAM

 

the opaque projector until I had the
state of Texas measuring nine feet from
tip to tip. Why I decided on these di-
mensions and the state of Texas I do
not know, but I figured if I could get
Texas large enough for our biggest
student to lie down in, I would eventu-
ally come out with a map the size I
thought I would need. Leaving the
opaque projector in the same position
and placing each state in the machine,
I would have a large outline map drawn
to scale. I used heavy paper much like
the paper used in roofing and outlined
each state, thus making a stencil.

“I then cut out each state and labeled
it, placing a dot to represent the posi-
tion of the capital. Once I had an out-
line of every state, I assembled the map
on the playground, which is black-
topped. I traced around each state with
chalk, the only remaining job was to
paint all the chalk lines with yellow
traffic paint.

“The project could be handled by
fifth or sixth graders quite easily. Once
I outlined all of the states, I then lo-
cated the dots representing approxi-
mately where Pueblo is located. The
map measures thirty-five feet in length
and is in constant use by the students
not only in social study classes, but dur-
ing recess periods.

“Your imagination sets the limit to
the number of variations that can be
used with the playground map. Here
are four that have proven successful:
Obstacle Type Races—Beginning in
California, hop across Nevada, jump
over Colorado, duck walk through Kan-
sas, crawl through Missouri, and sit in

 

Arkansas. (An individual or team may
be given written or oral instructions to
follow. Starting on a signal and first
team completing instructions wins.)
Locating Points—Object is to be first
one to point described:

Continued on Page 211

185

Ibitln'l Hm cl
I P lt': .. “om x1551“ CANOE to Pacific

.x'l the sweep of Hawaii’s ad-

\ ance to full-fledged statehood in
the American Union is a dramatic and
1nspiring story. A succession of migra-
tions to the islands has added to the
native population many people from
China, Portugal, Korea. Japan, the
Philippines, and the mainland of the
['nited States. Today, the people of the
islands are born to a life that is much
the same as that of boys and girls on the
mainland. The result is a community
unique under the American flag, com-
posed of people of unusually diverse
racial ancestries, but all are American
citizens and proud of it.

The Metropolitan Park District, in
Tacoma, W'ashington, sought to capture
in its summer playground program
both the detail and the flavor of the
islands, lovely in their beauty, colorful
in their living, and devoted in their ad-
herence to democracy. The summer
playground theme was “Aloha, Hawaii.”
Each week was named after an island.

MRS. HAVEL is supervisor of play-
grounds and recreation centers for the
park-school district recreation program
in Tacoma, Washington.

On Tacoma ’s playgrounds

Right, King Kamehameha
Day. A visiting prince makes
his obeisance to the princess
and king before entering the
lists to win princess’ hand.

 

Left, lei making. In lieu of
maile leaf, ginger flower and
golden ilima the Tacoma leis
were of pastel toilet tissue—
very effective and inexpensive.

The first week was Hawaii, “The Big Is-
land.” Large signs were painted and
spread from tree to tree, saying “Aloha,
Hawaii.” We no longer lived in Ta-
coma; we were now on the islands. No
one answered you when you said
“Hello,” you had to say “Aloha.” The
hill behind the shelter was no longer
Franklin Park Hill, it was the pali
(precipice). The scavenger hunt tUrned
into a King Kamehameha treasure hunt.
The children were told how happy and
very polite Hawaiian children are; and
we had the nicest treasure hunt in play-
ground history. The checker tourna-
ment matched one island against the
other. The island of Oahu, “The Gath-

ering Place,” won the checker tourna-
ment.

T HE SECOND WEEK We studied Maui.

“The Valley Island.” We tried
throwing nets into space a la Hawaiian
fishermen. Many years ago the people
of Hawaii fished with individual nets.
It took a great deal of practice to make
the net spread out like a fan and drop
smoothly on the water. The net should
have weights on one side so you can
sail it through the air. We drew a line

along the ground for a shore line,
named the imaginary beach after an
island, and the area for nets after an
Hawaiian bay. The youngsters who
threw the nets the longest distance re-
ceived the first prize certificates. We
set the contest up in age groups. The
nets used were given to us by the Down-
town F ishermen’s Wharf. The festival
was called a hukilau.

The valley luaus were the talk of the
season. The food was delicious. We

' could not always reproduce the food,

so we substituted ideas. Cooking was
done in an underground oven called an
imu, a shallow pit filled with heated
stones. The food was wrapped in leaves
and placed on the stones; more hot
stones were placed on the leaves; then
more leaves and earth were also placed
on top. Cooking is still done this way
for a luau, or Hawaiian “feast. Our hot
stones were briquettes, our leaves alu-
minum foil, large rhubarb leaves were
used for plates. The children, for once
in their lives, could eat with their fin-
gers and be absolutely correct.

THE THIRD WEEK we named Oahu,
“The Gathering Place.” The South

 

Sea Island dress-up show was a sight to
behold. Everyone came as a beach-
comber, Hawaiian dancer, or beachboy.
Grass skirts were made from yester-
day’s News Tribune. Mother’s long
dresses were worn for muumuus. Glit-
tering gold papier-méiché King Kame-
hameha hats glistened in the sun as they
paraded before the audience. The Wai-
kiki sandcraft contest and the muumuu

dolly tea party made our valley a place
to remember.

Kauai, “The Garden Island,” was a
natural for our nature week. We picked
the most interesting corner in our field-
houses and decked the walls with color-
ful pictures about nature in Hawaii. We
studied about the flowers, trees, insects,
and fish of the islands. Every boy and
girl made a lei for the flower lei contest.
The group was told the story of how the
Polynesian settlers of Hawaii brought
leis of shark’s teeth, shells, or coral bits
with them. There were flower leis, made
from every kind of blossom and leaf im-
aginable. When a lei is hung around
your neck, it is the custom to kiss the
giver; for a lei is the very nicest present
that an Hawaiian can give you. (This
was most popular with the teenage
group.)

As the ancient Polynesians came
sailing from one island to the other
in small but seaworthy canoes, they
brought the custom of the leis with
them from India. The very oldest of
the leis made in Hawaii were fashioned
from the maile leaf, from the delicate
and perfumed pale yellow ginger flower
and the golden ilima, the flower symbol
of royalty. We made our leis, believe it
or not, from pastel-colored toilet tissue.
The were very effective and very inex-
pensive.

It took quite a bit of doing to live
up to our fifth week, Molokai, “The
Friendly Isle.” We did so, however, in
great style. Everyone was so nice to
everyone else, we had the caretakers
worried. Our average attendance for
the bike hikes over the pali were be-
tween twenty-five and thirty-five young-
sters from every playground.

The first white man we know of who
set foot on the islands was Captain

James Cook . . . so we had a Captain
Cook’s Hat Day. We made hats from

APRIL 1961

newspapers, wallpaper, cardboard, and
paper bags. Old sea-captain hats, pi-
rate hats—the sky was the limit. We let
our imaginations run riot-——this was a
great day. At our district storytelling
contest, the Hawaiian stories were in-
formative and fascinating. The librar-
ian couldn’t keep enough books on the

shelves to accommodate the storytelling
enthusiasts.

THE SIXTH WEEK of our playground
season we learned all about pine-
apples and how they grew on the island
of “Lanai.” Our pet show was another
fun time. To qualify, you had to be a
playground attender, love your pet, and
give it an Hawaiian name in order to be
admitted into the Maunalei Gulch. This
pet could be anything that breathes,
smells with its nose, crawls, eats, or
swims. Everything went well except for
a few dog fights, cat scraps, upset chil-
dren, and harassed playground leaders.
The highlight of the week was our ula-
maika (stone rolling contest). This re-
quired the rolling of a stone along the
ground for distance and accuracy. The
distance required to throw the stone
was thirty-five feet. This had to be
within a radius of ten feet at the end of
the throw line. We used discus shaped
rocks about four inches in diameter,
which were found on our own Puget
Sound beach. The longest-distance
thrower was the winner.
Kahoolawe, “Seventh Largest Is-
land,” was our seventh week. The travel
poster contest was a natural. Wonder-
ful dreams of traveling to the islands
were expressed on the children’s post-
ers. Many original posters publicized
future events on the playground. Trea-
sures from the sea collections were
“fantabulous.” At the conclusion of the
Honaunau Bay Water Carnival all the
children threw their leis into the wad-
ing pool and let them sail into the mid-
dle to be picked up by the Kamehameha
princess.

’ | ‘HE GRAND FINALE of the wonderful
summer was our Great King Kame-

hanleha Day. We based this pageant as
closely as possible on new and ancient
sports of Hawaii as published in REC-
REATION Magazine some years back.

@ PROGRAM

 

The author (in a muumuu) shows lei to
two young beachcombers. After the wa-
ter carnival leis were thrown into pool.

The herald, or liamoku, entered the
arena and blew a conch shell. He then
exited and the kahuna, or priest, en-
tered chanting. He took his position to
one side of the field as the king entered,
preceded by a procession of eight bear-
ers of kapu sticks, ti leaves, sugar-cane
blossoms, and flower kahilis. Kapu
sticks are, in effect, policemen; when
they are placed before the platform,
upon which sits the king and his daugh-
ter, no commoner may venture inside
them.

At the proper moment the king rises
and says in Hawaiian, “This is a day
set aside for recreation. Now, what
ever candidate wins the games will have
the honor of marrying the princess.”
For a moment all eyes are upon the
princess. Then the kahuna prays to the
patrons of the different games and in-
vokes their blessings.

The herald again blows his conch
shell, announcing the arrival of the
champions—princes—of the eight is-
lands in the Hawaiian group. As they
enter the arena they are accompanied
by the herald. Every prince, with his
retinue, approaches the king and his
daughter and makes his obeisance. The
princess refrains from indicating any
favorite among the contestants.

After this ceremony, and while the
princes retire to their appointed places,
the king calls upon his hula dancers to
perform.

Our Hawaiian program was a huge
success as a fun-filled summer festival
to be long remembered. 

Above left, how to age gracefully in one
easy lesson. Below, recreation department’s
well-stocked costume workshop comes up
with colonial dress. Above, a sorcerer
has an audience of would-be apprentices.
Right, all on a midsummer’s day. Simple
props, colorful costumes, a shady expanse
of lawn, an eager audience—truly a “king-
dom of dream and province of illusion.”

fi'kawuui‘fgé‘ Z, 

:>
’r
s

A, eigeih

2%” iii %  ‘q' m

 

 

in Summer

: values to summer activities

Maxine McSweeney

CHILDREN’S MATINEES ARE the way

to such happiness and fine edu-

cational results that they qualify
as a specific among recreation practices
and are an important part of the sum-
mer program of the Los Angeles Rec-
reation and Parks Department. A typi-
cal show consists of a play, folk songs
and folk dances presented by children
in a half hour program for an audience
of children.

In Los Angeles, these shows are held
each week at eighteen different matinee
centers during July and August. Chil-
dren from almost one hundred munici-
pal community recreation centers par-
ticipate in these programs. A season
schedule drawn up in April gives exact

MISS MCSWEENEY is senior recreation
director in the Los Angeles City Rec-
reation and Parks Department.

APRIL 1961

information concerning the time and
place for each group’s presentation and
makes possible an uninterrupted season
at each of the eighteen matinee centers.

These centers, located in community
recreation centers in various districts of
the city, have facilities which range in
size and appointments from an audito-
rium with a stage to a shady expanse of
lawn large enough to provide a playing
area and seating for the audience. All
the plays are simply staged with a few
stage props and screens to suggest the
scene. Most of the visual effect is
gained from colorful, appropriate, and
well designed costumes provided by the
department’s costume workshop for all
participants.

These participants regularly attend
the classes in drama, rhythmics, and
music at recreation centers nearest their
homes. Here the children develop skill
in the activities and rehearse the plays.
group songs, and group dances of their
choice until they can be presented with
spirit and assurance for a local audi-
ence of playmates and relatives. After
this performance at the home center,
children are ready to take their pro-
gram “on tour” to the nearest matinee
center for their scheduled program.

T 0 THE well known values and plea-
sures that come from participation
in a good rhythmic, drama, and music
program, the matinee adds several of its
It makes possible the thrill of
performing a program that has been in
rehearsal for about a month; it fur-
nishes the stimulus of a new audience
made up of children unknown to the
young players; it gives incentive for
travel to another center and for getting
acquainted with the children there.
The director at the matinee center
helps this get-acquainted process by
telling stories, conducting games, or

own.

leading community singing for both
spectators and players. Throughout the
season she publicizes the matinees, so
a good audience attends the perform-
ance each week. She welcomes the
players on arrival, familiarizes them
with the stage, and introduces local
children who will give any assistance

@PROGRAM

 

needed. She introduces the visiting di-

rector to the audience at the opening of
the program.

The material presented must be of
high standard. This is particularly true
of the play since it is the basis of each
program. To be considered for a mat-
inee, the play must be of good dramatic
structure and contain plot and dialogue

worthy of the players’ efforts and the
attention of the audience. Additional
requisites are a large cast and a twenty-
to thirty-minute playing time. Fulfill-
ing these requirements are the several
plays listed here. They represent a sam-
pling of the plays which have been suc-
cessful in the Los Angeles Children’s
Summer Matinees.

‘ : 00D PLAYS may be found in each

collection listed below:
Silver Bells and Cockle Shells, Marion Hol-

brook. National Recreation Association, 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11. Pp. 60.
Paper, $.35.

The Golden Bracelet in World Friendship
Plays, Virginia Olcott. Out of print, consult
your library.

Flowers in the Palace Garden in Every Day
Plays for Home, School and Settlement, Vir-
ginia Olcott. Out of print, consult your li-
brary.

*Cabbages and Kings in Eight Little Plays
for Children, Rose Fyleman. Doubleday and
Co., Garden City, New York. $2.00.

The Bailifs Wonderful Coat in More Leg-
ends in Action, Nellie McCaslin. Row Peter-
son Co., 2500 Crawford Avenue. Evanston,
Illinois. $2.60.

*A Treasury of Plays for Children, Montrose
Moses. Little, Brown & Co., 34 Beacon Street,
Boston 6. $5.00.

Mrs. Magician’s Mistake, Virginia Dixon.
Samuel French. 25 West 45th Street, New
York 36. Unpaged. Paper. $.50.

 

* Most of the above plays may be given with-
out payment of royalty. However, the pub-
lishers should be contacted regarding per-
formance of the two marked with an asterisk,
since under Certain circumstances they may
involve payment of a small royalty.

 

Know you what it is to be a child?
It is. . . to be so little that elves can
reach to whisper in your car; it is
to turn pumpkins into coaches, and
mice into horses, lowness into lofti-
ness, and nothing into everything,
for each child has a fairy godmother
in its soul.

-—PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY.

W

189

The Lions Roar

Evansville designs a zoo wagon for use on playgrounds _

Bret McGinnis

A FTER HAVING

enjoyed a
number of success-
ful seasons from a
show wagon, the
recreation commis-
sion in Evansville,

 

Indiana, began in-
vestigating the possibility of a zoo
wagon. Because Evansville has one of
the better zoos in the nation, the com-
mission wished to use this advantage
in coordination with its thirty-three
playgrounds. This created a number of
problems. First, the recreation commis-
sion, the park board, and zoological so-
ciety had to cooperate in operating,
scheduling, and displaying the wagon.
Second, the wagon must be designed ac-
cording to the type of animals available
for display at the zoo. Third, the wagon
must be constructed. Fourth, a source

for financing the cost of construction
had to be unearthed.

The superintendent of recreation first
consulted the park board and Norman
Clark, president of the zoological soci-
ety, concerning permission to display
the animals and the plan of cooperation
among the three boards involved.
Upon receiving permission from the
three boards, the design and plans for
a zoo wagon began. A number of meet-
ings were held between zoo and recrea-
tion officials concerning the wagon’s
design. The group formed a number of

 

MR. MCGINNIS is superintendent of rec-
reation in Evansville, Indiana, as well
as president of the Evansville Central

Lions Club.

Above, phzn for zoo wagon was adopted after considerable
discussion and revision. Right, all set and ready to roll.

190

conclusions before any designs were

placed on paper.
1. The wagon must be portable

enough to be moved easily.

2. The cages should be of two sizes.

3. The wagon must have storage
space for supplies and equipment.

4. The cages should be separate and
must open from the outside. Some con-
sideration was given to placing the
doors on the inside; however, because
of the difiiculty of handling animals in
small places, the plan was discarded.
Because swinging doors might be in-
effective, upward sliding doors were
ad0pted as the weight of the metal
would hold the door down.

5. The roof must have overhang to
counteract the straight effect of the
cages.

6. For easy maintenance, the floor
must slant to the outside for easy drain-
age, and a clean-out space should be left
at the bottom of the cage.

7. The ends of the wagon should be
solid and the side all barred for ade-

quate protection and ventilation.

8. The floor must be tongue and
groove to prevent splinters.

9. Awnings would be necessary for
shade purposes.

10. Portable stands and a chain all
around the wagon would be necessary
to protect the animals.

After considerable discussion, and
revisions, the design below was adopted.
The overall height of the wagon is
ninety-two inches and the cages are
fifty-two inches high.

In the meantime the recreation com-
mission decided to have its maintenance

staff build the wagon in the off-season
if money were available for construc-
tion.

AS THE Central Lions Club is the

most active civic club in Evans-
ville, and a lion cub would be a natural
for the wagon, this group was requested
to become the financing partner in the
operation. Realizing the potential of
the operation, the club adopted the plan
and became full partners to the amount
of $1,000.00, the estimated amount
needed for supplies and materials.

Members of the Lions Club immedi-
ately became active. Lions Gil Bennett
and Bill Epley secured a good 1954
Dodge truck frame from a junkyard at
a reasonable discount. Two recreation
commission maintenance employees,
with the aid of a park welder, com-
pleted the job in about four months.
Most of the work was performed on
days of inclement weather or when vital
work to the department was not neces-
sary. Upon completion, the Lions
moved the wagon to a big garage. The
Lions Club held paint parties and the
wagon was given two coats of paint in
two nights by members.

Since then, the wagon has been dis-
played in parks, shopping centers, on
the mall, and in a number of parades.
Needless to say, the zoo wagon is an
attraction to children and adults. This
project became a reality because of
civic and community cooperation. More
important, the story reveals the impor-
tance of public relations to recreation
executives and personnel. A recreation
executive cannot stand alone. #

 

RECREATION \

 

Summer Playground

George Butler

0 SINGLE ATTENDANCE index is
N applicable to all playgrounds,

according to the findings of a re-
cent study of summer playground at-
tendance sponsored by the National
Recreation Association. The study
showed a wide variation in the number
of persons attending playgrounds at
diHerent times of day and for different
sessions. Designed to produce a satis-
factory attendance formula, the study
was jointly sponsored by the Associa-
tion’s National Advisory Committees
on Administration and Research and
was conducted under the guidance of a
committee of ten, with Graham Skea,
superintendent of recreation in East
Orange, New Jersey, as chairman.

At the outset, the committee made
several assumptions: (1) the visit is
the most feasible and satisfactory at-
tendance unit; (2) an actual visitor
count throughout the session is imprac-
ticable; (3) a peak‘count is taken at
most playgrounds at each session or
period; and (4) a modification of the
peak count is necessary to record all
visits. The committee decided to follow

APRIL 1961

Attendance Formula

 

the same general procedure as was used
in a similar study conducted by a com-
mittee of recreation executives in the
summer of 1938. This entailed keeping
specified records for one week at each
playground participating in the study.
During all periods the playground was
open under leadership, a count was
made each hour of (1) the number of
persons entering the playground and
(2) the number of persons actually on
the playground. This procedure re-
quired at least one person to be at the
playground throughout the week to re-
cord the data. The committee suggested
the study be made during the week be
ginning July 11th if possible, and a
majority of the playgrounds made their
counts at that time.

To assure a degree of comparability
of data and to prevent areas not neigh-

borhood playgrounds from being in-
cluded in the study, the committee es-
tablished a criteria for the participating
playgrounds. These indicated that the
areas be ( 1) between 2 and 7.5 acres;
(2) developed and equipped for a vari-
ety of activities; (3) and open under
leadership at least two sessions daily.

Forms were devised and distributed
for use at each playground, with spaces
for recording the number of persons en-
tering the playground each hour, for
the mid-hourly counts of participants
and spectators, and for data on the
weather and other factors affecting
attendance.

RECREATION AND park authorities in

eighty cities indicated a willing-
ness to record attendance at 125 play-
grounds. All sections of the country
were represented by cooperating de-
partments. Of this number sixty cities
submitted reports for a total of 102
playgrounds in time for inclusion in the
report. Unfortunately. data from only
seventy-live playgrounds could be used;
the figures in twenty-five of the reports

191

were useless because the person record-
ing the attendance failed to follow in-
structions.

Because the forms describing the
playgrounds indicated wide differences
in various respects it was decided to
classify the areas in four ways: by acre-
age; by hours of operation (morning,
afternoon, and evening) ; by total lead-
ership hours per week; and by number
of facilities provided. It was further
agreed the best basis for arriving at an
attendance index or formula was to
compare the number of persons enter-

 

 
  
 

FREE!

  

Facts
every

POOL
OWNER

should know

the "how and why"
of POOL (ARE

   
  
 

 
 
  
  
     
  

0 Improving filter efficiency

     
   
  
  

0 Water treatment chemicals . . . when
and how much to use

0 Controlling algae, turbidity, acid 0
alkalinity ‘

0 Tips on painting, water tesling,
cleaning and maintenance

DCheck if you want FREE
data card, layout sheet, pool
record forms for pinpointing
pool problems.

(modm

Since 1935 . . . leading manufactur-
ers of pool equipment and chemicals

Modern 0 One Holland Ave., White Plains, N. Y.
Please send me your FREE POOL OWNERS GUIDE.

Print Nome

 

Address

City Zone State

Wm

 

 

4 hours or under 1.89 over 4 hours

2'7"“

ing each playground each period with
the peak count for the period.

The figures submitted were analyzed
for the playground groups according to
the four classifications, each of which,
in turn, was further subdivided. Be-

 

cause of the diversity in the number'

and types of facilities and the difficulty
in determining their influence upon at-
tendance, the data for playgrounds
grouped by number of facilities was
felt to be of no significance, and was
not used as a basis for a committee
recommendation.

The following tables contain a sum-
mary of the ratios between the peak
counts and the actual visits recorded——
morning, afternoon, and evening-——for
the participating playgrounds, accord-
ing to three different groupings. (In all
cases the figures in parentheses indicate
the number of playgrounds.)

Playgrounds Classified by Acreage

Size Morning Afternoon Evening
Under 3 acres 1.98(10) 2.25(10) 2.25( 6)
3-5 acres 1.70(14) 2.46(20) 1.88(15)
5-8 acres 1.93(17) 2.97(16) 1.42( 9)
8 and over 1.83(18) 2.51(19) 1.71( 9)

Playgrounds Classified by Leadership Hours

Under 80 1.74(23) 2.06 (27) l.53(10)
per week
80-120 1.60(14) 2.05(15) 1.27( 7)

120 and over 207(24) 2.85 (26) 2.26(19)

Playgrounds Classified by Hours of Operation
Morning:

Under 3 hours
Afternoon :

1.68 3 hours and over 1.96

3.01
Evening:

Under 2 hours 1.29 2 hours and over 1.94

BlacktOp pavements don’t have to be black. . .

 

Vynatear3®223

This new polymer coating for asphalt pavements provides

the charm, beauty, attractiveness of distinctive colors.

- Grass Green
Color-fast, durable .

0 Concrete Gray
. easy to keep clean.

0 Brick Red

C. wag—5775;232:1350:

Write for Bulletin L-1828 See your  Trio? distributor

192

 

 

A S THE TABLES indicate, the study re-
vealed a wide variation in the ratio
between the number of persons attend-
ing the playgrounds during morning,
afternoon, and evening sessions and the
peak counts at these sessions, in the case
of playgrounds of different sizes, hours
of operation, and leadership hours.
Therefore, the committee proposed that,
wherever possible, the attendance at
each individual playground should be
based upon a combination of the ratios ‘
determined by the study for play-
grounds of similar size, hours of opera-
tion, and hours of leadership. By way
of illustration, a playground of six acres
operated with a total of one hundred
leadership hours per week and open
three hours per morning would have
morning ratios of 1.93; 1.60; and 1.96;
respectively, or an average of 1.83. To
the attendance
(number of visits) at this playground
the peak count would be multiplied by
1.83.

To apply the recommended ratios in

determine morning

a locality, the authorities at the begin-
ning of the summer would assign to
each playground its individual morn-
ing, afternoon, and evening indices,
based on its size, leadership, and hours
of operation. A peak count of the num-
ber present on the playground would be
recorded each morning, afternoon, or
evening session.

The committee recommends that at-
tendance reports entered by the play-
ground directors should contain only
the actual peak counts and that applica-
tion of the various indices to determine
total attendance be a function of the
central office. Such a procedure would
help eliminate mistakes and misunder-

  

standings, and is especially important
in localities where a different attend—
ance index is assigned each playground.

In cities where playgrounds are simi- it“
lar in size, leadership, and hours of op-
eration, or where lack of office person-
nel makes it impossible to keep more

Continued on Page 208

}

RECREATION \

Have the courage to try out
your own ideas, based on
local needs as you see them

FROM
DREAM
TD
DRAWING
BOARD

Gene Rotsch

 

Children will twist swing chains! A
model of the new space-spin rotating
swing unit shown with working drawing.

APRIL 1961

BE YOUR PLAYGROUNDS a dream
come true? Do they reflect the
individuality of your city? Are

they designed to best utilize the size and
shape of the site and best suit the needs
and characteristics of the individual
neighborhood? In Garden Grove, Cal-
ifornia, the answer is, “Yes, indeed!”

Garden Grove has had to plan and
act fast. The population of this rela-
tively new community has increased
520 percent in nine years, more than
doubled in the past four. At this rate,
saturation, estimated at a hundred and

fifty thousand, will take place in a few
short years.

Fortunately, the administration and
the City Council had the foresight to
negotiate the purchase of a forty-acre
park site fr0m the federal government,
even before the initiation of the recre-
ation and parks department. This park
is now in its third phase of develop-
ment. The city also owns, and has re-
developed. a small neighborhood-type
park, and acquisition of more neigh-
borhood sites is under way in various
sections of the city. The recreation and
parks department also administers the
city-wide community program with a
thirty thousand weekly summer attend-
ance in cooperation with the three local
school districts. Nevertheless, the great-
est problem is still acquiring and devel-
oping additional park and recreation
facilities.

Garden Grove’s dedicated profes-
sional staff includes a graduate land-
scape designer and a park superintend-
ent who has literally grown up with
horticulture and maintenance. We de-
sign and construct most of our own
equipment, adapting it to individual
situations. In our basic approach to
equipment design three factors are al-
ways considered: play value and aes-
thetic appeal; safety for participants,
and ease of maintenance and durability.
We do not attempt to create play ap-
paratus simply for innovation but to
eliminate shortcomings of equipment
that receives only minimal use after it

MR. ROTSCH, director of the recreation
and parks department in Garden Grove,
California, is well known to RECREATION
readers for his success in designing his
own functional playground equipment.

EgADMINIS TRATI ON

 

 

C antilevered children’s swing unit gives
youngsters a feeling of completely free
suspension. Angle of pipe also discour-
ages children climbing the columns.

has been purchased and installed. We
place play value ahead of safety in our
preliminary research and design. Safe-
ty, alone, is not enough! A completely
safe piece of play apparatus which is
not used is still a poor expenditure of
the tax dollar.

With every new piece of equipment
designed we make an exact model to
scale. This is of great value in elimi-
nating possible design errors. We have
yet to experience any major alterations
in our completed equipment. Another
advantage of constructing scale models
is that they present a complete picture
of the equipment, diliicult to visualize
on an engineer’s working drawing.

WE ADAPT IDEAS from all over. A

spherical climbing unit used in
Sweden inspired our “atomic climber."
Frankly, we have never attempted to
put this design on paper because the
multitude of angles, curves, and pipe
intersections would make it very difli-
cult to portray in a technical drawing.
Thus, in building three atomic climbers,
the one-inch scale model had to be
taken to the field and physically scaled
as construction progressed. This unit
has been so popular that we intend to
utilize it at new parks throughout the
city wherever it fits the design theme.
The combination of a sphere with an-
gles and free-run curves presents a
challenge to a child each time he steps
on it and we have counted as many as

193

New picnic shelters are shaded by redwood lathes, feature functional steel-and-conerete table and bench units.

eighteen youngsters on the first unit at
one time.

The cantilever principle has many
different applications. To date, we have
applied this principle to two pieces of
recreation equipment. One of them, a
baseball backstOp, was developed after
much research. We discovered that
most foul balls do not go straight over
the catcher’s head, but tend to follow a
course of 30° to 45° off the batter’s
right or left shoulder. Accordingly, our
design includes wings or projections
jutting up to a forty-foot height on
either side of the backstop. The dip-
ping of the V design at the top of this
unit is thirty feet above grade and pur-
posely left open so the catcher may
easily field high pop-up Hies. The an-
gles of the back and top panels give the
catcher a play on a ball that might have
been unplayable with the standard
backstop. We are very happy with the
favorable comments from athletes and
managers playing on the field where

this unit is installed and have been ap- I

proached by commercial builders and
professional baseball organizations re-
garding the design.

The cantilever principle can also ap-

19-}

 

ply to playground swings. Numerous
approaches have been taken to this
ever-popular piece of equipment, but in
all of them a direct association with the
earth was necessary, as the supporting
members were embedded in the ground.
We felt this dissipated the thrill in
swinging. Our new design for swings
uses extra heavy five-inch structural
pipe and the member to which our
swings are attached is twelve feet above
grade and supports five swing units.
The supports for this pipe beam are em-
bedded in heavy concrete footings at
a 60° angle behind the swings to give
children a feeling of completely free
suspension. We found the large size of
the pipe and the angle at which it is
anchored greatly discourages climbing
of the columns. Also, the hanger beam
for this fifteen-foot-wide unit is angled
outward three feet on each side where
the columns enter the ground, elimi-
nating any possibility of a youngster
swinging into the columns.

0 UR THREE NEW picnic shelters at

Garden Grove City Park reHect an
increased use of steel as part of design.
The units, designed for sixty persons

each, are designed with a dividing wall
down the center. Three tables and
bench sets are located on either side of
the wall, and the wall of each unit is of
a different material: concrete block,
wire-cut red brick, and slumpstone. All
units are of similar basic design and

floor plan, but the shape and surface
treatment of the slab, arrangement of
tables and individual color schemes, are
varied. Separated 2”-by-2” redwood
lath which offers partial shade with a
filtered sunlight pattern, shelters the
units. The table and bench sets are con-
structed of steel angles and pipe and
the tops of both tables and benches are
framed with inverted angles into which
solid concrete has been poured.

The green cement is treated with a
hardening compound and is finally fin-
ished with a tile-like polyester-base
plastic enamel. This surface treatment
hardens to almost the consistency of
baked vitreous clay tile, yet it may be
applied with spray, brush, or roller. It
is a vandal-resistant, durable surface,
that is easily cleaned, has no seams to
retain food particles and other soil, is
impervious to grease, alkalies, and
stains. The tables and benches are sup-

RECREATION

\

 

Above, atomic climber unit. Solid portions are gaily paint-
ed steel plate to lend visual interest and prevent injury to
children. Above right, the author with one-inch scale model
of the atomic climber and quarter-inch scale model of the
special baseball backstop. Both were put together and
details corrected prior to actual construction. Right, the
cantilevered backstop, forty feet high at outside wings.

ported by pipe columns of a modern,
curved design set in the concrete slab.
The bench legs curve away from the
table and a single-leg support at oppo-
site ends of table assumes a reverse
curve, allowing adequate knee and foot
clearance. Here, the cantilever princi-
ple gives a light airy feeling to the
heavy steel-and-concrete tables.

The shelter units were designed for
individual families rather than large-
group picnics and table arrangements
and cooking facilities have been han-
dled accordingly. Each shelter is equip-
ped with a freshwater faucet, sink, gar-
bage container hidden under self-clos-
ing doors in the counter, and electrical
outlets. Cooking is done on large gal-
vanized steel barbecue braziers which
are placed on each side of each of the
individual shelters.

WARE UP a child’s urge to twist the
chains on a swing while seated in

it, then allow the chains to unwind and
spin them, we designed a swing specifi-
cally for that purpose. The heart of the
design is a one-and-a-half—ton working
load swivel unit connecting two hanger
brackets. The principle seemed excel-

APRIL 1961

lent, but swings with this feature cannot
be mounted too close to other swings
for fear of collision. Therefore, we
decided upon a single swing suspended
from a twelve-foot radius arched sup-
port. The arch curve reverses itself at
top-center to provide additional visual
interest and strength and the support-
ing arch allows complete freedom of
swinging. Economically, it might seem
that a great amount of space is con-
sumed for a single swing unit. How-
ever, we feel that the play value over a
period of time will more than compen-
sate for this, and the unit is actually
inexpensive to construct.

A LL 0F Garden Grove’s new play ap-

paratus is designed around a given
theme, and a single area rarely contains
more than four or five separate play
units. For example, Space Age is the
theme on the current play development
at Garden Grove City Park. It contains
the cantilevered swing unit, two atomic
climbers (one nine foot in diameter and
one six foot for toddlers), and a new
concept in slides. The possibilities of
new themes are as varied as one’s im-
agination. Quite often, we attempt to

  

select one which best fits the neighbor-
hood surrounding a park. The princi-
ple involved is as basic as that of gen-
eral city planning. The professional
planner would hardly allow five or six
different land-uses in a single city block.

All the equipment mentioned has
been designed in our own department
and constructed by members of our
parks division staff except the backstop
and picnic shelters which were con-
tracted. We work as a team from the
time a pencil touches paper until the
units are completed. \Ve feel fortunate
in having well qualified craftsmen in '
our parks division crew to economically
construct units designed by this office.

Although our designs are legally pro-
tected from infringement, we are happy
to share them with other public recrea-
tion and parks agencies. Working
drawings of equipment are available at
cost if requested in writing on letter-
head stationery and signed by the nom-
inal head of department. However, we
hope we may have inspired some other
small departments, such as our own, to
embark upon a do-it-yourself equip-
ment development program custom-

made for their locale. #

195

ST

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

ALABAMA. A contribution of $54,500 from the West
Point Foundation to the Chambers County Board of Edu-
cation will make possible the deve10pment of the Rehobeth
Recreation Center in Fairfax. The project includes a game
room and large multipurpose clubroom to be connected with
the existing kitchen. The facility has been designed to serve
patrons and students of Rehobeth School and other com-
munity groups within the area. Target date for completion

is July.

CALIFORNIA. The Twentynine Palms Park and Recrea-
tion District is busily developing its local park. In addition
to the two swimming pools and the tennis courts already
in existence, plans call for two lighted baseball fields, a
natural amphitheater which will seat fifteen hundred, three
adventure areas for youngsters, a quiet area which will
offer such facilities as lawn bowling, shuffleboard, a sheltered
picnic area and barbecue installations. Eventually the park
will have a lighted water fountain, an artificial lake which
will serve as a multipurpose unit and assist in the water
supply of the park, arbored walkway, expansion of pool
facilities to include a “muscle-beach” type area, a snack
bar, expanded deck facilities, and a totlot. The district has
also worked out arrangements with the schools, the local
Marine Corps base, and the churches for use of their facili-
ties when idle.

In Los Angeles, a
revolving “lookout”
will be constructed
atop 1,600-foot Mt.
Hollywood in Grif-
fith Park (see photo-
_ graph of model,

i i . left). The facility’s

cost will be partially

defrayed by funds available from the Griffith Trust, set up
in the will of Colonel Griffith J. Griflith, pioneer civic leader,
who donated to Los Angeles most of the 4,000-acre park
which bears his name. The interior of the structure will

 

a new recreation building by June 1:

' The local “Teen Town,” an organization which has con-
tinued to function since the days of World War II, has voted
to disband and permit the recreation commission to provide
services it formerly offered. In so doing, the organization
voted its entire accumulated bank balance of $2,500 to the
commission to help finance the purchase of a new center
building.

° The local Kiwanis Club board of directors voted to allo-
cate the entire proceeds of its 1961 Pancake Day, an amount
somewhere between $1,200 and $1,500, toward the purchase
of a building for recreation.

° The Southwestern Bell Telephone Company of Kansas
has granted the recreation commission a first Option to
purchase the office and business it will vacate soon after
April 1, 1961. It has also indicated that the company, in
keeping with its policy of supporting community wide proj-
ects of this type, will make a contribution toward the pur-
chase of the building.

° The Parsons Board of Education in special session has
agreed to accept title to the building and will underwrite all
maintenance and repairs on the structure. This has been
agreed to, even though the recreation commission will retain
complete control over its use at all times.

° In addition, Walter Sengpiehl, .a local merchant and
veteran of many civic drives and endeavors, has agreed to
conduct the fund raising campaign.

OHIO. Darby Creek Metropolitan Park in the Columbus
Metropolitan Park District, opened to the public last year,
has become a favorite retreat for family picnics and group
outings, according to the Metropolitan Park News. A1-~
though development of the Ill-acre area was begun only a
year ago, the entrance road and four parking areas are com-
pleted and paved with blacktop; five picnic areas have been
cleared and graded; and picnic tables, outdoor grills, and
toilets have been installed. Electric lighting is also being
installed in picnic areas. Many acres of play areas have
been graded and seeded and playground equipment is being
installed. Construction of picnic shelters will be completed
next year. A foot trail goes over wooded ridges and bottom
land and along the steep banks of Big Darby Creek where
there are scenic overlooks.

o The city of Hamilton has received a two hundred-acre
site, worth about $400,000, for a public recreation area i
from Dwight J. Thomson, chairman of the board of direc-
tors of the Champion Paper and Fibre Company, as a me-
morial to the company’s past presidents. This gift increases
by ahnost a full third the total space devoted to municipal
recreation facilities in Hamilton and is said to be the largest
gift ever made to the city. The site, which is the heart of
the Thomson Contentment Farm, will eventually include

playgrounds, picnic areas, nature trails, bridle paths, as,
well as an eighteen-hole municipal golf course. Also iii-$5
cluded in the gift are a number of modern buildings on the M
property. Among the company’s past presidents was Mr. I
Thomson’s father, Logan Thomson, active in city affairs 1

throughout his life, and Reuben B. Robertson, Jr., a Deputy
Secretary of Defense.

slowly revolve, offering a sweeping View of the entire Los
Angeles Metropolitan area.

KANSAS. The recreation commission in Parsons is near-
ing its goal of establishing the first permanent recreation
center in the city’s history. Five recent developments assure

196 RECREATION

 

NEW MEXICO. Thirty-six hundred acres of surplus

Atomic Energy Commission lands in the northwestern part
of the state have been transferred to Bandelier National
Monument. The area contains unexcavated Indian ruins;
Bandelier is one of the major centers of Pueblo cultures.

TEXAS. Houston recently dedicated its new downtown
recreation center. The building features a double basketball

 

court divided by an electrically operated sliding door which
can be rolled back to make one exhibition-type floor com~
plete with bleachers. It is equipped with an excellent craft
workshop and two game-meeting rooms as well as a modern
kitchen. A fenced and paved patio includes a terrazzo
shuiiieboard court. The patio is attractively landscaped and
a soothing reSpite amidst the bustle of Houston’s central
business area.

Austin eXpects its new pool and bathhouse at Bartholo-
mew Park to be completed by June 1. Cost of the pool and
bathhouse totals $189,000 with other site improvements

raising cost of the project to $227,985. The 11,970-square¢

foot pool will meet NCAA standards and will have an eight-
lane, fifty-yard course for competitive swimming. The L-
shaped pool will be 150’-by-60’ with a 40’-by-43’ diving
area at the bottom of the L. There will also be a 25’-by-50’
wading pool.

In Dallas, twelve new picnic shelters at North Lake Park
will have hyperbolic-paraboloid roofs and concrete Hoors.
In Lubbock, the park and recreation department is justly
proud of the new Maxey Community Center. At present,
the center includes a recreation building and a swimming
pool. The building, which contains approximately six
thousand square feet, cost $54,000.

W’ISCONSIN. A newly created Regional Planning Com-

mission for seven southeastern counties will direct the de-
velopment of recreation areas, natural resources, trans-
portation, and handle related problems. It will employ a
full-time planning expert. The counties are Milwaukee,
Washington, Ozaukee, Waukesha, Racine, Kenosha, and
Walworth, all drawing a heavy infiux of tourists from the
Chicago metropolitan area. The commission is the first of
its kind in the state; others are expected to be created for
the Fox River Valley, the Wisconsin Rapids, and the Beloit
areas.

0 Work has commenced on the long-awaited McKinley
Beach Marina in Milwaukee. This is the first phase of a
$478,000 project primarily to provide adequate ramping
facilities. When finished, the marina is expected to accom-
modate 1250 ramp users and enough parking space for nine
hundred cars and trailers.

APRIL 1961

 
  
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION
AND PERFORMANCE . . . FAR GREATER
STRENGTH . . . UNEQUALLED SAFETY. . .

  

PARK, PICNIC,
PLAYGROUND
AND SWIMMING
POOI. EQUIPMENT

Since I911 the finest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and construction

. specified by leading recreational
authorities far almost half a century.

Send for New Catalog

 

Write for Folder
On AMERICAN'S
JIM PATTERSON

llFETIME
Aluminum
D I V l N G

B O A R D
WORLD'S rmssr

OFFICIAL BOARD

V
a

ARIN

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.
wome‘s mac-3551 MANUFAf" sans or rm

   

PARK PICNK, PIAV'TR'L N. SW'JVZN‘
PO'Oi AND DRESS'NG R.':9. I: M?”-

about the
1961
PLAYGROUND

SUMMER
NOTEBOOK

 

They say * * *
“It’ll be out around May 1”
They say * * *
“And it costs just the same—
imagine!”

They say * * *
“We’re ordering a copy for every
playground”

“We’re ordering a copy for every
LEADER”

They say   
“We use it for leadership training”
“We can’t WAIT to get it”

“It’s such FUN”

If you’re a playground leader . . . a camp or day
camp counselor. . . a Daily Vacation Bible School
teacher . . . a play leader in any kind of summer pro-
gram . . . The NOTEBOOK is for YOU. Order
NOW. . . $2.50 ($2 to NRA members).

 

197

  

RESEARCH
BRIEFS

George Butler

  

Analysis of School-Center Programs

THE DEPARTMENT of Municipal Recreation and Adult
Education in Milwaukee, which has a long record of
successful operation of school centers, has made an analy-
sis of its center programs for the 1958-1959 and 1959-1960
seasons. Each center’s program consists of two parts—the
“core” program of nonmembership activities, common to
all centers, and a supplementary program, determined by
the expressed interest of the individual neighborhood. Con-
sequently, no two programs are identical. Purpose of the
analysis was to determine what programs should be aban-
doned and which centers should be operated additional or
fewer evenings or afternoon periods or discontinued en-
tirely. It took into account minimum attendance require-
ments and established program standards which cover the
number of sessions and the different types of activities to
be conducted per week.

Results of the study are published in a bulletin entitled
Analysis of Social Center Programs. It contains tables, re-

GAME-TIME'S NEW

ROCKET CLIMBER

An exciting climber that lets small tots share in “space
age” adventure. All-welded steel construction, and the
all-welded “launching support” bolts easily to the
rocket itself. Frames are galvanized and finished in
weatherproof aluminum finish, while the colorful tail
fins are in red and white Grab-tite coating. The overall
length is approximately 12’ 6” and the height of the
nose ring is 7’ 6”. For permanent installation. Here’s the
perfect climber for junior “astronauts”! Price $179.00.

Write for free literature on Game-
ttme’s complete lme of playground,
park, and Sports equipment.

GAME-TIME, INC.

609 Jonesville Rd. Litchfield, Michigan

 

198

cording for each center data on the number of afternoon
and evening sessions, “core” and total attendance figures
and their relation to required standards. Separate tables
contain comparative figures for centers operated three and
five evenings per week.

The study formed the basis for a number of conclusions.
For example, the five-night (full-time) centers, as compared
with those operated two and three nights weekly, showed
a significantly greater mean attendance and a core program
that more closely approximated the standard. It also indi-
cated that centers tending to rank high in one statistic tended
to rank high in all; that is, core activity, total attendance,
etcetera, Within each table.

Recommendations resulting from the study included such
proposals as:

o Utilize more rooms when a social center is operating,
with fewer sessions but more intensified use of facilities.
“Center activities should not be relegated to basement or
other specific floor rooms because of operational factors.”
0 Develop one or more additional full-time centers over a
period of years, utilizing selected personnel and facilities
to the fullest extent. _,

o Reorient full-time personnel as to function to eliminate
core program instability and lack of indigenously led
activities.

0 Expand the use of after-school programs.

0 Include in staff one person responsible for development
of family programs and deve10pment of programs for the
handicapped.

0 Develop more indigenous leadership, steering commit-
tees, and local councils to extend programs without adding
to leadership costs.

The Milwaukee study represents an example of the self-
analysis essential for every recreation department that
wishes to assure the continued effective operation of its
various facilities and services.

Senior Citizens in the Swim
A RESEARCH project co-sponsored by the UAW (United
Automobile, Aircraft and Agricultural Implement

Workers of America) Recreation Department and Wayne
State University in Detroit, Michigan, was designed to
determine:
0 The educability of senior citizens as learners of swim-
ming.
0 Methods of class organization and conduct.
0 The appeal of swimming to the participants.
0 General effects of participation in the swimming experi-
ment.

Senior citizens who were members of the UAW Rec-

reation Department’s Retired Workers Center served as

subjects of the experiment which was conducted at a de-
partment of parks and recreation pool. Mean age of the
twenty-three subjects—~none of whom had previously had
formal instruction in swimming—was 69% years. Follow-
ing the completion of the classes, the learners’ skill was
evaluated by the instructor and their attitude toward the
swimming experience was determined by questionnaire and
interview. Among the conclusions were:

Continued on Page 208

RECREATION

f0

   
   
    
 

  
 
 
 

 

  
 

III-III.
I..." I
‘II AI

4..

‘1’ l.-

J...
‘glll
.I.

  

  
  

,‘I In.
«1%! E=::>
‘IAEL‘ .- I.

“"145.

  
  
  
   

IIIIK ‘I III
IIIIIK I I ‘Iglll
.IIIIIII I. II-

      
 
    
      

 
   
 
   
 
   

RECREATION

DIGEST

 

Child welfare needs more concern, not more laws

Children ’3 Behavior

Edward H. Stullken

EADING THE DAILY press and cur-
R rent magazines could lead many
of us to assume that the problem

of children’s behavior’s is not only a
pressing one but that it is peculiar to
the present generation. Yet an Egyp-
tian priest almost six thousand years
ago wrote on the walls of a tomb that
“children no longer obey their parents.”
Socrates wrote a paragraph over twenty-
four hundred years ago that said, “Chil-
dren have bad manners, contempt for
authority, show disrespect for elders
and tyrannize over their teachers.”
Mark Twain, the American humorist,
capitalized on the problem boys of his
generation by leaving us the delightful
stories of the mischievous escapades of
Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn. It must

 

Condensed and reprinted with permis-
sion from, The Welfare Bulletin of the
Illinois Department of Public Welfare
(January-February-March 1960). DR.
STULLKEN is principal of the Monte}?-

ore Special School (for maladjusted
children), Chicago.

APRIL 1961

be pointed out, however, that the mod-
ern city prototype of the original Tom
and Huck are not engaged in harmless
fishing expeditions, playing pirate on
the Mississippi, nor exploring haunted
limestone caves when truanting from
school and running away from home.

Much has been written and said
about the increase in juvenile delin-
quency in recent years, particularly in
the last five years. The most recent sta-
tistics from the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation indicate that the greatest in-
crease in crimes has occurred among
the youth of the country, and that it has
been greatest in the small incorporated
and unincorporated areas as compared
to the larger cities.

CERTAIN FACTORS must be considered
when one discusses the behavior of
children. In the first place, had behav-
ior, even delinquency, should not be
considered in a way we consider a dis-
ease but rather as the symptom of one
or more diseases. Behavior, like tru-
ancy, incorrigibility or delinquency. is

but a symptom picture of underlying
conditions, the roots of which may be
found in the home life, the school ad-
justment, or the environmental back-
ground of the community, and some-
times in physiological aspects of the
child’s personality. In dealing with be-
havior problems one must deal with the
problem of a symptom which may have
any one or more of many different
causes. Moreover, in dealing with bad
behavior one does not correct the prob-
lem until fundamental causes are found
and corrected or alleviated even though
some measures may temporarily allay
the symptom.

In the second place. a child’s behav-
ior must be studied from more than one
point of view. It is a misconception to
assume that there is only one way of
considering delinquency. Certainly one
must consider not only the behavior but
the child as well. A juvenile may steal
because he is hungry; he may steal be-
cause it is more exciting than doing
something better; he may steal to please
some adult, even a parent; he may steal

199

Turr‘ausc he is a kleptomaniac; or he
ma} steal something for no discover-
able reason.

In the third place, one must consider
causal factors. Many believe that bad
behavior has definite causes. Some
blame poverty, others slum conditions,
and still others find the cause within
warped personalities. One reads that
the home or the parents are to blame,
that the school and teachers are at fault,
or that the churches have in some Way
failed to meet the needs of modern
youth. The lack of recreation facilities,

 

the increased amount of leisure time,
the laws making it impossible for chil-
dren under sixteen or seventeen years
of age to go to work have been cited as
causes.

Progressive education with its in-
creased freedom for pupils in modern
schools, even modern religion with less
emphasis upon hell fire and damnation,
have been blamed. Modern urban so-
ciety with its increased facilities for
communication, with better and faster
means of transportation, with greater
concentration of population—quite dif-

ROLLER. SKATING

does more fer

more people in less space!

For maximum gym use many schools, ‘
churches and recreation centers have

  
   

. e M. at r _7
:3 u _ . r 4-, 

roller skating programs. Everyone '
can participate, little supervision
is needed, and if desired, it can be

a profit-making activity. Write today for

free information.

. _ Va

   

Duryte'l’lastic Wheefs
Do Not Mar Floors

/, ’> gag, ' ‘
 4490 West Lake Street, Chicago 24, Illinois

200

ferent from the rural life of a genera-
tion or two ago—has to some'writers
and speakers caused the present prob-
lem. Delinquent parents, broken homes,
bad politicians, insufficient police pro-
tection, the presence of adult vice and
crime often are mentioned. The movies,
the comic books, television and radio
programs, filthy literature, and sugges-
tive art are other causes given.

We read that the parents should be
educated; that parents should be pun-
ished; that curfews should be estab-
lished to keep juveniles off the streets;
that better houses, better schools, more
neighborhood agencies and more rec-
reation facilities should be provided;
that radio, movies, television, children’s
literature, particularly comic books,
should be censored; that juveniles
should not drink nor drive automobiles
and that many other things should or
should not be done if delinquency is to
be prevented or reduced.

In general, I believe that we do not
need more laws but more concern for
the welfare of children. We should cap-
italize on the general concern that is
felt regarding juvenile delinquency and
try to direct the activities of interested
citizens into those channels that seem
at the present time to offer the best
means for dealing with the problem.
Facilities, procedures, educational and
other programs should be increased and
improved, remembering that good con-
duct is caught quite as much as it is
taught

The tubercular child profits from the
sale of Christmas seals, the crippled
child profits from the Easter seals, the
polio victim from the March of Dimes,
the mentally retarded from the activi-
ties of the national organization inter-
ested in their care, but the maladjusted
child, the disturbed child, the truant,
the incorrigible and the delinquent
child has few friends. He not only
evokes no sympathy but arouses feel-
ings of anger and resentment and a de-
sire to do something to him instead of
for him.

When the general public attitude to- 
ward misbehavior is changed from r:
thinking in constructive ways about
his welfare and about ways in which he
can be helped then we will make real
progress in solving the problem of

children’s behavior. #

RECREATION

 
  

 

Among the events at the free basket-

ball clinic sponsored recently by the
Los Angeles Recreation and Parks De-
partment was an exhibition game be-
tween the 20th Century Fox movie and
TV stars and the Los Angeles Rams.
Below, Pat Boone (left) of the Holly-
wood squad and the Ram’s Les Richter
wait for the first tipoff. The man with
the ball is George Hjelte, general man-
ager of the department, who was him-
self an all-star center during his playing
days at the University of California at
Berkeley. Above, McKanna
( right), sports director of Hughes Air-
craft, accepts the championship award
of the West District Industrial League
in behalf of his winning squad. Herm
Alber, president of the city’s recreation
and park commission, makes the award
as William Frederickson, Jr., superin-

James

tendent of recreation, looks on.

 

APRIL 1961

Stamps for Friendship

The New Orleans Recreation Depart-
ment is staging a month-long contest
on playgrounds and in centers in which
youngsters vie to bring in the most can-
celled stamps for the “Stamps for
Recreation” project of the National
Advisory Committee for International
Services of the National Recreation
Association. Winners at each facility
will be honored at the close of the
drive in April, says G. Gernon Brown,
NORD executive assistant director, and
member of the NRA Committee.

The stamps are being collected in
order to help the Skrammellegepladsen
playground in Copenhagen, Denmark,
raise funds for the maintenance and op-
cration of a new recreation building on
its grounds (see Recreation, February

1961, Page 88).

Tenting Tonight?

0 A family camping weekend work-
shop will be held in High Point, North
Carolina, April 22-23, sponsored by
High Point College in association with
the High Point Department of Parks
and Recreation. Nationally known
camping leaders will take part in the
instruction and demonstrations during
this weekend. Jesse Taylor, director of
parks and recreation in High Point, and
members of the North Carolina Rec-
reation Commission will also be on
hand to explain the how, where, why,
and when of camping. The workshop
will take place on the college campus
as well as at City Lake in High Point.
0 A special camp for senior Boy Scouts
who have skills in the sciences is being
set up at Wingdale, New York, by the
Siwanoy-Bronx Valley Council. The
Wingdale camp is a one hundred-acre
tract formerly a dude ranch. Cost of the
land and buildings for science camp

was $1 16,200.

 

A REPORTER’S
NOTEBOOK

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

Six outstanding career civil servants
have been selected to receive the 1960-
1961 Rockefeller Public Service Awards
to be presented in April for contribu-
tions in the areas of general admini-
stration, science and technology, law
and regulation, and conservation and
resources. In the last category the two
winners are: Dr. Richard E. Mc-

Ardle, chief of the U.S. Forest Service,
and Conrad L. Wirth, director of the
National Park Service. Winners must
have had a mini-
mum of fifteen
years of public
service and be at
least forty-five
years old. In addi-
tion to receiving a

$3500 award, each

also

Conrad Wirth

winner is
privileged, if he so desires, to make
available the knowledge his years of
service have given him by devoting
some time to lecturing, writing. con-
ducting a research program at a uni-
versity of his choice, or engaging in
some other educational endeavor. Fur-
thermore, the awards permit additional
grants on which the winners may draw
to allow fulfillment of their projects.

Selwyn Orcutt,
director of recrea-
tion in Fayetteville,
North Carolina,
has been made an
honorary member
of "America’s
Guard of Honor”
for his contributions towards promot-
ing “the excellent relationship which
that exists between Fayetteville and
Fort Bragg” and establishing good will

 

201

“I.

Fun For Everyone!

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-
tion for all ages . . . keen enjoyment
for players and spectators.

Rugged. Dimco FreeGlide Shuffle-
board sets are available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . low in upkeepl
Write today [or colorful folder, "Let’s
Play Shuffleboard,” containing com-

plete information on oonrt layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

 

 

Portable
Hot and Coat Racks

These multi-purpose wardrobe racks go
wherever needed or store away like folding
chairs when not in use. They come in 3 ft.
or 4 ft. lengths. have two hat shelves and
1 or 2 full length hanger bars for coat
hangers or coat hooks. (Two sided hooks
snap over and straddle the bar. see detail).
Standard units come on glides or casters:
stand rigidly under a full load. CHECKER-
ETTES are also available in two sided units
(double capacity): add-on units for making
long continuous racks. and matching wall
mount units.

Write for Catalog.

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.

 

1 I27 West 37th Street 0 Chicago 9, Illinois

202

within the civilian-military community.
Mr. Orcutt is a member of the Army
Advisory Committee in Fayetteville.

V. E. “Gene” Rotsch recently re-
ceived a Pi Sigma Epsilon (National
Recreation Fraternity) award for “out-
standing contribution in the field of ori-
ginal design of play apparatus and new
concepts of layout and design.” This
was the first award of this type from the
fraternity. (For some of Mr. Rotsch’s
original play apparatus, see his article

on Page 193.)

Conservation Service Awards of the
Department of the Interior were
awarded recently to: the National Geo-
graphic Society; Mrs. Gertrude
Glutsch Jensen, of Portland, Oregon;
the Parker Valley Soil Conservation
District in Parker, Arizona; and Wil-
liam W. Hawkins, Dillon, Montana.
The awards are made annually to priv-
ate organizations and citizens for out-
standing achievement in furthering
natural resource conservation programs
of the Department of the Interior.

Lillian Summers, national recreation
consultant of the American Red Cross,
recently received one of the two special
citations given each year by the North
Carolina Recreation Society for serv-
ices to recreation. Miss Summers be-
gan her recreation career as a YWCA
camp counsellor. She was a district
supervisor of forty-eight counties in
Tennessee for the Works Project Ad-
ministration. She has served the ARC
as recreation worker, recreation con-
sultant, area recreation consultant, and
now as national recreation consultant.

She is also editor of Intercom, the ARC’s

bimonthly recreation newsletter.

Gerald Heitman, director of recrea-
tion in Alden, New York, has been
named Citizen of the Year by the Ki-
wanis in recognition of his “efforts and
many hours of devotion to the Alden
recreation program [considered] one
of the best small town recreation pro-
grams in the country . . . juvenile delin-
quency is practically nonexistent large-
ly due to (his) program.”

  

The American Scenic and Historic
Preservation Society at its recent an-
nual award luncheon presented a Silver
Cornelius Amory Pugsley medal to
Harold W. Lathrop; director of

" Colorado
parks, “for sus-
tained and effective
leadership in the
field of parks and
and recreation, es-
pecially for his out-
standing accom-
plishments in the planning and direc-
tion of state park systems in Colorado,
and for his widespread counsel and
guidance through the National Confer-
ence on State Parks and the National
Recreation Association.”

The society’s Bronze Pugsley medal
was awarded to Louis Benjamin
Houston in recognition of his signifi-
cant contribution to the city of Dallas
“by developing a park system whose
recreational facilities reflect the experi-
ence and professional excellence of one
dedicated to the enhancement of the
public’s enjoyment of its leisure time
in municipal surroundings.” Joseph
Prendergast, executive director of the
National Recreation Association, ac-
cepted the medal in behalf of Mr.
Houston.

The Horace Marden Albright Medal,
for the Honorable William Orville
Douglas, associate justice of the US.
Supreme Court, was accepted for him
by Anthony Wayne Smith, executive
secretary of the National Parks Associa-
tion. This medal was awarded to Jus-
tice Douglas for dynamic leadership
and tireless effort in the cause of con-
servation.

state

Mrs. Randolph Guggenheimer, the
only woman to serve on the New York
City Planning Commission, was hon-
ored recently both as a city oEicial as a
volunteer leader in welfare activities.
She received a plaque commemorating
her “distinguished service” with the ~
Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of 
New York. Mrs. Guggenheimer has
been a volunteer worker in the federa-
tion for twenty-nine years and chair-
man of the women’s division board
since 1958. She is also a vice-president
and trustee of the federation.

RECREATION

STATE SOCIETY NEWS

NEW JERSEY

The former Public Recreation As-
of New Jersey recently
changed its constitution to unify or-

sociation

ganization and cooperation among
New Jersey recreation and park direc-
tors and departmental personnel. A
new title for the organization was in-
cluded in the changeover: New Jersey
Recreation and Parks Society, Inc. Its
membership shall be designated as ac-
tive professional, retired professional,
and associate.

Officers for the year are: President,
Carl J. Perina, Irvington; First Vice-
President, David C. Goodwin, Trenton;
Second Vice-President, Donald V.
Joyce, Tenafly; Secretary, Ralph S.
Cryder, Red Bank; and Treasurer,
Joseph J. Bannon, Leonia.

RHODE ISLAND

New oHicers of the Rhode Island Rec-
reation Society are: President, Louis
Cimini of North Providence; Vice-
President, Walter Henry of Warwick;

and Treasurer, Gerald H. Cox of Peace
Dale (South Kingston).

 

Obituaries

 

' Homer Fish, superintendent of parks
in Wheeling, West Virginia, died re-
cently after twenty-five years of service
to Wheeling. During his administra-
tion, Oglebay Park was developed from
a country estate of 750 acres to a muni-
cipal park of over one thousand acres——
with picnic sites, nature trails, bridle
paths, golf course, tennis courts, swim-
ming pool, arboretum, and numerous
other facilities. Under his guidance,
too, the parks eXpanded and improved
without any additional cost to the tax-
payers of the city. His work over the
years with the Wheeling park system
made it one of the nation’s finest.

' Frank P. Langsdorf, assistant recrea-
tion director for the Milwaukee County
Park Commission, died recently at the
age of fifty-eight. Mr. Langsdorf had
been with the county program since
1929. He was a past-president of the
Wisconsin Amateur Baseball Congress
and a past-president of the Big 11 Rec-
reation Association.

APRIL 1961

  
 
 

 

   

WENGER RTABLE BANDWAGON

The Mobile Combination Band Stand
and Outdoor Stage

Ideal for use at music events, rallies, acts. demonstra-
tions. and for speakers, the Wenger Bandwagon pro-
vides comfortable quarters for performers, plus assuring
resonance and volume for the audience. At site, the
Wenger Bandwagon opens in minutes into a generous
stage or outdoor theater. or a complete, scientifically
designed music shell for band. orchestra, or chorus.
After event. it folds quickly into a handsome, completely
enclosed road trailer with ample locked storage space for
chairs, stands, instruments, or accessory equipment. May
be used indoors. tool Every community will want one!

MUSIC {

w you can

GO

where the events

take place

...and be heard!

    

owrromu ' ' MINNESOTA

Send for complete details and specifications, or ask for
No obligation, of

a free demonstration.

CO“ rse.

COIN-OPERATED LOCKERS FUR AUTOMATIC CHECKING

cut payroll costs—improve service—increase profits

ital Us Prove It. Write: THE FLXIBLE DUMP/I

L World’s largest builder of coin-operated lockers

  

NO. K-3 TABLE
TEMPERED MASOHIIE
PUSIIQIIED IOP

    
     

  
 
    

FOLDING TABLES

Factory prices & discounts up to
40% to Churches. Schools. Clubs.
etc. MONROE Folding Banquet
Tables. automatic folding and lock-

ing. super strength. easy seating. 68 models and sizes.

E FOR 1961 CATALOG -— FREE
gall-adizt-ures on full linh-MONROE Folding tables. thalrs. table

and choir trucks, platform-risers, portable partitions. Our 53rd not.

THE MONROE 80.. 181 Church St.r Colfax. Iowa

   
 

DIRECT PRICES
DISCOUNTS l- TERMS

  

       
      
       

—-TENNIS BALLS —-

$2.25 Per Dozen F.O.B.
6 dox. min. order

Reorders from many recreation centers

Satisfaction guaranteed
Send for full information

AMERICAN CO., MERRICK 4, N. Y.
Since 1937

EXACT SIZE

36I N. Marquette -— Fon

 

 

NY, LOUDUNVILLE, OHIO

   

  

[BASE

Tough Bases of
approved dimensions —
- expertly made!

Wrilefar FREE

Base Circular

 
     
     
   
    
 

  

5.9M Camper/9141
d du Lac, \Visconsin

 

 

 

New, improved Golden Age Club Pin.
New In real gold plate with tree in
green Iewelen’ enamel. Safety cdch.
50¢ each, including federal tax and

postage.

Minimum order 10 pim
Available only to authentic clubs.

JAMES SPENCER & CO.
22 N. 6th Street Philadelphia 6, Pa.

 

203

 MARKET NEWS

 

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to as.

* * * i

o Hard-to-get-at tree stumps can create quite a problem.
New model stump cutter moves the largest stumps to a
depth of six inches below the surface of the ground. Re-
maining hole can be refilled with dirt and chips; the roots
will rot by themselves. The cutting wheel, which shreds
stumps in minutes, is mounted on an arm that moves hy-
draulically from side to side across the stump. Three
hydraulic control levers operate the entire unit. Powered
by an eighteen horsepower THD engine, the cutter trails
easily and the hitch is equipped with rollers for hand mov-
ing. For information, circle #100.

o Telescopic gym seats solve some of the problems involved
in installing bleachers in any area. A skyscraper-like, free-
standing steel superstructure provides unusual safety for
capacity loads. Each seat board of the nine row, sixteen

- foot sections supports
four hundred pounds
of weight per lineal
foot, far in excess of
actual requirements,
without noticeable de-
Hection. Each row

. rests on eight vertical
steel angle uprlghts that place the entire seated load directly

on the floor. Although seat sections are bolted to the wall,
the wall bears no load and requires no reinforcing or extra
structural strengthening. Cross members are bolted and
welded to form an extremely rigid unit. Straight-line open-
ing and closing of seats is assured by steel telescoping
sleeves under each seatboard and by self-aligning steel
housings for the retractable rubber-cushioned rollers welded

to the bottoms of each pair of vertical uprights. For more
1nformation, circle #101.

 

0 Music on the move—a semi-automatic hi-fi record player,
des1gned for use in cars, is ideal for buses, show wagons,
boats, and other mobile units. Use it en route to and from
day camps, picnics, and outings. The 45-rpm unit is safe
to use when driving and easy to operate, even by children.
Operates off six- or twelve-volt car batteries and has a power
consumption of only fifty milliwatts for negligible battery
dram, IS distortion-free under any load and driving condi-
tlons, weighs nine and a quarter pounds. Shock absorbers
compensate for sharp turns, accelerating, or bad roads with-
out afiecting records, amplifier provides volume control.

Microphone can be added to amplifier to make a public-
address unit. For information, circle #102.

204

0 A line marker, for making basketball courts and other
play areas, makes single lines 21/3” to 5” wide, holds eleven
gallons. Optional equipment on models includes timer for
intermittent line, which is completely adjustable for accu-
rate retracing, hand spraygun and hoses, operator’s seat,
and tilt-type transporting trailer. For pamphlets describing
markers for every purpose and budget, circle #103.

0 Missile kite is plastic, inflatable, and will soar in winds
as low as three mph. Has been the subject of tests and study
.  _‘  ' ' ‘ ' by a University of Minne-
r _’ I sota aeronautical engineer-
“ i e ‘ ing professor. Comes with
a winding reel, five-hundred
feet of cord, instructions,
-   . and educational material on
aerodynamics. Great for use in your space science pro-
grams. For information, circle #104.

 
 

o A new coin-operated lock can be set to collect any desired
fee for checking personal possessions and to vary the fee as
conditions necessitate changes in checking charges. It can
even be set to operate without a coin or to hold the coin for
automatic return when the user returns the key. The lock
is easily adjustable to work with any of seven coins from a
penny to a half-dollar and a choice of two tokens for odd-
sum fees.

For the confusion of cheaters who are accustomed to
using steel or iron slugs or folded cardboard to get free
service from coin-operated locks, the inventor built in a
feature which enables them to lock the lock, but not to un-
lock it. The various new features—specified by recreation
professionals—have been over a year in engineering and

development and for three months in breakdown tests. For
information, check #105.

0 New lightweight starting platforms will add a splash of
color and decor to many swimming meets this year. Molded
from fiberglass-reinforced plastic, the platforms are avail-
able in sets of eight colors to match the score cards of timers
and judges. They were developed by Goodyear in response
to requests from aquatic-event officials. Because they are
hollow, the warp-proof, rot-proof platforms are easy to stack
for storage. Delivered with square-cut bases, they can be
fitted quickly to any pool deck contour with simple hand
tools and can be firmly anchored with one bolt or screw at
the rear of the base.

Impervious to fading or discoloration from sun or chlori-
nated water, the platform is fungus resistant and may be
cleaned and disinfected with ordinary detergents, according
to the company. Pilot models were tested by AAU and
NCAA competitors at various meets. Other tests included
long exposure to the sun in Arizona, a state where 110
degrees is considered “normal” in the summer. For more
information, circle #106.

RECREATION

 

Page

American Company _ __________ _.______ 203
American Playground Device ----_-_..-_--..__ 19']
Association Press __________________________ _- 208
Chicago Roller Skating __..___.......-_.---__..-- 200
Cleveland Crafts ----_...-.._--.___--_._-_..-_._... 169
Classified Advertising ___.__---__._-__-___-_ 212
Cosom Industries  166
Dayton Racquet __.--___-_--_---_._---__----__-- 212
Delmar F. Harris Company ___..L--.-_--_-_._ 214
Dimco-Gray Company --__--..___.--_.---_.--_...- 202
FIXIBIE -__----..._.._..._...__--_-------__--______- 203
Game-Time ________________________________ 2...... 198
Gold Medal Products .................... _- 169
Hillerich and Bradst _ ____________________ __ 170
Institutional Cinema .................. ___.- 214
James Spencer __-____---___--__-..-_-_.______ 203
J. E. Burke Company  173
MacGregor _-__--_.._--___.._---_-_-__-__-.._--..__ 163
y Maclevy Sports Equipment __ Inside Back Cover
Maintenance. Inc. --__..___________..___-__-.___ 192
- Mason Candies ... ................ --_.._.. 209
I Miracle Equipment __ ___________________ _- 207
Modern Swimming Pool  192
Monroe Company  203
' National Sports  203
National Sludios ---______-_._--__ Inside Front Cover
I Play Sculpture _--_.___._.____.____--__--__-__-___ 211
Program Aids  168
Recreation Equipment Corporation  208
l Rheem Califone _._...___.--___-._._._._.__.......-.. 165
i Sani Kart ._--_._.;-____-____-..-..-......----...-_.__l 211
| Square Dance Associates; ................. -- 168
T. F. Twardzik --_----._.--___-__-..---_.-_--__.--__ 214
Vogel-Peterson Co. .___.___.__.._.._............n. 202
Wenger Music -_.__._._'_._____.--.__.__....._._. 203

APRIL 1961

—-—----—----1

FREE AIDS

The following Free Aids briefly describe resources—catalogs,
brochures, films, booklets, services available, samples, and so on—to
help the recreation leaders. Circle the key number following any item
about which you want more information. Cut out the coupon, insert in

envelope, and mail.
nnrs AND mans

BALLOON TOYS. Youngsters can color card-
board panels, combine them with colorful
balloons to create funny collections of balloon
people, animals, and vehicles. Particularly
good for youngsters (or the young in heart
whatever age) whose physical activity is re-
stricted. For explanation about this, circle

#120.

FOR YOUR HANSELS AND GRETELS. A ginger-
bread house made of pegboard panels and
fixtures for hanging on candy, gifts, and
prizes. Collapsible for fast, easy set-up dur-
ing games, rest hours. Resists extremes in
temperature and humidity, can be nailed,

bolted, screwed, and glued. For instructions
circle #121.

BALL AND CHAIN CRAFTS add bounce to your
program. Colorful glass balls make delightful
and ineXpensive costume jewelry. This is
among the new craft ideas olIered by a long-
established company with warehouses across
the country for quick service. For complete

catalogue of projects and supplies, circle
#122.

THE TEENS ARE AN ACE . . . a way of life . . .
a time of discovery. A sparkling booklet
called T alenteens tells how to make cards for
all occasions, party decorations, remnant
crafts; also gives ideas for party fare, and
quick-fix “handouts” for hiking trips, as well
as food for thought. For copy, circle #123.

WOOFING AND WARPINC? Hand weaving sup-
ply company olIers complete service—looms
and accessories, a wide range of yarns (cotton,
linen, wool, metallic, and miscellaneous blends
in a rainbow of colors). For catalogue and
samples of yarns, circle #124.

AUDIO VISUAl

SONGS or INSECTS, voices in the night (frogs
and toads), sounds of termites wood tapping
and otters chittering are among nature record-
ings offered by a company which also has a
wide selection of books on birds, animals,
fishes, insects, plants, rocks, stars, and fossils.
Covers the country but specializes in West
Coast life. For catalogue, circle #125.

FILMSTRIPS FOR CHURCH PROGRAMS includes
With Our Hands for senior highs, depicting
life in an Ozark work camp. Catalogue of
Christian Education Press includes books on
camping and drama, filmstrips, color slide
sets, charts and other program material. For
copy, circle #126.

FANTASY 0N FILM: Dr. Seuss’ 5,000 Fingers
of Dr. T. Produced by Stanley Kramer.
Among many new films for children available
to recreation field from a cinema service
which offers material for all aspects of special
programs. For complete catalogue, circle

#127.
EQUIPMENI AND MAIIIIEIIAIICE

LIQUID DETERGENT will clean plastic finishes
and rubber marks ori sealed Hoors. Does not
form precipitates like curds formed by ordi-
nary soaps. Use on any kind of resilient and:-
hard flooring. Outstanding as a wax stripper.
For pamphlet describing this and other soap
products, circle #130.

WALLURN RECEPTACLE for refuse has modern
lines, is suitable for recreation centers, gyms,
hospitals. Mounted in cast aluminum bracket.
Top removes readily for quick emptying of
metal inner pail. Available in satin chrome
or rich bronze. For information on this and
other waste containers, circle #131.

PLEASE NOTE EXPIRATION DATE

100 101 102 103 104 105 100
117 118 119 120 121 122 123

Clip and mail today. to

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R461. 8 W. 81b 51.. New York 11

This coupon expires June 1. 1961
Please send me more information on circled products.

107 108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 110
124 125 128 127 128 129 130 131 132 133

134 135 139 137 138 139 140 141 142 143 144 145 148 147 148 149 150
W

Title

W

Zone State

City __
481

205

NEW ADHESIVE TAPE provides color and utility
for temporary court markings. Available in
Orange, yellow, light green, red, aquamarine,
and 'other colors, with a vinyl film back and
high hold pressure-sensitive adhesive. Can be
used for stage markings in drama programs,
to color code equipment or storage boxes.
Sample available on request. Circle #132.

ATTRACTIVE FIBERBOARD PANELS to refinish
SCaly ceiling. Can be nailed or stapled to
furring strips. Pamphlet also describes sev-
eral types of tiles which trap sound waves,
hush loud noises. For literature, circle #133.

TERMITES WILL NOT ATTACK wood treated with
a special preservative which boasts many
highly satisfied users, both private and indus-
trial. Manufactured in one standard grade,
this liquid does not hide stain in wood, can
be used for camps, museums, community cen-
ters, anywhere and everywhere termites in-
vade. For information, circle #134.

CLIMBAROUND, j umparound, walkaround, look-
around, forty or more children can play at one
time on a new playground unit. Special corner
fittings have patented interlocking knob con-
struction for safety. All fittings smooth; en-
tire unit galvanized; need not be set in con-
crete; five sizes. For information,circle #135.

PERSONNEL

ASK YOUR TEENAGERS “How About Recrea-
tion?” as a career. State recreation society
has prepared a booklet describing the recrea-
tion field and its possibilities as a career.
Answers questions that come to a young per-
son’s mind when he is thinking of what to do

about his future. Circle #136.

MEET THE CREATIVE DEMANDS of progress. Per-
sonnel research company ofiers materials to
evaluate performance on the job, qualifica-
tion forms, recruiting inventories, materials,
books, and forms for good executive manage-

ment. For more information and listings,
circle #137.

RECRUITING MATERIALS available from Na-
tional Recreation Association to help you give
information on the recreation profession to
your teenagers or when you give talks to high
schools and colleges. For sample, circle #138.

PROGRAM AIDS

CHALKBOARDS in green and slate black and a
variety of bulletin boards, easels, and desk
combinations available from company with

    
  

he

p I a y g r o u n d
'!::.':.':.'lllllllf

 notebook ‘

IIIIIIIIIII‘I-

        

 

[:I Send
[I Bill agency

(Be sure to fill in name and address on reverse side.)

206

national recreation association, I was! eighth strut. new york II, n. 7. ° Virginia musulmcn. Idth

A TREASURE CHEST OF IDEAS
for only $2.50 ($2.00 to NRA members)

Agencies Can Order Now—Pay later

(Individuals should send check or money order)

copies of ’61 Notebook
E] Check or money order enclosed

oches in United States and Canada. Alumi-
num or wood framed. Models also come in
natural cork and pegboard. For catalogue,

circle #139.

TOMMY GETS THE KEYS, a comic book in color,
is a guide to better driving and is one of a
series of educational materials offered by a
national rubber company. For your teenagers
and safe driving courses. Circle #140.

SINGSPIRATION for the church group. Catalog
of choral books, includes hymns, cantatas,
songs for all voices, quartets, and trios. For
copy, circle #141.

NAIURE AND SCIENCE

NATURE GUIDES. Popular series on weather,
seashores, birds, insects, etcetera, now avail-
able in larger size 5"-by-71A", with bigger
type, bigger pictures, eye-pleasing margins.
Each book in series written by Dr. Herbert
S. Zim, authority on science, in collaboration
with experts. For listing of nature series and

catalogue of other books, kits, and materials,
circle #142.

BIRDWATCHERS UNANIMOUS will warble with
delight over slides of North American birds
photographed by Cornell University’s Labora-
tory of Ornithology. Sets available on colora-
tion of birds, classification, and natural his-
tory of waterfowl. For leaflet, circle #144.

PERIWINKLES, coffee beans, wentletraps, and
mossy arks—let’s go shell hunting knowing
who’s who and what’s that. For cartooned,
illustrated booklet on shell lore, circle #145.

SPORTS. HEALTH. fllNESS

GET INTO THE SWIM—and get out of it safely,
too. Booklet cues you on etiquette in the wa-
tery realm, offers some commonsense swim-
ming pool musts. Full of peppy cartoons and

easy-to-take suggestions. For copy, circle
#146.

THE STUFF or DREAMS . . . a colorful, absorb-
ing booklet, the Wonderful, Wacky World of
Sleep gives the lowdown on shuteye. Colors
and layout are alive, text is informal and in-
formative . . . believe it or not, you can catch
up on sleep! To learn more, circle #147.

DON’T SCRATCH . . . if you have poison ivy

problems, here are the facts. Booklet explains
the poison plant problem, including research
findings, clinical documentation. Have it on

hand for your camp and outdoor programs.
Circle #148.

    
 

.313 I'
)so
it; ~

1

,__——_s____s____—__J

[OW-008T AIDS

These excellent resources and references
must be ordered directly from the source
given ( enclose remittance).

A HIGHLY IMPORTANT MANUAL for all agencies
or departments that offer, or plan to offer, rec-
reation opportunities to handicapped chil-
dren, youth, and adults, More Than Fun is a
handbook of planned, organized recreation
programing for children and adults with cere-
bral palsy. The section on adaptations of ma-
terials, on parties and special events, on lead-
ership—in fact, the entire booklet——-—is a real
contribution, worth very careful study. The
38-page manual is available for $.20 from
United Cerebral Palsy Association, Inc., 321
West 44th Street, New York 36.
o

FILLING A VACUUM. Any recreation depart-
ment or agency concerned with small or con-
gested neighborhoods not being served by
playgrounds will be interested in the mobile
community service offered by Friends Neigh-
borhood Guild in Philadelphia. Play Parade,
a very readable and interesting account of

this project is available for $.50 from the
Guild, 703 North 8th Street, Philadelphia.

ADVENTURE IN NATURE. Camp Fire Girls, Inc.,
has just published -T he Outdoor Book by Ar-
line Brauer Broy. While it is designed, of
course, for leaders of Blue Birds, Camp Fire
Girls, and Horizon Clubs, its contents are ap-
plicable to any leader or counselor who wishes
to make outdoor experiences meaningful and
enjoyable to young people. This 154-page
manual is written with clarity, is conservation-
minded, and is nicely organized. Available
for $1.75 from Camp Fire Girls Inc., 65 Worth
Street, New York 13 ( note that new address! ).

o
ROCK HAPPY? A valuable guide for the hob-
byist about to turn an avocation into a job,
So You Want to Start a Rock Shop, discusses
frankly such problems as buying, pricing,
management, appraisal, competition, and the
like. Includes many useful do’s and even
more useful don'ts. The 52-page booklet is
available for $2.00 from J. D. Simpson and
Company, 19 West 27th Avenue, Spokane 41,
Washington.

0
WHEN YOU TRAVEL, observe the customs, learn
the common language of friendship. A new
booklet Travel with Your Heart tells you how
to make the most of your trip. Available for
3.15 from the PeOple to PeOple’s Youth Ac-
tivities Committee, Camp Fire Girls, Inc., 16
East 48th Street, New York 17.

o

.TROUDLED PEOPLE can put you in a tight spot.

The National Association for Mental Health
has published a very interesting and highly

useful manual, How to Recognize and Handle
Abnormal People, by Robert A. Matthews,

MD. and Lloyd W. Rowland, Ph.D. Slanted
towards police oilicers, it is an excellent refer-
ence for recreation leaders. The booklet de-
scribes how to tell when a person is mentally
ill, how to handle a disturbed or violent per-
son, or a depressed person. Of special inter-
est to recreation leaders are the chapters on
'the mentally retarded and mental disorders in
,old age. Available for $.65 frOm the National
.Association for Mental Health, Inc., 10 Co-
llumbus Circle, New York 19.

—'b

RECREATION

Recreation for All Children
Continued from, Page 177

w
a program of recreation outdoors, fol-

lowed by preparation of supper (plan-
ned the week before); then dancing
and games. The session ends at 8 PM;
parents help drive students home.
Play School—In Evanston, Illinois, a
summer play school for the mentally
retarded is sponsored by the city rec-
reation board. In the morning, the
younger children participate with an
instructor for every three children; in
the afternoon, eighteen older children
take part with four instructors.
* * * ‘II'

A cross-country survey of activities
for the mentally retarded reveals:
0 Norwood, Ohio, has appointed a spe-
cial supervisor for the mentally retard-
ed. The year-round program set up by
this supervisor was carried out within
the framework of the regular recreation
program. The mentally retarded chil-
dren were not segregated although more
supervision was required. One of the
greatest benefits of this program has
been to help break down barriers be-
tween parents and children and between

mentally retarded children and their
“normal” playmates.

0 Detroit, Michigan, has established
programs in three recreation areas,
with a professional staff of four assisted
by a group of mothers. These started
as a summer camp that has since ex-
panded in its activities and now oper-
ates year-round. No child who is eligi-
ble to attend school may attend this
program. During the regular school
day, a program of swimming, games
and simple crafts has been developed.
The mothers assist with the luncheon
and arrange car pools for transporta-
tion. The age range has been from six
to thirty-five years.

0 Arts and crafts are an activity at
River Crest, in Mont Clare, Pennsyl-
vania, a nonprofit training center for
retarded children. River Crest con-
verted in June, 1958 to work with re-
tarded children exclusively.

0 Creative dramatics for retarded chil-
dren is a continuing hit in Allentown,
Pennsylvania.

0 Retarded youngsters prepared a dis-
play for playground parade as part of
municipal playground program in
Greenfield, Massachusetts.

0 Children from Pineland, a Maine in-
stitution for the retarded, spend one
afternoon a week in nearby Portland
under the auspices of the Greater Port-
land ARC. The children oin with other
retardates from the area in a program
of crafts, cooking, games, song, and
rhythm-band.

o In Vermont, horseback riding is a
year-round sport at the Brandon Train-
ing School. The parents’ group as-
sumed half the initial cost for the proj-
ect, which included purchase of four
horses, equipment, and stable renova-
tion. Twelve school residents worked
in nearby apple orchards last summer
and contributed their earnings to meet
rest of cost.

Retarded children can be helped.
Adequate opportunity for play and fun,
and training in coordination and group
living, are among the most important
forms of self-help we recreationists can
give the mentally handicapped among
us. Plan your promotion and the activi-
ties for your summer playground, as
well as for your observance of June as
National Recreation Month, to include
recreation for the mentally and physi-
cally handicapped. #

 

 

PLANNING M A WHOLE PLAYGROUND or EQUIPMENT...

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Get more “FUN for the money” with

   

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

longer . . . get

without supervision. Whatever

APRIL 1961

MORE FUN — that's the extra bonus built into every
piece of Miracle Playground Equipment, MIracle’s VlVld .
colors, modern designs and unusual eqqument Ideas ap- I
peal to young imaginations. Children enjoy themselves far I
plenty of healthful exerCIse . . . play safely I
you need in playground I
equipment. Miracle makes it better— 116 items In all! I
Mail coupon today for new color brochures on the equ- l
ment you need or send us your ideas and dImenSIons -.— a I
custom-designed playground layout is yours for the askIng. :

I

I

I

MIRACLE

NAME.

    

EQUIPMENT CO.

Grinnell, Iowa

ADDRESS. . . .

i _ MIRACLE

JACK 'n JILL

- The perfect “cen-
terpiece” for your
playground. Safe,
healthful exercise;
imaginative play.
Two climbers. stair-
way. ski slide and
“lookout tower."

 

MIRACLE!

MAIL rms COUPON NOW

MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY —GRlNNELL, IOWA

Please send me at once the following brochures:

C World of Whirls

E Swing to Pleasure
C‘ Safe Climbers and Body Building Slides

L‘ Also send information on your free Playground
Planning Service

 

if] Tot Land ltems
E" Shelter Houses

L-------

 

Playground Attendance
Continued from Page 192

#

accurate records, a single formula may
be used for all playgrounds. In such
cases, the committee recommends that
the following ratios be applied to deter—
mine the attendance per session:

be used generally, the 1960 Committee
recommends that, wherever possible,
authorities assign to each playground
the index the study revealed to be ap-
plicable. The Committee hopes that the
proposed formulas will be tested widely
during the summer of 1961 and will
welcome reports from playgrounds.

Members of the study committee in

Morning — P 331‘ CountXI'S addition to Mr. Skea were John P-
 Afternoon — Peak count X 2'5 Cronin, Director of Recreation, Provi—
From indoor games Evenmg _ P eak countx 1'8 dence, Rhode Island; Alvin Eggeling,

for young boys to wilderness tracking
for hardened outdoorsmen . . . from
storytelling to crafts . . . a great variety
of lets-do-it ideas draWn from American
Indian life. Any group of any age will
find endless fascination in learning by
doing how the Indians lived, worked,
played and worshipped.

Every section of this big book is
loaded with lure and lore: canoeing and
watercraft; watching wildlife; merry-
making, indoors and out; cooking and
campfire stories; and many more. “Ac-
tivity Finder” Index enables the leader
to find just the right activities for the
group, time and situation. Over 300
lively “how-to” illustrations. 320 pages,
large format. $6.95

At all booksellers

  

ASSOCIATION PRESS

New York 7, N. Y.

  

29] Broadway

 

The committee recognizes that at
playgrounds with unusual conditions,
the recommended formulas may not ap-
ply, and suggests that a test count be
made to discover the best index.

ONE OF the significant results of the

study was that it generally con-
firmed the validity of the formula rec-
ommended by the NRA Committee that
supervised the 1938 study. Further-
more, it convinced many skeptics that
to record attendance merely in terms of
peak counts fails to take into account
a large number of playground visits.
Unlike the recommendation based on
the earlier study that a uniform index

Superintendent of Recreation, Okla-
homa City, Oklahoma; Jerome T. Fe-
mal, Superintendent of Parks and Rec-
reation, Bloomington, Indiana; Gordon
]. Guetzlaff, Supervisor, Bureau of Rec—
reation, Dayton, Ohio; Franklin C. Hill,
Director of Parks and Recreation, Rock
Hill, South Carolina; Howard B. Hol-
man, Director of Parks and Recreation,
Fresno, California; Frederick C. Man-
deville, Director of Recreation, Meri-
den, Connecticut; Jay M. Ver Lee, Su-
perintendent of Recreation, Oakland,
California; and Forest W. Wakefield,
Superintendent of Recreation, Council
Bluffs, Iowa. George D. Butler of the
NRA acted as secretary.

 

Research Briefs

Continued from Page 192

 

0 Aging individuals can be guided in their development of
swimming skill.
0 Instructional periods can be organized and conducted in
a sequence comparable to swimming classes of other age
groups.
0 Swimming as an activity for senior citizens offers an
interesting challenge.
0 The general effects of swimming range from claims of
improved conditions of chronic ailments to gratifications
and sense of accomplishment.

The following suggestions resulting from the experiment '
were presented as a guide in the formulation of swimming

  
  
   

classes of senior citizens:

0 Volunteers only should be permitted to take instruction.
0 Enroll not more than twenty persons in one class.

0 Plan to have at least three instructors available.

0 Arrange two full hour class meetings per week.

0 Maintain the air and water temperature of 85°.

0 Concentrate first on building confidence in the beginner. 

Put a twinkle in his eye ——
laughter in his voice ——-— warmth 
1n your heart.

 

\l

.Mfl'So 0f the 0 Insist that false teeth be removed. fr
Finest Playground . -
Equipment. write 0 Do not expect oldsters to use spec1ally des1gned props—

for Catalogs.

RECREATION EQUIPMENT CORP.
724 W. 8th St. — Anderson, Indiana

they prefer to adjust to the available facilities.
0 Make flippers and swim boards available if possible.
0 Never encourage the aging beginner to work beyond his

limit or desire.
I‘

\

208 RECREATION

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED You can raise $500

 

A GROUP OF nationally eminent rec-
reation educators met in New
York City in February to establish a
sound foundation for developing cur-
ricula in therapeutic recreation. The
three-day work conference was spon-
sored by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, under a special grant from the
Avalon Foundation.

Groundwork for the conference had
been carried on for several months
prior to the actual meeting, through
correspondence with more than thirty
prospective participants. These key
persons wrote the material for an ab-
stract which contained descriptions of
current roles and functions of the spe-
cialist in therapeutic recreation. It also
presented the changes in these roles and
functions which must be anticipated in
preparing specialists for the next ten
year period. Included were suggested
standardization of terminology; a re-
view of some of the problems the educa-
tor faces in preparing specialists to meet
current and predicted demands for rec-
reation services to the ill and handicap-
ped; and an outline of the work to be
covered during the conference.

Participants

Dr. John H. Hutchinson of Columbia

University served as chairman for the
general report sessions. Other educa-
tors who participated were Dr. Cather-
ine Allen, Tufts University, Medford,
Massachusetts; Dr. Edith L. Ball, New
York University, New York City; Dr.
Fred M. Chapman, University of Min-
nesota, Minneapolis; Frances Cleary,
University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill; Dr. Fred M. Coombs, Pennsyl-
vania State University, University
Park; Dr. Harry D. Edgren, Purdue
University, West Lafayette, Indiana;
Dr. John L. Hutchinson, Columbia Uni-
versity, New York City; Dr. Theodore
Kohler, San Francisco State College,
California: Dr. Janet R. MacLean, In-
diana University. Bloomington; Dr.
Norman Miller, University of Califor-
nia at Los Angeles; Dr. Cecil W. Mor-
gan. Ithaca College, Ithaca, New York;

Dr. William .l. Tait, Florida State Uni-
versity, Tallahassee; Dr. Betty van der

MRS. HILL, formerly of the National

Recreation Association, is now execu-
tive director of Comeback, Inc.

APan 1961

Beatrice H. Hill

Smissen, State University of Iowa; Dr.
Charles Weckworth, Springfield Col-
lege, Springfield; and Dr. Mary S.
Wiley, San Jose State College, Califor-
nia. These educators worked in small
groups which included Irma Davis,
Mrs. Jeanette McGranahan, and Dr.
Lois Timmons, who are currently en-
gaged in actual practice in the field of
recreation for the ill and handicapped.
Consultants from the fields of medicine,
psychiatry, nursing, rehabilitation, rec-
reation, and curriculum development,
were available to the conference par-
ticipants during the conference. Dr.
Martin W. Meyer, chairman of the
Council for the Advancement of Hospi-
tal Recreation, acted as observer.

THE CONFEREES developed lists of
competencies required for basic
functioning in therapeutic recreation;
lists of competencies required for ad-
vanced-level functioning in this spe-
cialty; and lists of the types of educa-
tional experiences required to develop
these competencies in undergraduate
and graduate students. In the course of
the three-day period, the conferees
picked up the ball which the National
Recreation Association had started roll-
ing and have agreed to take responsi-
bility for developing a curriculum guide
based on the work begun at this con-
ference.

Dr. van der Smissen was appointed
chairman for the Curriculum Develop-
ment Editorial Committee, which will
refine the material developed at the con-
ference; prepare a final report of the
conference; and write up further mate-
rial which will be developed in the
course of the group’s future work to-
gether. Dr. Kohler was appointed
chairman of the Curriculum Develop-
ment Implementation Committee, which
will work with the professional organ-
izations to implement the recommenda-
tions for action which the group will
formulate in its future work. The two
committees will be responsible to Dr.
Hutchinson, who has agreed to serve as
chairman of the curriculum develop-
ment group.

In line with its policy to provide serv-
ice to the recreation movement, the Na-
tional Recreation Association takes
pleasure in having brought together
this group of first-rate thinkers and
doers. As Plato said in The Republic.
“The beginning is the most important
part of the work.” #-

or more in 6 days
this easy way

 

Sell famous Blason
Candies and in 4 to 15 days

your group can make

$3 00 to $2,500

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. If you decide to go
ahead you don’t risk a cent,—you pay noth-
ing in advance. We supply on consignment
your choice of THREE VARIETIES of famous

Mason Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a band printed
with your organization’s name and picture;
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don’t sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make
$12.00 on every 30 sales of our $1.00 box
(66%% profit to you on cost). There’s no
risk! You can’t lose. Mail in coupon today
for information about MASON’S PROTECTED
FUND RAISING DRIVES.

r Ma. GEORGE M. RAUSCH, Dept. RBI-4 l

Mason, Box 549, Mineola, N. Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me, without
obligation, information on your Fund
Raising Plan.

Address______, ._ _ __

Organization. - __ _

Phone

I l
l |
l I
l |
l l
: Name_.__________ :
I Age if under 21_______ I
l l
| l
l l
I l
| I

.l

 

Mason Candies, Inc., Mineola, l... 1., N. Y.

209

 

MERRY-GO-WHEEL

L IKE SO many communities in the
15,000-25,000 class, Marshalltown,
Iowa (pop. 22,500) , has a limited bud-
get and cannot afford to purchase many
of the new ideas in playground equip-
ment. Consequently, the parks and rec-
reation department tries to think of
pieces it can make at very little cost.
One piece of homemade equipment that
has proven a big hit locally is a merry-
go-round made from a tractor wheel.
The kids sit, stand, or lie on it. They
also pile on each other (lying down)
to see how many can get on at one time.
The idea for this equipment belongs to
Park Superintendent “Sparky” Porter.

The materials needed are: a rear
tractor wheel and tire (40”-44” wheels

MR. ABRAHAMS is director of parks and
recreation in Marshalltown, Iowa.

 

Joseph Abrahams

recommended), tire should hold air; a
steel disc, one-eighth inch thick, cut to
fit just inside the outer rim; a front
wheel spindle and bearings; a four-inch
I beam, four inches long; and a quarter-
inch steel plate, twelve inches square.

For assembly:

1. Take front spindle as used on any
old tractor and cut in two. The cut is
made in center of kingpin joining the
two spindles.

2. Weld spindle to one end of I beam,
making sure spindle is straight on beam
when welded.

3. Cut hub out of rear wheel and
discard. Lay front wheel on floor with
outside of wheel up. Lay rear wheel on
top of front wheel and weld in place.
Make sure rim of wheel is in true axis

with the hub.
4. Weld steel plate to rim of rear

1. Unearth an old tractor and make 0)?
with front wheel spindle and bearings.

2. Weld the spindle to I beam with

beam inserted in concrete in the ground.

3. Dismember tractor still further and
annex rear wheel (40” to 44") and tire.

4. Weld steel plate to rim of the rear
wheel to form merry-go-wheel platform.

5. After cement is set, adjust bearings
and install hub cap—and let it whirl.

5

wheel forming the platform with the
merry-go-wheel. Cut hole in center of
disc for adjusting bearing when assem-
bling. Make hole large enough that hub
cap will fit in. The center can be cov-
ered by a plate held in place with cap
screws.

5. Dig a hole four feet deep and
eighteen inches in diameter, or just
deep enough so when unit is assembled
tire will 'be one inch off the ground.
Place steel plate in bottom of hole and
then set I beam on top of it and center.
Fill hole with cement making sure the
beam sets straight. Plate in bottom
keeps beam from sinking into the
ground when being used. A couple of
crossirons welded to the beam will do
theob, instead of the plate.

6. After cement is set, grease bear-
ings and mount wheel on spindle—ad-
just bearings and install hub cap. The
merry-go-wheel is ready to whirl!

Cost for the job will vary, depending
upon ability to get the parts and
whether the department has its own
welding outfit. The following is our

cost:
Spindle and front wheel ............ ..$ 3.00
Rear wheel and tire .................. .. 10.00
I beam .............................. ., .......... .. 2.00
Platform steel cut to fit  .......... .. 15.00
Welding ........................................ .. 20.00
Total .................... ..$50.00

RECREATION

  
    
    
   

Add Something New

Continued from Page 184

 

(1) Find a point where four states
meet;

(2) Find a state with bodies of water
on two sides;

(3) Find the state with the tallest
mountain.

Small Group and Relay Races—Team
or individuals line up on a starting line
in the Pacific Ocean. Upon a signal,
they are to race from California to
New York and return to starting point
without stepping on Nevada, Kansas, or
the Carolinas.

Using a Ball—Group stands around
outside of map. A ball is bounced from

 

one person to another, hitting state
named by caller.

End The Summer

with a Parade

Everyone loves a parade and the resi-
dents of Newington, Connecticut, are
no exception. The parks and recreation
department decided to organize a pa-
rade to tell a living story of its summer
playground activities. It had no bud-
get, no vehicles . . . nothing except ideas.

Each of the six playgrounds were
asked to think of an idea for a fioat
that would tell a story of some activity
in its summer program. They were
asked to contact contractors with trucks
and organizations to sponsor the float.
A maximum of $35.00 was set for a
sponsorship.

'The junior leaders and the young-
sters did most of the legwork and con-
tacts. Their enthusiasm spread like
wildfire and even warmed up some of
the supervisors. At a planning meeting,
final float themes were arranged to
avoid duplications.

APRIL 1961

Contractors agreeing to allow use of
their vehicles drove them to the play-
grounds at 9:00 AM on the day of the
parade and the young “bees” buzzed
to work, putting the pieces of their
production together.

The summer music program pro-
vided a sixty-piece marching band; the
swimming program developed a beauti-
ful water-safety production; the cham-
pionship swimming team marched in
their uniforms; the maintenance de-
partment had the equipment steam
cleaned at a local contractor’s shop the
day of the parade; the midget auto club
was given permission to drive along the
parade route; the summer basketball
league and tennis program and every-
thing that was in any way connected
with the recreation program was in-
cluded. One drum corps with local
youngsters involved volunteered its
services and was followed by three
other youth units from surrounding
towns also volunteering their services.

The parade started from one of the
parks, continued through the center of
town and on to a center playground
where the annual playground review is
held. Every playground was allocated
fifteen minutes for presentation of ori-
ginal skits. The outdoor evening pro-
gram was climaxed by the presentation
of trophies for the most outstanding
boy and girl on each playground.

This was the climax of Newington’s
summer program. It has turned out to
be the department’s best public-rela-
tions endeavor—and did not cost the
town a red cent—CLEMENT M. LEMIRE,
Superintendent, Parks and Recreation
Department, Newington, Connecticut.

Miniature Fair

Over seven hundred youngsters and
their parents enjoy a miniature fair
each year at Patterson Park playground
in Baltimore, Maryland. All of the
thirty-five stands are made, planned,
and managed by the youngsters, as are
the tickets, decorations, and signs.

The children arrive at 8:30 AM on
Fair Day to help assemble and decorate
their stands. Some of these are: fish-
ing, spill the milk, basketball (using a
peach basket), ring the clown (using
jar rubbers), golf, can toss (table ten-
nis balls tossed in tennis ball cans with
faces painted on them), auto race (min-

 

m. '

_ -  ‘e-r V. ---u., '...--‘-.

COLLECTS MORE REFUSE

Ideal for Parks, Golf Courses, Pools, .Schaols,
inside or outside recreation areas, business or
residence. Patented spring tension handle de-
vice mounts on any std. 20 to 30 gal. garbage
can lid. Fits variaus height cans automatically.
Holds lid open or closed, protects and holds
can in place, (QUICKLY PAYS FOR ITSELF)
approved by health depts. .(QUALITY MADE).
Rugged angle iron frame wuth welded battam
base, finished antique black—SANI-RACK $9.95.
SANI-KART equipped with 6" ball bearing
rubber-tire wheels, welded handle with red
plastic handle grip. Tilts backward, rolls far-
ward or backward, moves up or down steps
easily, $12.95. Packed in small ctns. easy to
assemble. (Cans Not Included). Check or M.O.
Shipping charges collect, orders of ten or

more we pay freight in U.S. except Alaska
and Hawaii. Two and Three-can size available
write for folder. (Satisfaction guaranteed.)

SAN! KART, Dep. R, 502 Ave. G, Lubbock, Tex.

211

    

/

  
 

     
  

 

  
  
  
  
 
 
  

   
   
    
 
 
   

lastYearsLongergg  , 
approved for  ‘ ’ i
tournament 

 II
Play! 3%?

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

Dayton steel tennis, badminton ‘ '
and paddle tennis racquets are l'
ideal for any school or play-
ground program. Their "extra 
whip" improves every youngster's _,_,g_  a
game—gives a speed and giggi§§tz
accuracy that cannot be ,~_ ' 'g;
matched by any other type f} T '.
of racquet. i '- g

What's more, Dayton roc-
quets are practically inde-
structible. Their steel strings
and tubular steel frames are
not affected by climatic _.

M

changes. No covers or /,
presses are needed to r 
protect'them. They won't i  ' _
Warp, splinter, rot or sag. i ,.  

investigate them now. Ii
Ask your local dealer
about them—or write to-
day for complete infor-
motion.

nmou RAcuuu COMPANY

741 Albright St., Arconum, Ohio

  
   
 

\

I
.t
' C I
G
.g. '

. 3'
r 
' f .33: f;
o v

   
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 

   

 court layouts
 for tennis or
 badminton are
yours for the
asking.

  
   
 

STEEL RACQUETS

 
 

  
   

SOMETHING FREE for you!
205, in color, with its Trade Mart listings, telling

how to get free materials.

iature cars about two inches in size are
pushed on a carrom board with areas
painted with slogans like safety zone,
poor driver, etcetera). There can also
be a weight guesser and a fortune teller,
nail driving, miniature bowling, animal
bingo, and other circus thrills.

The fair tickets are free and twenty
are given to each of the seven hundred
guests. When the guests are lucky they
receive special winning tickets. When
a youngster earns ten winning tickets a
lei is presented to him from the awards
booth; seven winning tickets, a bal-
loon; and five Winning tickets, a lolli-
pop—VIRGINIA BAKER, Director, Bu-
reau of Recreation, Baltimore, Mary-

land.

 

Change of Address

If you are planning to move, notify us
at least thirty days before the date of
the issue with which it is to take effect,
if possible, in order to receive your
magazines without interruption. Send
both your old and new addresses by let-
ter, card or post office form 22S to:
Subscription Department RECREATION
Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11, N. Y.

 

 
  

Don’t miss Page

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words In regular tyne S l5 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted

$3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must. be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

oend tony rrtith rr-rm'trance to:

RECREATION Classilied Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED
Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $436.00 per
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liberal employ-

ment benefits. Write State
Personnel Board, 801 Capi-
tol Avenue, Sacramento,
California.

HELP WANTED—
MALE
Recreation Director
for City of North Las Vegas,
Nevada. New position to
develop andorganize com-
munity recreation work.
Experience required: Col-
lege degree with major or
minor in recreation. Age——
open. Salary $5,000.00 to
$7,000.00 starting, depend-

ing on qualifications. For
further information, write
Personnel Director, City of
North Las Vegas, 1301 E.
College Avenue, North Las
Vegas, Nevada.

Applications for full-time
park and recreational di-
rector are being received
by Lander Parks and Rec-
reation Board, Lander, Wy-

oming. For full particulars,
write William A. Smith,

268 Main Street, Lander,
Wyoming.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

212

 

RESOURCES
nd

REFERENCES

 

SONG COLLECTIONS

HE MUSIC keeps going round and
T round and coming out in special
song collections in both paperbound
and deluxe editions. Many Of these
were reviewed in the March issue. Here
are others of more than passing inter-
est, reviewed by Siebolt Frieswyk of the
National Recreation Association Pro-
gram Service:

FOLKSONGS AND FOOTNOTES, Theodore
Bikel. Meridian Books, 12 East 22nd
Street, New York 10. Pp. 254. $2.95.
Theodore Bikel, noted author and folk

singer, has brought together eighty-four
songs in this collection from his Own ex-
tensive repertoire. The folk songs and
the piano accompaniments are not only
Of genuine merit musically, but are also
well Within the reach Of the amateur
performer. Moreover, simple guitar
chords are indicated. A number of
songs are familiar, but most will be
highly welcome additions to the ama-
teur and professional’s repertoire. This
is an international songbook at its best.

SONGS OF THE GUDED AGE, Margaret
Bradford Bond, Editor, illustrated by
Lucille C orcos. Golden Press, 630 F iftlt
Avenue, New York 20. Pp. 156. $6.50.
Here is a handsomely bound, profusely
and colorfully illustrated collection of
old-time favorites about places, love,
girls, patriotism, memories, and stories.
Includes “Down Where the Wurzhurger
Flows,” “My Sweetheart’s the Man in
the Moon,” “Her Golden Hair was
Hanging Down Her Back,” and also
“The Stars and Stripes Forever.” A
pleasure to eye as well as ear.

SONGS OF THE IRISH, Donal O’Sullivan,
Editor. Crown Publishers, 419 Park
Avenue South, New York 16. Pp. 199. -
$7.50. This publication was made pos-
sible by an anonymous patron Of the
arts and by grants-in-aid made by the
Arts Council Of Ireland. It is a sunerb
publication in every respect. Each of
the sixty-five selections is a melodic and
poetic gem; the fifteen categories Of
songs range from lullabies and laments
to songs of the itinerant harpers. Gaelic _
texts and lyrical translations in apprO-K~
priate meter are provided. The songslr‘
stand alone and permit the human voice
to accompany itself. All tunes are sing-
able. Anyone who cannot carry a tune
will find reading the poetry an equal
pleasure. The publication is complete
with annotations and index.

i”
RECREATION

Man and Leisure, Charles K. Bright-

bill. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs,
New Jersey. Pp. 385. $6.50.

This book represents a hallmark in
recreation philosophy. Here is a genu-
ine and honest appraisal of the signifi-
cance of leisure and recreation to man-
kind in today’s world. The subject is
treated in a depth and scope that not
only reinforces existing valid founda-
tions, but also defines new philosophi-
cal dimensions. Written by a man who
has spent his entire professional career
concerned with what people do in their
leisure, it makes clear how leisure and
the recreative use of it “can give spark
and meaning to our most potent and
precious concepts of life.” Professor
Brightbill has masterfully blended the
relationships of leisure and recreation
to labor, science, religion, and educa-
tion into a powerful philosophy that
states that life comes first and that rec-
reative living plays an essential and in-
dispensable part of abundant living.
The author concludes with a social
proposition to mankind and his society
to either use leisure well or perish.

This volume will provide a richer and
more meaningful understanding of lei-
sure and recreation in relation to man’s
total life experience for everyone who
reads it whether he be board member,
lay person, student or professional rec-
reator. — Charles Hartsoe, Secretary,
National Recreation Congress.

The Squeeze, Edward Higbee. Wil-
liam Morrow 8. Company, 425 Park
Avenue South, New York 16. Pp. 348.
$5.95.

“A better organization of space for
residence, for pleasure, and for busi-
ness is absolutely imperative if the ris-
ing tides of population are not to make
a complete shambles of the metropoli-
tan habitat,” states Mr. Higbee in his
introduction. This sentence is the theme
running through a volume concerned
primarily with living conditions in met-
ropolitan areas.

Mr. Higbee takesta dim view of many
present-day conditions, as illustrated by
the following statement: “In the alloca-
tion of public space and in the construc-
tion of public buildings, the needs of
youth and the retired are slighted in
favor of streets, bridges, tunnels, or

APRIL 1961

parking lots. . . .” He holds that “To-
day’s adults . . . in their youth had
better opportunities for outdoor play
and exercise than they now provide for
their own children.”

The recent wave of encroachments on
park lands comes in for serious criti-
cism. In stating that public parks and
playgrounds are among the casualties
of modern community design and mod-
ern community culture, Mr. Higbee
comments, “The sky above America’s
parks is full of hawks and buzzards
peering for prey to pounce upon. . . .
In this day of advanced multiple-pur-
pose designs, it is downright reaction-
ary to think a park is a park.” However,
one must ask where he secured his in-
formation about community park stand-
ards; and he is misleading in stating
that only eighteen hundred out of more
than seventeen thousand municipalities
have a community park. Recreation au-
thorities may take exception to other
statements in this book, but will find it
both informative and stimulating-—

G.D.B.

Play Activities For the Retarded
Child, Bernice Wells Carlson and David
R. Ginglend. Abingdon Press, Nash-
ville 2, Tennessee. Pp. 224. $4.00.

Many readers will recognize Mrs.
Carlson as the author of a number of
books on recreation for children, 1n-

cluding The Junior Party Book and

_' .""f& a “‘ra‘eHégruner lite

   

EAD

NMQNAL LIBRARY WEEK'APR. l6-22 '96! 1

 

Make It and Use It! They may not
know that she is very active as a volun—
teer in the Raritan Valley unit of the
New Jersey Association for Retarded
Children. Mr. Cinglend is a camp di-
rector for the same unit and has worked
with retarded children in public or pri-
vate schools. This book, therefore, is
the result of practical experience. The
games and other play activities in it are
not new; to paraphrase Miss Stein, “A
game is a game, is a game, is a game.”
What makes the book unusual and very
valuable is that the explanations include
the techniques needed in using these ac-
tivities with children whose mental age
is around that of a normal six-year-old.

The authors write in an informal
style that is encouraging and sympa-
thetic and takes away the insecurity felt
by many who are starting programs
with handicapped groups, and have had
no experience. The authors smooth the
way for inexperienced leaders or lead-
ers who are working with the retarded
for the first time. The book covers
music, handcraft, fingerplay, dramatic
play, water play, and dancing as well as
games. Here is a real and much-needed
publication.

Creative Claywork, Harald lsenstein.
Sterling Publishing Company, 419 Park
Avenue South, New York 16. Pp. 93.
$2.95.

This small book with many good
photographs covers very well all the as-
pects of working with clay. It is written
simply and would be helpful to any
teacher working with children and
adults. Though the chapters are short.
the author has tucked in many pertinent
facts. Inexpensive but well designed.
this book is an explicit “how-to-do-it.”

You Can Teach Music (rev. ed.),
Paul Wentworth Mathews, Ed.D. E. P.
Dutton, 300 Park Avenue South, New
York 10. Pp. 196, illustrated. $3.75.

This handbook, although intended
for the classroom teacher, is almost
equally useful for the recreation leader.
Singing, song leading, and “chording”
melody instruments are a few of the
subjects covered. This revised edition
contains additional material on class

piano instruction, use of film music.

——->
213

and rhythmic instruments.

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts,
handing out balls and paying tap prices for low
quality balls. Install this attractive, cast-cuttin
TF'I' Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

 

Leased FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V2 x 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Halds I20 balls—
dispenses eoch far I0¢. Choice of 3 grades at
top quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: “Stop Wasting Their Time."

T. E. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

INCORPORATED

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

the PLAYMATE line
PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT
The DELMER F. HARRIS Ca.

P. O. Box 288, Concordia, Kansas

Write for Brochure

—MOV|ES—

Special Program for

Summer Camps and Playgrounds
a:

RECREATION - EDUCATION

TOMM SOUND
Black & White - Color

Representing

Walt Disney - Columbia - Warner
United Artists - Paramount

Sand for 64-page FREE CATALOG

lNSTlTUTlOIIAl CINEMA SERVICE. INE.
41 Union Square — New York 3, N. Y.

 

214

 

Books 8. Pamphlets
Received

Areas, Facilities, Equipment

 

 

ALL ABOUT SWIMMING POOLS, Larry Eisinger,
Editor. Arco Publishing, 480 Lexington
Ave., New York 17. Pp. 144. $2.50.

AMERICA’S NATIONAL MONUMENTS AND HIS-
TORIC SITES, E. John Long. Doubleday,

Garden City, N.Y. Pp. 256. $5.00.
BIRTH OF A NATIONAL PARK, Carlos C. Camp-
bell. Univ. of Tennessee Press, Knoxville.

Pp. 155. $5.00. I
CHILDREN’S ROOM AND PLAY YARDS. Sunset

Books, Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 96. Paper,

$1.75.
FOUR NEW BUILDINGS: Architecture and Im-

agery. Museum of Modern Art, 11 W. 53rd
St., New York 19. Pp. 20. $.25.

FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT: Rebel in Concrete.
Aylesa Forsee. Macrae Smith Co., 225 S.
15th St., Philadelphia 2. Pp. 181. $3.50.

SOUTH BUILDS, THE, Edward and Elizabeth
Waugh. Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill. Pp. 173. $12.50.

HOW TO BUILD IT, Larry Eisinger. Arco, 480
Lexington Ave., New York 17. Pp. 144.

$2.50.
LOOKING AT BUILDINGS, ChristOpher Trent.
Roy Publishers, 30 E. 74th St., New York

21. Pp. 160. $2.75. .-

Sports, Physical Education

ALAN OLIVER’S BOOK OF HORSEMANSHIP.
Sportshelf, Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 126. $4.25.

AMERICA’S BEST BAY, SURF, AND SHORELINE
FISHING, Heinz Ulrich. A. S. Barnes, 11 E.
36th St., New York 16. Pp. 240. $5.00.

ATHLETIC ACHIEVEMENT PROGRAM, Harold T.
Friermood, Editor. Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 111. Paper,
$4.00.

ATHLETICS: How to Become A Champion,
Percy Wells Cerutty. Sportshelf, P.O. Box
634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 189. $5.75.

BASEBALL: HOW To SCORE, unpaged, $.25;
BASEBALL REGISTER: The Games Four Hun-
dred, compiled by J. G. Taylor Spink, Paul
A. Rickart, and Joe Abramovich, pp. 312,
paper, $5.00; SPORTING NEWS BATTING AV-
ERAGES, Paul A. Rickart, pp. 211, paper,
$1.00; BASEBALL: RULES AND AVERAGES, J.
G. Taylor Spink, Paul A. Rickart, and Clif-
ford Kachline, pp. 452, $1.00; ONE FOR THE
BOOK, All-Time Baseball Records, Leonard
Gettelson, pp. 356, $2.00; KNOTTY PROB-
LEMS OF BASEBALL, pp. 84, $2.00; How TO
PLAY BASEBALL, pp. 109, paper, $1.00;
COMEDIANS OF BASEBALL, J. G. Taylor
Spink, Fred Lieb, Les Biederman, and Bob
Burnes, pp. 143, paper, $3.00; SO YOU
WANT To RUN A BALL CLUB? Milt Wood-
ard, pp. 61, paper, $1.00; SPORTING NEWS
READY RECKONER, pp. 128, paper, $.50;
WORLD’S SERIES RECORDS, pp. 318, paper,
$1.00. C. C. Spink, St. Louis 66.

BASIC FACTS AND FIGURES. UNESCO, 801 3rd
Ave., New York. Pp. 198. Paper, $3.00.
BASKETBALL GUIDE—Sept. 1960-1961. Orma
Schalk, Editor, AAHPER, 1201 16th St.,
N.W., Washington 6. Pp. 160. Paper, $1.00.

BASKETBALL FOR YOUNG CHAMPIONS, Robert
J. Antonacci & Jene Barr. McGraw-Hill,
330 W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 160.
$2.95.

BEST SPORTS STORIES—1960, Irving T. Marsh
and Edward Ehre, Editors. Dutton & Co.,
300 Park Ave., S., New York 10. Pp. 336.
$3.95.

BOY’S BOOK OF RIFLES, THE, Charles Edward
Chapel. Coward-McCann, 210 Madison
Ave., New York 16. Pp. 274. $3.95.

BOY’S BOOK OF SAILING, THE, Gilbert Hack-
forth-Jones. Roy Publishers, 30 E. 74th St.,
New York 21. Pp. 144. $3.50.

CAVALCADE OF BASKETBALL, THE, Alexander
M. Weyand. Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave.,
New York 11. Pp. 271. $5.00.

COACHES HANDBOOK. AAPHER, 1201 16th
St., N.W., Washington 6, D.C. Pp. 82.
Paper, $1.50.

CRUISING YACHT EQUIPMENT & NAVIGATION,
E. L. Delmar-Morgan. John de Graff, 31 E.
10th St., New York 3. Pp. 244. $7.50.

DAI REES ON GOLF. A. S. Barnes, 11 E. 36th
St., New York 16. Pp. 176. $5.00.

DINGHY YEAR BOOK 1961, THE. John De
GraH, 31 E. 10th St., New York 3. Pp. 160.
Paper, $1.95.

DIVING FOR PLEASURE AND TREASURE, Clay
Blair, Jr. World Publishing, 2231 W. 110th
St., Cleveland 2, Ohio. Pp. 348. $4.95.

DRAGGING 8: DRIVING, Tom MacPherson. G. P.
Putnam’s Sons, 210 Madison Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 191. $2.95.

ENCYCLOPAEDIA FOR HORSEMEN, R. S. Sum-
merhays. Frederick Warne, 210 5th Ave.,
New York 10. Pp. 341. $5.00.

ENCYCLOPEDIA OF SPORTS (2nd ed.), Frank
G. Menke. A. S. Barnes, 11 E. 36th St.,
New York 16. Pp. 1106. $10.00.

EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES FOR ATHLETICS,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION.
American Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation, 1201 16th St.
N.W., Washington 6, D.C. Pp. 97. Paper,
$2.50.

EVERY BOY’s JUDO, A. P. Harrington. Emer-
son Books, 251 W. 19th St., New York 11.
Pp. 140. $2.95.

EVERY GIRL’S JUDO, A. P. Harrington. Emer-
son Books, 251 W. 19th St., New York. Pp.
131. $2.95.

FIELD HOCKEY-LACROSSE GUIDE, Sept. 1960-
62. Caryl Newhof & Marion R. Phillips,
editors. AAHPER, 1201 16th St., N.W.,
Washington 6. Pp. 144. Paper, $1.00.

FISHING THE NYMPH, Jim Quick. Ronald
Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp.

139. $4.00.

FUN OF FIGURE SKATING, THE, Maribel Vinson
Owen. Harper & Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New
York 16. Pp. 167. $4.95.

GOLF FUNDAMENTALS, Corinne Crogen. N-P
Publications, 850 Hansen Way, Palo Alto,
Calif. Pp. 79. Paper, $2.50.

GOLF GALORE, Keith B. Marshall. A. S.
Barnes, 11 E. 36th St., New York 16. Pp.
123. $2.95.

GYMNASTICS, Peter Rodwell. Emerson Books, g
251 W. 19th St., New York 11. Pp. 180. J
$4.95. ~

HAVE FUN LEARNING To SAIL, Lorna Slo-

combe and George O’Day. O’Day Corp., 9

Newbury St., Boston. Pp. 37. Paper, $2.00.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE OLYMPICS, John Durant.

Hastings House, 151 E. 50th St., New York
22. Pp. 160. $3.95. 1
\

RECREATION

» ‘ x'SOMETHlNG REALLY NEW IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT!

_; fnteoducing. . . The Fabulous Newly Engeneeeed
 ‘ OCTAGONAL DESIGN

 
     
   
    
  
    

NEWLY DEVELOPED
DYND-SPRINGS

    
    

   
    

   
 
   

  
 
  
   
  
  

   
       
    
 

. NEWLY
For Superior
HYPD-NYLDN Spring Action NEWLY DESIGNED 
HEAVY DUTY STRONG-FORM SAFE" pADs
JUMP MAT STEEL FRAME

   
   
    
  

 
  

Completely Covers

5898013"! DeSIened Springs and Frame

For Years of
Carefree Use

No Welded Clips

 
  
 
  
  
  

 
  
  
  
  

  
  
   

NEW TYPE ETA NAL
NEW, EASY-FOLD RIGID 0 DESEigN
UNDER §TRUCTURE UNDER STRUCTURE (a) Suspension system
For QUICK sat-UP For Maximum Stability always pointed towards
0r Take Down point of impact.

(b) No side loss
of rebound energy.
(c) Equal distribution
of tension.
(d) Livelier rebound action.

QETJ

PROFESSIONAL MODEL EPR IOOO—NCAA—AAU

Totall new in design, the Mac Levy Tumble-King - . . , ,
is a triu¥nph of engineering skills that combines "OLYMP'C- Size 81/2 x 141/2

vital new safety features with ovastly impcrjovecél1  |_|3T PRICE AND DISCOUNTS
bound action. lts‘constructron IS so rugge an s FURNISHED ON REQUEST

quality so sup’erior you can count on it to out-per-

form and outlive any other rebound tumbling unit

at any price. MAC LEVY SPORTS EQUIPMENT CORP.

Add it to our line . . . for schools—gymnasiums ,
-—athletic c¥ubs and home owners. You'll find it a 139 Lexmgton AVenue. New York 15. New York

most profitable addition! - LE 2.7374

 

_______IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT____

A New Series On

The Performing Arts in Recreation

STARTING IN MAY!

“Music Is Recreation” will he the first in
a new series of supplements to RECREA-
TION on The Performing Arts in Recrea-
tion. Each, a complete pamphlet iu itself,
will he published first as a part of '_the
magazine, and thus be available to sub-
scribers free, after which it will be sold
as a separate pamphlet (price to he an-
nounced) . After you have seen it, you will
want to order it for your staff, your boards
and commissions, other interested citizens,
music groups, cluhs, program files.

WATCH FOR IT IN THE MAY ISSUE OF RECREATION

0RDER FB01YI
THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOIIIATION o 8 WEST EIGHTH STREET 0 NEW YORK 11

 

