' RECREATION
~ AS AN
ECONOMIC ASSET

TEENACER PREFERENCES
MUSIC IS RECREATION

 

 

WITHOUT

ACCIDENTS

 

Iive Play Indoors or Outdoors!

Perhaps the most important advantage of the use of Polyethylene
for play equipment is the near impossibility of accidents; particu—
larly the head injuries that are so frequent. Wounds, bruises and
fractures are practically eliminated with Polyethylene equipment.

The many, active ball games that are played with Safe-T—Play
products invite much of the “rough and tumble” children enjoy;
yet the carefully observed play of some hundreds of children dur-
ing the past summer did not result in anything more serious than
occasional stings when an enthusiastically swung Scoop or Safe-T-
Bat struck another player.

The lightness and resilience of Polyethylene result in safety of
great importance to the supervisor or instructor with many chil-
dren to safeguard . . . and at the same time to keep busy in healthy,

active play.
FU N . ..wiI'h SAFETY!

ON PLAYGROUNDS...IN GYMS
ALL CONFINED, CONGESTED AREAS

IOI FAMOUS GAMES
PLAYED IN NEW SAFETY

Baseball, Softball, Hockey
LaCrosse, Tennis, Basketball

and Scores of Other Games

   

A few Scoops and Fun Balls (both Softball
and Baseball sizes) provide equipment for
scores of different, interesting and active
games. All are based on famous games. All
are adapted to be SAFE in spite of congested
playgrounds or confined areas . . . even for
indoor play. Write to Cosom INDUSTRIES,
Inc., for diagrams and descriptions of these
new games. No cost, no obligation.

 

: All Cosom Safe-T-Play products (except the soft rubber regu-
lation type bowling ball for Bowlite, the Polyethylene bowling (

game) are made of light, resilient SAFE Polyethylene. Fun '.

Ball is made in softball and baseball sizes. Safe—T-Bat is a .

regulation size 30 inch bat—so light even first graders swing

_ ' with good form and coordination. Ask your school supply

" l r“ dealer or write to Cosom Industries, Inc. for complete details.

6020 WAYZATA BOULEVARD, MINNEAPOLIS 16, MINN.

 INDUSTRIES, INC.

   

g
*

. 3
w

  
   

    
  

 

..._. - ..___==='.: .m____‘
\\5\v g
\
no 5v“:  g “9), :2
a O tea! J
‘  PAT. PENDING

7/18 Jump Rope with a Challenge )
Develops (OORDINATIONJIMING.

RHYTHM and BALAN(E--
More Than Twelve Variations!

"COUPON FOR BROCHURE CON-
 FULL lNFORMATlON AND
 INTRODUCTORY OFFER.

 
 

 

   
  
 

  

 

Ii.
MAY l96l VOL. LIV NO. 5 PRICE 60c
The Pie Plate of Reality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Miriam R. Ephraim 225
Helping families find a mooring in today’s world
Your Congress—F.O.B. Detroit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Frederichson, Jr. 227
Recreation in a mobile America
Recreation as an Economic and Social Asset . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fred Smith 228
Industry looks at the plus values of recreation facilities
Seniors and Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. t . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 230
Social change brought about by our increase in golden-agers I
Volunteers and Senior Citizens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .- . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . 232
2: The human angle on programs for the aged
E Out of the Gymnasium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233
(“DJ To build a physically fit America '
Teenager Preferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . Julian L. Greifer 234
Is young America chained to the TV habit?
Teen Time in Tacoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . . . Torn Lantz 237
Junior high schoolers have a Friday night rendezvous
Creative Grist for an Old Mill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy DuBois Hagrnayer 238
Craft center conducted in an old mill
Bridging the Gap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John Gehan 261
A cooperative activity-therapy experiment
2
< I C
(‘9‘ MuSic Is Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 241
g T wenty-page supplement on music’s role in the total recreation program
&
Swimming Pool Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jerrold M. Michael 263
2 Some important specifications for pools
O . . .
: Administrative Ills Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 264
g What’s your diagnosis?
g Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 265
g The same old problems
< Policies for Use of Recreation Buildings and Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Temple Jarrell 266
For best service to the whole community
5 t
E Music for the Mentally Ill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Winifred D. Hansen 271
o The therapeutic aspect of music
35
2
2 Letters 218 As We Go To Press 223 Reporter’s Notebook 239 Market News 276 Trade Mart 277
1- Concerning Upkeep 269 Personnel 270 New Publications 280
U
5
RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Copyright. 1961. by the National m, _
Assocmtion, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth Recreation Association: Incorporated -' "° 
Street, New York .11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ . . " .0' n
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en- @018 Pmmd ‘“ the U'S'A' 3"“ '1
tergd a; seccgnilI-clais 3mg??? April 25, 1950, at the Post Oiiice in New York, New York,
un _er ct o arc , . cceptance for mailin at s ecial rate f sta 'd d - -
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorizeTl Maypl, 1924. Liicrlbhlmgeofp 1c.',(ii‘i'1re(iit DUCAT I ONAL 12.71.33 thigh; heiiireeisr:
issues available University Microhlms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan. SSE SS sion of the writers and
Space Representatives: East.Coast-—ADVERTISING MANAGER, RECREATION Magazine, 8 W. OCIATIgg "g"; “"3"?” °’ W“?
US$23: New York 11; Midwest—MARK MINAHAN, 185 N. Wabash Boulevard, Chicago AMERICA iian issagicil'irbbl. Rea“.
‘i
216 *

RECREATION

(-

RECREATION

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

 

Associate Editors
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

On the Cover

Refurbished golf courses open the
new season as May brings everybody
out-of—doors! This course in Long
Beach, California, serves practically all
year round, offers the continual promise
of a cooling salt breeze from the Pacific.

Photo courtesy Long Beach Chamber
of Commerce.

Next Month

June being on the edge of summer,
we will take a look at summer activities
and vacation ideas, with suggestions
for the family that takes to the woods
and other family recreation. Several
articles on physical-fitness activities
will carry ideas for all ages in a fitness
program. Details on how to have a
terrific tennis program on a tenuous
budget will be given. Check this issue,
too, for a story about the city of De-
troit and further details of the 43rd
National Recreation Congress. An ar-
ticle on the myriad responsibilities of
the administrator of parks and recrea-
tion, one on “Developing a Pool Sched-
ule,” in order to insure that all your
swimmers are happily accommodated,
and new state and local developments
round out the section on administra-
tlon.

AND DON’T FORGET that June Is

National Recreation Month —~— empha-
size: New Horizons for Your Free Time.

Photo Credits

Page 228, Phillippe Halsman; 230,
Paul Parker, New York City; 232,
Courtesy The Salvation Army; 234,
Photo Center, Philadelphia; 237, (top)
Tacoma News Tribune, (bottom) Clar-
ence J. Seman, Tacoma, Washington;
238, The Hartford Courant; 239, Cou-
rier-Journal and Louisville Times; 243,
Three Lions, New York City; 261, Rex
Portrait Studio, Peoria, Illinois; 266,
Wolfy Studio, Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

MAY 1961

 

 

   

  

“Solves our locker room problem . . .
My Control Key opens every padlock.”

  
    

N0.
COMBINATION PADIOCK

} DURABLE 0 low (051
) KEY CONTROLLED

) smmusss STEEL (ASE
CONSTRUCTION

.1 Master Combination Padlocks
' give you 2-way budget relief—
low initial cost and long-lasting,
trouble-free service! Double wall
construction . . . hardened steel
locking latch . . . automatic re-
. and other

locking mechanism . .
security features.

_______________ ___ ll
Builders of the World Famous 

Master Laminated Padlocks

Master Padlocks

    
 

MASTER N0. I525
KEY CONIROLLED

2 YEAR GUARANIEE

 

MASTER NO. I 500

Same design and con-
struction 05 No. 1525
, . . . but without key
: control. Full two-yeor
 ' guarantee.

Favorite of America’s Coaches

Master lock Company. Milwaukee 4S.Wis.

 

l 7‘ . ‘ ' - 'l . . . "
..-’ -' .(3 ':' 0 _. r. 1‘ Ff- '
r

i .
:1"

A low cost protective coating

improves appearance of blacktop drives, parking lots. play
areas . . . doubles service life . . .reduces maintenance expense
. . . protects your investment.

DISCOUNTS

UP TO

40%

an. H IAILE
nurture IASONIYE
rumpus m

MONROE ,
FOLDING TABLES

l:actorv ark-er. & dis-aunts an to
40" to Cn-m nes. S 100ls.Clubs.
etc MONROE Folding Banquet
Tables, automatic folding and Tcsk
ing, super strength easy seating. 68 models and sizes

WRITE FOR 1961 CATALOG — FREE
Color pictures on tuil Iino—MONIOE Faiding tables. chairs. table

and chair trucks. plenum-risen, portable partition! Our 53rd your.

THE MONROE 60., 181 Church St., Colfax, Iowa

Tough Bases of
approved dimensions ——
cxpcrtly made!

I‘Vritrjixr FREE

Base Circular

DIRK? PRICES
DISCOUNTS I. TEIMS

 

361 N. Marquette — Fond du Lac, Wisconsin

21'.’

WITH NEW IDEAS
Program Aids

NOTHING builds better programs
and stronger teams than these ori-
ginal. one-of-a-kind problem-solving
work-savers. Get never-before results
with:

0 ERASO‘ Posters 8: Charts
SPOT AWARDS' Trophies 8: Caps
RECORD-MASTER“ "Hall-oi-Fame" Displays
PMYMASTER' Coaching Aids

SCORE-KING" Magnetic Scoreboard
*Reg. U. 8. Pat. .0".

See your Sporting Goods Dealer
or write For FREE catalog to—

IHE PROGRAM ‘105 CO. at.
Depl. R. 550 Slh Ave, N. Y. 36, N. Y.

 

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recording inventary costs,
handing out balls and paying tap prices for low

quality balls. Install this attractive, cast-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

leased FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trauble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V2 x 8V2 x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds I20 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. Na risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wasting Their Time."

'I'. f. TWARDZIK 8. C0

INCORPORATED

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.
218

 

 
 
    
 

The Joys of Browsing
Sirs:

While browsing in our college li-
brary the other day, I ran across your
magazine. I find it to be interesting and
timely . . . I especially enjoyed the arti-
cle written by Sande Jones [March].

Your offer of free aids is quite valu-
able. I was not able to clip the coupon
out Of the magazine, but I tried to re-
produce a reasonable facsimile of it and
this card is enclosed. I hope that you
will honor this card as these aids will
be quite valuable.

Keep up the good work with the mag-
azine.

FLORENCE BREISCH, Catawba Col-

lege, Salisbury, North Carolina.

Tribute to Clarence Brewer
Sirs:

I have read in the March issue of
RECREATION [of the impending retire-
ment of] Clarence E. Brewer. Mr.
Brewer, much as any man we know, de-
serves the rest and pleasure that retire-
ment promises. But we do hate to see
him go. As a personal friend, we found
him genuinely sincere, loyal, and al-
ways pleasant. We have never known
any one in the entire field of recreation
who brought to his profession greater
integrity other than Clarence Brewer.

JACK MCGRATH, H illerich & Bradsby

Company, Louisville, Kentucky.

The Hobby of Clowning
Sirs:

The article by Keith Macdonald,
“Clown Tricks,” in your February issue
is very instructive and well written and
I hope you will publish other articles
on the great hobby of clowning. Mr.
Macdonald has done a lot to advance
the amateur clown and is always willing
to aid anyone who is interested.

I am president of the Trenton, New
Jersey, Clown Club and Scotty the
Clown [Keith Macdonald] got us started
and has kept us advised.

WALT (WOBO THE CLOWN) SAVAGE,
Yardville, New Jersey.

Bulletin Exchange
Sirs:

Our recreation department issues the
following [program] bulletins through-

LETTERS

Readers are invited to share their
views on these pages. Comments
of general interest are always wel-
come.-'——-The Editors. .

out the year: Halloween, Christmas,
and Spring. They are distributed to
schools, churches, and all local youth-

serving agencies. Supervisor Eunice
Riso is responsible for compiling and
editing these bulletins for the depart—
ment. Lately we have been sending
them tO' all recreation departments in
Connecticut.

We particularly would like to ex-
change bulletins with any recreation de-
partments who have a similar service.

I. ROBERT M. SHULTz, Superintend-
ent of Recreation, Bridgeport, Con-
necticut.

Challenging Editorial
Sirs:

I have just read Professor Bright-
bill’s very challenging guest editorial in
the April Issue and think it’s very in-
spiring. May we have your permission
to reprint this in an early issue Of Illi-
nois Parks magazine?

MARJORIE M. DICKINSON, Executive
Secretary, Illinois Association of

Park Districts, Springfield.

s:- -3r if Q!-

[Charles K. Brightbill’s editorial] is

a most refreshing re-emphasis Of a fun-
damental principle we are often likely
to overlook or think out-of-date in the
mass Of new ideas in vogue. l recog-
nize that life has greatly accelerated in
the last quarter of a century but basic
needs and reaction to these needs have
not changed. An occasional peep at
where we actually live is refreshing,
stimulating, and necessary to maintain
a proper perspective for modern living.

I was also much impressed with the
picture Of the young lad in the J. E.
Burke Company advertisement on Page
173. That young man is certainly look-
ing this old world straight in the eye
and will certainly be head of something
worthwhile some day.

GRANT D. BRANDON (retired recrea-
tion director), Lancaster, Pennsyl- ‘_
vania. ‘

o The “young man" in question is ac-
tually the advertiser‘s grandson as
the advertisement proudly proclaims.
Other readers have also succumbed to
his clear-eyed charm.—-—-Ed.

RECREATION *

       

t

equnpmen

Retain the best of the old . . . blend with the best of the new . . . achieve a
bright new horizon of development for the mind and body of childhood.

'—\

#F-‘l MOON ROCKET

A trip to the Moon . . . a flight to Mars. Climb high in the
sky up four ladders. . . thru four hatches  to a tour of
duty at the controls of this huge space ship . . . then down

two decks to the escape hatch... for a quick slide back
to earth!

SPECIFICATIONS:

26’ high, 10’3" in diameter at the ground, excluding slide.
Diameter of Deck #4 is 6’10”. Center post is 5-9/16”
standard pipe, to be set 5’ in concrete. Four I’ins of 12
gauge steel, 42 uprights of 3/8 by 1” flat steel, 16’ slide
with 18 gauge stainless steel bottom and 5” high steel
sides. Control post with two movable levers and steering
wheel. Hot-dip galvanized after fabrication. Finish: tins
painted yellow over galvanize. Other parts except stain-
less are galvanized.

#ras GREEN DRAGON

Climb the giant Green Dragon . . . up the sides  up the '
center on top or underneath... climb out on the jaws...'-
sit and swing on the fangs . . . slide down the pole. A lively

and colorful climber that excites children’s imagination.

SPECIFICATIONS:

11’ high, 13’6" long, 9’ wide. Main members are 1-5/8”,
main rungs 1-5/16”, side rungs 1-1/16” — standard steel'
pipe. The sliding pole, which is vertical, is 1-5/16” stand-
ard pipe. All Dragon head parts are accurately cut 1/4\’
steel plate with edges smoothly rounded. All parts are;If
hot-dip galvanized after fabrication. Finish: Dragon
head parts are enameled two shades of green, yellow,

white, and red over galvanize, as shown. Ladder is.
galvanized.

\.

\

 

#F—E NAUTILUS SURMARIN"

  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
 
    
 
      
  

The playground becomes the open sea when young skip-
pers shout “Crash dive I” and “Up perisc0pe.” And there’s
lots to do on the Nautilus... spin the wheel to turn the
pr0peller . .. climb over the hull . .. take the conn on the
bridge deck... helmsman’s duty at the ship’s controls...
slide down the periscope thru the hatch.

I SPECIFICATIONS:

24’ long, 4’ wide. Heights—deck 4’, railing 7’, periscope
12’. Furnished in pre-fabricated sections for quick, easy
assembly. Hull 1-5/8”, railing 1-5/16”, rungs 1-1/16”—
standard steel pipe. Control post with two movable levers
and steering wheel. Finish: entirely hot—dip galvanized
after fabrication; may be painted by installation con-
tractor if desired.

  

#F-‘I 2 SPACE SLIDE

A cave to hide in . . . a ladder to climb . . . a hatch to crawl
thru... two slides and two poles to slide down... two
sides to climb... There’s a universe of play on the Space
Slide. . . and plenty of healthy exercise. too.

   
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
     
 

SPECIFICATIONS:

‘ 15’6" long, 7’ wide, 7’ high. Deck is 4’ square, 4’ above
ground. Both slides are 4’ wide, one is 6’ long, the other 8’.
Sliding poles are 1-5/16”. Ladder, guard rails, and side
frames are 1-1/16” pipe. Slide sides are 1/8" steel,
5” high. Sliding surfaces are 18 gauge stainless steel,
backed by brightly enameled 3/4” exterior plywood.
Decks, slide sides, rails and poles are hot-dip galvanized
after fabrication, then carefully hand smoothed. Finish:
stainless sliding surfaces; other metal is galvanized and
may be painted by installation contractor if desired;
underside of slide enameled bright orange.

 

#F-4 THE MERRY MACKERFL

Sliding is more fun on the Merry Mackerel! Huge in size,
brilliant in color, this gay and saucy fish is a thrilling
sight for little folk. Safe, secure steps lead up his back. ..
then the slide into the briny deep!

  SPECIFICATIONS:

7 Entirely hot-dip galvanized after fabrication except stain-
less steel. All parts are carefully hand smoothed. Slide
bottom is 18 gauge stainless steel, secured to 5" high
steel sides by stainless rivets 4” on center. Fish image is
accurately cut steel plate, with rounded edges, galvanized
after fabrication, then enameled in colors as shown.
#F-4-16 with 16’ long slide. 11' high overall, 19' long.

#F-4-12 with 12' long slide. 9’ high overal, 15' long.
#F-4-10 with 10’ long slide. 8' high overall, 13' long.

Swings, the favorite of generations, are now available in this beautiful
design that harmonizes with contemporary playgrounds. The graceful arch—
with its smooth flowing line—replaces the straight pipe of ordinary sets.

SPECIFICATIONS:

i‘F-L’II, 3'5th 4- smts. above.

9’ high, 25' long. Two arches of 3-1/2" standard
steel pipe, 6' apart at their base, long enough to be
installed 3’ in concrete. Lacework of 2-3/8" standard
steel pipe. Unit is furnished in two sections for
assembly without welding. JACO oilless swing
hangers, galvanized 3/16" chain, choice of swing
seats. Fabricated of galvanized pipe, welds treated
with zinc stick applied hot. Finish: Galvanized. May
be painted by installation contractor if desired.

#F-50, with 8 seats, below.
12' high, 50’ long. Furnished in two pre-fabricated
sections; requires welding to install. Other specifica-
tions are the same as #F-25.

GENERAL INFORMATION ON
FANTASY EQUIPMENT

The steel sections of Fantasy Equipment (except
arch swings) are hot-dip galvanized after fabrica-
tion, then carefully hand smoothed. This expensive
process provides the best rust protection presently
available and safe guards your investment in fine
equipment. Paint as shown in the illustrations is
applied at the factory over hot-dip galvanizing on
the following items: Moon Rocket, Dragon, Merry
Mackerel. Please refer to the Specifications of each
item for details of its finish.

Complete installation instructions are furnished with
every order. No welding is required to install any
item except the 50’ arch swing #F-50. Sufficient
length is allowed for installation in concrete; heights
shown are after installation. Pipe used is new stand-
ard weight, sizes given are outside diameter.

All Fantasy Equipment is built with the fine work-

manship and attention to detail that is traditional
with Jamison.

 

O
lamisn  
8

300 SOUTH METTLER STREET I
  3,  4 PHYSICILEDUCATIOH

RECREATION AIID

 PLeasant  I,” rumnuuomunmm

2, 5m. 0 1925
O
 _ 7» - - ,

 

l

I.

I
l

 

’ REPRINTS NOW AVAILABLE: The Feb-
ruary 1961 issue of RECREATION car-
ried the 1961 White House Conference
on the Aging Official Recommendations
and Ofiicial Statement of Policy exactly
as determined by Section 12—Free
Time Activities; Recreation, Voluntary
Services, and Citizen Participation of
the Conference. Upon p0pular request,
these materials have been made up into
a reprint which can now be obtained
from the National Recreation Associa-
tion for twenty cents per copy. (30
heavy has been the demand for these
that the February issue of the magazine
is now out of stock!)

D A HOTLY CONTESTED, two-year court
battle over the use of the word trampo-
line was decided April 5, 1961, in favor
of American Trampoline Company of
Jefferson, Iowa, and against Nissen
Trampoline Company of Cedar Rapids.
In a US. District Court ruling, Judge
Roy L. Stephenson declared the term
“trampoline” is “generic and in the
public domain and cannot be exclusive-
ly appropriated for trademark usage.”
Judge Stephenson further decreed the
trademarks “Nissen Trampoline” and
“Tramp” invalid and canceled. The
case was originally filed against Ameri-
can by Nissen on March 17, 1959, for
infringement of trademark and patent,
and unfair competition.

The Nissen Company now points out
that this decision is contrary to other
findings, and the ruling is being ap-
pealed in the Circuit Court of Appeals
in St. Louis.

) NEW LEGISLATION for the aged and
aging gives priority to recommenda-
tions for multi-purpose senior-citizen
centers as in the interests of good health
and making life more enjoyable and
continued community service possible.
The Senate Subcommittee on the aged
has recommended that the federal gov-
ernment join with states, localities, and
nonprofit organizations to stimulate
and help finance senior-citizen centers
with qualified staffs and with programs
Of education, recruiting, and training
for community service, counseling, and
other activities in keeping with the
needs of Older citizens.

} A PLAN for self-liquidating govern-
ment-sponsored tourist promotion to

MAY 1961

help stem the widening gap between
American tourist travel abroad and for-
eign tourist traffic to the United States
has been announced by US. Secretary
of Commerce Luther H. Hodges. He
says: “Foreign travel to the United
States constitutes a large, potential
market hitherto virtually untapped.
American travelers annually spend

'some two billion in foreign countries.

Foreign travelers only spend about one
billion in this country. Economic con-
ditions in many foreign countries have
improved to the point where a strong
travel promotion effort by this country
can be expected to yield significant re-
sults.” A sound, consistent program
maintained annually by the United
States Government and supplemented
and supported by the travel industry is

recommended. By 1964 this should
double the present number of overseas
travelers in this country, according to
government estimates.

} THREE MEN were appointed by Presi-

dent Kennedy to key positions on his
Youth Fitness Council on April 17. He
named Dr. Theodore Forbes, supervisor
of health and physical education for
the Sacramento, California, School Dis-
trict, as director of health, physical edu-
cation, and recreation in the fitness
program; Dean F. Markham of West-
erly, Rhode Island, sales manager for
an elastic textile concern, as director
for administration; and Richard Sni-
der, managing editor of The Topeka
Capital-Journal, as director of public
information. ( F or further information

on the physical jitReSS program, see
Page 233.)

) AS A PART OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY’S
CRUSADE for a healthier and more physi-
cally fit nation, the United Fund of Bos-
ton will conduct a Health and Fitness
Fair in May, with the President’s
younger brother, Edward M. (Ted)
Kennedy, as chairman. Highlighting
the event will be the appearances and
demonstrations by prominent sports
figures and nationally known experts
on physical fitness. Included among
these are American League President

Joe Cronin, Bob Cousy, Jack Kramer,
John Thomas, Frank Cifiorcl and Yale

swimming coach Bob Kiphuth.

$2,100,000 for Parks

San Jose, California, recently

passed a $2,100,000 bond issue for

the development of neighborhood
parks of ten acres or more. The is-

sue passed by seventy percent.

 

> THE APPOINTMENT of Dr. Harold L.
Sheppard as staff director of the Senate
Special Committee on Aging was an-
nounced by Senator Pat McNamara,
committee chairman. Dr. Sheppard, re-
search director of the committee and its
predecessor sub-Committee since May
1959, succeeds Sidney Spector who
resigned to accept an appointment

with the Housing and Home Finance
Agency.

} WANTED: Augustus D. Zanzig who is
serving as chairman of the Board of
Trustees for the Ruth McIntire Fund
would like to have information about
established recreation workshops or
labs—their names, persons responsible,
and addresses — particularly those
stressing social recreation and games.
The fund is planning to offer some fi-
nancial assistance to worthy applicants.
Please send this information immedi-
ately to Siebolt Frieswyck, Program
Department, National Recreation Asso-

ciation, 8 W. Eighth St.. New York 11.

} MAY MARKS a nationwide bicycle
safety program, launched by members
of the United States Junior Chamber of
Commerce, to reduce the annual num-
ber of trafiic deaths and injuries among
children riding bicycles. Get your lo-
cal press to play up your program in
honor of this month—and admonish all
adults to also take care. Many Jaycee
chapters, and recreation departments as
well, are staging bicycle rodeos.

) RECREATION AND THE NEW PEACE
CORPS: Upon President Kennedy’s mes-
sage to Congress regarding the forma-
tion of a Peace Corps, Joseph Prender-
gast, executive director of the National
Recreation Association, immediately
registered with R. Sargent Shriver, di-
rector of the project, the desire of the
National Recreation Association, and
of the recreation field in general, to
he of every possible assistance. In

223

addition, he has suggested that a special
committee of leading practitioners and
educators in the field of recreation be
jointly sponsored by the National Rec-
reation Association, the American As-
sociation for Health, Physical Educa-
tion, and Recreation, the American
Institute of Park Executives, the Ameri-
can Recreation Society, and the Federa-
tion of National Professional Organiza-
tions Of Recreation. This plan has been
approved by all proposed cosponsors,
with the exception of AAHPER, and the
committee stands ready, as of this date,
to go into action at a word from Mr.
Shriver. Mr. Prendergast’s proposal is
now under consideration, and a deci-
sion should be reached in the near fu-
ture. The public press has announced
that the Peace Corps expects to include
members with the qualities and train-
ing required of recreation leaders and,
therefore, the cosponsored National
Recreation Peace Corps Committee
should be of value to Mr. Shriver in the
selection of persons with these qualities
and training.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

} LAST CALL: Is there some place or
some activity in your community that
is unusual—educational, not over-com-
mercialized—and that you would heart-
ily recommend to visiting families with
children in the eight-to-ten age group?
The National Recreation Association is
co-operating with Channel Press in the
preparation of a guide book for famil-

ies traveling with youngsters. The NRA
has information about the usual and the
well-known—and the not so usual and
not so well-known—but wants to be sure
that it hasn’t missed some truly valu-
able experience that has not been widely
publicized. The Association has al-
ready written to many of its Associates
and Affiliates, following up reports of
special points of interest. BUT—if you
have not been queried and you do know
of something that should not be missed
-——-please write immediately to Guide-
book, Public Information and Educa-
tion, National Recreation Association,

8 West Eighth Street, New York 11.
DO IT NOW!

) A BILL CURBING HIGHWAY BILLBOARDS
was signed recently by New York’s Gov-
ernor Nelson Rockefeller. Advertising
billboards can now be banned within
660 feet of the outer edges of rights of
way of highways in the interstate sys-
tem. The measure is aimed at promot-
ing “the safety, convenience and enjoy-
ment Of travel and the free flow of in-
terstate commerce” and authorizes the
state superintendent of public works to
enter into an agreement with the US.
Secretary Of Commerce by July 1 to
make state regulations consistent with
those in the Federal Highway Act of

224

1958. The new legislation also widens
the strips along the New York State
Thruway which are closed to bill-
boards. Previously the 660-foot strip
along that part Of the interstate high-
way system began at the edge of the
pavement. The new bill makes the start-
ing point at the outer edge of the right
of way.

Is Our Face Red!

Last paragraph of “Children’s Be-
havior,” Page 200, April 1961 issue Of
RECREATION should read:

When the general public attitude to-
ward mishavior is changed from
thinking in mere punitive terms to
thinking in constructive ways about
his welfare and about ways in which
he can be helped, then we will make
real progress in solving the problem
of children’s behavior.

*- * 4!- '9!-

> COPIES OF WORKSHOP REPORT #8 of
President Eisenhower’s Council on
Youth Fitness, Recreation Planning for
Fitness, are still available free from
council headquarters, General Account-

ing Office Building, 441 G Street, N.W.,
Washington 25, DC.

D MAJOR EXPANSION is being planned
by American Youth in its recently an-
nounced five-year program to increase
youth hostel overnight facilities in this
country. This summer the AYH Na-
tional Travel Oche is offering its mem-
bers trips in the Americas by bicycle,
train, and station wagon, as well as
European trips by bicycle, train, bus,
and steamer, and four-week combina-
tion trips.

E. St. John Catchpool, past-president
of the International Federation of
Youth Hostels, and first secretary of the
Youth Hostels Association of England
and Wales, has only recently concluded
a Speaking tour in America and Canada,
in which he pointed out that the inter-
national hosteling movement is “one of
the most powerful influences at work in
the world today to promote increased
friendship and understanding among
nations.” He also recently completed
an extensive tour of Africa where he
helped set up youth hostels in many
countries and served as an advisor for
the reestablishment of a hostel in Port
Said, Egypt, which had been destroyed.

June Is
National Recreation Month

New Horizons for
Your Free Time

 

GIFTS

b ONE MILLION DOLLARS for a public
park and bird refuge was left to Fresno,

California, by the late Ralph Wood-

ward.

D AN OASIS OF GREEN in the heart of
New York City’s Lower East Side will
be provided by a gift of $60,000 from
Bernard M. Baruch to the city park de-
partment. This came about through the
encouragement of Robert Moses while
he was still park commissioner. New-
bold Morris, the present commissioner,
has accepted for the city. He says,
“The park will be a garden of quiet in
a very congested area.” An editorial in
the New York Herald Tribune applauds:
“A few trees breaking up the unflinch-
ing planes of masonry in the center of
a city can provide more refreshment
and pleasure than a forest on its out-
skirts. The very littleness of the room
magnifies the richness it contains.”

4% *- -2{- '1!-

> EARLY ENACTMENT of legislation to
create a Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
National Historical Park in Maryland
is recommended by Secretary of the In-
terior Stewart L. Udall “to preserve and
protect the canal and to promote and
develop wildlife propagation, wilder-
ness conservation, and public recrea-
tion.” The Interior Department’s re-
ports on the proposed legislation—5.77
and H.R.4s684«—have been sent to the
Senate and House Committees on In-
terior and Insular Affairs.

D CRASH PROGRAM: Governor Gaylord I
A. Nelson of Wisconsin has won sup-
port for a ten-year program to save and
enlarge Wisconsin’s “vast but endan- ‘
gered resources.” In terms Of need, he '
describes it as a “crash program” for
decisive action; but according to The
New Y ork Times, his plan and the rem- I
I

 

edies he has designed “suggest more Of
a prudent investment for the future.”
He urged that the state be empowered '
to use easements on a far broader scale
than any state has used them so far. I
Thus, he explained, the state could buy 1
the right to prevent unsightly billboards
or to have access to lake, stream, or
beauty spot. Buying an easement would I
be cheaper than buying the land out- I
right and in the meantime it would stay I
on the tax rolls.

) A LIMITED NUMBER of free cOpies u

available: A new National Park Service \!

booklet which is a comprehensive re- .‘
port on camping opportunities and
needs of children, made by the Ameri-
can Camping Association for the Park
Service, is announced by the Depart-
ment of the Interior. Write directly to

the Department, Washington 25, D. C. ,2

it"

RECREATION 4

THE
PIE PLATE

’ OF
REALITY

Miriam R. Ephraim

~ I '  OUR YOUNG PEOPLE of today have

tremendous potentialities for mak-
ing significant contributions to a better
today and tomorrow if we but give them
half a chance, as parents, as agency di-
rectors, as staff workers, and as citizens

’i

. ii
,-9

a»

at large. But this “chance” involves

 

planning, dedication, and commitment
to goals and the means of achieving them.

In our work with young people in the past decade, we
have all been mindful of the impact upon them of major
changes in the world about us. Many of us have also been
sensitive to the fact that it is not without significance for
the boys and girls of today that they are children of parents
who experienced the depression, a devastating war preceded
by diabolical persecutions and atrocities, and the advent
of the hydrogen bomb. Many of these parents struggled
to rebuild their lives in a time of housing shortages and an
era of expanding conformity and fear.

In. more recent years, growing prosperity, the movement
to suburban areas, and an increasing emphasis on material
assets and striving for status have added different elements
contributing to an emphasis on safety and security and a
general apathy toward depth of meaning and responsible
obligation in our existence. For others less privileged ma-
terially, it has introduced striving and aspirations with
frustration for parents and young people alike and much
confusion in ideas and practices.

Youth-serving organizations have traditionally endeav-
ored to provide leisure-time programs and services to meet
the developmental growth needs and interests of their mem-
bers. However, it has become increasingly obvious to those
who work with young people in their free time that our serv-
ices can be far more useful and effective if we acknowledge
the needs of parents as well as the young people’s needs and
endeavor to achieve better communication between them.

Parents and children alike find this a confusing world and
are bafHed in attempting to understand what is good and

 

MISS EPHRAIM is head of the program department of the
National Jewish Welfare Board. This material is taken from
a talk delivered at the Freetime Forum of the 1960 White

House Conference on Children and Youth.

MAY 1961

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

Youth-serving agencies must
help the family find a mooring

in a world of confusion ,

what is right. And all too many of us, for one reason or
another, have lost our moorings in our own respective cul-
tural heritages and traditions which heretofore offered a
compass or a roadmap to show the way. There is a great
need to strengthen the role of the family in the transmission
of ethical and cultural values. By working with the family
as a unit, youth-serving agencies can make a significant
contribution toward this end.

WHILE the extensive development of audio-visual media
and the tremendous increase in the mobility of peo-
ples are bringing the world closer together, they have tended
to widen the distance between parents and children in their
free time. Youth-serving agencies have the opportunity to
use these media to bring the family together for a variety
of experiences, such as dealing with problems in relation:
ships, sharing a cultural experience, gaining new knowledge
and insights, and just having fun together. These and other
program media can be used to stimulate an awareness of im-
portant social and ethical issues and a sense of responsi»
bility f0r our fellowmen. It is generally agreed that there
is a need for a return to a society motivated by a sense of
values, because our civilization greatly needs this if we are
to be spared self-destruction. Since values are mostly
“caught” rather than “taught,” it becomes increasingly im-
portant for the basic group experience, the family, and
other group associations such as our agencies afford, to pro-
vide day to day opportunities and living examples of values
for the good life.

This emphasis on family programing is not a plea for
“togetherness” at all times. It is, rather, a pointing up of
the need to so strengthen the contribution of the family
to its individual members that they will be strengthened as
individuals, parents and children alike, and that, with in-
creasing free time in our society, they will find a creative,
constructive, and happy role. It is also necessary to re-
examine our family-life education programs and institute
activities in this area beginning at an earlier age and reach-
ing out to the four-generation family which is the reality

of our times.

SIGNIFICANT ADVANCES in programing with children and
youth in recent years have been achieved with the aid

225

226

GAME-TIME'S NEW

ROCKET CLIMBER

An exciting climber that lets small tots share in “space
age” adventure. All-welded steel construction, and the
all-welded “launching support” bolts easily to the
rocket itself. Frames are galvanized and finished in
weatherproof aluminum finish, while the colorful tail
fins are in red and white Grab-tite coating. The overall
length is approximately 12’ 6" and the height of the
nose ring is 7’ 6”. For permanent installation. Here’s the
perfect climber for junior “astronauts”! Price $179.00.

Write for free literature on Game-
tzme’s complete ltne of playground,
park, and sports equipment.

GAME-TIME, INC.

609 Jonesville Rd. litchfield, Michigan

 

aWLouIsqu sweern BAT

of trained staff who bring to their responsibilities a sensi-
tive understanding of pe0ple and groups, and skill in help-
ing both to attain their maximum potentialities. The prob-
lem today is, however, that there are not enough of them
available for the increasing need for their services. Y’s
and centers with youth membership organizations seeking
to enrich the quality of their programs, to deal with prob-
lem situations, or to extend their services are limited in
their capacity to do so because of staff shortages. Where
volunteers are recruited for some aspects of the program,
it is essential to have qualified staff to give guidance and
supervision, to ensure effective service, and to afford a satis-
fying learning experience for the volunteer.

There are still many frontiers in work with youth toward
which we must strive. We have referred to but two of them
here, in alluding to the need for family programing and the
integration of values in programing. The projected pOpu-
lation increases also indicate the need to plan for serving
larger numbers in the not too distant future. Both quality
and quantity of services require more qualified staff. And
there are not enough men and women embarking on gradu-
ate education to qualify them for these posts.

The other day I came across an excerpt from a recently
published book called, Don’t Raise the Bridge ( Lower the
River) by Max Wilk in which he referred to his graduation:
“Like hundreds of my contemporaries, I was ejected into the
adult world, factory equipped with a gleaming set of values

and whamme.’ society hit me full in the face with a pie plate
of reality.” #-

 

FOR BASEBALL
& SOFTBALL

RECREATION

 

\y.

YOUR
CONGRESS
—F.O.B. DETROIT _

William Frederickson, Jr.

THE HORSELESS CARRIAGE has become

a Wingless Thunderbird, and dur-
ing the metamorphosis the face of a
nation has been changed and so have
the habits of its people. Detroit pro-
duced the automobile, then perfected
the assembly-line methods that give

 

America the free time for using it. Our
leisure and mobility are very much F.O.B. Detroit! What
better backdrop, therefore, for a National Recreation Con-
gress with the theme: “Recreation In a Mobile America”?
The 43rd National Recreation Congress, October 1 to 6,
will pay special tribute to Detroit’s great achievements when
it convenes in that city for a week of stimulating meetings.

The Congress will again be sponsored by the American
Recreation Society and the National Recreation Association.
C00perating agencies are the Detroit Department of Parks
and Recreation, the Recreation Association of Michigan,
and the Federation of National Professional Organizations
for Recreation.

IF YOU ARE WHEELING to the Congress, Coho Hall—mCon-
gress headquarters and the impressive center of Congress
activities—parks 1,150 cars on its roof. (Will yours be one
of them?) You will find a tour of this building well reward-
ing; but be sure to allow plenty of time. It is an imposing
example of modern civic architecture and the world’s larg-
est and finest convention hall.

Meals will be available in the building. As delegates
lunch (cafeteria) or dine (banquet hall), they will gaze out
through the great windows at an expanse of river and sky,
and across the water to the Canadian shore. River traffic
will be of interest, foreign shipping and Great Lakes freight-
ers will pass by, for this is a part of the St. Lawrence Seaway.

' I ‘nE CONGRESS PROGRAM COMMITTEE, in response to re-
quests for comprehensive sessions on programing, has
planned a full day focused on program dynamics. Top au-

 

MR. FREDERICKSON is superintendent of recreation in Los

Angeles, California, and chairman of the Program Planning

Committee for the 43rd National Recreation Congress.

MAY 1961

 

 

Gateway to Rouge Plant

Center of a nation’s greatest industry

thorities will reexamine the factors governing the needs and
interests of people, the forces at work in shaping their per-
sonalities, and the challenge that faces recreation program-
ing in terms of making our leisure more meaningful. Indi-
vidual sessions will appraise the program potentials of the
cultural arts, outdoor living and camping, social recreation,
and sports and physical activities. They will also reevaluate
recreation in the armed forces, industrial, religious, thera-
peutic, rural, public and voluntary agency settings.

Other Congress highlights will emphasize the implica-
tions of the White House Conference on Aging, the growth
and development of adequate recreation leadership, and the
attitudes of labor and management toward recreation. Some
sessions and workshops will deal with administration, lit-
ness, supervision, research, facility planning, encroachment,
state, federal, and international recreation, and youth.

THE SPACIOUS EXHIBIT AREA will feature more than one
hundred commercial exhibits as well as a number of
educational exhibits, the National Recreation Association
J ob Mart, Consultation Area, and Book Center. A unique
and attractive part of the exhibit area will be an eighty-by-
hundred-foot park, set up by the Detroit Department of
Parks and Recreation. Trees, shrubbery, flowers, other
plant life, and benches will provide a scenic refuge for dele-
gates who can also retreat to a Cracker Barrel Corner for
off-the-cuff talks, and a special area for demonstration of
program activities.

Participants will have ample opportunity to exchange
ideas, renew acquaintances, and make new friends at the
social functions now being planned. Preceding the Opening
General Session. will be an informal get-acquainted, cafe-
teria dinner. A social recreation program will follow the
Opening General Session. During the week, the Detroit
Department of Parks and Recreation will present the excit-
ing Rodgers and Hammerstein hit Carousel.

Congress tours have been scheduled as the last feature
of the program and will provide the delegates with an op-
portunity to tour not only the outstanding recreation and
cultural points of interest in Detroit, but to take an extended

weekend in Canada, if they wish. #
227

How an insurance company evaluates
an area for a new home office.

Recreation as an Economic
and Social Asset

Fred Smith
I! RECREATION As

a community
economic asset is
largely underesti-
mated. Over the
years, recreation,
particularly urban

recreation, has
tended to fall into the category of social

service and is too often regarded as a
necessary, but sometimes bothersome,
urban facility. Recreation suffers from
being type-cast——like an otherwise goOd
actor who has so often been a gangster

or a cowboy that the public can’t see
him as anything else.

 

Recreation is an important economic
asset, and I am not now referring to the
business generated by recreation—the
tennis racquets and skis andlboats and
motors and fish poles, and all the
other accounterments of recreation-—
although the two billion dollars a year
spent for these purposes can’t be
brushed over lightly. Even more im-
portant is the part that well-planned
recreation facilities can play in stabiliz-
ing population, in reducing turnover of
employees in businesses and in attract-
ing new businesses and industries, new

wealth-generating organizations, to a
community.

All cities are in a struggle to attract

 

MR. SMITH, in addition to being a vice-
president and special assistant to the
president of the Prudential Insurance
Company, is a member of the National
Outdoor Recreation Resources Review
Commission and of the National Park
Service Advisory Board on National
Parks, Historic Sites, Buildings, and
Monuments.

228

businesses; to survive and prosper,
every city needs more local wealth in
the future than it has had in the past.
Additional income-producing organiza-
tions must provide this.

Before the Prudential Insurance Com-
pany decided where to build a new
home olhce to serve New England, we
made a thorough, long-range analysis
of the economic future of this area. We
discovered something we hadn’t antici-
pated: people wanted to move to Bos-
ton. They wanted to live here and this
can be a great asset.

With each of Prudential’s new home
oflices we have had to face the problem
of transferring key employees. As you
might expect, we didn’t have too much
trouble with California, and getting
people to move to Florida was not too
diHicult. But we were greatly surprised
when we had more volunteers to go to
Boston than to any other city, and we
were at a loss to understand it.

There may have been many reasons
for this, but our investigations have in-
dicated that one of the major motivat-
ing forces that attracts people to one
place over another is the availability of
attractive recreation outlets. This was
true It was true in
Florida. It was true in Boston; at least
our people felt it was true.

in California.

E VEN WITHOUT the presently contem-
plated organization of urban rec-
reation facilities, Boston’s had some

' extraordinary attractions. First, Boston

has outdoor facilities in abundance;
Cape Cod is within easy reach, and it is
easy to find limitless skiing in the
winter. The mountains and the sea, the
sand dunes and the woods make some

of the finest and most famous outdoors
in all the world. Thoreau and Emerson
still live here in spirit; their spirit ap-
paréntly moved the State Supreme
Court recently when it decided that
Walden Pond had to be preserved. The
struggle between wilderness and prog-
ress, between contemplation and the
bulldozer, is being settled everywhere
else by political pressures and pitched
battles, and the score generally is set-
tled by strength rather than virtue; but
in Emerson’s country, the State Su-
preme Court decided it. This was a sig-
nificant decision and will have wide-
Spread reverberations.

The national and state parks and
historic sites that have mounted in pop-
ularity so fantastically in the last dec-
ade are more significant in the Boston
area than in any other single section
of the country. Here the historic sites
and parks are growing. The now-devel-
oping Lexington Concord Road, re-
cently taken over by the National Park
Service, will prove to be one of the
finest historic panoramas in the coun-
try, and $8,000,000 of federal money
has been authorized for land acquisi-
tio’n. When the reconstruction of the
historic area running from Faneuil Hall
down to the riverfis finished—a project
which is well under way, at least in the
redtape. department in Washington—
Boston will have a little Williamsburg
within its city limits.

INCREASED ATTENTION to recreation
facilities, the maintenance of open
space, and the stepping up of parks,
such as the one projected for Cape Cod,
and the historic sites, will in the end

\s

M;

offset many of the deficiencies Boston \!

RECREATION

may appear to have from the standpoint
of being an ultra-modern, streamlined,
efficient city in which to do business.
Efficiencies may look good in Chamber
of Commerce presentations, but the
simple fact is that nobody does business
without people. Nobody runs an organ-
ization without employees. Nobody
prospers without competent personnel.
In these days of restless populations
and endless frontiers, getting and hold-
ing people is as important as capital.
It is beginning to be obvious that we
have undergone a major evolutionary
development in national psychology in
the matter of living and working. A

Headlands at Great Beach, Cape Cod,

are among the recreation attractions
near Boston which has mountains and
the sea, sand dunes and woods, with-
in easy distance, giving it strong sell-
ing points as a place for happy living.

generation or so ago, it was common to
assume that one’s first obligation was
to find a job that would provide some
measure of security; and wherever that
job was found, that was where you lived
and liked it. You made the best of your
surroundings. You carved out a life
within the limitations of the environs,
whatever and wherever they were. But
in more recent years, there has been a
growing determination to live a reason-
ably satisfactory life, and the job has
become only a means to an end, not an
end in itself. There has developed in
the average citizen an irresistible tend-
ency to flee fr0m the frustrations of
business, to retreat from routine, and
to regard recreation as an antidote to
the mounting confusions and demands
of civilization.

The true economic significance of
recreation attractions is only now being
investigated. We know from cursory
studies that the development of recrea-
tion facilities not only attracts people,
but tends to stabilize populations and

MAY 1961

to reduce expensive turnover in busi—
ness organizations. These can be mat—
ters of tremendous financial signifi—
cance in the business world. Perhaps
in a few months we will be able to pin
this down a lot better than I have been
able to do it here. Prudential is launch-
ing an independent study in depth in
Oklahoma and western Arkansas for
the sole purpose of ascertaining the
economic and social impact of recently
developed recreation facilities. We have
chosen this particular area because of
some striking things which have hap-
pened within the past few years. Boat-
ing, for example, virtually unheard of

V3 ‘ .
A ' W 4L

I
._.‘
i ., ‘ l1“
3.x w. m.

‘ - V-l & «
’ a t ' “a q. ,9 «'5... Jug .- Mus:
 Jar Wmifhig “im'i MR" V ' 0"‘A‘

in Oklahoma a few years ago, suddenly
became a way of life as a result of newly
developed water facilities along the Ar-
kansas Waterways and of reclamation
and water-supply dams in Oklahoma.
Today, tens of thousands of boats are
licensed in Oklahoma and a large pro-
portion of cars you meet on the high-
way are trailing boats behind.

In addition, Oklahoma City has un-
dergone a skilled and determined trans-
formation which has included attention
to recreation facilities. As a result, the
population trend away from the state
has reversed, and Oklahoma is one of
the most rapidly developing areas in the
country. We cannot now delineate the
part recreation has played in the re-
markable growth of this area, nor can
we say that the population trend in
Oklahoma was reversed as a direct re-
sult of this recreation development. We
do know that concurrent with this
change in the fortunes of Oklahoma
came the development of recreation fa-
cilities. There is already evidence, too,

that the productivity of workers stepped
up in a way that—accidentally or other-
wise—parallels the expanded use of
recreation facilities.

L ET’S take another straw in the wind.

It is general practice for larger
corporations to recruit young men and
women from colleges in an effort to
build future leadership. Many of these
organizations prepare promotion books
calculated to give them an edge over
other companies that are competing for
the top talent. Without exception, the
most successful of these booklets and
the most productive of recruiters spend

 

a substantial proportion of their space
and time exploiting the recreation and
cultural facilities of the areas in which
their plants or offices are located. And
these young men and women, who pre-
sumably are more concerned, at gradu-
ation, with their future prospects than
with anything else, are inclined to lin-
ger longer over the discussions of rec-
reation facilities than over any of the
other aspects of the job involved.
Sociologists and psychologists may
argue whether this is a good sign or a
bad sign, whether it reflects the right
sort of objectives or whether it doesn’t;
but whatever they conclude, the facts
are there. What interests young people
as well as older people are recreation
facilities. What attracts them are rec-
reation facilities. What makes them
happy in a given area is likely to be, in
a large part. recreation facilities. And
when an area can attract the brightest
and ablest students from colleges and
universities, it has made a profitable
long—term investment in the future. #

229

 

SENIORS and SOCIETY

As Senior Citizens” Month dawns in 1961, let us consider

I N THE GENERAL pattern of social
change affecting the aging, free-
time activity assumes an ever in-

creasing position of importance in indi-
vidual and social well-living. Extended
periods of free time in later maturity
present one of the greatest challenges
of our present society. Not only to live,
but to live fully may be the test of our
civilization.

It is every citizen’s concern that sen-
ior citizens participate and become ac-
tively involved in recreation, voluntary
services and in citizenship participa-
tion. There should be in every commu-
nity a core group or council of con-
cerned citizens who, with professional
guidance service, will initiate, coordi-
nate, and foster oppOrtunities for older

 

This material is based on information in Ag-
ing in the States and the Chart Book, pre-
pared for the 1961 White House Conference

on the Aging by the states and the Federal
Council on the Aging.

230

our aging population in light of the findings

of the 1961 White House Conference on the Aging

people to swim actively in the stream
of life. There should be appropriate
government agencies on federal, state,
and local levels to provide coordination,
consultation, aid, and services to senior
citizens for free-time activities, includ-
ing recreation, voluntary services, and
citizenship participation. There should
also be an agency at national, state and
local levels to effect cooperation plan-
ning, development, and coordination of
services of public and private agencies
which pertain to recreation for all ages.
“Fell-designed legal authorities, when
nonexistent, should be initiated to offer
recreation services and consultation at
the federal, state and local levels.

50 might the deliberations and con-
clusions of Section 12 of the 1961
White House Conference on Aging be
summed up with reference to free-time
activities, recreation, voluntary serv-
ices, citizenship participation.

THE TWENTIETH CENTURY has seen
the number of older people in the
nation increase fivefold. The middle-
aged sector of the population has in-
creased three and a half times. This
growth rate far outranged the general
population expansion and dramatically
changed the age distribution in our so-
ciety. Older people were four percent
of the population in 1900, and are nine
percent of it today. Middle-aged people
were fourteen percent of the total in
1900, and are twenty percent of it to-
day. Collectively, the proportion of
eighteen percent in 1900 has become
thirty-four percent in 1960. r

This growth can stand as a major 
achievement in the long perspective of J"
man’s history. Man has always wanted
to live longer and to increase the enjoy-
ment and satisfaction of his years.
Growth means change, and change calls
for adjustments and always suggests the

RECREATION

D

possibility of improvement. Today,
throughout the country millions of in-
dividuals and innumerable groups have
examined different aspects of this new
situation as it relates to them. Already
much has been accomplished; much
more will follow.

Over the first half of this century
the life expectancy for both men and
women at birth increased greatly. For
women, this expectancy has increased
twenty years. Among the aging the
women consistently outnumber the men,
and the trend of the differential rate is
increasing. It is now estimated that at
seventy-five, seven out of ten women are
widowed compared with four out of ten
men. Projections show that in 1980
there will be 177 women for every one
hundred men in the age group eighty-
five and over.

The percentage of older people in the
populations of the individual states
range from two percent to 12.9 percent.
In the 1960 Census, New York, Penn-
sylvania, and Wisconsin joined the
states having ten percent or more of
their population age sixty-five and over.

EARLY ADULT LIFE is taken up with

developing a work career, forming
a family, bringing up children, and be-
coming established in the community.
Twentyvfive to thirty years later, as
some of these responsibilities are being

completed and physical and mental
changes appear, a new series of life
events is set in motion. Each presents
opportunities and problems to the in-
dividual and requires personal stock-

taking and conscious adjustment to
changing circumstances.

AVERAGE AGE AT:

Men Women
Entrance into Labor Force 19 19
Marriage 23 20
Birth of Last Child 28 26
Marriage of Last Child 4-9 4-7
Death of Spouse 66 64-
Retirement from Work 67 66

Free time increases rapidly after the
individual reaches the plateau in his
work career, as the children grow up,
and with retirement. In pre-industrial
societies, most adults were engaged in
making a living as long as their rela-
tively shorter lives lasted. The middle-
aged and older worker today has more
time free than he spends‘on the job.
When he reaches later maturity and re-
tires from work, the average individual
at age sixty-five receives a gift of an
additional thirty thousand hours of
time to use as he wishes. Increasing
numbers of middle-aged people are re-
viewing their objectives and goals, de-
veloping new life patterns, and planning
systematically for security of income,
health, and social relationships.

High Spots for Seniors

0 Minneapolis seniors not only gad-
about but even globe trot. The Subur-
ban Senior Citizens, sponsored by the
United Fund, followed up a jaunt to
Hawaii with a train tour to Duluth with
320 oldsters aboard. The group has
also visited Winnipeg, Canada, and
took a “Mystery Train Color Trip” to
Winona, Minnesota.

0 Connecticut senior citizens are also
on the go. In New Haven, picnics and
bus trips were the core of the senior
citizen program all last summer. A
small picnic drew sixty senior citizens
and a large one around 120. At the rate
of at least one trip a week, the bus sa-

faris included Lighthouse Beach, Guil-
ford’s old houses, the ferry around

| MAY 1961

Thimble Islands, a joint meeting of
golden-age clubs of New England at
Lake Quassapaug, Mystic Seaport, Port
Jefferson, the Golden-Age Camp in
South Coventry, Harkness Memorial
State Park, the Danbury Fair, and a
fall foliage trip that took in the “Amer-
ica Goes to the Polls” exhibit in Hart-
ford and a tour of Southbury Training
School to deliver handmade gifts.

In Bristol, the golden-agers made bus
trips a sell-out on trips to New York
City; Ocean Beach, New Jersey; and
the Eastern States Exposition. The
Bristol Area CIO-AFL and the city
share expenses with the senior-citizen
center.

Weekly garden parties are summer
specials in Greenwich. They are held at

MIDDLE ACE is coming to be known

as the turning point of maturity.
Many people find new opportunities for
growth in self-expression and a sense
of fulfillment in one or more of a wide
variety of activities such as mainte-
nance activity, social and religious par-
ticipation, recreation and education
programs including travel, games, and
sports, adult education classes, televi-
sion and radio, reading, art, and music,
and service to the community and oth-
ers through service organizations, vol-
untary community and citizens, com-
munity and political groups. Others
find only boredom and uselessness and
allow themselves to decline into an un-
happy and premature old age.

The transition to maturity is facili-
tated by preretirement programs and
guidance in ways of meeting the hori-
zons of the later years. Modern society
affords a wide variety of opportunities
for purposeful activity and service to
others and to the community. Among
these appear to lie major factors in the
maintenance of independence, dignity,
and physical and mental well-being.

The challenge to society is to define
expectations for adventurous living in
the later years, to take advantage of the
experience of its senior citizens, and to
provide recognition and opportunities
in line with their interests and abili-

ties. #

country estates, lakefront homes or big
townhouses in the area. These get-to-
gethers with refreshments and convivi-
ality as keynotes draw attendance of
forty to forty-five oldsters.

0 Since the Pasadena, California Sen-
ior Center is one of the bright spots in
town, the center has made up color
postcards of its patio and outdoor game
area, its cheerful library, landscaped
exterior, and one of its social dances
(oh, those red shoes and that splashy
Hawaiian shirt). The postcards sell for
3.05. The center also publishes mate-
rials on senior citizen activities includ-
ing An Evaluation of Trained Volun-
teers to a Senior Citizen Program
($.50). These are available from the
center at 85 East Holly Street, Pasa-
dena, California. (See also Page 232.)

231

l ‘ ' '

    

p .

.Senior citizen clubs oger opportunities
for exploration of shared interests, new
friends, companionship, and activities.

ROM THE BEGINNING of recorded
time, human beings have shared
their friendship, their strength,

their hospitality, and their ability with
others. They have fed the hungry, cared
for the sick, comforted the bereaved,
and befriended the lonely. To share
with others is a part of the brotherhood
of man, as natural as our breath. When
the first human being extended a help-
ful hand to his neighbors the volunteer
was born.

Today many of these services to hu-
manity are undertaken by federal, state,
or local organizations, each devoted to
a specific field. And each of these fields
of service—health, education, religion,
social welfare, and recreation—was
built and carried on in its early stages
by the volunteer. Although persons are
educated, trained, and paid to serve in
these fields today, there are never
enough of them to meet the need. So

the volunteer continues to be the very“

lifeblood and strength of human serv-

 

From the Volunteer Manual distributed
at volunteer training sessions at the Pasa-
dena, California, Senior Center. The
Manual also includes the center’s ob jec-
tives, sections on duties, what makes a
good recreation leader, and why recrea-
tion is important to older people. The
center’s executive director is ADELAIDE
WOODWORTH KINTz.

232

The Volunteer

" and Senior Citizens

In the Pasadena, California, Senior Center, the warm
interest of volunteers contributes strength to its service

ice, as he was in the beginning. He con-
tinues to open up Virgin fields of service
and carry them on until the cumber-
some wheels of government and organ-
ized professional work make provision
for it in their budgets and in their train-
ing.

Now, an area of service has appeared
in the field of care for the aged. Until
a few years ago, not many had ever
thought about the aged as a group of
needy people. Few had thought about
their still-human need for fun or of the
possibility of recreation clubs for the
aged. But the moment the idea and
need were made known, volunteers were
there with the first vanguard of pio-
neers in the field. '

A Bill of Rights For Aging Persons

0 THE RIGHT TO GROW OLD, with the
emphasis on grow. We should not be
old except as we grow old. The right to
be treated as a person and an adult at
that. Years bring experience and ex-
perience is an essential ingredient of
wisdom.
0 THE RIGHT To A FUTURE. We can’t
live in the past. We must live in the
future. The right to have something to
say about our life in that future.
0 THE RIGHT To WORK, to play, to plan,
to produce as we are able, to continue
to live and be a part of life. The “right
to have fun and friends, to have hob-
bies, to be interested in politics and cur-
rent events, to enjoy harmless gossip,
and to be a normal human person.
0 THE RIGHT TO HAVE THE HELP of
one’s family and friends, in being
interesting to that family and their
friends. The right to have professional
help and advice whenever necessary.
The right of opportunity to earn and
cherish these rights and to live happily
and usefully until the end.

While these rights are inherent, still
they must be earned. The rights of man,

life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness
. . . are inherent but they must be fought
for in every age of man. Old age is not
a penalty . . . it is an achievement.

A Bill of Rights For Volunteers

1. The right to be treated as a co-

worker~—not just as free help, not as a
prima donna.

2. The right to a suitable assign-
ment, with consideration for personal
preference, temperament, life experi-
ence, education, and employment back-
ground. '

3. The right to know as much about
the organization as possible———its poli-
cies, its pe0ple, its programs.

4. The right to training for the job
—thoughtfully planned and effectively
presented training.

5. The right to continuing educa-
tion on the job as a follow-up in initial
training, information about new devel-
opments, training for greater responsi-
bility.

6. The right to sound guidance and
direction by someone who is experi-
enced, well-informed, patient, and
thoughtful, and who has the time to in-
vest in giving guidance.

7. The right to a place to work, an
orderly, designated place, conducive to
work and worthy of the job to be done.

8. The right to promotion and a
variety of experiences, through ad-
vancement to assignments of more re-
sponsibility, through transfer from one
activity to another, through special as-
signments.

9. The right to be heard, to have a
part in planning, to feel free to make if!
suggestions, to have respect shown for {GI
and honest opinion.

10. The right to recognition through
day-by-day expressions of appreciation
and by being treated as a bona fide
co-worker. #-

RECREATION

Out of the

I
 . . . and mto our daily lives marches today’s crusade for American Fitness

F. Kennedy—through his article on “The Soft

5%!»

3. LL AMERICANS have been alerted by President John

American and his interest in the President’s Coun-
cil on Youth Fitness—~to his vital concern for the fitness of
American youth. (The council was first established in 1956,
by executive order of President Eisenhower.) In his special
Message on Health and Hospital Care to the Congress of the
United States on February 9, 1961, President Kennedy said,
in part:

“In order to provide more unified administration and
increased effectiveness of federal efforts for physical fitness,
I am designating the Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare [Abraham Ribicoff] as the chairman of the Presi-
dent’s Council on Youth Fitness. I am asking him to mo-
bilize the full resources of his department and other inter-
ested agencies toward encouraging public and private agen-
cies and individuals to improve the physical fitness of our
nation’s youth. . . .”

Charles B. Wilkinson, head football coach at Oklahoma

University, has been designated by the President as a special
consultant to frame the national fitness plan. C. Carson
Conrad of Sacramento, California, chief of the State Bureau
of Health, Physical Education and Recreation, has been
named as his assistant.

A MEETING in Washington, called by Mr. Ribicoff on
February 21, 1961, was attended by representatives
of some ninety organizations. The National Recreation
Association was represented by its executive director and
board member, Joseph Prendergast; Board Member Mrs.
James C. Parker, president, National Congress of Parents
and Teachers; and NRA service associates Milo F. Chris-
tiansen, superintendent of recreation, District of Columbia;
Julian W. Smith, Michigan State University; Alfred B. La-
Gasse, executive secretary, American Institute of Park Ex-
ecutives; Olga Madar, director of recreation, United Auto-
mobile Workers Union; and Hubert l. Snyder, director of
recreation and parks, Baltimore County, Maryland.
Today’s interest and activity in behalf of youth fitness
affirms that health and fitness activities are the responsibil-
ity of the recreation field as well as of the physical education
and other fields, and that it should be brought out of the
gymnasium and into the daily life of all young citizens. As
we go into the larger picture of overall fitness, everyone
is bound to promote the values inherent in recreation. As

* Sports Illustrated, December 26, 1960.
I MAY 1961

Mr. Ribicoff points out, “Our search for physical excellence
goes along hand-in-hand with—and gives strong support
to—other efforts for young people. Intellectual and emo-
tional growth, good human relationships, spiritual insights

—-all these we want for our children. It is part of their total
development.”

THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS asked _by Mr. Ribicoff at the

conference should be carefully considered by every rec-
reation policy-maker, administrator, or leader. Mr. Pren-
dergast will appreciate hearing from RECREATION readers
regarding them so that he can more effectively represent
the thinking of persons engaged in this field.

0 In what ways can the federal government strengthen its
services and facilities that affect physical fitness of‘ youth?

0 What can be done to assure more opportunities for
healthful competition in athletics for all youngsters?

o What are the recreation and space needs of our communi-
ties? Our state and national parks?

0 How can we get enough teachers, recreation leaders, and
workers with young people to carry out top quality pro-
grams?

0 What research is available and what more is needed to
make our work more effective?

0 How can we gain true citizen support for the cost

of providing more opportunities for physical fitness for our
children?

0 How can we create a good image of physical fitness for
all citizens—and in particular for our youth?

0 In the total national effort, what should be the role of
the President’s Council of Physical Fitness of Youth? Of the
Department of Health, Education and Welfare? Of other
departments also vitally concerned with this problem? #

llllllllllIlllllllll!Illllllllllllllllllllllll!“llllllIIll!!!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll'  '

To Joseph Prendergast and
The National Recreation: Association

April 7, 1961

The National Recreation Association has been a leader in the
cause of htness for many years. We look forward to close co-
operation with you.~—Charles B. Wilkinson, Consultant to the

President.

 

April 10, 1961

On behalf of the Federal Government I would like to express
my deep gratitude for the cantribution you have made to this
cause. I hope you will continue your interest and that we may
count on your counsel and assistance in the days ahead—Abra-
ham Ribicoff, Secretary of Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare, Washington.

lllllllIllHill!!!“lll!lllI!!lIll!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllmllllih i:  =  *

 

TEENAGER

Julian L. Greifer

- 3 HOW YOUNG people spend their free

i time should be of utmost concern
to every community. Youth’s creative
and positive use of leisure time is not
only a preparation for wholesome adult-
hood and sound citizenship, but also
keeps them in a happier frame of mind.

 

Misspent leisure may lead to character
and personality distortion or, worse still, criminal behavior.
If the adult community expects to do something about the
problem of leisure-time use by teenagers, it needs to have
more accurate data on what they actually do and prefer to
do. GueSses and surmises are not enough. This report is a
resume of what one community did about this problem.
The following is a study of leisure time spent during the
weekend of April 29-May 1, 1960, by junior- and senior-
high-school students of several Philadelphia northwest
neighborhoods.

This investigation was launched at the instigation of the
Neighborhood Centre of Philadelphia because of the diffi-
culties encountered in attempting to initiate a recreation
program for children, youth, and the aged in the West Oak
Lane, Mt. Airy, and Temple Stadium neighborhoods of
Philadelphia. These programs were introduced in the fall
of 1958 because of mounting demands by local residents
concerned with teenage misbehavior. It was financed by
the Federation of Jewish Agencies of Philadelphia in 1959.

Neighborhoods Centre’s first survey of neighborhood
needs produced surprising results. This large segment of
Philadelphia with a population of about one hundred thou-
sand did not possess a single recreation building! Facilities
for recreation were offered to a very limited extent by pub-
lic schools, churches, and the department of recreation.
The police Juvenile Aid Bureau revealed that in these
middle-class neighborhoods, there was a considerable de-
gree of serious juvenile crime and a very high incidence
of car thefts. In view of these facts, the center was dismayed
to find so many obstacles in the way of initiating its pro-
posed recreation programs: neighbors who fought against
the center’s securing zoning variance, difficulty in obtain-
ing any kind of facility for teenage activity in the schools,
and the appalling indifference on the part of many parents
to this problem which their teenagers faced in finding ap-

propriate and wholesome recreation outlets in the neigh-
borhoods where they live. '

We cannot emphasize too strongly that this report will
give only a preliminary and tentative indication of some

 

DR. GREIFER is executive director of Neighborhood Centres
of Philadelphia.

234

PREFERENCES

aspects of leisure-time activities and preferences to junior-
and senior-high-school youth of the northwest neighbor-
hoods limited to West Oak Lane, Mt. Airy, and Temple
Stadium, roughly comprising the Postal Zone #50 in Phil-
adelphia. The analysis of the data has not gone far enough
to give a greater validation or reveal refined correlations.

THE QUESTIONNAIRE was designed by Dr. Sidney Rappa-

port, Herbert Epstein, and the writer. Specifically
these students were asked on Page One some basic informa-
tion as to age, sex, the street they live on and the postal zone,
but not their name. On Pages Two and Three they were
given the following directions:

“We’d like you to think back over all the things you
did last weekend. Think back to last Friday evening,
go down the list of activities and 'in the column which

is headed “Friday Evening” put a check mark next to

any of those thinks which you did last Friday evening.”

F orty-eight possible activities were listed and room al-
lowed for additions. This was repeated for Saturday and
Sunday morning, afternoon, and evening. The second selec-
tion called for a check of those activities which they liked
to do and enjoyed the most. On the fourth page they were
asked to indicate the places they visited for their recreation,
public, private and commercial, and queried as to their
awareness of community recreation programs.

The questionnaire was collected a week later with an

almost ninety percent of completed responses, a remarkable
result. The committee decided to make a special study of

the children who come from Mt. Airy, W’est Oak Lane, and

Temple Stadium neighborhoods, comprising Postal Zone
#50, since these are the neighborhoods in which the \Vest
Oak Lane Co-Ordinating Council is particularly interested.

TABLE |

Activity reported most frequently checked according to grade, during a
weekend in May 1960, by 804 junior and senior high school boys and girls.

Grades 7 8 9 | 10 ll 12
Period Car
Fri Eve. TV TV TV TV TV Riding
Sat. AM TV TV Sleep Body Home Sleep
Care Chores

Sat PM TV TV TV TV Talk Car
Phone Riding

Sat Eve TV TV TV TV Dating Dating
Sun. AM Rel. Body Sleep Sleep Sleep Sleep

School Care

Sun. PM TV TV Home Home Car Home
Work Work Riding Work

Sun Eve. TV TV , TV TV Home Home
i ' Work i Work

RECREATION

P:

\1

A surprising image of the teenager emerges
from a study of the leisure-time activities and preferences
of teenagers in several selected Philadelphia neighborhoods

TABLE II

Activities reported as most frequently indulged in during seven weekend periods in May 1960 by

804 junior and senior high school boys and girls.

 

    

          
        
            
  
    

   
        
          
  

  

      
      

 
 

     

     

 

 

Volunteering for social service or
other citizen activities is negligible, a
little over one percent. Hobbies only
involve about two percent, while less

Friday Sat. AM Sat. PM Sat. Eve. Sun. AM Sun. PM Sun. Eve.

A r  ____l __._____. _ than fifteen percent of the total group
c rv. o. c IV. 0. c 1v. 0. ct1v. No. Actrv. No. Actrv. No. Actrv. No. (127) attended a club meeting, almost
Chores 258 IV 231 IV 331 SIEED 265  “4 TV 397 as many as go to a beauty parlor (about
_ __ __.._ __ __ .___ __.__ ______.___ __ _ one uarter of all irls re ortin and

319 TV 244 Talk 210 Pers. 255 Pets. 218 TV 235 Home 235 q g p g) -
Care Care work about the same number report reading
Pm —————-— —— -—--— *m —-————— ———- for pleasure. The latter appears to be
(are 315 Talk 215 Sports ‘ 132 1 Talk 222 School 213 Talk 179 Care 251 largely a junior high activity- Very few
Sleep 214 Sleep 215 (are 153 ' Dale , 197 Home 159 Car 163 Talk 204 report attendmg SP0” Contests' The”
I 1 Work were probably few such contests during
Home' 132 Pers. 133 Shop 156 Car I 133 IV 150 Body Sleep 115 an early May weekend- Work for Pay
Work Care ' Sgajrrtis  attracted about ten percent who seemed

 

Alternate returns of the 1628 which came from these neigh-
borhoods were selected, a total of 814; of this number, 397
were girls and 417 boys. Ten were discarded for insufficient
0r unreliable reporting. The balance, 804 boys and girls,
form the basic source of the following interpretations.

The Most Popular Activities

The 804 teenagers divide themselves into six age groups,
from twelve to seventeen, according to their grade distribu-
tion in junior and senior high school. Multiplying these six
age groupings by the seven weekend periods which we are
studying, we have a total of forty-two periods of activity.
During twenty-one of these, or half of the total, TV ranks
highest as the most frequently checked by all these young
people. Junior high school pupils, especially, are TV de-
votees. Only on Sunday mornings do we find more of them
going to Sunday School than watching TV. Though TV is
displaced as Number One activity, it does not mean that it
is eliminated from their Sunday morning’s schedule. It
still takes third place for most of them. Second in popular-
ity to TV is talking on the telephone. Sleep is in third place
as a prominent activity during the weekend followed by
homework and car riding for pleasure. Sixth and seventh
are home chores and dating. In eighth place is religious
education, followed by “sports.” Dating for these young-
sters begin at the fifteen-year level and with it, coffee shop
or restaurant loitering. The largest attendance at coffee
shops is recorded for Friday evenings by the high-school
group. Almost two thirds of the entire fifteen to seventeen
age group (133), reported that they were there. Movies,
though ranking high on the fifteen to seventeen age group
list, is reported only by sixteen-year-olds as a Saturday-
night activity.

MAY 1961

to enjoy the experience.

Only about a quarter (26%) of the total group indicated
attendance at religious services or religious school. Interest
in religion begins to wane after the thirteenth year. At age
twelve, two—fifths report attendance at religious school on
Sundays. This drops to less than a quarter (24.8%) at age
thirteen and to seventeen percent at age fourteen; down to
eleven percent at age sixteen.

What They Most Enjoy

What do these young people enjoy most? In order of
choice, the top ranking ten are as follows:
1. Bowling 6. Talking on telephone
2. Watching TV 7. Dancing
3. Dating 8. Reading for pleasure
4. Movies 9. Entertain friends
5. Sports 10. Car riding

l'ABlE

Activities most frequently checked and activities most enjoyed as Indicated
by 804 junior and senior high school students.

    

 

Rank Activity (hecked Activity Prelrred

1. TV Bowling

2. Talking on 'phone Dating

3. Sleep Movies

4. Homework Sports

5. Car riding for pleasure Talking on 'phone

6. Home chores Dancing

7. Dating Riding for pleasure

8. Religious education-_ Entertaining friends -

9. Sports Car rlding —
10. u Bowlin

Continued —“>

235

Is there a relationship with what they do and what they
enjoy most? A comparison of the top ten activities checked
by the teenagers and the top ten most enjoyed, reveals some
interesting discrepancies, as We note from Table III.

The most important discrepancy is in the realm of par-
ticipating in sports. While it is in ninth place in popularity
as an activity, it is in fifth place as an activity most en-
joyed. No doubt that the lack of facilities is a factor in lim-
iting teenage participation in athletics. Dancing is another
activity desired and enjoyed but apparently not indulged
in because of a lack of either facilities or opportunity.

It is also interesting to compare the activities enjoyed
most by junior high school and Senior high school groups
as Table IV illustrates.

While the younger teens stick to their TV, the older teens
put dating on top of the list. Not the activity they most in-
dulge in, but one apparently most desired, bowling appeals
equally to the older and the younger teens. The fact that
this does not rank high in what they actually do may be
due to the fact that most bowling alleys limit their teenage
clientele and besides it costs money to play. There were
several instances of police action at the bowling alleys to
control the teenagers’ misbehavior.

Movies, though still an enjoyable activity for youth, is
only mentioned by the sixteen-year-olds as a Saturday-eve-
ning activity. Its displacement by TV is obvious. Sports,
though not at the top of the list, still is an activity youth
enjoys. The fact that it does not rank high in participation
may be due to a lack of facilities.

Do these teenagers use community facilities? Are they
participating in the programs offered by public recreation
and private agencies such as “Y’s,” settlement houses,
churches and schools? Are they aware that such activities
are offered? Fifty percent of those reporting attended a
bowling alley during the weekend and forty-five percent
attended a church or synagogue function. Only a fifth at-
tended a meeting of.a national organization (scouting,
B’nai B’rith Youth, Catholic Youth, etcetera) and only
eighteen percent utilized public or private recreation. While

T A B L E | V
Most Enjoyed Activities—Junior and Senior High School Students Compared
Rank Junior High School Senior High School
1 TV Viewing Dating
2 Bowling *Bowling
3 Movies Viewing TV
4 Sports Riding in Car
5 l Talking on 'phone I Sports

* It should be pointed out that bowling is just as much a social as it is an
athletic activity and apparently supercedes interest in other sports.

more than half knew of the programs existing in synagogues
and churches, and two-fifths, of recreation programs in
schools, only one-fifth were aware of such programs in pri-
vate or public recreation agencies.

Questions Still To Be Answered

This is preliminary review of the material. Much more
study is required of the data. This is in the nature of an
introduction to fuller analysis of the material at hand.
There is also need for further research in order to validate
these findings. A similar questionnaire should be given in
the fall and winter to the same group, in order to make al-
lowances for the different seasons, if we are to secure a more
correct and balanced picture of the teenager and his leisure.
We also need to substantiate data which the present ques-
tionnaire does not reveal. How much time does the youth
spend in pursuing the activity he checks? What are his
money resources? Is there any way we can find out some-
thing about the “taboo” activities which the teenager is
reluctant to discuss? How many own cars? To what ex-
tent is the nature of the leisure-time activity determined by
another teen leader, by advertising, or any other media
which have a determining influence on his behavior, his
cultural and social milieu? Are these socio-economic dif-
ferences as revealed in the leisure-time behavior of present

day youth? #

UTOMOBILES, elevators, escalators, washing machines, vac-
A uum cleaners, and a host of other products of the machine
age have eliminated from modern life much of the physical ac-
tivity that was once a normal part of daily living. They offer both
advantages and disadvantages. They can make us a lazy, seden-
tary people, or they can free us to replace irksome physical 1a-
bor with enjoyable physical recreation. Time spent at the tennis
court, golf links, beach, or gym is time profitably used. And the
relatively small price you may pay for bowling, horseback rid-
ing, archery, boating, or other favorite sports is a sound invest-
ment in health and happiness.—-THURMAN B. RICE, MD. and

FRED V. HEIN, Ph.D.
236

RECREATION X

 

 

Dancing is the most
popular activity at the
Friday night Teen Time
programs held in nine
junior high schools.

The teenagers sign in
at entering the Teen
Time center. Parents
know where their chil-
dren are until closing.

TEEN TIME in TACOMA

About 3,500 junior high school students are attracted
back to school on Friday evenings. They like it!

Tom Lantz

“I T’s AMAZING

h o W m u ch
energy they burn,"
said the supervisor
of recreation cen-
ters for the joint
park-school pro-

 

gram in Tacoma,
Washington. “When kids are bent on
having fun and being busy, they aren’t
getting into trouble during the Friday
Night Teen Time program in nine jun-
ior high schools.”

Tacoma’s Teen Time for junior high
school students began sixteen years ago

 

MR. LANTZ is superintendent of public
recreation for the Metropolitan Park
District in Tacoma, Washington.

MAY 1961

when Parent-Teacher Association and
Student Councils requested that unior
high schools be open on Friday eve-
nings under trained recreation leader-
ship during the school year. “There is
nothing to do but go to the corner drug
store,” adolescent youths said. “Our
parents go to club parties. We need a
good place to have fun, too.”

Do the youngsters like it? About
thirty-five hundred of them pay fifteen
cents every Friday night to get into one
of the nine junior high schools. They
dance to recorded music, play table ten-
nis, shufHeboard, volleyball, wrestle,
tumble, play basketball, and jump on
the trampoline.

Supervision at the centers is tight

but not suffocating. The director is a
junior-high-school teacher who knows
youngsters of adolescent age. He is
recommended by the principal of the
school and this makes for good liaison
between the principal and the super-
visory staff of the oint school-park (le-
partlnent. The director of the center is
assisted by part-time paid college stu-
dents who are taking community recre-
ation leadership courses.

All participants “sign in” at 7:00
PM and are encouraged to attend the
teen-time center at the junior high
school they go to during the day. Paro-
chial school youths are invited too.
Parents are encouraged to meet their
youngsters at the school door at the
10:00 PM closing time.

Each teen-time center has an advi-
sory council composed of the school
principal, director of the center, a PTA
representative and a boy and girl from
each unior-high-school grade. This ad-
visory council meets periodicallyto plan
the program and evaluate it. Holidays,
such as Halloween, Christmas, and Val-
entine’s Day, call for specific planning.

Will adolescents go back to school at
night for their fun? Yes, indeed! The
regular attendance each Friday night of
thirty-five hundred boys and girls in
nine school buildings tells the story.
Best of all, the park board does not have
to build separate youth centers or com-
munity centers. The taxpayers already
own the school buildings, and they are
not dark at night. Tacoma’s school in-
door and outdoor facilities are used f0r
community recreation purposes exten-
sively.

Four of the top administrative staff
of Tacoma’s joint park-school districts’
recreation program are paid by the
school and park districts. The budgets
are separate. The school district budget
includes salaries, equipment, supplies
and custodial wages. The Teen-Time
program is paid entirely from the school
budget and the fifteen cents collected
every Friday Teen-Time night goes to
the school district’s general fund.
Youngsters are helping to pay the bill.

Are the centers effective? Lieutenant
Carl Peterson of Tacoma’s Police Dc-
partment’s Youth Guidance Division

thinks so. “The program assists us
materially. I endorse it wholeheart-
edly.” #

237

 

Creative Grist for

an Old Mill

Nancy DuBois Hagmayer

man, yet even the most secluded artist will admit that
his work must be seen by the public, and that he must
meet with other craftsmen to see their work and discuss
mutual problems of design and technique. Six years ago, a
group of us in Brookfield, Connecticut, decided to pool
samples of our work for a crafts exhibit. We hoped there
would 'be enough talent and enthusiasm to make a serious
crafts project possible, and were not disappointed. The ex-
hibit was so successful that it led to the formation of the
Brookfield Craft Center. '
The first step was to incorporate. Using the American
Craftsmen’s Council booklet, Craftsmanship For the Com-
munity, as a guide, we hada lawyer draw up articles of in-
corporation and launched the first council meeting. Here,
we elected four officers who, together with two additional
members, make up an executive committee which serves
for one year. We also elected a larger council to serve a

S ECLUSION IS AN important factor in the life of a crafts-

three-year term and to pass on recommendations. The ro-
tating membership on this council provides a certain degree
of continuity. The center has also been fortunate in having
the advice and guidance of the Society of Connecticut Crafts-
men, which works closely with us.

Once incorporated, it was necessary to set organization
policy. The purpose of one craft center may differ radically
from another. One group may wish to stress merchandising,
another may simply want a common workshop, and a third
may be primarily interested in display. At first, the Brook-
field group cheerfully embraced all these functions, and it
took two years to decide that sale of crafts would be inci-
dental to the most important function———that of instruction
and display. .

From the beginning, we were fortunate in having a build-

 

MRS. HAGMAYER, former New York City elementary-school

teacher, is now director of the Brookfield Crafts Center,
which she helped found.

238

ing at our disposal, an old, partially remodeled grist mill.
However, other groups have been equally successful in
church basements, barns, or schools. An accommodation
can be fairly primitive as long as it is safe, has access to
water and electricity power and heating.

Because funds were limited the center had to utilize the
different talents of volunteers. One person understood elec-
trical wiring and was called upon to handle lighting prob-
lems, kiln building, and so on. Another, skilled in build-
ing maintenance, knew how to insulate, control water sup-
plies, install sinks, and build display shelves. We also dis-
covered we needed office helpers, artists, printers, photo-
graphers, all of whom had to be dedicated enough to give
many hours of free service. This sounds like a big order,
but can be done if the scale of the project is kept within
reason, and if it is understood that time is no object and
improvements may take years. It was only as the center got
going that we became fully aware of the bookkeeping, pub-
licity, Showmanship, and housekeeping necessary for its
administration. All this had to be learned while tending to
the primary business of obtaining the right teachers, equip-
ping workshops, and guaranteeing an uncompromising and
high standard of work———and we Houndered on every point
but the last.

Most of the first teachers were graduates of The School
for American Craftsmen. Because these young peOple had
elected crafts as their chief interest, they lifted the instruc-
tion out of the hobby or do-it-yourself category. This meant
that classes were not always filled but students were serious
and exhibits ambitious. By refusing to compromise on the
caliber of the work, the center gained the confidence of the
very best designer-craftsmen. They have been glad to teach
at the center, to exhibit there, and even to become members.

It certainly was not easy in those early years when mem-
bership dues and tuition fees did not begin to meet expenses.
It meant cake and rummage sales, occasional gifts, such as
a loom, a potter’s wheel, or a set of books, and, for the most
part, dependance upon the generosity of a few loyal friends
for support. Since then, the center has worked very hard
to establish itself as a nonprofit educational organization
with tax-exempt status. This has taken three years of cor-
respondence and filling of forms, but mounting this im-
portant hurdle has brought us prestige and good will. Con-
tributions are now tax deductible.

Experiments over the past six years have improved our
timing, and lessened errors. The center program now in-
cludes work at the potter’s wheel, hooking rugs on old
looms, and making silver jewelry and other art objects.

Within the mill itself there are small apartments where
the instructors and a few students live simply during the
season (April through September). Courses range from a
one-day session in ceramic mosaics to regular weekly classes
in weaving.

Have six years of hard and dedicated work been worth it?
Emphatically, yes! The primary purpose, that of developing
a serious crafts center, has been accOmplished. We have
made an artistic and creative world in an old grist mill
where the oats still fall from the beams whenever someone
hammers a nail. #

g.

RECREATION \

 

National Forest Progress

Recreation visits to the national
forests have been increasing by more
than twelve percent a year, according
to Richard E. McArdle, chief of the
US. Forest Service. Development of
additional family units for camping and
picnicking, expansion of the recreation
research program, and additions to the
wilderness system are a few indications
of the progress made in national forest
recreation during the year.

At least one thousand new camp and
picnic units were constructed this past
year under Operation Outdoors.

During 1960, half a million acres
were added to the national forest wil-
derness system. Largest addition was
the 458,505-acre Glacier Peak Wilder-
ness in the Washington Cascades. Also
new was the 6,051-acre Wheeler Peak
Wild Area in New Mexico. About
three thousand acres were added to the
Cucamonga Wild Area of California.
Scenic areas have proved to be very
popular—the largest one in the national
forest system, Tracy Arms-Fords Terror
in Alaska, was established last year.
(See also “Recreation in our National
F 0rests,”,RECREATION, October 1960.)

Action on Cape Cod

Cape Codders recently appealed to
the Massachusetts State Legislature for
$50,000 for a study on how to conserve
the land that will remain after the
Federal government takes over a 32,-
500-acre tract for park use. The long
stretch of shore from Provincetown to
Chatham is expected to be established
as a national seashore park before sum-
mer. The area provides what is con-
sidered to be some of the best surf and
deep-sea fishing in the world. Cape in-
habitants are seeking $25,000 from the
county commissioners and an equal
amount from the federal government's
urban renewal funds. President Ken-

MAY 1961

nedy, while U. S. Senator from Massa-
chusetts last summer, was co-author of
legislation for the establishment of a
national seashore area on the Cape.

Omaha Spoke Up

Five “Speak Up, Omaha!” meetings
gave hundreds of citizens in Omaha,
Nebraska, a rare opportunity to help
chart the future course of the local
chamber of commerce. The jam ses-
sions on bright ideas were a well-organ-
ized prelude to the chamber’s program
for progress. Suggestions and com-
ments for recreation services included
a children’s zoo, drag strip for teen-
agers with guidance and supervision.
more correlation between school and

lilll"ll!!!"Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Sing a song of summer fun! In Louis-
ville, Kentucky, the summer playground
program winds up in a grand parade of
floats that sometimes stagger the imag-

ination and leave onlookers agasp at
the infinite ingenuity employed. At

the right, a royal scene from the deep
blue sea under the tentacles of a most
friendly octopus. Below, a salute to the
neighboring state of West Virginia,
complete with coal miners, realistic
mine entrance of chicken wire and
crepe paper. Note all the loving touches
such as lantern,
cowbell, cowcatch-
er. The miners are
all slicked up for
the occasion. Their
realism did not ex-
tend to dirty faces
for this special oc-
casion! Another
float depicted Rob-
ert E. Lee mounted
on knobby-kneed
papier-maché
steed.

llllllllIll!llllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllll

city recreation, and lighted baseball
parks for amateur baseball. More than
six hundred propositions were put forth
at the meetings.

Serve-Yourself Information

The nation’s first outdoor self-service
state-wide travel information center has
been opened in Fairfield, Connecticut,
the first of twenty-eight to be erected
this year on the state’s limited-access
parkways, highways, and turnpikes.
The directory will help motorists in lo-
cating interesting points, such as recre-
ation areas, summer theaters, public
golf and swimming areas, historic sites,
and universities. Overnight and other
accommodations are listed, too. The

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Handweaver

8r Craftsman

Offers new ideas

in every issue
0

Projects of interest

for all ages
.

Comes 4 times a year
64 pages

0
Back issues are most helpful

Write for brochure

Single copies $|.25
l yr $4 2 yrs $7.50
3yrs $l0 5yrs $|5

Pan American & foreign rates
$1 a year extra

Handweaver & Craftsman

246 Fifth Avenue New York 'I

CHAR - WOOD

Campstove and grill

burns charcoal
or wood

write for complete catalog & factory prices

BELSON
nnnurncrunrno co., nonrn AURORA 4, rumors

  

5109 summer on men omens was
You (an learn to Dance New-Way by

READING Self-taught DANCENOTES on
Dance Instruction Cards

 
  

First and the only Dance System that WORKS!

Share the. cost and each Dancing Lesson with
your family, relatives, and friends and make
extra money for yourself. ' r

Mail your order for Male or Female Dance
Step Figures in Mambo Rhythm. ~

Improvisation & Combination of Dance Step
Figures, W1" make 75 Dancing Lessons. 

Send your name. address 

 
   
 

    
 

u;

(check or money order) to:

onncenorer. see—m Street, Brooklyn “15. N. v:

 
 

240

 

    
     
  

    

    
    

unit' is lighted at night and advance
signs before the service area tell the
motorist that travel information is
available there.

Youth Council Activities

0 The Recreation Youth Council of
Dobbs Ferry, New York, will give an
annual $100 citizenship award to an
outstanding graduating senior. The
council consists of thirty high school
students. Citizenship and community
activities are 'more important in win-
ning the award than grades, although
average marks are mandatory.

0 The Teenage Council in Wellsville,
New York, has used funds raised from
its dances and memberships to purchase
a Polaroid camera to photograph
dances in lieu of a commercial photog-
rapher, to establish a scholarship fund
which will pay $100 per year for four
years to any high school graduate who
majors in recreation, and to purchase a
tractor for scraping the ice-skating
rink.

Bouncing Program

0 The boom in bouncing is keeping
kids of all ages “up in the air,” (see
“Signs 0 f the Times,” RECREATION, Jan-
uary, 1961). In Springfield, Illinois,
the Play Tramps, a group of teenagers,
sponsored by the Playground and Rec-
reation Commission, perform for the
area’s civic clubs and have served as
junior playground leaders where they
taught and demonstrated trampoline
technique to boys and girls. The young-
sters range in age from twelve to nine-
teen years of age. They have appeared
at. the Illinois State County Fairs Asso-
ciation, the Governor’s Christmas
Party, and at the municipal parks with
a band during the summer.

0 Even toddlers have found there’s
more bounce to the ounce. In 1959,
when the Los Gatos-Saratoga Recrea-
tion Department in Los Gatos, Califor-
nia, initiated a program of tumbling for
tots from three to five, it expected to fill
one class of fifteen children. When fifty-
two youngsters signed up the first day,
it was necessary to form four classes.
Today, each week, sixty eager tots make

tumbling one of the department’s most

popular activities. Because there is usu-
ally a waiting list of thirty hoping to
get into the next session, sign-ups are on
a first-come, first-served basis.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

    

Aloha, Hawaii! Mrs. Paul C. Gallagher
(center), National Recreation Associa-
tion board member, recently visited
Hawaii and called on the Honolulu De-
partment of Parks and Recreation. She
is seen chatting with Theodore Nobriga,
department director, and Ethel T. Mori,
superintendent of Mrs.
Mori recently spent two months on the
mainland attending recreation confer-

recreation.

ences and vacationing.

John P. Cronin, director of recrea-
tion in Providence, Rhode Island, was
recently honored by the Rhode Island
Recreation Society for his outstanding
work not only in the city but through-
out the state. The resolution stated:
“He has been a model example of the
kind of man the communities of our
state need as their recreation directors,
not only in professional ability but as

a person. . . .”

In Hartford, Connecticut, James H.
Dillon, retired city recreation director,
was feted at a testimonial dinner
recently. Over three hundred persons
attended. A special citation recogniz-
ing J im’s many contributions of time
and effort to the Newington Hospital
for Crippled Children was presented by
Wilfred H. Dresser, a director of the
institution. He also received the Na-
tional Catholic Welfare Conference’s
youth division medal in recognition of
his almost forty years of outstanding
contribution to the recreation field.
A dollar for every year? That adds up
to a tidy little sum when you’ve got
ninety-three years behind you. Mrs.
Joseph E. Friend, who is just ninety-
three, has been a National Recreation _
Association sponsor in New Orleans \
since 1943 and is still going strong. fl
Recently a respectful and bemused
donor gave her a $93 contribution in
honor of each of her birthdays.
Continued on. Page 273

It
I

RECREATION \

 
 
   
 
 
    
   
   
     

  

RFORMING
‘ -S
ATION

the first in a series of
~ .. lements on The Per-
ing Arts as Recreation
'ch will be carried in
J ‘ iON from time to
n r illalsobemade

- arately, in re-

  
  

  

Fresh come, to a new world, yet long prepared
I see the genius of the modern, child of the

real and ideal

Clearing the ground for broad humanity, the
true America, heir to the past so grand,

To build a grander future.

WALT WHITMAN

A Report on Music in Public Recreation
Prepared by the Program Department
Virginia Musselman
Siebolt H. Frieswyk

Published by
National Recreation Association 0 8 West Eighth Street 0 New York 11, N. Y.

Joseph Prendergast, Executive Director
Affiliated with The National Cultural Center, Washington, D. c.

Music charms children,
and they follow its magic sounds
naturally. It is a great treat

to ask questions about its mysteries.

MUSIC
IS
RECREATION

MAY 1961

 

63 HEN MbSlt. mes, recreation
dies with it.” When V. K. -

Brown, former director of
recreation for the Chicago Park Dis-
trict, made this observation, he no
doubt had in mind Chicago’s music fes-
tivals, its many choruses, bands. or-
chestras, dancing groups on the play-
grounds, in the centers. and parks. and
all the city’s recreation musical activi-
ties.

Music. like games. sports. hobbies.
and similar pursuits of happiness serves-
a recreation purpose. It engenders (le-
votion to an interest for its own sake.
releases energies, provokes excitement
brings about good “ill among neigh-

bors, makes one feel alive. gives one a

mental and plusical toning up. pro-
vides relaxation, and. in general. en-
livens the present and brightens the fu-
ture. Moreover, music deepens one's
sensibilities. broadens one’s under-
standing. and enriches the personality.

Music offers certain advantages as
recreation. it lasts a lifetime: can take
on a multitude of forms. unlike certain
games and sports \s hose practices are
more or less prescribed; is higlil) adapt-
able and can suit am age, sex. taste.
ability. mood ur circumstance. It can
he used with other activities. including
ulht'l‘ l'nerfurming arts. sports. celebra-

tions. festi\ ids. and pageants. [t can be

213

MUSIC IS RECREATION

 

Three fol/r troubadors strunmzing up a storm and having a
grand time doing it. Today, banjos and guitars are plunk-
ing and thrununing their way into an all-time popularity.

 

p I:

 

A yakky jam session transpires during tune-up time at an
orchestra rehearsal for these bubbly-spirited youngsters.
Music is fun—and it has certainly broken the ice here.

,./

2 H RECREATION \ '

Play it, man, play it! This young musician beatifically
tootles away, eyes closed for better concentration—and
just take a gander at that professional bulge of the cheeks.

highly informal or highly organized;
in the words of Joseph Lee it helps “to
liberate the power of expression of peo-

33

ple and communities. It is creative.

li'Iusii: Finds Its Place

MUSIC is finding its rightful place as

avocation and recreation, as dis-
tinct from professionalism, in ever-in-
creasing volume. The past decade has
shown progress in leaps and bounds,
with the participation by 35,000 orches-
tras, 50,000 bands, and 100,000 chor-
uses in public secondary schools, ac-
cording to the: United States Office of
Education; while the American Music
Conference estimates that 8,500,000
children play musical instruments.
Although not generally recognized as
an outlet for amateur musical eXpres-
sion, publicly sponsored recreation pro-
grams constitute an increasingly im-
portant opportunity for the further
growth and development of our musical
culture. Returns on a recent question-
naire sent to affiliates and associates of
the National Recreation Association
provide a fascinating cross-section of
substantial musical activities offered by
recreation Music, dance,
drama, opera, and poetry have been en-
couraged and developed as recreation
by the National Recreation Association
since its founding in 1906. Music be-
longs in every recreation program.

agencies.

We Are a Musical Nation

PEOPLE singing and playing instru-
ments and making music for their
own enjoyment is a great American

MAY 1961

tradition. The Bay Psalm Book (Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, 1641) was the
first book ever printed in America. The
singing of these hymns by the early set-
tlers has served as a precedent for the
participation of laymen in the perform-
ance of religious music for the past
three centuries.

Among the immigrants from Euro-
pean countries were trained musical
leaders who not only performed but also
took part in the formation of our mu-
sical societies and performing groups.
Their infiuence is still strongly felt.
People of every nationality brought
their folk music to our shores. A new
folk music sprang up from the new ex-
periences in the New World—from
work, play, courtship, love, nature, and
events. The European, African, and
new folk music lived side by side with
the songs and dances of the Indians.
The people of America were unable to
hire trained musicians as was common
in the musical centers of the Old World.
They made music themselves out of
sheer necessity.

Cultural Life in America

TODAY, the performing arts as rec-
reation are of major importance.
The beginning of a new era in the ad-
vancement of cultural life in America
is marked by the passage of the Na-
tional Cultural Center Act by Congress,
September 2, 1958, authorizing the es-
tablishment of the National Cultural
Center in Washington, D. C.
The center will present programs of
music, dance, drama, opera. and no-
etry, and will develop programs for

 

children and youth and the elderly—
and for other age groups as well—in
such arts specifically for their partici-
pation, education and recreation.

The National Recreation Association
has been named as an affiliate of the
National Cultural Center to represent
the performing arts as recreation. The
chairman of the NRA Board of Direc-
tors, James H. Evans, and NRA’s exec-
utive director, Joseph Prendergast, are
members of the President’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts for the National
Cultural Center.

In its role as National Cultural Cen-
ter afliliate, the National Recreation
Association gathers and provides the
Center with information regarding the
performing arts as recreation; assists in
the formation of concepts; acts as a
channel through which the recreation
profession can make its wishes and
thoughts known; disseminates informa-
tion to the public; works with national
organizations in the performing arts
field with a view toward establishing
closer relationships through the Center.
When appropriate and possible. the
NRA utilizes the personnel and re-
sources of the Association on behalf of
the National Cultural Center.

This special section of lit-ZCRl-IA'I‘ION,
Music ls Recreation, is the first of a
series of such supplements on the per-
forming arts as recreation offered by
the National Recreation Association in
the interests of the National Cultural
Center and community recreation
throughout the. country. (Each supple-
ment will also be available as a separate
pamphlet.)

215

Some coaching on the
high notes during an
Operetta rehearsal in
San Diego, California.

 

Right: Darling, I Am Growing Old. Time [or a song

at the Senior Citizens Center in Cincinnati, Ohio.

' .

 

"

.64

A modern classic, Amahl and the Night Visitors, is performed
by opera group sponsored by New Orleans Recreation Department.

Junior [lute chair in
Wilmington. Delaware.
takes part in the sum-
mer music program.

246

 

MUSIC IS RECREATION

 

 

Today’s Programs

THE RESPONSE to the recent National

Cultural Center Performing Arts
Questionnaire sent out by the National
Recreation Association brought certain
aspects of music as recreation into clear
focus. It became clear that many recre-
ation agencies sponsor musical groups
and activities, and that where music is
a substantial factor in the recreation
program, it has been so over a period
of time. The music services in these in-
stances may be considered to be regular
and permanent.

Variety is a keynote in the question-
naire replies. Musical activities men-
tioned ranged from kazoo bands to
symphony orchestras, from musical
games to opera. This variety is in keep-
ing with the philosophy of public rec-
reation; people of all ages have the
right of individual choice. Neverthe-
less, it does not impose its programs
upon people, seeking rather to expose
them to good activities, to guide their
interests, and to create favorable situ-
ations and opportunities for musical ex-
pression through community coopera-
tion. I

The importance of such musical rec-
reation cannot be denied. First, it of-
fers means for developing civic, com-
munity, and social conditions ordinar-

/

RECREATION

Save substantially with

. National? New
pTOJector-n ’-slzde packages!

You simply can't beat “sing-along" sessions when it comes to perking up group spirits!
Now, Natlonal offers FOR THE FIRST TIME AT THESE LOW PRICES three outstanding

“Projector-’n-slides" packages! Quantities are limited, however, so please place your
order promptly!

PACKAGE #1:.

Powerful Mansfield Projector plus 25 All-time song slides.
I Projector $44.95
25 2"x2" slides @ .50 12.50

$57.45 Value

YOU Pay $45.45
SAVE $12.00

 

 

 
   
        

v -r‘- a -:- '.
_rt _ _ t
r . -;:, -.
: 3i i i.

letter “#2. (A

lPowerful Mansfield Projector Powerful Mansfield PrOJector

' tag 50 "Almime son .siideg' ' This is the Mansfield SKYLARK 300 Automatic - ' '
 t. _ .;  Y g PrOiector. This compact unit is the culmination of p'us ‘00 A“ time song Shdes‘

   
 
  
  
 
  
  
 

PACKAGE #3:

     
 

  
 
 

 
  
  

  
 

 3 modern styling and engineering. The excellent ,
'  .PWIWOF $4435 ' r , optical system incorporated in the "Skylark" gives ' Projector $44.95
  * ’ . .  ' your pictures the snap and clarity necessary ,
‘*  gf'xzf’s't'.des‘@ '50 25'” for real projection enjoyment. 300 watt Tru-Focus mo zaxzns'mes @ '50 50'”

 

   

lamp. no.5 coated lens. Manual changer. Tilt --—— '

I

$69.95 Vame 15:; controls. Turbo type fan impeller to insure maximum $54.95 val“ -
' l

I . 1. .' coolness atall times!
. ' Yeti-Pay $54.95 You Pay $77.45
 SAVE $15.00 SAVE $17.50

      
   
 
 
  

  
 
 
  

Select The Slides You
Prefer From This
Star-Studded List!
"Keep 'em singing
and you'll keep ’em
happy!" Send for our '
complete listing of
over 850 Song Slides.
Ask for Brochure R.

      
 
    
   
   
        
      
  

W’W <W‘TM ““V‘i'M’W’H‘ WT", ‘.‘"“"""'

THE 1 MOST POPULAR -“soues AMERICA smes”

1&3. BrettyrGirl” 177. Drifting & Dreaming 356. Just a Song at Twilight 537. Put Your Arms Around Me I
M...li.li.::‘e”islue Gown 181. Easter parade 358. K-k-k-Katy 576. Shanty in Old Shanty Town
22. Alouette 182. East Side, West Side 375. Let Me Call You Sweetheart 578;; She'll Be Comin Round M.
26. America the Beautiful 201. Five Feet Two . 379. Let's Sing Like Birdies 582. Shine on Harvest Moon
40. April Showers ‘ 202. Flow Gently Sweet Afton . 380. Let Rest World Go By 584. Show Me Way to Go Home
56. Baby Face  _; 204. For Me a My Gal 391. Little Red Schoolhouse 586. Silent Night
60. Band Played On  20?. Frivolous Sal 395. Look for Silver Lining 594. Smiles
63. Battle Hymn Republic ’ 218. Girl of My Dreams 414. Man on Flying Trapeze 616. Springtime in the Rockies
69. Beer Barrel polka 221. God Bless America 420. Marching Along Together: 629. Sweet Adeline
74. Bells of St. Mary ‘ 259. Heme on the Range . 422. Margie 635. Sweetheart of Sigma Chi
79. Bicycle For Two 1 265. How Deep is the Ocean 433. Meet Me in St. Louis 644. Take Me Out to 3211 Game
100. Bye Bye Blues 287. 1' 11 Be with You in Apple B  450- Moonlight 8: 130893 551- That Old Gang of Mine
104. By the Light Silvery Mooo 289. I’ll See You in My Dreams 454. Moon over Miami 656. That's Peggy O' Neil
105. CassionsGo Rolling Along 294. I'm an Old Cowhand 460. My Bonnie 663- There‘ s_ a Long Long Trail
113. Carolina’f'in Morning ' 297. l' m Dreaming of White Xmas 473. My Wild Irish Rose 691. Till We Meet Again
114. Carolina Moon 298. I‘ in Forever Blowing Bubbles 485. Oh Dem Golden Slippers 715. Wagon Wheels
121. Chasing Rainbows 300. I'm Looking met 4 Leaf Clover 492. Oh Susana 718. Wait Till Sun Shines Nellie
129. Clementine 309. In My Merry Oldsmobile 494. Oh You Beautiful Doll 73 1. When Irish Eyes are Smiling
150. Danny Boy 310. In the Evening by MOOnlight 497. Old Gray Mare 734. When I Lost You
156. Drier Old Girl 313. In the Good Old Summertime 500. Old MacDonald Had a Farm 742. When You Wore a Tulip
159. oeep in Heart oi Texas 331. It' s A Grand 01:: Flag 513- 0n the 303d ‘0 Mandala? 749' WWEHPW Song
163. r’tDinah 337. I've Been Working on R 520. Pack Up YOur Troubles 751. Whistle While You Work
1675* Don't Fence Me lo 341. ’IWant a Girl, etc. 524. Peg or My Heart 760- Winter Wonderland.
170-. Don' t Sit Under Apple Tree 346. I Wonder Who' S Kissing Her Now 528. Polly Wolly Doodle 763. Yanl'tee Doodle Dandy
1 12 been By Old Mill Stream 348. Jingle Bells 532. poor Butterfly 780- You re a Grand Old Flag

 

SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER:
SEND $1.00 FOR A SAMPLE SELECTION OF 3 ALL TIME FAVORITES TO:

M) NATIONAL STUDIOS 42Wect4s Street 0 NewYorkClty

(7“

 

MAY 1961 247

ily impossible in other channels. Men
and women can express their pride as
citizens of the ['uited States through
community-wide celebrations, festivals,
and public programs.

Second, public recreation can organ-
ize the participation of young people
with backgrounds of musical training
in schools and private studios, and can
ensure continuance of their activities in
out-of-school time. Further, these pro-

 

grams enrich the lives of all ages, all
walks of life, during leisure hours.
Musical talent combines readily with
such activities as dance, drama, sports
(skating, for example), pageants, con-
tests, religious services in parks under
public recreational sponsorship. Under
their wing, facilities, and experienced
administrative know-how, programs of
tremendous sc0pe, utilizing music, can

be developed.

SEMPER FIDELIS

. . . Always Faithful 5

  
 
 
 
 
 
 

. I l ' ' ' . l

School Net:
32 79.50

  
  
  

. as; 
m UIJDU!“ W1 maul
n - 1 log on uum
h ,.

The exacting requirements of
tape reproduction for educa-
tion in schools and industry are
faithfully served by Rheem
Califone’s LEXICON Tape
Recorder Model 7l—T.

    

The distortionless high fidelity of its amplifying system is matched
by its rugged durability and ease of operation. The LEXICON, with its
detachable 12-inch speaker, is the only tape recorder for schools which
performs as brilliantly for the auditorium and playing field as for the
classroom. Other LEXICON features are the special “perfect-pitch”
motor, safety-button protection against tape erasure. It accommodates
up to 7" reels at speeds of 3% or 71/2 inches per second. With the spe-
CIal Tape Counter, you can instantly locate any portion of a recording.

Write Dept. R-5 for full details on the LEXICON and other
Rheem Califone products, including Classroom Phonographs priced
from $54.95, Single Unit Sound Systems for public address and a com-
plete line of Language Laboratory equipment.

Musical Tales of Four Cities
L ET Us LOOK at such examples as

Portland, Maine; Portland, Ore-
gon; Bloomfield, New Jersey; and Ho]-
lywood, Florida. In the West Coast
Portland, a community music center
flourishes under Director of Recreation
Dorothea M. Lensch. There, for a fee
of $1.00, entrants can enjoy lessons in
a variety of instruments—recorder,
classic guitar, violin, viola, and cello——
and oin a string orchestra.

Summer festival concerts in Wash-
ington Park, Portland, drew crowds
from the entire metropolitan area. The
recreation department also boasts the
only theater to occupy an extinct vol-
cano, a theater where musical events
form a large part of the program.

At the opposite end of the continent,
Portland, Maine,lmaintains chorus and
instrumental groups, and offers con-
certs in the park and informal musical
activities on playgrounds, including
rhythm bands. Ben Campbell is super-
intendent of recreation.

Bloomfield, New Jersey, is proud of
its symphony orchestra, oratorio soci-
ety, and bands composed of accordions,
guitars, ukuleles, and harmonicas—all
under the guidance of Dr. C. A. Emons,
superintendent of recreation.

Hollywood, Florida, schedules a wide
variety of events, notably a symphony
orchestra, organized in 1959, which
Recreation Superintendent Patrick J.
Heneghan calls “a most exciting addi-
tion to the community program.”- This
ambitious undertaking also sponsors
music appreciation groups, a series of
musicales, a branch of the SPEBSQSA
(Society for the Preservation and En-
couragement of Barber Shop Quartet
Singing in America), and its feminine
counterpart, the Sweet Adelines; while
theater professional concerts are given

in the Young Circle Amphitheatre and
a local “Night of Stars” attracts the

‘

Hollywood population to the bandshell 
in the park. Band, orchestra, and choral 
clinics with nationally known leaders
add further interest. The program oc-
casionally combines music with drama
and pageantry: an Irish Fair, a Scots
Day, a Pageant of Nations, Hungarian _,,
\
248 RECREATION .

ca l  n e CORPORATION

1020 N. LA BREA AVENUE. HOLLYWOOD 3B, CALIF.

 

FOREMOST MANUFACTURERS 0F SELECTIVE AUDIO-VISUAL PRODUCTS FOR EDUCATION

 

dances, and Indian ceremonial dances.
A children’s showcase and an annual
Opera workshop under Claudio Frigerio
(with private cooperation) complete
this far-ranging activity.

Other programs of note exist in the
County of Kent, California; Austin,
Texas; New Orleans; Baltimore; West-
Chester County, New York; and Evans-
ton, Illinois, among many others. The
vast s00pe of public recreation activity
in Chicago and Los Angeles is well
known. The Federation of Music Clubs
has been most helpful in connection
with the annual Opera Workshop con-
ducted by Boris Goldovsky in Oglebay
Park, Wheeling, West Virginia, under
the auspices of the Oglebay Institute.

To Each His Own

THE QUESTIONNAIRE returns and ad-
ditional information gathered sub-
sequently point up one significant fact:
that each recreation agency goes about
the development of a community music
program in its own characteristic way
and ends up with its own local-'customed

results. The musical enthusiasms of one.
community may well hit a sour note in
another. No outsider can formulate and
prescribe a set of musical exercises or
activities to {it every town; each com-
munity must more or less play it by ear
and sing its own song. This is why some
recreation administrators feel blank
when it comes to setting up musical
activities, not realizing that a good
music program, like any other activity,
be it softball, boating, or ceramics,
merely calls upon the administration to
administrate, not to he an expert or
specialist.

The late E. T. Attwell, field represent-
ative for the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, when asked, “How do you get
activities going?” would answer in his
brief and pointed way, “Well, first you.
Many

excellent recreation - agency- sponsored

have to show some interest.”

music groups are the result of the inter-
est shown by administrators and staff
leaders who, in most instances, did not
have any special knowledge or training

in music. But their willingness to bring
if it was

 

music to their community

MUSIC IS RECREATION

 

wanted—turned sporadic musical cf-
forts into a full-scale program.

Self-Direction

RECOGVITION of and awareness of
opportunities on the part of recre-
ation administrators and leaders for
musical recreation frequently have led
to spontaneous and original accom-
plishments. NRA District Representa-
tive Temple Jarrell, formerly superin-
tendent of recreation in Fort Lauder-
dale, Florida, reports that high-school
students, who gathered regularly at one
of the recreation centers, used leader-
ship and talents within their own ranks
to prepare a full-scale production of
Oklahoma for public performance. The
recreation department assisted with
planning, space, and promotion.
Questionnaire returns indicate that
departments commonly provide this
kind of assistance and encouragement

self-directed music

to spontaneous,
groups. They do so, moreover, without
incurring special budgetary and admin-

istrative adjustments. However, the in-

Saxophone choir rehearses during vacation-time music program in Wilmington, Delaware.

 

2-19

Belour. music plays its part in creative dance session, part of Saturday
morning activities at the Community Center in Waterloo, Iowa, where
musical activities also include a string orchestra and choral singing.

Full-scale yo

As, It,"  ' ‘1-.‘T"‘“-‘“-*--—"- " "  ‘----u-v--:;.—---- “nu—w.” gmiwwrr I
_ A. ._ . ..   _. t“,- -  .« _,-,-'.,...._,,;_.,:_V   " '. 'r-

 from Torrance, California, ready to hicago Mid-Western Band Clinic.

at

RECREATION

 

MUSIC IS RECREATION

- m5, - " ".1" , .. In»
-

Above, music in the park. Summer band sponsored by the recreation
department in Springfield, Ohio, strikes up “The Blue-Tail Fly” at
an al fresco concert for audience in beachchairs and on lawn.

Left, trumpet trio practices at the Richmond Art Center in Rich-
mond, California. Amateur combos, bands, symphony orchestras,
and other instrumental groups are flourishing across the nation.

Conductor Lee Cardo and members of the Richmond, California, Symphony at a weekly rehearsal.

WAWW

 

MUSIC IS RECREATION

”

clusion of more highly organized pro-
grams and groups in the department’s
activities ordinarily does require adjust-
ments in the administrative and bud-
getary framework.

Use of Volunteers

REGARDLESS of the extent of the spon-

sored or “controlled” music groups
and activities, the advice, assistance,
and support of special music commit-
tees, specialists, and interested citizens
are required. Volunteer committees and
individuals serving in this capacity
must be oriented in the recreation
agency purposes, philosophy, objec-
tives, and must be acquainted with the
recreation program as a whole. They
must also be civic-minded, be willing
and able to serve without prejudice, and
with the welfare of the agency, its total
program, and community foremost in
mind.

It is necessary also for volunteer in-
dividuals and committees whose special
concern is community music to work
cooperatively with other individuals and
committees in the department. For ex-
ample, Oglebay Institute which con-
ducts music programs in Oglebay Park,
Wheeling, West Virginia, has a general
committee which considers all musical
activities and projects. In addition, spe-
cial committees serve respectively for
its choral workshop, opera workshop,
summer entertainment program, ad-
vanced choral singers, music leaders”
training program, summer vesper se-
ries, and special programs.

It is good procedure to enlist the vol-
unteer services of individuals and com-
mittees to obtain knowledge of the re-
sources and possibilities of musical rec-
reation in the community, to report
such information to the agency, and to
assist in the planning and the conduct
of projects that are undertaken.

If, as a first step, provision for spe-

cial music leadership is being consid- .

ered for the playground program or
recreation center program, the music
committee can be helpful in suggesting
appropriate activities and services,
sources of leadership, and otherwise

252

rendering assistance in developing mu-
sic projects and programs. If, as a
further step, the organization of com-
munity choral, instrumental, operatic,
festival, summer band, or other more
highly organized activities are contem-
plated, volunteer individuals and com-
mittees can not only assist in planning
and obtaining resources, but also be
given a large Share of the responsibili-
ties for the management of these groups
and activities.

Advanced musical organizations, al-
though essentially recreational, involve
at times considerable managerial re-
sponsibilities and tend to become inde-
pendent. Some, however, continue un-
der partial or limited sponsorship of
the recreation agency, and, therefore,
committee responsibilities must con-
tinue.

The services of volunteers individu-
ally and in committees should be en-
listed by the agency in connection with
all of its sponsored or “controlled”
music groups and activities. In turn,
the administrative staff of the recrea-
tion agency can be helpful in defining
budgetary and administrative require-
ments.

Meeting the Cost

THE ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF is also in

a key position to submit proposals
and budgets to governing bodies. Many
departments provide for eXpenditures
for music in their budgets, particularly
for leadership, supplies, equipment, fa-
cilities and related services. Expenses
can often be partially met through reg-
istration fees, admissions, gifts, dues,
income from endowment, and through
the services of the Music Performance
Trust Fund. The music committee can
be helpful in evaluating the need for
support and the justification for it, and
in finding and recommending ways in
which groups and activities can be made
to be self-supporting.

In summary, if music is to be devel-
oped as part of the community recrea-
tion program, interest must first be
shown, the services of volunteer indi-
viduals and committees must be enlisted

for planning and implementation of th
plans, qualified leadership, part or fu'.
time, obtained, and a sound fiscal an«
managerial commitment made. Genera
philosophy and organizational practice
which pertain with relation to the prc
gram as a whole apply to music group
and activities as well.

The Returns Show

HIS SPONSORSHIP of music by rec
reation agencies indicates that:

Musical activities in the program of
fer a legitimate and desirable mean
of fulfilling important recreation inteI
ests and needs in the community. F 0
example, the returns Show that forme
high-school and college students wh.
have had band, orchestra, and chora
training are brought together either in
formally or as a group organized 01
a regular basis. The more advancet
players and singers are sought out morn
frequently. However, the less advance:
person, and even the rank amateur, i
too often neglected. He should have thl
chance to enjoy music, too.

Standard types of musical organiza
tions, such as bands, orchestras, anc
choruses, are fairly common, and then
are many“combos” (small instrumenta
groups which play popular music an:
jazz). Apparently the folk instrument
are not used as extensively in recreatioI
as might be expected. These folk 0
popular instruments, such as the har
monica, accordion, the ukelele, and Sim
ilar fretted instruments, are extremelj
useful recreationally and when oppor
tunities are created for their use unde
competent leadership full participatio:
is practically guaranteed. On the voca
side, quartets, quintets, sextets, septets
octets, although fairly common, coulc
be encouraged more vigorously.

Talent to Tap

MUSICAL TALENT of all types, largel]

nonprofessional, exists in every
community. Several departments haw
done outstanding work in bringing these
talents to the fore, and not only havc
presented them in variety programs

RECREATIOI‘

but in musical productions and even
opera as well. A talent file can be built
up and serve a number of purposes.
The contributions of talented people are
most welcome in programs for the ill
and handicapped, for various civic oc-
casions, parties, and other equally
worthwhile and rewarding opportuni-
ties for service.

Recreation agencies face a major
problem in reaching a large number of
boys and girls with the music program.
The schools have met this problem by
employing classroom teachers who have
had musical training which can be used
under the direction of the music super-
visor. Playground and center leaders
with musical qualifications have been
able to enrich their programs by virtue
of their own interest and training. An
imaginative and enterprising leader
with little or no special training can
seek out leadership and make arrange-
Musical
activity helps to attract attention, and

ments for musical activities.

build up attendance and participation.

Other needs and opportunities to
which recreation agencies have been
alert and have responded in a practical
way relate to providing for equipment,
facilities, services.

Community-wide or neighborhood mu-

and information
sic festivals and contests are to be found
in many department programs. This
area of service can be and should be
widely developed and practiced.

Musical activities do not depend ex-
clusively upon the paid specialist. They
are made possible in large measure
through the efforts of the agency staff,
as a whole, and volunteers. However,
full or part-time music specialists are
employed wherever possible and as the
program requires.

Music on the Playground

INFORMAL MUSIC activities are part of

the leadership training program for
playground and day camp leaders. De-
partments which have succeeded in
making music a lively and enjoyable
part of the playground program have
given more than casual training to play-

MAY 1961

 

Music Appreciation: Quartet of professional musicians play
simplihed classics and explain music to adult listeners
in the Woodland Recreation Center in Cleveland, Ohio.

 

The Community Chorus, sponsored by the recreation de-
partment in Houston, Texas, takes part in a production of
The Chimes of Normandy, hardy perennial Operetta favorite.

The Chordcutters represent Manhattan
in New York City’s annual barbershop
quartet contest held in Central Park.

 

253

ADD 20:06am

ED DURLACHER
TO YOUR STAFF

with

HONOR YOUR
PARTNER RECORDS

 

Talk-Thru, Walk-Thru Method

0 Physical Fitness Activities to Music
0 Square Dances 0 Play Party

o Couple Dances and

8: Mixers Singing Games
a Rhythms o Marches
0 Folk Dances o Rope Skipping

HONOR YOUR PARTQIER RECORDS
Box No. Bob R. Freepart, N. Y.

E] Please Send FREE BROCHURE

l
I

I

' E] Enclosed is 50¢ for 331/3 rpm DEMONSTRA-
l TION RECORD giving excerpts from the albums
' listed above.
I

I

I

I

I

Name

 

 

Address

Freeport, N. Y.
Unique, Progressive Recorded I
I
I
|
l
l
I
l

Time out for music at West Point. An Army cadet strums out a tune on his
guitar for his roommate. Musical activities at the academy also include
the Cadet Chapel Choir. The guitar player is All-American Pete Dawkins.

wind A KUENG naconorn

Easy ta learn Self-
gg instructian books. Music.

Swiss Kueng ' Soprano $7.50 up
Student Special—Corelli $3.95
Folk Song Collections
Pete 8. Peggy Seeger Bonio Books
Kentucky Mt. Dulcimers

HARGAIL MUSIC PRESS
157 w. 57 51., NEW YORK CITY 19

"Send For Free Catalog RN-SI

—SHOP [00AM]. 0R WRITE FOR
"lO’llY COME SING AND PLAY"

Fun for young people hosed on 15 Ameri-
can Folk Songs by Ruth Rowen ond Bill Si-
mon. Includes Melody ond Descont, Rhythm
Band, Piano ond Autohorp, story and oc-
tivity.

(0 3998) “m-.. -. .. _ .a ---.___.,Price 1.00

"VOU'iiiN'MAY"

The Do-It-Yourself Music Book with easy to
read “SHOW-HOW" diagrams. Tunes for

     

   

"in

mg

l}...

 
 

.‘rl‘

 
 

l

  

 

         
 

     

    

TONETTE, SONG FLUTE, UKELELE end/or “ii
AUTOHARP orronged by Paul Sterrett and
Scott Wilkinson. - .-  _ 
(0 4022) ._   cPrice 75¢ »  g  
CARL FISCHER  ,   w   u   _. ..   .
INC_  In the good old summertime. Percusszon group on Rochester, New Y ork, play-
62 Cooper Square, New York 3  ground prepares to have a bang-up session as leader with accordion explains
Iosr0N - CHICAGO - onus the beat. Music is a lively and integral part of many playground programs. 

 

X‘.
254 ' RECREATION ‘

ground leaders. The music periods may
occupy a substantial part of a complete
program, and specific instructions and
materials may be placed in the hands of
the leaders. A training manual should
be prepared and should include instruc-

Now you can

GO

where the events
take place

 ...and be heard!
E BANDWAGON

tions on how to lead group singing,
make simple rhythm instruments, music
for singing games, musical games, folk
songs, and other materials which might
be free of copyright restriction.
Instructions are also given for ar-
ranging musical events, using volunteer
leadership and other available re-

   

f." as ,. 

sources. The ways of enjoying music

with dance, simple dramatics and sports   P  I.

are explamed' Consequentlya the PlaY' ' The Mobile Combination Band Stand

ground leaders have at their command and Outdoor Stage

the basic equipment for informal music Ideal for use at music events, rallies, acts, demonstra-
tions, and for speakers. the Wenger Bandwagon pro-

OI] the playground. vides comfortable quarters for performers, plus assuring

resonance and volume for the audience. At site, the

Wenger Bandwagon opens in minutes into a generous 
A  ol- - stage or outdoor theater, or a complete, scientifically
reas an( aCI ltles designed music shell for band, orchestra, or chorus.
After event, it folds quickly into a handsome, completely

enclosed road trailer with ample locked storage space for OWATONNA

MAJOR FACILITIES can be made aVail' chairs, stands, instruments, or accessory equipment. May ’2"

- be used indoors. too! Every community will want one!
able b recreation de artm n
y p 8 ts’ Send for complete details and specifications. or “k for

such as auditoriums, outdoor theaters, a free demonstration. No obligation, of course.

 

MINNESOTA

R,“ l
. ’ .

ll .1 L

his I is.

‘11 _ 3

-—

 

]t’s never too early. Music can be as much a part of childhood as love and ice cream.

 

MAY 1961 255

 

Keeping an. eye on the conductor, young cello player i

ready to come in on cue. Sneaker-and-blue-jean set i
with it, whether it’s “The Barcarolle” or “Buffalo Gal.

as.“ .www .

Teens will always have their rhythm music. It is an i.
evitable part of growing up. It is estimated that 3,750,00
teenagers play musical instruments. Theirs is an infection

beat whether rock’n’roll or “Pop Goes the Weasel” or Bach

1

Close harmony. Barbershop quartets will never lose their
popularity. 71m one 1-8 from a county recreation center
directed_ by le‘acrson .Countv. Kentucky, Playground and
Recreation Board. alm'h Aucps a talent file [or the area.

206 RECREATIO

 

shells, rehearsal and storage space, and
other facilities. Departments have ac-
cess to sound equipment, transporta-
tion, lighting, pianos, and, in some
instances, the large instruments such
as double basses, and the larger brass
instruments. Tape recorders, choral
and instrumental libraries, costumes,
uniforms, recordings and phonographs
are furnished by certain departments.
Making facilities and equipment avail-
able for musical purposes is a valuable
area for many recreation departments
to expand these services to the com-
munity.

A Primary Service

COORDINATING and planning services
constitute a primary service to
musical groups and interests in the
community. Musical groups and indi-
viduals, although not sponsored by the
recreation agency, participate in public
recreation programs. Music is related
to many other phases of the program;

 

Accordion Lessons and Band

Adult Quartet

All-Age Band Group

Attendance at Musical Events

Band Instruction and Concerts

Banjo Lessons

Barbershop Quartets and Groups
(Men and Women)

Beginning Strings

Bell Choir

Boys’ Band

Boys’ Choir

Carillon Concerts

Cello Classes ’

Chamber Music Groups

Children’s Choir

Children’s Choral Group

Children’s Concerts

Choir

Choral Clinics

Choral Groups (Men, Women, and Mixed)

Choral Workshop

Christmas Caroling or Choral Program

Christmas Music in Shopping Area

Classical Music

Classic Guitar

Combos for Dance Accompaniments

Competition in Original Choral or
Instrumental Composition

Concert Bands

Concerts

Creative Music for Children

Dance Band or Orchestra

Distribution of Instructional Tapes

Drum and Bugle Corps (Senior and Junior)

Drum Corps

Elementary Orchestra

MAY 1961

for example, gymnasium classes, swim-

ming, drama, dance, pageants, and cele-
brations.

Many recreation agencies provide for
the extension of the schools’ music-edu-

cation program in cooperation with the
schools.

Mugsic Trust Fund

A COOPERATIVE arrangement with the
Music Performance Trust Fund
has made a considerable number of rec-
reation department musical activities
possible. Union musicians are called
upon from time to time to perform for
special concerts, productions, and
dances. Headquarters of the Music Per-
formance Trust Fund is located in New
York City at 225 West 34th Street. Rec-
reation agencies may request the Local
Union (AFL) to supply

players for non-admission, and non-

Musicians’

commercial activities on a mutually re-
sponsible arrangement. The trust de-

MUSIC UNLIMITED

Elementary Singing (Preschool Children)
Fife and Drum Corps

Flute Choir

Folk Singing

Girls’ Choral Group

Glee Clubs (VariOus Age Groups)
Group InstruCtion (Various Instruments)
Group Singing

Group Singing with Sing-Along Records
Guitar Lessons

Harmonica Lessons and Band
Harmony and Counterpoint Classes
Hobby Orchestra

Instrumental Brass Workshops
Instrumental Music and Ensembles
Instrumental Rhythms

Jam Sessions

Jazz Clubs

Jazz Concerts

Jazz Orchestra

Jug, Bottle, and Fife Band

Junior Marching Band

Kazoo Band

Kitchen Band

Listening Groups

Madrigal-Motet Group

Mandolin Orchestra

Military Band

Minstrel Shows

Modern Jazz Club

Musical Comedy Presentations

Music Appreciation Classes or Groups
Music Camps

Music Clubs

Music Combos

Music Conferences

Music Festivals

MUSIC IS RECREATION

m

rives its financial resources through the
recording industries.

Private funds and the assistance of
private associations, endowment funds
and gifts contribute toward the music
program of recreation agencies in sev-
eral instances.

Key Points

THE KEY POINTS of departure for rec-
reation agencies in the field of
community music are: first, the encou r-
agement, stimulation, assistance to in-
dividuals and groups, desiring musical
recreation without assuming direct re-
sponsibility; and secondly, the develop-
ment of music programs within the de-
partment for which responsibility is
taken and for which there is strong com-
munity support as a department activity.

The variety of music groups and ac-
tivities in recreation is unlimited. The
following list drawn from the question-
naire conjures up all kinds of interest-

 

Music for the Dance

Music for the Physically or Mentally
Handicapped

Music for Senior Citizens

Music Study or Classes

Old Fiddlers’ Club

Orchestra or Symphony Orchestra Groups
and Concerts

Organ Lessons and Concerts

Percussion Bands

Piano L6350ns

Playground Music and Festivals
Pops Orchestra and Concerts
Recitals

Record Concerts

Recorder Groups and Instruction
Rhythm Bands

Sight Singing Instruction

Skiille Bands

Solo Musicians

Solo Singing

Special Occasion Band

String Orchestras

String Quartets

Stunt Songs

Talent or Variety Shows or Contests
Teacher Education Training in Music
Tonettes

Training Orchestra

Trips to Concerts

Ukulele Groups

Viola Classcs

Violin Classes

Voice Lessons

Voice, Violin, and Piano Solo Contests

Wind Ensemble

MUSIC IS RECREATION

#

ing and enjoyable recreation projects.
In addition to its variety, the purpose
of presenting it here is to prove that
music in recreation is no cut-and-dried
affair. The list itself is not exhaustive;
it is made up of the musical activities
which were noted in the questionnaire.
(Returns from 425 public-recreation
agencies were received in January
1960.) Each community has its own
ways of enjoying musical recreation.

It is apparent that public recreation
concerns itself not only with the stand-
ard forms of musical participation, but
meets the needs of individuals and
groups which have a special musical
interest.

Leadership and Support

Leadership—Full-time employment of
specialized leadership is confined large-
ly to the big city recreation programs.
Part-time leadership, paid or volunteer,
is used to conduct programs for recrea-
tion departments serving less populated
areas. Assistance to the music program
comes also from the administrators, di-
rectors, supervisors, and the non-spe-
cialized recreation leaders themselves.

Support—Support of music programs
on the part of the agencies is both finan-
cial and in the form of leadership and

AM fully convinced that a child
with music as an integral part Of
his life will be less prone tO the
lures Of the lunatic fringe, be it from
the right or left, less open tO the
dangers Of flinging self—control and

discipline tO the winds and better
able to achieve an inner equilib-
rium, a sense Of form, and an un-
derstanding Of the varieties Of forces
and colors that make our world.—

YEHUDI MENUHIN.

 

administrative office help. Assistance
is also rendered through the use of fa-
cilities, supplies and equipment.

A sharing of financial and manage-
rial responsibilities is standard proce-
dure in respect to advanced organiza-
tions such as' adult orchestras, bands,
and other advanced groups. A registra-
tion fee is commonly charged for a mu-
sical instruction type of activity. It was
noted that a number of musical organ-
izations which started under the aegis
of the recreation agency now operate as
independent community organizations.
A flexible approach prevails in Working
out the problems of support, and solu-
tions are arrived at on the basis of the
individual community’s conditions and
needs.

From this it is possible. to gather

 

that public recreation resources are fre-
quently used not only to support mu-
sical activity as recreation, but to stim-
ulate, encourage, and assist in creating
opportunities for participation in music
in cooperation with various other com-
munity groups.

We Live in a World of Music

MODERN TECHNOLOGY now places

powerful means at our disposal to
make possible the universal enjoyment
of music. America has in music two
great traditions: one, the making of
music by the people themselves; and
second, the making of music by profes-
sional musicians for the entertainment
and benefit of great audiences. These
traditions are the products of free men
in a free society—an expression of
American democracy.

The fuller realization of these tradi-
tions as our future goal must be re-
garded as an absolute and desirable ob-
jective from every point of view. The
creation of increasingly widespread I
opportunities by recreation agencies
throughout the country for participa-
tion in musical activities will help meet 
this objective; it will give promise of |
an even greater future for our Ameri- I
can way of life.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION COMMITTEE ON MUSIC IN COMMUNITY RECREATION

(Liaison With Music Educators National Conference)

DR. ARTHUR BERGER
Chairman, Music Department
Trenton State College

DR. WILLIAM F. BERGMANN
Director of Music
Chicago Park District

MRS. C. ARTHUR BULLOCK
President

National Federation of Music Clubs

ROBERT CROWLEY
Director of Music
Bureau of Parks and Recreation

Portland, Oregon

MARION S. ECBERT
V ice-President
American Music Conference

258

KARL D. ERNST
First Vice-President, MENC
Alameda State College

RAY GREEN
Executive Secretary
American Music Center, Inc.

DR. FREDERICK HALL
Director, Department of Music
Dillard University

DR. ELIN J ORGENSEN

Professor of Music Education
University of Kansas

DR. MAX KAPLAN
Executive Secretary Art Center

School of Fine and Applied Arts
Boston University

DR. J. ARTHUR LEWiS
Music Coordinator (Retired)
Bureau of Music, Los Angeles

JACK RANDOLPH
Music Director
Oglebay Institute

LITTLETON SCOTT
Memphis State University

AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG 
Broohline, Massachusetts JP
Secretary

SIEBOLT FRIESWYK

C onsultant—Perform ing Arts

National Recreation Association W
\

RECREATION

Music Is Recreation is based on information and photographs supplied by
many individuals and agencies in the field of recreation. Grateful acknowledge-
ment is hereby extended to them for their generous and helpful assistance.

I AM MUSIC

am MUSIC, most ancient of the arts. II I am more than
ancient; I am eternal. llEven before life commenced upon
this earth, I was here——- in the winds and the waves. 1i When
the first trees and flowers and grasses appeared, l was
among them. 1i And when Man came, I at once became the
most delicate, most subtle, and most powerful medium for the eXpres-
sion of Man’s emotions. When men were little better than beasts, I in-
fluenced them for their good. 1] In all ages I have inspired men with
hope, kindled their love, given a voice to their joys, cheered them on
to valorous deeds, and soothed them in times ofdespair.1l l have played
a great part in the drama of Life, whose end and purpose is the com-
plete perfection of man’s nature. v Through my influence human na-
ture has been uplifted, sweetened and refined. 1i With the aid of men,
I have become a Fine Art. From Tubalcain to Thomas Edison a long line
of the brightest minds have devoted themselves to the perfection of in-
struments through which men may utilize my powers and enjoy my
charms. 1i l have myriads of voices and instruments. lam in the hearts of
all men and on their tongues, in all lands and among all pe0ples; the
ignorant and unlettered know me, not less than the rich and learned.
1] For I speak to all men, in a language that all understand. Even the deaf
hear me, if they but listen to the voices of their own souls. 11 I am the
food of love. 11 l have taught men gentleness and peace; and l have led
them onward to heroic deeds. 1i l comfort the lonely, and l harmonize

the discord of crowds. 1] I am a necessary luxury to all men. 1] I am
MUSIC.

 

—-—-A|lan C. lnman

BRIDGING
THE
GAP

John Gehan

Peoria’s activity-therapy
program helps the current
supply meet the demand
for recreation in hospitals

and nursing homes.

iMAY 1961

 

THE DEMAND for
professionally
directed, medical-
ly-oriented recrea-
tion programs for
the ill, aged, and
handicapped, in
hospitals and other
institutions has increased phenomenally
in recent years. Unfortunately, our col-
leges and universities have not been
able to turn out sufficient numbers of
recreation specialists prepared to con-
duct such programs; and it will be some
time, before current recruitment and ed-
ucation programs can produce adequate
results. Like others concerned with de-
veloping comprehensive rehabilitation
programs for the disabled, your own
community has undoubtedly felt the
pinch. In attempting to bridge the gap
between demand and supply, the Forest
Park Foundation of Peoria, Illinois, has
tried a new approach to the problem.
This foundation was established in

“1939 to study the problems of the ag-

ing, to design and carry out research
and demonstration projects in the fields
of gerontology, physical medicine, and
rehabilitation. It also participates in
planning for the orderly growth of the
community and its health facilities.

While investigating existing recrea-
tion programs and services in various
types of hospitals throughout the coun-
try in 1957-58, the foundation became
interested in the pilot projects in nurs-
ing homes being carried on by the Na-
tional Recreation Association’s Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the Ill
and Handicapped. It was evident that
this method—in which a group of in-
stitutions shares the costs of profes-
sional recreation leadership and equip-
ment—had implications for developing
recreation programs in Peoria’s institu-
tions.

In 1958 the foundation set up a new
activity-therapy program in a group of
six participating agencies: three gen-
eral hospitals, a county nursing home,
a private home for the aged, and the
Peoria Institute for Physical Medicine

 

MR. CEHAN is'activity therapy director
for the Forest Park Foundation, Peoria,

Illinois.

and Rehabilitation. Two of the general
hospitals have psychiatric units and are
also divisions of the institute. Another
private home for the aged and a private
mental institution have recently joined
the program.

Initial Planning

One of the immediate tasks of the di-
rector was to survey and evaluate exist-
ing facilities and resources within the
participating institutions and in the
community. In Peoria, this involved in-
terviews with prospective volunteers,
talks with staff members and patients in
the participating institutions, and mak-
ing decisions about procedures. For ex-
ample, evaluation of patient needs and
interests resulted in the decision to he-
gin the actual program with art, music,
and craft activities and to utilize the
services of persons in the community
with special talent and experience in
these areas. These specialists were ap-
pointed as salaried consultants.

The director must also be a good
public-relations man. Good publicity
serves a number of purposes in promot-
ing an activity therapy program: it
gains the interest and support of the
community at large; interprets the con-
cept of recreation as an indispensible
part of treatment and rehabilitation——
helping to dispel the popular notion
that this is a mere “frill” or diversion
for patients; gives the public informa-
tion about the participating agencies;
promotes agency goodwill toward the
project; and, most important, helps re-
cruit volunteers for training as activi-
ties aides.

In Peoria the publicity campaign he-
gan with the writing of a descriptive
flyer, A Unique Chance to Help the
Aged, Ill, and Handicapped. It invited
recipients to attend an orientation
course on activity therapy; and gave
dates, times, places, and topics to be
discussed. This was milneographed and
distributed by mail and by hand.

The mailing list included member or-
ganizations of the local Chamber of
Commerce, the auxiliary of the local
medical society, registered members of
a course offered by a central volunteer
bureau, the faculty and staff of the local

261

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

university, and all volunteers serving
the program’s participating agencies.
In addition, a total of five thousand
flyers at the university’s student center,
the community theater, movie houses,
restaurants, the the
monthly meeting of a music fraternity,
and at visitors’ entrances in the partici-
pating homes and hospitals.

Peoria’s communications media gave
us tremendous assistance — full-page
public service announcements were car-
ried in the Peoria Journal Star for sev-
eral days; cards were diSplayed for a
week in the city’s buses; three TV sta-
tions showed films of activity therapy
with pediatric, geriatric, and rehabili-

local library,

tation patients; twenty-four churches
announced the proposed program from
their pulpits or in their news bulletins;
and community-relations departments
of various industries spread the infor-

mation to their employees.

A LARGE GROUP of key persons had
accepted the invitation, and the

orientation course was ready for pres-

entation. The sessions ran 90 to 105

minutes, two evenings a week for a pe-

riod of three weeks.

The administrator of one of the par-
ticipant general hospitals spoke on his
institution’s history, current function-
ing, and future plans. A profile of ac-
tivity therapy was presented, and the
session ended with a showing of the film
Rx Recreation [produced by the Na-
tional Recreation Association and dis-
tributed by Association Films]. This
film is particularly effective in promot-
ing community awareness of the need
for recreation prOgrams among institu-
tionalized persons of all ages; and also
indicates how to go about establishing
such programs.

Succeeding sessions included presen-
tations by administrators of each of the
participating agencies; discussions of
the specific recreation needs of institu-
tionalized persons of various ages and
with various disorders; information on
volunteer registration and the training
programs available through the Peoria
Central Volunteer Bureau and the local
chapter of the American Red Cross; use
of the local library’s books, films, and

262

recordings; demonstrations of the use
of art and music in institutional activ-
ity-therapy programs; a talk on the his-
tory of hospitals; and the showing of
selected films.

Consultants

In any community, large or small,
you will find teachers and practitioners
in the fields of art, music, and crafts.
These persons are almost invariably
willing to do part-time work in their
specialties and will accept a small salary
for a good cause.

The consultants have developed pro-
grams in each specialty, in each of the
consulting agencies. They are responsi-
ble for direct supervision of volunteers.
The consultants regularly turn in writ-
ten reports to the program director with
suggestions for improving and expand-
ing the program, as well as recommen-
dations for purchase of additional sup-
plies and equipment.

The early tapping of this valuable
community resource was a giant pre-
liminary step toward the third objective
of the program: In Peoria, there are
strong indications that the Forest Park
Foundation will shortly be able to turn
this project over to a community cen-
tered, operated, and sustained program.

Programing

Institutions are like people—each has
its own unique personality, special
needs and problems. In directing a co-
ordinated program of activity therapy
in several institutions, the recreation
therapist must be flexible.
The Rehabilitation Centeru—In an in-
stitute for physical medicine and re-
habilitation,
training sessions keep the patient busy
about eight hours a day, five days a
week. Here the primary purpose of the
activity-therapy program is to help the
patient learn how to use leisure time
constructively, in preparation for his

treatment periods and

return to community living. A second-
ary purpose is to provide continuity of
normal social-recreation experience
during the patient’s stay in the center.
For these reasons, activities must be
scheduled evenings and weekends.

The General Hospital—The average

length of a patient’s stay in a general
hospital is relatively brief. In this sit-
uation, the arts, music, and crafts con-
sultants have limited time for making
direct contacts with patients. The con-
sultants and the program director there-
fore serve primarily as resource persons
for ward personnel and supervisors for
the volunteers. The activity-therapy
team maintains a particularly close
working relationship with nursing per-
sonnel of the pediatric and psychiatric
units. In collaboration with nursing
service, the director schedules such ac-
tivities as storytelling, parties, enter-
tainment, movies, and the like.

Institutions for the Aged—For the pa-
tient who faces a long-term stay, or per-
haps a lifetime of institutional living,
the program of activity therapy must
be as complete as possible. It should
provide activities as nearly like those
encountered in normal living as possi-
ble. How can such institutions afford
to pay for the full-time service of a
trained activity therapist? Here we are
up against the same old problem‘of de-

mand and supply.

Personnel

In the county nursing home the su-
perintendent was asked to assign an
employee to the program. The con-
sultants and activity-therapy director
worked closely with this staff member
to help her develop leadership and su-
pervisory skills, as well as skills in per-
forming and teaching activities per se.
In the fifteen months since this staff
member began her work, the superin-
tendent has assigned two assistants to
work with her. The county nursing
home’s new activities department was
recently dedicated at a formal “open

” The home’s activity program

house.
is well on its way to being an independ-
ent operation.

It was in the private home for the

aged, however, that the most significant

accomplishment of the activity-therapy :\

program was realized. The man hired
as the home’s program director has se-
vere rheumatoid arthritis, which limits
him to two bodily positions—standing
or lying down. While a patient in an

Continued on Page 273

RECREATION

‘ L

4
M

l

 

SWIMMING POOL SAFETY—

Take up these important points with your pool designer

Jerrold M. Michael, (M.S.E., M.P.H.

WIMMING POOL SAFETY begins with the first blueprint.
S Proper design can eliminate many hazards. Here are
some important considerations. Check the list:

1. Projecting Steps—These create a swimmer’s hazard
and should be eliminated by recessing into the pool wall
or by replacement with ladders.

2. Pool Floor Slopes—“Slopes in excess of one foot in lif-
teen or sudden changes in slope pose a problem to the be-
ginning swimmer.

3. Pool Lighting—If used at night, the pool area should
be provided with a level of five-foot candles of artificial
light and the pool proper with underwater lighting at the
rate of 9.5 watts per square foot of pool surface area.

4. Depth Marking-"Since depth is often difficult to de-
termine from the pool side, marking of four-inch minimum
height should be placed at regular intervals at the pool peri-
phery at not more than twenty-five foot increments.

5. Drinking Water Contamination—Air-gap or vacuum-
breaker installations are mandatory for all fresh water in-
let or makeup lines to preclude back siphonage.

6. Main Drain Sizingw—The main drain should have an
area of Openings four times the area of the discharge pipe
to preclude objectionable suction effects.

MR. MICHAEL is a sanitary engineer and Chief of the Train-
ing Branch, Division of Health Mobilization of the U. 5.
Public Health Service. This material is taken from a_ Na-
tional Safety Council bulletin.

MAY 1961

7. Egress—“A means of egress such as a ladder should be
provided at the shallow end of a pool if the distance from
runway to pool bottom is more than two feet.

8. Fencing—A wall or other enclosure of four-foot min-
imum height is a desirable adjunct to pool operation. It
prevents accidental drownings during off-hours.

9. Diving Depths—To prevent divers from striking the
pool bottom, these depth standards should be adhered to:
Elevation of Diving Board Minimum Diving Depth

Above Water (feet) (feet)
3 8
5 9
7 11
10 12

10. Lifeguard Stands—One lifeguard chair should be
provided for each two thousand square feet of pool surface
area or fraction thereof. If a pool has a width of forty feet
or more and is provided with more than one lifeguard stand,
these stands should be located on each side of the pool.

11. Chlorination Equipment—The chlorinator should be
located in a room separate from all other equipment and
provided with high and low ventilation. The chlorine tanks

should be provided with wall-hung straps or other devices
such as floor recesses which will hold them securely in an

upright position.
12. Access to Equipment-—The pool layout should be ar-

263

ranged so that pool patrons do not have ready access to the
equipment rooms.

13. Bathhouse and Pool Deck F looring—Nonslip Hoor-
ing of impervious construction should be specified.

14. Electrical Wiring—No electrical wires should be per-
mitted to pass overhead within twenty feet of the pool en-
closure.

15. Showers—Showers should be provided with pre-
mixing devices to preclude serious burns to bathers. Liquid
soap dispensers should be provided in place of bar soap
racks to eliminate slipping in the shower. Spray-nozzle cor-
ridors predispose to accidents if the bathers run through
them.

16. Location of Deep End of Pool—In planning the pool
layout, the deep end of the pool should be placed at the end
of the pool enclosure away from the exit from the bath-

house. if:

 

Courtesy True, The Man's Magazine I

 

“These three should do very nicely, don’t you think?

Administrative Ills Defined

AT A recent conference of State Employment Security
Directors, conducted under the Executive Conference
Program of the Brookings Institution, Louis J. Kroeger of
Griffenhagen-Kroeger, Inc. identified and discussed the fol-
lowing administrative ills:

Administrative Arthritis: Rigidity or contortion of the or-
ganization; often resulting from lack of stimulation to the
incentives that keep things moving smoothly.
Administrative Bronchitis: A form of congestion; exempli-
fied by such as excessively complex clearances.
Administrative Elephantiasis: A growth of the organization
to unwieldly size.

Administrative Gout: Painful congestion in the extremities
(the field organization) resulting from improper delega-
tion; reflects a tendency to “decentralize” the work load,
but without the authority to do it with dispatch and finality.
Administrative Indigestion: Acute discomfort caused by an
unnatural mixing of things that don’t agree, such as line and
staff, planning and coordination, etcetera.

 

  
  

W
  é;
. , N...
"5|-KM i 

  

264

mm 
.c LET US DRIVE YOU " “" I
‘4’ To THE COUNTRY

\
, h‘
"‘1' "KM WWIWB.‘
Lax

Administrative Locomotor Ataxia: Complete lack of co- I
ordination, resulting from delegating without proper stand- I
ards or review.

Administrative N euritis: Manifests itself in delays or inac-
curacies in administrative reactions, due to inaccurate, in- 1
complete or delayed information. May be due to extended
chain of command, faulty communication, etcetera.
Administrative Psychoses: Various states and stages of con-
fusion about purpose and policy; also characterized by
fuzzy thinking or expression of policy.

Administrative Tumor: A variety of unhealthy and usually
destructive administrative growths; sometimes benign but
always a threat of infection.

Administrative Senility: Characterized by set ways; resist-
ance to new ideas; self-centeredness; complacency; lack of
vigor; lack-lustre outlook; exaltation of legal responsibility
above managerial freedom; emphasis on seniority. #

From The Personnel Man, January 1961.

   

    
   

“—

-u kgam

 
        

Courtesy True, The Man‘s Magazine

RECREATION '

 

  
  

NOTES FOR

The Same Old Problems
The following quotes from the Proceedings of the 1959

Conference of the Ontario Recreation Association." indicate
that recreation workers in Canada face problems quite sim-
ilar to those in the United States:

“We give a lot of lip service to what we are all doing in
community planning. We talk about divisions of responsi-
bility between government-sponsored agencies and volun-
tary effort, but the average taxpayer and the average church
member and union member and contributor to the United
Fund and the Community Chest is very confused. . . .

“‘I wonder why all these schools and churches, with
their expensive facilities, are lying idle while voluntary
agencies are out raising funds to build more facilities . . .?’

“ ‘I wonder why we have to have so many scattered facili-
ties and why we divide our people up into those with per-
sonal problems, people with problems based on age, sex,
nationality, etcetera . . .?’

“We have to include the public in our thinking and we
have to assure the contributor to the Chest, the church
leaders, the union leaders, and the taxpayers that we are
making the very best use of the wealth that is already at
our disposal, before he is going to be persuaded of what
we all know, and that is, that more funds must be made
available for providing recreation services in our commu-
nity.”

The Proceedings noted that, in the administration of
parks, commissions should set policy only and should not
interfere with the actual operation by the head of the de-
partment:

“There should not be competition between organizations
who wish to provide programs for the same age-groups.
This type of competition borders on theft of public monies.
Some of this available money could be spent on leadership
training.

“The great need in recreation planning is to educate the
public to its value, benefits and needs. It is only after the
community has such education that there is effective plan-
ning. The various organizations must be made to realize
the importance of effective amicable planning and coopera-
tion in the work.

“It is now the business of the recreation director to be
a social engineer, for we are at the stage of seeing visions
and dreaming dreams of what we would like life to be. We
are at the stage when we must put the foundation under
those visions and dreams. . . .

“ . a wide variety of beliefs, temperaments, and back-
grounds, in this whole field of recreation is NOT a disaster
at all but a rich opportunity for all of us to teach, learn and
share our collective gifts, knowledge! For the men, women,

- *Available from Mrs. June Braaton, 48 Deepwood Crescent, Don
,Mills, Ontario. $2.00.

MAY 1961

THEADMINISTRATOR
“

and children who share our lives ‘back home’ have many
needs, many desires, many wishes, many dreams, which it
will take our combined skill and work to fulfill. No single
organization can meet the community’s total leisure-time
needs nor have all the answers! Hence our need for one
another.”

Road blocks that prevent better cooperative planning
were listed (1) our lack of knowledge about one another
and our organizations, (2) our mistrust or distrust of one
another, (3) lack of effective communication on all levels,
and (4) the age-old problem of vested interests.

Testing Ground for Ideas
Kenneth E. Beasley of the University of Kansas summar-

ized an address entitled “Using Citizen Advisory Croups”
at a meeting of municipal officers at the University of Min-
nesota with the following statement:

“Let me emphasize three things in conclusion: First,
citizen groups should be used to reflect public attitudes.
They should not be a device—or pawn—for someone to
sell his viewpoints to the city. Citizen advisory groups are
an excellent device to overcome local apathy and educate
the public about local problems. They are a testing ground
for ideas, they are a useful device to locate and train the
community’s future leaders, and they help to solve minor
problems during the year so that the real major issues are
easily distinguished at election time.

“Secondly, if we do not find some way to draw the people
into government, give them a feeling they are a part of the
community decision making, they will find some way to
achieve this end. They may store up their emotions and
periodically let them ‘explode’ at election time, they may
become apathetic and take no interest in community affairs,
or they may complain and irritate public officials no matter
what they do. If democracy is worth having at election
time, it is worth having the entire year. The present public
officials must assume this responsibility to start making
changes.

“Third, it will be argued ‘committees’ are overdone in
the United States. I disagree with this statement. They are
a nuisance only when they become an end in themselves
or are used to complicate and confuse the decision-making
process so that someone can work easier behind the scene.”

Jargon Jungle

Because of their close and continuous relationship with
the public, there is little likelihood that recreation authori-
ties will be faced with a problem which confronted one city-
council planning and zoning commission. Because nobody
but experts could understand the commission’s reports be-
cause they were so full of planners’ jargon, it reportedly had
to hire a translator to explain the reports to the public!

265

Temple J arrell

* EVERY RECREATION DEPARTMENT re-

sponsible for the operation of a
recreation building or other major rec-
reation facility must adopt policies de-
signed to assure its optimum and equi-
Implementation of these

  

table use.
policies requires the setting up and en-
forcement of rules and regulations for
the use of the facilities. The following statement adapted
from material issued by the parks and recreation depart-
ment in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, affords an example of
such policies and regulations. The objective of these poli-
cies and regulations is to define the purpose for which fa-
cilities under the jurisdiction of the recreation division
may be used, the organized groups who might use them, and
the rates to be charged for specific activities.

The buildings and facilities are to be used primarily for
activities conducted by the recreation division for children,
youth and adults in the city. Recognizing that suitable
buildings and facilities for use by established local recrea-
tion groups are extremely limited, the centers and facilities
may be made available to recognized recreation groups

MR. JARRELL, Southern District representative of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, was formerly director of
parks and recreation in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

EgADMINIS TRATI ON

 

when not in conflict with the division’s activities. They may
also be made available to nonrecreation groups—profes-
sional, civic, service, or fraternal—when not otherwise in
use by the recreation division or outside recreation groups.

Recognized recreation groups having a direct sponsor-
ship status with the division will be considered free users
of the buildings and facilities and will be given first priority
use when these are not in use for the division’s activities.

All permits for the use of the facilities will be restricted
to responsible and recognized organizations within the city
under the provision outlined in this policy.

Applicants must satisfy the issuing office of the recreation
division that they will be personally responsible or that they
represent responsible local organizations, will guarantee or-
derly behavior and will underwrite any damage due to their
use of the facility.

Liability will be assumed by the recipient of the permit
in regard to any personal or property damage arising out
of the activities of the group.

Permits

1. Permits or notification of action on permit applica-
tions will be given the requestor within one week after the
application is received, unless contingent upon conflicting

schedules.
2. Payment of rental for use of facilities will be made at

Policies for Use of Recreation
Buildings and Facilities

 

Fort Lauderdale neighborhood centers are set up for playground, youth, and adult programs.

To assure optimum and equitable use

, .W

 

RECREATION V"

Picnic shelters at Holiday Park cost
$1,000 each or $3.79 per square foot.
Each shelter contains a large patio

suitable for parties; charcoal grills with
a sink and running water; electrical
outlets for radio and record players
for dancing; can accommodate eighty.

the issuing office at the time the permit is issued which
should be at least forty-eight hours before scheduledluse.
Permits not called for at least forty-eight hours before
scheduled use will be void.

3. Cancellations may be initiated by either party forty-
eight hours prior to scheduled use without liability. The
recreation division will issue notices as far in advance as
possible, but reserves the right to make later cancellations
in case of extreme necessity.

4. Any activity in which the division’s facilities are uti-
lized will be conducted according to law and will conform
with the moral standards of the recreation division and the
city. No meetings or entertainment will be held for the
purpose of advancing any doctrine or theory subversive to
the United States.

5. Alcoholic beverages will not be served in or on any of
the municipal facilities operated by the recreation division.

Finance

Collection of entrance and/or membership fees, sale of

literature or any other money-raising activity is not per-
missible in meetings or functions for which free use of fa-
cilities is granted, unless prior written approval is received
from the director of parks and recreation.

No group having a direct sponsorship status with the rec-
reation division may possess more than $200 in its treasury
at any one time (unless specific approval is given by the
director of parks and recreation) and all monies received
must be expended only for activities of the group. Upon
termination of its activities at the center or facility or of
the group’s sponsorship status by the recreation division, all
unexpended funds shall revert to the division and the city
for further development of the specific activity, or items
may be purchased by the group for use at the center or
facility.

Recreation Centers

Two types of recreation centers are operated by the rec-
reation division: qommunity recreation centers used pri-
marily for social activities for youth and adults and neigh-
borhood centers primarily for neighborhood activities and
functions including playground, youth and adult programs
conducted by the division.

At community centers, groups not connected with the

MAY 1961

 

recreation division shall pay a rental fee of $15 for a period
not to exceed four hours, provided no membership fee, ad-

mission, or other money-raising activity is conducted for
the event.

All organizations or groups conducting an event to which
membership fees or an admission or donation is charged,
or any other money-raising activity is conducted will pay
a rental fee of $30 or fifteen percent of the gross revenue,
whichever is greater, if the net revenue is used for the per-
sonal gain of the organization or group. This rate is for
a maximum of four hours of continuous usage and includes
the use of all facilities of the center, normal maintenance,
and electricity. An additional fee will be charged for the
service of a recreation division representative.

All recognized groups or organizations conducting an
activity where a membership fee is charged to finance the
event or to which an admission or donation is requested
shall render a rental payment of $10 for use of the center,
provided the net proceeds are used for the recognized bene-
fit of the community such as a direct contribution to a com-
munity project. This rate includes the use of the facility
as related in the above.

At neighborhood centers, groups not connected with the
recreation division shall pay a rental fee of $6 for a period
not to exceed three hours, such rate to include use of the
entire facility, normal maintenance, and electricity. An
additional fee will be charged for the services of a recrea-
tion division representative.

No money raising projects may be conducted at the
neighborhood centers.

Athletic Fields

All athletic fields under the jurisdiction of the recreation
division will be scheduled on a permit basis by calling the
permit clerk of the division Monday through Friday from
8:30 AM to 4:30 PM. The following regulations are appli-
cable to all athletic and sports facilities:

1. Activities organized and conducted directly by the (li-
vision shall have priority relative to scheduled use of the
facilities.

2. Leagues and organizations sponsored by the division
shall have second priority and the division will assume the
responsibility of providing space for the activity.

3. Outside organizations conducting sports activities may

267

apply for the use of facilities at specified times and the di-
vision will make every effort to provide a suitable time and
a facility that will not conflict with the division’s activities
or the activities sponsored by the division.

4. These facilities may not be used for individual pur-
poses or for personal financial gain.

5. Practice sessions in the evening, requiring the use of
lights, shall be restricted as follows:

a. Permits for baseball or softball practice or practice
games will be restricted to one night per team prior to the
start of the league season.

b. Football practice prior to the start of league play will
be restricted to three evenings per week. After the start of
the league season, the league may utilize a lighted field no
more than twice a week for practice sessions with a time
limitation of one and a half hours. The difference in the
amount of practice time allocated to football teams in pref-
erence to baseball or softball is due to the following reasons:

(1) Prior to baseball and softball season, there is ample
time to practice without the use of lights due to the longer
daylight hours.

(2) The conditioning of teams in baseball, softball and
football vary. In order to condition players properly in
football, it is necessary to devote more time to team prac-
tice prior to the actual scheduled games.

Outside Leagues and Organizations

Leagues and organizations not under the direct operation
or sponsorship of the recreation division shall not charge
admission, nor shall donations be received without special
written approval of the director of parks and recreation
and the positive recommendation of the parks and recrea-
tion advisory board.

Should approval for admission or donation be received
to provide revenue for the operation of a league or to raise
funds for the benefit of a specific project to benefit the com-

munity, a charge will be leveled to defray the expenses of.

lights and other special services, dependent upon the field
used for the activity ($2.50 to $4.00 per hour).

Leagues

In the event an admission or donation is approved for
a league operation not under the direction or sponsorship
of the division, five percent of the gross revenue received
for the entire season shall be paid to the city to help defray
the expense of maintaining the field, facility improvements,
and providing lights for play.

A financial report of the league operation reflecting the
total revenue received and the amount and sources where
funds are expended and payment of five percent of the gross
revenue received, must be submitted to the supervisor of
municipal athletics no later than two weeks after the con-
clusion of the season. Failure to submit this accounting
and the payment shall result in the loss of privilege of uti-
lizing the facilities.

Organizations

Should approval for an organization to charge admission

or secure donations for an event be received from the di-
/

268

rector of parks and recreation the following policies shall
prevail:

1. An organization or group conducting an event for the
personal gain of the group shall pay a minimum fee of fif-
teen percent of the gross revenue, Whichever is greater, in
accordance to the facility used and services rendered.

2. An organization or group conducting an event to en-
able the' organization to provide the net proceeds toward
the recognized benefit of the community such as a direct
contribution to a community project, shall pay a stipulated
fee in accordance to the services rendered by the parks and
recreation department and the city. A report must be sub-
mitted to the recreation division relating the revenue real-
ized from the Operation and the allocation of the net pro-
ceeds to the community project or projects.

Concessions

Revenue from all concessions on park and recreation
areas and facilities shall revert to the athletic association
under jurisdiction of the recreation division in accordance
to a contractual agreement. These funds will aid the rec-
reation division in making the athletic program self-sup-
porting.

Swimming Pools

Three types of use are authorized.

Class I—Groups and activities conducted directly by the
recreation division shall have priority relative to the sched-
uled use of the facilities, when not in conflict with patron
use.

Class 2—Recognized groups and activities sponsored by the
recreation division shall have second priority and the di-
vision will assume responsibility of providing space for the
group or activity.

Class 3—-—Swimming organizations not connected either di-
rectly or Sponsored by the recreation division may apply
for the use of the swimming pool on a rental basis and may
be made available when not in conflict with the division’s
activities or with school use.

Admission or donations shall not be received without
special written approval from the director of parks and
recreation. Should approval be received by organizations
desiring to raise funds for the benefit of recognized com-
munity projects, a minimum charge will be leveled‘ to defray
service expenses incurred by the division. These services
include maintenance, electricity and personnel assigned to
the facility for the program or event.

The rental charge for the facility shall be $25 for a max-
imum time limitation of three hours. This fee includes the
services of a lifeguard.

The facility will not be made available to any organiza-
tion or group not directly connected with the recreation di-
vision unless a division employee is assigned duty during
the time the facility is rented.

Miscellaneous

Group Water Shows—Organizations desiring to use the fa-
cility for a special function such as a water show shall not
Continued on Page 279

RECREATION

‘E

 

I Anyone responsible for repairs and
maintenance in the recreation center—-
or wherever things need to be fixed and
kept up—will welcome a new illustrated
book called Hints and Tips for the
Handyman.* It contains hundreds of
time- and money-saving ideas on the
use and care of tools; repairs and im-
provements; painting and wood finish-
ing; plumbing, heating, and electrical
work; and miscellaneous housekeeping
hints. The author, Bernard Gladstone,
is home-improvement editor of The
New York Times. In addition to turn-
ing out his popular weekly column and
many books and articles on home im-
provements, he has accumulated practi-
cal experience in the building industry
and has gathered his hints and tips from
working with professionals.

Here are a few tips from the book:
F or Easier Reading—Steel squares and
other engraved metal rules often be-
come difficult to read as they get older.
For easier reading rub a crayon across
the markings. Select one in a contrast-
ing color. Then wipe’ofi with a flat pad
of cloth that has been moistened with a
little kerosene or turpentine. The color
will be wiped off the surface but will
remain in the bottom of the grooved
markings.

Rubber H andle—Anyone who has occa-
sion to use a hammer a great deal will
find that as his hands perspire the
handle sometimes slips in his grip. To
prevent this, wrap the handle with a
layer of rubber electrician’s tape or
with adhesive tape. The grip provided
will not only be slip-proof, it will also
have less tendency to form blisters on
the palms or fingers.

Duplicate Pieces——When a number of
lengths of wood must be cut to the same
size, use only one piece as a guide or
measuring stick for marking off each
of the other pieces. If the successive,
freshly cut lengths were used each time,
slight errors would be multiplied by
each succeeding piece so that the last
one might be off considerably. By us-
ing the same piece throughout, the pos-
sibility of compound errors is elimi-
nated and greater I accuracy will be
assured. ‘

*Pitman Publishing Company, 2 West 45th
Street, New York 36 ($3.95).

MR. TODD is assistant executive director
of the National Recreation Association.

MAY 1961

Arthur Todd

Drilling Glass—‘When neccssary to drill
holes in bottles, jars, or other glass ob-
jects, try using a short piece of an old
triangular file as a drill bit. Build a
dam of putty around the spot where the
hole is to be drilled, then fill this with
turpentine. Sharpen the end of the file
on a grinding wheel so that it forms a
point, and use this in the drill chuck to
bore the hole in the middle of the pool
of turpentine.

l Recently, the Bureau of Parks, Day-
ton, Ohio, found it necessary to paint
the municipal bandshell. When it be-
came obvious that scaffolding to do the
work would be a problem because of the
sloping portion of the shell, the city
forester volunteered the use of his Mo-
bile Aerial Towers hydraulic Hi-Ranger
truck-mounted lift. This has a forty-
foot reach and a turning radius of 370
degrees. Using it, the men were able
to paint the sloping portion of the shell
in two days. The unit, generally used
for tree pruning, has completed many
other unusual assignments handily. It
has been used to paint flagpoles, replace
flagpole ropes, to take pictures of group
gatherings, to replace light bulbs at the
bandshell and tennis courts, and to in-
stall Christmas decorations.

I Charles W. Cassell, park superin-
tendent in LaGrange, Illinois, reports
in American City that he uses firemen
(during their off time) on the city’s
park maintenance crews. The park dis-
trict uses five of them to be on call,
working only when needed. They per-
form such work as maintaining skating
areas in the winter and general park
maintenance during the balance of the
year. In this way, the park district does
not have to carry extra full-time men
all year round. Superintendent Cassell
estimates that the use of the city’s fire—
men on their time off has saved the
district about $7,000 on its salary
budget each year.

I A mechanically-drawn ice planer at-
tached to a jeep has been developed
by Martin F. Walsh, commissioner of
parks and recreation in Boston. The
planer consists of plow blades on edge
set in a V formation. It planes a field
of ten acres in two hours, giving a
smooth finished surface. The planer
was constructed in six hours.

 

 

   

WRiTE FOR
LlTERATURE

DIVING BOARD

World's Finest Official Board
Rugged Aircraft Girder Construction.
Unequaled in Design, Durability and
Performance by any board built today.

Exclusive International Distributors

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD'S (ARGES' MANUFACTURERS ’3" "NE
?ARK. PICNIC. Ple‘fGROliND. "W'MM N5
POO-i. AND DRESSING RC M Ln ?ME~'

. I, V _ ‘1‘”,7.

Shllehourd

Fun For Everyone !

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-
tion for all ages . . . keen enioyment
for players and spectators.

Rugged. Dimco FreeGlide Shufile-
board sets are available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . low in upkeep!
Write today [or colorful folder, "Let's

Play Sbuweboar ,” containing com-
plete information on court layout and

equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

    

 

269

  

La tYears Longer. 
approved for 
tournament

play!

Dayton steel tennis, badminton
and paddle tennis racquets are
ideal for any school or play-
ground program. Their "extra
whip" improves every yaungster's
game—gives a speed and
accuracy that cannot be
matched by any other type
of racquet. ;.

What's more, Dayton rac- ?
quets are practically inde- " "
structible. Their steel strings
and tubular steel frames are
not affected by climaticj,‘ 
changes. No covers or neg:
presses are needed to . _,' '
pratectthem. They won't it -' '
warp, splinter, rat or 509.;  _,

investigate them now. 1.. L ' '
Ask your local dealer  _'
about them—or write ta- ‘ ‘
day for complete infar-
matian.

DAYTIJN RAClllJET COMPANY

751 Albright St., Arcanum, Ohio ' 

    
  
 
  
 
    
   
      
        
   
  
 

 Rules and
 court layouts
 for tennis r
 badminton are
1 yours tor the
asking.

STEEL RACQUETS

Over 100
projects

a easy to do
0 FUN lor the deer

a inexpensive

 

a fresh and varied
a All pre-lesled

: real magic for leaders
of 6- to i2-year-olds

10¢ CRAFTS—
FOR KIDS

by Jane Wardwell

The widest variety of projects — from
horse chestnut bubble pipes to curly-Q
pictures, things to wear, gifts, party favors,
holiday articles——-offer an abundance of
fun, learning and achievement for young—
sters. General instructions on handling
children, tools, and materials help the new
leader. Fully illustrated instructions in-

       
 
  
 
  
  
    

  

 

SIXTH NATIONAL INSTITUTE
in RECREATION ADMINISTRATION

FINANCING recreation services is a
problem and a concern foremost in
the minds of recreation executives and
managing authorities as they draw up
immediate and long-range plans. There-
fore recreation executives have chosen
“Budget and Finance for Recreation
Services” as the theme for the Sixth
National Institute in Recreation Ad-
ministration. The Institute will take
place just before the opening of the
43rd National Recreation Congress to
make it convenient for recreation ex-
ecutives to attend both without conflict.

The Date: Saturday and Sunday, Sep-
tember 30 and October 1, 1961.

The Place: Cobo Hall, Detroit, Michi-
gan (Congress Headquarters).

With the dynamic changes now oc-
curring politically, socially, and eco-
nomically, all of which affect private re-
sources and public appropriations, rec-
reation executives must be well in-
formed in the field of finance. He and
his board must thoroughly understand
the effect these forces are having on the
distribution and purchasing power of
the tax dollar, if recreation is to keep
pace with the growing needs and de-
mands for services.

The Institute will deal specifically
with: recreation and the national econ-
omy; recreation in relation to other
community services; how to get an
equitable and fair share of the tax dol-
lar; what’s ahead in municipal finance;
sources of revenue; old and new trends;
functional and performance budgeting.

The following authorities willrmake
up the Institute faculty:

Joseph Prendergast, executive direc-
tor, National Recreation Association,

New York City.

John Huss, executive director, Michi-
gan Municipal League, Ann Arbor.

 

Five recreation executives who have at-
tended each of the National Institutes
in Recreation Administration are
shown with Joseph Prendergast, execu-
tive director of the National Recreation
Association. From left to right: Jack
Puryear, St. Petersburg, Florida; For-
est V. Gustafson, Montgomery County,
Maryland; Mr. Prendergast; Howard
Rich, Sheboygan, Wisconsin; Al 1. Cu-

hiershi, Garden City, New York; Jack
Springer, Statesville, North Carolina.

llllIllIllIlllllllllllllIllllllllIllIllIllIlllllllIllIllIllIllIllIlllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllll

welfare services in the country, al-
though Detroit is only lifth in popula-
tion.

Luther Gulick, president, Institute in
Public Administration; chairman of
NRA Finance Committee; research spe-
cialist; director of municipal surveys;
nationally known authority in finance
and public administration.

Edward Nowak, budget director, De-
troit. Mr. Nowak was named by the In-
ternational City Managers” Association
as one of the two outstanding finance
men in the country on functional and
performance budgeting.

George Hjelte, general manager, De-
partment of parks and recreation, Los

Angeles; member of NRA Board of Di-

rectors.

Arthur Williams, associate director,
National Recreation Association; di-
rector of Defense Services; in charge

of the NRA Functional and Perform-

sure the success of each project. Dime
store, home, and industrial scrap supply
all needed materials. Washable cover. $2.95

David Addy, auditor general, Detroit,
former budget director and participant
in community and welfare affairs.

ance Budget. \‘r
ll

The quota of one hundred will be ad- I»
hered to as in former Institutes and ap- ,-
plications will be accepted in the order 
that they are received. Write to Willard '
C. Sutherland, National Recreation As-
sociation, 8 West Eighth Street, New

York 11. #1
\

RECREATION

At all booksellers

ASSOCIATION PRESS

291 Broadway, New York 7

Walter Laidlaw, director, Michigan
United Foundation. Mr. Laidlaw’s or-
ganization raises annually about $18,-

000,000, the largest federated funds for

 

Reporter’s Notebook
Continued from Page 240

 

Ralph Van Fleet, National Recrea-
tion Association Southern District rep-
resentative, was recently presented with
a Mayor’s Proclamation making him an
honorary citizen of Mobile, Alabama,
and a member of the mayor’s staff.
Nicholas Chiera, youth director of the
White Plains, New York, Department
of Recreation received a plaque from
the Northern Area Recreation Council
for his thrce years serving in an advi-
sory capacity to the Council and as a
liaison man between the recreation de-
partment and the council.

At the annual conference of the Cali-
fornia Recreation Society, awards were
presented to recreation professionals.
Fellowships went to William A. Fred-
erickson, superintendent of recrea-
tion, in Los Angeles, and Matt C.
Thiltgen, superintendent of recreation
in San Mateo. Honorary Membership
awards were presented to Robert W.
Crawford, park and recreation com-
missioner, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
and Ross A. Cunningham, special
consultant in recreation and physical
education, E. P. Finigan Company, San
Francisco. Citations were awarded to
Wayne Bartholomew, recreation spe-
cialist, Statehof California; _Mae E.
Mathers, recreation supervisor, Long
Beach; Laurence O. Janssen, medi-
cal administration assistant, Veterans
Administration Hospital, Livermore;
Elsie Ryan, volunteer, San Jose; and
Ann C. Woolf, girls’ camp director,
Los Angeles.

STATE SOCIETY ELECTIONS
CALIFORNIA

  

Shown at the 13th annual California
and Pacific Southwest Recreation and
Park Conference are, left to right,
Grant Mainland, immediate past-presi-
dent of the California Recreation Soci-
ety; Carol Brown, the society’s new
treasurer; and Richard Abernethy, the
new president. Also elected were Mar-
vin Arnold, second vice-president; Pa-
tricia Delaney, secretary; and Law-
rence Seifert, first vice-president.

MAY 1961

The California Recreation Society
changed its name to the California Park
and Recreation Society. Its new ad-
dress is 105 South Kenwood, Glendale.
The society’s board of directors also

recently accepted the Armed Forces to
section status.

WISCONSIN

A. J. Schara of
Manitowoc was
elected president of
the Wisconsin
Park and Recrea-
tion Society recent-
ly. Other officers
include Vice-Presi-
dent, Richard
Lindl, Kenosha ; Secretary, Warner
Bartram, Milwaukee; Treasurer, Hugo

Meuler, Oconomowoc; Directors, Rich-

ard Wilsman, Eau Claire; William
Schulenburg, Wausau; and Ed Mundy,

Milwaukee.

 

 

Obituaries

 

' Charles H. English, one of the

“grand old men” of recreation, died at
seventy-three after serving thirty-five
years in the profession in various cities.
Executive secretary of the former Play-

ground and Recreation Association of

Philadelphia for eighteen years, Mr.
English retired in 1945. He was an or-
ganizer of the Philadelphia Model Aer-
oplane Association, one of the first such
groups in the nation. During World
War I he was one of the national leaders
in the War Camp Community Service
program. He gave courses in the Na-
tional Recreation School for many
years, always emphasizing the warm,
human side of life.

One of his closest friends has said
of him, “He always fled from stereo-
types. Recreation, he felt, lost most of
its vitamins unless served garden-fresh.”

" W. A. “Buck” Richardson, first
director of the Department of Recrea-
tion and Parks in Arlington County,
Virginia, died recently at the age of
fifty-eight. Involved with the recrea-
tion of Arlington since 1928, Buck
watched over the beginnings of the de-
partment’s Children’s Theatre, Teen
Theatre, Music Theatre, two Silver Age
Clubs, the Over-60 Employment Serv-
ice, four summer day camps, and an

annual arts festival.
H

POOL EQUIPMENT
AND CHEMICALS

 

Since 1935. . . the best values in qual-

ity pool equipment and chemicals...

PLUS FREE HELP on any pool problem.

Write for these FREE aids today:

[I ALGAE CONTROL for lakes and pools.

El Pinpoint water treatment problems with
record forms, data cards and Pool lay-
out sheet.

El “How-to-paint" guide and color chart.

PO0L-COTE...one coat covers

Time-tested chlori-
nated rubber base -
paint with new
“Ultra-Sorb” sun
screen ingredient.
10 popular colors.

    
    

DIVING STANDS 8: LADDERS

In stock or made to your order . . .
chrome, stainless steel, brass. All
sizes available. Install as original
equipment or for replacement. Top

quality guarantee.

NUSAN cleans any filter

Left: Standard (‘5? .
backwash ’
Right: Backwashed ,

with NUSAN ‘ W
Saves repair costs!
Chemical formula
quickly dissolves
"gook". Just add to strainer before
each backwash. Amazing results guar-
anteed! FREE test-it-kit. .

   

YOURS FREE

—voluable tips on water treat-
ment, pool maintenance and op-
eration. Write for catalog #56E.

..../

MODERN SWIMMING P0
1 Holland Ave.,Whlte Plains. N.Y.,W

W

   

' Mrs. Robert J. Block, member of
the Seattle, Washington, Park Board
and a leader in youth and civic activi-
ties, died recently after surgery at
the age of thirty-five. Mrs. Block was
secretary of the Washington State Coun-
cil for Children and Youth and was
vice-chairman for the Washington State
Committee for the 1960 White House
Conference on Children and Youth. She
was widely known for her work with
the Seattle-King County Council of the
Campfire Girls.

° Edwin M. Steckel, Sr., musician
and director emeritus of Oglebay Insti-

     

Yes, hundreds of park and rec-
reation departments are iump-
ing on the refreshment band-
wagon. You’ll add 10% to 20%

to your available operating

funds.

w .
w»... _
""‘"'--~.......

All Gold Medal Equipment can
pay for itself out of Profits.l

 

 

Write may Lol- ljge l96l cata-
log and detailed book on re-
freshments. We have everything
you need for HOT DOGS, POP-
CORN, SNO~KONE$, COTTON
CANDY AND ALL OTHER RE-

FRESHMENT ITEMS.

 

 
 

 

tute in Wheeling, West Virginia, died
recently at the age of seventy. Mr.
Steckel was associated with Oglebay
Institute since 1939 and retired in 1959.
He established the Oglebay Opera
Workshop in 1952.

' Mrs. Elizabeth C. Baldwin, a
charter member of the Lower Make-
lield-Yardley Recreation Board in Mor-
risville, Pennsylvania, died recently at
the age of forty-two. Mrs. Baldwin, a
strong supporter of recreation in that
area, had been awarded a National
Recreation Association citation for her

recreation work in 1958.

 

8c profit per 10:
sale. Equipment and
supplies cost under
$300.00. Over 50%
of your patrons will
buy a bag.

"v-w.

COTTON CANDY

’2 Almost 9: profit per

10: sale. Equipment
and supplies $300.00.
Extremely popular
with all Children un-
der 16.

8c profit per 10:.
Equipment and sup-
plies costs u n d e r
$225.00. Equipment
only 149.50. Every-
body loves Sno-Kones
—the most refreshing
drink you can eat.

F---------‘-u-----1

   

  

Bridging the Gap

Continued from Page 262

 

East Coast hospital, he had served as
oflice manager for an activity-therapy

There he

learned a good deal about the adminis-

program in the hospital.

trative procedure required for conduct-
ing a wide-scale activity-therapy pro-
gram. In his “spare time” he acted as
reporter for the hospital newspaper, di-
rector of the patients’ glee club, assist-
ant director of the dramatics club, some-
time director of the hospital radio sta-
tion, and was an active participant in
the adapted sports offered.

He was one of the first to join the
“patient volunteers,” a group which
brought games, parties, and other ac-
tivities to the totally bedridden popula-
tion of the institution. With this back-
ground of experience, this man was well
qualified to direct activity therapy in a
home for the aged. The foundation
agreed to pay his small salary on a one-
year trial basis. The private home for
the aged supplied his room, board,
laundry service, meals, and other bene-
fits. Before the year was completed, the
activity-therapy program in this home
was a model for all to see. The home
has retained this eX-patient as its activ-
ity-therapy director.

T HROUGH the economic use of human
resources, Peoria’s activity-therapy
program bridges the gap between the
demand for professionally directed,
medically oriented recreation service
and the current supply of prepared rec-
reation therapists. The program is
based on these concepts:
0 The recreation therapist plays a vari-
ety of roles in carrying out the function
of program director.
0 Local specialists in arts. music, and
crafts serve as part-time consultants to
patients. personnel, and volunteers in
the participating institutions.
0 Leadership skills are tapped and de-
veloped among employees and patients
in the participating institutions.
0 When the philanthropic foundation

or other private source promotes com-K,

i

Send more information on

REFRESHMEN' PROFITS 1°: munity awareness of a need and edu- l"

cates the community to its responsibil-
ity, the community eventually takes

Name

Add ress
City
State

 

over responsibility for financing, staff-

1821-31 Freeman Avenue, Cincinnati 14, Ohio

inor and o eratin0r the activit thera
The most trusted name in Refreshments Today! ' c” p ‘3 y py
program. :l,:/: 

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.l

274‘ RECREATION

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

INDIANA. Residents of Madison have organized Historic
Madison, Inc., to preserve important structures in town. Its
first project will be to restore the 144-year-old Jeremiah
Sullivan Home, purchased at auction for $12,000, half of
which was a gift from Eli Lilly, industrialist and philanthro-
pist. The house is considered one of the finest surviving
examples of Federal style architecture in the Ohio Valley.

In South Bend development of La Salle Park (formerly
known as Beck’s Lake Tract) is under way. It will take
about five years to fill the old lakebed and complete the
project. The city’s new senior citizen center is shown below.

2,. , N . 5w; ( _ 1:2, .- ~ - .1 x - m“ “f . ,.  8;?) ....
a; “.5 " W  . a.'.. '  ‘1 t v" t s i ' -: 7 »
if “xi-,5"! if. if: "t. {_._ i . ' ’ " ' “j ' ' o2 . «. i {a
’ I V 6"" t . ’ . A . a c.- - '

 

ILLINOIS. The Skokie Park District will open new recrea-

_tion facilities this summer which will enable residents to

enjoy an additional $257,000 swimming pool and a $108,-
000 neighborhood recreation center in 18-acre Oakton Park.
The pool is scheduled for completion for swimming during
the 1961 season. There will be a separate 40’-by-45’ diving
pool in addition to an L-shaped pool for wading and swim-
ming. Minimum depth is 2’6”, tapering to 5’0”. In all,
there will be 11,300 square feet of water surface, 25,000
square feet of deck plus 2,500 square feet for a raised sun
deck. The bathhouse has 7,500 square feet.

The neighborhood recreation center has six thousand
square feet and provides the following facilities: recreation
room, kitchen, game room, lounge, checking facilities, meet-
ing room, arts-and-craft room, and Warming shelter. The
purposes of this new facility are twofold: (1) to provide
needed indoor facilities for a more comprehensive recrea-
tion program particularly for elementary age children and
(2) to provide facilities for community organizations to
utilize for their various functions. Adjacent to the facility
will be off-street parking to accommodate cars for both the
pools and recreation center. These improvements are a part

MAY 1961

of the $464,000 bond issue for the redevelopment of
Oakton Park.

MISSOURI. Kansas City has passed a $75,000,000 bond
issue for construction of a sewage treatment plant. Not
only will the waste treatment facilities make the Missouri
River more attractive for boating and other forms of water
recreation, but this is a major step forward leading to the

construction of an important marina on city-owned lands
along the river.

NEW JERSEY. The state has allocated $519,750 for

beach protection funds in six counties. The projects to be
undertaken will all be on a matching-money basis, with the
state paying one half the cost.

In W ildwood-by-the-Sea, Charles L. Julian, director of
recreation, reports a new recreation center under way. In-
cluded will be a spacious gymnasium to be used primarily
for basketball and rollerskating. The main oflice will be
enclosed in glass, giving visibility to the entire playing area.
On the second floor, two of six conference rooms will be
divided by a folding partition which, when open, will make

one large room approximately thirty feet square. The first
and second floors will have separate entrances.

In Bayonne, the department of parks and public property
is planning the development of a quadrangular area in
City Park. The project will include a chip-and-putt green,
two clay tennis courts, three outdoor basketball courts, a
volleyball court, an open play area for stickball, diamond-
ball, etcetera, and a peripheral curbing to retain water in
cold weather. The seating capacity of City Park Stadium
will be expanded to accommodate an additional twelve
hundred spectators. During the past year Bayonne’s recrea-
tion program was augmented with the addition of play
activities for mentally retarded children, free golf lessons,
a glee club, soccer, operation of recreation rooms in city
housing projects, bowling for elementary school boys, and
the City Park Twilight League.

In Madison Township, a recreation area for employees
will be included on the 200-acre site of the 330,000,000
Golden Circle Industrial Park. Industrial firms have found
that many employes like to spend their lunch hours relaxing
outdoors. Softball and touch football are among the favorite
activities.

Baseball fields and a swimming area will be situated con-
veniently, yet far enough away from rail and truck loading
areas. The recreation areas will have park-like surroundings,
which will include outdoor eating facilities with tables and

benches.

WEST VIRGINIA. The state will soon have nine new
fishing lakes, totaling 1,325 acres in area, as a result of the
State Temporary Economic Program (STEP), launched
last year by legislative appropriation. All but two of the
new lakes are either under construction or in the advanced
planning stage; some will be completed by July 1 and all
by 1962. The largest lake will be Bull Creek in Wood County
(500 acres). Sleepy Creek in Berkeley and Morgan Counties
will be either one 200-acre lake or two 100~acre lakes. #1:

275

 
   

 MARKET NEWS

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

0 Romp O Lene is a new compact spring-a-long bouncer for
kids from one to eleven years of age and up to ninety pounds.
Strong, lightweight, the frame is electrically welded steel
with baked on enamel, 38”-by-27’ ’ -by-10” , with soft rubber
cushions on all four legs. Handlebar is twenty inches above
the bed which is heavy canvas duck, lock-stitched. Sturdy
plastic bed clamps and wide Anco rubber elastomers pro-
vide foolproof, safe bounce. Frame sections detach for easy,
compact storage. For more information, circle #100.

0 Special athletic lockers are the answer to locales where
space is at a minimum and need at a maximum. These units
have adequate storage and hanging space for average equip-
ment. All are available in several baked enamel finishes or

can be custom finished to customer’s color sample. For
further information, circle #101.

o The catcher’s lot will be a hap-
. pier one with a new, more com-
. : pact catcher’s protector which
eliminates the bulk and hulk of
the older models. Side seams re-
place the bulging center seam,
making the protector fit like a vest
for more comfort and longer wear.
It also has a completely removable
and replaceable harness, so that
there is no need to discard the en-
tire protector when the harness
wears out. Long and short styles
available, also youth league models. For information, circle

##102.

o No dark corners. Panel unit wall made of fiberglass-
reinforced polyester plastic and aluminum lets natural light
into your buildings. You can beautify your facilities with
translucent or Opaque Kalwall panels which have a core of
aluminum 1-beams mechanically interlocked to form eight-
by-twenty-inch rectangles, uniform in color, thickness, and
strength, and highly resistant to acids, fading, sharp blows,
and erosion. Size and pattern may. be varied. Come in
white, crystal, either Northern or Southern red, green, yel-
low, and blue. Northern colors let in more sunlight, South-
ern colors contain sunlight filtering pigments. For further
information, circle #103.

 

0 Originally designed for New York State parks, Long’s
natural cedar-log picnic units are sturdy, rugged and com-
' fortable. Engineered to resist tipping over, with galvanized
bolt construction, units have two board seats, nine-and-one-
half inches wide and a seven-board top, thirty-three inches
wide and six inches long. Also available is a six-foot rustic
settee with matching chair for indoor or outdoor use in

patios, centers with rustic decor, and other areas. For in-
formation, circle #104.

275

0 Now it’s instant swimming. The average child can learn
to swim in an hour with a Swim-Quick bouyant unit made of
Goodyear Koroseal. Virtually indestructible, it never ab-
sorbs water and is impossible to sink under any circum-
stances. Scientifically controlled bouyancy keeps pupil’s
body in the correct swimming position, gives complete
freedom of movement. For additional information and cata-

log, circle #105.

o Fold-a-way gym will open up new i; I,
possibilities in fitness classes for your  ‘
young mothers’ programs, on play- é
grounds, and beaches, in centers and ,p N,
churches without gyms or formal ex- ;  ‘
ercise areas. Folds toa neat 4”-by-4~2”- ' ,
by-84” for a compact unit. For leaflet 
describing Stamm’s Gym, giving its 
uses in many special circumstances 0'
and outlining a variety of suggested 
exercises, for folk of all ages, circle 

#   ,tgww...,,

0 A hand exerciser with a loop handle can be used by ath-
letes, sportsmen, and musicians to strengthen hands. Also
valuable for fingers weakened by hand injuries or diseases
such as polio or cerebral palsy. The vinyl ball is produced
in three densities—soft, medium, and hard. The smooth
texture, strength, resilience, ease of molding, and resistance
to perspiration makes it pleasant to use. For literature,

circle #107.

o Are your grounds on the downgrade? A new four-foot
Viking “Roller Blade” has been designed for mounting on
an International Harvester Cub or Lo-Boy tractor for level-
ing scarifying, rolling, seeding, and compacting. According
to the manufacturer, anyone who can steer a tractor can
turn six hundred square yards of rough graded land into a
level, fine graded seed bed in fifteen to twenty-five minutes.
Accuracy is built into the machine and does not depend
upon the skill of the operator. He just sets the blade at the
desired level and drives around. The heavy blade floats be-
tween the rear wheels of the tractor and the grid roller. It
thus maintains its straight line level regardless of how the
front wheels go up and down. Completely equipped, it in-
cludes a scarifier and an automatic seed and fertilizer dis-
penser. For further information, circle #108.

0 A new ten-bushel-capacity Alsto incinerator mounted on
casters is constructed of rust-resistant aluminized steel
(molten aluminum bonded to steel) and features a large\
hinged hood for easy loading and fire protection. Burnsf!
refuse of all kinds to a fine ash in any weather. Scientific
draft control burns damp, green, or dry refuse without fire
danger and nuisance of burning, blowing bits of paper. The
burners minimize smoke and smell and require no watch-
ing. Front casters swivel so unit may be pulled in any di-
rection. For descriptive literature, circle #109. 
RECREATION

WHWHWWW

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

Page
American Playground Device  269
Association Press .................................. _. 270
Ball-Boy Company, Inc.   272
Belson Manufacturing Company  _ 240
Carl Fischer ...................  ................ __ . 254
Classified Advertising .. ......................... __ 282

Cosom Industries -,  Inside Front Cover

Culver Enterprises _-  .- 215
Dance Notes .................................. __ _ 240
Dayton Racquet- ________________________________ ._ 270
Dimco-Gray Company   269
Fish, Marjorie  _ _ 282
Game-Time __   226
Gold Medal Products   - 274
H. 8. R. Manufacturing Company   272
Handweaver 8. Craftsman  240
I Hargail Music Press _ 254
l Hillerich 8. Bradsby  _ 226
Institutional Cinema   __ _ 272
James Spencer   282
Jamison Manufacturing Company  219-222
Maintenance, Inc.  _ __ 217
Master lock Company   _ 217
Miracle Equipment __ - -_ __ 279
Modern Swimming Pool _-_-_ .  _ 273
Monroe Company   217
National Sports    217
National Studios    247
Program Aids __________________________________ _- _ 218
Rheem Califone   _ _ _ 248
Sho-Sho Products .............. __ Inside Back Cover
Square Dance Associates  -- . . 254
T. F. Twardzik ........................ .__   218
Wenger Music  _   255

WWWWK
MAY 1961

@

FREE AIDS

TRADE MART

 

The following Free Aids briefly describe resources—catalogs,
brochures, films, booklets, services available, samples, and so on—-to
help the recreation leaders. Circle the key number following any item
about which you want more information. Cut out the coupon, insert in

envelope, and mail.

ARTS AND CRAFIS

A RAINBOW or THERMo-SETTING COLORS for
hard surfaces like glass, china, metal. Easy
to use, quick drying, durable. Simple baking
in an ordinary oven makes permanent, lasting
finishes. Comes in various size sets of paints,
mixer, brush, and information. For catalog
containing this and other craft ideas, circle

# 120.

FOR BUZZINc SOCIABILITY, try a rug hooking
bee. Catalog of hooked rug patterns lists
many, many patterns that senior citizens,
young marrieds, women's clubs will love to
try. For copy, circle #121.

THE GENTLE ARTS. Wooden carvings, ceramics,
glass designs, weaving are shown in film The
Hands Are Sure. Runs thirty minutes and

depicts how these crafts are practiced in
French Canada. Circle #122.

SIXTEEN RADIANT SEMI-MOIST CAKES of water-
color give richer, more vibrant effects. Pack-

aged with brush and water cup. For informa-
tion, circle #123.

ANIMALS WITH A TWIST. Make a menagerie
with assorted balloons in mardi-gras colors.
Balloon kits are also great for prizes, clown
stunts, and so on. For more details, circle

#124.

IF YOU PLY THE WEAVER’S TRADE, you can have
a kaleidoscope of colorful yarns of wool or
cotton, linen floss, sluh linen. For informa-
tion on looms and weaving accessories, circle

#125.
MUSIC

RING IN NEW PROGRAM ACTIVITIES with resona-
tor hells. Twenty bells—C to G chromatic—

are fabricated from aluminum alloy of same
quality used in concert vibraphoncs. Cham-
bers of high-impact polystyrene. Why not con-
sider forming a bell chorale? If you need bells
for ear training or accompaniment of ensem-
ble singing, these will hit the right note for
you. For literature, circle #126.

MUSIC FOR THE MAKING. Children, parents,
grandparents—anyone can master the recon]-
er. Excellent family recreation (see M usic Is
Recreation supplement in this issue of REC-
REA'I‘ION). The recorder provides an ideal ac-
companiment for folk singing, madrigal
groups, carols. An instrument of an earlier
day with a refreshing, sweet sound, welcome
change from the constant twang of the guitar.
Available in pear, maple, cherry, olive, san-
dalwood, ebony, and other woods. Models of
varying prices and quality. For further in-
formation, circle #127.

J Azz IS AMERICA’S owv IDIOM for upheats and
downbeats. Get in on the far out in today’s
jazz as well as the grooves of yesteryear. To
get in the swing, get a complete listing of the
latest in jazz, circle #128.

STRIKE UP THE BAND! Your hands and orches-
tras-—of whatever size, age, shape, or form—
will appreciate bright, well-made Selmer in-
struments. For catalog in color, with many
photographs, circle #129.

EVEN THE LITTLEsr ANGELS can make heavenly
sounds with an autoharp which has ready-
made chords for accompaniment and easy
harmony. The instrument is compact and
simple to learn to play, has been successfully
used on playgrounds, adds magic to a surn-

PLEASE NOTE EXPIRATION DATE

r—_——_——_———————_——————————_—-———__—_I

100 101 102 103 104 105 108
117 118 119 120 121 122 123
134 135 136 137 133 130 140

 

Clip and mail today. to
RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R561. 8 W. 8th St.. New York 11

This coupon expires Iuly I. 1961
Please send me more information on circled products.
_______________________________________————————

107 103 103

124 125

141 142 143 144 145 146 147 143 143 150
______________________________.______——-————————-——-

110 111 112 113 114 115 110
120 127 123 123 130 131 132 133

Title

Name

organization

Zeno State

City

Addrm_________________________________________———

11561

277

mer day. For leaflet describing it and how
to play it, circle #130.

HARMONICIZE alone or in a group. Harmonicas
have many program possibilities for all ages.
The instrument is inexpensive, compact, easy
to learn to play. Youngsters enjoy making
like the “Harmonicats.” Let them try some
harmonizing. This instrument is simple to
learn to play. For booklet giving the “how,”
circle #131.

MR. B. NATURAL is the music man in a film for
children and adults which explores the basic
objectives and values of music. This mirthful
pixie introduces youngsters to the spirit of
music—and the band plays on. Circle #132.

EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE

ON LAND AND SEA, shufileboard has long been
a favorite sport. Many models of shuflleboard
sets available for centers, schools, play-
grounds, backyards—for family recreation—
and other areas. For pamphlet on equipment,
circle #133.

MUSCLEs IN TONE? Bicycle exerciser is strong
and sturdy, portable and Well made, can be
adjusted to different degrees of leg resistance.
Excellent for your physical fitness program.
Use indoors or outdoors, to get your sports
teams and paunchy participants into shape
and keep them that way. For leaflet, circle

# 134.

hour ON THE SUBJECT. Tapered steel lighting
tubes for area and Eoodlighting are available
in heights from 40 to 140 feet. For night
lighting sports areas and parking lots. For
information, circle #135.

NET GAINS. Tennis, volleyball, and badminton
nets, synthetic golf cage nets are among the
products of company specializing in thread
and cord. For catalogue, circle #136.

PIPE LINES. Plastic pipes resist corrosion, re-
place metal economically. No contamination,
because they contain no corrosive products.
Nontoxic, remain smooth, resist abrasion, will
not attract rodents or termites, no environ-
mental efiects. Pipe can be joined by cement-
ing, welding, or threading. Can be cut with
hacksaw. Weighs less than one-fifth the

 

weight of steel, half that of aluminum. For
more information, circle #137.

TRAP DIRT UNDER THE MAT. Easy-to-roll golf
mats clean shoes and do the trapping. They
keep floors clean, save dirt-wear and excess
cleaning. Can be used in locker and shower
rooms, for entrances and lobbies. For litera-

ture, circle #138.

NO BUGS IN THE BUTTER or varmints in the
victuals. Camper’s kitchen makes outdoor
cooking easier. Can be completely assembled
in one evening. Everything is included in the
kit, even the glue. Compact unit takes up
only two-and-a-half feet of floor space. Prop-
erly stocked, it will feed four adults for three-
and-a-half-days, a minimum based on civil de-
fense recommendations. For descriptive leaflet
with photographs, circle #139.

COOK IN THE FILTERS? Pool equipment and
chemiCal company offers free aids to solve
swimming pool problems from booklet on al-
gae control, test-it-kit on gook dissolver, and
how-to-paint guides. For your copies, circle

#140.

UPS AND DOWNS are more fun with new hi-ride
stratosphere seesaw. Carries children a third
higher than conventional seesaws and seats
remain parallel to ground throughout ride. A
weight-equalizing feature makes it possible
for children with weight differences to ride

without balance or operating difficulties.
Circle #141.

EXOTIC BIRDS or MANY PEATHERS for park
ponds and lakes, zoos, gardens, animal farms.
Company specializes in all manner of fowl,
from geese to swans to ducks. If you don’t
want a black swan, take a gander. For infor-
mation, circle #142.

POOL AND BUMPER POOL TABLES for your teen
canteens, senior citizens ccnters, community
centers, or family playroom. If you’re cramped
for space, folding pool tables fit the footage.
Accessory equipment also available. For bro-

chure, circle # 143.

SEATING ARRANGEMENTS. Portable steel
bleachers can be easily assembled and disas-
sembled for multiple use. Six-page brochure
tells how to plan your outdoor seating, in-
cludes charts of seating capacities and
bleacher specifications. Company also pro-

duces wood bleachers. Circle #144.

IOIN and USE

ALL

 

National Recreation Association services

RECREATION Magazine is only one of many services the National Recreation Associa-
tion offers its service affiliates and associates. For more than fifty years, professional
specialists on the NRA staff have served the recreation field through the Association's
many departments, with on-the-spot advice. through correSpondence and consultation,
with program information. at annual district conferences, and at National Recreation

Congresses.

The NRA is your service agency. Know it and use it. For complete information about
membership in the National Recreation Association circle #115 on coupon on reverse

side.

278

These excellent resources and references
must be ordered directly from the source
given (enclose remittance).

MODEL AIRPLANE enthusiasts will zoom for
sets of plans that include old favorites and
new combinations of great designs. Plans in-
clude a complete building text—really a
course in basic aircraft construction. Sets are
$.50 each. For complete information on avail-
able materials, write to Model Airplane News,
Plan Department, 551 Fifth Avenue, New

York 17.
0

AN ATTRACTIVE BULLETIN BOARD is a great
asset, whether on the playground, in the com-
munity recreation building, the schoolroom,
or the office. Fearon Publishers, 828 Valencia
Street, San Francisco 10, California, publishes
several different manuals on bulletin boards,
the latest of which is 4 D Bulletin Boards
That Teach by Doris Ruby ($1.50). It is
aimed at schoolroom bulletin boards and at
displays that not only get a message across I
but teach in the process. However, the ideas
for figures and designs for diSplays that are I
dynamic and eyecatching can be adapted
easily for other types of bulletin-board use. I
Also available in the company’s Teacher-Aid
Series are Baited Bulletin Boards, Bulletin
Boards for Holidays and Seasons and E-Z
Bulletin Boards.

LOW-COST AIDS 1

VEST-POCKET-SIZE MUSIC DICTIONARY, with
leather cover, contains nearly five thousand :
musiCal terms in four languages-——French,i
German, Italian, and English. Available for

$1.00 from Ottenheinier Publishers, 4805 Nel-
son Avenue, Baltimore 15, Maryland.

WIIAT-TO-LOOK-POR IN A CAMP for retarded 1
children. A leaflet called The Retarded Child .
Goes to Camp lists simple pointers, and is
available for $.05 from the Association for the
Help of Retarded Children, 19 Union Square,
New York 3.

TRAIL BLAZINC. Pamphlet on Historic Trails
lists more than one hundred hiking trails
throughout the United States. Included are
trails for the stout-hearted expert, some for
the novice, all with a rich historical back-
ground. Single copies are $1.00 from Sam

White & Associates, 4123 North Keystone
Avenue, Indianapolis 5, Indiana.

LIBRARY IN A 8"-Bv-51/2" 30:: contains forty
informative, catchily illustrated booklets on
tOpics ranging from plumbing to the arts.
Subjects include music, social security, li-
brary cards, information unlimited, ballet, po-
etry, safety, work, and politics. Written to
give you a quick grasp of general information
in double-quick time. Set costs $3.95 and is
available from Channing L. Bete Co., Green-r
field, Massachusetts. \H-

‘h
I ‘1}:
I

SUMMER JOBS FOR TEENAGERS? The 1961 an-
nual edition of Summer Jobs contains oppor-
tunities in hotels, camps, ranches, church ed-
ucation, etcetera. Available for $3.00 from the
Advancement and Placement Institute, Box

99, Station C, Brooklyn 22, New York.
*‘a.

RECREATIONi

Policies for Public Facilities
Continued from Page 268

 

receive donations or charge an admission without special
written approval from the director of parks and recreation.
The pool may not be used for individual financial gain.

Should approval for admission or donation be received
to provide revenue for the benefit of the community or for
the advancement of swimming, a charge of $2.50 an hour
will be leveled to defray the expense of lights and a life-
guard assigned to the facility during the show. Also, a fi-
nancial report reflecting the total revenue received and the
sources where the funds are expended must be submitted
in writing to the division.
College Aquatic F orum—The division will sponsor the Col-
lege Swimming Forum and no charge will be rendered to
the forum swimmers during this period. The pool will be
made available to the forum groups at specified times deter-
mined on an advanced schedule basis.
High School Swimming Teams—The local public junior and
senior high school swimming teams, each limited to fifty
members, will be entitled to utilize the pool at specified
times, Mondays through Fridays during school months,
without charge. These times shall be, except under unusual
conditions, during the hours that the pool is not open to the
public, generally between 4:06 and 6:00 PM. During this
time the schools shall provide adequate liability insurance
in the name of the city.

Before the season starts, representatives of the schools

 

“Come on! Come on! Get back in! You’re
scaring the fish!”

I|||||||||||!I||!||||I||||||I||||||||||||||||||I|||||||||||||||||||||I|||||||I|||I|||||||||I|||||||||||||||||||||||||!!|||||||||||I||III|||I||||||||||||||II||||||||||I|||||I||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

and the pool manager will meet to arrange a definite time
for the teams to practice and for swim meets. Team mem-
bers must pay the regular admission fee on Saturdays, Sun-
days, and holidays and team locker rooms will be used only
at regular scheduled practices.

Local Swimming Groups—Recognizing the great value that
local swimming groups are to the community and to the in-
dividual members of the group, every effort will be made
by the division to offer its facility to recognized public
groups after the facility is closed to patron admission and
when not in use by the division’s groups in rate of priority
in accordance to policies as stipulated above. #

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

PLANNING ON A WHOLE PLAYGROUND 0F EUIPMENT...

MIRACLE

.. ' JACK ’n JILL

The perfect "cen-
terpiece" for your
playground. Safe,
healthful exercise;
imaginative play.
Two climbers,‘ stair-
way, ski slide and
"lookout tower."

Get more “FUN for the money" with

 
    

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
       

MIRACLE

MAY 1961

MORE FUN —- that's the extra bonus built into every
piece of Miracle Playground Equipment: Miracle's kud
colors. modern designs and unusual equupment Ideas ap-
peal to young imaginations. Children enjoy themselves far
longer . . . get plenty of healthful exercrse  . play safer
without supervision. Whatever you need in. playground
equipment. Miracle makes it better— 116 items ‘In all!
Mail coupon today for new color brochures on the equrp-
ment you need or send us your ideas and dimensmns -_— a
custom-designed playground layout is yours for the asking.

EQUIPMENT CO.

Grinnell, Iowa

MAIL THIS COUPON NOW

MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY -—-GRINNELL. IOWA

Please send me at once the following brochures:

I] World of Whirls I? Tot Land Items

E] Swing to Pleasure L" Shelter Houses

E] Safe Climbers and Body Building Slides

E] Also send information on your free Playground

Planning Service
ADDRESS........ ____ -_

 

-----_--
L-------

I.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l .
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

279

  

10¢ Crafts For Kids, Jane Wardwell.
Association Press, 291 Broadway, New
York 17. Pp. 128, illustrated. $2.95.*

Usually this reviewer cringes at the
usual “scrap” crafts, and dislikes the
use of the word “kids”! This book,
however, is so warm, so humorous, and
so ingenious (with few exceptions) that
all is forgiven! The simple crafts in-
clude games, models and toys, things to
wear, presents for home, things to use,
etcetera. Also included are very real-
istic suggestions on working with chil-
dren, getting started, tools, and sup-
plies.

Instructions are clear and well-illus-
trated. They are also salty with experi-
ence: “Here is a toy that can be made
in a few minutes, yet the play possibili-
ties will keep the child going for a long
time, at least until the thing gets hung
up in a tree!” Very obviously, Mrs.
Wardwell is not just “editing” mate-
rial; she’s been through the mill; she

belongs.—V.M.

Community Structure and Change,
Lowry Nelson, Ph.D., Charles E. Ram-
sey, Ph.D., and Coolie Verner, Ed.D.
Macmillan Company, 60 Fifth Avenue,
New York 11. Pp. 464. $6.50.

This book, largely theoretical, pre-
sents a framework for community analy-
sis, study, and deve10pment. It should
prove helpful to civic-minded citizens,
local planning organizations, profes-
sional workers in health, recreation, ed-
ucation, or welfare, college students of
the community or sociology. Each chap-
ter is followed by a list of selected refer-
ences for more intensive study. The
terminology is simple and familiar, so
that the text can be understood by the
reader with no previous education in
the social sciences. "

Stage Scenery—Its Construction and
Rigging, A. S. Gillette. Harper and
Brothers, 49 East 33rd Street, New
York 16. Pp. 315, illustrated. $8.00.

Drama leaders in high schools, col-
leges, and community theaters can

heave a big sigh of relief—at last, here,

is a book that defines the relationship
of the production staff to the producer

I“Available. from National Recreation Asso-
ciation Recreation Book Center, 8 W. 8th
Street, New York 11.

280

and the acting staff. Here is a book that
defines the work of the scene designer
and the scene technician, that explains
backstage organization and manage-
ment, that tells how to plan and use a
sceneshop.

As if these heretofore neglected prob-
lem areas are not enough, here is de-
tailed and illustrated information about
building and painting sets, construction
and rigging of two- and three-dimen-
sional scenery, cycloramas, and many
special construction problems. More
than a hundred 81/2’ ’ -by-11’ ’ plates,
many with several separate drawings,
illustrate construction and rigging.

Mr. Gillette is director of the Uni-
versity Theatre of the State University
of Iowa. His work here, and his studies
both here and abroad, make him an au-
thority on the technical aspects of the
theatre.

Designing and Making Hand-
wrought Jewelry, Joseph F. Shoenfelt.
McGraw-Hill Book Company, 330
West 42nd Street, New York 36. Pp.
172., illustrated. $4.95.

A nicely printed, well-illustrated book
written with a specific philosophy. As
Mr. Schoenfelt says, “Many books for
beginners are aimed too far below the
creative possibilities of the part-time
craftsman or student; they are unsatis-
factory to the amateur who wishes to
move on to a higher level.” This one is
addressed to the amateur craftsman, the
art and industrial art teacher, the thera-
pist, and the hard-working student. It
is written in an interesting, informal,
and original style, illustrated with pho-
tographs and sketches. The author has
taught since 1946 at the State Univer-
sity of New York, College of Education,
at Oswego. He has produced a fine
book, one that should be added to any
good art and craft library.

Decorating with Seed Mosaics,
Chipped Glass and Plant Materials,
Eleanor Van Rensselaer. D. Van Nos-

trand Company, Princeton, New Jer-
sey. Pp. 214, illustrated. $5.95.

Mrs. Rensselaer’s new book is lovely
with beautiful illustrations, many in
color. Her listing of sources of supplies
fills a long-awaited need, and West

W
E PUBLICATIONS

Coast hobbyists will be pleased to know
that many cones, pods, and other natu-
ral materials typical of their area are
used in the book’s projects. The proj-
ects are charming, and the author
makes them sound like fun; hobby and
craft clubs would enjoy them. They
combine creativity, crafts, and home
decoration—interests that will appeal
to many groups, especially women’s
groups, garden clubs, and the like.

Printing For Fun, Koshi Ota, Susumu
Kaheki, Tokuzo Haba, Kiyoaki Baba,
and Bummei Fukita. McDowell, Obo-
lensky, 219 East 61 st Street, New York.
Pp. 53, illustrated. $3.95.

Six Japanese artists prepared the in-
formal, interesting directions for seven
techniques of printing—stamping, clay
printing, plaster printing, printing from
glued patterns, rubbings, stencil print-
ing, and monoprints. Each is illus-
trated, step by step, by examples and
finished prints, in full color, made by
children from six to twelve years old.
Every technique is creative, yet so sim—
ple it could be used on playgrounds or
in craft or classrooms. Each produces
satisfying results. A book to be used
and enjoyed by leaders of any type of
group, children or adult, or by individ-
uals looking for new creative outlets.

Indoor Games and Activities, Sylvia
Cassell. Harper & Brothers, 49 East
33rd Street, New York 16. Pp. 115,
illustrated. $2.75.

Miss Cassell is well-known for the
help she has given to parents in her
previous books, Nature Games and Ac-
tivities, and Backyard Games and Ac-
tivities. This third in her series on home
play follows the pattern of the others:
a simple style that can be read by
youngsters from around eight to twelve.
The activities described are not always
new to recreation leaders, but they very
probably are new to the child and the
average parent. They require simple

equipment or material easily found and\
k

inexpensive.

Simple craft projects, puzzles, and
games are included. Miss Cassell also
devotes a chapter to “kitchen capers”
(easy recipes of “goodies” to eat or
drink). Still another chapter, on the
“junior scientist,” is one of the best in

RECREATION

i“.
‘ I
l.

{a}.

e

the book. It contains a number of ill-
teresting but simple experiments that
have scientific facts behind them.

The artist, Sylvia S. Cassell, is the
author’s mother. Her simple line draw-

‘ ings are very apt and add to the book’s

usefulness.

Family Night Fun, Monroe and Shir—
ley Paxman. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, New Jersey. Pp. 212, illustrated.
$3.95.

This “how-to” book of family fun,

written by the parents of seven children,
suggests a variety of activities bearing
the distinct imprint of experience. The
authors recommend the setting aside of
a definite evening each week and de-
voting it solely to activities that create
warmth, affection, and understanding
between the members of the family.
How to plan such evenings and what ac-
tivities can be included form the basis
for this useful book on home play. The
illustrations by Mary and Dick Scopes

fit nicely into the text and the atmos-

phere of the book.

Toni Hughes’ Book of Party Favors
and Decorations, Toni Hughes. E. P.
Dutton and Company, 300 Park Ave-
nue South, New York 10. Pp. 125, il-
lustrated. $4.75.

Readers who remember Toni Hughes’
How To Maire Shapes In. Space, and
Fun. With Shapés In Space will recall
with great admiration the originality
and beauty of the projects she describes,
so well in her books on papercraft.
From these two books she has selected
carefully the projects that can be used
for greeting cards, posters, decorations,
masks, favors, and the like, grouping
them together for easy use. Anyone
planning parties, looking for ideas for
decorations of bazaars, floats, booths,
holidays, or other events and occasions
will be happy to have this material re-
assembled for easy reference.

The Standard Book of Quilt Making
and Collecting, Marguerite Ickis. Dover
Publications, 180 Varick Street, New
York 14. Pp. 276, illustrated. $2.00.

Miss Ickis has collected quilts, stud-
ied quilting, and designed beautiful,
original ones which she has made for
herself. This book is therefore a labor
of love. Its fully illustrated descriptions
of old-time patterns, its instructions on
how to “piece” a quilt, and its informa-
tion on quiltmaking throughout the
ages make it a very fine addition to any
hobby library. This is also an excellent
example Of what a paperback can be—
excellent binding, good quality paper
and fine sketch and photograph repro-
ductions.

MAY 1961

 

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

Art and Crafts

COLOUR, Leslie Thomson. Amphoto, 33 W.
60th St., New York 23. Pp. 144. Paper,
$1.95.

COWBOY-ARTIST—CHARLES M. RUSSELL, Shan-
non Garst. Julian Messner, 8 W. 40th St.,
New York 18. Pp. 192. $2.95.

CREATIVE ARTS AND CRAFTS ACTIVITIES, Ar-
thur S. Green. T. S. Denison, 321 5th Ave.
S., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 96. $4.95.

CREATIVE ARTS IN AMERICAN EDUCATION,
Thomas Munro and Herbert Read. Harvard
Univ. Press, Cambridge 38, Mass. Pp. 65.
$2.50.

CREATIVE METHODS FOR ADULT CLASSES, John
McKinley. Bethany Press, Box 179, St.
Louis 66, Mo. Pp. 96. Paper, $1.50.

CREATIVE VISION FOR ART AND LIFE (rev. ed.),
Richard Guggenheimer. Harper 81 Bros.,
49 E. 33rd St., New York. Pp. 175. $3.50.

GET IN THERE AND PAINT (2nd. ed.), Joseph
Alger. Thomas Crowell, 432 Park Ave. S.,
New York 16. Pp. 122. $2.95.

MODERN AMERICAN PAINTING AND SCULPTURE,
Sam Hunter. Dell, 750 3rd Ave., New York
17. Pp. 256. Paper, $.95.

NAVARO SAND PAINTING, Leland C. Wyman.
Taylor Museum, Colorado Springs Fine
Arts Center, 30 W. Dale, Colorado Springs,
Colorado. Pp. 88. $1.75.

OIL PAINTING AS A PASTIME, John Wynne-
Morgan. Taplinger Publishing, 119 W. 57th
St., New York 19. Pp. 118. $3.00.

PAINTING . . . MATERIALS AND METHODS, Alex-
ander AbelS. Pitman, 2 W. 45th St., New
York 36. Pp. 47. Paper, $1.00.

POETRY-DRAWING BOOK, THE, William Cole

and Julia Colmore, Editors. Simon &

Schuster, 630 5th Ave., New York 20. Un-
paged. Spiralbound, $1.95.

PRINT, THE, Adele Lewis, Editor. Studio of
Art and Fashion, 8 W. 13th St., New York
11. Pp. 32. $2.00.

PRINT MAKING WITH A SPOON, Norman Gor-
baty. Reinhold Publishing, 430 Park Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 68. $3.95.

SCULPTURE or THIS CENTURY, THE, Michel
Seuphor. George Braziller, 215 Park Ave.
S., New York 3. Pp. 372. $15.00.

To PAINT IS To LOVE AGAIN, Henry Miller.
Horizon Press, 156 5th Ave., New York 10.
Pp. 62. Paper, $2.50.

WHAT SHALL WE Do IN ART? Florence M.
Hart. C. S. Hammond, 521 5th Ave., New
York 17. Pp. 160. $2.75.

WOOD CARVING FOR FUN AND PROFIT, Al Ball.

 

 

Courtesy True, The Man’s Magazine

Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 56. $2.50.
WOODWORKING WITII HAND TOOLS, A. W.

Lewis. Sportshelf, Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 41. Paper, $1.25.

WOODWORKING WITH MACHINES, J. H. Doug-
lass. McKnight and McKnight, Towanda
Ave. St Rt. 66, Bloomington, Ill. Pp. 181.
$4.20.

Cartoons, Humor

ABOMINABLE SIIOWMEN, THE, William F.
Brown. New American Library, 501 Madi-
son Ave., New York 22. Pp. 143. $.35.

AFTER HOURS CARTOONS. E. P. Dutton, 300
Park Ave. S., New York 10. Pp. 128. $3.50.

AND Now A WORD FROM OUR SPONSOR, Henry
Morgan and Gary Wagner. Citadel Press,
222 Park Ave. S., New York 3. Unpaged.

$1.25.
BEST CARTOONS OF THE YEAR 1960, Lawrence

Lariar, Editor. Crown Publishers, 419 Park
Ave. S., New York 16. Unpaged. $2.95.

CARTOON COUNTDOWN, Bernard Wiseman.
Ballantine Books, 101 5th Ave., New York
3. Unpaged. $.35.

EXPLAINERS, THE, Jules Feifier. McGraw-llill,
330 W. 42nd St., New York 35. Unpaged.
Paper, $1.50.

HEY! B. C., Johnny Hart. Funk 8r Wagnalls,
153 E. 24th St., New York 10. Unpaged.
Paper, $1.00.

How To DRAW CARTOONS, Arthur Zaidcnherg.
Vanguard Press, 424 Madison Ave., New
York 17. Pp. 61. $3.00.

How To LIVE WITH A NEUROTIC DOG, Stephen
Baker, cartoons by Eric Gurney. Prentice-
Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Unpaged.
$3.50.

JOKES, RIDDLES, PUNS, selected by Helen
Hoke and Joseph Leeming. Franklin Watts.
575 Lexington Ave., New York 22. Pp. 697.

$4.95.
PLEASE SIR, I’VE BROKEN MY ARM . . . (sport-

ing commentary in cartoon), Alex Graham.
Sportshelf, Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 93. $3.75.

THIMK, Charles Preston, Editor. Fawcclt
Publications, 67 W. 44th St., New York 36.
Unpaged. $.25.

TRUE ALBUM 0F CARTOONS, THE. Crown Pub-
lishers, 419 Park Ave. S., New York 16.
Unpaged. $3.95.

WESTERN ON WRY, Bill Adler and Bob Reis-
ner. Citadel Press, 222 Park Ave. S., New
York 3. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.25.

WIT AND HUMOR OF OSCAR WILDE, TIIE, Alvin
Wilde, Editor. Dover Publications, 180 Yar-
ick St., New York 14. Pp. 260. Paper.

$1.00.

Science

GEOLOGY, Richard M. Pearl. Barnes & Noble,
105 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 260. Paper,
$1.75.

GOOD DIGGINGS, Dorothy and Joseph Samach-
son. Rand McNally, Box 7600, Chicago 80.
Pp. 224. $3.50.

GROWING UP WITH SCIENCE, Marianne Bt‘Sb’t‘r.
McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York
36. Pp. 218. $4.50.

IIANDRoox FOR SPACE TRAvELERs, \Valtcr B.
liendrickson, Jr. Both-Merrill, 1720 E.
38th St., Indianapolis 6. Pp. 251. $3.95.

Ilow SPACE ROCKETS BEGAN, Le Grand. Ah-
ingdon Press, 201 8th Ave., 5., Nashville 2.
Tenn. Pp. 64. $2.00.

lNTRODt"CTION To MODERN MATHEMATICS, AN,

 

281

Robert W. Sloan. Prentice-Hall, Engle-

wood Cliffs, NJ. Pp. 73. $3.75.
ONE HUNDRED AND SCIENCE EXPERIMENTS, Illa

Podendorf. Grosset & Dunlap, 1107 Broad-

way, New York 10. Pp. 157. $3.95.
SATURDAY SCIENCE, Andrew Bluemle, Editor.

E. P. Dutton, 300 Park Ave. S., New York
10. Pp. 333. $5.95.

SCIENCE BOOK LIST FOR CHILDREN, THE, com-
piled by Hilary J. Deason. American Assn.
for Advancement of Science, 1515 Massa-
chusetts Ave., N.W., Washington 5, DC.

Pp. 137. Paper, $1.00.
SCIENCE PUEzLERS, Martin Gardner. Viking

Press, 625 Madison Ave., New York. Pp.

127. $2.00.
SCIENCE AND MEDICINE OF EXERCISE AND

SPORTS, Warren R. Johnson, Editor. Har-

per & Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16.
Pp. 740. $12.00.

Sports, Physical Education

HORSEBACK RIDING, Sports Illustrated Book
of. Lippincott, 227 S. 6th St., Philadelphia
5. Pp. 86. $2.75.

HOT RODS: How to Build and Race Them,
John Christy. Bobbs-Merrill, 1720 E. 38th
St., Indianapolis 6. Pp. 336. $4.95.

How YOU CAN PLAY BETTER GOLF USING
SELF-HYPNOSIS, Jack Heise. Wilshire Book
Co., 8721 Sunset Blvd., Hollywood 46, Calif.
Pp. 128. Paper, $2.00.

INSTRUCTIONS IN TABLE TENNIS, Harry Ven-
ner. Sportshelf, PO. Box 634, New Ro-
chelle, N.Y. Pp. 121. $3.75.

INTRODUCTION To PHYSICAL EDUCATION, Ray
0. Duncan & Helen B. Watson. Ronald
Press Co., 15 E. 26th St., New York 10.
Pp. 204. $4.00.

 

 

New, improved Golden Age Club Pin.
Now in real gold plate with tree In
green iewelers' enamel. Safety cdch.
 50¢ each, including federal tax and
. postage.

Minimum order 10 pins
Available only to authentic clubs.

JAMES SPENCER 8. co.
EXACT SIZE 22 N. so: Street Philadelphia 6. Pa.

 

IT’S FUN To SWIM THE Y’S WAY. Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7. Un-
paged. $15.00 per 100.

SOCCER FOOTBALL RULES. Sportshelf, PO.
Box 634, New Rochelle, NY. Unpaged.

Paper, $.20.

SOCCER/SPEEDBALL GUIDE including Fieldball,
July, 1960-62. Ruth Sevy and Mary Buice
Allerson, Editors. AAHPER, 1201 16th St.,
N.W., Washington 6, DC. Pp. 128. $1.00.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, February 1961
Cable Cars and Dinosaurs (tissue panels),
Mary D. Marshall.
Mosaics Take the Floor, Jack Lerman.
The Magic of S.P.R. (sponge, pressure,
rhythm), Samuel B. F aier.

, March 1961

Annual Ceramics Issue.
Leaf Mobiles, Joyce L. Singleton.
We Love a Parade (mask making), Rachel
King.
Painting with Paper, Bernice Starr Moore.
CAMPING MAGAZINE, March 1961
The Future of Camping, C. Walton John-
son.
Conservation Activities, Nancy A. De Grofi.
Camper Guidance (24-page handbook for
c0unselors) .
CATHOLIC CHARITIES REVIEW, March 1961
The Education of Retarded Children, Rev.
Elmer H. Behrmann.
CHALLENGE, February 1961
The Human Equation (automation), Ed-
ward T. Townsend.

—PLAYlNG
VOLLEYBALL

FUN

P.E. majors demonstrate skills, techniques and team
strategy of new official 6-girl team sport 1960 re-

lease 11min sound
Color $100 r$5 B&W $60 r$3.50

MARJORIE E. FISH
1723 Oak St., Orange Gardens, Kissimmee, Fla.

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by

the fifth of the month preceding date of

the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11., New York.

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California
State HoSpitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No eXperience required.

Starting salary $436.00 per
month; promotional oppor-

tunities; liberal employ-
ment benefits. Write State
Personnel Board, 801 Capi-
tol Avenue, Sacramento,
California.

Teachers Wanted. $5,000
to $10,500. Female, physi-
cal education. Certified.

Attractive NYC suburbs.
September public elemen-

tary and secondary posi-

tions. No registration fee.

Write NOW. City Suburb
Agency, 545 Fifth Avenue,
New York City.

Assistant and Program
Director, female, US.
Army Service Club. Start-
ing salary $4,830, experi-
ence required. Interested
personnel forward Govern-
ment application SF 57 to
Special Services Officer,
Fort Devans, Massachusetts.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

282

 

The Arts in American Life, August Heck-
scher.

, March 1961

Needs of the Aged, James L. Essig.
Is the ‘Good Life’ Here? Harry W. Pearson.
GIRL SCOUT LEADER, February 1961
Natural Science Venture, Alice S. Rushton.
HARVEST YEARS“, March 1961
Having Fun at a Senior Center, Florence E.
Vickery.
Psychological Aspects of Retirement.
We Help the Girl Scouts.
MENTAL HOSPITALS, February 1961
Proceedings of the 12th Mental Hospital
Institute.
MUSIC JOURNAL, March 1961
They Like to Sing Along, Mitch Miller.
A Practical “Music-Mobile,” Josephine
Davis.

, March 1961

Special Section on Creativity.
Felt-Board Magic, Kenneth L. Bowers.

Music Makers.
A Sadistic Statistic (jump rope chants).

A Knapsack Full of Values (camping),
Frank Walters.

NEA JOURNAL, February 1961
Conservation
Singing and Learning Spanish, Margit W.
.MacRae.
OUTBOARD BOATING, January-February 1961

Oklahoma’s Unique Camp Site Boaters, Lee

H. Schrimpf.
The Lake Where Each Cares to Share
(Havasu), Charles C. Niehuis.
“Suddenly Upon the Waters” (misuse of
water), Robert F lorzak.
PARK MAINTENANCE, March 1961
Annual Swimming Pool Issue.
SAFETY EDUCATION, March 1961
Designing for the Handicapped, Ray
Graham.
Safety with Kites and Model Airplanes.
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES, March 1961
Valentines from Loveland, Jean Goudy.
A Changing Perspective Regarding After-
School Sports, Louis J. Powers.
TODAY’S HEALTH, March 1961
Why the Ladies Love to Bowl, Kurt T.
Dunn.
North Carolina’s Outer Banks—Family Va-
cation Paradise, Al Balk.

How to Plan Happy Children’s Parties,
Part II, Jack Harrison Pollack.

, April 1961
Gamescape Your Yard for Fun, James

Joseph.
How to Plan Happy Children’s Parties, Part
III, Jack Harrison Pollack.
WOMAN’S DAY, March 1961
Growing Old Can Be Graceful, Richard C.
H ubler.

A Twist of Porcelain on the Beach, Jean
Hersey.

American Needlework, #1: Crewel, Rose
Wilder Lane.

Indoor and Outdoor Planters.

, April 1961 re
You Can Be a Poet Japanese Style, Alfred}:
ll

L. Creager.
American Needlework #2: Patchwork,
Rose Wilder Lane.

 

* Harvest Years Publishing Co., 681 Market

Street, San Francisco 5. $4.50 annually ($4.00
to libraries).

‘i

RECREATION

 

 . . GIVES IMMEDIATE BATTING SUCCESS
AND IMPROVES EYE-HAND COORDINATION. . . 

WE HAVE BEEN told that there has never been an implement so uni-
versally accepted as was SPACEBALL at the N.E.A. and AAHPER

conventions in Atlantic City.

THIS IS BECAUSE it was instantly apparent that SPACEBALL not
only provides fine recreation for those of high motor abilities, but it
is the answer to the problem of boys and girls and those of low eye-
hand coordination who do not participate in sports because they are

not successful.

THE IMPLEMENT is constructed of a steel frame and a heavy duty
nylon net. Also included is a high speed 21/4” rubber ball.

PRICE for organizations and institutions is $12.00 per dozen. Fob Hol-
yoke, Mass. Terms net 30 days.

SHO-SHO PRODUCTS COMPANY

HOLYOKE - MASSACHUSETTS

Manufacturers

$Qg€E 5%2515

HOLYOKE - MASSACHUSETTS

|
l
I
l
l
E] Please send ( ) dozen space ball sets and bill at $12.00 FOB |
Holyoke. I
D Please send two Space Ball sets (ii $1.00 each. plus postage. :
and bill. I
D Please send further information on Space Ball. :

|

Please print

Name .............................................................................................................................................. .. I

WE’RE
SINGING . . .

about our new pamphlet

 

MUSIC IS RECREATION

A bonus to RECREATION subscribers this month—See Page 241

The first in a series 011 The Performing Arts as
Recreation. You will want a copy for
each member of . . .

Your staff Your board or commission

Advisory Committees Citizen committees

Clubs Planning groups
USE IT IN . . .

Fundraising Promotion of bond issues

Publicity Selling recreation

Education Training of volunteers

AVAILABLE NOW!

11 to 24 copies—$.85 each 0 25 or more—$.75 each
100 or over—$65 per hundred 0 Single copy—~—$1.00

ORDER FROM

THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street 0 New York 11, N. Y.

