1" CREATION

‘ IONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 0 OCTOBER 1962 0 60c

   
     
  

Henry Pfeiffer Librar'
Mac Murray College
Jacksonville. Illinois

   
 

‘0

ARTS AND SCIENCE
FOREST PUBLICS
SCENERY BY MAGIC

1 ‘ .

 
 

 

  
  

-“ t”

EA SI-FOIO TENNIS TA Bl. E l

..
l“:"

 

.'
’ J ‘ ‘ “

“I”!
3‘ I“!

4- .
‘..-.-
‘- an.
.-

 
 

Folds this way,
as practice
backstop for
one player! I

 
 
 

  

AMAZINGLY PRICED

St” 90.00

Simple, one-person operation! Legs fold automatically,
table rolls easily on 3-inch wheels. Top folds face to

  
 
 
 

Legs face for protection in storage. Playing surface is warp-
folg resistant Formium. 3-inch steel frame protects edges.
au 0- .

rrlIIatic- Write for Catalog No. 6751

a y.

SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORPORATION - 520 Easter Street, New York 59, N.Y.

 

JUST ADDED TO THE RECREATION BOOK CENTER

ALL ABOUT AMERICAN HOLIDAYS. IT'S TIME FOR THANKSGIVING. FUN WAYS TO HOLIDAYS.
Maymie R. Krythe. Wide variety ot knowl- Elizabeth Hough Sechrist and Janette Mamie G. Gamoran. Helptul to
edge about American holidays. their ori- Woolsey. A really good collection 0t children. Lets them have tun while
gin. history and dates. including Christian stories. plays. poetr . games. parties. learning about American and Jew-

and Jewis Holy Days and how they are and recipes. Will elight young and ish holidays. Rhymes. puzzles.
celebrated. old. pictures.

Pp. 275 # | 976 $4.50 Pp. 250 # | 980 $3.95 Pp. 32. #2049 $| .00

AND DON'T FORGET THESE EVER-NEW STANDBYS
THE CHRISTMAS BOOK. CHRISTMAS CRAFTS AND DECORA- GAMES FORTHECHRISTMASSEASON.

Marguerite lckis. TIONS. National Recreation Association. National Recreation Association.
Pp. 7| #364 $I.00 Pp. 59 #365 $.75 Pp. 78 #366 $.65
RECREATION BOOK CENTER NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 WEST 8th STREET NEW YORK | I. NEW YORK

Prices subiect to publishers' changes

When ordering, mention RECREATION Magazine.

in Baseball and Softball

one Trademark is Supreme

- A

 

OCTOBER, 1902 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

GENERAL

2
C
a:
(D
0
CK
a.

 

OCTOBER 1962 VOL. |.V NO. 3 PRICE 60c

Small Seals for Small Boys (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dana llarlow 383
An ancient, international game carries a message for all men

What It Means To Be . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
An Agiliate and an Associate of the National Recreation Association

The Squeeze Ont . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sidncy Lutzin 390-
Is recreation abdicating its responsibility for the underprivileged?

Forest Recreation Puhlics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David Gray 392
Identifying the multiple users of outdoor areas

Five-Alarm Arts and Crafts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dorothy Jones 396
A firehouse becomes a creative workshop

Scenery hy Projection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . James Hull Miller 396
Dramatic effects from simple tools and materials

Skiing in Austria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marya Welch 393
An integral part of a nation’s culturc

Community Recreation on a Trial Basis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Don llcnhcl 400
An experiment in selling taxpayers on a permanent program

Puppetry and Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ludwig Riemcnschncidcr 401
Stepping stones to a wider horizon

Include ALL Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alfrcd Moore 404-
Don’t relcgate the handicapped to the sidelines

After-School Arts and Science . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betty Whalen. 4-07
Nourishing children’s imaginations for lifetime enjoyment

Developing the Recreation Area as a Neighborhood Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-09
H ow to serve a vast, sprawling, changing community

Recreation Administration in Metropolitan Areas (l’arl ll) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ccorgc Butlcr 4-11
Allocation of jurisdiction and responsibility

The Lake \Vhere Each Cares to Share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charlcs Niehuis 4-17

DIGEST ADMINISTRATION

MONTHLY

380

Resolving a con dict of recreation intercsts

Letters 332 Reporter’s Notebook 384 As \Ve Go Press 387 Personnel 4-15
Notes for the Administrator 416 Arts and Crafts Corner 419 Market News 4-20
Trade Mart 421 Concerning Upkeep 4-23 Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 4-24
New Publications 427

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by tbe National Recreation
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eiglub

Copyright. 1962. by the National

0"
Recreation Association. Incorporated WE".

' C

I. _— .o.

Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ {9‘15 Printed in the U.S.A.

Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate 55.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York, New York.
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, autborized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current

issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

The articles herein
printed are the expres-
sion of the writers and
not a statement at pallcy
of the National Recrea-
tian Association.

DUCATIONAL
BESS

SSOCIATION
OF
AMERICA

   
 

RECREATION

RECREATION

.iditor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

 

Associate Editors

Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA CLUCK

On The Cover

Creative art activities appeal to all
ages and all nationalities, offer exciting
interests to enrich our increasing lei-
sure, and should be on the program of
every public recreation department. The
ceramic artist Francesca Lindh at work
at her studio in Finland illustrates the
joy and satisfaction of creative efforts.

Photo courtesy of the European Travel
Commission.

Next Month

Watch for as-we-go-to-press news and
views of the 44th National Recreation
Congress in Philadelphia, September 30-
October 4. Eugene Weber of the US.
Corps of Engineers has contributed an
excellent article on “Reservoirs for Rec-
reation” on the importance of recrea-
tion as a basic purpose of water-resource
development in today’s dam projects.
(This is an all-important topic and will
be featured at the St. Louis National
Recreation Congress in 1963.) Among
other articles are several dealing with
the arts in recreation programs, includ-
ing the discovery of primitive artists by
Extension Service representatives in Illi-
nois. Material on recreation for young
pcople will discuss the program for “un-
afliliated” youth in Columbus, Ohio, and
the service rendered by juniors in Man-
istee County, Michigan. The National
Recreation Association will also intro-
duce the chairmen of its District Ad-
visory Committees.

0

Photo Credits

Page 393, 1961 Kodak High School
Photo Awards, Craig Wisch, Berwyn,
Illinois; 4-02, Hank Shulman, Glen Oaks,
New York; 404, (left) William R. Whit-
teker, Cincinnati, Ohio; 405, Abbie
Rowe, courtesy National Park Service;
407-8, Worob Photo; 411, Kentucky
Tourist and Travel Commission; 417,
Chicago Photographers, Chicago.

OCTOBER, 1962

   

 

E. M. Estobrook Recreotion Center, Clevelond. Jennite J-I 6 specified by Thomos
H. Jones, commissioner of design ond construction, City of Clevelond.

jail/lite J'{6®

Cuts Maintenance Costs!
Makes Asphalt Play Areas Safe!

There are no hazardous loose stones on asphalt pavements
sealed with Jennite J -16. Jennited areas are “care free” . . . easy

tO clean and maintain.

Applied on either new or Old pavements, slate black Jennite

J-16 doubles service life . .

 

I

guao and
Katate

 

KARATE SUITS

JUDO SUITS '
Best Quality — Lowest Prices

Honda Associates, Inc.

66 West 47th St., New York 36. N. Y.
Write for Free Catalog

_§IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIIIIIIII ‘

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

. seals out frost and water, retards
drying action Of the sun, stops oxidation .
costs. Write for Bulletin 2992.

MEMO

. . cuts maintenance

.. xf-‘_.,‘

I Ema u: fast 1
p m the
A.7921A rune-w Pas“ I

WHOM: MEI.

 

“PLAYGROUND
asMUSIC TEACHER

by CARABO-CONE

Published by
HARPER 6. BROS..
NY 16 at $5.

 

Endorsed by Univ. psychologists.
Develops child’s reading & rhythmic co-
ordination. lectures, consultations ovoil-
oble. For introductory moterial plus
Keyboard Reading Chart send $1 to
Cone, Box 356, Scorsdale, N. Y.

 

381

  

LETTERS

Readers are invited to share their

“my grandfather makes the
best playground equipment

in the whole world ...beca use
he loves little people like me! he makes

slides and swings and see-saws and all
kinds of things. they’re real strong and
they’re very safe. if you're going to buy
playground things you better talk to my

grandfather or my father first. they’re both
named mr. burke.”

Send me your playground planning and specification file.

J. E. BURKE COMPANY

P. O. Box 986 Dept. 55 P. O. Box 549 Dept. 55
New Brunswick. Fond du Lac,

New Jersey 0R Wisconsin
Sec.F

Name:

 

Street:

 

City: State:

 

 

382 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 
 
 
 

Halloween Suggestions

Sirs:

The inexperienced administrator
might find the following Halloween
planning suggestions worth consider-
ing:

Many activities strategically located
areawise are more productive in many
ways than the concentration Of all chil-
dren in one area with but one program.
Programs must be designed to meet
each specific age group from the tiny
tots through the teenagers, young adults
to the senior citizens. Programs must
not become static but must progress
with innovations each year.

It is good business to have the mayor
appoint a new chairman each year. In-
volving merchants. industries, schools,
churches, fraternal, vets, labor and so-
cial groups plus the service cluhs pro-
vides an automatic publicity medium.
It also makes Halloween a community
participation event; it solidifies commu-
nity effort in meeting a community
need.

Halloween in Burbank doesn’t just
happen. In April, the park and recrea-
tion department administrator advises
the mayor to consider the appointment
of a new chairman. Steering committee
meetings start the latter part of July.
Solicitation letters are mailed by the
first of September as organizations usu-
ally like to present the request at their
monthly board meetings. You have to
have the money prior to ordering sup-
plies. which order should be placed by
October first. Set a schedule, live by
it.

We in Burbank discourage the prose-
lyting of youth for any drives, however
worthy they might be. We feel that this
is a community expression of apprecia-
tion for our youths’ complimentary con-
duct throughout the year. Our lack Of
delinquency and destruction Of prop-
erty on Halloween night has justified
the community’s coordinated effort. we
also wish to perpetuate at least one of
America’s youth traditions. Easter,
Christmas, and July 4th “just ain’t what
they used to be.”

' Honoring trick and treating, with ev-
ery home lighting the front porch he-

views on these pages. Comments
of general interest are always wel-

come. — The Editors.

 
 

tween certain hours, again brings every
citizen into the act. PTA’s promote par-
ent participation in safeguards as out-
lined in our flyer.
WILLIAM F. KELLER, Recreation Sa-
perintendent, Burbank, California.

Youth Fitness

Sirs:

America is known as the land of spec-
tators and our emphasis on competitive
team sports tends to produce more spec-
tators. While we should retain our team
sports, we shouldalso emphasize active
individual sports, such as bicycling,
camping, canoeing, hiking, mountain-
eering, ice skating, roller skating, row-
ing, running, swimming, and skiing.

The sport club program at Roosevclt
High School encourages boys and girls
tO join an after-school and Saturday
club, such as thc bicycle club, skating
club, hiking club, etcetera. Qualified
faculty coaches, who are members of the
Amateur Athletic Union, the Amateur
Bicycle League of America, and the
United States Figure Skating Associa-
tion, act as club coaches and advisers.
Thc school is very proud of the citation
from the President’s Council on Youth
Filncss for its efforts in this vital
project.

ROLAND C. CEIST, Roosevelt High

School, Bronx, New York.

About 100 Books

Sirs:

We take pleasure in announcing the
publication Of the fourth cdition Of
About 100 Books, a review of books
published for children and youth which
help in developing constructive atti-
tudes. Books that can stimulate better
inter-group feelings for people of all
races, religions, and nationalities are in-
cluded. Also listed are titles dcsigned
to help youngsters see our rapidly chang-
ing world in perspective and begin to
understand somc Of the critical social
issues which influcnce the lives Of all
Of us. Individual copies sell for $.25.

ANN C. WOLFE, Program Consultant,

National A [jairs Department, The

American Jewish Committee, 165

East 56th Street, New York 22.

RECREATION

S}UEST EDITORIAL

 

SMALL SEA T8 for SMALL BO YS

As we observe United Nations Day, October 24, let us remember

that both East and West seek the same fundamental freedoms

Dana E. Harlow

SOME YEARS AGO, as a UNESCO re-
search associate, I stood on a
refuse-laden street corner in the Middle
East and watched a crowd congregate
amid the debris. A game was in progress
--——a game as old as the city itself.

Here was the city, Sidon, Lebanon,
an ancient Phoenician capital. Here
Solomon strolled; here Alexander clashed and conquered;
and here the Blessed Mary waited “in a cave while Jesus went
into the city to preach his sermon and today, marking the
cave, is the ever-open Chapel of the Awaiting Lady. Shroud-
ing this patriarchal Phoenician port are the Lebanese moun-
tains and at their base are the ruins of Baalbek, the city of
the sun. Here the East meets West in axiomatic affluence and
poverty, opulence and i1npecuniosity, erudition and illiter-
acy, crossroading customs, creeds, and colors, and this game
of antiquity.

The game, al-huta, roughly the Middle East version of
tic-tac-toe, has been played by the Euphratians and handed
down from one generation to another. The Bedouins play
it today on small carved squares along the jubails (rock
mountains) of the desert. Along the ancient Spice-and-gold
caravan routes are traces of its pre-eminence in Mes0potam-
ian times.

It is a game of the world. Shakespeare refers to it as
nine-men’s morris in his Midsummer-Night’s Dream. An-
thropologist Margaret Mead mentions it in her sociological
studies of the South Pacific. Aztec carvings show that the
game was a part of their culture, too.

Here was the simple game, its origin lost in oblivion,
carved in the dusty floor of the marketplace where feet have
shuffled for centuries and the tentatively peaceful atmos-
phere has echoed with thousands of dialectic voices. Adja-
cent to the game were hollow benchmarks worn into the pre-
Biblical cobblestones by the seated players through the
centuries.

Ignorant of the many ramifications and historical con-
text of the ancient city and its game, two alert youngsters

 

 

DR. HARLOW is assistant professor in the department of
recreation leadership at the University of Massachusetts.

OCTOBER, 1962

were taking turns at moving pebbles along rough-hewn lines.
Facial expressions of the players were in contrast to those of
the spectators. The players and spectators were set aside
in metamorphic tranquility just as the temples of Baalbek
change their appearance in the subdued light of midnight
and the bright rays of high noon. The transfiguration is re-
flected as the positions change. The eXpressions of the play-
ers were demure, sedate, somber, solemn—-——as momentous
as the game they played. Here was a simple game but their
movements were earmarked with intense emotion. It was a
sensation which belonged only to the participant alone
amidst a ocose crowd. Each movement was a matter of in-
dividual expression as he sat in the seat of centuries. A seat
from which he will learn life experiences and the joys of win-
ning or the sorrows of losing. Not this game alone but all
the ventures one does in his leisure. One has seen it many
times and no doubt has been a part _of its magic.

THE SEATS of one’s leisure in the world are many and are
still there as they have been for centuries, sometimes
filled by young boys and sometimes filled by old men as the
former grow to manhood and the latter reminisce of life.
Both look to the future from these seats, benchmarks which
assist them to realize creativity, eXpression, exhilaration,
or moral degradation. These seats are ever changing, yet
paradoxically hopeful as the centuries of millenial mile-
stones move ahead. Additionally,‘more seats must be pro--
vided sine qua non, presenting a view whereby youth may
participate with self-expression or watch with renewed vigor
and learn with compassion. The avenues are many, moving,
and active and the seats may be diverse yet individually, (lis-
tinctively distinguishable. Here lies the term recreation.
Here it springs. Here it is abandoned. It is terminal in its
own self.

The fundamental freedoms-“freedom from want, freedom
of speech, freedom from fear, and freedom of religion—"—
are joined by a fifth freedom, that of pursuing a choice of
wholesome leisure in which the hopes and aspirations of the
many find enduring satisfactions through outlets once re-
served for only a small minority but shall provide more
abundantly small seats for small boys in a future world of
worth et otium cum dignitate. #

383

     

Seminar 011 Rural Recreation

A distinguished group of recreation
leaders, university extension professors,
and experts from state and federal agen-
cies met in August at the Thor Research
Center for Better Farm Living in Hunt-
ley, Illinois, to explore and discuss the
best ways and means of providing rec-
reation in toda y's rural areas. The sem-
inar explored present-day opportunities
for recreation and examined the many
changes in rural population during the
last few years—the intermingling of ur-
ban pe0ple, the increased mobility of the
family and its young people, the sophis-
tication of TV and mass media, new
highways, high powered cars, and the
increased leisure created by the auto-
mated help now available in the home
and on the farm.

Workshop sessions covered the fam-
ily at home, the family and community,
family camping and outdoor living, and
nature, resources and conservation. The
seminar was chaired by Professor Earl
H. (Duke) Regnier of the University of
Illinois. Active on the planning com-
mittee were Mrs. Theresa Brungardt,

 

The Seminar for Better Rural Recreation was held at the
beautiful Thor Farm Research Center, a nonprofit, educa-
tional enterprise established by Neil, C. Hurley, board
chairman and president of the Thor Power Tool Company
of Aurora, Illinois, as part of a crusade to aid the farmer.

384

 A REPORTER’S

NOTEBOOK

state director of recreation, Vermont;
Professor J. R. Cardenuto, Pennsyl-
vania State University; Professor Stew-
art G. Case. Colorado State University;
Dr. Edward V. Pope, Federal Extension
Service; Professor Arthur F. Wileden,
University of Wisconsin; Dr. Marshall
0. Watkins, University of Florida; and
Maynard Coe, agricultural consultant.
Representing the National Recreation
Association were Richard Tapply, New
Hampshire Area representative, and
Dorothy Donaldson, editor, RECREA-
TION Magazine.

Recommendations arrived at by the
various discussion groups will soon be
forthcoming. \Vatch RECREATION for
further reports.

Helicopter Witchery

The witches in Roanokc, Virginia,
forsook their traditional broomsticks
last year for a helicoptcr. The witches
—in everyday life, supervisors for the
recreation department—were garbcd in
flowing black outfits. Carrying bags of
goodies. they descended upon various
play areas to distribute gifts to record

crowds of youngsters and adults. Every-
one in the recreation department had
some part in the activity. Several pre-
ccded the landings with additional gifts
and, at the last location, City Manager
Arthur S. Owens and Director of Parks
and Recreation ch Mitchell rode to the
airport with the witches. That Hallow-
een was spooky and successful—no van-
dalisn1 and lots of fun.

Calling the Fair Sex

The Jefferson Parish Recreation De-
partment in Louisiana is catering not
only to the youngsters but also to the
ladies. Morning classes in exercise and
tennis and evening volleyball programs
attract both houscwivcs and working
women. The biggcst sport is vollcyhall
with ten teams composcd of twelve to
fiftecu women each. Roller skating for
women is an outgrowth of the children’s
program. Classes in figure skating are
held twice weekly.

Recreation in Action

In Concord, New Hanlpshirc, the
community recreation advisory council,

I?

 

Dulce Regnier, professor of recreation at the University of
Illinois, aml his family prepare to camp for the night on the
shores of the center’s lake. The seminar discussed family
camping as a p0pular rural forrn of outdoor recreation. Mr.
Regnier chaired the two-(lay meeting on better farm living.

RECREATION I

t1e mayor, and two members of the
1 card of aldermen recently made a tour
(f several of the city’s recreation areas
Inder the guidance of Recreation Di-
Iector John Penney. The group noted
acilities in need of replacement and re-
pair and saw those of which the com-
nunity was proud. They watched repair
vork on a pavilion and seeding of a
)aseball diamond.

Connseling for Elderly
Senior citizens in Oakland, Califor-

1ia, will be able to seek advice from pro-
riessional counselors. The program is
being undertaken by the Oakland Rec-
:reation Commission and the Family
Service Bureau. The service will be pro-
vided at the city’s recreation centers,
where more than two thousand senior
citizens meet.

The Zoo That Rolled Around

The mobile zoo in Boston, Massachu-
setts, was offered free of charge during
the summer to recreation departments
within the Metropolitan Parks District.
A dcpartment could schedule the zoo
for Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, and
Fridays from July 2nd to August 31st
for two performances daily.

Away We Go I

A play area equipped with real trans-
portation vehicles is attracting children
and adults alike to Airport Playfield in
Cincinnati, Ohio. The area has a jet
plane, steam locomotive, fire engines,
and stage coach. Over the first weekend
over 1237 visitors passed through its
gates.

Senior Times
The first edition of the New Rochelle

Senior Times, a newspaper for and
about senior citizens, made its debut re-
cently. It is puhlished by the New Ro-
chelle, New York, Recreation Com-
mission. Vito Giordano, supervisor of
senior citizens, is acting as editor.

Nalnre 011 the Move
Thousands of southeastern Michigan

youngsters have been staring nature
right in the face through a program con-
ducted by the Huron-Clinton MetrOpoli-
tan Authority. Naturalists from the au-
thority have been taking the outdoors
indoors to classrooms and also have

OCTOBER, 1962

been hiking over winter trails to explain
features of natural science to children
and their teachers. Talks have also been
given to civic, garden, and service clubs.

Ringcr!

Mrs. Ruth Turner, a librarian in
Spartanburg, South Carolina, has all
her marbles! Getting little satisfaction
from encyclopedias when she wanted to
instruct third-graders on the fascinating
subject of marble games, she consulted
the National Recreation Association
Program Service and Virginia Mussel-
man answered her questions on ringers
and the history of marbles.

The information resulted in a very at-
tractive bulletin board with a marble
mosaic, a description of ringer rules,
some information about different games
played with marbles. She sent NRA
colored photographs of the result and
the Program Service, so often left with
its curiosity dangling after having an-
swered queries, was delighted with the
results.

LIFT Program
The Third Annual Tennis Workshop

at the University of Cincinnati inaugu-
rated a LIFT (lifetime improvement
from tennis) program. Tennis greats,
featured in a program which included
demonstrations of the singles and dou-
bles game, mass instruction techniques,
demonstration of fundamental strokes,
conditioning, coaching, and strategy

and practice methods, drew a group of
225 to the workshop.

Realistic Ad jnstment
A project sponsored by the YM-

YWHA involved twenty-five preschool
handicapped youngsters in an experi-
ment in group living at the Mosholu-
Montefiorc Community Center in the
Bronx, New York. Handicapped and
nonhandicapped children were inte-
grated recreationally for a year. It was
found that there should he an integra-
tion of medical, social and recreation
services within a unified program for
the handicapped, and physically handi-
capped children should be served in
their neighborhood centers. Handi-
capped children prefer to be with non-
handicapped; they have a feeling of self
negation which integration with normal
children helps to overcome. The study

concluded that integration of handi-
capped children better prepares handi-
capped children to make a realistic ad-
justment than does a restricted pro-

gram.

STATE SOCIETY NE‘VS

The twenty-third Annual Wisconsin
Recreation Association Conference will
be held on November 1-2 in Milwaukee.
The theme will be “New Era in Recrea-
tion through United Effort.” Sessions
and worksh0ps will feature recreation
programs and leadership for the diffi-
cult to serve; fun and fitness; girls and
women, the forgotten people in recrea-
tion; recreation arts in action; role of
sports in the total recreation program;
teenage programing; and special stu-
dent sessions.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS
Elliott S. Barker, who retired in 1953

after serving as state game warden in
New Mexico for twenty-two years, is
author of the recently published A M ed-
ley of Wilderness and Other Poems.
Mr. Barker is also the author of When
the Dogs Bark ‘Treed’ and Benny’s
Cabin. He became executive secretary
of the New Mexico Wildlife and Con-
servation Association in 1959. He is
now seventy-five years old.

Four outstanding artists are adding
dimension to the staff of the West-
chester Workshop, where fine arts and
home arts and crafts are taught. The
workshOp is sponsored by the West-
chester County, New York, Department
of Parks, Recreation, and Conservation.
Siuling \Vong, who is rcpresented in
the permanent collection of New York’s-
Metropolitan Museum of Art, will teach'
Chinese brush painting and watercolor,
Eastern and Western schools. Stephen
Rogers Peck, who has instructed at'
Syracuse College of Fine Arts, Colum-
bia School of Fine Arts, and Pratt Insti-
tute, will teach beginners’ anatomical
drawing and painting. Sculptor Slan-
ley Brandon Kearl, who has had
eight one-man shows in Europe and
four in the United States, will teach free-
form and representational sculpture-
Ceramic sculptor David Weinril), who
will instruct advanced ceramics, has had

Continued on Page 426
385

    

Book Week, November 11-17
Vl‘ms man's Book Week slogan, “l

Likt- Books.” will be on the lips of
many children across the country, No-
vember 11 to 17, as they tell their
friends about discovering new books
and describe the ones they like best.
Phyllis McGinley, well known both for
her poetry and her many delightful chil-
dren’s books, has written a poem for
Book Week 1962 entitled “A Riddle.”
During Book Week some seven million
children will be enjoying this gay new
jingle.

A Riddle

What’s oray as a carnival, handy as chalk.
Jolly as puppies just learning to walk.
Useful as Band-Aids or money to spend,
Warming as fire is, kind as a friend,
Tempting as hamburgers ready to cook,
Far more exciting than flying?

A Book!

For several years, a poem has ap-
peared on the Book Week bookmark as
a special expression of the pleasure chil-
dren find in books. It has become a
popular part of Book Week and has had
an added dividend in the young poets
who have been stimulated to write po-
ems of their own on books and the fun
of reading. Why don’t you try such po-
etry writing in some of your children’s
groups as a part of your observance of
Book Week? Just a list of some colorful
titles should be enough to spark the ex-
periment; such as, The Magic Flute, I
W isli I Had Another Name, The Little
Prince, Once On a Time, and others.

The Children’s Book Council
nounces that over fifteen hundred titles
will be published during 1962, bringing
to a grand total of over 19,225 the num-
ber of titles in print. Among this wealth
of books there can be found adventure,
fantasy, and facts galore——enough to
suit and intrigue everybody. We have
just come upon a fascinating article in
The Publishers’ Weekly entitled “Some
Children’s Books that Make Inexpensive
Gifts for Adults.” The author lists many
“juveniles” that have already proved to

have adult appeal (as well as some rec-
ommended new ones that are coming).

an-

386

 

EDITORIALLY
SEAKING

A leaflet, “Aids to Choosing Books
for Your Children,” has been compiled
by the Children’s Book Council and is
included in the Book Week Kit available
for $1.00. The kit also contains the offi-

Dorotlly Donaldson

cial Book Week poster in full color, a
set of three turquoise streamers, fifty
bookmarks with a full-color reproduc'
tion of the poster and the Phyllis Mc-
Cinley poem, fifty seals which also carry
the full-color poster (these may be used
on letters or to decorate special Book
Week announcements, book reports, et-
cetera) . Also available are a Book Party
Quiz Kit, $2.00 and a Book Fair Kit,
$1.75. Order from the council at 175 I
Fifth Avenue, New York 10 (enclose
cash or check, no stamps) .

Service Stations for Recreation

Nobody knows how, why, or when
service station proprietors came to get
involved in so many side issues that
have nothing to do with pumping gas
or tuning up cars, declares Petroleum
Today (Summer 1962) published by
the American Petroleum Institute. Some
of these services such as picnic areas
and credit cards and free lawnmower
tuneups, states George T. Blake in the
article “A Sense of Humor . . . and the
Patience of J ob,” came about as a
method of stimulating business or keep-
ing up with the competition. Others,
like sponsoring Little League teams and
Christmas toy drives, grew with the
dealer’s interest and position in the
community. . . .

The fabled dexterity of the one-
armed paperhanger is as nothing com-
pared with the virtuosity the public ex-
pects of a two-armed service station
operator. In addition to knowing all
about cars and products and people, he
must be a salesman, public-relations
man, travel consultant, youth counselor
to the llotrod set who frequent his
premises, semioflicial local greeter, gar-
dening expert, home repairs consultant
to the neighbors who borrow his tools,
lecturer on safety and good driving
habits out at the high school, Boy Scout
merit badge counselor, and undisputed
authority on insecticides, flashlights,
sunglasses, rose bushes, Christmas tree
ornaments, fishing reels, beachballs,
and any of the thousands of other sun-
dries he sells under the general title of
TBA (tires, batteries, accessories).

RECREATION

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

F THIRD NATIONAL SEASHORE. Point
Reyes Peninsula, about thirty miles
northwest of San Francisco, has been
designated as the nation’s third Na-
tional Seashore, following the Presi-
dent’s recent signing of the enabling leg-
islation. James E. Cole of the National
Park Service W'estern Region Office in
San Francisco, has been named project
manager of the newly authorized sea-
shore. Point Reyes will include approx-
imately fifty-three tlIousand acres of
land and water and will provide a sea-
shore recreation area for one of the
nation’s most heavily populated and
fastest growing regions. Mr. Cole, as
regional chief of National Parks Sys-
tems planning, has acquired a wide and
detailed knowlcdge of the peninsula, its
current status, and landowners. He has
had prior experience in land acquisition
for the Park Service when he was the
first superintendent of Joshua Tree
Monument in southern California.

F PATRICIA SCHMIDT will replace Helen
Dauncey on October 1 as Katherine F.
Barker Secretary for recreation pro-
grams with women and girls and pro-
gram specialist for the National Recre—
ation Association. Miss Dauncey retired
in September ( see RECREATION, Septem-
ber 1962) . Miss Smith has been pro-
gram director for the recreation depart-
ment in Sioux City, Iowa, since 1955
and during that time has also been ClIoir
director and part-time music instructor
at Briar Cliff College in Sioux City. A
graduate of South Dakota Teachers
College, with an MA from Columbia
University. she has also conducted so-
cial recreation training sessions at state
and district recreation conferences. Pre-
viously she taught music in the public
schools for seven years and produced

shows at the US. Marine Base in Quan-
t1co, Virginia.

F ANTHONY J. CELEBREZZE, recently ap-
pointed U.S. Secretary of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, will address the
twelfth annual meeting of the National
Council on Aging, October 23, at the
Hotel Commodore, New York City. Mr.
Celebrezze will address a luncheon meet-
ing at the conference of national volun-
tary organizations concerned with the
problems of Older persons. The major
theme for the council’s eight-day annual

meeting (October 22-28) is “A Realistic

OCTOBER, 1962

Look at the Older Person’s Place in So-

Ciety” and includes reports of recent de-
velopments in recreation and education,
employment, retirement, housing, and
community services.

F CERTIFICATE OF APPRECIATION.
George T. Wilson, program supervisor
for the Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Depart-
ment of Recreation and Adult Education
and vice-Chairman of the Waukesha
County Park and Planning Commis-
sion, was awarded a Certificate of Ap-
preciation by the American Institute of
Park Executives for his work in editing
two Management Aid Bulletins, Vandal-
ism. and How to Stop It and Family
Camping Manzml. ( F or article on fam-
ily camping by Mr. Wilson, see RECREA-
TION, June 1961.)

F A $97,000 GRANT has been given to
Indiana University by the Rockefeller
Foundation to set up a center for the
study and performance of Latin-Ameri-
can music, the first in the United States.

F PROPOSALS for a Senior Service Corps,
patterned after the Peace Corps, were
discussed by the President’s Council on
Aging during the summer. A prelimin-
ary plan for a federally aided, Peace
Corps-type program which would en-
able communities to recruit, train, and
place older men and women in volunteer
j obs was presented to the Council by Dr.
Donald P. Kent, director of the Special
Staff on Aging. The council agreed to
study this and other plans and to recom-
mend action at an early meeting.

F IN TIIE SECOND QUARTER OF 1962, the
National Recreation Association Corre-
spondence and Consultation Service, the
Program Department, and the Order
Department corresponded with or sent
out materials in answer to 4,363 re-
quests for assistance or information.
Broken down into districts, these re-

quests line up as follows: New England,

345; Middle Atlantic, 1308; Great
Lakes, 898; Southern, 638; Midwest,
297; Southwest, 211; Pacific Northwest,
177; Pacific Southwest, 489.

F TIIE 1961 HALLOWEEN “Treats” to
help children all over the world, totalled
two million dollars, according to C.
Lloyd Bailey, executive director of US.

Committee for UNICEF. “About three

million boys and girls in eleven hundred
communities made this possible,” he
said. “More than five hundred UNICEF
committees coordinated the program,
bringing together churches, women’s
organizations, and youth groups in edu-
cational and publicity efforts and en-
ergy toward the same goal.”

F RECENT BOND ISSUE in Boulder, Colo-
rado, resulted in passage of the follow-
ing projects: $195,000 for new pool in
Scott Carpenter Park; $75,000 for re-

modeling old pool; $105,000 for land
acquisition. There were 375,000 votes.

F RECENTLY APPOINTED: Donald Briggs
Alexander has been appointed executive
director of the American Planning and
Civic Association and executive secre-
tary of the National Confel‘cnce on State
Parks. Mr. Alexander, park planner and
landscape architect, who worked with
Conrad Wirth during the old CCC days,
has held many responsible park jobs,
most recent of which was as administra-
tive director of the Connecticut State
Park and Forest Commission. His first
professional connection after gradua-

tion was with the Akron Metropolitan
Park District.

F RECENT AFFILIATION: The Family
Camping Federation was taken into the
American Camping Association family,
with the approval of the ACA Council
of Delegates, at the spring ACA Na-
tional Convention in New York. Ac-
cording to Sid Geal, in Camping Maga-
zine, this opens up new contacts and
opportunities for the ACA to serve fam-
ilies. He says, “Already, ACA sections,
colleges and universities, and family
camping clubs are developing and con-
ducting training courses on camping.”

F LEGISLATION now in Congress to au-
thorize establishment of the Tocks Is-
land National Recreation Area in Penn-
sylvania and New Jersey has been
endorsed by Secretary of the Interior
Stewart L. Udall. The proposed seventy
thousand-acre area would include a
thirty-three-mile lake that would be
formed in the Delaware River by a
Corps of Engineers dam at Tocks Is-
land, in the vicinity of Stroudsburg,
Pennsylvania. (See RECREATION, June

1962, Page 299.) New outdoor recrea-
tion Opportunities would result for the

387

general public, particularly those resi- sites and for intensive recreation facili-

dents in the metropolitan complex of
northern New Jersey, Greater New
York, eastern Pennsylvania, and Great-

er Philadelphia.

> THE THIRD ANNUAL AMF AWARDS for
outstanding reporting in the field of
physical education is announced by the
American Machine 8: Foundry Company
and the National Recreation Associa-
tion. Deadline: March 15, 1963. To ob-
tain an entry blank, write to American
Machine 82 Foundry Company, 261
Madison Avenue, New York 16.

> NEW HEADQUARTERS of People-to-
People: 2401 Grand Avenue, Kansas
City 8, Missouri. It is incorporated as
a nonprofit organization under the laws
of that state, and the new location was
chosen because of its central location
and access to major transportation
facilities.

} ON OCTOBER 24, United Nations Day,
as proclaimed by President Kennedy,
community programs will again demon-
strate their faith in the UN and contrib-
ute moral support to its aims and accom-
plishments. Is your recreation depart-
ment playing its part in this observ-
ance? If so, will you write us about it?

> THE WORD “litterbag” has become a
part of our everyday language. A neces-
sary aid to good outdoor housekeeping,
litterbags may be purchased in various
types of stores. They are also available
in quantities directly from the manufac-
turers as described in a Keep America
Beautiful project guide Litter Contain-
ers for Automobiles and Boats, avail-

able from KAB, 99 Park Avenue, New
York 16, for 8.20.

P A RECORD 273,484,442 visitors were
counted at state-operated parks and rec-
reation areas during 1961, according to
the U.S. Department of the Interior. At-
tendance increased by 5.6 percent over
the previous high recorded in 1960. The
visits included 21,000,000 overnight
stays. New York topped the states in

number of park visits for 1961 with
35,517,700.

P THE WEs'r’s POPULATION EXPLOSION
could destroy its irreplaceable wildlands
and ranges, declared R. Merton Love,
chairman of the department of agron-
omy at the University of California at
Davis when he addressed the recent N a—
tional Grassland Conference in Hershey,
Pennsylvania. He says, “The popula-
tion explosion has brought demands for
more water by the down-country user;
demands for better sites for intensive
agriculture shoved back from the val-
leys by creeping urbanization; demands
for hundreds of small areas for home-

388

ties; and last, but by no means least,
demands for vast so-called natural areas
by just about everyone.” He says the
problems of using rangelands, forests,
brushland, and desert are outgrowing
the available answers.

) BILLIONTn-VISITOR DAY was observed
b y the National Park Service on August
22, 1962. This number was arrived at
by selecting visitors, simultaneously, in
most of the 192 areas administered by
the service to symbolize the total num-
ber of visits since 1904, when visits were
first recorded. One person was selected
in each park area. Under the Depart-
ment of the Interior, the National Park
Service administers thirty national
parks, eighty-three national monuments,
fourteen memorials, twenty-four histori-
cal areas, thirty-two military and battle-
field sites, one national seashore recre-
ation area, and three national recreation
areas operated in cooperation with the
Bureau of Reclamation, in addition to
parkways and national cemeteries. Cape
Cod National Seashore, Massachusetts
—-authorized by Congress in 1961 and
one of the newest park areas—will be
available for public use as soon as the
privately owned land is acquired.

b FEDERAL GRANTS for control of juvcn-
ile delinquency and youth offenses, will
be available to state and local govern-
ments and to nonprofit private agencies
through a bill recently signed into law

by President Kennedy. Public Law 87-

am 10.. Mamba/t.

October 1 Child Health Day

October 1-30 National Science
Youth Month

14-20 National Public
Works Week

World Poetry Day

October

October 15
October

21-27 United Nations
Week

United Nations
Day

October 24

October 31 Halloween
November 11 Veterans Day

November 11-17 National Book
Week

November 12-18 Youth
Appreciation Week

November 12-18 National Stamp
Collecting Week

November 22 Thanksgiving

December 10-16 Human Rights
Week

Christmas
New Year’s Eve

December 25
December 31

 

274, entitled “The Juvenile Delinquency
and Youth Offenses Control Act of
1961,” authorizes the expenditure of
$10,000,000 a year for three years for
demonstration and evaluation projects,
training of personnel, and also for gov-
ernment technical assistance. Congress
appropriated $8,200,000 for this act in
the spring for the balance of the current
fiscal year. Recipients of the grants will
be required to contribute money, facili-
ties, or services to their proects in order
to receive the aid.

The new law provides for grants for
projects to evaluate and demonstrate
techniques for prevention and control
of delinquency and youth offenses, and
grants for programs to train personnel,
technical assistance by the Department

of Health, Education and Welfare to

public and private agencies and institu-
tions.

} PLANNING for the National Cultural
Center in Washington, DC. has been
drastically revised and now is moving
steadily ahead. In behalf of the center
and the arts, Joseph Prendergast, exec-
utive director of the National Recrea-
tion Association, recently testified be-
fore a Senate Committee for—

° The Javits Bill (#1250) to set up a
United States National Arts Foundation.
° The Humphreys Bill (#3741) for a
Federal Advisory Council of the Arts.
° The Clark Bill (#5-785) to establish
a progression of grants to the states for
the development of projects in the arts.
It is his feeling that the National Cul-
tural Center could be the instrument of
these acts.

Mr. Prendergast also attended a meet-
ing in Newport, Rhode Island, Septem-
ber 11, called by the trustees of the cen-
ter to unveil the new plans for the center
and to launch the campaign for raising
funds with a program entitled “Ameri-
can Pageant of the Arts” to be presented
on a closed TV circuit on November 29.
He also backed the Saltonstall Resolu-
tion to authorize President Kennedy to
designate the period from November 26-

December 1, 1962 as “National Cultural
Center Week.”

F RE THE First World Conference on
Parks held at Seattle on July 4, Secre-
tary of the Interior Stewart Udall said:
“I would like to think that this confer-
ence strikes a wholesome note of sanity
in a troubled world. It is a sign that
men are questioning the false gods of
materialism, and coming to realize that
the natural world lies at the very center
of an environment that is both life-giv-
ing and life-promoting. There is hope
in this meeting, or so it seems to me, that
the values of the spirit are reasserting
their primacy—and this in turn gives
fresh hope in other vital areas of human
endeavor.”

RECREATION

What It Means To Be. . .

An ASSOCIATE ot the National Recreation Association

0U ARE a superintendent of recreation, board member,
Y recreation center director, clergyman, educator, scout
leader, camp counselor, playground leader, drama con-
sultant, college recreation professor or student—if you are
an Associate of the National Recreation Association. You
are a recreation professional or lay leader who is concerned
about this broad field and the challenge of our growing
leisure time and you are therefore qualified to belong to
the NRA family and entitled to reap those of its benefits,
scrvices, and privileges that are tailored for the individual.
You want help in solving a job problem, for instance-——
whether paid or volunteer—or you want lists of new rec-
reation publications, or RECREATION Magazine, or you
need information on recreation facilities, areas, equipmcnt,
and so on, 'and you turn to the organization set up to
serve you—the National Recreation Association.

Actually, the payment of the five-dollar Associate fee
brings services worth far more, and they are all yours—
if you sign up, with a mere stroke of the pen as an
Associate of the Association. If you are in-the-know, you
realize that non-Associates pay $5.00 for a subscription to
the magazine alone, without the additional benefits of an
Associate Newsletter bringing last-minute news about
people, jobs, program, ten times per year; special news
bulletins and publications lists from time to time; dis-
counts; the privilege of using the NRA Recreation Person-
nel Service, insurance, survey and planning services, in-
stitutes, information and consultation services, and so on.

Associates of the National Recreation Association are
eligible to serve on the vital advisory committees of the
Association, where their ,advice is sought on matters of
importance to national policy and action. When NRA rep-
resentatives are requested on some special recreation
matter by the President of the United States or one of the
federal departments, Associates are called upon to present
the point of “view of the recreation field. Thus, they have
a unique opportunity to make their voices heard in the high-
est councils of the nation.

Because the NRA serves the entire recreation field,
rather than one segment, it is known as the source of in-
formation and help on all aspects of recreation—public and
private, for the sick and the well, for the young and the old.
That is why the number of NRA Associates grows steadily.

An AFFILIATE ot the National Recreation Association

NATIONAL Recreation Association Affiliates are agencies
——-vigorous, forward-looking nonprofit private or pub-
lic organizations concerned with recreation. Just as NRA
services to its Associates are tailored to meet the needs of
individuals, NRA services to Affiliates are tailored for use in
formulating agency policy, making agency-wide plans,
coping with agency administrative problems.

A p‘iliate Newsletters bring word of special grants avail-
able, more effective methods of operation, and news of
other matters of agency concern. NRA’s Personnel Referral
Service repeatedly enables Affiliates to fill key jobs with
the right people—fast. Eligibility to participate in low-
cost liability and group accident insurance or discounts
on publications may quickly save more than the cost of
affiliation. RECREATION Magazine, plus reports and special
bulletins, regularly brings articles in depth on recreation
problems and needs, new ideas, tested methods. Affiliated
agencies tell us that even one NRA service may be worth
far more than the affiliation fee.

Affiliates get on-the-spot field services, training courses,
help in planning and surveys, promotion of bond issues.
They receive materials for prestige-building promotions
such as National Recreation Month. They benefit from
NRA’s nationwide, top-level contacts and interpretation of
the importance of recreation.

In addition, more and more. NRA Affiliates recognize
that it is important for their staff, board, and other active
people to also have the benefit of being NRA Associates.
Services designed for the agency as a. whole are not a
substitute for the personal information, challenge, and
opportunities for development that NRA supplies its Asso-
ciates. On the other hand, NRA Affiliation bring help on
matters of top administrative concern—budgets, standards,
significant legislation, trends. Agency affiliation and person-
al association with NRA go hand in hand.

More agencies are finding what affiliation with NRA can
bring them. Three years ago there were about seventeen
hundred NRA Affiliates. Today, there are almost two thou-
sand. They are private and voluntary agencies, churches,
institutions, councils of social agencies, employee recre-
ation groups, state, county, municipal and federal agencies,

professional recreation societies. The minimum affiliation
fee is still only $10.

THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
HEADQUARTERS BUILDING, NEW YORK CITY

Headquarters of the National Recreation Association is a four-story building
at 8 West 8th Street in historic Greenwich Village. The building once housed
the Whitney Museum of American Art which has since moved to enlarged quar-
ters. From this hub emanate all NRA's services.

OCTOBER, 1962

 

389

TEE
@WEEZZE

@I'l'l

Recreation ’3 abdication

Sidney G. Lutzin

of responsibility

390

siderable degree, a satisfying growth in the field of

recreation. We have been experiencing an expansion
of services and a professionalization of personnel unprece-
dented in any other decade since the recreation movement
began in America. We have more communities with rec-
reation agencies, larger budgets, more and better facilities.
more and better trained leaders and professional adminis-
trators. This is a testimonial not only to the effectiveness
with which we have been doing our jobs, but also to the
awareness and sensitivity of our citizens and public officials
to the importance of organized recreation services in the
lives of the individuals who inhahit our communities.

Our accomplishments loonl even larger with the recog-
nition that this growth has come during a period of sharp
competition for the tax and the contributed dollar, when
massive physical redevelopment has been taking place in
our cities. while the population characteristics of our urban
neighborhoods have been experiencing drastic change, while
the entire structure of our society has been materially
altered.

Recreation agencies, both public and voluntary, have not
been entirely unresponsive to the sociological changes tak-
ing place. Actually, the strong trends developing in the rec-
reation field indicate that we have been effectively respon-
sive in one very important area but, unfortunately, we are
beginning to show signs of being dismally inflexible and
ineffective in other areas. While looking sharply to the
needs of one group, our vision becomes impaired by “blind-
ers” we unconsciously put on when we deal with the needs
of the others.

The physical and social changes in our communities were
born out of a turbulence which has sent its impulses into
all segments of our society. As family after family pulled
itself up the economic and social ladder, the movement f rom
the old established neighborhoods became a mass migration
of the suburbs and new sections of the cities. The physical
vacuum left behind was soon filled with new immigrants, the
inept, the indigent. However, the social vacuum remains,
sizzling and sputtering with spasmodic, volcano-like erup-
tions of violence, crime, and gang warfare—and the day-
by-day constancy of drabness, dullness, and dolor in the
slums goes on unabated by the many human services, includ-
ing recreation, which proliferate in other sections of the

r I ‘HE PAST TEN YEARS have brought a large and, to a con-

community.

Where is the neighborhood house, the boys’ club, the
YMCA, the Jewish community center which once flourished
in the old neighborhood? Moved out with its former clien-
tele to the new neighborhood—the suburb—ensconced in its
new and imposing structure, serving its membership with
the many activities which bring joy to the youth and satis-
faction to their parents whose funds support it. Even if it
has not moved out physically, few of its clientele now come
from its own neighborhood. The old day-care center is now
the day camp; the homemaking groups in sewing and cook-
ing have given way to classes in ceramics and art; stickhall
and sidewalk tennis, once played in front of the old settle-

MR. LUTZIN is regional director of the New York State Di-

vision for Youth.

RECREATION

--‘

ment house, have been replaced by baseball, golf, and tennis
on the new spacious grounds.

The old neighbors have become solid middle class, and
the old neighborhood agencies have moved up with the solid
middle—class recreation services which attest to their ability
to respond to the needs which social change brings and for
which the clientele is prepared to pay, at least in good pro-
portion. The old neighborhood agency is fast becoming the
new, exclusively middle-class club.

WHILE the character of the neighborhood and the volun-

tary agency has heen changing, the administration of
public recreation has also been having its renaissance. Pub-
lic officials, recreators and their commissions, have heen
finding new groups concerned and interested in public rec-
reation wares. Organized groups requesting services from
recreation agencies have become hard to ignore. What is
more, it was discovered that these groups were willing to
pay a share, and sometimes all, of the cost of the services
they required: swimming pools with a fee—and sometimes
cooperatively owned swimming pools under public auspices;
golf courses at a profit to the municipality; self-supporting
Little Leagues, dance groups, art classes; and, beyond all
this, personally paid insurance policies to protect the munici-
palities from even the defense of their negligences.

This kind of recreation is easy to administer because it
is needed and wanted—no hard selling required to deve10p
the program and the participation—and the municipal fa-
thers are a pushover for activities for which the citizens
are willing to pay even a portion of the cost. So public
recreation, like many of the voluntary recreation services,
is fast moving up the lines with services for a fee, geared
to the needs of our great middle class. Public or voluntary,
the recreation agency at this moment is headed toward sol-
idly serving the solid middle class. There is no question that
this is a clear and fast developing trend.

Such policies squeeze out of our programs an important
group in our community either because its members cannot
or are unwilling to pay even minimal fees, or because our
preoccupation with special services results in failure to pro-
vide suitable, atttractive programs for those who should,
but do not now, come to our recreation activities. This is
like the individual who, grabbing at a ripe banana, squeezes
the middle and is left holding a sticky mess while most of the
banana slips out at both ends. We are maneuvering into a
position where we will be serving neither the rich nor the
poor, only those in between.

This brings us into direct conflict with a basic criteria
by which we judge the quality of recreation services in a
municipality. Is it not our ultimate goal to provide the
broadest possible recreation opportunities to the greatest
possible number—regardless of age, color, creed, or eco-
nomic station? Yet here, in what could be considered the
maturity of our profession, we stand indicted of moving in
a direction which leaves neglected one complete segment of
our population to whom our role is most vital.

The youngster most likely to become a delinquent; the
one already enmeshed in unlawful acts; or the one who is
a problem in other ways just as costly to society—these re-

Ocro'BER, 1962

ceive but the shallowest token of services from organized
recreation in his neighborhood. Perhaps this is why such
a large percentage of inmates in our correction and rehabili-
tion institutions have no recreation skills.

We do not have the right to disown those for whom we
have the capacity to do so much. Just as the role of the
hospital recreator is vital on the team of disciplines which
ministers to the ill and handicapped, so is our role vital on
the community team of public and private agencies whose
combined resources for human service hold the greatest
promise for delinquency prevention.

THIS IS NOT THE EASY JOB of following up on requests for
services from eager groups; this is a ob of leadership
and skill; this involves, first of all, providing real recreation
opportunities in those neighborhoods many of us have been
ignoring in recent years. Second, it means the ingenious
devising of techniques and programs designed to attract and
hold those youngsters who until now have been oblivious of
organized recreation service. Third, we have_to motivate
our leaders to an enthusiasm for this kind of challenge and
to train them to their responsibilities on the integrated team
of community resources which can minister to the youthful
misfits in our society. Fourth, we must put recreation solidly
in its rightful position, lined up with the other kinds of agen-
cies which will combine their strength with ours in this
enterprise.

In the past, we have accepted the challenge, and met it
well, of bringing the intrinsic values of recreation to the
senior citizens in our communities; we have been success-
fully providing the recreation therapy which speeds the con-
valescence of the hospital patient; we have devised outstand-
ing techniques and programs to meet the specific needs of
the military personnel in our armed services; and we have
done as well in other areas. It is only in serving the con-
fused, the abused, and the misused victims of our complex
society that we abdicate our responsibilities. We would
rather point to our successes with those who come to us want-
ing our help, than to labor for those who need us even more.

If we continue to close this important group out of our
services because of drab programs in the poor neighbor-
hoods; activities improperly designed, fees and charges
which set up barriers to participation, disinterest in our re-
lationships with other agencies in the community, others
will eventually move into this vacuum because government
agencies and other organized groups with primary concern
in delinquency prevention will not stand by idly while crime
rates increase. They will be more concerned with providing
essential programs than with the effects of bypassing estab-
lished recreation agencies failing to carry out all of their
responsibilities.

We can no longer use the rationale of our then neophyte
profession. Recreation has come of age, and we must now
assume the full responsibility of our own nonfeasance. It
will do us no good to point out how well we are serving the
middle class. We must prepare ourselves for judgment on
how well we recognize all of the sociological changes in our
society and, in the long term, we will rise or fall on the de-
termination of whether we are adequately serving all, and
especially those with greatest need. #

391

OUR FOREST PUBLICS

Fa"? 3. Cray

b .nn E'XPERIENCING changes in
Wour way of life in the United

States so far reaching and per-
vasive that a revolution in our mode of
living is in the making. Nowhere is this
more apparent than in the demand for
outdoor recreation. The unprecedented
numbers of people frequenting forest
areas for recreation purposes are over-
crowding available facilities in many
areas, creating a cluster of problems for
the forest administrator.

Recreation, of course, is only one of
numerous uses for forest lands. Since
many of these uses are incompatible,
the forest administrator is forced to
make choices. His decisions will be in-
creased in complexity hy the difiieulty
of equating the values of lumber pro-
duction, grazing, minerals, and water
which can be expressed in monetary
terms with the still largely intangible
values of recreation use. Much more
must be known about forest recreation
before such decisions can be reached
with any assurance of validity.

Among the problems posed by large-
scale recreation use of forest areas, the
problem of protection of the forests
from the ravages of fire ranks especially
high. Nine out of ten forest and wild-
land fires are man-caused. Therefore,
the School of Public Administration of
the University of Southern California
formed a Forest and Range Research
Unit, under the sponsorship of the Cali-
fornia Division of Forestry and the
United States Forest Service, to study
the human behaviorial aspects of forest-
fire prevention. The unit set up a pilot
study designed to formulate and test a
method for carrying out one of twenty-
four major studies it planned to under-
take.

To evolve policies necessary for deal-
ing effectively with present and future
recreation use of the forests, much had
to be known about the people involved
in such uses. More than thirteen million

DR. GRAY is coordinator of the recrea-
tion curriculum at Long Beach State
College in California. He has also

served as chief of Special Service for the
Third Air Force in England.

392

visits were recorded in California’s na-
tional forests in 1959 and millions more
used the state forests. Effective adminis-
trative relationship with so vast a public
is virtually impossible. Accordingly,
some means of logically dividing this
public into publics is necessary. The
study 'attempted to identify the “user-
groups”in forest recreation, based upon
the type of recreation experience each
group seeks and certain identifiable
characteristics which help differentiate
it from other groups.

The most important research steps
involved the selection of a sample of
forest reereationists, development and
administration of the questionnaire,
and tabulation of results. This research
design was unusual in two respects:
the sampling method and the mailing
method.

0 BTAINING a reliable sample of forest
users was difficult. Forest reere-
ationists are not required to stop when
entering or leaving a forest area and
they do not necessarily register any-
where or leave any written record of
their visits. Therefore, most of the tech-
11iques usually employed to obtain a
population sample could not be used.
Several alternative methods were con-
sidered and abandoned, either because
they were unreliable or inefficient be-
cause of the expense involved. How-
ever. people must reach forest areas by
some means of transportation, and the
possibility of using this fact in selection
of a sample was explored. This resulted
in the selection of a seouential sample
of the ears entering and leaving the test
area, reading and recording their li-
eense plates, and obtaining the names
and addresses of the registered owners
through the California Division of
Motor Vehicles. Apart from obvious
limitations, this sampling system worked
remarkably well. As was anticipated,
this method could not efficiently he
used with out-of-state vehicles or indi-
viduals who reached the area hy com-
mercial transportation, but these were
not severe handicaps.

The questionnaire was designed to fit

an over-sized return postcard. This was
preceded with a “pre-eonditioning”
letter, sent three days in advance, which
stated the purpose of the study and re-
quested cooperation. This method pro-
duced a rate of return of slightly more
than fifty-two percent, an unusually
high return for studies of this type.

RESPONSES were tabulated in a single
group and then each respondent
was categorized, according to his pri-
mary forest recreation interest, into a
user-group. Nineteen user-groups were
identified but only five groups had
frequencies large enough to permit de-
tailed analysis. These user-groups were
campers, fishermen, hikers, hunters,
and nature students.

Inter-group comparisons brought out
some interesting data. Mean age for
all respondents was closely approxi-
mated by the user-groups, with the ex-
ception of nature students who had a
slightly higher average age and hikers
and hunters who had a lower mean age.

Sex distribution among the groups
was also near the mean for all respon-
dents with the exception of hunters who
were entirely male and nature students
who included an unusually high pro-
portion of females.

Mean annual income of the user
groups ranged from $5276 to $9034.
Campers and nature students had sig-
nificantly lower income, with campers
averaging $3710 less than all respon-
dents. Fishermen slightly exeeeded the
figure for all respondents and were the
highest group in this respect. When
placed in rank order of income, from
lowest to highest, the groups were ar-
ranged as follows: campers, nature stu-
dents, hunters, hikers, fishermen.

The mean formal-education achieve-
ment in terms of highest grade com-
pleted showed a considerable range.
Lowest group in this variable were the
hunters with 12.7 years and highest
were the hikers with 16.0 years. All
other groups were within one year of
the mean for all respondents. When
placed in rank order from low to high
with re5peet to educational achieve-

RECREATION

A pilot study identifies outdoor “user groups”

ment, the groups were arranged as
follows: hunters, fishermen, campers,
nature students, hikers.

Statistics on the average lcngth of
stay showed that hunters tend to stay
a much shorter time than the others
and the nature students stay consider-
ably longer. When placed in rank order
from short to long, the groups were
arranged as follows: hunters, hikers,
fishermen, campers, and the nature
students.

THE PILOT STUDY on recreation use of
forest areas demonstrated in no un-
certain terms that:

o It is feasible to identify the member-
ship and characteristics of user-groups,
each of which forms a forest public, on
the basis of primary forest recreation
interest.

0 Forest recreation appeals to a se-
lected group from the general pOpula-
tion, which ranks relatively high in
education, occupation, and socio-eco-
nomic status.

0 Each particular activity within the
spectrum of possihle activities attracts
a group of participants which have a
different profile of membership and
characteristics.

When conducted on a suhstantial
scale, this study shows promise of pro-
viding valuable information to the
forest administrator, including patterns
of forest recreation interests, socio-
economic background and educational
levels of forest recreationists, and aver-
age length of stay on a forest visit. as
well as personal data consisting of age,
sex, occupation. annual income, and
marital status of respondents. Most
valuable, however, will be the system
of forest publics which, when properly
identified, will permit selective persua-
sive communication with each puhlic.
This should greatly facilitate arlminis-
trative efforts of all kinds including dis-
semination of fire-prevention informa-
tion. It appears also. although this was
not a direct research objective, that
such information will he valuable in
forest recreation program planning hy
a variety of agencies. #

‘ OCTOBER, 1962

 

Left, the hremen’s dormitory now houses the weaving de-

partment complete with looms, warping reels and dye sinks.

Above the metal enamelers have taken. over the old stable
3

which has a new floor, kilns, and cupboards. Students pay
a three-dollar class fee as well as [or materials at cost.

4’.
1.}

|l

 

¢

-

Once a storage depot [or playground equipment, the old firehouse is now a showcase and worlcsh op [or cultural arts activities.

FIVE-ALARM
ARTS AND CRAFTS

An old building gets a new lease on life and extends its usefulness

394 RECREATION

 

Dorothy Jones

AN ABANDONED
firehouse has
been serving the
adults of Colum-

Ohio, as a
recreation center

bus,

 

where they can de-
velop their creativ-
ity through working in the crafts. Pot-
ter’s wheels, kilns. clay bins, and a glaze
laboratory have replaced the ancient
horse-drawn fire engines: the firemen’s
dormitory now houses a weaving de-
partment complete with looms, warp-
ing reels, dye sinks, and huge quantities
of yarns; and the old stable has been

taken over by the kilns and cupboards -

of the metal enamelers.

The firehouse became the Arts and
Crafts Center of the Columbus Recrea-
tion Department in the fall of 1952.
Now, more than ten years later, it has
more than justified the hopes that it
would provide a meaningful use of lei-
sure time to the citizens and become a
vital part of the city’s cultural life.

To develop the idea for an adult craft
center, the director and supervisor of
the Columbus Recreation Department
called in an advisory council that con-
sisted of the assistant director of the
Art Gallery, the dean of the School of
Fine Arts and the heads of the ceramics
and weaving departments at the Ohio
State University, and the supervisor of
art for the Board of Education. The
purpose of this committee was to deter-
mine first of all whether such a center
was needed, and then to decide which
subjects should be taught so as to im-
plement, not duplicate, the work being
done by other schools and agencies in
the city.

The building chosen for the new cen-
ter was being used by the recreation de-
partment for the storage of playground
equipment. It had solid floors (except
for the old stable area), an adequate
heating system, lights, water, and a
large parking area. In addition, the

 

MISS JONES was formerly supervisor of
recreation in Columbus, Ohio, is now
with the Public Housing Administra-
tion, as a Community Facilities 0ficer
in the Southeastern Region with head-
quarters in Atlanta, Georgia.

OCTOBER, 1962

firehouse was located in a central part
of town, near the art gallery and other
cultural facilities.

The renovations that were needed——
a new floor in the stable, installation of
shelves and cupboards, overhead light-
ing fixtures, and new paint on the in-
terior walls—were done by the depart-
ment’s maintenance crew during slack
times in their regular work. Cost of
these improvements, including labor,
totaled only $2,575.00. Outfitting the
new center with the equipment, tools,
books, supplies and other materials
needed for each craft area totaled an-
other six thousand dollars.

When it came to the matter of select-
ing a teaching staff, much was required.
In addition to establishing the best pos-
sible rapport with the art community
and providing superior teaching skills,
the instructors were expected to be prac-
ticing artists and, as such, an inspira-
tion to the students under their guid-
ance. To meet these requirements, the
department called on Cranbrook Acad-
emy and Ohio State University to fur-
nish its teachers.

HE DREAM for the center was real-

ized in much the same way that
anything worthwhile develops. It was
born of vision, imagination and initia-
tive. It depended on the help of many
people to solve its unique problems and
to gain its acceptance. It required much
experimenting and accepting or dis-
carding of ideas until the project be-
came reality.

Classes at the center meet for three-
hour periods, from one to three times
per week, for terms of eight weeks.
Students follow a planned program that
introduces them to the materials and
techniques of each craft, then gives
them the opportunity to fully explore
its possibilities. Every attempt is made
to allow the individual to attend follow-
up classes until he feels capable of work-
ing on his own at home.

The program itself is flexible. In ad-
dition to the core of classes in ceramics,
weaving, and enameling that always are
taught, work in other areas is offered
on demand. Silk-screen, wood block,
leather, puppetry, design, painting, and

glass are among the courses offered.

In addition to the class work, special
events are promoted. Student exhibi-
tions, exchange shows with other
groups, open-house programs, lectures,
slide and movie showings, and empha-
sis on traveling exhibits are among the
methods used to enrich the program.

Cost of financing the program is car-
ried in small part by the students them-
selves, who pay a three-dollar class fee
which goes toward the purchase of new
equipment and the repair and replace-
ment of old equipment. In addition to
this, they pay for the materials they use,
on a cost basis.

The center itself was a new concept in
the expenditure of tax money, but it was
in line with the move (before it became
widespread in our country) to encour-
age more cultural activities as part of
our national living image. I think the
comment of one of the students is most
revealing when he said: “Since l’ve
been coming here to the center, this is
the first time I haven’t objected to pay-
ing city income tax! ”

Hundreds of students work at the
center each year. Many of them have
waited patiently until their names “came
up” on the waiting lists that attest to the
popularity and good repute the place
has gained. Working in the pleasant at-
mosphere with other craftsmen and
artists has taught people to make the
most of their leisure time in recreation
interests and hobbies; many beginners
have been pointed toward new careers
in the arts and crafts; and many, many
people have discovered—or rediscov-
ered—their creative selves. In provid-
ing these opportunities, the recreation
department has raised the level of ac-
ceptance for itself in the eyes of yet
another group of people in the city.

As for future plans, Columbus hopes
that the present program may be ex-
panded into an even larger cultural arts
center that will include, drama, dance,
and the other fine arts activities. Plans
for this are going forward at this time.
We know that it is going to materialize
by following the formula of vision,
community cooperation and determina-
tion that was used to create the present

center at such little public expense! #

395

 stery

0.)
Projection

 

Create your own. dramatic effects with simple tools .
Filament of hve-hzindrcd aatt T10 pro-

jcction. lamp. Larger size [zizzcs imagc.

James Hull Miller
LIILDREN AND TEEN atel-IRS can create their costumes Shop of the bhreveport, Louisiana, YWCA makes use of a
C and small properties for pla_xs; making the larg- system of large blocks and a set of cloth screens for its
er scenic backgrounds and levels often involve skills scenery.
of older people which lessen the pride of accomplish- From the blocks, the young people have built thrones,
ment on the part of the youngsters. The Teen Age Drama bridges. even horses. One group; seeing the blocks for the

 

first time. built a conference table and acted out a political
meeting. The basic block is 16"-by-16”-by-6”. the longer
slabs in multiples of sixteen inches. These units are made of
half-inch plyhoard and 3’1”-by-51/3" pine boards and are

MR. MILLER is a theater design consultant in Shreveport,
Louisiana. He has worked in both the professional and ed-
ucational phases of theater since 1935. He is interested in

the development of new theater styles and new forms in
theater architcctare. painted Chinese red.

Permanent set for the Shreveport Symphony’s Madam Butterfly. showing a night garden scene by projection. Design. by the author.

 

 

Rear view of the projection screens and equipment. This
forest scene was cut from a piece of heavy wrapping paper.

Backgrounds are created upon the screens by patterns in
light through rear projection. Intricate combinations of
colors and patterns are contrived by the youngsters from
very simple materials. As in the case of the blocks, tools for
expression are put directly into the hands of the young
peeple. The bamboo forest scene shown in the photograph
was designed and cut from a piece of heavy wrapping paper
by a youngster thirteen years old.

By studying the two photographs it is apparent that the
bamboo trunks projected onto the rear of the cloth screens
are patterns of illumination. This means that the area around
the trunks is being lit by the softer illumination of the flood-
lights lying on the floor below the image. Imagine the effects
from the addition of different colors, one in the path of the
light passing through the paper image, another, or several,
secured to the various floodlights. What a tremendously
flexthe design tool we havc!

It is the adult who must create the tool itself and demon-
strate it to the, children, in the same spirit as one hands the
youngster scissors. paste, and construction paper, or paper
and crayons. The parts are not complicated or expensive,
but close attention must be paid to the specifications which

follow.

I low the screens are constructed is unimportant save
that an opaque base is built to the height of fifteen

inches or more to shield the audience view from the sources
of illumination which will be visible through the cloth.
These screen panels are three feet wide, to accommodate
standard thirty-six-inch cloth. Bates Disciplined cotton
fabric, ivory tint, has just the right density for the penetra-
tion of the light into the fibers. Muslins are too coarse and
hcavy. Never use synthetics as they deteriorate under ten-
sion.

For the projection of the image an effective point source
of light is necessary, such as the General Electric Projection
Lalnp 500/T10-P (CZX) which may be purchased at a pho-

tographic store. This lamp has the standard medium pre-

OCTOBER, 1962

The path of light passing through the paper image lends
itself to many elfects and is a tremendously flexible tool.

focus base, the same as used in many theatrical spotlights.
This base may he purchased from a manufacturer of stage
lighting equipment. Any larger filament will fuzz the pro-
jected image and render the system unsatisfactory.

The next step will he the enclosure of the lamp and base
in some suitable housing. If a SOD-watt fresnel spotlight is
at hand, the lens and the reflector may be removed, and the
recommended lamp inserted. The lamp in its unit is placed
six feet from the screen. The image should be thirty inches
or more from the lamp. A screen area up to twelve feet wide
can be illuminated by this arrangement.

The Hub Electric Company #79032 Beam Projection
Unit represents the ultimate refinement in this type of pro-
jection system. The lamp sits in a spacious, air-cooled cham-
her, surrounded by Hat-black, nonreflecting metal surfaces.
The lamp bracket can be adjusted to any position and the
lamp tilted ever so slightly to avoid image flare from the
glass behind the filament. 0n the face of the hox are four-
way matting shutters and a clip to hold gelatine or plastic
color media.

These features are conveniences, however, and have noth-
ing to do with the quality of the image. Quality is achieved
solely by the right lamp filament and by maintaining the
correct distance between the filament and the image. Cheat-
ing on either specification will defeat the purpose of the
system.

The local craftsman, fashioning his own lamphouse, will
soon discover that this particular lamp is extremely hot and
should be ventilated by forced air, that the area of the light
must be controlled by a system of matting, that the gelatines
or plastic colors must be secured and that the position of the
lamp should be flexible. My own experimental models were
huilt of quarter-inch transite panels fastened together with
angle irons and stove bolts and ventilated with a silent in-
dustrial blower taken from a large spotlight. Parts, includ-
ing the socket and lamp, come to about $35. Hub Bulletins
#104, Lighting Systems for Childrens Theatre, and # 105,

Continued on Page 418

397

 

398

NOW SPELLS skiing in Austria.
S Like most Europeans, the Aus-
trians find walking, hiking, climb-
ing, and skiing their primary enjoy-
ments. In a country so lavishly gifted
with awe-inspiring mountain ranges and
to a people born to the mountains, ski-
ing is both a means of travel and one of
the most pleasant of winter recreation
activities. Men, women, and family
groups are rarely spectators at sports
activities. Certainly the time spent in
active participation far outweighs the
on-looker role. The out-of-doors holds
a fascination for these people through-
out life, winter and summer. There-
fore, physical education has a special
place in the school curriculum.

Austria encourages an elaborate and
efficient organization of instruction,
high standards of teacher education,
and rigorous courses for students. The
schools develop in each generation of
students real competence in activities,
giving them the opportunity to enjoy
them to the fullest and to have strong,
healthy bodies.

Skiing is the Austrians’ favorite
sport. Just as many American children
receive instruction in swimming, the
Austrian school child is instructed in
skiing. Those children living near
snow-covered slopes receive ski instruc-
tion the greater part of the wintcr as
part of their daily curriculum. This
takes place during a time set aside in
the program for physical exercise; but
both instruction and practice may con-
tinue after the close of the regular
school day.

For the children who live in the large
cities or some distance from the ski
areas, provision is made for their trans-
portation to, and housing in, the na-
tional Bundessportheims. These houses,
owned and operated by the Austrian
Ministry of Education, are available to
education groups throughout the year.
The children arrive on trains and buses
with their own physical-education teach-
ers. For a week they live together in

MISS WELCH is associate professor of
physical education at the University of
California in Davis. This material was
gathered during a year spent studying
and skiing in Austria.

dormitory arrangements, six or eight
to a room. The ski instruction is given
by the Bundesheim instructors who
have passed the two-year course re-
quired of a National Ski Instructor.

The first day opens early with the
children on the slopes skiing over the
terrain where they will take their place-
ment examination later in the afternoon.
This screening is a preliminary skiing
examination by the head ski instructor
and his staff to determine the young-
sters’ level of skill. At this time the
children are placed in groups according
to ability, about ten to fourteen to a
group.

Each group is placed in the charge of
an instructor who takes it to a particular
slope best adapted to its ability level and
instruction needs. The terrain in the
vicinity of the ski school has been care-
fully prepared to provide the exact
degree of slope and the desired con-
cavity between ridges for the particular
technique to be taught. The Austrians
believe the type of practice slope is one
of the most essential components
necessary in teaching skiing. Each
group has its own area and may prac-
tice techniques on this spot for several
days. As might be expected, thc use of
any form of a lift during the class ses-
sions is practically unheard of.

As THE CLASS PROGRESSES, it may
change the-locale -of its practice
slope for one offering opportunity for
more advanced technique. Individual
students may be advanced from one
group to another upon the recommenda-
tion of the instructor and approval of
the head ski instructor. Near the end of
the term of instruction there is usually
the thrill of a cross-country trek or a
ride 011 a lift to high slopes and then
the wonderful thrill of a glorious run
unhroken by stops for correction and
instruction—a chance to put into c011-
secutive application the various turns
and techniques practiced so diligently.
The morning classes begin at eight-
thirty and last until almost noon. Fif-
teen minutes before class the student
joins the others in the hootroom off
the Bundesheim lobby. where his boots
have been left upon entering. After
giving them a very light coat of

RECREATION

Marya \Velch

The high level of ski instruction

in Austria is the result

of the people’s appreciation

of their snow-capped mountains

and the value to be derived from the

education of the body as well as niind.

boot wax and an extended period of
polishing, he removes his soft-soled
slippers or apres ski shoes, and laces on
his boots. Then he picks up his skis and
poles and joins his group outdoors.

Weather, of course, is important, but,
regardless of anything short of a raging
blizzard with subzero temperature,
classes convene on schedule. They are
resumed again at one o’clock and last
until four. At four-thirty there is a
break while tea and brown bread is
served. Frequently there is a lecture on
skiing techniques, avalanches, cross-
country skiing, equipment, and other
related subjects. This lecture is usually
given either immediately following tea-
time or the evening meal. While there
is little time during this training period
for anything but skiing and ski talk, yet
somehow the students manage to study
or write a few letters home. In the eve-
ning some may even find the energy to
dance, or time to listen to the radio, sit
conversing, or playing cards.

AUSTRIA has three categories of ski
instructors: the skilehrer, the lehr-
warte, and the physical-education in-
structor. They are the only individuals
in Austria authorized to give ski in-
struction. Thc National Ski Instructors
are the elite, having served an appren-
ticeship under a head teacher, taken a
two-year course of instruction, and
passed the Austrian ski teachers’ ex-
amination. These skilehrers (ski teach-
ers) are the only peOple who may re-
ceive pay to instruct skiing. The Iehr-

OCTOBER, 1962

 

warte (apprentice ski instructor)
teaches children under the guidance of
the head ski instructor and works for
the experience, receiving no pay.

Physical-education teachers make up
the third type of ski instructor. During
their university preparation, they are
required to take a course in skiing and
ski instruction given for two consecu-
tive years during the months of Febru-
ary and to pass the final examination
which covers both practical and theo-
retical aspects of the sport. They are
expected to be able to teach skiing at
their school if situated in suitable snow
conditions.

These courses are given at St.
Christopli-am-Arlberg, where all the
Austrian National Ski Instructors are
trained. Here, Professor Stephen
Kruckenhauser heads the Bundessport-
heim and conducts the course of in-
struction with his staff. The physical-
education major students take a very
concentrated course, based on the same
technique and theory as taught in all
Austrian ski schools. Frequently, stu-

 

UNITED NATIONS DAY

UN Day, October 24, is a time for

thought—it is also a time for indi-
vidual action to help weight the
scales for peace. A blueprint of what
communities and individuals can do
on UN Day to stimulate greater un-
derstanding of the United Nations is

available on request from the US.
Committee for the UN, 375 Park

Avenue, New York 22.

dents from other nations will enroll at
the University of Innsbruck for one
semester to take this particular course
in skiing.

HE NATIONAL PLANNING and ad-

ministration of Austrian ski in-
struction does not extend to artificial
stimulation of the sport by awarding
badges and trophies for students’
achievements or by encouraging com-
petitions between schools. There is no
need for such devices, for students,
parents, and townspeople alike are en-
thusiasts of the sport and stage their
own local competitions. In the winter,
on Sundays, there are races on all the
ski slopes. The young people of the
town, both boys and girls, compete
against each other. Those showing
promise are encouraged to perfect their
skiing so that they may some day repre-
sent their village in regional races, then
in district races, and finally in com-
petition on the national level. In the
majority of European countries there
is nothing comparable to interscho-
lastic or intercollegiate competition
known in America. While there is com-
petition, it is not under the jurisdiction:
of the schools, but rather sport clubs,
city or district organizations, or a na—
tional ski association.

The high level of ski instruction is
the result of the Austrians’ enthusiasm
for sports, their appreciation of their
mountains and of the value to be
derived from the education of the body
as well as the mind, and their satisfac--
tion in skillful achievement. #

399

 M M UN nv
RECREATION 0N ATRIAL

B  ls Recreati

on experiment sells taxpayers on permanent program

Don Henkel

AFTER ALL, a
park was only
a place where
‘ ‘b u m s ’ ’
benches or “shady
characters” hid be-

hind bushes ready
to pounce upon the

sat on

    

l  

first innocent young girl—or so they
said. Villa Park, Illinois, had been ex-
tremely reluctant to provide its own
recreation services even though it is
sandwiched between Elmhurst and
Lombard, both of which‘ have very
fine park districts. As early as 1948
a park district in Villa Park had
been proposed and defeated. The same
thing happened in 1957, losing two
to one.

What to do about parks and recrea-
tion eventually became one of the main
items of community concern when Villa
Park, a community of eighty-eight
hundred in 1950, suddenly found itself
bursting at the seams with twenty thou-
sand-plus people in 1960 . . . and at
this late date the only park in town
was the second word in the village
name.

Sure, Villa Park had a semi-private
swim pool (that took care of the swim-
mers—at least some of theml ; the local
Lions Club had a lighted ball-field (ex-
cept that out-of-towners were mainly
using the field) :, and there was a Com-
munity Chest-supported Recreation
Council (a fine, but limited program).

One group said, “We need a youth
center.” Another said, “We need land.”
Others said we need this and we need

that. Result? Vociferous confusion!

MR. HENKEL is director of recreation
in Villa Park, Illinois. His article on
recreation development in Loveland,

Colorado, “Growth of a Weed Patch,”
appeared in RECREATION. June 1960.

400

The first turning point came on Jan-
uary 19, 1959 when the Village Board
of Trustees appointed a temporary rec-
reation committee with directives to
present solid recommendations. The
second major turning point came when
Robert Horney, National Recreation
Association Great Lakes District rep-
resentative, visited Villa Park in March
1959. From his meeting with the tem-
porary recreation committee evolved a
plan destined to put Villa Park on the
map recreation-wise. The committee
decided to:

0 Hold a referendum to establish a
two-year trial program involving no
tax increase.

0 Hire a full-time professionally
trained recreation director for the two-
year trial program.

0 Appoint an advisory committee.

0 Take out options on a few vacant
land areas.

0 Hold another referendum toward
the end of the two-year trial to put a
recreation system on a permanent tax-
supported basis.

111 this way, order was established
out of confusion. A study was made by
the NRA and ready for implementation.

After the plan was approved by the
Village Board of Trustees, the referen—
dum was organized for November 14,
1959. The crux of the approach to the
people involved the fact that there
would be no tax increase. Financially,
the village would appropriate $10,000
per year out of its general fund. The
other $15,000 would come mainly from
voluntary contributions by the people
on their water bills at the rate of $.85
per quarter for each residence.

And so the two-year trial program
was established by a vote of 1,703 Yes
votes to 519 No. The Village Board of

Trustees appointed a nine-member Rec-

reation Advisory Committee. with a
new full-time professionally trained
recreation director, appointed by Vil-

lage Manager Robert Hegel on March
1, 1960.

As RAPIDLY As POSSIBLE, formal and
informal relationships were estab-
lished and programs were developed.
Only directors who have started new
community recreation programs can
fully appreciate the scope of the job
involved. To complicate matters, ap-
proximately eighty-five percent of all
programs were held in someone else’s
facilities. The village did own two plots
of land directly under water towers,
plus a few other small parcels. and
the over-used village hall. Four school
districts in four-square-mile Villa Park
did not lessen the problems. But the
schools, and the swim pool, and the
Recreation Council Youth Center, and
the North Terrace Home Owners, the
Lions Club, and others opened their
gates and doors to us.

MANY FACTORS contributed to the
success of the two-year trial:

1. Excellent
Committee.

2. Pro-recreation village manager.

3. Presentation of limited, yet well-
rounded and diversified recreation pro-

Recreation Advisory

grams.

4. Distribution of attractive and dis-
tinctive recreation program hrochures.

5. A few key program areas with
high public acceptance; such as, broad
and well-organized playground pro-
gram, water pageant, and development
of lighted ice skating rink and warm-
ing house (with much help from a
strong local woman’s cluh).

Continued on Page 425

RECREATION

 

P UPPE TR Yand CHILDREN

Discoveries in an enchanting world

Ludwig Riemenschneider

N TEACHING PUPPETRY to children, I
have become increasingly aware of
the valuable medium puppetry of-

fers in their deve10pment, particularly
at the ages of six to twelve, where real
and imaginary things are equally im-
portant stepping stones in a steadily ex-
panding horizon. In taking stock of my
BXPBTIBHCBS,'I have also become aware
of my special gains—little truths along

the way, if you will—which, it seems,“

are the precious extra rewards for many
teachers who work creatively with chil-
dren.

I had been a puppeteer for many
years before I started teaching puppetry
at the Children’s Centre for Creative
Arts at-Adelphi College, Garden City,
New York. Although my way of han-
dling the puppets, hand puppets mainly,
apparently pleased my audiences, I
never really knew what did make a suc-

MR. RIEMENSCIINEIDER teaches puppet
classes at the Children’s Centre for C re-
ative Arts at Adelphi College, Garden
City, New Y ork.

OCTOBER, 1962

cessful puppet play, and it is only by
working with children that I have be-
come more and more conscious of es-
sential factors in performing with pup-
pets which, if ignored, can bring only
polite applause. These factors can add a
great deal to the success of the puppetry
class. My thoughts in this world of pup-
pets are not all new ones, I am sure, but
they came to me like my own, and they
withstood the test of soundness when,
after the first impact of sometimes un-
reasonable exuberance, they were dis-
cussed for their practical use with the
children in the classroom.

Last year I started with a group of
children from ten to twelve years of
age to work on a shadow play, and, in
weighing the different possibilities in
the world of shadows, we soon found
ourselves in agreement that shadows
don’t talk! By working out some ani-
mated figures in my silhouette theatre,
this had already become something of
an axiom to me but I was eager to find
out whether the children would feel the

same way, whether they would sense the

unnaturalness of a shadow figure with
a speaking voice.

Shadows don’t talk! There is some-
thing odd about a shadow, be it a whale,
or a crocodile, or a man, opening and
closing his mouth wither-voice from be;
hind the screen speaking the words;
Shadows have only two dimensions,
width and height. They don’t have a
third dimension; they don’t have the
depth out of which all sound comes.
Shadow-figures are manipulated behind
the lighted screen and they are enacting
a story told by the storyteller, prefer-
ably at the side or in front of the shadow
screen.

We had an interesting little discus-
sion about this, not so philosophically
profound as it might have been among
adults, but with an uninhibited for-
wardness and clear-eyed honesty which
makes it such a stimulating pleasure to
watch children sitting in council about
the validity of laws inherent in our dif-
ferent art forms.

FOR SUCCESSFUL presentation in per-
forming with the puppets, one of

401

l f JGRAM

 

t. t-‘ is Vl‘x'm'lltmrtutl sin-
11 : u-tn and the dancer
1;. .Lai number of human
I s rt - visible play, the puppet
mmplt-tely hidden from the
ult'lli w “hilt tht'
(elicah and sensitive instrument, which
responds so readily to his effort to en-
chant his audience, the puppet player
has only the most primitive means to
do it——two cloth bags with heads made
from papier-maché, wood, cloth, or
some other material. But it is, to a great
extent, these very limits which make
it possible for him to weave a magic
spell over the audience!

Instinctively aware of these limits, a
good puppeteer will even try to under-
play the possible movements of a hand
puppet. But with his voice, free, un-
limited, expressing itself unreservedly
as that of the king, or the magician, or
the devil or whoever else he just then
has on his hand, the limited movement
of the puppet will show much more
than the physical eye can see, and soon
the audience finds itself happily partici-
pating in an imaginary world. It en-
larges and completes the puppet’s move-
ments to movements of living charac-
ters, with the children, especially the
small ones, relating to them as being
in their own world, and with the older
persons experiencing a pleasingly un-
complicated and yet so stimulating
world of human prototypes close to
their own and often deeply imbedded
feelings.

This so apparent invitation, chal-
lenging in its nature, to activate one’s
own imagination—and the ready ac-
ceptance of it—are, I think, the main
reasons why puppet shows can be so
enjoyable. lt is surprising how hand
puppets, with all their limitations, can
suggest so many different movements
and gestures on the hand of an inspired
puppet player.

There is, of course, a big field for
cleverly made puppets and for cleverly
arranged puppet plays, but too much
cleverness can easily undo the magic
spell, especially for children. Prominent
and exaggerated features of the pup-
pets’ faces can add to the play’s enchant-
ing effect; so can well directed spot-

lc l‘
musician has a

402

The enchanting world of puppets in all its di§erent forms and shapes has always

 

been and will continue to be an inspiring art for pe0ple of all ages. Here, the
author discusses a facet of a puppet presentation with one of his young students.

lights. But purely mechanical devices.
clever as the better ones might be and
as appropriate or as fitting as some of
them might be for a limited number of
special plays, can be the undoing of a
puppet play’s charm. And one of these
devices, often so enthusiastically con-
ceived by a puppet maker as an addi-
tional and important attraction, is the
moving mouth!

A moving mouth in a hand puppet——
and even in a marionette for that matter
———in its strongly mechanical function,
cannot suggest the many expressions of
a human mouth: a laughing mouth, a
crying mouth, a grinning mouth, and
so many other emotion-marked mouths.
A moving mouth excludes them all for
the sake of a lifeless gadget.

When I brought the question about
the moving mouth before the children
-———this time I had a class ranging in
age from nine to ten years—I had come
prepared to answer the immediate ob-
j ections by the most interested and alert
pupils.

“But the crocodile and the wolf move
their mouths!”

Yes, of course, they do and they will
keep on doing it for they don’t have
a face like a human face where human
emotions can be so vividly expressed

and where the audience is so willing to
put the same expressions into the pup-
pets’ faces. The face of an animal pup-
pet, not moving its mouth, will hardly
encourage anyone to fill it with life.
There were a few more perhaps not so
important angles to this matter which
we touched upon in our class discussion
and a corresponding demonstration
with puppets, which helped to make my
points acceptable to the children.

Lest I may be taken by the reader
as a teacher who puts his ideas too
arbitrarily before a group of young
children, let me say here that our clas-
ses at the Children’s Centre for Cre-
ative Arts consist also of two or three
adults, devoted students and parents,
who take an active part in the work of
the class. And the children’s sense and
ear for rhyme and reason is amazing
once it is alertcd.

The question of whether hand pup-
pets, and marionettes too, should have
moving mouths or not seems to plague
the cameras of movies and television
doing puppet plays. Two very recent
ones, both based on well-known classi-
cal plays, showed this dilemma up very
strikingly. In one of thc plavs the pun-
pets didn’t move their mouths and in
the inevitahle closeups it struck the

RECREATION

viewer as odd that the dramatic voice
with which the puppet was supposed to
speak did not find the slightest expres-
sion in the puppet’s face. 111 the othcr
play the puppets could open and close
their mouths but the rapid succession
of two mechanically limited movements
turned them soon into disconcerting
pictures of lifeless wooden heads, not
at ali connected with the well-spoken
lines of an old and cherished classic.

“1 don’t think I will be of any good
in your class,” a seven-ycar-old sprite
said to me when a new group of younger
children entered the puppetry class-
room. lt was an exceptionally bright
face that looked up to me, a thoughtful
face, with not the slightest trace of
contrariness or unwillingness to partici-
pate. She had made the statement as a
statement of fact, as she saw it, not
protesting or objecting in any way. “I
am not a ventriloquist,” she added
quickly in answer to my questioning
eyes. “1 can’t make the puppets talk like
different people.”

Here is another disturbing miscon-
ception about puppet performances
shared by many children and grown-
ups. Ventriloquism, admired and en-
joyed by all of us when demonstrated
by clever and gifted performers, has
nothing to do with puppet players in
a puppet booth. I find myself quite often
telling this to children who come to my

classes in puppetry for the first time.

Fill your lungs with air and let your
God-given voice come out clear and
strong so that everybody can hear you
from behind the curtain of the puppet
booth! Don’t let unintelligible little
squeaks be the voice of that villain on
your hand! Don’t use a colorless nasal
tone in trying to imitate a voice of
authority with nobody able to under-
stand what your burgomaster, or your
general, or your policeman, is supposed
to say! Don’t use falsetto voices except
when a special comical effort is desired.
I try, at times, to emphasize this point
by putting a witch on my hand. Not hav-
ing a woman’s voice, I don’t exasperate
myself and my audience by trying to
use one, though 1 force my voice into
its upper register a little, but with no
special effort to keep the natural mascu-
line voice out altogether. The voice of
a grownup person is, of course, more
flexible in lending itself to different
characters but it has surprised me with
children from ten years on how much
of their feeling for a character can
modulate their voices.

To OBSERVE CHILDREN at their un-
inhibited best, there is, I think,
scarcely a better place than that offered
a puppetry teacher, and that is behind
the puppet booth and in front of it. In
watching children of the different age

groups perform with hand puppets, l
have seen how the beautiful growth of
the inner child manifests itself; how a
six-year-old will talk about her little
world, holding the puppet on her still

easily tiring hand more as a listener
or as a companion than a performer
and how the child, as he grows up, will
be increasingly able to give more weight
and substance to a puppet character,
how his face will radiate with the en-
joyment of projecting feelings of a king
or a queen into the puppet on his hand.

The world of puppets is not limited

to an entertainment for children, al-
though children will be the most en-
thusiastic, the most enchanted, audience

for almost any puppet show. The world
of puppets, in all its different forms
and shapes—hand puppets, marionet-

tes, rod puppets, shadow puppets—has
been and can keep on being an inspiring

art for people of all ages. It is for very

good reasons that so many of our great
men of art and literature had such a
special interest, such a warm feeling

for the puppet theater. In introducing
it to the children, one should be aware
of its high position in the many cul-
tures of the world and of the great
possibilities it offers to enrich a child’s
world, to help substantially in the
child’s development, to give it a really
happy touch. #

 

Freewheeling Fun

A mobile program brings curbside
recreation to youth in Elizabeth, New
Jersey. The YMCA of Eastern Union
County provides youngsters with a fun-
mobile filled with equipment ranging
from a trampoline to abacus kits. A
film projector takes the ride, too, along
with arts and crafts equipment. The
unit, built on a twenty-two-foot Hatbed
trailer, has ventilator ducts for good air
circulation and boasts an electric gen-
erator donated by Esso Research of
Humble Oil. The pioneer unit was de-
veloped with the cooperation of the
Eastern Motor Dispatch, Inc., a truck-
ing firm whose vice—president is a mem-
ber of the YMCA Athletic Club.

The fun began all over again when
the YMCA Federation in Puerto Rico
heard about Elizabeth’s mobile pro-
gram and decided this mode of bring-

OCTOBER, 1962

ing recreation to the community could
extend its reach, too. The Elizabeth Y
and Eastern Motor Dispatch agreed on
the importance of sending the funmo-
bile as a gesture of goodwill. The Bull
Steamship Lines transported the funmo-
bile to San Juan with no charge. New
Jersey’s Governor Richard Hughes and
a delegation of eighty stateside Y people
arrived along with officials from the
EMD trucking firm to present the fun-
mobile. The reception there was tre-
mendous.

Since then, the Y has shipped a mo-
bile recreation unit to Monrovia in West
Africa and will ship one to a boys’ town
in the Philippines. A second request
from San Juan for a mobile swimming
pool will also be honored.

The Elizabeth Y is experimenting
with a range of mobile programs. A

 

mobile swimming pool accommodates
twenty-five youngsters at each curbside
stop. The swimmobile, the first of its
kind, was constructed with a minimum
expenditure by the Y who cooperated
with local industry. Now, work is being
completed on a new addition to Eliza-
beth’s mobile family—a combination
swim- and funmobile on one trailer.
When the Y offered to demonstrate this
curbside program to other Y’s, Jersey
City and Trenton, New Jersey, and some
Ohio cities accepted the offer.

403

Include A L L Children

Recreation must meet the special needs of the handicapped

Alfred H. Moore

with its facilities and trained
personnel, can contribute much
to the physical, mental, emotional, and
social needs of those who participate.
These benefits to individuals, through
more worthy use of leisure time, carry
over to the community and all it rep-
resents—making it a better place in
which to live.
The most encouraging thing about
today’s organized recreation program

T HE ORGANIZED recreation program,

DR. MOORE is assistant professor of edu-
cation at the University of Kansas. This
material is taken from a talk delivered
at the Annual Kansas Recreation Con-
ference, Section for Recreation Super-
intendents.

 

Bowling can be enjoyed by cerebral-
palsy victims who can also participate
in other sports and activities adapted
to the limitations of their handicap.

“Girl talk” occupies attention of young
Sally and a friendly Easter Seal camp
counselor. Handicapped children need
the social experience camping ajfords.

404

is the increasing concern for, and at-
tempt to meet the needs of, the “mis-
fits”——-the ill, the delinquent, the physi-
cally and mentally handicapped, the
maladjusted, and, in general, those who
have been left on the sidelines and
fringes of society.

Handicapped children should, and
can, be included in the recreation pro-
gram. Everyone has the need for new
experiences, for belonging, for friends,
for social approval, for self respect,
and respect by others as individuals.
This is a particular need of the handi-
capped. They have so often been re-
jected and faced with frustration that
their handicaps have been compounded
by personal and social factors leading
to much greater maladjustment than

 

could be attributed to the basic handi-
caps alone. For these children, recre-
ation is a wonderful equalizer in help-
ing bring about more complete fulfill-
ment in the areas of personal and social
competence.

The handicapped child has been de—
fined for educational purposes as one
“who deviates intellectually, physically,
socially, or emotionally so markedly
from what is considered to be a normal
growth and development that he cannot
receive maximum benefit from a regu-
lar school program and requires a
special class or supplementary instruc-
tion and services.”

The child handicapped for education
purposes is not necessarily handicapped
for recreation purposes, however. l'le

RECREATION

 

Arts and crafts are a regular feature
of program at Shady Hill, the District
of Columbia Recreation Department’s
day camp for handicapped children.

may be handicapped for some types of
activities and not for others. He may
participate in certain aspects of the
usual recreation program, but generally
needs Special provisions for others. It
would appear logical for recreation
leaders to consider a program for
handicapped children at three levels of
need: (1) those who can participate
in the usual program with adaptations,
( 2) those who can participate in certain
phases of the usual program with adap-
tations, and (3) those for whom a spe-
cial program must be designed.

HOW CAN recreation leaders deter-

mine the level of need for indivi-
dual children? This comes usually
through observation of children in try-
out experiences and from information
supplied by teachers, parents, or others.
A good recreation leader will observe
children who are “misfits,” whose par-
ticipation is limited, and whose general
behavior indicates their needs are not
being met. We must remember that
there are reasons why a child is a “mis-
fit.” When the reasons are understood
then steps can be taken toward correc-
tion, particularly if the trouble is of a
situational nature—and this is often the
case.

Certain physical conditions are ob-
vious and impose. obvious limitations
on participation with the nonhandi-
capped. Consider such conditions. as
Clubfoot, the amputee, the wheelchair
case, the cerebral-palsied child, and the
blind child. Less obvious would be such
physical conditions as partial sighted-
ness, hearing impairment, speech de-
fects and poor health. In such cases the

OCTOBER, 1962

emotional effects might be more of a
limiting factor than the defect itself.

Children with mental retardation are
generally below normal in physical
abilities, rating below normal in motor
performance and coordination. Clinical
types, such as the Mongoloid, are ob-
vious. The familial, or run-of-the-mill
retarded child, is less obvious. Again,
the emotional factor may be of greater
importance with the retarded cbild than
is mental retardation itself.

The group probably posing the great-
est problem in the recreation program
are those children who are emotionally
and socially maladjusted. These child-
ren may be average or better in intelli-
gence and physical abilities but may
also include physically and mentally
handicapped individuals, all with vary-
ing degrees of maladjustment.

HOW DO WE recognize emotional
and social maladjustments? This
comes through observation for behav-
ioral mechanisms employed in striving
for adjustment and used to an abnormal
degree; for example, aggression of an
angry, resistive, and antagonistic na-
ture; withdrawal as evidenced by day-
dreaming, regression to a more im-
mature behavior, and otherwise avoid-
ance of the situation; dissociation or
refusal to discuss, to listen, or to rea-
son; excessive rationalization to make
things seem right; and over-compensa-
tion to cover up a deficiency or conflict.
All behavior is adjustive in nature.
The mechanisms discussed above, and
many others, are employed by all per-
sons in striving for adjustment. How-
ever, carried to the extreme, or over-
dependence on certain mechanisms to
the exclusion of more desirable ones,
is evidence of maladjustment.

A WORD OF CAUTION: recreation per-
sonnel are not expected to be diag-
nosticians in the identification of ex-
ceptional children and their behavioral
needs; nor should there be too much
attention to the handicaps of children.
Attention should he focused on the
child, on what he can do, and on what
is best for him in terms of placement
in the program and activities to be
provided.
Including the handicapped child in

the recreation program is important,
but it just doesn’t come about without
effort and planning. To be successful
in such a venture there are certain basic
considerations which should be given
attention:

0 Recreation leaders must have a phi-
losophy favorable to including the
handicapped. Lip service is not sufli-
cient; the philosophy must be evident
in practice, and should be known to the
community.

However, handicapped children have
the same basic needs as all children.
They are more like than unlike the non-
handicapped. Their need for recreation
pursuits and opportunity is as great if
not greater. They can and should be
included in the program.

0 The community must be “sold” on
the philosophy and the sort of program
to be implemented. Random publicity
through communication media is not
suflicient, although important. A plan-
ned, organized approach to getting the
understanding, support, and coopera-

tion of community leaders and agencies
is essential.

0 All those who want to participate in
a recreation program should be in-
cluded. No doubt there will be many
who want to participate but who do not
for various reasons. The handicapped
child and his parents may feel that he
is not capable of participating and that
he is not wanted. Effort must be made
to find these children, to make a place

for them, and to let them know that they
are wanted.

0 It may be necessary to convince some
that they should participate. A program
of public education as to the impor-
tance of recreation and the services
available should help. Personal contact
with parents and agencies serving

handicapped children is probably most
effective.

0 The program should be so designed
that those who want to participate can
participate. This will involve such
things as:

GROUPING —— considering such factors

as develOpmental, ability, and interest
levels.

PROVISION or VARIED ACTIVITIES —oerr-
ing a wide selection in terms of the
nature of the child’s handicap. his abili-

405

tv, and his interest. There must be some-

t1, . ilanll! f or everyone to meet both
1w. I. . m social needs.

I). .11.. IzArIOy 0F FACILITIES AND
J ' .u mn I as - where feasible —— placing

r-.-.rtain aetluties where they are avail-
able to more people.

'I‘ARING RECREATION T0 PEOPLE WHER-
EV‘ER THEY MAY BIZ—hospital, convales-
cent home, Special school. their own

home.

COOPERATION WITH AGENCIES — work-
ing with handicapped children, such as
the blind, deaf, crippled, mentally re-
tarded, and maladjusted. Such agencies
may meet certain needs as medical care,
education and training, or rehabilita-
tion. However, they often have limita-
tions of facilities and staff for meeting
recreation and social needs of the child-
ren in situations conducive to good
recreation and mental health practices.
The trained recreation worker, and the
facilities at his disposal, can contribute
much to improved recreation opportu-
nity for the handicapped in such situ-
ations by giving the children a chance
to get into the community, to have new
people brought to them, and to eXperi-
ence greater variety in activities.
MAINTAINING A YEAR-ROUND PROGRAM.
Occasional efforts, such as a summer
camp for the handicapped, while im-
portant, do not meet the continuing
recreational needs of the handicapped.
The program must be ongoing, but
with changing emphasis. Needs during
the school year and summer differ.

0 There should be a continuous survey
of community recreation needs. This

Visitors at the 1962 Los Angeles
County Fair in Pomona, California,
during September, were invited to two
senior-citizens presentations and to view
the special marine aquarium in the skin-
diving booth in the sports section.

Senior citizens’ music clubs from Bell
Gardens, Maywood, and Garvey County
Park in South San Gabriel presented in-
strumental music in the amphitheater

406

should be the primary responsibility of
the recreation department, but should
involve other interested agencies. There
is need of an initial survey to ascertain
status, and a continuous survey to keep
abreast of new and changing needs.
The survey would include recreation
services and facilities of the total com-
munity; the nature and extent of these;
assessment of immediate interest in
recreation; immediate and long-range
recreation needs; identification of those
needs which should be met by the rec-
reation department, and those which
should be met by other agencies; ways
and means of coordinating community
effort; extra-recreation services, such as
counseling and guidance, medical su-
pervision and advice, and staff train-
ing; personnel; facilities and equip-
ment; and cost of both present program
and anticipated expansion. The con-
tinuous community survey is important
to the success of the total recreation
program, and at the same time it can
reveal the needs of the handicapped.

0 Community services should be co-
ordinated. This should be a cooperative
effort by the interested agencies in
implementing the survey findings by
activity Of a representative central com-
mittee. Various agencies include rec-
reation in varying degrees in their
programs—the schools, hOSpitals, and
youth groups, such as the scouts, 4H
clubs, YMCA, and YWCA. Coordina-
tion helps avoid unnecessary duplica-
tion, reveals those who are not heing
adequately served, and strengthens all
programs.

They Came to the Fair

under the direction of LaRue Hilliker of
the Los Angeles County Department of
Parks and Recreation. The concert was
cosponsored by the Los Angeles County
Committee on Affairs of the Aging. 0n
the fair’s Senior Citizens Day, Mr. Hilli-
kcr produced a variety show in the am-
phitheater with the theme “Let’s Get
Into The Act.” The senior citizen per-
formers came from Alhambra, Para-

. Well-trained recreation leaders are
essential. Particularly, they must under-
stand and like handicapped children,
have the flexibility to adapt and im-
provise to meet immediate situations,
and have patience. In games it may be
necessary to have few and simple rules,
to simplify the equipment, to use fewer
players, to make competition more even
by giving some children a handicap, to
teach by example more than verbali-
zation, to teach one part of a game at
a time followed by practice, to rein-
force learning through repetitions, to
maintain interest by changing activities
more often, to provide more rest peri-
ods, to assure a feeling of success for
all, and to compliment the children for
success.

THE GENERAL recreation objectives
for handicapped children are the
same as for all children. The emphasis
may need to differ in certain respects,
and the means of attaining objectives
and the pace may differ. Much can be
done within the framework of an exist-
ing program, yet the special needs of
handicapped children require more
than mere adaptation of the usual pro-
gram. Special activities for special
groups must be planned.

To include handicapped children in
the recreation program there must be
good leadership. Total community rec-
reation needs must be ascertained, and
the total community program must be
coordinated. Only through such an ap-
proach can handicapped children truly
and completely be included in the rec-
reation program. #1:

mount, Maywood, Huntington Park,
and Los Angeles.

The county’s skin-diving booth ex-
hibited underwater equipment and dis-
tributed instructive literature. The ex-
hibit°s theme was “Interest in Marine
Life Preservation,” and the aquarium
contained such undersea creatures as
the moray eel, Pacific spiney lohster,
perch varieties, and rock blenneys. #

RECREATION

@PROGRAM

 

AFTER-SCHOOL
ARTS

and

SCIENCE

 

Creative activity program in West Orange, New Jersey, provides a lifetime of enrichment.

Betty W11 alen

ECREATION can nourish muscles,
R nerves or intellect. Recreation

offers many ways tu constantlv
nourish children’s imaginations and
bring forth a full flowering of their
fertile minds. How wonderful it is to
see the release of joy recreation can
bring; how beautiful to know that we
have tangible ways of teaching growth

of thc human Spirit which will remain
for a lifetime.

West Orange, New Jersey, is a com-
munity which provides its citizens with
the opportunity of taking part in many
forms of athletic recreation, such as foot-
ball, baseball, skating, and swimming.
It is also fortunate in being the home
of an organization known as the Cre-
ative Arts Group which has developed
a highly successful after-school pro-
gram of creative activity. The West
Orange Department of Recreation ac-
knowledged the need for just such a
program when it was approached by
founders of the group at the time of
its inception and was receptive to plans.
The department has helped the group
financially and in other ways since its
beginning seven years ago ( See RECRE-

ATION, December 1956).

Every Saturday at Roosevelt Junior
High School some two hundred children
converge between 8:45AM and 2:30PM
to take part in the courses offered in

MRS. WHELAN is past-president of the
West Orange, New Jersey, Creative Arts
Group. She has also served as financial
secretary for the group.

OCTOBER, 1962

art, drama, dance, and science. Classes
in drama and dance are also held
during the week for approximately an-
other one hundred children. Without
exception, each child arrives with
shining face, anxious to participate.
What happens in class is a delight to
see. Observers quite literally note trans-
formations as eager feet, hands, and
voices free themselves.

The scheduling of the classes is so
arranged that those wishing to partici-
pate in more than one activity may do
so. Many children join two or three
classes, perhaps drama, art and, science.
Each of these stimulates in a difierent
way, but all are so closely connected
that the final result is a marvellous
knitting together of expression.

THE SCIENCE PROGRAM is designed to
provide an opportunity for those
seeking knowledge through participa-
tion in a flexible science course not
ordinarily available in the classroom.
The children are encouraged to probe
and learn about a great variety of dif-
ferent things. A list of activities during
the first twelve lessons this year in—
cluded:
0 Discussion of fossils and fossil de-
ve10pment. Molds and casts were made
from clay and plaster of Paris.
0 Lecture on processing of natural rub-
her and making of synthetic rubber.
Experiments were then performed on
the difierent rubbers.
0 Discussion of atomic energy with il-
lustrations and charts. Experimented

on value of foods that might be used‘
in underground shelters. Methods of
purifying water were discussed and
each member of the class made experi--
ments.

0 Discussion of motors and fuels. Each.
student constructed a small electric
motor. Also investigated the workings.
of automobile generators.

0 Several films were shown as an in-
troduction to the fascinating world of'
biology. Three living things, the frog,
fish, and earthworm, were studied and'
dissected. The use of the microscope-
was discussed and students prepared
their own slides.

o The children performed experiments.
with static electricity and magnetism-
and made a cloud chamber.

0 The class made a field trip to—
McGraw-Edison Research Laboratories
in West Orange.

The science instructor is Benjamin
Estelow, well-known in the Oranges for-
the fine extra-curricular science pro-'
grams he has been conducting since he -
began teaching. Mr. Estelow has been
with St. Cloud’s School in West Orange-
since 1955.

N THE PERFORMING ARTS of dance and'

drama, children are inspired to ex-
press themselves through the medium of
body movement, improvisation, and
pantomine. The dance program en-
courages the releasing of attitudes, emo-
tions, and the personality in dance-
form. Classes stimulate freedom of'
movement and teach fundamentals of

407

 

dance techniques. The adult dance les-
sons are based on the same experiences
as the younger groups. The teacher of
the children’s groups is Micki Wesson
who has such a way with her students
that the shyest child responds with
amazing freedom. Micki’s background
includes years of study with Anna So-
kolov, Jose Limon, Doris Humphrey,
School of American Ballet, Martha
Graham, and many others.

The adult dance is instructed by
Judy Martin, who studied with Martha
Graham, Anna Sokolov, and Marcia
Cunningham, to mention just a few.
She is currently associated with the
Paperbag Players, a New York group
of artists who perform for children
(see RECREATION, February 1962, Page
93). She has also choreographed and
danced with her own company through-
out the East.

Drama classes utilize the education-
al possibilities of dramatic teaching for
everyday living—to develop thinking.
imaginative, expressive, poised individ-
uals. sActivities include pantomine,
storytelling, story improvisation, choral
speaking, voice and speech develop-
ment.

The teenagcrs taking the drama
course form “The Pied Piper Teen
Theater Group” and learn acting tech-
niques, makeup, stage design, directing,
and production. They are also given
speech training as a part of the program
by a most able teacher, Albert Kupferer,
supervisor of speech for the West
Orange School System.

Instructing the drama classes is Rosi-
lyn Wilder, who has been teaching cre-
ative dramatics for eleven years. She
was director of the Wilder Drama
Studio and is responsible for Teen
Theater Showcase, an annual festival

408

of plays. Several dramatic groups meet
and give presentations. It is an all-day
affair and benefits each group in many
ways. They learn a great deal by com-
parison and friendly criticism. The
Pied Pipers also take field trips to plays,
rehearsals, and related special pro-

grams.
The art media is one that offers wide

opportunities to work with different
materials. The children use their hands,
eyes, and minds in creating freely with
paint, clay, and papier-maché; they
make collages, mobiles, and even mur-
als. This kind of work fertilizes young
imaginations. Some of the work pro-
duced has to be seen to be believed.

SINCE Creative Arts Groups had its
modest beginning seven years ago,
the program has mushroomed into
something quite phenomenal. A pro-
gram that started with a handful of chil-
dren attending‘a few weekly lessons is
now a well-run, eHicient school provid-
ing a total of twenty-two classes for
some three hundred ranging in age from
pre-kindergarten through high-school
age. There is also the adult dance class.

The group’s volunteer board is head-
ed by the president assisted by three
vice-presidents, a treasurer, recording
secretary, and corresponding secretary.
Some thirty persons serve on the board
each year; some hold chairmanships,
some head committees, others serve on
the committees. Thc first vice-prcsident
is also chairman of a small Committee
on Education, composed of four elect-
cd members and two appointed mem-
bers. This committee meets regularly
with the director to discuss all mattcrs
related to the school, such as tuition,
location, and programs, to name a few.

The board has the responsibility of
making all big decisions concerning the
school: raising funds for scholarships,
assisting with assemblies, attending to
publicity, and holding program mcet-
ings designed to educate the parents to
the need and benefit of creative activi-
ties for their children. Working to-
gether with the volunteers on the board
are elected members who were nomin-
ated and asked to serve. Several are
members of the local Board of Educa-
tion and other interested and outstand-
ing townspeople. The effort has proved
it possible for many different persons

to work together on a project of this
kind.

This year the growth of the group
required appointing a director of the
school and an executive secretary.
Gloria Coville was chosen by the board
as the first director of the school. The
task of organizing and running the
school requires almost full-time work
on her part. Most of the summer is
spent setting up locations for the com-
ing year, and carefully scheduling
classes so that as many children as pos-
sible can participate. The careful se-
lection of teachers, itself is no easy task
as the standards set by the group for
instructors are very high, must be made.

ONCE school starts in early October
there are constant problems to be
met and carefully handled by the di-
rector. Each class must be run smooth-
ly, teachers’ meetings organized, open
house and, assembly programs ar-
ranged, and a hundred other things at-
tended to. The assembly programs at
the Saturday School are of special sig-
nificance. Children in every class are
given the opportunity of visiting with
each of the other groups. In this way
they participate in other media; thcy
come to feel and recognize that each is
connected by the same thread, free cx-
pression of one’s inner self.

The children themselves are the best
advertisement for a program such as
that of the Creative Arts Group. Thosc
who doubt should obscrve and see for
themselves the joy and eagerncss with
which each child comes to class, and
sec the changes that occur in class it-
self. Thc clumsy child flying across
the floor, the shy one emerging likc a
butterfly, and the riot of color creatcd
by somc. One girl, now a young tccn-
ager, who has been with the group since
its inccption, some of her
thoughts to a local newspaper. She
sums it all up from the students’ point
of view: “Attending art, drama, and
dance classes with the group has done

WI'OtC

things for me that are so wonderful I
would be lost without them . . . a new
and wondcrful world to live in . . . l
see more of the beauty around me, hear
more of the voiccs of naturc, and under-
stand my own motivations, looking at
myself and others with greater pcrcep-
tiveness.” if:

RECREATION I

ADMINISTRATION

 

DEVELOPING THE RECREATION AREA

AS A NEIGHBORHOOD OENTER

ROM A COMPACT ISLAND CITY of seventeen square miles
F surrounded largely by desert, Phoenix, Arizona, has
exploded in almost continuous annexations and new
housing developments during the past ten years into a me-
tropolis of 211 square miles with almost half a million resi-
dents. Its outpost suburb communities are separated still
by cotton fields, citrus groves, and stretches of .desert; the
city’s center holds older people as its younger population
moves outward and newcomers find homes in fringe areas.
In consequence, the Phoenix Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment finds itself faced with a new challenge in providing rec-
reation service to this vast, sprawling, and changing com-
munity. Many new leaders have been rapidly brought into
the program, given orientation, and presented with oppor-
tunity for expanding the program. Leaders, older in terms
of service, were presented with new problems.

All these developments indicated a need for strengthened
direction, new impetus, and a more unified approach to
community recreation on the neighborhood level. The rec-
reation division isimeeting its challenge through an inserv-
ice training program reflecting, in purpose and title, the
strengthened direction of “Developing the Recreation Area
as a Neighborhood Center.” The training program has been
entirely a coopcrative effort. Leadership of several levels,
working in committee, determined the basic community
need and goal; the career full-time) leaders on all levels

This material was compiled by the stafjr of the Phoenix, Airi-
zona, Parks and Recreation Department.

OCTOBER, 1962

An interesting group project

evolved the material outlined below in discussion sessions
that revealed a dynamic interest and secured total partici-
pation.

The goal implied in the title of the project is being real-
ized slowly but steadily, step by step. During the fall of
1960 the study began with three two-hour sessions on iden-
tifying and knowing the neighborhood, on discovering and
serving interests. Leaders undertook voluntarily to utilize
the material to enrich their service in their neighborhoods.
Reports presented in the fall of 1961 revealed very consid-
erable progress and continuing interest and enthusiasm.
The group then developed the material on needs, included
below, in three more two-hour sessions with an extra session
added through request of the leaders. Leaders gave special
attention to relating needs to opportunities for serving them
through activities in the development and conduct of their
programs. Reports on progress will be made this fall and
further study will be planned as evaluation at that time
indicates.

The concept of a recreation area as a neighborhood cen-
ter envisages the area as serving the recreation needs and
interests of a defined neighborhood by providing an ade-
quate and challenging activity program inviting wide par-
ticipation. This concept of neighborhood service extends
beyond those who chance to participate; it includes the
development of the area as a focal point for recreation serv-
ice and coordination of activities for all within the neigh-
borhood. Its,rea1ization involves reaching out in a dynamic

409

way t.. determine the extent of the neighborhood, to dis-
ie socio-economic character of its people, their needs
crests. It involves an inventory and mobilization of

("3“ '.


lee. whni] and facilities.

inn .tblishing geographic boundaries of the neighborhood
giws the leader the general dimensions of its physical area
and identifies the people he is to serve. A number of differ-
ent kinds of natural and manmade barriers have been found
to serve as effective neighborhood boundaries. If not a
boundary, such barriers can act as deterrents to program
participation if they must be crossed or bypassed to reach
a recreation area. Following are examples of these bound-
ary-barriers: main traffic arteries, canals, streams, river or
riverbed, railroad tracks, undeveloped areas, municipal fa-
cilities (parks, schools, etcetera) , churches, mountain range
or hills, business and shopping centers, industrial areas,
housing project, the distance people will walk or drive.

Neighborhood boundaries are not always determined
solely by natural or manmade obstacles; however, the socio-
economic aspects of a neighborhood must be considered
with the physical factors in the definition of a specific neigh-
borhood. Racial or ethnic aspects, economic factors, as
well as the many others listed below, may have importance
in delineating boundaries within or beyond what would
seem to be the geographic boundaries. Knowledge, under-
standing, and sensitivity to the people to be served-—-who
they are, how they live—these factors are of vital signifi-
cance to the leader in establishing successful relationships
in planning and program. Important factors include racial
group, economic status, cultural background, ethnic hack-
ground, language barrier, religion, age distribution, educa-
tional level, availability of transportation, employment
status and/or welfare status, type of work (factory, manual,
semi-skilled, skilled), interests, working hours, size of fam-
ily, background for leisure activities, school interest, groups
(business, merchants), other organizations, clubs, double-
session schools, undesirable elements, reputation of park
and neighborhood, type of residences, and migratory
workers.

T0 EVALUATE present program, to develop and extend it,
the interests of people in the neighborhood must be
known. These may be discovered in several ways—perhaps
through a study of past activity and attendance records, or
a survey may be made of recreation activities being con-
ducted by commercial, public, and private groups or agen-
cies. Contact with people may be made through groups—
church, school, PTA, business or industrial. Individuals
can be approached by personal interview, door-to-door poll-
ing, telephone, or questionnaire. The leader may make the
survey, and much is to be said for this method, as far as it is
practicable, because of the insight it affords about the people
in the neighborhood and the rapport that can be established
through personal contacts. Volunteers can be used, and
community leaders can give valuable assistance and infor-
mation.
Once the boundaries of the neighborhood have been de-
fined, a survey of the recreation facilities can be made. Fur-
ther program development may depend upon maximum use

410

of all facilities in a neighborhood, upon developing further
the cooperative use of facilities by various organizations
and agencies. The recreation leader can play an important
part in coordinating such use in his role as neighborhood
center leader, and recreation coordinator. Public, private,
and commercial facilities in the neighborhood (or serving
it) need to be surveyed and may include:

Public
Parks and zoos Fairgrounds
Schools Parkways
Museums , Golf Courses
Libraries Ballparks

Private and Agency

Backyard swimming pools YMCA-YWCA

Trailer court recreation Tennis and golf clubs
rooms and game courts Jewish Community Center

Legions, VFW’s Country clubs

Red Cross Hotels and motels (golf courses,
USO playgrounds)
Little theater
Boys’ clubs CYO
Commercial

Gyms and pools
Trampoline centers
Kiddylands

Kart tracks

Bowling alleys
Movie theaters
Golf courses
Nightclubs

Saloons Pool halls
Miniature golf courses Penny arcades
Drive-Ins Ballparks

A RECREATION PROGRAM is predicatcd on leadership;
hence an inventory of sources of leadership and poten-
tial leaders is imperative. Leadership may be found within
the neighborhood or from outside its boundaries. Public
departments and private agencies may provide leaders; vol-
unteers can serve a wide variety of leadership needs. Lead-
ers may be found by direct personal inquiry, by question-
naire, through other volunteers, by making leadership needs
known to the public. Some sources of volunteer leadership
are public and private agencies, schools, service clubs and
other local organizations, parents, junior leaders, and so on.
After having discovered the interests of the neighborhood
and determined the facilities and leadcrship available, it
is necessary to develop a plan to accommodate them inter-
ests. Some of the ways to do this are to:

0 Make an interest-survey chart indicating age, sex, skill
level and degree of interest for all activities.

0 Make a chart listing facilities, then coordinate with in-
terest chart and available leadership.

0 Examine costs in detail.

0 Secure assistance from neighborhood group represent-
atives in establishing priorities for expediting plan and es-
tahlishing immediate, intermediate, and ultimate goals.

0 Prepare a time schedule in accordance with age groups
to be served, major interests and availability of facilities,
leaders, participants.

0 Keep the supervisor informed.

The final steps are in the implementation and evaluation
of the plan. To this end we must securc leadership and as-
sign responsibilitics. This can be done by organizing groups
and clubs on an autonomous or semi-autonomous basis. This
will f rce professional leadership for initiating new programs
or expanding existing activities. After the program has been

Continued on Page 426

RECREATION

 

EQADMINIS TRATI ON

 

RECREATION
ADMINISTRATION
IN METROPOLITAN

AREAS F ‘  -

‘v

 

'5. ' .f’  .
f r ‘ - &

Breaks Interstate Park, K entucky- Virginia.

Part 2 Authorization and function

George Butler

NUMBER of possible arrangements for allocating re-
A sponsibility for recreation in metropolitan areas can

be suggested. The status quo can be maintained; the
service of existing units can be improved; coordination and
cooperation can be affected through informal or formal
means; responsibility for appropriate parts of the recreation
function can be assigned to agencies at different levels of
government; or responsibility for the total recreation func-
tion for the entire metropolitan area can be allocated to one
central authority. Because of the great diversity in the size
and population of metropolitan areas and the still greater
variety of government units within their boundaries, it is
obvious that no single pattern of recreation administration
is desirable or-applicable to all two hundred and twelve
areas. Furthermore, some of the proposals that follow could
not be put into effect in many states until legislation permit-
ting such action should be enacted. Instances can be cited,
however, where most of the proposed arrangements are in
effect. None of the suggested plans presuppose the existence
of a metropolitan government.

Maintenance of the status gum is not the answer—if it
were, the problem of providing adequate and efficient rec-
reation service to metropolitan areas would not exist. The
opposite alternative—that one central authority be created
to administer the total recreation function—would be diffi-
cult to achieve in many areas. Equally important, the wis-
don1 of such action may be questioned, because some aspects
of the recreation function are so closely related to the lives
and interests of the people that they can best be provided
by a local rather than a metr0politan agency. The solution
of the problem therefore seems to lie between these extreme
proposals.

Increased informal cooperation and coordination among
public and private recreation agencies and formal coopera-
tive agreements would undoubtedly add to the effectiveness

OCTOBER, 1962

of existing recreation services, but they may be considered
as a complement to more substantive changes rather than
as means of achieving the desired result. Therefore, divi-
sion of responsibility for the recreation function anlong
two levels of government may be necessary in most areas.
A third level of responsibility might be proposed, since
some recreation services for residents of metropolitan areas
are provided outside the area or benefit equally persons liv-
ing inside it and others beyond its boundaries. However,
such services are not necessarily a primary concern of the
metropolitan area because they are usually rendered by a
state authority or by one or more state agencies in areas
lying within more than one state.

As previously indicated, certain recreation subfunctions
are so closely associated with and restricted to the needs and
interests of the people of the locality that they can best be
administered by authorities at the local level. It is therefore
proposed that all areas, facilities, and services that benefit
only local residents be administered by the municipality in
which they are located or provided. The acquisition, plan:
ning, development, operation, and maintenance of parks and
other recreation areas serving residential neighborhoods and
communities within the boundaries of the city, town, village,
or borough would be a local responsibility. Larger proper-
ties serving the entire city would likewise be under local
control unless, because of their location, facilities, or activi-
ties, they attracted a considerable number of nonresidents.
Other subfunctions that would be allocated to the local ad-
ministrative unit include: (1) the acquisition, promotion,
conduct, and supervision of a program of diversified activi-
ties, carried on at the local indoor and outdoor centers; (2)
the organization of clubs, teams, leagues, and groups engag-
ing in music, drama, arts and crafts, sports, hobbies, and
other activities on a neighborhood or city-wide basis; (3)
the furnishing of leadership service, advice, and equipment

411

to local institutions, agencies, and individuals. The extent
to whi 17 some of these services would be provided by the
1 lat authority may well vary with the size of the municipal-
it . 4 large city department could provide all of them-—
r ... I.-. re If necessary. In a small city, where limited facili-
ties. ‘tatf, funds. and pOpulation would make it uneconomical
or impractical to provide some of these services at the local
level, the need for an administrative agency at a higher level

would be indicated.

WITH FEW EXCEPTIONS incorporated places should pro-
vide basic neighborhood and community-wide areas

and services and are capable of doing so. If the metro-
politan area is composed entirely of such places there is little
reason why the central city or other political units should
need to furnish such areas or services for the benefit of other
localities. Exceptions would be such facilities as a zoological
park or golf course, which would not he provided by the
smaller municipalities; consequently, if their residents used
facilities provided by the central city, they might benefit
from service they do not support through taxation. This in-
equity could be eliminated if the central city charged non-
residents an entrance or use fee or a higher fee than that
paid by local residents.

In these metropolitan areas the county seems the logical
agency for providing the nonlocal aspects of the recreation
function. Among these are the areas and facilities which
serve the entire area, such as large recreation parks, reserva-
tions, and properties such as golf courses, camps, zoological
parks, nature preserves, cultural centers, and parkways. An-
other county subfunction would be the organization of area-
wide athletic leagues, music, drama, nature, and dance
groups and the conduct of tournaments, festivals, and special
events in which groups from all localities take part. Other
services that can be provided efficiently on an area- or
county-wide basis are the conduct of clinics and training
courses and furnishing recreation services to hospitals, nurs-
ing homes, orphanages, and other institutions. Since the tax
burden entailed in furnishing these services would be spread
equitably over the entire population benefited, the arrange-
ment should raise little opposition.

The exception would be if the central city already pro-
vides such services from its own funds, in which case a
county-financed service largely benefiting other localitics
would place a double tax burden on residents of the central
city. In such cases, a possible solution would be for the
county to contract with the central city to extend its services
to the residents of other municipalities. An alternative would
be for the central city to transfer to the county for operation
properties or facilities serving the entire county or for the
county to relieve the central city of the expense and responsi-
bility of providing certain county-wide services. In some
instances, the best solution might be to arrange for the joint
city-county operation of a Specific area, facility, or service.

A DIFFERENT SITUATION exists where much of the county

apart from the central city is unincorporated. Its resi-
dents presumably would have the benefit of neighborhood
or community recreation facilities and services only if they

4-12

. neon-bright strip cities along main traveled
roads; housing tracts in profusion; clogged roads and

billboard alleys; a [very] chaotic mixture of super-
markets, used car lots, and pizza parlors; the asphalt

plain of parking spaces; instead of parks, gray-look-
ing fields forlornly waiting to be subdivided. These
are the qualities of most of our new urban areas——
of our slurbs—wour sloppy, sleazy, slovenly, slipshod
semi—cities.—FROM California, Going, Going . . .
BY SAMUEL E. Wooo and ALFRED E. HELLER.

were provided by private group initiative, a local school
or special district, or the county. In such cases, a county-
wide tax for this purpose would be unfair to the citizens of
unincorporated places that already provide recreation for
their own residents through local tax funds. Possible solu-
tions that would avoid tax inequities would be for local rec-
reation areas and services to be provided in the unincorpo-
rated areas by the school or special districts or for a special
recreation tax to be levied on such areas to provide funds to
be spent by the county in extending such service for their
benefit. As in other counties, recreation areas, facilities, and
services benefiting the entire co‘unty would be provided by
a county agency.

Another solution would be for the central city and other
municipalities to transfer all their recreation responsibilities
to the county, which would then administer the entire rec-
reation function within its boundaries. This transfer would
hc difficult to achieve in practice and would also involvc the
performance by the county of recreation subfunctions that
are more appropriately carried on by a local agency. A spe-
cial recrcation and/or park district with boundaries cotcrlni-
nous with those of the county might be created but, unless
it was given authority or taxing power hcyond that of the
county, there would be little advantage in creating another
unit of government.

The problem is more complex in the seventy-nine metro-
politan areas which include morc than one county or which
extend across state lines. A suggested solution in arcas
within a single state is the creation of a special recreation
and/or park district cotcrminous with the boundary of the
area. The responsibility of such a district should probably
be restricted to providing recreation properties and services
that benefit the entire area. In general, it is not the ideal
type of agency to provide neighborhood and community rcc-
reation facilities and services. Municipalities within the area
would therefore continue to opcratc playgrounds and other
local facilities and to conduct neighborhood and city-wide
activities. Properties and services that benefit residents of
the entire metropolitan area could be transferred to the spe-
cial district, thus relieving the municipalities of the expense
of maintaining tbcm.

Creation of a special district may he achieved more read-
ily than other proposed arrangements such as city-county
consolidation or the transfer of functions from municipali-
ties to counties and it can be a means of securing funds in
excess of debt or tax limitations. 0n the other hand, the

RECREATION

functional authority is opposed by many political leaders
and public administrators as “supergovernment,” as a piece-
meal approach to metropolitan problems, and as an addition
to the already excessive number of local units of government.

Another possible solution in the multiple-county area
would be for thc county governments to arrange for joint
operation of area-wide facilities and services, with authority
and costs divided according to a mutually acceptable plan.
Local recreation functions would be handled in the same
manner as in a single county, with or without unincorporated
areas. Such a plan would require an acceptance by the
county authorities of the need for cooperative action and of
the advantages to be gained by a sharing of responsibilities
and expensc.

SEVERAL MAJOR PROBLEMS with refcrence to the recreation
function facing metropolitan areas are:

0 Planning and acquisition of recreation areas in advance
of actual need so as to assure the availability of adequate
recreation spaces as the population increases and the acqui-
sition before land costs become prohibitive. It is especially
serious in unincorporated areas.

0 Development of a system of administering recreation
which will equitably distribute costs and benefits.

0 Coordination of effort on the part of all levels of govern-
ment which provide recreation service and cooperation
among public and private recreation agencies. Otherwise,
it is impossible to attain the maximum value from the in-
vestment in properties, leadership and services.

0 Expansion by the states and the federal government of
their share of responsibility for providing recreation, in view
of the increasing mobility of residents of metropolitan areas.
0 The need for “an increased awareness of the political en-
vironment in which the recreation profession operates and
an understanding of the political resources available for use
in attaining recreation goals.”*

As previously mentioned, some of the preceding proposals
cannot be put into effect in many states at present because
state legislation authorizing such action is nonexistent. Ac-
cording to Thomas H. Reed, noted expert on government,
the abnormal growth in metropolitan areas “has defied all
existing means of control and directions until the metropoli-
tan problem has become, next to that of national defense,
our greatest political perplexity.” In his opinion, “No other
agency than the state can accomplish the reorganization of
the structure of local government necessary to a solution of
the metropolitan problems.”*

TIIE REPORT by the Advisory Commission on Intergovern-

mental Relations, previously mentioned, likewise indi-
cated the key role of the states in solving the difficulties in-
volved in the general metropolitan problem. Rather than
suggesting a single solution, the commission proposed “legis-
lative provision by the state of permissive authority to all of
its metropolitan areas to employ whichever of these principal
methods is determined by the residents of the areas and
their political leaders to be the preferable one in the light

 

 

*“Challenge: Metro Puzzle,” National Municipal Review, Decem-
ber 1958.

OCTOBER. 1962

@ADMINIS TRATI ON

 

of all the attcndent circumstances.” Among the “arsenal” of
remedial weapons proposed by the commission to be pro-
vided by the state are the following:

Asscrtion of legislative authority regarding metropolitan
areas. The commission recommends that the states, when
considering either general constitutional revision or under-
taking constitutional changes with regard to local home rule,
reserve sufficient authority in the legislature to enable legis-
lative action where necessary to modify responsibilities of
and relationships among local units of government located
within metropolitan areas in the best interests of the people
of the areas as a whole.

Authorization of municipal annexation of unincorporated
areas without consent of areas annexed. The commission
recommends that the states examine critically their present
constitutional and statutory provisions governing annexa-
tion of territory to municipalities and that they act promptly
to eliminate or amend—at least with regard to metropolitan
areas—provisions that now hamper the orderly and equit-
able extension of municipal boundaries so as to embrace un-
incorporated territory in which urban deve10pment is under-
way or in prospect. "

Authorization 0 f interlocal contracting and joint enterprises.
The commission recommends the enactment of legislation
by the states authorizing, at least within the confines of the
metropolitan areas, two or more units of local government
to exercise jointly or cooperatively any powcr possessed by
one or more of the units concerned and to contract with one
another for the rendering of government services.
Authorization for the creation of functional authorities. The
commission recommends that states consider the enactment
of legislation authorizing local units of government within
metropolitan areas to establish, in accordance with statutory
requirements, metropolitan service corporations or authori-
ties for the performance of government services necessitating
area-wide handling, such corporations to have appropriate
borrowing and taxing power, but with the initial establish-
ment and any subsequent broadening of functions and re-
sPonsibilities bcing subject to voter approval on the basis
of an area-wide majority.

Authorization for voluntary transfer of functions from mu-
nicipalities to counties and vice versa. Thc commission rec-
ommends the enactment of legislation by the state author-
izing the legislative bodies of municipalities and counties
located within metropolitan areas to take mutual and co-
ordinate action to transfer responsibility for specified
government services from one unit of government to the
other.

Additional recommendations call on the states to author-
ize the creation of metropolitan area study commissions and
of metropolitan area planning bodies. Among the functions
of the latter body would be providing advisory recommenda-
tions to the local units of government in the metropolitan
area with respect to its planned development and the devel-
opment of area-wide plans for land use and capital facilities.
The commission also proposed several types of direct state

413

actio. 1 involving assistance to metropolitan areas and the ap-

] v _ ‘. u n of certain controls with reference to their operation.
‘ "u 'vct-mmendations by the advisory commission are di-
1x. 3’ ' I» hard the general problems of metropolitan areas

In: I are equally applicable to the recreation function.
1‘ tin-t arc- put into effect in a state they will facilitate the
allocati. III of responsibility for recreation service among ap-
propriate government levels and agencies. Recreation au-
thorities therefore have a stake in the passage of state legis-
lation that will help make possible the best solution of the
recreation problem in metropolitan areas. #

(To be continued next month)

For Want of a Plan

THE RECENT REPORT on California Going, Going . . ., is-

sued by California Tomorrow, a nonprofit educational
institution in Sacramento, explored regional planning in the
state and discovered a sad situation: lt found that, “Because
local planning is inadequate for dealing with area-wide prob-
lems, the state legislature has authorized the creation of re-
gional planning commissions. These may be formed in any
of three ways: (1) area planning commissions representative
of city or county commissions may be established by counties
and cities by resolution of the governments involved; (2)
two or more neighboring counties may create a planning
district upon a resolution of the boards of supervisors in each
county; (3) regional planning commissions may be estab-
lished by boards of supervisors according to district bound-
aries drawn up by the State Office of Planning.

“But, there is, in fact, no planning authority in California
extending over a full region or metropolitan area, and none
of the three methods now available for establishing area-wide
planning is completely satisfactory. The only commissions
that have been established have been in small areas for only
parts of total regions. Even here commission disagreements
between cities and counties or between counties themselves
have affected both the financing and the programs. . . .

“All area-wide planning commissions, in the absence of
area-wide government, are ‘fioating type’ agencies, power-
less to carry out the plans they prepare. They are completely
at the mercy of each single government within the area. Even
if there were regional governments to back up the regional
planning, the planning would not be completely effective
without an over-all state plan for the development of Cali-
fornia’s lands. No such state plan exists. Meanwhile the
slurbs (sloppy semi-cities) eat their way across the plains,
without regard to community planning or regional planning,
or federal planning programs.”

The report is available for 3.75 from California Tomor-
row, 334 Forum Building, Sacramento 14.

 

' FIELD

S RTHUR E. TODD, formerly a district representative of

the National Recreation Association and well known

in the recreation field, was appointed director of field
services for the Association, as of September 16. After serv-
ing as acting director for some months, Mr. Todd now fills
the spot left by Charles Emery Reed, who retired in January
1962 after forty-five years of service. Mr. Todd, who ob-
tained his B.A. from Ripon College, Ripon, Wisconsin, and
his M.A. from Drake University, Des Moines. Iowa, joined
the staff of the Association in September 1943. He was as-
signed as field representative of the Midwest District with
headquarters in Kansas City, Missouri. In 1955, he began
a four-year leave-of-absence to serve as director of recreation
for the United States Air Force in Europe. When he returned
to the Association in 1959, he served a period in charge of
office administration at NRA headquarters in New York City.

Mr. Todd approached the recreation field with a musical
accompaniment. First a music teacher in public schools in
Kansas and in lowa, he subsequently taught music at Drake
University and Stephens College in Columbia, Missouri.
During this period, he began to combine his music with an
interest in recreation. During his summers at Stephens he
worked for the Iowa Extension Service where 4-H camps
and women’s choral programs were his dominion. He also
served as director of training for the state of Iowa Works
Progress Administration, training personnel for recreation
leadership. In 1943, as a program specialist in the West-
chester County, New York, Recreation Commission—now
the \Vestchester County Department of Parks, Recreation,
and Conservation—Mr. Todd conducted training programs
for recreation leaders and organized community sings and
other musical activities.

During his years in the recreation profession, Mr. Todd
has received various awards and citations. He was one of
the founding fathers of the European Recreation Society.
He was cited by the Air Force for spiritual and moral lead-
ership during the time that he worked in Germany with youth
activities. He has also been made an Admiral of the Ne-
braska Navy, an honor similar to that of becoming a Ken-

tucky Colonel.

r I \HE SMALLEST patch of green to arrest the monotony of asphalt and concrete is as important to the
value of real estate as streets, sewers, and convenient shopping. We are saying now for the first
time in New York City that open space is not to be considered as a gouge here and a notch there, de-

priving builders of valuable floor space but as a usable commodity worth more than the office it re-
places—JAMES FELT, Chairman, City of New York Planning Commission.

 

414

RECREATION

 

W. C. Sutherland

D 0 YOU SEE YOURSELF as others see
you? How do you look to you? Do
you look the same to others? These are
questions to ask about your department
or organization, as well. The size of
your agency doesn’t matter; large or
small, it has an image, a profile, a por-
trait . . . and the picture it portrays to
the public is most important.

What is a portrait? From the stand-
point of your agency, it is all the things
that the public sees or hears; it is all the
little pieces of information, all the com-
munications, all the experiences—yes,
all the rumors that touch the public in
one and a thousand ways. The agency’s
basic philosophy, its personality in deal-
ing with the public in terms of service,
its attitude toward its own personnel, its
interest in the total public service, the
reputation the agency has for its activi-

ities in all these areas, day by day—

paints the portrait stroke hy stroke, step
by step, in the minds of the people in
the community.

Impressing the public with the most
favorable attributes is important in in-
ducing a following, continued loyalty
and support. People “humanize” an
agency as they do individuals by giving
personality characteristics to it. They
analyze and appraise an agency as they
would an acquaintance. They apply
descriptive words to it; such as, friend-
ly, dependable, solid, honest, self-re-
specting, or indifferent, cold, unreliable,
insincere, impersonal. They are attract-
ed to an agency they can feel comfort-
able about.

This emphasizes the importance of
team spirit . . . the knowledge of each
employee that hc may, at the proper
time, make his contribution to the build-
ing of the desirable portrait. Every per-
son from the head member and the ex-
ecutive t0 the file clerk is involved. The
board member’s comments in public,
the executive’s attitude toward his staff,
the staff’s attitude toward the organiza-

MR. SUTHERLAND is director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association Recrea-
tion Personnel Service. This material
is adapted from the Royal Bank of
Canada’s Monthly Letter, Vol. 43,
No. 1.

OCTOBER, 1962

YOUR

AGENCY’S

tion, and the volunteer’s pride in
agency, the supervisor’s relationship
with those under him, the telephone op-
erator’s reception of calls, the reception-
ist’s or secretary’s meetings of visitors,
the leaders” acceptance in the neighbor-
hood-HALL these and many others con-
tribute their strokes, one by one, to the
final picture. If the work climate is
healthy and the spirit is right all these
contributions made by each member of
the team in his own way will he com-
bined to create the kind of image that
will distinguish an agency as one de-
serving of respect and support (moral
and monetary) .

THE DESIRED IMAGE does not just hap-
pen . . . it doesn’t come as a lucky
break, from magic dust or from schem-
ers or structural designers behind secret
or sacred doors. Neither can it be im-
posed on the public by proclaiming or
shouting about its merits. It comes
from careful planning and considera-
tion involving deeply the executive and
his board.

The desired image has to be huilt
from the inside out. This accents the
little things for they count more than
the hig ones. Each day, the agency is
judged a thousand times by the per-
sonal experience of a citizen with some
member of your department, not so
much on big issues as in the minor ad-
justments of daily activity. The public
is quick to sense indifference and care-
lessness and just as quick to see through
any shallow veneer or pretense. It ex-
pects character, honesty, dedication,
and other things essential to any suc-
cessful and worthwhile enterprise.
Flaws in the spirit and behavior of the
executive and his staff will be detected.
Yes, it is the little things, the bits and
pieces all put together that make up the
whole image. This image must he
unique and have real meaning to people
if it is to be distinguished from being
just another agency.

In the beginning, we asked two ques-
tions: How does your department or
organization look to you? How does it
look to others? There may be a serious
difference between how we view our-
selves and how the public sees us. The
image is not to inflate our egos, but

PERSONNEL

PORTRAIT

 

rather to give the public and ourselves
a true picture of what we are and what
we do. Therefore, surveys of our pub-
lic and ourselves are necessary occa-
sionally to find out what the people
think we are.

Who are the people we are trying to
impress? First, they are the folks who
participate in our programs and the po-
tential participants. Our future is in
their hands. Second, they are the public
officials who control or influence the
distribution of the community dollar.
Third, there is the related agency and all
those allied and supporting services that
make up the total public and community
service. Fourth, the general puhlic made
up of people who have no special con-
nection with the agency but whose
views and comments expressed infor-
mally and casually may influence pres-
ent participants, the potentials and
those even too young for today’s pro-
grams.

And finally, and most important, are
the employees of the agency. They too,
are affected hy the reputation of the
agency. If they are proud of their af-
filiation, they will be loyal. Perform-
ance will be good and turnover will be
small. The employees must help build
the desired image, but they must also be
inspired hy it. The image displayed will
be the image inside. The more solid the
inspiration, the more successful will be
the picture. The source of the image
huilding force, therefore, must come
from the heart of the agency, its execu-
tive and managing authority.

N ACENCY’S CREATNESS is difficult to
define, but one thing is sure——-it is
made up of individuals and they are all
different. There is no uniformity and
some individuals are charming and
some are not; some are easy to get on
with and others are difficult; some are
impulsive, others predictable; some are
cffective, others less so; but all are
capahle of becoming something greater
than they are now. The place to start
building the desired image is with self,
more specifically, the executive who, in
turn, must develOp, motivate, and in-
spire that he may accomplish his most
important task of bringing out the best

in his staff. #
415

 

The Miraculous City

Are American cities fast approaching a dismal point of

no return? In order to qualify as an expert on the city must
you foretell its doomsday? In an article entitled “The Mi:
raeulous City” in the December 1961 issue of National Civic
Review, Dr. Paul N. Ylvisaker urges a new approach to the
resolution of the problems surrounding the metropolis. He
asked, “Isn’t it about time we view the city of the twentieth
century as less a set of problems than as a substantial human
success?” ****

“We ought to be talking about resolving urban problems.
not about solving them, for I know of no problem affecting
cities which does not basically involve conflicts, contradic-
tions, ineornpatabilities, and differences—not so much be—
tween goodies and badies (in fact. rarely so) but between
more or less decently motivated persons and groups of per-
sons whose self-interests must be tempered, shaped, and
molded if the city is to be anything more than the plaything
of the man with the biggest army or the most money or the
most capacity for mischief, villainy, or seduction.”

He adds, “Judging from the enthusiasm with which re-
search has lately been welcomed hy planners and politicians
alike, we’re in the stage where a study is worth a thousand
deeds. The fact is, a study may make a thousand deeds un-
necessary and another thousand deeds possible-—hy correctly
redefining a problem or preparing the community to accept
action which otherwise would be voted down. But that’s not
always the intent of those who commission studies and there
comes a point where someone must take responsibility and
act. . . .

“I am arguing for three things—more research, more ac-
tion, and a better balance between them.”

In his opinion, we must devote most of our availahle pub-
lic resources to human improvements within the central city
and on physical improvements in the suhurbs. . . . “Money
spent in educating children of the gray area, orienting new-
comers whose income restricts them to obsolescent housing,
providing job skills and opportunities and the like will have
vastly greater returns than money spent on physical im-
provements. There must obviously be a combination of both
but I would stand fast by the suggested priority. . . .

“On the city’s periphery, in the growth and open areas,
one does have elbow room to create new urban forms and
exploit new technology. Here one can experiment with physi-
cal planning with the prospect of broad effect and wide
adaptation. But, for the most part, our physical planners
have heen working downtown, with at best the prospect of
changing only three percent of the physical plant in any one
year. Meanwhile, at the periphery, our new money is heing
spent by a hodgepodge of investors, largely on the basis of
short-range returns and yesterday’s standards.”

416

In Plain English

In a recent talk to classes at West Point, Robert Moses,
New York’s veteran park administrator, made a number of
statements that recreation workers should heed. He stated,
for example:

“If I had my way, no one would graduate from this or
any other institution of learning who cannot read, write, and
speak good, clear, concise, simple English. . . .

“I savagely correct reports and drafts of letters with a
blue pencil, cut them to ribbons, blot out the repetitions,
mixed metaphors, circumlocutions, misspelled words and
dreary Madison Avenue or technical cliches, and the same
writers, perhaps a bit angry and ehagrincd, triumphantly
send back the same tripe the next day. . . .

“You will have gathered that, in my book, next to courage,
the greatest desiderata in public life are writing and speak-
ing plain Anglo-Saxon without unnecessary adornment, long
Latinized words, circumlocutions, and barbarous business
English. . . .

“All life is indeed a battle and the man who has learned
to express himself simply in his native tongue has given a
hostage to fortune.”

Cooperative Planning

Edwin C. Rice, consultant on curriculum services in the
Michigan Department of Public Instruction, made a strong
plea for e00perative planning before a conference sponsored
by the Michigan Inter-Agency Council for Recreation in
November 1961. He pointed out that planning authorities to-
day assume that the school building and site should serve
the community recreation and education needs:

“Since community recreation by its very nature serves
all the people, it would appear that many different people
must participate in planning facilities. Such community
problems as inadequate physical education and recreation
facilities, faulty planning, uneeonomical use of existing fa-
cilities, as well as safety problems all aliect the eliieieney
with which the community may provide satisfactory ree-
reation Opportunities for all of its people. When community
representatives, professional staff of the school, park and
recreation department personnel, etcetera, all plan together,
we can be assured of more adequate and appropriate com-
munity recreation facilities for both education and reerea-
lion. Further, such cooperative planning avoids eostly dupli-
cations whieh otherwise may result in a separate system of
facilities for the school and another for the park and ree-
reation department. Today, the tax dollar must be used
most wisely or we will be forced to curtail the community
services which have been an important part of our way of
conducting civie alIairs. #

RECREATION

THE LAKE
WHERE
EACH
CARES T 0
SHARE

' “Sharing the waters”
: is not just an idle phrase
' among the water sport
enthusiasts on Lake Havasu
along the Colorado River

Charles C. Niehnis

OCTOBER, 1962

   
     
 

<33:

1k ‘ I

.IIL El:
lllll ‘I
IIIIIL I I

IIIIIIII
IIII” I
‘II 1

AI

"R! .u

JIII
‘qlll
II.

   
 

 

  
  
 
 
 
 

.dII In.
II.
I...
III'
I" "

1 III
II...
II III.-

?

   
  

  
      
 
  
 

   
 

 
  

 
   
     
     
   
  
 
  

RECREATION

DIGEST

EFORE Havasu LAKE was created
on the Colorado River, it was
said that “you have to chew the

water before you can swallow it.” This
drainage of a large part of the West
carried a terrific silt load. Few 'people
were interested in the river, except sev-
eral prospectors and fur trappers who
used it as a means to move from place
to place. Then, in 1938 the U.S. Bureau
of Reclamation built Parker Dam, im-
pounding Havasu Lake. Probably no
other lake in the United States has had
greater demands made of it by such a
multitude of outdoor interests.

Havasu Lake was created primarily
to store water and to generate electrical
power for the metropolitan areas of
Southern California. But, when the
Colorado River began backing up be-
hind the dam and flooding raw desert
land, other values were discovered.
Thousands and thousands of waterfowl
migrating down the Colorado River
system every season stopped at Havasu
Lake. Desert bighorn sheep, the num-
ber one game animal sought by sport
hunters, came out of the barren, sun-
scorched mountains to drink from the
lake. Hosts of other mammals and birds
took up residence on its shores. And so,
Havasu Lake National Wildlife Refuge
came into being under U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service jurisdiction.

   

As the roin waters of the Colorado
River were quieted behind the dams,
silt began to settle and game fish began

to appear in the clearing waters. There
were largemouth bass, crappies, blue-

gills, channel catfish, and others.

The first survey of human use was
made in 1947 where it was estimated

that forty-five thousand man-day uses
were made of the lake. These were most-
ly by fishermcn. Within ten years, the
tally sheet showed 239,000 man-day-
uses were made of the area, and they
were not all by fishermen. There were
campers, hunters, picnickers, and a
strange new breed flying about behind
fast boats without benefit of wings—the

water skiers. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife

Service now found itself in the recrea-
tion. business. It knew a great deal about

such things as ducks and geese, but sat-
isfying a public demand for recreation
opportunities was a little out of its line.
So, it employed the U.S. Park Service to
run a survey. The Park Service came up

with the startling fact that Havasu Lake
could expect a million man-day uses by
1970. This threw everybody into a spin,
especially the fishermen.

OBVIOUSLY, the public could not be

denied its right to recreation. No
one knew better than Lou Hatch, the

417

 

Campers on offshore islands, hot used as wildlife refuges, watch an outboarder en-
joying his sport in deeper portions of the lake bypassed by local fishermen.

refuge’s manager, that the rehabilita-
tion of mind and body of modern man
by close communion with the out-of-
doors is a rapidly growing need. Mr.
Hatch consulted his staff of naturalists,
biologists, and law enforcement oflicers.
They also sat in on conferences with
concession owners and representative
groups of fishermen, boat operators,
and skiing clubs. It was found that the
parts of Havasu Lake most suitable for
wildlife, as proven by the use made in
these areas by wildlife itself, were not
satisfactory for boat Operation or ski-
ing. The water. was frequently shallow.
It was often filled with stumps of sub-
merged trees, as well as hidden shoals,
sand and gravel bars, and rocky reefs.

The boater and the skier did not ob-
ject to having these areas closed to
them. However, such areas were ideal
for the fisherman, who moved slowly
and quietly, disturbing neither the wild-
life nor the peaceful tranquility of the
area. In the wider and deeper portions
of the lake, free of underwater and hid-

l

den obstacles, the boater and skier
could enjoy their water sport fully.

Some of the beaches suitable for
swimming were unsuited for either fish-
ing or fast boat Operation. So these
areas were set aside for the one-day vis-
itors—the picnickers and swimmers.
There were also islands not utilized by
wildlife because they were isolated from
the mainland. Such islands were perfect
for the camp-out boater who wanted to
get away from the crowd.

FTER GATHERING ALL the facts, stud-
ying them and then applying the
findings to Havasu Lake, the adminis-
tration set aside certain water areas for
specific uses. But there is more to the
story. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice was charged only with the protec-
tion of wildlife on national refuges such
as Havasu Lake. Funds were not pro-
vided for building campground facili-
ties, marking dangerous reefs for boat-
ers and skiers, placing honndary signs
for open ski areas, and maintaining lake

l

1

l

patrols. The staff administering Havasu I
Lake was faced with solving a rapidly,
growing problem without any available ,
money.

Lou Hatch and his staff worked out
a public-relations program. It was sim-
ple and inexpensive, but quite effective.
Speakers appeared at local public func-
tions, such as civic clubs and the like.
Businessmen and the communities de-
riving benefits from the thriving recre-
ation business on Havasu Lake were
presented with the facts and the prob-
lems. Almost immediately, aid came in
many forms. The Parker Chamber of
Commerce and a local rod-and-gun club
financed and helped build a free public
boat ramp on the lower lake. Conces-
sionaircs provided material for building
sanitary rooms on nearby public camp-
grounds. Tables and benches were do-
nated. Road building equipment of San
Bernardino County, California, was
used on the approaches to the public
campgrounds of Havasu Lake.

Employees of the U.S. Fish and Wild-
life Service rummaged around the camp-
grounds for materials with which to
make buoys. Cast-off tires, tubes, rims,
pieccs of steel. rods, pipes, and bits of
chain or cable were put together to warn
boat operators and skiers of the danger-
ous shoals, reefs, and the limitations of
the area.

To date, the program of sharing the
waters by the division of Havasu Lake
National Wildlife Refuge on the Colo-
rado River has been accepted with sat-
isfaction by fishermen, boaters, skiers,
picnickers, campers, and swimmers.
Equally important, the original purpose
of Havasu Lake has not been lost. It
is still a sanctuary for America’s

wildlife. #

 

Digested with permission from Out-

board Boating, January - February,
196].

Scenery by Projection
Continued from. Page 397

from the Hub Electric Company, 2255 West Grand Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois.
The remainder of the lighting equipment consists of the

418

floodlights which can be made from the ordinary yard flood-
light holder and reHector unit (Sears #3670, open type,
101/3-inch diameter) to which is attached an adapter to hold
the color medium. Those shown have twelve-incb-square
pieces of three-eighth-inch plywood attached to the floodlight
reflectors with angle irons and metal screws, with a circular
area at the center removed. To this face the colors are
stapled or taped. Avoid the internal reHector type of lamp
as it is not sufficiently diffuse; ZOO-watt frosted lamps are

RECREATION

 

'ecommended. 'l'wo floodlights per color circuit are re-
{uired.

It is necessary to have dimmer control for all circuits,
the projection lamp, and from two to three sets of floodlights.
For those who wish to fashion their own control, domestic
wall-box dinlmers are readily available. The unit shown
in the photograph is the Hub Rover Board #2931.

One word about general illumination for thc actors. The
photograph of the little girl on the bridge was made under
the direct front illumination of a 500-watt floodlight falling
on girl, bridge, and screens. Yet the image is quite bright!
Accent spotlights from the sides were kept off the image area,
yet this is not always necessary.

NOW TO THE IMAGERY itself, there are two methods
of approach: imagery by light or imagery by sil-
houette. The bamboo trunks shown are an example of
imagery by light. In this case, the free area around the

Arts and

rafts Corner

Edited by Shirley Silbert

BUTTON BRACELET

The Kanawha Coun-
ty Park and Recrea-
tion Commission in
Charleston, West Vir-
ginia, conducts craft
workshops in eight
different communities
in the county on a con-
tinuing basis. Pro-
gram Director Jane T.
Cox reports that but-
ton bracelets have
been by far the most
p0pular craft ever taught at these workshops. The instruc-
tions given below were deveIOped by Mrs. William S. Staub,
who works with the commission as a volunteer craft teacher.

'I' * ‘I' 'I'

 

Choose thirty-nine shank buttons similar in size and color
or of a combination of colors pleasing to you. Arrange
these in three rows' of thirteen buttons per row. String them
on elastic tinsel beginning at the same end each time.

1. Using a No. 6 crochet hook, chain 48-52 stitches and
join together, being careful to keep the chain from twisting.

2. Chain three and pick up the first button. Complete this
stitch with double crochet. Double crochet three more and
pick up the next button. Continue around the circle and
join together.

3. Chain three and single crochet around circle and join
together.

4. Chain three, pick up first button (second row of but-

OCTOBER, 1962

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

trunks is illuminated by the Hoods. An example of imagery
by silhouette would be to have the trunks cut from strips of
cardboard and fastened to the frame. In this case the free
area around the trunks would he illuminated by the projec-
tion lamp. The trunks themselves would be illuminated by
the floods. Once these principles are grasped through a
demonstration, there is no end to the variety of backgrounds
which can be fashioned from simple materials, even gelatine
or plastic mosaics jointed with narrow strips of tranSparent

Scotch tape.
Here is a list of materials useful for the making of pro-

jection imagery:
Scotch tape

Masking tapc
Assorted pieces of wire mesh for

Kraft paper, 36 inches wide, 60 or
70 pounds
1”-by-2” battens for image frames

Heavy drawing pencil texture
Stencil knife Cardboard
Large sheet of plyboard to cut on, Thumbtacks

Color media, such as theatrical

such as an abandoned Ping- .
gelatines or plastics

pong table

tons), double crochet three stitches, pick up second button.
Continue around circle and join.

5. Repeat Step 3.

6. Repeat Step 4.

7. Fasten thread securely.

I. 39 buttons (13 to a row)
52 stitches
Pick up buttons every fourth stitch
ll. 36 buttons (12 to a row)
48 stitches
Pick up button every fourth stitch
Ill. 44 buttons
48 stitches
44 (32 small buttons)
(12 larger buttons)
Pick up first row of buttons on every third stitch.
Pick up second row on every fourth stitch.
Pick up third row on every third stitch.

IV. Using a No. 5 or 4- crochet hook makes a bigger
bracelet.

Order buttons from B. Blumenthal & Co., lnc., 1372
Broadway, New York 18 (ask for medium-sized shank but-
tons).

Order thread from Lee Wards, Elgin, Illinois.

Make clip earrings to go with your bracelet of two match-
ing buttons.

 

  

.r 
_. Drink Vender sales will "Skyrocket" wherever
‘ ,1» you have poptoml! In addition, you'll realize '_ 
more than 7t 9595 plo_fit on every bog of 4 i H
popcorn vended for a dime! M meons M

not a: ml! at) mil! mg m for

free detoils!

 
    
 

         
 

 

Sno—Kones, Cotton

Hot Dogs etc!!

Also your headquarters for

Candy, Popcorn Poppers,

GOlD MEDAL PRODUCTS (0.

1835 FREEMAN AVENUE, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO

419

 
 

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

0 A portable Wigw arm uses sunpower to raise temperatures
as much as forty degrees and warm up winter campers, ice
skaters, and other winter-sports enthusiasts. This novel tee-
pee is made of Polyethelene, is black-and-white with an alu-
minum tube frame. Wigwarm is big enough to accommodate
a whole family, is easy to assemble and disassemble, and will
withstand strong winds. Top and bottom vent holes provide
ample circulation. For further information, circle #100.

0 Got a conference, festival, anniversary coming up? Now
you can produce names of your members, guests, partici-
pants on colorful raised-letter plastic badges which are both
good looking and reusable. All you need do is dial a name
on the Tapewriter device, click, snip, then peel off the hack-
ing tape and you have a personalized identification label in
crisp white letters against a choice of eleven solid back-
ground colors. The label is then applied to the name badge
made of heavy Styrene plastic. Preprinting of your organ
ization or department’s name in hot-stamped gold letters is
also possible. Can also be used to identify playground lead-
ers, maintenance staff, counselors, youth groups, civic clubs.
For further information on the Tapewriter, circle #10].

0 Providing protective
covering by the use of
nlastic mulch squares
for young trees has re-
sulted in extra growth
Der season up to one
. hundred percent. Ac-
' cording to the Connect-
icut Agricultural
Experiment Station,
mulched apple trees grew twice as fast as unmulched ones
with greater survival rates. Results are attributed to elimi-
nation of weeds under the opaque black plastic squares.
increased soil warmth, moisture retention. For further in-
formation, circle #102.

  

o ls an unsuccessful sound system detracting from your out-
door productions? The acoustical problems of theater al
fresco are numerous—sound distortion, distracting traffic
noises, etcetera. The Harman-Kardon sound system used by
the District of Columbia for its free summer Shakespeare
festival provides optimum sound for the outdoor theater.

The system has excellent sound reproduction, compactness, '

and simplicity of operation. An arrangement of six micro-
phones placed uniformly across a thirty-five-foot stage area
enables the actor delivering a Speech from any off-center
point of the stage to be heard ahove automobile or air traffic.
The system includes facilities for monitoring and recording.
as well as for recorded sound effects. For further informa-

tion, circle #103.
420

MARKET NEWS

 

  

o A variable sonic-impulse fish attractor which simulates
the sounds of injured bait fish, minnows, and insects was
deve10ped by electronic space and missile engineers and is
adjustable for all kinds of fish and fishing conditions. This
is not a fish-catching device, but an attractor bringing preda-
tory fresh and salt-water fish to your vicinity. lt is trans-
istorized and battery powered. For further information,

circle #103.

o A simplified grass-and-leaf
catcher for side- or front-dis-
charging rotary mowers is easy
to attach and is secured to the
mower fittings with adaptor
hrackets. The catcher bag itself
is readily removed and collapses
flat for storage. An aluminum
bottom and heavy wire frame
with duck sides and combina-
tion duck and fiberglass screen
cover are some construction fea-
tures. For further information and specifications, circle

#:104.

0 A pool safety device, called Lifeguard, prevents electrical
accidents in swimming pools by electronically cutting the
flow of electricity immediately and automatically. If the
unit itself should fail, it automatically shuts off all electrical
power. The devicc comes in three sizes for protection up to
either 500, 1000, or 2000 watts. For further information,
circle #106. ’

0 New trimming machine clips away at summer park and
roadside maintenance costs by getting at hedges and over-
hanging branches as well as grass which cannot be reached
with a conventional mowing rig. The machine can be
mounted 011 any standard tractor. The five-foot sickle bar
at the end of an articulated steel arm has a reach of fifteen
feet, six inches. The steel arm has joints corresponding to
the human arm which permits mowing along the guard
fence and on ground sloping away from the road. The ma-
chine can trim both sides of a ditch without leaving the road
and mows high embankments without the danger of upset-
ting which threatens conventional mowing rigs on steep
slopes. A motion picture which demonstrates the unusual
fcatures of lhis machine is available from the manufacturer.
For further information, circle #107.

0 Skiers are no longer at the mercy of nature’s caprices now
that a snow-making system can provide the necessary schuss-
ing and sitzmark stuff when nature fails. The snow-making
unit imitate’s nature’s own method; the only cooperation
needed from the weather is an outside temperature of thirty
degrees Fahrenheit or below. The unit atomizes water with
a compressed air blast and thc resulting mist becomes snow.
Air and water are mixed ill special nozzles which can cover
a two-thousand-square-foot area with four to six inches of
snow in an hour. High-grade steel pipe is a vital component.
For further information, circle #108.

RECREATION

   

"' " ‘-’_"".r'tiii:l.ri.h+ tttlrtilrrl-ttlliiltlli'

 nnsrns ® TRADE MART

American Playground DeVice Inside Back Cover   

Here are catalogues, brochures, films, booklets, services available,

 

 

 

Carabo-Cone  -.._._--....-..s_.._._--__._ . .
381 samples, and so on to help the recreatwn leader. Ctrcle on the cou-
Castello Fencing 3, Judo ,___,_______,_,___H____ 425 P071 the number of any item about which you want more information.
ARTS AND [RAHS IT TOOK FIVE YEARS of planning and rescarcb.
Dukh  ---------—-—----—--__-__ BaCk Cover ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. SelectiOD of arts_  These Were Your Children, a  (.311 the
“(Lox-3&5 supplies includes lithographic emotional disturbances of school children.
Gold Medal Products ___._____________H____“___  crayon peDCils, silk-screen crayons, materials Allows ROW Chude mamfeSt Signs Of emo'
for metal etching, feltcraft, woodbuming, tronal disturbance in the everyday classroom
H & R 424 leathercraft, linoleum printing, textile work seftmg Th? mm noteslllqw the teaCb‘f: WOFI‘S
“""""“'""'“""“""“““""“"“'"‘" and many, many other items. For catalogue, 3'31 the Chllgrern faith: 1" 1201:1333;ng (1533;?
circle #113. C aVIOI‘ an e e g ‘
ances to her colleagues and the child’s parents.
Handweaver and craftsman mun-mm---”  ANTIQUE SPRAYS renew or decorate. They are It is exceedingly well (lone. For further in-
. _ odorless, dry in minutes, can be used on wood, formation, circle #119.
HitlerICh and BradSbV —---—-—----——-------- 379 metal, glass. paper, ceramics, and leather ob-
jects. For free color chart, circle #114. No MORE, No Loss . . - the world’s wafer supply
Honda Associates 331 o o is as much as It ever was, but today s expand-
“  """m'm'mm'm'" FINE LINENS for cam/3565a 011 Palntss bI‘USheS ing populations and increasing water pollution
are included in interesting catalogue of art have brought us on the verge of a crisis in wa.
1- E- Burke ---------—————.-——..--—_..-...._.--._..--  supplies,  also COHtainS a Study Of seven {er Supply. For information on a  entitled
¥3ges 0f Rembranldtis etChingJEC‘lle Homo.” Water, which runs 14%; minutes in color,
- empera, waterco ors, presse oi crayons, circle 120,
Maintenance! Inc. 'mn-"u—"H—"mm—h  pencils, palettes, painting knives, art books #
are listed. For copy, circle #115, RHYTHM PRODUCTIONS. A fascinating selec-
Monroe Company ___-...___..___-____.___.__H 423 . tion of recordings features folk lullabies from
FROM POTHOLDERS T0 RUSS—“hand “Tat/mg is around the world, activity songs, railroad
National Smdios 423 fun. Southern firm offers looms of all varieties rhythms, playtime and international Singing
-m—thnnmh-n— __"'"H" to acconlmOdate the weavers craft, warplng games,  dances from many lands. Com.
frames, bobbin racks, floor looms, table looms, pany also offers collection of full.co]or pic.
Pipo _______ __ H.____---.__-____,_________-_____..__ 425 yarns to suit all needs. For catalogue. circle hues of folk.dance costumes of various na-
#116' tions. Collector’s series recordings feature
Recreation Book Center ._....._ Inside Front Cover Emery-summer ceramic glaze gives an iri- ballads 0f “1.6 Br't15h9131‘35 and mugs Of 5161])“
descent gleam to crafts projects. Needs no For leaaet’mrde #1“1'
Superior Industries  Inside Front Cover firm? and dues mm crYStall‘zed Patfem- . Ce' For: CLASSICAL MUSIC BUFFS. High-quality re-
ramlcs outlet also manFl‘lfacturrils plasftlc animal cordings include a wide range of arias, opera,
' - eyes and firing tree' or fun er in ormation! s mphonies, concertos, ballets, orchestra
To'laf'ex "mm" "mm-mm“ Ins'de BaCk cover Gil-Che #117° \zorks. Also military band records, regimcntal
, Aumo VISUAL marches of the British Army, the Soviet Army
Wolverine Sports ..a................................ 424 Chorus and Band, Scots Guards Pipes and

HIWMHMIMWMMMMWMMW

FOOTBALL
BASKETBALL
ICE-HOCKEY

Last fall, the National Recrea-
tion Association extended its
baseball-softball team accident
insurance program to provide

coverage for FOOTBALL, ICE
HOCKEY. AND BASKETBALL

teams participating in the pro—
grams of NRA-affiliated recrea-
tion agencies.

The 1962 rates are the same as

last year. THERE HAS BEEN NO
PREMIUM INCREASE.

For additional information and

a brochure—application, circle
#150 on the coupon to the right.

OCTOBER, 1962

WHY DOES IT RAIN? What makes a seed
sprout? Youngsters are fascinated with the
world of nature. Filmstrips on weather, plants,
simple machines, animal life, electricity and
magnets, the sky, the earth’s surface, heat, the
sea, and astronomy open doors to discovery in

nature and science. For further information,
circle #118.

Drums. For further information, circle #122.

COLLOQUIAL HINDUSTANI may not be right up
your alley, but languages are fun. Learning a
new language for the pleasure of it will open
up new horizons for travel groups and stay-at-
homes. Language records teach everyday lan-
guage—the Romance languages, Dutch, Ger-

PLEASE NOTE EXPIRATION DATE

100 101 102 103 104 105 10. 107
117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124
134 135 136 137 138 139 140 141

-—-----—-------————-—-----—-‘-‘--‘—----———“-r

Clip and mail today. to
RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R862. 8 W. 8th St.. New York 11

This coupon expires December I. 1962
Please send me more information on circled products.

 

103 10! 110 111 112 113 114 115 III
125 128 127 128 129 130 131 132 133
142 143 I“ 145 14. 147 143 149 150

 

 

 

 

Name Title
Organization
Address City Zone State
352
421

man, Greek, Portuguese, Swedish, and He-
brew. to name a few. Seven-inch, 33 1/3RPM
record comes with booklet. For further infor-

matiou, circle #123.

PUT ON YOUR DANCING SIIOEs. Hoedown,
squares and rounds, instrumental singing calls
-—-a staggering collection of country dance
records from various companies. For cata-

logue, circle #124.

HIT A SWEET NOTE. Music publications include
material on percussion studies, jazz for jun-
iors, vibes for beginners, jazz phrasing, and
methods for studying various instruments. For
further information, circle #125.

SOUND OF MUSIC. Choral collections, secular
and sacred choral library, cantatas and oper-
ettas, instrumental ensembles, solos and col-
lcctions. band books, assembly songbooks,
school danceband publications are those listed
in music company’s catalogue. For copy, cir-

cle #126.

N0 CRACKING. Two song textbooks have been
arranged so changing adolescent voices can
sing them with ease. Piano accompaniments
are included. Parts for regular band and or-
cltestra are given with some pieces. Material
also includes musical experiences such as
playing instruments, rhythmic and creative ac—
tivities, singing, and listening. For further in-
formation on song texts Time for Music and
Music for Everyone, circle #127.

EQUIPMENI AND MAINIENANEE

BEIIIND TIIE FOOTLICIITs. Fabricated sets,
spotlights, floods, footlights, dimmers, acces-
sories, fabricated sets are among the items
described in this catalogue. For copy, circlc

#128.

PRESSURE CONTROL. Comprehensive engineer-
ing manual deals with pressure-actuated
switches, their associated phenomena, and the
terminology they have necessarily developed.
The manual is a useful tool for anyone con-
cerned with the problems involved in sensing
hydraulic and pneumatic pressures. for any-
one concerned with steam heating, water
pumps, heat exchangers, boats, protective door

seals, and welding equipment. For copy, circle
#129.

PRE-WINTER FILLINC of cracks in asphalt and

concrete paving prevents freeze-thaw damage
and further deterioration. Bulletin describes
two new products recommended for this pur-
pose—Lastek 33, a rubberized liquid in one-
quart “nozzle” squeeze bottles, and Lastek 34,
a heavicr composition material in tubes for
cartridge caulking-gun application. Both re-
main elastic, filling cracks and adhering firmly
to adjacent surfaces. For copy of bulletin, cir-

cle #130.

THE CURTAIN RISES. Tbeater lighting effects
include cone lights, gelatines, C-clamps, dis-
play lights, tire effects, fresnel spots, reflectors,
scoOp lights, paint, and filters, color wheels—
everything for your stage lighting needs. For
catalogue, circle #131.

UNEREAKAELE FIXTURES include new corner
lavatory, service sink, and sleeval assembly as
well as a “combination” Iixture—one-piece
water closet and lavatory—and all standard
models, including wallhung and floor types.
Specification sheets on individual fixtures givc
complete installation and roughing-in dimen-
sions. For catalogue. circle #132.

NO LOOSE SCREWS. Hold-it plastic drawer unit
makes storage of small parts an easy matter.
Clear top and front makes contents visible
without opening drawers. Safety lock pre-
vents drawers from sliding out. Precision de-
signed for stacking to any height. Unit size
6%"-by-2%"-by-%" available in three styles——
six tiny drawers, three larger drawers, or
mixed sizes. For further information, circle

# 133.

FUND RAISING. VENDING

FUND RAISING and “ways and means” for chair-
man of scout groups, clubs, church commit-
tees, and other organizations. New tcn-page
manual outlines each step in organizing and
conducting a successful fund-raising effort.
lncludes valuable instructions for publicizing
and promoting the campaign as well as sample

forms for keeping records. For copy, circle
#134.

WINE-EA NC POPPER! New, iInprovcd model
popcorn machine is lighter weight, more com-
pact. Twelve-ounce kettlc capacity. Gleaming
aluminum non-corrosive cabinet, quarter-inch-
thick plastic doors, and special aluminum al-
loy kettle cuts maintenance costs. Standard
llO-volt, 200-watt AC Opcration. For further
information, circle #135.

PEACE OF MIND for the RECREATION DIRECTOR

Get proper insurance coverage for your personnel and program par-
ticipants. A recreation agency affiliated with the National Recrea-
tion Association is eligible for many types of special group-rated in-

surance protection:

1. Business Pursuits coverage for the recreation employe (#145).

2. Team Sports coverage for the teams in the department's programs (#146).
3. Voluntary Accident coverage for the individual participant (#147).

4. Blanket Recreation-Activities coverage for your entire program (#148).

5. Life Insurance for the recreation professional (#149).

For further information on any of the above, circle the number given on
the coupon on the reverse side and complete details will be sent you.

422

 

[OW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

A WEALTH OF INFORMATION for the recreation
executive is included in a series of handbooks
prepared by the Milwaukee Department of
Municipal Recreation and Adult Education
and available for the cost of postage (five cents
per copy). Subjects include Counseling of
Part-Time Personnel, Recreation Interns, Stu-
dent Trainees, Golden Age Clubs, Organiza-
tion and General In formation, Program Evalu-
ation, Referral-Guidance Program, Outdoor
Education Program, Fees and Charges, and
Joint Planning of Facilities and Programs.
To obtain one or more of these pamphlets,
send a self-addressed, stamped envelope large
enough to hold the 8%-by-11-inch pamphlets
to Donald B. Dyer, Milwaukee Public Scbools,
Municipal Recreation and Adult Education,
5225 West Vliet Street, Milwaukee 8, Wiscon-

8111.
O

ANTILITTER LILTS. A pamphlet of Four Ameri-

can Songs contains scores for “Keep America

Beautiful,” “Don’t Litter Our Land!”, "A-
Tisket-A-Tasket, A Corner Litter Basket,” and
“The ‘Big Sweep’ Song.” Although some of
the lyrics might invoke a humorous rather
than inspiring mood, these songs sbould add
some lilt to projects designed for a cleaner
America. Available from Mercury Music
Corporation, 17 West 60th Street, New York

23, for $1.00.
0

PRECEPTS FOR PARENTS raising teenagers are
contained in an excellent leaflet published by
the Juvenile Court of Franklin County, Cham-
bersburg, Pennsylvania. The admirable col-
lection puts particular stress on responsibility
for children—in school, home, and church
life—and affection-tempered-with-discipline
for the parent. Valuable to anyone dealing
with teenagers, Rearing a Teenager: Sugges-
tions for Parents, is available for $.08 from the
Juvenile Court of Franklin County, Chambers-

burg, Pennsylvania.
0

KNOWINC THEIR WAT. The photo-tilled Hi
Neighbor books contain stories, songs, facts,
and games from other countries. The latest in
the picturesque series, Book 5, features the
festivals, games, rccipes, craft projects, and
songs of Burma, Guatemala, Spain, Sudan,
and Egypt (UAR). Available for $1.50 from
U.S. Committee for UNICEF, United Nations,
New York.

PHYSICAL FITNESS POSTERS, eleven in all, come
in full color and measure twelve by eighteen
inches. Of especial interest to recreation
leaders are the posters titled “Strength and
Vigor,” “Physical Checkup,” and “Exercise
and Play.” A cartoon and a lively jingle at-
tract youngsters’ attention. The posters are
$.12 each from the National Dairy Council,
111 North Canal Street, Chicago 6.

RESPIRATION by the mouth-to-mouth method
is covered in Rescue Breathing, an eleven-page
booklet. Very clear illustrations supplement
the simple text. Available for $.25 from Em-

ployee Relations, 19 West 34th Street, New
York 1.

RECREATION

t

I

 

I Everybody who has ever operated a
bowling alley, skating rink, field house,
auditorium, gym, or recreation center—
to mention only a few—knows what a
headache dust removal can be. When
people walk into any building, they just
naturally track in a lot of dust on their
shoes and clothing. Removal of this
dust has often proved a headache to rec-
reation operations. Oldtime methods
like mopping, experts say, do not really
get rid of dust; they just slosh it around.
When the floor dries, most of the dust
is right back where it started—-—on your
floor.

The lnstitute of Industrial Launder-
ers, a non-profit trade association, has
studied new means of eliminating dust
to reduce costs and maintenance man-
hours. The institute declares that the
use of a new kind of dry, chemically
treated mop, available almost every-
where on a rental basis at nominal cost,
is the best way to accomplish this. It
was originally developed by the Bell
Telephone Company to keep dust out of
its telephone relays and delicate elec-
tronic apparatus.

The new dust—control system is basi-
cally simple. The mop covers are chem-
ically treated to remove dust rather than
“just push it around.” Hospitals were
among the first to ad0pt the new dust
control system. Dry maintenance of
floors is one of the greatest advantages
of this dust-control system. Another is
a significant reduction in the number
of needed manhours to maintain floors.
The soiled mop covers are returned and
replaced by newly treated ones. The
system is popular with maintenance
workers, since it makes their work pleas-
enter and easier.

There are several competitive systems
of the new dust-control mops and tools
availahle. The -Institute of Industrial
Launderers does not recommend any as
against the others. All are available on
a rental basis which requires no invest-
ment and no inventory.

For further free, impartial informa-
tion about dust control, write to the In-
stitute of Industrial Launderers, 1833
Jefferson Place, N.W., Washington 6,

MR. TODD is held director of the Na-

tional Recreation Association.

 

OCTOBER, 1962

Arthur Todd

D.C. The institute has no products what-
ever of any kind or nature to sell and
its efforts are educational only.

I Several interesting maintenance
items are included in the 1960 Annual
Report of the St. Paul, Minnesota, Bu-
reau of Parks and Recreation:

' An outdoor night lighting system was
completed at all playground buildings.
New HOIIOthane fixtures, installed to
illuminate all sides of the building, are
controlled by a time switch. This per-
1nits lights to be turned on at dusk and
automatically turned off at 1:00AM and
is expected to reduce vandalism.

° The bureau is constructing new three-
board-high hockey rinks. lt plans to
convert all hockey rinks to three-board-
high. This is necessary for a better
hockey playing situation and to cut
down on accidents.

' It has been general practice during
1960 to replace reel-type mowers with
small rotary types, to give better scrv-
ice. The bureau found it advisable to
replace much of the light power-mowing
equipment with heavier equipment, uti-
lizing tractors, because of constant use
given to such equipment throughout the
cutting system. A thorough study was
made of the advisability of such action,
and it was found that over a period of
years heavier equipment is more eco-
nomical.

° A regular program of proper main-
tenance of equipment, including greas-
ing, eliminates much of the lost time of
vehicle and driver. It provides a better
inspection system whereby defects in
equipment are more casily determined.
Washing equipment was installed in the
garage. This saves both time and money
when bureau personnel can accomplish

the job.

" “In an era when a growing number
of Americans seem persistently unable
to hit a garbage can, the work of kcep-
ing the parklands attractive has come to
assume major proportions,” states the
trenchant and readable 1961 Annual
Report of the Essex County, New Jersey,
Park Commission. “True, Essex County
park use has doubled in the past decadc
—but the work of garbage removal has

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   

more than tripled. Once collections on
Friday and Monday insured a clean sys-
tem; now crews must work every day.
July of 1961 was a typical month. It
required 1,116 manhours to haul off
garbage just from the picnic areas in
South Mountain and Eagle Rock Res-
ervations and Brookdale and Grover
Cleveland Parks. Based on a forty-hour
work week, that would be eight men la-
boring full time on garbage relnoval
alone. That’s part of the price America
is paying for someone else to clear away
its leavings.”

Essex County also reports that “for
years tennis players have complained
that asphalt courts made their feet burn
and also discolored their tennis balls.
This year a patented sealer was applied.
The green, smooth surface seemed to
cut down on heat and it definitely less-
ened discoloration of balls.”

 MONROE

TABLE AND “W
CHAIR mucus

    
   
   
    
   
    

  

{FOLDING
PEDOESTAL TABLES

ing to Churches, Schools,
Clubs, Lodges ond oII orgoni-

lotions. MONROE 1963
Folding Bonquet ‘l’obles are

unmotched for quolity, duro-
bility, convenience ond hond-
some oppeorance. 94 models ond sizes for
every use. Write for prices, cotolog.

FREE- BIG 1963 CATALOG

Color pictures. Full line MONROE tables, chairs.
table and chair trucks. platform-risers. pon-
able partitions. Write today!

THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St.,

  

    
         
         
   

  

Partitions

éolfax, li:r_wa

   

 

GET TH GUYS
TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessi0ns
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm on
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for National's
fantastic free cataIOg of more than 850 all-time hit
songs. available in slide form for as low as title a
tune! Need a proiector? Let us know . . . we'il save
you real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS
46 West 48th Street. N. Y. 36, N. Y.

,a

423

  FOR THE ILL

at

 o m

*l‘ The Institute of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation, New York liniver-
sity Medical Center, has published Re-
habilitation Monograph XX, Homemak-
ing and Housing for the Disa bled in the
United States, by Julia S. Hudson, M.S.,
Elizabeth \\ agner, OTR, and Muriel E.
Zimmerman, OTR. The first section
of the new publication lists centers in
the United States providing training for
disabled homemakers, gives the results
of a survey on training programs for
disabled homemakers in the United
States made in 1961, and an annotated
bibliography on rehabilitation of the
disabled. The second section gives a list
of housing projects for the aged in the
United States and other nations, a list
of organizations concerned with hous-
ing for the aged and disabled, and an
annotated bibliography on housing for
the aged and disabled. Produced with
the aid of a grant from the U.S. Oltice
of Vocational Rehabilitation, the new
publication can be secured for $1.00 by
writing to Publications Unit, Institute
of Physical Medicine and Rehabilita-
tion, New York University Medical Cen-

ter, 4-00 East 34th Street, New York 16.
*l‘ The Young Adult Review is designed

to provide a means of self-expression
for those members of the Brownsville
Boys Club Cerebral Palsy Pavilion in
Brooklyn, New York, who have literary
ambitions or just something to say
which they would like to see in print.
It has been in preparation since last fall.
Among the articles contained in the
Young Adult Review is a variety of
topics ranging from reports on group
activities and movie reviews to articles
of general interest. This magazine is
presented in the hope that it will be of
interest to our friends, encouraging to
other handicapped people and be en-
ioyed by all. It is published by Cere-
bral Palsy Pavilion, Brownsville Boys
Club, 1555 Linden Boulevard, Brooklyn
12, New York.

I R. Roy Rusk of the Arthritis and
Rheumatism Foundation was elected
chairman of the National Inter-Health
Agency Committee on Recreation. See-
retary is Dr. Morton Thompson, acting
director of the National Recreation As-

DR. THOMPSON is acting director of the
National Recreation Association Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the

III and Handicapped.
424

. i ’ AND HANDICAPPED

 

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

sociation Consulting Service on Recrea-
tion for the 111 and Handicapped. Mrs.
Rollin Brown, a member of the NRA
Board of Directors, is the representative
to the committee from The National
Foundation. Inquiries should be ad-
dressed to R. Roy Rusk, Chapter Pro-
gram Consultant, The Arthritis S: Rheu-
matism Foundation, 10 Columbus Cir-

cle, New York 19, N. Y.

4(- * * *

*l‘ The over-all “Operation Friendship”
emphasis of Mental Health Week was
continued this year, with the coopera-
tion of hundreds of mental health asso-
ciations. The youth tours were part of
this general friendship activity which
brought tens of thousands of visitors to
the nation’s mental hospitals.

The North Carolina Mental Health
Association conducted an extensive
“Visit a Mental Hospital” campaign.
The visits also included community
mental health centers. The El Paso
County, Colorado. MHA Sponsored a
tour of the Pueblo State Hospital, a ca-
reer day for high school students, and
a “community-action” mental health
week conference for area clergymen.

*l‘ Reports from other countries indi-
cate they are conducting a variety of
recreation programs for thc handi-
capped and shutins. The American
Journal of Nursing reports that every
year a very Special excursion train
leaves Copenhagen for a tour through
the Danish countryside. lts passengers
are shutins, for whom any kind of out-
ing is rarely possible. It all started ten
years ago. The Danish State Railways
provides train and crew. \Vagon-lits
(European equivalent of Pullman) con-
tributed a dining ear and two sleepers.
A group of nurses volunteered their
services, so did members of a working
men’s sevice organization. the Samari-
tans. People in villages along the route
joined in entertaining the no-longer
shutins.

The excursion has become an annual
event with more and more Danes taking
part, giving goods and services both for
the train rides and for smaller excur-
sions, educational programs, and enter-
tainment for the shutins between the
train rides. On each trip one or two
patients find the courage to try to walk
again, and all acquire a treasure of
happy memories.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

The quarterly magazine with new
weaving ideas in each issue

A complete file of back issues will give you
a valuable weaving library

Write for brochure
and prices of back issues

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

1 yr.  $5 2 yrs $9
3 yrs _ ...... ..$'l2

Pan-American & Foreign rates $1 a year
extra. Single copies $1.35

Handweaver 8. Craftsman
246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK 'l

 

 

RYAN‘S H. Gr. R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

ALSO POWER DRIVEN AUTOUNE
From 201:“ to too# Capacity

“ACE MODEL SHOWN"

Farce Feed -—- Instant
Shutaft -—- 50 lbs. Ca-
parity.

Shaker in Hopper far
Constant Flaw.

   

Adiustabla Control on
Handle.

SAVES TiME AND
MATERIAL

Send to Dept. R for booklet on other 4 models.
H. 8- R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

WHOLESALE SPORTS CATALOG

64-Page Eight-Color Catalog with
Hundreds at Athletic Equipment
ItemsI Games and Sports Films.

Over 30,000 Schools Use Our
Products. Softballs - 65c: Tum-

bling Mats-$l3.95; Stopwatches-
$5.99; etc.

Send IO: for Postage, Malllng

To:

WOLVERINE SPORTS SUPPLY

3666 South State Street
Ann Arbor, Michigan

RECREATION

Recreation on Trial Basis
Continued from Page 400

M

6. More program emphasis on non-
skilled and girls.

7. Nonpartisan and nonpolitical
alignments.

8. Full-time professionally trained
director.

9. Organization as a department of
the village with ready access to all vil-

lage services.

10. Good percentage of voluntary
recreation payments on water bills. Al-
though there has been a steady decrease
in these voluntary contributions with a
high towards the beginning of 86.3 per-
cent, we still have 78.4 percent collec-
tion at the end of the first nineteen

months.

ONLY TWO basic recreation systems
were seriously considered: the
park district and playground and rec-
reation department. After long and
thorough study by the Recreation Ad-
visory Committee, the latter form was
recommended. Surrounded by a recent
school bond issue—narrow success for
a new junior high school along with
two high-school district referendum
failures—it was somewhat under a state
of guarded pessimism that the recom-
mendation was handed to a newly elect-
ed Village Board of Trustees for action.
But positive action by key trustees
helped organize a slow-starting, but
later fast-moving and dynamic refer-
endum committee. It was door-to-door
all the way with a card system calculat-
ed to know in advance those people for
or against the playground and recrea-
tion department referendum.

Referendums are a lot of work, but
very exciting—especially when your
own job depends directly upon the out-
come. On July 8, 1961, the people went
to the polls for the third time in thir-
teen years. About three out of every
four who voted (2,096 Yes; 858 No)
had liked what they saw during the
trial recreation program enough to tax
themselves to the limit of the allowable
playground-recreation department tax.
A $36,000 fund was asked for operation
during the first year. Every precinct
in the community supported the meas-
ure by a majority vote.

OCTOBER, 1562

THE TRIAL PROGRAM offers one of the
best ways for a community to more
accurately judge the merits of such a
program. A professional recreation
director takes a tremendous gamble in
such a situation. However, since most
recreation directors have no tenure,
most jobs represent a gamble anyway,
although possibly not one quite so

dramatic.
Since only a local government can

usually provide the finances and serv-
ices for such a trial program, it would
appear that any further operation on a
permanent basis would also be as a part
of the local government. The system
of voluntary payments 011 water bills
worked quite well (about four-fifths
paid over the two-year period).

It is recommended that no trial pro-
gram go over two years in duration. It
was found best to have two summer
programs plus one fall, winter, and
spring program with the referendum
vote coming about midway through the
second summer’s program.

It was extremely difficult to take out
options on desired land areas during
the trial program for the following
reasons:

0 We found it unwise to present a
land acquisition proposal in conjunc-
tion with the playground and recreation
department referendum. (We found it
wise in our situation to completely sep-
arate recreation and parks).

0 Even if money were available for
land acquisition, no definite plans
would be made for the maintenance
and development of this land should
the playground and recreation depart-
ment referendum fail.

0 Landowners usually did not want
to commit themselves to a price far in
advance of an actual sale.

It is extremely important that the
village or city manager and the gov-
erning hoard recognize the full import-
ance of recreation in community life
and give active support toward this end.
A high—caliber, nonpolitical recreation
advisory committee is invaluable. #1:

WW

To rest upon a formula is a slum-

ber that. prolonged, means death.
—O|iver Wendell Holmes

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   

   
 

 

LWER CSTS

on Table Tennis Balls!

AS LOW AS 5 .19
AsAmerico's largest A GROSS
distributar of table

tennis balls (selling DIRECT ta custamers)
we can otter unmatched law prices in any
quantity. Quality guoranteed in writing ta
have carrect baunce and give lang service.

And Earn

33070-50070 PROFIT

With This

Silent
Salesman

This sturdy,
tamper - praaf
cain aperated
machine sells
PIPO boIIs for
10¢ each. In
additian ta the
soles prafit,
you eliminate
castly check-
ing in and out
at balls.

 

Mochine pays for itself in a
few months or your money re-
funded. Write for detoils.

PIPO

882 Massachusetts Ave.
Indianapolis, Indiana

   
 

- Low Cost/Growing
Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

For .club, class or team. Requires
minimum space and equnpment.

Exciting and practical for few or
many participants. National and
International associations.
Castello uniforms are KADOKAN
APPROVED. Specially made for
the taller American figure.

FENCING T00! We are the

largest importers and manufactur-
ers of fencing equipment in the
Americas.

Write for Free Catalogs

CASTELLO

JUDO/KARATE 8. FENCING EQUIPMENT
30 E. 10th St.. N. Y. 3. N. Y. since 1914

 

 

425

swear-r": Notebook

.mriliued from Page 385
in W

\L—_ I n g-
- .. sin-“'4 in this country and
i. . . 1.1 .. u; international awards.

iLIrultI Schick, formerly regional di-
rector of parks for Salem, Marion, and
Polk Counties in Oregon. is the new
superintendent of the Oregon State park
system. Mr. Schick replaces Mark H.
Aslrup who now heads the new land-
scape section in the construction di-
vision of the Oregon State Highway
Department.

IN MEMORIAM

0 DAVID H. HOLBROOK, former assist-
ant director of the National Social Wel-
fare Assembly, died recently in Cali-

fornia at the age of eighty-three. Mr.
Holbrook was executive secretary of the

National Social Work Council, forerun-
ner of the assembly, from 1922 to 194.5.

0 ELLSWORTH JAEGER, naturalist, au-
thor, and an expert on North American

Indians, died recently in Buffalo, New
York, at the age of sixty-four. Mr. Jae-
ger had been education curator at the
Buffalo Museum of Science since 1941.

Among his books were Wildwood Wis-
dom, Easy Crajts, and Council Fires. At
one time he also wrote a newspaper col-

umn, “Wonder Trails,” which appeared
in thirteen newspapers in the US. and

Canada.

0 A. OTTO AMBROZ, who served as
president of the Cedar Rapids, Iowa,
playground commission for twenty
years, died recently. Mr. Ambroz was

also president of the Cedar Rapids Syn]-
phony Orchestra Association for twenty
years. He had been a local sponsor for
the National Recreation Association for
the past several years.

0 GLENN D. LOUCKS, a leading advo-
cate of physical fitness for youth, died
recently at the age of fifty-five. Mr.
Loueks was supervisor of health, physi-
cal education, and safety for the White
Plains, New York, public schools and
assistant principal of White Plains High
School. He had also coached football
at the high school. Mr. Loueks con-
vinced the Board of Education to in-
crease school athlctie facilities.

0 BLAIR J. FISIIBURN, an honorary
member of the National Recreation As-

sociation, died recently in Roanoke, Vi r-

ginia. Mr. Fishburn was the NRA’s
Roanoke sponsor from 1938 to 1956.

Developing the Recreation Area
Continued from Page 410

 

planned, facilities will need to be scheduled and the ac-
tivities announced via usual publicity media: newspapers,
radio, TV, handbills, talks at PTA’s and other groups, bul-
letin board posters, telephone calls, post cards, open house
and demonstrations.

As the activity groups develop it is important to evaluate
by reviewing progress toward goals, changing niethods as
necessary, and reestablishing goals. Problems and progress
should be reported to the supervisor.

THE FOLLOWING definition from Webster can be used as
the basis for considering needs: (1) Need is a condition
requiring sUpply or relief; (2) Psychological: Need is any
requirement of an organism, native or acquired, which
prompts it to action. Apart from the biologic needs for food,
drink, shelter, sleep, and reproduction, there are psycholog-
ical needs common to all people; it is with these psychologi-
cal needs that the recreation leader is primarily concerned,
such as the need for adventure, to belong, for recognition,
self-expression, and to be loved.

Needs can be met through the provision of recreation fa-
cilities, equipment, and organized activities. Opportunities
for unorganized activity (free play) on the recreation area
can serve needs. Organized (supervised) activities provide
the recreation leader with tools for meeting needs; the role
of the leader is vital in so guiding the activity that construe-
tive satisfaction of needs is achieved. Major types of activ-
ities through which the leader may expect to provide oppor-
tunities for satisfying needs include: sports, performing
arts (music, dance, drama), special interest. social, and in-
cidental (free play). Under skilled leadership all these ac-
tivities offer opportunities for meeting basic needs; however,
analysis and experience indicate that some activities gener-
ally provide more appropriate or ready tools for meeting
some specific needs than others. lt is both a challenge to
and a responsibility of the leader to recognize and develop
as fully as possible the opportunities for meeting specific
needs through specific activities; he may also introduce
new activities through which needs not met in existing pro-
gram may be served. A study in chart form of needs in re-
lation to major opportunities for meeting them through
“tool” activities is helpful. Such a chart, based on the list
of needs and activity grOUpings in this study, can he made
as in the sampling below. Fill in others of your own. if:

ACTIVITIES AS TOOLS FOR MEETING NEEDS

Sports

 

 

. Performing Special Incidental
NEEDS Team '"dw- Arts Interest (Free Play)
Competition x X
Creativity
Belonging x
426 RECREATION

 
 
 

NEW

PUBLICATIONS

 

Patience and Fortitude . . . The Par-
ents Guide to Adolescence, Graham B.
Blaine, Jr., MD. little Brown & Com-

pany, 34 Beacon Street, Boston 6. Pp.
206. $4.75.

A great deal has been written about
adolescent behavior, but few have been
able to achieve what Dr. Blaine has ac-
complished in this relatively short and
easy-to-understand book. The informa-
tion value of this work is by no means
restricted to parents. Teachers, recrea-
tion workers, and the clergy, among
others, would find it a valuable guide.
Best of all the adolescent can derive a
great deal of insight and understanding
about himself and his relationship to
others.

The contents of the book deal with
many of the common problems young
people face, their reaction to people and
situations, and the role of the parent in
these matters. Dr. Blaine has also gen-
erously distributed case histories to il-
lustrate the text. It would be difficult,
indeed, to find a reader who could not
identify with the candid observations
made by the author. Dr. Blaine dis-
cusses such sources of problems as sex,
smoking, drinking, reading problems,
choice of college, apathy, and emotional
problems. He devotes a separate chap-
ter on “assorted problems” which in-
clude going steady, late hours, obesity,
lying and stealing, music, dancing, and
other areas of adolescent behavior over
which parents most often voice concern.

The value of this book is in its at-
tempt to answer questions by giving the
reader a greater understanding of how
the adolescent feels and why he behaves
the way he does. Equally important, it
helps adults toounderstand that what
might be thought to be abnormal be-
havior may be perfectly normal during
the adolescent stage.

This is a book to be owned, not
merely read. As a comprehensive, up-
to-date practical guide, it is a valuable
contribution to all of us concerned with
young people. After reading this book,
there is no mistaking that Dr. Blaine
really knows young people, not only as
a psychiatrist, but even more important,
as an intelligent, warm, and understand-

OCTOBER, 1962

ing human being—Edward Garcia, Ex-

ecutive Director, Riverdaie Neighbor-
hood House, Bronx, New York.

Jewelry and Enameling, Greta Pack.
D. Van Nostrand Company, 120 Alex-
ander Street, Princeton, New Jersey.

Pp. 396. $6.50.

This book is a third edition of a very
fine instruction book on jewelry and
enameling and is used in classes and by
craftsmen working in this medium. The
new edition offers many new additions
with a modern touch. The drawings
and photographs are very clear and in-
formative. The different processes and
techniques in jewelry making are very
clearly explained, so a person who is a
beginner in the craft could make the
projects without the aid of a teacher.

All technical information regarding
the making of each jewelry piece is set
down in steps, with full and easily fol-
lowed instructions. After one has made
some of these articles and mastered
some of the techniques, one can go on
to create his own pieces. This book
should be very helpful to craftsmen,
teachers and recreation leaders—Mary
B. Cummings.

Birds of the World, Oliver L. Austin,
Jr. Golden Press, 630 Fifth Avenue,
New York 20. Pp. 316. $17.50.

This very beautiful book is well worth
the price if you take your nature study
or book collecting seriously. A large
book (Shy-13% inches), exquisitely
bound, it is a spectacular presentation
of all the bird families of the world,
richly illustrated with three hundred
superb paintings in full color by Arthur
Singer. It is easy to understand that the
book was five years in the making. Dr.
Austin is at present curator of birds at
the Florida State Museum in Gaines-
ville, and the publishers tell us that not
only has he probably banded more
birds than anyone else in the world but
he has spent considerable time chasing
them—from the Antarctic to Labrador,

the South Pacific, and all over North
America. His book, with information

told in narrative form, would make a
magnificent addition to any nature li-
brary and will always be a special treat
for those fortunate peOple who have ac-
cess to it.

Folk Dancing, a guide for schools,
colleges and recreation groups, Rich-
ard G. Kraus. Macmillan Company, 60
Fifth Avenue, New York 11. Pp. 222.

$5.95.

Hooray for an author of a dance book
who recognizes that the day has gone
when piano accompanists are available!
In his book, Dr. Kraus has provided
record sources for each dance listed and
described.

The book is extremely well organized.
The first section provides the back-
ground and history of folk dancing with
a description of all the basic steps used,
fundamental formations, and teaching
guides and techniques. The second part
organizes the dances according to dif-
ficulty of execution, age groups, make-
up of the participating groups (couples,
threes, circle dances without partners,
long-ways, and squares). Dances from
all countries are included, along with
helpful suggestions of appropriate cos-
tuming of the dance.

Because the author is a good teacher,
the directions are clear and precise. You
will not find yourself standing on the
left foot trying to take a step to the left.

As soon as the national interest in
fitness gets beyond the pushup, pullup,
sports phase and becomes concerned
with total fitness, more people will turn
to folk dancing as one of the finest
forms of recreation for develOping
physical, mental, social, and emotional
well-being.

When you are ready to start, here is
your book. It is very, very good.

———Helen Dauncey

Creating From Scrap, lillian and
Godfrey Frankel. Sterling Publishing
Company, lnc., 419 Park Avenue South,

New York 16. Pp. 127. $2.50.

The scrap projects in this book may
be new to parents, but on the whole they

42?

are ti‘t iriiliar ones ling known and
used .' most res-remit). leaders. Some
oi the: are the Heated : t .rd Irent into
a bowl shape, the snmsuaper out of
l -u it"s caps. tht rolled-pa} -\'.r heads, yarn
I. bet dt ils. candles “rm: .nelted cray-
ons. egg-shell planters. paperbag pup-
pets, paper-plate hats. bird feeders from
grapefruit rinds, and so on.

The book. though attractive in ap-
pearance, and possibly useful for dis-
traught mothers. is therefore not par-
ticularly useful for more experienced
craft leaders working with groups of
youngsters. The ideas and projects lack
originality. In the entire book, there are
only three that this reader has not seen
in print before, in some form or
another.—V. M.

File 0’ Fun, Jane Harris. Burgess
Publishing Company, 424 South Sixth
Street, Minneapolis l5. Portfolio of
l50index cards. $3.00.

This collection of over 150 index
cards (4”-by-6”) gives directions for a
wide variety of games from simple
circle games to dramatic stunts, from
Lummi sticks to the grand march.
Came leaders will find many old fav-
orites in this file, and those who find it
easier to run through cards than to turn
the pages of a book will find this a help-
ful resource.

Miss Harris’ little booklet on leader-
ship techniques, also included, is really
what makes this collection unusual and
useful. Many readers will remember
with pleasure how smoothly she can
conduct a workshop or a social evening,
as proved many times at National
Recreation Congresses. Others rcmem-
ber the courses they have had under her
leadership at \Vashington State Uni-
versity.

Let’s Make Doll Furniture, Eileen
Mercer. Harper and Row, 49 East 33rd
Street, New York 16. Pp. lll, illus-
trated. $3.50.

If you have a taste for miniature
things (and most of us have!) this book
may open up a new and interesting
hobby. What’s more, you’ll be a magnet
for every little girl in the neighborhood.

Mrs. Mercer is a scrounger—she col-
lects and uses all sorts of odds and ends.
Under her imaginative touch, they are
transformed into very simple but real-
istic doll furnishings—even to bath-
room scales and color TV set! She
writes informally, with humor and en-
thusiasm, and her directions'can be fol-
lowed by any novice. This hobby has a
number of possible angles. The result-
ing dollhouse or rooms can be a service
project, making a hospitalized or insti-
tutionalized child very happy. It is also

428

a wonderful hobby for a grandmother
or golden age club. And a girls’ club or
any group of little girls would love to
try their hands at such fun.

SONGBOOKS

SINGERS AND STORYTELLERS, Mody C.
Boatright, Wilson M. Hudson, and Al-
len Maxwell. Southern Methodist Uni-
versity Press, Dallas 22, Texas. Pp.
298. $5.00. Not all stories about and
by Texans are worth attention. This
collection, however, contains stories
and ballads which are not only authen-
tic but completely lovable and readable.
Unfortunately, the music for the folk-
songs and ballads is not included.

SINGING TEEN-AGERS ( enlarged edi-
tion), Lilla Belle Pitts, Mabelle Glenn,
Lorrain E. W atters, and Louis C. W er-
sen. Cinn and Company, Statler Bnild-
ing, Boston 17. Pp. 288. $3.76. This
collection contains favorite songs skill-
fully arranged for part singing, as well
as a wide range of sacred and secular
songs particularly suited to teenagers.
All arrangements require rehearsal for
effective performance.

MERRILY WE SING. 105 Polish Songs
eolleeted and edited by Harriet M. Paw-
lowska, analysis of rnnsie by Grace L.
Angel. Wayne University Press, De-
troit. Pp. 263. $8.50. Most of the Pol-
ish folksongs appearing in this hand-
some publication were collected among
people of Polish desccnt in the Detroit
area. Apparently the transplanting of
these songs from Poland to thc new
world has not changed their charm,
beauty, and character. The tunes are
usually short, melodic, and singable. A

 

surprisingly complete set of vcrses go
with each tune. Accompaniments are
not provided. However, accompani-
ments can usually be devised rather
easily by the average musical per-
former. It would be helpful, however,
if publishers of folksong collections
would give at least a minimum indica-
tion of the type of accompaniment to be
used, if any, in all publications of this

type.

EARLY ENGLISH CHRISTMAS CAROLS,
Rossell Hope Robbins, Editor. Colum-
bia University Press, 2960 Broadway,
New York 27. Pp. 87. $5.00. These
two- and three-part sacred carols have
been transcribed from medieval nota-
tion into modern score. The listener or
singer unacquainted with the rhythms,
harmonics, and cadences of this period
will discover a fresh and stimulating
musical experience. The carols can be
performed by moderately advanced and
expert choral singers in smaller groups.
Both altos and tenors with a wide vocal
range will fare well. The texts have the
quaint and fresh qualities of the music
of the period. (A 33-% RPM Inonaural
record of the carols is also available
from Columbia University Press for

$5.95.)

THE TREASURY OF CHRISTMAS MUSIC,
W. L. Reed, Editor. Emerson Books,
251 West 19th Street, New York. Pp.
150. $4.50. This collection contains

both familiar carols and an excellent
selection of less familiar Christmas mu-
sic. Many can be sung in unison. by
singers of all ages. However, most of
the collection is arranged for four-part
(SATB) choral performance. Fifty-
scven selections are traditional; nine-
teen are modern carols by distinguished
composers; four selections are well-
known instrumental picces arranged for
piano. The selection and their presenta-
tion are of outstanding quality.

THE POOR SONG BOOK, A. A. Milne. E.
P. Button, 300 Park Avenue South,
New York 10, N. Y. Pp. 148. $4.95.
A. A. Milne’s two books Winnie the
Pooh and The House at Pooh Corner
are the famous narratives upon which
the songs in this book are based. Each
song is given a short narrative setting,
and the music with piano accompani-
ment and lyrics is fully in keeping with
the style and words of the Milnc stories.
They can be sung and narrated by
adults for children; but musically tal-
ented children can sing the music and
tell the stories themselves. They can
dramatize them also. The Pooh Song
Book would make a delightful program
in a recreation setting and is heartily
recommended to recreation leaders who
are musically and dramatically inclined.

RECREATION

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

Education

SCIIOOL HEALTH AND HEALTH EDUCATION
(4th ed.), C. E. Turner, C. Morley, Sara
Louise Smith. C. V. Mosby Co., 3207
Washington Blvd., St. Louis 3. Pp. 481.
$5.00.

SPECIAL REPORTS, CLEARINGHOUSE OF STUDIES
ON HIGHER EDUCATION. US. Govt. Printing
Office, Washington 25, D.C. Pp. 61. $.40.

THIRD CURRICULUM, THE, Robert W. Fred-
erick. Appleton-Century-Crofts, 35 W. 32nd
St., Ncw York 1. Pp. 454. $5.75.

TOWARD BETTER TEACIIING IN PHYSICAL EDU-
CATION, Elwood C. Davis and Earl L. Wal-
lis. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J.
Pp. 488. $9.00.

WHEN CIIILDREN MOVE FROM SCIIOOL TO
SCHOOL. Assoc. for Childhood Education
International, 3615 Wisconsin Ave., N.W.,
Washington 16, D.C. Pp. 33. Paper, $.75.

Games, Hobbies, Puzzles

ACROSTICRLERS (Series 2), Henry Allen. Vik-
ing Press, 625 Madison Ave., New York 22.
Unpaged. Spiralbound, $1.95.

CALIBAN’S PROBLEM BOOK, Hubert Phillips,
S. T. Shovelton and G. Strnan Marshall.
Dover Publ., 180 Varick St., New York 14.
Pp. 180. Paper, $1.25.

CHARLES BARRAGE AND HIS CALCULATING 
CINES, Philip and Emily Morrison, Editors.
Dover Publ., 180 Varick St., New York 14.
Pp. 400. $2.00.

CIIESS APPRENTICE, TIIE, Raymond Bott and
Stanley Morrison. Franklin Watts, 575
Lexington Ave., New York 22. Pp. 208.
$2.95.

CHESS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE, Fred Reinfeld.
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison
Ave., New York 17. Pp. 111. $3.50.

CHESS SELF-TEACHER, Al Horowitz. Barnes &
Noble, 105 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 194.
Paper, $1.50.

CHESS STRATEGY FOR OFFENSE AND DEFENSE,
Fred Reinfeld. Barncs & Noble, 105 5th
Ave., New York 3. Pp. 192. Paper, $1.50.

CHESS TACTICS FOR BEGINNERS, R. G. Wade,
Raymond Bott, and Stanley Morrison.
Sterling Publ., 419 ParklAve. 5., New York
16. Pp. 128. $2.50.

COLLECTING AUTOGRAPIIS AND MANUSCRIPTS,
Charles Hamilton. Univ. of Oklahoma
Press, Norman. Pp. 269. $6.95.

CROSSWORDS FOR THE CONNOISSEUR (Series 1,
2, 3, and 4), Albert Carroll. Grosset and
Dunlap, 1107 Broadway, New York 10. Each
pp. 50. Paper, $1.00 each.

DELIGHTS 0F CIIESS, TIIE, Assiac. A. S. Barnes,
11 E. 36th St., New York 16. Pp. 279. $4.95.

DOMINO SOLITAIRE, A] G. Peterson. Carlton
Press, 85 5th Ave., Ncw York 11. Pp. 15.
$1.95. ‘

EASY-TO-DO ENTERTAINMENTS AND DIVERSIONS
WITH COINS, CARDS, STRING, PAPER AND
MATCHES, R. M. Ahraham. Dover Publ., 180
Varick St., New York 14. Pp. 186. Paper,
$1.00.

ENJOYMENT OF CHESS PROBLEMS, TIIE, Ken-
neth 5. Howard. Dover Publ., 180 Varick
St., New York 14. Pp. 222. Paper, $1.25.

GAMES ANCIENT AND ORIENTAL AND HOW TO
PLAY THEM, Edward Falkener. Dover Publ.,
180 Varick St., New York 14. Pp. 366. Pa-
per, $1.85.

OCTOBER, 1962

GOREN’S WINNING PARTNERSHIP BRIDGE, Chas.
H. Goren. Random House, 457 Madison
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 183. $2.95.

HAVE A HORRY FOR PLEASURE AND PROFIT.
Employee Relations, 1nc., 13 E. 53rd St.,
New York 22. Pp. 16. $.25.

HITTING THE ANTIQUES TRAIL, Ann Kilborn
Cole. David McKay, 119 W. 40th St., New
York 18. Pp. 211. $4.50.

How NOT TO PLAY CIIESS, Eugene A. Znoske-
Borovsky. Dover Publ., 180 Varick St., New
York 14. Pp. 119. Paper, $1.00.

How TO DEvELOP MENTAL MAGIC, Paul R.
Hadley. T. S. Denison, 321 5th Ave. S.,
Minneapolis 15. Pp. 117. $3.95.

How TO DO CARD TRICKS AND ENTERTAIN
PEOPLE, Harry Bacon. Emerson Books, 251
W. 19th St., New York 11. Pp. 126. $3.95.

HOW TO SOLVE CHESS PROBLEMS, Kenneth 5.
Howard. Dover Publ., 180 Varick St., New
York 14. Pp. 171. Paper, $1.00.

KOTCH AND TONN (card games), Teddy R.
Mollatt. Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave. S.,
New York 16. Pp. 38. $2.50.

MAGIC OF NUMBERS, THE, Robert Tocqnet.
A. S. Barnes, 11 E. 36th St. New York 16.
Pp. 160. $3.95.

MAGIC SQUARES AND CUBES (2nd rev. ed.),
W. S. Andrews. Dover Puhl., 180 Varick
St., New York 14. Pp. 419. Paper, $1.85.

MAGIC WITII PAPER, Bill Severn. David Mc-
Kay, 119 W. 40th St., New York 18. Pp.
149. $3.50.

 

BOOK WEEK

J
I.
rig:
I.

L

 
     

nil r_.. -' .. 4'" Lg,
NOVEMBER ll-l7

MAN, PLAY, AND GAMES, Roger Caillois. Free
Press, 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 202.
$5.00.

MASTER GAME AND PARTY BOOK, THE, Gene-
vieve Richart. T. S. Denison, 321 5th Ave.
S., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 253. $3.95.

MATHEMATICAL PUZZLES AND DIVERSIONS (2nd
ed.), Martin Gardner. Simon & Schustcr,
630 5th Ave., New York 20. Pp. 253. $3.95.

MATIIEMATICAL RECREATIONS AND ESSAYS, W.
W. Rouse Ball.
New York 11. Pp. 418. Paper, $1.95.

MORE NUMRERS: FUN & FACTS, J. Newton
Fricnd. Charles Scrihner’s, 597 5th Ave.,
New York 17. Pp. 201. $2.95.

MY BEST PUZZLES IN LOGIC AND REASONING,
Hubert Phillips. Dover Publ., 180 Varick
St., New York 14. Pp. 107. Paper, $1.00.

MY BEST PUZZLES IN MATHEMATICS, Hubcrt
Phillips. Dover Puhl., 180 Varick St., Ncw
York 14. Pp. 107. Paper, $1.00.

PARTY FUN AND GAMES, Alcxander Van Rens-
selacr. Crcst Book, 67 W. 44th St., New
York 36. Pp. 192. $.35.

PARTY GAMES, Violet Roberts Moore. Bethany
Press, Box 179, St. Louis 66. Pp. 224. $3.50.

PLAY BRIDGE WITII REESE, Terence Reese.
Barnes & Noble, 105 5th Ave., New York 3.
Pp. 252. Paper $1.25.

PUZZLE AND QUIZ BOOK FOR ADULTS, Damien
Anthony Wenzel. St. Anthony Guild Press,
Paterson, NJ. Pp. 80. Paper, $1.00.

PUZZLES FOR YOU, Isobel R. Beard, Alan Bur-
rows, Madeleine Robinson, Shirley Trusher,

Macmillan, 60 5th Avc.,,

and Irene Urquhart. Maxton Puhl., 15 E.
26th St., New York 10. Pp. 64. $.49.
PUZZLE IT OUT. Avon Books, 959 8th Ave.,
New York 19. Pp. 128. $.35.
RHYMES AND RIDDLES, J. J. Ange. Comet Press,

200 Varick St., New York 14. Pp. 64. $2.00.

SOVIET SCIIOOL 0F CHESS, TIIE, A. Kotov and
M. Yudovich. Dover Puhl., 180 Varick St.,
New York 14. Pp. 390. Paper, $2.00.

STARTING A ROCK AND MINERAL COLLECTION,
pp. 47; STARTING A SHELL COLLECTION, pp.
43; STARTING A TERRARIUM, pp. 45; all by
Miriam Gilbert. C. S. Hammond, Maple-
wood, N.J. $1.00 each.

SUCCESSFUL MINERAL COLLECTING AND PROS-
PECTING, Richard M. Pearl. McGraw-Hill,
330 W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 164.
$5.95.

WONDERS OF I-IODRYCRAFT, Willard and Elma
Waltner. Lantern Press, 257 Park Ave. 5.,
New York 10. Pp. 144. $4.95.

Holidays

ALL AROUT AMERICAN HOLIDAYS, Maymie R.
Krythe. Harper Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New
York 16. Pp. 275. $4.50.

CHRISTMAS TREES AND How TIIEY GROW,
Glenn 0. Blough. Whittlesey House, 330
W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 48. $2.75.

PROGRAMS FOR SPECIAL DAYS, Leila Tremaine
Ammerman. W. A. Wilde, 10 Iluron Dr.,
Natick, Mass. Pp. 76. $2.00.

Sports and Physical Education

CHAMPIONSHIP TRACK AND FIELD, Tom Ecker.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp.
204. $4.95.

COMPLETE BODY BUILDER, TIIE, E. G. Bartlett.
Sportshelf, P. O. Box 634, New Rochelle.
Pp. 128. $3.25.

COMPLETED RESEARCH IN HEALTH, PHYSICAL
EDUCATION, AND RECREATION, Alfred W.
Hubbard and Raymond A. Weiss. AAH-
PER, 1201 16th St., N.W., Washington 6,
D. C. Pp. 92. Paper, $1.50.

CONTEST JUDO, Charles Yerkow. Stackpole
Co., 100 Telegraph Bldg., Harrisburg, Pa..
Pp. 193. $4.95.

ESQUIRE’S GREAT MEN AND MOMENTS IN
SPORTS. Harper, 49 E. 33rd St., New York
16. Pp. 252. $8.50.

F. A. GUIDE FOR REFEREES AND LINESMEN.
Sportshelf, P. O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 71. Paper, $1.50.

FENCING, Maxwell R. Garret. Sterling Publ.,
419 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 128.
$1.95. _

FIRST BOOK OF PHYSICAL FITNESS, THE, John
Walsh. Franklin Watts, 575 Lexington
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 63. $1.95.

FOOTBALL END PLAY, Ben Martin. Ronald
Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 96.
$3.50.

FUNDAMENTALS OF GOLF, Dow Finsterwald
with Larry Robinson. Ronoald Press, 15 E.
26th St., New York 10. Pp. 145. $5.00.

GIRL’S BOOK OF PHYSICAL FITNESS, THE, Jean
C. Vermes. Association Press, 291 Broad-
way, New York 17. Pp. 126. $1.95.

GIRLS’ GYMNASTICS, Erna Wachtel and New-
ton C. Loken. Sterling Publ., 419 Park
Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 128. $1.95.

HEALTH AND FITNESS IN THE MODERN WORLD.
Athletic lnstitute, Merchandise Mart, Rm.
805. Chicago 54. Pp. 392. Paper, $4.50.

HEALTH PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE (3rd ed.),
C. L. 'Anderson and C. V. Langton. C. V.

429

‘-.' iv, T707 Waahington Blvd., St. Louis
' ‘ xi. 93.75.

" ‘R It l‘R ~.(‘K IvD FIELD, W. Harold
-'C~unnr. Sport-half, P. O. Box
im’mlle, \. Y. Pp. 62. $.35.

. ‘ ‘ .I \.'.I. Tlilr- WAY, \[ary Thomas.
a. .u .. It. 1'. 0. But 634. New Rochelle,
\. 1. Pp. 119. $3.75.

TE \FIEIVG CHILDREN TO SWIM, Istvan Barany.
Sportshelf, P. O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 135. Paper, $3.00.

TENNIS TODAY, Christine Truman. Sport-
shelf, P. O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 119. 34.00.

T ENPIN BOWLING. Sportshelf, P. O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 32. Paper, $1.00.

TIIROUGH THE LINE (football), William Camp-
bell Gault. E. P. Dutton, 300 Park Ave. 5.,
New York 10. Pp. 191. $3.25.

TRAMPOLINING, Newton C. Loken. Sterling
Pub]., 419 Park Ave. 5., New York 16. Pp.
96. $1.95.

WEIGHT TRAINING FOR ATHLETES, Bob Hoff-
man. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New
York 10. Pp. 216. $5.00.

YOUNG SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE TO FRESII WATER
FISHING, Ray Ovington. Thomas Nelson,
19 E. 47th St., New York 17. Pp. 90. $2.50.

YOUNG SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE TO GOLF, Don
Smith. Thomas Nelson, 19 E. 47th St.,
New York 17. Pp. 95. $2.50.

YOUNG SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE TO HUNTING, Gil
Paust. Thomas Nelson, 19 E. 47th St., New
York 17. Pp. 96. $2.50.

YOUTII PHYSICAL FITNESS, President’s Coun-

oil on Youth Fitness. Supt. of Documents,
U.S. Gov’t. Printing Oflice, Washington 25,
D. C. Pp. 111. $.40.

Stan/books

 

BOOK OF NONSENSE, THE, R. L. Green. Button
8: Co., 300 Park Ave. 5., New York 10. Pp.

266. $3.25.
BOOK OF RIDDLES, Bennett Cerf. Random

House, 457 Madison Ave., New York 22.

$1.95.
CAvE MAN TO SPACE MAN, Margaret Friskey.

Childrens Press, Jackson Blvd. & Racine
Ave., Chicago 7. Pp. 64. $2.95.

LAST LITTLE CAT, THE, Meindert DeJong.
Harper 82 Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York
16. Pp. 66. $2.75.

LET’S BE ENEMIES, Janice May Udry. Harper
82 Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Un-
paged. $1.95.

LET’S IMAGINE THINKING UP THINGS, Janet
Wolff and Bernard Owett. E. P. Dutton,
300 Park Ave. S., New York 10. Unpaged.
$2.95.

LET’S IMAGINE BEING PLACES, Janet Wolff. E.
P. Dutton, 300 Park Ave. S., New York 10.
Unpaged. $2.75.

LITTLE CHIEF, 5yd Hoff. Harper Brothers, 49
E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp. 64. $1.95.

LITTLE OLD MRS. PEPPERPOT, Alf Proysen. As-
tor Books, 219 E. 61st St., New York 21. Pp.
95. $2.50.

LITTLE WATER-SPRITE, TIIE, Otfried Preussler.
Abelard-Scliuman, 6 W. 57th St., New York
19. Pp. 109. $2.75.

SONG OF TIIE LOP-EARED MULE, TIIE, Natalie
Savage Carlson. Harper 82 Bros., 49 E. 33rd
St., New York 16. Pp. 79. $2.75.

SORCERER’S APPRENTICE, TIIE, John lfosier.
l-fenry Z. Walck, 101 5th Ave., New York 3.
Pp. 64. $2.50.

STORY OF STICK-A-NOSE-IN, THE, lstar L.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in reguiar type 5.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted .. .. $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by

the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or cleariy print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear In boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED

bank. $10,800-$13,368, de-

plan and direct hockey pro-

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.

Starting salary $463.00 per
month; promotional Oppor-
tunities; liberal employee
benefits. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol

Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

Parks and Reereation
Director—City of Bur-

pending on qualifications.
Requires graduation from
an accredited college with
Specialization in recreation,
park administration, or re-
lated fields and five years’
administrative eXperience
involving work of organiz-
ing and implementing lei-
sure time activities of wide
diversity and mass appeal
to the public, three years of
which were directly con-
nected with public park and
recreation service. lnquire
or apply by October 11,
1962, to Walter L. Henry,
Personnel Director, City

Hall, Burbank, California.

lee Rink Direetor-—-To
plan, supervise rink activi-
ties; assist in supervision
of instructional programs;

grams. College degree re-
quired, salary from $5,500
to $6,500. Write to: Mr.
Webbs Norman, Ridgeland
Recreation Center,411 Lake
Street, Oak Park, Illinois.

Director of Recreation
—- $10,800-$12,000. The
City of Seattle needs a
thoroughly professional
recreation man with strong
administrative experience.
This is a top spot in a large,
diversified recreation pro-
gram. Submit brief resume
of cducation and experi-
ence when writing for ap-
plication. Deadline October
31. Seattle Civil 5erviee,I
Seattle Municipal Build-
ing, 600 Fourth Avenue,
Seattle, Washington.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

430

 

Haupt. Little, Brown, 34 Beacon St., Bos-
ton 6, Mass. Pp. 46. $2.95.

SUPPOSING, Alastair Reid. Little, Brown & Co.,
64 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp. 48. $3.00.

TAKE A NUMBER, Jeanne‘Bendick and Marcia
Levin. Whittlesey House, 330 W. 42nd St.,
New York 36. Pp. 63. $2.50.

THREE FUNNY FRIENDS, TIIE, Charlotte Zolo-
tow. Harper Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New
York 16. Pp. 32. $1.75.

TILLIE TUMRLEWEED, Laura Gilstrap Fisher.

Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave., New York
16. Pp. 40. $2.50.

TIzz ON A PACK TRIP, Elisa Bialk. Childrens
Press, Jackson Blvd. 8: Racine Ave., Chi-
cago 7. Pp. 94. $2.50.

TONY PLAYS WITH SOUNDS, Jane B. Spooner.
John Day, 210 Madison Ave., New York 16.

Pp. 63. $2.95.
TREASURY OF LITTLE GOLDEN BOOKS, A, Ellen

Lewis Buell, Editor, Golden Press, 630 5th
Ave., New York 20. Pp. 155. $3.95.

TRUE BOOK OF DOGS, THE, Elsa Posell. Chil-
drens Press, Jackson Blvd. and Racine Ave.,
Chicago 7. Pp. 47. $2.00.

TRUE BOOK OF HORSES, THE, Elsa Posell. Chil-
drens Press, Jackson Blvd. and Racine Ave.,
Chicago 7. Pp. 47. $2.00.

UNICORN WHO .WANTED TO BE SEEN, TIIE,
Lotte K. Hahn. Frederick Warne, 210 Fifth
Ave., New York 3. Un paged. $2.75.

VISITORS FROM Oz, TIIE, l... Frank Baum.
Reilly & Lee, 14 E. Jackson Blvd., Chicago
4. Pp. 93. $3.95.

WET MAGIC, pp. 274, T IIE MAGIC CITY, pp.
333; THE MAGIC WORLD, pp. 280; all by E.
Nesbit. Benn and Coward-McCann, 210
Madison Ave., New York 16. $3.50 each.

WIIAT DO YOU DO, DEAR? Sesyle Joslin. Wif-
liam R. Scott, 8 W. 13th St., New York 11.
Unpaged. $2.75.

WHAT HAVE I GOT? Mike McClintock. lfarper
82 Brothers, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16.
Pp. 32. $1.50, (Harpcrcrcst: $1.84).

WIIAT IS IT? Vincent Fago. Golden Press,
630 5th Ave., New York. Unpaged. $1.95.

WHEN I GROW UP, Lois Lenski. Henry Z.
Walck, 101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 48.
$2.25.

WHITE FOOT, Robert M. McClung. Morrow &
Co., 425 Park Ave. 5., New York 16. Pp. 48.
$2.75.

WIIY . . .? BECAUSE, Jo Ann Stovcr. David
McKay, 119 W. 40th St., New York 18.. Un-
paged. $2.95.

WIZARD OF Oz, T HE, L. Frank Baum. Fawcett
Puhl., 67 “1’. 44th St., New York 36. Pp.
192. $.35.

ZOO TIIAT CREW, TIIE, llo Orleans. Henry Z.

Walck, 101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 47.
$2.75.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

MODERN MATURITY, August-September I962
Blueprint for Action on Aging.
SATURDAY EvENING POST, August 25-Septem-
ber1,1962
Water-llole Wonderland (Lake Texoma),
Evan Hill.
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, September 3, I962
Boom Beach on the Blue Pacific (Newport
Beach) , Alfred Wright.
WOMAN’S DAY, September 1962

How to Make a Success Of Your Church
Fair, Hilda Cole Espy.

RECREATION

POWERFUL PATENTED PLUNGER CLEARS

CLOGGED TOILETS

in a jiffy!

Ends Bicycle Parking Problems

Clear messy, stuffed toilets
But maintenance costs with

 

I

  
    

Orderly, efficient, safe
parking in minimum of W
space. Ends confusion “W, x
of haphazard parking. gar _
Ordinary plungers don’t seat '
properly. They permit com-

pressed air and water to splash  M E  APPROVED H EAVY D UTY
b 1:. Th t 1 h

aariess, bLilsty;ouuri:seth)e vii; A L L - S T E E L B I C Y C L E R AC K 5
pressure you need to Clear the Massively constructed to last a lifetime. Frames are heavy 1%"

ObStmcuon' new structural steel pipe rigidly locked with Certified Malleable

With “TOILAFLEX”, ex- Fittings through-bolting all members. Spacers are %" steel pipe
Pressly designed for toilets, 1’10 snugly fitted in drilled sockets and heavily riveted to the center
ail” 01’ Water can escape. The mains.Hot-Dip Galvanizedthroughoutforpermanentrustproofing.
fun Pressure PIOWS through the Sizes from 5-ft. to 30-ft. long, single or double face, capacity from
Clogging mass and SWisheS it 5 to 66 bikes. Bases, portable or for permanent concrete setting.

9 ' I
down. Cantm‘ss' wens roe ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE AND PRICES

0 Double cup, double-pressure Gel a "rounrux" Ior your hame loo.
Positive insurance against stuffed toilet.

o Tapered tail gives air-tight fit A

0 Designed to flex atanyangle $265 M E R I c A 
0 Centers, can’t skid around Higher in Canada PLAYGROUND DEVICE (0., ANDERSON, IND.
AVAILABLE AT YOUR HARDWARE SUPPLIER

WORLD’S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE PARK, PICNIC,
PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT.

  

1963 National Recreation Association District Conferences

DISTRICT DATES lOCATION HOTEL

|5th Annual California and February |7-20 San Diego, California El Cortez
Pacific Southwest
Recreation and Park
Conference

Southern March I3-I5 Nashville, Tennessee The Hermitage

Mid-South Section and
Tennessee Recreation
Society Conference

Southwest March 26-29 Austin, Texas Commodore Perry

Great Lakes March 3I-April 3 Dayton, Ohio Dayton-Biltmore

Midwest April 2-5 Sioux City, Iowa Sheraton—Warrior

Southern April l6-I8 Mobile, Alabama Admiral Semmes
Southeastern Section

Pacific Northwest April 2l-24 Eugene, Oregon Eugene

New Jersey and Middle May l9-22 Asbury Park, New Jersey Berkeley-Carteret

Atlantic District
Recreation and Park
Conference

New England May 26-29* Poland Spring, Maine Poland Spring House

*Tentative
._.______________________—

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

FUND RAISING

"Jim. 5mm: and (fang. wag,"

$240 to $20,000 can be raised by your group during your Fund
a

 

Raising Campaign using “The Sweet and Easy Way” to fund raising.

Give
Your Group

A Lift
Selling

Dutch Maid
Party Time Assortment

V

 

‘
a____An--.—..‘

L_

From Dutch Maid's spotless confection kitchens we bring you one
full pound of mouth-watering goodness, an assortment of delectable

milk chocolate-enrobed confections designed for and sold by fund
raising groups exclusively. NEVER SOLD IN STORES.

 

_________________________ ._ ._ 1
Mr. Philip.Emaus. . 0 ll   
Dutch Mcnd Quahty Confection Krtchens I
60 Clifton Blvd. I for
Clifton. N. I. l
l ' .
Name ....................................................................................................... .. : Complete Informatlon
Address .................................................................................................... .. I
I on
City ............ 00:00: ......................................  .... .. State ...................... .. : “v E I 3;
Organization .......  ................................................................................ .. :  (Stu 6 
Phone ...................................................................................................... .. : 
‘ I . .
Age—if under 21 .................................................................................... .. :  

-———————-———-—-——————-——-——d

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

