  

ECREATION

» \TIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION - APRIL 1962 ' 600

 

COACHES, IIISTRIICTORS, SUPERVISORS.

A $4.50 VALUE
Only $2.25!

FIVE-DAY FREE TRIAL

“Just what we’ve wanted for years!" That typi—

  
 
 
 
 
   

FOR _  . . . .
..   lies the enthu51ast1c reception glven our
FUN AND new ISaft—‘:l--'I‘-l:’lay Indoor-Outdoo; Hoclfey
"3 i  Kit. n a l our years of making Sa e-T-P ay
PHYSICAL equipment, we have never seen so much
enthusiasm for new equipment.

FITNESS

    

AN INTRODUCTORY OFFER

50 you can try out this new equipment. to see if
it fits your needs. we WIII send you 2 hockey sticks

and a puck (list price $4.50) for only $2.25 if your
order is mailed within 60 days.

Use the sticks and puck any way you wish.
Give them every test. If you are not de-
lighted to keep them, return them and your
money will be immediately refunded.

   
     
  
  

'0' l
O

   
  
 

I

Q
.0
.0

1 S?!
i I"
l
.l

e . -e
0'. .
.0.

.3
r

   
 
  
 

O

 
  

I v
3'

 
 

.0

  
 
 
 

:'e

, ,o.

      

EXTRA !

$4.50 Credit

Your purchase at the 2 sample

sticks and I puck will earn yau
an ADDITIONAL credit of $4.50

   

$333: HOCKEY

Now your classes can enjoy the fun and The Safe-T-Play Indoor—Outdoor Hockey

on a purchase of a complete
Hackey Kit (from this campany
direct or any supplier) if such
purchase is made within 60 days
after the purchase of the sample
slicks and puck. Yau enloy a total
value at $9.00 for anly $2.25 and
your salisfaclian is guaranteed!

o  éa/

O CANDLE PIN

OSOM

CORPORATI

0 SCOOP BALL 0

activity of hockey without need for costly
protective equipment. Light, flexible Poly-
ethylene sticks and balls for play on grass
and special Safe-T-Play pucks for hard
surfaces, permit vigorous activity indoors
as well as outdoors. You can use this kit
all the year around: solving the problem
of exercise when weather is wet or cold.

SAFE-T— BAT 0 0

ON

HOCKEY

SEE YOUR SCHOOL SUPPLY DEALER
OR WRITE US FOR FULL INFORMATION
6042 WAYZATA BLVD.. MINNEAPOLIS 16. MINN.

Kit contains IZ sticks of 36%;" length, 3
Little Fun Balls. 3 pucks. 4 goal markers
and complete instructions. Like all other
Safe-T-Play products, this hockey kit is
precision injection-molded of highest qual-
ity Polyethylene for rugged use and long
life. Cost of equipping 12 players for year
around play is but $25: economy indeed!

    

0 FUN FOOTBALL 0 BOWLITE

COBOM

SAFE-I-Plllo

k;
“onuo‘e

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

NOTHING
ATTRABTS
THEM

. . . heading right for the hearts of young, eager
engineers. No child will want to miss this train
that moves only through the fertile fields of his
imagination. Plenty of places to climb aboard, too
. . . from the top of the smoke stack to the back
of the cab. Watch ’em make tracks to your play-
ground when the Miracle Steam Engine Climber
pulls in! '

   

J. l
CAPTAIN’S it '-

DEC" (yr-“gt:
{

' I
0..00.0.00...OOIOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOI .0.  0..

Mi

‘ _

 
  

  
  

Hours of imaginative‘
play and much needed
exercise for any num-
ber of sea-faring skip-
pers. You’ll have no trouble signing on a full crew when the
Miracle Captain's Deck drops anchor on your playground.

ABC SLIDE

I

Adored by the younger children
so often overlooked on many
playgrounds. ideal for unsuper-
vised play areas.

1-

 

 

 
 
  

. I
ll MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY l
" ' GRINNELL 18, IOWA I

. Please send me at once:
‘5 I , i ['1 Literature and prices on this new Miracle equipment I
' " ' - Fresh Off the press! Our {4 New catalog on Miracle playground equipment I
l  new 4-CO'0r’ 32.page f“_ Free playground planning service informatiOn I
' "R A  . catalog. features the NAME I
« *' .g complete lme of Miracle I
I 'B  . ‘ playground equipment. ADDRESS — ~ * I
 §  “at” ; Mail coupon today for cm, _ _ _F __ |
i .. -»""” ‘ your FREE copy. l
. a. STATE i
i _____________________ .. _J
APRIL 1962 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 171

RE CREATION

 

GENERAL

 

APRIL 1962 VOL. LV NO. 4 PRICE 60c
Congress Housing Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178
Make your hotel reservations for the 44th National Recreation Congress in Philadelphia
The President’s Plan for Expanding Recreation Areas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
A summary of his message to Congress on conservation and its implications for recreation
Playground Activities . . . Here and Now . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 184
A round-up of playground projects—workshops, circuses, playground press

Playground Equipment of Today and of the Future . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 187
Some leading equipment manufacturers give their views

Playground Fitness Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jarnes .l. Ponipo and Joseph Seavey 190
Forty-two cities in the Detroit Metropolitan Area build toward area htness

Outdoor Recreation in America—Part ll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192
The second section of thc ORRRC report discusses the role of state and local governments

Joseph Lee—His First Hundred Years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Virginia Musselman 195

ADMINISTRATION

PROGRAM

MONTHLY DIGEST

172

His wide and varied interests reveal the true stature of “the godfather of play,” and spark some
ideas as to how to cclebrate Joseph Lee Day

Blind Children on the Playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thc integration of blind children into regular recreation programs

. . . Marshal Smith 196

Striking National Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . George Bntler 199
Highlights from NRA Recreation and Park Yearbook—1961

Increased Leadership Boosts Playground Attendance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
Pilot study in Skolcie, lllinois, indicate how increased playground leadership
brightens (lull programs

Elimination Cumcs . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Loegelbein and Allan and Paulette Macfarlan 203
“Giant Handball" modernized and “Traps”

\Villiam Tell Archery Tournament . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205
Archery tournaincnt stresses sportsmanship and safety

I Live cht to a Playground . . . . . . 207
Digering reactions of two nearby residcnts

Parks, Politics and Philosophy . . . . . . . . Ralph Widner 208
More parks—what. is needed to get thern?

Letters 175 Reporter’s Notebook 177 As \Ve Go To Press 179 Arts and Crafts Corner 206

Market News 212 Trade Mart 213 Rx for the III and Handicapped 217 New Publications 219

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current
issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Copyright, 1962. by the National
Recreation Association, Incorporated .‘

mum

__ C
e, ‘3‘
5.

Printed In the U.S.A.

The articles herein
printed are the expres-
sion of the writers ond
not o stotement of policy
of the Notionol Recreo-
tion Association.

DUCATIONAL
BESS

SSOCIATION
OF
AMERICA

   
 

RECREATION

RECREATION

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editors
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

3n the Cover

A Statue Built for Climbing. De-
.-igned by Jose de Greeft, Alice in Won—
ulerland in Central Park, New York,
presents “grabbing points” for the
iroung explorer. Constant handling has
made these places brighter than the dull
bronze of the rest of the statue. Picture
courtesy Suzanne Szasz, photographer
and co-author, with Susan E. Lyman, Of
Young Folks3 New York, and Crown
Publishers, Inc., and Lothrop, Lee and
Shepard Company.

Next Month

Senior Citizens Month, in May,
brings articles on program for older
adults and retirees, more news about
the 44th National Recreation Congress,
the organization of a municipal music
camp. Don’t miss “Outdoor Recreation
Areas for Housing Projects,” by Albert
Mayer, well-known architect and town
planner; “From Wingding to Hinky-
Dink,” the picture story of the colorful
and imaginative piodern apparatus on
those Philadelphia playgrounds which
all Congress delegates will want to visit
next September; and “Command Per-
formance,” by Robert Dula which dis-
cusses the recreation opportunities on
Air Force bases.

Photo Credits

Page 184, Herald Photo by Mel Ken-
yon, Hollywood, Florida; 188, (left)
Times Herald, Port-Huron, Michigan,
(upper right) Miami-Metro News Bu-
reau, (lower right) Berkeley, Califor-
nia, Daily Gazette; 189, (left and lower
right), David Aaron, Playground Corp-
oration of America, New York City.
(uppcr right), Children’s Playground
Equipment Company, Corona del Mar,
California; 192, Jim Sherman, State
Conservation Commission, Des Moines,
Iowa; 206 8: 211, David J. Mussatti,
Palo Alto. California.

APRIL 1962

 

 

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

FUN TIME
is
"SPACE BALL” TIME

For All Campers . . .

   
  

"SPACE BALL will
help all aspirants of
tennis, badminton,

squash, hand ball

and table tennis
because it improves
hand-eye-foot coordi-
nation, while being so
much fun to play . . .
SPACE BALL is confined
to no special place to
play. age. time of year.
sex . or motor abi ity."

PRICE FOR
ORGANIZATIONS
AND INSTITUTIONS!

$18.00 per doz.
f.o.b.
Holyoke, Mass.
Terms: net 30 days

In quantities over 100,
price is $15.00 per doz.

Never a dull moment with SPACE BALI.

Each kit contains trampoline-type racquet and ball
complete with instructions for over 100 games you
can teach your campers in minutes. Everyone's an
expert! Any number from two people up to two
competitive teams of ten or more can play at one
time. It's 1962's top game. Gives immediate batting
success and improves eye-hand coordination.

SHO-SHO PRODUCTS C0., HOLYOKE, MASS.

. . u ‘
.

' J's.“-

A low cost protective coating

improves appearance of blacktop drives. parking lots, play
areas . . . doubles service life . . . reduces maintenance expense
. . . protects your investment.

:4, ® 
.WCEJNC wnzomrwm a;

Write for Bulletin 8-2992 Distributors Everywhere 5

'l. u».
-' an

I“ .-
nit-w

I 'I'.

I a

- '- areas

I.

4: 3

“'7; .r)‘ -
l 1'. J.

     
   
   
    
 
    
 
 
      
 

TRI SWING

the action apparatus

it SWINGS
it WHIRLS
it SEE-SAWS

the PLAYMATE line
playground equipment

The DELMER F. HARRIS Co.

CONCORDIA. KANSAS

Write for information Dept. R

 

 

Team Spirit can Soar

Make way for merriment. Your Hardware and Red Head lines, too.
Brunswick sports equipment has just Try Brunswick sports equipment and
arrived. Talk about team spirit soar— stand by for flying action.

ing, this is it: the sports equipment

better teams are made of. Brunswick  G)

sports equipment, of course. Includes 8 P O R T S

. MacGregor, Red Head, Union Hardware D
the Complete MaCGregor, Unlon 623 s. Wabash Ave., Chicago 5, Illinois

 

174 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATIOI‘

Creative Dramatics
“Sirs:

I was very interested in your supple-
ment “Drama is Recreation” [Febru-
ary]. I plunged into [it] eagerly, a11-
ticipating the creative and / or dramatic,
and/or organizational stimulus that
'Would descend upon me, but, “alas,
’twas but for naught.” Instead, I read
an interesting and well-written article
on the growth and acceptance of drama-
tic activities (mainly “for1nal”) in pub-
lic recreation and some excellent exam-
ples of what has been done, mostly by
organizations that have exceptionally
substantial budgets and in communities
where talent lies abundant (Oakland,
San Francisco, Palo Alto, Washington,
D.C., etcetera). What about the small
recreation department? The recreation
department that has little talent avail-
able and less money, but is still inter-
ested in drama and would like to do
something about it?

I quote (from Page 5 of the supple-
ment) : “Inasmuch as an effective
drama program depends largely upon
adequate facilities, equipment, and sup-
plies. . . .” One would judge from this
that unless one has an adequate budget
it is useless to think about a drama pro-
gram. I am in complete disagreement
with any such thought. If such would be
the case, there would be no future for
drama, per se, as in public recreation
because too few recreation agencies
have the money or instructive talent
available for such a financial under-
taking.

On the sixth and seventh pages of the
supplement is a detailed explanation
about how to organize a dramatic de-
partment within an agency. Most rec-
reation administrators have studied and
know the answers to the “survey” ques-
tions that are suggested. What some do
not know is how to go about organizing
a drama program without “expert lead-
ership,” without an “adequate budget,”
without “proper backing and enthusi-
asm” of their community. Is it any
wonder that the smaller agency is hesi-

tant to start a year-round dramatic pro-

APRIL 1962

 

  
 
 
 
     

LETTERS

Readers are invited to share their
views on these pages. Comments
of general interest are always wel-

come. —— The Editors.

gram? They are not set up to stage
“productions” that are nothing more
than a substitute for commercial offer-
ings. But most of them are set up to
deal with CREATIVE DRAMATlCS.

Since the first playground was estab-
lished in Boston in 1885, children have
been pantomiming and improvising
nursery rhymes and such. The recrea-
tion administrator has always realized
this as an excellent way to further de-
velOp a child’s mind by encouraging
him to use his natural creative instincts.
That is why drama and storytelling has
been an accepted playground activity
down through the years. But when it
comes to promoting drama as a year-
round program, the recreation admin-
istrator hesitates to go into it because
he knows he is not set up to stage and
direct some “grandiose” production
which he has been led to believe is the
natural outgrowth of a creative drama-
tics program. How many of the “beau-
tiful outdoor theatres” and “handsome
cultural centers” that are written about
in the supplement promote creative
drama as it is eXplained in this same
article?

A successful creative dramatics pro-
gram is not dependent upon such ex-
travagances. Its basic requisite is an in-
structor who has ability, the inventive-
ness, and the agility to guide such a
group. And the fact should be empha-
sized that these qualities are not neces-
sarily an exclusive “possession” of “ex-
pensive” drama majors, but of many
so-called average citizens in any so-
called average community. Recreation
agencies are too quick to say that there
are no trained instructors available or,
if there are, they are too eXpensive. This
is a poor excuse! The administrator
who recognizes the value a creative dra-
matics program can have upon a com-
munity, can find leadership . . . and at
a price he can afford to pay! After all,
the forests would be very quiet if all the
birds were quiet except the best singers!

Creative dramatics is for the partici-
pants. The ultimate aim of the program
is to teach the participants that a more
successful, meaningful life will be theirs

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

You can raise $500
or more in 6 days
this easy way

Sell famous Mason

Candies and in 4 to 15 days
your group can make

$300 to $2,500

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. If you decide to go
ahead you don't risk a cent,—you pay noth-
ing in advance. We sapply on consignment
your choice of THREE VARIETIES of famous
Mason Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a band printed
with your organization's name and picture.
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don’t sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make

$12.00 on every 30 sales of our $1.00 box

(66%% profit to you on cost). There’s no

risk! You can’t lose. Mail in coupon today
for information about MASON’S PROTECTED
FUND RAISING DRIVES.

r ______________ _._
Mr. Geoacs RAUSCH, Dept. RM-ft 1

Mason, Box 549, Mineola, N.Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me, without

obligation, information on your Fund
Raising Plan.

Age if under 21
Address

Organization

l l
l l
: I

l
: I
I Name...___...____._._._______ :
I I
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l

 

if they develop the ability to think for
themselves, to express their innermost
thoughts, to dare to be “different.” And

NEW YORK dam
ate a story—a new story—not interpret

some well-known story, but one that

really belongs to them?
UN  Mas. ELAINE PORTLANCE, Assistant

Direc‘or 0f 195301380150”, Janesvillc.
W' ' a ' , J '11
SCHOOL or [woman traits: 

Why “Community Center”?

 

Announces Si“: , -
Why is It that recreation workers in -
THE  referring to buildings used exclusively

or primarily for recreation almost in-

variably call them “community cen-

OF ters”? In common usage the term “com-

munity center” is applied to a wide

variety of places or huildings that serve

     many functions. The term is used, for
example, to indicate a health center, li-

brary, welfare center, settlement, mu-

AT nicipal building, community house, roec-

reation hulldmg, or a structure which

combines two or more of these func-

tions. In other words, unless inter-

HOLMES’ NEW YORK preted, the term “community center”

conveys no specific meaning other than
a place which servcs a community pur-
pose. Even when a building is located
in a puhlic park, playfleld, or other pub-
. At the Henry Kaufmann Center for Camp leadership a pragram 1‘0 recreatlon areas It ‘5 commonly “3'

ferred to as a community center. In
fact, this term was used in listing a ses-

o Pragrams of Undergraduate Study will be afiered in June, I962.

af Youth Leadership training in recreatian and camping for high

schaal iuniars and seniars will be given July l-August IO, I962. SIG" dealing With recreation bUIldingS
at a recent National Recreation Con-

. Graduate Pragrams of Study and Special Institutes will be given gress.
in Health, Physical Educatian, Recreation, Camping and Dance, Lllerature Issued by the National

Recreation Association, on the other
hand, contains practically no reference
to the community center. The Recrea-

July I-August l0, I962.

F or details about these programs, write to: “on and PM“ YonrbOOk 113$ consist-
‘ ently requested data on recreation

Dr. Morey R. Fields buildings” and on “indoor recreation

School of Education centers.” The term “community center"

0 New York University is not used in NBA puhlications dealing

Washington square with areas, facilities, or programs, or in

New York 3. New York committee reports, with one or two ex-

ceptions. Buildings designed and used

primarily or exclusively for recreation

arc called “recreation huildings.”
Admittedly, there are many buildings

 A   A  in which recreation is only one of the

services provided. These arc appropri-

with ately called community centers. How-
ever. this title is a misnomer when ap-
  plied, either oIlicially or in common

 parlance, to public buildings used for

recreation alone!

  RALPH LANDSMAN, New York City.

 

 

$2.50 ($2.00 to NRA members)

   
      
     
     

  

KEMPER TOOLS FOR CERAMICS

Clean-up, sqrafitto, texturan tools and flower
cutters in many patterns and. sizes. Instruc-
tion included with some.

For these and other Ceramic tools, write for
FREE catalogue to:

KEMPER TOOLS. P.O. Box 545
CHINO. CALIFORNIA

Order From

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West 8th Street. New York It

 

176 RECREATION

 
     

How Long Is Too Long?

Frequently drownings occur in well-
gupervised pools or recreation areas.
Often the victim was a good swimmer
1n excellent health. How can such
:hings happen? Recent studies by Dr.
Albert B. Craig, Jr. of the University of
Rochester School of Medicine and Den-
tistry indicate that some of these drown-
ings occur when underwater swimmers
hold their breath too long and lose con-
sciousness while underwater. Partici-
pants in underwater swim contests are
prone to this hazard because the excite-
ment of competition may lead them to
ignore the natural urge to breathe. Hy-
perventilation or overbreathing in-
creases the likelihood of these acci-
dents. Hyperbreathing delays the urge
to breathe to the point where one’s oxy-
gen supply is insufficient. This hap-
pens without warning and the swimmer
loses consciousness. Swimmers should
be taught to obey their natural urge to
breathe and to avoid overbreathing
before swimming underwater. The
YMCA, the Canadian Red Cross, the
Boy Scouts of America, and the Boys
Clubs of Canada are informing their
members of this little-known but lethal
water hazard.

G-Meu

Many playgrounds in New Hamp-
shire have adopted the “C-litter Bag”
idea. The letter “C” is glued and glit-
tered on a shopping.bag_and youngsters
enjoy scurrying around the play area
collecting litter to make their play-
ground glitter. The idea is Betty Ab-
bott’s, suggested at a playground lead-
ers’ workshop sponsored by the New
Hampshire Recreation Society.

Miss Abbott also came up with an-
other novel idea for an outdoor art
show. She divided a large framed can-

APRIL 1962

vas into one hundred six-by-nine inch
squares. Artists paid $.30 for the privi-
lege of painting a picture in a square
and competing in the “patchwork” art
contest.

Fun-Mobile
A Fun-Mobile bus, donated to the

Honolulu Department of Parks and Rec-
reation by the Aiea Community Asso-
ciation, will be used in a decentralized
recreation program serving five outly-
ing districts. The bus, which seats {if-
teen, will aid the Aiea Recreation Cen-
ter to increase participation in its pro-
gram. The parks and recreation de-
partment voiced its happiness at this
evidence of community cooperation in
building a purposeful recreation pro-
gram.

Revisit from Santa
Santa comes back after Christmas in

Baltimore, Maryland. The O’Donnell
Heights Recreation Center holds a Little
Mother’s Tea Party each year sometime

    

r.“'~h.
between Christmas and New Year. The

children play games and listen to sto-
ries. Santa or Mrs. Santa returns to see
how the children are taking care of their
new toys. A parade of children and toys
follows. Toy-shaped cookies and lemon-
ade are served.

Recreation for Seniors
In Cincinnati, the new Stanley Rowc

Towers housing project for senior citi-

A REPORTER’S
NOTEBOOK

zens being constructed by the Cincin-
nati Metropolitan Housing Authority
will have a multi-use recreation room.
This program is made possible by the
Housing Authority’s cooperation with
the Recreation Commission. This is the
third senior housing project in Cincin-
nati with incorporation of recreation
facilities.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

The Recreation Association of Mich-
igan honored six recreation leaders at
its annual meeting. Among those re-
ceiving awards and citations were:

Mrs. Helen 5. Field, a member and
secretary of the Highland Park Recrea-
tion Commission for twenty-two years.

Hubert G. Johnson, an organizer of
the Michigan Recreation Association
(now the RAM), athletic supervisor for
the Detroit Recreation Commission,
and an active participant in the affairs
of the Detroit Amateur Baseball Federa-
tion and the National Amateur Baseball
Federation.

The late Ira Waite Jayne, chairman
of the Detroit Athletic Commission and

first superintendent of recreation in De-
troit.

Theresa H. Wagner, a staff member '
of the Detroit Department of Parks and
Recreation for thirty-six years.

H. Lee Bancroft, who retired as su-
perintendent of parks and recreation in
Lansing after forty-three years of serv-
ice.

Cooper Otlmell Brown, who was pri-
marily responsible for the organization
of the American Amateur Baseball
Congress, executive director of the
Health and Recreation Association of
Battle Creek, and author of many books
on sports.

Continued on Page 215

177

Sponsored by AMERICAN RECREATION SOCIETY I NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

with the cooperation of PHILADELPI‘IA DEPARTMENT OF RECREATION I PENNSYLVANIA RECREATION SOCIETY
FEDERATION OF NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS FOR RECREATION

TH HOUSING INFORMATION
4 4 NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA - September 30 — October 5, I962

 

FREE TIMI:
A Challenge ta Free Merl

     
   

SPRING GARDEN ST.

   

[OOPERATIIIG HOTELS

     
 
 

   
  
 

    
  
    
         
 

(A) TRAHKLIH MOTOR ltltl (Bl ROBERT MORRIS HOTEL (El WARWIEK HOTEL
arm-aw: 22nd St. 6 Parkway tilh 6 Arch Sts. 17th a Locust Sts.
Slngle  $t2.00 Siegle $6501.00 Single $11.50
Twln .. . $16.00 Double $10.00 Twln $16.00
Twin $11.00

     
   
    

I
" u‘:jHMJRanIl
v‘ int-5!- Ilium-n

   
 

—* - " MARKET

[ONGRESS HEADQUIRTERS
* SHERATOH HOTEL

 
  
  
      

     
   

   
  

   
  
  

    
   

  
 
   

 
 

 

 

 

__ cussmur
tith St. 6 Pennsylvanla Blvd. 22 100 5,
Single 511.50 R |
-— Twln .....  $16.00 . ____ _-l , . wawur
Suites . .. . $35.00 up  a I , I ,6 200 s.
- _;-_— ---L— - - - *2 LOCUST
\ - In sun III II a I E
f v :- in a! _,. SPRUCE
a I” i I 3 m s
«'6 5’ m”?
 lean-INS“ , PINE
9 i3 3. £00 5.
x x x x x I I 9 I I x
E s a 2-: 23 a 5 2| g a 2 :c: E E. E § 2% é

Pro-Congress Meetings: September 29 and 30 O ARS Administrative Council, NRA National Institute In Recreation Administration

APPLICATION FOR HOTEL RESERVATIONS

TO: NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS HOUSING BUREAU
PHILADELPHIA CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU
HOSPITALITY CENTER—16th STREET AND PENNSYLVANIA BOULEVARD

PHILADELPHIA 2, PENNSYLVANIA

INSTRUCTIONS: Please give all information requested below and mail form to Philadelphia Convention and Visitors Bureau before September
I. All reservations must be cleared through the Housing Bureau.

Your choice of hotels will be followed it roams are available. Otherwise, assignment will be made to best possible advantage else-
where. Reservations will be confirmed directly by the hotel in which the reservation is placed.
It you desire accommodations at a Philadelphia hotel not listed, please sa indicate: the Bureau will try to place you there.

 

(Please Print)

HOTELS:
Ist Choice _______..___.__._..___..._._ 2nd Choice —_______. 3rd Choice
Accommodations Desired: Rate Desired:
Raam(s) with one bed for one person (single) S ta
Raom(s) with twin beds for two persons (twin) S to
Raam(s) with one bed for two persons (double) S ta
Suite(I) parlor and one bedroom S ta
Arrival Date __________.._____—_ Time — Departure Date ______________ Time
Names of All Roam Occupants Street Address City 8: State

(Bracket those to share raoms)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Confirm reservation to:

Name

 

Street Address

State

 

City —._______..______ Zone

178 RECREATION

   
   

3':
l.

u
D

i

) TIIE PEACE CORPS, one year old on
March hrst, announces an urgent need
for more volunteers, recreation leaders
among them. Article in our May issue
“Recreation in the Peace Corps,” will
carry details.

The Peace Corps was created by Ex-
ecutive Order, March 1, 1961, with Sar-
gent Shrivcr as director; it became a
permanent agency through Congres-
sional action last September. From
more than eighteen thousand appli-
cants, it has selected, trained, and sent
overseas 698 volunteers, now living and

. working in twelve countries. Every one

of these countries has asked for more
volunteers. In addition, twenty other
countries have requested help from the
Peace Corps. By August, over hve
thousand volunteers are scheduled to be
overseas or in training. Many coun-
tries have requested more volunteers
than the Peace Corps can now supply.

) AN OUTDOOR RECREATION ADVISORY
COUNCIL consisting of the heads Of ma-
jor fedcral departments and agencies,
as recommended in the Report of the
Outdoor Recreation Resources Review
Commission and the President’s special
Message on Conservation, has been en-

dorsed by the President. Both of the
foregoing (see Pages 181 and 192)
call for a new national policy in recrea-
tion, which will be provided by the new
council, according to Secretary of the
Interior Udall. It is hoped that their
broad policy guidance will “achieve
consistency in the multiplicity of fed-
eral agcncies whose activities signifi-
cantly affect outdoor recreation.”

TO make the policy guidance mean-
ingful, ORRRC recommends, and the
President has endorsed, the establish-
mcnt Of a Bureau of Outdoor Recrea-
tion in the Department of the Interior
to work with other agencies in carrying
out the council’s broad policies. The
President will establish the council by
cxecutive order.

“W e see the council and the bureau
as the means by which recreation and
fish and wildlife will finally be given
a seat at the head table in the federal
government,” says Secretary Udall,
“and we trust that both will have the
wholehearted support and cooperation

APRIL 1962

Of all conservation interests, public and
private.”

In addition to making sense out of
federal recreation efforts, the council
and the bureau are to build a coopera-

tive local-state-federal outdoor rccrea-
tion effort.

> THE NEW ENGLAND DISTRICT CON-
FERENCE is being held in Portsmouth,
New Hampshire, rather than in W'ent-
worth as previously announced.

} ARRANGEMENTS have been concluded
by the McGraw-Hill Book Company for
the publication of a Japanese edition of
Introduction to Community Recreation.
The 578-page volume, written by George
D. Butler Of the National Recreation
Association staff, has been translated
into Japanese by Professor Tatsuo Mi-
sumi of International Christian Univer-
sity in Tokyo. Introduction to Commu-
nity Recreation was selected as the book
that would be most useful to the J apan-
ese recreation movement.

) A COMPLETE REWRITINC of the con-
servation article in the state constitution
to permit broader recreation uses Of
large parts Of the Forest Preserve has
been proposed by two New York State
Republican lawmakers. The proposal
appears likely to touch off a major bat-
tle in the closing days of this legislative
session. On one side are those who
want to encourage more people to visit
and use the forest preserve; on the other
those who insist that the preserve
should remain “forever wild.”

) PUBLICATION OF TWO ARTICLES, an-
nounced for this issue Of RECREATION,
had to be postponed until later, in
order to accommodate President Ken-
nedy’s speech (see Page 181). They
are: “Recording Playground Attend-
ance,” and “Quick Action Pays Off,”
the story Of parks and recreation in
Maricopa County, Arizona.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNO‘V

) TIIE SECOND WORLD CONGRESS IN
PARK ADMINISTRATION is announced by
the American Institute Of Park Execu-
tives for London, May 22 to June 9,
1962. Chartered Hights will bring Amer-

ican delegates to the international mect-

 

ing. Thc congress will be held in three
parts, the hrst being devoted primarily
to visits by overseas delegates to parks
and gardens Of international repute in
and near London. The second will con-
sist of speeches, inspection tours, and
exhibitions; while the third part will be
a tour of the provinces. The registra-
tion fee is approximately $42.00. For
further information, write to Robert
Baker, Special Services, Hq. 3rd Air
Force, APO 125, US Forces.

} YOU ARE INVITED, as a recreation
leader, to join the 1962 “F riendshi
Tour,” conducted for leaders in camp-
ing and recreation fields by Mary and
Howard Galloway, 1114 South Avenue,
Plainfield, New Jersey. Mr. Galloway
is the publisher of Camping Mag zine.
The first tour, conducted last year,
proved to be a "wonderful, gay and rc-
warding experience” according to par-
ticipants. Plans for a thirty-nine-day
1962 tour include a fall cruise through
the Mediterranean, revisiting a few of
the cities most enjoyed by last year’s
tour group, and adding a number of
others of extreme intcrest. Visits to
Greece, Italy, Austria, Germany, Switz-
erland, England, France will follow.
Ample time will be provided for relaxed
visiting in each area covercd. For fur-
ther details, write Mr. Galloway or see
the May issue of RECREATION.

) YOUTH HOSTEL WEEK, May 5 to 12,
will be marked this year by an AYH
(American Youth Hostels) “Open
House” at hostcls across the country,
with special visits by youth leaders,
leading citizens, PTA officials, school
administrators, recreation department
heads. AYH councils will ask their re-
spective mayors and governors for
proclamations OHicially proclaiming
Youth Hostel Week. A press kit will be
furnished for the use of the councils
in publicizing the event. Write to AYH,
1&1‘ West 8th Street, New York 11.

) RECREATION LEADERS AND TEACHERS
are invited to attend the regional Chil-
dren’s Theatre Conference to be held at
the National College of Education in
Evanston, Illinois, May 5-6. Workshops,
demonstrations, a puppet show, and a
play are on the schedule. Special fea-

179

tures include the preview of a new film,
Creative Drama: The First Steps, to be
introduced by Winifred Ward, honor-
ary chairman of the conference; speaker
Mordecai Corelik, authority on scene
design; and an afternoon of folk songs,
dances, and folk drama narrated by
Martha Bennett King Of the Chicago
Art Institute staff. The Children’s Thea-
tre Conference is a division Of the
American Educational Theatre Associa-
tion and this region includes Illinois
and Wisconsin.

) NATIONAL MUSIC WEEK, which is al-
ways the first full week in May, will be

celebrated for the thirty-ninth year on
May 6-13, under the sponsorship Of the
National Federation of Music Clubs, a
nonprofit organization. Its purpose is
to focus the attention of the public on
the dynamic influence Of music as an
effective medium of communication and
understanding between all people. Na-
tional Music Week was formerly spon-
sored by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation under the direction of Charles
Tremaine. Mr. Tremaine, founder of
Music Week, is in his nineties and lives
in Westfield, New Jersey. Copies Of the
1962 brochure are available at NFMC
Headquarters, Suite 1215, 600 South

KoWnaL wanna/wt

Bill*

House Senate

 

Aid to States and Local Bodies (HR. 9653): As- C
sists in reduction of unemployment through accelera-
tion Of capital eXpeuditure programs of state and local
public bodies fiucludes parks and recreation facilities.

parkways, conservation facilities) .

Highway Appropriations (ILR. 93-18): Authorizes C
appropriations for fiscal years 1964-65 for construc-
tion of ccrtain highways (includes forest roads and
trails, park roads and trails, parkways, ludian reser-

vation roadsl .

W’ildlife Refuge Stamp (NR. 100.35): Authorizes C
issuance Of national wildlife refuge stamp as require-
ment for use of national uildlife refuges: proposed
to increase revenue from users of refuges for recrea-

tion purposes.

Automation (5. 2772): Authorizes holding a White C
House Conference on Impact of Automation.

Arts Council (ILR. 10122): Establishes Federal Ad- C

visory Council on the Arts to assist in growth and de-

velopment of the fine arts.

Surplus Property (5. 2724): Amends Section 203

G

(j) of Federal Property and Administrative Services
Act of 19-19 to permit disposal of surplus property for

use in development. operation. and maintenance of

state park and recreation areas.

Surplus Property (HR. 10129): Amends Federal C
Property and Administrative Services Act of 19-19 to
permit donation and other disposal of surplus per-
sonal property of tax-supported public park. recrea-

tion, or historic monument agencies.

*C: in committee

 

180

P .' reported

1
n

P : passed 1

Michigan Avenue, Chicago 5, on re-
quest.
Travel

>THE 1962 AMERICAN YOUTH Hos-
TELS TRAVEL FOLDER, Highrood to Ad-
venture . . . the Hostel Way. Offers scv-
eral pionecr hosteling trips this year tO
Alaska, Hawaii, South America, and
Japan. Also a special flatboat water-
ways tour Of England, Germany and

Austria. Write American Youth Hos-
tels,1nc., 14‘West 8th St., New York 11.

> THE 1962 SUMMER SESSION TOUR to
world-famous University of Hawaii,
Honolulu is now accepting reservations.
Special rates for students and teachers
for the six-week Summer Session Tour
Program begin as low as $555.00. This
price includes round-trip jet air travel
from the \Vest Coast, accommodations
in deluxe Waikiki Beach hotels. a full
schcdule of twenty-two planned activi-
ties.

For earning cxtra credits transfer-
able to most mainland colleges, students
and teachers can attend classes at the
University of Hawaii’s summer session
where a distinguished visiting faculty
from all over the world offers a wide
range of subjects and courses.

Full particulars including a twenty-
page illustrated hulletin and appli ‘ation
forms arc availablc by writing to Dr.
Robert E. Cralle. Executive Dircctor,
University Study Tours to Hawaii. 2275
Mission Street, San Francisco 10.

Meetings

0 1962 National Council on Family R-c-
latious Annual Meeting, University Of
Connecticut, Storrs . . . August 22-21».

0 Thirteenth Annual Adirondack
Workshop, sponsored by United Com-
munity Funds and Councils of America
and the National Social Welfare Assem-
bly, Silver Bay on Lake George, New
York . . . July 6 to 11.

0 Tenth Annual National Confcrencc
of Statc and Federal lnter-Agency Com-
mittees for Recreation, at Higgins Lake,
Michigan . . . July 22-25. The state will
act as host for this national meeting.
Attendance by reservation only. Write:
Ernest V. Blohm, Conference Chair-
man, Inter-Agency Council for Recrea-
tion, 130 Stevens T. Mason Building,
Lansing 26, Michigan.

0 Playground Leaders Training lusti-
tute, Student Union, Unix ersity of
Massachusctts, Amhcrst . . . June 22-23.
Featurcd will be fundamentals of pro-
graming in music, drama, nature, arts
and crafts. spceial events, active play-
ground games and organization; ad-
ministration of playgrounds. and play-
ground stimulants. Charges are $11.00
for two days. Write Dana Harlow. As-
sistant Professor and Coordinator, Uni-
versity of Massachusetts. Amherst.

 

Reenemos

THE
PRESIDENT’S

PLAN

 

Q) for expanding
recreation
areas

JF K’s Message on Conservation delivered to Congress March I, 1962

increases, and as rising productivity makes possible

increased enjoyment of leisure time, the obligation to
make the most efficient and beneficial use of our natural
resources becomes correspondingly greater. The standard
of living we enjoy—greater than any other nation in history
-—is attributable in large measure to the wide variety and
rich abundance of this country’s physical resources. But
these resources are not inexhaustible-—nor do they auto-
matically replenish themselves.

We depend on our natural resources to sustain us—but in
turn their continued availability must depend on our using
them prudently, improving them wisely, and where possible,
restoring them promptly. We must reaffirm our dedication
to the sound practices of conservation which can be defined
as the wise use of our natural environment.

Our national conservation effort must include the com-
plete spectrum of resources: air, water, and land; fuels, en-
ergy, and minerals; soils, forests, and forage; fish and
wildlife. Together they make up the world of nature which
surrounds us——a vital part of thenAmerican heritage. And
we must not neglect our human resources—the Youth Con-
servation Corps, proposed as a part of the Administration’s
Youth Employment Opportunities Bill, should he established
to achieve the dual objectives of conserving and developing
the talents of our youth and of conserving and developing
our outdoor resources.

In the second month of this Administration I sent to the
Congress a message summarizing our plans for the develop-
ment of our natural resources. In the year which followed,
heartening progress was made. Among accomplishments
have been amendments to the Water Pollution Control Act;
regulations authorizing acquisition of sufficient land in the
construction of federally-financed reservoirs to preserve the
recreation potential of those areas; provision for acquisi-
tion of open space for recreation under the Housing Act of
1961; designation of the great outer beach of Cape Cod as
a National Seashore Area; approval of the Delaware River
Basin Compact.

This progress is gratifying. But much remains to be done

1- s OUR POPULATION EXPANDS, as our industrial output

APRIL 1962

——our renewed interest and momentum must not wane. To
provide an opportunity for the exchange of further ideas—
and topermit those who have dedicated their efforts to the
principles of conservation to participate in evaluating the
progress that has been made-—and to seek the best possible
advice in prescribing what must be done in the future—I
propose to convene a White House Conference on Conserva-
tion this year.

The Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission.
after a three-year study of our nation’s recreation demands
and opportunities, has submitted a series of recommenda-
tions deserving the attention of governments at all levels
and of the citizenry at large (see Page 192). Many of the
commission’s suggestions have already been explored and
developed to the point where we are prepared to recommend
legislation implementing them. Others will be carefully
considered and, where appropriate, put into effect by Execu-
tive action; where additional legislation is required, recom-
mendations will be made to the Congress.

1. More than twenty different federal departments and
agencies have responsibilities of one sort or another in the
field of recreation. It is essential that there be close co-
ordination among these different groups and that all plans
be fitted into a basic national policy. Accordingly, as recom-
mended by the ORRRC report, I shall appoint an Outdoor
Recreation Advisory Council, made up of the heads of (ice
partments and agencies principally concerned with recrea-
tion—to provide a proper forum for considering national
recreation policy and to facilitate coordinated efforts among
the various agencies.

2. Another organizational recommendation of the
ORRRC report to be adopted is the creation within the De-
partment of the Interior of a Bureau of Outdoor Recreation.
This bureau will carry out planning functions already as-
signed to the Department of the Interior and will administer
the program of federal assistance for state agencies I am
proposing below. This new Bureau will serve as a focal point
within the federal government for the many activities re-
lated to outdoor recreation, and will work and consult with
the Departments of Agriculture, Army, and Health, Educa-

181

tion, and Welfare, the Housing and Home Finance Agency.
and with other government agencies in implementing fed- ,
eral outdoor recreation policies. 
3. The interest and investment in recreation development
by the various states have been irregular and uneven. Some

have demonstrated outstanding organization skills with cor- '

responding benefits. The ORRRC recommendation that the
states should be encouraged and aided in their efforts to
understand and realize the full potential that lies within
their boundaries rests on sound ground. Accordingly, I urge

the Congress to enact legislation which will shortly be trans-
mitted to establish a program of matching grants for the
development of state plans for outdoor recreation programs.
This program will supplement that enacted last year which

authorized assistance to state and local governments in plan-
ning and acquiring Open space lands in urban areas for

 

  
 

Put a / Winkle in his eye --—-- recreation, conservation and other purposes.
laughtér in his VOice — warmth 4. In most cases the magnificent national parks, monu-
' In your heart. ments, forests and wildlife refuges presently maintained and
_ . operated by the federal government have either been donated
i by states or private citizens or carved out of lands in the
l i Mfrs. of the public domain. No longer can these sources be relied upon
Finest playground —we must move forward with an affirmative program of
Equipment Write land acquisition for recreation purposes. For with each

for Catalogs. , , ,
pass1ng year, prnne areas for outdoor recreation and fish

RECREATION EQUIPMENT CORP. ' and wildlife are preempted for suburban growth, industrial

, ‘ develo ment, or other uses. That ex enditures for land re-
Dept. R42 — 724 W. 81h SI. — Anderson, Indiana p . . . p .
sources is also a sound financial investment is clear from

the multiplied value of those lands now devoted to parks,
forests, and wildlife refuges which were acquired decades

L

 

ago by the great conservationists—moreover, steadily rising

i‘,‘ ,x’x ‘O . land prices can in some cases serve to foreclose public ac-

i" any time quisition. EXpansion of our permanent recreation land base
anywhere . . . .

can best be achieved by investments in our future in the form

the TU CK-AWAV table of modest user payments from those who now enjoy our su-

is ready in seconds! pcrb outdoor areas and from recreation and land related

receipts.
To meet our national needs for adequate outdoor recrea-
tion lands, I propose creation of a “Land Conservation

Fund” to be financed by (1) proceeds from entrance, ad-

mission, or user fees and charges at federal recreation areas;
(2) annual user charges on recreation boats; (3) diversion
from the Highway Trust Fund of refundable, but unclaimed,
taxes paid on gasoline used in motor boats; and (4) receipts
from the sale of surplus federal nonmilitary lands.

 

Now, any room becomes a recreation area quickly,

easily . . - With the TUCK-AWAY folding tennis To prevent costly delay in beginning an acquisition pro-
table. The TUCKsAWAY is built for lasting scr- 1 d h . . b d . 1 d d
vice, minimum storage requirements. and speedy’ gram, recommen aut orization e grante to inc u e a -
safe Operetien- Finished in fiat green with white vances from the Treasury not to exceed $500,000,000 over
court lines, the TUCK-AWAY is regulation size . h . d . I d “L d C .

and features “Floating Fold” for easy. positive an 61% t'year perm m he propose an onservatlon
actlon- so safe a cm” can 01’0th 't- USTPA Fund” which will be repaid from the regular revenue sources

approved for tournament play.

new F R E E bookie:

'

of the fund. Money would be made available from the fund
for land acquisition by annual appropriations by the Con-

—-l———-—--—-----
all
.-
all
"

p . . . tells the complete story on
r’ the TUCK-AWAY. Write for grass-

”
0' your copy today! .
a.“ ,z” 5. Last year’s Congressmnal approval of the Cape Cod
\.I

0  National Seashore Area should be regarded as the path.
.  breaker for many other worthy park land pr0posals pending

O.

 

mnnuhcmr'ng company. mm Dept 406 before the (Eongress. I urge favorable action .on legislation
5217 EDEN AVENUE soum, MINNEAPOLIS 24, MINNESOTA to create Pomt Reyes National Seashore in California; Great

182 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

 

l? asin National Park in Nevada; Ozark Rivers National Mon-
ument in Missouri; Sagamore Hill National Historic Site in
1"ew York; Canyonlands National Park in Utah; Sleeping
Iear Dunes National Lakeshore in Michigan; Prairie Na-
tonal Park in Kansas; Padre Island National Seashore in
*' 'exas; and a National Lakeshore Area in Northern Indiana.
.thuisition of these park lands would be financed through
the “Land Acquisition Fund.”

6. In some sections of the United States—notably the
East—available public lands do not meet the large recrea-
ion demands. These pentup demands can be met in some
nstances through the disposal of lands surplus to federal
leeds. I recommend that the Federal Surplus Property Dis-
gosal Act be amended to permit states and local governments
:_o acquire surplus federal lands for park, recreation, or
wildlife uses on more liberal terms. Furthermore as the
ORRRC report pointed out, fishing, hiking, picnicking, rid-
ing, and camping activities on private lands can—and should
.-—-be intensified and encouraged. One important step in this
direction is the recommendation made in my Message on
Agriculture which would permit the orderly movement of
millions of acres of land not needed to produce food and
fibers to recreation and other uses.

7. The special urgent recreation needs of our urban dwell-
ers, first recognized by Congress in the Housing Act of 1961,
are evident from the dramatic response to this Administra-
tion’s open-space land programs on the part of states and
cities throughout the nation. In view of the known backlog
of need for recreation lands, and the remarkable rate at
which urban and suburban lands are being put to other uses,
I have recommended that the present open-space grant au-
thorization be increased by $50,000,000.

8. The fast-vanishing public shorelines of this country
constitute a joint problem for the federal government and
the states requiring a carefully conceived program of pres-
ervation. I recommend approval of legislation along the
lines of 5.543, as approved by the Senate, to authorize a
study of the ocean, lake and river shorelines of the nation
to deve10p a federal-state shoreline preservation program.

9. Finally, we, must protect and preserve our nation’s re-
maining wilderness areas. This key element of our conser-

 

Windswept Point Reyes on the California coast.

vation program should have priority attention.
I therefore again strongly urge the Congress to enact leg-
islation establishing a National Wilderness preservation

system along the lines of 5.174, introduced by Senator
Anderson.

OTHER RESOURCES important to national deve10pment were

also covered by the President: Water resources, with
the goal “to have sufficient water sufficiently clean in the
right place at the right time to serve the range of human
and industrial needs”; public lands “to assure that the full
potential is realized from the vacant unused areas in public
domain”; soil, watershed and range resources; timber; min-
erals; power; research and technology in the natural re-
sources field.

“In the work of conservation, time should be made our
friend, not our adversary,” he concluded. “Actions deferred
are frequently opportunities lost, and, in terms of financial
outlay, dollars invested today will yield great benefits in
the years to come. The progress made in the resources field
in the first year of this Administration is encouraging; im-
plementation of the new recommendations made today will
maintain the momentum, enabling us to repay our debt to
the past and meet.our obligations to the future.” #-

PROPOSED AREAS FOR THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM

Preposed Area

. Point Reyes National Seashore, California

. Great Basin National Park, Nevada

Ozark Rivers National Monument, Missouri
Sagamore Hill National Historic Site, New York

. Canyonlands National Park, Utah

Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore, Michigan
. Prairie National Park, Kansas

. Padre Island National Seashore, Texas

ooo-agxmpgwhar—I

. Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, Indiana

p—l
O

. Ice Age National Scientific Reserve, Wisconsin

Acreage (Estimated)

Cost (Estimated)

53,000 (All private) * $ 16,000,000
123,000 (2,000 private) 150,000
113,000 (95,000 private) 10,000,000
90 Donation
332,000 Federal and State
92,000 (72,000 private) 17,000,000
56,000 4,700,000
328,000 (112,000 private) 4,000,000
9,000 8,000,000
53,500 (32,000 private) 3,225,000
1,159,590 Acres $ 63,075,000

*Includes “Pastoral Zone” of twenty-six thousand acres. These lands would be included within the exterior boundaries of the pr0posal but
would not be acquired as long as the lands remained in their natural state, or were used exclusively for ranching and dairying purposes.

APRIL 1962

183

Educated clown—graduate of
the clown class sponsored by
the recreation department in
Hollywood, Florida—shows
he learned to tickle small fry.

Championship concentration.
In Tampa, Florida, the climax
of the summer’s activities finds

local playground winners in

the city-wide Round-Up playoffs.

 

PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES
...HERE AND NOW

From [ollages I0 (amp (ratls: A two-(lay playground craft work-
shop is offered by thc Bureau of Parks and Public Recrea-
tion in Portland, Orcgon, in cooperation with the Oregon
Recreation and Parks Association. It is cspecially planned
for “summer playground leaders, recreation directors,
teachers, youth leaders, summer church school leaders, nurs-
ing home personnel, camp directors, and others interested
in the craft field.” The workshop is informal, nonteehnical
in nature, with emphasis on ncw techniques. It is so planned
that thc participant may study a maximum of ten credits for
$3.00, the price of the materials used. The program is as
follows:

FIRST DAY
9AM TO 12 NOON
1. Outline of Summer Craft Program.
2. Suggestions for a winter program, children and adults.
3. Media, recipes, supplies, materials, and source of
supply.
12:00 TO 1PM, Lunch. Questions, answers and idea exchange.
1:00 TO 4PM, demonstration of use of new mediums and
materials in a variety of crafts:
1. Mosaics and collage, using colored popcorn, rocks,
rock salt, linoleum, and tile.
2. Wire crafts, making candelabra, lights, and figures.
3. Sand casting, using fruits, vegetables, and dried ma-
terials.
4. Dried materials in transparencies for screens, lights
and stationery.
5. Spray and spatter painting.

 

184 RECREATION

 

In the spring, thoughts turn
to recreation, outdoors

and especially to playgrounds

6. Egg cartons and plaster of Paris, making figures,
radio lights, and so forth. r

7. Balloons used in patio lights. figures, and mobiles.

8. Tin-can and camp crafts.

9. Primary crafts.

10. Scrap crafts.

SECOND DAY
9:00 T0 12 NOON, “Make and tote.” Lunch at 12:00.
1 :00 T0 4:00PM, Questions. answers, and idea exchange, fol-
lowed by afternoon “make and tote.”

(ircuses: Clowns, acrobats, animals—-—-—all are gleefully imper-
sonated by youngsters on hundreds of playgrounds during
the summer. In many instances, all playgrounds in town
contribute their best performers to a “big show,” climax of
the season.

HOLLYWOOD. FLORIDA, features a gala circus parade in July,
to which local merchants devote their time and services.
Clowns, pretty majorettes, wild animals (in cages, of course),
and a talented band are featured. The expert performing
clowns have completed the Hollywood Recreation Depart-
ment-sponsored clown class.

SYLACAUGA, ALABAMA, calls the grand climax Of its play-
ground season “The Playmore Circus” and distributes
widely playground-made leaflets announcing free bus rides
to all the playgrounds. Sylacauga also promotes the recrea-
tion department’s annual watershow, “Westward Ho,” by

distributing leaflets to all motels in the area.

SPRINGFIELD, OHIO. enjoyed something different last sum-

APRIL 1962

“Mighty Mites” compete for hopscotch championship of
Metropolitan Park District, Tacoma, Washington.

99

mer—a “Roman Circus. Recreation department leaders
balanced imagination and realism in its presentation; and
it was unique enough to attract even teenage car owners.
Plans were made and equipment gathered well in advance.
Among activities featured, a chariot race ran seven laps
around the “arena” according to the ancient custom. An
“emperor” was chosen to rule over the entire affair, and
it was the drop of his hand that started each and every race.

Roman dress was a must. Gladiator hats were made by
the boys and girls by covering cardboard with aluminum
foil tOpped with a crepe-paper plume. Shoulder braids and
armbands were Of matching crepe paper; swords and shields
of cardboard. Shields, with brightly painted coats of arms
in green, blue, and red, designated each team. A Roman
circus banner and shield was constructed from a baseball
batting tee and a broom. Chariot fronts of matching colors
and coats of arms were taped on the inside front of wagons
and, after hitching up two horses (wagon-pullers) to each,
the race was ready to begin.

The track for this type Of circus should be about twenty-
five yards and nearly circular to allow very sweeping curves
and on as smooth a surface as possible. Contestants were
divided into appropriate age groups, and given the follow-
ing rules: the rider must sit down in chariot; horses must
start slowly to avoid lifting front wheels of chariot; horses
must trot, not run. Each winner, of course, was crowned by
the emperor.

Event number two consisted of the gladiator fights. Two
younger boys mounted the backs of larger boys, their trusty
steeds, and faced one another at twenty paces. The horses
passed to the left Of one another at the midpoint of the
arena. As they neared each other. the gladiators extended
their right arms as rigidly as possible, with left arms held
behind their backs. As the horses passed, the palms of the
outstretched hands met head on and the gladiator who first
grabbed for his horse to keep from falling backwards was
the loser.

According to Roman custom, the crowd now held their
thumbs up or down, up meaning to let the gladiator live to
fight again, down designating death. On the playground,
however, thumbs down meant somewhat less severe penalty,
imposed by the emperor.——WILLIAM SLATTENGREN, Super-
intendent of Recreation, Springfield, Ohio. '

The "Playground Press." Planned as a playground activity for
eleven-, twelve-, and thirteen-year-olds, the “Playground
Press” in Shaker Heights, Ohio, is a lively gazette of all
the latest goings-on. A faculty member of the school-year
staff is the advisor for the paper along with two college stu—
dents who assist whenever necessary along with other coun-
seling duties. The staff is made up of any and all interested
youngsters from the junior-high playground, those going
into seventh, eighth, or ninth grade the following September.

Most of the planning and all Of the actual interviews are
conducted by the girls and boys on the playground. The

185

 

.-
.

M aypoles, decoated with the colors of each playground, add
to colorful climax of Allentown, Pennsylvania Romper Day.

stories are written and submitted to the advisor or assistant
advisors for proofreading and editing. When an article has
been approved, it is turned in to the typists, then passed on
to those assigned to setup work for that particular week.
Completed copy is turned over to the recreation office for
stenciling and mimeographing. The mimeographed sheets
are returned to the junior-high playground for assembling
and distribution.

The “Playground Press” is given to every participant on
the seven elementary playgrounds as well as those attending
the junior-high program. Copies are also distributed through
the public libraries, and one is sent to the local newspaper
oflice each week. It serves many functions:

1. As another worthwhile activity for the girls and boys
participating in our playground program.

2. Gives the other girls and boys on the various play-
grounds a chance for recognition for something that they
have accomplished.

3. Is an excellerit source of communication for telling
youngsters and parents of past, present, and future activities.

4-. Is a very inexpensive, yet very effective, method of
telling the whole city plus the outlying area what is going
on in our program. [The final product is attractive and very
well (lone.—Ed.]

All playground activities are rated by staff members at
the end of each season to help in planning for the following
year. The “Playground Press” was one of four activities
that carried a perfect four-point average for the second
straight year in 1961.—RICHARD S. MAROUS, Director of
Recreation, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

Special Days

MIGIITY-MITE HEY DAY. On this day in Tacoma, Washing-
ton, all the younger playground champions meet and com-
pete for city championships in the regular playground
activities: checkers, Ping-pong. box hockey. tetherball, hop-
scotch, jump rope, jacks, storytelling. and poster art. Older
playground youngsters have already received their recogni-
tion at earlier city-wide events through competing in the
Junior Olympics at Lincoln High School Bowl and the
Sports Jamboree at Jefferson Playground in regular play-
ground events such as Ping-pong, box hockey, tetherball,
horseshoes, tennis, and team sports such as basketball and
volleyball. Now, these “old folks” stand by and watch.

186

I

Throughout the fourteen»acre park, groups of children
participate in various events. The tetherball loops through
the air as two five-foot contestants fight for the tetherball
championship. Hockey sticks clack inside the three-by-nine-
foot wooden playing box, the hall ricochets back and forth,
and another winner moves up the tournament ladder.

0n the paved driveway, near South Park’s main building
(the large recreation center), hopscotch contestants match
their skill, horseshoes ring out across the lawn, jump ropes
slap the paving. Inside the center, Ping-pong balls fly from
paddle to paddle and brightly colored jacks tattoo merrily
across the hardwood floor. Happy shouts echo everywhere.

In sharp contrast, checkers contestants sit around card
tables and silently contemplate their moves in the large quiet
foyer. OH in the bright north wing, storytellers are perform-
ing; in the large auditorium, pinned to the stage curtains,
vivid posters submitted by promising young artists announce
various playground events.

All too soon the last contest ends and the proud winners
gather for their ribbons and prize certificates. Nothing
fancy, these awards, nothing cxpensive. They don’t have
to be; the playing and the winning were the rewards. The
ribbon is only the symbol of their accomplishment—BUD
CAIRNS, Specialist in Arts and Crafts, Metropolitan Park
District, Tacoma, Washington.

ROMPER DAY. Using a quaint name and idea from another
era, the Allentown, Pennsylvania, fairground becomes a
colorful scene with thousands of romping youngsters. This
unique summer holiday originated as far back as 1912,
shortly after the Allentown playground system was inaugu-
rated. The idea of a program reviewing the season’s activi-
ties was suggested to General Harry C. Trexler, a noted local
philantl1r0pist, at that time, and the general and a staff of
his friends carried out the idea and agreed to sponsor the
program, assuming all expenses.

The first Romper Day consisted of athletic events in the
morning such as longball, dodgehall, whip tag, volleyball,
races, shoe scramble, and kite flying, and a formal program
in the afternoon that included folk dances and a Maypole.
The use of the Maypole has been retained in the program
through the years, usually as the climax event. The poles,
decorated in the colors of each playground, made a striking
rainbow of color during the performance.

In keeping with his conviction that “play is the child’s
way of growing and learning,” General Trexler set aside
a fund of $50,000 as the capital for an annual Romper Day.
Interest from this fund is used toward expenses, which run
as high as $3,500 for lunch, transportation, insurance, and
music. Each year one of Allentown’s four bands is engaged
to provide the music for the pr0gram.

Allentown’s Romper Day is an example of successful com-
munity effort and cooperation. It is planned and directed
by a committce of officials from the recreation commission,
the school district, and the city; teachers donate their serv-
ices; merchants contribute food at cost. The lunch menu
usually consists of hot dogs, chocolate milk, ice cream, and
candy. .

Increasing participation and rising costs have made it

Continued on Page 198

RECREATION

I: PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

. . . Today and Tomorrow

I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I

EQ UIPMENT of the

What will be the playground equip-
rnent of the future? Will our children’s
children still be cavorting on the sarne
stereo typed apparatus—swings, seesaws,
merry-go-rounds, etcetera—or will they
be happily romping on novel devices?
To prognosticate the answers, the Youth
Services Section of the Los A ngeles City
Schools queried leading advertisers of
equipment in RECREATION and related
periodicals as to their forecasts for the
future. The following is a composite of
the responses that Dr. Ted Cordon, su—
pervisor of the Youth Service Section,
received from nine leading manufac-
turers:

IN THESE more or less uncertain times,
it is difficult to make any definite
projections beyond the immediate fu-
ture. Most of our active planning and
development is on current basis. Our

"firm does not have the reputation of

plunging into innovations, and, in fact,
we are rather conservative in our ap-
proach. Certainly, we are continuing to
search for new ideas to be sound from
every standpoint. This is a slow process,
and we don’t believe that we can tie it
to any timetable.

The need for action-inducing appa-
ratus is, of course, of critical priority.
Nowadays, Junior doesn’t walk, push
lawnmowers, and do the chores he did
years ago, so he wclcomes (or should
welcome) the substitutes offered in
modern play equipment. If he doesn’t,
it is because we don’t make it attractive
enough to him.

The basic activities of children—
climbing, sliding, swinging, whirling,
racing, jumping, etcetera—have re-
mained the same since the time of the
caveman; and, with evolution being the
slow process it is, these will still he the
basic activities of children in fifty, a
hundred, or even three hundred years.

APRIL 1962

FUTURE

Playground equipment, consequently,
adapts to the basic motions: pendulum,
rotation, up-and-down, sliding, climb-
ing. Time will make certain changes.
For example, swings, the most p0pular
of the pendulum type, will get different
seats and fancy framework. Present
functional units will continue to be pop-
ular since, although they don’t look
pretty or exicting, they are strong, dur-
able—and inexpensive. Climbing and
other stationary equipment will make
the greatest changes in the coming
years, and a higher percentage of play-

 

ground apparatus will be of that type.
The reason is that the chief trend is to
use playground equipment which will
help to develop the upper muscles of the
hody since these are the ones most likely
to be neglected and underdeveloped.
On strictly exercising equipment,
steel will continue to be the chief con-
struction material. On the stationary
forms and imaginative play areas, plas-
tic will predominate. Concrete will be
used somewhat, but the shipping prob-
lem on factory-cast structures will pre-
clude their adoption in most areas. On
all items, wood will be almost entirely
replaced by steel; and plastic, in time,
will replace steel in many applications.
Plastic molding over steel frames will
provide color and variety for the play-
ground as nothing will. In fact, there

is a major trend toward the use of color
and modern design in playground
equipment.

Play-sculpture forms and similar
cquipment which appeals to children’s
imaginations will become more popular.
In an effort to arouse imaginative play,
some designers have turned their minds
toward creative equipment such as con-
crete turtles and jack-and-the-beanstalk.
We think these are fine, and such equip—
ment does make an attractive play-
ground for children below the five- and
six-year level. As a matter of course,
future play devices will be designed with
definitive age groups in mind. The time
will come when we will find swings in
the shape of animated characters, slides
in all shapes and forms; we will find
climbers, slides, and playhouse combi-
nations in much more fancy designs and
colors. The trend, too, will be to make
equipment lower and with fewer moving
parts. All of these goodies will be set
in playground pits made especially for
equipment. These pits will be drained
with grave] or cinder fillers and topped
with four to six inches of tanbark.

Action in these directions is taking
place. In the East, Philadelphia and
New York have distinguished them-
selves in developing new ideas; in the
West, the California cities of Monterey,
Berkeley, and Long Beach have taken
the lead. However, we people in the rec-
reation busincss sometimes are so eager
to find new, appealing items that we go
a little overboard with design. A new
toy always pleases a child, but unless it
evokes a basic reaction, it will soon be
discarded. The educational value of the
equipment may be primarily physical,
imaginative, emotional, esthetic, intel-
lectual, or social; but these values must
be combined with enjoyment or the ap-
paratus will not be used.

Continued on Page 189
187

P  0 U N D 1 Latest equipment combines new and old ideas to satisfy children’s age-old

desire to be climbing as these boys in Port Huron, Michigan, show.

2 Jonah had his lesson in whale anatomy. These boys explore the gullet o] a
' concrete rhinoceros in the C randon Park Zoo in Dade County, Florida.

Resist a slide? Not Joseph Prendergast, executive director 0] the National
3- Recreation Association, seen at Fairyland, Oakland, California.

EQ UIPMENT

0F

RECREATION

 

 

A modern climber of riveted steel boxes ogers the imagina-
4:_ tion endless sc0pe, can be be space shi , tunnel, cave.

‘ An upside-down. world gives you a new slant on things.
it. Plastic umbrella climber has rounded steel supports.

‘ Playscape at Sterling Forest Gardens, Tuxedo, New York,
). incorporates Big Ranger Station (left) and Space Station.

 

 

0f the Future
Continued from Page 189

 

It is generally agreed that in the
construction of playground apparatus,
design, materials, and workmanship
should be such as to insure safe’ty, dura-
bility, serviceability, economical main-
tenance, simplicity of supervision, de-
velopmental and recreation value. Con-
sequently, we are bending our effort

toward the creation of equipment that

APRIL 1962

will provide greater usefulness, greater

safety, better appearance, and low main—

tenance. Safety, especially, will become
a greater factor in the design and con-
struction of play apparatus; however,
any form of human activity involves

some hazard, and training of the adven-
turous spirit of the child is an important
and necessary part of his early play. In

addition, he needs to learn to balance
his body, to fall properly, and to reduce

the impact of a blow or sudden stop.
However, the more hazardous types of
apparatus must be avoided and equip-
ment must be made as safe as possible
since the child should not be exposed
to extreme danger.

We are honored that you have looked
to us for assistance and information.
Our engineers and planning personnel
are constantly working on new ideas.
We hope we have helped in some

way. #
189

 

PLAYGROUND
FITNESS PROGRAM

.Sllowing maximum use

of every playground

irrespective of size

and equipment

190

James J. Pompo
and

Joseph Seavey

 

ECREATION numerous in the
R southwestern Miehigan metro-

politan area have long been con-
eerned with the seriousness of the youth
fitness problem. In 1958, after a gen-
eral meeting, a nine-member committee
adopted the following seven objectives
for youth-fitness programs in the De-
troit metropolitan area:
0 To support the objeetives of the
President’s Council on Youth Fitness.
0 To promote the council’s mission by
stimulating reereation programs in
youth fitness.

 

MR. POMPO, manager of Metropolitan
Beach, a unit of the Huron-Clinton
Metropolitan Authority, Detroit, was
chairman of the 196} Physical Fitness
Committee. MR. SEAVEY, assistant chair-
man 0] the ’61 committee, is recreation

director in East Detroit.

0 To encourage publie and private
ageneies to launch special youth-fitness
programs on a year-round basis.
0 To assist all groups and individuals
interested in physieal fitness by referral
or consultant services.
0 To encourage partieipation in sports
by promotion of competitive games for
boys and girls through every means
possible.
0 To ineuleate a belief in total fitness—
physieal, mental, spiritual, emotional,
and social.
0 To make the eommunity aware of the
necessity of physieal fitness.
Reereation executives and their staffs
agreed upon a structure of youth-fitness
activities adaptable to the loeal play-
ground level. For boys, this ineluded
the hop, step and jump, standing broad
jump, cllinning, running broad jump,
softball throw, and fifty-yard dash; for
girls, the standing broad jump, running
broad jump, softball throw, and fifty—
yard dash; for mixed boys and girls, a
shuttle relay. Events were eonducted in
three elasses: Class A (14- to 15-years-
old), Class B (12- to l3-years-old) , and
Class C (10- to 11-years-old) . The eri-
teria established thus provided a test to
determine proficiency, displaying fitness
in the most simple and obvious way.
Fitness for Fun programs were initi-
ated by playground leaders and incor-
porath as part of daily sessions. The
degree and extent of aetivities was de-
signed around available facilities to
give every playground area, irrespeetive
of size and equipment, a ehance to par-
ticipate. Individual fitness was thus de-
veloped to the maximum degree of skill
through praetice in competitive events
on a daily basis. Each playground then
held a final meet to seleet the most eap-
able and representative group to partiei-
pate in the city finals. In some cases,
spectator interest was aroused by sebed-
uling the runoffs at night under illumi-
nated fields, giving a new depth to the
whole program. The arrangement and
organization of the events in the field,
elosely resembling a regional meet, gave
the partieipants a preview of the big
event to eome—the annual Metropolitan
District Physical Fitness Program in
which loeal winners would partieipate.

RECREATION

 

M ass calisthenics open the annual Detroit Metropolitan District Physical Fitness Meet, climax of playground fitness programs.

( See “Too Much Complacency . . . about
Our Children’s Fitness, RECREATION,
April 1959.)

In 1961 an all-time high of forty-two
cities joined ranks to display a gigantic
effort. From each of the city-wide finals
boys and girls were selected to represent
their cities in the regional meet.

Cooperation at all levels was high.
The important channels of communica-
tion with the public through the press,
radio, and TV drove the point of physi-
cal fitness home to the two-and-a-half
million residents of the Detroit metro-
politan area. Metropolitan Beach, a fa-
cility of the Huron-Clinton Metropoli-
tan Authority of Detroit, was chosen for
its excellent setting, regional impor-
tance, and complete equipment. Every
last detail of the physical layout was
carefully worked out with the adminis-
trative and maintenance staffs of the
beach along the lines of an official Olym-
pic event. ,

0n the appointed day, July 27th, the
massive assembly formed under an im-
pressive array of flags and participating
city banners. Standing at attention,
they listened to the opening ceremonial
address and then heard the inspiring

APRIL 1962

words of the Reverend Father Robert
Zinger of nearby Mt. Clemens, saw a
sporting demonstration of the state
champion gymnastic team from St.
Clair, witnessed a trampoline routine
by the national collegiate champion, Ed-
die Cole, and heard words of wisdom
from Detroit Red Wings hockey star
Warren Godfrey.

Action began with a marching forma-
tion behind a color guard to participate
in fifteen minutes of mass calisthenics
conducted by Tom Witherspoon of the
Detroit Department of Parks and Rec-
reation. Following this, the assembly
moved to the respective areas and
started a two-hour period of heated
meets. Trophy awards of achievement
were presented by public officials to
first- second- and third-place winners in
each category.

Following the meet, the inviting fa-
cilities of Metropolitan Beach provided
the boys and girls with a full afternoon
of fun and pleasurable swimming, group
games, picnicking, archery, shuffle-
board, golf, and roller skating. At the
conclusion of the day’s activities, while
the participants enjoyed the park facili-
ties, an informal barbecue luncheon

and meeting was held for the recreation
leaders and public dignitaries.

From this meeting came the selection
of the new members to serve on the fit-
ness committee and the approval of the
site for the 1962 regional Fitness Meet
to be held at Detroit’s municipal park
on Belle Isle. The new committee at its
first meeting established the following

goals in 1962:

0 To promote increased leadership
training program.

0 To coordinate maximum use of all
public facilities, such as swimming
pools, gymnasiums, ice rinks, park fa.-
cilities, and track field areas.

0 To establish c00peration between
school districts, public and private
agencies with the objective of pro-
moting new and better physical fitness
programs that will be continued on a
year-round basis.

0 To act as a referral agency for any
group within the state of Michigan de-
siring to establish a fitness program. #

o Far more on the role of recreation
departments in youth fitness, see “A
Documentary on Fitness Activities in
Recreation,” which appeared in our
January 1962 issue.—-Ed.

101

Part II

Outdoor
Recreation in
America

The role of state and local governments

Summarized by George Butler

The major recommendations of the Outdoor Recreation
Resources Review Commission were covered in Part I pub-
lished last month. The role of the federal government was
also discussed at that time.

portunities, “state governments should play the pivotal

role,” states the report which the Outdoor Recreation
Resources Review Commission presented to President Ken-
nedy on January 31. “They are more advantageously situ-
ated than either local units or the federal government to deal
with many current recreation problems. States have direct
experience in shaping programs to meet varying conditions
and particular needs of their citizens. And they have the
necessary legal authority. Moreover, the states occupy a
key position—“the middle level in our complex system of
government. They deal with other states, work with a great
variety of agencies of the national level, and are responsible
for guiding and assisting all the political subdivisions within
theistate—villages, cities, towns, counties, and metropolitan
regions. Since other responsibilities that affect outdoor rec-
reation opportunities, such as highway construction and the
management of forest, wildlife, and water resources, are also
generally focused at this level, the state government can make
sure that these programs are in harmony with its recreation
objectives.”

Today the outdoor recreation programs and activities of
state agencies present striking contrasts. “Notwithstanding
the diversity of needs, and differences in population, geog-
raphy and economics, there are common problems facing
the states,” declares the report. “Practically all state park
agencies report trouble in securing adequate funds.” The
Commission’s recommendations for state recreation organ.
ization, planning, and action are:

0 Each state should establish within its government a focal
point for the consideration of outdoor recreation. “This
focal point, whether a single agency, a commission, or some
other arrangement, should have the authority to undertake:
the development of broad recreation policies for the state

IN A NATIONAL EFFORT to improve outdoor recreation op-

192

 

as a whole and a long-range plan to implement them; con-
tinuing appraisal of the total state recreation needs and the
adequacy of current efiorts to meet them; the coordination
and appraisal of related programs administered by all levels
of governments and by private enterprise; c00peration with
the [proposed] national Bureau of Outdoor Recreation, par-
ticularly in connection with the distribution and use of fed-
eral aid funds; and the encouragement of coopcration among
public, voluntary, and commercial agencies and organiza-
tions.

0 Each state should prepare a long-range plan for the de-
velopment of outdoor recreation opportunities.

0 States should undertake a program of land acquisition and
development as scheduled in the state outdoor recreation
plan.

0 States should cxercise their regulatory powers to main-
tain and improve public outdoor recreation opportunities.
0 States should take the lead in working with local gov-
ernments toward a balanced state-local outdoor recreation
program.

“Local government has an important responsibility for
providing adequate outdoor recreation opportunities,” de-
clares the report. “Almost every community has suitable
resources: small parks; places where nature is not disturbed
and where grass, trees, and bushes grow, and people can
walk, play, or picnic; a marsh with cattails, small mammals,
and waterfowl; a clear river, stream, or pond where people
can swim, fish, or boat. But many of these features are giv-
ing way to the housing subdivision, the industrial plant, the
highway, the airport, or the shopping center.”

The Commission points out that planning for public rec-
reation must be as systematic as planning for schools, roads,
and municipal water. “A careful inventory of potential rec-
reation sites should be undertaken by every community.”
The Commission recommends that:

0 Outdoor recreation should be an integral element in local
land-use planning.

0 Local governments should utilize' all available techniques
in making available for public use the land and water re-

RECREATION

sources needed for outdoor recreation purposes.

0 Local outdoor recreation areas should not be appropriated
for incompatible purposes.

0 Large-scale outdoor recreation areas and facilities must
be on a metropolitan or regional basis.

0 All publicly owned recreation land should be developed

to maximize its recreation potential yet maintain the quality
characteristics of the area.

A THOROUGH UNDERSTANDING of area-wide needs is essen-
tial to planning the location of metropolitan facilities.
A key objective is assuring their accessibility to population
-centers. “Land acquisition programs for metropolitan areas
must include a broad range of land types to provide a choice
of outdoor recreation opportunities. . . . Where it is neces-
sary to build essential facilities on parklands, there should
be a requirement that lands lost for park purposes be re-
placed with other lands of equivalent size, usability, and
quality that would serve the same population.”

Private endeavor—individual initiative, voluntary groups
of many kinds, and commercial enterprise—is the most im-
portant single force in outdoor recreation, states the report.
“Outdoor recreation, unlike such a service as police protec-
tion, cannot be the responsibility of government alone. Some
opportunities—general access to the out-of—doors and sim-
ple facilities—should be made available to everyone, but the
more Specialized activities are among the good things of life
that must be paid for by the individual who wishes them.
Government can help make opportunities available and can
carry out projects in the public interest that cannot be done
privately, but it does not, cannot, and should not provide for
all the outdoor recreation needs of every citizen.”

Three general areas of outdoor recreation development in
which greater participation by the private sector of the econ-
omy should be encouraged, according to the report, are pub-
lic use of private lands and waters for recreation purposes;
recreation activities by private, noncommercial groups and
organizations; and private concessions for facilities and
services on public recreation areas. The Commission recom-
mends that:

0 Government’ agencies should stimulate diversified com-
mercial recreation investments on private lands and waters.
0 Government agencies should promote greater public rec-
reation use of private lands and waters.

0 Government agencies should support the efforts of charit-
able, service, and civic organizations to acquire and con-
serve outdoor recreation sites which serve public needs.

0 All levels of government should encourage and stimulate
donations from private individuals and groups.

0 Where feasible, federal agencies should continue the pres-
ent concession system of private construction and owner-
ship. Where not feasible, the federal government should
construct facilities and lease them to private enterprise for
operation.

THE COMMISSION found a serious lack of adequate funds
for outdoor recreation. “Public agencies find park and
recreation appropriations among the last to be considered
in budget discussions and among the first to be pared down.

APRIL 1962

Recreation businesses find credit difficult to obtain and in—
surance rates comparatively high.” To provide adequate
outdoor recreation opportunities, substantial additional
funds will be needed at all levels of government for planning,
acquiring, developing, operating, and maintaining facilities
and public investments will have to be geared more accu-
rately than in the past to meet current and future needs.

“The provision of basic recreation opportunities for all
citizens is an essential public service and deserves full con-
sideration in budget decisions.” If effective planning and
administration are to replace the stopgap operation now
common in many public recreation agencies, three steps are
listed as necessary: assurance of a continuous flow of ade-
quate funds; equitable and efficient allocation of available
funds, and utilization of as many revenue-producing activi-
ties as possible. The Commission recommended specifically
that: l
0 State and local governments should consider general ob-
ligation and revenue bonds as a means of financing capital
investments.

0 State and local governments should consider new revenue-
producing possibilities in developing plans for financing
their recreation programs.

0 Public agencies supplying outdoor recreation opportuni-
ties should adopt a system of user fees and charges.

0 A federal program of grants-in-aid should be established
promptly to provide matching funds to the states to stimu-
late recreation planning and to assist in acquiring lands and
developing facilities for public outdoor recreation.

0 A federal-loan program should be established to comple-
ment the grants-in-aid program.

The federal-aid program would be administered by the
proposed Bureau of Outdoor Recreation. Federal grants
would be for the development of statewide outdoor recrea—
tion plans and also for land acquisition and development
based upon comprehensive state plans approved by the hu-
reau. “Federal grants should be appropriated from general
Treasury funds on an annual basis.”

This program is recommended for public outdoor recrea-
tion projects included in approved state recreation plans.
Loans would be used principally to finance the development
of more specialized recreation facilities, or to provide an
additional means of financing planning, land acquisition.
and deve10pment. ‘

WATER is a key element in outdoor recreation. The Com-
mission found that forty-four percent of the p0pula-
tion prefer water-based recreation activities over any others.
Water is a prime factor in most outdoor recreation activities
and also enhances recreation on land. Choice camping sites
and picnic areas are usually those adjacent to or within sight
of a lake or stream, and the touch of variety added by a pond
or marsh enriches the pleasures of hiking or nature study.

Recreation on the water is increasing and this trend is
likely to continue. In fact, Commission studies indicate that
by the year 2000 swimming will be the most popular single
outdoor recreation activity—exceeding even driving for
pleasure, which now holds first place. The trend will be
greatly accelerated if pollution-control programs are suc-

193

cessful in cleaning up streams, lakes, and seashores. The
problems stemming from pressure on water resources are
considered among the most difiicult in the entire outdoor
recreation field. “As with land, the usefulness of water for
outdoor recreation hinges on three factors: proximity to
population; physical and legal accessibility; and suitability
for recreation purposes.” The Commission recommended
that:

0 Public agencies should direct particular attention to as-
suring that adequate opportunities for water-based outdoor
recreation are accessible to all Americans.

0 Public agencies should promote and maintain the suit-
ability and attractiveness of water area for outdoor recrea-
tion activity.

0 Immediate action should be taken by federal, state, and
local governments to acquire additional beach and shoreline
areas.

0 Outdoor recreation should be considered as an important
purpose of federal multi-purpose water resource develop-
ments, and thus guaranteed full consideration in the plan-
ning, design, construction, and operation of projects. Fed-
eral investments for recreation should be approved when
the recreation opportunities created are an integral and
harmonious element of a state or regional recreation plan.
0 Reservoir planning should provide for acquisition of ade-
quate shoreline lands for public access and use.

The Commission suggests that public agencies: acquire
access areas and water resources for public use; secure pub-
lic rights to cross private lands; control development of lake
and river shorelines; construct and maintain public roads
and access facilities to take full account of recreation needs
and uses; and review the status of public waters now closed
to outdoor recreation use to determine whether such re-
strictions can be modified or removed.

The Commission believes that costs of land adjacent to
reservoirs that is purchased for state parks may be borne
in part by the federal govcrnment, if these lands constitute
elements of a comprehensive statc or regional plan, and that
such federal contributions should be considered in the ap-
portionment of grants-in-aid to states. The proposed Bu-
reau of Outdoor Recreation, in cooperation with the states

concerned, would play the key federal role in reaching de-
cisions on land needed for recreation at federal reservoirs.

THE REPORT stresses the need for research: “The nation's
outdoor recreation demands will be met only through
wise decisions on resource allocation, through sound plan-
ning, and through effective development of facilities. These
all require the support of thorough knowledge and extensive
data—the product of research.” It declares. “There is no
systematic coordinated research program in outdoor recrea-
tion as there is in other fields which involve fewer people,

A

acres, and dollars. Perhaps no other activity involving so
many people and so basic a part of our life has received less
attention from qualified investigators and scientists. . . . It
is a tribute to the recreation leaders of the past that they
were able to accomplish so much without the support of sys-
tematic research.”

Three related but distinct categories of recreation research
that require greater and continuing attention are listed by
the Commission: current basic statistical information, based
upon data collection, inventory and fact finding; problem-
solving research to establish general principles and tech-
niques essential for efficient management; and fundamental
research dealing with recreation values of all kinds. The
report affirms that, “One of the most urgent research needs
is for more knowledge about the direct benefit that indi-
viduals derive from outdoor recreation. Something is known
about the indirect effects or impact of expenditures by those
seeking recreation, but little is known about the direct bene-
fit to the individual who participates.”

Following a description of several suggested methods of
dealing with this problem, the Commission states: “Regard-
less of the techniques employed, it is clear that no single
value can be assigned to the wide variety of recreation ac-
tivities. . . . The net benefits of recreation, like those of irri-
gation and flood control, vary with time and place and ori-
gin. With the present state of knowledge, it appears that the
best procedure for measuring the value of recreation is a
detailed analysis of each individual project.

“Since research on outdoor recreation must cover a broad
spectrum, the use of many talents will be required. Many
areas of human behavior need to be considered, for an ade-
quate understanding of outdoor recreation depends upon a
study of people and their society as well as a study of natural
resources and their use.” In the opinion of the Commission,
the proposed Bureau of Outdoor Recreation should act as
the central clearinghouse of information on outdoor rec-
reation, and where there is a lack of knowledge, it should
stimulate or sponsor research on a particular topic. “In
addition to providing important insights to outdoor recrea-
tion, an effective research effort will also develop a large
reservoir of trained professional men and women capable
of administering, managing, and further studying recrea-
tion and its associated problems. . . .

“The Research Advisory Committee that is proposed for
the Bureau of Outdoor Recrcation could play an important
function in this process. Through the inclusion of repre-
sentatives of private organizations and universities as well
as federal and state officials, the scope of unified effort could

be further broadened.” #

o The Commission's complete report is ovoiloble from the
Superintendent of Documents, Washington 25, D. C., for
$2.00.-—-—Ed.

CONSERVATION ACTION PROGRAM which recognizes the essential unity of man and resources . . .
calls for a coordinated effort by all citizens and all interests to assure water, power, timber,

minerals, forage, productive soil, and an inspiring natural environment for the numberless genera—
tions to come. Our special concern today is in outdoor America: in how we can provide opportuni-
ties for fishing, hunting, camping, and boating, preserve places of scenic grandeur, hold open spaces
against the sprawl of suburbia.—SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR STEWART L. UDALL.

194

RECREATION

 

Joseph
Lee:
His First Hundred

Years

March 8, 1962, marked
the 100th birthday of the man

who became known as

 

“The godfather of play”
and who is still honored

by children across our land

Virginia Musselman

F JOSEPH LEE had been alive on March 8, he would have
I been celebrating his one hundredth birthday. His desk,
no doubt, would have been piled high with letters and
telegrams from outstanding leaders not only in recreation,
but in the fields ’of social service, education, and civic better-
ment. Letters would have poured in not only from teachers.
lawyers, and politicians, but from philOSOphers, musicians,
poets, dramatists, and sportsmen, because Joseph Lee,
throughout his life, fought for, loved, enjoyed, and sup-
ported these things.

Perhaps, in our admiration of his well-rounded philosophy
of recreation and gratitude for the leadership he gave the
recreation movement for twenty-seven years, we have tended
to “fix” Joseph Lee within the frame of recreation. If so,
we are wrong. He spoke for himself when he described
himself in Who’s Who as “Joseph Lee, Social Worker.” Dur-
ing his twenty-seven years as president of the National Rec-
reation Association he never changed this opinion of himself.

In his own city of Boston, he founded the Massachusetts
Civic League which has played a major part in social legis-
lation. He founded Community Service and was a member

 

MISS MUSSELMAN is director of the National Recreation As-
ciation Program Service.

APRIL 1962

of the Council of the Good Government Association. As a
member of the Boston School Committee, he is credited with
being largely responsible for medical examination of all
pupils, school lunches, opening the school buildings as com-
munity centers, school visitors, special classes for the bright
as well as the retarded, school dental care for children and
Americanization classes for the foreign born.

Parallel to, and coordinated with, his work in social wel-
fare and education, he directed the current of the recreation
movement through his presidency in the National Recrea-
tion Association from 1910 until his death in 1937. With
the exception of the last two years, when his health was poor,
he never missed a Board meeting.

Many of his pungent quotations are still remembered and
used:

“The boy without a playground is the father of the man
without a job.”

“Every child is entitled to a safe place to play.”

“In the planning of our cities the children have been
left out.”

“We do not cease playing because we are old; we grow
old because we cease playing.”

“Don’t tie on the flowers; water the plant.”

“The age to learn to dance is whatever age you happen

to be.”

FOR A CLASS REPORT issued in 1933, on his fiftieth anni-
versary of graduation, Joseph Lee listed and explained
many of his activities since 1913. Among them was the fol-
lowing, very characteristic of his appealing literary style (it
has been said that Joseph Lee never spoke a dull sentence) :

“My main educational work, however, has been for play-
grounds, meaning such forests, oceans, mountains, brooks
and other libraries—not omitting backyards, roofs, and va-
cant lots and playgrounds proper—together with the facili-
ties, obstructions, hazards, sunsets, human inspiration and
suggestion appurtenant thereto, as may provide the fullest
opportunity for boys and girls to grow up as human beings
according to the curriculum that nature has marked out. . . .

“The teaching of nature we call play, but it is not easy
and it is not secondary; its chief courses are in exploration
and experiment, in creation, art and music, in love and nur-
ture, in war and hunting and in team play. It sows the arts
of war and peace, and aims at those ends that men will die
for and in pursuit of which all human genius is expressed.”

And in a newspaper interview, he said, “I am not the
inventor of playgrounds. The first one was occupied by
Adam and Eve until the serpent put them wise. I have merely
been trying to overcome that wisdom.”

Almost exactly a year from Joseph Lee’s death, on July
28, 1937, President Franklin D. Roosevelt supported the idea
of setting aside a day in his honor, in the following letter:

“I am heartily in accord with the idea of setting aside
a special time to pay tribute to the life and work of Joseph
Lee. His simplicity, his humor, his philosophy, his integrity,
his courage, endeared him to all who came to know him and
to work with him, and these are legion.

“He saw that for children play was the serious business

Continued on Page 210

195

IHJND
CHILDREN
ON

THE

PLAYGROUND

A report on the
process of integrating
them into regular

recreation programs

Marshal Smith

.—

‘9- ..
_ — ‘.

   

The blind children waded into playground activities with the inspiring encouragement of a blind leader, Sherryn Croat.

196

Ew BLIND CHILDREA ever attempt to
F participate in outdoor activities,
and summer is long and monoto-

nous for them. Early in the spring of
1960, officials of the Vancouver, British
Columbia, Board of Parks and Public
Recreation conferred with several par-
ents concerned about the social, emo-
tional and physical activities of their
blind children. Their chief concern was
for the teenagers who wanted to social-
ize but who, because of their handicap,
found it difficult to be in a community
situation. As this was late in Vancou-
ver’s community center program, the
board decided to put first things first
and discuss with the parents the possi-
bility of acquainting their blind chil-
dren, especially the younger ones, with
normal activities that sighted children
enjoy every summer on Vancouver’s su-
pervised playgrounds. It was decided
to place the children for one month in

MR. SMITH is supervisor of community
centers and playgrounds [or the Board
of Parks and Public Recreation in V an-
couver, British Columbia. His material
is based on a report of the special play-
ground project for blind children sub-
mitted by playground directors MAR-
GARET BALL and NlONICA LINDEMAN
who staged the program for the blind
in its initial phases during 1960.

r w

a special recreation orientation pro-
gram, then integrate them into the reg-
ular playground program in their own
areas for the remainder of the summer.
A blind girl,Sherryn Groot,was enlisted
to act as the liaison between the blind
children and the administrative staff
and to work as a leader during the ac-
tivities.

The program was planned for the
month of July at Maple Grove Play-
ground. Activities, including swimming,
were held three times a week from ten to
twelve. During the entire program, the
“buddy” system implemented,
wherein the blind were paired off with
the sighted. Approximately twenty-five
of the handicapped between the ages of
five and fourteen attended and, al-
though there was a great age differen-
tial, the activities chosen presented a
wide skill level and were undertaken
with interest by all age groups.

was

As the regular playground program
had been divided into four themes——
Indian, Circus, Olympic, and The Arts
—-—it was decided to follow these same
themes. The program was made up of
a storyhour, craft session, games, and
athletics, all following the above-men-
tioned themes. The trampoline proved
to be one of the most popular pieces of
apparatus and was a new experience for

 

RECREATION

 

tl ese children who took to it rapidly.
Other activities were calisthenics, In-
dian wrestling, musical finger plays and
e tercises, Indian races, musical arts and
. games, tag games, running, tug-of-war,
5 )fthl throw, standing broad jump,
1 ope swinging, rope climbing, tumbling,
roller skating, and water sports.

The response of the children was most
ewarding. At the beginning, some were
lesitant and backward, but, with the ex-

-eptional work of the staff and the vol-
Inteers, they soon became relaxed and
)articipated wholeheartedly in the ac-
' .ivities. They enjoyed also the regular
lpparatus on the playground which in-
cluded the  ungle gym, swings, sandbox.
teeter-totter and the Maypole.

The staff soon discovered that at least
fifty percent of the deficiency of the
child was because of poor physical abil-
ity, where weight far exceeded strength,
resulting in poor coordination and agil-
ity. This was the result, of course, of
their sedentary life, and it was felt the
children should have more physical-fit-
ness programs. Some were particularly
backward and needed special attention
from the leaders.

fl‘HE ENTHUSIASM and response for

the summer playground program
for blind children led the board to initi-

ate a program that would answer the
original request of the parents. By the
end of the summer, it had set up a good
working relationship with staff mem-
bers of the Canadian National Institute
for the Blind and the Jericho Hill School
for the Deaf and Blind, and the agencies
agreed to hold a special introductory
evening in September. As the program
in the community centers is designed for
all members of the family, the blind chil-
dren were invited to bring mothers and
fathers, brothers and sisters, so that all
might discover the opportunities avail-
able. Specifically, however, the main
objective was to integrate the handi-
capped into their local community cen-
ter under as normal conditions as pos-
sible.

Each staff member was asked to pair
off a sighted boy or girl of the same
age, sex, and district as that of the blind
child, so that they might in later days
take part together in their local center
activities. So grouped, the buddies
started to make the rounds of a very
well-organized program. Separately, the
boys were involved in a weight-training
program, the girls in a modeling and
poise class. Later, all joined to partici-
pate in crafts, low-organized games,
square dancing and, as in the summer,
trampoline rebound tumbling.

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

The sighted had been provided previ-
ously with a list of tips for dealing with
blind children, and it was interesting to
observe that, during some of the activi-
ties, the instructors could not tell the dif-
ference between the two. Parents were
encouraged to observe and discuss the
program with staff members from the
centers in their areas. They were amazed
at the activities in which their children
were able to take part and overwhelmed
by the friendliness of the sighted volun-
teer buddies. After the activities, re-
freshments were served for the children
apart from the parents and again an op-
portunity was given for adult discus-
sion.

The introductory night involved
forty-three sight-handicapped children,
forty-five sighted buddies, twenty volun-
teer adults, and forty-two parents. Joint
meetings were planned to follow up the
work accomplished. Many blind chil-
dren have already started to take ad-
vantage of the public recreation pro-

grams. Others will need further assist-
ance from the CNIB and its staff of
trained social workers, encouraged by

this auspicious beginning. #

 

Above, the program put special emphasis on physical fitness
activities to offset the sedentary life of blind children.

Left, Sherryn helps youngsters tackle playground appara-
tus. The children had to develop coordination and agility.

197

 

Playground Activities
Continued from Page 186

 

necessary to raise additional funds to cover expenses by
holding ice cream festivals at each playground. This money
is used for costumes. The Allentown Recreation Commission
pays insurance costs and miscellaneous expenses.

Currently, there are thirty city-managed and staffed play-
grounds in the Allentown area with a registration of ap-
proximately twelve thousand youngsters. They drill, march,
dance, and race. A theme is selected and the games and
dances are planned around it by each playground director.
Some themes used in the past were: From Many Nations—
One World; Play for Health; Youth and National Defense.

The program is held at the Allentown Fair Grounds in
front of the grandstand and admission is free—ELEANOR A.
SCHRAWDER.

Double Reverse. For more than ten years, the recreation de-
partment in Tampa, Florida, has been using a double reverse
in planning its summer playground programs. The double
reverse? Promotion of daily skills and game challenges with
the more than two thousand local winners vying for city-wide
honors at the Championship Round-Up, climax of the sum-
mer program.

The round-up provides participants with a goal for the
daily activities which include opportunity to develop skills,
learn new games, compete in one’s skill level, and, of course,
have fun. Each year, the skills and games are evaluated for
corrections or additions indicated by the previous year’s
experience. The boys and the girls are divided into five dif-
ferent age groups: Peewee Midgets, nine years of age and
under; Midget, eleven years of age and under: Junior, thir-
teen years of age and under; Intermediate, fifteen years of
age and under; and Senior, seventeen years of age and
under. The date of June first is used for the maximum
age stipulated.

Local playground winners in the various skills and games
are determined hy ladders, douhle elimination, round-robin,
and pyramid tournaments conducted continuously through~
out the summer. The winners are then eligible to compete
in the city-wide Championship Round-Up.

Events for peewee midget and midget girls are jump rope,
O’Leary, jackstones, hopscotch, balance beam, and checkers.
Junior girls compete in the same events with paddle tennis

and table tennis (singles and doubles) added; intermediate
girls add softball throw to the above list; and senior girls
compete in jump rope, softball throw, balance beam, paddle
and table tennis (singles and doubles).

The peewee midget boys test their skills in baseball throw,
base running, and checkers. For midgets, horseshoes, paddle
tennis (singles and doubles), and tetherball are added; for
juniors, table tennis is added (singles and doubles) ; inter-
mediates vie for honors in corkball, baseball throw, checkers,
horseshoes, paddle and table tennis (the last three in singles
and doubles) . The senior division includes all the intermedi-
ate events with checkers deleted.

In addition to the above active and table-game events,
novelty events include Freckle King for peewee midgets,
midgets and junior boys; Big Foot King for all boys; Miss
Playground, junior and senior high girls; and Twin Contest
for school-age children. Clock golf was added this past year
for midgets and juniors, competition was coed.

At Championship Round-Up, entry blanks are submitted
for each contestant and must be turned in to the scorers’
table upon arrival of the directors. A running score is kept
of each playground, with five points given for winners, three
for second place, and one for third. The playground scoring
the most total points is awarded the Championship Round-
Up plaque.

A team of playground directors are assigned to each event
to conduct and judge the competition with each director as-
signed to one age group in that particular event. An en-
velope containing the entry slips for each event and age
classification is given to the director in charge along with
a form in triplicate to be filled in with the first three winners’
names and playgrounds. This slip is turned into the scorers’
tahle at the end of the event. One copy is given to the score-
keeper, another to the team of directors filling in the names
on the award cards, and the other to the publicity director.
With this system, the running score can be announced at any
time, the child receives his award card as soon as possible
and the names of thc winners are recorded as the day’s ac-
tivities progress.

I’crmitting a child to enter only one regular event and
one novelty event provides the opportunity for many more
children to participate in the climax of the summer program
-—-thc city-wide Championship Round-Up.—STORMY l‘lESEL,
Information Specialist, Recreation Department, Tampa,

F iorida.

 

In Tallahassee, Florida, tumbling for
tots has grown by leaps and bounds—
from a handful of participants in 1949
to about seven hundred last year. The
program was begun by Dr. Hartley
Price of Florida State University; the
Tallahassee Recreation Department took
it over in 1956. Three sets of one-hour
classes are planned. Children, six years

198

TUMBLE TR 0 UPE

old and over, are eligible to join the
program. The Tallahassee Tumbling
Tot Show Troupe is now internationally
famous. The troupe has been featured
on television, at Florida State Univer-
sity’s Gymkana, as well as on its own
gymnastic road shows. Two of the tum-

blers are 1961 Florida State AAU cham-
pion tumblers. Bob Ma y. director of the

program, says, “To my knowledge, this
is the largest number of children en-
rolled in gymnastics anywhere in the
United States.” The program enroll-
ment is expected to reach one thousand
within the next two years. The next
project is a separate facility for the pro-
gram in one of the city parks. Tallahas-
see is really tumbling!

RECREATION

 

ADMINISTRATION

Striking National Developments

Highlights from the Recreation and Park Yearbook—1961, a report of progress.

City and county park acreage

increased more than fifty percent in ten years.

George Butler

WO PUBLICATIONS of unusual sig-
T nificance to the recreation move-
ment in the United States were
published in January 1962: The Report
of the Outdoor Recreation Resources
Review Commission {see Page 192)

and the National Recreation Associa-
tion’s Recreation and Park Yearbook—

1961 ($5.50).

For the third time the NRA’s Year-
book, issued at fiveoyear intervals, con-
tains information on municipal and
county parks as well as on organized
recreation. It therefore affords an op-
portunity for noting deve10pments dur-
ing the past decade. The 1961 Year-
book is the second edition to include
data on federal and state agencies.

A major purpose of the Yearbook is
to record the growth of public recrea-

 

MR. BUTLER is director of research for
the National Recreation Association.

APRIL 1962 ‘

tion in the United States, but the pub-
lication provides another equally use-

ful function. It enables recreation and
park authorities, other government off}.

 

cials, and the public to compare the
service in their locality with that pro-
vided in other jurisdictions of compara-
ble size, type, or location.

Federal Agencies—Federal proper-
ties set aside for recreation or available
for limited recreation use are far more
extensive than those held by state and
local agencies. For example, the Forest
Service administers 181,000,000 acres;
the National Park Service, 25,705,000
acres; the Fish and Wildlife Service,-
28,555,492 acres; the Corps of Engi-
neers, 6,000,000 acres of land and wa-
ter; and the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, 450,000,000 acres. These pr0per-
ties contain facilities that make possible
a great variety of activities, the most
popular of which are tentoand-trailer
camping, boating and water skiing, pic-
nicking, hunting, fishing, swimming,
hiking, mountain climbing, horseback
riding, interpretative programs, winter
sports, and sightseeing.

Attendances at recreation areas far
exceeded those reported in 1955, four

199

- Low Cost/Growing
Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

For club, class or team. Requires
minimum space and equipment.
Exciting and practical for few or
many participants. National and
International associations.

Castello uniforms are KADOKAN
APPROVED. Specially made for
the taller American figure.

FENCING T00! We are the

largest importers and manufactur-
ers of fencing equipment in the
Americas.

Write for Free Catalogs

CASTELLO

JUDO/KARATE & FENCING EQUIPMENT
so E. 10th St.. N. Y. 3. N. Y. since 1914

 

   

THE ewes iii-ii
or: z: paganism

Here‘s o picture of the future . . . with his skin
showing. Let's buiid him strong, rugged, like o
young troion. Our young dynamo of energy devoi-
ops on ployground equipment . . . Troion Play-
ground Equipment. And Troion builds for the future'
too. Troion Equipment grows with him, for there's
o size for every oge. This boy's chiidren wiii piay
on this some equipment; it‘s built to lost. Let's
help our future grow. We've been doing it for over
60 yeors.

WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOG
OR NAME OF NEAREST DISTRIBUTOR.

5 .
PLAYGROUND EOUiPMENT

MANUFACTURING CO.
51’. CLOUD, MiNNESOTA

 

DEPT. 88,

200

of the agencies showing an average i n-
crease of seventy-seven percent in at-
tendances during the five-year period.
National Park Service areas had more

than 72,000,000 visitors in 1960; U.S.
forests, nearly 93,000,000; Fish and
Wildlife pr0perties, more than 12,000,-
000; Bureau of Reclamation reservoirs,
24,000,000; and Corps of Engineers
areas, 109,000,000. These figures afford
evidence of the growing demand for the
types of recreation afforded by the ex-
tensive federal properties.

State Agencies—The Yearbook fig-
ures submitted by state agencies for
their recreation areas, facilities, expend-
itures, personnel, and attendance show
that the striking development of state-
sponsored recreation since World War
II has not diminished. Information con-
cerning their recreation services is pre-
sented in two ways: a checklist indi-
cating the types of recreation facilities
and services provided by the agencies
which are classified under seventeen
groups and a table recording statisti-
cally the properties, expenditures, per-
sonnel, and major facilities reported by
each of 177 departments.

Some reporting agencies control and
operate extensive recreation prOperties;
others perform primarily service func-
tions. State areas include parks and
parkways, fish and game preserves, for-
ests, reservoirs, historic sites, roadside
parks, museum sites, and special recrea-
tion areas, such as camps and beaches.
The total acreage of the 16,412 areas re-
ported exceeded 25,400,000 acres, of
which more than 2,000,000 were ac-
quired since 1955. Total attendance at
4,512 of the areas was nearly 263,000,-
000, of which seven-eighths were re-
ported at parks and parkways.

Most numerous facilities in the order
named were tent or trailer camps, pic-
nic centers, vacation cabins, and boat-
ing, swimming, and nature centers. By
far, the largest attendance was at picnic
centers, followed by bathing heaches,
tent or trailer camps, and museums.
Picnicking was reported by more agen-
cies than any other activity, with camp-
ing, fishing, hiking, swimming, and
boating next in line. More than 24,000
workers were reported employed for
recreation, nearly half of them on a full-
time, year-round basis. EXpenditures
by 165 state agencies in 1960 exceeded

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

$151,000,000; capital expenditures by
137 agencies in 1956-1960, inclusive, to-
taled $194,000,000.

Types of recreation service recorded
by state agencies include providing vari-
ous types of consulting service to locali-
ties, conducting local surveys, sponsor-
ing conferences, providing training pro-
grams, publishing resource materials,
administering the state boating law, ap-
proving plans for school sites and build-
ings, inspecting camps, and many
others.

City and County Agencies—The ma- '
jor section of the Yearbook is devoted
to reports of city and county recreation
and park authorities. Because of grow-
ing interest in county parks and recrea-
tion and the increasing number of
county agencies providing them, infor-
mation submitted by county authorities
is tabulated separately for the first time.

Striking progress in public recreation
provided by local authorities during the
decade since 1950 is revealed. City and
county park acreage increased more
than fifty percent, from 644,000 acres
in 1950 to more than 1,000,000 acres
ten years later. The 9,216 leaders em-
ployed full time the year-round in 1960
compare with 6,784 in 1950; whereas
the number of volunteers increased
from 104,589 to 277,072 during the
decade. Total park and recreation ex-
penditures more than doubled—from
$269,000,000 to $567,000,000. Salaries
paid for recreation leadership increased
by more than 160 percent.

Among the thirty-eight items listed
in the master table for every reporting
city or county agency are the number
and acreage of its parks and local school
areas used for community recreation,
and the number of major facilities such
as ball diamonds, bathing beaches, golf
courses, swimming pools, and tennis
courts. The Yearbook likewise records
for each agency the number of full- and
part-time personnel of various types, in-
cluding volunteers, the number of in-
door and outdoor centers opened under
leadership, the number of school build-
ings used in the recreation program,
and expenditures classified by type.

This authoritative and comprehensive
fact book, issued as a hard-bound vol-
ume, will be the basic reference source
on public recreation and parks during
the next five years. #-

RECREATION

 

IIE HISTORY of public recreation, like that of other
T movements of social significance, is the result of ideas,

experiments, and developments. An experiment by
__ the Skokie, Illinois, Park District has significance for all
playground authorities.

Since the early days of the playground movement, marked
changes have occurred in the space requirements of the
playground, the ages it serves, and the sc0pe of its pro-
gram; yet in few communities has there been any increase
in the number of leaders per playground. Skokie recognized
that its playgrounds were inadequately staffed and that, as
a result, employed leaders performed a supervisory rather
than leadership function. Consequently, many basic objec-
tives of playground operation were unrealized and the values
rendered were limited. In order to determine the effect of
increased leadership upon the interest and participation in
the playground program, the Skokie Park District under-
took an experiment at one of its playgrounds.

BASIC OBJECTIVES WERE:

0 To determine the effect of increased leadership as it re-
lates to interest and participation on a summer playground.
0 To determine from parents of participants their aware-
ness and reactions to the program provided.

0 To get reaction from parents toward activities offered.
0 To measure and compose statistically comparative attend-
‘ance at the supervised program.

0 To analyse the contents of weekly reports of the staff.
The playground selected has a mean attendance as com-
pared with other local playgrounds, had been in Operation
for several years, its facilities were considered average, and
it was in a fairly well—developed, homogeneous section of
the village. Nine leaders and a director were employed for
the pilot study and assigned to the playground which previ-
ously had two full-time leaders, a part-time leader and part-
time guidance of an area supervisor. Three leaders were
assigned to a division serving five- through seven-year olds;
three to the eight- through eleven-year-old group; and three
to children aged twelve through fifteen. This assignment was
designed to provide a leader for each twenty-five to thirty
children, based on the previous year’s registration. The
study was given little mention since it was felt that undue
publicity might create abnormal registration and attendance.
In conducting the study the playground staff registered
children who attended the playground and estimated the at-
tendance and participation each session. At the end of the
summer, data on the attitude of parents were obtained from
a questionnaire used in personal interviews. The 155 parents

APRIL 1962

EEADMINISTRATION

 

interviewed represented three-fourths of the children regis-
tered. All questionnaires were tabulated by park district
personnel. As part of the project, each staff member on the
playground was required to submit a daily report recording
the groups served, activities offered to the children, observa-
tions on the interest shown by the children, and specific
problems as they deve10ped.

OVERALL CONCLUSIONS BASED ON THE STUDY WERE:
0 From a standpoint of attendance, interest and participa-
tion the increased leadership program was extremely suc-
cessful. This was established in attendance and participa-
tion records, parent attitudes, as well as the staff reports.
0 Initial registrations were not affected by the increased
leadership, which is understandable in that there was no
advance publicity or promotion indicating any change in
the operation.
0 The two outstanding differences between the experimen-
tal season and the preceding one proved to be (I) the high
relationship between the number of registrants and the aver-
age weekly attendance and (2) the increased interest and
participation on the part of those who attended in activities
under leadership.
0 Parents of the participants waxed enthusiastic for the
leadership, program, and the plan even though the only way
they could become aware of it and judge, in most cases, was
through the interest, stories, and attitudes of their children.
0 The evidence in the survey is very inconclusive on the mat-
ter of parent payment for a repeat of the “stepped-up” lead-
ership program. Parents, for the most part, indicated a
willingness to pay a fee, but were very vague in their con-
cept of how much they would be willing to pay.
0 The cost of the increased leadership program was sub-
stantially greater. 0n the basis of the average cost per child
who attended, it increased about forty percent over the
previously established system; the cost per registrant was
approximately 110 percent greater. However, the cost per
participant in the two programs was identical.
0 The study showed an enthusiastic reception on the part
of the parents for the increased leadership program. It also
showed the communication weakness with respect to “Pa-
rent’s Night.”
0 There is no doubt the increased leadership program will
receive enthusiastic support if continued or extended to other
parks. 0n the other hand, the study does not answer con-
clusively how strong this acceptance would be if individual
fees were charged.
0 The study brought forth the point that many parents mis-

201

understand the difference between supervision and leader-
ship and tended to refer to them as one and the same.

SOME SPECIFIC FINDINGS OF THE STUDY ‘VERE:

0 The total visitations were double those of the previous
summer.

0 The average child attended half of each day, as opposed
to half day every other day the previous year.

0 The overall average weekly attendance was 97 percent of
that for the initial week, as compared with only 44 percent.
the preceding year.

0 The attendance during the last week was ninety-five per-
cent of that for the first week, as compared with only forty
percent the preceding year.

The reason for the great increase in participation was the
more varied program made possible by the additional lead-
ership. For example, there were three times as many trips
as the previous summer, ten times as many special events.
twice as many crafts activities; whereas dancing increased
ten times, dramatics fifteen times, nature twelve times. and
music six times. It was also possible to offer activities not
available under the normal playground operation. In most
cases participation in games and athletics remained constant
or diminished slightly; whereas the percentage participation
in the use of facilities such as playground apparatus and the
wading pool decreased.

THE PARENTS, QUESTIONNAIRE REVEALED:
I Seventy-six percent of the parents noticed a considerable
difference in the program, most of them noting the differ-
ences to be more leadership, more interesting program, and
more activities.
0 Five out of ten parents said their child attended more
often this season, while three out of ten said their child at-

tended at least as much as the preceding year.

I Six out of ten parents stated their child’s interest in the
program was either very good or excellent.

0 Nine out of ten parents themselves rated the program as
very good or excellent.

0 Seventy-six percent of those interviewed stated they defi-
nitely felt the experiment did increase their child’s interest
and participation, because the program (1) gave more i11-
dividual attention to the child and (2) it possessed better
leadership.

0 Eight out of ten felt the increased leadership program was
well worth the increased cost. One out of ten said they did
not know.

0 The parents of five-, six-. and seven-year-olds indicated
their children liked crafts, trips, and games in that order.
while the eight- to eleven-year-olds and twelve- to fifteen-
year-olds liked sports, crafts, and trips in that order. Nine
out of ten parents were not able to mention any activity
their child didn’t like.

0 The parents indicated they believed the most important
activities to be: five- to seven-year-olds, crafts, sports. and

 

It has been observed that the movements of the

heavenly bodies since the beginning of time are not as
complicated as the play of a child for a single hour.
—D. A. WORCESTER in Exceptional Children.

202

games; eight- to eleven-year-olds, crafts, games, and sports;
and twelve- to jifteen-year-olds, sports, games, and trips.

MOST OF THE PARENTS were enthusiastic about the in-
creased leadership and the more diversified program.
They felt that their children had been able to make better
friends and had received more individual attention than be-
fore. Eight out of ten felt the increased leadership program
was well worth the added cost and ninety percent eXpressed
a willingness to pay a fee if the program would be continued.
In commenting on the program, Robert M. Ruhe, park
district superintendent, stated, “The contribution a program '
of this nature makes to the individual is something which
we cannot measure, for our profession does not have a ‘yard-
stick’ to determine individual growth and development. We
can only render a subjective judgment on what the program
has contributed. The weekly staff reports which we required
gave some indication. The first few weeks found these re-
ports dealing with the activities provided and the number
attending. As the weeks progressed, the leaders got to know
each child in their group more intimately and the reports
became more interesting from a human-relations standpoint.
Observations were made regarding the children’s interests
and motivations, why children weren’t attending, problems
of behavior and the solutions were cited— in short, an un-
derstanding of children and their group. This undoubtedly
enabled the leaders to better serve the children.

“We feel the increased leadership program produced re-
sults of which our profession and communities can be justly
proud. The present concept of employing too few leaders
has necessitated placing too much emphasis on skills learned
and too little on the effect skills have upon the individual.
What else can a leader do? He doesn’t have the opportunity
to understand his group. This places a responsibility upon
us to seek personnel whose greatest qualification is liking
and understanding people and who possess a dedication to
assist others. We who are engaged professionally in recrea-
tion must assist the institutions of higher education by citing
the need for curricula designed to better prepare graduates
to deal with the human elements of our constituents. Only
with this understanding can our staffs meet the true needs
of our participants. . . .

“An obvious conclusion follows which is that this type of
program will greatly increase our leadership cost. Make
no mistake, this it will do. The financial resources avail-
able for the increased leadership must come from taxation,
through fees from participants, or a combination of both.
The thought of charging a fee for registration is distasteful
and many will rise in resentment against this procedure.
Quite prepcrly, this will eventually come from taxation when
the need is justified in our local communities. Until then.
it will be necessary to find a means of financing the program.
This raises a question, ‘Can our community afford this?’
My si1nple, concise and direct reply must be, ‘You can’t
afford not tol’ ”

When one takes into account the value of the additional
leadership, the increased participation in the program, and
the large investment in the playground itself, few will dis-
agree with this conclusion. #

RECREATION

 

 

’ ELIMINATION GAMES

TRAPS

THIS IS A DOUBLE-RISK game in which the players have

the chance to outthink the leader of the game, while
making every effort to avoid being tagged. The element of
chance in this game makes it exciting even for adults. It
takes a while to draw the circles required in this game, but
it will prove time well spent.

A circle forty feet in diameter is marked on the ground.
Inside the circle there are nine smaller circles, each six feet
in diameter and scattered at random. Six of these circles
provide havens of refuge from the tagger, but three of them
are deadly traps, and once a player has the misfortune to
stand on any one of these three he may be ruled out of the
game at once or, because of strategy on the part of the game
leader, the player or players standing on a trap circle may
be spared until the leader can make a bigger bag. The leader
knows that once the number of a trap is revealed it will be
shunned by all cautious players—who have not forgotten its
number. The leader and tagger work toward the same end,
the elimination of all players as speedily as possible, but
tagger and leader'are not actually allied, because the tag-
ger has no more idea than the players as to which circles

Reprinted with permission from Fun with Brand New Games

by Allan and Paulette Macfarlan ( Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York17. Pp. 255. $3.50). MR.MACFARLAN

is an outdoorsman who has served as a camp specialist and
director of recreation for both children and adults in many
countries. MRS. MACFARLAN is an artist noted for the clarity
and accuracy of her game diagrams and illustrations.

APRIL 1962

 

are traps. It is well to state here, though it is mentioned a
little later, that all players, including the tagger, must stop
all movement immediately when the leader of the game
shouts “Stop!” or lets loose one short, sharp blast on a
whistle.

11] order that there be no question of this hazardous game
being “rigged” as a joke, the leader should make a small,
rough plan of the big circle and the small circles on a piece
of paper in advance. Before each game begins, he should
mark with a cross the three circles which he will use as traps
in that particular game. The first three traps, conveniently
marked in number sequence, should prove suHicient to help
the tagger finish the game in a hurry, but just in case, three
additional traps, marked A, can be used when a few lucky
players still remain, uncaught either by the traps or the
tagger. The leader may mark the traps on his plan in the
following manner, 2-3-5 and A4-A7 and A9, so that the
trapped players can see, at the end of each game, just where
they were caught. A player will remember the circle in which
he was trapped and see from the leader’s plan that he was
caught in a trap of either the first or the auxiliary series.

At the start of the game, the players stand just outside the
circle, while the tagger stands anywhere inside it. When the
leader calls “Go!” all players must enter the circle and re-
main inside it until tagged or trapped. Neither tagger nor
players are allowed to run across a circle, but must dodge
about around them until a player who is being chased takes
refuge, if he dares, in a circle long enough to escape imme-
diate tagging, since the tagger should chase another player

203

immediately when the one he is chasing takes refuge in a
circle. When the leader shouts “Stop!” or blows one sharp
blast on a whistle, the tagger stops, and 'each player must

jump instantly onto any one of the two or three circles closest
to him and remain there. Following the blast on the whistle,
the leader announces that all players on or partially on the

trap circles are out of the game. To keep the players guess-
ing, the leader warns them that there may or may not be a

complete set of new traps awaiting them. He then starts the
game again, and it continues until all players are out. The

leader then chooses the next tagger, decides on the new trap
circles, and a new game is begun.

It will be seen that many modifications can be made in
this game. They may be made to meet the needs of the
players or by increasing the size of the large circle. The .
number of inner circles can be reduced to four or six, with
only one or two of them being traps. Squares may be drawn
instead of circles.

However Traps! is played, there is no doubt that players
will acquire caution and there will be enough excitement
for players and spectators throughout the game. #1:

  Modern Vintage —

The youngsters enjoy giant handball or Chinese handball
greatly, but, in going even from one neighborhood to an-
other, one becomes lost, since each little group of children
has made up local rule variations. Here, therefore, are [all
rules to eliminate such problems and make tournaments

possible.

ball or similar size playground ball. Court dimensions

should be approximately fifteen feet in width, twenty-
five feet in length, with a wall ten to twelve feet in height
at one end. A service line should be drawn across the width
ten feet out from the base of the wall. The game may be
played to eleven, fifteen or twenty-one points, whichever
is decided upon by all contestants before opening play. A

IN A SINGLES GAME, use standard, regular inflated volley-

. “xi STAGE COACH

Deep in the heart of every youngster is the hankering
to “ride shotgun" or to be a “damsel in distress.” With
this whimsical adaptation of the most famous of all
American transportation, children of every age can
spend countless hours of fun in a hundred and one
make-believe trips via the Mexico Forge Stage Coach.
This is a perfect all steel climber, built safe and
sturdy to hold innumerable children.

Approximate dimensions: Length, 11’; width, 4' 8";
height, 7’ and lettered to your specifications.

Write for FREE literature on our many new and
exciting Engineered Park and Playground Equipment.

THE MEXICO FORGE, INC.
MEXICO, PENNSYLVANIA

204 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

match shall consist of the best two out of three games. The
first serve is determined by a coin flip or other method of

chance. Thereafter, the serve changes hands after each point
is scored.

A serve is made from behind the ten-foot service line by
bouncing the ball on the floor and striking it on the rise
with one or both hands, either clenched or Open so long
as the ball is not caught or thrown. The ball must bounce
back behind the service line before it can be played again.
The opponent then strikes the ball with one or both hands,
clenched or open, so it hits the floor, then the wall. 0p-
ponents thereafter take turns playing the ball in this manner.

FAULTS: Stepping over the service line before the ball is hit
on the serve; serving out-of-hand, without first bouncing
the ball; serving so the ball does not hounce back behind
the service line; serving or hitting the ball out of turn; hit-
ting the ball so it contacts the wall before it hits the floor
on a return or serve; hitting the ball so it lands out of
bounds either before or after contacting the wall; blocking
an opponent’s shot with the body, or blocking him in such
a way he cannot get to his shot. ( Calling this last rule will
be up to the discretion of the referee.)

IN A TEAM GAME, teams will be composed of no more than
six persons each. Same rules as doubles, except that each
person on each side must take turns serving and playing the
hall. The court may be enlarged ten to fifteen feet in length

and width.

A TEAM ELIMINATION GAME has the same rules as team game
above, except scoring. Instead of points being scored when
a fault is made, the person who makes the fault dr0ps out
of play. Play continues in the same rotation as before, even
though members of the same team may now be following
each other. It is permissable in this case for them to give
their own team members easy shots to return. Play con-
tinues until all the members of one team have been elimi-
nated. Five such games constitute a match. The team winner
is that which scores the most total points over the five-game
match. Points are awarded at the end of each game, one
point being given for every player on that team still in the
game. -——ROBERT LOEFFELBEIN, general manager, Glades
Suburban Club, Whittier, California. ( C opyright by Robert
L. Loegelbein, I960.)

RECREATION

 

| HE New Hampshire Recreation Society sponsors two
T summer postal archery tournaments for boys and

girls. Eligible to compete are boys and girls regis-
tered in any .community recreation program. Rules are sim-
ple so that the tournaments are practical for the city pro-
grams as well as for the small community. Even though there
may be but one person in a community who competes, his
score may win a state award in his class. Equipment need
not be expensive or elaborate. Many archers will use home-
made items.

Shooting for tournament score is conducted in each com-
munity during the weeks of July 17th and August 7th. The
program supervisors then mail the three highest scores for
boys and the three highest scores for girls in each division
to Richard A. Tapply, New Hampshire representative of the
National Recreation Association, who conducts the tourna-
ment.

Its objectives are to give to New Hampshire boys and
girls the opportunity to participate, on a state basis, in an
approved archery contest, to instill respect for the bow and
arrow and a love for a sport which may he enjoyed through-
out one’s lifetime, and to stress safety with a piece of equip-
ment which can be extremely dangerous in the hands of the
careless.

Classes of boys and girls who may register, in any com-
munity recreation program, are: William Tells, from fif-
teenth to eighteenth birthday; Straight Arrows, from twelfth
to fifteenth birthday; Little Johns, aged eleven and under.

Competition
The competition is based on target archery, using a regu-
lation forty-eight-inch target.

William Tell Round . . . . . 10 ends (60 arrows) at 30 yards
Straight Arrow Round . . 10 ends (60 arrows) at 20 yards
Little John Round . . . . . . 10 ends (60 arrows) at 20 yards

The program supervisor checks the addition of all scores,
signs the official scoresheets to be used for tahulation, and

APRIL 1962

Archery is a fast growing sport and many recreation
departments are adding it to their program.
Instructors must stress safety and sportsmanship.

WILLIAM TELL
ARCHERY
TOURNAMENT

retains duplicate scoresheets. There are ,not separate classes
for instinctive and free style (shooters using sights). Bows
may be used with or without sights.

Mr. Tapply receives from the competing groups the three
highest scores for boys and the three highest scores for girls
in each division on the scoresheet ( see Page 206). These
scores are tabulated on an individual and three-member
team hasis, and results mailed to supervisors so they may see
how their archers compare with others in the state. The
following directives are distrihuted to all participating com-
munities:

ARCHERY RANGE PROCEDURE

There is no easy, fast road to success in shooting a bow!
Only through proper presentation and motivation can an
instructor bring the real values of the sport to his students.
It is better to have no program at all than to hand such po-
tentially dangerous equipment to a student without instruc-
tion. In teaching, certain range procedure is necessary.
' Range should be checked for safety and all spectators
must be in back of a plainly marked shooting line.
° One person should be in charge of issuing equipment from
a central spot.
° Archers take position on shooting line and place arrows '
in quivers, leaving them there until signal is given to take
one out.
' Instructor should stand in front of the group for instruc-
tion and demonstration, but before signal for nocking arrows
is given he should move to one side of, or in back of, shoot-
ing line.
° There should be predetermined signals for releasing and
retrieving.
° Before the signal for releasing is given archers should
know how many arrows each can release. After an archer
completes shooting his arrows he should remain in position
until signal to retrieve.
° After the leader determines that all archers have shot he
then gives the signal to retrieve. Archers place bows in bow

205

rack and walk to target, picking up arrows in grass on the
way.

' At the target one person is designated to draw arrows and
one to record scores.

' Other archers stand at least six feet in front of target.

' Before any class is dismissed all equipment must be ac-
counted for by person in charge.

Rules for Scoring

' Score values: gold, 9; red, 7; blue, 5; black. 3;. and white.
1.

' If an arrow is dropped in front of shooting line it may
be shot again only if the archer can reach it with his how
and pull it back to the shooting line without changing his
stance.

' An arrow that penetrates two colors shall be given the
value of the higher color.

° One archer shall be appointed to draw and call the SCOI‘!

of all arrows. A second archer shall write down scores ani
add totals.

OFFICIAL Sconasnssr

Town or City ............................................................................................... ..
Tournament Supervisor ............................................................................. ..

Date of Tournament ................................................................................... ..

Cirls ............................... ..
Class ............................................................................................................. ..

Boys ................................ ..

A separate sheet similar to the one below must be used f0]
each three-member team.

No. Name of Archer 1

———-—.———.—___—_———¢—p___—___

 

' The value of all close arrows shall be determined before  ________ _____
target face or arrows are touched.  ________ _____
' A rebound from any part of the target scoring face shall 3- _____ _ _
be counted as seven.  _ ——__
' An arrow penetrating completely through any part of the “W ———————— __ '—
scoring face shall count five. member team

_w_.__._.___

Arts and

rafts Corner

Edited by Shirley Silhert

These projects were contributed by Cale Bruce of the
Junior Museum Division of the Palo Alto, California, Rec-
reation Department.

Papier-Maché Piggy Bank

The making of giant-
size piggy banks
turned out to be one
of the most popular
projects of the year.
Each child’s eyes
lighted up with eager
excitement as the day
of completion neared.
The finished products
were colorful, origi-
nal, and fun to do, as
well as being a big
storehouse for those
hoarded pennies and nickels. How to do it? Well, the first
prerequisite was plenty of available space ready for many
eager hands. From there on, it was lots of hard work, but
fun all the way.
Materials and Equipment

1. Large tables to work on.

2. Two or three large dishpans, empty coffee cans for
water, cardboard boxes to hold paper strips.

3. Lots of newspaper torn into 11/3” strips, and lots of
shredded paper for making pulp papier-maché.

4. Large round nickel balloons (good quality).

206

 

5. Wheat paste.

6. Rubber-base water-mix paints or poster colors ané
brushes.

7. Hemp rope for tails.

8. Strong cord for suspending pigs while drying. ,

9. Plenty of newspaper to cover tables while working.
Procedure

Step I. Blow up and tie balloons.

Step 2. Cover balloons, except mouthpiece, with a layei
of water-soaked newspaper strips, overlapping them slightly
and laying them in one direction.

Step 3. While still wet, lay paste-covered strips in the op
posile direction to cover entire surface.

Step 4. Continue this crisscrossing of pasted strips unti'
at least seven layers are placed. Be sure to allow the mouth
piece of the balloon to protrude and tie it with a long heavy
cord.

Step 5. Attach the pigs to a clotheslinc and allow to dry
two days, hanging in a warm room. Then complete the dry-
ing on a shelf or table for the remainder of a week.

Step 6. A thick batch of pulp papier-maché is then mixed
by soaking shredded paper and tearing into small bits. The
water is drained off and then wheat paste is slowly added
in dry form and mixed well until the consistency is that of
soft modeling clay. Add a small amount of oil of winter-
green to prevent spoilage.

Step 7. Using this clay-like pulp, model four short, fal
cone-shaped legs. Turn the pig upside down, attach the legs
with white glue smoothing the edges to the body. Allow to
dry thoroughly at least two days.

Step 8. P0p the balloon with a pin near where tied and
pull out of pig.

Step 9. Model two large, cupped pig ears with pulp maché
and glue on. Make a short, fat cylinder-shaped snout of the
same material. Push two nostril holes in the snout and glue
the snout over the hole where the balloon was pulled out.

Step 10. When completed, dry sand off rough edges with
sandpaper and paint, putting the overall body color on first.

Continued on Page 211

RECREATION

    
     
   

       
  

    

   

     
   

A
III-l
All-II
III
9'

  
 
 

‘IIIII

  
 
  

III?
I II' AII.

II III-7
I If

.‘I. III..-
III. III-n

RE CREATION

  

Who likes to live near a playground? Here are diverging points of view from

residents of tivo Ontario communities. Names of contributors withheld on request.—Ed.

I Live Next to a Playground . . .

And I Love It

FROM OUR FRONT WINDOWS we can
I watch our child and all the neigh-
’Z bors’ children playing under good su-
pervision on the swings and teeter-
% totters in the neighborhood park. Any
person who has doubts about the use-

fulness of a subdivision playground

should arrange to spend a morning
or afternoon in the vicinity of. one. Most parents in our
neighborhood used to wonder a dozen times a day where
their children were. Motorists had to dodge the ballgames
played on the roads. Now on every summer weekday, 150
to 250 of our children enjoy the varied program that is pro-
vided for them in the park. We all know where they are and
they are taught good safety rules and many other useful
things by the well-trained supervisors.

The play facilities in our park consist of a wading pool,
teeter-totters, junior and senior swings, slides, a volleyball
court, horseshoe pitch, and baseball diamond and backstop.
In winter a skating-rink is Hooded and the city provides
lights for night skating—and even music two or three times
a week. In the beginning, it was just another field in our
raw new subdivision. Then, in 1956, a few citizens had ideas
and things began to happen. The ball diamond and back-
st0p were built with the cooperation of practically the whole
neighborhood. The play apparatus was ordered and paid
for by subscription.

Our reward is in watching the young children rush to the
park every day for their turn on whatever apparatus suits
them. Their enthusiasm lasts right through the day.

‘\
4‘

 

Digested with permission from the Ontario Community

Courier, April-May-June 1959.

APRIL 1962

And I’m Not Happy

FOR YEARS I have lived and brought
up my family in close proximity
to a playground. Property values in
this community have increased rapidly
during those years; but it has been
more than disappointing to see pro-
spective buyers turn away from my
house once they see the location.

In my years next to the playground, children with bloody
noses, scratched knees, and broken arms have been my lot,
not to mention the various sicknesses and skin disorders
picked up from unsanitary pools, washrooms, and drinking
fountains. Clothes soaked in the wading pool and clothes
torn on the equipment and in fights are more woes. Tran-
sient children help themselves to anything and everything
not nailed down or growing from the ground.

The dust that collects in the house just from everyday use
is enough to frustrate the best of housekeepers. Pity the
housewife who has to cope with playground sand and gravel
that filters into her house through mysterious openings un-
found. Debris of all kinds continually floats into the yard——
candy wrappers, Dixie cups, napkins left by happy pic-
nickers.

Sleeping is another frustrating problem. especially for my
husband who must sleep durinar the day because he is em-
ployed on the night shift. The afternoon naps of my younger
children must also be arranged against a hackground of up-
roar. The pandemonium continues with added venom as the
shadows and the teenagers begin to congregate. Police pa-
trols have not been the solution.

Oh, I agree there is a place for playgrounds—but not next
to where I live. #

 

207

Par

“We must Learn

To H OLLER”

 

lammed parking lots——-the sign of serious overcrowd-
ing in our parks. Are direct charges the answer to Ralph Widner

financing the sorely needed additional parklands?
HE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHER, Wil-
liam James, once described demo-
. . cratic government as“doing some-

such uses as housing, air-

' ' , a) -
ports, }, ighways, pubiic thmg until somebody .hollers. A little
recreation, 950913,“, be- observation Wlll establish, however, that

   
 

Competition for land [or

comes ever more severe. our political system frequently depends-
npon doing nothing until somebody
hollers. Those who are deeply con-
ccrncd with preserving a little of na-‘I
turc‘s beauty and a few of the outdoor :
amenities near our cities had better
start hollering and squawking a little
louder. For the brutal fact is that, de-
spite a growing cresendo of public at-
tention addressed to problems like met-
ropolitan sprawl, the crisis in outdoor
recreation, and the competition for open
land, most states have barely begun to

 

meet the challenge.

The vast majority of state legislators
are still more strongly swayed by the
temptations of district politics than by
broad planning schemes, no matter how
scientific. Powerful pressure groups,
endeared to wornout slogans, Oppose
any new proposals for the acquisition
of public recreation lands, particularly
in areas where commercial devel0pment
would be most lucrative. Competition
for land for such legitimate public uses
as highways, airports, and reservoirs

 

daily grows more severe. Yet most state

Crowded beaches, like this one in Pennsylvania, are park agencies continue to limp along

a common occurrence. In the Keystone State, use of

the parlcs has tripled during the past eight years. MR- WIDNER £5 Chiel aide lo’" PUMC ’"e'
lotions and legislation to Dr. Maurice

K. Goddard, secretary of the Pennsyl-
vania Department of Forests and Wa-
ters. This material is digested with per-
mission from American Forests maga-
zine, September 1960.

208 RECREATION

   

i ith sky-rocketing workloads but Lilli-
p itian budgets.

The blame does not lie necessarily
v ith recalcitrant legislatures, although
Gut-of-date politics do play their part.
I xpenditures in education, welfare,
lighways, urban renewal, parks, and
rater resource development have dou-
I led, tripled, and quadrupled in a brief

( ecade. Many states are rapidly reach-
I ilg or have already passed their limits
I gf reasonable taxation and bonded in-
’ (ebtedness. Strapped for moncy, the
states choose between a new park or a
mile of new highway with difficulty.
' No public office holder can afford to de-
cide in favor of a park if he risks a
greater public outcry for postponing a
stretch of highway in order to pay for
the park land.

A SHORTAGE OF MONEY is the problem

basic to nearly every state’s park
system. Texas and Pensylvania, for in-
stance, spend less on their park systems
each year than the larger cities within
their borders expend on their city parks.
Urban states like New York, California,
Pennsylvania, and Illinois have been
able to muster support for relatively
large-scale park development, yet an-
other state with a big population, Michi-
gan, has had no capital money at all
since 1956, and Michigan land is being
swallowed fast by metropolitan Sprawl.
Michigan’s problem can be traced to
the same source as Wisconsin’s—a split
legislature. The split is more than a
simple division of parties, it is a con-
flict between urban and rural interests.
Representatives from farm districts see
parks as creations mainly for city dwel-
lers. Furthermore, rural land often
must be taken, and farmers understand-
ably do not like to give up their farms
and woodlots.

Ironically, however, the real pinch
is not in the politically glamorous ap-
propriations for new park construction,

APRIL 1962

litics & Philosophy

but in the more prosaic non-vote-getting
costs of maintenance and operation.
Many states are still relying on facilities
constructed in the 1930’s by the Civilian
Conservation Corps. They are woefully
inadequate and in desperate need of re-
pair. Texas, alone, estimates that it will

take $5,000,000 to put these structures
in shape.

The blame for this state of affairs
must rest with the enlightened conser-
vation organizations in each state that
have simply failed to make their voices
heard or their influence felt in the com-
mittee rooms of the legislatures. Con-
servationists are not a particularly noisy
lot-—unless riled. Then, too, they go
armed with the wrong kind of informa-
tion when they urge adoption of pro-
grams in which they believe. Too often.
the emphasis is on the psychic and aes-

thetic benefits of the outdoors and too
infrequently upon that object of great
political concern, the pocketbook.

E ACH STATE must make a fundamental
decision. Parks can make a great
contributions to the local economy ei-
ther by stimulating tourism. increasing
tax values and commercial develop-
ment, or by molding the community in-

to the kind of place in which today’s
American family wants to live and work.

Convincing the legislatures to move
in on this urgent problem will not be
a cinch; particularly since there is no
easy way under present fiscal conditions
to finance the many millions of dol-
lars worth of new construction and im-
provements needed. One leading park
administrator remarked recently that
there are more experts on hunting, fish-
ing, and parks per square foot in this
country than anywhere else in the
world. A study by the Wisconsin Con-
servation Department revealed that well
over half the visitors to Wisconsin’s
parks had definite ideas on how to bet-
ter finance the park system. Almost all

K RECREATION

)1 DIGEST

 

ideas centered upon some system of di-
rect charges for park use. Obviously
most states will have to adopt such a
system eventually; yet it is by no means
certain that this will meet the need for
new financing.

There is increasing reluctance on the
part of many legislatures to surrender
still more control over the purse strings
through the establishment of special
funds over which there is little or no
political control. In addition, there is a
tendency— almost become a law—to
consider a problem solved once such a
fund is set up. Park agencies might find
their appropriations cut in amounts
equal to the revenues derived from di-
rect charges and wind up in the same
financial boat they presumably left.
Finally, there is an expectation by local
communities that money earned in
adjacent parks will be spent there; a
fact that plays hob with any planned
improvement program.

TJE ANSWERS, therefore, are not sim-
ple. But one thing is clear: strong
support is needed before the politicians
will even listen. So far, Minnesota has
come up with the most ingenious an-
swer: local citizens’ organizations must
promote the park they want, including
steering it through the political wars.
Once the park has legislative sanction,
the local area must then put up half the
construction costs. .
We may stir up the public with a
stream of articles in our national maga-
zines about the need for more parks.
We may document the dimensions of
the crisis. We may search out facts and
recommend solutions as the Outdoor
Recreation Resources Review Commis-
sion has done. We may even, like the
National Council on Recreation Plan-
ning, develop elaborate criteria for
building more parks. But this is all pre-
lude. The real task is the political one,
and that is still ahead. To succeed,
somebody has got to holler! #

209

Joseph Lee
Continued from Page 195

 

of life; that for youth recreation was an important school
for citizenship, and that for adults, leisure, rightly used,
meant the difference between mere existence and fruitful
living.

“The genius of Joseph Lee lay not alone in seeing these
things. He used what he was and what he had to forge the
machinery necessary to make them real in American life.
Today, in the far-flung communities of a great nation, chil-
dren are happier, youth is better served, and men and women
have a chance to live more richly because of the life and
work of Joseph Lee.

“No greater tribute could be paid to him than to have a
share in helping to strengthen and build further this vital
part of our community and of our national life.”

FROM THEN ON, the last Friday in July has been celebrated
as Joseph Lee Day on many playgrounds throughout

the United States. For young leaders unfamiliar with this

custom, and for older leaders who may have forgotten it in

the press of modern events, the following suggestions, based

on Joseph Lee’s personal likes, may be helpful in planning

this special event:

Games: He once listed the following as twelve games that

should be “pushed” on playgrounds (note his own comments

on age-levels) :

Hopscotch: Cirls especially, 6-11.

Hill Dill: Children 6-11 and boys and girls over 14.

Three Deep: Everybody from 8-50 plus.

I Spy: Everybody from 8-25 except boys (alone) over 14.

Prisoner’s Base: Everybody from 8-25 except boys (alone)

over 14.

Volleyball: Everybody 8-50 plus.

Field Hockey: Boys or girls separately, 8-40 plus.

Looby Loo, Farmer In the Dell, and Roman Soldiers: every-

body under 8 or over 25.

Sports: Swimming, iceskating, football, canoeing, rowing,

fishing, and climbing trees.

Dancing: Folk and square, social. (He loved dancing.)

Art: Sketching, painting, drama, poetry, music.

Favorite Songs: All the Scottish ballads, “Londonderry Air,”

“Netherlands’ Song of Thanksgiving.” He loved to hear

choral and glee club music, and enjoyed participating in

group singing.

3-? at??? *

‘ v a v Joseph Lee Day, too, can be an opportunity for everyone
i - in recreation to bc grateful for the vast networks of play-
 n  ground and other recreation areas and facilities that have
Grand Slams spread throughout every city and town. In 1910, for ex-
allol" ample, there were 1,244 playgrounds in 184 cities. Fifty
sporting Goods   years later, in 1960, 1,775 cities reported 18,403 playgrounds

Dealers . .

With leadership.

i i It is well for us to reread Play I )1 Education (a pleasure,
' not a chore), the book by Joseph Lce that had such impact

on education, social work, and recreation. It is well for us,
too, to get out the December 1937 issue of RECREATION and
regain the “feel” of that period from 1906 to 1937. If we

do these things, we shall gain, or regain, a new understand-

 

— — o1 ing of the recreation movement, and of Joseph Lee. #

—- O

210 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

_ Arts and Craft Corner
Continued from Page 206

 

‘Vhen dry, paint on mouth, eyes, and other decorative
touches.
Step 11. The last step is to cut a slot in the pig’s back with
r knife. Then poke a small hole in pig’s rear and insert a
temp rope tail. This can be coiled and glued Flat to the body
11‘ combed out and left bushy.
This project was carried out successfully by third- and
ourth-graders but would no doubt be a fun project for older
_ groups as well. When finished, the piggy banks were cer-
tainly rugged and of long-lasting quality. This is not a proj-
act that can be completed hastily if good results are to be
expected. The children in my class took great pride in their
pigs and it was a happy day for them when they trooped out
of the classroom each affectionately embracing a fat, color-
ful pig.

Yarn Drawing

The stitching of color-
ful drawings using
bright colored yarn on
burlap gave third- and
fourth-grade children
a new and stimulating
area to explore. The
finished products re-
sulted in pictures
which no doubt will
take their place among
the family treasures as
grandmother’s sam-
_  _       _.    ,  pler did. When the
stitching is completed the staples can be removed from the
Wood and the yarn drawing removed. The finished work can
then be stretched around good sturdy cardboard or Mason-
ite board and framed for an attractive addition to any child’s
room.

Materials Needed

1. Burlap cut to 18”-by-18” squares.

2. 1’ ’ -by-l” soft pine, cut and mitered to make a wooden
stretching frame 18”-by-18” for the burlap.

3. Stapler and staples.

4. Yarn in many colors and large blunt needles.

5. Newsprint, pencils and crayons (for preliminary draw-
ings) , carbon paper to trace drawing on to burlap.
Procedure

Step 1. Draw several simple line drawings or designs on
to 18”-by-18" newsprint paper. Work out a color sketch in
crayon.

Step 2. Choose best drawing and trace onto burlap with
carbon paper, leaving a good visible line to follow.

Step 3. Stretch and staple burlap onto the wooden frame,
making taut.

Step 4. Stitch yarn up and down through the burlap fol-
lowing traced lines.'The stitches of yarn should be extended
approximately one inch, caught under the burlap and then
brought through to top surface so as to give the effect of a
line drawing. Where colors are changed or yarn ends termi-
nated, the yarn should be tied on the underside of the burlap.

 

SOMETHING FREE for you! Don't miss Page

213, in color, with its Trade Mart listings, telling

how to get free materials.

 

APRIL 1962

 

__ i '

FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION
AND PERFORMANCE . . . FAR GREATER
STRENGTH . . . UNEQUALLED SAFETY. . . '

     
     
   
   
   
     
 

 PARK, PICNIC,
*PLAYGROUND
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

Since I911 the tinest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and constructian

. specified by leading recreational
authorities for almast half a century.

Send for New Catalog

  

_ - b "" f

"x

AMRCAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

\‘IC'9L7'5 IARGEST MANUFACTURF"$ OF TINE
JIMMIN‘F

Write for FaIdor
On AMERICANS
JIM PATTERSON

lIFE'I'IME
Aluminum
D I V I N G

B 0 A R D
wonw's FINEST

OFFICIAL 8 0A RD

,.._.

 

   
 

‘r'l Ir FlCNlC, PLAYch IND
. .‘ND DRESSING ROOM "SHIPMENT

nce upon a time  there was a

chairmanVHe€7mr magmas respons-

ihle for ohtaig trophies ‘1 awards
and badges " for club events, salesmen’s
contests w" and tournaments  The
chairman wrote 3\\ for the Emblem and -

Badge catalogwhich savedéi’é. him 50%

*0” list price. Everyonc"  '-

pleased with the awards that" they gave

\L_ r J.-
him his vory own trophy *: from

.——
/

 

  
 
      
 

Emblem & Badge Mfg. Co.
68 Pine Street, Providence, R. I.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 211

 

F or further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

0 Too much noise? New 131/2-inch-square soundproofing
unit, installed individually, consists of two-inch-thick glass
foam. Countless tiny, interconnected cells trap sounds and
subdue them. Precision-drilled holes of scientifically deter-
mined size connect this labyrinth of cells with the surface
of the unit. Integral spacers hold it out slightly from the
wall, allowing the back to be a working surface and function
as a resonant cavity. In swimming pool areas, the units are
unaffected by moisture which sometimes causes other acous-
tic materials to fail. For further information, circle #100.

o Exciting and unusual furniture for your department office.
recreation center, camp lounge, etcetera. Chairs are durable
and scrubbable; models include a leaf-backed design, chairs
with a Gothic aura, with Moorish influence, chairs in tandem,
and others, all with simple, clean lines. Table and chair
coordinates are excellent for reception areas; outstanding
accessories include wall murals, screens of several types.
low tables, and planters of high quality. For catalog, circle

#:101.

o Wading pools are play-
grounds, too. Tot-sized Aqua-
Zoo play equipment adds appeal
to water play. Zoo specimens i11-
clude a giant bullfrog, baby elc-
phant, bull seal, baby whale, and
baby seal. All the animals spray
water from safely recessed noz-
zles. Sculptured pieces, with
glass-smooth concrete finish, are
cast in an aggregate mix to with-
stand a 3000-p0und test. Attach-
ment of water supply is provided
for on the under side of each ani-
mal with a brass fitting to re-
ceive standard half-inch pipe
connection. Colors are integrally
mixed mineral oxides in Venetian red, frost white, natural
gray, slate black, and amphibian green. For pamphlet, circle

¢¢102.

 

o Flashy bulletins will draw participants to your playground
or recreation center bulletin board, can be used at camps.
teen centers, civic clubs. Bright colors, zany illustrations.
and headlines will draw attention. A catalogue of three hun-
dred flash bulletins illustrates in miniature the 8%-by-11-
inch letterhead forms complete with artwork and headlines.
The forms can also be used to add impact to announcements,
letters, and mailings. For catalogue, circle #103.

212

\fp ..’ if, 7' 0 New “Water-Ball”, placed below root

W; " areas, waters and feeds shrubs and trees,

channeling water and food around and

.. through underground root area. The

\_ device prevents lethal root dehydration

~----and lack of soil nutrients. One gallon

. \of water used in this way equals twenty

gallons of surface soaking. Ball elimi-

, nates water wastage from sun, wind,

r am.- and surface dehydration; saturates the
,A lag-5'1! .

s01], fills, overflows, then leaves a re-

- serve supply to maintain moisture for
long periods of time. For further information, circle #104.

 

0 Signs of the times. An engineered lettering system pro-
duces professional-looking signs. Your maintenance staff or
recreation leaders can replace frazzled, handmade signs with
readable. colorful ones. Jig and template lettering set in-
cludes carrier strips which can be reused, a horde of tem-
plates, plastic-film letters available in one- to four-inch sizes
and in a choice of eight colors plus black and white. Plastic-
film lettering is permanent and will not discolor. For further
information, circle #105.

g Plastic-laminated plaques are a good-looking, modern way
to preserve and beautify award certificates, resolutions, testi-
monials, photographs, sheepskins, parchments. The plaques
are custom made of the finest hard-grained wood and her-
metically sealed, crystal-clear plastic. The manufacturer of-
fers a complete service—from ideas to finished plaque—and
will design certificates to individual requirements in addi-
tion to laminating them. Process replaces glass framing,

eliminates deterioration. For further information, circle
#106.

0 Quarterly journal for trail campers and canoeists covers
individual camping practices and offers program assistance
to camps, hiking clubs, youth groups, etcetera. It includes
techniques, resources, and facilities. For sample copy, circle

¢¢107.

0 Specialized outdoor playground unit, designed for super-
vised physical-fitness programs, incorporates all gymnastic
exercise functions needed for well-rounded muscular devel-
opment, especially of arm, shoulder, and back muscles.
Group participation makes it fun. Equipment has three level
muscle bars, steel bars, horizontal ladder, and two climbing
poles. Made of heavy-duty galvanized pipe and fourteen-
gauge zinc grip steel which provides protection from
weather. Horizontal ladder is welded into one integral unit
with retainer sockets for vertical members. Overall dimen-
sions are ten feet by ten feet by eleven feet. For further in-
formation on this equipment and other play equipment by
same manufacturer. circle #108.

RECREATION

 

L --u m

on or ADVERTISERS

   
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  

' Page
m {rican Playground Device 211
rjrgs Management - _. ... _  .._ 220
 tiswick Sports .   .  174
 lie-Ito Fencing, Judo 8. Karate  - 200
learned Advertising -.  __ 222
ohm Corporation  _. Inside Front Cover
talton Racquet  ____ -_ - 220
Iinar F. Harris -____-_-_ -.-..______ 173
taco-Gray -....---.._---  "2.-..--" 217
fhem and Badge   - 211
at MedaI Products ...... --   216
anna Manufacturing Company 221
iIIerich and Bradsby  210
mison Manufacturing _  Inside Back Cover
.E. Burke __ _- _ __ __  215
mper Tools  _-  176
aintenance. Inc. ............................ -- 173
ason Candies   - 175
Mexico Forge _ .......... .- - 204
iracIe Equipment    171
onroe Company  .   220
ationaI Studios -_   -_ 220
w York University  _  _- __ 176
ayground Summer Notebook  -_ _ _- 176
ogram Aids _ _   217
ecreation Equipment _ 182
heem CaIitone _ _   -- 218
-Sho Products  _  173
ico Products   -- _. - - 200
. F. lwardzik  .. 220

 

PHIL 1962

@

FREE AIDS

TRADE MART

 

Here are resources—catalogs, brochures, films, booklets, services
available, samples, and so on—to help the recreation leader. Circle
the key number following any item about which you. want more in-
formation. Cut out the coupon, insert in envelope, and mail.

ARTS AND (RAEIS

CLITTERMESII. Dramatic and sparkling alumi-
num mesh comes in a sumptuous variety of
colors and weights. The flexible mesh can be
used for displays, masquerade costumes, thea-
tcr and party decorations, holiday decorations,
and gift wrapping. For information and sam-
ples, circle #109.

VERSATILE SHREDDED MODELING MEDIUM can
he used for original sculpting, puppets, raised
maps, picture frames, planters, theatrical
props. Makes lightweight, durable objects.
Will adhere to wood, glass, paper, metal. For
further information, circle #110.

PAINT WITII reanLes. Colored gem-cttes are
packaged in half-pound or fifty-pound bags.
Wide color range, from coral to purple, makes
this mosaic-like craft appealing. Catalogue of
arts-and-craf ts materials also contains descrip-
tions of cork, plastie projects, some ideas on
how to use decorative plastic bubbles, paints,

feathers, and shells. For craft manual, circle
#111.

BLAZE 0F GLAZE gives the final tench. A liquid
glaze paints on any kind of surface. Can be
used opaque or made translucent. Tough,
durable, wash proof. Paint mctal, china, glass,
clay, plaster. For information on this and
other art supplies, circle #112.

Snsxscnsnnten’s DELIGHT. Basketry supplics,
chair cane, and cane webbing for reed and

cane weaving. For leaflets listing products
available, circle #113.

str TO MAKE acorns for a bazaar, paper
mosaics for a crafts project, lacy lampshades,
rockets, and Easter baskets? Read Clue-All
booklet on creating party ideas and other dec-
orations. Outstanding in presentation and
content. For c0py, circle #114.

SHELL SLICES combined with pearls, shells,
fanciful gecgaws, encrnst boxes, turn :lrab
items into fascinating, decorative projects.
For information on shellcraft supplies, circle

#115.

Coma av rm: JARFUL. Liquid tempera show-
card colors are nontoxic, give uniform, one-
stroke coverage. Nonbleeding, smooth flowing,
these colors are good for posters, bold designs,
art-on-the-playground. For catalogue of color-
ful products, circle #116.

EQUIPMENT

LONG-NECKED CLIMRER. Giraffe climber stim-
ulates children’s imaginations as well as their
muscles. The giraffe’s body is a complex of
footholds and handholds. The animal has a
realistic head and a rope attached to its neck
for r0pcclimbers and sliders. Fabricated of
heavy-gauge steel pipe and tubing and tin-
ishecl in colorful weather-proof enamel. For
information on giraffe and other play equip-
ment, circle #117.

TOOT, Toorl The early days of railroading
are recaptured in replicas of trains built in
1863. Use in parks, gardens, zoos. Gay and
lavish decorations, modern construction with
storing, extra-wide seats mounted on sturdy
steel decking. Complete with 58 HP, air
whistle, swinging bell, brass trims, electric

PLEASE NOTE EXPIRATION DATE

Clip and mail today. to

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R462. 8 W. 8th 51.. New York 11

This coupon expires June I. 1962
Please send me more information on circled products.

100 101 102 103 104 105 10‘! 107
117 110 119 120 121 122 123 124
134 135 130 137 130 139 140 141

Name

Organization

Address

 

100 105 110 111 112 113 114 115 110
125 120 127 120 129 130 131 132 133
142 143 144 145 140 147 140 149 150

 

Title

mun—m

 

City Zone State

 

462

213

lights. Coaehes feature Fiberglas seats, op-
tional nylon canopy. For information. circle

#118.

TAKE THE NEXT STAGE. A whimsical adapta-
tion of an American frontier stagecoaeh is red
with white polka dots. A perfect climber. the
device is sturdy enough to hold large numbers
of children. It is eleven feet long, seven feet
high, fifty-six inches wide. For booklet dc-
scribing this and other playground equipment,
eircle #119.

ROCK-AND-WHIRL equipment can be a rocking
boat, merry-go-round, or cradle. Balance,
rhythm, and coordination are all involved in
the fun. Finely crafted solid maple equipment
makes any spot a playground. Company also
makes hollow blocks, short boards, long
boards, and ramps with which children can
build their own cities. For catalogue, eirele

#120.

Iloe ABOARD! Urban youngsters will welcome
the chance to go gate-swinging. Playground
equipment, designed like a gate, is free swing-
ing. can aeeomniodate several children. Com-
pany also offers good-looking climbing unit
which resembles a tree, swings, traveling

rings, jungle gyms, hardware. For catalogue.
circle #121.

Is YOUR PARKING 1.01“ an unhappy one? Do
you get the most out of your parking areas?
Ilints and suggestions on costs, layouts. do-
itoyourself projects included in booklet offered
by company manufacturing plastic parking-
lot markers, circle #122.

BAMSH SNAKES. Snake repellent can be used
on play areas, campsites, fishing areas. etcet-
era. Granular chemical combination comes
in a one-pound container equipped with sifter
top for easy application. One pound will pro.
tect an area measuring 420 square feet. For
further information, circle #123.

CEOUESIC DOME is versatile, easy to assemble.
functional, and very attractive. Can be used
as school and park play shelters, boathouses.
eluhhouses, resort cabins, caddy houses. main-
tenance shops. Covers 485 feet of floor space.
For illustrated booklet, circle #124.

RELIABLE FENCING for play areas? Well-
known firm offers various chain-link fences in
different strengths for use in playgrounds,
tennis courts, maintenance garages. For cat-
alog with photographs, circle #125.

FLOODLteur txsrALLArlox data is given in a
new sixty-eight-page catalogue. Specifications
included for baseball and softball field flood-
lighting. Descriptions and diagrams detail
everything right down to bolts. washers and
nuts needed for installation. Floodlight your
recreatiOn areas, golf driving areas. swimming
pools. For catalogue, circle #126.

PROGRAM AIDS

EXCITIVG ART FILMS demonstrate how common
objects in nature can inspire children's art-
work, show puppet making, crayon resist,
papier-miiehe animals, silk-screen printing,
space, design, poster making, etcetera. Among
films is series .on various schools of painting
which help children understand why different
painters paint different ways. For leaflet of

art films, eirele #127.

STAFFWRITER. A self-inking pocket instru-
ment only an inch square draws clean and
precise tnusie staffs in two sizes. In your
music programs, this staffwriter will save
money and eliminate hand staff writing. For
further information, circle #128.

SEE A.\'D COMPARE. Film on recreation in Or-
lando, Florida. “A City for Children" shows
recreation activities including pet shows, ten-
uis, golf, baseball, dancing, camping, swim-
ming. etcetera. Available in sound and color.
film runs nineteen minutes. For further in-
formation, circle #129.

Tm: PRAIRIE WORLD. Film depicts life cycle of
the kit fox. an animal rapidly becoming ex-
tinct. Will fascinate any age group. Other
prairie creatures shown include the prong
horn antelope, prairie dog. bobcat, coyote,
salamander, rattlesnake, skunk, bison. Film
runs twenty-one minutes. is in color. For in-
formation. circle #130.

C annex rtLMs. How-to information on correct
culture for beautiful flowers. Films are 1631M,
available free to nature and garden groups.

For booklet, circle #131.

IT’S A GIFT! Film on art of gift wrapping runs
thirteen minutes, ten seconds with soundtrack,
including background music and narrator.
Describes how to handle packages of various
shapes, make bows and ribbon flowers, create
wrap-ups for special occasions. Perfect for
short program gaps or for holiday prepara-
tion. For information, circle #132.

for the storyteller

tltirty-two page manual

from the NRA Press
( revised November 1961)

 

some

3.83
CI Send ______ copies of Storyteller

El Check or money order enclosed

E] B z'll agency

(Be sure to fill in name and address on rererse side.)

 

214-

LOW-COST ADS

Order these resources and reference:
rectly from source given (enclose remittanc

 
 
   
    
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
 

GUIDELINES for recreation craft projects a
included in a twenty-seven-page hookl
crammed with illustrations and photograp
which tells how to use various hobby tools f
whittling, routing and hollowing wood, eh
carving, scale modeling, working with lead:
Available for $.25 from X-Acto, Iuc., 48*
Van Dam Street. Long Island City 1, N
York.

NEW CURRENTS. Eighteen charts with instru
tion sheets and title strips show swimming an
diving teclmiqUes, including basic and a
vaneed floats, strokes, and dives. Charts 81,4
by-11 inches with very clear drawings 0
heavy paper. Suitable for bulletin board di
play. Available from the American Associ
tion for Health, Physical Education, and Re
reation, 1201 16th Street, .'.W., Washington
D.C., for $2.00.

Evan PLAY BAnEL? Four New Card Game
is a sixty-oneopage booklet telling how to pla
Bahel (which should be popular with ebi
dren), Eleusis, Leopard, and Construction
Eleusis (for three or more players) uses i
ductive reasoning to arrive at its denouemcn
Booklet available for $1.00 from Robert A
bott. P.O. Box 1861, General Post Office, Ne
York 1.

VACATION JOBs. The new enlarged 1962 Sun
mer Placement Directory is a comprehensiv
listing of summer jobs, fellowships, and ap
prenticeships. The over fifteen thousand sun
Iner earning opportunities in the Unite
States and abroad include eanip jobs, as wel
as unusual and exciting summer employmen
such as arehcologieal work in the Missouri
River Basin, leading canoe trips through
northern Quebec, museum exhibit demon-
strating, construction work in Belgium, et
eetera. All Openings include job description,
dates of employment, ueCessal'y qualifications
salary, number of openings, and name an

address of employer. A sample resume is til“

included. Available from The Advaneermc

and Placement Institute, 169 North 9th Street
Brooklyn 11, New York, for $3.00.

LOOKING FOR AN EXCITING ADULT PROGRAM
Discussion groups can get up-to-date, n
partisan faet kits on the key challenges in
U.S. foreign relations. Five to fifteen peopl
can participate in the discussions which can
be conducted informally once a week for
eight weeks. Kits contain fact sheets, opinion
ballots, reading lists, discussion questions.
tips for discussion leaders and participants.
Fact sheets present graphs and photographs
in addition to text. Subjects include Vietnam.
Red China. Brazil, Nigeria, Iran, Berlin.
United Nations, and the United States (di-
rections for foreign policy). Kits are avail-
able for $1.50 from the Foreign Policy Asso«
eiation. 343 East 46th Street. few York 171

RECREATION

Reporter’s Notebook
Continued from Page 177

 

They said it with
music. As a tribute
to it s organizer,
Keith A. Mac-
donald, recreation
director of the
Greater Vallejo
Recreation District
in California, the district’s Junior Sym-
phony Orchestra dedicated three of its
January and February concerts to him.
The concert program stated that Mr.

Macdonald “worked diligently for ten
years to promote and build an orchestra
from its inception of forty pieces to our
present-day, well-balanced group of
ninety-five young musicians, repre-
senting sixteen schools and three com-
munities. . . . Without Mr. Macdonald’s
willingness to give an opportunity for
scattered groups of string players to
band together, this orchestra would not

be performing today.”

" "7“ Mrs. E. Lee Oz-
l)irn of Oklahoma
City, president of
the General Feder-
ation of Women’s
Clubs and a mem-
ber of the National
Recreation Associ-
ation Board of Directors, has been ap-
pointed by President Kennedy to serve
on the board of trustees of the United
States Freedom from Hunger Founda-
tion. The foundation seeks through pub-
lic information to generate decisive and

enlightened support for those programs
designed to reduce hunger in the world.

 

  

A. J. Thatcher,
city parks director,
and Patrick E.
Starkey, president
of the Indianapolis
- Zoological Society,
were named win-
ners of the Good
Government Award and the Disting-
uished Service Award, respectively,
p1esented by the Indianapolis Junior
Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Thatcher
received his award for his work in
making the city’s parks “among the
best in the nation.” Mr. Starkey was

 

APRIL 1962

 

honored for managing the activities of
five major committees who are plan-
ning and raising funds for the new city
zoo proposed for \Vashington Park.
More than thirty-eight hundred charter
members for the zoo have already

signed up.

Who would think
that a backslapping
Christmas party in
St. Petersburg,
Florida, would be
masquerading un-
der false pretenses?
The party was held
for employes of the parks and recreation
department. There was Jack Puryear,
parks and recreation director, making
the rounds of his staff and passing out
overdue compliments to people he
hadn’t had time to see before then. Be-
fore the night was over, Mr. Puryear
was one of the most surprised men in
St. Petersburg, the victim of a diaboli-
cal plan on the part of his staff. A “This
is Your Life” presentation scanned Pur-
year’s life of determination and drive:
softball star, Little All-American in
football, golf champion, professional
boxer, football oilicial,
parks and recreation director. Mr. Pur-
year received, aside from what was
probably one of the pleasantest sur-
prises in his life, a Christmas gift from
his staff, a scrapbook containing letters
from his friends who could not make
the occasion, and an autographed car-
toon from Stan Hunt of the St. Peters-
burg Times which laughingly depicted
segments of a Puryear life.

  
  
 
   
 
   

pohceman,

“my grandfather makes the
best playground equipment

in the whole world ...because
he loves little people like me! he makes

slides and swings and see-saws and all
kinds of things. they’re real strong and
they’re very safe. if you’re going to buy

STATE SOCIETY NEWS

ARIZONA. New offi-
cers of the Arizona
Recreation Associ-

anon are: Pres" playground things you better talk to my
dent, Ray Cook, . ’
Phoenix Parks and grandfather or my father first. they re both
Recreation Depart- named mr- bu rke-n

mam; President_ ..................................................... ..

 

Send me your playground planning and specification file.

J. E. BURKE COMPANY

P. 0. Box 986 Dept. 55 P. 0. Box 549 Dept. 55
New Brunswick. Fond du Lac,

Elect, Joe Salvato, Maricopa County
Parks and Recreation Department;

Vice-President, Major 0. A. Imer, Fort

Huachuca; and Secretary-Treasurer, New 19,59, 0,, Wisconm
Keith K. Bruns, Phoenix. New board Sec?

members include: Smith Falconer, Jr., Name:

Maricopa County; Charles Ott, Univer- Street:

sity of Arizona, Tucson; and Iris Ches- _—

ter, Phoenix. Also elected to fill unex- City: State:

215

pired terms on the board were Betty
Puckle, Phoenix ( two years) , and Marie
Shale, Yuma Recreation and Parks De-
partment (one year).

GEORGIA. The Georgia Recreation So-
ciety opened the fiscal year 1962 with
an assembly in Griffin. In spite of bad
weather, thirty-nine of fifty-two mem-
bers attended. Recreation is in its pio-
neer stage in Georgia and the society
mapped out directives for the future,
which included interpreting recreation,
planning for it, researching, training
leaders, enriching program opportuni-
ties, building areas and facilities, ad-
vancing specialists, using commercial
media and publications to enrich the
profession, coordinating interests, and
taking a stand on recreation issues.

KENTUCKY. The Kentucky Recrea-
tion and Parks Society recently elected
Earl Kauffman, University of Ken-
tucky, president; Betsy Burke and
Charles Spears, vice-presidents; Char-
les Bratcher, secretary-treasurer. Pres-
ident Kauffman appointed committees
on membership, professional education
and standards, legislation, hulletin and
publications, conferences and work-
shop, and awards.

IN MEMORIAM

0 .I. N. (DING) DARLING, conservation-
ist and Pulitzer Prize cartoonist (1924,
1943), died recently in Des Moines,
Iowa, at the agc of eighty-fivc. Mr.
Darling’s work appcarct‘l in the New
York Herald Tribune for fifty years and
was widely syndicated. He was also a
nationally known conservationist, hon-
ora ry president of the National Wildlife
Federation, and had recently hcen
named co-chairman of National \Vild-
life “'eek. He served as chief of the
Biological Survey of the Department of
Agriculture under President Franklin
D. Roosevclt, had also headed the Iowa
Conservation Association and served on
the Iowa Fish and Game Commission.
His personal mottoes
were:

conservation

“Ducks can’t lay eggs on a picket
fence” and

“There should be a puddle for every
duckf’

o LOUIS G. WILKE, former president of
the Amateur Athletic Union and a U.S.

216

Olympic Team oflicial, died recently in
Northfield, Illinois, at the age of sixty-
five. Mr. Wilke was one of two U.S.
delegates to the International Basketball
Federation and was assigned to investi-
gate claims presented at the 1960 Olym-
pics which questioned AAU’s right to
hold U.S. membership in the basketball

federation. He was administrative com-

mittee chairman of the U.S. Olympic
Team for the 1960 games in Rome. Mr.
Wilke was athletic director of Phillips
I'niversity in Enid, Oklahoma, during

the 1920’s. In 1929, he was hired by

Yes, hundreds of park and rec-
reation departments are iump-
ing on the refreshment band-

wagon. You'll add 10% to 20%
to your available operating

funds.

All Gold Medal Equipment can
pay for Itself out of Profitsl

 

 

Write my [9; l_=_r_e_e 1961 cata-
log and detailed book on re-
freshments. We have everything
you need for HOT DOGS, POP-
CORN, SNO-KONES, COTTON
CANDY AND ALL OTHER RE-
FRESHMENT ITEMS.

 

  
 

Refreshment Supply Division

IBZIsSI Freeman Avenue, Cincinnati 14. Ohio

The most trusted name in Refreshments Today! '

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  

 

  

    
 
  

 nonuns comm

Phillips Petroleum Company and be-
came the first amateur coach of the Phil-

lips 66 basketball team.

. COLONEL ARCHIBALD \V. SMITH, con-
servationist, author, and retired British
Army officer, died recently at the age of
sixty—four. He was a resident of Ipswich,
Massachusetts. Colonel Smith came to
the United States in 1929 and was a
founder of the Conservation Founda-
tion of New York. An ardent horticul-
turist, his book Gardeners’ Plant Name
Book will be published shortly hy Har-

per and Brothers.

 

 

8c profit per 10c
sole. Equipment and
supplies cost under
$300.00. Over 50%
of your potrons will
buy o bog.

_ corron CANDY

Almost 9c profit per
10c sole. Equipment
ond supplies $300.00.
Extremely populor
with all Children un-
der 16.

SNO-KONES

Be profit per 10c.
Equlpment and sup-
plies costs under
$225.00. Equipment
only 149.50. Every-
body loves Sno-Kones
—the most refreshing
drink you con eot.

-----------------1

Send more Information on
REFRESHMENT PROFITS to:

  

 
  
 

r
I
I
I

 

No me

Address._..___________——_
City
Stote

L--------.-------

 

RECREATION

' FOR THE ILL
. AND HANDICAPPED

"l‘ Colleges now offering a curriculum

[1 recreation for the ill and handicapped
rre steadily increasing in number. Ed
(arpowicz, director of recreational
herapy at Mendotta State Hospital,
Vladison, Wisconsin, reports his hospi-
:al administration has approached the
University of Wisconsin for the purpose
of developing a special course in hos-
pital recreation for persons interested
in that area. Colleges and universities
now offering degrees in recreation for
the ill and handicapped include New
York University, Columbia University,
University of Illinois, Springfield Col-
lege, and the University of North Caro-
lina.

+ Standard specifications are now
available for designing all types of facil-
ities for the handicapped and aged.
These specifications, a uniform guide
for architects, engineers, builders, and
other planners, were developed through
a special research project sponsored by
the National Society for Crippled Chil-
dren and Adults and the President’s
Committee on Employment of the Phys-
ically Handicapped in cooperation with
the University of Illinois Rehabilitation
Center at Urbana, the American Stand-
ards Association, and nearly fifty gov-
ernment and private agencies and cor-
porations. Copies of these standards
may be obtained from the National So-
ciety for Crippled Children and Adults,
2023 West Ogden Avenue, Chicago 12.

+ The New York State Recreation So-

ciety and the National Recreation As-
sociation are sponsoring the 41st An-
nual New York State and Middle Atlan-
tic District Recreation Conference at
Grossinger’s Country Club, Grossinger,
New York from May 6-9. The confer-
ence’s Hospital Section will conduct an
intensive one-day program on Monday,
May 7. The program will include a
round-table discussion on “Integration
of the Handicapped into Community
Programs.” The remainder of the day
will be devoted to practical activity
workshops. For additional information,
contact Mrs. Jeanette McGranahan,
Chairman of Program, Montefiore
Hospital, Bronx, New York.

+ The Connecticut State Department
of Health is offering workshops on rec-
reation for the chronically ill and aged
on May 8, in Hartford. These work-

A PRII. 1962

 

shops for professional administrative
and volunteer personnel are being or-
ganized by Dorothy Mullen, consultant
for the state department, and will in-
clude music, parties, adapted games,
bedside activities, arts and crafts, and
organization. Three National Recrea-
tion Association consultants, Mrs. Mari-
lyn Heischober, Dr. Morton Thompson,
and Siebolt Frieswyk, will chair three
of the workshops.

+ The Rehabilitation Institute of Chi-
cago is now planning a well-rounded
program of recreation for its patients
and has asked the National Recreation
Association Consulting Service on Rec-
reation for the Ill and Handicapped to
assist it in establishing this program.

+ Dr. Morton Thompson, acting direc-
tor of the National Recreation Associa-
tion Consulting Service on Recreation
for the Ill and Handicapped is chair-
man-elect of the Recreational Therapy
Section of the American Association for
Health, Physical Education, and Recre-
ation for 1962. He is also chairman of
Hospital Section Workshops at the New
York State Recreation Society—NRA
Recreation Conference on May 6-9 at
Grossinger, New York.

+ Comeback, Inc. is exploring ultra-
high-frequency telecasting as a medium
for providing therapeutic recreation
services to chronically ill and handi-
capped persons in a metropolitan area.
The project, called “The Comeback
Club,” is partially supported by a grant
from the US. Office of Vocational Re-
habilitation. As part of the activities of
the Comeback Club, a series of televi-
sion shows are being produced with the
cooperation of WUHF, Channel 31, of
the Municipal Broadcasting System of
the city of New York.

In collaboration with a variety of
local health agencies and institutions,
Comeback, Inc. has developed an audi-
ence of more than five hundred persons
for participation in the club. To deter-
mine if UHF-TV programing can effec-
tively involve chronically ill or handi-
capped persons in preventative, thera-
peutic, and rehabilitative activities, the
project will do formal studies of the re-
sponses of a selected group of 250
Comeback Club members.

+ The US. Ofiice of Vocational Re-

habilitation Homebound Recreation

alum/.9

S_T
WITH NEW IDEAS
Program Aids

NOTHING builds better programs
and stronger teams than these ori-

ginal, one-ot-a-kind problem-solving
work-savers. Get never-before results
with:

ERASO' Posters & Charts

SPOT AWARDS' Trophies 8: Cups
RECORD-MASTEP "Hall-ol-Fame" Displays
PMYMASTER‘ Coaching Aids
SCORE-KING‘r Magnetic Scoreboard

‘Reg. U. 8. Pat: 0”.

So: your Sporting Goods Deal-r
or write For FREE cataloo to—

THE PROGRAM AIDQ C0. soc.
Depl. I. 550 Sill 510.. it. I. 36. it. I.

 

      
  
   
 
 
 
 
    

Fun For Everyone !

From 8 to 80 hora is exciting recraa-
tion for all ages . . . ltean onioymant
for players and spectators.

Rugged. Dimco FraeGlida Shutt‘la-
board sats ara availabla for both out-

door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . low in upltaapl
Write today for colorful folder, "Let’s
Play Sbufleboard,” coutainiug com-

plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SiXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 217

Project being conducted by the Na-
tional Recreation Association is now in
the final stage of the two-year study.

Three forms have been developed to col-
lect data for final evaluation. The data

will involve: (1) Index of Social Im-
provement; (2) Index of Emotional
Improvement; 3) Patient Recreation

Participation. This information will be
collected from the cooperating agencies,
nurses and physicians, and from the
project’s recreation staff. The OVR has

approved NRA’s request for a two-sec-
tion final report: one on the research

findings and a second separate section
in the form of a manual of instruction

for assisting communities and agencies
in developing and conducting home-
bound recreation programs. The report
should be completed and ready for dis-
tribution by June 30.

4‘ Transportation for the handicapped
and aged is one of the real problems

confronting any recreation program. It
includes the handling of patients, load-
ing and unloading, bus equipment, safe-
ty measures, high costs, and insurance.
Research is needed in this phase of the
program, and federal, state, and local
assistance is necessary if the new and
interesting programs for the aged, ill,
and handicapped are to be carried out
successfully.

A new company called “Mobilecare,
Transportation for the Handicapped”
of W'antagh, New York, is doing an ex-
cellent job in transporting the handi-
capped. Its vehicles have ramps for
wheelchairs and steps for the ambula-
tory and each vehicle has safety belts for
each passenger. Drivers are given in-
struction in handling patients and
wheelchairs.

This company also provides a recre-
ation trip service wherein the company
plans trips, arranges for the space and
tickets, and picks up and delivers the
handicapped individual. The price in-

cludes the complete package. This pro-
vides a real opportunity for handi-
capped, homebound, aged, etcetera, to
get out into the community, to visit '
plays, museums, sports events, etcetera, '
in safety, completely insured and pro-
tected. Transportation for the Handi-
capped services individuals, groups,
and agencies in the New York City me-
tropolitan area. This, indeed, is a valu-
able contribution to recreation service
for the handicapped.

'I‘ New York University provides a spe-
cial short course for persons wishing to
do part-time recreation work in nursing
homes, institutions for the aged, and
hospitals. This course for recreation
aides is available only when enough re-
quests come in from interested persons.
If interest warrants, it can be conducted
again this spring. To register interest
or for further information, write Dr.
Edith Ball, School of Education, NYU.
Washington Square, New York 3.

 

YOURS TO COMMAND. . .

A Super Sound System Providing Excellent Fidelity

and High Level Amplification.

 
  
 
  
   

PROFESSIONAL NET:
$251.50 w/ 2 speakers
$300.50 w/4 speakers

Sound unit only for use with
existing speaker system.

PROFESSIONAL NET: $189.50

  

' FOREMOST MANUFACTURER OF SELECTIVE AUD/O- VISUAL PEG?

The new Califone

COMMANDER 11 Model 62-V
phonograph is specially

engineered for use in gymnasiums,
swimming pools, auditoriums,
stadiums, cafeterias — for physical
education classes, concerts, dances,
sports events and any other occasion
— indoors or out — when extra
distortion-free volume is desired. The
Strobeselector variable speed motor
requires no warm-up. It may be
adjusted to any desired speed for
rhythm and cadence classes.
The unit rests on spring feet

to insure against groove
jumping from floor vibration.

A deluxe push-button pickup
with adjustable needle

pressure plays 7” to 16”
recordings. Separate bass

and treble controls fulfill

any requirement. Two dual-
speaker systems (12-inch speakers

plus tweeters) and deluxe chrome sound

unit fit inside a single carrying case.

ADDED ATTRACTION: Exclusive CUEMASTER,
for immediate selection of any groove on

any record, $12.50 extra. WRITE TODAY

for full particulars on the Califone

COMMANDER 11 Model 62-V and other
variable speed phonogra ph/ sound systems
available from $86.50.

- I -
___._.‘“"' '—'..____ __— m---- - - - —- -

DEPT. R-4.

SOUND LEARNING THROUGH LIVING SOUND

When writing to our advertisers please mention Racnu‘rmx.

CORPORATION

5922 Bowcrott Street
to: Angela: 16, Calif.

W

 

RECREATION

 

  

The Art of Origami—Paper Folding,
Traditional and Modern. Samuel Rand-
lett, illustrations by Jean Randlett. E.
P. Dutton and Company, 300 Park
Avenue South, New York 10. Pp. 192.

$5.95.

As RECREATION readers know, there
has been a rash of books on paper fold-
ing in the past two years, many of them
beautiful, some technical, some almost
too simple, and many hard to follow for
the amateur in paper folding, who gets
lost when C must be folded to D, E at
right angles, and so on. Symbols are
easier to follow than letters or words.
For that reason, a book like this, mak-
ing use of a code of lines and arrows,
now accepted as the international lan-
guage of the origami world, is a real re-
lief. Add to this simplified method of
instruction, beautiful paper, excellent
print type, and illustrations that are
masterpieces of clarity—the result is the
best book of its kind to come across this
desk.

The author is a professional musician
who teaches piano at Fisk University.
He fell under the spell of origami in
1958, and his work in it has been so
outstanding that it has been diSplayed
at the Cooper Union Museum for the
Arts of Decorating.—V.M.

Plain letters . . . The Secret of Suc-
cessful Business Writing, Mona Shep—
pard. Simon and Schuster, 630 Fifth
Avenue, New York 20. Pp. 305. $4.50.

Miss Sheppard. a student of literature
and creative writing, launched her cam-
paign for Plain Letters by working for
the federal government. Her concern
for the federalese or “gobbledygook”
in government letters resulted in a
pamphlet called Plain Letters, published
by the U.S. Printing Office, and one of
its all-time best-sellers. Although ops
posed at first, she became the govern-
ment’s Number One consultant on writ-
ing, and received the Distinguished
Service Award.

The author continues her campaign
for Plain Letters as vice-president of
Leahy and Company, a management
consultant firm. The “45 formula.” in’

APRIL 1962

cluding the principles of shortness, sim-
plicity, strength, and sincerity, is her
answer to better letter writing. She not
only identifies them, but deals with the
what and how involved. She gives four-
teen suggestions on how to shorten let-
ters, six suggestions on how to keep
them simple, and many interesting ex-
amples drawn from important writers
on strength and sincerity.

Attention is also given to good letter
form, sentence construction, and con-
tent planning. Do you worry about
dangling participles and how to split an
infinitive and get away with it? Don’t!
Do you waste good office time in “won-
dering where the comma goes”? Stop
worrying! There are no long and com-
plicated definitions to remember. Even
the appendix is full of valuable and
quick references, including tests on how
to evaluate your letters, a long list of
things to watch out for, correct forms
for addressing important people, plus
a helpful bibliography.

One must know the author to appre-
ciate such a contribution, and that is
just what one hundred recreation and
park executives plan to do—get ac-
quainted with her—this September at
the Seventh National Institute in Rec-
reation Administration, where Miss
Sheppard will be one of the instructors.
—W. C. Sutherland, National Recrea-
tion Association Recreation Personnel
Service.

Creative Wood Design, Ernst Rott-
ger. Reinhold Publishing, 430 Park
Avenue, New York 22. Pp. 96. $4.00.

The book is full of fine black-and-
white photographs and also has several
in color. The shapes, which include
touch toys and three-dimensional struc-
tures, are quite modern, showing the
wood grains. The preface includes a de-
lightful story about a Chinese wood-
carver. The instructions are very clear.
All sorts of textures are explained, and,
on the whole it is a very good “how-to-
do” hook which does not have to be fol-
lowed so closely it strangles creativity.
One has a chance to make the article
one’s own.

There is quite a bit of information
about the various types of wood one

EW
PUBLICATIONS

can use. It would he a good book for
a teacher who does work in this mate-
rial and for a hobbyist. Recreation
leaders would iind it very helpful.——-M.
B. Cummings.

Landscape Architecture, John Orms-
bee Simonds. F. W. Dodge Corpora-
tion, 119 West 40th Street, New York
18. Pp. 244. $12.75.

As one browses through this beautiful
book, one wishes that it might have been
oriented to appeal to a larger audience.
In the foreword the author says, “This
book is a book for architects, landscape
architects, and planners, although not
exclusively, for it is addressed to any-
one (and everyone) whose task it may
be to plan a structure, a garden, a park,
a city, or any other project in the all-
embracing landscape.” The recreation
executive is certainly included in this
audience for he is vitally concerned
with planning. He will gain a greater
appreciation of the value of good plan-
ning of recreation areas and structures
by reading the book although the prob-
lems involved in the planning of such
areas are not specifically handled to any
considerable degree.

The book has a wealth of illustra-
tions, both in photographs and sketches,
and innumerable quotations in support
of the text from the writings of great
planners, artists, authors, and philoso-
phers of the present and past. For these
features alone, the book is a valuable
addition to the library of anyone inter;
ested in planning.

In the epilogue, Mr. Simonds writes,
“One plans not places, or spaces, or
things — one plans experiences. The
places, spaces, and things take their
form from the planned experience.”
And he closes his book with this final
instruction, “Plan not in terms of mean-
ingless pattern or cold form. Plan,
rather, a human experience. The living.
pulsing, vital experience, if conceived
as a diagram of harmonious relation-
ships, will develop its own experience
forms. And the forms evolved will be
as organic as the shell of a nautilus; and
Derhaps, if the plan is successful, it may
be as beautiful.”

This book is worthy of a place in the

219

 

St0p wosting time recording inventory costs,
honding out bolls ond paying tap prices for low
quality balls. Install this attractive, cost-cutting
TFT Toble Tennis Boll Meter NOW!

leosed FREE to responsible ogencies on $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-tree operotion
ossured—return machine for FREE repoir.- Attroc-
tive hord wood ond metol cobinet—7'f2 at 89': x 15
inches high. Eosy to instoll. Holds 120 bolls—
dispenses eoch for 10¢. Choice of 3 grodes of
top quolity bolls. Use profit to mointoin and re-
ploce poddles, nets, etc. No risk guorontee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wosting Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

.‘NfOIPOIITID

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

  

ars Longer

approved for
tournament

play!

Doyton steel tennis, badminton
and paddle tennis racquets are
ideal tar any school or play-
graund pragram. Their “extra l
whip" improves every yaungster‘s
game—gives a speed and
accuracy that cannot be
matched by any alher type
at racquet.

What‘s more, Dayton raco
quets are practically inde-
structible. Their steel strings
and tubular steel frames are
not affected by climatic
changes. No cavers ar ’
presses are needed ta if
pratect them. They won't Hi
warp, splinter, rat or sog. *

Investigate them now.
Ask your local dealer
abaut them—or write to-
doy for complete infar-
matian.

DAYTON RAOOUET COMPANY

742 Albright 5L, Arconum, Ohio

Rules and
court layouts
, for tennis or
badminton m
,‘ yours tor the
asking.

ayton

STEEL RACQUETS

 

220

      
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  

library of anyone who is interested in
making man’s environment more beau-
tiful, orderly, and functiona].—G. Les-
lie Lynch, National Recreation Associa-
tion Recreation Planning Service.

The Art of Japanese Brush Paintingr
Takahiko Mikami and Jack McDowell.
Crown Publishers, 419 Park Avenue
South, New York 16. Pp. 127, illus-
trated. $3.95.

Every nuance of shading and of line
has been reproduced in the charming
black-and-white brush sketches that fill
the latter half of this book. Simplicity
is the essence of these delicate birds and
plants and figures—and the book
should appeal to others than artists, too.

Snmie, this seven hundred-year-old
Japanese art of black ink brush paint-
ing, has changed very little in style and
symbolism. As a training of the hand
and eye, it calls for great skill and con-
centration, and the authors believe that
there is emotional participation, too, in
the artist’s understanding of the essen-
tial meaning of every object he paints.
A brief historic outline is followed by
a section on characteristics of the tech-
nique, mentioning the simplification
from nature, as influenced by Zen Bud-
dhism with its nooaction and no-forni
concepts. The austere tools (including
brush and inkstone) are fully described,
and the basie lines and strokes and dots
——-accompanied by brushings of tiny
deer hoof dots, wing and wave forms,
and blossoming plum trces (symbolic of
happiness]. Appropriate to a sea-girt
island, the fish forms are particularly
beautiful—and there is an important
tradilional “fish stroke.” Bamboo lcaves
looking like shorthand notes were
“fixed styles” for many hundreds of
years.

Pine Needle Crafts, Lillian M. Young.
Vantage Press, 120 West Slst Street,
New York 1. Pp. 54, illustrated. $2.75.

Books or articles on the use of nativc
materials. such as pine needles, are not
easy to locate, and some of the older
ones are now out of print. This instruc-
tion book fills a gap. The pine needles
needed for these crafts are the long ones
from the long-leaf pine (Pinus Palus-
tris) or the slash pine (Pinus Cari-
baea) . \Vorkcd with raliia, using a tap-
estry needle. this type of craft is emi-
nently suitable wherevcr pine needles
are available.

The author has taught this craft in
Florida. She is a rcgistered nurse, with
a deep appreciation of the therapeutic
values of crafts. Her own hobbies. be-
sides pine needle work. include etching
and copper tooling.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

    

GET THE GUS
TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

"SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end With sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing'. Send for Nattonal's
fantastic free catalog of more than 850 all-time hit
songs. available in slide form for as low as 50c a
tune! Need a projector? Let us know . . . we'll save
you real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS
46 West 48th Street. N. Y. 36. N. Y.

TABLE AND ’
CHAIR TRUCKS

3"“

Toromo
PEDESTAL TABLES

Direct from factory sav-

ing to Churches, Schools,

‘ : Clubs, lodges and all organi-

'r 7.: rations. MONROE 1962

r Folding Banquet Tables are

unmatched for quality, dura-

bility, convenience and hand-

some appearance. 94 models and sizes for
every use. Write for prices, catalog.

FREE— BIG 1962 CATALOG
Color pictures. Full line MONROE tables, chairs.
table and chair trucks, platform-risers, port-

able partitions. Write today!
THE MONROE 00.. 181 Church 5]., Colfax. Iowa

 

T H E AT R E
FOR CHILDREN

PLAYS DANCE
Booking ’62-’63 TOURS Now

Contoct
FRANCES SCHRAM

BRIOOS MANAGEMENT

T475 Braadwoy, New York 36, N. Y.
Bryont 9-6780

 

RECREATION

 

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

Comping. Nature, Science

 

lIONSERVATION OF WILD LIFE ANn NATURAI.
HARITATS IN CENTRAL AND EAST AFRICA,
THE, Julian Huxley. Columbia Univ. Press,
2960 Broadway, New York 27. Pp. 112.
Paper. $1.25.

)EEF SEA FARM, Dahlov lpcar. Alfred A.
Knopf. 501 Madison Ave? New York 22.
Unpaged. $3.00.*

rISHES AND HOW THEY LIvE, George S. Fich-

ter. Golden Press, 850 3rd Ave., New York
22. Pp. 52. $.69.*

rORCOTTEN PENINSULA, THE, Joseph Wood
Krutch. Wm. Morrow, 425 Park Ave. S..

New York 16. Pp. 277. $5.00.
FROCS AND TOADs, Charles A. Schoenknecht.

Follett PIIb., 1010 W. Washington Blvd..

Chicago 7. Pp. 29. $1.00.*
FUNDAMENTALS OF FORESTRY ECONOMICS, Wil-

liam A. Duerr. MCGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd

St., New York 36. Pp. 579. $9.50.
GARDENS IN WINTER. Elizabeth Lawrence.

Harper 8: Bros., 49 E. 33rd St.. New York
16. Pp. 218. $4.50.

GEMSTONES AND MINERALS, John Sinkankas.
D. Van Nostrand, 120 Alexander St., Prince;
ton. N.J. Pp. 387. $8.95.

GOING TO CAMP, Helen L. Beck. Stephen Day
Press. 131 E. 23rd St., New York 10. Pp.
163. Paper, $1.25.

GOLDEN BOOK OF CALIFORNIA, THE, Irwin
Shapiro. Golden Press, 630 5th Ave., New

York 20. Pp. 97. $2.95.
GOUSHA AMERICAN HIGHWAY ATLAS (5th rev.

ed.). Simon and Schuster, 630 5th Ave.,
New York 20. Pp. 103. Paper, $1.95.

GREAT OUTDOOR ADVENTURES. E. P. Dutton,
300 Park Ave. S., New York 10. Pp. 319.
$4.50.

GUIDE TO CAMFSITES. C. S. Hammond, Maple-
wood, N.J. Pp. 383. $3.95, (paper $2.50).

How TO GROW HOUSEPLANTS, Millicent E.
Selsam. Wm. Morrow, 425 Park Ave. S.,
New York 16. Pp. 96. $2.50.

HUMMINCBIRDS, Betty John. Follett Publ.,
1010 W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp.
29. $1.00.*

INEXPENSIVE SCIENCE LIBRARY, AN, compiled
by Hilary J. Deason and Robert W. Lynn.
Amer. Assoc. for the Advancement of Sci-
ence, 1515 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., \Vash-
ington 5. Pp. 87. $.25.

INTRODUCTION To AMERICAN FORESTRY, AN,
(3rd ed.), Shirley Walter Allen and Grant
William Sharpe. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd
St., New York 36. Pp. 466. $7.95.

LAND FOR THE FUTURE, Marion Clawson, R.
Burnell Held and Charles H. Stoddard.
Johns Hopkins Press, Baltimore 18, Md.
Pp. 570. $8.50.

LETTERS FROM CAMP, Bill Adler. Chilton
Company, 56th E: Chestnut Sts., Philadel-
phia 39. Pp. 115. $1.95. _

MAMMALS OF THE SOUTHWEST MOUNTAINS
AND MESAS, George Olin. Southwestern
Monuments Assoc., P.O. Box 1562, Globe,
Ariz. Pp. 126. Paper, $2.00 (cloth $3.25).

MAN, MIND, AND LAND, Walter Firey. Free
Press, 119 W. Lake St., Chicago 1. Pp. 256.

$6.00.
MEADOWS IN TIIE SEA, Alida Malkus. World

I°‘l*'or younger readers.

APRIL 1962

Publishing, 2231 W. 110th St., Cleveland 2.

Pp. 71. $2.75.
NATURALIST IN ALASKA, A, Adolph Murie.

Devin-Adair, 23 E. 26th St., New York 10.
Pp. 302. $6.50.

POCKET FIELD GUIDE To ANIMAL TRACKS.
Stackpole Co., Harrisburg, Pa. Pp. 58.
Paper, $1.50.

SCIENCE PROJECTS HANDBOOK, Shirley Moore,
Editor. Ballantine Books, 101 5th Ave.,
New York 3. Pp. 254. $.50.

SOUTHWEST GARDENING (rev. ed.), Rosalie
Doolittle and Harriet Tiedebohl. Univ. of
New Mexico Press, Albuquerque, N. M.
Pp. 222. $5.00.

'l‘IMRER RESOURCES OF MAINE, THE, Roland H.
Ferguson and Franklin R. Longwood.
Northeastern Forest Experiment Station,
102 Motors Ave., Upper Darby, Pa. Pp. 74.
Free.

TRAILS OF HIS OWN, Adrienne Grossman and

Valerie Beardswood. Longmans, Green, 119
W. 40th St., New York 18. Pp. 206. $3.95.

Culinary Arts

MAMA’S MEICIIULIM (traditional Jewish cook-
ing) , Sadie H. Rivkin, Editor. Thos. Yose-
lofi, 11 E. 36th St., New York 16. Pp. 158.
$2.95.

MASTER CHEF’S OUTDOOR GRILL COOKBOOK,
THE. Spencer Press, 153 N. Michigan Ave.,
Chicago 1. Pp. 64. Paper, $2.00.

MEALTIME, Bess V. Oerke. Chas. A. Bennett,
237 N. Monroe St., Peoria, 111. Pp. 640 (in-
cluding Teaching Guide). $4.96.

MENUS FOR ENTERTAINING, Narcisse Cham-
berlain, Editor. Hastings House, 151 E.
50th St., New York 22. Pp. 288. $6.95.

STOVE-TOP COOKBOOK, THE, Mala Reynaud.
MCGraw-Hill Co., 330 W. 42nd St., New
York 36. Pp. 234. $4.50.

SUNSET FOOD FREEZING CHARTS. Lane Book
Co., Menlo Park, Calif. Unpaged. $.60.

SWEDISH COOKING AT ITS BEST, Marianne
Gronwall van der Tuuk. Rand McNally,
8255 Central Park Ave., Skokie, Ill. Pp.
176. $3.95.

TAKE IT EASY BEFORE DINNER (rev.), Ruth
Langland Holberg. Thomas Crowell, 432
Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 130. $3.50.

365 WAYS To COOK HAMBURGER, Doyne Nick-
erson. Doubleday, Garden City, N. Y. Pp.
189. $2.95.

WINE WHEEL, Frederick S. Wildman, Jr. M.

Barrows, 425 Park Ave. S., New York 16.
Pp. 29. $1.25.

WOMAN’S DAY COLLECTOR’S COOK BOOK.
E. P. Dutton, 300 Park Ave. S., New York
10. Pp. 320. $3.95.

Education

ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDU-
CATION AND RECREATION FOR SCHOOLS,
Richard C. Havel and Emery W. Seymour.
Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10.
Pp. 440. $5.50.

BOARDMANSHIP: A Guide for the School
Board Member (1961 ed.), H. Thomas
James, Editor. Stanford Univ. Press, Stan-

ford, Calif. Pp. 102. $3.00.

CREATIVE MIND AND METHOD, THE, Jack Sum-
mertield and Lorlyn Thatcher, Editors.
Univ. of Texas Press, Austin 12. Pp. 117.

$3.00.
CREATIvE UNIVERSITIES, Frederick Mayer. Col-

lege & Univ. Press, 263 Chapcl St., New

Haven 13, Conn. Pp. 111. $3.50.
DISCIPLINE OF EnUCATION AND AMERICA’S FU-

with game tested,

player
Hanna Batrite Bats!

preferred

F l B E R G L A S S
SLEEVES, to reduce
handle
and barrels COLOR
KEYED for length,
keep Hanna Little

breakage,

League Bats out
front from coast to

coast!

HANNA MFG. CO.
Athens, Go.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  
 

RIG. U. 3. 'Al’. O".

 

221

TURE, THE, Laurence D. Haskey. Univ. of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Pp. 59.
$1.50.

EDUCATION AND THE STATE, Frederick C. Gru-
ber, Editor. Univ. of Pennsylvania Press,

3436 Walnut St., Philadelphia 4. Pp. 95.
$2.75.

EDUCATION IN THE FORMING OF AMERICAN
SOCIETY, Bernard Bailyn. Univ. of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill. Pp. 147. $3.50.

EFFECTIVENESS IN TEACHING, Winslow R.
Hatch and Ann Bennet. U. S. Government
Printing Oiiice, Washington 25, D.C. Pp.
28. $.20.

ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CUR-
RICULUM MATERIALS (7th ed.), Patricia H.
Suttles, Editor. Educators Progress Service,
Randolph, Wis. Pp. 346. Paper, $7.50.

EXPERIMENTAL COLLEGE, THE, Winslow R.
Hatch. U. S. Govt. Printing Oliice, Wash-
ington 25, D.C. Pp. 13. $.15.

FINANCING HIGHER EDUCATION 1960-70. Mc-
Graw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36.
Pp. 304. Paper, $2.00.

FREE AND INEXPENSWE EDUCATIONAL AIDS,
Thomas J. Pepe. Dover Publications, 180
Varick St., New York 14. Pp. 289. Paper,
$1.25.

FREE AND INEXPENSWE LEARNING MATERIALS
(10th ed.). George Peabody College for
Teachers, Nashville 5, Tenn. Pp. 252. Pa-
per, $1.50.

GIFTED CHILDREN: Their Psychology and Edu-
cation, Maurice F. Freehill. Macmillan Co.,
60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 412. $5.50.

How TO INSTRUCT SUCCESSFULLY, Thomas F.
Staton. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New
York 36. Pp. 292. $6.50.

GUIDE TO COLLEGES, Gene R. Hawes, Editor.
New American Library, 501 Madison Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 256. $.75.

HANDBOOK OF ADULT EDUCATION IN THE
UNITED STATES, Malcolm S. Knowlcs, Edi-
tor. Adult Education Assn. of the U.S.A.,
743 N. Wahash Ave., Chicago 11. Pp. 624.

$7.50.

HOW ABOUT COLLEGE FINANCING? American
Personnel and Guidance Assn., 1605 New
Hampshire Ave., N.W., Washington 9, D.C.

How TO CHOOSE A NURSERY SCHOOL, Helen
Steers Burgess. Public Affairs Pamphlets,
22 E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp. 20. $.25.

HOW ADULTS LEARN, J. R. Kidd. Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 324.
$4.75.

IMPACT OF EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION, THE,
Wilbur Schamm, Editor. Univ. of Illinois
Press, Urbana. Pp. 247. $5.00.

INDEPENDENT STUDY, Winslow R. Hatch and
Ann Bennet. U.S. Govt. Printing Oliice,
Washington 25, D.C. Pp. 36. $.25.

LORE AND LANGUAGE OF SCHOOLCHILDREN,
Iona and Peter Opie. Oxford University
Press, 417 5th Ave., New York 16. Pp. 417.

$8.00.
MAKING PLANS FOR COLLEGE? Changing

Times, 1729 H St., N.W., Washington 6,
D.C. Pp. 23. $.25.

MANAGEMENT OF LEARNING, E. D. Duryea.
U.S. Govt. Printing Office, Washington 25,
D.C. Pp. 37. $.20.

METHODS AND MATERIALS FOR SECONDARY
SCIIOOL PIIYSICAL EDUCATION, Charles A.
Bucher, Constance Koenig, and Milton
Barnhard. C. V. Mosby. 3207 Washington
Blvd., St. Louis 3. Pp. 387. $6.50.

MODERN FOREIGN LANGUAGES IN TuE ELE-
MENTARY SCIIOOL, Elizabeth Keesee. U. S.
Govt. Printing Ofiice, Washington 25, D.C.
Pp. 65. Paper, $.45.

MODERN SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT, THE, Rob-
ert E. Wilson. Harper & Bros., 49 E. 33rd
St., New York 16. Pp. 232. $4.50.

NURSERY SCHOOL PORTFOLIO, Margaret Ras-
mussen, Editor. Assoc. for Childhood Edu-
cation, 3615 Wisconsin Ave., N.W., Wash-
ington 16, D.C. Twelve leaflets, $.75.

PIIYSICIANS AND SCHOOLS, Report of the 7th

National Conference on Physicians and

Schools. American Medical Assn., 535 N.
Dearhorn St., Chicago 10. Pp. 133. Paper,
$1.00.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type 3.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted . . . . $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as Special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $436.00 per
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liberal employee

benefits. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

Director of patient recre-
ational activities. Also to
serve as director of the vol-
unteer organization to su-
pervise, plan, and coordi-
nate activities within a
medical framework. Pro-
fessional training required.
Initial salary in vicinity of
$5,000 with liberal incre-
ment policy. Apply Ber-
nard W. Albert, Executive
Assistant, Moss Rehabilita-

tion Hospital, 12th and

Tabor Road, Philadelphia
41, Pcnnsylvania.

Director—All Girls Camp
—IIerald Tribune Fresh
Air Fund camp located
on own property, Sharpe
Reservation, Fishkill, N.Y.
Capacity: 216 underprivi-
leged girls ages 9-16, de-
centralized, all outdoor liv-
ing activities. Season: 6/19
to 8/31/62. Salary $1200.
Apply: Laurence Mickolic,
Associate Director, 230
gVest 4lst Street, New York
6.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

222

 

QUEST FOR QUALITY, Samuel Baskin. U.S.
Govt. Printing Office, Washington 25. Pp.
18. $.15.

REPORTER, CLEARINGHOUSE OF STUDIES ON
HIGHER EDUCATION, Winslow R. Hatch and
Ann Bennet. U.S. Govt. Printing Office,
Washington 25, D.C. Pp. 55. $.40.

REVIVAL OF LEARNING, The Renaissance in
Italy, John Addington Syrnonds. G. P. Put-
nam’s Sons, 210 Madison Ave., New York
16. Pp. 399. Paper, $1.45.

ROLES OF PUBLIC EDUCATION IN RECREATION,
TIIE. CAHPER, 1705 Murchison Dr., Bur-
lingame, Calif. Pp. 12. Paper, $1.00.

TEACHING AND LEARNING. Ethical Culture
Schools, 33 Central Park W., New York 23.
Pp. 40. $.35.

WORK AND EDUCATION, John W. Donohue, S.J.
Loyola Univ. Press, 3445 N. Ashland Ave.,
Chicago 13. Pp. 238. $4.00.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF NURSING, Febru-
ary 1962
Shut-Ins Break Out (travel for the ill and
handicapped) .

ARTS AND ACTIvITIES, February 1962
Batik Fever, Dorothe M. Chilcatt.
Sweet llearts for Valentine’s Day, Edith
Brockway.
Motivating Young Children, Dora Von Bar-
gen.

CIIALLENGE, March 1962
Should We Shorten the Workweek? Hans
Apei.

NATIONAL CIVIC REVIEW, February 1962
The Fight for Bcauty (Los Angeles). An-

drer Hamilton.

PARENTS’ MAGAZINE, March 1962
Sidewalk Art That Blooms in the Spring.
Edna Meyers.

RINK AND ARENA MAGAZINE, January 1962
Mosaics and Modern Design (ice arena in
Anaheim, California).
Year-Round Fun in the Sun (outdoor ree-
reation in Sunbury, Pennsylvania).

SAFETY EDUCATION, March 1962
Collegc Sports—Accidents, Injuries, Joseph
G. Dzenowagis.

Summer Drivers Go to School, Mabel Lon
Ahrens.

Skill Tests for Pedal Pushers, Ben W.
Miller.

Safety Story Lady Makes TV chut, Free-
man L. Evans.

SCIIOOL ACTIVITIES, March 1962
Our Teen Center, Robert E. Girardin.

TELEVISION QUARTERLY,‘I February 1962
Government’s Role in the Americas: System
of Broadcasting, W. Theodore Pierson.
The Documentary Heritage, Burton Benin-
min.
Television’s Purpose, Uabbell Robinson.
TODAY’S llEALTII, March 1962
On the Tale of a Kite, Will Yolen.
Let’s Go for a Walk, Sheldon A. Mix.

WOMAN’S DAY, March 1962
The Story of American Needlework #10:
Weaving, Rose Wilder Lane.

 

I“Journal of Ihe National Academy of Tele-
vision Arts and Sciences, 54 West 40th Street,
New York 18. Published quarterly, $1.50 per

issue. $5.00 annually.

RECREATION

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

  equipment

MOON ROCKET
GREEN DRAGON
NAUTILUS SUBMARINE
SPACE SLIDE

MERRY MACKEREL
ARCH SWINGS

 

FANTASY. ..a bold new concept in imaginative
playground equipment. . . exciting new designs
executed with traditional Jamison craftsmanship...
fine materials and finishes. . . big. colorful, rugged
equipment built to withstand the tremendous wear
delighted children give it. Write today for full

color descriptive folder and prices.

Jamison Manufacturing Company

8781 South Mettler Street
Los Angeles 3, California
PLeasant 3-2682

it.

When writing In our aul\I"Ili.-t'IE- pll'am nuntion RUIREAIIOTN.

Pamphlet Series—The Performing Arts as Recreation

Now is the time
to CULTIV ATE

your

PERFORMING '
ARTS
PROGRAM

Order in QUANTITY LOTS

No. I —-—— MUSIC IS RECREATION
No. II—DRAMA IS RECREATION

-——- The Right Tools for the Job —

 

Use with
Your staff Your board or commission
Advisory Committees Citizen committees
Clubs Planning groups
And for
Fundraising " Promotion of bond issues
Publicity Selling recreation
Education Training of volunteers
Program Planning Telling your story

Current prices as applied to each title
Single copies—$1.00 each—OR

11 to 24 copies of the same title—$.85 each 0 25 or more—$.75 each
100 or over of the same title—$65 per hundred 0 Single copy—$1 .00

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N.Y.

