{ECRE

' TIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

 

Ever see a kid with a new toy?

Watch, watch carefully—when your teams
get new Brunswick Sports equipment. Same
result. There’s an excitement that makes
playing the game just that much better. The
Brunswick line means the best. Be it
MacGregor, Red Head, Union Hardware,

SPORTS

MacGregor, Red Head, Union Hardware
623 S. Wabash Ave.. Chicago 5. Illinois

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

this sports equipment creates excitement
and enthusiasm. Try it—and see.

Burn/smut [D

D

  

Save substantially with

. National? New
pTOJector-n ’-5lzde packages!

You simply can’t beat "sing-along" sessions when it comes to perking up group spirits!
Now, National offers FOR THE FIRST TIME AT THESE LOW PRICES 'three outstanding

“Projector-'n-slides" packages! Quantities are limited, however, so please place your
order promptly!

PACKAGE #1:

Powerful Mansfield Projector plus 25 Alb-time song slides.

Projector $44.95
25 2"):2" slides @ .50 12.50

 

'a

   
  
     
   

 

$57.45 Value

You Pay $45.45
SAVE $12.00

I ,
lPACKAGE #2:

'Powerful Mansfield Projector
plus 50 All-time song. slide's.

PACKAGE '#3:

. Powerful Mansfield Prejector
plus 100 All-time song slides.

     

This is the Mansfield SKYLARK 300 Automatic
Projector.This compact unit is the culmination of
modern styling and engineering.The excellent
optical system incorporated in the "Skylark"I gives
your pictures the snap and clarity necessary

for real projection enjoyment. 300 watt Tru-Focus
lamp. F/3.S coated lens. Manual changer. Tilt
controls. Turbo type fan impeller to insure maximum
coolness at all times!

Projector $44.95

. Projector $44.95
 a 100 2"x2"slides @ .50 50.00

so 27rx2~sliaes @ .50 25.00

 
   
  

   
  
 

 

    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

  

$69.95 Value
You Pay $54.95
' SAVE $15.00

$94.95 Value
You Pay $77.45
SAVE $17.50

  

Select The Slides You
Prefer From This
Star-Studded List!
"Keep ’em singing
and,,you’ll keep ’em
happyl” Send for our
complete listing of
over 850 Song Slides.
Ask for Brochure R“

   

r” 1. A Pretty Girl 177. Drifting 8: Dreaming 356. Just a Song at Twilight 537. Put Your Arms Around Me“.
13.” Alice Blue Gown 181. Easter Parade 358. K-k-k-Katy 576. Shanty in Old Shanty Town
1’22. Alouette 182. East Side, West Side 375. Let Me Call You Sweetheart 578.. She'll Be Comin Round M.
26. America the Beautiful 201. Fire Feet Two 379. Let' S Sing Like Birdies 582. Shine on Harvest Moon
40. April Showers ' 202. Flow Gently Sweet Alton 380. Let Rest World Go By 584. Show Me Way to Go Home
56. Baby Face 204. For Me 81 My Gal 391. Little Red Schoolhouse 586. Silent Night
60. Band Played On 207. Frivolous Sal 395. Look for Silver Lining 594. Smiles
63. Battle Hymn Republic 218. Girl of My Dreams 414. Man on Flying Trapeze 616. Springtime in the Rockies
69. Beer Barrel Polka 221. God Bless America 420. Marchlng Along Together 629. Sweet’Adeline
74. Bells of St. Mary 259. Home on the Range 422. Margie 635. Sweetheart of Sigma Chi
79. Bicycle For Two 265. How Deep is the Ocean 433. Meet Me in St. Louis 644. Take Me‘ ___Out to Ball Game
100. Bye Bye Blues 287. I'll Be with You in Apple B T 450. Moonlight & Roses 651. That Old Gang of Mine
104. By the Light Silvery Moon 289. I'll See You in My Dreams 454. Moon over Miami 656. That's Peggy O‘Neil
105. Cassions/Go Rolling Along 294. I' m an Old Cowhand 460. My Bonnie 663. There' s a Long Long Trail
113. Carolina‘ In Morning 297. 1' m Dreaming of White Xmas 473. My Wild Irish Rose 691. Till We Meet Again
114. Caroline Moon 298. I' m Forever Blowing Bubbles 485. Oh Dem Golden Slippers 715. Wagon Wheels
121. Chasing Rainbows 300. I'm Looking Over 4 Leaf Clover 492. Oh Susana 718. Wait T111 Sun Shines Nellie
129. Clementine 309. In My Merry Oldsmobile 494. Oh You Beautiful Doll 731. When Irish Eyes are Smiling
150. Danny Boy 310. In the Evening by Moonlight 497. Old'Gray Mare 734. Whenl Lost YOu 
156. Déar Old Girl 313. In the Good Old Summertime 500. Old MacDonald Had a Fagin 742. When Yon Wore a Tulip
159. ep in Heart of Texas 331. W s A Grand Old Flag 513. On the Road to Mandalay 749. Whifienpoof Song ’3
163. Dinah 337. I've Been Working on R 520. Pack Up Your Troubles 751. Whistle While You Work
167. " Don' t Fence Me In 341. lWant a Girl, etc. 524. Peg Of My Heart 760. Winter Wonderland 1,. ‘X
170. Don't Sit Under Apple Tree 346. I Wonder Who' 8 Kissing Her New 528. Polly Wolly Doodle 763. Yankee Doodle Dandy ' r
17.1. Down By Old Mill Stream 348. Iingle Bells 532. Poor Butterfly 780. You‘re a Grand Oldglag :5

 

Special Value Purchase —- For those who buy just slides from our 100 titles listed here,
there is a 10% DISCOUNT from the regular price of 50¢ per slide.

NATIONAL STUDIOS 42Weet4e Street 0 NewYorkClty

U

 

J
223

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

MAY, 1962

RECREATION

 

 

MAY 1962 VOL. lV NO. 5 PRICE 60c
My Philosophy of Recreation (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Thomas W. Lantz 226
Nothing is more characteristic of America than its recreation movement
Recreation in the Peace Corps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233
Trained volunteers are needed [or underdeveloped countries
A Nature Center in a State Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leslie S. Clark 235
' More states should offer programs of this type
Camping for Seniors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 236
2’ Day and overnight camps have much to contribute
O5
§ Recreation for Retirecs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . James Lloyd 238
$ Facilities are available, participation is voluntary
Command Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert M. Dula 240
Air Force recreation programs equal the best in the nation
The Nature of Man . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Edward H. Thacher 246
Program highlights of the 44th National Recreation Congress
Recording Summer Playground Attendance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 247
Formula for determining number of visits
From Wing-Ding to Hinky-Dink . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Hugh Scott 248
Philadelphia’s playgrounds—nine years and $18,000,000 latcr
z Barriers to Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Wilho B. Schoenbohrn and Robert W. Schwanhe 251
Q Architcctural features “block” out millions of participants
.—
33 Outdoor Recreation Areas for Housing Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Albert Mayer 253
E An architect discusses relation of design and function
z
E State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
2 Recreation provides new economic resource for West Virginia
Planning for Older Adults . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257
E Day centcr and physical activity programs
{.5 Nature Sleuths . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. E. Stuart Richter 259
8 Each child embarks on a trail of personal discovery
Dance, Scuiors, Dance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Irenc chd Smith 262
To participate results in a youthful mental outlook
E \Voods, Streams and Sky  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. E. V. Pullias 267
g The power of outdoor education
0
E Letters 228 As \Vc Go To Press 231 Reporter’s Notebook 243 Market News 264-
.—
5 Trade Mart 265 Personnel 269 Rx for the III and Handicapped 271 New Publicatious 272
E

224

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth

Copyright, 1962, by the National

Street, New York 11, New York, isoon file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Printed in the U.S.A.

ewe
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
tcred as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Ofiice in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current

issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

DUCATIONAL
RESS

SSOCIATION
OF
AMERICA

   
 

tiara Assaclatian.

Recreation Association. Incorporated 4'

The artlcles herein
prlnted are the expres-
sion of the writers and
not a statement of policy
of the National Roma-

RECREATION

RECREATION

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY
Associate Editors
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

 

On the Cover

Socializing in the outdoors adds
greatly to the richness of living at any
age. Here, a group of seniors sit and
chat beside the arts-and-crafts building
at Camp Isabella Freedman, Falls Vil-
lage, Connecticut. The camp is a bene-
iiciary society of the Federation of J ew-
ish Philanthropies. Photo by Lawrence
Siegel.

Next Month

The June issue will stress the impor-
tance of water to a good outdoor pro-
gram, with such articles as “Recreation
Demands on Public Water Supplies”
(and the antiquated legislation govern-
ing recreation use) ; “The World of the
Swimming Pool”; “Outdoor Recrea-
tion and the Delaware River Basin” (a
regional deve10pment project involving
four states and the federal govern-
ment) ; “Sailing in Quincy”; “Turning
Dust into Spray.” For the benefit of
delegates planning to attend the 44th
National Recreation Congress, Septem-
ber 30-October 5, “Today’s Philadel-
phia” will tell the story of the exciting
urban-renewal project, which includes
construction of a new city within the
city, along with an account of the resto-
ration of historic sites in this Cradle of
Liberty. Another Philadelphia story
will cover a neighborhood garden-block
beautification program. A Congress
page will present further details about
the program for the big meeting.

Photo Credits

Page 233, (right), U.S. Aid Mission
to the Philippines, Manila; 236, Salva-
tion Army; 237, Hartford Coarant
photo, courtesy of Salvation Army;
238-9, Joseph Janney Steinmetz, Sara-
sota, Florida; 244, (Hendrick), Kondo
Studio, Niagara Falls, New York; 246,
Pfc. Warren R. Wheaton, honorable
mention, Fifth Interservice Photogra-
phy Contest, 1954; 253, New York City
Housing Authority; 254-5, Gil Amiaga,
New York City; 258, Salvation Army;
262, Helene and Paul Sommer, San
Francisco; 263, Jacqueline Paul, San
Francisco; 270, (Sheppard), Brooks,
Bethesda, Maryland.

MAY, 1962 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  

     
 

Yes, hundreds of park and rec-
reation departments are iurnp-
ing on the refreshment band-
wagon. You'll add 10% to 20%

to your available operating
funds.

All Gold Medal Equipment can
pay for itself out of PrOfits!

 

 

woe teiqy £2: lies 1961 cata-
log and detailed book on re-
freshments. We have everything
you need for HOT DOGS, POP-
CORN, SNO-KONES, COTTON
CANDY AND ALL OTHER RE-
FRESHMENT ITEMS.

 
     
 

The most trusted name in Refreshments Today! '

_ _ COTTON CANDY

SNO-KONES

r----------------‘

Send more information on

Refreshment Supply Division REFRESHMENT PROFITS i°i

DAL PRODUCTS COMPANY

1821-31 Freeman Avenue, Cincinnati 14, Ohio

Name

Address
City
State

 
     

8c profit par 10c
sale. Equipment and
supplies cost under
$300.00. Over 50%
of your patrons will
buy a bag.

 
 
  

Almost 9c profit per
10c sale. Equipment
and supplies $300.00.
Extremely popular
with all Children un-
der 16.

  

   

8c profit per 10c.
Equipment and sup-
plies costs under
$225.00. Equipment
only 149.50. Every-
body loves Sno-Kones
—the most refreshing
drink you can eat.

'I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

.l

 

 

Healthful fun for every age group!
i DIMCO SHUFFLEBOARD

indoors or outdoors.

Children. young people. adults . . . everyone enioys
Dimco Shuffleboard tor excitement. relaxation and
wholesome exercisel Court diagram can easily be laid.
Famous Dimco equipment. in
low-price "Sunlife" or premium-quality "Free-Glide"
lines. comes in sturdy Regulation Sets or Junior Sets
(2/3 regulation size).

FREE . . . Court layout plans, game rules. catalog at
Dimco shuffleboard sets. Write today to:

' ‘ DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth St., Dayton 2, O

hio
225

MY

PHILOSOPHY
OF
RECREATION

Thomas W. Lantz

RECREATION is a way of life to me,

and I try to practice it. One could
easily become ill as a professional recre-
ator. Our work, seemingly, never ends.
There is always activity for our clients,
evenings, week-ends and holidays. How-
ever, we must discipline our lives so we
practice what we preach!

Work hard but take time to live. Man, the worker, and
man, the player, are not two men, but one. I play golf to
keep physically fit, read to relax and learn, fly fish for trout
in a mountain stream for good mental health, photograph in
color to appease my artistic sense, picnic or play bridge with
my friends for a social outlet.

One develops a hobby for an interest in life, to improve
skills because that is the way one grows and acquires zest
for living. It is almost axiomatic that interest in any type
of activity, or creativity, is heightened as skills are improved.
The satisfaction, or pleasure in the doing, increases pro-
portionately.

 

Recreation acts as a counter-balance to all my work and
negative influences. Any job which deals with the field of
human relations will be diHicult, enervating, and burden-
some, if one permits it. No matter how much one enjoys
his work he needs a change———change of pace, of scene, of
approach, and he needs refuge and refreshment.

Religion is a way of life to me, and I try to practice it.
I am interested in the nature of the universe in which we
live. To me, it is not an accidental mechanistic universe with-
out meaning. It has purpose and meaning. Basically, I be-
lieve that goodness and justice will win out in the long run.

MR. LANTZ is superintendent of public recreation for the
MetrOpoIitan Park District of Tacoma, Washington, and
chairman of the National Recreation Association National

Advisory C ouncil.
226

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

The brotherhood of man in this world is important to me.
Recreation, therefore, has a great place in promoting inter-
national good will and friendship.

Recreation in its highest sense is an integral part of the
general welfare and well-being of a people. A definite part
of my philosophy is to help bring about world-wide under-
standing through the sharing of recreation skills and inter-
ests, through the exchange of persons. The international
character of recreation is possibly its most outstanding char-
acteristic. We are living in “One World.” It is no accident
that recreation has always been closely allied to religion.
Recreation is a limited word for what men do when they
cease being slaves and are free to do what they want to do.
The threat of the times is a threat against the greatest dream
of all mankind, the dream of growth toward a happy free
world, a world in which men may reach up to their own God.

AMERICA has given and voted billions that all men might
find joy and power and growth in living abundantly. Rec-
reation must play a large part in keeping men everywhere
strong to endure. I dream of a happy world for all—a world
of men truly free to be themselves. Dedication of my life
to recreation as a way of life means much to me and I try
to work at it. “All is not gold that glitters” has been upper-
most in my mind for forty years; otherwise I would have
been a sales manager long ago. My life is dedicated to mak-
ing towns and cities more liveable. My move is always to-
ward beauty, music, sport, richness in living. 1 want to help
my city to be an enjoyable place to live, with parks, play-
grounds, swimming pools, good schools and community cen-
ters, athletic fields, libraries, choruses and symphonies.
Nothing is more American, is more characteristic of our
country, expresses more truly her inner spirit than her rec-
reation movement in local communities, her movement for
abundant living for all. I shall always continue to dedicate

my life to this end. #

RECRE t’l‘ION

I
'i

NOTHING
ATTRACTS
THEM

 
 
   
   
 

Here comes the Miracle Steam Engine Climber
- . . . heading right for the hearts of young, eager

' engineers. No child will want to miss this train
‘ I I M B  that moves only through the fertile fields of his
' imagination. Plenty of places to climb aboard, too

. . . from the top of the smoke stack to the back
of the cab. Watch ’em make tracks to your play-
ground when the Miracle Steam Engine Climber
pulls in!

NEW

 

 
   
  

DECK {~wa I. 

coo-oeso- '8‘ 0000A...- (

   

 

   

    

' Hours of imaginative  I ' 3 

Ia and much needed 4
:xeilcise for any num- Adored by the younger chlldren

ber of sea-faring skip- “ so often overlooked on many

pers. You’ll have no trouble signing on a full crew when the playgrounds. Ideal for unsuper-
Miracle Captain's Deck drops anchor on your playground. vised play areas,

ABC SLIDE

 

# . e _ - - - I
l .e_ e... \l"__..__J-i -. . MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY I
__ __ ,, '____'; ____ GRINNELL 18, IOWA l

k I ' ‘ Please send me at once:
‘ n' ' "“ A ‘ ' [1 Literature and prices on this new Miracle equipment I
Fresh Off the press! Our 7‘ New catalog on Miracle playground equipment I
new 4.1010,” 32.13099 |_, Free playground planning service information I
catalog. features the NAME_-_  ‘ _ by m w  _ ____ w _ __H |
complete line of Miracle |
playground equipment. ADDRESS — - —— |
Mail coupon today for CITYW_____ __ _ “m l
your FREE copy. I
- STATE. _ - __ _ __ I

MAY, 1962 When writing to our ldvertinen please mention Rzmxnou. 227

"LION BRAND"

51.2. ma
katafe

ADO SUITS e KARATE SUITS

Besl Oualily—lowesl Prices—Prompl Delivery

Importers and Distributors

Honda Associates, Inc.

66 West 47th Street
New York 36, New York
Tel: PLaza 7-6953, 56

managed by
KODOKAN BLACK BELT 3RD DAN

Write for Free Catalog

 

KEMPER TOOLS FOR OERAMIOS

Clean-up. sgrotitto, texturing tools and flower
cutters in many patterns and sizes. Instruc-
tion included with some.

For these and other ceramic tools, write for
FREE catalogue to:

KEMPER TOOLS. P.O. Box 545
CHINO. CALIFORNIA

   

TABLE AND
CHAIR TRUCKS

’11 FOLDING
PEDESTAL TABLES

Direct from factory sov-

.  Ing to Churches, Schools,
.w Clubs, lodges and oil orgonl-
 zotlons. MONROE 1962
- Folding Banquet Tobles ore
unmotched for quolity, duro-
bility, convenience ond hond-
some oppeoronce. 94 models ond sizes for

every use. Write for prices, cotolog.

FREE— BIG 1962 CATALOG

Coior pictures. Fuii iine MONROE tables. chairs.
tebie and choir trucks. platform-risers. port-
ebie partitions. Write todeyi

THE MONROE 00.. 181 Church St.. Colfax, Iowa

 

   

'Hew Ieee Telk' end deeceiptiee
liter-Me on I'M new, MI“!
cost honeybee Hebby Hive.

"It A. I. R00! (0. mEDlNA. OHIO
SEND iNQUlRY TO DEPT. R

228

 
  
 

 

     

      
 
  
 
 

  
  
 

V

six- .. /
w V
:1... ’

Senior Adult Basketball

Sirs:

When our slow-pitch sixteen-inch
softball season was closing we asked the
men to consider a one-niglit-a-week win-
ter program of basketball for their age
group. Because the ages ranged from
twenty to about fifty-five, we realized it
must be a slowed down version of bas-
ketball, yet active enough to meet their
needs and interest. It was hoped we
could sponsor an eight-team league and
two days after our announcement of the
league, we had to st0p taking team res-
ervations—after we had twelve teams.

Minor rule changes were necessary,
such as: no full court press, no fast
breaks (after securing the rebound the
defense has ten seconds to get across the
center line and get set before the offense
may bring the ball down). This elimi-
nates long passes to the more active men
and gives both teams twenty seconds to
get their breath after each rebound (the
offense also has the normal ten seconds
to bring the ball across the center line
aftcr defense gets set). Six personal
fouls are allowed due to the lack of ac-
tive participation for the past years.
To eliminate a team from securing
younger players from the regular civic
leagues, we stated that a player may
play in only one league. Also, the play-
ers must work full time or be a resident
of the city. Sponsors were encouraged
to furnish only shirts and pants, no ex-
pensive uniforms.

We felt that by encouraging a winter
activity while the men were playing and
enjoying softball we increased our win-
ter participation. I might add that I
was told that sixteen-inch softballwould
never be accepted in a baseball commu-
nity such as ours. I firmly feel that
twenty-nine teams comprising about six
hundred men is a good indication that
this is a good sport.

If anyone wishes, we will be most
happy to send them a copy of the rules
which we have adopted locally.

JAMES W. COOK, Superintendent

Parks and Recreation Department,

Michigan City, Indiana.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

\ “if. _

LETTERS

Readers are invited to share their
views on these pages. Comments
of general interest are always wel-

come. --— The Editors.

  

Sports for the Individual

Sirs:

The United States is known through-
out the world as a nation of spectators
with a few outstanding athletes. This
policy has resulted in a very high re-
jection rate for our youth in military
service tests. President Kennedy has
suggested a more active sports program
for physical fitness. This need not mean
a double period of “push-ups” or gym
drills. There is a wide selection of
sports that make for physical fitness
that youths would enjoy.

We have lost the last few Olympics to
the Soviets and other European coun-
tries because we train great athletes in
a few sports only, such as track, swim-
ming, figure skating, etcetera. Millions
and millions are being spent for larger
and larger stadiums for fans and little
for skating rinks, hiking trails, cycle
tracks, etcetera. In the United States,
new school construction is planned with
great parking areas for students to park
cars; European students pedal or walk
to school and thus obtain necessary ex-
ercise. The writer visited Switzerland
a fcw years ago and noted such family
sport activities as camping, hiking, cy-
cling. In America our youth cannot
wait until they obtain their driving li-
censes. The Swiss also conduct great
national sport festivals in which young
and old participate. The Soviet Union
has experts or “Masters of Sport” who
coach both young and old in all interna-
tional sports. Let us have more pub-
licity for active individual sports and
less for the first one in line for the
World Series.

Here are a few suggestions for sport
administrators:

0 Establish an active individual sports
program in every school and college
without credit for attendance at football
games. (Onc professor dismissed a
class earlier to attend a game.)

I Give outdoor sports preference over
indoor sports; stress camping, hiking,
cycling, swimming, mountaineering, et-
cetera.

0 Encourage sports that may be en-

RECREATION

ioyed in later life (folks aged 40-50 and
)ver can enjoy cycling, skating, swim-
ning, hiking, etcetera).

0 Stress individual sports that do not
require a full team for enjoyment (skat-
ing rather than football or baseball);
sports that may be enjoyed by both
sexes (half of our school population is
relegated to the grandstand); family
sport activities (mother and children
may enjoy, camping, fishing, cycling,
skating, swimming, archery, etcetera) ;
popular sports that can be enjoyed by
millions (boating, fishing, camping, bi-
cycling, hunting, archery, etcetera) ;
sports that have a military value (rifle,
hiking, camping, swimming, cycling,
mountaineering, etcetera) .

ROLAND C. GEIST, Roosevelt High
School, Bronx, New York.

Outdoor Recreation Labs

Sirs:

Since the publication of the article
on the Stone Valley Recreation Area
[January 1961] several universities
have written to us regarding plans, poli-
cies, and program of the outdoor rec-
reation area. . . . institutions of higher
learning [may find] areas of this nature

. . . desirable for the education of .the
college student.
FRED M. COOMBS, Recreation Educa-
tion Department, Pennsylvania State
University.

Progress of Recreation

Sirs:

Permit me to express my apprecia-
tion for the article in the February is-
sue by Mrs. McGann . . . an analysis of
statistics published in the 1961 Recrea-
tion and Park Yearbook.

This analysis is not only interesting
but helpful in cultivating further un-
derstanding of the status of progress of
the recreation movement in America.
It is also suggestive of interpretations
which may be had from the analysis of
the most valuable statistics which are
compiled and published in the Year-
book. Several other interesting analy-
ses could be made from these statistics
and I refer particularly to those which
would bear upon the nature and num-
bers of separate facilities in relation to
population and other factors.

GEORGE HJELTE, General Manager,

Department of Recreation and Parks,

Los Angeles.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted . . . . $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

related

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well -‘ as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised held work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $436.00 per
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liberal employee
benefits. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia. ‘

Recreation Worker—
female. For patient recrea-
tion program in 320-bed
acute general hospital lo-
cated in cultural-medical
center. $6,000,000 expan-
sion under way to 500 beds
includes extensive rehabili-
tation facilities. College

graduate, major in hospital
recreation and knowledge
of arts and crafts preferred.
Salary competitive. Write
Personnel Director, Monte-

fiore Hospital, Pittsburgh
13, Pennsylvania.

BUSINESS
OPPORTUNITY

Potential trout farm
area available for a conces-
sion-type Operation. Write
Benton County Park & Rec-
reation Department, P.0.
Box 1013, Kennewick,
Washington.

Director of Parks and

Recreation, City of
Brookfield, Wisconsin.

Starting salary to $6,000,
depending on education
and experience, plus Civil
Service benefits. Applica-
tions requested by May 15.
Starting date preferably
July. Minimum qualifica-
tions: College degree in
recreation service, park

management, or
field with experience in
recreation and park ad-
ministration. Duties: Un-
der general supervision of
Park and Recreation Com-
mission, the direction, de-
velopment and operation
of a system of parks and
recreation areas and pro-
grams for a growing subur-
ban city of 20,000. Infor-
mation and application
forms available from Emil
C. Horn, Civil Service
Commission, City Hall,
2000 North Calhoun Road,
Brookfield, Wisconsin.

Executive Director —
Female. Area Girl Scout
Council. Bachelor’s degree
with supervisory, finance,
and community relations
experience and skills. Pre-
fer Master’s degree with
experience. Contact: Per-

sonnel Committee, Limber-

lost Girl Secut COuncil, 227
East Washington, Fort
Wayne, Indiana.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

MAY, 1962

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

“my grandfather makes the
best playground equipment

in the whole world...because
he loves little people like me! he makes

slides and swings and see-saws and all
kinds of things. they’re real strong and
they're very safe. if you're going to buy.
playground things you better talk to my

grandfather or my father first. they’re both
named mr. burke.”

o o o o o o a I c o a o I o o o a I o I a I o o a a o I I o o a I o I I o a o o s o I I I o o a a a I o I I.

Send me yourplayground planning and specification file.

J. E. BURKE COMPANY

P. O. Box 986 Dept. 55 P. O. Box 549 Dept. 55

New Brunswick. Fond du Lac'
New Jersey 0R Wisconsin
Sec.F
Name:

 

Street:————_______.______

City: State:

229

230

- Low Cost/Growing
Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

For club, class or team. Requires
minimum space and equipment.
Exciting and practical for few or
many participants. National and
International associations.
Castello uniforms are KADOKAN
APPROVED. Specially made for
the taller American figure.

FENCING T00! We are the

largest importers and manufactur-
ers of fencing equipment in the
Americas.

Write for Free Catalogs

CASTELLO

JUDO/KARATE & FENCING EQUIPMENT
30 E. 10th St.. N. Y. 3. N. Y. since 1914

 

“'(DRLD “ilDE GAMES

Delaware, Ohio

Enjoyed by Adults and Children

0 Sturdin built for rugged use
0 Skill games and table games
0 Equipment games and puzzles

o Manufactured and sold by
Warren and Mary Lea Bailey

Write for Free Catalog

 

cit

 

Playground,

swimming pool equipment

1634 West North Avenue
CHICAGO 22, ILL.

Ar 6-2014

AMPION

RECREATION EQUIPMENT. INC.

gymnasium

    
 

’

OUR SENIOR CITIZENS

In May, Senior Citizens Month, it is
well to take another iook at the poiicy
statement and source 0/ the recommen-

dations from the 1961 White House
Conference on the Aging, which stated:

IN COMMUNITY LIFE — Effective use
should be made of senior citizens in the
continuing life of the community, state,
and nation. It is every citizen’s concern
that senior citizens participate and be-
come actively involved in recreation,
voluntary services, and in citizenship
participation.

Recreation is a basic human need;
together with work, education, and re-
ligion it makes up the full life. Patterns
of recreation shaped into stimulating
programs of activities constitute a
MUST for the senior citizen.

The involvement of participants in
the total planning and the executing of
the program is basic and essential. To
meet the diversity of interests of all the
aged, a broad range of program offer-
ings, creative, cultural, physical, social,
volunteer service, and citizenship par-
ticipation must be implemented by ev-
ery available public and private agency
through coordination of effort in utiliz-
ation of facilities, leadership and funds.

Voluntary services and citizenship
participation represent a traditional
American ideal of value in the develop-
ment of individual and national char-
acter; and habits of voluntary service
and citizenship participation on the
part of all Americans should be devel-
Oped early in life to carry over into la-
ter life.

Stereotyped attitudes about old age,
both on the part of the community as
well as of older people about them-
selves, can limit the continued partici-
pation of senior citizens in recreation,
voluntary service, and in civic and
govermncnt affairs. To remedy this
situation, we need to develop a better
public image of old age based on the
potential contribution senior citizens
can make plus a more positive self-
image through opportunities to achieve
skills and accomplishments which
would preserve and restore a sense of
belonging and usefulness.

The enjoyment of the later years de-
pends on one’s preparation earlier in
life so that retirement will not come as
a shock but as the culmination of the
life span with its own rewards—not as
the termination of usefulness but as the

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

EDITORIALLY
SPEAKING

  

continuation or as the beginning of a
new usefulness characterized by matur-

ity and fulfillment.

HOSTELING
IN BIKE MONTH

The fact that May is also American
Bike Month and that Youth Hostel
Week is May 5 to 12 reminds us that—
after spending a day or two in an Amer-
ican Youth Hostel last summer—there
should be more hostels in this country!
As bicycle trips, and hosteling too, are
a part of many public recreation pro-
grams, why couldn’t recreation depart-
ments sponsor a hostel as an additional
community service? Recreation leaders
should look into this, as an extension
of their outdoor recreation programs,
and talk it over with local AYH and
other groups. (This is the type of visi-
bie project that local service clubs love
to support.)

Being a guest at a hostel is like being
a member of a large and joyful family
with many interests, that is always do-
ing exciting things. We were at the
attractive hostel in West Tisbury on
colorful Martha’s Vineyard, Massachu-
sells, and found it a delightful relief
from the expensive and impersonal fa-
cilities of the modern motel and from
the speed and gasoline fumes of the
highway. It proved to be a sequestered
haven, where all cyclists and other
friends receive a warm welcome, are
made to feel at home, allowed to pre-
pare their own meals and so on.

How wonderful it is, in this day of
tensions and pressures, to know that
there are such places, that young peo-
ple can mount a bicycle and, with care-
fully selected leadership, wander un-
hurriedly down quiet trails, stop to
watch the trout flicker by in a green
pool, eat a lunch in the cool shade of a
spreading tree—and then move on to
friendly shelter and a welcome from
houseparents for the night.

American Youth Hostels is most anx-
ious to extend hosteling service across
the length and breadth of the land for
our own boys and girls and for young
visitors from foreign lands, too, who
are accustomed to countries where hos-
teling is more widely developed and
enjoyed. The AYH has just launched
a five-year expansion plan, of which
this is a part. Send for a 1962 AYH
Handbook for further details. Avail-
able from AYH, 10 West Eighth Street,
New York 11, for $1.00.

RECREATION

 

NEW OUTDOOR CHIEF
WILL ADDRESS RECREATION CONGRESS

R. EDWARD C. CRAFTS, head of the new Bureau of Outdoor Recreation in

the Department of the Interior, will address the 44th National Recreation
Congress in Philadelphia on October 4. He will discuss the scopc and impor-
tance of the ncwly created bureau. Dr. Crafts, previously assistant chief of
the US. Forest Service, will coordinate activities of twenty federal agcncies
that have problems dealing with outdoor recreation and land use. He also will
be the focal point in relations with the states to gain more outdoor play space.
Establishment of the bureau by President Kennedy, on April 2, followed a rec-
ommendation of the Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission ( see

RECREATION, March and April, 1962).

) THE YOUTH CONSERVATION CORPS is
up for Congressional approval. The
Youth Employment Opportunities Act
of 1962 (HR 10682, S404) is now be-
fore Congress. Secretary of Labor
Arthur Goldberg, chairman of the Pres-
ident’s Committee on Youth Employ-
ment, stated in the committee's first re-
port to the President that the “gravity
and magnitude” of unemployed youth
is “an emergency” which requires im-
mediate action. The act provides for:
(1) the enrollment of boys aged 16
through 21 to work in healthful out-
door employment, conserving and de-
veloping national resources and recrea-
tional areas: and (2) a Youth Public
Service Employment Program for boys
and girls. 16 to 21, to work in public
and nonprofit institutions, such as hos-
pitals, schools and welfare agencies.

Secretary of the Interior Stewart
Udall, in urging strong support of the
bill, says, “The plain fact is that con-
servation of our human and natural re-
sources are inseparably combined.” He
adds that the corps could he a most im-
portant weapon in the overall battle to
achieve a sound foundation for a mean-
ingful existence for our young people.

) THE 15TH CONFERENCE ON AGING,
University of Michigan, will be held at
Ann Arbor June 18 to 20. Address:
The Univcrsity of Michigan Extension
Service, 412 Maynard Street, Ann
Arbor.

} REMINDER to state society presidents
and news bulletin editors: Please send
three copies of each state society bulle-
tin to the National Recreation Associa-
tion Library each month. These will be
circulated to the NRA staff, clipped and

filed, and a wholc set kept intact for
ready reference.

MAY, 1962

) BOOKS DESIGNED TO HELP leadcrs and
parents know where to take children!
Come and get them! Or order by mail.
You, our readers, helped us to plan
them. told us where children can take
part in activities———rock hunting. river
boating, and the like—and about spe-
cial tours and exhibits that take young-
sters and leaders bchind the scenes in
factories. studios, and museums, on lit-
tle-known trails, into authentic restora-
tions of our American past. These
books are meant to be taken along by
you and the youngsters—they’re rug-
ged, with washable cloth covers. They
are also illustrated, fully indexed hy
communities. areas, special interests;
easily readable.

Book I tells about the West; Book II,
the Midwest and South; Book III, the
Northeast and Middle Atlantic. Each is
$2.95 (10 percent discount to NRA Af-
filiates and Associates). The set comes
in a plastic, over-the-shoulder pouch
for easy carrying—all three, including
the pouch, $7.95. Order your copies
NOW—Wonderful Places to Take Chil-
dren—one or all three, available from
the National Recreation Association
Recreation Book Center, 8 Wcst 8th
Street. New York 11. Happy vacation-
ingl

a. GARRETT EPPLEY, chairman
of the recreation department at
Indiana University, announced his
retiremcnt as chairman at the an-
nual Lebert H. Weir Banquet on

April 14. He will remain at the uni-
versity as a member of the faculty.
Reynold Carlson. professor of recre-
ation. will succeed Dr. Eppley as
chairman.

 

THINGS YOU SIIOULD KNOW

} SOCIETY OF AMERICAN FORESTERS
members have expressed their ap-
proval, by a ratio of three to one, of the
present method of establishing wilder-
ness areas on federal lands and their
disapproval of a proposed wilderness
preservation system by act of Congress,
according to an article in the January
1962 issue of American Forests. A total
of 4,235 members of the society ap-
proved the following proposition in the
refcrendum: “Wilderness areas should
continue to be established by executive
action of the secretaries of the federal
departments that are administratively
responsible for the establishment of
present and potential areas suitable for
wilderness preservation.”

Less than twenty-nine percent
(1.693) of the voters approved the al-
ternatc proposition: “Wilderness areas
as now established should be included
in a wilderness preservation system by
act of Congress with specifications as
to permitted uses and with provision
for additions, deletions, and the desig-
nations of new areas.”

Opponents of the legislation object
to the statutory fixing of boundaries
and the impossibility of withdrawals,
except following Congressional review.
Increasing demand by an expanding
population for forest products and serv-
ices should be correlated, they Say, with
such demand and with the acreage of
forest available in each region. Many
view the proposed wilderness preserva-
tion system as a “locking up” of vast
areas for limited use, inconsistent with
multiple-use management for the devel-
opment of all renewal natural resources.

} JUNE is National Recreation Month:
Special Weeks: first week, Youth Fit-
ness; second, Family Recreation; third,
Recreation and the Arts; andthe fourth,
Recreation-Through-Service Week. Tic-
in Days and W’eeks: Let’s Play Golf
Week. June 2-9; National Humor Week,
June 3-9; National Flag chk, June
10-16: Father’s Day. June 17: First
Day of Summer, June 21: National

Swim for Health “reek, June 24-30.

I A PROPOSAL for financing an eight-
year program to expand the nation's
outdoor recreation resources was pro-
posed in legislation submitted to Con-
gress by President Kennedy on April -I.

231

The measure, a principal feature of the
President’s message of March 1 on con-
servation (sec RECREATION, April) pro-
poses establishment of a land conserva-
tion fund and authorization of appro-
priations of $500,000,000 to the fund.

A combination of new and existing
federal revenues are proposed to pro-
vide additional funds during the eight-
year program, and for repayment of
appropriated funds beginning in fiscal
year 1971.

Lands within authorized national
park, monument, and related areas,
lands within the national forest system
and national refuges to preserve endan-
gered wildlife species would be financed
directly from the fund. Cost of acquir-
ing recreation lands at federal and fed-
erally assisted reservoirs would be off-
set in part by depositing a portion of
receipts from the revenues into general
Treasury funds.

Proposed sources of revenue for the
program are: (l) a new federal boat-
use tax, (2) receipts from the sale of
surplus federal nonmilitary real prop-
erty, (3) receipts from present and new
admission and other recreation user
fees on federal land and water areas,
(4) the refundable portion (two cents
per gallon) of the federal gasoline tax
paid on fuel used in recreation boating.

) A DAY CAMP STUDY to determine
common practices in day eamps has
been completed by the Committee on
Camping of the National Social Wel-
fare Assembly (345 East 46th Street,
New York 17). Participating agencies
included the Boys’ Clubs of America.
Camp Fire Girls, Inc., Girl Scouts of
the U.S.A., National Board of YWCA
of the U.S.A., National Council of
YMCA’S, and National Jewish Welfare
Board. They were included in a nation-
wide random sampling during the 1961
season. The study reveals numerous
arresting facts; among them, that. of
191 camps sampled, 14-1 offcr oppor-
tunities for overnight camping; sixty-
four, or 33.3%, operate on a site of six
to twenty-five acres; 83.9% are located
within one hour’s travel from the first
pickup, to arrival at camp; more than
half of the YMCA camps serve both
boys and girls; the average ratio of
counselors to campers in all is one to
cleven. The study is available from the
NS\VA for twenty cents per copy.

} DONALD M. D. THL'RBER of Detroit
has been named federal consultant on
matters affecting participation by pri-
rate and public non-government organ-
izations and individuals in conserva-
tion programs. In announcing the ap-
pointment. Secretary of the Interior
Stewart L. Udall said Mr. Thurber. a
University of Michigan regent, presi-
dent of a Detroit public-rclations coun-
seling firm and a veteran of public serv-

232

ice, will arrange Interior Department
cooperation with corporations, founda-
tions, and other supporters of conserva-
tion projects whether in conjunction
with or independent of federal pro-
grams.

> THE NEW PRESIDENT-ELECT of the
American Association of Health, Physi-
eal Education, and Recreation is Ben
W. Miller, professor and chairman of
the department of physical education
at the University of California, Los An-
geles. Mr. Miller’s election, together
with six vice-presidents-eleet. was an-
nounced at the closing business session
of the AAHPER’s annual convention in
Cincinnati, April 6. Harlan G. Metcalf,
chairman of the department of recrea-
tion at the State University of New
York, was named viee-president-clect of
the Recreation Division.

} Tm: Dane Couxrr, FLORIDA, recrea-
tion department recently won $2,500..-
000 approval for seven new pools and

0mm Wm.

1-30

National Recrea-
tion Month

Let‘s Play Golf
Week
National Humor

Week

National Flag

Week
Flag Day
Father's Day

2-9

3-9

National Swim
for Health chk

National Safe
Boating Week

National Play
Tennis Week

Independence
Day

1-7

1-7

Captive Nations
Week

St. Swithin’s Day
Joseph Lee Day

National Clown
Week

August 5
September 1-30

September 3
September 5-12

Friendship Day
Youth Month

Labor Day

National Child
Safety Week

\Vorld I’eace
Day

Rosll llashanah

September 16

Scptember 29

September 29 Michaelmas

 

two new nine-hole golf courscs. Con-
gratulations!

> PROMOTE coon OUTDOOR MANNERSI
The Good Outdoor Manners Associa-
tion fervently repeats this request this
spring and suggests that special local
groups be organized for this purpose.
Further suggestions can be obtained by
writing to the association at 4.534%;
University \Vay, Scattle 5, Washington.

} A GRANT OF $800,000 by the Ford
Foundation has been awarded to the
American Public Wclfare Association
to be used over the next six years for
training programs to improve services
to the aged through public welfare
agencies. The program will be under
the leadership of Jay L. Roney, direc-
tor of the Public Welfare Project on
Aging. _,
) APPOINTMENT of Garson Meycr of
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester,
New York, as prcsident of the Na-
tional Council on the Aging was an-
nounced recently by the council‘s boa rd
of directors. Mr. Meyer was elected to
succeed G. Warfield llobbs who re-
signed as president to devote full time
to his position as president of the Olym-
pia Management Corporation.

1 A SPECIAL TWO-WEEK SEMINAR on
Metropolitan Problcnis and Politics “ill
take place at the University of Denver,
July 9-20, 1962. Eight distinguished
guest lccturers will include Edward C.
Banf'ield of Harvard, Morton Grodzins
of the University of Chicago. Norton
Long of Northwestcrn University, Len-
nox I... Moak, director of the Pennsyl-
vania Economy: League (Eastern Divi-
sion), James  Wilson of Harvard,
E. H. Plank of the University of Dcn-
ver, Victor Jones of the University of
California, and \Valter Bluchcr of De-
troit, planner extraordinary.

} T0 AID persons of ability and promise
to enter the professional college union
or recreation fields, the lllini Union
and department of rccrcation at the
University of lllinois, are offering a
program of financial assistance to qual-
ified students who would like to apply
for a Master of Science in Rccrcation
or a Doctor of Philosophy (option in
Recreation). This is open to mcn and
women who are eandidates for either of
the above degrees and who have a
bachelor degree from an accredited in-
stitution. Make up of prerequisites, if
any, is determined by the department
of recreation. A minimum grade point
index of “B” for the last half of under-
graduate study is desired. For further
information, write to Head, Depart-
ment of Recreation, 203 Huff Gymna-
sium, University of Illinois, Urbana.

RECREATION

ECREATION plays an important
R role in the work the Peace Corps
is doing to help the newly emerg-

ing nations of the world. Enthusiastic
letters from Peace Corps volunteers in
Tanganyika, East Pakistan, Chile, the
Pllilippinestronl a dozcn countries all
over the world—share a common note:
it is through the medium of mutually
cnjoyed recreation that the American
volunteers are becoming real friends
with the people of the host countries.
Writes a Peace Corps teacher from
East Pakistan: “No classes were given
on our first day so everyone went out
in groups of fours and fivcs visiting the
nearby areas. Our group came upon
several little boys and girls who were
playing. After watching them, we
thought of plgying a Bengali game we
learned in Putney (Peace Corps train-
ing) called Ha Do Do.‘ The boys soon

joined us. The number of spectators

RECREATION
IN THE
PEACE CORPS

Peace Corps volunteer lack Jordan
(left), deputy director of physical edu-
cation at Rajshahi University in East
Pakistan, coaches a Bengali student in
ancient technique of javelin throwing.

 

MAY, 1962

grew. We taught them an American
game called circle tag. The children
picked it up fast. Several adults began
to stop and watch. . . . I don’t know

if they were watching because they.

thought it was silly for grown men to
play with little children or because they
were pleased. . . . The sentiment of the
adults was revealed when everyone
smiled with sincere acceptance. . . . A
community heard about our singing
sessions at night and invited us to their
village. We will go on Saturday night,
banjos and all.”

Because the Peace Corps realizes the
importance of recreation in developing
a healthy community, it is now selecting

, volunteers with recreation backgrounds

for eight projects which will begin this
year in Africa, Asia, and Latin Amer-
ica. Training will be held for these rec-
reation projects in the spring, summer,
and early fall at a [15. university.
There will be additional training in the
host country.

The Ivory Coast has asked the Peace
Corps for ten recreation instructors to
help develop local, regional, and na-
tional sports teams to introduce the con-

cept of team work to participants of the
many tribes and regions. Jamaica has
immediate need for two sports and rec-
reation camping instructors who will
assist in the 4-H Club movement by pro-
viding instruction to rural youths ( see
“Creative Recreation in Jamaica,” REC-
REATION, February 1962).

Venezuela requested twenty-one
Peace Corps recreation workers to di-
rect current YMCA activities and four
physical education instructors to help
expand these activities. All volunteers
will teach athletics, direct sports events
and social activities, and carry out gen-
eral programs of social welfare.

Ceylon and Thailand are emphasizing
Sports and all forms of recreation in
their latest development programs._
Thailand has asked the Peace Corps for
thirty athletic instructors to assist in
training Thai Olympic teams as well as
developing and instructing a new pro-
gram of sports in the Thai school cur-
riculum. Ceylon’s program calls for
thirteen male Peace Corps volunteers to
serve as health and recreation instruc-
tors in organizing and operating school
health councils, and to assist in~ the

Trained recreation volunteers are needed in the
underdeveloped countries of the world

 

Enjoying evening social with new-found Filipino friends are Peace Corps
trainees who underwent two rnonths’ orientation for their assignment.

233

"Stationary" racks
in singte or double
face units snap-lock
rigidly together to fit

any space or provide
capacity required.

 

com and HAT RACKS; Q.

Style D.F'. 550. Portable Checker Rack (illustrated)
is 4 ft. 2 in. long: holds 40 coats and hats: goes
wherever needed on large. ball-bearing-swlvel
'casters. Comes with or without checks and snap-on
numbers. Strongiy welded of square tubular. heavy
gauge and highly embossed furniture steel Smart.
in modern baked finishes. Give lifetime service -
never sag. creak or sway. 3 It.. 4 at 5 ft. units avail-
able. as well as other emcient space saving equip-
ment for every church. school. commercial.
industrial and institutional need.

.Write for Bulletin CK-515

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.

     
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
  
    
      
    

Last Years Longer .

approved for
tournament

play !

Dayton steel tennis, badmlnton
and paddle tennis rocquets ore
Ideal for any school or play-
ground program. Their "extra
whlp" improves every youngster's
game—gives a speed and
accuracy that cannot be
matched by any other type
of rocquet.

What's more. Dayton rac- '
quets are practically inde-
structible. Their steel strings
and tubular st_ee| frames are
not affected by climatic
changes. No covers or /
presses are needed to I
protect them. They won‘t ii;
warp, splinter, rat or sag.

Investigate them now.
Ask your local dealer

about them—or write to-
day for complete infor-

mation Runs 1‘

' ' court [trellis
mun nlcuun comm i 3:33;": 3.
752 Albrlght St.. Arcanum. Ohio ‘ 19:.“ in thc

as Inz.

   

Dayton

STEEL RACQUETS

234

coaching of track, swimming, gym-
nastics, and boxing in the rural and
residential secondary schools. These
volunteers will also be teaching envi-
ronmental sanitation and intramural
athletics.

Iran would like seven Peace Corps
volunteers, with backgrounds in recrea-
tion, to act as instructors in organizing
physical education activities in rural
agricultural schools. Volunteers will
coach track, soccer, and other team
sports, as well as work in recreation
youth programs outside the schools.

ONE OF THE LIOST INTERESTING Peace
Corps projects is now being re-
cruited for Tunisia. Its purpose is two-
fold: to organize athletic activities
which will contrihute to the success of
the Bourgiba Children’s Villages and to
develop among young Tunisians an ap-
preciation of the value of physical con-
ditioning, self-discipline, sports compe-
tition, and the mastery of useful crafts.

Twelve Peace Corps volunteers will.
be assigned by Tunisia’s Directorate of
Youth and Sports to work in the chil-
dren’s villages. The villages range in
size from two hundred to six hundred
children, whose ages are from six to
twenty. The volunteers will be rcspon-
sible for organizing and administering
a 25-hour-per-week program involving
calisthenics, posture, and other physical
training, and instruction in group sports
such as foothall, handball, volleyball,
and basketball.

The children’s villages offer special-
ized trade and craft training in addition
to the normal primary education. The
curriculum at each village differs; cer-
tain villages stress agriculture and me-
chanics; others provide training in pot-
tery, leatherwork, basketry, and similar
crafts. Arrangements are made for the
apprenticeship of the childrcn with lo-
cal artisans and craftsmen. The largest
and most successful village, El Oudiane,
has its own elections and council, police
force, court, and bimonthly newspaper,
all run by the children. Volunteers not
assigned to the village will work at the
Bordjel reception center in Tunis where
children are received bcfore placement
and at the Institute National d’Educa-
tion Physique et Sport and the Training
Center at Bir-el Bey.

Recreation directors who have dem-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

onstrated an interest in youth activities,
scouting, or social work would be emi-
nently suited for all of the mentioned
Peace Corps projects. Formal course
work ill physical education is desirable
but not essential. Such instruction will
be included in the training program.
For French-Speaking countries, such as
Tunisia, and the Spanish-speaking
countries of Latin America, a year or
two of high-school training ill these lan-
guages will provide a base on which an
adequate command of the spoken lan-
guage can be developed in three months
of intensive training.

The provision of recreation directors
would. in all the sportsminded, recrea-
tion-loving new countries of the world,
have real significance in the develop-
ment of these countries. Some of them
will be training local directors who will
then go to rural centers and develop
rccreation programs and organize sports
activities. There is no better way of de-
veloping healthy, enjoyahle, and fruit-
ful cooperation among peoples.

“After the soccer game . . .” writes

another voluntcer with the Peace Corps
in the Far East, “we went to Chadpur,
a local village, and had a song contest
with the farmers. We really had an en-
joyable night. Later, they told us that
this was the first time in five years that
they had gotten togcther for a social
occasion.”

Peace Corps volunteers must bc at
least eighteen. There is no upper age
limit. The equivalent of a high-school
education is a minimum requirement.
Married couples arc eligible if both
qualify and they have no dependcnts
under eighteen. Volunteers receive a
living allowance for food, clothing,
housing, medical care, and incidentals,
plus a termination payment of $75 for
each month of service.

Questionnaires can he obtained from
local Post Offices, U.S. Congressmen or
Senators, and from the Peace Corps,
Washington 25. D.C. You may now ap-
ply for a specific assignment in the
country of your choice. Questionnaires
should be completed and sent without

delay to:
Professional, Technical and Labor
Division
Office of Public Affairs
Peace Corps Washington 25, D.C.

RECREATION

‘ A Nature Center
in a

State Park

 

More state parks should offer

programs of this type

Leslie S. Clark

a state recreation department has provided a valuable

public service in setting up a nature center and inter-
pretative programs in a state park. The Audubon Society
of New Hampshire and the New Hampshire Recreation De-
‘partment, which administers twenty-six state parks, have
for a number of years recognized the need for programs to
interpret the outdoors to the ever increasing numbers of peo-

COOPERATION between a conservation organization and

ple using the state’s mountains, lakes, and forests for
outdoor recreation. Lack of funds had handicapped the de-
ve10pment of programs of this nature. The outgrowth of
several winter meetings was a cooperative venture well with-
in the resources of the two organizations.

The largest state park, Bear Brook, seven thousand acres
in area, was chosen for the initial effort, as it was centrally
located near large population centers and had facilities that
could be pressed into service. The Audubon Society pro-
ceeded to hire two naturalists, one for the first and one for
the latter part of the summer. It canvassed its membership
for appropriate books to start a nature library and for equip-
ment such as exhibit cases and nature collections.

The recreation department made a former CCC barracks,
now a group lodge, available for the headquarters of the
nature center and fixed living quarters for the naturalists.
The main room was painted, bulletin boards made, and ex-
hibit areas provided. The department also offered the use

MR. CLARK is educational consultant for the Society for
Protection of New Hampshire Forests.

MAY, 1962

of its regular publicity channels, with periodic press releases.
and radio spot announcements, aided in the distribution of
department-prepared bulletins describing the program.

A tentative program was planned by the Audubon Nature
Center Committee, chaired by Mrs. Claire Batchelder, the
society’s conservation education chairman. 'The series of
lectures and a Saturday evening film program proved to be
highlights of the program. New Englanders with special in-
terests in conservation or natural history volunteered their
services and presented lecture and slide programs of great
interest such as “The Mosses and Lichens of New Hamp-
shire,” “The Wildflowers of New England,” “Nature
Through the Seasons,” and “The Forest Management Pro-
gram.” Films were procured from the U.S. Forest Service,
Department of Agriculture, New England Power Company,
the New Hampshire Fish and Game Department, the audio-
visual department of the University of New Hampshire, and
a fcw from a film rental service. '

Other state resource agencies cooperated in furnishing
exhibits for the center. A fine New Hampshire mineral ex-
hibit was made available by the state Planning and Deve10p-
ment Commission along with a series of gcological booklets
011 New Hampshire minerals and geology. The state research
forester made a collection of wood samples of New Hamp-
shire trees and presented them to the center. An exhibit
about the White Mountain National Forest was loaned by the
Forest Service. An aerial photograph of the area and a land-
use plan was furnished by the Soil Conservation service.

In planning the weekly program, Consideration was given
to the varied summer uses of the park. Nearby is a heavily
used family picnic ground and swimming area, a day camp
area used by the Girl Scouts, and a pioneer Girl Scouts camp.
A large family campground and two organized camp sites
are also used extensively during the camping season by New
Hampshire 4-H groups on a county basis for short-term
camping experiences.

The center was open to the public every day except Mon-
day. Morning periods were devoted to field trips and oc-
casional bird walks for the public. Thursdays were reserved
for organized groups such as garden clubs, Girl and Boy
Scouts, groups from nearby summer camps, and the various
youth and children’s groups using the camp facilities of the
park. Afternoons were reserved for pe0ple to visit the cen-
ter, see the exhibits, and browse through the nature library.
Informal instruction in nature crafts was also offered. Sev-
eral live exhibits were maintained: a terrarium with frogs,
salamanders, and turtles; a snake cage; an exhibit of bog
plants, including pitcher plants and sundew; several insect
cages; and a display of the plants that live on the forest floor
of a typical New Hampshire forest.

Interesting field trips near the center included such areas
as a managed forest, an old-growth white pine grove, a brook
valley, a beaver pond, a bog, and open scrubland area. The
trips were geared to the interests of the groups on the trip.
Children’s groups enjoyed hunts for salamanders, snakes,
and frogs and, after becoming acquainted with their catches,
were encouraged to let them go, except for the few needed
for exhibits. The center proved a valuable rainy day,asset

Continued on Page 258

235

MAY IS SENIOR CITIZENS MONTH

 

CAMPING for SENIORS

 

A camp program [or senior adults should provide ample
time [or strolls in the woods or [or sitting on the beach, look-
ing across the water, fishing Q6 a dock, or just chatting.

236

citizens is demonstrating what happens to the older
adults who are given the opportunity of leaving the
sweltering heat of the cities and the monotony of their daily
lives for a taste of group living and a variety of experience
in the out-of-doors. That camping adds greatly to the rich-
ness of living, to mental and physical health, and needed
strength and courage is being proven across the country.
It is well to remember that in the beginning your camping
program may attract comparatively few older people. After
a first exposure, senior campers wiII reassure others.

THE RAPIDLY GROWING FIELD of camping for our older

Day Camps—These are multiplying and have much to con-
tribute to the lives of this age group. For instance. the day
camp established by thc Older Adult Services of the New
York YM-YWHA experimental Camp Bay Hill at Mt. Kisco,
New York, is offering a camp season of six weeks—July 3 to
August 11—with three days per week in the country, Fec:
twenty dollars. The group departs from the Y in chartered
buses, with pickups at especially arranged points. Campers
hring their own lunches and beverages, and the camp pro-
vides cool drinks in thc afternoon. It is staffed by especially
trained spccialists and supervised by the year-round direc-
tors of thc YM-YWHA Older Adult Programs. Attendance
averages ninety-eight each day. Program includes garden-
ing, nature walks, swimming, volleyhaII and shuflleboard,
arts and crafts, dramatics, and choral groups organized hy
the campers. The campers write of it:

“Let us tell you why we need this day camp and love it
so much. Take, for example, swimming. We have a beauti-
ful pool and specially built steps so that we can walk easily
into the water. We have a swimming instructor at the pool
who gives personal attention to everybody and who leads
water games. As a result, people who have not gone swim-
ming for fifteen or twenty years are doing it again and re-
capturing the fun of their youth. People are even learning
to float who never before in their lives were able to. Can
you realize what this means to an older person? There is
such a jolly spirit around the pool that every day many peo-
ple who do not go into the water come to sit around and
join in the fun.

“Previously, before we had a day camp, we went on many
picnics where there was an opportunity to swim. However,
only a very few people actually went swimming and every-

RECREATION

 

A free-and-easy program for seniors pro-
vides enriching experiences but exerts no
compulsion. There should be time for drift-
ing along gently and quiet contemplation.

body had the feeling that swimming just was not for older
people. The difference, now, is that we have our own pool,
that we go swimming in an organized way, and that we have
a skilled counselor who can help people get the benefit of
this activity.

“This is the same in all our other activities, whether na-
ture walks, gardening, dancing, singing, or outdoor games
like shuffleboard, croquet, horseshoes, or miniature golf.
We have the help of skilled counselors to help us learn these
activities and get the most out of them. This is not like our
picnics in previous years, where we spent much time in eat-
ing, sang a few songs, and just sat around most of the time.

“Camp Bay Hill is such a beautiful place that we hope we
can come for eight weeks instead of six next year. It has
very good facilities, and the main building is really mag-
. nificent. We have as much fun in that building on a rainy
day as we do when the sun is shining. . . .

“You can imagine from this the kind of camp Spirit that
we have at day camp. Our big affairs, like birthday parties,
campfires, cookouts, and masquerades, are very lively and
have a special outdoor flavor we do not get in our year-round
club activities. Then, there are the small groups that get to-
gether after lunch, each one with a counselor, for discussion
and fellowship. We also enjoy the pleasant bus rides to camp
with their singing and jolly spirit.”

Overnight Camping—1n the leaflet, Camping with Senior
Adults (1960)*, the Senior Adult Committee, Board of
Christian Education of the United Church of Canada, says
of facilities for this age group: a‘Camp accommodations
should be reviewed carefully to ensure the physical health
and comfort of the campers. Privacy is important—if larger

* This leaflet is available from the Literature Distribution Centre,
299 Queen Street West, Toronto 2B, Ontario, for ten cents.
OTHER RESOURCES:

Summer is Ageless, Georgene Bowen (1958) , $1.00.

Recreation in the Senior Years, Arthur Williams (1962), $3.95.
Both of the above are available from the NRA Book Center, 8 West
8th Street, New York 11.

MAY, 1962

An opportunity to leave the sweltering city
in summer is being offered to this group
in both day and overnight camps

than two-bed cabins must be used, dividing screens or cur-
tains help. Washing facilities should include bathtubs and
hot water.

“Gcnerally speaking, each person likes to be assigned his
or her bed, a place to hang clothes and the washroom to be
uscd immediately upon arrival at camp. He or she likes to
keep the same place at the table throughout.”

The committee recommends that camps for older adults
provide:

0 Level ground between place of sleeping and eating with
no great distance between the two. Minimum of stairs, with
hanisters.
0 Cabins for sleeping with not more, than two beds in a
room—some single rooms——with easy access to bathroom
facilities under same roof. Electricity.
0 Plenty of bedding—hot water bottles, flashlights, extra
pillows for those who sleep propped up, rubber sheeting for
beds.
0 Chair beside each bed. Plenty of seating accommodation
in various spots around the grounds out-of-doors.

The camp must also:
0 Make arrangements for some special diets—saltfree, skim
milk, etcetera. Folks on similar diet might be seated at one
part of table.
0 Arrange for nurse to discover needs of each camper for
toilet facilities, medical services, and to clear diets with the
cook. A Flag on the tray or place at the table might indicate
a special diet.
0 Require a medical certificate from each camper.
0 Provide good food——a must! This includes afternoon tea
and evening snack.
0 Provide books. Have games, both quiet and active, such
as Scrabble, checkers, chess, Crokinole, horseshoes, etcetera.
Provide garden tools, materials for crafts, outdoor painting,
etcetera.
0 Tag each piece of luggage with names in big print to elim-
inate anxiety, have persons available to carry luggage.
0 Have writing materials, stamps, pens available.
0 Provide music—piano, record player, etcetera.
- Have an electric kettle handy for making coffee any hour
—-—day and night.

0 Have a supply of extra sweaters, shawls, Hannellette night-
wear, raincoats.

237

~hr:
'

In the mobile-home community “voluntary involvement”

RECREATION
FOR

means the privilege of choice

 

daily in small or large doses,

according to the individual wishes of the residents.

Outdoor activity not only centers aronnd the golf
courses and shu§leboard courts

bnt aronnd the large heated swimming pool.

James F. Lloyd

[TU OVER FIVE
W THOUSAND
mobile home sites
now under devel-

  

opment for retirees,
the recreation pro-

I

‘ gram planned for

such areas must be
tailored to fulfill the needs of full-time
retirement living in quantity as well as
quality.

Trailer Estates, a retirement commu-
nity of twcnty-three hundred persons in
Bradenton, Florida, developed by the
Mobilife Corporation, is a beehive of
activity from morning to late evening.
Social activity is available daily in large
or small doses, whichever the residents

MR. LLOYD is recreation director, Mo-
bilife Corporation, Sarasota, Florida.

238

Social activity in a retirement community is available

 

desire. Special events range from the
local junior college senior citizens
classes to plays presented by local
drama groups and regularly scheduled
activities, ranging from weekly ball-
rooni dancing with a nine-piece orches-
tra to weekly showings of cineniascope
movies by a professional projectionist.

The large auditorium (capacity
1700) is the scene of the larger social
functions, such as square dancing,
cards, ballroom dancing, movies, spe-
cial events, travelogues, community
sings, and pot-luck suppers.

Smaller functions are held in the
clubrooms adjoining the auditorium.
Here, hobby groups, dance classes, sen-
ior-citizens classes, and church groups
meet weekly and clubs and groups of
all kinds make use of the clubrooms for
various meetings. The Trailcr Estates

in recreation

 

Citizens Council, elected by the resi-
dcnts, also holds open meetings twice
a month in the clubrooms. This group
serves as a liaison between the residents
and the management and has been in-
strumental in many projects of commu-
nity betterment.

Outdoor activitics at Trailer Estates
center around the thirty-two shuflle-
board courts, which are kept busy until
late each evening. The Shuflleboard
Club, composed of seven hundred mem-
bers, governs and maintains the use of
the courts. These courts are maintained
with loving care by the members, who
have just recently built their own sep-
arate club house adjacent to the courts.
Another favorite scene of outdoor ac-
tivity is the yacht basin on Sarasota
Bay. Docking privileges are available
to residents at reduced rates and the

RECREATION

 

basin is kept full throughout the winter

In newer Mobilife develop-
ments, Tri-Par Estates in Sarasota, Flor-
ida, Tidevue Estates in Ellenton, Flor-
ida, and Tucson Estates in Tucson, Ari-
zona, outdoor activity not only centers

$835011.

around the sliuli‘leboard courts, but also
around the large heated swimming
pools and eighteen-hole Par 3 golf
courses.

Supervision of the various activities
in each community is carried out by a
recreation couple, trained and super-
vised from the recreation department
at Mobilife’s home office in Sarasota.
Smaller groups are encouraged to or-
ganize and supervise their own activi-
ties in as far as possible.

HE MAINTENANCE of a recreation
T center in a mobile-home retirement
lcomniunity is vitally important be-
cause this area is the residents’ “back-
yard.” The recreation center must be
adequate, attractive, functional, well-
kept and well-managed. The buildings
and grounds must be of the same qual-
ity and good grooming that the resi-
dents keep in their own mobile homes
and lots. The recreation center must be
congruous with the individual units in
the community.

The location of the mobile-home
community itself .is also vitally impor-
tant. Mobilife always locates its com-
munities close to a town or city with
other recreation facilities available,
either from planned programs or natu-
ral attributes. No community is an is-
land any more than man himself.

In developing retirement communi-
ties in vacation, or “warm-climate”
areas, mobile homes were selected as

MAY, 1962

   

the best-suited dwelling units for this
particular way of life. This, in itself,
naturally places a limit on the number
of retirees who are attracted to this type
of community. Not only must the pro-
spective residents agree that the mobile
home is a suitable retirement dwelling
unit, but they must be in a position to
adopt this way of life—financially,
physically, and emotionally. They will
have to adopt it financially because they
will purchase their own mobile home
and lot; physically because they will
have to be self-sufficient; and emotion-
ally, because they will have to begin a
new pattern of life typical of a retire-
ment village.

HE MAJORITY of the residents are
T in the prime of their maturity, Ii-
nancially independent and capable of
providing for themselves. They are

fresh from their life’s work and are'

ready and eager to enjoy their “vaca-
tion years” to the fullest. It has been
discovered, during Mobilife’s seven-
year span of working with retirees, that
the basic problem people face when
they retire is not physical. It is mental.
It is learning to accept a new role in
society—that of a nonworker. This is
not always an easy adjustment to make,
regardless of physical capacity or nlon-
etary assets.

Another important aspect is that
these pe0ple are on their own, possibly
for the first time. They have given up
familiar places, old friends, the old
homestead and, above all, the pattern
of life established during many produc-
tive years. They are actually pioneers
of a new way of life on the threshold of
the last frontier—aging. Therefore it is

MAY IS SENIOR CITIZENS MONTH

The shameboard courts are kept busy until late
each evening. The residents govern and maintain
use of the courts and the separate clubhouse.

important that these people enjoy a
community life. People not gregarious
by nature hnd themselves at a loss over
Mobilife “togetherness.” Of course,
this is not a captive audience. These re-
tirees chose to come and at any time
may choose to go somewhere else.

Mobilife does not judge the success
of any recreation program on the basis
of the number of persons attending. If
there are ten persons at a particular
event, or one thousand, the important
thing is that the event is being held and
that individuals have the opportunity
of participating therein if they choose
to do so.

Trained leaders know that an indi-
vidual of sixty or over is not going to
be pushed into participation, no matter
what the incentive, but is independent
in his thinking and must make his own
choice. It is just as important to the
well-being of the residents to have a
place to stay away from, as it is for them
to have a place to go.

Voluntary involvement in the “back-
yard” recreation programs at Trailer
Estates and other mobile-home commu-
nities, constitutes a “middle-ground”
approach to recreation. This “middle-
ground,” often so bare, is that area be-
tween recreation activity in the home
(always inadequate) and recreation ac-
tivity provided by municipalities (often
too far and too few).

By providing recreation based on
non-involvement, Mobilife is giving
some three thousand residents recrea-
tion designed to enrich their lives by
helping to preserve a healthy and active
state of mind—so important to any re-
tiree in his search for the pleasures of
retirement. #

239

The Air Force wants its

base recreation opportunities

to equal the best in the nation

Command Performance

Robert M. Dula

RE C R E A T I 0 N
programs on
a military base are
similar to the com-
munity recreation

program in many
in fact,

 

ways;
many military
bases offer the same variety of recrea-
tion activities as cities of comparable
size. The three key points of Air Force
recreation policy are: recreation pro-
grams and opportunities equal to the
best in the nation; the same high qual-
ity of “management” as is demanded in
the many carefully organized systems
of defense; a progressive partnership
with other segments of the American
recreation movement. For a better un-
derstanding of the areas of military rec-
reation, let us first look at the recrea-
tion facilities and activities which exist
at an air-base installation:

Lincoln Air Force Base is located in
the rolling hills six miles west of Lin-
coln, Nebraska. It has 1,006 new hous-
ing units located on a rolling hill over-
looking the base, and its total popula-
tion, including wives and children, is
approximately 15,000.

The service club, or base community
center, is the largest recreation facility
on the base and houses the leathercraft,
ceramics, photography hobby shops,
gameroom, chess club, television
rooms, ballroom, and meeting rooms.
It is also used for special activities and
programs. The service club’s photogra-
phy hobby shop is in great demand by
base personnel. Advice and instruc-
tions on all photographic problems are
given at no extra charge by a part-time
supervisor. The shop contains two de-

 

MR. DULA is recreation director at Lin-
coln Air Force Base in Nebraska.

240

veloping rooms, two printing rooms,
dryer-layout room, and a recreation
area. A nominal charge of $5.35 an hour
is made for the developing room in an
attempt to keep the shop self-supporting.
Most contact paper and developing sup-
plies are furnished free.

The popular ceramic hobby shop is
open to all military personnel and de.
pendents. It provides instructions in
copper enameling, use of the potter’s
wheel, and ceramics. This shop first got
under way with the help of a part-time
professional instructor from the city of
Lincoln. Ninety percent of the persons
using the ceramic shop are the wives of
base personnel. (It is intercsting to
note that ninety percent of the persons
using the other hobby shops are military
personnel.) The leathercraft hobby
shop offers free instructions in tooling,
carving, and assembling of leathercraft.
All materials at these three hobby shops
are supplied at a discount. Other facil-
ities include the automotive hobby shop
with more than thirty car stalls for
wheel balancing, welding, wheel align-
ments, lubricating, body and fender re-
pair, motor overhaul, and painting.
Twenty-five cents an hour or one dollar
a day is charged for use of a stall. It is
the only self-supporting hobby shop on
the base. In the wood hobby shop,
equipment ranges from wood lathes to
electrical saw equipment. Coffee tablcs,
camping trailers, boats, and other use-
ful items are made here. The shop also
is used in repairing broken furniture
and equipment used by the recreation
facilities.

The base has two Spacious unheated
swimming pools: the oflicers’ pool (61’-
hy-83') and the enlisted men’s pool (71’-
by-121’) . These are equipped with div-

ing boards, a sunbathing area, and

 

Skeet range at Lincoln Air Force Base.
The military community also has picnic
sites, golf driving range, theater, arch-
ery area, and grazing area for horses.

The

ten-lane automatic pinsetter bowling

dressing-showerroom facilities.
alley is one of the most popular facili-
ties. One hundred and forty teams com-
prise fourteen leagues, which play dur-
ing the evenings; dependent youth
leagues are held on Saturday after-
noons. Thirty cents a line is charged
for the military personnel and depen-
dents. A snack bar is located in the fa-
cility and aids in making bowling one
of the most widely used recreation fa-
cilities on the base.

A large fieldhouse-gymnasium houses
two baskethall courts, a physical con-
ditioning room, steamroom, massage
room, and handball court. Intramural
touch foothall fields, softhall diamonds,
and Little League haseball diamond

RECREATION

- 7“.

 

Fifty-acre Bowling Lake provides the base with a variety of water activities.
Fishing, boating, waterskiing lessons, and aqua-air shows are favorite pastimes.

 

The base also uses the
city facilities in Lin-
coln. Here an Air
Force group enjoys ice
skating in Pershing Au-
ditorium. The base re-
ceives excellent cooper-
ation from the Lincoln
Recreation Department

and local civic groups.

surround the fieldhouse-gymnasium.
An excellent library, with a chil-
dren’s reading room, provides current
books and other reading materials.
NeWSpapers and magazines are avail-
able in another room. Working parents
or couples out on the town for an eve-
ning appreciate the nursery where a
nominal fee is charged either on an
hourly or daily basis. The nursery has
an outdoor playground, indoor play-

MAY, 1962

Touch football is as
p0pular with base per-
sonnel as with the Con:-
mander-in-Chie I ntra-
mural touch football
fields, softball dia-
monds, and Little
League baseball dia-
mond surround the

base’s large gym.

 

room, sleeping room, and kitchen.
The base also has spacious fifty-acre
Bowling Lake and a lodge where week-
end parties and recreation activities are
held. In the summer, fishing, water ski-
ing, boating, waterskiing lessons, and
aqua-air shows are favorite pastimes.
The military community also has a
theater, a skeet range, golf driving
course, archery area, and a grazing area
for horses. Two picnic areas offer pic-

nic tables, restrooms, grills, and game
equipment under shady trees. Aside
from the normal activities scheduled in
the recreation facilities, special events
include tours through the University of
Nebraska Museum, the state peniten-
tiary, banks, local TV station, city news-
paper building, Boys Town at Omaha,
the Cushman factory, Pioneer Village,
and other places of interest.

Other recreation activities include
archery lessons and tournament, a base
swimming team, swimming instructions
for adults, free monthly roller skating
parties, and golf and tennis lessons. Ice
skating is scheduled twice during the
summer in Lincoln’s Pershing Audito-
rium. A special night at the professional
baseball park, designated as “Lincoln
Air Force Base Night” is also arranged
each summer. Square dancing and les-
sons are held each Friday and Saturday
at the base service club.

During the fall, winter and spring
months, the base buzzes with fencing, -
chess, hobby shows, hobby shop open-
house, crafts workshops, special Thanks-
giving and Christmas shows, visits and
interviews at the local TV station, Uni-
versity of Nebraska productions includ-
ing the All-University Talent Show,
base talent shows, bowling leagues, and
the Miss Lincoln beauty contest. Tour-
naments are held monthly and winners
go on to further competition. Such
tournaments include basketball, box-
ing, judo, volleyball, bowling, badmin-
ton, Ping-pong, handball, track and
field, model airplane, swimming and
diving, tennis, softball, baseball, and

golf.

HE BASE YOUTH CENTER is open to
dependent youth five days a week,
with special night-time dances and ac-
tivities on weekends. "A pool table, Ping-
pong table, and snack bar are provided
for registered members. These include
children nine years of age through the
twelfth grade. The summer recreation
program for dependent youth includes
such activities as scouting; Red Cross
swimming instruction; stamp clubs;
junior rifle club; bowling leagues; girl’s:

241

softball team; Little League and Pony
League baseball; archery, tennis, and
water skiing lessons; dancing lessons;
and tours. Each month, party nights at
the youth center are as follows: first and
third Fridays, Twixers (seventh and
eighth grade] ; second and fourth Fri-
days, Tweeners. [nine-year-old through
sixth grade] ; Saturday, Teeners (ninth
grade through high school).

A playground is also provided in the
housing area. Through the coordina-
tion of the Lincoln Recreation Depart-
ment, the playground is highly success-
ful. In 1961, the base playground
ranked second in total attendance
among the twenty-seven playgrounds in
the city.

The base receives excellent coopera-
tion from local civic organizations, in-
cluding the Lincoln Coordinating Coun-
cil, which consists of volunteer laymen
and provides major assistance to thc
base recreation personnel. More than
sixty organizations, hobby groups, in-
stitutions, and agencies meet through-
out the year with the base recreation di-
rector and recreation chief.

The civilian representatives call at-

tention to community activities in which
base personnel may participate. The
Lincoln churches donate fifty to a hun-
dred dozen cookies each week for a
“Cookie and Coffee Call” at the base
each Sunday morning; the University
of Nebraska gives athletic ticket reduc-
tions as well as sending special musical
and talent programs to the base; the
hobby groups participate wholehearted-
ly in the annual base hobby show; and
Lincoln has organized a junior hostess
program to send escorted girls to serv-
ice club dances.

THE BASE RECREATION program oper-
ates on an approximate 370,000
budget yearly through nonappropriated
funds. Each month the Central Base
Fund Council meets to determine where
the money will be spent. For items of
highcr cost, requcsts from each base are
turned in to Second Air Force for “spe-
cial grants.”

A military oflicer, with title of “Rec-
reation Chief," and a civilian recreation
director, paid through appropriated
funds, are responsible for the recreation

program. Recreation personnel staff

also assigned includes a civilian youth
director, a civilian service club direc-
tor, two military auto hobby shop su-
pervisors, a staff of five military person-
nel in the gymnasium, one full-time
civilian and a part-time civilian along
with two airmen in the library, two mil-
itary wood hobby shop supervisors, one
civilian bowling lane manager, two rec-
reation supply airmen, five military staff
airmen in the service club (plus a ci-
vilian custodian), one civilian nurscry
supervisor assisted by part-time person-
nel, a military Bowling Lake Lodge
manager. Part-time personnel are used
in the theater, bowling alley; snack bar:
ceramic, leathercraft, photography, and
automotive hohby shops; swimming
pool; and year-around recreation pro-
grams. The Central Base Fund, which
also supervises the budget used in the
recreation programs, employs a staff of
four persons.

The Air Force wants its recreation
programs and opportunities to equal
the best in the nation. Lincoln AFB of-
fcrs its personnel a coordinated base—
community program which meets that
challenge. #

 

 
 
    
     

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

HILLERIOH & BRADSBY 00.

LOUISVILLE 2, KENTUCKY

The signatures of these great sluggers appear only on the
barrel end of Famous Louisville Slugger Bats. Send for full
color catalog—address Dept. R-Z.

RECREATION

‘1

1 . .ua..__

 
  

Safe Cycling

A program for bicycle safety for
American Bicycle Month (May) has
been set up in Dedham, Massachusetts,
by Walter Colby, executive director of
the Dedham Community House. PTA’s,
the school department, and the board
of selectmen cooperated on the plan.
This is how the program worked last
year: through the schools, an applica-
tion to take a bicycle test was distrib-
uted. When these came back, a study
paper was issued through the school,
carrying a study of the rules of the road
and special rules for bike riders. The
children were given two weeks to study
and a true-or-false test was conducted at
the end of the period. The children who
passed took a road test on play areas or
parks. Upon passing the road test, they
were presented with a decal which reads
“Safe Bicycle Rider—Dedham, Mass.,”
and a small pocket booklet which serves
as identification and contains first-aid
rules, rules of the road, and an accident
report card. Mr. Colby began the pro-
‘ gram in March and finished it in May.

New Blooms

0 A flower project proved a blooming
success in Delaware Township, New
Jersey. Seniors at St. Mary’s Catholic
Home for the Aged planted 240 narcis-
sus bulbs in two hundred pounds of

 

MAY, 1962

pebbles. The fragrant white flowers
bloomed all over the home’s dining
room, lifting morale and rejuvenating
some green thumbs.

o Poise, posture, and personality class-
es for seniors in Los Angeles County,
California, are for the young at heart.
Senior citizens meet once a week in
Plummer County Park for instruction
in voice and diction, posture, color har-
mony, wardrobe, personality develop-
ment, makeup and hairstyle techniques.
The course is also a key to finding new
friends and new interests in life.

Employe Leisure

At the annual meeting of the Boeing
Company’s Employes Recreation Coun-
cil in Seattle, Washington, a chairman
reported on the aircraft company’s vari-
ous athletic and hobby clubs. Notable
was the fact that the fish dcrby had a
flood of applicants and was able to ac-
cept only six thousand of the thirteen
thousands who applied. The Trailer and
Coach Club started off 1961 with nine
trailers and now has thirty-five. The
group alternates trips, having one out-
ing where there are facilities and one
without. Several trips made by the
Travel Club included its fifth annual
trip to Hawaii. Thirty-five employe rec-
reation clubs are now included in the
council. Four new ones were established

The governors get the latest data on
parks and recreation. Left, Susan Lee,
vice-president of the National Recrea-
tion Association, presents NRA’s 1961
Recreation and Park Yearbook to Gov-
ernor John A. Volpe of Massachusetts.
Right, Terry Sanford (center), gover-
nor of North Carolina, received the
Yearbook from Oha Hester (right),
president of the North Carolina Recre-

ation Society, aided by Temple Jarrell,
NRA Southern district representative.

A REPORTER’S
NOTEBOOK

  

recently—chess, organ, boat, and curl-
ing groups. All clubs showed an in-
crease in participation. The Skin Div-
ing and Flying Clubs reported no casu-
alties.

STATE SOCIETY NEWS

CONNECTICUT: New officers of the Con-
necticut Recreation Society are: Presi-
dent, Clement Lemire, superintendent
of parks, and recreation, Newington;
First Vice-President, Ernest St. Jacques,
superintendent of recreation,West Hart-
ford; Second Vice-President, Raymond
Berte, director of recreation, Farming-
ton; Secretary-Treasurer, Fred Mande-
ville, superintendent of recreation, Mer-
iden.-

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS
Clyde R. Seeley, a member of the staff

of George Williams College for six
years, was recently appointed director
of George Williams College Camp at
Williams Bay, Wisconsin. The camp is
the 108-acre Lake Geneva Campus of
George Williams College. A year-round
conference and vacation center, it is
also the site of summer schools, insti-
tutes, and educational and religious as-
semblies.

Clark Tibbitts was recently appointed
deputy director of the Special Staff on
Aging in the US. Department of Health,

 

243

Education, and Welfare. Mr. Tibbitts

will assist the director of the special
staff in formulating staff policy and will
continue to be responsible for the devel-
opment of a program for research and
training to improve the living condi-
tions of the seventeen million Ameri-
cans over sixty-five.

John P. Cronin, director of the Prov-
idence, Rhode Island, Recreation De-
partment, has been named special ad-
visor to the Citizens Advisory Council
to the President’s Committee on Juven-

 

The quarterly magazine with new
weaving ideas in each issuc

A complete file of back issues will give you
a valuable weaving library

Write for brochure
and prices of back issues

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

‘I yr .....  ______ --$ 4 2 yrs ....... ..$ 7.50
3 yrs ....  ..... ..$'IO 5 yrs ....... .. $15

Pan-American & Foreign rates $1 a year
exlra. Single copies $1.25

Handweaver & Craftsman
246 mm AVENUE new voax 1

 

 

ile Delinquency and Youth Crime. Mr.
Cronin has been director of the Provi-
dence department for the past fifteen
years as well as the director of the Prov-
idence Junior Police Camp. He is a
member of many civic and athletic or-
ganizations in Rhode Island and, at
present, is chairman of the Governor’s
Advisory Committee on Aging, chair-
man of the Committee of Executives of
Recreation and Group Work Agencies
of Rhode Island, and a member of the
Governor’s Committee on Children and
Youth. In addition, he has just been ap-
pointed to the Advisory Committee on
Young Workers of the United States
Department of Labor.

Providence has developed a compre-
hensive master plan for redevelopment
of its downtown area which calls for
parks, pedestrian walkways, malls, and
a sports and civic center.

Myron N. (Min)
Hendrick, direc-
tor of recreation in
Niagara Falls, New
York, is gathering
some well-earned
laurels. On May 8,
Min will receivc the
annual award of the Roaring Twenties,
an informal organization of students
who attended Niagara Falls High School
in the Twenties. Several months ago
he received a local Police Club Civic
Award and his assistant, Norman Mir-
rington, received a similar award. Both
were presented for work in setting up
various youth programs.

In February, the Uniformed Fire-
fighters Local 714 presented Mr. Hen-
drick with a gold badge signifying life-

MILTON HOOD WARD

& CO.

Hotel Plaza' New York I9, N. Y. o

, INC.

PLaza 3-7680

Capital and budget campaigns for:

Y’s
Community Centers
IIIIII

Theatre Groups
Symphony Orchestras
Parks

Pools
Libraries

Complimentary conference on request

Member Firm, American Atrociation of Fund Rafting Conmel.

244

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

time membership in the organization,
as recognition for his work developing
the AAU physical fitness and Junior
Olympics programs. In March, he re-
ceived a plaque for international effort
at the Sports Night held in Niagara
Falls, Ontario.

Rodney E. Mott

is the new program
director of Inter-
national House in
Philadelphia. He
will be responsible
for the develop-
ment, supervision,
and coordination of an over-all pro-
gram of recreation and cultural activi-
ties for some three thousand foreign-
exchange students within the Philadel-
phia suburban area. He will direct,
promote, and supervise the develop-
ment of a program in the rural setting
of the Gladwyne Hostel, the first coun-
try program site for foreign students in
thc area. The programs will provide an
opportunity for American families and
foreign students to work and exchange
recreation experiences and techniques.
Mr. Mott will work closely with fifty-six
collcges, univcrsities, and schools of
higher lcarning to provide a well-bal-
anced program for all foreign students.
Mr. Mott has also served as superintend-
ent of parks and recreation for the Up-
per Merion Park and Recreation De-
partment in Pennsylvania.

Jack Springer, superintendent of rec-
reation in Statesville, North Carolina,
was prcscnted with an award for com-
munity leadership by the local Order of

De Mola y.

Lucy C. Morgan, director of the Pen-
land School of Handicrafts in Pcnland,
North Carolina, is retiring at the age of
seventy-three. Known affectionately as
I“Miss Lucy,” she has been associated
with the school for forty-two years. The
land on which thc school is built once
belonged to Miss Morgan who deeded
it to the board of trustees. The school
has achieved intcrnational recognition;
students and observers have come from
every state in the Union and from some
sixty foreign countries. In 1961 stu-
dents and staff representcd thirty states
and thirty foreign countries. Bill

RECREATION

 

Four veteran employees of the Los Angeles City Recreation and Park Department
were honored recently for their combined record of 120 years of service to the
city. George K. Simmonds ( extreme right), president of the Civil Service Com-
mission, presented the service pins. Left to right: Emerson Green, principal park
foreman ( 35 years); Americ Hadley, supervisor of golf ( 30 years); Simeon Kem-
per, Jr., recreation director (30 years); Ernest Powell, assistant maintenance
supervisor ( 25 years). A loyal and dedicated crew.

 

Brown of Worcester, Massachusetts,
will fill the directorship upon Miss
Lucy’s retirement. He is, at present,
head of the department of design in the
Worcester Craft Center and is on the
teaching staff of The Haystack Moun-
tain School of Crafts, Deer Isle, Maine.

In the twelve years that Vineent J.
Hebert has been superintendent of the
parks and recreation department in
Pittineld, Massachusetts, recreation has
come a long way. Five new playgrounds,
including one for retarded children,
have been opened; parks have been sig-
nificantly developed; the senior citizens
center has been initiated. Recently, Mr.
Hebert was awarded the annual citizen-
ship citation for meritorious commu-
nity service given by the Adullam Lodge
of B’nai B’rith. The Berkshire Eagle,
in commenting editorially on the award,
characterized “Vinny” as “a genial gen-
tlelnan and an indefatigable workhorse,
whose professional accomplishments are
as noteworthy as his philosophy.”

The Eagle also quoted some of the
Hebert philosophy: “In this day and
age when man can circle the earth in
eighty-eight minutes, what we do with
the time we save is of increasing im-
portance. If we spend it wisely, we’ll be
all right; if not, we’ll decay, go back-
wards.

“Our social growth and development

MAY, 1962

must catch up with our technological
development. Some of us still can’t live
with the guy next door, but we’re racing
for a spot on the moon.”

IN MEMORIAM

«- ROBERT E. MAYTAG, conservationist
and naturalist, died recently at the age
of thirty-eight. Mr. Maytag received
many honors in the conservation field.
His most recent project was founding a
zoo in Phoenix, Arizona. He was presi-
dent of the Arizona Zoological Society,
which he founded, and was named

Phoenix Man of the Year in 1961. He
founded the Maytag Chair of Ichthyol-
ogy at Miami (Florida) University,
founded the Florida Sheriffs Boys’
Ranch, was a recipient of the Florida
Saltwater Conservation Award, and
was a director of the International Oce-
anographic Foundation.

«- LOUIS H. BARKIIAUSEN, former presi-
dent of Ducks Unlimited, Inc., and long
active in conservation work, died re-
cently in Chicago at the age of eighty-
two. Mr. Barkhausen served as presi-
dent of Ducks Unlimited in 1940-1 and
maintained his own game sanctuary in
Little Saumico, Wisconsin, until five
years ago when he turned it over to
Brown County. Last January he re-
ceived one of the American Motors con-
servation awards.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

   
 

WRITE FOR
LITERATURE

i
WEDDDJEJB’J.
DIVING BOARD

World's Finest Official Board
Rugged Aircraft Girder Construction,
Unequaled in Design. Durability and
Performance by any board built today.

Exclusive internationai Distributors

raw...“
".‘- M . '— r a  _'

AME ICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.
WORLD'S [ARGEST MANUFACTURERS or FINE

 

I’ARK, PICNIC. PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

Hanna's  if I exclusive
PRO-T I“ REATED
barrels practically
eliminate chipping
and ch ecking,
while fac tory ap-
plied FIBE RGLASS
SLEEVES reduce
h a n d I e breakage.
cost hitter!

 

 

HANNA MFG. CO. Athens, Ga.

245

r"

National Recreation Congress

Edward H. Thacker

ONE of recreation’s primary con-
cerns today is the individual and
what can be done to help him achieve

time in this era of incrcasing leisure.
If work no longer offers the Opportunity
for fulfillment and satisfaction through

 

creating and achieving, people must
find it elsewhere. The present misuse of leisure time by in-
dividuals has made this more important than ever before
and stands as a challenge to the recreation profession to do
something about it. Therefore, the emphasis of the 44th
National Recreation Congress will be, fittingly, on the na-
ture of man—and why his leisure-time nceds are so impor-
tant and so critical at this time. “Misuse of leisure,” says
Laurance S. Rockefeller, “might well become the Achilles’
heel of our free society.”

The 44th Congress will devote a full day, October 1, to a
focus-in-depth program on “The Recreation Participant—-
Present and Potential.” Dr. Ethel Alpenfels, professor of
educational anthropology at New York University, and Dr.
Luther Gulick, president of the Institute of Public Adminis-
tration, will deliver the keynote addresses for this special
program. Dr. Alpenfels will speak on “Man—His Nature as
an Individual Today” and Dr. Gulick will address the dele-
gates on “The Challenge to Recreation.” Following these
addresses, specific agency-setting discussion meetings will
eXplore the implications of the keynote addresses.

In line with the foregoing, the Congress Program Plan-
ning Committee is formulating an exciting and informative
program. Dr. Howard Rusk, director of the Institute of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at the New York Uni-
versity Medical Center, will address a general session on
hospital recreation and the community. Other general ses-
sions planned“ to highlight the Congress theme, “Free Time

MR. TRACKER, chairman of the Program Planning Commit-
tee for the 44th National Recreation Congress, is a recreation
analyst for the District of Columbia Recreation Department.

h

246

   

the most constructive use of his free.

‘ Congress

- - 7} Highlight

3.  r  «a -

Philadelphia, September 30-October 5

—-—A Challenge to Free Men,” include the scope and impor-
tance of the cultural phase of recreation programs and an
up-to-date report on the newly created federal Bureau of
Outdoor Recreation. Dr. E. C. Crafts will tell the Congress
about the significance of this new agency ( see also Page 231}.

In addition, outstanding authorities, selected by the Pro-
gram Committee, are busy developing plans for some forty
special-interest and workshop sessions dealing with prob-
lems, trends, and developments of concern to the recreation
field. These sessions are geared to offer delegates new ideas,

new techniques, answer questions, and cquip them to do a
better recreation job in their community.

As usual, 3 major feature of the Congress will be the Ex-
hibit Area with over one hundred commcrcial exhibits. In
addition, educational exhibits will highlight agency services
and program ideas. The National Recreation Association
Consultation Area will again be in Operation to assist dele-
gates in sccuring authoritative advice on any recreation
problem.

It is within this broad spectrum of convcntion activity
that the Congress Program Planning Committee feels sure a
valuable and enriching experience awaits all delegates in
Philadelphia. Headquarters for the 44th Congress will be
the new twenty-one story Sheraton Hotel which contains a
thousand rooms and suites and a thousand-car garage. This
new inulti-million-dollar hostelry houses the city’s largest
and newest ballroom and is located in thc heart of Pcnn Cen-
ter, which is a city within a city. The Penn Center project
has been acclaimed as one of the boldest and most exciting
plans of city devclopment in the world. Philadelphia’s rec-
reation areas (see Page 248) have developed in fabulous
fashion since the last Recreation Congress in that city
(1956) . They are really something every recreation leadcr
should see.

 

Are you coming to Philadelphia—0r will
you, too, lag behind like the youngster above?

RECREATION

RECORDING
SUMMER PLAYGROUND
ATTENDANCE

 

the summer of 1960 showed the visit is the most feasi-

ble and satisfactory attendance unit and that since
it is not practicable to record all visits, modification of the
peak count each session affords the best means of estimating
the number of persons using the playground per session.
During the study actual attendance and peak counts were
made at seventy-five playgrounds for a period of one week
in order to determine the basis for modifying the peak
counts (see RECREATION, April 1961). The study was spon-
sored by the National Recreation Association’s National Ad-
visory Committees on Administration and Research and was
conducted by a committee of ten recreation executives with
Graham Skea, superintendent of recreation in East Orange,
New Jersey, as chairman.

S STUDY of playground attendance-taking conducted in

FORMULA
Ratio of Visits to Peak Count
Playgrounds Classiued

by Acreage
Morning Afternoon Evening
Under 3 acres 1.98 2.25 2.25
35 acres 1.70 2.46 1.88
5-8 acres 1.93 2.97 1.42
8 and over 1.83 2.51 1.71
Playgrounds Classified
by Leadership Hours
Morning Afternoon Evening
Under 80 per week 1.74 2.06 1.53
80-120 1.60 2.05 1.27
120 and over 2.07 2.85 2.26
Playgrounds Classified
by Hours of Operation
Morning: Under 3 hours 1.68 3 hours and over 1.96
Afternoon: 4 hours or under 1.89 Over 4 hours 3.01
Evening: Under 2 hours 1.29 2 hours and over 1.94

As a result of its study, the committee concluded that no
single attendance index is applicable to all playgrounds. It
proposed that the attendance at each individual playground
be determined by the use of a morning, afternoon, and
evening index applicable to a playground of its size and
hours of operation and of leadership. This requires a sep-

MAY, 1962

 

arate index to be assigned each playground—morning, af-
ternoon, and evening.

By way of illustration, a playground of six acres with a
total of one hundred leadership hours per week and open
three hours per morning would have, according to the pre-
ceding tables, morning ratios of 1.93, 1.60, and 1.96, re-
spectively, or an average of 1.83. To determine the morning
attendance—number of visits at this playground—the peak
count would be multiplied by 1.83.

Similarly, if the playground is Open four hours in the
afternoon, its afternoon ratios would be 2.97, 2.05, and
1.89, respectively, or an average of 2.3. To determine the
afternoon attendance, the peak count would be multiplied
by 2.3. The evening attendance would he determined in the
same manner. The sum of attendances for morning, after-
noon, and evening sessions would represent the daily total.

The committee recommends that a peak count of the num-
her of persons on the playground be recorded each morning,
afternoon, or evening session at which leadership is pro-
vided. It further recommends that playground directors re-
cord the peak count only on their attendance report. Appli-
cation of the indices to determine total attendarfce should be
a function of the central oiEce, which has a record of the in-
dices of all playgrounds, as determined at the beginning of
the season.

In cities where all playgrounds are similar in size, leader-
ship, and hours of operation, or where for some reason it
is not practicable to assign indices to each individual play-
ground, the committee recommends that the following ratios
be applied: _

Morning—Multiply peak count by 1.8
AfternoonuMultiply peak count by 2.5
Evening—Multiply peak count by 1.8

The committee recognizes that its recommendations may
not apply at playgrounds with unusual conditions and sug-
gests test counts be made to discover the best formula for
estimating attendance at such areas.'

Reports of experience in the uer of the committee’s rec-
ommendations will be welcomed by the National Recreation
Association. # *

247

Right, like the rest of Philadelphia’s
over three hundred play spots, this play-
ground at Howard and Berks Streets
provides recreation for citizens from
toddlers to totterers. The playgrounds
and recreation areas are for use of'
entire family, not only the children.

Below, wild Indians work of} extra en-
ergy in fort at Simpson Playground. No
two playgrounds in Philadelphia are
alike; each holds something different,
even  it is only a merry flyer or a con-
crete jeep. By 1967 every playground
in. the city will have been redeveloped.

Mothers sit in the sun and watch their children play in the tots’ area at Rose Play-
ground. The coiled caterpillar of colorful mosaic is a creature from a futuristic fairy tale.

243 RECREATION

 

   

 

MAY, 1962

l

b

The modern recreation
building at Rose Play-
ground permits a varied
indoor program includ-
ing instruction in arts
and crafts and rainy-
day activities for all.

Spray pool at .Tarhen
Playground proves bet-
ter than open fireplug.
The city also has forty-
three swimming pools
which were used by

2,300,000 last year.

i FR 0M WING -DING

T0 HINK Y- DINK

in Philadelphia, host city for 44th Recreation Congress

Hugh Scott

Philadelphia’s playgrounds at-
tracted little attention. Fewer in
number, often shabby, and with a dull
similarity of equipment, they were seen,
but seldom heard of.
N ow things are different. The city’s
recreation program has a magnet-like
attraction for visitors. They come from

NINE YEARS and $18,000,000 ago

 

South Dakota, Siam, and South Africa

to View the 338 different play facilities,
ninety of which are either new or rede-
veloped within the past nine years. And
they collectively call Philadelphia’s rec-
reation program one of the most im-
pressive in the world.

One big reason for the difference—-

apart from the $18,000,000—i5 imag'

Children at Frederic
Mann Recreation Cen-
ter love their concrete
porpoise, one of the
many real and fabled
animals to be found on
the city’s play areas.

 

A spirited ride on this magic steed affords the children’s iniaginations full rein.
Holes in the creature’s back are not clearly visible here, but offer good climbing.

249

    
   
 
 
   
 
 
     
 
 
    

Left, an overall view of the play area
at M cA lpin Playground shows activitie
in full swing. Note candy-stripe pole.
and the variety of climbers, whirlers
and slides. Parents, older sisters ana
brothers share in the tot’s enjoyment.

  

   
 

Below, Philadelphia playgrounds s p read
out a magic carpet for imaginative play.
These youngsters at Whitehall Com-
nions actually have a piece of equip-
ment called the Magic Carpet Climber.
Makes the standard slide loolc tarne.

  

Powered by imagination. Youngsters
on the Feltonville Recreation Center
railroad travel under their own steant.
Recreation leaders from all over the
world have visited Philadelphia to see
its modern, creative playground equip-
meat and other outstanding facilities.

ination. and much of this came from
Recreation Commissioner Robert W.
Crawford. With a fine background of
recreational experience. Commissioner
Crawford knew, for example, that just
as fish must swim and birds fly. children
must crawl and climb.

“If it’s mountable,” the youngsters
say, “it’s wonderful."

Reflecting this, Philadelphia’s play-
grounds have become a climber’s carni-
val. There are igloo, cactus tree, and
wavy wall climbers. There are balance-
beam climbers, and triple spin climbers

250

and squirrel-house climbers. There are
even magic carpet. wing-ding and hinky-
dink climbers.

N0 TWO playgrounds in the city are
exactly alike; each holds some-
thing “different, even if it’s just a merry
flyer or a concrete jeep. But mixed with
these intriguing items are hre engines,
trains, turtles. saddle slides, spiral
slides, climbing nets, castles, and moats.
Too, there are forty-three swimming
pools, which were used by almost 2,-
300,000 peeple last ycar. There is Camp
William Penn, two day camps, and some
assorted facilities, including the Tini-
cum Wildlife Preserve and the former
Pennsylvania State Fish Hatchery.

This variety reflects a second Craw-
ford belief, which is that playgrounds
and recreation centers don’t exist for
children alone. In fact, one of his favor-
ite statements is that the family that
plays together stays together. Thus, the
city’s recreation program is aimed at
everyone, from toddlers to totterers.
There are family nights, for example,
at the swimming pools so that children
and parents can share in the swimming
and water safety programs. There are
suppers and square dances and picnics
and concerts.

Special adult activities differ slightly

from neighborhood to neighborhood.
But generally they include baseball,
softball and outdoor basketball leagues
for men; softball and tennis tourna-
ments for women, and such quieter
games as horseshoes, boccie, checkers
and cards for senior citizens. ln addi-
tion, there are areas set aside for art,
singing, dancing, handicraft classes,
and some for just plain socializing.

By 1967, every playground in the
city will have been redeveloped as part
of the current program. The city has
found when a playground is redevel-
oped attendance jumps as much as six
hundred percent. #

This material is reprinted with permis-
sion from Today, magazine of The Phil-
adelphia Inquirer, May 2], 196l.

W HEN THE CHILD grows up in a
society that talks and acts as

if creative play opportunities can
be found among individuals in the
home and in informal neighbor-
hood settings, he will look to those
places close by for the satisfaction
of his basic needs as both child and
adult. — WAYNE R. WtLLIAMS,
Recreation Places (Reinhold Pub—
lishing Corporation, 1958).

RECREATION

  

 

IIOIIIIOIOIOIOOOOIOOII.

 

BARRIERS TO SERVICE

Simple changes in architectural features

ADMINISTRATION

of recreation facilities will expedite participation

by millions of aged and handicapped now shut out

Wilko B. Schoenbohm and Robert W. Schwanke

ILLIONS of handicapped and aged
M Americans are stopped from
participating in normal commu-
nity programs by simple architectural
features which “block” them out. The
needs and rights of these people are re-
peatedly overlook’éd or ignored hy arch-
itects, planners, and builders of all types
of facilities—churches, schools, govern-
ment buildings, hotels and motels, air-
line and bus terminals, hospitals and
medical facilities, and cultural, recrea-
tion, and sports facilities.

Estimates of the number of handi~
capped persons affected by such bar-
riers as steps, narrow doorways, inade-
quate toilet facilities, and the absence
of safety features, vary from ten to
twenty percent of our country’s popu-

MR. SCHOENBOHM is executive secre-
tary of the Minnesota Society of Crip-
pled Children and Adults, I nc., Minne-
apolis, and MR. SCHWANKE is director
of the MSCCA’s Architectural Barriers

Educational Survey Project.

MAY, 1962

lation. Included in these estimates are
some 5,000,000 persons with heart con-
ditions, 250,000 in wheelchairs, about
200,000 with leg braces, and another
139,000 with artificial limbs. In addi-
tion to these handicapped, there are the
older adults, some 16,500,000 persons
over the age of 65, and their number is
growing daily.

The therapeutic value of individually
prescribed recreation is indisputable.
Our hospitals and rehabilitation centers
put in swimming pools and other rec-
reation facilities; hire trained physical,
occupational, and recreation therapists;
and establish elaborate programs to im-
prove the physical, psychological, and
social health of their patients through
recreation. Great emphasis is put upon
returning the patient to “normal activ-
ity” as soon as possible, and “rehabili-
tation” takes on a broad, all-encompass-
ing meaning. Maintenance of physical
stamina and mental health through pre-
scribed exercise and relaxation is of

major significance as the patient at—
tempts to utilize fully what remaining
ability and function he has.

When the patient leaves the hospital
or rehabilitation setting, he is instructed
and encouraged to continue his pro-
gram of exercise and recreation. How-
ever, as anyone who has attempted to
develop a recreation program for the-
handicapped well knows, it is nearly im-v
possible to find community facilities:
which can meet the simple requirements: '
of accessibility and usability. For ex-
ample, in one agency building con-
structed within the past five years,.
access to the building is through an en-
trance with one step which might just
as well have been left "off.

The lockerroom in this same facility
is entered and exited' through a narrow'
door which opens directly onto a steep-
stairway. There is no landing at the top
and the door is “quick-closing,” making
it a definite hazard for everyone. The-
five steps leading down: into the room-

25]:

are an impossible barrier for persons
in wheelchairs. The beautifully tiled
locker room is filled to capacity with
lockers and benches, leaving aisles too
narrow for a wheelchair or a person on
crutches. Toilets are set in handsomely
designed stalls with in-swinging doors
only wide enough for the most agile ath-
lete, and there is little room inside for
even an extremely heavy person, much
less a wheelchair or the person on
crutches.

Access to the pool itself is via an
amply large shower room, but it has a
four-inch curb in the doorway. To get
from the shower room to the pool, one

 

Wheelchair square dancing at the
new Minneapolis Rehabilitation Center
which provides groand-Ievel entrances,
accessibie and usabie toiiet faciiities,
and easy accordion-door space dividers.

has to go back up live steps, pass
through a second door, negotiate a nar-
row corridor, and step off one last step
into the pool area. Is it any wonder
handicapped people and nonhandi-
capped people alike find recreation “out
of reach”?

QUALLY DIFFICULT to enter are
buildings whose sole entrance is
equipped with a revolving door. Cer-
tainly it is not conducive to successful
rehabilitation or integration into soci-
ety if those whose disability prevents
them from using revolving doors must
wait outside until a janitor can be lo-
cated to “break down” the revolving
door. Or consider the plight of handi-
capped or aged people whose paralysis
requires the use of a wheelchair at all
times. They may have been rehabili-
tated to the point of holding responsible
jobs, driving their own cars, and other-

252

wise seeing to their own personal needs,
but, when traveling, they are unable to
use most restroom facilities in service
stations, restaurants, hotels, or motels
because of the narrow doors custom-

arily used in these places.
Such situations are repeated numer-

ous times in all types of buildings, both
public and private. As one handicapped
person put it, “I wonder how many
handicapped or aged people like my-
self are discouraged from going to
church because architects and builders
seem to feel that the only approach to
God is up a long line of steps.”

In recent years handicapped people
have been taking an active part in foot-
ball, basketball, square dancing, soft-
ball, archery, swimming, volleyball,
track and held, and bowling. In fact,
there was even a Wheelchair Olympics
held in Rome in 1960. Leading the de-
velopment of sporting activities for
paraplegics and other handicapped per-
sons was the Paralyzed Veterans of
America and its successor, the National
Wheelchair Basketball Association,
which now has local and regional af-
filiates throughout the nation. What
started with such sedentary sports as
Ping-pong, catch, and pool, has now de-
veloped into a comprehensive “para-
lympic” program which includes bas-
ketball, archery, javelin toss, table ten-
nis, and swimming.

Compare these accomplishments with
the problems faced by local handi-
capped bowling leagues when sccking a
suitable facility in which to pursue their
sport. Most howling establishments are
far from ideal. Many are located below
ground level with steps leading down,
or have locker rooms and restrooms
which are poorly designed or inacces-
sible to the handicapped person. In
nearly all, the alleys themselves are two,
three, or more steps below the rest of
the building. To complicate the prob-
lem, corridors are often thickly carpeted
and aisles are far too narrow for safe
passage.

BECAUSE these problems of architec-
tural design play such an impor-
tant role in the daily lives of physically
handicapped, aged, and even normally
active persons, several states have set
up investigation committees in an at-
tempt to eliminate these barriers wher-

ever feasible. One such state is Minm
sota, where the Minnesota Society fo
Crippled Children and Adults fou
years ago spearheaded such a program

The society’s early interest in thi
problem and the establishment of it:
Architectural Barriers Committee re
sulted in the awarding of a US. Ollier
of Vocational Rehabilitation researcl
and demonstration grant for carrying
on a pilot state-wide investigation and
educational program. This study is be-1
ing carried on in cooperation with the
Minnesota Division of Vocational Rea
habilitation, the Minnesota Governor’s
Advisory Committee on Employment of
the Handicapped, and the National So-
ciety for Crippled Children and Adults.
It is hoped that it will assemble much
useful information on benelicial design,
provide estimates on the extent of the
problem posed by barriers to the handi-
capped, and stimulate community action
in changing building codes.

Although it is realized that some
buildings can neither be conveniently
nor economically reconstructed in order
to make all areas accessible and usable,
there now are available standard speci-
fications which can be used as a uniform
guide to architects, engineers, builders
and other planners in designing all
types of facilities that will accommodate
the handicapped and aged. These speci-
flcations were developed through a spe-
cial research project sponsored by the
National Society for Crippled Children
and Adults and the President’s Commit-
tee on Employment of the Physically
Handicapped, in cooperation with the
University of Illinois’ Student Rehabili-
tation Center at Urbana, the American
Standards Association, and nearly fifty
government and private agencies and
corporations. Copies of these standards
may be obtained from the National So-

ciety for Crippled Children and Adults,
2023 West Ogden Avenue, Chicago 12,
any of its state or local affiliates, or the
President’s Committee on Employment

of the Physically Handicapped, \Vash-
ington 25, D.C.

STRANGELY ENOUGH, the needs of these

people do not require special or ex-
pensive construction features —— only
sensible planning. It has been repeated-
ly proven that it generally costs iess to

Continued on Page 268

RECREATION

 

 EEADMINIS TRATION

   

 

Albert Mayer

tial anonymity. By and large, they are congeries of
massive-scale unit buildings and, as a whole, they re-
semble each other in quality and feeling. In each, one feels
a loss of identity and any sense of “belongino'.” The build-
ings resemble those of a complex institution, yet are quite
separate and unlinked.
Actually, building types, layout of apartments, and shapes
vary considerably; but elevations and treatment of grounds
combine to give an over-all feeling of drabness. Windows

1 N ALARMING ASPECT of housing projects is their essen-

punched out of walls of brick, monotone quality of wall color
and texture, dreary, stereotype play equipment, large cen-
tral expanse of chain-fenced lawn—the ensemble is com-
pletely unevocative, all of one stamp.

The projects lack a friendly main stem forming a direct
connection for all buildings. Instead, there is generally a
noudirectional criss-cross of paths or a double set of path-
ways and in the center, a large dead spot of either fenced-in
lawn or playfield. In many projects there is too little differ-
entiation or demarcation between sitting areas, pedestrian
walks, and playgrounds. The result is confusion, with kids
playing ball just about anywhere, chasing across paths and
darting over benches. Both sitting and walking are un-
pleasant. .

The central green or common could be a creative, active,
and vital element in the.community life of the project. Usu-
ally these arc sterile areas surrounded by chain-link fencing,
dimly lighted or completely dark at night. What is missing

 

MR. MAYER is an architect and town planner with offices in
New York C ity. He has, for over a number of years, designed
or been consultant for large housing developments, new
towns and communities, and urban-renewal projects here
and abroad. His designs have won a number of awards.

MAY, 1962

OUTDOOR _
RECREATION 
AREAs l 

FOR HOUSING PROJECTS

An experienced architect and planner
discusses the important relation of design and function

 
  

"F"

§ . rpm—0"“

N

Hi .

is a magnetic center which will attract people to mingle
socially, to promenade, to see and to be seen, to have local
and community meetings, dances, concerts, and theatrical
performances by local talent and by outside organizations.
These activities will vary greatly with the locale, but the im-
portant common element is a feeling and appearance of ani-
mation, of vitality, of local adventure, as counterpoint to the
quieter and more intimate parts.

Large projects should have small common areas and fa-
cilities appurtenant and relating closely to one or two build-
ings, to form a natural and more intimate subcommunity
relationship of, say, one hundred to two hundred families
within the large community. This idea could with slight
adaptations be incorporated in most site plans. In one New
York project, small playground and sitting areas are placed
between buildings, with the entrance to each building facing
them. There is a straight path connecting the two entrances;
neither playground nor deeply penetrating parking space
interferes with this direct natural communication and rela-
tionships.

Open spaces in housing projects should serve a number of ‘

purposes they now fail to do. These may be considered in
relation to the following categories:
FUNCTIONALLY: for different age groups and the family it-
self in terms of adequate Space, related arrangements, suit-
able and stimulating equipment for varied active and quiet,
sedentary recreation, and for easy social contact; also for
the community in terms of suitable meeting places and oc-
casions. Design for evening use, generally disregarded, is
fully as important as daytime, especially in summer. It is
the social time, the one time the family is together and at
leisure.

VISUALLY: to supply color, glitter, light and shade, stimu-
lation, “lift” now lacking in the over-all architectural char-

253

acter of both the projects and their local surroundings. This
is a need during daylight hours and in the evening as well,
in place of the generally low-level lighting and near gloom.
EMOTIONALLY: to establish a sense of identification and
pride in the place in which one lives. This quality is on two
levels. The open-Space treatment can provide an aura and
emphasis and bind together single buildings into some quick-
ly experienced entity. Outdoor space should take on some-
thing of a quality and distinction now to be found only in

the remote major city centers.

EEect of Site Plan

THE PRESENT generally accepted definition for open space
in housing projects is the total number of square feet
not built on. A great deal of this is semi-waste area. In the
case of buildings with many projections, there is a good
deal of “occluded” area. This semi-waste area cannot be
developed for use (other than planting), and it pushes the
circulating path system further from the building because
of the projections.

The matter of entrances to buildings is important also.
Generally, there is a single entrance to each unit. Thus, long
walks are inevitable around the building, either from the
street side to internal parks, playgrounds, and interior cir-
culation, or from the interior frontage to parking areas on
the periphery. This is not only inconvenient, but involves
more pathways that subtract from useable area and cut up
the remainder. An excellent solution is an open-through
lobby, with entrance from the interior of the project as well
as the exterior. This conception of concentration and
through entrances at one point is extremely vital in site
planning, for convenience, for flexible development of open
spaces, and for maximum actual usefulness.

The site plan itself affects open space usability. For ex-
ample, the diagonal placement of buildings within a city’s
rectangular street system produces odds and ends of space,
particularly at the peripheral junctions of the two systems.
Thus, the usual method of first designing and placing build-
ings, then getting the site engineer and landscape architect
to devise the best possible open space solution is inadequate.
The quality and potential of the open area must be thought
of as an integral major design element from the start. The
site plan also determines whether it will be possible to create
an internal “Main Street.” If there is a central green, it
should be in the nature of a “common,” with a walk or walks
through it.

A friendly main street, centrally placed, can be somewhat
like the main street of a little town, a spine off which func-
tions and social activities radiate, a magnet which helps give
reality to the community concept which is supposed to char-
acterize our projects. It can provide:

0 A lively pedestrian center.
0 A lighted main stem at night, giving a sense of security.
0 A degree of self-policing.

q NOTIIER FACTOR contributing to the rather indiscrimi-
nate use of outdoor space is the fairly large sitting area
here and there, with seats around it on the edges and the

254

 
   
  
  

center unoccupied. This invites youngsters to use this spac
to play ball, roller skate, and enjoy various sports—which i
only natural—but interferes with quiet sitting or any sitting
The small compact sitting area, indented off a path, demar-j
cated with benches and possible shrubs, is a much happier
solution. The same compact quality appears to be desirable
for small children’s play areas. If there is too much “un-
filled” area, it tends to be invaded by older, ball-playing
children.

Generally and rightly recognized is the need for well-
defined areas, suitably equipped, for each age group. This
is of prime importance, but a combined area for all ages
or for families, in addition to the separated areas, is rarely
provided. In New York City, there is one such area, East
Harlem Plaza in Jefferson Houses. Its elements are a sunken
center with sprayhead and sitting areas in a scalloped circle
around it. This is sometimes used for dance and musical
performances. The “scalloped” or semi-circular seating ac-
commodates audiences during performances, small conver-
sational groups at other times. Surrounding this is a wide
paved ring or belt used at different times of day and evening
for promenading, dancing, roller-skating, and bicycling.

Beyond that, at the periphery, are small separate areas
for ‘very small children, with play equipment, demarcated
by low, backless curved play-and-sitting benches; metal
shade umbrellas, covering checker and picnic tables and
benches; a “copse” of trees with benches for teenagers or
others; a curved wall acting as a windbreak for a quiet sit-
ting area for mothers and babies. Thus, a one-acre area
provides a social and age-range center, well patronized. In
its summer evening programs, it attracts people from well
beyond it.

Sense of Identification

WITHOUT going into really basic questions, other ele-
1nents that can contribute to the individuality, identi-
fication, sparkle of a project are:

0 A main entrance which can more or less “pull” the project
together.

0 The community center.
0 The management complex.

These latter should be located prominently. The approach,
external treatment, planting and color should be visually
arresting from a distance and attractive from nearby.

One quite general feature in current and past housing
project design is the large-scale central green or lawn near
the center. With creative treatment and adequate lighting
at night, these can become a vital element in community life,
vibrant and socially important. Many other factors affect
the liveability and atmosphere of a project:

PARKING AREAS. When an excessively perpendicular park-
ing area penetrates into the heart of the project from thc
street, it not only makes one unpleasantly aware of cars in
what should be the undisturbed interior of the project but
it cuts in between building entrances. In a number of cases,
this preclgdes the possibility of subcommunities. An ex-
cessive, continuous length of parking area, when parallel to
street, tends to isolate or “wall off” project from the outside.

RECREATION

 

This can usually be cured by cutting the single area in two,
with sidewalk between, and slightly deepening it to make up
for the loss.

Trees are essential both around the edges and within the
parking area itself. They provide some visual shielding from
the ground level and from above; and, to an extent, prevent
parked cars from getting too hot in the sun. Where they
cannot bc provided in a curbed strip between backs of cars,
it is worthwhile to give up a five-foot strip between parking
spaces at several points in the area and plant a tree in each.

TREE THEORY. In most projects, there is single tree planting
or regular soldier-like tree planting, monotonous visually

and functionally. It is monotonous except if sparingly used
to accent an allée or main axis. This is true both from the

ground and from the windows above (this matter of charac-
ter and stimulation or lack of stimulation of view from above
is important and not sufficiently considered in design) . The

light and shade of copses, clumps, or bosques, contrasting
with open spaces, has generally been ignored, as has been
the interest of pattern into which they are composed.

EXTERIOR CORNER SITTING AREAS. These are desirable, par-
ticularly for older pe0ple who like to sit and see street traflic
go by. They are also, socially, something of a connector to
the nonproject’ world. However, they do attract outside
loafers or drunks. A suggested solution is a straight, open,
exposed corner area for all, and an adjacent somewhat self-
contained or sheltered area, with low hedges for older peo-
ple who want to sit, gossip, and look at the passing world.

LAUNDRIES. The laundry in public housing projects is the
most neglected and most easily utilized social possibility.
Generally speaking, there are only one or two in a big proj-
ect, which means an excessively long haul for women. There
should be one in each subcommunity or even in each build-
ing. The interior laundry space could easily have a small
lounge space just inside the entrance, for talking or reading
while waiting. Most laundries are in basements, down
ramps from grade. Kids hang around aimlessly, waiting for
their mothers; baby carriages are left unprotected at the top
and the mothers have to come up every little while to check.
There is no place for parking the baby carriages, which are
left in walks adjacent to the ramp. A well-planned laundry
should have a small play area and baby-carriage parking

MAY, 1962

Projects usually provide well-defined areas, suitably equip-
ped, for each age group, but rarely have a combined area for
all ages and for family. Harlem Plaza in New Y orh City’s
legerson Houses provides a sunken center with sprayhead
surrounded by shaded sitting areas in a scalloped circle.

space a few feet helow grade, visible from the laundry win-
dows—part of a laundry complex.
FENCING. There is certainly need for some chainlink fencing
for functional purposes: high fencing around basketball
courts and handball courts for safety and convenience to
players and pedestrians; low fencing to demarcate play-
grounds for small children; low post-and-chain fencing to
demarcate planted areas; sometimes even a diagonally
placed chainlink fence to prevent excessive shortcutting.
This question of fencing deserves but has never received
serious and close study. The general excess of grim chain-
link fencing, not only in original design, but in its later mul-
tiplication each year by management, is visually depressing,
psychologically annoying, and even sclf-defeating. It is of-
ten put up in the wrong places in respect to later mainte-
nance. In some projects, there is too little demarcation of
playground areas (fencing is needed) and too little identi-
fiable exclusive playground. Ballplaying goes on all over,
so balls are chased into the shrubbery or other green areas.
W hen chainlink fencing is erected to prevent this, youngsters
climb over it, of course; panels of fencing have actually been
torn away. It is also quite difficult to clean behind the chain-
link fencing on the inside, particularly when shrubbery is
behind it. So paper and debris accumulate. Several points
should be observed here:
0 Fencing has been put up in places to try to cure the symp-
toms rather than to help cure the causes by better demarca—
tion of playgrounds or more playground space.
0 A major motivation in the chainlink fencing program is
to preserve the condition of lawns and of planting that may
be needlessly excessive. However, even in these terms, one
cannot really claim that it serves its purpose. Detailed ob-
servation shows numerous projecting and exposed lawn and
shrub areas protected only by the inoffensive demarcating
low post-and-chain, in excellent condition; and a number
of chainlink protected areas are no better, some even worse.
0 Large proliferation of this grim fencing is not only gen-
erally depressing, but tends to act as an actual challenge to
vandal and destructive tendencies, both at the fenced spot

and more so elsewhere.

Enormous Opportunities

HOUSING PROJECTS offer enormous opportunities for skill
and imagination and social satisfaction which have not
been explored, creatively, to any sufficient extent. Most of
the observations made have been accompanied by sugges-
tions for improvement or new concepts. The suggestions and
proposals, however definite they sound, should be considered
as only illustrations. They should stimulate fresh thinking
and not be interprcted as offering a new set of rules or stand-
ards. Each local situation will have its own charactcristics

255

and requirements influencing function, feeling, aesthetics.
Some solutions may involve moderate additional cost; but,
as a consideration in a total project, they come to only a
fraction of one percent. This should therefore not be a pro-
hibiting factor.

The observations and solutions offered here have evolved
after considerable contact and discussion with tenants, man-
agers, staff, social workers, and social scientists. This kind
of co-thinking and co-working, continuing from inception
through the actual subsequent operation, management, and

participation, is indispensable for the stimulating quality
of project design and function. It is equally essential so as
to achieve the continuing interest, care, and graSp of both
residents and management. Then, the final use fulfills, or
often exceeds, the promise of the design. In fact, observing
design-in-action in the years after completion is the crucial
criterion of value. It is mainly as a vehicle toward consum-
mation of social and individual self-expression, self-manage-
ment, and self-enhancement that the full justification of
design is achieved. #

_—._—__—.—.—

STATE and LOCAL DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

OHIO. The Anshe Sfard Congregation has given two acres
of land to the people of Summit County for an addition to
Firestone Metropolitan Park. Forrest Myers, chairman of
the Metropolitan Park Board, praised the congregation for
“its generosity and civic spirit at a time when open land
is rapidly disappearing from our community.” The two
acres will help protect the outstanding park scenery in the
Tuscarawas River valley where the Firestone Tire and Rub-
ber Company, two decades ago, presented an area of 190
acres to the park district.

SOUTH DAKOTA. Bear Butte, the famous landmark and

signal point, a sacred place of the Indians, near Sturgis,

has been designated as a state park. The state appropriated
$50,000 to buy the butte.

TENNESSEE. Hundreds of Ardmore residents celebrated
the opening of that town’s first public park recently when
H. C. Fabian, national director of Woodmen of the World
of Atlanta, Georgia, presented the deed to the four-acre site
to Mayor Cowan Forbes. Property where the park is lo-
cated, just inside the Tennessee line, was donated by Mrs.
Elizabeth Hamlett; and Court 992 of Woodmen of the World
presented park equipment and sponsored the dedication in

an all-day program. The new park includes picnic tables,
swings, seesaws, and slides.

    

. . . Yer law priced easy to assemble frames
only - buy lumber focally. Used by parks, in-
dustry and institutions coast-to-coast since 1950.

I #100 The Original

   

(xi

"Waiting Bench"  ‘  __'_'

ii #205 Lawn-Park Bench J

 

Write for catalog and prices

T I Emissions; 

J. . “w 910 Table Less
 Dept. R-I

 

CHADWICK, ILLINOIS

‘0

256 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

WEST VIRGINIA. The state is carefully weighing its

recreation potential as a way out of its economic difficul-
ties. “Recreation is a resource which can provide a major
new.economic base for West Virginia,” Secretary of the
Interior Stewart L. Udall declared recently in announcing
a plan for recreation resource development in the state.
The plan, developed by the National Park Service, “would
reach a largely untapped economic potential for the state,
serving not only West Virginians but also attracting many
millions of visitors from nearby states,” Secretary Udall
pointed out. Main objective of the plan is to indicate how
West Virginia can best develop her existing and potential
recreation resources to serve her own citizens more ade-
quately and to improve the overall economy of the State by
attracting more out-of-state visitors. The plan was published
in cooperation with the program of federal assistance con-
templated under the recently-passed Area Development Act
for areas of substantial and persistent unemployment.

Probably the most dramatic feature of the plan is the
proposed Allegheny Parkway which would connect points
of outstanding scenic and scientific and recreation intcrest
from Harpers Ferry through the heart of West Virginia,
terminating at Cumberland Gap, Kentucky. The parkway
would complement the regular highway system and the
newly developing interstate system, opening up a wealth
of scenery in West Virginia that has remained largcly un-
known to out-of—state visitors because of difficulty of access.
The salutary cffect of improved transportation facilities
could prove to be invaluable to thc total economy of the
state. Other recommendations of the plan call for the cs-
tablishment of many types of public outdoor recreation op-
portunities—parks and nature prcserves, recreation areas,
historic sites and monuments, parkways and scenic drives,
and trails—in addition to developing further the many ex-
isting parks and recreation areas and making them more
easily accessible to the public. Forty-three such areas have
been specifically named in the plan for consideration as ad-
ditional park and recreation areas to be established and
operated by various levels of government—local, state, and

federal.

RECREATION

 

PLANNING FOR OLDER ADULTS

Program at a Day Center ..

 

A DAY CENTER serving older adults should have three types
of program groups for which content must be planned
in order to meet needs of the individuals served: the total
center membership, the activity group, and the informal
group. The various types of programs provide a useful
milieu for meeting needs. The fulfillment of the agency’s
purpose is not only through the obvious function of club
and activity groups but also through informal activities.
Group activities are not always self-maintaining; further,
some persons do not wish to be members of an organized
activity. Building of self respect and inner resources occur
outside of the group as well as within. Program is not only
group focused, but is individualized.

Program has deeper and wider connotative aspects than
may appear on the. surface. It should include a variety of
activities, all of which are planned, deliberate tools to help
older adults. The program of a center should be balanced,
well blended, and -varied within an atmosphere permitting
freedom of choice. No activity should be initiated merely
because it exists in other centers or clubs. Certainly, pro-
gram content is influenced by expectations of those con-
cerned: community, agency, and membership. These must
be recognized, identified, and incorporated into program
planning.

A word needs to be said about the much-mentioned
“meaningful use of time” as it affects programing. Too fre-
quently, it is assumed that “good” program includes oppor-

MAY, 1962

tunities for service, arts, crafts, and educational projects but
not such programs as cards and games. An activity to be
meaningful to the individual must be important to him; it
must fit into his life. Program content should have individ-
ual needs as a focus. Meaningful program goals for older
adults should lead to:

o A renewal of group association and a group consciousness
and empathy.

o Satisfaction from use of time, and an enriched life.

0 Acquiring and renewing knowledge and skill.

0 A discipline of self inherent in approval or disapproval
of peer group.

0 The social factor of congenial companionship, which is
not necessarily the developing of friendships, because asso-
ciations may be satisfying in themselves.

The atmosphere in which the program operates is a vital
force affecting not only group development but satisfying
individual and group goals. The influence of the agency
structure on program and the staff attitude and practices are
of utmost importance. Members should be encouraged to
create and develop an attitude and feeling of responsibility
toward other members. Other environmental factors in-
clude the relationship of one program to another, in compe-
tition of time, in combinations on same day, in status and
role, in independent identity while part of the whole; the in-
volvement of members in planning, deve10ping, changing,
leading, and participating; the individual’s attitude toward

257

MAY IS SENIOR CITIZENS MONTH l

 

play in general; his use of time; the club, activity, and in-
formal groups in the center; and the specific group with
which he identifies himself.

Leadership as it relates to program is one of the most
vital factors affecting the individual. Staff is the guide and
the enabler; but members should play as active a role as
possible in the program to make it truly theirs.

Facets of the group structure are practical aspects affect-
ing program. These include number and frequency of ses-
sions, length of term, time of day, relation to other pro-

Physical Activity

 

Nature Center in State Park

Continued from Page 235
a

for camp groups, with colored slide programs and nature
crafts.

Family groups and other visitors from out of state often
requested information about other parks and places of in-
terest in New Hampshire. Comments of family campers
from a number of other states indicated that to date very
few of the state parks have programs of this type. One fam-
ily which had camped in thirty-seven state parks, in nearly

258

grams, room size and location, size of group, characteristics
of members and intensity of participation; change in group
membership; presentation of material by leader; and pub-
licity and interpretation of program. Short- and long-term
projects can focus the content in satisfying needs—BETTY
JANE RANK, Executive Director, Tallmadge Hamilton House
for Senior Citizens, Seattle, Washington. This material is
excerpted from a speech delivered at the Seminar on Social

Group Work with Older Adults, Lake M olzonlc, New York,
June 1961 .

 

PHYSICAL ACTIVITY as a means of protecting health and
retarding physical impairment with the onset of age is

too often overlooked. Dr. Paul Dudley White, the eminent

heart specialist, cites five benefits from exercise:

0 It maintains muscle tone throughout the body, including

the 'heart itself.

0 It provides relaxation by relieving nervous tension and

strains, anxiety, and mental concentration.

0 It aids digestion by reducing nervous tension and has a

favorable effect on the howel function.

0 It helps to control obesity, especially a few grams of fat

in the wrong places, such as in the walls of the coronary and

other important arteries.

0 It deepens the respiration and improves the function of

the lungs.

The type of exercise is not important except that it be
one that the individual can enjoy and that will suit his
strength and physical condition. No hard-and-fast rules can
be laid down for everyone of a particular age, for no two
persons have the same physical needs or the same likcs and
dislikes.

Activities which require lifting must be avoided for those
with weak backs and those with weak hearts must guard
against overexertion. But thcre is some exercise for virtually
everyone. Some form of calisthenics at least ten minutcs a
day can be helpful for the elderly as well as persons of any
age—From. “Physical Activity and the Older Adult,” by
C. B. Novotny and D. P. Kent, JOIIPER, October 1960.

as many states, commented on the fact that this was the first

state park they had been to that offered such a program.
The Audubon Society has decided to sponsor the program

again this coming summer. This is a recreation opportunity

not to be overlooked as more people turn to the outdoors
for recreation enjoyment. Perhaps it is even more crucial

that the millions who will be using our outdoor resources
become aware of their prOper use and care so that they will
continue to be sources of enjoyment and spiritual renewal
for the years to come. #

RECREATION

@PROGRAM

 

NATURE SLEUTHS

Each participant embarks on a trip of personal discovery

3. Stuart Richter

XCEPT for Nero
Wolfe, who
leads a housebound
existence, indeed,
but indulges in
rooftop orchid cul-

 
 

‘ a L . .

al detective is ever
a nature buff. A new project in Colo-
rado Springs, Colorado, however, is
creating a new breed of “private eye,”

the nature detective. A joint school-
recreation department program is in-

tivation, no fiction-

troducing new techniques in nature ed-
ucation to turn each child into a private
detective or nature sleuth.

Using nature information as a basis
for a leisure-time program in recreation
has always been a prohlem. The infor-
mation must be a challenge, be trans-
mitted in an exciting way, and make the
participant feel he is making a startling
personal discovery. Nature investiga-
tion requires the participant’s keenest
sense of touch, smell, sight, as well as
taste, even hearing. He also calls upon
information he has gathered through
talking with others or through reading.
Recreation leaders must explore this
“discovery technique” to make a na-
ture program more meaningful and at-
tractive.

Most of us will admit we enjoy camp-
ing or picnicking or being out-of-doors,
if for no other reason than to smell the
flowers, the freshness of grass after a
rain, or to admire white fleecy clouds
in the blue sky. Capitalizing upon all
this, the Colorado Springs Park and
Recreation Department personnel set
out on a nature experiment with the
fourth-grade children in the city school
system. First, the department ap-
proached the curriculum builders for

MR. RICHTER is assistant director of
parks and recreation in Colorado
Springs, Colorado.

MAY, 1962

the fourth-grade pupils, specifically
those concerned with the curriculum
for nature science. Fourth-grade nature
science tests were distributed to parks
and recreation personnel. These cov-
ered rocks, trees, ground plants, ani-
mals, and touched on conservation, as
well as man’s relation to the whole
process.

Then, the parks and recreation staff
went into the park area to make lists
and notations of specific items of plant
life, animal life, rocks, etcetera, which
had an interesting life cycle or history.
The staff members also marked out a
trail over which children could travel
for a two-hour period and learn to iden-
tify and investigate certain items and
their outstanding characteristics.

One of the “interesting items” was
a dead Ponderosa pine. The tree was
full of holes: large holes made by wood-
peckers, smaller holes from woodborers
and other insects. So it was dubbed the
“woodpeckers’ cafeteria.” The fourth-
grade child was certainly more taken
with a “woodpeckers” cafeteria” than
an 01’ “dead pine tree.”

ONCE the professional staff had ac-

quired some of the techniques of
this approach, the parks and recreation
department asked the school district’s
fourth-grade curriculum builder to re-
quest four of his teachers to go over the
area to see if they felt this information
would be of value to their pupils. In
addition, some supervisors and the cur-
riculum builder himself “eased” the
area. All felt the trail would provide
valuable experiences for the children.
As a result, four different school classes
were taken over the trail at four differ-
ent times, each group being given the
same information in approximately the
same fashion.

Each class had been oriented by the

teacher in the classroom on some of the
objects to be seen, maps of the area to
be covered were distributed, and points
of interest were explained. On the ac-
tual day of the trip, one of the members
of the park and recreation staff visited
the school to talk with the class and
further prepare them for their experi-
ence. As a part of this pre-trip orienta-
tion, the parks and recreation leader
explained what an individual has to do
in the woods in order to he a successful
investigator: he must use his eyes, his
ears, his nose, his taste; he must be
quiet as an Indian in order to hear the
sounds of the woods; must be observant
in order to see the birds flit from one
tree to another.

EACH CLASS of approximately thirty
was divided into three Indian
tribes of about ten children each. Each
tribe was to have a chief, two of these
being members of the park and recrea-
tion staff and one, the classroom teacher.
Sometimes in the beginning, the teacher
felt slightly inadequate and asked for
another member of the park and recrea-
tion staff. This was done if possible,
but, as time went on, the teachers took
their places as leaders along with the
park and recreation staff members.
Now the children were transported to
the mountain park by bus and were
dropped off at the starting place under
a group of very large Ponderosa pine.
Here, they investigated why the needles
grow in threes and fours, how seeds are
formed, how they are scattered, what
the sap of the Ponderosa tastes like,
what the wood is used for, and why it is
commonly called Western yellow pine.
Then the class broke into its three tribes
and each started off on separate side
trails, but all in approximately the same
direction, to look for other interesting
objects, such as the juniper tree with its

259

260

 

. - ‘ ‘ "t.- a.
()n the actual day of the trip, a member of the parks and recreation stall
visited the classroom to orient the children for their outdoor adventure.

TH”. E ‘ ' t '
The children relivcd their explorations on thc trail by bringing samples
into the classroom, develOping a real museum. and designing a mural.

 

 

"'va -. WWW “““ we“ 1-.» MIMW-v't‘ifimsMQ-‘n --&"~‘--- ~—---'-**---

 

Ttoo stone sentinels guard a roadside intersection along the nature trail.
They can tell you what happened in the area some 60,000,000 years ago.

 

little blue berries. When you cut into
an old dead juniper, you discover the
wood has a reddish color similar to ce-
dar and that it even smells a little bit
like cedar. Then you move on to the
feather bush. This, of course, is moun-
tain mahogany; we named it “feather
bush” because the seedwing curls and
locks something like a feather. This
fascinated the children because they
had never realized that a seedwing
could look like a feather. They would
pull them off of the bush and blow them,
watching them twirl like a helicopter.

They found that if you keep on climb-
ing the trail, you are on top of a mesa,
a yucca preserve. Here, the mystery of
the yucca moth and its service to the
yucca plant can be probed and the
method of scattering the seeds and the
beauty of the flower discovered. The
little worm that is planted by the yucca
moth sometimes drills a hole into the
seeds and makes thcm unfertile. Some
of the seeds are black and some seeds
white. The white yucca seeds are im-
mature. The lndians uscd the strands
of the Yucca root for making rope, and
the exudation,.somewhat like sap, was
used for Indian soap.

As YOU WALK ALONG the gravel road

you find many flowers that are
wild but resenihle some varietics in our
own gardens. Of course, those in our
gardens are largcr because they arc
(lOlncsticated, cultivated, and fcrtilized.
This opens up another avenue of in-
vestigation, and the realization that
man plays a big part in the development
of vegetation. Not only does this help
man, but it also helps all living objects,
because without vegetation on a hill-
side, erosion will take place, eliminating
plant growth. All of thcse things go
into the adventure of nature.

Then thcre are the two stone scntinels
that guard a roadside intersection. They
are approximatcly twelve to fifteen feet
high, standing up almost straight, not
more than two or three feet in diameter
and resemble penguins. Why do they
rise above the surrounding soil? How
did they get this way? What croded
them? The wind or the water? Where
(lid the water come from? The rains

RECREATION

vouldn’t do all of this. You discover
t te area was covered by an ocean some
5 xty million years ago. This is why
} ou find fossils in the area.

All of these things are very fasci-
1ating to the child, especially the
ourth-grade child. He imagines and he
:ees in his daydreams things he has of-
en wondered about. Perhaps he has
tumbled over geodes, kicking them out
)f his way. Now they become a living
hing to him because they have a story
:onnected with them, a fascinating
story, an interest, a real adventure.

Finally, it is time to go back to
school, the bus arrives, and the group
boards. The conversation continues all
the way back to the schoolroom. When
the youngsters get into the classroom,
the teacher takes over and they begin to
discuss their experiences on the trail.
Finally, they begin to draw some of the
objects they have seen, begin to make
murals on the walls designing them with
cut«out animals or trees seen during
their trip. In one instance, the children
relived their experience by bringing
samples into the classroom and devel-
oped a real museum. In several in-

I BELIEVE that life is given us so

we may grow in love and I be-
lieve that God is in me as the sun
is in the color and fragrance of a
Hower—the Light in my darkness,
the Voice in my silence. I walk un-

afraid toward the Enchanted Woods
where the foliage is always green,
where joy abides, where nightin-
gales nest and sing, and where life
and death are one in the Presence
of the L0rd.———HELEN KELLER.

 

stances, the children took their parents
over the trail.

AFTER the four-class experiment had

been completed, the supervisory
staffr and the teachers evaluated the ex-
pcrience, and the school district decided
it wanted this program for each of the
fourth grades. This involved close to
sixteen hundred children, more than
fifty classes of fourth-graders.

This larger number took more organ-
ization and it was necessary to put one
person in charge of all the arrange-
ments. Parks and recreation staff mem-
bers were scheduled and, rotated

@PROGRAM

 

through several days of operation, each
functioning two to three days per week.
The entire program took approximately
six weeks, operating for live days a
week, with two classes a day going over
the trail. The morning group would
take the two-hour trip, then converge
at a camp area with a dining hall, wash-
room facilities, etcetera. Here, the
morning group met the afternoon class
and the two lunched together. Then, the
morning group boarded the bus to go
back to school, while the afternoon
group took off through the woods. And
so went the new schedule, with each
class group being broken up into three
tribes as before, each of approximately
ten Indians each under a chief.

The latter gimmick made it possible
to bring out various aspects of Indian
life and compare them with the white
man’s life and the child’s method of ne-
gotiating passage through the woods.
If he wanted to act like an Indian, he
was told to be quiet, attentive, and skill-
ful in his investigation.

Colorado Springs is raising a gen—
eration of nature sleuths. The children
are on the trail of eternal mysteries. #

Sleuthing along the trail. Each tree, flower, bush, or rock formation has a history for trained eye and mind to decipher.

:-  G V» o ' ‘

9'0 iv...
, I

is

J.
I

,. h
p.

_ I. ” to
.r '4...“ v “A _ _-, f—  ‘.- - £1

NIAY, 1962

‘0.

i I .f
l

 

 “:5. Igg' if i ..  ‘I, ’1" "
'  ‘ 31A .33.}; v- I.» r.” Hf}: 44.1%}.(51

Dance,
Seniors,

Dance

Try the lively tunes

262

of your day

Irene Weed Smith

' DANCING FOR

FUN is re-
warding experi-
ence for many peo-

  

ple sixty years of
age and over who
participate in pub-
lie and private sen-
ior citizens programs in San Francisco
and the Bay Area. Of course, not all
who attend senior centers participate in
the dancing; however, each center in-
cludes folk and social dancing in its
program when desired by the members.
Many do not dance because of health
restrictions, but enjoy watching and lis-
tening to the waltzes, polkas, and melo-
dies of yesteryear.

The social dancing program at the
San Francisco Senior Citizens Center
has always been very popular with the
members.
same activities as other age groups
when these are conducted with good
planning and judgment in relation to
age and health. Activities with easy-to-
follow directions, which the leader is
practically assured will be successful,
go a long way toward huilding confi-

Senior citizens enjoy the

denee and the ability to enjoy new ex-
periences.

The staff at the center encourages
members to use their own initiative
when planning special events. At the
Halloween Costume party the program
director was present but remained bc-
hind the scenes and MC’d only for an-
nouncements and for personal touches
of gaiety. Approximately sixty couples
danced to a live-piece band selected be-
cause of its familiarity with the old hall-
room favorites, such as “Roll Out the
Barrel,” “Piano Roll Blues,” “Wild
Irish Rose,” and so on. Senior citizens
enjoy lively and gay music, and the
manner in which they two-stepped and
waltzed around the dance floor certain-
ly displayed their enthusiasm. Since it

 

MRS. SMITH is a recreation director as-
signed to the drama and dance division
of the San Francisco Recreation and
Park Department as a dance instructor.
She is also a physical education and
dance instructor at St. Paul’ s High
School, San Francisco.

was a costume party, they were dresse
appropriately in muumuus, Florador
Girl and Colonial lady outfits.

In order to include those who wer
unable to dance, we had a grand march
and asked a little elderly lady dressed
as a Halloween witch to select as her|
partner a paralytic who had recently
suffered a stroke. This aged gentleman '
appeared happy to be leading the pro-
cession, and, although he had to walk
slowly, the very fact that they were pro-
ceeding to the beat of music and waving
to the others seatcd around the room as
they strolled by was a great morale
booster to the other dancers. For the
folk mixer we used Circassian Circle
and the orchestra played “Turkey in the
Straw” slowly, thus enabling the group
to learn a simple sequence with the spec-
tators participating by clapping in time
with the music. i

The floor was crowded when they
danced the Varsouvienne, waltzes, and
quick, lively one-step dances. One gen-
tleman said that while he was working
and rearing a family both he and his
wife had little leisure time to dance, but
now they are trying to pursue this in-
terest and were finding it difficult to re-
member the steps they once knew. He
wanted to know what had happened to
the lancers and schottische, always a
part of a social-dance evening in his
day. Because older persons remember
the dance programs of their youth,
many public ballrooms still feature old-
fashion dancing one evening a week.
This always includes the Varsouvienne,
waltzes, Spanish waltz and the Trilby.

Throughout the evening many of the
dancers would stop to remark how
much they enjoyed the mixers, especial-
ly the ladies, who favored the tag dances
because there is always a scarcity of
men at senior dances.

The director was successful in mak-
ing the members feel it was their party
and its success their responsibility. Fol-
lowing refreshments, tasks were as-
signed to various members, such as
sweeping and returning used dishes to
the kitchen. Thus, they were made to
feel useful and to actually participate.

In the ladies’ recreation folk-dance

RECREATION

   

MAY IS SENIOR CITIZENS MONTH 1

 

Invitation to a waltz. A dance program for seniors promotes sociability as well as mach-needed modulated exercise.

class, sponsored by the San Francisco
Recreation and Park Department, wid-
owed senior citizens attend for the so-
ciability of being with ladies of various
ages. They meet one afternoon a week
to learn fundamental dance patterns
and simple sequences. If the dance is
too strenuous, they will not participate
or will practice {the steps alone. Some
members’ husbands are not interested
in dancing, and this program provides
the ladies an opportunity to go dancing
in the afternoon. They can have fun in
this way, using energy to keep their
bodies active and their minds mentally
alert. Even ladies in their eighties learn
to dance the tango, squares, and mixer
waltzes, thus stimulating their minds to
learn new patterns,and to remember se-
quence of pattern. The leader must al-
ways watch for signs of fatigue and try
to be selective in the types of dances
taught in order to provide a well-bal-
anced recreation dance program.
Participation in this ladies’ class has
developed related interests and hobbies,
in that these ladies copy the dance steps,
take notes, purchase records, sew folk-

MAY, 1962

dance costumes, attend festivals, and
subscribe to folk-dance magazines. One
little elderly lady, who dresses in eight-
eenth-century “Arsenic'and-Old Lace”
stylc and who uses a cane, will attend
when her arthritis is not bothering her
and travels a great distance to attend
this class.

Another elderly lady, eighty-four
years old, joined the ladies’ class at her
doctor’s suggestion that she participate
in some physical activity. With this new
interest she is feeling mentally and phys-
ically happier and healthier, and is now
able to cope with her husband’s health
problem which was responsible for her
nervous breakdown.

FOR SENIOR CITIZENS, participating in
a dance group is a good practical
lesson in developing human undcr-
standing, cooperation, and considcra-
tion. People who have these qualities
will not tend to become introverts as
they grow older, but will have the in-
terests so necessary to mature into self-
reliant and happy individuals. I do not
wish to imply that dancing alone will

keep one well, but dancing can be an
avenue towards maintaining a balanced
adjustment in dealing with the various
problems of increased leisure as one
grows older.

One widower, seventy-four years of
age, who attends the recreation and
park department folk dance class is an
avid advocate of the values of dancing.
As he lives alone, he practices daily two
hours by himself. In the evening he
plays records, passing the time this way
and keeping physically fit. He not only
attends all the folk-dance festivals, but.
the public ballroom old-fashion dance
nights as well. As stated in his words,
“When they play nice snappy music you
can ‘git in and go.’ Instead of taking a
long walk you can exercise right in the
house and use the whole body instead
of just from thc hips down.”

Senior citizens may be old in years,
but certainly not in their mental outs
look when they become active partici-
pants of a dance group and attend festi-
vals and instruction classes. After all,
age is but a state of mind—so dancing
can be fun at any age. #-

263

'1 MARKET NEWS

 

F or further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

0 Jump high, fall easy. A new product to be used in high-
jump and pole—vault pits has been created by a special rub-
ber process that produces small foliates or leaves, uniform
in color and texture. A much greater absorption of fall im-
pact is obtained with this material—the sensation is like
falling into a thick featherbed. The product is free of aller-
genic chemical residues that could be harmful to athletes’
skins. It is sold by the pound. “Fall-Ease” has no sponge
effect, does no hold water. Manufacturer has also devised
a unique cover arrangement that is unfolded during pit use
to catch the rubber petals displaced by athlete’s fall. For
further information, circle #100.

0 Comprehensive pool catalogue-data book contains illus-
trations, diagrams, and descriptions of over 250 pool prod-
ucts. Commercial and residential DOOl layouts show all nec-
essary equipment in relation to the actual installation. A
pool-care manual section includes many hints on pool opera-
tion and maintenance, accurate dosage charts to guide in
proper use of various chemicals required for proper water
treatment. For copy of forty-eight page catalogue, circle

1:101.

0 Yes, we have some cabanas—tbey’re bright, all alumi-
num, roomy, and light-weight. These rustproof cabanas
come striped in a range of sunny colors—green, flamingo,
turquoise, grey, sandalwood, or yellow, and in combinations
thereof. The finish is baked enamel inside and out. The ca-
bana has a door with lock and keys, raised roof for ventila—
tion, shelf and clothes books, comes either 48”-by-36"by-
62%” or 48”-by-48”-by-80". For further information, cir-
cle #102.

0 Add a new twist to Bingo with the “double diamond” on
your Bingo cards. With this addition, there are four new
ways to Bingo. (There are eight additional ways to use the
double diamond as described in a special bulletin available
from the manufacturer.) These Bingo cards are machine
stitched, entire card can be cleared instantly, come in three
colors—woodgrain, green, or orange. For information on
the Bingo cards and on the double diamond imprinting.

circle #103.

a New swimming pool cover offers an attractive combina-
tion of safety and low maintenance. The permanent alumi-
num pool cover automatically locks into place, opens and
closes accordion style via a switchboard which secures power
from either battery or electricity. Reduced maintenance
costs help pay for this unit: pool beating can be reduced up
to two-thirds through installation and use of this pool cover.
Use of bactericide chemicals can be reduced, too. The filter
workload is lessened because dust. leaves, and other foreign
matter have a harder time getting into the pool. Cover comes
in a wide choice of colors, can be concealed when not in use.
For information on this childproof item, circle #105.

264

0 Portable, thermal aerosol fog gun kills bugs. Works on
same principal as large fogging machines. Weighing only
eight pounds, the electrically activated fog gun produces dry,
dense fog that gradually spreads over large areas outdoors
and indoors. Special insecticides formulated to use with this .
device. N 0 jets to clog, no moving parts connected with fog

 

generator. Utilizes a blower as fog propellant. For outdoor
1neet1ng areas, camps, picnic sites, etcetera. For informa-

tion, circle #104.

0 Your program should be hidebound only in regard to
leathercraft which can be a progressive craft. Starting with
leathercraft kits (you can tie these in with a nature-slanted
program—making of moccasins, pathfinder shoes), the pro-
gram can be enlarged until creative participants are using
hides, cutting own patterns, creating own designs in tooling,
etcetera. Catalogue on leathercraft supplies includes kits for
making bowling record book, bowling bag, billfolds, camp-
scat, arrow quiver, hides, tools. For copy, circle #106.

0 Water fun. An underwater slalom course is the newest
and most exciting swimming and diving game. Six colorful
rings are tied to weight to float upright at various depths in
pool or swimming arcas, crcating path through which to
swim. Swimming mask also includcd. Instruction booklet
comes with set. For information on this and other water
games—floating volleyball games, basketball games, base-
ball, bowling, ring toss—and equipment, circle #107.

0 What’s Your Name? New sclf-adbering (no moistening)
badges—mo uncomfortable pins or catches—are exccllent
get-acquainted aids for parties, conventions, club meetings,
intercamp or interleague events. They help brcak the ice,
prevent embarrassing name-grOping. The badges are printed
with a cheery “Hello, my name is . . .” and arc available in
red, blue, or green with a white space for name and organ-
ization. They adhere to clothing fabric with a light touch
of the fingers and their specially dcvcloped pressure-sensi-
tized backing does not mar or soil even the most (lclicate
knit-wear or silks. The durable and bcaVyweigbt badges can
be peeled off easily and arc reusable. Packed attractively in
plastic packets of twenty-five, they are two inches high and
three inches wide. The specially designed plastic packet is
sealed before use and snaps sbut after use, kceping the
badges clean. The clear plastic permits users to keep a vis-
ual check on the quantity remaining. Manufacturer also
makes a series of Handi-Stik labels for a variety of uses.
For further information, circle #108.

RECREATION

 

INDEX 0F ADVERTISERS

Page
A. I. Root  .-____-_._ .1..- _.. 228
American Playground Device  245
American Youth Hostels  274
Brunswick Sports _--.  Inside Front Cover
Castello Fencing, Judo 8. Karate  230
Champion Recreation Equipment 230
Classitied Advertising - 229

Cosom Corporation  Inside Back Cover

Dayton Racquet  ._  __ - 234
Dimco-Gray  . 225
Galloway Friendship Tours  .  270-1
Gold Medal Products   _ 225
Handweaver and Craftsman  244
Hanna Mfg. Company    .  245
Heyer Mtg. 8. Sales  256
Hillerich 8. Bradst   -__.--,- 242
Honda Associates  ._   _ 228
J. E. Burke  . _.-. .  . -- 229
Kemper Tools   _  228
Miracle Equipment ................... .- _ 227
Monroe Company  228
National Studios   223
NRA Book Center  . __ __ Back Cover
Program Aids  273
T. F. Twardzik  __ ._ ._ ___ _  273
Vogel-Peterson .................................. _.- 234
Ward 8. Company ....-  244
World Wide Games   -__ 230

 

MAY, 1962

@ TRADE MART®

FREE AIDS

Here are resources—catalogs, brochures, films, booklets, services
available, samples, and so on——-to help the recreation leader. Circle
the key number following any item about which you want more in-
formation. Cut out the coupon, insert in envelope, and mail.

AIMS AND (RAFTS

Foa MANY HUNDREDS or YEARS the art of batik
prospered in Indonesia. Designing on fabric
with wax is a long tradition and it can be
adapted to your program; it involves rela-
tively few tools, the main ingredients being
originality and patience. For catalogue giv-
ing the background of batik and describing
the various tools of the craft, circle #110.

SHADES 0F CLEOPATRA! The self-glazing clay
used by Egyptians two thousand years ago
has been reproduced. Mixes with water, fires
at Cone 06, and produces lovely ceramic
stones. Available in turquoise, dark blue, pur-
ple, yellow, ehartreuse, and other colors. For
further information, circle #111.

SCRATCIIPROOF craft projects so they don’t
mar furniture finishes by spraying them with
rayon. Spray gun applies even, nappy rayon
surface to the bottoms of sculpture, wood
projects, lamps. Suede finishing can also be
used to cover repairs. Available in twenty-
four colors. For information, circle #112.

A PASTEL WORLD. Art-supply house offers wide
assortment of semi-hard, soft, and firm pas-
tels, drawing crayons, oil crayons, fixatives,
pens, draftsmen’s and artists’ supplies. For
new, enlarged catalogue, circle #113.

CERAMIC cuessmsn, a strawberry sugar bowl,
some well-shaped pitchers, vases, and bowls
are among sharp-detail molds available from
fine-arts company. For catalogue, circle #114.

A WAX MUSEUM. Beeswax dyed in various
colors makes original candles for parties, raf-
fles, gifts. Honeycomb sheets combine with

molding wax, scquius, glitter. For leaflet de-
tailing wax materials and giving instructions
in candlecraft, circle #115.

PAINT mm A HUNDRED FACETS. Watervbase
paint can be used as a fingerpaint, screen
paint, ceramic glaze, eascl paint. Company
also manufactures a textile paint which is
sun- and laundry-fast, can be used for spatter
painting, stenciling, vegetable and block
printing. For information, circle #116.

WILL HOLD. Glues for bonding woods, plas-
tics, paper, cloth; grout binder for mosaic
tiles; glitter and glue projects; paper paste,
artist’s glue; plastic repair glue. For booklet
of full lines of glues for all uses, circle #117.

PROGRAM AIDS

IF YOU avaa USE A MICROPHONE—and chances
are you do or will—booklet giving basic rules
of microphone technique will help you under-
stand the problems that sometimes crop up
with this instrument, different types of micro-
phones, their uses and limitations. Will aid
in choosing the correct microphone for your
use. For copy, circle #118.

War 00 BROKE? Teenagers can tackle budget
problems with the aid of a human, down-to-
earth, colorful booklet on allowances, earn-
ings, and what to do with them. For cepy,

circle #119.

DH) YOU KNOW that young whales have fur
on their noses? Filmstrip on animal babies
is just one of many scientific visual aids for
your nature program: bird study, seasons,
rocks and minerals, science experiments, as-
tronomy, weather study, electricity and mag-

PLEASE NOTE EXPIRATION DATE

100 101 102 103 104 105 100 107
117 110 110 120 121 122 123 124
134 135 136 137 130 139 140 141

Name
Organization

Address

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Clip and mail today. to

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R562. 8 W. 8th St... New York 11

This coupon expires July 1. 1962
Please send me more information on circled products.

 

108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 118
125 123 127 120 123 130 131 132 133
142 143 144 145 148 147 143 149 150

 

Title

 

W

State
11562

265

City Zone

 

nctism, ctcetera. For filmstrip catalogue of
science and other films, circle #120.

RARE FINDS. Shells from the Philippines,
Costa Rica, Cuba, Gulf of Mexico, painstak-
iugly selected by a Florida conchologist. For
booklet containing deseriptions and some-
times humorous editorial comment, circle

#121.

ISLAND PARTY for mainland hosts. A luau of
ideas for Hawaiian parties include tropical
decorations, entertainment (lei-making, Ha-
waiian music, hula lesson, entertainment by
Hawaiian students in your community). re-
freshments (pnpus or island hors d’oeuvres).
For colorful booklet, circle #122.

EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE

STANDING ROOM ova? Estimates or profes-
sional help in planning bleacher and grand-
stand installations are available without ob-
ligation. Portable sectional bleacbers are
built from Douglas fir and steel. For informa-

tion, circle #123.

PLAxT A TREE for tomorrow. Film provides a
completcly detailed description (fine for both
department maintenance men and for con-
servationists) of how to plant a small shade
treeu—planting technique, wrapping, guying,
watering, and pr0per pruning. Films also
available on importance of trees. conservation
(this film should prove interesting to young-
sters), and safety in working with trees.
These films are available only to the Eastern
half of the United States. For further in-
formation, circle #124.

WASTE DISPOSAL UNIT for indoor or outdoor
use has flap which swings in to keep rain out.
Ends messy water-soaked papers that invite
corrosion. Availahle in enamel or painted
in choice of color. Stainless steel legs prevent
floor damage, rounded corners prevent snag-
ging. For literature, circle #125.

WHEREVER RUST AND coauosrox present difii-
culties in painting, a protective paint provides
a good solution. A shield of protection against
rot of wood, metal, and masonry and against
the liquids, fumes and electrolytic action that
attack metal, eat away concrete. Contains
vinyl resins blended with plasticizers and
high-boiling-point solvents. Is non-contami-
nahle, odorless, tasteless, non-inflammable
when dry, resistant to checking, cracking,
crazing. For details on use, circle #126.

 

FoR A PUT-UP JOB on wall, windows, and
woodwork, solid adhesive does the trick.
Eliminates damage from tape and tacks. Dis-
plays papers, posters, signs, and exhibits.
Holds more weight, no staining. reusable,
comes in plastic storage box. For information,
circle #127.

IXCINERATOR designed to burn most classifica-
tions of industrial trash ranges in size from
one suitable for baekyard use to one largc
enough for factory disposal. Can burn card-
board, light cafeteria scraps, if material does
not contain in excess of ten percent wet ma-
terial. Burns without smoke, odor, or fly-ash
and without use of auxiliary fuel. llydroxola-
tive combustion principles used. Constructed
of heavy-gauge Armco aluininized steel and
stainless steel. For literature, cirele #128.

BEAUTIFv YOUR cuounns with bursts of color
-—day lilies ranging from spun-gold, salmon
pink, vermilliou, orchid pink, red-purple to
black-red. For plant catalog, circle #129.

A WALL is A WALL IS A WALL until you decide
to do something original with it. Lovely
marble-texture wallpaper, wallpapers with
Oriental, damask brocade, lace, abstract de-
signs offer wealth of decorating possibilities.
Classic, provincial. Eastern, and contempo-
rary styles. Also wall murals with variety of
themes. For attractive style index, circlc

#132.

SPORIS

BOWLING TIPS are detailed in helpful. instruc-
Iive booklet which includes how to fit and
grip the ball, stance, approach, delivery, scor-
ing. Drawings and diagrams fill out the text.
For copy, circle #133.

A PERFECT FOIL. Fencing equipment in inter-
esting catalogue includes foils, sabres, epees,

,masks, uniforms, practice jackets and trou-

sers, gloves, films, electrical cquipnlcnt for
fencing matches. Comments on the equip-
ment and its use will provc instructive and
interesting. Did you know there were three
schools of fencing with differing equipment
and technique? For copy, circle #134.

A POTPOURRI or SPORT EQUlrstExT from fish
scalers, loop movies, baseball uniforms, water
carts, rain ponchos, pennant streamers for
crowd control to scoreboards, timers, wres-
tling helmets, and others. For 1962 catalog
of athletic equipment, circlc #135.

$$$$S$$$S$S$$$$S$SSS

It adds up to dollars and sense

Budget and Finance for

Recreation Services

Eighty pages of know-how from the NRA Press
$2.00 ($1.80 to N.R.A. members)

E] Send .__._ copies of Budget 61' Finance

[:1 Check or money order enclosed |:] Bill agency
(lie sure to All in name and address on reverse side.)

 

266

LOW-008T ADS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

TIIREE POPULAR CRAFT BOOKLETS are now avail-
able to out-of-staters from the Oregon State
University Extension Service. Decorative Tin-
Can Craft ($.15) contains good photographs,
text, and explicit diagrams on projects which
are exceptionally pleasing to the eye and
serve a variety of decorative uses. Christmas
Decorations for Your Home (8.20) concen~
trates on paper decorations—metallic-fringe
trces, Christmas socks, etcetera. Party Favors
and Decorations ($.20) includes papercraft,
wrapping wires, twisting paper flowers, leis.
raflia dolls, etcetera. All are available from
Bulletin Clerk, Department of Printing, Ore-
gon State University, Corvallis, Oregon.

TELL A RETIRED PERSON on a modest budget
that he can live likc a millionaire and he prob-
ably won’t believc you. A Trail-R-Club book-
let tells how this is possible in mobile homes
(see also Page 238). It details the benefits of
trailer park living with its recreation and out~
door living benefits, its opportunity for iude-
pentlence. How to Live Like a Retired Mil-
lionaire . . . is available for $1.00 from Trail-
R-Club of Amcrica, P.O. Box 1376, Beverly
Hills, California.

NATURE CENTERS are no longer a luxury for
a community. With the advent of industrial
landgrabbing, the setting aside of some land
for learning and recreation has become a
must. The National Audubon Society in A
Nature Center for Your Community details
the importance of a nature center in your
town and how you can go about making it a
reality. What is a nature center? What are
its values? Where can you get help in organ-
izing one? The booklet answers all thesc
questions and supplements the text with many
photographs and some illustrations. Avail-
able for $1.00 from the Nature Centers Divi-
sion, National Audubon Society, 1130 Fifth
Avcnue, New York 28.
0

AMERICAN INDIAN oastcxs. A booklet filled
with illustrations, Decorative Art of the South-
western lndians, by Dorothy Smith Sides, will
supply a wealth of ideas for arts and crafts
projects. This fascinating book shows the de-
veloprnent of symbolic images in the various
Indian tribes; the art ranges from very geo-
metric pattcrns to involved patterns remi-
nisceut of Oriental design. Available for $1.00
from Dover Publications, 180 Varick Street.
New York 14.

A PIONEERING EXPERIMENT by the Jewish
Guild for the Blind and Bronx House in New
York City is described in the booklet Group
Work Services for Blind Children in Sighted
Settings—A Community Program. It explains
how blind and sighted children integrate in a
camp setting, covering the change in the
sighted children from tolerance or fear to ac-
ceptance and friendship and the changes in
the blind children: increased self-respect.
physical dexterity, ability to reach out to
others and to hold their own in the integrated
group. Available from the Jewish Guild for
the Blind, 1880 Broadway, New York 23, for
3.75.

RECREATon

   
  
 
   
    
  
   
     
   
   
 
   

.aI'
<IIII
III.
1L ‘ .-
.Ilk .-
III-L ‘-
I-I-IL .
III-III.

III-III.
III. 7 I

‘ll, Al
‘I’ All
‘ 1"
1..-
‘qlll
'Il

  
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

   
   
  
  

 
 
 
  
  
  

    

I
Eh

 
       
 

  
   

   

IIIIIIII
‘IIIII
‘IIII

L

lllh ‘r
Ill;
Il!’
II'

  
  

  

‘Ilr

RECREATION

DIGEST

WOODS, STREAMS, and SKY

The power of outdoor recreation.

E. V. Pullias

HE COMPLEX PRESSURES of mod-
T ern industrial life threaten phys-
ical and mental health, the per-
spective necessary to wisdom, and the
fundamental quality of excellence in
achievement. In my judgment, properly
conducted outdoor education reduces
this threat and hence should be con-
sidered not a frill but rather something
essential to all other education. A sick,
anxious, tense people cannot make a
great nation. Effective education at any
level must not only heal the wounds that
thwart growth but also provide the ex-
perience necessary to full personality
deve10pment.

How then can outdoor education play
its major role in the complex, demand-
ing drama of life in industrialized so-
ciety? Let us examine a few practical
ways this aspect of education can con-
tribute to the balanced education of

DR. PULLIAS is professor of education,
University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, and member of the Los An-
geles County Board of Education. This
material is digested with permission

from the NEA Journal, May 1959.
MAY, 1962

man in relation to his world.

It can provide a regular and satis-
fying contact with varying forms of the
natural world. Woods, streams, mea-
dows, unobstructed sky, mountains,
rocks, desert sand—all these compose
the physical environment which con-
tributes immeasurably to the growth of
body, mind, and soul. To touch these
things directly and with interest is a
healing and growth—producing experi-
ence. Regular interaction with the phys-
ical world will take place only if a
strong desire is created to spend time
in the out-of—doors.

A second phase of a good outdoor-
education program is the development
of the skills, knowledge, and scnsitivity
which make outdoor experience satisfy-
ing. 1f contact with natural things
deeply satisfies, its priority in a rushed
busy life will be high, for we do the
things we most want to do.

Skills in outdoor activity must be
learned, but it is of utmost importance
that they be learned pleasantly. To
help students learn the necessary skills
without killing interest, or better, to

learn them well and yet in such a way
that each difficult learning contributes

to the joy of the whole achievement:
Such is a secret of great teaching at any
level.

Also, knowledge is important to a
satisfying outdoor experience. In this
connection I think of my early life on
a farm in a beautiful section of Tennes-
see. 1 was out-of-doors much of the day
and often much of the night. Doubt-
less, the constant touch of natural
things left some residue in mind and
body, but much of the richness was
missed because 1 lacked the knowledge
to reach the true meaning of that beau-
tiful place.

Going back years later after a little
study of subjects like geology, astron-
omy, and biology, I found that the in-
triguing rocks and caves, the heavens,
animal and bird life, the streams, the
trees, and the seasons with their rain
and snow were alive with new interest
for me. To be ignorant in the midst of
such things is to be like an animal.
Doubtless, there is always some uncon-
scious satisfaction, but without knowl-

267

edge the joy of the mind which is dis-
tinctly human is lost.

EVEN MORE IMPORTANT than skill and
knowledge is sensitivity. But this
central goal of all outdoor—or for that
matter indoor—education is most diffi-
cult to achieve. It cannot be taught in
the usual sense of teaching. Direct at-
tempts to teach sensitivity, even though

Barriers to Service
Continued from Page 252

construct a building without steps and
on a single level that it does to put the
structure “on a pedestal.” A thirty-six-
inch door costs little more than a thirty-
two-inch door. Adjustment of a door-
closing device costs nothing, and show-
ers with level floors and grab rails are
less eXpensive and far safer. In addi-
tion, it would be a real service to every-
one if we removed the many sources of
accidents from our facilities, such as
steps which become treacherous when
icy, slippery tile floors that cause so
many falls, the quick-closing door, and
the bottom step which is a different
height from the rest.

In the long run, the savings on in-
surance, legal fees, loss of goodwill, and
repairs and maintenance more than pay
for any small additional costs. As one

268

 

done sincerely and with enthusiasm,
may produce dullness instead. The task
is to open up to their full capacity the
outer senses and also what may be
called the inner senses. This combina-
tion is what Robert Frost calls “sight”
and “insight.”

Outdoor education should strive to
cultivate the wisdom to withdraw and
seek renewal at the optimum moment

operator who had a ramp built into his
building stated, “After a few years of
Operation, eighty-five percent of the
pe0ple entering the huilding now use
the ramp in preference to the stairs, in
spite of the fact that it is at a far less
convenient location than the entrance
with steps.”

As the owners and Operators of thea-
ters, supermarkets, and modcrn mer-
chandising establishments have learned,
barriers to people are barriers to sales
and service. The story is the same with
recreation, cultural, and sporting facil-
ities. Aside from the mercenary inter-
ests involved, think how much more
meaningful life could be for the handi-
capped or aged person who has just
seen his favorite ballclub in action, or
the paraplegic who has just returned
from a refreshing swim or an evening
of bowling. If these activities can do
so much to enrich the lives of the non-

for growth and healing. There is prob-
ably a breaking point in the health of
both body and mind for every indi-
vidual. It is important to develop wis-
dom enough to withdraw for renewal a
safe time before the crucial danger
point is reached.

ERHAPS MOST IMPORTANT of all, out-
door education involves a state of
mind. Essentially every person needs
what has been aptly called “the great
good place,” after a fable by Henry
James. This is a place of needs of the
individual for achieving a creative de-
tachment from practical affairs. So one
could envision outdoor education that
finally might lead to an attitude of mind
that would enable one to find his par-
ticular great good place in a small gar-
den or backyard or even in the contem-
plation of a rose.

Perhaps all guidance and growth
should point toward the ultimate goal
of such inner self-reliance and freedom
as would make constantly available all
the resources of nature for the replen-
ishment of the spirit. But in the mean-
time (and that is a long meantime for
most of us), planned and somewhat
guided outdoor education is needed
to lead us gradually toward this goal
of a fuller maturity. #

handicapped, think of what they can do
to brighten and strengthen the lives of
the handicappcd and aged—if we make
our recreation facilities freely available

to them. #

 

JUNE- NATIONAL A
RECREATION MONTH

HURIZUNS
FOR YOUR

HM

NATIONAI RECREAIION ASSOCIATION

RECREATION

 

PERSONNEL

 

W. C. Sutherland

SEVENTH NATIONAL INSTITUTE
F OR
PUBLIC RECREATION EXECUTIVES

0W FAST recreation departments
H and services move forward de-
pends on the motivation of em-
ployees, professional and nonprofes-
sional, and the conditions under which
they work in the office and in the field.
How to create within each employee a
desire to learn and improve and how
the oEce administrative and manage-
ment function can aid the recreation
function are important concerns of ex-
ecutives. These questions will be dis-
cussed and the latest and most advanced
information and thinking will be pre-
sented at the National Recreation Asso-
ciation’s Seventh National Institute for
Public Recreation Executives, which
this year will deal with “Office Adminis-
tration, Management, and Procedures.”
The Institute will be held at the Shera-
ton Hotel, Philadelphia, on September
29-30, 1962, just prior to the official
Opening of the 44th National Recrea-
tion Congress.

Recreation authorities are sending
their executives to the Institute as an
important part of their on-the-job train-
ing program. The quota of one hun-
dred is limited to executives from local
and state tax-supported recreation and
park agencies or their assigned repre-
sentatives. Members of university rec-
reation faculties will be admitted up to
ten percent of the quota. The National
OEce Management Association, the rec-
ognized leader in its field, has helped
in securing the outstanding faculty.

N OMA is composed of eighteen thou-
sand oflice executives, most of whom
are affiliated with chapters in the major
cities of the US. and Canada, as well
as members from over thirty countries.

 

MR. SUTHERLAND is director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association Recrea-
tion Personnel Service.

MAY, 1962

 

 

NOMA’s purpose is to stimulate better
management through the oilice.

The National Recreation Association,
in cooperation with NOMA, makes it
possible to bring to executives the best
in resources and talent. Inquiries about
the Institute should be directed to W. C.
Sutherland, Director, Recreation Per-
sonnel Service, National Recreation As-
sociation, 8 West 8th Street, New York
11.

’62 Institute Faculty
William H. La-

tIIam, administra-
tor oftechnical and
program services
for NOMA, will
serve as the Insti-
tute consultant. His
professional re-
sponsibilities include national confer-
ences, seminars, chapter program serv-
ices, systems, data processing, per-
sonnel, research and
services.

administrative

Gibbs Myers will

lead the session 011
forms—designs and
control, which will in-
clude techniques of
developing effective
forms, and discussion
of when and for what
purpose forms are needed. He is man-
ager of systems and procedures at the
Kearfott Division of General Precision,
Inc., founder of the Northern New Jer-
sey Chapter of the Systems and Proce-
dures Association and has served as its
president and national director, among
other offices and chairmanships. He

was named “Systems Man of the Year”
by the International Systems and Pro-
cedures Association in 1960.

 

 

 

Albert PrioIetta
will serve as in-
structor on office
equipment, dealing
with the pros and
cons of various
types of office ma-
chines and repro-
duction services. He is senior manage-
ment analyst at the Port of New York
Authority and has had extensive experi-
ence with duplicating and reproduction
processes and services.

 

Robert W. Craw-

ford, commission-
er of the Philadel-
phia Department
of Recreation, will
explain how the
recreation move-

ment is aided by
the administrative and management

function. Mr. Crawford is a member
of the NRA Board of Directors and
past-president of the American Recrea-
tion Society. He is a member of the
Policy Committee for the 44th National
Recreation Congress and chairman of
the Congress Local Arrangements Com-

mittee. ( See also Page 246.)

William T. Cava-

naugll, executive
director, secretary,
and treasurer of
NOMA, will pre-
sent an introduc-
tion to oilice ad-
ministration and
interpret the services of NOMA. His
extensive experience includes college
teaching and advisor to private and
federal government agencies.

as.

Kenneth Ripnen
will conduct the
session on physical
planning, dealing
with office planning
in relation to the
inHuence various

arrangements have
on office effectiveness—space stand-
ards, layout, decorating schemes, and
maintenance. Mr. Ripnen heads his
own firm of architects, The Ripnen
Company, Inc., and is author of Ofice
Building and Office Layout Planning.

H

269

the Systems and Procedures Associa-
tion of America and the Office Manage-

ment Association.

Jack Crowley,
the systems and
procedures instruc-
tor, is coordinator

of corporate sys-
tems and research

for the Reuben
Donnelley Corpo-
ration and is responsible for coordi-
nating systems and procedures projects
of the various divisions and conducting
research in basic techniques for im-
proving clerical procedures. He is past-
president of the Chicago Chapters of

Mona Sheppard
will conduct the
session on corre-
spondence manage-
ment session, with
step-by-step devel-
opment of her “bet-
ter letter” plan. She
is vice-president of Leahy and Com-
pany, management consultants. She has
received the Distinguished Service

   

 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

“Come ioin us
on our

gay and enriching
1962
Friendship Tour”

 

We hope you will come join us on
our I962 Friendship Tour. Last year's
tour proved a wondertul. gay. re-
warding experience. So this year we

have planned another tine cruise
and tour to provide the same rich

experience tor you.
That's the personal message from

Mary and Howard Galloway. (right)

who sponsored and conducted last

6 lb ' th I f
year's tour group. The Galloway's. on persona 65'5 ‘3 PeOPe 0

other countries.

The I962 Friendship Tour will be in-
expensive. too. Five and a halt won-
dertul weeks tor about $|250. ln-

cludes travel trom New York or Bos-

editors and publishers ot Camping
Magazine. will again add to this
year's itinerary opportunities to meet
your "opposite numbers" in the coun-
tries you visit.

ton and return. Hotels. meals. special

You will enjoy a restful Fall cruise . H} h E +
c r r . .
through the beautiful Mediterranean. 0“ le rOUg “rope 00

Then a not-usually-included visit to

tascinating Greece. Followed by hap- w r i .l. 3

Mary and Howard Galloway.

Room R5. lll4 South Avenue.
Plaintield. N. J.

Get tull information.
py days in Italy. Austria. Germany.

Switzerland. England and France.
It's a great opportunity to swap ideas
on youth leadership. To get to know

270

 

 

   
    
   
 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Award for government service and is
the author of Plain Letters (see RECRE-
ATION, April 1962).

Howard Brooks
the
session on mailing
procedures. As di-
rector of the cus- .
tomer relations di-
vision of the U.S.
Post Oilice Depart-

ment, he is in charge of the nationwide

will conduct

improved mail service program. This
newly established division handles all
customer services and public coopera-
tion programs of the department. He
is also a member of the Bar Association
in Washington, D.C., and the author of
Mail Room Manual, Mail Clinic, and

articles relating to postal services.

Jack Lilienfeld

will serve as in-
structor on records
management and
methods of filing
instructor, dealing

   

with retention of

A L d.
lsposal
of records, and filing systems. He is
chief of forms control and records anal-
yses for the Philadelphia Department
of Records. A lncmber of NOMA, the
National Microfilm Association, the
American Society for Public Adminis-
tration, and the Society for Advancc-
ment of Management, he has served as

records,

communications instructor at the Phil-
adelphia Government Training Insti-

tute.

Robert Erlcr will
deal with person-
nel management,
which includes ob
analysis, selection,
placement, and de-
velopment of oilice
and

 

employecs,
general personnel policics and prac-
tices. He is manager of wages, salaries,
and benefits for Air France and form-
erly was manager of wage and salary
administration for Babcock and Wil-
cox; supervisor of engineering person-
nel for Vought Aircraft. and, for sev-
eral years was with the Department of

Labor and the Glcnn L. Martin Com-
pany- #

RECREATION

'* FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

‘f‘ The Children’s Rehabilitation Divi-
sion of Bird S. Coler Hospital in New
York City is doing a study of “Play as
Another Modality in the Treatment of
Physically Handicapped Children.” Un-
der the leadership of Daniel Halpern,
M.D., and Harold Rubin, a fellow in
doctoral studies at Yeshiva University,
the study aims at deve10ping play activi-
' ,ties which are useful for the improve-
ment of specific physical functions. So
far, over two hundred day activities
have been devised that are useful for
adjunctive support of formal physical
and occupational therapy programs.

When the study is completed, the re-
habilitation division hopes to have a
series of graded play activities to im-
prove the handicapped child’s physical
functioning. Techniques of adaptation
of these play activities will be described
in terms of meeting the differing needs
of children, according to such criteria
as intelligence, age, degree and kind of
handicap, and sex.

4‘ Barbara Mumford, recreation spe-
cialist with the King County Park and
Recreation Department, Seattle, Wash-
ington, informs us that since 1958 her
department has had a year-round rec-
reation and swimming program for all
types of physically handicapped and
mentally retarded children. Over 550
children are enrolled. In addition, it
has a weekly craft class for ten to fifteen
handicapped adults and four weekly so-
cial recreation programs for over one
thousand senioi‘ citizens.

'f‘ The Recreation Department of the
Canton, Ohio, City School District re-
ports a new program for thirty-six
handicapped persons, including men-
tally retarded, cerebral-palsy, and polio
cases. This group, ranging in ages from
fourteen to thirty, meets twice each
month for recreation and participates
in square dancing, bowling, art, handi-
crafts, lectures, and drama. The pro-
gram is under the sponsorship of the
United Fund and is conducted by volun-
teer leaders.

4‘ The Wisconsin State Board of Health

is planning a series of regional insti-
tutes in recreation for the aging and
chronically ill. The institutes will be
directed towards state agencies, nursing
home associations and recreation and
occupational therapy associations.

MAY, 1962

'f‘ David M. Langkammer, Great Lakes

District representative of the National
Recreation Association, reports that the
Toledo Mentally Retarded Children’s
Association is opening a new public
school which will include facilities and
educational programs for the retarded.
The association will form a handi-

capped center council to provide the
Operation of special programs after
hours for:

0 Social recreation opportunities for
the retarded.

0 Opportunities for the entire family
to participate in cultural arts and other
leisure-time programs.

0 Making the retarded school access-
ible to those living in the neighborhood
as a community center where they can
participate in programs designed for
normal individuals and other programs
that would provide an opportunity for
both the retarded and normal individu-
als to participate together. if:

 

    

 

Austria. Germany. Switzerland. All
with a congenial group and at bud-
get prices. To find out how. mail the

coupon.

JOIN THE FALL 1962 FRIENDSHIP TOUR

Join the happy couple at left. com-
paring notes by a Paris fountain.

Stroll in London's Picadilly Circus.
below. Visit fascinating Greece. Italy.

 

i- _________________________________ __T
: To Mary and Howard Galloway I
I Room R5. ll I4 South Avenue, Plainfield. N. J. I
I I am considering ioining the I962 Friendship Tour. Please send me I
: without obligation color brochures. itinerary details. date and cost I
I information. :
i Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . :
I Street 3‘ No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. :
: City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Zone . . . . . State . . . . . . . . . . . :
: Profession or Occupation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
L __________________________________ __I
When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 271

 

Opera Production, Quaintance Ea-
ton. University of Minnesota Press,
Minneapolis. Pp. 266. $6.50.

This handbook should prove indis-
pensable to both amateur and profes-
sional Opera-producing units, a list 'of
which is provided for each of the fifty
states. It will also be valuable to the
layman, student of opera, and the
broadcaster. It provides compact and
accurate production data on more than
five hundred operas. The data consists
of pertinent historical notes, plot synop-
sis, roster of characters and brief as-
sessment of music involved, choral re-
quirements, orchestration, sources of
scores and other materials, photo-
graphs, lists of performing companies,
and other vital information. Quaint-
ance Eaton, formerly associate editor
of M asical America and author of sev-
eral books on music, is a recognized
authority in the field of opera.

How To DeveIOp Mentol Mogic, Paul
R. Hadley. T. S. Denison and Company,
321 Fifth Avenue South, Minneapolis
15. Pp. 117. $3.95.

Here is a really new book! The au-
thor gives away his secrets as a “men-
talist.” He has written a good-humored,
generous explanation of how he and an
assistant perform the “mind-reading”
acts everyone enjoys watching. He does
not pretend-min fact, makes this point
very clear—that he has any mystic or
magic power. He does claim that he has
an interesting, useful, and possibly lu-
crative hobby that others can learn and
enj oy—and he has written a very clear,

organized and detailed book to prove
it!

All About American Holidoys, May-

mie R. Krythe. Harper and Brothers,
49 East 33rd Street, New York 16. Pp.
276. $4.50.

This book, by the author of All About
Christmas, gives salient information on
the origin, history, and types of celebra-
tion for fifty-one holidays—religious,
patriotic, historic, and others. They are
arranged chronologically, beginning

272

with New Year’s Day and ending with
Christmas. In between come not only
the usual ones-“Lincoln’s and Wash-
ington’s Birthdays, July 4, Halloween,
Thanksgiving, and the like—but a num-
ber of less well-known ones, such as Chi-
nese New Year, Cinco de Mayo (May
5), American Indian Day, Poetry Day,
and Forefathers’ Day. The Jewish holi-
days of Purim, Pesach, Shavuoth, Yom
Kippur, Rosh Hashana, Sukkoth, and
Hanukkah are included. This book is
good background material. It is not an
activity book.

Mosoic Art Today, lorry Argiro. ln-
ternotionol Textbook Company, 1001

Wyoming Avenue, Scranton 9, Penn-
sylvania. Pp. 242. $9.00 (text edition,
$7.50).

This a real beauty of an art book,
full of excellent black-and-white photo-
graphs as well as many lovely ones in
color. It is written by a man who is an
art educator and who writes in a simple
and understandable way. Here is a cre-
ative approach to working with mosaics
and the finest book I have seen on this
subject from an educational point of
view. It is not merely a “how-to-do.”
There is a good list of suppliers in-
cluded in the back of the book. Anyone
interested in doing a piece of mosaic art
would derive a great deal from this
book—Mary B. Cummings.

The Master Gome ond Party Book,
Genevieve Richart. T. S. Denison and
Company, 321 Fifth Avenue South,
Minneapolis 15. Pp. 253. $3.95.

Three things make this collection dif-
ferent from the usual games book. First,
it has a slightly old-fashioned, rather
quaint, air about it, due probably to the
use of such words as “trinkets,” “pails,”
“vials,” “news vendor,” “men guests,”
etcetera. (Our guess is that either the
material has been assembled from old
sources or is from England). The sec-
ond difference is that the names of
games are in remarkably large type; in
fact, anyone with poor eyesight will find
the type of this book unusually easy to
read. The third is the inclusion of a

fairly short section on the celebration of
wedding anniversaries and showers.

The actual game content includes
very little that is new. All the old stand-
bys are here, from children’s singing
games on up to “Prince of Paris,” “Up,
Jenkins,” “Crambo” and the like. A
pleasant enough collection, but very
routine as well.-—V.M.

The Complete Picnic Book (second
edition), John E. Shallcross. Ronold
Press, 15 East 26th Street, New York
10. Pp. 198. $4.00.

The second edition of this useful
book contains some new material, but,
even without anything changed, to have
this book available is welcome news.
Half the book is filled with excellent
ideas for family and small group pic-
nics; the other half deals with big or-
ganizational picnics. The game section,
nicely organized to include activities
suitable for small children, girls,
women, boys, men, and older people,
is very complcte. The section on out-
door cooking for backyard and for
large groups is helpful, as is a small
section on special events. Mr. Shallcross
is picnic consultant for the Cleveland
Division of Recreation, planning
around five hundred picnics for groups
of all sizes each year.

Toys to Sew, Choriotte l. Davis and
Jessie Robinson. J. B. lippincott, East
Washington Squore, Philadelphia 5.
Pp. 96, illustrated. $3.00.

From the first cuddly stuffed animal
that goes to bed with the child to the
sophisticated autograph animal in the
teenager’s room, or the puppct on a TV
Show, young hearts are won with stuffed
toys. Most are fairly simple to make.
Here are projects that involve sewing
and that make sewing fun, whether the
group is adult or made up of little girls
or teenagers. Whether it’s Cornelius
Camel, Gerald Giraffe, Susie Sock,
Penny Penguin, the Gingham Dog or
the Calico Cat, they’re all here-—with
friends and relatives! '

RECREATION

QM

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

OM

Administration

 

IDMINISTRATIVE CONTROL AND EXECUTIVE AC-
TION, B. C. Lemke and James Don Edwards.
Merrill Books, 1300 Alum Creek Dr., Co-
lumbus 16, Ohio. Pp. 795. $7.95.

3USINESS OF MANAGEMENT, THE, Roger FaIk.
Penguin Books, 3300 Clipper Mill Rd.,
Baltimore 11. Pp. 251. Paper, $.95.

DESIGN OF REGIONAL ACCOUNTS, Werner
Hochwald. Johns Hopkins Press, Home-
wood, Baltimore 18. Pp. 281. $6.00.

EXECUTIVE AND THE BOARD IN SOCIAL WEL-
FARE, THE, William D. Schmidt. Howard
Allen, Inc., P.O. Box 1810, Univ. Center
Station, Cleveland 6. Pp. 78. $2.50.

GOVERNING URBAN AMERICA (2nd. ed.),
Charles R. Adrian. McGraw-Hill, 330 W.
42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 508. $7.50.

NATIONAL PROGRAM OF RESEARCH IN HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, Harvey S. Per-
Ioff. Resources for the Future, 1775 Massa-
chusetts Ave., N.W., Washington 6. Pp. 32.
$.50.

OBC DIGEST OF STATE BOAT TRAILER LAWS
(2nd. ed.). Outboard Boating Club of
America, 307 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 1.
Leaflet. Free.

ORGANIZATION, AUTOMATION, AND SOCIETY,
Robert A. Brady. Univ. of California Press,
Berkeley 4. Pp. 481. $8.50.

PLANNING THE NEIGHBORHOOD. Public Ad-
ministration Service, 1313 E. 60th St., Chi-
cago. Pp. 94. Paper, $3.00.

PUBLIC LEADERSHIP, Wendell Bell, Richard J.
Hill, and Charles R. Wright. Chandler
Pub., 660 Market St., San Francisco 4. Pp.
242. Paper, $2.25 (cloth $4.50).

SHAPING A NEW CONCEPT OF ADMINISTRATIVE
MANAGEMENT. American Management As-
soc., 1515 Broadway, New York 36. Pp. 112.
Paper, $3.00 (AMA members $2.00).

VANDALISM—HOW TO STOP IT, George T.
Wilson. Amer. Institute of Park Executives,
Oglebay Park, Wheeling, W. Va. Pp. 38.
Paper, $2.00.

Family

 

FAMILY: A Focal Point in Health Education,
The, Iago Galdsfon. Internat’l. Univ. Press,
227 W. 13th St., New York 11. Pp. 216.
$3.00.

FAMILY ACTIVITIES WITH OTHER FAMILIES, Na-
tional Board of the YWCA, 600 Lexington
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 47. Paper, $.75.

FAMILY BOATING, Lillian Borgeson and Jack
Speirs. Fawcett Publ., 67 W. 44th St., New
York 36. Pp. 144. Paper, $.75.

FAMILY BOOK OF GAMES, Richard Kraus. Mc-
Graw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36.
Pp. 190. $3.95.

FAMILY CAMPING, Lane Book Co., Menlo
Park, Calif. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.75.

FAMILY LIFE PLAYS, Nora Stirling. Associa-
tion Press, 291 Broadway, New York 17.
Pp. 318. $6.50.

FAMILY RECREATION AND SAFETY 1961. Div.
of General Education, New York Univer-
sity, Washington Sq., New York 3. Pp. 80.
Paper, $1.00.

FUN FOR THE FAMILY, Jerome S. Meyer, Edi-
tor. Perma Books, 630 5th Ave., New York

20. Pp. 265. $.35.
GOOD HOUSEKEEPING’S BOOK OF HOME EN~

TERTAINMENT. World Publ., 2231 W. 110th

MAY, 1962

St., Cleveland 2. Pp. 320. $4.95.

MUSIC FOR FAMILY FUN, Harriot Buxton Bar-
bour. E. P. Dutton, 300 Park Ave. S., New
York 10. Pp. 174. $3.95.

NEW LOOK AT MARRIAGE AND THE HOME, A.
Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.50.

ONE-PARENT FAMILY, THE, Anna W. M. Wolf
and Lucille Stein. Public AiIairs Commit-
tee, 22 E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp. 28.
$.25.

PEOPLE IN FAMILIES, George Simpson. Thom-
as Y. Crowell, 432 Park Ave. S., New York
I6. Pp. 554. $7.95.

PREJUDICE, MENTAL HEALTH AND FAMILY
LIFE, Nathan W. Ackerman. Amer. Jewish
Committee, 165 E. 56th St., New York 22.
Pp. 26. $.50.

WHAT MAKES A MARRIAGE HAPPY? David R.
Mace. Public Affairs Committee, 22 E. 38th
St., New York 16. Pp. 20. $.25.

Storybooks

GIFT OF WILDERNESS (Grand Canyon National
Park), Jack Steflan. John Day Co., 62 W.
45th St., New York 36. Pp. 188. $3.50.

GOLDILOCKS AND THE THREE BEARS. Crown
Publishers, 419 Park Ave. S., New York 16.
Unpaged. $.89.

GOODBYE TO A RIvER (Brazos), John Graves.
Alfred A. Knopf, 501 Madison Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 306. $4.50.

KING WHO LEARNED TO SMILE, THE, Seymour
Reit, pp. 30; WONDERFUL HOUSE, THE, Mar-
garet Wise Brown, pp. 31; ROUND, ROUND
WORLD, Michael Douglas, pp. 30; JUST FOR
FUN, Patricia Scarry, pp. 31; TOO MANY
BOZOS, Lilian Moore, pp. 30. Golden Press,
630 5th Ave., New York 20. $1.00 each.

KLEPTY, Rutherford Montgomery. Duel],
Sloan & Pearce, 124 E. 30th St., New York
I6. Pp. 83. $2.95.

NIGERIAN FOLK TALES, Barbara K. and War-
ren S. Walker, Editors. Rutgers Univ.
Press, 30 College Ave., New Brunswick,
N. J. Pp. 113. $4.00.

NINE LIVES OF HOMER C. CAT, THE, Mary Cal-
houn. Morrow 8r Co., 425 Park Ave. S.,
New York. Unpaged. $2.75.

Youth

BOY IS A BOY, A (verse) , Ogden Nash. Frank-
lin Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New York
22. Unpaged. $2.95.

CHILD AND SOCIETY, THE, Frederick Elkin.
Random House, 457 Madison Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 121. Paper, $.95.

CHILDREN OF WORKING MOTHERS, Elizabeth
Herzog. US. Govt. Printing OiIice, Wash-
ington 25. Pp. 38. $.20.

CHILDREN’S VILLAGE, THE, Mary Buchanan.
W. S. Ileinnian, 400 E. 72 St., New York
21. Pp. 40. $3.00.

CHILD UNDER er, THE, James L. Hymes, Jr.
Educational Services, 1730 Eye Street,
N.W., Washington 6, D. C. Pp. 202. Paper,
$2.75.

DON’T PUSH ME! Margaret Rasmussen. Assn.
for Childhood Educ. Internl., 3615 Wiscon-
sin Ave., N.W., Washington 16, D. C. Pp.
40. Paper, $.75.

EARLY IDENTIFICATION OF EMOTIONALLY
HANDICAPPED CHILDREN IN SCHOOL, Eli M.
Bower. Charles C. Thomas, 301-327 E. Law-
rence Ave., Springfield, Ill. Pp. 120. $5.50.

ESSAYS FOR MODERN YOUTH, Jay E. Greene,
Editor. Globe Book, 175 5th Ave., New

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

W1
51

WITH NEW IDEAS

Program Aids

NOTHING builds better programs
and stronger teams than these ori-
ginal, one-of—a-Irind problem-solving
woLIr-savers. Get never-before results
wit :

ERASO' Posters 8: Charts

SPOT AWARDS‘ Trophies 8: Cups
RECORD-MASTER‘ "Hall-ol-Fame" Dispieys
PLAYMASTER‘ Coaching Aids

SCORE-KING' Magnetic Scoreboard
*Reg. U. 8. Pat. .0“.

See your Sporting Goods Deeier
or write For FREE cateioa to—

IHE PROGRAM AIDS CO. on.
Dept. I, 550 Sllr Ave., II. I. 36. II. I.

 

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts,
handing out balls and paying tap prices for law
quaiity balls. Install this attractive, cast-cutting
TFT Tabie Tennis Ball Meter NOWi

Leased FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair.- Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V2 x 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to instoil. Halds I20 bails—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddies, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: “Stop Wasting Their Time."I

T. f. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

IN(OIPOIITIO

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

 

York 10. Pp. 592. $3.52.

GROWING SHADY, Verna .l. Joiner. Warner
Presq. Andtrson, Ind. Pp. 122. Paper,
$1.00.

GROWING I'P ABSI'RD, Paul Goodman. Ran-
dom House, 45’! \Iadison Ave., New York
22. Pp. 296. $4.50.

GUIDELINES TOWARD HUMAN RIGHTS (1960
White House: Conference on Children and
Youth). Amer. Jewish Comm., 165 E. 56th
St., New York 22. Pp. 23. 5.20.

HOW TO GROW UP SUCCESSFULLY, Renatus
Hartogs, M.D., Ph.D. and Helen Jill Flet-
cher. Bobbs-Merrill, 717 5th Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 192. 53.95.

How YOU LOOK AND DRESS, Byrta Carson.
McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York
36. Pp. 398. $4.36.

JOURNEY THROUGH ADOLESCENCE, Doris Od-

 

lum. Penguin Books, 3300 Clipper Mill Rd.,

Baltimore 11, Md. Pp. 159. 5.65.
KATHRYN MURRAY’S TIPS To TEEN-AGERS. G.
P. Putnam’s Sons, 210 Madison Ave., New

York 16. Pp. 71. $2.50.
LIVING WITH YOUR TEENAGER, Simon GIus-

trom. Bloch Publ., 31 W. 31st St., New
York 1. Pp. 175. $3.50.

MCCALL’S BOOK OF EVERYDAY ETIQUETTE,
Margaret Bevans. Golden Press, 630 5th
Avenue, New York 20. Pp. 370. $5.00.

NEEDS AND INTERESTS or ADOLESCENT BOYS
CLUB MEMBERS. Boys’ Clubs of America,
771 1st Ave., New York 17. Pp. 113. Paper,
$2.50.

NEW TRENDS IN YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS. Co-
lumbia Univ. Press, 2960 Broadway, New
York 27. Pp. 63. Paper, $1.00.

100 YEARS AND MILLIONS OF BOYS, William

S

HIGHROAD to ADVENTURE

with

AYH

American Youth Hostels offers an adventure-packed educational and rec-
reational travel program in the United States and abroad in small groups

(7—10) at budget prices.

IN THE HOSTEL WAY OF TRAVEL:

small congenial groups + trained leader + simple travel : fun.

adventure, and self-reliance.

IN THE SUMMER OF 1962, National Headquarters of AYH offers
thirty-five especially planned itineraries. Local AYH Councils offer many
more. Broaden your horizons as you explore the world via foot, canoe,
bicycle, train, bus, station wagon, or on horseback.

4-I2 WEEK “NATIONAL” PROGRAMS—FROM $I70.
U.S.A. * ALASKA * HAWAII * CANADA

MEXICO * SOUTH AMERICA * EUROPE

U.S.S.R. * ISRAEL * JAPAN
(write for illustrated folder NRA)

I-4 WEEK "LOCAL COUNCIL” PROGRAMS—FROM $43.
U.S.A. and CANADA

ALL YEAR-ROUND AYH:

0 Provides low cost youth hostel overnight facilities for individuals or

groups.

0 Issues Youth Hostel Passes (membership cards) valid in 32 countries.

0 Helps youth leaders organize and sponsor youth hostel trips in c00pera-
tion with AYH; helps organize youth hostel clubs.

0 Provides trip leadership Opportunities for qualified persons at home

and abroad.

0 Sponsors a hospitality program for hostelers from abroad.
0 Provides lecturers on Youth Hosteling.

AMERICAN YOUTH HOSTELS, INC..
I4 West 8th Street, New York | I, New York

274

Edwin Hall. Farrar, Straus and Cudahy, 19
Union Square W., New York 3. Pp. 136.
$3.75.

ONLY CHILD, THE, Eda J. LeShan. Public Af-
fairs Pamphlets, 22 E. 38th St., New York
16. Pp. 20. 5.25.

PARENTS DESERVE To KNOW, G. Curtis Jones.
Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 11.
Pp. 205. $3.95.

REMEMBER ME WHEN THIS YOU SEE (auto-
graph verse), Lillian Morrison, Editor.
Thomas Y. Crowell, 432 Park Ave. S., New
York 10. Pp. 182. $2.95.

RUGGED DOZEN ABROAD, THE, Adele De Leeuw
and Margaret Dudley. Macmillan, 60 5tlI'
Ave., New York 11. Pp. 197. $3.00.

SO YOU WORK WITH JUNIORS, Arlene S. Hall.
Warner Press, 1200 E. 5th St., Anderson,
Ind. Pp. 62. Paper, $1.00.

STATE CHILD-LABOR STANDARDS (rev. ed.),
US. Govt. Printing Ollice, Washington 25,
D. C. Pp. 210. $.60.

TEEN-AGE TREASURY or GOOD HUMOR, Seon
Manley, Editor. Wilfred Funk, 153 E. 24
St., New York 10. Pp. 334. $4.95.

THIS SIDE OF YOUR MIRROR, Doreen Teeling.
Fleet Publ., 230 Park Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 159. $3.95.

WHAT DID TOMMY SAY? (manners), Louise
Price Bell. Warner Press, Anderson, Indi-
ana. Unpaged. $.50.

Wo-HE-LO: The Story of the Camp Fire Girls:
1910-1960. Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 383
Madison Ave., New York 17. Pp. 308. $3.95.

WONDERFUL WORLD FOR CHILDREN, A (3rd
ed.), Peter Cardozo. Bantam Books, 25 W.
45th St., New York 19. Pp. 250. $.35.

YOU AND YOUR CAREER. Collier’s Encylopedia,
640 5th Ave., New York 19. Unpaged. $.50.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, April 1962
Kites That Fight, Constance Aiello.
Chenille Shapes Carnival of Color, Nao
Hansen.
Sculpture-in—the-Round, Jane A. Feiler.
Printing with Plaster Board, Alice Ehrlich.
CHALLENGE, April 1962
The Rcwards of Leisure, Peter L. Bernstein.
HARPER’S, April 1962
The Undercover Fight Over the Wilderness,
Julius Duscha.
MINNESOTA MUNICIPALITIES, March 1962
Plan to Save the Land, Gaylord Nelson.
NATIONAL PARKS MAGAZINE, April 1962
Special Grand Canyon National Park Issue
PARENTS’ Magazine, April 1962
Let’s Not Rush Them Out of Childhood,
Jean R. Komaiko.
New Lifc for the Library, Helen Puner.
We Campcd Across the U.S.A., Richard
Erdos.
SATURDAY EVENING POST, March 10, 17, 24,
1962
We Waste a Million Kids a Year, Mary
Conway Kohler and Andre Fontaine.
SENIOR CITIZEN, April 1962
Senior Citizens Step Out, Agnes Schmidt
Heilman.
WOMAN’S DAY, April 1962
Easter Gifts for Children, Trudy Boyles and
Louise MacMartin.
The Story of American Needlework #11:
Needlepoint, Rose Wilder Lane.
Stroll Gardens.
YWCA Magazine, March 1962
Teenage Camping, Mary E. Doolittle.

RECREATION

A SUGGESTION ABOUT PHYSICAL FITNESS THE SECOND OF A SERIES

   
    
  

but. . .
~ what can we play

on a rainy day .7

"SAFE-T-PLAY SAVED
OUR RAIN DRENCHED SPRING SEASON."

Louise Lockeman: Head of Phy. Ed. Dept.
Browne“ Jr. High School, Grosse Point‘r Michigan

WHY LET BAD WEATHER
WIDEN THE ACTIVITY GAP?

 '  Bring Outdoor

i When weather is bad and classes over-

 
   

Games Indoors

A few dollars worth of Safe—T-Play

   

OSOMF

(3 R P O R A.T'l O N

C

' How indoor space, Safe-T-Play advan-
tages are "worth their weight in gold".
‘ Any vacant corner, corridor or room
becomes a handball court, a hockey

equipment provides for an entire class.
The Polyethylene balls are lively yet
short in flight. The bats. bowling pins.
hockey sticks of Polyethylene can do no

rink, a bowling alley or a baseball field. 6' harm to players or to fixtures.

EXCITING GAMES,- SAFE FOR INDOOR PLAY

Safe-T-Play games are FUN. They are

_. fast. lively. absorbing. Each is patterned
closely after a p0pular sport played by
high school and college teams. From
first grade through high school—every-
one takes part.

Safe—T-Play games add priceless vari-
ety and stimulation. 50 physical fitness
programs are made much more effective.
Keep your program forging ahead, in
any weather, with Safe-T-Play games.

They are FUN.

SAFE-T- PLAY CAN SAVE THE DAY. LET’S CLOSE THE ACTIVITY GAP

 

ORDER SAFE-T-PLAY EQUIPMENT

ROM YOUR SCHOOL SUPPLY DEALER
6030 WAYZATA BLVD.. MINNEAPOLIS 16. MINN.

0 FUN FOOTBALL 0 BOWllTE

 
    

COBOM

sIIrI-I-rIIII o

‘3 e
RODUO‘T

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

A pamphlet is better
than a pill!

Don ’t let a lull in activities

prove a program headache!

 

SUGGESTIONS FOR AN AMATEUR CIRCUS

#13130 (35¢) Planning, publicity, grounds, financing, program,
parade, acts, animals, spectacles, sIde show and concessmns.

A PLAYGROUND FAIR
P138 (25¢) Preliminaries, grand march. production, the show.

SIMPLE PUPPETRY, #4 of the Playground Series techniques for the leader.
P96 (50¢) Introduction, types of puppets. making simple puppets, staging.

LOOK———A PARADE
P91 (50¢) Types, celebrations, informal. age groupings. floats, flowcrs.

HOW To DO lT (arts (9: crafts pro jects)
P175 ($1.00) Plan for arts and crafts room. general information, projects, line drawings and instructions.

THE BARN DANCE RETURNS
P246 (25¢) Invitations, costumes, decoration. organization. stunts, contcsts, games. I

TREASURE HUNTS
P232 (50¢) Excitement, adventurc and loads of fun.

SO YOU’RE GOING TO TAKE A TRIP (mimeoetl 4- pages)
P135 (15¢) Games for children on a trip. o I

MONEY RAISING STUNTS FOR FAIRS, CARNIVALS (mimeoetl 12 pages)
P105 (35¢) Organization, publicity, games, finances.

Quail/m, #73WMMa5wanmeda/L
The 1962 Playground Summer Notebook

$2.50 ($2.00 to NRA members)

RECREATION BOOK CENTER 8 ‘Vest Eighth Street, New York 11, New York

Prices subject to publishers’ changes When ordering, mention Recreation Magazine.

