N
mm“.
0
“0
E”
mm
E
R0

 

 
 
  
  

nce upon a time  there was a

chairmanVHe€y(or she@)was respons-
ihle for obtaining trophies Qg7awards

and badges “7 for club events, salesmen’s
contests and tournaments  The
chairman wrote  for the Emblem and
Badge catalogwhich savedéziia him 50%

egg” list price. Everyone've _i.-. 7’ was so
pleased with the awards that [they gave
‘ \ I - r/,__/

N.
O...

 
 

GEODESIB PICNIC SHELTERS

BY GAME-TIME

Ideal for recreational—park—golf course use. Utilizes
exceptionally strong geodesic engineering principle.
Shelters are available with 23' or 39' clear spans. Can-

opy domes manufactured from all weather Duraply.
Enclosed buildings also available. ONLY $475.00 F.O.B.

 

    
   

    
 
 

 
   
 

 

  

LITCIIFIELD FOR 23' MODEL. Write Bob Wormser, Vice  5 very 0w" "0th _ i . r from
President. for complete information on shelters and - F, 
Game-time’s complete line of Imagineered Park and /" "' \\

  

 
 

Playground Equipment.

GAME-TIME, INC.
616 Jonesville Road ' Litchfreld, Michigan
Subsidiary of Simpson Mfg. Campany
Manufacturers of Imagineered Playground Equipment

   

Emblem & Badge Mfg. Co.
68 Pine Street, Providence, R. I.

       
       
 

 

     

‘ . "' " _
.r r .- «— S  ‘ ..
.a "_ t I a V“ a .- _. " 
.- v ' " as. «i, .
- . . . . .

 THE NET POST PROBLEM "
' - SOLVED AT LAST

    
  

   
    

q'i-IHF w

NO FLOOR sCREws

 

  
   

  Exciting new tlexibility on the gym tloor.

Lightweight. tree-standing unit --— Obsoletes gym standards . . . Two telescoping posts (3' to 8') on
an adjustable (20' to 30') base . . . Adjusts for volle ball. badminton or tennis. Nets always strung and
ready: perfect — straight. tight. Collapsible — lays ilat to wall. Portable (65 lbs.) — place anmhere

on floor. no bolting. No toppling posts. sagging nets. Weatherproot— leave it outdoors. Instant. jam

action. tension device — no tying knots.
For Further Information, wrae - BALL— BOY CO . , INC. 26 MILBURN. BRONXVILLE. N. Y.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   
 
 
 

ta, NOTHING

' ATTRACTS
'. THEM

LIKE

     

7‘ Here comes the Miracle Steam Engine Climber

. . . heading right for the hearts of young. eager
engineers. No child will want to miss this train
that moves only through the fertile fields of his
imagination. Plenty of places to climb aboard, too
. . . from the top of the smoke stack to the back
of the cab. Watch ’em make tracks to your play-
ground when the Miracle Steam Engine Climber
pulls in! ’

NEW

CAPTAIN’S
DECK

L
DIIIIIIIIIIIIOC

 
  

ABC SLIDE

Hours of imaginative'
play and much needed I "11--
exercise for any num- """

ber of sea-faring skip-
pers. You’ll have no trouble signing on a full crew when the

Miracle Captain’s Deck draps anchor on your playground.

Adored by the younger children
so often overlooked on many
playgrounds. Ideal for unsuper-
vised play areas.

"‘r'— —--\‘ [Ham—‘—
1 u—c— l.

"-...—._._..—— I ,-._.__

MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY
__.., _ . _ _ .. _ 4h GRINNELL 18. IOWA

. L 1 Please send me at once:
‘ .— _ m _ u H Literature and prices on this new Miracle equipment
Fresh off the press! Our Li New catalog on Miracle playground equipment

new 4-color, 32-page l’_ Free playground planning service information

 

catalog. Features the NAME. _ I. _ u _  __r __
complete line of Miracle
playground equipment. ADDRESS r ~ ——r—*-- ——a
Mail coupon today for cm,__r I _
your FREE copy.

STATE _

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

MARCH 1962

 

«. HE C BEATION

MARCH I962

 

GENERAL

ADMINISTRATION

PROGRAM

MONTHLY DIGEST

114

 

VOL. LV NO. 3 PRICE 60c

These Things We Believe (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 118
Our outdoor heritage

Free Tinle———A Challenge to Free Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 119
Plans [or the 44th National Recreation Congress in Philadelphia

Trends and Problems of Organized Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Stanley W. Stocher 123
The camping picture resulting from ACA survey

Outdoor Reereation in Ameriea, Part I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 124
Report of the Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission

Families Learn by Doing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. E. A. Scholer 128
Workshop prepares neophyte campers [or outdoor life

Canoe Course for the Blind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Cordon T. Howes 131
Sightless campers learn to paddle

Ways Along the Waterfront . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 134
Recommendations for safe boating and fitness through swimming

Camp Self-Inspection Blank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
National Board of Fire Underwriters safety recommendations

Mountain Youth Camp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Cossie L. Smith 145
All-year recreation area

Camping Unlimited . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146
Handicapped youngsters explore a new world

Rainy Day Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. S. Theodore Woal 147
Special activities [or wet days at camp

Rethinking Camp Seienee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William T. llarty 149
Ten goals [or an expanded program

Playground Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Jack Stovel 152
Urban youngsters learn survival camping

Edneation for Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vera Williams 153
High-school girls in Michigan study camping

Day Camp Staff Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grace L. Mitchell 155
How to create a harmonious working unit

Inspirational Programs in the Cltnreh Camp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Betty van der Smissen 157
How to emphasize spiritual activities

Letters 116 Editorially Speaking 120 As \Ve Go To Press 121 Reporter’s Notebook 158

Market News 160 Trade Mart 161 Your Arts and Crafts Corner 164 Rx for the II] and

Handieapped 165 New Publications 167

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Ofiice in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current
issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Copyright, 1962, by the National
Recreation Association. Incorporated .'

{Isa-«'8

Printed in the U.S.A.

   
 

DUCATIONAL
RESS

SSOCIATION
OF

The ertleies herein
printed are the expres-
sion of the writers and
not a statement of peilcy
of the Notional Recrea-
tion Association.

RECREATION

RECREATION

ditor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERCAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

   
 
   
 
   
    

 

Associate Editors
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

n The Cover

This tranquil setting for tent camping
is typical of protected forests which are
'oviding recreation sites. Scene shows
camp on Poe Valley Lake in Centre Yes, hundreds of park and rec-

C)unty, Pennsylvania. Courtesy Amer- faction departments are iump.
can Forests Products Industr1es. ing on the refreshment band.

wagon. You’ll add 10% to 20%
9’” M0"”‘ to your available operating

     

           

8c profit per 10c
sole. Equipment ond
supplies cost under

$300.00. Over 50%
of your patrons will

buy o bog.

Time for playground planning is here funds,
again and, as usual, April will mark the

)ublication of RECREATION Magazine’s A" Gold Medal Equipment can

)layground issue. A playground sym- . - . I
posiunI will tell of playground activities pay for use" our Of PrOf'fs'

and concerns from Tampa, Florida to
acoma, Washington. Articles on
quipment, attendance taking, a city-
wide fitness program conducted on the
playgrounds, ideas for the observance

of Joseph Lee’s one-hundredth anniver- CORN! SNO'KONESI COTTON
sary, and playground games will bring CANDY AND A”- OTHER RE-

you up-to-date on what’s new on the FRESHMENT lTEMs‘

playground. “Outdoor Recreation in
America—Part II” will conclude the

 
 
 

Almost 9: profit per
10c sole. Equipment
and supplies $300.00.
Extremely populor
with all Children un-
der 16.

SNO-KONES

8c profit per 10c.
Equipment ond sup-
plies costs u n d e r
$225.00. Equipment
only 149.50. Every-
body loves Sno-Kones
—the most refreshing

drink you con eot.
r-----------------1

 

 

Write 10—day fg; Eggs; 1961 cata-
log and detailed book on re-
freshments. We have everything

you need for HOT DOGS, POP-

  

 
  

 
   
 

summary of the Outdoor Recreation Re- , send more information on I
sources Review Commission report and   R f h t s I Dwain“ : REFRESHMENT PROFITS to: '
will cover the role of state and local gov-  e m men "pp y I I N :
ernments in the improvement of out- “me I
door recreation opportunities; while    Address :
“Quick Action Pays Off,” will tell the 1921-31 Freeman Avenue, Cincinnati I4. Ohio cm I
exciting story of parks and recreation . I
in MariCOPa County, Arizona- The most trusted name in Refreshments Todoyl L _ 5""?- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - mm:

Photo Credits

Page 118, National Society for Crip-

Iii-1:3“? Eifggg gigglijgdfi‘g’égl Blacktop pavements don’t have to be black . . .

dak High School Photo Contest $300 ®E
Vynatex  2 3

Grand Award, Class 3, Junior Division;
127, New York State Department of
Commerce, Albany;' 129, Rosemary
Entringer, courtesy Better Camping,

Kalmbach Publishing Company; 135,

(top) Hurley of Brookfleld Illinois the charm, beauty, attractiveness of distinctive colors.
9 9 .

(bottom) Pennsylvania State Depart. - Grass Green - Concrete Gray - Brick Red

ment of Commerce, Harrisburg; 145, Color-fast, durable . . . easy to keep clean.

Robert W. Keller, Los Angeles; 152, Ed

Kamper; 158, Frank Rowea National C. groom: war.

Recreation Association; 159 (Hamil- WK
ton) John Rose, San Antonio, Texas, Write for Bulletin L—1828 See your gogggilft)? distributor

. (group) Paul Parker, New York City.

This new polymer coating for asphalt pavements provides

 

'MARCH 1962 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 115

WITH NEW IDEAS
Program Aids

NOTHING builds better programs

and stronger teams than these ori-
ginal. one-oi-a-kind problem-solving
work-savers. Get never-before results
with:

O EMSO‘ Posters 1- Chorts

o sror AWARDS' Trophles 1. Cups

0 lECORD-HASTER' "Hall-ol-Fame" Displays
0

O

PLAYMASTER‘ Coochlng Alds
SCORE-KING' Mognetlc Scoreboard

‘Reg. U. 8. Pat: Off.

See your Sporting Goods Dealer
or write For FREE cataloq to—

IHE PROGRAM AIDS C0. not
Dept. R. 550 5th Ave. H. Y. 36. ll. Y.

Leased FREE!

Stop wosting time recording inventory costs,
honding out bolls ond poying top prices for low
quolity bolls. Instoll this ottroctive, cost-cutting
TFT Toble Tennis Boll Meter NOW!

leosed FREE to responsible ogencies on $10.00
deposit subject to refund. Trouble-free operotion
ossured—return mochine for FREE repoir.— Attroc-
tive hard wood ond rnetol cobinet—7V2 at 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to instoll. Holds 120 bolls—
dispenses eoch for 10¢. Choice of 3 grodes of
lop quolity bolls. Use profit to mointoin ond re-
ploce paddles, nets, etc. No risk guorontee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wosting Their Time."

r. r. rwrrrrozrrr s. (0., O 0

murmur"

SHENANDOAH PENNA.

116

 

 

  

 

American Bike Month
Sirs:

The nation’s 27,000,000 bike owners
and 55,000,000 riders will observe
American Bike Month in May, and
since the vast majority of your readers
are interested in activities for young
people, we felt that you might like to
hear about our program.

Our public service program has two
phases. First, we shall distribute the
booklet, America’s All-Time Ten Best
Bike Games, at no cost through all bike
retail stores. The booklet contains the
twelve ollieial rules of safe riding, a bike
maintenance diagram to make upkeep
easy, suggestions for seat adjustment to
make riding safer and more comfort-
able than it already is, and ten games,
each of which places a premium upon
one or more skills essential to good, safe
riding. Thus, every participant will be
acquiring safe riding habits under the
guise of fun. The booklet can also be
used as a self-contained safety program
by groups of riders.

Secondly, all bike repair shops with
the proper facilities will ofler a cost-free
bike inspection to all bike owners. This
inspection will include examination of
the riding assembly, pedals and brakes,
steering assemhly, lights and signalling
equipment, and tires and spokes.

The overall program has been sound-
ly endorsed by police, youth, educa-
tional, and civic leaders for its effect
upon young riders.

J mm W. NEWTON, Director of Infor-

mation, Bicycle Institute of America,

Inc., 122 East 42nd Street, New Yorlc

I7.

\Vho \Vanls Cokarts ?

Sirs:

As a parent, l am interested in the
welfare of children and youth, includ-
ing the recreational and safety aspects.
l am in wholehearted agreement with
the statement of the National Congress
of Parents and Teachers and the Na-
tional Safety Council regarding go-
karts. Cokarts should not be operated
by drivers below driver licensing age.
in “my book,” they should not be op-
erated . . . period!

Expecting that l might be classified

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

LETTER...

Readers are invited to share the
views on these pages. Commen
of general interest are always we

come. —— The Editors.

as an “old fuddy-dudd y, over-protectir
parent” for my reaction to gokarts,
decided to check with qualified persor
as to their feelings about gokarts.
may be of interest to you to know the
in checking with individual police ofl-
eers, recreation directors, universit
professors of recreation education, an
university professors of safety eduez
tion, I have yet to find one that is i
favor of gokarting.

Who really wants gokarting? Pal
ents? Children? Is it trulya reereatio.
project, or does the commercial aspec-
eome into the picture? Does gokartin-
provide for physical fitness develoq
ment? l am interested in the safety 0
the youngster so that he may eontinur
to develop in physical, mental, social
and spiritual growth.

Mas. DAVID J. THOMPSON. Safety am

Civil Defense Assistant, PTA Distric-

32, Dnl’age County, Illinois, am

member of tlre lCPT Statewide Com

mittee on Recreation.

I I «Ir i

In the Decemher issue, a letter fron
William Bernard [of Trinity Methodist
Church, Springfield, Massachusetts] fa-
vored gokarts as playthings. . . . Having
worked in this area for a numher of
years and desiring that the recreation
program of the Methodist Church he
not misunderstood, l hasten to answer.

Our educational program strives as
nearly as possible to follow the plan of
the Creator of all life. We endeavor to
guide and nurture our youth mentally,
emotionally, spiritually, and physically
until “in its season” the mature being
can take a place of responsibility in so-
ciety. Forced maturation by aeeelera-
tion produces life that cannot hold up
through pressures and tensions and the
succession of “ages” that he must face.
it is like trying to fasten the beams to
a still-wet concrete foundation.

\Vholesome competitive recreation
plays an important part in this overall
maturing process. Basketball, baseball,
bowling, and skating are some of the
sports which require good coordination,
physical dexterity, mental alertness, and
good sportsmanship. The potential haz-
ard in any of these sports is lessened be-
cause practice as well as league games

RECREATION

re coached by dedicated mature men.

it our area great care is taken in select-

Lg these supervisors.

The sheer exuberance of youth can
tuse him or those he contacts enough
ijury without deliberately handing

l im an instrument of destruction. It is
{h a ridiculous to put a fuel-driven vehi-
.,n e in the hands of a youngster, arguing
Ll ,1_at he will drive a car when he is of
:gal age, as it would be to give him a
igh-powered rifle, complete with bay-
I net, because at eighteen he will be sub-

I ict to military service. I am sure the
1+! lethodist Boardoof Education would
.s ‘ ot advocate play1ng0w1th dynamlte for
will he sake of accelerating maturlty. I n-

'loubtedly it would get the job done,
d]. ight down to the last grey hair, but that
15, s not the true plan nor purpose of rec-
 eation education.
gull Most people do not realize that be-
"mfiause gokarts are unlicensed vehicles
4 End therefore not under the supervlslon
" if intelligently trained oHicials, they
nasan be operated by babies four years

)ld. Recent statistics show twenty-five
put of thirty-seven fatalities in gokart
iin accidents happened to children under
l {sixteen years of age. Two of these were
0lander five years of age. Three-fourths

f the fatalities happened not in racing

ccidents but during “play.”

With this in mind and heart, I say,
MORE POWER to the National Con-
. gress of Parents and Teachers for their

stand on this issue. May they continue
' to protect our children from selfish, ir-

responsible manufacturers and adults
who should take another look at their
own maturation.

Mfrs. GEORGE S. KNIGHT, Member,

Commission on Education, Oak Lawn

Methodist Church, Dallas, Texas.

the February issue. It was both inform-
ative and inspirational. It should do

 

MARCH 1962

ments and, even more important, should
do much to improve its quality. We also
liked your supplement because its phi-
losophy is like our own.

. . . we do want to tell you about our
department’s drama program. . . . our
emphasis is on drama with children and
youth. This program is motivated large-
ly by holiday and seasonal observances
as Lincoln’s and Washington’s Birth-
days, Valentine Day, Arbor Day, May
Day, Halloween, and Christmas. . . . we
make every effort to select only plays
that have literary value and good drama-
tic structure. Our program includes
both creative drama and formal drama.
Creative drama is the technique used in
initial rehearsals of a play; later re-
hearsals are conducted with techniques
of formal drama. We feel children
should have experience with both forms.
Our drama program is tied in closely
with beauty of performance and stimu-
lates participation in all these activities.

. . . The Children’s Center of Perform-
ing Arts, soon to be constructed by our
department . . . consists of two buildings
(see below)-——one, the activity center;
the other to house all department cos-
tumes and administration of the total
drama program. The two buildings will
combine to form a center for research

and in-service education for our profes-
sional staff. . . .

MAXINE MCSWEENY, Senior Recrea-
tion Director, and MINNETTE B.
SPECTOR, Supervisor of Recreation,
Department of Recreation and Parks,
Los Angeles, California.

0 See Miss McSweeny's article “Silver
Bells in Summer," which tells of a sum-

mer matinee program for children,
Recreation, April 1961 .—Ed.

* * # *

“Drama Is Recreation” . . . certainly
ought to inspire those who do not yet

have drama programs to institute their
own.

MARJORIE L. DYCKE, President,
American Educational Theatre Asso-
ciation.

OP'KJAL

722m
SOFTBALL

47HEN3.

HAEH¢A

B/fsT

5°
-
0
d
¢
3
vi
5
:5
d
u

Official Softball Bats! '

are player preferred.

Tape, cork or fiber-
glass grips give non-
slip swings - ' - bil'flg

in more wins!

HANNA MFG. CO.
Athens, Ga.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

117

editorial

THESE

THINGS
WE
BELIEVE

WE BELIEVE in boys and girls, not some
of them but all of them.****WE

BELIEVE in their right to an under-
standing of their own place in the nature
community of which they are a part.****\VE

BELIEVE in their right to acquire skills and

the tools for living in the out-of-doors as part
of thcir heritage as descendants of pioncers,

to swim, to fish, to manage a canoe, to climb,
to build, to cook, to worship.****\VE BE-
LIEVE in their right of discovery and adven-
ture in nature’s world, their right to pit their
strength against the harricrs nature erects
and thc mysteries she prcsents and in their
right to a sense of achicven1eut.****WE BE-
LIEVE in thcir right to fun, and to a creative
cxprcssion of themselves in handcrafts, in
music and in drama.****WE BELIEVE in
their right to friendly comradeship with
someonc older, likcwise an advcnture in the
ont-of-doors.****WE BELIEVE in their need
of the healing found in the wild, wide and
opcn spaccs.****WE BELIEVE in their un-
folding response to the warm carth, the
friendly stars, the music of streams, thc un-
known life in the hidden places, great trees,
sunsets and storms.****WE BELIEVE that all
thesc are pathways for them, and for us, to
God, and that their language is universal. #

 

The above is a copy of the final part of an inspira-
tional program at the close of the American Camp-
ing Association Region I V Convention in Gatlinburg,
Tennessee, as reprinted in the American Camping
Association Newsletter, May 1961.

118 RECREATIOI‘

 

New Sheraton H otel

    

Joseph Prendergast

 

at

William Frederickson

 

Edward Thacker

FREE TIME—

A Challenge
to Free Men

Present and Potential” at the 44th National Recrea—

tion Congress in Philadelphia, September 30-October
5. The Program Planning Committee has decided that a
full day of the Congress be used to explore in depth the
subject of “The Participant”—an analysis of man, his nature
as an individual today and the challenge to recreation in
helping him achieve his highest potential.

In addition to this day-in-depth on “The Participant,” the
program for the 44th Congress will focus attention upon all
major aspects of recreation and provide opportunity for pro-
fessionals and volunteers to discuss problems, trends, and
new techniques geared toward helping Americans meet the
challenge of expanding free time.

The annual National Recreation Congress is sponsored
by the National Recreation Association and the American
Recreation Society, this year with cooperation of the Phila-
delphia Department of Recreation, Pennsylvania Recreation
Society, and Federation of National Professional Organiza-
tions for Recreation. Joseph Prendergast, NRA executive
director, is chairman of the 44th Congress Policy Commit-
tee, with William Frederickson, Jr., ARS president, as vice-
chairman. Policy Committee members are Dr. Edith L. Ball,
ARS president-elect; Ray R. Butler, ARS executive director;
Robert W. Crawford, commissioner, Philadelphia Recrea-
tion Department; Thomas W. Lantz, chairman, NRA Na-
tional Advisory Council; Dr. Norman P. Miller, Federation
of National Professional Organizations for Recreation; Ar-

D ELEGATES will spend a day with “The Participant—

thur Williams, NRA associate executive director; and John _

B. Zerbe, president, Pennsylvania Recreation Society.

Edward H. Thacker, ARS first vice-president, heads the

Program Planning Committee with Clifford C. Bream, Jr.,.

NRA National Advisory Council, as vice-chairman. Com—
mittee members are Dr. Ball; Charles B. Cranford, deputy
commissioner, Philadelphia Recreation Department; Donald
R. Koontz, Pennsylvania Recreation Society; and Anne L.
New, NRA director of public information and education.

Headquarters for the 44th Congress will be the new Shera-—
ton Hotel. Congress housing information will be released.

shortly. #

THEME FOR THE 44TH NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

‘ MARCH 1962

119

120

Shaun]

Fun For Everyone !

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-
tion for all ages . . . lteen enioyment
for players and Spectators.

Rugged. Dirnco FreeGlide Shuffle-

board sets are available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . low in upkeep!

Write today for colorful folder, "Let’s
Play Sbufleboard,” containing com-
plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

 

- Low Cost/Growing
Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

PM

For club. class or team. Requires
minimum space and equipment.
Exciting and practical for few or
many participants. National and
International associations.
Castello produces championship
equipment and specially designed
equnpment for class use. All
modestly priced.

JUDO and KARATE T00"!

Kadokan approved uniforms spe-
cially designed for the taller
American figure.

Write for Free Catalogs

CASTELLO

FENCING/JUDO & KARATE EQUIPMENT
30 E. 10th St.. N. Y. 3, N. Y. since 1914

 

 
   
 

A Statement Clear and Bold

“ PORTS [in camp] should be lim-

S ited by the need for a diversified
program of physical activities to reach
the nonathletic youngsters. They should
be further narrowed by the greater ap-
propriateness of the skills of outdoor
living, hiking, and swimming, which are
of such major importance in producing
physical tone and which carry over
more easily as interests in adult life.”
This is one of many needed statements
on camp philosophy now pointed up in
a brochure published by the American
Camping Association and Galloway
Publishing Company, Camping for
American Youth—A Declaration for
Action. The publication is inserted in
the February 1962 issue of Camping
Magazine, and is also available sepa-
rately to anyone interested in camping.
It is the result of the editorial workshop
at Bradford Woods, Indiana, in Octo-
ber 1961, and represents a “consensus
of ideas and ideals of thoughtful and ex-
perienced camping leaders.” According
to Kenneth chb, the editor, many peo-
ple had a hand in it. It discusses the
potentials of the camp and of the child,
their relationship, and how best the
camp can minister to the child’s devel-
opment.

In speaking of the spiritual potential
of children, the authors say, in part:
“Children have a sense of awe and won-
der, a feeling for purpose and order in
the universe, a capacity, therefore, for
spiritual sensitivity. A child can be-
come sensitive to a deep wisdom not
gained from books. He can so increase
in stature and in wisdom as to win the
favor of God and man. . . . The most
precious of all qualilies, awareness of
things spiritual, should be fostered in
every possible way at camp. And every-
thing that happens at camp can have
spiritual overtones. This spiritual awa re-
ness, once stimulated, may carry over
into the home and into life in general.”
This booklet should prove to he an in-
spiring and thought-provoking guide

for camp leaders. An excellent bibliog-

raphy is appended. Write to the Ameri-
can Campingr Association, Bradford

Woods, Martinsville, Indiana. #1:

\Vhy Leave Home for :1 Tent?

HY LEAVE the comforts of home for
primitive life in a tent, for a bed

on the ground, a battle with insects?
Because tenting is for everybody or any-

, body who loves nature and the out-of-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

EDITORIALL
SPEAKING

    
    

doors away from urban concrete jungles.

A tenter hears the night wind whis-
pering in the trees, the rushing of the
river over the rocks, the lap of wavesJ
on sandy beach. A tenter lives close to
the changes in the weather. He watches!
cloud patterns form and change. He has-
time to dawdle and to dream. I‘Iis ears
and eyes teach him; his fingers learn the
roughness of yellow pine, the birch and
the aspen, the shape of leaves, jagged,
rounded, lobed. . . .

A tenter hears the chorus of frogs in
the evening dusk, the crackle of fire-
wood, the chirrup of a conceited cricket.
He smells crushed mint leaves by the
stream, medicinal yarrow, pinc sap in
the morning sun. . . .

A tenter learns to use all his senses
and to figure things out. What animal
made that hole? Who lives in that con-
ical house in the water? What animal
tracks are these? And he learns more
practical facts. . . . How can I find my
way home? How can we fix a shelter
here for cooking, and make a shelf for
the food? How can we fix a cooler in
the stream?

Children profit by camping out. They
learn that life can be primitive, that na-
ture in the raw is sometimes rough and
cruel, that man must protect himself by
using his mental facultics to better what-
ever situation confronts him. Hot water
and modern plumbing will be appreci-
ated as luxuries after a few weeks of
living out-of-doors.

City children discover the thrill of
finding wild strawberries among the
leaves, of plucking wild raspberries
from beside a stream, of cracking hazel-
nnts from native trees. They learn the
bitter, mouthopuckcring taste of choke-
berries, the sweet, ripe goodness of
hucklebcrrics, the taste of f resh-caught
fish and potatoes baked in the ashes.
They also become interested in the ge-
ography and history of old cities, for-
gotten ghost towns, quarries, and the
farming country through which they
pass and many other important things.
-—BETH M. APPLEGATE, Colorado
Springs, Colorado.

If spring came but once in. a cen-
tury instead of once a year, or burst
forth with the sound of an earth-
quake and not in silence, what won-

tler and expectation there would be
in all hearts, to behold the miracu-
lous change.

-—HENRY WADSWORTII LONGFELLOW

 

RECREATION

 

i CULTURAL COORDINATION. President
. ennedy has named August Heckscher,
gldirector of the Twentieth Century
,Fund, as the country’s first coordinator
.rOf cultural affairs among the White
.Ilouse and government and private

agencies. Mr. Heckscber’s first task will
bc to bring up to date for the President
a 1953 study of the cultural activities
of various government agencies. Mr.
Heckscber will keep his position with
the TCF, spending two days a week in
Washington.

l

> $1,200,000 BYLAW passed in Vancou-
vvcr, British Columbia, for two commu-
nity centers.

} A $70,000,000 PROGRAM for parks in
Pennsylvania has bcen proposed by
Governor David L. Lawrence for acqui-
sition of park and recreation lands and
develoPment of tourist facilities and, ac-
cording to The New York Times, it has
won “widespread approval among con-
scrvationists, recreation groups and
Inctropolitan area officials.” The money,
to be obtained through a $70,000,000
bond issue. would be spent to “ring the
major population centers of the Com-
monwealtb with open space for recrea-
tion and scenic grandeur.” Legislation
in support of the proposal has been in-
troduccd in the General Assembly. It
requires legislative approval this year
and next to be placed on the ballot for
voter endorsement.

) A $25,000.000 PARK PROGRAM is rec-
ommended for Maryland. TIIc rapid
disappearance of open space and sborc-
front available to the public has resulted
in the formation of a committee to draw
up a park develoPment plan. Tbc com-
mittee estimates that $31,000,000 will
bc necded to meet the needs during the
next ten years; or, if brought down to
325.000.000. an average annual outlay
of S2.500,000 will be required for that

period.

} A CUT in their fund-raising goal is a11-
nounced by officials of the National Cul-
tnral Center in Washington, D. C., in
an attempt to get the project under way.
Originally, $75,000,000 was to be dele-
gated to the construction of a center on
a thirteen-acre. $12,000,000 site along
the Potomac. Now reduced to what the
board chairman calls “bare-bones” de-
sign, the center includes three build-

M ARCII 1962

 

ings: a $15,000,000 opera house; a
$10,000,000 symphony ball; and a 55,-
000,000 theatre, or a total goal of $30,-
000,000. With this in mind, it is hoped
that construction can start by the end
of 1963 and be completed in 1965.

} RECREATION TAX passed by a two-to-
one vote in Schiller Park, Illinois. This
means that by April 1962 there will be
nearly $12,000 to launch a recreation
program for this community of 5,700
persons! This was a surprise even to
the enthusiastic citizens who banded to-
getber only a few weeks before election
to draft the tax bill. -

} NEW DEAN of George Williams Col-
lege, Chicago, is Dr. J. Clifford Holmes,
dean of Morningside College, Sioux
City, Iowa. He will succeed Dr. Arthur
J. Steinbaus who will be on sabbatical
leave during 1962-63. George Williams
College prepares young men and women
for professional careers in YMCA’s and
other youth serving organizations.

} Wonderful Places for Children, the
book by Jane and Theodore Norman
that was written with the hclp of the
National Recreation Association, will
be published by Channel Press, 4000
Community Drive, Manbasset, New
York, in April 1962. The three volumes:
Volume I, In. the West; Voltmie H, In
the M id- West and South Central States:
Volume I I l , In the East come in a boxed
set and will retail for $7.95, or $2.95
each. For more details, write Channel
Press.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNO‘V

} LEARNING FAMILY CAMPING SKILLS
through practice under trained leader-
ship is growing, with a country-wide
demand for information and know-how.
A successful annual weekend “for the
whole family to explore the realm of
family camping and acquire skills” has
been reported in North Carolina. It is
cosponsored by the High Point College
and the High Point Parks and Recrea-
tion Department and is offered for $5.00
per person or a maximum of $20.00 per
family. A peek at the program reveals
promising sessions on tents and gear;
nature and conservation; trail smorgas-
bord (learn-as-you-cat; what to take
and bow to pack itl : workshops on tent

pitching, selection of tcnt site. taut line

bitch, two half-bitches; tarp pitching;
wood gathering—axemansbip, axe safe-
ty, use of saw; bikes and progression
biking, discovering the compass, biking
to an objective, biking to see; busb-
whacking; canoe trips; first aid; social
recreation for families—an amibitious
undertaking!

Last March, RECREATION carried a
story on the third year of Wink Tapply’s
excellent “Family Camporee” weekend
in New Hampshire, under the title
“Woodsmoke for Families”; and this
issue, Page 128, carries an article on
the week-long workshop conducted as a
successful experiment by the State Uni-
versity of Iowa under the leadership of

E. A. “Swede” Scboler.

} THE FIFTIETII BIRTHDAY of the US.
Children’s Bureau falls on April 9,
1962. Secretary of Health, Education
and Welfare Abraham A. Ribicoff
points out that the United States was
the first nation to establish such a bu-
reau, and Dean Melvin A. Glasser of
Brandeis University sees the anniver-
sary event as “a rare occasion to drama-
tize to the nation our concern for chil-
dren and young people.”

The commemoration will be designed
to review the past fifty years of pro-
grams advancing the well-being of chil-
dren and youth and to determine goals
for the next half century of these serv-
Ices.

} HOW TO REDEFINE LEISURE so as to
place it in proper perspective in today's
and tomorrow’s world was the question
discussed at a recent meeting Of tbe
Education-Recreation Conference of the
National Social Welfare Assembly in
Ncw York. Starting with a paper pre-
sented by Joseph Prendergast, executive
director of the National Recreation As-
sociation, the group agreed that leisure
needs to be considered in relation to the
goals and values of individuals in our
society, that we must bring into consid-
eration the element of forced leisure.
and ways to help families do creative
things together. Leisure was seen as one
aspect of the total time of the individual,
and one that will play an increasingly
greater role in the lives of everyone.
Among the unsettled questions was a
differential definition of leisure for dif-
ferent age groups and the relationship
between leisure-time activities of social

121

welfare agencies and commercial enter-
prises.

b RESEARCH PROMOTERS, don't forget
that Research in, Recreation Completed

in 1960 and 196] is now available from
the National Recreation Association for

$1.50!

} WORLD THEATRE DAYS will be cele-
brated on March 27th in twenty-two
countries. This day marks the opening
of the sixth season of the theatre of the
Nations in Paris. Marjorie Dycke, pres-
ident of the American Educational The-
atre Association says, “Use it to make
your school, college, and community
aware of the importance of theatre as
a life force in the world and of your
own theater as a part of it.”

) LONG LIFE AHEAD: On the average,
the baby born today in the United States
can expect to live fifty percent longer
than the infant born in 1900. At that
time, average life expectancy was 4-7.3
years, but last year it was 67.7, accord-
ing to the Health Information Founda-
tion.

} PHOTOGRAPHY, the nation’s leading
hobby, hit a new high in sales in 1961.
Factory sales of photographic equip-
ment and material climbed to a record

$1,260.000,000.

> THE CENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture will
be celebrated during the second half
of 1962. President Abraham Lincoln
signed the act creating the department
on May 15, 1862. The department will
tell the story of its manifold activities,
including its National Forest program.
at a series of centennial dinners, field
days, exhibits, and festivals.

i Two NEW ADVISORY COMMITTEES
have been set up by the National Rec-
reation Association to help in the pro-
graming of cultural activities. The Spe-
cial Committee on Poetry in Commu-
nity Recreation includes among its
members Mrs. Hugh Bullock, New York
City; H. M. Meacham. Richmond. Vir-
ginia: A. M. Sullivan, New York City;
Donald Hall, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor: Dr. William Kalodney,
New York City; George Garrett. Hons-
ton. Texas; and Richard Eberhart,
Dartmouth, New Hampshire. Mr. Eber-
hart has just been named eo-winner of
the annual Bollingen Prize in Poetry
awarded by the Yale University Li-
brary. '
Members of the Special Committee
on Opera in Community Recreation in-
clude Mrs. John T. Caldwell, Jr., Jack-
son, Mississippi; Boris Goldovsky. Bos-
ton; Norman Dello Joio, New York
City; Leonard Treash. Rochester. New
York; and Dr. John Vincent, Pacific

Palisades, California.

122

6’on 500W

Bill”?

Juvenile Delinquency (S. Resolution 265, S. Re—
port 1146): Provides $178,000 for Committee on Ju-

diciary to investigate juvenile delinquency.

Interagency Coordination (5. Resolution 2?6):
Authorizes $90,000 for Committee on Government
Operations to study interagency coordination, econ-
omy, and efficiency.

Public Works (111?. 9895): Provides grants to
state and local governments for purpose of construct-
ing needed public works and improvements in areas
of unemployment.

National Arts Agency (HR. 9906): Provides for
establishment of a National Arts Agency in U.S. Office
of Education to aid in creation and understanding of,
and education in, the fine arts.

‘Vildlife Refuge Payments (5. 2678): Would al-

locate all income from national wildlife refuges to
counties concerned in payments in lieu of taxes.

Fish and \Vildlife Activities (HR. 9527): Pro-
vides that surplus personal property of U.S. may be
donated to states for promotion of fish and wildlife
management activities (similar to H. R. 4724).

Capital Expenditures (HR. 9653) : To assist in the
reduction of unemployment through the acceleration
of capital expenditure programs of state and local
public bodies.

Surplus Federal Lands (5. 2704): Authorizes eon-
veyanee of certain surplus federal taxes to State of
lllinois for wildlife, conservation, and recreation.

Shoreline Areas Study (5. .343) .' Provides for
shoreline areas studies and authorizes grants to states
for acquisition of suitable area.

Point Reyes National Seashore (S. 476): Estab-
lishes national seashore in California.

Padre Island National Seashore (S. 4): Estab-
lishes national seashore in Texas.

Sleeping Bear Dunes National Recreation Area
(5. 2153): Preserves Michigan dune area.

Commission on Aging (5. 2779): Establishes a
permanent three-member federal commission to be
concerned full time with the full range of problems
and potentialities of older persons. Also includes
grant program.

National \Vilderness Preservation System (HR.
293 and S. 174): Designates 6,773,000 acres of federal

forest land and grass lands as a Wilderness System and
bars all commercial activity such as lumbering, graz-

ing, mining and nonessential road building. An addi-
tional total of4-i.000.000 acres could be included later.

R : reported P: passed

“C: in committee

House

R

Senate

0

RECREATION

 

Trends and Problems

Based on findings from

ACA survey of the camping field

of Organized Camping

itanley W. Stocker

" SOME TRENDS AND

PROBLEMS in
the camping move-
ment demand care-
ful consideration
and evaluation.
Three years ago,
the American
Camping Association conducted a na-
tionwide survey of organized resident
, camps, which revealed a number of new
trends and indicated problems previ-
ously unrecognized.

The survey established the number
of camps known or believed to have
been in existence in 1958 as 7,377. Of
these, 3,646 provided enough data for
evaluation and tabulation. These rep-
resented 909 private camps, 2,661 pri-
vate agency camps, and 76 which were
tax-supported. A total of 1,651,482 dif-
fcrent campers, aged nine to sixteen,
were reported. The growth in youth
population far outstripped the growth
in camping facilities. Of the camps re-
porting, 81.5% had a capacity of less
than two hundred.

a When it came to age levels, 64.6%
of campers reported were aged ten to
thirteen. Less than seven percent of
those reported were sixteen or Over.
Length of stay in camp had decreased
sharply since 1952. At that time, forty-
one percent were in camp seven to
twelve days; in 1958, only twenty-nine
percent were in camp for that length of
time. In 1952, eleven percent were in
camp for four to six days; by 1958, that
percentage had risen to 26.8%. Dura-
tion of stay in all the camps which re-
sponded averaged out to 4.25 days for
boys, 5.12 days for girls and 4.85 for

coed programs.

  

The spiraling cost pattern of camps

MR. STOCKER, until recently executive
director of the New York Metropolitan
Council of American Youth Hostels,
conducted the 1958 camping survey of
the American Camping Association.

MARCH 1962

has resulted in greater concern with bet-
ter purchasing procedures and financial
operations. This has led to a pro-
nounced interest in making more use of
existing equipment, especially in the de-
velopment of preventative maintenance
schedules to reduce replacement costs.
Another new development is coopera-
tive purchasing with other camps and
more interest than ever in developing
effective master plans for maximum
projected program use prior to the pur-
chase of major equipment or land.

A pronounced scramble is under way
to acquire the rapidly disappearing
camp lands within commuting distance
from urban areas. Many camps now
buying land plan a buffer strip to insure
protection of their area and mainte-
nance of its “campy,” wilderness appeal.

THE CAMPING PICTURE today'also in-
cludes a trend toward increasing
government legislation, as well as sub-
sidy (the surplus equipment and foods
program and the milk program estab-
lished a few years ago are good exam-
ples) . The government is expressing in-
creased concern over the availability of
existing public lands and their use, un-
der special use permits, for the maxi-
mum public good. The California office
of the U.S. Forest Service will no longer
deal with an individual group or agency,
but only with regional area associations
or community groups. Survey contacts
with state boards of health and other
state and federal ofiicials have indicated
an increased interest in camping and
camping standards. Many have re-
quested the ACA to furnish them with
standards of good camping practices.
This wider interest further increases the
need for accurate statistics and an ade-
quate interpretation of camping.
Extended use of existing facilities at
nearer total occupancy would appreci-
ably expand the number of campers
served in any area in any given time.

Agency camps are finding a need for
more efficient utilization of their facili-
ties. In many cases, the actual duration
of the periods of operation have been
reduced, so more youngsters may have
a camping experience. This poses a
question of diminishing returns. Does
a camper have the same type of experi-
ence in ten days that he has in twenty?
Can the ten days be halved to five, with
the same inherent values preserved?

In some areas, pe0ple are talking
about—and a few have developed—
community resident camping facilities
available to the various agencies on a
cooperative basis. Many service clubs
have built their own camps, and these
offer a possibility of use by local agen-
c1es.

FAMILIES are now taking vacations as
a unit. This cuts into the full eight-
week season pattern of some of the pri-
vate and agency camps. Essentially,
this problem has risen in the eastern
United States. In this area, many pri-
vate camps are finding it necessary to
accept half-season campers, although
they would not do so a few years ago.
Out-of-season use of existing facili-
ties is increasing. Several agency camps
reported an out-of-season yearly budget
and income of 815,000-340,000.

A large segment of our middle-class
youth population may be in a social.
situation that prevents their having a
camping experience. Few scholarships
are available for this group and the high
cost of living often makes camping
for two or more children in one family
prohibitively expensive. Anothcr group
with no avenues of camping experience
directly open to them are the young peo-
ple who belong to no community service
organizations and are not in the eco-
nomic group serviced by private camps.

The camping movement faces many
problems as indicated and must take
realistic measures. #

123

PART 1

Outdoor Recreation in America

“A Plan for Coming Generations”—

The report of the Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission

on the nation’s outdoor resources and opportunities

Summarized by George D. Butler

STABLISIIMENT of a Bureau of Outdoor Recreation in
E the Department of the Interior, adoption of a pro-
posed classification system of recreation areas and a
set of management policies for federal areas in terms of this
system, establishment by each state of a focal point for the
consideration of outdoor recreation, creation of a program
of federal grants-in-aid and loans to states, specific public
actions to assure to all Americans access to water-based out-
door recreation, and a systematic and continuing program
of recreation research—these are a few of the major recom-
mendations in the report submitted to President Kennedy
and Congress January 31, 1962 by the Outdoor Recreation
Resources Review Commission created by Act of Congress
in 1958.
The Commission’s report “is a study of outdoor recrea-
tion in America—its history, its place in current American
life, and its future. It represents a detailed investigation of

124

 

what the public does in the out-of-doors, what factors affect
its choices, what resources are available for its use, and what
the problems are in making these resources available. The
investigation involves the present and to solnc extent the
past, but its principal concern is for the future between now
and the year 2000. It is a plan for coming gencrations, one
that must be started now and carried forward so that the
outdoors may be available to the Americans of the future
as it has been to those of the past.”

The report affirms that the outdoors lies deep in Ameri-
can tradition and records in some detail significant develop-
ment by cities, states, and the federal government in the ac-
quisition and development of lands for outdoor recreation
use. It records the cultural and educational values of out-
door recreation and its contribution to physical and mental
health. Whereas the outdoors has been very much a part
of the American past, and making outdoor rccreation avail-

RECREATION

able has long been a concern of the nation, it points out that

in recent years thistproblem has taken on new dimensions
of national concern. “Today’s challenge,” it states, “is to

assure all Americans permanent access to their outdoor
heritage.”

In discharging its responsibility, the Outdoor Recreation
Resources Review Commission outlined a statement of na-
tional policy in the field of outdoor recreation. It expressed
the belief that this policy should be designed to achieve four
major goals clearly identified by the Congress:

0 Preservation of the natural heritage of the nation. This
is interpreted to mean not only preservation in their pure
state of natural resources of outstanding natural, scenic, sci-
entific, or historic importance but also preservation in the
sense of conservation for wide use.

0 The wise development of our recreation resources through
the provision of such facilities as roads, picnic tables, and
sanitation.

0 Accessibility—assuring an opportunity for all Americans
to know and enjoy the outdoors.

0 An effective balance between the recreation needs of the
nation and the many other uses of our natural resources.

“Over the next forty years,” states the report, “recreation
uses of land and water resources will come into vigorous
competition with demands for wood, minerals, agricultural
crops, highway development, industry, residential construc-
tion, and commercial enterprise of many kinds. To assure
present and future generations of Americans outdoor rec-
reation opportunities of adequate quantity and quality, more
effective management of land and water resources and more
careful planning are urgently needed. . . . The management
of recreation resources is a basic factor in expanding the
supply of future opportunities. The term management is
used here to include the over-all policy, planning, and de-
sign of recreation development at all levels of government,
as well as the Operational aspects of administration.”

To determine what the pressure is and will be on these
areas, the Commission also undertook a series of studies of
the demand for outdoor recreation. In its basic National
Recreation Survey, sixteen thousand persons were asked
questions about their background, their economic status,
what they presently do for outdoor recreation, what they
would like to do more of, and why they do not do the things
they want to do. The Commission also studied changes in
income, population, leisure time, travel, and the general role
of outdoor recreation in American life. To obtain a picture
of future needs, these changes were applied to the present
patterns as developed by the National Recreation Survey.
The Commission staff carried out some of the key studies
and coordinated and designed the entire program. Many
studies were assigned to outside contractors who had the
particular skills needed, including federal agencies, univer-
sities, and nonprofit research organizations. Inventories and
special studies conducted by federal and state agencies
proved of exceptional value.

Significant Findings: The survey disclosed that:

0 Simple activities are the most popular.

MARCH 1962

0 Outdoor opportunities are most urgently needed near
metropolitan areas.

0 Across the country, considerable land is now available
for outdoor recreation, but it does not effectively meet the
need.

0 Money is needed.

0 Outdoor recreation is often compatible with other re-
source uses.

0 Water is a focal point of outdoor recreation.

0 Outdoor recreation brings about economic benefits.

0 Outdoor recreation is a major leisure-time activity and
it is growing in importance.

0 More needs to be known about the values of outdoor rec-
reation.

The great variety of outdoor recreation reflects the values
which Americans seek from it—sociability as well as soli-
tude, the serenity of the forest and the excitement of physi-
cal activity on the water. The outdoor activities in which
Americans participate most are relatively simple and require
the least preparation, skill, or special equipment. Pleasure
driving and walking, by far the most popular, are followed
( in order of participation) by games, swimming, sightsee-
ing, bicycling, fishing, attending outdoor sports events, and
picnicking. Much lower in frequency are forms like skiing,
mountain climbing, skindiving, and sailing. It was apparent
that the demand for outdoor recreation is geographically
concentrated near the great centers of urban population.

“Outdoor recreation is one of those elements of the full
life that should be made available to the general public,”
says the report in listing its benefits. It also describes the
economic effects in the provision of outdoor recreation, cit-
ing its influence on land values, its importance in attracting
industries, and its beneficial effect on a community’s water
and drainage program. H

 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Laurance S. Rockefeller
(left), chairman of the
fifteen-member Outdoor
Recreation Resources Re-
view Commission, has
long been active in conser-
vation activities. Through
his efforts the Jackson'
Hole Preserve was added
to Grand Teton National
Park and primitive areas of the Virgin Islands, water-
front areas of Puerto Rico, and parts of the island of
Hawaii have been developed and preserved as recreation
areas. Francis W. Sargeant served as the Commission’s
executive director, and one of the Commission’s fifteen
members was Bernard L. Orell of Tacoma, Washington,
a member of the National Recreation Association Board
of Directors. Representing the NRA on the Commis-
sion’s Advisory Council were Dr. Luther H. Gulick of

the NRA Board and NRA Executive Director Joseph
Prendergast.

Economics of Outdoor Recreation

The Commission estimates that consumer spending for
outdoor recreation is now in the neighborhood of $20,000,-
000,000 annually. It reports, “In addition to efiects on local
economies, outdoor recreation plays an important part in
the economic life of the country. The millions and millions
of Americans seeking the outdoors are generating a huge
demand for goods and services. Satisfying this demand is
a big business, and it is getting bigger.” The following fig-
ures are cited as evidence:

0 Leisure tihi‘é spending was estimated at $30,000,000,000
in 1954. It could be as much as $40,000,000,000 today.

0 Fishermen are reported to spend $3,000,000,000 annually
on their sport.

0 Tourist expenditures have been estimated at about $25,-
000,000,000'annually.

o In 1959,~the total estimated dollar value of purchases of
all sporting goods was just “under $2,000,000,000. In 1959,
approximately $1,500,000,000 was spent for sporting goods
related to ‘outdoor recreation.

0 An estimated $2,100,000,000 was spent at the retail level
during 1958 for boats, engines, accessories, safety equip-
ment, fuel, insurance, docking, maintenance, launching,
storage, repair, and boat club membership.

0 Direct expenditures by government for providing outdoor
recreation were over a billion dollars in 1960. Federal and
state agencies spent $380,000,000 and the remainder was
supplied by local government.

0 Visitors to federal and state parks, forests, and reservoirs
spend over $11,000,000,000 annually.

“The bulk of recreation expenditures go for food, lodging,
transportation, boats, and other equipment,” according to
the report. “Thus, the principal recipients of these expendi-
tures are automotive and equipment dealers, boat dealers,
purveyors of food and lodging, sporting good dealers, and
service station owners. These expenditures are made in
three general zones—in the home community, enroute, and
at the recreation area. Roughly about one-third of the total
expenditure is made in each zone.” The Commission con-
eludes that “while recreation is and should be considered
one of that order of services which must be provided for its
benefit to the publie without a dollars-and-eents accounting
of immediate benefits, it does make sound fiscal sense” and
provides a major market for goods and services.

The Needs: Before considering methods of providing addi-
tional outdoor recreation opportunities to meet present and
future needs the Commission makes it clear that the conven-
tional approach will not be adequate. lt reviews the follow-
ing facts of demand and supply:

0 The demand is large, and it is growing. Not only are there
more people, but individually they are seeking the outdoors
at a growing rate, and they are likely to do so even more
over the eoming decades.

0 The kind of recreation people want most of all is rela-
tively simple—a path to walk along, an attractive road for
a drive, a place to swim, a shady hillside for a picnic.

0 People want these things where they live—and where
most people live is in our growing metropolitan regions.

0 We are not running out of land. We are failing to use

126

Proposed Classification System

The following system of classifying recreation re-
sources shoald be adopted and applied to aid in the man-
agement of recreation resonrces, to enhance the quality

of recreation opportunities, and to facilitate the orderly
development of recreation areas:

Class I—High-Density Recreation Areas

Areas intensively developed and managed for mass use.

Class II—Ceneral Outdoor Recreation Areas

Areas subject to substantial development for a wide vari-
ety of specific recreation uses.

Class III—Natural Environin'ent Areas

Various types of areas that are suitable for recreation

in a natural environment and'usually in combination with
other uses.

Class IV—Uniqne Natural lArcas

Areas of outstanding scenic splendor, natural wonder, or

scientifie importance. j _

Class V—Prinlitive Areas

Undisturbed roadless areas, characterized by natural,
wild conditions; includes “wilderness areas.”

Class VI—Ilislorie and Cultural Sites

Sites of major historic or cultural significance, either
local, regional, or national.

 

it effectively. The physical supply of land and water for ree-
reation is bountiful; for reasons of ownership, management,
or location, access to it is not.

Classification of Areas

The Commission proposes a system of classifying outdoor
recreation resources in order to provide a common frame-
work and to serve as an effective tool in recreation manage-
ment. lts approach is one of recreation zoning, based upon
relationships between physical resource characteristics and
public recreation needs. Under this concept, particular types
of resources and areas would be managed for definite recrea-
tion uses, sometimes in combination with other uses. . . .
“Because of the wide variety of possible recreation activities
on many areas, the purposes for which each area is particu-
larly suited must be carefully determined to assure a desir-
able variety of opportunities and of values.”

The Commission makes the following recommendations with
reference to its proposed classification system:

0 Local governments, with the help of other levels of gov-
ernment and private enterprise, should give particular at-
tention to the provision of Class I areas near centers of
urban population.

0 Metropolitan, regional, and state planning and mana-
gerial agencies should act to insure high standards in the
development of Class I areas.

0 Limited Class 1 opportunities should be provided in na-

RECREATION

   
 
 
   

'unal and state parks and forests whenever necessary to
neserve the integrity of areas in other classes and to pro-
Additional portions of national and state parks and for-

1 ts should be zoned into general outdoor recreation areas
:lass II) in order to provide a wider range of recreation
:tivities and services and to protect unique natural areas
glass IV).
; ’Public agencies responsible for the deve10pment of land
I ad water resources in which recreation does not constitute
I 1e primary value should, wherever practicable, adjust their
1 ranagement practices and planning procedures to provide
for general recreation development ( Class 11 areas).
I" Federal, state, and local recreation and land-managing
tgencies should reexamineJ their holdings to determine the
;.reas suitable for inclusion in Class III.
I Recreation developments on Class III lands should be
fimited to basic facilities that are in keeping with the natural
.‘eatures of each area.
3 Unique natural areas ( Class IV) should be preserved for
_pspirational, educational, or scientific purposes. General
activities such as swimming, picnicking, motorboating,
'gamping, hunting, and fishing should be excluded. Food,
lodging, automobile service, and other facilities should gen-
erally be located outside the immediate areas.

0 Primitive areas ( C lass V) should be carefully selected and
should be managed for the sole and unequivocal purpose of
maintaining their primitive characteristics.

Choosing Between Classes: “Most areas can be used for more
than one purpose. . . . Physical characteristics, location,
economic and social considerations, and public needs for
different kinds of recreation activity and for other uses of
natural resources must all be analyzed and evaluated in mak-
ing a choice, together with the objectives of the owner.”** **

“A noteworthy feature of the classification is the differ-
ence in the availability of the several classes for various rec-
reation activities. Camping, for example, is possible in
Classes I, II, III, and V although rather rarely in Class I.
Hunting is a typical activity in Class V areas, except in na-
tional parks and monuments. Motoring for pleasure is com-
mon through Class III areas but is impossible through Class
V areas.

“One of the prime virtues of the classification system is
that it makes possible the logical and beneficial adjustment
of the entire range of recreation activities to the entire range
of available areas. When physical conditions permit the
classification of a given area in more than one class, the
classification which promises the optimum combination of
values in the long run should be selected.” In most cases,
an administrative unit, such as a park or forest, would in-
clude recreation areas of two or more classes.

New Federal Agency
“Providing adequate outdoor recreation opportunities for
Americans over the next forty years is a major challenge
that will require investment of money, resources, and work.
Leadership, vision, and judgment will be needed to guide
I this investment into the most efficient channels. The present
uncoordinated efforts cannot do the job. There must be a

MARCH 1962

 

Americans enjoy sightseei. isview of the Chemung
River Valley from Waverly Hill, east of Elmira, New Y orh, is
typical of the panoramas tourists enjoy along the highways.

\

new agency of government at the federal level to provide
guidance and assistance to the other levels of government
and to the private sector, as well as within the federal gov-
ernment itself.” The Commission recommends that a Bureau
of Outdoor Recreation be established in the Department of
the Interior. “The broad function of the Bureau should be
to consider the needs of the American .people for all phases
of outdoor recreation—within cities, in rural areas, and
throughout the country.”

The report states, “A top-level commission or an iride-
pendent agency would in some respects be more effective in
focusing attention upon the importance of outdoor recrea-
tion and in obtaining public support for programs. It would
have obvious advantages over a bureau in coordinating the
programs of Cabinet-level departments and would be in a
strong position to handle federal-state relations. Yet there
is a general reluctance to establish independent administra-
tive agencies or permanent commissions outside the Cabinet
structure, particularly in the light of the large number of
agencies which already report to the President and the many
urgent matters which require his direct supervision. . . . It
seems impracticable to charge an existing office with these
new functions.

“These facts argue in favor of the establishment of a new
bureau within an existing department. With authorizing
legislation, such a bureau could, through the secretary of '
its department, deal with agencies in other departments as
well as with bureaus within the same department. The most
effective location for the new bureau is in the Department
of Interior. lts various programs of resources management,
its general orientation, and the recreation experience of the
National Park Service and other Interior bureaus make this
the logical choice. . . . Without this new organization, the
achievement of over-all national planning, federal coordina-
tion, the administration of an aid program, and coordinated
research will be most difficult.” ****

“The Bureau of Outdoor Recreation should be created by
vesting it with authority to carry out the functions proposed
for it and transferring to it those national recreation plan-

Continued on Page 163

127

FAMILIES LEARN BY DOING

A Week-Long Camping Workshop

E. A. Scholer

ENT AND TRAIL-

ER camping

for individual fam-
ilies, as opposed to
organized camps
for families, has
developed into a

tremendous back-
to-the-outdoors movement throughout

the United States. All too frequently,
however, the families who set forth for
the first time rely on a do-it-yourself,
trial-and-error approach to the skills
and knowledge desirable for full enjoy-
ment of the great outdoors. As a result,
they often suffer many disappointments,
frustrations, and inadvertent mistakes
that preclude enjoyment of the activity.

With increasing regularity, recrea-
tors have been solicited for help in aid-
ing these neophyte campers with plans
and preparations for their first camp-
ing junket as well as for giving assist-
ance to seasoned campers. Workshops
for family campers are an ideal media
by which recreation departments may
provide a practical experience for edu-
cation in outdoor living.

Last summer, during the week of Au-
gust 13-19, the State University of lowa
Department of Physical Education for
Men inaugurated a week-long workshop
for camping families at Palisades-Kep-
ler State Park near Mount Vernon. En-
rollment for the workshop was limited
to fifteen families to insure individual
participation in all learning situations.
Camping experience was not a prerequi-
site for enrollment in the course. Sum-
mcr-school students could elect to take
the workshOp, which immediately fol-
lowed the summer session, for one se-
mester hour of credit.

 

 

DR. SCHOLER is assistant professor of
recreation at the State University of
Iowa in Iowa City.

128

This initial experiment for projected
annual workshops was devoted to the
selection, care, and maintenance of
camping equipment; fire building;
camp cookery; trip planning; conserva-
tion; survival and recreation in camp.
The entire week was devoted to infor-
mal sessions for the adult in the above
areas, while the children—except for
those under one year of age—had a
special camp program geared for their

age level. This included campcraft

skills and nature study as well as a vari-
ety of recreation activities. Below is the
daily program schedule for the adults.
Life at the campsite was informal and
generally unhurried, with adequate time
allowed for the basic tasks of family
living. Milk was delivered in camp ev-
ery other day through arrangements
with a local dairy and ice was available
at Mount Vernon, three miles away.
In the evenings after the children
were bedded down, there were informal

FAMILY CAMPING WORKSHOP GENERAL SCHEDULE

       

8-13

TIME SUNDAY

 

s:-
'68

     

Registration m Cooking
and Equipment
Make Camp ,

Acquainted

Adult Evemn Pro ram

2 ..

 
 

Lights Out

EEEEHiiEEiiEEEM

8-14 8-15 8-16 8-17 8-18
MON AY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY

intro-
duction I l i ear Fl"! Bundlng c°mf°rt '"d 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dehydrated
Food Night

8-19
SATURDAY

Gimmicks

Organize-
tions

 

Safety

Winter
Ca mp-ln
Survive

Lunch prearatlon—Free time _———_"—3‘
Lunch

Free Tlme—Shopping—Laundry —-—-———-——-—-—-—>-

    
   
  

 
 

   

   

Ray Mitchell
Supt. State Parks

  
 

RECREATION

. Stssion on the whys and
wnerefores of sleeping gear.

   
 
  
  
  

V

 

Living at the campsite was informal
with time for basic tasks.

Manufacturer loaned demonstration. kit
of stoves and lanterns.

Above, camp cookery is a skill in itself.
There’s knack to reflector-oven
biscuits and kabobs.

The Family Camp Workshop site

in Iowa’s Palisades-Kepler State

Park near Mount Vernon. Enrollment
was limited to fifteen families.

MARCH 1962

You can raise 5500
or more in 6 days
this easy way

Sell famous lIIason

Candies and in 4 to 15 days
your group coin make

$300 to $2,500

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. If you decide to go
ahead you don’t risk a cent,—-yon pay noth.
ing in advance. We supply‘on consignment
your choice of THREE VARIETIES of famous
Mason Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a band printed
with your organization’s name and picture.
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don’t sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make
$12.00 on every 30 sales of our $1.00 box
(66%% profit to you on cost). There’s no
risk! You can't lose. Mail in coupon today
for information about MASON'S PROTECTED
FUND RAISING DRIVES.

I. ______________ __
Mr. Gsoaca quscu, Dept. RBI-3

Mason, Box 549, Minedla, N.Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me, without

obligation, information on your Fund
Raising Plan.

 

Age if under 21
Address

Organization- ________ __ _ _

-———--—-—-————__._.._____

 

Phone

 

l
I
I
l
I
j Name
I
|
|
|
|
|
L

Mason Candies, Ine., Mineola. L. 1.. N. Y.

130

 

sessions at the lodge with coffee, pop-
corn, and activities such as square danc-
ing, community singing, and table
games, as well as an opportunity to
browse through the camping literature
on display. Special events gave several
highlights to the week. Wednesday eve-
ning was birthday night, honoring all
campers who had a birthday falling
within the week. After an appropriate
celebration with cake and other refresh-
ments, the children took over the eve-
ning to display their artwork, nature
collections, and demonstrate their
square dancing ability. A late after-
noon swimming party at nearby Mac-
Bride State Park was another special
activity.

The Friday evening smorgasbord——
Scandinavian feast extraordinary—cli-
maxed the week of living and learning
in the out of doors. Each family con-
tributed some special dish from their
camp cuisine. Following this spread,
Raymond Mitchell, superintendent of
state parks, discussed the Iowa park
system, projected plans, and park-
camper relationships.

“-w—r'

A WORKSHOP such as this one is with-

in the realm of any recreation de-
partment. However, no department, re-
gardless of size, has the financial budget
to purchase the variety of equipment
and supplies necessary to make such a
venture a success. Therefore, the proj-
ect should become a joint venture. In
reality, the university work’shOp was
just such a cooperative project.

Equipment, supplies, and materials
were secured for loan through local
merchants such as Sears, Roebuck and
Company, Montgomery Ward, sporting
goods stores, tent and awning compan-
ies, and from national outing concerns,
such as Coleman Company, American
Thermos, and National Tent Manufac-
turers.

The Coleman Company, for example,
arranged for the loan of a demonstra-
tion kit that included such items as a
one- and two-burner stove, oven, a one-
and two-mantle lantern, picnic jug, and
ice chest. Included in the kit were suf-
ficient Operating manuals so that each
participant was allowed to keep one for
his files. This gave the camper an ex-
cellent opportunity to use, dismantle,
and reassemble the basic camping

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   
    
   
 
  

equipment so that he would know how
to care for and maintain his persona
camping gear. Furthermore, Bernard,
Armour, Cumpert, and Chuck Wago
donated dehydrated food samples for
the campers to taste and evaluate. '

State and provincial agencies, such a
park departments, conservation com-
missions in the fifty states and Canadian
provinces, provided sufficient printed
materials to make each family a com-.
plete reference library of maps and
campsite brochures. Alaska contributed
a display of maps and colored photo-
graphs that extolled the outdoor recrea-
tion facilities of our 49th state.

A ONE-WEEK concentrated workshop
is the ideal, as it allows for the vital
element of continuity necessary for in-
formal family camping instruction. Al-
though this is neither possible nor prac- ‘
tical for most recreation departments, it
does not mean the idea of a Workshop
has to be abandoned. Departments may
conduct workshop sessions once a week
over a given period of time, covering
the same material as the concentrated
workshOp; however, a weekend camp-
out should be an important part of such
an institute, so that the participants may
have a real opportunity to fully utilize
their recently acquired skills. Such an
extended workshop was conducted by
the Council Bluffs, Iowa, recreation de-
partment last spring, and plans have
been initiated for one this year.

Many good books are currently avail-
able for use as workshop references.
One is Family Camping, the new idea
book from Better Homes (it Gardens
(see Page 167). The course text used
at the Iowa workshop, Adventures in
Family Camping by Don and Edith
Shedd, is an excellent workbook for any
course. The format is that of a teaching
outline. Copies of this hook may be se-
cured from the Extension Division,
C107 East Hall, State University of
Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, for $1.25.

From the response to this workshop
—with serious inquiries from more
than ten states—it is evident that there
is a decided need and interest in this
phase of outdoor living. Recreation de-
partments should encourage such ac-
tivity as a part of the total recreation
program they provide for their commu-

nity. #

RECREATION

Campers start canoe trip at Double Trouble but end up in success

CANOE
COURSE

FOR THE BLIND

Gordon T. Howes

66 H, N0! It’s

not safe or
practical, don’t try
it.” This was my
reaction when it
was suggested that
blind campers pad-
dle their own ca-
noes on an all-day river trip. How

 

wrong I was! I

The blind person is a human being
with the same needs, desires, feelings,
and abilities as anyone else. The main
thing which seems to make him different
is the overabundance of pity and pro-
tection given him by the general pub-
lic. This, to a great extent, is caused by
the lack of understanding that the blind
person’s problems are the same as ours
only more intensified in some areas.
This lack of understanding also con-
tributes to the fear of or the desire to
avoid the blind individual that so many
people seem to have. Because of this,
the hlind youngster has not been given

 

MR. HOWES is director 0 f safety services
for the Trenton, New Jersey, Area
Chapter of the American Red Cross.

MARCH 1962

the Opportunity to try to live a normal
or near normal life especially in the
field of outdoor activity.

Over the past sixteen years it has
been my privilege to work with a per-
son who is doing much to change this
situation for many people both blind
and sighted. Maurice Case, a great
teacher and philosopher, is director of
recreation for the New York Associa-
tion for the Blind. (See Mr. Case’s arti-
cle, “Camping for the Blind,” RECREA-
TION, May 1953.) He is also the direc-
tor of its summer camp on Barnegat
Bay, New Jersey. In my work with him
it has been our aim to bring as many
normal and near normal recreation ac-
tivities to the blind teenagers as we can.

Since Camp Lighthouse is located on
a bay, where water is unlimited, much
of the activities have been in the aquatic
field: swimming, diving, surf swim-
ming, rowing fishing, clamming, crab—
bing, survival swimming, synchronized
swimming, and first aid. In the last few
years we have introduced sailing, skin
and scuba diving, water skiing, and ca-
noeing. Whenever possible, we have
taught regular Red Cross certificated

 

courses so the youngsters would know
they have learned and performed to the
same standards as sighted youngsters.
They would have the certificates and, in

some cases, emblems, so dear to the
hearts of most young people.

Last summer we tried a Basic Red
Cross Canoeing Course with an all-day
canoe trip as a windup. The course had
as its objectives:

° To teach the campers to be safe ca-
noeists.

' To give the campers a very real and
exciting experience to be remembered
and talked about.

' To give the camper a sense of accom-
plishment equal to a sighted person.

' To give the camper a recreation out-
let that could be used with sighted or
blind companions.

° To develop the independence of the
camper.

The campers were in for a four-week
stay and we felt that in this time they
could accomplish all the necessary

skills.

WHEN WE SPEAK of the blind we
mean legally blind, or the loss of

131

about four-fifths or more of vision from
one cause or another. About half of our
group were totally blind or practically
the remainder had some usable
vision.

To teach the blind person it is neces-
sary to use the spoken word in its clear-
est and simplest forms. You learn that
facial expressions, pointing, gestures,
etcetera mean nothing. The four teach-
ing steps were found to work the best
are the same as would be used in a nor-
mal teaching pattern, but with some spe-

so;

cial adaptations. First, a short clear
description of what is to be learned and
why it is important. Second, a demon-
stration by the instructor. The students’
hands must be guided to the proper
places to grasp the principles of what
is to be accomplished. This stage some-
times looks like a free-for-all wrestling
match. The third step is to physically
guide the student through the skill, so
that coordination of various parts of the
body can be understood.

These steps may seem long and tedi-
ous but they are very important and it
is often necessary to go back to them
again and again. The last step is closely
supervised practice. It takes lots of pa-
tience, while the same corrections are
made over and over again, until the cor-
rect patterns are set.

It was established in thc beginning
that the student would get no help at
all outside of the actual teaching situa-
tion. They would get their own canoes
from the rack. select paddles, launch thc
canoe, paddle, etcetera on their own.
One of our objectives has been to teach
self-reliance. In the hcginning it was
hard to watch them grope, run into
things, stumble, and sometimes fall, but
by the end of the course they were very
much at home around the waterfront
and the canoes.

It was made clear to the campers that
it would be a tough course for them and
that all Red Cross standards and re-
quirements would be met. Twenty-eight

of the sixty campers indicated a desire
to take the course. The first considera-
tion in working with any group of
youngsters is their safety. In order to
be eligible to enroll in a Red Cross ca-
noe course the candidate must first dem-
onstrate his ability “to maintain himself
in deep water for ten minutes, comfort-
ably and calmly, with relaxation and

132

gentle movements, while clothed in
shirt, trousers and rubber-soled canvas
shoes or the equivalent.”

This test, conducted by the waterfront
director, eliminated about one half of
the group. This was necessary because
we planned to do some of our work well
out in the bay. We also had to keep the
group small because of limited equip-
ment. As it turned out, two more
dropped out because of the hard work
required, leaving ten campers, three
girls and seven boys with ages ranging
from twelve to sixteen.

The canoe racks were located near a
basin at the head of a canal. The canal
is approximately forty feet wide, a quar-
ter mile long, and about five feet deep.
It is dug across salt marshes to Barne-
gat Bay which at this point is about
four-and-a-half miles wide and sixty
miles long. This situation—a long and
narrow but protected area or a wide
open area completely unprotected—pre-
sented some teaching problems. In the
early morning the hay would bc calm
but about mid-morning thc southcast
wind would start to pick up and by noon
was gcnerally kicking up one- to two-
foot whitecaps. When the wind was not
blowing, the “Green Heads,” a particu-
larly vicious giant type of South Jerscy
fly. were out in full force along with the
infamous Jersey niosquitos. The canal
was also populated by a number of row-
boats. six watcr bikes, and two motor-
boats. It had only two advantages; as
long as the canoes were in the canal wc
knew they were safe and, in time, it did,
of nccessity, teach the student to paddle
a fearful straight course.

To ASSURE SUCCESS, it was obvious wc

would need some good course plan-
ning and extremely competent teaching
staff. The camp canoeing counsclor was
a good canoeist but did not have formal
training as a canoeing instructor. Jerry
Pidcock, past-commander of the Mo-
hawk Canoe Club of Trenton, New J er-
sey, and a Red Cross small craft in-
structor, volunteered to head up the
course. He is a retired Navy chief who
had taken up school teaching and was
free for part of the summer, a good man
to set up a plan and carry it through.
The overall plan was to follow the basic
Red Cross outline with adaptations to
suit the blind. He would he in camp

two days a week to teach the course wit
the help of the camp canoeing cou1
selor and myself. The counselor woul
then carry on the practice work on th
other four days of the week. I woul
come in at whatever other times m
busy summer schedule allowed.

The course started with the clas
grouped around a canoe, on the gras
Parts of the canoe were pointed out an
explained while the students “looked’
with their hands. The same was don
with paddles. Then proper kneelin
positions were shown, on the grass
Carrying and launching were demon-
strated; then the students picked ou
their canoes and launched them. Mos
of the water time was spent in teachin
balance—trim, exchanging positions
and getting in and out of the canoe—I
finally a short paddle down the canal
This was comical in its complete chaos]
With much shouting of “Go right, g
left, push, pull, stop, back up,” etcetera,
the campers finally were able to beach
the canoes and return them to the canoe'l
racks. I

During thc following days a greatl
deal of time was spent on paddle prac-
tice in varied forms—standing on dry-
land, in the canoes on dry land, stand-
ing in knce deep water—with captive'
canoe drills, and free drills in the canal
and the open bay. A most interesting
situation developed one day when the
group was caught about a half mile off-
shorc in a sudden wind squall. Two-
foot white caps quickly developed in the
twenty-MPH winds. The class learned
how to paddle in thc wind the hard way.
When they got tired, they jumped out
of the canocs and used their bodies as
sea anchors and took turns swimming
in the waves. We wcre worried, but the
campers thought it was great fun. It
was a very tired but happy group that
finally reached the shelter of the canal

and basin.

As THE COURSE CONTINUED, it was a
joy to see the ease and skill with
which the campers took their canoes off
the racks and launched them. The
straight line they paddled down the
canal and out to the float in the bay was
as good as any. In spite of sore knees,
aching muscles, flies, mosquitos, and
hard work the campers were enjoying
the course very much and looked for-

RECREATION

 

3 'he campers “looked” with their hands in learning to handle
(anoes and paddles. M uch time was spent on paddle prac-
tice, on dry land, in canoes on land, and in the water.

ward to it each day. The personal res-
:ue work and canoe-over-canoe rescue
were handled with ease. All that was
needed was a noise of some kind to
guide them to the right place. With
some guidance they were able to make
creditable right-angle dock landings.

Towards the end of the course the
campers paddled to the town of Barne-
gat, about five miles away over the open
bay. This trip was to have been the end
of the course but by this time it proved
to be too tame and easy for the group,
so a river trip was set up.

The nearest river was Cedar Creek, a
narrow, swift, twisting creek through
pine woods and cedar swamp. This type
of river would give an intermediate ca-
noeist some problems. At this point, I
had the negative feeling that this was
not a safe or practical thing to do, but
the students and instructors were all for
it. So lunches were packed, canteens
filled, and off we went to the town of
Double Trouble, a likely name for our
starting point on Cedar Creek.

The campers unloaded their own ca-
noes and carried them down a very
steep bank about twenty feet to the
water. Before the start a safety plan
was set up. Mr. Pidcock would lead out
with Mr. Case as a passenger and a
blind bowman. N 0 canoes were to pass
him. The camp canoeing counselor with
a blind bowman would stay near the
center of the group and I would act as
sweepman. I would go solo in the canoe
to enable me to move swiftly to any
! point. A first-aid kit, signal whistle, and
heaving line were taken along but never
used. Each canoe was given a number
which was to be called off in the pr0per
sequence when the signal was given

MARCH 1962

 

from the lead canoe. If anyone did not
sound off we would know where to look
for trouble and who was in trouble. We
felt this was necessary because the creek

twisted and turned so much that most
of the canoes would be out of sight a
great deal of the time. At intervals the
lead canoe would hold up until we were
all grouped together, at this time canoe-
ing positions and partners could be
changed.

We teamed up campers with the best
usable vision with the totally blind ones.
Even at this, some of the sternmen
couldn’t see their bowman. Once again,
the campers were to be on their own
with no help from the staff unless abso-
lutely necessary for safety’s sakc. As
each canoe pushed off into the current
and was swept quickly around the first
bend, the team called out its number

and disappeared from sight.

T HE CREEK was swift and narrow but
shallow, with a hard sand and
gravel bottom. The first part of the trip
was rough on the campers until they
began to get the feel of the current and
learned to stay on the inside of the

turns. There were pile ups; canoes were
often driven in the bushes which over-
hung the entire length of the creek; the
swift current would hold them hard on
snags, logs, and sandbars; but they had
learned their lesson well. Draws and
pushes, cross draws and sweeps, bow
rudders and cross bow rudders, sculls
and reverse sweeps, holds and reverse
strokes were all put to good use. Even
in the worst predicaments, of which
there were many, the campers were
able to get themselves back in the chan-

 

Most of the water time was spent in teaching balance—
trim, exchanging positions, and getting in and out of the

canoe. Then, finally, of? on a short paddle down the canal.

nel and under way. Why they were not
swept out of their canoes by overhang-
ing branches or upset by snags and
sandbars is diflicult to understand. It
could only be the result of extremely
good basic training in trim, balance,
and paddling strokes.

It was very interesting to hear the
chatter going back and forth about
sharp turns, overhanging branches,
stumps and snags and sandbars. A little
past noon we stopped on a sand bar for
a swim and lunch. The usual horse play
of active kids, ducking, water fights,
water tag, etcetera, relaxed us for lunch.
It was a beautiful warm day and some
of the kids sat in chest deep water while
eating.

The remainder of the trip was com-
paratively smooth. We stopped occa-
sionally to pick and eat the delicious
huckleberries which grew along the
banks. The campers also enjoyed the
water lilies and other wildflowers by
feel and smell. The only help we gave
the campers on the entire trip was at a
right-angle turn under a railroad trestle
which was obstructed by rocks and over
a three-foot cement spillway. We acted -
as safety men and they lowered their
own canoes over the slippery moss-cov-
ered cement. This provided quite a
thrill for all of the campers. The trip
ended a short way below the spillway at
the Lanoko Harbor bathing beach.

Incredible as it may seem, there had
been no upsets, only one minor scraped
back from an overhanging branch, and
a few scratches. This was a much better
record than most sighted groups have
made on the same creek. At dinner that
night we asked how many would like to

Continued on Page 166
I33

Ways Along the Waterfront

 

CANOEING

Canoes recommended by the Health
and Safety Service of the Boy Scouts of
America are:

Canvas-covered. A sixteen-foot canoe
with low bow and stern to cut down
wind resistance. Lightweight, easy to
handle, these are good for all-purpose
canoe training and cruising.
Aluminum canoe. This is sturdy and
has flattened bottom. Its shallow draft
makes it extremely maneuverable.

A Canoe Primer

Versatile is the word for the canoe.
The Indians materials have been im-
proved upon (though probably not his
skill), but the canoe remains essentially
the inexpensive, lightweight, maneuver-
able transportation the first occupants
of our country devised. Thus, for the
camper, the canoe is the first choicc of
water transportation into the little-
fished lakes and the little-traveled wil-
derness. With his camping gear, the ca-
noe makes the camper as self-sufficient
there as the the Indian was.

The canoe of today comes in a variety
of lengths, weights and materials, but
only two basic shapes: the traditional
double-end style and the square-stern
model. While either is at home with
paddle power, a bracket for an outboard
motor can be added to the double-ender,
and of course the square-stern canoe
was designed for a motor to begin with.
The size of motor that a canoe can han-
dle is specified by the manufacturer.
Two canoes can also be lashed together
with poles, catamaran style, and pushed
by one motor (and freight can he car-
ried on top of the poles, if necessary).
To complete the story of its versatility,

132;

 

rm

oarlocks and bars make it possible to
row a canoe, and the addition of mast,
sail, and rudder provide the thrill of
sailing.

Contrary to belief, the modern canoe
is a safe form of transportation, limited,
as is any vehicle, to the weight and uses
specified by the manufacturer. Used as
intended, the canoe will reward its
owner with years of pleasure and serv-
ice. Many camping families make sure
all members can swim before attempting
canoe camping, but life'jackets are a
prccaution for the weak swimmer as
well as the non-swimmer.

The cardinal rule of small craft safety
is Hang on to the boat, and that includes
the canoe. Even when swamped, a ca-
noe will support as many people as it
was designed to carry. Buoyancy cham-
bers are built into canoes made of mate-
rials not naturally buoyant. While can-
vas-covered wood canoes are buoyant,
sponsons fair chambers along the sidel
can be had on these if wanted. If you
arc buying a used canoe, buoyancy is a
point to check. Paddles are needed with
any canoe; a motor can conk out, the
wind can strand you, but a paddle will
bring you home!

Before you buy a canoe, write to

 

several manufacturers for information.
Most offer canoes in various lengths and
usually standard or lightweight hulls (a
factor if you intend to do a lot of portag-
ing). You may prefer to rent a canoe
for a season or two before you buy.

There are several materials used i1
making canoes today. One of the mos
popular is the aluminum canoe, favored
because of its light weight and because
it requires little maintenance. Dentsll
can be pounded out without too much
trouble; however, serious punctures call
for expert repairinG.

 

The canvas-covered canoe is still well
liked. It is quieter in use than an alumi-
num canoe and with care will give long
service. It requires more attention to
exterior and interior, can be damaged
easier, and needs more carcful storage
than an aluminum canoe, but you can
repair it yourself.

The fiberglass canoe is a newer entry
into the field. It is also a tough canoe
and is comparable to the aluminum ca-
noe in that it requires little mainte-
nance, though it is not as light in
weight. Other composition materials are
also offcred, and you may want to chcck
these as wcll.

Learning to use a canoe properly can
enhance a camper’s enjoyincnt of it.
Among many good books available is
the American Red Cross manual on Ca-
noeing ($1.25 at chapter olhces) or the
Boy Scout Merit Badge booklct ($.35) .
If you can obtain professional instruc-
tion, that’s best of all.——-Reprin(ed cour-
tesy Better Camping, May-June 1961.

FOR PLEASURE FLEET SKIPPERS—

“Ahoy, Matcl Bend the line around
the bollard and make fast the bittcr
end.” Do you understand this lan-
guage? Probath not! In all probabil-
ity, neither do the recreation boaters in
your area; but rccreation departments,
as well as camps, had better build up an
easy acquaintance with them!

RECREATION

 

r . > - - “M‘

Many water-wise recreation agencies are training youngsters for on-the-water
responsibilities. Here, a group in Brookjield, Illinois, learn to handle ropes.

at“

a, . . 
.
-1|  .
,
-, . .

 

Canoe safety. Boys and girls at a camp on Conneautte Lake at Edinboro in Erie
County, Pennsylvania, find that learning proper handling is part of the fun.

To join America’s eight million plea-
sure boat owners, all one needs is the
personal interest and the financial back-
ing. . . . This is the clue to a potentially
dangerous situation. For example, much
of this year’s outboarding equipment is
being purchased by the friend you let
drive your boat last summer. He really
enjoyed it! So much so that now he’s a
boat owner. 1

Too often the new “skipperr” has little
knowledge of the hydro-vehicle he c01n-

MARCH 1962

mands or the regulations that cover it.
Recreation leaders and camp directors
are facing a challenge in the fastest
growing family recreation interest—
only a few are prepared to advise, edu-
cate and supervise America’s forty mil-
lion pleasure boaters. Are you setting
up safety classes for this summer?
Every powerboater knows the thrill
of the surging motor, the nerve-exciting
exhilaration of the slamming air stream,
the slapping waves, and the spray cas-

cading from either side of the hull. Now,
add the unlimited sources of navigable
water available by highway boat trailer
and the pleasures multiply. This ex-
plains, in part, why the number of rec-
reational boats jumped from less than
two million in 1945 to nearly eight mil-
lion last year. Pleasure boating has
taken a position of prominence in the
recreation scene because it answers the
desire to switch from spectator to par-
ticipant in an activity that includes the
whole family. It would seem that it is
here to stay; but let’s add a big MAYBE
to that deduction!

Boating facilities in 1949 were almost
identical to those in 1958—a surprising
fact in view of a hundred percent
growth in the number of boats in that
decade. This points out that as boating
knowledge increases, so does the im-
portance of the safety factor. We in the
recreation field can do much to educate
the new boaters through classes, clubs,
and supervision. But one thing is cer-
tain, if skippers are not educated in nau-
tical know-how, restrictive legislation
can be expected. The Federal Boating
Act of 1958 is a case in point. Though
designed principally as an enabling act
for boat identification and accident re-
port control, it is a harbinger of many
restrictive bills that have been passed
or are under consideration by state leg-
islatures.

As recreationists, we have a responsi-
bility to make boating safe and attrac-
tive—to keep it free from stifling laws
and regulations. The first step is edu-
cation. We must educate ourselves and -
the boaters in our communities in the
art of boating and get them thinking in
terms of safety-on-the-water. As a start-
er, here areuseven questions lhat nauti-
cal newcomers should answer with
YES: I i 

1. Do I have Coast Guard-approved
life jackets, cushions, or ring buoys for
every passenger: aboard?

2. Is my boat large enough to safely
carry my passengers and equipment?

3. Does my motor match my boat ca-
pacity for horsepower?

4. Do I have a paddle, tool kit, spare
135

  

 

Portable
Hat and Coat Racks

These multi-purpose wardrobe racks .go
wherever needed or store away llke folding
chairs when not In use. They come in 3 ft.
or 4 ft. lengths. have two hat shelves and
1 or 2 full length hanger bars for coat
hangers or coat hooks. (Two sided hooks
snap over and straddle the bar. see detail).
Standard units come on Iides or casters:
stand rigidly under a full oad. CHECKEB-
ETTES are also available in two slded units
(double capacity): add-on unlts for making
long continuous racks. and matching wall
mount units.

Write for Catalog.

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.
' '27 West 37th Street 0 Chicago 9. "line .

KEMPER TOOLS FOR OERIIMIOS

Clean-up, eqratitta, texturing taale and flower
cutters in many patterns and sizes. Instruc-
tion included with come.

For these and other ceramic tools, write for
FREE catalogue to:

KEMPER TOOLS. P.O. Box 545

CHINO. CALIFORNIA

 

 

PEDESTAL TABLES

Dlrect from factary sav-

lng ta Churches, Schaals,

Clubs, Ladges and all arganl-

xatlans. MONROE I962

Faldlng Banquet Tables are

unmatched far quallt'y, dura-

W‘" blllt'y, canvenlence and hand-

same appearance. 94 models and sizes for
every use. Write far prlces, catalog.

FREE-BIG 1962 CATALOG

Color p11: fares. Fail Mae MONROE re Nee. chairs.
table and their trucks. pie Harm-rhea. part-
eble MUCH". erte today!

THE MONROE C0., 181 Church St. Collar. Iowa

BUDGET PROBLEMS?

Get IDEAS UNLIMITED, the top scrap craft
magazine, for low-budget craft pro-

iects, for children and adults. 2 5
C

SAMPLE COPY
5865 lincoln Ave., Chicago 45, Ill.

 

 

 

IDEAS UNLIMITED

 

136

 

  

 

  

parts, lights, extra line, and anchor?

5. Is my fuel supply adequate for the
trip planned?

6. Is my boat pr0perly registered
with the state or Coast Guard?

’7. Am I familiar with boating regu-
lations in my trip area?

As a recreation leader, be sure your
boaters understand that water safety de-
pends on knowing the rules of the road.
Ignorance of those rules will cause loss
of the freedom that makes boating one
of America’s foremost family recrea-
dons—WILLIAM H. RADKE, assistant
village manager, Broolqield, Illinois,
and former recreation superintendent

in Broolqield.
TIPS 0N BOATING———-

Checklist for getting under way.

0 Check the weather.

0 Let some responsible person know
where you are going and when you in-
tend to return.

0 Check your fuel supply; be sure you
have more than enough for your round
trip.

0 Get rid of fuel vapor smells before
starting the engine.

0 Carry lifesaving equipment for every
person aboard.

0 Check that your lights are operating
properly (in casc you will be under way
after sunset) and that all other requircd
equipment is aboard.

0 Stow all gear properly.

Tips on River Boating—Learn the clues
for more careful cruising of these water-
ways:

0 In straight stretches, the deepest wa-
ter is usually darkest in color and near
the center.

0 The decpest water is usually found
on the outside of a bend.

0 Shallow water is usually lighter in
color and shows ripples in a breeze.
I Sandbars and silt flats tend to build
up at junctions with other streams or
near the inside of bends.

0 Dead calm water usually indicates
shallow areas.

TIPS ON OFFSHORE BOATING—

In open areas, normally less protected,

severe wave and sea conditions may be
experienced, so that:
0 It is more comfortable and usually
safer to meet waves at a slight angle and
at slow spced rather than plunge head
on.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

o If running broadside to the waves is
uncomfortable and too much spray is
being hurled into the boat, “tack,” or
steer a zigzag course.

0 When proceeding down wind at too
slow a speed to outrun the waves, slow
down, let the waves pass underneath,
and be alert to keep the boat from
broaching.—From Family Recreation

and Safety-1961.

SWIM AND STAY FlT————

The expanded American Red Cross
water safety program now includes a
planned activity known as “Swim and
Stay Fit,” designcd to motivate all thosc
who know how to swim to do so sys-
tematically in thc interest of improving
their health. Participants are encour-
aged to swim rcgularly and frequently
until they have achieved fifty or more
miles. Exccpt for the initial three miles,
individuals must swim thc distancc in
multiples of 440 yards.

It is important for swimmers to con-
dition themselvcs carefully before un-
dertaking the 440-yard swim. For the
initial thrce miles the only requirement
is that the swimmer complete each 4-40
yards during one visit to the facility.
The 4-4-0 yards does not have to be swum
continuously; thc swimmer may stop
and rcst as often as necessary. Each 440
yards swum is counted as one segment.
Two hundred segments are required to
complete the fifty miles.

Participants are to he carefully
watched during and through their entire
swim and exit from the pool. In open
water, a hoat equipped with a reaching
pole and an oarsman and one other per-
son capable of making a rescue must ac-
company the swimmer. Red Cross chap-
ters now have “Swim and Stay Fit”
activity materials, including wallet-size
certificates, pins, and emblems. #

RECREATION

 

CAMP SELF-INSPECTION BLANK

Score your camp’s fire safety. Next to each question

are two boxes to check the answer Yes or No. Each

question answered No points to a serious fire hazard.

Do something about these liazardsH—now.’

To be checked before camp opens:

_ 1'. -: . .5“
Construction ,7 Yes No
1. Are the roofing materials used on every build-
ing fire retardant or noncombustible? . . . . . . . . E] E]

2. Are all hoods above stoves, as well as stove-
pipes and chimneys, clean, well-supported, and
otherwise in good condition? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . D E]

3. Are masonry chimneys solid and free from
cracks and metal chimneys safely installed and

insulated? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . D E]

4. Are floors directly under stoves and heaters
protected by galvanized iron, concrete, or brick-

work? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l: E]

5. Have all stovepipes which pass through clos-
ets, attics, or storerooms been eliminated? . . . . . El I:I
6. Are walls, ceilings and partitions protected

from overheating by stoves and stovepipes, either
by clear space or insulating materials? . . . . . . . . D E]

£29

7. Are electric irons and all electric cooking ap-
pliances equipped with heat controls? . . . . . . . . E] E]

Electricity

MARCH 1962

Yes No

8. Are suflicient electric outlets provided for
lamps and appliances and use of multiple attach-
ment plugs avoided? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . El [:1

9. Do all appliances, fuses, and extension cords
bear the label of Underwriters” Laboratories,

Inc.? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .El E]
10. Are only qualified electricians allowed to in-
stall wiring and make wire splices? . . . . . . . . . . . E] E]

Housekeeping

 

11. Are there spark-screens over all chimneys? E] [I

12. Are all fireplaces equipped with effective
firescreens? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. E] E]

13. Is an enclosed incinerator or waste burner
provided for burning refuse and trash? . . . . . . . E] E]

Flammable liquids @

14. Are gasoline stoves and kerosene stoves and
heaters of types listed by L'nderwriters’ Labora-
tories, Inc? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 

El El
137

Fire Protection @w Yes

15. Is simple fire-fighting equipment, such as
brooms, rakes, pails of water, pails of sand,

shovels, provided? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . El
16. If there is a fire hose, canvas or rubber, is it
tested before camp opens? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E]
17. Is equipment kept in designated places and
in good condition? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. E]
18. Is there more than one exit from all rooms in
main buildings? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [:1

19. Is there a place where pumpers can take
water? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. [:1

20. Are there approved fire extinguishers in
every main building? Are they kept in good

order? Do personnel know how to use them? . . [:1
21. Is there a camp fire brigade? ............ E]
22. Is the means for sounding a fire alarm clear-
ly audible throughout the camp? . . . . . . . . . . . . E]
23. Are there fire escapes on buildings of more
than one story? .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. E]
24. Are ladders available that will reach to the
roof of the buildings? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [:1
25. Is there any organized fire protection avail- y
able to the camp? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [:1
26. Does everyone in camp know where or how
to call for this protection service? . . . . . . . . . . . [:1

To be checked before camp opens and periodically through-

out the season:

Smoking ® (a:

1. Are restricted places for smoking maintained
—no matter who is smoking? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [:1
2. Is there a rule that all cigarcttes and cigar
butts be carefully extinguished beforc they are
disposed of and that matches be broken in two
before they are thrown away? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [:1

Pro

3. Are all extension cords in good condition and
are they in the open—none placed under rugs or
over hooks? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. [:1
4. Are 15-ampere fuses used for all circuits? . . [:I
5. Are all lighting fixtures, lamps, and appli-
ances in good condition? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [:|

Electricity

Housekeeping

 

6. Have all flammable rubbish and leaves been
removed from around buildings and tents? . . . . [:1
7. Are grass, brush, and small trees cut or
thinned out around camp buildings, incinerators,
and waste burners? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [:1

138

No

DDDDD

DDDDDDD

DE]

 

Yes
8. Is fire-fighting equipment within easy reach
when trash, leaves, etcetera, are burned out-of-
doors? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. [:1
9. Are storerooms and garages kept free of rub-
bish, old rags, papers, etcetera? . . . . . . . . . . . . . E]
10. Are oil mops or paint rags kept in closed
metal containers to guard against spontaneous
ignition? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. El
11. Are stoves always kept free of grease? Is
baking soda or salt handy for grease fires? . . . . E]
12. Are towels hung on special racks, never dried
on or near stoves? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E]
13. Are ashes collected in covered metal con-
tainers with no holes in them and disposed of
when properly cooled? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E]
14. Are matches kept in metal containers away
from heat? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [:1
15. Are only safety matches used in camp? . . . . E]
16. Are woodboxes free from paper and rub-
bish? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. E]
17. Are trash baskets emptied regularly? . . . . . . [j
18. Are roofs, gutters, and eaves of buildings free
of needles and leaves? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I]
Flammable Liquids j
19. Are fires started with paper and/or kindling
only, never with flammable liquids? . . . . . . . . . . [j
20. Are keroscne or gasoline lanterns hung up or
put on tables or shelves, never on the floor? . . . [:1

21. Are stocks of flammable liquids stored in
drums or substantial closed metal containers,
preferably in underground tanks well separated
from buildings? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E]
22. Are lamps, lanterns, and removable tanks on
stoves filled in a safe place outdoors during day-
light hours? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E]
23. Are lalnps heavy-based to prevent tipping? E]

m

24. Is a camp check made before bedtime to see

Fire Fighting

that all fires and lights are out or protected? . . . E]
25. Are fire drills held regularly for all campers
and staff? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E]

Outdoor Fires

W

26. Are outdoor fires built only in safe places,
and not near trees? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [:l
27. Is all flammable material cleared away from
around an outdoor fire for at least six feet and the
fire never left unattended? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I]
28. After putting out an outdoor fire, does some-
one stay until the ashes are cool enough to tcst

with bare hands? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [:1

No

DE]

El DUDDDD

DE]

El

El

RECREATION

      

WE MAKE THEM RIGHT '- PERFORMANCE MAKES THEM FAMOUS

‘ I.“ SW"

25 GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. Turned from choice. open-air-seasoned white ash with natural finish.
\uthentic autographed models of the twenty sluggers listed below comprise the No. l25 line. An assortment of not fewer than six models is
guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Packed 4/33". 5/34". and 3/35" bats in each carton. Shipping weight, 26 pounds

Each $4.70

MODELS:
Henry Aaron Ken Boyer Don Hoak Horvey Kuenn Wolly Moon
Richie Ashburn Norm Cosh AI Kallne Mickey Mantle Brooks Robinson
Ernie Bonks Rocky Colavito Hormon Killebrew Roger Moris Jockie Robinson
Yogi Berro Nelson Fox Ted Kluszewski Ed Mothews Biil Skowron

I258 SPECIAL AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. INot illustrated). Quality and finish identical to No. l25 above.
but turned to slightly smaller dimensions for the particular requirements of High School. Prep School. Babe Ruth League. P-O-N-Y Baseboll.
and other teen-age players. Listed below are the autographed models in the l2SS group. An assortment of not fewer than six models is guar-

anteed to each carton of one dozen. Packed 4/32". 5/33". and 3/34" bats in each carton. Shipping weightI 24 pounds Eoch $4.70
MODELS:
Henr Aoron Rocky Colovito Hormon KIlIebrew Ed Mathews
Yogi erra Nelson Fox Mickey Montie Woil Moon
Ken Bayer AI Kollne Roger Moris Jock e Robinson
43 ASH FUNGO—GENUINE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. (Not illustrated). Quality and finish identical to No. I2S above. Each
carton of one dozen contains three (34") infield and nine (37" and 38") outfield fungoes. Shipping weight, 20 pounds .. .....Eoch $4.70

 

I25 FLAME TEMPERED—GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. Turned from choicei‘ open-air-seasoned white ash timber. Flame

Tempered finish. and burn branded. the same as the bats used by many prominent maior league itters. An assortment of not fewer than six
models is guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Single lengths (33". 34" or 35") of your choice. Shipping weight. 26 pounds......................Eoch $4.70

I253 FLAME TEMPERED—SPECIAL AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. (Not iliustroted). uali and finish Identical to l25 Flame
Tempered above. but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular requirements of ngh choo . Prep School. Bobe Ruth Leogue.
P-O-N-Y aseball. and other teen-age players. An assortment of not fewer than six models is guaranteed to each. carton of one dozen. All

bats of one length (32". 33" or 34") of your choice. Shipping weight. 24 pounds  ..  ..  $4.70

' u..-,- _—

  
   

r...”- A‘rw-

° ‘ on: ma "TL

__f‘- ‘

     
 

l5. GRAND SLAM—Turned from select northern white ash timber. natural white finish. Parterned after the original models of the famous
sluggers whose names they bear. Six authentic models guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Lengths 4/33"I 5/34". and 3/35" bats in each
carton. Shipping weight. 26   . .Each $3.60

“'8 SPECIAL GRAND SLAM—(Not Illustrated). Quality and finish identical to No. |50 above. but turned to slightly smaller dimensions
for the particular requirements of High School. Prep School. Babe Ruth League. P-O-N-Y Baseboii. and other teen-age players. Six models

guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Lengths 4/32". 5/33". and 3/34" bats in carton. Shipping weightI 24 pounds.   Eoch $3.60

 

“.3 SPECIAL POWER_DR|VE. Turned from fine white ashI natural white finish. Patterned after the original models of the famous
sluggers whose names they bear. but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular requirements of High School. Prep School.
Babe Ruth League. PoO-N-Y Baseball. and other teen-age players. Six models guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Assorted lengths 32

to 34"; shipping weightI 24 pounds     ..        Eoch $3.10

Bats for PONY BASEBALL

Numbers 125$, 150$, 1403. and 1308 (also the Junior and
Little League numbers) are approved for PONY BASEBALL

Bats for BABE RUTH LEAGUE
Any baseball bat in the Louisville Slugger line not longer than

34” may be used in BABE RUTH LEAGUE play. However. the
"specials" (125$. 150$. 1408. and 1308) are particularly suit-
able for players of this age group.

play. These numbers are particularly suitable for players of
this age group.

 

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY COMPANY. INc.. LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY
Also Makers of Grand Slam Goff C/ubs

Printed in U.S.A. Copyright I962

  

 

 
  
 

 

"w SAFE HIT. Finished in natural ash white and supplied in an assortment of famous sluggers' models in each carton of one dozen. As-
sorted lengths from 33" to 35"; shipping weight 26 pounds..............,.    ..........Each $2.70 ‘

 

"B BIG LEAGUER. Black finish with white tape grip. An asmrtment of famous sluggers' models in each carton of one dozen. Lengths
range from 32" to 35"; shipping weightI 26 pounds .. . . .  .   . ..   . . Each $2.30

 

1308 SPECIAL SAFE HIT. Turned from ash, with rich dark maroon finish and natural white handle. Patterned after original models of the 1
famous sluggers whose names they bearI but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular requirements of High School. Prep
School. Babe Ruth League. P-O-N-Y Baseball. and other teen-age players. Six models guaranteed to the carton of one dozen. assorted lengths
32" to 34"; shipping weight. 24 pounds    .      . . .     Each $2.30 I

   

9 LEADER. Light brown finish. Assorted famous sluggers' models. Assorted lengths, from 32" to 35": shipping weight 26 pounds Each $1.80

Display assortment

BASEBALL o LITTLE LEAGUE - SOFTBALL

LOUISVILLE N0. 500 BAT ASSORTMENT

with 18 Bats
is shipped in a hard hitting
FLOOR DISPLAY CARTON

Contains:

   

6 BASEBALL BATS—One each of models

125 Flame Tempered. 125$ Flame Tempered
150$, 140$, 1305 and 9.

4 SOFTBALL BATS—One each of
models 100W, 54, 52H and 50.

8 LITTLE LEAGUE BATS—Two each of models I25LL,
I25J and J2. One each of models 12533 and JL.

All these bats are illustrated under their proper numbers elsewhere;
shipping weight. 35 pounds per unit .................................. ..$50.00

 

INCLUDING BATS FOR PLAYI

 

""  -.— "www-

. - o 0‘»

 

I £42.33?
" SSORTED OFFICIAL MODELS. A splendid variety of models—answers full
: ebony finish. One dozen in carton. 6/33" and 6/34"; shipping weIght.

   
   

     

  
    

 

I?" LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT.  Each $3.40
FInes‘t;i selection of second-growth ash and/or hickory: anti
poun s ......................................................................  .................................. _. , 1. ..  “J” ' "'" "*‘L—II" '“—:‘T‘*
r———- -' 125T panel 1:
' - mmmmm°‘ “w
'- '— — - ‘0 IV Lv‘i- —— -
.L BAT—POWERIZED. For heavy hitters—a bottle-shaped model with large

 

I select ash; natural white finish.

IZSSP LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "SLOW-PITCH" SOFTBALL 
game of slow-pItch softball and the more experienced playe
dozen In carton. 6/33" and 6/34"; shipping weight. 26 pound

One dozen to carton. 6/33" and 6/34":
 Each $3.40

IOWERIZED. "Fast-Swing" model for hitting fast pitching. Bottle-shaped—

rn select ash and/or hickory: ebony finish. One dozen in carton. 6/3l" and
 Eoch $3.40

-. .-. -- In... .m..-...

125W LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "SPEED SWING" OFFICIAL

carton of one dozen. Turned from select ash and/or hickory.
pounds

  
  

     
 
 
 

    
  

   
 

  
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --I  a,“ if." - guilcj-pl some."
_ __ w H (Mwammbl‘ aw: __

'-

 

LL BAT—POWERIZED. For girl hitters. A small-barreled bat with gradual
Sh. One dozen in carton. 33" length; shipping weight. 20 pounds .......................... ..Each $3.40

1258 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "METEOR" OFFICIAL SOFTBA

quirements of the ovarious types of hitters. Turned from selI
6/34"; shIppIng weIght. 22 

    
 

 

Adult—F—

_- _ ._T"._

H

t O O O O
.J’OWERIZED. Supplied in assorted softball models. FInIshed In brown antIque.
icarton. 3|" and 32" lengths; shipping weight. 2| pounds...................................._........Each $2.90

1250 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL EAT—POI
barrel that tapers quickly to small grip. Turned from selec
6/32': shIppIng weight. 23 pounds ........................................................ ..

  
 
 
 

   
   
  
    

orted popular softball models of first quality

ash and hickory. Oil Tempered
 .. ...............Each $2.90

THREE BIG BARRELLED

The bots listed ond described below are models Of out

fa'BI-pitch soflbOII-bot meosuring 2%" in diomeler. A
'seoson.

6/33" and 6/34"; shipping Weight. 23 pounds.......................................... ..... 

 
 

In

.— -TTBALL BAT. Turnea from high quality ash and/or hickory and finished in
‘pping weight. 24 pounds ..................................................................................-............................Each $2.90

. LOUISVILLE SLUGGIER "ATLAS" OFFICIAL FAST-P '\ ‘ ’ ’
hIte tape ngp. One dozen in carton. 6/32" and 6/33" leng Emwm
_ WHILIA _

 
  
 
 

 
 
  

 
 

OFFICIAL

[guva SLIIGGER

qr-

  

 

.. . l

. I Assorted pOpular softball models. Turned from high quality ash and/or hickory.
. 6/33" and 6/34": shipping weight. 22 pounds..................................................................Each $2.90

. . 'LOUISVILLE SLUGOEI "THOR" OFFICIAL FAST-PIT -
Ish. White tape grip. One dozen in carton. 6/32" and 6/3 ,_ 5""  “Hm
I

We“?  . OII -

x .v
m-_—_ 4

I finish. Ash and/or thickory. Green zapon grip. One dozen assorted models

   
  
 
  

Each $2.20

 

. II.- . ...—-I...u ........ . m - - p... .-..-. 0— .- . ...... ._- “no... In“ .u...--.... ...... -. o. .u ....-.... - -... ....... . It. - ..... .u - c. . ......... ... .-

LOUISVILLE SLUGG‘IR "MARS" OFFICIAL FAST-PIT

e dozen in cartonI 6/32" and 6/33" lengths; shipping wei Ifitm‘t

Sollbull

.- 5R: 1 -_
_ ~533th 6-“ OJRyrxfIh

  *1; II“ ‘3)  

an -
'>.r . ._ a‘

Oed models turned from ash and hickory. Brown finish and black zapon grip.

pound Each $2.20

...- .n.-e...... .m.m.. . .u- . may... ......m ~ I t I .0... .I...|.... ..

...... ".n- .... - .u. .. ...-..-.m.-.-.. .. ..-. u. .-.... . .... ....

 

C

(O'H-II-I-nh"co

"TU

ITTLE LEAGUE

      
    

WE MAKE THEM RIGHT ' PERFORMANCE MAKES THEM FAMOUS

'ISLL GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LITTLE LEAGUE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. Large-size 'unior bat. Turned from select. open-air-seasoned
hite ash and hickory. Each carton of one dozen contains approximately half wifh natura white finish and half with antique finish. Auto-

raphs of Henry Aoron. Rocky Colovito. Nelson Fox. Mlckey Montle. Roger Morls. and Ed Mothews. Packed l/28". 3/29". 4/30".
l/3l". and l/32' bats in each carton. Shipping weight. 2| pounds............_.......................................--.................................................................................................Eoch $3.60

54
sh

Luna "‘5‘"

L5. 

MINES“.

 

2533 GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LITTLE LEAGUE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—EBONY FINISH. Large-size iunior bat. Turned from select
pen-air-seasoned timber. Imprinted white tape grip. Autographs of Henry Aoron. Rock Colovlto. Nelson Fox. Mickey Montle. Roger
Ilorls. and Ed Mothews. Lengths. 3/29". 4/30". 3/3I". and 2/32" bats in each carton. S ipping weight. 2| pounds ........................................ ..Eoch $3.10

 

5‘ GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LITTLE LEAGUE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. Medium-size iunior baf. Turned from select open-air-seasoned
sh. Approximatel half of the l25J bats have natural finish as shown above: the other half have an ebony finish. Autographs of Ernie

onks. Hormon Ki lebrew. Mickey Montle. Roger Morls. Ed Mothews and Wolly Moon. Lengths 3/29". 4/30". 3/3l". and 2/32". Ship-
Iing weight. 20 pounds.e...............................,_.-..._-....._H...e-.-..———..--——.H_............—.............................................................................................._.................._.....................................Eoch 52.70

(x..-

L LITTLE LEAGUE "It's 0 Louisville." Large-size iunior bat with bio-tone black barrel and white handle ‘finish. Each bat contains
he name of one of these famous hitters: Henry Aoron. Rocky Colovlto. Nelson Fox. Mlckey Montle. Roger Morls. and Ed Mathews.
ne dozen in carton. 29" to 32” lengths. Shipping weight. 20 pounds .r.  ............................................... ... Each $2.30

 

 

gill LITTLE LEAGUE. Lar e-size [unlor bat. Dark maroon finish. Each bef branded wifh name of one of these famous hitters: Henry
Ioron. Rocky Colovlto. elson Fox. Mlclsey Mont'le. Roger Morls. and Ed Mof'hews. One dozen in carton. 29" fo 32" lengths.

   
 

hipping thth. 20 poundsmmmmm—mm-ummmm ....... *WH.W%#-W«W..W ............................... ......... ....... ..E06h $1.30
rs. .

5" GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LITTLE LEAGUE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. Small-size 'unior bat. Natural finish. Each bat contains the
enuine autograph of one of these famous sluggers: Henry Aoron. Rocky Colovlto. M ckey Montle. and Ed Mathews. One dozen in
arton. 28" length only. Shipping weight. l5 pounds . ..............-.......,........................n .......Eoch $1.70

 

51H I l

for

 

‘1 CRACKERJACK BAT. Small boy's bat. Golden finish. bum branded. Three dozen in carton. 28" length only. Shipping weight. 45
50 munds   Eoch $1.00

@ADMINIS TRATI ON

 

1

Mountain

Youth Camp

Cossie L. Smith

CITY-SPONSORED mountain camp site, started in 1954,
has become a continuing community project provid-

ing citizens of Hawthorne, California, with a twenty-
acre, all-year recreation area. Hawthorne, a city of 33,500,
is one of the seventy-two cities that form the sprawling com-
plex of Los Angeles County. With five parks in operation,
and two others on the drawing board, three swimming pools,
and a rapidly expanding program for all age groups, the city
leaders are obviously recreation conscious.

Part of this overall recreation philosophy is the Haw-
thorne Youth Camp. It is located some one hundred miles
northeast of the city, near the six thousand-foot level of the
San Gabriel mountains in Angeles National Forest. Through
volunteered money, material, and labor from organizations
and citizens, there exists, at present, a wide range of facili-
ties for a complete camping experience. A forty-six hundred-
square-foot, centrally located lodge featuring a kitchen that
can serve two hundred people was one of the first projects
in 1955. The kitchen is the only all-electric facility of its
kind in the entire wilderness area. All working surfaces are
stainless steel, including the institution-size cooking equip-
ment. A steam dishwasher, walk-in freezer, vegetable cooler,
and meat locker are major assets to cooks and camp. There
is even an automatic ice-cube maker for thirsty campers re-

turning from a hot summer hike.

I Lodge construction was followed by nine individual six-
teen-man cabins. Two of these were erected in early 1960.
Two strategically located toilet-shower facilities serve the
cabin area. An eighteen-bed infirmary, close to the main
lodge, is well equipped and staffed by a city-employed regis-
tered nurse during the summer camping season. A full-time
caretaker lives year~round near the infirmary.

Originally, the camp was started by two citizens and a
group of boys who dismantled an old school building to ob-
tain lumber. Six weeks of daily phone calls to the United
States Forest Service resulted in locating a camp site. Fol-
lowing a citizen’s caravan to the camp, community spirit
took over, and funds from businesses and service clubs

 

MR. SMITH is director of parks and recreation in Hawthorne,
California.

MARCH 1962

 

- - .- R , n 
This is unusual in that facilities for a complete camping
experience are made available through volunteered money,
material, and labor from local organizations and citizens.

bought more materials than could have been obtained
through salvaged school buildings. Hawthorne’s City Coun-
cil has agreed to sign the necessary papers with the Forest
Service when the land had once been located. Today, the
camp is still largely a community construction project with
the administration, planning, and maintenance services per-
formed by the city.

D URING THE SUMMER PROGRAM, which starts in June with

the dismissal of school and lasts through August, chil-
dren seven years and older attend the camp in a typical eight
day session. Each camper is charged $15 to cover super-
vision, food, lodging, transportation, and insurance; the bal-
ance of the $37.42 cost-per-camper per session is made up
by the city. The camp has a capacity of 136 campers per
session; no child has ever been turned away because of
crowded conditions. A campership program supported by
the community insures financial aid when needed.

The program during this eight-day session covers a vari-
ety of activities, including fishing, horseback riding, wildlife
study, geology study, and wood lore. Nearby Little Rock
Creek provides an unusual experience in panning for gold
(a few small nuggets are usually found) . A telescope is used
for astronomy classes. Amateur weather forecasting is made
possible with the aid of a small weather station. ( See also
Page 149.) Nearby Jackson Lake provides ample room for
water recreation. The whole area is laced with Forest Serv- _
ice-maintained bridle trails.

April through May, thelicarnp is staffed and occupied by
classes from the Hawthorne Elementary School District with
funds paid the.city from the district as part of the city-
school recreation agreement. Winter weekends are family
time at the camp, with a modest charge of a dollar-per-
camper per weekend.

SANDWICHED between the camping activity is a construc-
tion project. reinitiated with the acquisition in 1959 by
the city of an adjacent abandoned four-acre camp. To date,
under the leadership of the recently reactivated Youth Camp
Committee, volunteer laborers have remodeled the old

Continued on Page 151

14.5

Taking of]. Face bright with expectation, Tommy Doyle
heads for new adventure at camp after a goodbye kiss
from his mother. Tommy is the 1962 Easter Seal boy.

 

most camp activities despite crutches and a body cast.
Fun-filled camp sessions are adapted to individual capabilities.

Catching a fish means
knowing how to bait that
hooh. These fellows will be
experts before camp is over.
Other activities include ex-
ploration trips, arts and crafts, photography, campcraft, and many
new and exciting advcntnrcs in the world of the outdoors.

 

CAMPING
UNLIMITED   m

C AMPING INTRODUCES handicapped

children to a wondrous new

world and adds new dimensions
to restricted lives. It invites them to
develop new skills and attitudes and
meet new challenges. Today, more and
more camping opportunities await the
handicapped child, either in special
camps designed for his particular dis-
ability (sec “Cerebral-Palsy Day
Carnp,” RECREATION, March 1961) or
in camps for the nonhandicapped,
where he establishes vital social rela-
tionships with so-called normal chil-

                 

} «_.v
a: 33% war-Wat?!) f‘"
1* 5393:: .1.“ “h 'h '1’?” on
y r.’ “f "p  M .
-o “ inn—(t

V
In? t J m.
:- — hav“ a. r/ -l?,'hh --'. 1: Pa..- m». y -

The wonders of nature are a

Fire building is a shill acquired

never-ending source of delight. All dren- Here We see Chlldre" at three in every real camp. The child
sorts of education takes place while Easter Seal camps: Camp Paiviki, experiences the satisfactions of
the handicapped child learns how Crestline, California; Camp Koch, accomplishment, of becoming a
’0 be a Child among Child’em Tell City, Indiana: and Camp Kysoc. veteran campers and 0/ belonging.

Carrollton, Kentucky. #

146 RECREATION

Rainy Days in Camp

 

Don’t let your campers develop the stormy-weather blues . . .

activities for wet days should be preplanned and integrated

into the overall camp program, with a special emphasis of their own

S. Theodore Woal

N ORDER to integrate rainy day ac-
I tivities into the general camp pro-
gram,considerable attention should
be focused on appropriate activities,
methods, and technique. This is a good
time for planning and consolidating:
planning for the forthcoming campfire,
trip to the fishing pond or bunk skit. It
is the time for that talk the counselor
has wanted to have with Johnnie about
his personal habits. It is an excellent oc-
casion for discussing Henry’s swim-
ming project or Bill’s plans for his craft
project.
It is a time for creativity and origi-
nality on the part of campers and coun-
selors. Use this period for writing the

MR. WOAL is school counselor for the
Philadelphia Board of Education and an
experienced camp director. This mate-
rial is excerpted from a paper presented
at the Region II American Camping As-

sociation Convention in Philadelphia,
March I 961 .

MARCH 1962

bunk song or that poem for the camp
magazine.

Counselors should prepare for such
occasions prior to coming to camp.
They should bring a “bag of tricks” for
rainy days and develop detailed plans
for their use. It is well for camp direc-
tors to scrutinize counselor applications
for clues that indicate strong resources
in each counselor in this area. The camp
application should have a special place
for noting such information.

 

This topic should take a prominent
place on the agenda in precamp semi-
nars. Let us help our counselors to be
prepared, for while they are in the city
they have recourse to sources for assist-
ance in gathering material for special
programs.

Counselors should always be on the
lookout for clues to help them discover
what campers want to do. A significant'
part of the job is to ascertain interests
and, with these as a base, guide and in-
tegrate camper activity into the general
camp program——-or modify the program
to include newly discovered interests.
It is through this cycle of discovery, in-
tegration, and modification that the
camping program is evolved, expanded,
and enriched.

Clues to active interests can be found
by observing what the camper brings to
camp; a stamp collection, coin collec-
tion, a camera, baseball glove, tennis
racket, or kite. Each is indicative of

147

some current interest. Beyond this, a
casual talk with the camper will un-
doubtedly lead to some enlightening in-
formation. The counselor can also
gather a great deal of information about
camper desires by observing what they
read and talk about, and certainly from
what makes them laugh.

A rainy period can be utilized for de-
veloping a project that is integrated
with the general camp program. Basic
to such an approach is the scheduling
of these events on the general camp cal-
endar. For example, if evening pro-
grams include campfires, bunk skits,
talent shows, and quiz shows, the coun-
selor has a clue for rainy-day activity.

Are there aspects of the campfire that
can be used during a rainy day? The
selection and the planning of events can
take place during such a time. The gath-
ering of materials for stories, stunts and
songs can be accomplished. The cabin
committees can be formed and they can
develop their specific plans.

Once the general theme has been de-
veloped and the types of events have
been decided, the campers should work
out the complete program. It is best
written out. The counselor helps by his
guidance and direction. The prepara-
tion of the cabin talent show to be of-
ferecl at the camp talent evening could
very easily be integrated into a rainy
day: the selection of talent, rehearsals,
etcetera.

While such activities are preplanned
and a large resource of such activities
should be available, this in no way pre-
cludes campers and counselors from de-
veloping activities of their own choice.
The resource activities are a guide for
counselors and campers assuring a res-
ervoir of available program material to
draw upon for planning.

RAINY-DAY PROGRAMS should be inte-

grated into the general camp ac-
tivity plan and be in keeping with the
objectives and purposes of the camp.
Programs for these special days and pe-
riods should not be “fill-ins” calculated
to tide over a difficult period; nor
should they be programs that “cut in”
on the regular camp schedule. It is es-

sential to preplan and be structured in
this area in order to make effective use
of facilities and personnel, avoid dupli-
cation of activity and overtaxing of fa-
cilities.

During rainy periods campers ex-
hibit various reactions to lightning and
thunder and sometimes heavy rain and
winds. These may produce fear and
restlessness. There may be some ag-
gressiveness because of the confinement
and change in the camp routine. An in-
clination to homesickness, symptomatic
illness, and destructive behavior pat-
terns may occur during rainy periods.

Counselors should watch for these
signs and be skilled in rendering needed
additional attention. This should be
part of the precamp training sessions
with counselors. lfcampers “feel” right
about camp, a rainy period or any
“stress period” is approached with the
same enthusiasm and “good feeling” as
is the daily camp routine. Directors and
counselors must therefore supply the
basic emotional foodstuff of life: a feel-
ing of belonging and being wanted; the
zest of achievement and the relish of ap-
preciation; the need of acceptance and
understanding.

Directors and counselors should:

1. Make the camper feel secure,
wanted and appreciated. Meet the
camper immediately upon his arrival at
camp. Grect him in a friendly way—
tell him you are glad to see him—to
have him in your bunk. Introduce him
to other campers—get some of the camp-
Have a
heart-to-heart talk with him, be infor-

ers to “show him the ropes.”

mal, and unobtrusive. Get him to learn
the boy’s nickname and give him a little
special attention, like helping him to un-
pack or make his bed.

2. Give the camper plenty of Oppor-
tunity to explore new things. Acquaint
him with the camp activities and “camp
ways.”

3. Give the camper plenty of oppor-
tunity to exercise his desires. Get him
to tell you about himself, his interests,
his hobbies, what he enjoys doing, what
he wants to do at camp. Keep a record
of his progress.

4. Show approval and appreciation

_.__.__......§._...._.__

of what the camper is doing. Do this.
even if by adult standards it is not in-
teresting or important.

5. Never make a camper feel infe-
rior. Respect his wishes, feelings, and
desires.

6. Never force the camper beyond
his capacity. Give him coaching in those
activities in which he wishes and should
be able to excel. If he does things within
the range of his ability, he will be suc-
cessful and happy.

7. Give the camper plenty of oppor-
tunity to learn independence and to
take responsibility. Suggest lines of in-
terest that involve responsibility, from
which he can get satisfaction and recog-
nition. Give him responsibility com-
mensurate with his ability.

8. Be consistent in order to avoid
bewilderment and confusion in the
camper.

9. Avoid punishment and a feeling of
fear. Discuss behavior with an attitude
of fairness and understanding. This
should result in an understanding by the
camper of the probable cause of his dif-
ficulty and of its implications for others
as well as himself.

10. Answer the questions of campers
honestly and frankly without giving
more than the child asks for or is able
to understand.

11. Problems should be treated as
much as possible as essentially normal
in order not to focus attention on any
deviation. lgnore unsoeial behavior in-
sofar as it is pratieable in order that no
satisfying attention results from it. Pre-
sent a calm approach when the camper
cvidenccs something out of line with
your ideas or camp “mores.”

The evaluation of a rainy-day pro-
gram poses no impondcrable problem.
Did the campers have fun preparing
and executing the activity? Did coun-
selors act as guides and helpers? ls the
program in keeping with and does it
further the objectives of the camp?
When answered positively, these and
similar evaluatory statements indicate a
successful activity. Add to this a mini-
mum increase in homesickness and ill-
ness during an extended rainy period
and success is yours. #

I loaf and invite my soul .... at my ease observing a spear of summer grass.

148

——Walt Whitman.

RECREATION

 

A program of science in camp means learn-
ing about the things of science and their
relation to our universe. Radio kits and
Iapidary equipment are popular “extras.”

RETHINKING

CAMP SCIENCE

William T. Harty

been associated with camping for many years. Yet in
only a few instances has it become a well-organized,
important part of the camp program. Years ago, this casual
approach to science probably was sufiicient; but today a
person of any age without a working knowledge of science,
or what may be called “science intelligence”, is at a serious
disadvantage and often finds the world quite a bewildering
place.
Although schools have steadily increased the amount of
time devoted to science education, they must work within

SCIENCE is a subject which, in one form or another, has

certain limitations not imposed on the camp. The camping
situation permits greater attention to individual differences
and interests. Work is done in smaller groups or by indi-
viduals. The camper is not rigidly restricted to a forty-five
minute period nor is he restricted within the confines of a
classroom or laboratory. The camper spends most of his
time under the stars and clouds, among the trees, rocks,
and common animals. His constant association with them
arouses his natural curiosity and it is not an imposition for
him to study or observe them. He has an opportunity to
learn from the things of science rather than books about
science. I

There lies in general science, not nature, a world of op-
portunity for the camp willing to take advantage of it. The
nature approach to camp science has in the past frightened
many campers away; but expansion to general science with
its wider interest appeal gives new respectability to the prov
gram and the instructors so everybody in camp may bene-
fit with an increased science intelligence. A good science
program also offers an opportunity for interesting the non-
athlete in camp activities and is a blessing on a rainy day.
Recognizing the need to revitalize, expand, and update the
camp science program, three problems become immediately
apparent:
o What are the goals of science at camp?
0 What subjects may be a part of the camp science program?
0 Where are the personnel to carry the program through
successfully? .

 

MR. HARTY is science director of Camp Indian Acres, F rye-
burg, Maine, and a science teacher in the Westwood, M assa-
chusetts, Public Schools.

MARCH 1962

 

@PROGRAM

 

The question of expense may also be raised. This will
be taken up under the various subjects; but generally, be-
cause much equipment may be homemade, the program may
cost as much or as little as desired.

Below are ten goals or objectives of the camp science
program. It will be noted that they attempt to tie the camp
science program with school science experiences as well as
with the growth and personal welfare of the individual. The
camp science program should be so constructed that it will:

1. Provide young people with an opportunity to develop
an interest in some phase of science as a vocation or hobby.

2. Lead young people to a better understanding and ap-
preciation of the dynamics and the unity of the earth, the
life it supports, the atmosphere it holds down, and the space
through which it takes us.

3. Help the individual develop his mechanical skills and
manual dexterity.

4. Provide young people with an opportunity to gain an
understanding of the many mechanical and electronic de-
vices developed through science which we uSe every' day.

5. Lead young people to an understanding of the true
meaning of conservation and develop the desire to use na-
tural resources, both public and private, intelligently.

6. Provide young people with an overall view of the
scientific approach to understanding the universe that they
may see how the various branches of science are interrelated
and are all parts of a whole.

7. Teach young people scientific facts and principles by
using the things of science rather than books about science.

8. Add meaning and enrichment to the school science
program with the unique opportunity which camp affords to
live with and work with the things of science.

9. Provide for the different personal needs, interests, and
talents of each individual.

10. Encourage young people to develop functional use of
the scientific method and observation skills through the pres-
entation of real, physical problem situations.

The program given below is ambitious but practical. It
is not expected that the entire program will be achieved in
a single year; but a start should be made and a plan of
growth available for the future. These subjects are particu-
larly well adapted to a general science program at camp.

149

They are subjects which require real life experiences for

true understanding; such experiences are difficult to provide
in the school situation.

1’

Weather: Weather, the supreme director of camp program,
is certainly the most important subject at camp. Every ad-
vantage should be taken of its importance and a camp
weather bureau is a natural activity. The necessary instru-
ments may be either built for very little or purchased for
whatever amount is available.

The most important single weather instrument is a wind
vane. Other instruments include a barometer, thermometer,
hygrometer, rain gauge, and anemometer. A summer sub-
scription to the Daily Weather Map from the United States
Weather Bureau is also a welcome addition. A group of
interested campers rising fifteen minutes early each morning
should prepare the daily forecast under the guidance of the
science counselor and announce it at breakfast or post it on
a bulletin board. Regular weather instruction for other
campers includes constructing forecasting guides and sim-
ple instruments to bring home.

Photography: Photography has the widest general appeal
of all science subjects and is an excellent way of introducing
campers to the science program. Photography does require
a darkroom with running water and expense for equipment
will run from $15 to 3100. Here is a top-grade investment.
It creates interest in your total science program, gives the
camp publicity, and starts boys on an interest which will
become a lifelong hobby for many.

Astronomy: Although astronomy is a subject which may
be studied at no expense, a telescope is an exciting accessory.
With the telescope, pictures which have been seen in books
will come to life as subjects and be seen in greater detail.
Such items as double stars, the moon, the spiral galaxy. the
planets of summer which include Saturn, the ringed planet.
and Jupiter, with its many moons and artificial satellites.
may be spotted. In the daytime, sunspots may he studied
and traced by projecting the telescopic image onto a piece
of cardboard.

However, it does not take a telescope to identify the cir-
cumpolar constellations, to watch meteors and comets, to
build a pocket sundial, or to know some of the stories from
science and mythology behind the common stars and con-
stellations. A few inexpensive charts and posters will also
be useful and inspiring for this activity.

Geology: Geology should take two forms at camp: instruc-
tion in camp for general groups and trips out of camp for
people with a special interest in the subject. Trips out of
camp may be to visit abandoned rock pits, wastepiles from
mines, mountains, or ust to observe and discuss unusual
surface features. Most boys quickly take an interest in geol-
ogy or one of its branches and for many it becomes a life-
long hobby which they can attribute to their first experiences
at camp.

Plants and Animals: Although plants and animals are two
of the most difficult subjects to teach effectively, they are
often the first and only ones included in the camp science
program. Most counselors who have had college botany and
zoology still do not know anything about plant and animal

150

identification and habits. If they attempt to teach this mate-
rial to themselves, they soon become overwhelmed by the
amount of material available and make little progress. The
solution to the problem is simple and twofold:

1. Make a list of the common plants and animals found
in the area. Assistance is usually available for this step.

2. With this list, go through the nature books learning the
identity, characteristics, and habits of each, ignoring every-
thing not on the list. Arrange items into groups or families
where possible. Build the plant and animal program around
these common subjects and as unknown specimens are
found, identify them and add them to the list.

For older campers, the study of plants should dwell on
the botanical structures, things which they will or have
studied in school but have never seen because most school
biology courses do not bring the student into the field. This
type of approach will add meaning to the school program
and the camp program, as one supplements the other.
Younger people need familiarization with the common plants
through such activities as mounting, identification games,
seed germination, and hikes.

Commonly studied animal groups include: protozoa, in-
sects, amphibians, birds, and mammals. Daytime activities
include locating and casting animal tracks in plaster; collect-
ing and mounting insects; discussing animals and showing
pictures of them; catching, studying, and releasing animals;
and growing protozoa in fresh water for microsc0pic study.
Night-time activities include baiting an area of the woods
and waiting for the animals to come or sitting quietly by a
water hole with a flashlight or flash camera to get animal
portraits. We do not recommend trapping mammals since
” traps, become excited
and often bang themselves up as they crash ahout seeking
an escape route. It is better to limit live study to the simpler
animals which can be caught, studied and released within a
few days. It is also better conservation.

small animals, even in “harmless

Electricity and Electronics: The study of electricity for
younger people is not at all an expensive pr0position. A
few spare parts such as doorbells, transformers, switches,
and lamps may be gathered together and mounted on wood.
Given a roll of wire, children can teach themselves a great
deal and it is also useful to the counselor in teaching specific
lessons. By all means, use bell transformers instead of
batteries; the voltage is low and harmless, and transformers
do not have to be replaced as do the expensive dry cells.
There are four groups of projects for radio and electronics:

1. Campers build electronic devices using parts taken
from old radios.

2. Campers‘buy their own kits and build them at camp
under the guidance of an experienced person.

3. Campers operate an amateur radio station from camp.
This will require a counselor with an FCC Amateur Radio
License.

4. Campers purchase one or more kits of the 15-in-1
variety which will remain with the camp permanently. These
kits are the type that can be wired and rewired in many
different circuits to construct various electronic devices.
They are very inexpensive. The newest of these is a lOO-in-l

RECREATION

 

kit by Allied Radio which is an excellent introduction to
both vacuum tube and transistor electronics.

Special Subjects: The opportunity for special interest trips
is unique to the camp situation and particularly important
and adaptable to the camp science program. Successful trips
can usually be arranged to laboratories, factories, radio
stations, farms, fish hatcheries, mines, museums, historical
sites, places of photographic interest, power stations, dairies,
and lumber mills.

Other science subjects are also adaptable to the camp
program. Chemistry is often requested and best carried out
with an advanced chemistry set with emphasis on semi-
microchemistry. Seashore life should be included if the
camp is so located. An old automobile engine may be pro-
vided to be disassembled, cleaned, and parts color coded
with paint for a permanent display. Some campers may wish
to do special field work for a science project they have started
or intend to start at home.

THINKING ABOUT ALL of these subjects, it becomes obvious

that a program of this type cannot be carried out in a
tent. It is moSt desirable to have three areas: a science
workroom, a darkroom, and a display room or museum. In
most situations the entire program cannot be put into opera-
tion in a single year; but it should be started and a definite
plan of growth should be followed. It should also be re-
membered that there are many charts, booklets, films, and
other aids available free or at little cost from industry
which are useful in supplementing your other science
material.“

Where are the personnel to be found capable of carrying
through such a versatile science program? There is prob-
ably no better qualified group than students with two or
three years of college who are planning to be general science
teachers. Here are people whose interests are not narrow
and specialized; but are general by nature. This is an
opportunity for them to gain experience at camp in the

*See Educators Guide to Free Science Material (Educational Pro-
gress Service, Randolph, Wisconsin, 56.25) and An Inexpensive Sci-

ence Library (American Association for the Advancement of Science
and the National Science Foundation, Washington, D.C., $.25).

MARCH 1962

@ PROGRAM

 

The camp should provide a science lodge
in addition to a workroom and dark-
room. The science lodge or museum
should display the campers’ projects.

work they will be expected to do when they begin teaching
school. If an individual is weak in one of the areas of science
mentioned, it will be to his lasting benefit to gain additional
knowledge of that subject now. At the same time he will be
gaining invaluable experience in working with young people.

An attempt has been made here to point out some of the
innumerable benefits to be gained by the camp, the camper,
and the counselor through an expanded and revitalized sci-
ence program. A program which is of greater benefit to
the camp through an increased interest and enrollment; to
the campers in greater science experiences and higher sci-
ence intelligence; and to the science counselor who is gain-
ing valuable experience, which many science teachers lack,
in teaching small groups of individuals with a common in-
terest in science, in the field with things of science, not in

books about science. #

 

Mountain Youth Camp
Continued from'Page 145

 

camp’s lodge to provide sleeping quarters with attached toi-
let and showering facilities and a complete kitchen for
twenty-two people; constructed a combination arts-crafts
and maintenance building; collected literally tons of rock
for erosion control walls; and erected two new sixteen-man
cabins with inside toilet and bathing facilities.

Future construction, some of it already scheduled, in-
cludes: development of a natural amphitheater in front of
the main lodge into a stone-stepped chapel and conference
area; development of the eastern portion of the camp into
a rough camping area with five Adirondack-type cabins, a
fire ring, barbecues and a toilet building. A volleyball court,
swimming pool, and secluded archery range are also part of
the future development program.

The Hawthorne Youth Camp through city-community
teamwork provides urban children and families experience
in camping and outdoor life not otherwise available because
of the booming land values and increasing population in

Southern California. if:

151

This program can be adapted to meet varying conditions

PLAYGROUND CAMPING

Jack Stove]

CAN YOU. be re-
ally comfort-
able in the woods
without running
electric
ranges, TV, and
soft beds? Most

suburban young-
sters would answer an emphatic, “No!”

water,

 

However, last summer twenty-four
youngsters in Verona, New Jersey,
learned the answer can be a definite
“Yes!” after experiencing the overnight
survival camping program offered by
the Verona summer playground.

This camping program brought a
new dimension to the lives of these chil-
dren. No longer relying on modern
conveniences, they learned the tech-
niques of outdoor living under the di-
rection of several members of the play-
ground staff. The program offered them
the opportunity to exercise their ingenu-
ity and creativity in a way not possible
on the ordinary summer playground.

On these playground camping trips
we take from twelve to sixteen young-
sters per trip. We run two trips per
week, one for boys and one for girls.
and we camp every second week during
the playground season. At least two,
and usually three, leaders accompany
each group. The trips extend over two
days and one night. The youngsters are
selected from the regular playground
enrollment. Because of the popularity
of this activity, children do not ordinar-
ily get the chance to take more than one
trip per summer. We require written
permission from the parents before the
child is permitted to go on a camping
trip. This is similar to the permission
necessary for day trips. Complete in-
surance coverage is imperative and
should he discussed by the department
head with the insurance agency.

MR. STOVEL is assistant director of ree-
reation for the Department of Recrea-
tion, Public Schools of Verona, New
Jersey.

152

The campsite used last summer was
adjacent to a small private lake where
playground children go swimming once
a week. We attempted to get a nucleus
from a different playground for each
trip. A leader from that area goes along
on the trip. The other leader on that
playground can plan activities which
can be supervised alone for the two days
that the other leader is camping.

The cost to the individual camper
was $1.00. This was sufficient to cover
food. Transportation was provided by
taking the campers along with the regu-
lar daily swimming trips, which was a
budgeted expense. The leaders who ac-
companied the trip received an extra
sum for their time. The children pro-

 

vided their own sleeping bag or blanket
roll, and other personal equipment; the
recreation department provided large
cooking pots. large utensils, and other

general camp items. This is one pro-
gram literally opcrated on a shoestring
and a large measure of ingenuity.
Only those youngsters entering the
fifth grade or higher were permitted to
go. This program formed an integral
part of the total playground experience
for this age group. Leadup activities
were devised to acquaint the prospective
campers with outdoor living techniques,
and the children participated in meal
planning as well as other skill games.
When the youngsters returned from the
trips, they told and retold stories of the
excursion, thus bringing the camp ex-

perience back to the playground. We
feel that camping was a bright spot in
our summer program, and gave the rest
of the program a tremendous lift.

Entering the woods was a new experi-
ence for a majority of the children, and
the thrill of being awakened at dawn by
the frogs croaking in the morning mist
was a far cry from the blare of horns
and squeal of brakes which usually ac-
companied their slumber. Pre-breakfast
swims in the lake heightened already
hearty appetites, and the time-honored
flapjacks prepared over open fires never
tasted so good! Of course, all the food
was prepared by the campers them-
selves.

Breakfast talk centered around the
previous evening’s campfire, something
often read of, but never participated in,
by these suhurhan children. They re-
membered the chilling moonlight swim
and the welcome warmth offered by the
flames. Indian skill contests tested their
prowess, and, as the campfire dimmed,
old stories were retold and the good old
songs mingled with the rising smoke.
These pleasant memories were carried
hack to the regular playgrounds—but
there was much more.

Survival campcraft techniques “on
location” have far more meaning than
sleeping out in someone’s backyard.
The most useful technique learned was
cooking. The children were quite sur-
prised to learn that anything which can
he made at home can be made in the
woods as well, and many things pre-
pared over open fires have even more
taste appeal. Simple drop biscuits,
served hot with jelly, were a big hit
with the boys. Berries and seeds gath-
ered in season fresh from the vine add
a tasty touch to all camp cooking. Food
can he successfully broiled, boiled,
haked, fried, or roasted in stone fire-
places snch as were used on our trip.
Two fireplaces made from rocks gath-
ered in the area served the needs of the

hungry campers. One concession to

RECREATION

tivilization—heavy wire grills—aided
the food preparation, but many experi-
enced campers used a tripod or crossbar
to suspend pots over coals.

Because the weather was so beauti-
ful, most of the campers elected to sleep
“under the stars.” A few, however,
built survival shelters.

Careful attention to the sleeping area
is one of the most important phases of
overnight camping. Sloping, damp, or
rocky ground should be avoided, but
these obstacles can be overcome. Of
course, a ground cloth beneath the
sleeping bag or blanket roll is essential
" because the ordinary dew accumulation
is enough to soak a sleeping bag.
Spreading grass, leaves, or small ever-

green branches can make a soft bed out

of the hardest rock ledge. A slight slope
can be utilized to advantage if the sleep-

ing bag is placed with the head higher
than the feet. Wearing apparel for

morning should be placed within the
sleeping bag at night to insure its
warmth and dryness when it is ready
to be put on.

Food preparation tables, eating ta-
bles, and other camp furniture is easily
constructed from long, straight branches
readily available in the forest. In estab-
lishing a campsite, utilize tree stumps,
fallen trees, and large rocks, and when
furniture is necessary, always use the
wood lying around the forest.

 

ED UCA TION for CAMPING

TUDENTS LEARN TO make sleeping
S bags, a map showing state camp-
ing areas, to select, purchase, and
cook camp foods in a new one-semester
camping course which was added to the
physical-education curriculum of the
demonstration high school at Mt. Pleas-
ant, Michigan. It may be elected by
eleventh- and twelfth-grade girls who
desire additional credit.

The course was developed as a result
of a class survey which revealed that
girls were interested in camping for the
following reasons: (1) to pursue a
hobby, (2) to find a means of inexpen-
sive travel, (3):- to learn more about
campng on a family scale, and (4) to
aid them in obtaining summer employ-
ment in camps. After receiving the ap-
proval of the administration, the writer
planned the course with the assistance
of the interested group of students.

In constructing the curriculum,
camping was divided into the following
units: (1) food, (2) shelter and sleep-
ing equipment, (3)'clothing, (4) recre-
ation, (5) transportation and (6) safe-
ty. In developing each of these units,
resource material was gathered from
Scout manuals, school library, local
merchants, automobile clubs, The
American Camping Association, The
Michigan Department of Conservation,
The National Park Service and audio-
visual aids.

MARCH 1962

As with all teen-agers, food and food
preparation was the paramount topic of
conversation, so we,worked on this unit
first. We found that a good beginning,
when working out any of our units, was
to survey our own school and commu-
nity first to discover what facilities were
already available to us. The Home-
Making Department had been stressing
good nutrition so we merely applied
the principles learned to good camp nu-
trition. The local merchants were very
generous in offering the use of their
products and equipment.

In their study of the State of Michi-
gan, a group of students in the History
Department drew the map of the state,
locating camping areas and facilities
and so on.

To conclude our class in camping and

@PROGRAM

 

While on the subject of wood, keep
in mind that fires demand a surprisingly
large quantity of all sizes of wood to
keep them going. Twigs and dry birch
bark are best for starting fires and pro-
gressively larger sticks, up to a diameter

of two inches, are added as the fire ig-
nites. Keep larger logs for that evening

campfire, the highlight of the camping
experience.

The possibilities for adding overnight
survival camping to your summer play-
ground agenda are exciting, being
bounded only by the limits of creativity.

to actually test the functional value of
the six units deveIOped, we planned and
experienced a weekend camping trip.
The class selected a local camp area
and set up the camp site. We worked
out a menu according to the principles
learned in camp nutrition, selected our
sleeping and clothing equipment with
care, and provided for recreational ac-
tivities, always mindful of the safety
rules and regulations.

To date the camping program has
been confined to girls’ groups, but such
a program has coeducational possibili-
ties, since preparing boys and girls to
adjust themselves to live a fuller, hap-
pier life is the ultimate aim of our edu-
cational system. Physical education
teachers have an excellent opportunity
to meet this challenger—VERA WIL-
LIAMS, assistant professor; Central

Michigan College, Mt. Pleasant, M ichi-

gan.

"CHAMPION" PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

DESIGNS BY GEO. EKDAHL 8. ASSOCIATES

Collar/u! -- Crealiue - Cudlam gaff!
“HEAVY DUTY”

 

Champion Recreation Equipment. Inc.

EVERY DEVICE FOR

I PLAYGROUNDS 0 SCHOOLS
I APARTMENTS 0 MOTELS
0 AND PRIVATE HOMES
PLANNING 8. ADVISORY SERVICE
FAST DELIVERY 8. INSTALLATION

FITTINGS & REPAIRS

Playground — Gymnasium -- Pool
1634 West North Avenue — Armitage 6-2014 -— Chicago 22, Illinois

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

153

—-

 

1., _. _._ I, _. _ “_._. --- -— __...___....-

Want to put new life in the old team?

Here’s how. Get Brunswick sports equip- feel. Brunswick equipment can make any

ment for your teams. Better sports equip- team enthusiastic. Try it and see what won-
ment just naturally makes for a better game. derful things happen.

And the best equipment comes from o

Brunswick, _including the quality lines of  m

MacGregor, Red Head and Union Hard- 8 P O R T S

, , MacGregor, Red Head, Union Hardware D
ware. Teams are only as enthus1ast1c as they 623 s. Wabash Ave.. Chicago 5, Illinois

 

154' When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

   
     

‘IIIII

III-III-
IIII’V I
IIII ‘-
'l V 4..
‘ J.-
JIII
‘IIII

.‘I-

 
   
  

    
  
  
  
   

 
 
 

  
 

RECREATION

DIGEST

 

Day Camp Staff Training

A visitor in a day camp once said to the director, “As I walked about this camp

I sensed something very special which I can’t seem to define. What is it?”

“I know what you mean,” was the reply. “For lack of a better name we call it ‘spirit.

.Grace L. Mitchell

S WE TALK about “spirit” at pre-
A camp training session, there is
frequently of look of skepticism

on the faces of new counselors, but usu-
ally by the end of the second week they
admit that they have caught it. It devel-
ops as we gradually change from a bet-
erogeneous group into a harmonious
working unit; it happens when each one
is finding joy and satisfaction in his
work, and when he has found his niche
in the framework of human relation-
ships which constifute a staff. We know
that when our counselors are happy this

MRS. MITCHELL is director of Green
Acres Day Camp in Waltham, Massa-
chusetts, and chairman of the National
Day Camp Committee of the American
Camping Association. This material is
excerpted with permission from Funda-

mentals of Day Camping, published by
Association Press, 1961 ($4.50,).

MARCH 1962

will be reflected in the behavior and at-
titudes of the campers.

Where a schoolteacher might reason-
ably expect to take eight weeks to be-
come well enough acquainted with peo-
ple, policies, and procedures, to feel
“settled in,” a day-camp counselor must
achieve this state in a few days. It can
be done when the director provides each
member with orientation, direction, in-
struction, and supervision; for only as
the individual knows what is expected
of him, and how he is measuring up to
those expectations, can he find the great-
est satisfaction in his work, and con-
tribute significantly to the total pro-
gram. ‘

Staff training begins with the signing
of an agreement and continues through-
out the season. The standards require
three days or fifteen hours of pre-in-
camp training, but before that, there are

9 39

many methods by which a director can
indoctrinate his staff.

After the contract is signed, the di-
rector will realize that although prep-
aration for camp may hold priority for
him, the counselor (who may also be
a college student or schoolteacher) will
have many other current responsibili-
ties. Concrete suggestions and remind-
ers strategically timed will be needed if
staff members are to be motivated to
make advance preparation for their
work. The following devices may be
used.

NEWS BULLETINS—ln addition to rou-
tine information a11d announcements,
these bulletins may contain news about
old staff members, thumbnail sketches
about new employes, and news of im-
provements, changes, or additions to
camp facilities.

RECOMMENDED AND REQUIRED READING

155

———Very few day camp counselors have
the time to do any extensive or intensive
reading before or during the camp sea-
son, but they will usually read a pam-
phlet, a selected section in a book, or
printed materials if the director can of-
fer or suggest articles which are brief,
concise, and easily accessible. What in-
formation will be most helpful to a
camp counselor in his work?

First, a thumbnail sketch of the age
group with which he will be working.
It is not important for him to be con-
cerned with what Johnny can do at age
seven, but it will help him to understand
J ohnny’s behavior if he knows what he
may be like. A counselor forewarned
that fours are unbearably silly, espe-
cially in their experimentation with
words; that sixes tire easily and have
many fears; or that eights are as breezy
as a gust of wind will not be surprised
or alarmed when these traits appear.

Second, the counselor will profit by’
reading a few pamphlets on child guid-
ance, methods of control, and under-
standing children’s behavior. When the
director provides the materials it can
be assumed that they will express the
philosophy of the camp.

Third, a counselor can hrush up on
the skills which will be needed in his
program. The resource books in the
camp library will he used more readily
during the camp season if staff members
have had an opportunity to look them
over before they have urgent need for
specific information.

Books for suggested reading should
be those most likely to be found in local
or college libraries. Pamphlets are of-
ten sufficientlv inexpensive for a camp
to purchase in quantity, and can be
mailed to staff members with pre»ca1np
bulletins.

CORRESPONDENCE COURSE LETTERS——
Some day camp directors have worked
up a series of letters. each dealing with
a different phase of the camp program.
which are sent periodically during the
spring. These could be followed up with
discussions at the pre-in-camp training
session.

NOTICES OF SPECIAL TRAINING COURSES
——-Staff should be notified of profes-
sional meetings through the year, and
encouraged to participate in those re-
lated to camping. Many camps pay all
or part of the expense for attendance at

156

conventions, lectures, or courses such as
district, sectional and regional meetings
and workshops of the American Camp-
Association; nature courses, offered by
the science museums, park commis-
sions, or Audubon societies; special
schools on skills such as archery, boat-
ing, riding, aquatics, and campcraft.
STAFF MEETINGSHIf it is possible to
find a time when the majority of the
staff will be available (perhaps during
a spring vacation), a staff get—together
forilsocializing and orientation will af-
ford the director an opportunity to “size
up” staff members for later assignments.
STAFF MANUAL—This is a publication
of the camp which serves as a guide and
source of information for members of
the staff. Participation in the original
composition of material to be included
in such a manual enhances its value to
counselors. For example, a list of rules
and regulations which they have helped
to develop will he adhered to with more
respect than a set Of laws laid down ar-
bitrarily by the administration. One
leader will enjoy making a map of the
grounds; to another there is real fasci-
nation in working out an organization
chart.

The task of planning the contents of
the staff manual is often most easily ap-
proached by putting oneself in the place
of a new counselor, and by attempting
to visualize things he needs to know,
such as these:

1. What has gone before? History
and development.

2. What are we trying to do for
campers? Philosophy, aims, and objec-
tivcs (written objectives are a require-
ment of American Camping Association
standards).

3. Where are we going to do it?
Map or diagram ofsite, huildings,arcas.

4. Who does it? List of personnel.
Organization chart.

5. When? Daily program. Rainy-
day program (see Page 147).

6. How? Brief description of each
activity in the program, with emphasis
on the most important; description of
procedures for campers upon arrival.

7. Counselor-parent relations. Open
House. When parents visit. Telephone
calls. Special conferences.

8. Rules and regulations for staff.

9. Job descriptions, outlining the
general and specific responsibilities.

10. Personnel policy.
11. Records to be kept by staff, with
samples.

12. Outline of reports to be submit-
ted by staff.

A GOOD MANUAL will grow out Of the

needs of the people whO use it. To
be of value it must be up-to-date; there-
fore, a loose-leaf binder is suggested.
Each staff member should be given a
copy at the time of employment and
should keep it for easy referral during
the camp season. In some camps these
manuals are returned with other records
and reports at the end of the season; in
others they are given or sold to staff
members.

It is a requirement of the American
Camping Association standards that a
minimum of three days (fifteen hours)
be devoted to the training of staff on
the camp site prior to the Opening of
camp. Full attendance at all sessions
should be required of all staff. Some
directors feel that the term “workshop”
or “orientation session” is more appro-
priate than a training session, since
there may be some who will attend year
after year and, hence. do not feel a need
to be “trained.” It is the responsibility
of the planning committee to vary the
procedures and content each year so
that the program is stimulating and
challenging. Some repetition is neces-
sary, and basic philosophy can he re-
stated with new emphasis; but the brief
time devoted to training is far too valu-
able to waste in “playing the same old
record.” The staff manual is a useful
tool, indeed, in eliminating such ex-
travagance.

Although it is expected that the major
portion of this training program will he
carried out on the camp site, it is not
unusual for several neighboring camps
to combine forces for a fraction of the
allotted time, making it possible to en-
gage outstanding speakers or special-
ists. Tentative plans for the workshop
should take concrete form by early
spring. Program leaders, unit or group
leaders, and other key people should be
invited to share in the planning. If
counselors are asked to evaluate the use-
fulness of the training session in their
end-of-the»season reports, their com-
ments will be a valuable aid in planning
for another year. #

RECREATION

Inspirational Programs

in the Churph Camp

B etty van der Smissen

ll orning Chapel. The morning" chapel
 usually similar to a church-service.
l ymns are sung, a Scripture portion is
I :ad, a prayer is prayed, and a sermon-
e.te is given. Because chapel services
ittroduce a formal note into the camp
1 rogram, they are not used extensively
ény more. Where such a period is main-
tained, it is more frequently used for a
special hymn-sing and study or as a
llace for specially prepared worship
services by the campers, utilizing‘ po-
(try, drama, art, music, choral read-
ings. Where formal services are held, it
is desirable to have camper participa-
tion in reading of Scripture and prayer
and furnishing of special music.

Vespers. Sunset. time in camp is a beau-
tiful and inspirational time of day.
Many campers prefer vespers to an eve-
ning campfire of an inspirational na-
ture. Generally, both are not included
the same day. Some effective vesper
services have included antiphonal sing-
ing, singing and message from a boat
offshore, dramatization of experiences
such as the calling of the fishermen to
follow Christ at the lakeside, poetry and
music, and choral readings. . . .

'Eoening Program. Some camps still
utilize the evening program primarily
as a preaching service. The trend, how-
ever, is toward having a good participa-
tion program followed by an inspira-
tional campfire, provided no vesper
service was held preceding.

Inspirational campnres. An inspira-
tional campfire is not synonymous with
evangelistic service. . . . It should not
be highly emotion packed pleading, but
a sincere, “feet-on-the-ground” type of
experience. Music, poetry, and inspira-
tional thought make up the primary
part of the inspirational campfire.
These must be given considerable

thought and planning, for there is noth-

 

DR. VAN DER SMISSIN is associate pro-
fessor of recreation at the State U niver-
sity of Iowa in Iowa C ity. This matcrial
is excerpted with permission from The
Church Camp Program published by
Faith and Life Press, Newton, Kansas.

MARCH 1962

ing more tragic than a fizzle at the end
of the day, when it is supposed to be the
climax!

Traditionally, some camps leave the
campfire quietly, and without talking
prepare for bed; however, this is very
difiicult for the average camper and per-
haps is most effective on a final evening.
Human nature must also be recognized
for what it is. Many young people of
senior high and young adult age desire
twenty to thirty minutes of free time
following an evening campfire.

Cabin “talk-it-over” devotional time.
Where camps use the vespers instead of
the inspirational campfire or where in
younger camps there is no special eve-
ning service as either vespers or camp-
fire, cabin devotions have a real, impor-
tant place in the devotional life of the
camper. This is an informal period
when the campers share. They may
share meaningful experiences of the
day. Each camper should be encouro
aged to participate. He may choose to
quote a Scripture verse, read a passage
from the Bible, participate in a respon—
sive reading, or read, or recite some
special poem. . . . The meaningfulness
of the experience is completely in the
hands of the counselor.

Use of nature in worship experiences.
In addition to the planned worship pe-
riods, each leader needs to be alert to
other occasions which lend themselves
to an experience which takes on the
quality of worship. A beautiful sunset,
the intricate design of a spider web, the
burst of song from a bird nearby, and
many other lessons from nature which
arise as the campers live and learn in
thc outdoors bring a hush of wonder
and awe to the group and an atmos—
phere conducive to teaching the love
and nature of God. A group may spon-
taneously sing on the trail, “This Is My
Father’s World,” or may wish to learn
inspirational poetry about nature and
God. The spiritual life should permeate
the Christian; one does not always need
to speak; silence may be more worship-
ful and meaningful. #

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

“my grandfather makes the
best playground equipment

in the whole world...because
he loves little people like me! he makes

slides and swings and see-saws and all
kinds of things. they’re real strong and
they're very safe. if you're going to buy
playground things you better talk to my
grandfather or my father first. they're both
named mr. burke.”

0 0 0 0 0 0 I I 0 O I I I O I I I I I I I I I I O I I I I I I I I I O I I I I O I I I I I I I I I I G I U I.

Send me your playground planning and specification file.

J. E. BURKE COMPANY

P. 0. Box 986 Dept. 55 P. 0. Box 549 Dept. 55

New Brunswick. Fond du Lac.
New Jersey 0R Wisconsin
Sec.F
Name:
Street:
City: State:
157

   

Campsites Full

California state parks will be able to
handle hundreds more campers this
year—at least for a single night. This
will be accomplished through use of
day-use areas in twenty-three camping
parks throughout the state. The action
was ordered by the State Park Commis-
sion after it found a million residents
were unable to get a campsite last year.
This new service will attempt to give
those en route to another park or an-
other part of the state a chance to get
off the highway and safely enjoy a
night’s rest. The overnighter must va-
cate the area by 8, 9, or 10 A.M., de-
pending upon the daytime volume of
the area he selects.

Some four Californians
camped in state parks during the year,
most of them during the summer. This
figure is based on four people to a car;
the “turnaways” are only those actually
counted—those who asked if there was
space and did not drive on after read-
ing “Campsites Full” sign.

million

Camping for Every Taste

Camping can be enjoyed the year
round in Florida, where fifteen state
parks, four state forests, three na-
tional forests, and Everglades National
Park provide a camping milieu to suit
every taste. Both trailer and tent camp
areas abound. Facilities range from
modern, well-developed parks to remote
forest retreats where campers must pro-
vide their own water. The state offers
a varied range of outdoor experiences
for the camper—underground caves.
wild orange groves, subtropical jungles,
cypress swamps, spring water swim-
ming areas, lush sanctuaries where wad-
ing birds serenely congregate, sandy
bluffs, and rare trees (the Torreya tree
and the Fiorida yew are notabie). These
attractions throughout the state are
near camping and recreation facilities,

158

  
   
   
   
   
   
   

most of which have electricity, laundry
facilities, and showerhouses supple-
menting the basic necessities of camp-
ing. In Apalachicola National Forest,
deer and bear hunts are conducted an-
nually. Students of nature lore are in a

virtual Eden with a plentitude of plant,
bird, and wildlife.

Ski Lift Inspection

New York State is committed to a pol-
icy of self-policing on its ski-lifts. How-
ever, Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
California, Washington and Oregon
have state-controlled inspection agen-
cies for ski lifts and tows. At the fif-
teenth annual meeting of the New York
State Winter Sports Council, New York
voted to have a consulting engineering
concern inspect its uphill devices and to
recommend ways of bringing them into
conformation. Expense of the project

Time for refreshments. Left
to right, Joseph Prendergast
(back to camera), Arthur W ii-
iiams, Janet Dowiing, Mrs.
Reed, and Mr. Reed, who re-
ceived testimonials from ev-
erywhere.

Charlie Reed’s Retirement Party

And a good time was had by a” . . . the assorted taients—some unsuspected

—-—of Nationai Recreation Association sta were trotted out at a fare-
well reception [or Charies Reed, who retire as director of the NRA Fieid

Department after forty-five years of service with the Association.

A REPORTER’S
NOTEBOOK

will be borne by individual operators.
In order to strengthen the effects of the
self-policing program, the council plans
to give notice to insurance companies
whenever it is found that the operator
of a ski area fails to comply with the
recommended corrective measures
made by the inspecting engineers.

Shutter Fee

Commercial still photographers using
Central Park in New York City musl
now pay for the privilege. Fees have
been charged for several years for com-
mercial television and motion picture
photography. The new charge for still
camera commercial photography stems
from the huge usage of the park for this
sort of shutterbugging. No permits 01
this sort will be issued on weekends 01
holidays to avoid conflict with regulal
park visitors.

   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 

 

, The NRA Barbershop Quar-
‘ tet made its debut at the

party. Sieboit Frieswyh is the
pianist. Harmonizing (:9)
from ie/t to right are George
Butier, George Nesbitt,
Woody Sutheriand, A rt Todd.

RECREATIOI‘

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

Melvin Shanks, superintendent of
p arks and recreation, is the “Outstand-
i1 g Young Man for 1962” in Arlington,
'1 :xas. The Arlington Junior Chamber
0' Commerce cited Mr. Shanks for his
a :hievements in developing new parks
and planning a joint park-school pro-
gram since he came to Arlington in
1 357. He is also president of the Ar-
l:ngton Betterment Association and
fast-secretary of the Civitan Club. He
1 elped coordinate the work of the ABA
and the city which won for Arlington
tle “National Cleanest Town Award”
in two consecutive years.

Orchids to Lou
Hamilton, super-
intendent of recre-
ation in San An-
tonio, Texas. Miss
Hamilton, head of
the recreation de-
partment for thirty-
one years, recently received two out-
standing awards, one from the city of
San Antonio as “Personality of the
Month” and the other as one of the ten
outstanding women within San An-
tonio. The Personality of the Month
award was announced in Inter-Com,
published by the City Personnel De-
partment. The Career Woman of 1961
award is given by the San Antonio Ex-
press and News, which cited Miss Ham-
ilton as an internationally known figure
in recreation. Miss Hamilton was
trained at San Antonio College and the
National Recreation Association Train-
ing School. She is the new chairman
of the NRA Southwest District Advi-
sory Committee and a member of
NRA’s National Advisory Committee
for the International Services. She is
also chairman of the National Women’s
and Girls’ Committee of the Amateur
Softball Association, and a past presi-
dent of the Texas Recreation Society.

 

Ruth E. Pike, former supervisor of
public information for the Washington
State Parks and Recreation Commis-
sion, has been selected for the new po-
sition of administrative assistant to the
director of urban renewal for the city
of Seattle. Her duties with the agency
| will include public relations, publica-

| MARCH 1962
I

 

HISTORIC NRA-ABS MEETING

Time out from discussion at the joint meeting of the Board of Directors of the
National Recreation Association and the Executive Board of the American Rec-
reation Society held at NRA headquarters, January 24, I 962. It was attended by
thirteen members of the NRA Board and nine members of the ARS Board. From
left to right: Mrs. Rollin Brown (NRA); Jesse Reynolds (ARS) ; Robert W. Craw-
ford, Dr. Luther Gulich (NRA); Oha Hester (against wall), Edward Thacher
(ARS); Mrs. Paul Gallagher, Augustus Kinzel (NRA); Dr. Edith Ball (ARS);
Fred Sammis (NRA); William F rederichson (ARS); Joseph Prendergast, James
H. Evans (NRA); Ray Butler (ARS); Thomas Lantz, Endicott Davison (NRA);
Graham Skea (ARS); F. W. H. Adams, Susan Lee, Frederick M. Warburg (NRA);
Lillian Summers (ARS); Arthur Williams (NRA); Henry Swan (ARS); and
Sanger Robinson (NRA). The meeting was at invitation of NRA Board and re-
sulted in the appointment of a joint committee to study how the two organizations
can combine their effort to better meet the challenges of today’s changing recrea-

tion needs.

 

tions, and community service regarding
the urban renewal program. Mrs. Pike
is a member of the National Recreation
Association National Advisory Com-
1nittee on the Publishing of Recreation
Materials.

Robert J. Fitzgerald recently received
the Probus Club merit award for his
outstanding service as recreation direc-
tor in Hamden, Connecticut. In accept-
ing the award, Mr. Fitzgerald declared
that the day of playing in the backyard,
or in the corner lot, or at the old swim-
ming hole, or in the woodlands down
the path is gone forever and the major
challenges of community recreation are
ahead of us. Since Mr. Fitzgerald took

, over in Hamden in 1955, the recreation

department budget has climbed from

$44,000 to $102,000.

IN MEMORIAM

o ELIZA G. WRIGHT, the first woman
president of the East Orange, New J er-
scy, Board of Recreation Commission-
crs, died in February at the age of
eighty-two. The widow of State Senator

Roy V. Wright, she served on the East
Orange recreation board for twelve
years and was active in political and
civic affairs. A former sponsor of the
National Recreation Association," Mrs.
Wright was the mother-in-law of Dr.
William C. Menninger, noted psychia-
trist and a member of the NRA Board

cf Directors.

0 RICHARD SCHIRRMANN, founder of the
international youth hostel movement, '
died at his home in Gravenwiesbach,
Germany, in December at the age of
eighty-seven. As a young school teacher
at the turn of the century, Mr. Schirr-
1nann would take his class for excur-
sions in the country, often for several
days on end. He regarded the study of
nature and the enjoyment of fresh air
and exercise as the best education.

It was during one of these excursions
that his group passed an empty school
and it occurred to him that “every town
and almost every village has an elemen-
tary school whose empty rooms during

Continued on Page I 64

159

     

  MARKET NEWS

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

0 Shocking pink turns pale next to new fluorescent-coated
papers, cardhoards, fabrics, plastics, adhesive papers. Can
be used in a myriad ways—for parade floats, displays, post-
ers, arts and crafts activities, pennants, even catalogue and
file dividers. All become vivid and eyecatching in blazing
shades of pink, orange. green, red, chartreuse, cerise, and
blue. Cummed papers are also available in five colors. Pa-
pers are tested for lightfastness, last remarkably well under
artificial light or reflected light. In direct sunlight, they last
up to four months, in general. Come in variety of forms,
sizes, weights, and colors. For further information, circle

##100.

0 Don’t rocket away to outer space when you can have the
universe on a string right where you are. Mobile demon-
strating the solar system in motion is printed on both sides
and plastic-coated. The whole unit is astronomically correct,
printed in realistic colors. Your astronomy groups can iden-
tify galaxies, nebula, comets, star clusters, constellations,
northern lights, the Milky Way, and the planets as they
swing in the breeze. Accompanying booklet supplies in-
formation ahout the formations. For further information
about universe mobile, circle #101.

modern. New, simplified lith-
ography process, which uses
treated sheet of paper rather
than a litho stone, makes it
possible to set up a graphics
studio in the recreation office
or community center. Litho-
graphic prints are wonderful
for posters, fine arts projects,
correlation of nature study
with art. The drawing materials remain identical; the proc-
ess is the same but less burdensome. lnk plate with rubber
roller that can he used for woodcuts and linoleum blocks,
too. The litho-sketch plate solution has unlimited shelf life,
is economical. nontoxic, and noncorrosive. For further in-
formation, circle #102.

 

0 Bring your own dance floor. Portahle dance floors can be
installed by one person to transform any indoor area into
a ballroom. Interlocking sections of the floor made of three-
ply Masonite Tempered Presdwood are black on one side
and brown on the other to permit a variety of patterns.
Available in either 24"-by-24~" or 48”-l)y-4~8”. The perimeter
of each section is surrounded with an extruded polyvinyl
plastic tongue and groove which adds to the appearance and
protects the edges. A locking key brings sections together.

160

 

o Lithography has gone“

Placed over carpeting the floor has resilience and houyancy. .
For further information, circle #103.

0 They float! Waterfront equipment—ramps, walkways,
floats, stairs—of lightweight, rugged aluminum combined
with Styrofoam flotation material will not rust, corrode, or
rot. Perfect where conditions require removal at end of
season. The flotation material will not support marine
growth, there is no water pickup, no puncture worries, no
maintenance with this lightweight material. Quotations on
complete marina installations in aluminum are given on re-
quest. For information on this waterfront equipment, circle

#:104.

0 New concept in bike racks.
Folder includes an ideal bi-
cycle-rack storage plan to-
gether with a table giving
the total number of bicycles
stored per thousand square
feet at different bicycle spac-
’ ings and aisle widths. The
~ new bike rack is made in
three spacings, close for maximum use of land or wider for
extra convenience. Design includes both single- and double-
sided racks, which can he converted from one to the other.
Can be used in building your own hike-rack projects as far
as arrangement of them goes. For folder and information,

chck3##105.

0 Children enjoy music that reflects their view of the world.
With this in mind, a recording company has approached
children’s records from the standpoint of the things that
reach into a child’s world. Performers on th esc records leave
behind the inhibitions of the adult world; the records are
child-liveable. These records can fill a variety of musical
needs and range from activity songs, singing dances, skip-
rope games, singalong records that are a lifetime away from
the stale nostalgia of adult singalongs, and recordcd tales
for storytelling. Children won’t mind bedtime at camp with
Pete Seeger singing lullahies, they won’t object to learning
French if they’re learning it through children’s folksongs
from France. Here are musical activities for children to grow
on, from the awakening perceptions of early childhood to
the widened understanding of adolescence. For a photogenic
hrochure 011 children’s records, circle #106.

o If they play their cards right, children can learn color
and word coordination and nature suhjects. New children’s
card games cover eight subjects—Alphabet, Nursery Babies,
Color, and M other Goose for pre- and early-school-age chil-
dren and Astronomy, Birds, Mammals, and Seasliores for
those seven and over. Each nature set is prepared by a spe-
cialist in the field. Cards are stored in a very attractive
plastic storage case. Each deck contains fifty-two cards. The
cards themselves are well made and fun to look at, colorful
and easy to read. For further information, circle #107.

RECREATION

I' , u, . A A ..,_ . .. . .
v r-.. , , . .-. u.  .-~. . .

unlax or ADVERTISERS

Page
A nerican Playground Devlce

It Inside Back Cover

 
   
   
     

IB ll-Boy 1....” Inside Front Cover
1

if unswick Sports .  154
Birgess Publishing    Inside Back Cover
{-1 tstello Fencing. Judo 8. Karate _ I 20
i P; Iampion Recreation Equipment . 153
 ‘11 assified Advertising  __  164
:1 Imco-Gray   120
:iHIblem and Badge   Inside Front Cover
Dame-Time ___ Inside Front Cover
Gold Medal Products _ 115
Handweaver and Craftsman _ . _ 168
Hanna Mfg. Company  -. 117
Hillerich and Bradst   139-144
Ideas Unlimited .. _ 136
I. E. Burke . . _ - .   _- 157
l(emper Tools __  136
Maintenance, Inc.  ..................... _- 115
Mason Candies . 130
Miracle Equipment .. -  113
Monroe Company __ - 136
National Catholic Camping Association . _ 166
' National Studios  _ 170
Program Aids . . .  116
Ronald Press __ 169
She-She Products  _ 166
T. F. Twardzik . _  _- ._ 116
Vogel-Peterson 136
World Wide Games _ 168

 

MARCH 1962

 

®

FREE AIDS

TRADE MART

 

Here are resources—-—catalogs, brochures, films, booklets, services
available, samples, and so on—to help the recreation leader. Circle
the key number following any item about which you want more in-
formation. Cut out the coupon, insert in envelope, and mail.

ARIS AND CRAFTS

ANGELS Asn ELEPIIANTS, dishes and cats and

hummingbirds. Plaster molds have sharp de-
tail and long lifc. For further information,

circle #I26.

NEW MODELING COMPOUND, Craft-Duh, comcs
in three colors, is pliable and workable, has
faint, pleasant odor, is nontoxic. Will remain
pliable for eight to twelve hours and may he
returned to can for later use. Will dry hard
in about forty-eight hours. When dry, can be
sanded, polished, lacquered. For information,

circle #127.

WASHDAY ARTS AND CRAFTS. Dripless easel
paints, fingerpaints, fun with paper bags, bal-
loons, hand puppets, sponge painting, stencils,
screen printing, props for theatricals all begin
with liquid laundry starch. For graphic book-
let full of projects, circle #128.

THE ARTIST’S LOT is an easier one thanks to a
triple-technic paint which can be employed
for any of the three principal methods, tcm-
pera, watercolor, or oils. It thins with water,
can be used on canvas, paper, panels, or pre-
parcd grounds. Oil-wax-casein vehicle. Com-
pletely permanent pigments in wide rangc of
workable colors. For hrochure with color sam-

ples, circle #129.

CAMPING

A CARAVAN 0F rams—to weather all cli-
mates from Hawaii to Alaska, for valley camp-
ing or mountain tenting. Lean-tos, wall tents,
tropical tents, canoe tents, tarp tents, um-
brella tents, hammock tents in pima or duck
and various colors. For information on tents,

mountain climbing cquipment, and other
cainp-and-trail nccessities, circle #131.

IxSECT SPRAY PROTECTS campers, outdoorsmcn,
and maintenance men. Sure death to wasps,
hornets, bees, yellow jackets, black widow
spiders and other pests. Packcd under sixty-
live pound prcssure, heavy-duty can produces
penetrating wet spray that covers a large area
and stays effective longer. Noninflammable,
nonexplosive, and noncorrosive. For informa-
tion, circle #132.

PACK 11‘ AWAY for trail cating. Food pack con-
tains two full days' mcnu for four peoplc.
Travel light and compact. For information,

circle #133.

SHORT-ORDER COOKS and bottle washcrs, re-
joice. Throw-away aluminum frying pan fits
into frame, is boon to foot-loose campers and
hikcrs who don’t want to be bothcred with
heavy packs and heavy cleanup. But don’t be
a litterbug; dispose of them neatly. For in-
formation, circle #134.

NO BURNT FINGERS with a Sparky lighter for
gas and gasoline lantcrns. Instantly installed,
it lights in wind and rain. Uses standard
Hints. Campers, fishermen, hunters will ap~
preciate helpful mechanism. For information,

circle #135.

A PACKAGE TENT PROGRAM designed for family
campers includes four types of tents: an um-
brella tent and command tent for children and
a wall tent and umbrella tent for adults. In-
cludcd in package deal is complete ensemble
Hropes, stakes, frame, tcnt, and instructions.
For information, circle #136.

PLEASE NOTE EXPIRATION DATE

100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107
117 118 113 120 121 122 123 124
134 135 136 137 138 133 140 141

Clip and mail today. to

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R362. 8 W. 8th St.. New York 11

This coupon expires May 1. 1962
Please send me more information on circled products.

 

108 108 110 111 112 113 114 115 III
125 126 127 128 129 130 131 132 183
142 143 144 145 14' 147 148 149 150

 

 

 

 

Name Title
Organization
Address City Zone State
R362

POCKET COOKERY. Camping stove is not really
small enough to fit in your pocket, but it is
compact. Two-burner stove can takc kerosene,
gasoline, ethyl gas, outboard motor mixture,
#2 diesel fuel. Does not use alcohol. Com-
pany also makes tents of all varieties includ-
ing a colorful lean-to which can double as an
informal seaside cabana. For leaflet. circle

#137.

FROM ANTS ro ZIPPER LUBRICANT—everything
for outdoor living. Tents of every shape and
variety, coffee cups, lanterns, sleeping bags,
packs, stoves are included in leading tent man-
ufacturer’s catalogue as well as camp stools,
folding tables. knives, compasses, and prac-
tically everything else under the sun to facili-
tate outdoor living. For illustrated, photo-
filled catalogue. circle #138.

PROGRAM AIDS

Psarv PRETTIES, PRIZES, and presents. Rich,
delicious candies and confections add zip to
a party menu, can be used as prizes. Candy-
making is a delightful and friendly club ac-
tivity for any holiday. Wrapped imaginatively,
the final product can be given as gifts. For

recipe booklet of candies and confections,
circle #139.

Pars no PEOPLE—:4 IIAPI‘Y DUO. A kit, ex-
prcssly designed for recreation and youth
leaders, includes a manual for youth leaders
with suggested pet-related projects and activi-
ties and information on various animals.
Manual includes bibliography and list of
reference material. Also in kit is leadcr’s
guide on Social Responsibility and Pets and
Journal of Our Dog. For your kit, circle #140.

A rssntov FLAIR [Misha-i Fl’\D:-. Wherever
women congregate, chic jewelry can be used
as an incentive to fundraising. Senior citi-
zens, young marrieds and the pony-tail set
will enjoy modeling a wide variety of jewelry.
The jewclry is sturdy with long-lasting fin-
islles. For further information, circle #14].

FLASH! Eyecatching signs for your bulletin
hoard. Dynamic combination of fiuorescent
colors with offset printing. Announcing a
party? Bonus? Brand new activity? Cur-
rent programs? There's a sign for every oc-
casion. For booklet describing signs and bul-
letins with samples, circle #142.

A MOUTIIWATERING KIT is crammed with pro-
gram ideas themed to candy. Sweet center-

-H--mmmm

  

[I Send

 

HAVE A WHALE OF A SUMMER

$2.50 ($2.00 to NRA members)

 

I] Check or money order enclosed E] Bill agency

(Be sure to fill in name and address on reverse side.)

piece decorations are detailed in booklet
Candy and Chocolate Centerpieces. Lcafiets
which outline the uses of candy will give you
many ideas for gala celebrations and activi-

ties. For kit, Say it With Sweets, circle #143.

IF THEY WORKED FOR THEIR AWARD, they de-
serve the best. Activity award cmblems, in
blue, green, or red on white felt, cover activi-
ties from angling through music to leadership,
arts and crafts, campfire. Wonderful for
camps, recreation departments, youth clubs.
For information on this and other emblems

and badges, circle #144.

VENDING MACHINES AND EQUIPMENT

REFRESHMENT asnnwscos. Cotton candy.
Sno-Kones, and popcornm-eight to nine cents
profit on each ten-cent sale! Hot dogs and
other items availablc. For catalogue and in-
formation, circle #145.

Tusr’LL com: met: FOR MORE and you'll save
on bun loss with Fasteamer to heat buns. No
sogginess or drying. Takes up no counter
space, is easily installed with minimum con-
nections of water and llO-volt power. Hy-
genically perfect, approved by health authori-

ties. For a complete description of this unit,
circle #116.

COME AM) GET IT! Soup's on . . . hot-food
vending machine contains f0ur soup choices
of varying prices, served hot in can. The ma-
chinc holds a fifty-two can total, has locked
coin-box facility. Mailbox-type delivery to
prevent pilfering, simple manual operation.
lleight 48", depth 24". width 16%”. For in-
formation, circle #147.

I’ACKACED ten. For camps, marinas, and pic-
nic areas. Coin-operated lce Rctailer comes in
two models. Coin mechanism can easily bc
set up to vend any pricc bctween $.05 and
$1.25. For complete information and specifi-
cations, circle #148.

Tax cuxrs A BALL. Table tennis ball (lis-
penser, leased free to rccreation agencies,
holds 120 balls. Choice of three tep-quality
grades. Use profits to maintain and replace

paddles, nets, ethtera. For folder. circle
#119.

“wanna-rerun keeps popcorn hot, crisp, and
fresh for days. llolds approximately 120 regu-
lar size boxes or bags of bulk popcorn. Loads
easily from top. Blower-heating system circu-
lates hot air through corn. For information,

circle #150.

H-Hm--H----"H----

with
THE I962

PLAYGROUND
SUMMER NOTEBOOK

copies of ’62 Notebook

 
 

 
  
      
     
      
    

LOW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references di
rectly from source given (enclose remittance)

KNOW-now ron vourxrsans. A valuable book
let, The Volunteer Coach-Leader, delineate:
the role of the volunteer leader in youth ath
letic programs; the valucs of being a volun
teer leader; safety; liability; relationship:
with game ofiicials, spectators, parents oI
players, financial sponsors, press, radio, TV.
and with youth itself. Desirable traits and
leadership qualities are also discusscd. l’ur-
poses of the youth athletic program and
growth characteristics of children fill the new
volunteer in on the total sc0pc of his work and
give an experienced lcader some new values.
Available for 3.50 from the Athletic Institute.
805 Merchandise Mart. Chicago 5-1.
0

NEW raosrtans son masons. Your Guide to
Better Group tlfeetings—Conunon Goals for
Thoughtful Parents has been published for
parent-teacher organizations, church mothers'
clubs, nursery-school groups, and other organ-
izations interested in child study and parent
education. Specific help is offered to parents
who wish to start, join, or lead a child study
discussion group. Many examples are given
of how to plan and present program cfiective-
ly; how to stimulate metnbers’ intcrest, par-
ticipation, and attendance. Resources for
films, booklets, and plays are provided. The
forty-page illustratcd pamphlet is available
for $.50 from Group Service Bureau, Box HQ.
Parents Magazinc, 52 Vanderbilt Avenue, Ncw
York 17.

Iloanowx LOWDO‘WN. Thc 1962 edition of the
Folk Dance Guide (12th annual edition),
contains background on folk dance in the
United Statcs, dance through the agcs, a na-
tional directory of instruction groups, a calen-
dar of annual folk-dance events, a listing of
folk-dance community organizations, and a
bibliography of textbooks, theses and doctoral
diswrtations, special articles, and current
periodicals. Available for $1.00 from Paul
Schwartz, I’.O. Box 342, Cooper Station, 93
Park Avenue South, New York 3.
o

Cum-nave roa CAMP IMPROVEMENT. While
Better (Jumping is aimed at YMCA camps, it
certainly can bc of help to other types of
camping opcrations. Health, safety, sanita-
tion, foods, waterfront, transportation, activity
leadership, firc prevention, training and stiper-
vision of staff arc among the items covercd.
It includes national standards and desirable
practices. A welcome chccklist. Available

from Association Press, 291 Broadway, New
York 17, for $1.50.

THE INSIDE sronv. A film on Jewish commu-
nity center work, To Be As One, is available
for showing before local groups. It illustrates
what goes on in a center and can be used for
recruiting volunteers into the program, fund-
raising, acquainting non-Jewish groups with
the Jewish community services, and in adult
discussion groups. This is a professional pres-
entatiou in 165151, black and white, and runs
for thirty minutes. Prints are available on
both sale and rental basis from thc Jewish

Welfare Board, Jewish Center Lecturc Center
Bureau, 145 East 32nd Street. New York 16.

RECREATION

 

Outdoor Recreation in America
Continued from Page 127

._______———————
iing responsibilities now lodged in the Secretary of the In-
erior and exercised by the National Park Service under the
Park, Parkway and Recreational Area Study Act of 1936.”

Recreation Advisory Council: “To assure that recreation
golicy and planning receive attention at a high level and

:0 promote interdepartmental coordination, there should be

established a Recreation Advisory Council, consisting of the

_ Secretaries of Interior, Agriculture, and Defense, with the
l Secretary of the Interior as Chairman. . . . Other agencies,

I such as the Department of Commerce, Department of Health,

Education, and Welfare, and the Housing and Home Finance

 Agency, would be invited to participate on an ad hoc basis

. when matters affecting their interests are under considera-

tion by the Council.

“The Recreation Advisory Council would provide broad

policy guidance on all matters affecting outdoor recreation
. activities and programs carried out by the executive branch.
‘ Acting within this policy, the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation,
‘ under the Secretary of the Interior, would work toward co-
' ordinating programs in the more than twenty federal agen-
- cies and the fifty states.”
Functions of the Proposed Bureau: “The proposed Bureau
would have six major functions: (1) coordinate related Fed-
eral programs; (2) stimulate and provide assistance in state
planning; (3) administer grants-in-aid; (4) sponsor re-
search; (5) encourage interstate and regional cooperation;
and (6) deveIOp a nationwide recreation plan.” Among its
objectives, such a plan would:

0 Maintain estimates of present and future trends in supply

and demand.

0 Identify critical outdoor recreation problems and propose
steps for their solution.

0 Encourage planning and action agencies—federal, state,
and private—~to adopt programs designed to attain the many
benefits of outdoor recreation.

Federal Policies and Programs: “Federal policies and pro-
grams afiect every phase of outdoor recreation. . . . Although
federal agencies charged with the stewardship of lands and
waters have done an outstanding job, few of them were pre-
pared to meet the surge in recreation demand that began
shortly after the close of World War 11. Indeed, it is this
surge in public demand that presents the greatest threat to
the recreation values of these natural resources. Important
segmcnts of our parks, forests, and waters are in danger of
being smothered by the using public.”

The need for a consistent approach to similar problems
of recreation development, regardless of administrative ju-
risdiction, is pointed out. One of the principal functions of
the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation would be to foster such

an approach.

Recommendations: The Commission recognized that each
federal agency must continue to take responsibility for shap-
ing its own programs and practices, but it recommends the
following general management policies in terms of the area

classification system:
0 Federal high-density recreation areas (Class I) that serve

MARCH 1962

primarily local recreation needs should be placed under
state or local government control.

0 General outdoor recreation areas (Class II ) should be
carefully planned for and deveIOped at federal reservoirs.
0 General outdoor recreation areas (Class II) should be
established at suitable locations in national parks and monu-
ments. This would eliminate the need for further non-con-
forming development in natural environment (Class III )
and unique natural (Class I V) areas and at the same time
provide the necessary facilities and services for enjoyment
of the areas.

0 The Forest Service should identify unique natural areas
(Class IV) within the national forests.

0 Congress should enact legislation providing for the estab-
lishment and management of certain primitive areas (Class
V) as “wilderness areas.”

“While implementation of the classification system may
result in some changes in management policies and practices,
it need not result in changes of present jurisdictional respon-
bilities among federal agencies. The agency charged with
the administration of a unit of land would continue, in ac-
cordance with the governing legislation, to perform whatever
management functions are appropriate to the various rec-
reation classes identified. Thus, when the Forest Service
classifies a certain portion of a national forest as a unique
natural area (Class IV), it would remain under the control
of the Forest Service, even though managed according to the
same standards as a comparable area in a national park or
monument.”

The Commission also offers additional recommendations
suggesting means of expanding the already substantial con-
tributions made by federal programs, as follows:

0 The Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife should take
the lead in dealing with the legal, economic, organizational,
and other problems related to the provision of public hunt-
ing and fishing opportunities.

0 Surplus federal lands suitable for outdoor recreation pur-
poses should be made available to state and local govern-
ments at no cost, with appropriate reversion clauses.

o The Bureau of Indian Affairs should provide increased
assistance to Indian owners in developing the economic po-
tential of public outdoor recreation activity on their lands.
0 In view of the urgent needs of urban dwellers for areas
that can be used for recreation activities, the Commission
endorses continuation of the recently authorized “Open.
space” program.

0 Legislation should be enacted to permit explicit consider-
ation of public outdoor recreation benefits created by small
watershed projects carried out under the Watershed Protec-
tion and Flood Prevention Act of 1954- (Public Law 566,
68 Stat. 666) as amended.

0 Certain programs and policies of the Department of Agri-
culture should be modified where practical to take account
of their potential for providing public outdoor recreation.
0 Federal and state governments should give explicit rec-
ognition to recreation values in the planning and design of
highways. #

0 Part II, dealing with the role of state and local govern-
ment and private enterprise, as well as other recommenda-

' tions, will appear next month.—Ed.

163

Arts and

rafts Corner

Edited by Shirley Silbert

Name Tags: A Get-Acquainted Came—You will need pins,
colored construction paper or other paper with some body
to it; also tempera paints and brushes, assorted crayons, and
scissors. Have the group cut name tags in creative forms
that might include flowers, birds, fish, animals—or just any-
thing! The name of the person should be included in the
decoration of the form. The tag is then pinned on each one
upside down. Everyone tries to guess what the other names
are—ISABEL HAVEL, Tacoma, Washington.

Preparation of Paperhanger’s Paste—To get a thoroughly
mixed heavy creamy substance that is most desirable for
use in working with papier-maché, start with water, then
add the paperhanger’s paste (a dry flour). You will avoid
getting lumps in this way. Mix until you get the desired
paste.——SHIRLEY SILBERT, New York.

Storage of Equipment—Adequate storage space near your
work area should be available with a designated location

or carton for each tool and material. Prepare an initial in-
ventory and post it at the storage area. Show inventory
changes. Persons may be encouraged to bring in their own
pencils, needles, and threads which can then be stored in
a cigar box or other container showing the participant’s
name and group. Individual folders can be kept available
for flat work, and sh0pping bags for bulky work. Items that
are used at the same time should be kept near each other.
Materials that are most frequently used should be readily
accessible. Large heavy objects should be stored on low

shelves—MORRIS OZER, Philadelphia.
Extending Usability of Craft Materials—A few dr0ps of

glycerine added to oil-base modeling materials (plastecenes)
will prevent them from drying out. This same technique

works for glues, inks, and waterpaints that dry out and
harden.——SIIIRLEY SILBERT, New York.

Use and Care of Supplies—Acquaint participants with the

correct names of supplies. Have them know the proper use
of materials and understand the possibilities of all materials
they work with. This applies to tools as well. Promote full
use of available supplies. Persons should be held account-
ahle for waste or damage due to inexcusable carelessness.
To avoid deterioration, it is very important to rotate sup-
plies using the older materials first. Always make sure that
paste, showcard color and shellac jars are tightly covered.

——MORRIS OZER, Philadelphia, Pa.

 

Reporter’s Notebook
Continued from Page 159

m

the holidays are simply waiting to be
transformed into bedrooms and dining
rooms for school journey parties. . . .
Each bed will consist of a sack and pil-
low tightly stuffed with straw, two
sheets and a blanket. . . .” Soon after-
wards he established a temporary youth

 

hostel in his own school in Altena. His
example was followed in other places
and by 1914 nearly three hundred hos-
tels had been opened in northwest Ger-
many.

Mr. Schirrlnann becamc chairman of
the German Youth Hostel Association
when it was formally established in No-
vember 1919 and was named first prcsi-
dent of the International Youth Hostel

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type 5.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of '
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

Rscnmnon Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

 

HELP WANTED

Park and Recreation Di-
rector, St. Louis Park,
Minnesota. P0pulation
43,310. 730 acres of de-
veloped park and 270 acres
under deve10pment. Start-
ing salary $7,320 to $8,062,
depending upon experience
and qualifications. College
degree and a minimum of
three to five years experi-
ence in park and recreation
administration. Extensive
experience may be substi-
tuted for college degree.
Write for application to:

City Manager’s OIIICC, City
Hall,5925 West 37th Street,
St. Louis Park 16, Minne-

mta.

Director-Camp — Ortho-
pedically handicapped chil-
dren. Administrative and
supervisory experience re-
quired. Write: New York
PhilanthrOpic League, 150
West 85 St., New York 24,
N.Y.

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct

individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $436.00 per
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liberal employee
benefits. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for emieee or am adeertieed here.

164

Federation, established in 1932. ( F or
an appreciation of Mr. Schirrrnann and
his work, see RECREATION, February
1955.)

0 CHARLES R. SKOW, commissioner of
parks and recreation for St. Louis
County, Missouri, died recently at the
age of forty-nine. In 1950, Mr. Skow
was electcd to the St. Louis County
Council on which he served as chair-
man in 1953. He resigned his council
seat in 1954 to become county civil de-
fcnse director. The following year he
was appointed administrativc assistant
to the county supervisor and in 1957,
was appointcd commissioner of parks
and recreation. At the time of his
death, Mr. Skow was serving a second
term as prcsident of the Clayton Lions

Club.

0 Civic leader KATE TRUBEE DAVISON
died in January at her Locust Valley,
New York, home on the day before her
ninety-first birthday. Mrs. Davison’s
family has long playcd a prominent role
in the affairs of the National Recreation
Association. She was the widow of
Henry P. Davison, NRA Board mem-
ber; mother of the late Harry P. Davi-
son, also an NRA Board member, and

of F. Trubee Davison, New York City
NRA sponsor and former NRA Board
membcr. She was the grandmother of
Endicott P. Davison, a vice-president of

the NRA Board.

RECREATION

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

'i‘ Camps and summer programs forsociation and the Committee on Dia-

handicapped children in Maryland are
run by various agencies for youngsters
witll orthopedic handicaps, heart condi-
tions, diabetes, Speech and hearing dis-
orders, and mental retardation. Camp
Greentop near Thurmont was organized
in 1937 for the orthopedically handi-
capped by the Baltimore League for
Crippled Children and Adults on a site
developed by the National Park Service
with buildings specifically adapted to
needs of the handicapped. One hundred
boys and girls, from seven through fif-
teen, are accepted each season for the
seven-week program, which includes
softball, archery, arts and crafts, nature,
music and dramatics, and overnight
camping trips. The therapy program
covers physical, speech, and occupation-
al help. Full and partial scholarships
are available. Following the regular
season, there is a two-week period for
the sixteen-to-fifty age group.

' Cardiac children on a regimen of lim-
ited physical activity can attend Camp
Pleasant (boys) and Camp Goodwill
(girls) operated by the Family and
Child Services of Washington, D.C. The
camps are about thirty miles south of
the Capital. The age range at these two
camps is from nine to twelve. Emphasis
is upon nature study and crafts. These
children join the rest of the camp unit
in most activities including swimming,
dramatics, etcetera. The camp session
runs for about twelve days in the latter
part of July. The Heart Association of
Maryland Sponsors twenty camperships
at these camps.

° The Baltimore Hearing Society con-
ducts a six-week summer language and
social development program for chil-
dren, aged five to seven, with serious
communicative disorders. Groups of
six children meet twice weekly for lan-
guage therapy, social and recreation
skills. Parents are educated, too, in a
series conducted to teach a more com-
plete understanding of their child and
his handicap. The society also refers
children eight to fifteen years with seri-
ous speech and language handicaps to
day and resident camps which provide
programs for nonhandicapped children,
so they can learn how to adapt to nor-
mal activities and situations.

' Juvenile diabetics, aged seven through
fourteen, are eligible for Camp Med-Chi
which is operated the last two weeks in
August by the Maryland Diabetes As-

MARCH 1962

betes of the Medical and Chirugical
Faculty of Maryland. One hundred chil-
dren are accepted upon recommenda-
tion of their physician or hospital clinic.
Every sport and activity normally as-
sociated with camping is offered. In-
struction takes place in diet manage-
ment, self-testing of urine, and self-ad-
ministration of insulin. One of the aims
of the camp is to help diabetic children
learn to play and live normally. First
consideration is given to youngsters
from needy families.

' Three day camps and one resident
camp are available for mentally retard-
ed children through the Greater Balti-
more Chapter of the Maryland Society
for Mentally Retarded Children. Chil-
(lren attending the day camps have a
program of swimming, rhythms, music,
games, stories, dramatics, self care, and
social skills. The resident camp is for
children over twelve. Hiking, fishing,
boating, swimming, and crafts are in-

cluded.

'i‘ The new edition of the Directory of
Camps for the Handicapped can be pur-
chased for fifty cents from the Ameri-
can Camping Association, Bradford
Woods, Martinsville, Indiana, and the
National Society for Crippled Children
and Adults, 2023 West Ogden Avenue,
Chicago 12. The directory includes resi-
dent camps and day camps for the
handicapped. The camps are listed first
by states and second by disability.

'i‘ In New York City, Montefiore Hos-

pital’s Homecare Division is patterning
part of its recreation program after the
NRA’s Homebound Project plan. The
program, under the supervision of Mrs.
Jeanette McGranahan, recently con-
ducted two parties at the hoSpital with
homebound patients coming to the par-
ties from their homes. A very unusual
aspect of this program is that at the last
party six of the ten patient participants
arranged for their own transportation
while the other four had to be brought
by the hospital.

NBA News

+ A variety of workshops are now of-
fered as a service by the National Rec-
reation Association Consulting Service
on Recreation for the Ill and Handi-
capped. These include:

° Training workshops for staff and vol-
unteers (one to five sessions).

° Demonstration workshops in activi-

ties.

' Adaptations of activity, facilities, and

equipment for the handicapped.

° Games and their use for the handi-

capped and aged.
*-

'l' 'l- 'l'

0 The NRA Consulting Service has es-
tablished a basic fee schedule for visit-
ing consultation services of $50 per day
plus expenses. This may vary depend-
ing upon time and specialist involved
and the type of consultation. For fur-
ther information on the above work-
shops and consultation services, write to

Dr. Morton Thompson, Acting Direc-
tor, NRA Consulting Service, 8 West

8th Street, New York 11.

'II' «I * «l-

o The staff of the NRA Consulting

Service will take an active role in the
following conventions this spring: Na-
tional Mental Health Association,
March 5-7, Washington, D.C.; United
Cerebral Palsy Conference, March 15-
16, Cleveland, Ohio; and National As-

sociation "of Recreational Therapy Con-

ference, March 26-30, Philadelphia.

'i‘ Recreation leaders in the field of the
ill and handicapped should acquaint
themselves with the National Recrea-
tion Association Personnel Service
which maintains a personnel registra-
tion and position-available service. For
particulars write to the Personnel Serv-

ice, 8 West 8th Street, New York 11.

'i‘ Last month this column published a
partial list of literature available from
the NRA Consulting Service on Recrea-
tion for the Ill and Handicapped, 8 West
8th Street, New York 11. Other free
literature available from the Consulting
Service includes: H ornebound Holiday;
How to Organize a Play Department in
a H OSpital; Art Therapy as Creative Ac-
tivity; Senior Citizens in the Swim;
Trends in Recreation for Geriatric Pa-
tients; Recreation Leadership with the
Ill and Handicapped; Program Ideas
for the Aged in Neuro-Psychiatric H os-
pitals; Duties of Hospital Recreation
Personnel; Improvised Games for the
Ill, Handicapped and Aged; Coordi-
nated Recreation Program for Aged Pa-
tients; and a publication list on services
to workers with ill and handicapped
senior citizens.

'i‘ The Recreational Research Institute,
258 Broadway, New York, offers a new
catalogue of active games for the aged,
ill and handicapped, and includes fifty-
five items covering a wide variety of
skills, interest, and needs for the handi-
capped. The Self-Help Devices Institute
at the Institute of Physical Medicine is
now testing some of these games with
very favorable results. #-

165

FUN TIME
is

“SPACE BALL" TIME
For All Campers . . .

"SPACE BALL will
help all aspirants of
tennis. badminton.

squash. hand ball

and table tennis
because it Improves
hand-eye-foot coordi-
nation. while being so
much fun to play . . .
SPACE BALL is confined
to no Special place to
play. age. time of. ear.
sex . or motor abi ity."

   
  

Internationally Famous Tennis Star

PRICE FOR
ORGANIZATIONS
AND INSTITUTIONS!

$18.00 per doz.

Great way to keep campers physically lit, while having tun!

[Each kit contains trampoline-type racquet and ball
complete with instructions for over 100 games you
can teach your campers in minutes. Everyone's an
expert! Any number from two people up to two
competitive teams of ten or more can play at one
time. It's 1962's top game. Gives immediate batting
success and improves eye-hand coordination.

SHO-SHO PRODUCTS 00., HOLYOKE, MASS.

f.o.b.
Holyoke, Mass.
Terms: net 30_ days

In quantities over 100.
price is $15.00

 

 

AMust...

for Catholic parents and all youth workers who are looking for

CATHOLIC CAMPS

THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC CAMPING ASSOCIATION

artnotmces the publication of its

1962 DIREBTURY 0F BATHULIB BAMPS

Here is information vital to all those seeking a summer camp for their young-
sters. Our new directory contains complete, accurate, and up-tmdate informa-
tion on all active Catholic camps in Americawnearly 450 in all.

This year plan to send your child to a Catholic camp—where God is foremost.
Catholic camps are among the finest and most modern in the country.

The National Catholic Camping Association is an activity of the Youth De-
partment, National Catholic Welfare Conference. Membership is open to any-
one interested in camping. Members receive the annual Directory of Catholic
Camps and Trail Signs, the oilicial bimonthly magazine of Catholic camping.

VERY Rev. Msca. JOHN J. CONNIFF
Acting National Director

for your directory send $1.00 to

NATIONAL CATHOLIC CAMPING ASSOCIATION

1312 Massachusetts Ave... N.W. Washington 5, D. C.

 

166

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Canoe Course for Blind
Continued from. Page 133

 

make the same trip the following day.
All but one boy wanted to try it and he
wanted to rest up one day and try it the
next. The Red Cross basic canoeing cer-
tificate and small craft emblems were
presented at the traditional last-night
show and party. It was with a great
deal of pride that the ten campers came
forward to receive them. They were the
envy of the whole camp.

DID WE ACCOMPLISII our objectives
and was it worth the time and ef-

fort? The hlind campers did learn to be
safe canoeists with over forty hours of
instruction and practice; they did have
an exciting and memorable experience.
They knew they could canoe as well as
a sighted person; they learned to take
care of themselves in a canoe; and they
certainly learned a sport they could en-
joy for years to come. The blind camp-
ers were not pitied, protected, or avoid-
ed hut were understood, helped, and
welcomed. We also proved that blind
canoe tripping is practical and most en-
joyablc with the proper training and
safety precautions.

We also learned that thorough train-
ing in basic skills is very necessary and
that it is a long, hard, tedious, often ex-
asperating Oh to teach blind teenagers
such an exacting and complicated skill.
However, we found it a very rewarding
and satisfying experience. So much so
that Jerry Pidcock is planning to spend
a whole month with the teenagers this
coming summer and the canoeing coun-
selor is going to a Red Cross small craft
school to take a canocing instructor’s
coursc, so she can do even a better job.
Mr. Case is planning to get some more
canocs and I will certainly be visiting
Camp Lighthouse for some more work
and fun with the blind teenagers. #

IIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIHllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllillllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIllIllIIIIiiIlIIIIIIIIIIIHlIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

I have found life an enjoyable, en—
chanting, active and sometimes ter-
rifying experience, and I’ve enjoyed
it completely. A lament in one ear,
maybe, but always a song in the
other.———-SEAN O’CASEY.

Elm“IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIM

RECREATION

 

  

The Book of Outdoor Winter Activi-
ties, Gunnar Peterson and Harry Ed-

gren. Association Press, 291 Broad-
way, New York 7. Pp. 211. $4.50.

Here is a well-written and stimulating
book that can serve as a single source of
winter program activities for recreation
departments and camps. The large va-
riety of activities included will do much
to dispel the idea that cold-weather ac-
tivities are limited to skiing and skating
( see “T ravel with the North Wind,”
RECREATION, February 1962).

Safety cautions and procedures are
wisely included in each activity area,
along with many practical pointers on
the selection and care of proper equip-
ment and personal clothing. The do-it-
yourself enthusiast will be intrigued
with the section on “Snow Equipment
Made from Scraps.” The bibliography
is well selected from key resources that
should be readily available in most
parts of the country. The listing of
films will be appreciated when indoor
programs with an outdoor orientation
are needed during the cold months. I
recommend this book highly for inclu-
sion as a key resource in the profes-
sional recreation library—Stanley W.
Stocker.

Better Homes and Gardens Family
Camping. Meredith Publishing Com-
pany, Des Moines 3, Iowa. Pp. 160.
$2.95.

Among the host of books written on
the subject of family camping, this
“idea book,” by the editors of Better
Homes and Gardens in cooperation with
C. B. Colby, is a valuable reference and
guide for the experienced camper, as
well as the neophyte in the art of out-
door living. Expresst written for fam-
ily campers, the ,book never deviates
from this purpose; as for example,
when it points up the place of women
and children in this exhilarating experi-
ence in the outdoors. The initial chap-
ter—all too short—gives an introduc-
tion to camping, its rapid growth in
recent years and, in particular, the value
of outdoor vacations—camping.

The author delineates three basic fac-
tors pertinent to a family’s selection of
equipment for a camping vacation:  1)

MARCH 1962

family size, (2) type of camping con-
templated, and (3) the family hudget.
The prime considerations of family
camping—selection, care. and mainte-
nance of equipment, food and outdoor
cookery, fire building, sanitation, first
aid and site selection—provide the
reader with a clear understanding of
the principles of family camping.
Help for the camper in the form of
a checklist of camping equipment de-
sirable for an enjoyable vacation, and
a complete digest of federal, state, and
foreign agencies that have information
availahle on campsites and outdoor rec-
reation areas and facilities conclude the

book.

The photographs. some rich in color.
others in black and white, in addition
to the graphic illustrations, are natural,
descriptive, and timely. Family Camo-
ing borrows from the experience of its
author and proves the axiom of Roger
Asham: “Learning teaches more in one
year than experience in twenty.”——E.
A. Scholer, Assistant Professor of Rec-
reation, State University of Iowa.

The CIT in Residence Camping,
Eugene A. Turner, Jr., Editor. Associa-

tion Press, 291 Broadway, New York
7. Pp. 80. Paper, $1.25.

This booklet is the result of several
years’ work analyzing, testing, and
evaluating material sent in by many
camp directors and staff members. It
outlines the theory and practice of a
vital counselor-in-training program as
deve10ped at the request of the YMCA
Camp Directors’ Association of the
New England states, approved by the
National YMCA Advisorv Committee
on Camping, and prepared by a soecial
writing committee of which Mr. Turner
was chairman.

It offers a reasonable and practical
solution to the problem of how to hold
the interest of the high-school-age
youngster, how to lead him into a suc-
cessful progression in skills and leader-
ship techniques, and finally i and hope-
fully) recruit him into a junior and
then a senior counselor. The pamphlet
offers no easy gimmicks. no short cuts
to real responsibility. It does offer a
plan, well-organized and documented.

EW
PUBLICATIONS

Wilderness Cookery, Bradford An-
gier. The Stackpole Company, Tele—
graph Press Building, Cameron and

Kelker Streets, Harrisburg, Pennsyl—
vania. Pp. 256. $3.95.

This is destined to become the basic
text for all out-of-doors cooks, not just
the wilderness clan. It is written with
a great deal of practicality and delight-
ful humor. The breadth and sc0pe of
the author’s down-to-earth experiences
are obvious before you complete the
first ten pages, even the backyard cook
will find many intriguing but simple
variations on food preparation.

The twelve chapters provide fascinat-
ing reading. Chapter headings such as
“By Hook and Bv Cook,” “Bannock,
Sourdough and other Breads,” “Fame
with Big Game,” “Eating for Free,” et-
cetera, lure the skimmer into detailed
reading. The “Eating for Free” chapter
is the best presentation of nature’s food-
stuffs I have ever read. It is practical
information that will be useful and in-
teresting to anyone who cooks out on
a Sunday park cookout, on family
camping trips, or on extended wilder-
ness trips.

The “Potpourri” chapter includes an
excellent provisioning table which indi-
cates the quantities of key foods and
caloric values to use in planning ex-
tended trip menus. I highlv recommend
this book as a must to all who enjoy
cookery in the out-of-doors: the car
camper, the canoe tripper, the family
camper, and the Wilderness backpacker.
This hook should be a must in the li-
braries of all camps and recreation de-
partments that operate day camps or
any type of camping programs.—-S. S.

Camping Skills For Trail Living, John
A. Ledlie. Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 192.
Illustrated. $4.95.

This book is technically a revision
of John Ledlie’s Handbook of Trail
Campcraft; in fact, very little of the
original book has been changed. Much
of it, including sketches and photo-
graphs, is a word-for-word reprint.
What does make this new edition in-
creasingly useful is one new chapter, a
most important one, which is a detailed

167

statement on specific standards for
canoe trips, for horseback pack trips,
and for caravan camping. The break-
down of “units of experience” in a pro-
gressive sequence, which appeared in
the original edition, is still valuable
material and can form the basis of
counselor-training programs and a pro-
gram of resident-camp eampcraft skills.

0n the other side of the ledger, we
could find no specific definition of trail
or trip camping. The contents of the
book are presented in terms of resident
camping; comments suggesting use by
groups not engaged in resident camping
would have been helpful. We hope that

 

The quarterly magazine with new
weaving ideas in each issue

A complete file of back issues will give you
a valuable weaving library

Write for brochure
and prices of back issues

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

1 yr   $ 4
3 yrs -  . . . . . . .-$'IO

Pan-American & Foreign rates $1 a year
extra. Single copies $1.25

Handweaver 8. Craftsman
246 mm AVENUE new YORK 1

WORLD WIDE GAVIES

Delaware. Ohio

Enioyed by Adults and Children

0 Sturdily built for rugged use
«- Skill games and table games
0 Equipment games and puzzles

«- Manufactured and sold by
Warren and Mary Lea Bailey

Write for Free Catalog

 

168

someday when this IS again revised, Mr.
Ledlie will also give deeper and more
significant attention to the chapters on
conservation and woodlore. To devote
only ten pages to the important topic of
conservation, when lashings and knots
are given seven, seems extremely in-
adequate; and to suggest only five proj-
ects for six, seven, and eight-year-olds,
two of them identification of wild-
flowers and poisonous plants, the other
three on bird watching, animal tracks,
and spatter prints, seems to miss a won-
derful opportunity to suggest other
meaningful and interesting projects.

We should like to hear a dehate on
the suggested projects for older young-
sters, such as removal of dead limbs
from a section of woodland, the plant-
ing of tree seeds, the removal of dead
trees and brush, and the raising and
liberating of small game as earnp ac-
tivities. Are we still advocating bird-
houses as one of the best ways of creat-
ing’interest in, and knowledge about
birds? What about migrations, songs,
legends, flight principles, their place in
the balance of nature? What ahout the
ecology of the area? Should it be
studied, or should it be changed?

John Ledlie is so carnpable a person
and so knowledgeahle about the im-
portant and increasing trends in camp
programing, so convinced a conserva-
tionist, and so good an editor, that we
hope he will be on the lookout for pro-
fcssional material that will provide a
new perSpective and a new depth to
natural science and conservation in
camping. Casual, routine treatment is
not enough.

In spite of these comments, this is an
important book for your collection on
camping. We do not intend to sound
too critical . . . it is only that from
someone like John Ledlie we expect
perfection l—V.M.

Program Activities for Camps, H.
Jean Berger, Ed.D. Burgess Publishing,
426 South Sixth Street, Minneapolis
15. Portfolio of 65 cards. $3.25.

A series of camp activities is printed
on file cards and contained in a paper
envelope file. This form may or may
not he a good idea. Some leaders may
find it very convenient, others are apt
to find it awkward to handle. Un-
doubtedly, the material is meant to he
used by a departmentalized camp since
it is printed on cards that could be
issued to counselors in charge of vari-
ous departments. However, the likeli-
hood of their loss is great; a loose-leaf
binder should have heen provided.

Miss Berger shows a great sensitivity
to the need for inspirational moments
in camp and places much emphasis on

 

the arts: sketching, painting, music.
Her philosophy concerning camp
dining-hall conduct (quiet, selective
singing, good conversation, and good
morale) is well worth the reader’s at-
tention. Not only in philosophy, but in
the activities and methods she suggests
for carrying out the peaceful, leisurely,
family-style mealtime, does she take the
reader far from some of the worst of
the so-called traditional dins and
noises, college yells, and emotional dis-
plays which are meant to excite young-
sters who are bored with the same old
artificially motivated activities.

In almost all areas of the hook are
good program ideas which can be
gleaned by the experienced director and
handed down to staff, but the book is
not recommended for indiscriminate
use by inexperienced counselors unable
to sift out the best. Unfortunately,
much of the commendable, sound phi-
losOphy which introduces a new chapter
is not borne out by the choice of activi-
ties which follow. By what definition
of camping can we possibly include
“dress-up” parties, masquerade parties,
hat-and-searf suppers, fashion shows, a
formal dress dinner dance, prizes for
best costumes { not even camper-created
from, native materials) from campcr
trunks which should include only a
simple, functional clothing list.

Some of the sounder areas of the card
collection includc lndian council rings
and bikes. Here again the spelling-out
of the activity went astray. Children
are not motivated to do research among
authoritative reference materials for
the truth and actual lore of Indians na-
tive to their regions. The Indian chal-
lenge suggested is pushing a coke bottle
with a stick to a goal line. The world
of nature offers such rich material we
should not have to resort to the un-
realistic “hoho hikes” where children
ask neighhors in the community for
food previously planned and placed
there by the director. Mountain climb-
ing “with eight to twelve participants

. when only one counselor is re-
sponsible for the group,” is discussed
in the hook, but no less than two coun-
selors should he considered at all.

RECREATION

 

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED-

 

Camping and Nature

 

l BOUT THE BIGGEST SALMON, Will Hayes.
Melmont Pub]. 310 S. Racine Ave., Chicago
7. Pp. 30. $2.50.

1 DVENTURES IN NATURE, Edwin Way Teale.
Dodd, Mead, 425 Park Ave. S., New York
16. Pp. 304. Paper, $1.95.

I NYONE CAN LIVE OFF TIIE LAND, James
Ralph Johnson. Longmans, Green, 119 W.
40th St., New York 18. Pp. 121. $2.95.

. .T CAMP KEE TOV: Ethics for Jewish Juniors,
'Helen Fine. Amer. lIebrew Congregations,
838 5th Ave., New York 21. Pp. 262. $3.50.

’ :IRD WATCHER’S QUIz BOOK, THE, Henry Hill
Collins, Jr. Harper, 49 E. 33rd St., New
York 16. Pp. 116. $2.95.

‘iIRDS OF THE WORLD, Oliver L. Austin, Jr.
Golden Press, 630 5th Ave., New York 20.
Pp. 316. $14.95.

BUTTERFLIES, Arthur Smith and Vernon
Shearer. Penguin Books, 3300 Clipper Mill
Rd., Baltimore 11. Pp. 29. $1.65.

IAMP COUNSELING (3rd ed.) , A. Viola Mitch-
ell and Ida B. Crawford. W. B. Saunders,
W. Washington Sq., Philadelphia 5. Pp.
412. $6.25.

2AMP-IN-THE-YARD, Vivan L. Thompson. Holi-
day House, 8 W. 13th St., New York 11.
Unpaged. $2.50.

CAMPGROUND GUIDE (3rd ed.) , Barcam Publ.,
241 S. LaBrea Ave., Inglewood, Calif. Pp.
168. Paper, $1.95.

CAMPING AS A PASTIME, Stephen Blake. Sport-
slIelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 123. $4.25.

CAMPING CLUB FOR FAMILY FUN, A. Camping
Council, 17 E. 48th St., New York 17. Pp.
14. Paper, $1.00.

CAMPING MAPS, U. S. A., compiled by Glenn
and Dale Rhodes. Camping Maps, U. S. A.,
PO. Box 862, Upper Montclair 19, NJ.
Pp. 206. Paper, $2.95.

CIT IN RESIDENCE CAMPING, THE, Eugene A.
Turner, J r., Editor. Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York 17. Pp. 80. Paper,
$1.25.

COLOURED KEY TO THE WILDFOWL OF TIIE
WORLD, A, Peter Scott. Charles Scribner’s,
597 5th Ave., New York 17. Pp. 91. $3.50.

COMMON PLANTS OF THE SOUTHERN CALI-
FORNIA MOUNTAINS, Harold F. DeLisle. Na-
turegraph Co., 8339 W. Dry Creek Rd.,
Healdsburg, Calif. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.00.

COMMON SEASIIORE LIFE OF SOUTHERN CALI-
FORNIA, Joel Hedgpeth and Sam Hinton.
Naturegraph, 8339 W. Dry Creek Rd.,
Healdsburg, Calif. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.75
(cloth $3.25).

CRUSADE FOR WILDLIFE, J atnes B. Trefethen.
Stackpole Co., 100 Telegraph Bldg., Harris-
hurg, Pa. Pp. 377. $7.50.

EVERGREENS FOR EVERY STATE, Katharine
Cloud. Chilton, 56th & Chestnut Sts., Phil-
adelphia 39. Pp. 227.‘ $4.95.

EXPLORATION OF THE COLORADO RIVER AND ITS
CANYONS, TIIE, J. W. Powell. Dover Publ.,
180 Varick St., New York 14. Pp. 400. Pa-
per, $2.00.

EXPLORING FOR FUN, William A. Burns. E. P.
Dutton, 300 Park Ave. S., New York 10.
Pp. 127. $3.00.

EXPLORING THE LITTLE RIVERS OF NEW JERSEY,
James M. Cawley. Rutgers Univ. Press,

*For younger readers.

MARCH 1962

New Brunswick,N.J. Pp. 169. Paper, $1.95
(cloth $4.50).

EXPLORING THE RIVER, John and Jane Gre-
verus Perry. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd
St., New York 36. Pp. 203. $3.50.

FIELD BOOK OF NATURE ACTIVITIES AND CON-
SERvATION (rev. ed.), William Hillcourt.
G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 200 Madison Ave.,
New York 16. Pp. 432. $4.95.

FIELD BOOK OF THE STARS, A (3rd rev. ed.),
William T. Olcott. G. P. Putnam’s Sons,

200 Madison Ave., New York 16. Pp. 163.
$3.00.

FIRST BOOK OF AIR, THE, David C. Knight.
Franklin Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 67. $1.95.*

MAZES AND LABYRINTHS, Walter Shepherd.
Dover Pub]., 180 Varick St., New York 14.
Pp. 122. Paper, $1.00.

NATURE PHOTOGRAPHY, Edna Bennctt. Am-
photo, 33 W. 60th St., New York 23. Pp.
125. Paper, $1.95.

NEW JERSEY READER, A. Rutgers Univ. Press,
New Brunswick, NJ. Pp. 269. $6.00.

NEW LAWS FOR NEW FORESTS, Erling D. Sol-

berg. Univ. of Wisconsin Press, 430 Sterling
Ct., Madison 6. Pp. 611. $7.50.

NEW LOOK AT ADVENTURE, A, compiled by
Hether Kay. Sportshelf, PO. Box 634, New
Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.50.

NARROW ESCAPES AND WILDERNESS ADVEN-
TURES, Ben East. E. P. Dutton, 300 Park
Ave. S., New York 10. Pp. 321. $4.50.

101 CAMPING-OUT IDEAS AND ACTIVITIES,
Bruno Knobel. Sterling Pub]., 419 Park
Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 128. $2.50.

OUR COUNTRY’S NATIONAL PARKS, Irving Rob-
ert Melho. Bobbs-Merrill, 717 5th Ave.,
New York 22. Two vols., pp. 278 each.
$4.50 each (set $8.00).

OUR INDIAN HERITAGE, Clara Lee Tanner and
Richard Kirk. Follett Puhl., 1010 W. Wash-

ington Blvd., Chicago 7. Unpaged. $2.50.*

OUR NATIONAL WATER RESOURCES. Natl. As-
soc. Manufacturers, 2 E. 48th St., New York
17. Pp. 35. Paper, $51.00.

OUR NATIONAL PARK POLICY, John Ise. Johns
Hopkins Press, Homewood, Baltimore 18,

Md. Pp. 701. $10.00.

OUTDOOR LIVING, R. O. Bale. Burgess Puhl..
426 S. 6th St., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 199.
Spiral, $3.00.

OUTDOOR WONDERLAND, Ruth Wilson. Loth-
rop. Lee & Shepard, 419 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Unpaged. $2.95.*

PRINCIPLES OF RESOURCE CONSERVATION POL-
ICY. Natl. Academy of Sciences Natl. Re-
search Council, 2101 Constitution Ave.,

Washington 25. Pp. 50. Paper, $1.50.

PROGRAM ACTIVITIES FOR CAMPS, H. Jean
Berger, Ed.D. Burgess Publishing, 426 S.
Sixth St., Minneapolis 15. Portfolio of 65
indexed cards. $3.25.

PROGRESS IN PRIVATE FORESTRY IN THE UNITED
STATES-1961. Amer. Forest Products Indus-
tries, 1816 N Street, N.W., Washington 6.
Pp. 48. $.25.

REGIONAL PARKS AND OPEN SPACE: Selected
Conference Papers. Bur. of Puhlic Admin.,
Univ. of Calif., Berkeley. Pp. 143. Paper,
$2.50.

REGIONS, RESOURCES, AND ECONOMIC GROWTH,
Harvey S. Perloff, Edgar S. Dunn, Jr.. Eric
E. Lampard, and Richard F. Muth. Johns
Hopkins Press, Baltimore 18. Pp. 716.
$12.00.

  

   

   
 

 

 

13659;: 1

 smasfarygvery; saga and Activiti’

   
 

Baseball, Softball—

Baseball's Unforgettable Games.

Joe Reichler ctr Ben Olan -.__....._._.$5.50
How to Play Little League Baseball.

Mickey McConnell L..__.__......_..__$4.00
Baseball Play and Strategy.

Ethan Allen -..._s_-.-.._2 -. L.....$6.00
How to Pitch. Bob Feller .__.$2.95
Softball. 3rd Ed.

Arthur T. Noren _....._._ .._ $3.50
Softball for Girls. 3rd Ed.

A. Viola Mitchell _,_.... _ $2.95

Tennis—
Tennis Handbook.
Bill (1’: Chet Murphy _ _ ..--.$5.50

Tennis Made Easy. Lloyd Budge __ $2.95
Power Tennis. Maureen Connolly. _ .$2.95
Tennis Techniques Illustrated.

 

 

Wynn Mace _._._. A... -.$2.95
Tennis for Beginners.
Bill (1’: Chet Murphy _.._... _._____.$3.50
Swimming, Boating,
Water Sports—
Water Games. Hope M. Smith ._.._...._$3.50

Learning to Swim is Fun. Jack Ryan_.$3.50
Swimming. Robert J. H. Kiphuth __....$2.95

Springboard Diving.

Phil Moriarty _ ._.._.....__._$4.00
Boating. Jim J. Allen ...____.._.._____$2.95
Canoeing. Carle Walker Handel __..._$2.95

Start 'em Sailing. 2nd Ed.
Gordon C. Aymar ._

Second Book an Sailing. Gordon C.
Aymar (1’: Gordon C. Aymar, Jr. ....$4.50

Skiing on Water. 3rd Ed.
Jack Andresen .....-...... ..__...-$5.00

Angler's Guide to the Fresh Water S art
Fishes. Edward C. Migdalski ...__$ .00

.... $4.00

Boxing, Wrestling, Jiu Jitsu—

Boxing's Unforgettable Fights.
Lester Bromberg ....._..._.__..__.__....$6.00

Better Boxing. Eddie LaFoud ctr

 

Julie M enendez $3.50
Wrestling Illustrated.

Raymond E. Sparks ____ ....-$3.50
Jiu Jitsu.

Frederick P. Lowell _ $2.95

General—

The Complete Picnic Book. 2nd Ed.

John E. Shallcross __...._$4.00
Riding Simplified.

Margaret Cabell Self ______ $2.95

 

Jumping Simplified.
Margaret Cabell Self ..__... _......__...-$2.95

 

 

 

 

 

Archery. 3rd Ed. Natalie Reichart

d’: Grlman Keasey _..._......._.._... $3.50
Fencing. 2nd Ed. Joseph Vince .$2.95
Trampolinin Illustrated.

Chuck eeney ..... ....$4.00
How to Make Athletic Equipment.

Joel Carter _-__.._.___.......- ._...$6.75

Send for descriptive Iiterature on
books in PhysicaI Education,
Sports, and Recreation.

 
 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY
l5 East 26th Street, New York l0

REPTILES AND TIIEIR WORLD, Carroll Lane
Fenton and Dorothy Constance Pallas. John

 

169

  

GET THE GUS
T0 VOCALIZE

WIII'I
NATIONAL’S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send fer Natlonal's
Iantastic tree catalog of more than 850 all-time hit
songs, available in slide form for as low as 50c a
tune! Need a proiector? Let us know . . . we'll save
you real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS
45 West 48th Street. N. Y. 35. N. Y.

Ever
New!

Good information
on camping is never
outdated. Every

 March issue of REC-
)“ REATION empha-
‘ - stizes camping; and

every article is new until you have read it!
Increase your camping resource material
by ordering thcsc issues while they are
still on hand—and at BARGAIN PRICES.

Good as long as they last:

I] Morch 1961 No. of copies

Let's Keep Camping in the Camp
Changing Patterns of Camping

State Camping Services

Woodsmoke Ior Families

The Trip Camp

Day Camps that Are Camps
Camping Lah for Outdoor Education
The Conservation Program at Camp

E] Mot-ch 1960 No. of copies

Camps or Channel 9?

The Four "F's" of Camplng

Are You Looking for Camp Land?
Campfire Programs

Daycamp Patterns

Family Outdoor Camps and Camping

E] Morch 1959 No. of copies

Camping hy the Day

Get that Land]

Plus Ideas Ior Camp

Camping Reference Lists

Camping Therapy Ior Delinquents

Building Camp Facilities Ior the Handicapped
Camping Services Ior Families

Age-Level Characteristics oI Campers

A Camp Ior Exceptional Children

Crafts with Natural Materials

E] Morch 1958 No. of copies______
Family Camping Invades TV

The Coat that Taught the Children

Suggested Reading on Famin Camplng

Evaluating the Recreation Camp Program

Youth Camps
Sailing in Camp
Nature's Shorthand
Camp Photography

Single copies ........................... -- $ .50

Set of four .  $1.75
Five or more, eoch . , $ .35

Order from

NAIIOIIM REIREAIION ASSOIIAIIOII

8 West Eighth Street New York II, N. Y.

 

 

170

 

 

When

Day, 210 Madison Ave., New York 16. Pp.
126. $3.50."I

RESIDENT CAMPS FOR CHILDREN. Amer. Camp-
ing Assoc., Bradford Woods, Martinsville,
Ind. Pp. 31. $.25.

SCIENCE IN THE GARDEN, Rebecca B. Marcus.
Franklin Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 24. $1.50.*

SEA, MY HUNTINC GROUND, THE, Anthony
Watkins. St. Martin’s Press, 175 5th Ave.,
New York 10. Pp. 249. $4.50.

SEE ALONG THE SHORE, Millicent E. Selsam.
Harper Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16.
Unpaged. $2.95.*

SEE HOW THEY GROW! Sportshelf, PO. Box
634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 32. $.75.

SMALL PRIVATE FOREST IN THE UNITED STATES,
THE, Charles H. Stoddard. Resources for
the Future, 1775 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.,
Washington 6. Pp. 171. Paper, $2.00.

STATE PARKS AREAS, ACREACES AND ACCOM-
MODATIONS, 1960. U. S. Dept. of Interior,
Nat’l. Park Service, Washington 25. Pp. 58.
Free.

STATE PARKS OF CALIFORNIA, John Robinson
and Alfred Calais. Lane Book Co., Menlo
Park, Calif. Pp. 94. Paper, $1.95.

STATE TREES, Olive L. Earle. Wm. Morrow,

425 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 34.
$2.50.

STORY OF ANIMALS, THE, Gaylord Johnson.
Harvey House, Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y.
Pp. 120. $2.95.*

STORY OF ARCIIEOLOCY IN THE AMERICAS, TIIE,
Mary Elting and Franklin Folsom. Harvey
House, Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y. Pp. 160.
3295*

STORY OF DAMS, THE, Pcter Farb. Harvey
House, Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y. Pp. 127.
$2.95.*

STORY OF DINOSAURS, TIIE. Stanley and Bar-
bara Brown. Harvey House, Irvington-on-
Hudson, N.Y. Pp. 125. $2.95.*

STORY OF YANKEE WIIALINC, THE, Irwin Sha-
piro. Golden Press, 630 5th Ave., New York
20. Pp. 153. $3.50.

THIS IS ALASKA, Harry Kursh. Prentice-Hall,
Englewood Cliffs, NJ. Pp. 286. $5.95.

TIIIS LAND OF OURS, Alice Harvey Hubbard.
Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 11.
Pp. 272. $4.95.

TREASURES UNDERGROUND, Brian Mason, Ph.D.
Home Library Press, 43 W. 615t St., New
York 23. Pp. 31. $.69.

TRUE BOOK ABOUT ARCIIAEOLOCY, THE, P. E.
Cleator. Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New
Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 144. $2.75.

TWELVE SEASONS, TIIE, Joseph Wood Krutch.
Apollo Editions, 425 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 187. Papcr, $1.50.

UNDERWATER ZOOS, Millicent E. Selsam. Wm.
Morrow, 425 Park Ave. S., New York 16.
Pp. 96. $2.75.

WANDERINC MOON, TIIE, James Reeves. E. P.
Dutton, 300 Park Ave., New York 10. Pp.
73. $2.50.

WEATIIEIICASTER, THE, Raymond M. Sager,
Anton BruelIl and M. S. Sciple. Dial Press,
461 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 25.
$3.00.

WELCOME To ANIMAL TOWN, Jo Nell Lane.
Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 43. 32.50.

WESTERN FOREST INDUSTRY, John A. Guthrie
and George R. Armstrong. Johns Hopkins

*For younger readers.

writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Press, Homewood, Baltimore 18. Pp. 324.
$6.50. -

WHAT IS A DINOSAUR ?, Daniel Q. Posin. Ben-
efic Press, 1900 N. Narragansett, Chicago
39. Pp. 47. $1.80.*

WIIEN YOU ARE IN TIIE WOODS, Fay Welch.
State University College of Forestry, Syra-
cuse, N.Y. Pp. 42. Free.

WILD WAYS, Ross E. Hutchins. Rand-Mc-
Nally, 405 Park Ave., New York 22. Pp.
109. $3.50.

WILDERNESS CABIN, THE, Calvin Rutstrum.
Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 11.
Pp. 169. $4.95.

WILDLIFE OF THE NORTHERN ROCKY MOUN-
TAINS, William Baker, Earl Larrison,
Charles Yocom and Ian Baxter. Nature-
graph Co., 8339 W. Dry Creek Rd., Healds-
burg, Calif. Pp. 112. Paper, $1.95.

WONDERS I SEE, THE, John K. Terres. J. B.
Lippincott, E. Washington Sq., Philadel-
phia. Pp. 256. $5.00.

WONDERS OF LIFE ON EARTH, THE. Golden
Press, 850 3rd Ave., New York 22. Pp. 216.
$4.95.

WONDERS OF OUR NATIONAL PARKS, Peter
Thomson. Dodd, Mead 8i Co., 432 Park Ave.
S., New York. Pp. 63. $3.00.

YOU AND YOUR RESOURCES (rev. ed.) , Paul F.
Brandwin, Leland G. Hollingworth, Alfred
D. Beck, Anna E. Burgess, Violet Straltler.
Harcourt Brace, 750 3rd Ave., New York
17. Pp. 536. $4.04.

YOUR INvESTMENTS IN LAND AND WATER, Mar-
ion Clawson and Irving K. Fox. Resources
for the Future, 1775 Massachusetts Ave.,
N.W., Washington 6. Pp. 20. Single copies
free, additional copies $.25 each.

YOUR FLORIDA GARDEN, John V. Watkins and
Herbert S. Wolfe. Univ. of Florida Press,
Cainesville. Pp. 392. $6.50.

ZOO PALS, Estller Bubley and Ann McGovern.
Ridge Press, 551 5th Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 64. $.25.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

AMERICAN FORESTS, January 1962
Pumping a Park Back to Life (Presque
Isle, Pennsylvania), Walter Rudolph.
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, January 1962
Start with a Scrap, Ernest and Anne Wenn-
hold.
A Treat in Sight and Sound (fine arts festi-
val), Rochelle Kappe.
HANDWEAvER 8: CRAFTSMAN, Winter 1962
Arizona Arts Center, Hamilton Warren.
REIIAEILITATION LITERATURE, January 1962
The Therapeutic Value of Toys in a Train-
ing Center for Handicapped Children,
John H. Kniest.
SAFETY EDUCATION, February 1962
Southern Illinois University’s New Safety
Center, Dr. James E. Aaron.
Sidewalk Vehicles.
Safety in Snowtime.
SENIOR CITIZENS, February 1962
The Swiss Have No Juvenile Delinquency,
Lloyd Shearer.
After Retirement, What? W. A. Couper.
US. NEWS AND WORLD REPORT, January 22,
1962
Latest Idea—More, Better U.S. Parks
WOMAN’S DAY, February 1962
The Story of American Needlework #9:
Embroidery, Rose Wilder Lane.
Santa Fe, New Mexico, Peter Hurd.

RECREATION

BOOKS

for
better camping \i (l

CREATIVE NATURE CRAFTS
by Robert O. Bale. Copyright 1959. 121 pages. $2.50

STEPPING STONES TO NATURE
by Robert O. Bale. Copyright 1960. 156 pages, $2.50

PHILOSOPHY OF OUTDOOR EDUCATION

by William H. Freeberg and Loren E. Taylor. Copyright 1961.
447 pages.. $5.75

WORKBOOK FOR CAMP COUNSELOR TRAINING
by Marie Hartwig. Copyright 1960. 145 pages, $4.00

CHILDREN ARE HUMAN (Even at Camp)

by Marie Hartwig and Bettye Myers. Copyright 1961. 99
pages. $2.25

CHILDREN ARE HUMAN (If the Counselors
Really Know Them)

by Marie Hartwig and Bettye Myers, Copyright 1962, 110
pages, $2.25

THE NATURE PROGRAM AT CAMP
by Janet Nickelsburg, Copyright 1960‘. 137 pages, $3.50

Write for FREE folder of books listing entire camping series

Order from

BURGESS PUBLISHING COMPANY

426 South Sixth Street, Minneapolis 1 5, Minn.

 

FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION

   

AND PERFORMANCE . . .

FAR GREATER

STRENGTH . . . UNEQUALLED SAFETY. . . ,

   

  

Write for Folder
On AMERICAN’S
JIM PATTERSON

LIFETIME
Aluminum
D I V I N G

B 0 A R D
WORLD’S rmrsr

OFFICIAL BOARD

   
 

 
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

P L AYG R O U N D
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

Since 1911 the finest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and construction

. specified by leading recreational
authorities for almost half a century.

Send for New Catalog

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK, PICNIC, PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING

POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

 

 

1962 National Recreation Association District Conferences

Joint Virginia Recreation March 26—28
Society and Mid-South
District Executives
Conference

Great Lakes; April I—4

Southern
Southeastern Section

April 10-12

Southwest April 10-13

Midwest April 17-20

Pacific Northwest
District Recreation
and Parks Conference

April 29-May 2

4lst Annual New York May 6-9
State and Middle
Atlantic District
Recreation Conference

New England May 13-16

 

Charlottesville, Va.

Chicago, Ill.

Jekyll Island, Ga.

Santa Fe, NM.
Wichita, Kan.

Va ncouver, B.C.. Canada

Grossinger, N.Y.

Wentworth. N.H.

Monticello Hotel

Hotel Congress

Wanderer Motel

La Fonda Hotel
Hotel Broadview

Hotel Vancouver

Grossinger's Country Club

Hotel Wentworth-by-the-Sea

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Pamphlet Series—The Performing Arts as Recreation

Now is the time
to CULTIVATE
’ your

PERFORMING
y ARTS
ARIA k9?» PROGRAM

Order in QUANTITY LOTS

No. I — MUSIC IS RECREATION
No. II—DRAMA IS RECREATION
I

—— The Right Tools for the Job —

       
       
    

 Aw

Pkg!“ 9
‘\

Use with

Your staff Your board or commission
Advisory Committees Citizen committees
Clubs Planning groups
And for
Fundraising a Promotion of bond issues '
Publicity Selling recreation
Education Training of volunteers
Program Planning Telling your story

Current prices as appliedto each title ———-—————————————— I

Single copies—$1.00 each—OR

11 to 24 copies of the same title—$.85 each 0 25 or more—$.75 each
100 or over of the same title—$65 p er hundred 0 Single eopy'—$1 .00

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, NI‘Y.

