 

  
 

CAMPING and
'  OUTDOOR
RECREATION

 
 

 

-—

 

  

  R®. . .THE PRO-A PPROVED

ACT/CE METHOD TO IMPROVE OLF/NG SKILLS

TEACH GOLF IN GYMS, SCHOOLS,

  — foixtraDurable 
.  o Resilient, .* -   t
The first practical golf teocher ever devised! Allows indoor or  "°"“°"" 505° *9 ‘ ‘ 

 
 

 0 Made lar rugged,

outdoor rocti e wit w' ' '
p c h or Ithout close supervrslon. Now you can mum," use

make golf instruction on integrol port of your physical 2
education program at surprisingly little cost! ‘ 

   

GCLFMASTERJr.
Ideal For
Young Beginners!

Teach proper golf hobits early! This
exact replica of Golfmoster, Sr. is

_. scaled for use by y0ungsters from 6 lo 14
- Schaals—Gyms - Recreation (enters H .-.  years. Eosily visible, graphic explanations

a  Home 0 Rehabilitation Center; Of  bO5iC5 on center platform and upright.

- Military Organizations

"Improve Your Golf with GOLFMASTER”

Endorsed by
World Famous
leading Pros!

     
 
 
     
   

FREE! Authoritativer written “Digest
of Golf Basics” plus 3 plastic practice
balls with every set! '

 

ms  ortsm as te ,- cospourron Write for free full-color

brochure and complete

 E. .lEflEl’SOl‘l Ave. I DETTOIT 7, Mid]. price information.
Gene littler Mickey Wright Stan leonarcl

STAGECRAFT PORTABLE OUTDOOR SHELL

Symphony and Band Enclosure for Park and Beach Locations

DEVELOPED BY STAGECRAFT

Designers and Consultants in the field

_ of Musical Acoustics.
"Kiwi NV" 0' ‘. ‘ ‘. .. v
i. 4» 0 Portable Outdoor Shells

Indoor Symphony Enclosures

_
cv‘w
:.—;w; ‘7“ ;,_.",\:, .4. .g.‘§

O

A O Touring Recital Shells
*- r’ ' - ’ "“- y ' e
O

Sound Reinforcement Systems

- nun L901 nt- Luunin ‘: “D'itutnt
l ' o I ' __ ‘
l.  '1' 0

Musical Acoustic Consulting Services

For further information write:

‘---------------------.

STAGECRAFT CORP. Div. 6-8

25 Belden Avenue, Norwolk, Connecticut

 

Nome
. . . . Organization
Photograph, courtesy of the Phrlodelphro Orchestro Assocrotron.
Address
'THE PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA REHEARSING IN A STAGECRAFT PORTABLE OUT-
Crty Zone State

DOOR SYMPHONY SHELL ERECTED FOR A SPECIAL CONCERT AT GARDEN STATE ________—______
PARK, CAMDEN, NEW JERSEY. ' . — — — — — _ _ _ _ — — — — — — _ _ _ _ _ .....

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   
  

for your organization
with the

RAISE FUNDS

 

5* STAR PLAN

IDEAL FOR TEAMS AND OLUBS

Over the past 20 years the time-tested CHERRYDALE FARMS
PLAN has helped thousands of churches, schools, youth and
fraternal groups, service clubs, etc. — raise more than
$20,000,000 for worthwhile activities, buildings, equipment,

uniforms, camps, and other activities.

HERE’S HOW IT WORKS FOR YOU

* FREE FUND RAISING HELP -— New manual tells how to organ-
ize and conduct campaign to raise the funds you need.

wk ToP SELECTION or BEST SELLERS _ Choose from 14 quality,
doiry fresh CHERRYDALE FARMS CONFECTIONS made in our own

CHERRYDALE FARMS kitchens -— all beautifully packaged. Quality means re-arders and
more profits.

   * FREE ORGANIZATION LABELS -— To identify and advertise your

group with each pockgge sold, and encourage re-arders.

. . FREE BONUS MERCHANDISE — Extro cose of CHERRYDALE
wuth mouthwatering chocolate. Beau- _
“fully decorated 1/2 1 and 2 lbs. sizes FARMS CONFECTION with every 50 cases shipped.

"‘"d‘V‘dW'W bmd- wk FREIGHT PREPAID SHIPMENTS -—On 12 or more cases. 30 days
5E|_|_ FOR 50,; _ $1 00 _ $1 75 credit to established organizations.

Delicious cocoanut cream eggs, coated I

 

 

 

 

Popular smaller eggs in ORGANIZATION OFFICERS:
4f°51‘selll"9 vorleiles' Send coupon today for FREE candy somples, Fund Raising Manual,
OR, CHOOSE FROM 12 OTHER and details on the CHERRYDALE FARMS "5-STAR" PLAN.
CHERRYDALE FARMS FAVORITES

-----------------------------I
o Cashew Butter Crunch I I

. . . E. CHERRY SONS 8. CO., INC., 5230 BALTIMORE AVENUE, PHILADELPHIA 43, PA.
0 VIrgInIa Peanut Crunch I I
' C°5hew Poi'les I Please send details on cHERRvDALE FARMS "5-STAR“ FLlND RAISING I
' Old FOShIOned sparkling Minis I PLAN, and candy samples taz— I
0 Krispie Nuggets : :
0 English TotTee I I
0 Chocolate Biscane Bisque I NAME I
0 Private Stock Asstd. Chocolates ' I I
. Nummmo Glocé I STREET ADDRESS I
0 Milk Chocolate Almond Bor I CITY ZONE STATE I
- Fruit Cubes : — I
- - I
. Forgel Me Nels I ORGANIZATION____—.————-———OFFICIAL TITLE I
I RM I
I----------------------------I

 

MARCH, 1963 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 105

REC REATION

MARCH 1963

 

GENERAL

PROGRAM

ADMINISTRATION

MONTHLY

106

 

VOL. LVI, NO. 3 PRICE 60c

The 45th National Recreation Congress . . . . . . . .
St. Louis—September 29-October 4

Camping as Related to Leisure (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alexander Reid Martin, M.D. 112

Preparing our children. for creative use of free time

All-Season Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
National parks providc year-round outdoor adventure

National Agencies—Two Kinds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
The special function of direct-service national agencies

Supply and Demand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . George D. Butler 120
Wavering policies threaten our ever-shrinking parklands

Eight Ways to Pitch a Tarp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123
Tent camping requires skill, egiciency, and practice

Camping: Day and Night . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124-
New facilities and programs promote outdoor cducation

State Park Camping Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
Americans are becoming more aware of nearby outdoor areas

Recreation Promotes H 'altli . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Howard A. Rusk, Ml). 128
“Herc is tlic prcvcntivc medicine of tlie futurc”

Fifty Suggestions for a Safe Overnight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Edward I. Slezak 130
Cliccklist for planning a SlCCpOttl

Factors Affecting the Day Camp Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Virginia Mussclman 131

Activities grow out of a child’s nced

Art Experiences in Camping . . . . .

Roy E. Dodson, Edi). 135

Awareness is promoted by the learning process

Adapting Games for the Handicapped . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . Morton Thompson, Ed.D.
Modify rules and equipmcnt to suit specific limitations

136

Julian ll. Salomon 139

Plan 11 in" Cam )8
as l

- u u e u . u u u u - - e u e e u u u u u - u g u u u - -

Construction rcqnires professional skills .

Factors Affecting Camping Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stanley W. Stocker
Pointcrs for swimming areas, recreation hall, and roads

142

Letters 108 As \Ve Go To Press 113 Arts and Crafts Corner 138 Reporter’s Notehook 14-3
Market News 146 Resource Guide 147 Rx for the 111 and Handicapped 151 New Publications 154-

RECREATION is publisbed monthly except July and August by tbe National Recreation
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eightb

Copyright, 1963, by the National
Recreation Association, Incorporated

 

Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in tbe Readers’ Printed in the U.S.A.

Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
iered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Ollice in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided

DUCATIONAL
RESS
SSOCIATION

  
  
 

The articles hereln
printed are the expres-

sion of the writers and
not a statement of policy

for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current 01“ of m. No.59“, gm”.
. . . . . . . . AMERICA tion Association.
issues available from Universny Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

RECREATION

RECREATION

 

.iditor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program.
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK Rowe

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On the Cover

Tenting Tonight. A fragrant, crack-
ling campfire pushes back the forest
dark at Lake Sa‘quin, Florida, and
holds this cozy little family spellbound
iust before bedtime. Photo courtesy
Florida State News Bureau.

Next Month

April means sudden showers, the first
robin, a timid sun, planning for sum-
Iner, and the Playground Issue of REC-
REATION. Items about current play-
ground proiects, administration, and
facilities will be interspersed with arti-
cles on other subiects, including the
story of the historical background and
relationship of the National Recreation
Association and the American Recrea-
tion Society, a “how-to” article about
Milwaukee’s excellent year-round tennis
program, and another on the successful
use of volunteers on the playgrounds in
lndianola, Iowa. A statement by George
Butler reports on the experimentation
with surfacing on school playgrounds in
Los Angeles, and “Parkland Prospect-
ing” by M. D. Morris explains how to
use aerial photography in choosing

parklands. “Games That Teach Fair
Play” by Rhoda W. Bacmeister should

be very helpful in training playground
leaders and program planning; while
“Let’s Have a Circus” by Glenn ( Jack)
Haskin of the University of Florida
gives good basic advice on starting an
annual circus on the playground or a
community-wide affair which would in-
clude older boys and girls.

Photo Credits

Page 115. International Paper Com-
pany; 117. Bill Culley, North Carolina
News Bureau; 127, (topl Michigan
Conservation Department. lcenterl
Florida State News Bureau, (bottom

right) Loree Hortman, l bottom left)
Vermont Development Commission;

133, American Forest Products Indus-
tries; 140, North Carolina News Bu-

1'83 U.

M ARCH. 1963

 

due April

ELEMENTS OF PARK

AND RECREATION ADMINISTRATION

CHARLES E. DOELL. Park and Recreation Consultant

This book correlates recreation with parks and public ground on ned and Operated
by all levels of government. It suggests a philosophical background for park and
recreation administration. Designed for a year’s course in park management--
recreation, it is also of value for short courses, seminars, professional use and

reference.

due March

PROGRAMS FOR OUTDOOR EDUCATION

WILLIAM H. FREEBERG and LOREN E. TAYLOR, Southern Illinois University

Useful principles and teehniqnes, types of outdoor programs, the strengthening
of the conventional subject areas by outdoor study and activity, and finally. ap-
plications to special interest groups are explored in this hook.

March 1963, 459 pages, $5.75

PHILOSOPHY OF OUTDOOR EDUCATION

WILLIAM H. FREEBERG and LOREN E. TAYLOR. Southern lllinols Unlversity
This text is devoted entirely to the broad field of education outside the classroom.

1961. 44? pages, $5.75

BURGESS PUBLISHING COMPANY

426 South Sixth Street

i _. _. ,,
End your swim lane marker problems!

Ethaloam markers never require painting. They
are made of a while spongey material that requires
no upkeep. is extremely buoyant, nonporous and
and absorbs no water.

Center-drilled, they come complete with washers:

4” Diameter—9” long .   70¢
4" Diameter—6” long 50¢
5/16 Poly Rope—5d foot, or
$40.00 per M feet

Michigan Institutional Supply
9006 Jos. Campau Detroit 12. Mich.

C ATA L O G l
43 PAGES.

Most Complete Source
of Gymnasium & Field

Equipment.

.« E I UIPMENT

GYMNASTIC SUPPLY 00.. INC.
250 West Sixth St., San Pedro, Calif.

 

 

BLAcKours - surrcurs - ans—

Comedy fill-ins for camp shows, min-
strels, amateur productions, etc. Write
for catalog and describe your needs.

SHOW-BIZ COMEDY SERVICE
(Dept. R)
65 Parkway Court Brooklyn 35, N. Y.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   

   

Minneapolis 15, Minn.

 

    

@ é /Eg§

Add us to your staff
by renting films from

SWANK’S

Write for our latest list of new releases
of wholesome, entertaining movies.

KEEP POSTED on what's new in movies.
Mail this coupon today.

El send list of new movie releases
[I add my name to your mailing list

Name

Address

 

City__________________Slate

SWANK Motion Pictures, Inc.

621 North Sklnker. St. Louis 30. Missouri
PArkview 6-3333

 

' DIRECTORS . . .

CAMP AND PLAYGROUND

IMPRINIED I-Shirls —- Sweal Shlrls —- lackels
AWARDS — INCENTIVES — HONEY-MAKERS

0 Write for complete Free Catalog 0

American Knitwear 8. Emblem Mfrs.
Plaistow 4. New Hampshlre

107

 

London is both historic and lovely

Just imagine this!

Areal-lite cruise .

around the world
for you in 1963

Now you can travel completely around the
world with a group of people who will share
your interests and fun—peOple you’ll really
like. You’ll share the excitement of traveling
on a fine cruise ship. reserved deluxe buses.
modern jet planes. You can enjoy meeting
with other youth workers in foreign lands.
see important people and places on tive con-
tinents. Best of all. you can do all this at

a price far below usual for a tour this ex-
tensive.

You can sail either late-June or early Octo-
ber from America's West Coast and. as you
enjoy the sunny days at sea. look forward to
Honolulu. the Fiji's. Australia. Ceylon. Aden
and many other wonderful lands. When you
arrive in Europe. your own bus and courier
will be waiting to take you through the beau-
tiful countryside to many famous cities. In
December your final adventure will be a jet
flight across the Atlantic to New York. Col-
lege credit may be earned during summer
tour: also summer route may vary slightly.

How can these tours offer all this at a far-
below-usual cost? (Minimum tour cost just
$1475.) We do it by traveling outside the busy
tourist season. when prices are lower. We
take advantage of lower rates to groups. We
work with expert travel planners. who know
how to save your money and still obtain
quality in transportation and accommoda-
tions.

Your place on the 1963 Round-the-World tour
is waiting. It can be the trip you’ve dreamed
of—fun. new friends. time to sightsee and
learn. to rest and to play.

Write Now For Free Tour Brochure

I Mary 8: Howard Galloway Dept. R I
I Dept. R. Camping Magazine I
I 1114 South Ave.. Plaintield. N. J. I
: Please send Round-the-World Tour I
I data. without obligation. :
I Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .,, . . . . . . I
I I
I Street . . . . . . . . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
I I
I City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
I

I

June Sailing C! Oct. Sailing E]

108

LETTERS

 

Private and Public Interest
Sir:

I read the Letters to the Editor writ-
ten by Rick Lambakis (November,
1962) and Peter A. Deimel (December,
1962) with much interest. I feel that
Mr. Lambakis’ thoughts are most sound
and worthwhile and that private clubs
have always and will continue to serve
and to satisfy definite needs of many of
our citizens in a positive manner. Pri-
vate clubs are in somewhat the same
category as commercial recreation, in
that the participants are paying a defi-
nite price for the recreation of their
choice. Certainly, they are more restric-
tive and, frankly, I hope 1 never see the
day when an individual cannot, with a
clear conscience, join any nonsubver-
sive organization that will accept him.

Mr. Deimel’s statement that a public
recreation program should be so good
and big that private clubs will die is im-
practical for two reasons:

0 There are barely enough funds avail-
able in most municipal budgets to fi-
nance their present operations and the
taxpayers are rebelling more each year
against tax increases; therefore, it will
be most difficult to iustify increasing
hudgets enough so that recreation de-
partments can actively compete with
private clubs in the provision of serv-
ices and facilities.

0 Many of our citizens are not inter-
ested in, and have no real need for, a
public recreation program because they
are ahle to and wish to pay for the extra
services that can be enjoyed through
membership in a private club. Many of
these same club members are ardent
supporters of puhlic recreation pro-
grams and serve as volunteer leaders,
recreation commission members, fund-
raisers, and otherwise. They see the
value and need of public recreation, but
that does not mean that they do not want
to have memberships in private clubs
for their 0W1] personal benefits.

There certainly is no stigma associ-
ated with the desire of people to associ-
ate with others of their choice, to or-
ganize restricted membership clubs for
their own personal benefit and pleasure;
in their private lives to he segregated
either economically or socially from
others; these are inherent rights of ev-
ery American citizen which do not exist
in many socialistic and/or totalitarian
countries.

In an era when government is pro-
viding more and more services that are
the responsibility of individual citizens,
when government is increasingly in-
fringing on the rights of the business

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

and economic world, when a recent sur-
vey showed that only thirty-seven per-
cent of a senior high-school’s students
feel that capitalism is the best form of
government, I strongly feel that any in-
dividual who prefers to help himself
rather than to depend on a government
agency should be congratulated and e11-
couraged to do so.

In closing, let me emphasize that I
feel that public recreation is a necessary
function of government to provide those
services which the public cannot pro-
vide for itself. It is the duty of public
recreation not to compete with private
and/or commercial recreation but in-
stead to supplement and to complement
these programs. Public recreation
should not try to create needs but
should attempt to satisfy those that ex-
ist. \Vith the amount of funds which are
available for most recreation depart-
ments, this will require a maximum ef-
fort from those of us in the field ofpub-
lic recreation without our trying to
build an empire by taking over all rec-
reation.

Private clubs will no more cause pub-
lic recreation to disappear than private
schools, colleges, hospitals, welfare or-
ganizations, et celera will cause their
public counterparts to disappear.

J. B. GILLETTE, Director, Parks and

Recreation, Department, Wilson,

North Carolina.

Career Day Program
Sirs:

Each year throughout the United
States “American Education Week” is
conducted in thousands of different
school systems in this great country.
Many guidance directors prescnt “Ca-
reer Day” programs to enlighten and
stimulate the thought of students on the
various opportunities available to them
in the near future when they graduate
from high school. Is your local recrea-
tion agency being represented?

The Thirteenth Annual Career Day
held in Sayre, Pennsylvania, is the only
one of this type held in this valley area
which consists of three school systems,
and much work and preparation is done
to present a well-rounded program for
the students. Speakers come from all
walks of life representing various
schools and colleges, law firms, social
and welfare work, state and federal
government employee organizations,
business and industry, radio and tele-
vision. I feel that the recreation pe0ple
must make a strong effort to he heard
and represented. As professionals, we
must make it a point to he part of these

RECREATION

:areer-day programs or we face the loss
)f the best qualified students to the other
professions. The opportunity for our
program presented itself when l wel-
comed Mrs. Joan Yanuzzi to the Sayre
School System as guidance director. I
had been evaluating these career pro-
grams that I had been part of the past
several years. She welcomed my interest
and scheduled our program, “Careers in
Recreation,” which is held each year for
senior high school students during
American Education Week.

After I had given the program con-
siderable thought and placed several
phone calls, I came up with this solution.
[Our valley is located in northeastern
Pennsylvania and southern New York,
comprising the communities of Athens
and Sayre, Pennsylvania, and Waverly,
New York, encompassing nearly twenty
thousand people and blessed with three
separate municipal recreation depart-
ments. The three directors, Clarence
Hunsinger of Athens, Paul Bohn of
Waverly, and I, discussed the oppor-
tunity to present a program to the Sayre
students on Career Day. Each member
of the panel was to present a ten-minute
topic on the program, followed by a
question-and-answer period.

Mr. Hunsinger introduced the stu-
dents to the subject and gave out printed
material reproduced from the National
Recreation Association. He briefly de-
scribed some of the duties of various
positions in the recreation field; also
covered the recreation professional and
his relationship to the changes in so-
ciety. Mr. Bohn followed with the neces-
sary qualifications, preparation, re-
quirements to enter the various col-
leges; conditions on the job; and some
of the salary schedules. My presenta-
tion included chances for advancement,
related occupations, advantages and dis-
advantages, and typical places of em-
ployment. ’

Eighteen very interested students
listened and responded with questions
so numerous that our time ran out with-
out a chance for final summary. This is
amazing in that I have been associated
with other conferences such as this for
the past few years and questions from
the students are almost unheard of. Al-
though some of the questions were typi-
cal of teenagers, their over-all insight
into the field showed the program to be
well worthwhile.

It was the considered opinion of the
panel that if your local school district
does not sponsor a program such as this,
you should encourage it and be sure to
be a part of recruiting youngsters to en-
able our profession to expand in rela-
tion to the expanding needs of our
soc1ety.

FRANCIS N. TOKAR, Director, Sayre

Recreation Commission, Sayre, Penn-

sylvania.

MARCH, 1963

“57w Saree! ant! (any Way

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

for

FUND RAISING COMMITTEES

011

“.7 9 Sweet ant! (Cindy Way [a guru! leaching ”

from

$11,ch Wade!

Quality

Confection Kitchens

With top-quality, toP-value, and top-profit
Party-Time Assortmcnt

you double your
Fund Raising Potcntial

Your group makes a $.40 minimum on each $1.00 salc
with this delightful confection assortment
covered with pure milk chocoIate

One-pound Party Time Assortment is designed
for and sold by fund-raising groups exclilsichy

It is NEVER sold in stores
0

Give your group a lift with this surc-firc winncr
for your most successful fund-raising campaign ever

Mr. Philip Emaus

l“ail in Coupon DutchMaid Quality Confection Kitchens
60 Clifton Blvd.
for Clifton. New Jersey
Complete Name ........ ..
Information
on

Io
3am! leaking ”

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Age—if under 21 ........................................ ..

109

ST. LOUIS
THE

GATEWAY

(hare-Park Plaza Hotel
SI. IOUlS. MISSOURI

September 29 — October 4. 1963

DNGRESS POLICY COMMITTEE:

oseph Prenderqast. Chairman
ercutive Director _ _
Jational Recreation Assocration

)r. Edith L. Bail. Vice-Chairman

’resident
Iirrierican Recreation Socrety

firs. Edward G. Brunqard

)irector
it. Louis Department of Parks,

Recreation & Forestry

lay R. Butler
Ixecutive Director
Iimerican Recreation Society

dilo F. ChrIstianeen

’resident. Federation of National
Professional Organizations
for Recreation

Ia dley Irwin

iecreation Supervisor
Jlissouri State Park Board

Nayne Kennedy
30mmissioner. St. Louis County Dept.
of Parks and Recreation

William L. Landahl

tepresentative

dissouri Park and Recreation
Association

Ieverly SheIIield
Ihairman. National AdVisory Councrl
Iational Recreation Association

Edward H. Thacher
>resident-Elect
American Recreation Society

lirthur WIIIiams
Associate Executive Director
Qational Recreation Assoc1ation

 

dembers of the Executive Committee

ONGRESS PROGRAM COMMITTEE:

 

itewart Case. Chairman
r'irst VicesPresident
American Recreation Society

Beverly Shettield. Vice-Chairman
\lational Advisory Council
\lational Recreation Association

'ames E. Heath

Zommissioner of Recreation

St. Louis Dept. of Parks.
Recreation & Forestry-

3loria Holland

Representative

Vtissouri Park and Recreation
Association '

I-IadIey Irwin
Recreation Supervisor
Vtissouri State Park Board

Wayne Kennedy

Zommissioner. St. Louis County Dept.

of Parks and Recreation

Mrs. Verna Rensvold
Midwest District Representative
National Recreation Association

Edward H. Thacher
President-Elect
American Recreation Secrety

110

 

45th National Recreation Congre

Sponsored by:
AMERICAN RECREATION SOCIETY and NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATI

with the cooperation of:
ST. LOUIS DEPARTMENT OF PARKS. RECREATION and FORESTRY. ST. LOUIS COUNTY DEPARTM
OF PARKS AND RECREATION. MISSOURI STATE PARK BOARD. MISSOURI PARK and RECREATI

ASSOCIATION and the FEDERATION OF NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS FOR RECREATI
Congress Office:

8 WESI EIGHIH SIREEI. NEW YORK 11. NEW YORK o Gttamercy 5-7100 0 (units E. Hutsor. Sec

ST. LOUIS—September 29 to October 4, 1963

TO: All professional rcereators, volunteer and civic leaders con-
cerned with recreation.

FROM: National Recreation Congress Policy and Program Commit-
tees.

RE: 45th NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

The 45th National Recreation Congress will convene in St. Louis,
Missouri, from September 29 to October 4., 1963 at the Chase-Park Plaza
Hotel.

The National Recreation Congress is the only national meeting at
which professional and volunteer recreation leaders and civic leaders eon-
eerned with recreation get together to discuss problems, trends, chal-
lenges. and new techniques directed toward helping all Americans make
the most of their expanding leisure time.

All meetings and exhibits will be held at the Chase-Park Plaza Hotel,
one of the largest and finest hotel convention facilities west of the Mis-
sissippi. Directly across the street from the headquarters hotel is beauti-
ful Forest Park which contains within its fourteen hundred acres three
golf courses, tennis courts, bridle paths. the Steinbcrg Memorial Ieeskat-
ing Rink. the new St. Louis Planetarium. the Municipal Opera. the world-
famous Zoo, the Jewel Box, Art Museum, and Jefferson Memorial housing
the Lindbergh trophies.

Full housing information and detailed plans on the Congress pro-
gram will he announced in the near future. In the meantime, mark your
calendars and plan to be with us in St. Louis for the 45th National Ree-
rcation Congress.

RECREATION

WHY

ATTEND

3/“; 45fA Wafiona/
[gear-edition Congress

THIS
YEAR

‘P

faced with challenges that must be met, changes of

concept that must be accepted if we are to keep pace
with the expanding leisure and recreation needs of the na-
tion. These challenges are re-emphasized in the following
statements by outstanding authorities:

“The nation stands on the threshold of tremendous devel-
opments in recreation, greater than for two generations. If
the challenges of the future are to be met successfully all
concerned must all work together without confusion or con-
Hict.”———DR. LUTHER GULICK.

“We must prepare to live in a world in which the only
certainty is change and where leisure is at the core, rather
than the fringe, of life.”—-—-JOHN DIEBOLD (the man who
coined the word automation) .

TODAY, as never before, the recreation movement is

“Recreation leaders and specialists, in a profession which
has the greatest potential for survival, must stop talking
about the changing world of some future time . . . the world
has already changed . . . individuals continue to read article
after article about startling inventions of the next ten or
twenty years, while each lives in a world that science and
technology has already remodeled. The problems of this
changed world are the problems of the recreation move~
ment.”—DR. ETHEL J. ALPENFELS.

“Our already overcrowded national parks and recreation
areas will have twice as many visitors ten years from now.
If we do not plan today for the future growth of these and
other great natural assets—not only parks and forests but
wildlife and wilderness preserves, and water projects of all
kinds—r—our children and their children will be poorer in

MARCH. 1963

 

every sense of the word.”——-PRESIDERT Jens F. KENNEDY.
“Wise use of leisure time—to which outdoor recreation

can contribute so much—is of enormous importance in main-
taining our strongest weapon in even a space-age arsenal—
the American Character.”~—LAURANCE S. ROCKEFELLER.

“Our task, in our 20th century society, the subtle challenge
we face and one which is as important as any other, is how
we learn to use our leisure time, learn to conserve the very
best of human values, how we learn to recreate thc indi-
vidual. The conservation of natural resources and the con-
servation of our human resources—and I no longer draw
a line between them—challenges the very best in us.”—SEC-
RETARY OF THE lNTERIOR, STEWART L. UDALL.

“The image of America as a nation of pill swallowers and
pin cushions could be drastically changed if there wcre a_
more universal recognition and application of recreation as
good therapy and good preventive medicine."—DR. J OSEPII
B. \VOLFFE.

TO MEET these challenges effectively, new knowledge must
be gained, trends must be identified, issues and prob-
lems must be examined and analyzed. new methods and tech-
niques developed and. where necessary, existing concepts
modified and changcd. Every recreator, board member, and
civic leader concerned with recreation. bears a responsibility
in this process.
This is why the National Recreation Congrcss, as the edu-
cational forum for the recreation field. is important. Plan
now to attend!

lll

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

 

CAMPING

as related to

LEISURE

 

Alexander Reid Martin, M.D., D.P.M.

CAMPING under sensitized leadership has an essential, in-

dispensable role to play in preparing our children to
make creative and wise use of their free unstructured time.
I want to share with you certain concerns and convictions,
because they touch upon a potentiality of the camping ex-
perience that is not suf‘Hciently realized. These particular
concerns have been strongly expressed by outstanding rep-
resentatives in the social, medical and physical sciences and
disciplines.

We are concerned over the fact that too many people in
this country cannot adapt themselves in a wholesome manner
to the wealth of free time now available.

We are concerned over the fact that an increasing num-
ber of patients of all ages, with neurotic symptoms, head-
aches, tensions, anxieties, and nervousness, are not relieved
by holidays, vacations and free time in the great outdoors.
0n the contrary, their condition actually becomes intensi-
lied and aggravated. Dr. C. Knight Aldrich, professor of
psychiatry at the University of Chicago, sees more contra-
indications than indications to vacations for the tense. and
nervous patient. Great numbers of our people in the every-
day walk of life have a mild form of maladaptation to free
time. They are the Sunday or weekend neurotics, which
Boris Pregel, past-president of New York Academy of Sci-
ence called the “leisure stricken,” and Arthur Schlesinger of
Harvard called the “spiritually unemployed."

We are concerned over the fact that those in public health
and mental hygiene have not grasped the magnitude of this
adaptation problem and have made few efforts to study and
remove the causes and symptoms of maladaptation or to
improve our capacity for healthy adaptation.

We are concerned because, although we know that this
maladaptation must somehow be related to inadequate prep-
aration and upbringing, the nation’s youth-fitness program
has placed no emphasis on preparing our children for
healthy adaptation to free timed—on educating them for life
off-the-joh. When we think in terms of youth fitness. we

 

DR. MARTIN is consulting psychiatrist of the Children’s Aid
Society and a member of the New York City Youth Board.
This material is the introductory remarks of his address to
the American Camping Convention in New York City in
1962. (From the full address as published in the December
I 962 issue 0/ Camping Magazine.)

[[2

must ask the question, fit for what? We will do everything
we can to make our children lit for effort, struggle, and the
hard work that lies ahead, but we must be equally concerned
with making our children fit for leisure. Because only those
prepared and lit for work and leisure will survive as creative
individuals. Those who have been made lit for work alone,
and have lost their capacity for adapting to free time, will
exist as sterile robots, alienated from life and from them-
selves, living vicariously, compulsiver seeking over-stimula-
tion from the extreme, the violent, the lurid, and the maca-
bre. We are beginning to see the outlines of this grim pic-
ture of maladaptation in much of today’s social pathology.

W e are concerned because we have apparently forgotten
the advice of the great philosophers and the great educators
of the past and the present. There was Aristotle, who said:
“The goal of all education is the wise use of leisure.” And
over two thousand years later, Lord James of Rushholme,
high master of Manchester Grammar School, during the re-
cent British elections, has said: “The goal of all schools and
universities, the goal of all those responsible for the upbring-

ing of our children and youth, should be the rediscovery of
leisure.”

Permit me now to voice some of my convictions:

I am convinced that we are born with capacities for
healthy adaptation to free time. These are freely manifested
in healthy childhood. Sad to relate, they have been sup-
pressed, distorted, and perverted by the extreme pressures,
and the inappropriate values which characterize a world
oriented exclusively to work.

1 am convinced that the camp experience provides the
greatest opportunity to protect children from these extremes.
We can greatly offset these excessive pressures and help the
child to retain his adaptive capacities for free time, allow
him to develop and exercise them. and. if he has lost them,
we can help him to rediscover them.

1 am convinced that the mere provision of more and more
camps and outdoor resources. increased attendance and fre-
quent contact with nature will not, in and of themselves, lead
to healthy adaptation. In other words, the unquestionahle
value of campng as the best and most natural means of edu-
eating the child to use his free time wholesomely, is only
potential in nature.

I am convinced that only through a well-sensitized staff
can this great potentiality of the camping experience he fully
reahzcd.

I urge you then to consider the following as the basic and
primary function of all camp personnel—to provide a camp-
ing experience that will prepare the child physically, psy-
chologically, emotionally and spiritually for the free time
that lies ahead. The setting is ideal, the time propitious. This
experience will help the child to determine his adaptation
patterns of the future. A healthy adjustment to free unstruc-
tured time will find expression in a healthy adjustment to the
world of work. In psychological testing and screening for
major and minor positions in all walks of life, an applicant’s
aptitude for free time will furnish the best gauge of his
personality——partieularly for his stahility, initative, and
ingenuity. #

RECREATION

p

AS WE GO TO PRESS

\

' ) NEW AGREEMENT: According to an

announcement on February 1, the US.
Departments of Agriculture and the 111-

'terior have developed a new joint c011-

Servation policy to help implement the
outdoor recreation program of the Ad-
ministration. In a communication to
President Kennedy, signed by Secre-

_ taries Orville L. Freeman and Stewart

L. Udall, they say in part, “We have
reached agreement on a broad range of
issues which should enable our depart-
ments to enter into a ‘new era of coop-
eration’ in the management of federal
lands for outdoor recreation. This
agreement settles issues which have long
been involved in public controversy; we
have closed the book on these disputes
and are now ready to harmoniously im-
plement the agreed-upon solutions.”
They have followed up the announce-
ment by stating that, if Congress ap-
proves, two new National Recreation
Areas and a new National Seashore
Area may be established as a result.
The latter is the Oregon Dunes National
Seashore, a thirty-five thousand-acre
tract along the- central Oregon coast,
which has been under the protection
and management of the Forest Service.
Under the proposal, it would be admin-
istered by the National Park Service
under the same criteria as National Rec-
reation Areas. President Kennedy has
hailed this sweeping agreement as a
“milestone in conservation progress.”

} FORMATION of a nationwide citizens
committee to help meet the growing out-
door recreation needs of the American
people was announced on February 5
by Laurance S. Rockefeller at a lunch-
eon attended by members of Congress
and the Administration and leaders of
civic, conservation, and other organiza-
tions. He said that, since the Outdoor
Recreation Resources Review Commis-
sion Report was presented, a good start
has heen made “toward the goal pro-
viding for the myriad outdoor recrea-
tion wants and needs” of the nation
through the year 2000. “Perhaps for
the first time,” he continued, “there has
heen recognition of the full dimension
Of the subject of outdoor recreation—
that it isn’t just for fun, that involved
in it is the kind of America we have and
want to have, and the kind of people we
are and are likely to become.”

> THE FIRST LABOR CONFERENCE in his-
tory on the prohlems surrounding the

constructive use of leisure time has heen
announced for the Eighth Annual Na-
tional AFL-CIO National Conference on
Community Services to be held March
31-April 4 at the Commodore Hotel in
New York City. The theme of the meet-

MARCH, 1963

ing will be “The Shorter Work Week
and Leisure Time,” and speakers will
include August Hcckscher and Laurance
S. Rockefeller. Leo Pcrlis, CSA direc-
tor, says, “We want to raise the level of
public understanding of the importance
of leisure time in our automated society

and explore sensible proposals for com-
munity action.”

> A JUDGE WANTS PLAYGROUNDS to re-
place slums, according to the Newark,
New Jersey, Star-Ledger of February
10. He holds that more public recrea-
tion is a vital factor in reducing juvenile
delinquency and that, under good guid-
ance, youngsters will not turn to crime.
Judge Henry S. Waldman of Elizabeth,
New Jersey, is a former judge of the
Union County Juvenile and Domestic
Relations Court. Addressing the Elmora
Kiwanis Club, he said, “Our citizens
should tear down some of the rotten
slum housing so that decent buildings
with play areas may rise in their place.”

} THE NUMBER of National Recreation
Association Affiliates and Associates
reached an all-time high in January
1963, with 2,039 Affiliates and 4,717
Associates. Both are increasing steadily

—the former having jumped 138, the
latter 376, in one year.

} JOINT FINANCING. The Department of
the Interior and the Federal Aviation
Agency will jointly finance the con-
struction of an airport near Grand Can-
yon National Park, Arizona, under an

agreement signed by Secretary of the
Interior Udall and FAA Administrator

N. E. Halaby. This is the first time the

Park Service has cooperated in financ-
ing the construction of such a facility,
Secretary Udall said.

) RECOMMENDED LEGISLATION: A Land
and Water Conservation Fund Bill has
just been sent to Congress by President
Kennedy “to help the states and the
federal government meet rapidly in-
creasing public demands for more out-
door recreation areas and facilities.”
This is to provide grants-in-aid to the
states on a matching basis and monies
to acquire certain federal lands. The
fund would be financed largely on a
pay-aS—you-go basis from entrance, ad-
mission, or other recreation user fees at
federal land and water areas, from the
sale of federal surplus real property,
and from the proceeds of the existing
four-cent tax on marine gasoline and
special motor fuels used in pleasure
boats. The grants-in-aid funds for com-
prehensive state planning would he
availahle to the states on a fifty-fifty
matching basis. The proposed legisla-
tion is an outgrowth of the recommen-

 

dations of the Outdoor Recreation lie-
seurces Review Commission.

} LOBBY. A Citizens’ Lohby for the Out-
doors is the topic of an article by Secrc-
tary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall in
the February 1963 issue of Park M aime-
nance. He says, “Everywhere today, citi-
zens are on the move to preserve our
green legacy. They have a rich tradi-
tion of precedence for such action. . . .
The battlefield where Jackson stood off
the British at New Orleans is today
Chalmette National Historical Park-—
but for the efforts of a determined citi-
zens’ group it would be a sewage treat-
ment plant instead. The ‘wild little is-
land’ which graces the Potomac in the
shadow of the Lincoln Memorial in
Washington, D.C. was slated for con-
version into a utility storage depot be-
fore friends of the late Theodore Roose-
velt banded together and gave it to a
President who was passionately partial
to the out-of—doors. . . .

“Every city, every state, every region
needs its citizens’ band, motivated by
zeal to preserve threatened native
grounds, by desire to support intelli-
gent zoning laws, by the determination
to pass on to their children the green
legacy they themselves have known.”

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

 

i STUDY RESULTS. The National Per-
sonnel and Salary Study conducted by
the National Recreation Association
during 1962 involved reports from 880
cities which identified over ten thousand
professional full-time year-round recre-
ation personnel. Returns were tabulated
from all states except Alaska, and in-
cluded Hawaii for the first time in the
United States salary tables. The results
of the study are reported geographically
by the NRA’s field districts and by six
population groups. They cover posi-
tions in six major categories—execu-
tives, assistant executives, general su-
pervisors, specialists, community center
directors, and leaders, and in the classi-
fications set forth in the Association’s
publication, Personnel Standards in
Community Recreation Leadership. Sal-
aries varied widely from very low to
over $23,000. The national median was
$7,200 for executives, which represents
an increase of forty percent over the
1952 figures. One quarter of the execu-
tives are receiving a salary of $9,500 to
a high of $23,028. Three districts are
above the national median in salaries
for all classes of positions: the Pacific
Southwest. the Middle Atlantic District,
and the Great Lakes.

113

) FINANCIAL AIDS TO STUDENTS offered
by The Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, Pennsylvania, for
graduate study in recreation and park
administration are as follows:

Graduate Assistantship (Men and Wom-
en). Stipend of $1,710 and exemption
from all tuition.

Senior Resident Counselor (Women).
Salary $33,000 and reduced staff tuition
rate. Services include general super-
vision of residence hall.

Staff Aide (Women). Recipients re-
ceive board, room, and exemption from
all tuition in return for services ren-
dered as resident-hall supervisor.
Resident Counselor (Men). Remission
for board, room, and all tuition. Serv-
ices include general supervision in a
residence hall.

Graduate Grant-in-Aid. Recipients are
exempt from all major fees. For state
students this exemption is equivalent to
$700 and for out-of-state students is
equivalent to $1,400 for a full year of
study.

For students desiring to prepare for
positions as park and recreation admin-
istrators, such courses are available as
Park, Recreation and Camp Administra-
tion; Park and Landscape Design; Pub-
lic Personnel and Fiscal Administra-
tion; Public Planning and Zoning; For-
est Recreation and Management. For
further information write to Dr. Fred
M. Coombs, Room 244, Recreation
Building, at the university.

) ARMED FORCES WORKSHOP. “Camp
Community Recreation Programming”
is the theme of the workshOp program,
of the Armed Forces Division Of the
North Carolina Recreation Society to be
held March 18-19 at Marston Pavilion,
Marine Corps Base, Camp Lejeune,
North Carolina. The workshOp is co-
sponsored by the North Carolina Rec-
reation Commission. For reservations
write to Robert McIntyre, Recreation
Director, Base Special Services, Camp
Lejeune, North Carolina. (See story of
Marine Corps recreation program for
dependents, “Leatlierneclrs at Leisure,”
RECREATION, January 1963.)

> SHOULD TAXES on marine fuel he used
to build facilities that would aid all
users of recreation waterways, such as
fishermen, hunters, swimmers, and oth-
ers? The Outboard Boating Club of
America thinks so and SllggCSlS a plan
for using the taxes on marine fuel for
the construction Of boating facilities in
a new booklet, Marine Fuel Taxes for
Boating. According to this, “The avail-
able public boating facilities are over-
crowded and inadequate to satisfy the
present, much less the future, demand
imposed by the growing number of per-
sons who use boats for recreation. . . .
A consideration of the economic factors

114

involved leaves no reason to suppose
that private enterprise alone can ever
adequately meet this demand. A public
responsibility exists, and a method of
financing new deve10pn1ents must be
provided. The answer: marine fuel
taxes.”

The booklet explains that legislation
to apply marine fuel taxes to boating
facilities would not mean new taxation,
but only the earmarking of already ex-
isting taxes on marine fuel for facilities
construction. Twelve states have al-

ready adOpted one or more variations of
the CBC marine fuel tax proposal.

) A NEW, VIOLENT TYPE of criminal,
who commits crimes for kicks and is
reckless and unskilled, is gradually re-
placing the old resourceful, master
criminal of the past, according to Dr.
Lewis Yablonsky, sociologist of the Uni-
versity of California at Los Angeles.
With the old criminal, assault and vio-
lence were used as means to an end and
not as ends in themselves. This implied
a knowledge of the law, of court pro-
ceedings, and of police methods.

The new criminal is more apt to be
involved with thrills and less with the
material profit of his crime. He has
served no apprenticeship, as the old
criminal had, and has little skill.

) VACATION RESORTS under the ocean
that house luxury living accommoda-
tions, cocktail lounges (with fireplaces) ,
and recreation centers, are slated to be a
part of a not-too-distant future, an-
nounces the Newark, New Jersey, News
of February 3. Elevators will take tour-
ists to the ocean floor, where small cars
for sightseeing will be available. That

Coming Events

3rd Leighton-Barta National
Tennis School for Teachers, Two
duplicate sessions, June 19-23 and
June 24-28. For descriptive bro-
chure, write Dr. Charles Wolbers,
East Stroudsberg State Teachers Col-
lege, East Stroudsberg, Pennsyl-
vania.

National Golf Day, May 25.
National lloliliy Month, April.
National Cherry Blossom Festi-
val, April 7-13.

Bike Safety Week, April 15-23.
Ameriean Bieyele Month, May.
National Arts and Crafts Month,
May IS-Iune 15.

National Reereation Month, June.
See back cover.

National Safe Boating Week,
July 1 to 7. One thousand local safe
boating committees have been estab-
lished throughout the country, from
coast to coast.

 

is merely one of the fantastic predictions
for the world of tomorrow, made by sci-
entists as today’s snow-balling technol-
ogy opens new vistas ahead. The paper
quotes Steel Magazine, a metal-working
trade magazine ( February 4th issue),
which contains the first of a series of
eighteen articles entitled “The Big New
Markets of the Sixties.”

Among other develOpments envision-
ed for Americans: we will commute to
work by monorail, travel between cities
on automatic electric highways, travel
between nations via supersonic aircraft,
and travel between planets in space cap-
sules. We’ll heat our homes with the
energy of the sun and the power of the

peaceful atom, launder our clothes with
sound waves.

) RESERVOIR USE. In a published report
for 1962, the US. Corps of Engineers
records that public use at reservoirs has
jumped in one decade from 21,000,000
visitors to 120,000,000 per year. The
fifty major projects patronized in 1950
have risen to more than two hundred
reservoir projects in 1961. The lands
and waters made available for public
use have doubled in the same period.
The development of these reservoirs in
parts of the country which previously
had no waterways is said to have con-
tributed to the upsurge in the popularity
of recreation boating. The Corps of
Engineers reports 190,000 watercraft
on their waters on one peak day. The
reservoirs have also contributed sub-
stantially to the total of our U.S. shore-
line and of our recreation waters.

) FOR CAMERA CLUBS ONLY: The Third
Anscoehrome of the Year Contest with
$1,000 as the grand prize for the best
slide to be selected from six category
winners. Each club must hold an Ansco-
chrome contest to select the best 3531M
and 2% square Anscochrome or Super
Anscochrome slide. The two slides may
then be entered in the name of the club.
All entries must he postmarked no later
than April 15, 1963, and each must be
addressed to Ansco, Camera Club Serv-
ices, Binghamton, New York. For fur-
ther instructions write to Ansco.

) THE NEW SCHEDULE of summer and
fall trips to Western wilderness areas
has been announced by The Wilderness
Society, 2144 P Street, N.W., Washing-
ton 7, DC. They will take vacationers
to the following areas: Pecos in the
Sangre de Cristo Mountains, New Mex-
ico, June 10-19 and September 17-26;
Selway-Bitterroot, Idaho and Montana,
July 15-26; Teton and Yellowstone, Wy-
oming, July 15-26; Boh Marshall of
Montana, August 2-16; Flat TOps of
Colorado, August 15-25; Rio Grande
and San Juan of Colorado, August 12-
25. For Specific details, write to the
ahove address.

RECREATION

ALL-SEASON CAMPING

MARCH. 1963

National Parks provide
year-round opportunities for

outdoor adventure

lien. off-season camping: offers delights unknown to

must \atiunal I’ark visitors -:1 touch of pioneer liv-
ing, close to nature. and a true wilderness experienee. For
tln in the \ational Parks are never closed- sumnn-r. autumn.
spring, or winter. “But.” warns Conrad L. Wirth, director
of the National Park Service, “rugged camping experience
eml the necessary equipment are. requisites for living out-
doors in the Illidwinter conditions and snow of higher ele-
vations of northern parks.”

Fm THE hardy individual who has the lime and illl'iilld-

Autumn, with its distinctive coloring and clear. crisp air,
has always been a favorite time to take to the woods. It is

 

a time for hikes, a time for learning how to cope with prim-
itive conditions, a time to gain the experience required be-
fore attempting to camp in snow or freezing weather. It is a
time to enjoy the quietude of the wild, to be alone with na-
ture and learn of her ways, when the parks are all but empty
of human life and the insects are gone.

Spring, the time of awakening, shows a different face. It
may be wet—— and one must be prepared for rain, cold, and
soggy trails—but vegetation is coming to life, with trees,
shrubs, and vines turning green. with the reds, pinks, and
yellows of woodland flowers coming into bloom. The birds
are fairly bursting their throats with spring song. And no
camper who has ever heard the dawn chorus of birds of the
deep forest will ever forget the sound.

Winter conditions vary in almost every unit of the Nation-
al Park system and, generally, camping is not encouraged
when real winter sets in. With heavy snow and below-freez-
ing weather, campgrounds are “winterized”; water is shut
off; tables, benches, and refuse cans are stored. In those
sections where snow is deep. no attempt is made to keep
roads open. The number of park personnel is reduced——
consistent only with good maintenance—and consequently
patrol and protection are also reduced. As a result, in plan-
ning a trip, a prospective camper should write to the super-
intendent of the park to be visited and will be sent a data
sheet giving location of sites, conditions, weather, closing
dates of campgrounds, and other information.

Primitive-type campgrounds remain open longest. Usual-
ly they are close to headquarters, have pit toilets, perhaps a
pump, but no running water. In almost every area, at any
season, campers must supply their own fuel. 11] summer and
fall, wood or other fuel is available from concessionnaires
or nearby towns. In winter, the camper should bring his
own fuel, along with his food and other supplies.

While a modest fee is collected at the entrance to some
parks, there are no fees at present for camping itself. A
charge is made, however, for bathing and laundry facilities
or where utility connections are provided for trailers. No
site may be reserved anywhere; all are on a first-come, first-
served basis; and stays are limited to fourteen days.

HOSE WHO SEEK the true wildeness, by penetrating a
Tdeep forest or an isolated canyon, or climbing to some
mountain fastness, must be self-sufficient and experienced.
Even experienced campers should make their plans known
to the superintendent or park ranger, who will inspect
equipment and offer guidance. No novice should attempt a
wilderness trip. For him, the end of the trail may bring dis-
aster, far from a water supply and far from help.

The wilderness camper must obtain a fire permit. He
must confine flames to a fireplace and make sure that his
campfire is entirely out when unattended. When he breaks
camp, he must carry out incombustihle trash or dispose of
it as otherwise directed.

Probably no park in the country offers a greater variety
of camping than Olympic National Park in Washington, in-
cluding off-season. Some of the campgrounds—none highly

116

developed—are open throughout the year. For backpackers.
shelters are scattered in the deep forest where giant conifers
grow. Campground living is available at Kalalock along the
Pacihc Ocean, in the rain forest along the Hoh River and
farther east along the Quinault River near Enchanted Valley.
In addition, those seeking primitive camping in Olympic
have a wide choice, along rivers, lakes, the oceanfront, or
in the eerie green light of the rain forest where moss clings
to tree branches and trunks and carpets the earth. Besides
warm clothing, campers should carry rainproof wear. Olym-
pic claims the wettest winter climate in continental United
States on the west side of the peninsula; on the northeast
side, however, is the driest area on the West Coast outside
southern California.

Across the continent, Acadia National Park, most of it
on Mount Desert Island and a part on the rockbound coast of
Maine, calls for the hardiest variety of off-season camper.
Part of the park faces the Atlantic Ocean; its climate is
sharpened by the cold Labrador Current. Primitive camp-
ing is, frequent through November. but the road system is
closed by snow and ice in early December and remains closed
until May.

MIDWAY down the Atlantic Coast is Cape Hatteras Nation-
al Seashore, North Carolina, where campgrounds re-
main open all winter and where campers are found every
month in the year. The three campgrounds, on Bodie Island.
Hatteras Island, and Okracoke, are in open areas, fairly
close to the beach, and frequently swept by high winds. Here.
the climate is tempered by the Gulf Stream. There are few
freezing days in midwinter, temperatures below twenty-five
degrees are uncommon, but warm, wind-resisting clothing is
necessary. Water is shut off usually from Christmas to
March, but hand pumps and pit toilets are available.

Inland, along the historic Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, a
long, narrow National Monument stretching from Washing-
ton, D. C., to Cumberland, Maryland, campers are obliged
to “rough it” at any season of the year. Camping spaces—
none deveIOped—are scattered between Cumberland and
Seneca, Maryland, a few at ten different places in that strip
of land close by the Potomac River, a total of 137 spaces.

Also close to Washington, D. C., is Shenandoah National
Park——seventy-five miles long and two to thirteen miles wide
——in the heart of the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia.
While the Skyline Drive, which follows the crest of the
mountains, is closed for short periods in winter, Big Mea-
dows Campground is open all year and camping through-
out the park is common for nine months of the year. The
park maintains eighteen widely scattered open shelters, each
sleeping six persons, but these must be shared, and everyone
must hring his own bedding. While supplies may be pur-
chased in nearby communities, campers are cautibned to
bring along camp stoves or fuel.

At the southern end of the Blue Ridge Parkway, which
traverses the highlands of the Appalachian Mountains, lies
Great Smoky Mountains National Park in North Carolina
and Tennessee, more than five hundred thousand acres of

RECREATION

 

Five thousand feet up. Balsam Mountain- camp-
ground, Great Smoky Mountains National Park.

one of the oldest uplands on earth. This park ranks third
in providing for campers, with 1,195 sites and 256 spaces.
Except for those at highest levels, campgrounds are Open all
winter, including Smokemont, near Cherokee, North Caro—
lina; Cades Cove on the Tennessee side of thc park, and Elk-
niont. near Gatlinburg, Tennessee. These are provided with
electricity, heated restrooms, running water, and fireplaces,
hut fuel must be carried or purchased. Campers come all
year, in trailers, with tents or bedrolls, and a night seldom
passes without at least a few campers in the park.

To the north of the Great Smokies is Cumherland Gap Na-
tional Historical Park, in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia,
the historic gateway to the West used by Daniel Boone and
great numbers of pioneers. Just a short distance from the
Wilderness Road and the town of Cumberland Cap is the
campground with 166 spaces for primitive-type camping, at
an elevation of twelve hundred feet. The climate here is com-
parable to that of the Great Smokies.

To the west, near Bowling Green, Kentucky, is Mammoth
Cave National Park, with thirty-seven camping sites avail-
able, which are open all winter although water is turned off
during freezing weather. Groups, such as the Boy Scouts,
frequently spend a winter weekend camping, and combine
outdoor activities with an educational tour of the cave, which
is equally pleasant at all seasons. Heated cottages are avail-
able throughout the year, as well as a hotel and lodge, and
present plans call for enlargement of camping facilities.

INTER is the main season at Everglades National Park,
W3 suhtropical wilderness at the southern end of Florida,
which includes a part of the Ten Thousand Islands, dozens
of keys, and covers more than twenty-one hundred square
miles of land and water. Here it seldom rains in winter but
campers should bring some warm clothes, as well as mos-
quito repellent—and a camera.

There are two developed campgrounds at Everglades, in

MARCH, 1963

the pine woods of Long Pine Key, six miles from the park
entrance; and at Flamingo, on the shores of Florida Bay.
Campgrounds have tables, benches, charcoal burners, and
water service, but no utility connections for trailers. Camp-
ing in the hack country is permitted at designated locations,
but a campfire permit must be obtained from park head-
quarters or a ranger station. The marina at Flamingo has
facilities for boats up to one hundred feet long, and a free
launching ramp is nearby. Supplies may be purchased and
heats rented from concessioners.

Autumn, winter and spring are ideal for camping in Big
Bend National Park in western Texas, where, for 107 miles,
the Rio Grande River forms both the southern boundary of
the park and the dividing line between the United States and
Mexico. This is a park of wild scenery, with desert, rugged
mountains, eroded rock formations and deep canyons, a land
of magic for the photographer—and for the adventurer. Big
Bend has three developed campgrounds, which are being en-
larged. “The Basin”——which some consider too cold for
winter—in the wooded heart of the Chisos Mountains and
several miles from park headquarters at Panther Junction,
has a free campground with seventy-five sites, three for
groups, and cabins and cottages for rent. Near Boquillas
Canyon and close to the eastern boundary of the park is Rio
Grande Village, located on the river, in the midst of an irri-
gated desert area where hundreds of trees have been planted
around an artificial pond. This campground has three group
and eighty-one individual sites. Near the western boundary,
at the rugged Santa Elena Canyon, are six campsites. At
both Boquillas and Santa Elena (both too hot for comfort
in summer), hiking, horseback riding, fishing, boating, and
evening programs are available.

A small trailer park, with utility connections, is located
near Big Bend headquarters at Panther Junction, and trailers
can be accommodated—without utility connectionsu-at Rio
Grande Village. Those seeking a primitive existence may
camp at Specified places outside The Basin, but must get a
permit for all fires outside estahlished campgrounds. While
gasoline and some supplies can be purchased from conces-
sioners at The Basin and Rio Grande Village, campers should
carry their own supplies, and include stout clothes, charcoal,
a flashlight, first-aid kit, and, when on the trail, drinking
water. '

NOTHER FANTASTIC PLACE—both natural and man-made
A —for the off-season camper is Lake Mead National
Recreation Area, consisting of two vast hlue lakes, lofty
plateaus, deep canyons, and desert—three thousand square
miles in Arizona and Nevada extending from the Grand
Canyon National Monument on the east to the Colorado
River below Davis Dam on thc south. Lake Mead, created
by Hoover Dam, is 115 miles long, has a shoreline of 550
miles, and backs into the lower part of thc Grand Canyon of
the Colorado for more than forty miles. Downstream from
Hoover Dam but formed behind Davis Dam is narrow, 67-

mile-long Lake Mohave in a spectacularly beautiful region.
The developed campgrounds, equipped with modern facili-

117

ties and within walking distance of the water’s edge, provide
539 sites in irrigated areas planted with shade trees.

Along Lake Mead are four main campgrounds: Boulder
Beach, six miles from Boulder City, Nevada, and the nearby
Lakeshore Trailer Village, Lake Mead Marina and a lodge;
Las Vegas Bay; Overton Beach-Echo Bay Area and Temple
Bar, both with campsites, cabins, and a trailer village. Lake
Mohave also has four main campgrounds, all of which also
have trailer villages: Willow Beach, Arizona, Eldorado Can-
yon, Nevada, Cottonwood Cove, Nevada, and Katherine,
Arizona. All campgrounds are provided with free launching
ramps, with boating facilities and rentals, and provisions for
water sports.

Upstream and east of Lake Mead is the new Glen Canyon
National Recreation Area, a land of magnificent scenery
surrounding the 186-miIe-long Lake Powell, the storage res-
ervoir formed by Glen Canyon Dam on the Colorado River
in Arizona, thirteen miles below the Utah border. At present
there are fifty-eight camping sites availahle at the Wahweap
Area on Lake Powell, near Page, Arizona. About 250 sites
are planned for this main camping area, situated in an elab-
orate irrigation system, landscaped, with sites built in loops
and each having its own patio. Seven other irrigated and
landscaped campgrounds are to be built at Glen Canyon, one
on the Colorado River, the others on Lake Powell. These will
he all-season campgrounds, although, with the high eleva-
tion, cold and snow are to be expected in winter. Campers
should bring all provisions, including charcoal for the burn-
ers which are set on pedestals.

oa TRUE DESERT CAMPlNC, Organ Pipe Cactus National
Monument offers a natural expanse of the Sonoran desert
in Arizona, along the Mexican border, surrounded by the
wild beauty of desert mountains and grotesque cactus nge-
tation. A free campground near headquarters—about 150
miles from hoth Phoenix and Tucson—provides 180 sites.
each equipped with a car space, gravel patio, tahle. and char-
coal stove. The six modern comfort stations have electricity:
water hydrants are located throughout the campground, but
there is no shade. Organ Pipe Cactus campground is popular
with tent and trailer campers seeking a warm climate and
new experiences, but there are no utility connections and
stays are limited to fourteen days. Present plans call for an
expansion of camping facilities. with sites at various other
locations. Since the park has no concessions, campers must
bring all supplies, and he prepared for warm days, and
nights ranging from cool to cold. Here cactus bloom comes
in April and May. There are many interesting drives. to
Mexico and the Gulf of California, the nearby Papago In-
dian Reservation. and a copper mine at Ajo.
One of the Innst beautiful areas for the camper is Death
Valley National Monument in the rugged desert region of the

Sierra Nevada in eastern California and southwestern Ne-
vada, where the elevation ranges from 282 feet below sea
level, near Badwater—mthe lowest land in the Western Hemi-
sphere—to Telescope Peak, 11,331 feet above the lowest
point. From late October until May, days are warm and
sunny and nights cool, with temperatures seldom below
freezing. In summer, Death Valley is one of the hottest
places in the world. Two hundred or more campsites are pro-
vided at Death Valley. The main campground at Furnace
Creek is Open to tenters only, but Texas Spring Campground
is open hoth to trailers and tents. Both are near headquarters
and concessions, hoth have sanitary facilities, water, tables
and camp stoves. Several secondary campgrounds at higher
elevations-*where snow may fall in winter—are recom-
mended for warmer weather. Within the park boundaries
are private operations with lodges, cabins, trailer courts.
service station, saddle horses, golf courses, stores, et cetera.

While campgrounds have not been well developed at Vir-
gin Islands National Park, in the Virgin Islands, there are
26 sites available among the palm trees at Hawksnest Beach.
where one may enjoy tropical camping. Camping equipment
may be rented at the park or, according to Virgin Island
travelers, all that a camper needs may be included in the
forty-pound limit imposed by airplane lines.

Halfway across the world, Hawaii Volcanoes National
Park, on the island of Hawaii, provides two overnight camp-
grounds, with water, fireplaces, and eating shelters, hut no
shelters for sleeping; and also two equipped overnight rest-
houses for hikers on Mauna Loa, which require permission
from park headquarters for use. There is also a developed
campground in Haleakala National Park on the island of
Maui. So far, camping in Hawaii has not been p0pular, most
visitors prefer to stay at hotels.

D name Tut: FlltS'I‘ NINE MONTHS of 1962, camping in the
454- campgrounds located in sixty-six areas of the Na-
tional Park system rose to an all-time high, with 5,000,080
camper days reported. Projected to a yearly hasis, this
would mean 6,201,000 camper days for 1962, in comparison
with 5.000,000 for 1961. “Camper day” means one person
spending one night in one of the parks.

Over the past few years, camping has become a major
rccrcation activity in the National Parks. Each summer.
during the peak season, campgrounds are filled to overflow-
ing.
To provide additional campsites, almost $6,000,000 was pro-
vided by Congress in this year’s budget. This sum is for

and many prospective campers must be turned away.

camping and facilities—exclusive of roads and trails---and
includes all items essential to the development and equip-
mcnt of campgrounds and picnic areas. such as tables, fire-
places, shelters. refuse receptacles. and water, sewer. and

power facilities. if:

IN OUR COUNTRY there is one thing the park administrator must never lose sight of and that is parks are for
people. Parks come into being through the desires of the people, they belong to the people, they are for use
by the people. Administering agencies are but the custodians and managers.——From the Fifth World Forestry

Congress, Seattle, Washington.

118

RECREATION

 

NATIONAL
AGENCIES:

 

KINDS

 

MARCH, 1963

HRUUCH RELREATIOIN we touch
T every aspect of the community
. . . the very young, the teen-
agers, the sick and handicapped, the
old. Almost no one is so alone, so with-
drawn that recreation has nothing to
offer him. However, as you, as leader
or administrator, serve others, do you
know the agencies that are ready to
help you and the people you serve——
even though they have to be reached by
mail?

Of course, you know the national
agencies that have local units Operating
in your community; but there is a group
of national agencies that do not have
local units and yet can help with local
programs; they do not set up duplicat-
lng or competing structures.

The National Recreation Association
is such an agency. As you know, it ex-
ists to serve every volunteer and pro-
fessional leader and every other citizen
concerned with recreation. It brings
you, on request, advice and help, new
ideas through RECREATION Magazine
and other publications, conferences, and
training sessions, and much more.

Among other national agencies that
do not have local operating units are the
National Social Health Association,
which works to strengthen family life;
the National League for Nursing, which
helps extend public-health nursing serv-
ices; the National Council on Alco-
holism, which conducts research and
spurs community action to help alco-
holics; and the National Federation of
Settlements and Neighborhood Centers,
which helps improve living conditions in
city neighborhoods.

All these agencies want to help local
people do the job that needs to be done
in each local community. They do not
want to set up closely controlled local
organizations of their own—but they
have found that lack of visibility can
be a liability.

1f NRA and these other national agen-
cies are to continue to help you, they
must continue to receive public support.
Some local Community Chests and
United Funds have not recognized that
their communities would be the poorer
without the services of such agencies as

the NRA. They demand the visibility of

a local operating unit without consider-

ing that such visibility may be costly to
the community. They rule out agencies
that do not have local units. Does your
local Chest or Fund have such a flat rul-
ing? If so, it means that national agen-
cies excluded by it must engage in spe-
cial fund raising instead of being part of
your “once-for-all” annual drive.

Some Chests are small and unready to
take in more agencies; some can, but are
reluctant. The Special function and im-
portance of direct-service national
agencies—for you and the entire com-
munity—can be explained to these re-
luctant Chests. Because you know the
values of direct-service agencies through
first-hand experience, you are well
equipped to help others understand.

THERE ARE two kinds of service. One
comes direct to you and your
agency. That is the kind of service NRA
gives. The other comes through a local
chapter of the national organization
whose name it bears. Both are needed;
both are part of the total services that
make your community a better place in
which to live.

Direct-service agencies include the
American Council for Nationalities
Service, American Hearing Society,
American Social Health Association,
Big Brothers of America, Camp Fire
Girls, Inc., Child Welfare League of
America, Inc., Council on Social Work
Education, Family Service Association
of America, Florence Crittenton As-
sociation of America, Inc., Girls Clubs
of America, Inc., International Social
Service, American Branch, Inc., Roscoe
B. Jackson Memorial Laboratory, Na—
tional Conference on Social Welfare,
National Council of the Churches of
Christ in the U.S.A., Department of
Social Welfare, National Council on
Alcoholism, Inc., National Council on
Crime and Delinquency, National Fed-
eration of Settlements and Neighbor-
hood Centers, National League for
Nursing. lnc.——Depart1nent of Public
Health Nursing, National Legal Aid and
Defender Association, National Recrea-
tion Association, National Social Wel-
fare Assembly, Inc., National Travelers
Aid Association, National Urban
League, Inc., United Seamen’s Service,
United Service Organizations, Inc. #

119

my “no—D

 

v-

GEORGE D. BUTLER

HE READINESS of authorities in some cities to dispose
T of their limited recreation lands contrasts strikingly
with the action in other localities where large sums of
tax money are being spent in acquiring land for recreation.
This apparent paradox illustrates the varying degree to
which public officials have become convinced of the value of
recreation areas and the importance of recreation in Ameri-
can life.

Parkland is being diverted for various nonconforming
purposes. Scottsdale, Arizona. with only one park of twenty-
eight acres for its more than ten thousand people has por-
tions of it under private lease. to he used for rodeo grounds,
boys’ club, major-league baseball diamond, school for the
blind, and Girl Scout building. Friends of the Library, a
private group, have requested one of the best portions of the
remaining area for a new library building. In Colorado
Springs, Colorado, the loss of area in two parks due to free-
way construction “will leave no currently owned public area
that is adaptable to winter sports activities,” according to
the Park and Recreation Advisory Board. The Biloxi, Miss-
issippi, Recreation Department reported in 1961 that its park
area was reduced when some ten to twenty acres were let
go for health center and hospital. Rapid City, North Dakota,
according to the April 1962 issue of The American City, will
erect a new treatment plant in a city park being developed
through bond funds.

Worcester, Massachusctts, which in recent years success-
fully opposed attempts to take parkland for a housing project
and for a private club, but did permit the erection of a fire
headquarters in a park, is facing the loss of portions of four
park areas. An expressway is expected to carve twelve to
fifteen acres from one park and to take hoth land and a pool
at another. School buildings are expected to be erected in
two other parks.

Council Bluffs, Iowa, reported 476 less park acrcs in 1960
than in 1955, explaining that one area had heen leased but
that a large area had been taken ovcr by the interstate high-
way and that two additional parks were to be reduced in
area for the same reason in the near future. In Aiken, South
Carolina, portions of the city’s one downtown park have
been turned over to one group after another. Buildings on
the park include a hOSpital, school administration huilding
and schoolhouse. In 1961 the hospital requested additional

MR. BUTLER recently retired as director of research [or the
National Recreation Association after forty-three years of

service with the Association. (See RECREATION, January
1962, Page 17.)

120

uY AN]:

acreage for a laundry and parking lot. In Connecticut, a
forty-five-acre undeveloped Bridgeport park was turned over
to the board of education for a new high school and a New
London playground was sold to the Coast Guard Academy
for a parking lot.

“It is impossible to single parks out of our urban com-
plexes and deal with them as separate entities,” declares L. B.
Houston, director of parks and recreation in Dallas, Texas.
He proposes that parks must be related to other facilities,
including public transportation, and adds, “I think it man-
datory in the planning of roadways, where parks are in-
volved, that roadway authorities and the park authorities
lay the problem out on top of the table and approach it from
an overall point of view. This has been the approach here
locally and I think it has paid dividends. Yes, like many
other cities, some parklands have gone for street right-of-
ways. 0n the other hand. money derived from such losses
has been reinvcsted in other parklands, thereby placing the
overall park system far ahead. For example, the park board
uscd accumulated money from such sales for losses if you
prefer) representing a great many thousand dollars with the
accompanying loss of a few acres and has reinvested this in
a readily accessible tract of some 250 acres. The net ex-
change results in new area nearly fifty times that of acreage
lost.”

A SIMILAR POINT of view was expressed by Charles E. Doell
when he was superintendent of parks in Minneapolis.
Minnesota: “When the social and economic habits and de-
sires of the people change with the changing times, it may
he cxpected that the outline of the park and recreation sys-
tem may also change. This is not an invitation to enter upon
park property with impunity. It is stated rather to negate
the proposition that park properties are inviolate. For vari-
ous reasons some properties are inviolate, but not all of them.
Alterations of the outlines of some of them may be justified.”
The serimilsness of the threat to the city’s parks was empha-
sized, however, in a staff report submitted to the Minneapolis
Board of Park Commissioners in 1960, which stated: “While
there is no doubt that many requests and ambitions of other
groups are laudable and desirable, without a strong desire
and policy to retain, preserve and maintain the open spaces
within our city, it would not he too long hefore they would
be destroyed and frittered away. Demonstration has indi-
cated that our people want park areas, and the danger of this
encroachment must be dramatized if we are to stave off the
constant desire to use park prOperty for other purposes.”
Differences of opinion are certain to arise when proposals

RECREATION

 

are made for transferring parkland to other uses. In some
instances, however, the advantages resulting from such ac-
tion may outweigh the losses. A case in point occurred in
Austin, Texas, where the city was offered $800,000 for a
thirty-acre tract, used as a park but not dedicated and largely
undeveloped, on which it was proposed to construct a re-
gional shopping center. In spite of strong opposition, the
land was sold. Local recreation authorities seemed to feel
that the city gained by the transaction, since the money is
to be used for acquiring new park and playground sites, for
the construction of a large swimming pool, for an eighteen-
hole golf course, and for developing the shoreline of the new
“town lake.”

The Hamilton County, Ohio, Park District is one of the
many agencies whose properties have been threatened with
encroachment by major highway projects. The director-
secretary reported that the district opposed the expressway
going through Miami Whitewater Forest until October 1960,
when the department of highways filed with the common
pleas court appropriation proceedings to take the right-of-
way by condemnation. The amount filed with the court at
that time amounted to $13,258, of which $9,468 was for the
value of the property to be taken (approximately twenty-four
acres) and $3,790 was for damages to the residue. Within
two days after the filing of the proceedings, the contractor
entered upon the property and proceeded with the construc-
tion, which he was legally entitled to do.

According to the director-secretary, “Within the legal ten-
.- day period, we filed with the court an intention to appeal
from the amount fixed in the appropriation proceedings.
This gave us additional time to further negotiate with the
department of highways on items we had not previously
discussed, but which we felt should be part of the considera-
tion if and when they did go through the park.” A “Settle-
ment Entry” was subsequently negotiated with the depart-
ment of highways, with the following terms: .

3 9,468.00 Value of property taken for right-of—way

- (approximately 24 acres)
Damages to residue
Access road to underpass on west side of
expressway bridge
Access road to park area isolated by creek
and expressway

Planting inside expressway right-of—way
through park area

Planting on park property adjacent to ex-
pressway right-of-way

Total

$ 2,000.00
8 2,803.35

8 3,390.25
8 8,719.00

8 8,533 .00

$34,913.60
MARCH, 1963

Wavering and vacillating
give-and-take policies
threaten purl—Hands

“It was the consensus of the commissioners and our legal
counsel, the Hamilton County prosecuting attorney, that it
would be to our advantage to get the additional considera-
tions; namely, the two access roads and the landscaping of
the inside of the right-of-way and the adjaccnt park prop-
erty, rather than to attempt through court action to have the
land value increased.” A cash payment of $11,468 has been
made to the park district and progress has been reported on
the improvements to be made by the department of highways.

The 1959-1960 report of the Board of Park Commissioners
of the Cleveland, Ohio, Mctropolitan Park District refers to
the constant threat of encroachment by new freeways, inter-
state highways, and relocations of state and local highways.
Yet, it points out that since its properties comprise a series
of parks and connecting parkways completely surrounding
Cuyahoga County, new freeways, highways, and utilities to
serve the city of Cleveland and its suburbs must cross park
district lands. In such cases, the problem is resolved through
a solution that satisfies as nearly as possible the needs of all
parties. Locations and designs are made or altered to avoid
interference with park facilities and functions, and restora-
tion of disturbed areas must be made. Adequate compensa-
tion for construction of two power lines during the year was
reported.

The report emphasizes that lack of communications with
the agencies desiring to cross park property gives rise to the
principal difficulties. It adds, “Completed plans are often
presented at the first time we have definite information on
location, etcetera. Such a method of approach results in lost
time, additional and unnecessary planning expense, and
strained relations between the agencies involved.” This com-
ment points out the importance of consultation during the
initial stages of any development that might involve the
transfer or use of park property.

UBLIC PROTESTS against threatened encroachment are not
always successful, but they demonstrate the value people
attach to recreation areas and in some cases result in the
modification of plans. For example, a proposal to carve an
eighty-acre slice out of a reservation in Union County, New
Jersey, for a highway brought nearly a thousand persons to
a public hearing. For almost eight hours they protested
against sacrificing parkland for the project. As a result, state
authorities took another look at the proposal, and it is possi-
ble that if parkland must be taken for the highway, less useful
hillside property rather than level area will be taken.
A group from Omaha, Nebraska, under the leadership of
Mrs. Paul Gallagher of the Friends of Parks organization

121

and a director of the National Recreation Association, took
its protest to Washington, DC, early in 1962. Members
included park and labor leaders and Representative Glenn
Cunningham. They met with Secretary of Commerce Luther
Hodges and federal highway officials to urge that action be
taken to eliminate the threat posed by highway construction
to parks in Omaha and other cities. Secretary Hodges was
presented with a letter from AFL-CIO President George
Meany who called attention to the threats to Omaha’s parks
and expressed labor’s need for additional recreation areas.
The group reported an encouraging response from the fed-
eral officials who stated they would take no steps against the
city’s parks without consulting Mr. Cunningham and others.

A significant ruling was handed down in February 1962
by Circuit Judge John E. Richards in Peoria, Illinois, who
held that the state of Illinois cannot condemn property owned
by the Peoria Pleasure Driveway and Park District. He
sustained a motion by the park district to dismiss a condem-
nation suit against it by the State Department of Public
Works and Buildings, which sought to acquire eleven acres
of park property for continued construction of a federal-aid
highway. The suit had been instituted because of failure
to agree on the amount to be paid for the property.

The park district had offered to trade the land to the state
in exchange for other state-owned property. Since this was
not accepted it filed a motion in circuit court seeking dis-
missal of the state’s condemnation action, contending the
state does not have the authority to condemn property al-

ready devotcd to public use. The motion was based upon a
previous state supreme court decision, which was used suc-
cessfully in arguing for dismissal of the condemnation suit.
The decision left open the possibility of another suit in fed-
eral court, however, because the federal government is con-
sidered a partner in the highway construction. The state also
has the possibility of arranging a trade of land with the park
district.

Action by the city council in Little Rock, Arkansas, has
prevented several encroachments on the parks in that city.
It refused to lease parkland for an armory unless it could
be used as a recreation center, eliminated the zoo as a possi-
ble site for a new pound and animal shelter, denied use of
park property for a clubhouse and headquarters for the
American Legion, and prevented an expressway from cutting
through a park.

BECAUSE the loss of some parkland is unavoidable, it is of
the utmost importance that compensations should be

011 a land-area basis, not on a dollars-and-cent basis. The
money received should be used exclusively for the purchase
of land to replace the lost acreage. These conditions do not
always prevail. In Asheville, North Carolina, for example,
where a federal highway is being constructed through a city
park, funds realized from the sale of the property will revert
to the city’s general treasury. The public works department
is apparently taking no action to assure replacement of the
lost park area.

In Waterbury, Connecticut, on the other hand, the board
of park commissioners was concerned that funds received

122

from the state in payment for land taken for a highway in-
terchange, if placed in the city’s general fund, would not be
used for park purposes. It therefore proposed a change in
the city charter to authorize creation of a special fund into
which all money secured from the loss of park property
would be placed, such money to be used solely for the ac-
quisition and development of replacement land. An act was

submitted to the General Assembly, was passed, and the fund
established.

The possibility of securing reimbursement for parkland
lost to an interstate highway is indicated in a statement is-
sued by the Philadelphia Citizens Council on City Planning
in August, 1959. It states that the deputy commissioner in-
formed the Citizens’ Council that “The Bureau of Public
Roads, when requested by a state highway department, may
authorize the participation of federal-aid funds in the cost
of acquiring land to replace parklands owned by corporate
cities where it is established to be in the overall public in-
terest to use such lands as the location for a federal-aid high-
way and when the payment for such replacement land is
made by the state highway department in accord with state
laws.”

The National Conference on State Parks has steadily ex-
erted its influence to maintain the integrity of state parks,
especially to prevent encroachment resulting from the inter-
state highway program. A letter sent in 1958 by its president
to the governors of the United States called their attention
to the problem and cited the action of one governor in ereat-
ing a new position in the department of highways for the
specific purpose of coordinating highway activities with
those of other land-use agencies. Pertinent paragraphs from
replies of many governors were included in the September
1958 issue of Planning and Civic Comment. Inasmuch as
several of these replies indicated an awareness of the prob-
lem and a concern over protection of the parks, local authori-
ties facing the loss of parkland because of state highway
action would do well to become familiar with the attitude of
their governor, as recorded in this issue.

The Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission
in its recent report Outdoor Recreation for America included
the following recommendation which should prove useful in
opposing park encroachments: “Recreation areas should be
strongly defended against encroachments from nonconform-
ing uses, both public and private. Where recreation land
must be taken for another public use, it should be replaced
with other land of similar quality and comparable location.”

The commission further stated: “A higher priority should
be given to recreation and scenic values in the overall design
of new highways. The job of improving the recreation pos
tential of highways is primarily one for states and local gov-
ernments, but the federal government can exert a significant
influence. It might, for example, help see to it that the new
interstate highways are routed as much as possible around
parks and open spaces rather than through them. The threat
of such encroachment is a very live issue in many communi-
ties, particularly those which have had the foresight to lay
aside open space. Unless the trend is reversed, many new
highways will be a net subtraction from the recreation supply
rather than an addition to it.” #

RECREATION

TARP PITCHING is of great interest in these days of tent
camping, especially to families with a yearning for
the life outdoors. Many practice it in their backyards or
as a recreation-department activity in preparation for
greater efficiency Upon arrival at the campsite. Text and
illustrations below are reprinted with permission from
Tenrmaker, c0pyright 1957 by Walter E. Stern, Tent—
maker, 254 Nagle Avenue, New York 34.

8 WAYS TO
PITCH A TARP

“V.
s

 

Tepee ' ' high os possible, cannect 6-1
A tent 65‘.- ft. hid't with a 5 Jr and 0-2 and attoch guy lines.
7 base - peg down B,C,D,E Fold triangle E,D,F, inside
into an oblong. Roise os oi tent.

 

with diogonols — large
unencumbered space for dining
toble underneoth.

Dining Fly up
The 6-pale way of pitching o
tarp - guy lines should line

     

E
Winter Tent Roise C and D with 2 25‘: ft.
A completely closed tent for poles, hove 5 ft. at A, peg Kitchen Fly
winter use, nat too fmy- dawn D and E with some peg. Five pole way. Pull out center with properly shielded pale
with bent sapling or push out (use tin can or crutch tip).

 

Adirondack
Attoch 5 it. poles at E and F, oblong, iold under triangular
pull out back to lorrn 5 tr 7 flap.

‘n

 

Quick Shelter for a quick shelter, use rope
Twa pole woy. To put a torp to support torp and pull out
up between 2 trees or 2 poles side guy lines well.

   

D
Ferester'
One oi the most cane-nan tance between D and C. When
shopes ol torp pitching, but pitching iram tree, support

rarely Wind Shed
pole in winter, higher pole in vent sagging ond pulling tent Ta protect cornp lire, ta or waod, and many other uses -
summer, by varying the dis- out of shape. provide shelter lor supplies yau can pitch this 4 pole way .

dane well. Use law D-A with extra rape ta pre-

 

MARCH. 1963

Those ore some of the mony

ways to utilise o torp. There
ore others alsa, combinotlons

oi twa or three tarps, or in
connection with a cor ar ather

type tents.

A_ 10' it 10' size will give you
sufficient caver and still will
be light enough to be tuclsed
oway in yaur paclr. It weighs
obaut 5 lbs. Cost D-rings

are preferred ta tie tapes os
they ore stronger, rnare
durable crud neater. A strang
webbing shauld ga oround the
edges for reinforcement.

123.

CAMPING:
DAY AND NIGHT

Expanded facilities and new developments in program
earmark the camping boom reverberating
throughout the country

In Full Boom

THE EARLY MASTERY of camping skills is an important
factor in popularizing camping. This has been proven
beyond a doubt in Morgantown and Monongalia County,
West Virginia, where camping is booming. All local camps
were overflowing in attendance this past summer. During
the past three years the Boy Scout camp has tripled its at-
tendance as has the local 4-H camp. Church camping has
become more popular. In the meantime, enrollment in camps
away from the home county is also on the increase. The
Monongalia County Consolidated Recreation Commission
has been promoting and conducting day camping and over-
night camping for the youth of the county since 1948 when
it inherited a former agency camp, the Chestunt Ridge camp,
which borders the Cooper’s Rock State Forest.

When the American Camping Association introduced the
Campcraft Certification program in 1957, the West Virginia
Section of the ACA was one of the first to conduct a course
and Chestnut Ridge camp has been the favorite location for
the state course. Not only does the camp have plenty of
woods available, but it is surrounded by fifteen thousand
acres of publicly owned land of the state forest and West
Virginia University Forestry School laboratory. It also
abounds with flora and fauna. Still another favorable factor
has been the proximity to West Virginia University and
West Virginia Geological and Economic Survey from which
are drawn highly qualified instructors in outdoor suhjects.

The county commission has taken advantage of the Camp-
craft Certification course for training key leaders in the
camping program. These leaders in turn have helped to
make camping more attractive to the young boys and girls
who participate in the playground overnight-camping and
the nature day-camping programs. Both programs are made
available to youth of the county. Both programs emphasize
camping skills as learned by the key staff memhers at the
ACA Campcraft Certification course as continued by the
West Virginia Section of the ACA, now under the direction
of Carl M. Mack, a community recreation director for East-
ern Gas and Fuel Associates at Kopperstone.

The Morgantown nature day-camping program is con-
ducted in the various city parks. It is free of charge to hoys
and girls aged seven to fourteen. The day campers leave
early on Thursday afternoon, but return at six o'clock with
sleeping bags and food for metal-foil cookery for their sup-

124

pers. In the meantime, part of the day-camping program
has consisted of erecting tents and shelters.

Following -the cookout, the campers enjoy a typical camp-
fire program of Indian lore, skits, and songs. Then comes
the sleepout, which is much harder on the staff than on the
excited campers; the staff members take turns standing
guard during the night. Early the next morning the campers
return. home, more enthusiastic about camping than ever.
Most of them carry home “Redskin” cards, proof that they
have learned something about many of the camping skills
as outlined in the ACA Campcraft Certification course.

The playground overnight-camping program in August is
the main attraction of the year. Boys and girls, eight to
fourteen, are taken to camp for a week at a time. Since the
camping period is short as compared with typical camping
periods, the county recreation commission finds no need to
introduce anything into the program except outdoor camp-
ing. For instance, the recreation program offered at the
county-wide summer art center in town or on the play-
grounds is not duplicated at camp, nor are athletics empha-
sized. The camping fee is quite nominal, $10.00 a week, to
cover the cost of food only. The local United Fund pays for
leadership and the county government maintains the camp
properties.

However, the recreation commission does not stop with
nature day-camping and playground overnight-camping.
Before a school is out in the spring, members of the com-
mission staff visit the elementary schools of the area to
deliver talks and distribute folders concerning the summer
recreation and camping programs. They help advertise all
phases of camping and recreation available to local youth,
whether conducted hy the recreation commission, the Boy
Scouts, Girl Scouts, 4-H clubs, baseball leagues, or other
groups and agencies.

The facilities at Chestnut Ridge camp are availahle free
of charge to all youth and church groups of the county the
year-round. Last year, sixty-two such groups enjoyed the
summer tents and winterized cabins for overnight camping.
Family camping is promoted during the weekends during the
summer months, again at no cost to local individuals. Fami-
lies from outside of the county may pitch their tent or park
their travel trailer for one dollar per night. Family campers
find many attractions in the nearby state forest, one of which
is the scenic Cheat River gorge at Cooper's Rocks.

RECREATION

The camp lodge is also listed as a youth hostel in coopera-
tion with the American Youth Hostel Association. Hostelers
from all parts of the country are made welcome at the camp
and even a few international hostelers have found their way
to Chestnut Ridge.

Winter camping is made more attractive by the con-
struction of a ski slope with tow ropes, warming huts, and
extremely nominal tow fees at the edge of the property. Even
though it is located south of the Mason-Dixon line, the ski
slope has on the average of twenty-five days of snow each
winter. The camp lakes are also used for ice skating for the
public and the winter campers alike.

The camp boom is really reverberating throughout the
county, but, remember, it has taken twenty-five years of
diligent development of areas and program plus steady
promotion—JAMES W. SHEPHERD, Recreation Superintend-
ent, M onongalia County Consolidated Recreation Commis-
sion, M organtown, West Virginia.

Cooperative Effort

THE COUNTY and local communities in Westchester
County, New York, combine forces to provide a day-
camp program. Croton Point Camps at Harmon-on-Hudson,
operated by the Westchester County Department of Parks,
Recreation and Conservation, can accommodate 200 boys
and 150 girls for overnight summer camping in each two-
week period. Because the demand for use of the facilities
grew so heavy that hundreds of disappointed youngsters had
to be turned down each season, Dr. Sal J. Prezioso, then
superintendent of the commission, and Morton Hyman,
supervisor of camping, decided to open the camp facilities
to groups of day campers from the county’s communities.

In the spring of 1961, local recreation departments and
public recreation agencies were circularized and offered a
six-trip package deal whereby from one to fifty children
could be brought up to Croton six times during the season
at a total cost of $100. Local communities would supply
leadership and bus transportation and Croton Point Camps
would provide facilities, a day-camp supervisor, and pro-
gram; day campers to arrive at 10:00AM and depart at
4:00PM.

The program consists of a nature and historic hike com-
bined, during which the flora and fauna of the area are noted
and identified, and the clay pits, wine cellars, and treaty
site are explored and explained. Each youngster is given a
mimeographed story of the history of Croton Point.

Lunch is cooked outdoors on charcoal burners and day
campers are encouraged to bring food which they can cook,
rather than hox lunches. In the afternoon, they are taken
to the pioneering-unit ropeyard and taught conservation of
soil, how to build fires, campcrafts, and woodsmanship.

A swim in the Croton Camp pool, complete with lockers
and showers, is arranged for the day campers at a time that
will not conflict with the overnight campers. After the swim,
the athletic field is available for games, archery, gymnastics.
or tug-of-war.

Day camp arrangements are flexible, and local recreation
departments and agencies may bring the same children on all

,MARCH, 1963

six trips or different groups of youngsters and may spac-
thc six trips over the summer camp season or takc them twic.
a week for three weeks.

The day-camp program accommodated eighteen hundred
Westchester youngsters during the summer of 1962 which.
with the fourteen hundred enrolled for summer camp.
utilized Croton Point Camp facilities to the fullest.

Ranch Camp

0 WIIITE-FACED HERDS are seen on the rambling nine

hundred acres of Double G Ranch, located on the banks

of Chickalnauga Lake near Soddy, Tennessee, just north of

Chattanooga. Instead, its terrain rings with the laughter of
children.

Built by the Gordon P. Street family of Chattanooga, the
Double G facilities are available during the summer season
to sponsored children’s camping groups, who for physical
reasons are not eligible to attend a regular summcr camp.
Constructed to accommodate 126 campers, the ranch is

 

A city-park sleepoat for young campers. This is conducted
weekly in Morgantown, West Virginia, where day campers
return with sleeping bags for overnight camping experience.

available on application to Southern chapters of nationally
accredited youth health organizations. Although, no charge
is made for the facilities, each camp group is required to
furnish its own full staff. including nursing and medical
assistance.

While the construction cost of the Double G was borne
by the Street family, Chattanooga suppliers provided ma-
terials and services at cost. This material assistancc en-
abled the Streets to equip the ranch with the best possible
accommodations for the children, as well as maximum health
care facilities. Gordon Street Sr., president of Gordon
Street, lnc., of Chattanooga, Mrs. Street, Gordon Street, J r..
and daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Smith,
Jr., personally developed the plans for the ranch so that
children who require special facilities might attend the
sponsored camping sessions with safety and comfort. Archi-
tectural plans were produced by the engineering firm of

Gifiels and Valet. of Detroit.

Rolling foothills covered with natural tiInhcr growth and

125.

rich in scenic beauty make up the nine hundred acre tract.
Approximately a mile of the Double G fronts on Lake
Chickamauga, one of the larger manmade lakes of the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority. Buildings include twelve cabins,
six in the girls’ unit and six in the boys’ unit, each to accom-
modate ten children. All cabins have porches and adequate
cabinet space for each camper. A large bathhouse for each
two cabins and a central showerhouse are also provided.

The main lodge is used as both dining room and recrea-
tion hall and a screened porch across its entire front is used
for arts and crafts and other activities. The main lodge
kitchen is equipped with the latest equipment for the prepara-
tion and serving of special diets and for the sterilization of
dishes. Bedrooms and a lounge for the staff members are
included in the main lodge. A health lodge is the building
which sets this camp apart from any ordinary summer camp.
In this lodge will be found medical and laboratory equip-
ment to meet all possible health problems of the campers.
A large receiving room and a hospital ward are included, as
well as adequate bedrooms for the medical stafir which ac-
companies the campers.

Recreation programs are directed to the needs of the
campers. Facilities include a large swimming pool, specially
built rifiery and archery ranges, many miles of trails, boat-
ing and canoeing on the lake, horseback riding, softball,
and tennis. ‘

None So Blind

THE COUNTRY’S FIRST scientifically controlled integration
of blind youngsters into summer camps for sightcd
children was accomplished six years ago by Bronx House
and Camp Wei-Met in cooperation with the New York Guild
for the Jewish Blind. These camps have demonstrated that
blind children can be served within the existing facilities. At
these camps, the blind children participate in the full camp
program, including handcrafts, dramatics, camp sings, hik-
ing, swimming, campfire huilding, ballplaying, and even
instruction in the use of saws, hatchets, and penknivcs. The
experience in these camps has proved that thcre is little or
no need for special equipment, walks, guide wires, and other
expensive devices. Spccially trained counselors are needcd.
of course, but, as a whole, the camp’s program is unchanged.

Reactions of the children—blind and sighted—and of the
parents is revealing. When Peter and Hank indicated sur-
prise that Harry was holding his own patty over the fire and
doing it well, they were evidencing their pleasure at the
satisfaction a blind eo-camper was enjoying. One sighted
youngster remarked that “Since knowing the blind kids,
l’ve been finding out things they can do well. I’ve never
known blind children before and I’ve made friends with them
in camp.”

Another ehild said, “It’s been fun meeting children who
cannot see because they see things in a different way than
we do.”

One told a visiting parent who asked how the visually
handicapped children got around camp, “Oh, Mommy, they
go straight, we’re the ones who trip and fall.” Parents of
the blind children found their offspring had not only learned

126

to do more things for themselves, including swimming, but
had improved their speech and lost some of their fright.

A day camp for partially sighted children at the Pitts-
burgh YM-YWHA showed conclusively the ability of the
handicapped child to take part in a wide range of camp ac-

tivities, including those calling for muscular development
and competitive skill.

Two-Way Education

“ROCK EAGLE 4-H CAMP COUNSELOR.” Since May 30,
1955, official opening date of the Rock Eagle 4-H
Club Center near Eatonton, Georgia, 124 young Georgians
have earned the privilege of including these six words in
their career preparation records. Each of these young peo-
ple evaluated his experiences as a Rock Eagle 4-H Camp
Counselor in his own way, but all agree that counseling has
been an inspiring and thrilling experience of unique and in-
estimable value in the development of their personalities.
Many say that serving as a counselor during an eight-week
camping season has been worth more to them personally
than a semester of college work. Evaluating the worth of
the camp eounselor program is no easy task, but Georgia
4-H club leaders agree that it has added a new and invalu-
ahle dimension to 4-H camping in the state.

As a first important step, all applicants are carefully
screened for good character and each is chosen on the basis
of his 4-H experience, personality, ability to get along with
others, and leadership capabilities. Leaders orient coun-
selors as to the ideals and aims of the camp program and
subject-matter specialists train counsclors as class instruc-
tors. Counselors receive college scholarships worth from
$200 to $300 plus meals and lodging for the season.

Because Georgia is rich in Indian tradition, and the
beautifully wooded Rock Eagle area provided an ideal locale
for outdoor activity, an Indian theme for camp activities was
adopted. Campers arc divided into three separate tribes on
arrival. Near the end of each camp weck, in an impressive
ceremony, a tribal shield is awarded to the tribe with the best
camping record.

At first, county extension agents, local volunteer 4-H cluh
leaders, and extension specialists all pitched in to help, but
because of the many duties in operating a camp for so many
youngsters, more camp leaders were needed. College-age
young men and women were enlisted to help. From the time
the first counselors were employed these college-age youth
have formed a vital link betwcen campers and atlults——4-H
club leaders, who are busy with camp administration, and
subject-matter specialists, who because of other duties can-
not spend their entire time at camp.

Already accustomed to study, the counselors readily qual-
ify as competent and enthusiastic instructors of camp train-
ing classes. Serving as class instructors and recreation lead-
ers by day and as cottage chaperons at night, they free county
extension agents to monitor classes and keep in contact with
4-H’ers from their counties. Overall camp responsihilities
do not prevent agents from dealing immediately with indi-
vidual camper prohlems.—Fr0m National 4-H News, May

1 960.

RECREATION

STATE PARK
CAMPING
FACILITIES

 

°H
a"

With the growing popularity of family camping, and a ‘ "'-" Q‘s-3‘"!
outdoor recreation in general, Americans are becoming State pgrks Offer “(fie feudal”: Chancel") ("1'
more aware of facilities near at hand and more familiar with 10y 0m oor recreation m a new y Harm.“ ("em

Above, Muskegon State Park beach, Michigan.
nearby parks. State owned and operated parks and recrea-

tion areas provided more outdoor vacation, recreation, and
camping in 1961 than in any previous period, according to
Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall. Based on a re-
port prepared by the National Park Service, at the request
of the National Conference on State Parks, over 273,000,000
visits, including 21,000,000 overnight stays, were recorded
at 2,792 state parks and related areas embracing nearly 5,-  - '-
800,00'0 acres. Attendance increased by 5.6 percent over
1960.

Day use accounted for 91.1 percent of the total visitors.
an increase of 4.5 percent. Total overniglit attendance in-
creased 11.8 percent; tent and trailer camping increased 14.5
percent and cabin-lodge-hotel use increased 31.4 percent. In-
terestingly enough, organized camping groups decreased 1.3
percent. The three states reporting overnight use of more
than two million were: New York (3,369,729), Michigan
(2,466,703) and California (2,466,122).

The few parks pictured here are typical of the many. For
more about state parks see book review on Page 154. if:

 

-4 camping area in St. Andrews State Park, Panama City,
Florida, clean and on a lake shore, provides a peaceful
lumen and certainly invites visitors to tarry for a while.

:4

 

K - I _ ,'
w . . .
I '9 I .
1 ~ . - - . r ,
‘ I ‘ I . I! ._ 
, . .. . _ . _
‘. . . - - V .   "  - .
I n . " - I I‘:
-  - ... H- I}. . $4 

.- . ‘ ' a, -
- av ‘ ' . ._=--K,-... _'..,M‘w

 

Camping at Croton State Park in Vermont, where state They often preserve scenery characteristics of the state,
campgrounds are beautiful, with life-giving woodland at such as in Fountaznebleau State Park, Louisiana, where
hand, helps one to forget the overcrowded and noisy city. visitors can camp beneath the ancient, moss-draped oaks.

MARCH, 1963 127

RECREATION
PROMOTES
HEALTH

 

“Here is the preventive medicine of the future.”

So states Dr. Rush in this excerpt from his stimulating

Congress address in Philadelphia, October 2, 1962

Howard A. Rusk, MD.

EVERY TIME we make a medical ad-
vance we compound a felony of
some sort. We keep people older longer
to get all the disabilities that come with
an aging population. We keep children
alive who in the past would have died in

 

the early weeks or months of their lives,
kids with good minds and disabled parts
of their bodies who will ask, “You kept us alive for what?”

At the turn of the century, life expectancy was forty-six.
Today, it is seventy-one and we have added five years to the
life of every man, woman, and child in the United States in
the last ten. We have added years to life. It is also our re-
sponsibility to add life to years.

We are all familiar with the over-65 clubs, the golden-
age clubs. I saw the first one that was sponsored by the city
of New York in 1946. It started for an interesting reason;
there was a recalcitrant group of welfare recipients who kept
coming in to gripe so often at one of the welfare oIIiees that
workers couldn’t get any work done. One day one of the
workers with a keen eye said, “You know I don’t believe
these people come here to gripe, I think they come here be-
cause they don’t have any place else to go. The longer you
keep them waiting, the better they like it. They bring their
lunch and they like to stay all day and he the last.” He said.
“I think if we got a place for them to go and have a little
fun, we would get them out of our hair.”

So, they got the ringleaders in and said, “How would you
like to have a club? There are three rooms in this old
deserted building down the street and we will get it for you
and you can set it up the way you want it.” The gripers

 

DR. RUSK is director of the Institute of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation, New York University Medical Center,
and an associate editor of The New York Times. For his
complete address see Selected Papers of the 44th National
Recreation Congress, published by the National Recreation

Association ($3.50).
128

thought this would be terrific. So, they got an old second-
hand piano, a beatup pool table, a couple of card tables, and
opened the Hodson Center.

They set up a lot of interesting ground rules originally.
First, they elected oilieers every three months so everybody
could serve. Second, they put everyhody on a committee-—
eommittees to serve coiiee, committees to serve tea, to visit
the sick, send out hirthday cards. et cetera. I first saw
Hodson Center when it was five years old. seven hundred par-
ticipants, average age 76.

The center was then on a six-hour. full-(lay week by popu-
lar demand. It had a dance twice a month, with a large
workshop program, put on a play once a month. There haw
been eleven weddings since the place started. The thing that
interested me was that visits to doetors’ offices and to clinics.
and admissions to general hospitals for a physical disability
from this group compared to a group who had no place to
go and nothing to look forward to was Fifty percent less than
those who had no place to go. Admissions to mental hospi-
tals for senile psychosis was only ten percent of the ex-
pectancy.

ERE IS the preventive medicine of the future, preventive
H medicine that is a lot harder to give than the Salk vac-
cine because here you have to use social tools. There is
something in having purpose in life and heing happy that
prevents the progression of atherosclerosis. I am as sure
of that there as of being a sun in the sky.

Suppose you woke up one morning and had absolutely
nothing to look forward to? No place to go? Nothing to
do? No one to see? Your hands were sweaty and you
couldn’t eat your breakfast? You had a lump in your throat
and you were miserable? Multiply that by every day and
that is what individuals have that have nothing to look for-
ward to. The emotions have such tremendous eiieet on our
whole complicated endocrine system. and I know that it is an
endocrine disfunction that does all this.

RECREATION

We have only started in this program and we cannot do
it without recreation leaders. They are the front line of
defense. I think the recreation professional has two price-
less ingredients if he is good: a love of people and great
imagination. Without that in the field of therapeutic recrea-
tion, a leader is no good. A doctor is no good if he tries
to go into rehabilitation and does not have these two things
plus more than a modicum of patience. So, this is one facet
of the program.

Since dynamic therapeutic recreation is a fundamental
part of the rehabilitation program, this is the job that has to
be done by a team: the doctor, the nurse trained in rehabili-
tation techniques, the physical and occupational therapist,
the speech therapist, the clinical psychologist, the social
worker, the teacher, the vocational counsellor, and the skilled
person in therapeutic recreation. Everyone has his job to do
and is an all-important member of this therapeutic team.

If you have not developed programs in your community
h05pitals and in your centers of various types, get into it in
offhours, get a taste of it, because you can make a great con-
tribution, and I am sure that you will become addicted to the
program very quickly if you experience some of these ex-
periences. The field is so broad. You have been an unbeliev-
able adjunct in therapy and mental disease—you have
changed the picture in mental hospitals within a decade.

There is one word of caution about your program. You
are very young in the therapeutic phase and you have gone
very fast. You have a wonderful facet in which you can
serve but do not go clear off the deep end and feel, as some
zealots have felt in other fields, that this is the alpha and
omega that meets all the needs of disabled people. This is an
all-important stone in the foundation but this is an adjunc-
zive therapy that has to be fitted into the total needs of the
individual and I say this to you because it is so easy to let
your enthusiasm run completely away and feel that you have
a specific rather than a part of the total.

I would like to tell you a little story and give you a few
lines written by an unknown Confederate soldier and found
in a small country church in a rural Alabama town about one
hundred years ago. I first saw it on Adlai Stevenson’s
Christmas cards six years ago and got the history from him.

It has given solace and comfort to many who have come
to us in trouble and the father of one patient had it cast in
bronze and it stands at the entrance of our institute where
we all get strength from it from time to time and I would like
you to know it because maybe he is talking about you too:

I asked God for strength that I might achieve

1 was made weak that I might learn humbly to ohey.

I asked for health that I might do greater things

I was given infirmity that I might do hetter things.

I asked for riches that I might be happy

I was given poverty that I might be wise.

l asked for power that I might have the praise of men

I was given weakness that I might feel the need of God.

I asked for all things that I might enjoy life

I was given life that I might enjoy all things.

I got nothing that I asked for, hut everything I had

hoped for.

Almost despite myself, my unSpoken prayers were

answered.
I am among all men rnost richly blessed. #

MARCH, 1963

Grand Slams
at your
Sporting Goods
Dealers

“ ennun sum

GOLF CLUBS

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

129

Portable
Hat and Coat Racks

These multi-purpose wardrobe racks go
wherever needed or store away like folding
chairs when not in use. They come in 3 ft.
or 4 ft. len ths, have two hat shelves and
1 or 2 ful length hanger bars for coat
hangers or coat hooks. {Two sided hooks
snap over and straddle the bar. see detail).
Standard units come on glides or casters:
stand rigidly under a full load. CHECKER-
ETTES are also available in two sided units
(double capacity): add-on units for making
long continuous racks, and matching wall
mount units. ,

Write for Catalog.

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.

Rte. 83 5. Madison St., Elmhursl, Illinois

 

ThePl-AYGROUND

asMUSIC TEACHER
by CARABO-CONE

A vailable from

RECREAIION
00K (ENTER
8 West 8th Street
New York 1 I
alSS.

Endarsed by Univ. psychologisls.
Develops child‘s reading 8. rhythmic ca-
ardination. Published by Harper 8. Raw.
lectures, cansullations available. For In-
lraductory material plus Keybaord Read-
Ing Chart send $1 to Cone, Box 356,
Scarsdale, N. Y.

 

WORLD WIDE GA HES

Delaware, Ohio

Enioyed by Adults and Children

a Sturdin built for rugged use
0 Skill games and table games

0 Equipment games and puzzles
o Manufactured and sold by
Warren and Mary Lea Bailey

Write for Free Catalog

 

130

 

50 SUGGESTIONS
FOR A
SAFE OVER-NIGHT

Director—Assistant Director

10.

. Check

Review cou nselor responsibilities

Check on first-aid supplies

1.

2.

3. Check on all equipment
4.
5
6
7

Check names

. Review emergency routines
. Have ready list of overnighters

. Check on current health of over-

nighters

. Review overnight rules with staff-

campers

insurance
overnighters

coverage for

Have periodic contact with over-
nighters

Trip-Master—Counselors

ii.

a

Make sure equipment is in good
condition

. Adequate sanitary supplies

. Ample food

. Proper food containers
. insect repellent

. Rigid swim regulations
. Rigid fire regulations

. Preper use of axe, knives, et cet-

era

. Fair camper duty assignments

. Adequate supervision

Campers

2].
22.

Ample clothing for all weather
Flashlights

23. Towels—beach and face

24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

MR.

Sleeping bag 0r blanket roll
Extra pair of shoes

Suntan lotion

Overnight qualifying test
Use buddy system

Know camper's allergies

Know camper's swimming abilities

SLEZAK is associate professor of

recreation at Oregon State University
in Corvallis.

Edward J. Slezak

Camp Site Selections

3]
32

33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.

39.

40.

. Free of poisonous plants

. Safe water supply

Shade from sun

Dry ground

Safe campfire spot

Protection from storms
Proper drainage around tents

Area clear of glass, tin cans, et
cetera

Protection from animals, wild and
domestic

Safe swimming area

General

41

42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.

48.
49.
50.

_

. PrOper waste disposal

No night swims

Put out all fires

Avoid strenuous activities

Ample sleep-rest

Constant check on campers
Avoid strangers

Check on possible food spoilage
Respect other's rights

Store equipment safely upon re-
turn

 

CEDCO

195 Mineola Blvd.. Mineola. N. Y.

Arts - Crafts -_ Recreational Wholesalers

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

CREATIVE MAIERlAlS EUR All ARE GROUPS
UVER lllllll CRAFT lllEAS

    
  

il‘ SEND ONLY 50¢

FOR COMPLETE

 *Appiicable to first-

purchase

BlIY Blllll AND SAVE

RECREATION

 

Factors Affecting

PROGRAM

'1-

the Day Camp Program

Virginia Musselman

Camp activities are
influenced by a
child’s need to ex-
amine, explore and
learn. about his natu-
ral world and its
ways.

MARCH, 1963

TODAY'S CHILD grows up under many pressures. Growing up
in itself brings many emotional pressures. To them are
added the pressures that result from increasing emphasis on
sports and social programs at earlier age levels (preadolescent
team sports and early adolescent “dating” are outstanding ex-
amples) , so that the child is pushed too rapidly into maturity;
the pressures resulting from over-exposure to mass communi-
cation media that encourage conformity and a dependence upon
shallow, surface entertainment; the pressure of affluence that
provides too much too soon; the growing pressure in some education programs re-
sulting from intensive emphasis on the sciences with a reduction of opportunities to
enjoy the hand and performing arts.

It is the function of (lay camping to provide the setting, facilities, leadership. and

a!

  

 

131

program best suited for child develop-
ment. It is the function of the day-camp
program to provide a framework of ac-
tivities in which each child can partici-
pate at his own rate, without pressure;
in which each child has an Opportunity
to explore the wonders of the out-of-
doors, to learn to use and to enjoy his
five senses, to learn to express his feel-
ing and emotions through language and
movement.

It is the function of the day camp to
provide leadership for its activity pro-
gram—leaders who are intuitive enough
to sense the right moment to ask a ques-
tion or to suggest an answer; leaders
who have curiosity, enthusiasm, and
energy; leaders who not only like chil-
dren but respect them; leaders who are
present when needed, but unobtrusive
when children are developing their own
projects; leaders who stand ready to
open a new door of interest when the
child is ready; leaders who enjoy learn-
ing along with the children; and most
of all, leaders who know that the child,
not the activity, is the important thing.

Planning the activity program, like
news reporting. involves the “Big Five”:
Who, What, When, Where, and Why.
Activities are not separate, individual
facts that can be dropped one by one
until a child’s day fills up “like a barrel
of potatoes.” Each camp activity should
be more like a building hlock, capable
of becoming part of a wonderful struc-

ture when combined with knowledge
and imagination.

“Cap’n” Bill Vinal once described
this necessary, ongoing quality in his
vivid style: “Camp activities grew out
of a child’s need. To visit the heron
rookery on an island, he must be able to
canoe. There can be no safe canoeing
without certain ability in swimming. To
go swimming he must obey certain law.
Each step is a vital part of his existence.
Out of such experiences come growth.”

A day camp deep in the heart of a
city park or on five acres of suburhia
may not be able to supply a rookery and
a canoe, but Cap’n Bill’s statement in-
volves two factors that make the differ-
ence between inadequate, haphazard ac-
tivity programs and really meaningful
camp experiences. These are motivation
and progression. Activities that provide
a natural motivation for the child are
those that Open new doors, provide new

132

opportunities. Such activities must be
capable of growing, expanding, leading
on to new action, new creation, new
experience, new adventures. Motivation
for what? Progression to what? These
questions can only be answered through
the working out of Specific objectives,
geared to each individual day camp.

as MOST IMPORTANT statement in
T Day Camp Standards, as developed
by the American Camping Association,
declares, “The program should be so
planned, administered, and supervised
as to lead to the achievement of the gen-
eral objectives of camping and the spe-
cial objectives of the particular camp.

I t is recommended that these objectives
be stated in writing.”

This point is emphasized because
without specific objectives, worked out
and understood by the entire staff, a
day-camp program can easily become
a day-by-day rehash of activities avail-
able to youngsters in school, on the
playground, or through other commu-
nity resources. Constant referral to, and
checking activities against, written day-
camp objectives is one of the best ways
to recognize and eliminate activities
good in themsclves but not contributing

dircctly to the attainment of the stated
objectives.

Introducing a child to the work of na-
ture and guiding him into an under-
standing of his rcsponsihility in it are
tasks not to be taken lightly. Important
lessons are lcarned quickly through
play. Important physical and mental
skills are developed by the challenge and
adventure of play activities. It is at this
point that day-camp activity programs
often bog down. A good, well-balanced
activity program is not always, or nec-
essarily, a good day-camp program. The
simple rules of thumb can be used in
selecting and in conducting day-camp
activities:

0 Never conduct an activity indoors i]
it can be conducted outdoors.

0 Can. the activity selected be replaced
by a more campliice activity? if so, re-
place it.

If these two rules are followed, many
controversial issues, such as how much,
if any, of an organized sports program
should be included in day camping, will
work themselves out.

HE ACTIVITY PROGRAM will be the
T direct result of instruction between
campers and staff within the limitation
of the camp site, facilities, and re-
sources, and within the framework of

specified policies and objectives. Maj or
factors include the “Big Five”: Who,
What, When, Where, and Why. In day
camping, these factors influencing the
activity program involve camping, staff,
camp sponsorship, camp site, the weath-
er, the schedule, and basic values.

The campers may be boys, girls, or
boys and girls. They may be average
youngsters, handicapped groups, or
groups in which handicapped and non-
handicapped are integrated. They may
be members of a specific agency, a spe-
cific religion, one economic level, or the
campers may cut across the entire socio-
economic structure of the community.
The average camper in most day camps
is between five and twelve years of age.

These factors of age, sex, physical
condition, economic and sociological
background have great implications for
program. A five-year-old is very differ-
ent in his needs and interests from a
nine- or a twelve-year-old. A twelve-
year-old girl is usually much more ma-
ture than a boy that age. A handicapped
child has the same play needs as the
nonhandicapped, but may require a dif-
ferent tempo and adaptation in some ac-

tivities if he is to achieve the glow of
success and accomplishment.

Decentralization and careful age
grouping is necessary if individual
needs are met. Adequate leadership,
too, is necessary. Usually the campers
are divided into groups with an age
range of two, sometimes three, years.
Different agencies have slightly differ-
ing standards, but the ACA standards
of a counselor for every eight young-
sters under eight years of age and for
every ten youngsters eight and over is

quite representative.

A counselor may he the right agc,
have the propcr training and experi-
ence, the highest moral integrity, and
particular skills in some part of the ac-
tivity program and still not be the
opcner-of-doors, the catalyst that brings
about a positive reaction between camp-
er and camp, camper and camper, camp-
er and counselor.

Curiosity and enthusiasm can go far

RECREATION

in overcoming a possible lack of train-
ing and information in the area of na-
ture. It is difficult to find a counselor
who knows all about trees, or camp life,
or ants, or flowers, birds, bears, chip-
munks, and garter snakes. An observant
counselor with a “I-wonder-why” atti-
tude—“I wonder why birds don’t fall
off a tree branch at night, I wonder why
“feathers smooth out when they’re
stroked, I wonder how much rain fell
last night, I wonder how tall that tree
is”—is very likely to lead a group of
youngsters into a magic world of per-
sonal discoveries.

Such a counselor may have had little
experience in drama, but he will wonder
who first set feet on the land, what he
was like, how did he live, play, work and
worship. Out of discussion will come
research, at least to the extent of the
children’s activities. Then will follow
an act-it-out project, involving not just
drama, but crafts, games, sport, music,
dance. In camp the performing arts are
all “kissing cousins” of the hand arts.
as they were in earlier, less s0phisticated
eras. They become a part of everyday
living.

HE DIRECTOR of the day camp looks
T for these plus values in selecting
the counselors, tries to stimulate these
qualities by at least fifteen hours pre-
camp training, provides reading mate-
rial for supplementary study. He works
with the counselors in developing the
objectives of the camp and in deciding
upon the broad program areas. He
leaves the selection of specific activities
to the counselor and his group, except
when activities involve other groups or
the entire camp. He guides but does not
dictate, leads but does not push. He en-
courages initiative, resourcefulness, ex-
perimentation. He not only believes in,
but practices, democracy. He is not
alarmed or discouraged when a coun-
selor or a camper seems out of step with
the others or “hears a different drum-
mer,” as Thoreau put it.

Supplementing the group counselors
should be junior counselors or coun-
selors in training; specialists in areas
such as nature, swimming, horseback
riding, archery, sailing and canoeing,
music, dance, arts and crafts, and
drama; resource specialists called in for
special purposes and on special occa-

I MARCH, 1963

sions, such as rangers, naturalists, for-
esters, fish and game wardens, and the
like.

The smooth running day camp, de-
pending upon its size, location, sponsor-
ship, and other factors, may involve
various other camp personnel vital to
its health, safety, and successful opera-
tion and administration. Doctor, dieti-
cian, nurse, cook, maintenance workers.
bus drivers, and clerical workers are
among each staff, but are not concerned
primarily with the activity program.

The activity program of a day camp
will of necessity reflect the policy of its
sponsoring agency and its objectives.
This Sponsorship determines whether
the camp will serve girls, boys, or mixed
groups; whether it places any special
emphasis upon one religion; whether it

F1
L J PROGRAM

playgrounds taking turns. Somctime
the public (lay camps are operated on a
firstocome-first-served registration basis,
again usually on a weekly schedulc.
ACA standards require a minimum of
at least three days a week, for not less
than two weeks, per camper.

111E ACTUAL LOCATION of the day
camp and its physical characteris-

tics play a big part in the foundation of
the activity program. A day camp set
up in a city park, one Operating in state
or county park, one located in a mouno
tainous area, on a lakefront, or on a
(lesert’s edge, a ranch, or a farm. will

 

M» m... -  

C
 n 3...?  f 7 r

Campers soon acquire a new friend in a neighboring squir-
rel, learn that he is one of nature’s foresters. If is forgotten
cache of provisions often sprouts into a cluster of seedlings.

serves one or more than one age group;
and whether it operates on a nonprofit
or proht-making basis. The sponsoring
agency’s policy—and budget—walso de-
termines the hours per day and the num-
ber of days per week or month that the
camp operates.

A day-camp program operating three
days a week with a different group of
youngsters every week will have a very
different program from the camp which
the same youngsters attend for an en.
tire summer. Day camps operated by
public recreation and park departments
are sometimes organized on a weekly
basis. with youngsters from the various

be influenced by the location. The sea--
side camp’s activity program will lcan
toward water sports, sand and water
play, the wildlife of beaches, marshcs
and the sea, ship and pirate themes.
The actual acreage also is a factor.
No actual research has been made 011 a
standard ratio between the number of
campers and the acreage of the day-
camp site, but several organizations giv-
ing informal Opinions recommend an
acre per child. Many day camps operate
on a much smaller ratio. An essential
quality of any form of camping, includ-
ing (lay campin". is freedom of move-
ment within as wide a variety of physi-

133

cal resources as possible. Children need
space. Too many youngsters 011 too
small an area can turn the day camp
site into an outdoor slum.

HAT BASIC VALUES can the activity
W program give the camper through
the leadership techniques of a cap-
able counselor? What lesson in living
will the camper absorb without being
taught? They will vary in number and
degree with each camper. One camper

Sill!

WKQM

EISSUfiSfil

[CAMPING]
IEUSTRATED

TH£ MAGAZINE FOR ALL CAMPER.

[ganao

YOU SAVE $1.35

D SUBSCRIBE E

NOW!

CAMHNO ILLUSTRATED
1122 fourth Avenue. San Diego 1. California

 

 

 

 

Isaac‘s my $1.80; add my name to your subscription Ila! tar
Imantha.

 

 

NDHAN [LRE
V

0 CRAFTS ° KIIS 0 LIIERATURE
0 SUPPLIES ° (DSTIJMES ° PRINTS

Authentic and complete for beginners
and experts. Shipped Immediately.

. Since l927lPost: New York City
. Museum: Monroe. N. Y.

54 PLUME TRADING co.
1

.‘ Dept. 243E, Box 585, Monroe, N. Y.
A

7

Send 25¢ tor finest catalog and price
list. Belunded with order.

Nam

 

Address
Clttt

 

*

Stats

AAAAAAAAMAMAAAAAMAD

i
i
g
i

134-

AMAMAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA:

VVYVWVVVVVVWVVVVVV

4
1

may learn the joy of sharing, whether
it is food, toys, talk, or friendship. An-
other may find out that he does not have
to be a bully, to tease to get his own
way, because everybody takes turns and
he gets his. Another may find that he
does not always have to be the best in
order to enjoy anything or to get recog-
nition. Still another may discover that
it is fun to try something new, whether
it works or not.

A basic value emerges as each indi-
dividual shares his day with the other:
He learns a bit of democracy. He finds
out that his idea may be good, but Bill’s
is better; that the others do not always
agree with him and that it is all right
to disagree. He finds that what he does
matters to the others and affects them.
If he skips on his chores, he holds up
his group. lf he does something well,
he can help many who cannot seem to
get the knack of it. He learns to take a
part in planning, but not to sulk when
he doesn’t get his way.

He takes a big step toward self-direc-
tion and initiative. His opinion is re-
spected. He is encouraged to try—and
try again. He is encouraged to ask ques-
tions and find out answers, to experi-
ment. to observe and make sense out of
what he sees, to use all his senses and
his mind and his muscles in exploring
to its limits this new world around him.

He finds out that he is a real person,
not just a child, or a son, or a camper.
He’s a needed and valued part of the
day-camp community with something
of himself to give. He feels the sweet
tastc of achievement: “I made it, I
found it, I (lid it, me, all by myself.” All
these values become a part of the boy
or girl through the understanding ef-
forts of a counselor, using a wide range
of activities to provide fun. adventure.
and new experience.

‘.iRISTS in day-camp circles, as in
P camp circles, decry the schedule or
thc division of the day-camp day into
definite segments. Under optimum con-
ditions, with campers whose imagina-
tion and curiosity have been stimulated
by parcntal understanding and the best
of school situations, this attitude of let-
ting activities develop without any type
of direction might work. Even with
them, however, certain areas of time
must he blocked out. For example, if

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

youngsters are transported to a day-
camp site, whether by family car, public
bus, school or camp bus, a travel sched-
ule has to be set up, taking up a chunk
of the morning and the afternoon.

Lunch should be at a regular time
and so should a rest period. Some sort
of daily opening and closing of camp
lends it a bit of drama important to
childhood. When a large number of
children will use the same facilities,
such as a swimming pool, archery
range, nature museum, camp fireplacc
or shores, and the like, groups must he
scheduled not only for safety but for a
fair distribution of time. Just as any
businessman knows roughly how his
day will be divided into correspondence,
conferences, appointments, et cetera, so
a counselor must have an idea of what
the day will bring.

However the schedule is filled out it
should show a fine balance between very
active and quiet activities, between the
plastic and the performing arts, between
small and large group activities. Activi-
ties should flow. Sudden breaks or
changes are disruptive and frustrating
to youngsters. Time should be allowed
to make comments, to clean up, to get in
the mood for something else. Pressure
of time, pressure of too many things to
do in too short a time, should he elim-
inated. A day camper should be relaxed
—--not loafing or lazy—but not hectic.
over-excited. and over-tircd.

'tE DAY-CAMP program is uniquely
T qualified to effect and to relieve
pressures. It is relaxed, informal, non-
competitive, yet stimulating and adven-
turous. lt fosters the development of a
normal, natural, curious, creative child-
hood. lt bridges the gap between home
and the rcsidcnt camp. It provides a
change of pace and place, opens up a
new world, different from everyday,
provides activities that encourage la ugh-
ter and curiosity, imagination, and co-
operation. lt provides adventure and
self-testing within a framework of safe-
ty. It encourages initiative, creates an
interest in, and a respect for, all living

things. it

 

MISS MUSSELMAN is director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association Program
Department. This material is taken from

her recently published The Day Camp
Program Book ($7.95).

RECREATION

ART
EXPERIENCES
[N CAMPING

a?

3

. Roy E. Dodson, Ed.D.

ART EXPERIENCES planned for camp
should correlate directly with the
unique environment of the outdoor set-
ting; and thus they are in contrast to
activities presented in a classroom or
with indoor groups. The overwhelming
panorama and vast scale of nature
which confronts the camper outdoors
may cause him to overlook the diversity and interesting de-
tail involved in nature’s composition—the diversity of a par-
ticular pebble among pebbles on a beach, or how a single
leaf can be similar but never exactly like any other leaf. Mi-
nute differences are apparent on close inspection. Thus, the
first consideration is to help campers to see these differences
and to promote an awareness within the camper.

Camper awareness can first be aroused by instruction to
find an “interesting” inanimate nature object within the im-
mediate vicinity. Hopefully, the campers will return with a
variety of selected items, ranging from rocks, weeds, leaves,
tree bark, to wildflowers, and shells—among the more com-
inon materials available. At the start, the campers should he
warned to avoid such outdoor hazards as poison ivy, and

 

against destroying or otherwise disturbing the natural set-
ting so that later campers cannot enjoy the area. Thus, aware-
ness is initially promoted by the learning process through
the selections and rejections involved. This procedure should
develop some appreciation of nature, of the beauty in nature,
and awareness of the individuality of the beauty in nature.

After selections have been made, the instructor or leader
should briefly discuss some of the common characteristics
of the objects. These characteristics include shape, or the
silhouette of objects when held up to the light; texture, the
tactile sensations perceived by touch; color in infinite subtle
variations; and weight of the object so drawn as to clearly
illustrate the contrast between a heavy substantial rock form
and the fragility of a delicate flower, leaf, or blade of grass.

Apart from common characteristics, each particular ob-
ject selected by the youngsters will have individual char-
acteristics which may be obvious or may become apparent
only after close inspection and mutual discussion by camper

 

DR. DODSON is assistant professor of art at Nebraska State
Teachers College in Wayne. This article is based on the
camping program presented by the Wayne State College Lab-
oratory Elementary School for Children in Grades Three to
Six at Ponci State Park in, northeast Nebraska.

MARCH, 1963

A?

r

PROGRAM

 

Xi?

Awareness is promoted by

the learning process

and counselor. This type of personal approach is necessary
to achieve more intense awareness.

There is always the temptation to link art with science in
these discussions, as we are living in a scientific age, and
become involved with botanical and geological explanations.
This would be unfortunate when our endeavor is to lead the
camper to an appreciation of the beauty of nature for itself
apart from a scientific understanding. Picasso has said that
“to dissect a rose is to destroy it.” Therefore, in this case,
the reactions of campers to a nature object should be an ap-
preciation of it for itself as an example of those simple things
that give joy to life.

Once having selected an object, the students record this
experience so it may be shared with others, and this is where
art comes in. At this point frequent frustration develops
among youngsters because of their awkward hand-eye co-
ordination, that is, the ability to reproduce on paper with
pencil or brush what they see with their eyes or envision with
their minds.

The astute leader is prepared for this eventuality and will
explain to the individual camper those art principles appli-
cable to his given problem, with a demonstration if needed.
Instructions given to the young artist might be:

Note the basic shape of your object and draw it lightly.

Add distinctive characteristics, such as texture.

Add details to your drawing.

When you are satisfied, darken lines adding shading and shadow.
Erase all extraneous lines and smudges.

Color your work if you desire.

The last step, equally important to the other two in this-
educative process, is a plan of appreciation and evaluation
after the drawings are completed. Evaluation, as used in
this context, refers to the means by which a camper is en-
abled to discover his own strengths and weaknesses. This
may be accomplished individually by a camper-counselor
discussion of the salient featurcs of the work, those sucess-
fully handled and those needing greater attention in future
assignments. As a group activity, campcrs may arrangc a
display of their work and each, in turn, explain what he at-
tempted to do. Such an exhibit at the camp sitc or on a bul-
letin board can stimulate appreciation not only of art activi-
ties and the abilities of the campcrs but of the camping pro-

gram as well.
Other art activities can bc presented with equal success

Continued on Page 138
135

PROGRAM

 

Adapting Games

for the Handicapped

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

AMPING for the
Chandicapped
and aged, a rather
recent trend in ree-
these
groups of citizens,
calls for the adap-
tation of games for
different facets of the program. For
most of the campers, active games may
take the place of what we normally con-
sider athletics. Many games, both ac-
tive and inactive, may he adapted for
use by handicapped persons whether in-
stitutionalized, at home. in the commu-
nity, or in a camp.

reation for

 

A person with severe limitations
caused by disability or age can partici-
pate in a small table-model bowling
game or putt around a small golf game
unit and receive as much, or more, sat-
isfaction emotionally, socially, and of-
ten physically as the nonhandicapped
individual who has bowled or played
around a regulation golf course. In
camp, games can be used to complement
many of the regular activities in a num-
ber of practical ways. Active games
can be used for instruction purposes in
the development of skills; for informal
play, both indoors and outside on the
lawn; for tournament play; and for
Special events.

Some games, such as ring-toss and
suction darts, are very adaptahle for
carnivals. A captive haseball game can
provide that activity for a wheelchair-

DR. THOMPSON is acting director of the
National Recreation Association Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the

HI and Handicapped.
136

Modify rules and

equipment to suit specific limitations

bound individual who might not be able
to participate in the regular softball
game at camp.

With only slight modification, a large
percent of all the games played on land
can he played in the water. These games,
along with the games and stunts that are
water activities exclusively, will afford
the handicapped bather many happy
hours and pleasant memories. An ex-
ample of a game adapted to water is the
ring-toss which consists of a floating
frame and rubber rings.

AMES for the handicapped can best
be classified into five categories:
quiet games, active games, table board
games. mental games, and mental puz-
zles. Most inquiries from personnel in
the field concern active and quiet games.
Most games used for the ill and handi-
capped today are commercial games
which can he adapted for use by the
handicapped. Staffs working with the
handicapped have improvised other
games specifically to meet the needs or
capahilities of the people they are serv-
ing.

Many of the games that can be used
by the handicapped are those normally
used for recreation hy the nonhandi-
capped, and are readily available from
department or sporting goods stores. A
variety of simple, inexpensive games
and toys which are lightweight can be
found by searching through five-and-
ten-cent stores and neighborhood dis-
count centers. Then again, special
games have been designed and manu-
factured for a particular type of handi-
capped group, such as the blind. The

Foundation for the Blind sells braille
cards, bingo, Scrabble, and dominoes
especially designed for use by the non-
sighted.

HEN using games for the handi-
W capped and aged, select games,
whenever possible, which have some
real meaning to the participants and
which are also used, in many instances,
by the nonhandicapped for recreation.
Try to discover the needs and interest
of your group before actual participa-
tion. Many of the handicapped and
aged either have never participated in
games or, because of early background
and religious training, believe that play
activity is a waste of time. In such cases,
an education and orientation program
should be carried out to reinterpret the
values of play, the therapeutic effects of
the exercise, and the social-emotional
impact of the constructive use of leisure
time.

In using either active or quiet games
with the handicapped, we must imme-
diately forget the usual rules, dimen-
sions, and placement of the game and
modify the rules to suit special needs.
In many cases, just scoring once, as in
ring—toss, is sufficient for successful ac-
complishment by a handicapped partici-
pant. An active game may have to be
adjusted several times distance-wise.
Another example of adaptation is the
placement of the target for suction
darts. Bring the target, by holding it in .
your hands, closer and closer to the par-
ticipant until he succeeds in hitting it.
With some aged or handicapped, you
may have to hold the target inches away
to enable them to hit the hoard. Some-

RECREATION

tmes whcn the physical disability pre-
tents even the slightest degree of for-
ward motion, the target should be
placed upon the ground and the partici-
pant can then drop the dart onto the
’arget.

The Recreational Research Institute,
358 Broadway, New York City, has ex-
perimented with active games for the
landicapped and now has collected a
.rariety of fifty—five different pieces of
:quipment. The games are durable,
:asin stored, colorfully decorated, and
gave point scores for contests and
tournaments. These games cover the
gamut of movement and can be used for
informal playinstruction, parties, teach-
ing, and contests, tournaments, game
days, and carnivals.

The institute has adapted games which
include much physical motion. The
.games can be played on the floor, on a
table, or in a bed and are also adaptable
for both indoor or outdoor facilities. A
new concept is called a “captive” game.
Some of the games are equipped with
nylon string and, after use, can be pulled
back by the participant. The active
games include ring-toss. rubber horse-
shoes, suction darts, sport-a-hall. bat-a-
bird, bat-a-ball. badminton, shuffle-
board, suction archery, beanbag throw,
sandbag box, captive howling, ban—hall,
and many others.

ANY VARIETIES of quiet games meet
M the needs and pleasures of the
handicapped and aged. Manufacturers
are beginning to realize the need for
specific game requirements for the
handicapped. Today, one can purchase
many of the table games with over-
sized pieces, such as checkers, chess,
cards, dominoes, et cetera. Automatic
card dealers, shufflers, and card-holders
are also available.

Techniques now used for assisting
handicapped persons in quiet games are
modifications of the games through thc
use of holes in the playing surface and
pegs for playing and use of magnetic
pieces or magnetic hoards. For both
instances, these techniques permit play
without the normal slipping caused by
spasticity, stiffness, or feebleness in
gripping.

With some ingenuity, staff members,
or even the participants, can duplicate
most hole-and-peg table games by drill-

MARCH, 1963

ing holes in a piece of ply “nod and then
gluing or nailing it to another piece the
same size. Then the game design is
drawn or painted on the board or, if a
paper cutout, pasted on the playing sur-
face. Small sections of round pegs can
be cut from round sticks, such as ba-
tons, pencils, dowels, or other items
bought from a lumberyard. The players
can grip the pegs and move them until
they slide in place into the designated
hole without slipping off the board.

FOR DETAILED INFORMATION on some
of these games, write for the Self-
Help Devices for Rehabilitation pub-
lished by the Institute of Physical Med-
icine, New York City, and available
from J. A. Preston Corporation, 71
Fifth Avenue, New York 3 for $4.75.

The self-help device office of the In-
stitute of Physical Medicine tested sev-
eral games on a group of patients. The
occupational therapist who conducted
tests on a miniature indoor shuffieboard
game reports. “This game was used by
ten different patients, mainly hemi-
plegics and low-back pain cases. It was
used at a part of the treatment program
to increase range of motion in the af-
fected extremity, increase coordination,
develop socialization, to increase stand-
ing balance and tolerance, and to aid
trunk Hexion. Patients used this game
mainly from a standing position. It was
excellent for developing the interest of
the patients. The patients forgot the
fear and apprehensiveness connected
with standing. Low-back cases bent over
much more than they stated they were
capable of without complaining of
pain.”

The Consulting Service on Recreation
for the Ill and Handicapped of the Na-
tional Recreation Association has been
collecting various games for the handi-
capped as well as equipment which can
assist handicapped persons to partici-
pate.

In using games of any type for the
handicapped and aged, common sense
is the rule. Modify the game to suit the
capabilities of the player. Offer a good
chance for achievement, use game ac-
tivities for their contribution to physi-
cal strength, coordination, rehahilita-
tion, emotional release. and social sat-
isfactions. #1:

with game tested,

player
Hanna Batrite Bats!

preferred

F | B E R G L A S S
SLEEVES, to reduce
handle
and barrels COLOR
KEYED for length,
keep Hanna Little

breakage,

League Bats out
front from coast to

coast!

HANNA MFG. CO.
Athens, Ga.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  

RIG. U. 3. PM. 0".

 
  

137

ARTS é? CRAFTS CORNER

 

THE CRAFT MATERIALS
available from manu-
facturers and distributors
offer a variety, a uniform-
ity, and an efiiciency in
packaging that can’t be
equalled by amateurs. Just
as frozen foods and pre-
pared mixes have light-
ened the work of cooking,
these materials have light-
ened the work of craft
leaders. However, no mat-
ter how varied or how
wonderful “store-bought”
craft supplies are . . . there
comes a time! It may be
during a long, wet, cold camping period; or on an unexpected
rainy day when children must stay indoors; or having an
unexpectedly large group descend upon the leader; or find-
ing that the storehouse (or pocketbook) has run out or a
requisition hasn’t been filled.

Whatever the reason, there comes a time when a quick
substitute can save the day. Like many improvised games
or play equipment, the novelty of a “homemade” recipe often
lends unexpccted interest with creative and interesting re-
sults. All too often, however, like that yummy-sounding
recipe for a new dessert, exact pr0portions have been lost or
forgotten. Better clip this, and file it for emergency use.
And if you have a favorite “recipe,” please send it along and
share it with our readers. The ones that follow havc bcen
collected mainly from National Rccreation Association pub-
lications and craft manuals issued by recreation dcpartments.

SOAP BUBBLES

For everyday, average bubbles, lnix soap and watcr in pro-
portions of about one to eight. For bigger, strongcr and
brighter bubbles, stock up on ouc of thcse mixturcs and use
when bubble play may save the day. This recipe comes from

the Cleanliness Bureau.
1 cup distilled water

1/{4 cup soap
1,: cup glycerinc
Put water and soap in mixing bowl and stir until soap is
dissolved. Add glycerine and mix well. Let stand about an
hour, then skim off all the small bubbles, using a spoon or
edge of paper towcl. Pour into jar, covcr, and use as needed.
Add a few drops of food coloring for hrightcr bubbles.

Alternate recipe
1% cups very hot water
‘31 tablespoon soap flakes
1/5 tablespoon sugar
1 heaping tablespoon glycerinc
Pour hot water into a pint jar. Add soap flakes and let
dissolve. Then add glycerine, sugar, and a fcw drOps of food
coloring if desired. Shake until everything is dissolved, then
strain through cloth and let cool. Do not use until all the
small bubbles are gone. Makcs extra-strong bubbles. (Olivc
or vegetable oil may be substituted for glycerine but doesn’t
keep as well.)

 

FINGERI’AIN’I‘S

Fingerpaints should be thick, not runny. lf jars are kcpt
covered, the homemadc paints will last well. Two drops of
oil of clove in each jar will eliminate any sour odor. All
recipes require cooking. To prevent lumps, use a double
boiler and stir constantly.

138

Recipe #1
1%, cups laundry starch
1%, cups soapflakes
1 qt. boiling water
8 half-pint jars
1/5: tablespoon of poster paint (art colors), for each
jar, in whatever color desired.

Mix starch with just enough cold water to make into a
paste. Add to boiling water. Cook until clear or glossy. Stir
constantly. Add soaptlakes, stirring until evenly distributed.
Pour into the jars, adding half tablespoon of poster paint to
each. Mix well, and cover tightly.

Recipe #2
1 cup soapflakes
1 cup laundry starch
1/2 cup talcum powder
1 cup cold water
7 cups boiling water
Mix cold ingredicnts into a paste, and stir slowly into the
boiling water. Cook until mixture is thick and glossy (about
five minutesl . Pour into small jars and add coloring as
in #1.
‘ Recipe #3
1/; cup flour
1 cup cold water
1 tablespoon glyccrine
1 teaspoon sodium benzoate

Mix flour and water. Heat in double boilcr, stirring con-
stantly to prcvent lumps. Cook until it bubbles. Cool. Add
glycerine and sodium benzoate. Pour into jars and color

as in Recipe #1.

Art Experiences in Camping
Continued from Page 135

 

as part of a camping program. For example, using available
materials in art projects, such as burning twigs to produce
charcoal; squeezing berries, roots, and leaves for a variety of
colors; locating a clay dcposit to use in making simple pot-
tery.

Photography is another activity too frequently overlooked
as an art activity. Many campcrs bring camcras to camp,
evidcncing the claim that it is the most popular hobby in
America today. Unfortunately most of them are content to
take only the usual “snapshots,” Increr recording thcir
friends in stilted poscs. As the same basic elements must be
sensitively considered in both art and photography to pro-
duce a good picture, photography can bc taught as anothcr
art medium.

PrOperly taught, art activities in camp are important in
that the camper develops awareness of the bcauty of nature
through observation and is led to record these experiences
so they may be sharcd with others. His appreciation of the

work of others is dcveloped through the evaluation proce- I

dures, including a group display and discussion. Thus, a
willingness and rcadincss to share with cach othcr is pro-
moted. And when a child is able to objectively evaluate his
efforts in regard to his own further development. this. of
coursc, is one of the ultimate rewards of teaching. ii:

RECREATION

 ADMINISTRATION 

PLANNING CAMPS

Julian H. Salomon

CAMPS FOR CHILDREN offer an excel-
. lent field for the application of the
skills and talents of the landscape archi-
tect. Opportunities in camp planning
are not new but they have grown, too.
Camps that were once simple collections
of tents and shacks have in many cases
now become good-sized institutions.

The utilization of professional serv-
ices in camp planning is chiefly a
phenomenon of the last fifteen years.
Few of the early camps were carefully
planned. Most of the older ones, and
particularly those in private ownership,
were developed rather haphazardly.
Where planning was done, layouts often
followed Army or strictly formal pat-
terns. It was not until the 1930’s when
the National Park Service developed its
recreation demonstration areas, that
landscape architects and camp planners
were able to work together on a large-
scale, nation-wide camp-building proj-
act. The plans that were then prepared
and carried to completion were hased on
the long experience of national camping
agencies such as the Boy and Girl
Scouts.

Many early camps were laid out in
military fashion, with the tents or cab-
ins of the campers arranged in company
streets. As the campers grew in size,

 

MR. SALOMON is director of Planning
and Construction of the Camping Divi-

sion, Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. (See his
article, “Four ‘F’s, of Camping,” RECRE-
ATION, March 1960.) This material is
reprinted with permission from Land-
scape Architecture. ]uly, 1961.

MARCH, 1963

the disadvantages of the formal layout
and the crowding of the campers into
limited areas hecame apparent. The first
attempts to hreak up the concentration
resulted in divisions into age groups, so
that separate living quartcrs were pro-
vided for juniors, intermediates, and
seniors. However, even with this break-
down, it was still found that the values
of the small groups, which comprised
the original camps, were lost. Further,
behavioral and other problems were
found to be directly attributable to the
mass methods of housing and program-
ing.

The solution arrived at, and still
thought to be the best practice, was
to divide the camp into “villages” or
“units,” which are really small camps
into which the large camp is divided.
These consist of living quarters for
about thirty-two campers, together with
wash and toilet facilities, and some type
of shelter generally called a “village
hall” or “lodge.” Structures and facili-
ties necessary to the central administra—
tion of the camp are grouped in a “vil-
lage” of their own. The latter is located
so as to be easily accessible from the en-
trance and is the first area reached by a
visitor to the camp. It contains the din-
ing hall, health lodge, office, living quar-
ters for central staff and help, and other
facilities utilized by the entire camp.

In developing a camp site, the prin-
ciples of land planning can produce a
camp that will well serve its purposc
and, at the same time, be pleasing to
look upon and live in. This result can

 

seldom be produced by an amateur, al-
though inexperienced people often de-
ceive themselves into believing that no
art is required for the arrangement of
something that seems so simple.

The skill, training, and experience of
the landscape architect are needed to
select building sites. arrange the various
parts of the camp and the relations of
buildings to one another, and allocate
to various parts of the site uses that will
facilitate and make provision for the
various parts of the camp program. At
the same time, the arrangement must be
convenient and economical to carry out.
It must consider and solve drainage
problems and those of health and safety,
and provide for future growth.

The skilled land planner will take ad-
vantage of natural features to effect sav-
ings in the cost of development. At the
same time, he will do everything possi-
hle to preserve the inherent natural val-
ues of the site so they may contribute to -
the camp program and the enjoyment of
the campers. He will obtain a unity of
design throughout the camp and use his
skill to create a feeling of grace and
beauty.

The dominant characteristic of the
camp site is that of the wild or primeval
landscape. rather than that of the ur-
ban landscape, playground, or school-
ground. The greatest charm, as well as
the greatest value of the camp, is its
character of freedom, spaciousness, and
wild beauty. In his imagination. the
young campers should be able to feel he
is entering an undiscovered country.

130

 

The dominant characteristic of a cam p site should be that of a wth landscape with emphasis on preserving natural conditions.

The creation of this feeling and mainte-
nance of these values will depend on
wise use and prevention of overcrowd-
ing.

There is, for every site, a very definite
point of saturation beyond which value
and charm are lost, both temporarily
when the overcrowding takes place and
permanently whenever maintenance is
unable to repair scenic damage. [11 plan-
ning, the desired result can best he ob-
tained by dispersion of developments so
that children. as well as buildings and
facilities, will be spread over a wide
area. At the same time. large areas will
be left undeveloped and maintained in a
natural condition.

Emphasis should be on the preserva-
tion and restoration of natural condi-
tions. Simple treatments are therefore.
The character of the
natural landscape can be maintained if

most desirahle.

structures are limited to those absolute-
ly necessary for the proper functioning
of the camp program. They should be
grouped according to function and with
a minimum semblance to arrangement

140

a." —

in rows. Careful attention must be given
to the design of the buildings and the
design of the spaces between them. The
plan should provide for the concentra-
tion of buildings in groups and the con-
centration of open spaces. In the ideal,
we should aim at a skillful combination
of dispersion and concentration.

The camp layout should be informal
and adapted to the topography. Skill
and judgement need to be exercised to
make the natural features the most strik-
ing and attractive characteristics of the
design. Although it is difiicult to apply
a rectangular system to a tract with
much irregularity of surface, it has of-
ten been tried. The result of these efforts
to force nature into formal shape, by
laying out the camp without regard to
topographical features, .lias generally
been hoth unfortunate and hideous. In
fact, nothing more unattractive in camp
planning can result than from such at-
tempts. Not only is the result ugly but
apt to be very costly, and inconvenient.

While building design lies within the
province of the building architect, close

collaboration is particularly important
in the camping field. Like land design.
building should be simple. Buildings
are not only expensive, but they can of-
ten overshadow the natural features. As
camping is primarily simple living out-
of-doors, structures are only a means to
this end. Buildings that provide every
comfort and convenience defeat one of
the basic purposes of camping.

All this certainly does not mean that
buildings should he devoid of beauty.
What should be sought is a fusion of the
newer forms with those architectural
qualities which have withstood the test
of time.

As in any other type of similar proj-
ect, the design of a camp is affected by
the land and its characteristics, such as
the presence or absence of tree cover,
rocks. streams. lakes, ponds, or swamps.
and the character of soil. The surround-
ing (levclopments, both those existing
and what will take place in the foresee-
able future, also need to be considered.
Climate, areas of sun and shade, and the
funds available and to be raised are. of

RECREATION

cc urse, other important factors that will
affect the design. Most important of all

is the program of the camp and the effect

tl at it and the site are to have on the

c: .mpers.

A child’s play is most satisfactory

vi hen it allows him the greatest oppor-

tinity to manipulate his environment

a :cording to his needs; to imagine, to

c 'eate, and to hide. That is why so many

1 eople remember with pleasure the

( vergrown lot, thick brush, and woods.

The feeling of quiet and ease which

r ontrast with the formality and stiffness
I ( f the city may be conferred by attrac-
I lave natural features which are made to
rontribute to the beauty of the camp.

All details, whether unevenness of

:ground, trees, bushes, or rocky out-

crops, are not only in character but

serve as indications of where and in
what manner buildings may be placed

l 9 give both variety and connection. On

the other hand, when every inequality

is made smooth, every road and path

made straight, and cabins placed on line

with formal rows of conifers, we are

moving the city atmosphere to the camp.

Leaving undisturbed those natural fea-

tures which can be preserved without in-

convenience often saves what become
the most costly items of “improvement.”

The best parts of the site will be re-
served for living quarters of the camp-
ers. These generally should be in places
that will have both sun and shade dur-
ing part of the day. Shade trees are par-
ticularly desirable to screen off the west-
ern sun of summer afternoons. 0n the
other hand, exposure to the sun is highly
desirable for cabins designed for winter
use. In the warmer parts of the country,
sites that will catch the prevailing winds
should be selected for living and dining
areas.

The dining hall, being generally the
largest building in camp, has some times
been assigned the most pleasant and de-
sirable building site. To do this, how-
ever, is often an error. Being a most
utilitarian structure that at hest is used
for short periods three times a day, its
location must be closely related to its
purpose. Where possible, it should be
almost equidistant from the living units.
It must also be convenient to the main
camp road, to make deliveries easy.

To place it on a hilltop or on the lake
shore is generally an error. In the one

MARCH, 1963

case, access is apt to he difficult and, in
the other, a drainage and sewage-dis-
posal problem is immediately created.
The hilltop may he sclected because it
seems important to have a fine view
from the dining room. But once the
novelty wears off, the annoyance and
the inconveniences of the high location
become apparent. The necessity of
climhing the hill at every meal time, in
rainy weather and boiling sun, hardly
makes the view worth while. Besides,
the important view from the camper’s
viewpoint, is what is on the plate hefore
him.

It is far better to select a less-com-
manding position and reserve the hilltop
for evening or sunset climbs by thc
campers or for a place for special pro-
grams of songs and story telling when
the extended view can be really appreci-
ated and enjoyed. As a matter of taste,
too, the top of a hill should be avoided
as a building site since the building will
always have a bleak exposed look, par-
ticularly when seen against the sky.

With the land rising behind the struc-
ture, on the other hand, the building
will fit into the landscape and he shel-
tered from winds and storms. Advan-
tage may often be taken of a side hill
site to provide entrances at two levels
and to economize on construction costs.

Another consideration of dining-hall
location is that it should be easily acces-
sible from the entrance to the camp.
By its naturc, it must be reached by the
trucks that bring in supplies and remove
refuse. This traffic, even though it is not
too heavy, is disturbing to the primitive
and quiet atmosphere it is important to
maintain. It should, therefore, not he
permitted to deeply penetrate the site.
Neither should the road split the site
or separate the living units from one
another.

Here it is only possible to touch upon
some of the general and specific prob-
lems of camp planning and to mention
a few solutions that experience has
proved to he fairly successful. All of
what has been said points up the neces-
sity for the careful preparation of a mas-
ter plan which will control and guide
the development of a camp. It is in the
preparation of this plan and in its exe-
cution that the landscape architect can
make a real and invaluable contribution
to camping. #

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

“my grandfather makes the
best playground equipment

in the whole world...because
he loves little people like me! he makes

slides and swings and see-saws and all
kinds of things. they’re real strong and
they’re very safe. if you're going to buy
playground things you better talk to my
grandfather or my father first. they're both
named mr. burke.”

o o o o o o o o o I O o I I I o a o a o o a o o o I o o o o o o o o O 0 I I I O O 0 I 0 I o o a 0 I o o 0 on

Send me your playground planning and specification file.

J. E. BURKE COMPANY

P. 0. Box 985 Dept. 55 P. 0. Box 549 Dept. 55

 

 

 

New Brunswick. Fond du Lac,
New Jersey 0R Wisconsin
Sec.F
Name: _.____._._. 
Street: _ _____
City: State:
141

FACTORS AFFECTING
CAMPING FACILITIES

OUTDOOR NATURAl SWIMMING AREAS. Concrete fioats for support
of doeks on ocean areas offer very effective possibilities.
These have been used by the State of Washington Park and
Recreation Commission. Concrete beaches have also been
used by the West Virginia Conservation Commission in areas
that have heavy erosion and washing action. Float supports
for piers where there are heavy ice conditions may prove to
be preferable to fixed piers. Consideration must be made for
adequate storage of piers to keep maintenance costs at a
minimum.

0 Sprinkle fine dry sand over all waterfront piers and floats
while paint is still tacky in order to provide slip protection.
Commercial products are also very effective in controlling
slippery areas.

0 The top of all docks should not he more than one and a
half to two feet above the water surface. Provide one ladder
of at least two feet width for each ten to twenty swimmers at
maximum load. The general standard of fifty square feet per
swimmer has proven very adequate and is accepted by most
national agencies. Kick rails (of either wood or metal) on
the beginner and intermediate areas should be provided to
expedite instruction programs.

0 Be sure all waterfront buildings have adequate natural or
forced ventilation and that floorboards are spread well apart
to facilitate drying out.

0 Be sure to provide adequate storage, docking, and pro-
tection facilities for all small craft at the waterfront arca.
Rollers for skidding boats down sharp angles have proven
to be effective. Remember that the higher a canoe has to
be lifted from the ground for storage the farther it can fall
if dropped. Small-craft areas should be separate from swim-
ming areas. The Red Cross has an excellent set of plans for
aquatic programs, known as the 1065 Series.

0 The U.S. Soil Conservation Service will provide assistance
in the building of outdoor pools. dams. et eetera. ( See REC-
REATION, February 1963).

o The Outboard Boating Club of America, 307 North Michi-

gan Avenue, Chicago, provides excellent plans for docks,
piers, boathouses, et cetera.

RECREATION HAll. Camp recreation halls should be of simple

construction with plenty of protected space. Consider the
Indian long-house idea for a recreation hall. Some camps in
the Northwest make them out of slab cedar. All-steel build-

MR. STOCKER, former camping survey director for the Amer-
ican. Camping Association, is now adult program and coun-

sefz'ng secretary of the YMCA in Baftz'more, Maryland.

142

 

ADMINISTRATION

Stanley W. Stocker

ings should be considered as a means for keeping construc-
tion costs within limited budgets.

o A unit recreation hall might be just a simple roofed shel-
ter with open sides and canvas drops. This could provide a
protected cookout area. Double garage doors that slide up
overhead are worth considering for protection against the
weather. A unit recreation hall (not used for sleeping)
should allow from fifteen to twenty square feet per ealnper
for the maximum number that will use the hall at any one
time.

0 Have simple furniture consistent in pattern and design.
Provide enough exits for all to leave quickly with a minimum
of confusion upon the completion of program.

I Rainy-day program areas especially require adequately
protected areas. Be sure to provide for plenty of space for
the hanging of wet-weather clothing, latrine facilities in the
hall itself or nearby, and plenty of storage space to protect
any program equipment.

0 All camps should provide for a comfortably furnished
staff lounge for staff meetings, relaxation away from the
children, after-taps relaxation, et cetera.

CAMP ROADS AND ENTRANCE WAYS. The entrance is often over-

looked in camp planning. It is very important since it sets
the tone of the camp through the all-important first impres-
sion. It should be simple and blend in with its locale. The
appeal and mystery of the rural lane is well known. Solid
gates seem to imply a service gate. It may be better to keep
gates simple and rustic.

0 Parking requires a minimum space of eight-by-twenty feet
per car. N inety-degree angle parking is the most efficient type
of parking area, if at least a twenty-two feet access aisle is
provided. If you plan to surface the parking area have an
engineer draw up the specifications. Plan for dust and ero-
sion control. Barriers to block car access beyond the park-
ing area should be placed effectively so that deliveries and
emergency access is not limited.

0 Avoid routing serviee roads adjacent to living or program
areas. Be sure that grass and brush are cut back at least five
feet from the sides of all roads to provide visual safety for
any youngster that might be playing there. Take adequate
speed-control measures—sometimes a real bump will help
—wtih well-placed signs. Plan to channel water into culverts
and to initiate erosion control measures before the problem
develops. Be sure to plan eulverts large enough to handle
high flood water flow without taking the road or path out.
A stone base with three to four inches of gravel should be
adequate for most surfacing of camp roads. Signs have
proven to he most effective with eleven words maximum. #

RECREATION

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Nature Program Usage

Over 130,000 persons enjoyed the
lature program of the Huron-Clinton
lIetropolitan Authority in 1962 com-
pared to 125,000 in 1961, according to
Cenneth L. Hallenbeck, HCMA direc-
or. The authority administers a five-
:ounty area surrounding Detroit.

Comparative figures: 1960, 100,000;
[959, 80,000; 1958, 72,000; 1957, 44,-
191; 1956, 24,000; 1957, 18,529; 1954,
[0,958; I953, 6,700. These figures
:over usage of regular scheduled activ-
ities or other registered services, but do
not include the thousands of individuals
and families that take unguided hikes
along the nature trails in several Huron-
Clinton parks. Included in the general
total for 1962 are over seventy-three
thousand persons that visited the nature
center at Kensington Metropolitan Park
to view exhibits. Comparative figures:
1962, 73,275; 1961, 73,498; 1960, 60,-
973; 1959, 47,971; 1958, 52,598, and
1957, 28,441.

Since this nature center has become
so popular, this summer the authority
will open a small nature center at Lower
Huron Metropolitan Park near Belle-
ville and, sometime in 1964, Operations
will begin at another nature center lo-
cated at Stony Creek Metropolitan Park,
a future recreation site under construc-
between Rochester and Romeo.

Nature program services include not
only visits by the general public to the
nature center, but naturalists’ lectures

tion

provided at the center and at schools in
the five-county area, guided field trips,
conservation projects, and leader orien-
tation programs. The aim of the pro-
gram is to acquaint persons in south-
eastern Michigan with plant and animal
life in recreation areas and to help ev-
eryone deve10p an appreciation of natu-

ral environment.

Programs in Action

Members of the New Hampshire
Natural Resource Council recently were
offered a blueplate of reports from vari-
ous action programs in outdoor educa-
tion. John E. Dodge, conservation edu-
cator for the New Hampshire Fish and

MARCH, 1963

Game Department, discussed the pres-
ent status of efforts to meet the new law
requiring youngsters between sixteen
and nineteen to successfully complete
a hunter safety course before they can
buy a hunting license. He cited the fact
that there are already approximately
seventy-five training centers operative,
with more than five hundred certified
instructors, and that more than twelve
thousand youngsters have been proc-
essed. Since the legislature provided no
extra money or pcrsonnel for the job,
Mr. Dodge stressed that 'such progress
would have been utterly impossible
without the outstanding cooperation of
all lay groups concerned and of the offi-
cials who administer the public high
schools.

Brant Stamp
The 1963-64 federal “Duck Stamp

Contest” on North American waterfowl
drew 161 entries from eighty-seven art-
ists. The fourteenth annual contest was
conducted by the U.S. Department of
the Interior’s Bureau of Sport Fisheries
and Wildlife. Following a tie-breaking
vote. a brant design, created by Edward
J. Bierly of Lorton, Virginia, was de-
clared the winner. The new stamp de—
sign is a black-and-white watercolor
depicting a pair of graceful brant swoop-
ing in to land, with a lighthouse in the
background.

Entries on wood ducks exceeded those
for all other species. Puddles t0pped
the popularity poll of waterfowl. Geese,
diving ducks and mergansers were next
in order of popularity. The 1963-64
“Brant” stamp will go 011 sale July 1.
1963. (Everyone over sixteen vears old
is required to carry a stamp when hunt-
ing migratory waterfowl.) About two
million stamps are sold annually.

Outdoor Recreation

Representatives of more than 150 dif-
ferent outdoor recreation groups gath-
ered in Olympia, Washington, in De-
cember, for the Governor’s Conference
on Outdoor Recreation. Governor Al-
bert D. Rosellini called thc conference
to aid him in planning his comprehen-

 

Reereation theme song. Governor Al-
bert I). Rosellini of Washington has an-
nounced that recreation needs will be
his reeurrent theme song in the 1963
Legislature. Here, the Governor (right)
is seen handing the deed to some state
land to John F. Chesterly, chairman of
the Yakima Metropolitan Park Distriet
Board. The new aequisition abuts ex-
istin g district lands under development.

sive outdoor recreation program for the
legislative session which began on Jan-
uary 15th. Conference delegates were
briefed by a series of Spcakers including
James Faber, assistant to Secretary of
the Interior Stewart Udall. Thcy also
reccived copies of the preliminary draft
of the Governor’s Report on. Outdoor
Recreation prepared by the staff of a
committec of the land-use agencies in
the state.

Ideas on outdoor recreation presented
by the delegates in discussion groups
were recorded by stenographers for use
by the governor’s committee. Recom-
mcndations from the inter-agency com-
mittee considered by the confercnce
called for technical assistance and
matching funds for county development, ‘
increase in boating facilities, cnlarge-
ment of the Youth DeveIOpment and
Conservation Corps (currently a pilot
program) , a permanent inter-agency co-
ordinatiug committce, an addition of
approximately forty new parks, 222.000
acres of game hunting areas, and access

to five hundred lakes by 1973.

New Major Conrsc

l’ark administration, a new major
course of study at the University of
California at Davis. provides under-

143

graduate instruction for students inter-
ested in public and private park and
recreation areas. This major brings to-
gether administration, horticulture, de-
sign, recreation, and related courses.
The park administration major en]-
phasizes horticulture and planning with
public administration to provide an un-
derstanding of implementation through
government process. Recreation instruc-
tion indicates the planning and use re-
quirements for park and recreation fa-
cilities. To bring these diverse subjects
into practical perspcctive, students are

encouraged and assisted in obtaining
part-time and summer jobs with park
and recreation departments.

A scholarship for students majoring
in park adminsitration has been estab-
lished by the California Association of
Park and Recreation Administrators.

Capital Fish Bowl

Secretary of the Interior Stewart
Udall. in announcing some planning re-
sults on the proposed national aquar-
iuln, emphasized that eighteen months
of engineering and architectural plan-

 

Swimmers _ ,1-‘916, -.

need

COIN-LOK”

security

7999/ 79mme do, 750/ ‘

Coin-Lo}: lockers start to pay off
the day they’re installed . . . and
soon liquidate your original invest-
ment through cash collected and the
elimination of lost article claims,
attendant salaries, and employer
headaches.

Pool patrons know that Coin-Lek
provides maximum security for their
possessions, welcome its time-saving
convenience, and gladly drOp their
coins in the slot.

Even on a coin-return basis, Coin-
Lok lockers soon pay for themselves
in eliminated expense. Mail the cou-
pon today for complete details.

 

   
  

7.
I

4

COIN-LOK* SYSTEMS, INC.

ASubsidiaryof
AMERICAN LOCKER CO., INC.

 

COIN-LOX SYSTEMS, INC.

Dept.35, 2" Congress Street
Boston 10, Moss.

Please send, without obligation, com-
plete information and specifications
of New Coin-Lok" Locks and Lockers.

144

*T. M. American Locker Co., Inc.

  

Oldest and Largest
Coin Lock Manufacturers

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

When writing to our advertisers please menlion RECREATION.

ning will be required. Ten million dol-
lars has been authorized by Congress,
this cost to be amortized over a thirty-
year period by “modest admission
charges.” Secretary Udall said that the
center would probably be built on Hains
Point in East Potomac Park. The center
would display over a thousand species
of fish, amphibians, and invertebrates
in natural surroundings. There would
be unequaled facilities and specimens
for aquatic research activities of the

Fish and Wildlife Service.

Paved with Gold

The 371 residents of Central City.
Colorado, had a twenty-four carat roar-
ing good timc at the city’s annual “Old
West” celebration. Eurcka Strcet, thc
main drag, was “paved” with gold. Jen-
nite J-16, a widely used coal-tar pitch-
emulsion protective coating was applied
to thc street and, before it dried thor-
oughly, the surface was sprinkled with
small particles of gold-coated aluminum
foil. Rcsults were dramatic and spec-
tacular, particularly at night from thc
reflection of lights.

Strings Attached

Children in the Torrance, California,
puppet classes strung togethcr a Nippon-
ese vcrsion of “The Three Little Pigs
Who Go to thc Fair” and sent it to Japan
for the New Year’s celebration there.
Thc recreation dcpartment’s puppct
class created the script, along with the
rest of the fixings for a complete puppct
show—puppets, stage, scencry. Miss
Sachiko Sakomizu, who translated thc
script into Japanese, made the arrange-
ments for the show in Japan.

Mass Media Awards

The Thomas Alva Edison Foundation
presented its National Mass Media
Awards for distinguished contributions
to science education and for education
and service to youth at its Eighth An-
nual Awards Dinner in New York City
in January. Eighteen awards and cita-
tion were presented. Among those cited
were one of the nation’s leading theoret-
ical physicists, Dr. Victor Weisskopf of
MIT, who won the prize for writing the
bcst science hook for youth. Charles
Edison, the son of Thomas Alva Edison.
presented a special citation to the Amer-
ican Telephone and Telegraph com-

RECREATION

 

pany’s vice-president for space commu-

nications for furthering world commu- Healthful fun for every age group!

nications through Telstar. Outstanding 3’

science materials were also honored in  
radio, television, film, and children’s '
books, and two $1,000 scholarships
were given to the radio and television
stations that best served youth in 1962.
Lewis L. Strauss, former chairman of
the Atomic Energy Commission, spoke
on “Some Current Intelligence.”

Children. young people' edults . . . everyone enioys
Dimco Shut'tleboerd tor excitementl relexetion end
wholesome exercisel Court diagram can easily be leid.
indoors or outdoors. Femous Dimco equipment. in
low-price "Sunlite" or premium-quelity "Free-Glide"
linesl comes in sturdy Reguletion Sets or Junior Sets
(2/3 reguletion size).

  

FREE . . . Court layout plens. geme rules. cetelog oi
Dimco shuffleboard sets. Write todey to:

H”

Introduction to Music Y DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth 59., Dayton 2, Ohio

 

 

The Montreal Parks Department’s
music studio is offering a series of spe-

cial  to.  Th. p... M I LT O N H O O D WA R D

gram offered weekdays between 4 and

6PM includes Miniature Operetta, prep- & C O o I I N C -

aration of mime songs and children’s Hotel Plaza. New York I9. N. Y. e PLazo 3-7680
operettas; Little Pipers, class in record-

ers (easy to learn); Musical Games, Capital and budget campaigns for:

interesting games, introduction to dif- Y’s . Theatre GrouPs P.°°'s .

, , , , Community Centers Symphony Orchestras Libraries
ferent muSIcal Ideas; Uncle Musw, 1n- .3...“ parks

troduction to sol-fa and knowledge of 

music; and the Hirondelles Choir (the E  a Complimentary conference on request

music studio is in Hirondelles Park), 6;

children’s choir. am, Member Firm, American Atrociation of Fund Raising Counsel.

 

Recreation Departments,
Please Copy!

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllc

PTA-prepared exhibits in glass cab-
inets that line the lobby of the elemen-
tary school, in Bayside, Wisconsin, are
bringing to life the history, geography,
art, and architecture its students are
studying this fall. And symphonic mu-
sic, played in person by members of the
Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra, is on
the agenda for! students and their par-
ents, with a backdrop of original paint-
ings, to provide other aspects of a “liv-
ing encyclopedia” project.

The Bayside School exhibits and con-

cert are an example of the additional

   
  
     
   
     
   
   

The fastest seIling
hot-weother item
‘ ovaiIable. More than
8c profit per 'lOc

sole! I Equipment
from $149.50.

JUDO SUITS ' KARATE SUITS
Best Quellty — Lowest Prlces

Honda Associates, Inc.

50 West 47th St.. New York 36. N. Y.
Write for Free Catalog

POPCORN

" ' r-- PoPoo rn is enioyed
' by over 95% of the
American public. 8c

 

'IIIIIIIIIIIIII

- - - - - _ profit per
dimensions that imaginative parent  \s H & R we sole.
teacher associatlon members can give ' ' Equipment
to classroom education and to their DRY “NE MARKERS f ' ° m

ALSO POWER DRIVEN AUTOLINE 5199-00”

From 2011' to 100i“: Capacity

  
 
 
 
   
  
 

children’s cultura_l growth. It ofiers a
preview of activities that await the many

b . h “ACE MODEL SHOWN" c. ..,. m, ,., .,. W
0' c 0' cata _ ,. roch re‘ we. on 5 than up
new PTA members now e111D sour, t Fm. le __ "mm ammoemfmh“yam owmion‘f Ewr

by some forty-seven thousand parent- ShuteH — so lbs. co- thing you need trot one ""‘aouroe to:

pacity. 5ndKones, Popcorn rlot Deva,
Shaker in "app" ,0, ton Candy and man, othel‘ t '

. _l '
Constant Flaw. “(1115'

Adlustable Control on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AND Refreshment Supply Division

Wm“ GOLD MEDAL PRODUCTS 80.

' ' ' 4 d I .
spur to membership a local assoclatlon Send to Dept. R for booklet on other mo e s 183949 Freeman Avenue. Chaim", 14' Ohio
Continued on Pag8149 

teacher associations throughout the
country. Mrs. Milton L. Wiener of Wil-
mette, Illinois, national membership
chairman of the organization, believes
that “interesting activity” is the best

MARCH 1963 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 145
9

MARKET NEWS

 

For further information, please write directly to source given.

- TranSparent letters Offer a new instant way to letter or
title overhead projection transparencies and to project the
lettering in color. Exceptionally easy-tO-use Color-Stik Lets
ters are simply dry-transferred from a type sheet to the
transparency. The user rubs the desired letters from the
sheet to the transparency with a pencil, ballpoint pen, or
burnishing tool. NO special equipment, chemicals, blades.
or glue are required. The finished lettering on the trans-
parency is transparent and is thus projected in color on the
screen. Color-Stik Letters are availahle in transparent red.
green, or blue, as well as in opaque black.

Once burnished on to the transparency, Color-Stik Letters
are sharp and clean and are eraserproof. They will also ad-
here to any smooth surface, such as paper, cardboard, or
acetate, and can be used anywhere that professional letter-
ing is instantly required. They are especially suitable for
lettering charts, posters, slides. displays, maps. and offer
a wide selection of type faces and sizes for maximum versa-
tility. For complete information and a free sample of Color-
Stik Letters write to Color-Stik. 219 South 18th Street, East
Orange, New Jersey.

0 Trashy ending. A new twenty-cubic-yard trash and refuse
packer has been designed for use wherever hand loading is
performed. Outside dimensions are 15' 6” long, 8' wide, and
6' 21/2” in height and the total weight of the unit including
oil, pump, and p.t.0. is 8,280 pounds. A hydraulically oper-
ated packing blade compacts sixty yards Of refuse into the
twenty-cubic-yard hOdy with a maximum compaction force
of ninety-one thousand pounds, at 1600PSI. The packing
blade makes a complete cycle automatically and is operated
by the outside controls on either side of the body. Loading
can be performed from either side. The split-opening load-
ing door has a new low height, designed to reduce loading
fatigue, and the size has been increased tO thirty-six inches
wide by fifty-one inches high. The loading arca holds four
cubic yards, eliminating the necessity of frequent packing
cycles and permitting greater economy of operation.

The floor and the sides Of the unit are constructed from
ten-gauge Hiten steel and the sides are braced for extra
strength. To eliminate leakage. a watertight compartment
extends thirty inches above the floor. A fold-away, nonslip
step and grahrail is included on each side as standard equip-
ment. The tailgate opens a full ninety degrees tO insure one
hundred-percent body cleanout when the packing blade is
cycled. The blade Operates on hardwood guide blocks
mounted at the bottom portion of the body. This insures
positive packing blade alignment at all times. The tailgate
locks in place with a device that is operated manually tO pre-
vent accidental Opening. The Model 20-5 Hydropake is man-
ufactured by Marion Metal Products Company, Marion,

Ohio.

0 Conservation was the winner recently when an old device,
the traveling water screen, was put to use by the Portland,
(Oregon) General Electric Company to help protect sports
and commercial fishing in the Clackamas River area. Tradi-
tionally, traveling water screens are used tO strain out float-
ing and suspended dehris and trash from water at or near
the intake Openings Of power plants, papermills, and proc-
essing plants using water from lakes, rivers, and streams.

146

As such, they serve admirably to prevent the clogging of
and possible damage to pumps, condensers, and filters. The
water screen installed by the Portland company, however,
serves an entirely different function. It diverts fish migrat-

 

ing downstream in a fish ladder into a pipeline that trans-
ports them an additional six miles around a variety of Ob-
structions before returning them tO the river. Fish traveling
upstream go through a passage at one end of the screen, then
jump over a unique false weir to reach the pool above the
screen. For further information about the water screen,
write to the Stephens-Adamson Manufacturing Company,
Ridgeway Avenue, Aurora, Illinois.

0 Order out Of chaos. The Cat-O-Logger was designed to
bring order out of catalogue chaos. Fastened to any type
of wall with a concealed mounting plate, it holds and indexes
for quick reference quantities of catalogues. books, maga-
zines, and miscellaneous literature. Standard baked enamel
finishes are grey, mist green, or desert tan. to harmonize
with popular Office furniture colors; other finishes and colors
are available on spccial order. Accessory and caps dress up
the unit.

Due tO its design, the heavier the load, the more securely
Cat-O-Loggcr becomes anchored to the wall. The hidden
mounting plate makes Cat-O-Loggcr suitable for installation
with the shelf extended over a desk or other locations where
brackets would be in the way or unsightlv. No special skill
or precise hole alignments are required for attaching it to
the wall with screws, molly anchors, bolts—whatever is
called for by any particular wall construction. Manufac-
turer’s tests indicate that weight in excess of a hundrcd
pounds per shelf foot can he supported satisfactorily hv Cat-
O-Logger which is supplied in lengths Of 18, 24, 30, 42, 4.6,
48, and 60 inches. Various lengths may be ioined continu-
ouslv. Depth Of thc shelf is 12% inches; height of the end
bracket is 9% inches. Shelf and dividers are of Iii-gauge
steel; wall mounting plate is lG-gauge steel. For installa-
tion, the mounting plate is held level against the wall and
plate hole locations marked. When holes have been drilled
and the plate fastened tO the wall, the shelf hooks over the
top edge and is secured by machine screws provided. Cat-
O-Logger is sold through 230 established Art-O-Craph deal-
ers in addition tO other office equipment, art supply, and
furniture dealers throughout the United States and Canada.
Further information, descriptive literature, and prices mav

be Obtained from Art-O-Graph Inc.. 529 South Seventh
Street, Minneapolis 15,

RECREATION

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

 

INDEX TO ADVERTISERS

Page

American Handicraft ....__ __._ 153
American Knitwear .___----.. . H..." 107
American locker  _ __.__ 144
"American Playground Device .._...____.-_--__ 149
Burgess Publishing _. --_--_--_.._._._ _-..... 107
Camping Illustrated _.__-__._-___...-__--_s..-.- 134
Carabo-Cone _____-_._._.____----.._ -.....__..___ 130
Castello Fencing and Judo ._-...-,.  - 149
Cedco ________________________ __. 130
Cherrydale Farms ___.--______s_-__-....-__._.. 105
I Classified Advertising ____..-__._..._t__. ___... 153
Dimco-Gray _ ...-__..-____...--_...._--__-.-._h-._.._ 145
Dutch Mald __.-_.--._.s___--......_.__.._.._.._.__ 109
Electro-Mech Corporation _--a,_......__..._.... 156
Federal Sweets and Biscuit _......_ .... -__.... 151
Gold Medal    --a-_-....--_..._....- 145
Golfmaster .............. .. Inside Front Cover
Gymnastic Supply Company ---_...-_.-- 1-..... 107
H 8. R Manufacturing a”.-.  _._._..___.. 145
Hanna Manufacturing ___.-__-_...__..__.-__.._ 137
Hillerich and Bradsby _...-___._____-_s-____- 129
Honda Associates ._.._..__._..___-_-___....--___. 145
J. E. Burke W---.-_-.._a__-__-_....-_.__.._.-__.. 141
June ls Recreation Month .... __ Back Cover
Mason Candies .__-___---s_.__.-._a___.--...__.._. 150
Michigan Institutional Supply __......_..._ 107
Milton Hood Ward ___-.._.  145
Monroe Sales _-__._______._...___-___..---__.._... 156
National Catholic Camping .----,.._-----_._..._ 152
National Studios ________ .____._..__ 156
1963 Round the World Tour _..._____...___ 108
Nissen Trampoline .__..__.-..._._._____...___.. 152
Playground Summer Notebook __-._......_..- 152
Plume Trading __.....__._.__. ..... -_._.....__._ 134
Ronald Press m-___.___-___.._...._._____.._.__ 155
Stagecraft was... Inside Front Cover
Show Biz __________ -m-...... 107
Sico Manufacturing Company _ Inside Back Cover
Swank Motion Pictures ___.____._....__...___ 107
VogeI-Peterson ._____.__.. 130

 

World Wide Games .___.....___..__...-.___._a 130

 

MARCH, 1963

EE  DS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

PROGRAM AIDS

BOATING aeaoss THE COUNTRY. A booklet
titled Outboard Vacation Guide contains a re-
port on some of the most popular boating wa-
tors in each of the fifty states. Each state
report contains the names and addresses of
agencies to contact for more information.
Maps of cruising waters and photographs add
to the booklet’s graphic flavor. For a copy,
write to Manager, Boating Services and Edu-
cation Department, Outboard Boating Club of
America, 307 North Michigan Avenue, Chi-
eago 1.

THE PLAYGROUND PRESS. If you’re looking for
games and puzzles for your playground bulle-
tins, you may be interested in finding out
more about the games by a Belgian artist
whicb can be reproduced in your publication.
Available in four languages: English, French,
German, Flemish. Maze, identification, and
coloring games should add more zip to tbe
youngsters’ do-it-yoursclf playground press.
For further information, write to Jean Deleu
Alka, 248, rue Victor Rauter, Brussels 7, Bel-
gtum.

SAFETY FIRST. A complete line of materials to
promote y0ur 1963 Spring Clean-Up is now
available from the National Fire Protection
Association, international sponsor of this im-
portant annual fire-safety campaign. For local
fire departments, chambers of commerce and
other organizations sponsoring clean-up cam-
paigns in tbeir communities, the association
has prepared a campaign kit with news re-
leases, radio-TV spots, newspaper mats, and
other useful aids.

“Clean Up for Fire Safety” is the theme of
the eye-catching two-color poster, which has
Sparky the Fire Dog for its central figure.
The same message appears on a window
streamer and a coloring sheet for children, as
well as on an attractive folder Clean Up for
a Fire Safe Home. Folders on a wide range
of home and personal fire safety subjects are
also available from the association. For sam-
ples and information, write the Public Rela-
tions Department, National Fire Protection
Association, 60 Batterymarch Street, Boston
10, Massachusetts.

ODE TO THE PHEASANT. In a book devoted to
America’s most exotic gamebird, The Ring-
Necked Pheasant, John Madson guides his
audience tbrough ninty-nine pages of delight-
ful and factual reading. The author is in-
formation chief of the conservation depart-
ment of Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation.
Copies of the book, which bears a colorful
illustration of a pheasant, are available from
the Conservation Department, Olin Mathieson
Chemical Corporation, East Alton, Illinois.

A ssrsrv CHECKLIST, designed for tbe aged,
the handicapped, and their families, was drawn

up in an effort to bring about an awareness of
the dangers tbat exist in the home. It surveys
every bousehold area, calling attention to sucb

hazards as eye-level clothes hooks, unmarked
drugs, and even trailing apron sashes. Copies
of the “Safety Checklist for the Aging and the
Handicapped and Their Families” may he ob-
tained from the National Society for Cripple
Children 8: Adults, 2023 West Ogden Avenue,
Chicago 12.

PORCELAIN ENAMEL CIIALKBOARDS. A new
eight-page booklet illustrates cross sections of
various types of chalkboard complete with
backings such as Masonite, plywood, and In-
sulite. For further information, write Benja-
min Division, Thomas Industries, 207 East
Broadway, Louisville 2, Kentucky.

Suoormc PRESERVES ornEcronv. A list of over
four hundred commercial shooting preserves
gives locations and game available at each pre-
serve. Many preserves provide guides, dogs,
lodge facilities, meals, transportation in the
field, and trap or skeet shooting. For further
information on the directory, write to the
Sportsmen’s Service Bureau, 250 East 43rd

Street, New York 17.

FOR ournoon COURMETS. Two booklets, Hot
Tips for Outdoor Cooks and Outdoor Cooking
the Easy Way, are invaluable aids for neo-
phyte campers and cooks, give tips on cooking
foods, making utensils, and so forth. Single
copies are available free from Joseph D. Bates,

Jr., P.O. Box 414, White Plains, New York.

RECORDMGS

HERE COME THE BANDS. The music of the four
major U.S. military bands—Army, Marine
Corps, Navy, and Air Force—will be available
on recordings for purchase by the public soon.
The records will be produced by RCA Victor
Records on an out-of-pocket, nonprofit basis.
The normal RCA recording profits will be paid
to the National Cultural Center as a royalty.

The four souvenir albums, available this
spring, will be recorded on location in Wash-
ington, D.C., under the direction of Herman
Diaz of the RCA staff. They will bear a manu-
facturer’s nationally advertised list price of
$3.98 in monaural version and $4.98 for stereo-
phonic. Proceeds will help build the national
performing arts center to be constructed on
the east bank of the Potomac River in tbe
nation’s capital. In establishing tbe National
Cultural Center, Congress, for the first time,
authorized a nationwide voluntary fund-rais-
ing campaign to develop the money necessary
to build the center.

The U.S. Department of Defense has au-
thorized the military musicians to participate
in the band recording project on behalf of the
center. The American Federation of Musi-
cians has advised center officials that it whole-
heartedly supports the recording project. Tbe
recordings will include famous American mil-
itary marcbes and patriotic songs. Each serv-
ice band’s repertoire will be different, with

147

the exception of the national anthem, which
will be included in all recordings. At the pres-
ent time, America’s great contributions to mil-
itary band music are available only on record-
ings by foreign military bands and American
nonmilitary bands and orchestras.

PLAY IT av EAR. Recordings of famous plays,
dramatizations of short stories, poetry, and
documentary recordings on the American Rev-
olution, Colonial period, Western movement,
the Civil War, ctcetera can be used as special
features or guidelines in special event, holi-
day, or cultural arts programs. For further
information, write to Enrichment Teaching

Materials, 24-6 Fifth Avenue, New York 1.

A ROLLICKING ALBUM, F olksongs of Four Con-
tinents, contains South American, Indian, Af-
rican, and French songs jauntily sung and
accompanied by a printed libretto so that lis-
teners can learn the words themselves. An-
other recording, Skip Rope Games, contains
thirty-thrce rhymes and games to be chanted,
sung, and played and comes with directions,
detailed descriptive notes, texts, and illustrav
tions. For further information on these and
other outstanding folk and children's record-
ings, write Folkways Records, 121 West 47th
Street, New York 36.

 

Ever New!

Good information
on camping is never
outdated. Every

/ - March issue of REC-
 REATION emp a-

ll )3).- Z'LJ sizes camping; and
every article is new until you have read it!

Increase your camping resource material

by ordering these issues while they are
still on hand———and at BARGAIN PRICES.
Good as long as they last:

[I March 1961 No. of copies

Let's Keep Camping in the Camp
Changing Patterna of Camping
State Camping Senicea

Wooden-take for Families

The Trip Camp

Day Campa that Are Camp-
Camping Lah for Outdoor Education
The Conacrvation Program at Camp

D March 1960 No. of copies

Camps or Channel 9?

The Fonr "F'a" of Camping

Are You [making for Camp Land?
Campfire Programa

Dayeamp Patterns

Family Outdoor Camps and Camping

D March 1959 No. of capies
Camping hy the Day

Get that Land!

Plus Ideal for Camp

Camping Reference Liata

Camping Therapy for Delinqucnta
Building Camp Facilities for the Handicapped
Camping Servicea for Familiee

Age-Level Chancteriatica of Campers

A Camp for Exceptional Children

Crafta with Natural Materials

D March 1958 No. of copies
Family Camping Invades TV

The Coat that Taught the Children
Suggested Reading on Family Camping
Evalnating the Recreation Camp Program
Youth Camp:

Sailing in Camp

Nature'a Shorthnnd

Camp Photography

Singio copies _ . . . $ .50
Set of four .. . ..................... .. $1.75
Five or more, each ................... ... $ .35

Order from

NATIONAL RECR‘EMIO‘H ASSOCIMH
a West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. r.

148

[OW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

TARGET TO AIM son. A set of standards for
group work and recreation programs for chil-
dren aged six to twelve are included in And
It’s Fun, Too! This paperback, 10”-by-7"
pamphlet is attractive, but its odd size will
make it a filing problem. Also, its contents
are worth a more permanent format. The
material is geared to agencies in the New York
Metropolitan area, but the fundamental prin-
ciples should be the same for any community.
It is also center-oriented. Certain standards
are suggested, such as the ratio of children to
leaders, qualifications of leaders, and indoor
and outdoor play space in terms of square feet.

Sample weekly schedule, a master activity
schedule, and suggested forms for family reg-
istration, group attendance, parents’ consent
forms, plus a suggested staff library add to the
value of this pamphlet. The emphasis on the
child and his welfare, plus standard guide-
lines, many of which are applicable to recrea-
tion (‘cnters not specifically group-work cen-
tcred, make this 33-page pamphlet worth
careful study. It is important material for
leadership training. Available for $.75 (plus
postage) from Division on Group Work and
Youth Services. Federation of Protestant Wel-

fare Agencies, 251 Park Avcnue South, New
York 10.

DON’T DOUBLE YOUR FAUL'rs. A forty-page
booklet for the coach or teacher with little or
no experience in tennis has heen written by
a rcal tennis “pro,” llarry Fogclman. tennis
coach at Davidson College. North Carolina.
Of special interest is the Tennis Error Chart
includcd which is available separately in pad
form. The booklet, Tennis for the Coach,
Teacher, and Player, is available for $2.00
postpaid (six copies for $10.00). Thc pad of
charts, thirty-five 81/1”-hy-11” sheets (large
enough to tabulalc errors for two sets). is
available for $2.00 per pad, postpaid. Send
orders to Harry Fogelman, Tennis Coach, Da-
vidson College, Davidson, North Carolina.

WORLD AFFAIRS. More than fifty million
Americans working through private nonprofit
organizations are engaged in some aspcct of
world affairs activity, according to the new
Directory of Voluntary Organizations. This
wide range of activity indicates, the editors
point out, “the growing awareness in all parts
of the U.S. and among people of all ages and
occupations of how actually and directly for-
eign policy today effects cveryonc’s life, pock-
etbook, and prespccts for survival in a world
worth surviving in."

In listing and describing 388 national, re-
gional, and local organizations—their pro-
grams and publications, addresses and execu-
tive officers—the directory provides a guide to
who is doing what in world affairs. It was
dcsigned to answer questions frequently heard
from citizens interested in “doing something”;
and to aid organizations and agencies wishing
to cooperate or identify with similar groups
as well as media and commercial interests
seeking suitable audiences and markets for
their ideas and services. The variety of pro-

grams and study projects involves almost
every phase of world affairs, offering oppor-
tunity for anyone wanting to find an activity
suitable to his beliefs and talents.

The directory provides comprehensive cov-
erage of national organizations wholly con-
cerned with world affairs and a representative
cross-section of those in which world affairs
programs form a significant part of activities.
It also includes an annotated list of other di-
rectories for additional information on the or-
ganization described as well as for those con-
cerned with fields other than world affairs.
Available from the Foreign Policy Associa-

tion, 345 East 46th Street, New York 17, for
3.75.

WHERE AND HOW. A spiralbound, attractive,
and informative book, Trip Tips, describes a
wide variety of interesting places to go and
things to see in day trips for children along
the Mohawk and Hudson Valleys. The area
covered is wide—as far as Utica and Kingston
in New York, Pittsfield in Massachusetts, and
Bennington in Vermont. The 122-page book
covers: Amusements, such as playlands, ani-
mal farms, sccnic rides, et cetera; Nature, in-
cluding forests, caves, bird sanctuaries, fish
hatcheries, mines, nature museums, and tree
farms; Arts, including music festivals, exhib-
its, dance festivals, movies and theaters; Mili-
tary, such as forts and battlefields; Local
Color, including copper folklore, county fairs,
Shaker villages; History, including the Dutch
(don‘t forget Albany was settled before the
Pilgrims landedl), famous mcn, historic
houses and museums; Sports, such as hiking,
camping, horseback riding, skiing, and other
winter sports; and Industry, including farms,
cider mills, marblc quarries, wood products,
radio and TV stations, transportation, and a
raft of others.

If you’re coming to New York soon, or to
the World's Fair in 1964-65, you'll cnjoy going
through this beautiful scetion and find this
hook very helpful! Availahlc for $1.25 (plus
3.25 for mailing) from Junior League of Sche-
neclatly, 962 St. David's Laue, Schenectady,
New York.

Tnarvscrzsumc usamsas. A list of books rec-
ommended for children, Boolcs for Friendship,
covers a wide rangc to enlarge a child's hori-
zons. It includcs folklore, fairy tales, legends,
and stories; songs, games and foods around
the world; holidays and holy days; and many
other eategories. This third edition in the
Books Are Bridges series is the joint produc-
tion of the American Friends Service Com-
mittee (Quakers) and the Anti-Defamation
Lcague of B’nai B'rith. Available for $.50
from the AFSC, 160 North 15th Street, Phila-
delphia 2 or the AD L, 515 Madison Avcnue,

New York 22.
Q

IT’S A auccsn LIFE. as any mother of a pre-
school child can tell you. A delightful down-
to-earth handbook for parents of young chil-
dren, Your Preschool Child (from ages two to
seven) by Dorothy Kirk Burnett, contains
ideas for the harrassed housewife that can be
utilized to real advantage by leaders in totlot,
nursery school, and preschool programs. This
paperbound, 256-page book costs $.60 and is
available from local bookstorcs. 1t was pub-
lished hy the Macfadden-Bartell Corporation,
205 East 42nd Street, Ncw York 17.

RECREATION

ll Reporter’s Notebook

Continued from Page 145

 

can offer. “Wc are asking friends of
children not just to join the PTA,” she
says, “but to serve it—to grow with it.
There is room to serve and to grow in
almost any direction one’s interests lie.”
At Bayside School, for example, PTA
members interested in amateur photog-
raphy, exhibit arranging, carpentry,
and other practical hohhies, as well as
those interested in the fine arts as such,
have contributed to the success of the
school’s current project.

The cabinet displays at the Bayside
School are restocked by parents and
teachers as the teaching emphasis shifts
from American history (with exhibits
of documents, flags, early Americana)
to Mexico (illustrated with maps, musi-
cal instruments, souvenir jewelry) or to
natural history (with collections of sea-
shells, underwater photography, and the
like). PTA members are due for an
added bonus on regular meeting nights,
when exhibitors in science, art, archi-
tecture, or space exploration are sched-
ulcd as guest lecturers.

Bush Survival

“Operation Survival,” a project of
the Deep River, Ontario, Community
Association, is teaching adults and chil-
dren the art of survival in the Canadian
bush region which claims many victims
both winter and summer. A group of
adults have already completed the
course and a series is planned for chil-
dren this summer.

The enemies of survival in the Cana-
dian bush are pain, cold, hunger, thirst,
fatigue, boredom, and loneliness. The
adult group learned how to overcome
these hazards through evening lectures
and bush trips on Sunday afternoons.

Big City Skiing

The first skiing area in New York
City was opened recently in Van Cort-
landt Park in the Bronx. Called the Van
Cortlandt Ski Area, the new center op-
ens up a popular recreation heretofore
unavailable to thousands of people in
Greater New York. It is designed for
beginners and more experienced skiers
and is open days and evenings with the
use of snow-making equipment and
floodlights. Facilities include a training

MARCH, 1963

area- a Sillllt' [u] befaltltlt'ra. an itllttl“
mediate «lope. and a slope for more ad-
vanced skiers. Five rope tows hat u been
installed to some tht' slopes.

STATE SOCIETY NEWS

CALIFORNIA. District I of the California
Park and Recreation Society recently
elected Richard Conzelmann, Terra
Linda, president; John McBride, Vaca-
ville, vice-president; Elliott Jacobs, Eld-
ridge, secretary-treasurer; and Herbert
Tucker, Vallejo, district director. The
district society presented achievement
awards to Kenneth A. Hill, superintend-
ent of recreation, Santa Rosa, out-
going president, and Joseph D. Rodota,
director of recreation and parks, San
Rafael, outgoing district director.

KENTUCKY. New officers of the Ken-
tucky Recreation Society are: Presi-
dent, Betsy A. Burke; First Vice-Presi-
dent, Charles Spears; Second Vice-
President, Marilyn Remmers; and Sec-
retary-Treasurer, Arthur Seelye. The
society is planning a spring workshop

at Camp Kysoc, April 26-28.

LOUISIANA. New officers of the Louisi-
ana Recreation and Park Association
are: President, Mrs. Judith Hornbaker,
program supervisor, Baton Rouge;
Vice-President, Peggy Brown, director
of cultural activities, New Orleans; and
Secretary-Treasurer, Bernice Sabrier,
community center director, New Or-
leans. This is the first time in the asso-
ciation’s history that its entire slate of
ofiicersjs female.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

Gunnar A. Peterson will become di-
rector of the Special Project on Open
Land of the Welfare Council of Metro-
politan Chicago on March 15. Mr. Pet-
erson has a background in group work
and recreation and has been director of
outdoor education for the Chicago City
Missionary Society since 1958. A for-
mer vice-president of the American
Camping Association, Mr. Peterson is
the author and editor of books and arti-
cles on many phases of recreation, in-
cluding The Book of Outdoor Winter
Activities, of which he is co-author.
The project is now moving out of a
five-year study phase into an action

 

 

Only The. Best_
EQUIPMENT

Is Good Enough

AMERICAN
“APPROVED—

PARK and PICNIC.
P LAYG R O U N D

AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for more than half a century.
Write for comprehensive literature.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON. INDIANA, U.S.A.

WORLD‘S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS 0F F'NE
PARK. PICNIC. P' AVGROUND. anM'A NG
POOL AND DRESSNG 'ROOM EQUIPMENT

 

- Low Cost/Growing
Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

For club, class or team. Requires
minimum space and equipment.
Exciting and practical for few or
many participants. National and
International associations.
Castello uniforms are KODOKAN
APPROVED. Specially made for
the taller American figure.

FENClNG T00! We are the

largest importers and manufactur-
ers of fencing equipment in the
Americas.

Write for Free Catalogs

CASTELLO

COMBATIVE SPORTS CO.

JUDD]KARATE&FENCING EQUIPMENT
30 E. 10th St., N. Y. 3. N. Y. since 1914

. . 1
When writing to our advertlsers please mention RECREATION. l4)

 

Your Group can raise
$100 to $2500 in 4
to 15 Days without
Risk or Investment
through Mason’s
Protected Fund

Raising Plan

 

Thousands of groups throughout the
country have successfully conducted fa-
mous MASON PROTECTED FUND-RAISING
DRIVES, raising money quickly and com-
pletely without risk or investment . \Ve
supply a choice of top-quality MASON
candies, beautifully boxed. At no charge
to you, each package has an attractive,
printcd band, hearing your organization’s
name, picture and 510 an. W“ even PRE-
mv shipping charges. You make a big
NET enorrr of 66% % (40¢ on every box
that costs you 60¢) and you pay NOTHING
until AFTER your drive is over. Anything
remaining unsold may be returned for
full credit. For complete information
without obligation, write us or fill in the

coupon below.

 

 

‘1
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

.1

Ma. Geoaoe Raoscn. Dept. 756
Mason. Box 800. Mineoln. N. Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me, without obliga-
tion, information on your Fund Raising Plan.

 

Age
Name (Ilundcr2l)_____
Organization_____________._._
Street Address
City State
How many members Phone

 

r———————————

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
l
|
l_

Mason Candies, Inc., Mineola, L. 1., N. Y.

150

period, the goal of which is to resolve
the problem of the rapid decrease of
open lands in the metropolitan area
available for conversion to recreation
purposes to meet the needs of mush-
rooming population. The council is
seeking a solution to the problem by
assisting community action at local
levels. Funds for the project were made
available by the Wieboldt Foundation.
the Woods Charitable Fund. and the

Chicago Community Trust Company.

Maurice anont Lee, president of the
Board of Park Commissioners in Wil-
mington, Delaware. has been hailed as
a “colorful campaigner against idle
rocking-chair life” in an article entitled
l“He’s Made a Success of Retirement.”
which appeared in the January issue of
Harvest Years and was also reprinted
in the, January Reader’s Digest. lt de-
scribes the 77-year-old Mr. Lee's career
since retirement—his work as a public
ollicial, personal counselor to hundreds
of individuals. and holder of eighteen
volunteer jobs. Mr. Lee is currently en-
gaged in improving park facilities to
facilitate use by senior citizens.

Robert M. Morgentllau, U.S. Attor-
ney for the Southern District of New
York and recent candidate for New
York governor, has been elected presi-
dent of the Police Athletic Lcague. Inc.
for 1963. Robert Coulson, outgoing
acting president of PAL, in presenting
Mr. Morgenthau, declared. “Some on
the board have been privileged to know
three generations of Morgenthaus. The
grandfather of our president served as
US. Ambassador to Turkey in the early
part of this century. His father. Henry
Morgenthau, Jr., was Secretary of the
Treasury in the Roosevelt administra-
tion from 1933 to 19-15. Our new presi-
dent is chairman of the Bronx division
of the New York City Youth Board and
has a vital interest in young peeple and
in the Police Athletic League. . . .” Mr.
Morgenthau is chairman of the Associa-
tion of Bronx Community Organiza-
tions and is a member of the advisory

council of the Nexv York School of So-
cial Work.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Robert R. Gam-
ble has been
named deputy pub-
lic works commis-
sioner in charge of
parks for Nassau
County, New York.
He will map pro-
grams for future county parks and will
also be liaison with the Committee for a
Fine Arts Center and the Mitchell Field
Development Committee. Mr. Gamble
has resigned as assistant director gen-
eral of the International Recreation As-
sociation, a post he held since 1957.
Previously, he was on the staff of the

National Recreation Association.

 

Charlie Vettiner,
superintendent of
the Jefierson Coun-
ty, Kentucky, Play-
grounds and Rec-
reation Board since
1946, recently add-
ed auother trophy
to his already impressive collection
when the Kentucky Press Association
hailed him as “outstanding Kentuckiau
of 1962.” Mr. Vettiner has close to forty
awards for his work in development of
recreation programs throughout the
Bluegrass State. In the past sixtcen
years Mr. Vettiner has won citations,
plaques, and trophies for initiating such
programs as fishing derbies, youth gov-
ermnent days, summer camps, hiking
trips, athletic tournaments, and foreign
tours for youth.

Mr. Vettiner annually uses earnings
from the basketball clinics and referee
schools be conducts to finance a pro-
gram of awards and to help needy boys
through college. One of his best known
awards is the “Good Guy” plaque for
youngsters who have overcome severe
physical handicaps to take part in
athletics.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

o PAULINE (PEP) MARQUETTE, assist-
ant superintendent of recreation: in
Memphis,Tenuessee.died recently at the
age of forty-nine. She was regarded as
Memphis’ greatest woman athlete in the
1930's and had been on the recreation
staff for twenty-four years.

RECREATION

 

8( FOR THE ILL 63 HANDICAPPED

 

ATTENTION!

MORTON THOMPSON, Ed.D.

'i‘ The Second Annual Reunion of the
patients of the Rehabilitation Institute
in Detroit, Michigan, was planned as
an outgrowth of the institute’s person-
centered recreation program, with pa-
tients who had shown leadership ability
being invited to participate in the plan-
ning. An invitation to join the planning
committee for the reunion went to a
group with the following disabilities:
'quadriplegia, multiple fractures, para-
plegia, double amputation, transverse

Comp Directors

The makers of the famous
"Yes-Yes" cookies

are prepared to serve you

COOKIES

 

'niyelitis, arthritis, dermatomyositis, for
peripheral neuritis, and multiple sclero- c A M
sis. . .
Th R h 1).]. . I . h, 1 Rehab Reunion. Above, the nursing su- P
e e a lltatlon nstltute’ “’ "’1 pervisor of the Detroit Rehabilitation in

provides complete rehabilitation serv-
ices to the physically handicapped, has
a capacity for ninty-live in-patients,
with an average stay of fifty-live days,
and facilities to treat live hundred out-
patients daily. The institute ofiers the
following services to patients: activities
of daily living, adaptive devices. com-
plete clinical laboratory services, diag-

Institute enjoys the entertainment at the
reunion of ens-patients. Below, the cleri-
cal staff assists at the registration desk
while all decked out to take active part
in the entertaining festivities to follow.

packages or bulk

SUGAR WATERS
PEANUT BUTTER WAFHES
CREAM FILLED SANDWItHES

nostic medical services. physical ther- FIG BARS

apy, pre-vocational testing and evalua—

tion, recreation, speech aiid hearing. in” mm) SANDWICHES
To the reunion committee meeting lUMBlES

ca1ne former patients by wheelchair, on
crutches, and by various other means
of propulsion. The first order of busi-
ness was to elect a chairman of the re—
union committee, a secretary, and a
chairman for each of the following com-
mittees: program, entertainment, food,

publicity, decoration, and transporta- . .
tion, family or friends or both, none of whom

had visited the institute previously. The
Secretary of the State of Michigan,
James Hare, came as special representa-
tive of the governor. There were also
letters of good wishes from President
Kennedy and many other prominent
people. After social hour at six o’clock,
four hours of entertainment was pro-
vided, including nationally known night-
club and TV personalities.

The important factor of this whole
affair was the accomplishment of the
patients with the various handicaps who
certainly proved that, despite handi-

ANIMAl [RACKERS
(MONUI rooms
(Howlm rooms
VANIllA rooms

sum rooms

OAIMEAl rooms
suomnnns

lEA BlStUllS 

CHEESE (HIPS

BUIIER FlAVORED rooms
Mllll tHOtOlAlE [HIP rooms

 

 

A number of committee meetings fol-
lowed this initial get-together. A thou-
sand and three hundred invitations were
sent out with one of the committee mem-
bers handling the design of the invita-
tion and other members handling the
mailing. The publicity chairman, a mul—
tiple-fracture wheelchair patient. used
the telephone and the mail for publicity
releases to all the Detroit papers and
radio stations who cooperated with
announcing and writing about the re-
union. Other committee members col-

1thth ilh {OOdt 311d 1310ney 39:1aiions so caps-i they had the enthusiasm and drive
a 8 par ycou suppo 1 se ' needed to bring this affair to a success-

The reunion was a big success. Over ful conclusion.
a thousand people were In attendance

and enjoyed a delightfld afternoon and 4‘ Recreation for the individual with

Mail in coupon for

complete information
#

Mr. Philip Emaus

Federal Sweets & Biscuit 00.
Camp Division

60 Clifton Blvd.

Clifton. New Jersey

0 O I O I 
evenmg 0f Soc‘allzmg and entertam' multiple sclerosis should be understood
“lent and plenty Of,taSty refreShmentS' as a potent force in social rehabilitation Address  .-
Many 0f the ex'patlents brought along and social habilitation, not a medium City  State

._.__..._——-———-—————-—-—'—— for developing champion proficiency in

. . d. I an activity. Stress is placed 011 the so-
DR' THOMPSON is acting tremor of t "3 cial aspects. readjusting to self and oth-

National Recreation Association Con- erg, developing friendships, and accom_
sailing service 0” Recreation for the 1” plishing varying interests and activities.
and Handicapped. An increasing number of chapters of

Orga niza tion .
Phone.

Age—it under 21

MARCH, 1963 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 101

AMust...

for Catholic parents and all youth workers who are looking for

CATHOLIC CAMPS

THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC CAMPING ASSOCIATION

announces the publication of its

1953 DIRECTORY or CATHOLIC CAMPS

Here is information vital to all those seeking a summer camp for their young-
sters. Our new directory contains complete, accurate, and up-to-date informa-
tion on all active Catholic camps in America—nearly 450 in all.

This year plan to send your child to a Catholic camp—where God is foremost.
Catholic camps are among the finest and most modern in the country.

The National Catholic Camping Association is an activity of the Youth De-
partment, National Catholic Welfare Conference. Memhership is open to any-
one interested in campingnMem'bers receive the annual Directory of Catholic
Camps and Trail Signs, the official bimonthly magazine of Catholic camping.

REV. FREDERICK J. STEvENSON
National Director

for your directory send $1.00 to

NATIONAL CATHOLIC CAMPING ASSOCIATION

1312 Massachusetts Ave., N.W. Washington 5, D. C.

 A REGULATION-SIZE TRAMPOLINE
AT V2 PRICE

PERFECT FOR CAMPS. RECREATION
CENTERS, AND BOYS CLUBS

0 Lifetime nickel chrome plated
frame (9' x 15")

' Our best nylon web bed
(6' x I2')

' Plated steel springs

' Complete set of extra wide
frame pads

WRITE FOR FREE BROCHURE

 

 

 

 

MAKE THINGS HAPPEN.l

that's the theme of the

I963 PLAYGROUND
SUMMER NOTEBOOK

$2.50 ($2.00 to NRA members)
Available May I

Order Now From

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West 8th Street. New York II

 

152 . When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  

the Multiple Sclerosis Society have de-
veloped well structured and supervised
programs. From the loosely organized
patient meetings, it is possible to move
to a more complex program of craft ac-
tivities to include ceramics, weaving,
and a host of other projects.

One chapter uses the physical facili-
ties of a community agency where a rec-
reation specialist gives instruction in
work with clay and ceramics. Approxi-
mately twenty-five patients are trans-
ported to the center twice a week. The
program is directed toward involving
each patient to the best of his ability and
in accord with his interest. Some pa-
tients require encouragement, some
need only the companionship of others.
Volunteers staff the program and serve
a luncheon. Music, games, and a variety
of opportunities for self-expression also
are provided. Materials used in this pro-
gram are donated by a commercial sup-
plier, lunch by merchants through a vol-
unteer committee. A significant number
of patients find great pleasure in shar-
ing the results of their efforts with fam-
ilies and friends.

Another chapter conducts a weekly
program in a parish hall. Because some
patients present a problem in dimin-
ished attention span, several patients
participate in different phases of a given
project. Cloth and leather are main
items in use and volunteers have learned
how to minimize concern for “beautiful
finish” and to encourage the sense of
belonging and participation with others.
Cooperation among a transportation
volunteer corps, a church, and a staff of
several volunteers who assist the pa-
tients makes for a very successful pro-
gram at a token cost in funds.

A weekly tea or a matinee at the mov-
ies may give meaning to many who or-
dinarily would bc isolated and alone.
Living with a disability and recognizing
others who are disabled yet fighting
back can be most reassuring.

+ The National Association of Recrea-
tional Therapists has availablc a com-
prehensive bibliography of selected ar-
ticles, alphabetized by author, which
includes the aged, blind, mentally ill.
mentally retarded, and physically hand-
icapped. The bibliography covers pub-
lications from 1945 through 1961. In-
dividuals involved in training pro-
grams, staff development conferences,
and institutes will find this booklet in--
valuable. For a copy, send twenty-five
cents to Miss Virginia Dobbins, Bryce
HOSpital, Tuscaloosa, Alabama.

+ The Swimming for the Handicapped
Program conducted by the American
Red Cross through its local chapters of-
fers communities a splendid way of pro-
viding a recreation outlet for carefully

RECREATION

screened handicapped persons. Of the
twenty-eight hundred Red Cross chap-
ters having water-safety programs,
many have swimming programs for the
handicapped. This means that, in the
communities where there are such pro-
grams, boys and girls who have limited
'mobility, are mentally retarded, or have
‘other handicaps can know a new free-
dom of movement in the water. The
chapter, when requested to conduct a
Swimming for the Handicapped Pro-
gram, cooperates with other local or-
ganizations involved in planning and
carrying out the program. Candidates
are carefully screened by their respec-
tive organizations before being accepted
into the swimming program. Classes are
usually conducted on an one-instructor-
to-one-student basis by skillful, well-
trained Red Cross Water Safety instruc-
tors. All such instruction is without
charge. For further information, write,
phone, or visit your local Red Cross
Chapter.

+ Camp Jened, a nonprofit camp for
handicapped children and adults in
Hunter, New York, is one of the very
few camps which offer vacations for
both handicapped children and adults.
Camp J ened accepts persons with varied
disabilities, including those with ortho-
pedic defects, hearing and speech dis-
orders, cerebral-palsy, and other de-
fects. Both ambulatory and wheelchair
cases are accepted as long as they can
help themselves to a reasonable degree
with the functions of daily living.

The camp offers a specialized pro-
gram of speech and hearing therapies
which are coordinated with dramatics,
music, and choral speaking. The camp
site has separate facilities and program

for the children and adults, a lake, fish-

ing stream, and two overnight camp
sites. For specific information, write to

Camp J ened, 510 Madison Avenue, New
York 22.

+ A leadership training course for per-
sonnel from nursing homes and homes
for the aged was held recently by West-
chester County, New York, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Conservation
in response to the growing demand for
recreation activities for the increasing
ranks of senior. citizens within the
county. The purpose of the course was
to disseminate information and ex-
change ideas.

The session on arts and crafts was
presented by Margaret Yoder of Hast-
ings, who has worked with senior
groups in the County for the past year.
A discussion on “Music As Recreation”
was conducted by Gus Rovin of White
Plains, county music specialist, and in-
formation on “Social Recreation” was

MARCH, 1963

discussed 1)} lawns Suptou, recreation
director for the Guild for the Jewish

Blind in Yonkers.
+ The Board of Parks and Public Rec-

reation in Vancouver, British Colum-
bia, has installed a gently sloping ramp
leading to the promenade atop a bath-

himse. This will make the proineua-lt
available to persons confined to wheel-
chairs. The pronicnade has garden
plantcrs and ovcrIooks the English Bay
Beach swimming pool. (Vancouver’s
playground and recreation center pra-
grom for blind children was described
in RECREATION, April 1962.)

AMERICAN HANC

 

Name

Address

City & State

Hints 8:
History

Box 1643-!!!

 

Campers and‘Crafts In-
structors will oppreclote
these informative gems!
Illustrated hinti on the
craft plus a capsule
history. Prepared by
the nations' foremost

O n F I  crafts supplier and writ-
ten by experts. Supplied
c  by reQUest in quantity

to Camp Directors and
Crafts Instructors!

ORDER YOUR COPIES TODAY!

0 MOSAICS IN MINUTES 0 COPPER
ENAMELING HINTS e BETTER BAS~
KETRY e METAL TOOLING TIPS e
CANDLE CRAFTING

SEND ME THE FOLLOWING FREE

AND AT NO OBLIGATION:

[j Mosaics in Minutes E] Copper Enam-
eling Hints [3 Better Basketry E] Metal
Tooling Tips [3 Candle Crafting

[:1 CATALOG

 

 

 

Fort Worth 1, Texas

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type 5.15 each
Words in boldface type 5.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you Wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $463.00 per
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liberal employee
benefits. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

Children’s Park Super-
visor, City of San Jose.
$503-$629. College gradu-
ate with major in recrea-
tion, business administra-
tion, industrial arts, or re-

lated fields plus one year of
responsible experience in
business management. Ap-
ply before March 6, 1963,
Civil Service Department,
Room 211, City Hall, 801
North First Street, San
Jose, California.

Center-Pool Supervisor.
For modern youth center
and large summer beach.
Attractive residential com-
munity ten miles from New
York. Liberal Civil Service
benefits. Open immediately
to college graduate. Woul-
an or man. Waterfront ex-
perience preferred. Em-
ploying immediately at
minimum of $5,744 to
$7,508 range. Apply Monte
Weed, Recreation Superin-
tendent, Fair Lawn, New
Jersey.

Assislant Director of
Recreation. City of Wil-

liamsport, Pennsylvania.
Graduate in recreation.
Work will involve organiz-
ing and implementing lci-
sure-time activities. As-
sistant iuust supervise some
activities. Salary from
$4,500 to 55,000 plus travel.
Williamsport Recreation
Commission, City Hall,
Williamsport, Pennsyl-
vauia.

Itecreulion Director.
Treatment center for de-
liuqnent adolescent girls;
good facilities, established
program; resort location.
Range $450-$547 to be in-
creased to $487-$592 on
July 1. Full maintenance
available at low cost. Re-
quire B.A. plus experience.
Apply Robert J. Hartford,
Superintendent, Ilome

School for Girls, Sauk Cen-
tre, Minnesota.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

153

NEW PUBLICATIONS

The State Parks, Their Meaning in
American Life, Freeman Tilden. Alfred
A. Knopf, 501 Madison Avenue, New
York 22. Pp. 496. $5.50.

The National Conference on State
Parks first met in 1921 at the sugges-
tion of Stephen T. Mather, the first di—
rector of the National Park Service. At
that time, only a few state parks existed
and only in nineteen states. Mr. Mather
was finding that every state wanted a
national park and was being embar-
rassed by state offers of areas for new
national parks which did not exactly
measure up to the requirement of “na-
tional significance,” excellent though
they were. The result of this epoch-
making meeting was the establishment
of the National Conference which would
have state interests as its major concern.

During the decades since. there has
been rapid growth of the state park
movement and now all states have them.
Strangely enough, however, there have
been few publications dealing with the
comprehensive state picture. None has
been attempted since Beatrice Ward
Nelson’s State Recreation in 1928 and

Herbert Evison’s A State Park A "tho!-
og'v in 1930.

To write this book, Mr. Tilden took
a long journey through state parks. fol-
lowing a list, made up by the two park
services. of those parks most nearly
measuring up to the criteria adopted by
the National Conference on State Parks
———but not the “best” parks. nor all
parks. The result is an authoritative
study filled with detailed first-hand in—
formation that can be useful to many
people: the tourist, vacationist. natural-
ist, student. and other travelers—even
the arm-chair kind.

Seventy-four descriptive chapters
lead the reader from park to park, from
the edge of the sea across the mountains.
deserts, lakes, and plains, and cover a
wide variety of areas. Anecdotes add
a human touch and bring the scenes to
life. (i

One of the first sections of the book
provides basic information on matters
related to financing, what kind of rec-
reation, what state parks are for, the
many operating agencies involved.
Others cover principles, policies, prob-
lems. history, and park philosophy.

Otherwise, the presentation of the
material is divided into geographical
areas. Each is preceded by a map show-
ing the location of selected parks and
each carries a collection of photographs.
Thumbnail sketches offer data on each
park’s location, size, special features,
and merits. The overall effect is a study

154

of our natural American heritage. It is
well worth owning, not only as a guide,
reference, or chronicle, but as absorb-
ing reading—D. D.

The Fun of Family Camping, George
S. Wells. Bobbs-Merrill, 3 West 57th
Street, New York 19. Pp. 320, illus-
trated. $5.00. '

George S. Wells has produced a prac-
tical guide for today’s novice or experi-
enced camping family. The reader im-
mediately feels a friendliness with the
author, whose writing reflects years of
satisfactory camping experiences. He
explains the advantages and disadvan-
tages of various types of equipment and
describes an intelligent plan for the ac-
quisition of suitable equipment to fit the
needs of the individual family. Of equal
importance are the chapters on how to
best use this equipment.

Only a parent who has camped with
children could write the wonderful chap-
ter on “Kids Love Camping.” Not only
will it make the camping experience
more meaningful for the children but
should save Mom and Dad many frus-
trations! By using well-chosen anec-
dotes from his own trips, Mr. Wells im-
presses the reader with the fact that
[amify camping is fan.

The splendid appendices include
chapters on camping bibliography; in-
formation from government sources;
mail-order sources of camping equip-
ment; manufacturers of trailers,
coaches. cars, and food; and family
camping clubs. Thus, in this one vol-
ume, a camping family is enabled to
locate the answers to nearly all its camp-
ing qucstions. This book should be of
help to leaders of camping workshops.
institutes. and clinics, both in interpret-
ing the philosophy of modern family
camping and in teaching skills. It is
profusely illustrated with humorous
drawings by William li. Johnson.—
Richard A. Tapnly, New Ilaamshire
fiefd representative, Natioaaf Recrea-
tion Association.

Sunset Family Camping. Lane Book

Company, Menlo Park, California. Pp.
128, illustrated. Paper, $1.75.

“Take your family camping and be
comfortable,” seems to he the theme of
this book which has been developed
from material that has appeared in Sun-
set Magazine in recent years. Largely,
it covers camping within easy reach of
the family car—with the car an essen-
tial member of the party. Some of the

 

scenic photographs of campsites will
make the camp-minded reader want to
pack up and go immediately.

The text of the book is presented in
three sections: planning the great ad-
venture, assembling camp equipment.
and life in camp. Each section is packed
with practical suggestions, sketches,
lists, and pictures. Everything you need
to know is included—sometimes in de-
tail, sometimes more briefly.

Although the book is addressed pri-
marily to the beginning camper family,
it contains much of value to the experi-
enced family as well. especially new
ideas and methods of doing things. This
should be recommended to all familics
who are looking for ways in which to
Inakc their next camping trip more
pleasant and rewarding.

All About Camping, W. K. Merrill.
Stackpole Company, Cameron and
Kelker Streets, Harrisburg, Pennsyl-

vania. Pp. 262. $3.95.

Written by a park ranger, with a fore-
word by Secretary of the lnterior, Stew-
art L. Udall, this publication differs
from the foregoing books on camping
in that it is about wilderness camping,
packhorse jaunts, knapsack camping,
survival, canoe trips, and so on. One
chapter deals with national parks and
national forests. Wilderness craftsman-
ship is covered thoroughly, including
pathfinding, outdoor measurements,
first aid, saddling and packing, care of
saddle and pack animals, snow camping,
grub lists and emergency rations—uto
name a few of the topics. It is a com-
plete. compact collection of camping
lore for the outdoorsman, family group,
or individual who wants to get away
from it all, backed by a ranger’s wide
first-hand experience. Many line draw-
ings add to the book’s usefulness. An
ideal addition to anyone’s reference li-
brary on camping. Recommended for
practical know-how.

Conservation for Camp and Class-
room, Robert O. Bale. Burgess Publish-
ing Company, 426 South Sixth Street,
Minneapolis 15. Pp. 145. Spiralbound,
$3.00.

“To help children to understand the
interdependence and interrelationship
of the natural resources of the earth;
and to help each child to learn to accept
responsibility for doing all that he can
to maintain and make wise use of the
earth’s resources”—these are two among
the broad objectives cited in this book

RECREATION

written by a boy’s program director in
a neighborhood house. It is filled with
suggestions for learning through ex-
perimentation and observation, such as
building an ant farm and observing the
life of the colony, making soil. collect-
ing spider webs, putting out campfires,
building a nature diorama, building a
leaf press, taking a magnifying-glass
hike; and the like. Exciting nature pro-
grams can be based on Mr. Bale’s col-
lection of interesting ideas. Camp coun-
selors and recreation leaders should
consider it a must for their libraries.

IN BRIEF

THE STORY OF LIFE, Peter Farb. Har-
vey Hoase, Irvington-on-Hadson, New
York. Pp. 126. $3.50. The author of this
book is a naturalist who also happens
to be a professional writer. Only a
naturalist would have come up with as
lucid and complete a survey of the
“parade of life” through the centuries.
From the earliest known life, the reader
goes on a geographic and biological
survey of living things and their evolu-
tion or extinction. The illustrations are
clear and attractive. Attention-getting
subheads draw the reader into a fasci-
nating, unified account of the world we
live in. The author has also written
Living Earth and The Forest, among
others.

THE ROCK-HUNTER’S RANGE GUIDE. lay
Ellis Ransom. Harper (‘3: Brothers, 49
East 33rd Street, New York 16. Pp.
213, illustrated. $4.95. More than a
guide, this small book on how and
where to find minerals and gemstones
in the United States might be termed a
reference manual as well. With it in
hand, rockhounds will not only be able
to find rocks and minerals through a
geological road map of the country and
a listing of various districts, but will
be able to identify them in their native
habitat. Appendix I enumerates various
regional field publications which carry
details of specific areas while Appendix
11 lists alphabetically by state and city
all the most important rock museums.
“These are wonderful places to start
from,” says the author, “providing you
with a background of regional geology
and helping you to recognize the rocks
and minerals to be found in the sur-
rounding countryside.”

A review of The Day Camp Book
by Virginia Musselman, director of

the National Recreation Association
Program Service, will appear next
month.

 

MARCH, 1963

 

 

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

m

CAMPING, NATURE, OUTDOOR5

[Including Arts, Crofis, Skills)

About Foresters, Norma Dobrin. Melmont Publ.,
Jackson Blvd. {Er Racine Ave., Chicago 7. Pp.
31. $2.50.

All About Camping, W. K. Merrill. Stockpole Co.,
Telegraph Press Bldg, Cameron 8 Kelker Sts.,
Harrisburg, Pa. Pp. 262. $3.95.

All About Plckup Coaches and Campers, John
Gortner. Trail-R—Club of America, P.0. Box

1376, Beverly Hills, Calif. P . 160. Paper,
$3.00. p

Amphibians and Their Ways, H. Rucker Sm th.
gnéogomillon, 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 92.

Apple Tree Cammunirty, The, George A. Smith.
Channel Press, 159 orthern Blvd., Great Neck,
N. Y. Pp. 94. $5.00.

Archaeology as a Hobby, Virginia J. Fortiner. C. S.
Hammond, Maplewood, N. J. Pp. 45. $1.00.

Art of the Lapidory, The, Francis J. Sperisen.
Bruce Publ., 2642 University Ave., St. Paul 14.
Pp. 390. $8.00.

Basic Basketry, Leonard G. Allbon. Dufour Edi-
tions, Chester Springs, Po. Pp. 124. $4.50.

Basic Leathercraft, Robert A. McCoy. Steck Co.,

Box 16, Austin 61, Texas. Pp. 136. Paper
$1.20. '

Basket-Making for Amateurs, Phyllis Hosking.

Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 108. $3.50.

Beaver Business, An Almanac, Glen Rounds. 70
5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 1 10. $3.00.

Bibliography of Studies and Research in Camping
and Outdoor Education (rev. 1962). Amer.
Comping Assoc., Bradford Woods, Mortinsville,
lnd. Pp. 57. Paper, $1.50.

Black Panther Banner (Kansas Boy Scouts), Clif—

ford E. Sutton. Williom-Frederick Press, 55 E.
86th St., New York 28. Pp. 171. $4.50.

Book of Trees, The (rev. ed.), William Corey
glriomona. Stackpole Co., Harrisburg, Pa. Pp. 487.

Campground Atlas of the U. S. and Canada. Al-
pine Geographicol Press, Box 685, Station A,
Champaign, Ill. Pp. 182. Paper, $3.00.

Camping and Camp Cookery. Collier Books, 640
5th Ave., New York 19. Pp. 125. Paper, $.95.

Cattail House, Phoebe Erickson. Childrens Press,
Jackson Blvd. and Racine Ave., Chicago. Un-
paged. $2.50.*

Chapel Talks for School and Camp, Anne B. Town-
send. Seabury Press, 1 Fawcett P|., Greenwich,
Conn. Pp. 128. $3.25.

Church Family Camps and Conferences, Elizabeth
and William H. Genne. Christian Education
Press, Schoff Bldg., 1505 Race St., Philadelphia
2. Pp. 95. Paper, $1.40.

City Bay, Country Boy, Miriam Schlein. Childrens
Press, Jackson Blvd. and Racine Ave., Chicago.
Unpaged. $2.50.*

Camman Edible and Useful Plants of the West,
Muriel Sweet. Naturegraph Co., 8339 West Dry
Creek Rd., Healdsburg, Calif. Pp. 64. Paper,
$1.00.

Complete Book of Camping, Leonard Miracle with
Maurice Decker. Harper Bros., 49 E. 33rd St.,
New York 16. Pp. 594. $4.95.

Complete Book of Cave Exploration, The, Roy
Pinney. Coward-McCann, 210 Madison Ave.,
New York 16. Pp. 256. $4.95.

Conservation for Camp and Classroom, Robert 
Bale. Burgess Publ., 426 S. 6th St., Minneapolis
15. Pp. 145. Paper, $3.00.

Creative Adventures in Arts and Crafts, Gretchen
Grimm. Bruce Publ., 400 N. Broadway, Milwau—
kee 1. Pp. 96. $2.75.

Creative Leathercraft, Francis S. Sunderland.
Bunting Publ., North Chicago, Ill. Pp. 68.
Paper,$1.00.

Cumberland Gap and Trails West, Edith McCall.
Childrens Press, Jackson Blvd. ('7 Racine Ave.,
Chicogo'l. Pp. 126. $2.50!

Danny Dunn and the Fassil Cave, Joy Williams and
Raymond Abrashkin, Whittlesey House 330 W.
42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 146. $25559:r

Desert Beauty, The Story of Cacti Charlotte
Jeones and Joseph Stacey. follett, Publ., 1010
W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 32.

$1.95.“
* Far younger readers

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

9 Take Your Pick Fr0 The
RONALD SPORTS LIBRARY

More Than 100 Titles
A Book for Every Sport and Activity

 

I
Baseball, Softball—

Baseball: The Maiar League Way,

Dan Welskapf .....$6.00
Baseball Play and Strategy,
Ethan Allen  ................... .. . $6.00

Haw ta Play thtle League Basebail,

Mlckey McCannell  $4.00
Haw ta Pitch, Bab Feller .. $2.95
Softball, 3rd Ed.

Arthur T. Maren .. . $3.50
5aftball far Glris, 3rd Ed.

A. Vlala Mltchell ____ .. $2.95

Swimming, Boating,

Water Sports—
Water Games, Hape M. 5mlth $3.50
Learnlng ta 5w|m is Fun,

Jack Ryan  $3.50
5pringbaard Diving,

Phll Marlarty ........... .. $4.00
Baating, Jlm J. Allen . . _ _. $2.95
Canaeing, Carle Walker Handel $2.95
Start ’ern 5aiilng, 2nd Ed.

Gardan C. Aymar ............... .. $4.00

5ecand Baak an 5aiiing, Gardan C.
Aymer & Gardan C. Aymer, Jr. $4.50
5kiing an Water, 3rd Ed.

Jack Andresen .  $5.00

Tennis, Archery, Badminton—
Tennis Handbaak,

3m & Chet Murphy  . .. $5.50
Tennls far Beginners,
Blll & Chet Murphy .. ........ -. $3.50

Pawer Tennis, Maureen Cannally $2.9S
Archery, 3rd Ed., Natalle Relchart

& Gilman Keasey .................. -.$3.50
Wlnning Badmintan,

Kenneth R. Davldsan a Lealand

R. Gustavsan $4.00

Boxing, Wrestling, Jiu Jitsu—
Better Baxlng, Eddle LaFand &

Julle Menendez  $3.50
Wrestiing Iilustrated,

Raymand E. Sparks $3.50
Wrestling, Rev. Ed.

E. C. Gallagher .9. Rex Perry $2.95
Jiu Jitsu,

Frederlck P. Lawell $2.9S

General—
Valleyball, 2nd Ed.

Rabert E. Laveaga _. $3.50
Harseback Rlding 5implified,

2nd Ed., Margaret Cabell 5elf $3.50
Jumping Simpllfied,

Margaret Cabell 5elf   $2.9S
Fenclng, Huga «.9. James Castello $4.00
Trampalining Iilustrated,

Chuck Keeney .....  $4.00
Weight Tralning far Athletes,

Bab Hall'man .......... .. $5.00

The Camplete Picnic Baak, 2nd Ed.

Jahn E. Shallcrass $4.00

Fram the publishers of the
RONALD 5PORT5 ENCYCLOPEDiAS——

Baseball, Faatbali, and Basketbaii

Semi for descriptive literature on books
in Physical Education, Sports,
and Recreation.

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY

 

15 East 26th St., New York 10
155

    
      

ENCHANTMENT OF AMERICA SERIES: New Eng-
land Country, Dorothy Wood; Loke, Hills and
Prairies (Middlewestern States), Frances E.
Wood; Gulf Lands and Central South (South
Central and Gulf States), Frances E. Wood; High
Country (Rocky Mountain and Plateau States),
Libra Jan Cleveland; Pacltic Shores (Pacific
States), Libra Jan Cleveland; Hills and Harbors
(Middle Atlantic States) , Dorothy Wood; Pano-
ramic Plains (Great Plains States), Frances W.
Wood; Sea and Sunshine (South Atlantic

States), Dorothy Wood. Childrens Press, Jackson
Blvd. Er Rocine Ave., Chicago 7. Pp. 93 each.
$3.50, each (complete set, $21.00). Teacher's
Mclinu)oi $1.50 (free with complete set or ten
tit es .

    

GET THE GUS
T0 VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL’S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send tor National's
fantastic free catalog of more than 850 ail-time hit
songs. available in slide form for as low as 50c a
tune! Need a projector? Let us know . . . we'll save
you real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS
42 West 48th Street, N. Y. 36, N. Y.

EXCITING °

 

DIFFERENT °

Flowers ot Field and Forest, Clarence J. Hylonder.
Macmillan, 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 231.

$4.50.

Follow the Brook, Dorothy P. Lathrop. Macmillan,
60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 40. $3.25.*

Fun of Family Camping, The, George 5. Wells.
Bobbs-Merriil, 3 W. 57th St., New York 19. Pp.
320. $5.00.

Good Times with Maps, Irene Estep. Melmont
Publ., Jackson Blvd. Er Rocine Ave., Chicago 7.
Pp. 31. $2.50.*

Guide for Young Campers, Lt. Col. Mouno A. Lind-
holm. Hart Publ., 74 5th Ave., New York It.
Pp. 192. $3.95.

Guidepost to Good YMCA Day Camplng, John
Ledlie, Editor. Natl. Council. YMCA's, 291
Broodwoy, New York 7. Pp. 16. Paper, $1.25.

How to Explore the Secret Worlds of Nature, Vin-
son Brown. Little, Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston

6. Pp. 174. $3.50.

Let‘s Go Camping, Let's Go Trailering, Albert B.
Evons. Trail-R-Club of America, P.O. Box 1376,
Beverly Hills, Calif. Pp. 175. Paper, $2.50.

Let's Go to a Natlonal Park, Lloyd and Rose Ham-
ill. G. P. Putnam, 200 Madison Ave., New York
16. Pp. 47. $1 .95.*

Little Creek, Big River, Dwight W. Follett, Follett
Publ., 1010 W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 7.
Pp. 31. $1.50.*

'1] MONROE

EEG
ii: '
/

PEDESTAL 'I' BLES

DIRECT-FROM-FACTORY SAVINGS
lo Churches. Schools. Clubs. eic.
fagous J1'5‘11OINIROE folding banquei
. a es. utomatic Iockin . Easii
‘ PARTITIONS seats 10 people. 94 moElels ant);
sizes. FREEHNEW 1963 CATALOG. Color pictures
on lull line—lolding tables. chairs, table and chair
lrucks. risers. portable partitions. Our 5511! year.
THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St., Collar. Iowa

1111 [-3 TIILE
run-riman
IIISONITI m,
sum-minim

DYNAMIC

EHEISSETT MEMUHIHL

BRSEBRLL PFIHK

BALL name

[11!

MODEL liO—B'xlO' . . . $300.00
MODEL 112—10’x12’ . . . $1000.00

AMERICA'S MOST
EXCITING AND LOWEST PRICE SCOREBOARD

NO HIDDEN COST. List price includes 350 feet

of two wire cable . . .

mounting brackets and

"Dial-O«Magic" control. ELECTRICAL MECH-
ANISM. Simply and easily replaced by on-
plugging. PERFECT LEGIBILITY GUARANTEED.
Advertising panel, standard equipment.

uni-0.1.113":

CONTROL

m le sin" a MACON. GEORGIA
HtONl Til-2316 o AREA CODE ’11

ELECTRO-MECH CORPORATION

156

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Lives ot an Oak Tree, Ross E. Hutchins. Rand Mc-
giagy,*405 Park Ave., New York 22. Pp. 64.
. 5.

Living In the Open, E. E. (Deacon) Jones. Van-
toge Press, 120 W. 31st St., New York 1. Pp.
85. $2.50.

Managing the YMCA Day Camp, John A. Ledlie,
Editor. Association Press, 291 Broadway, New
York 7. Pp. 39. Paper, $1.75.

Mercury Book of Outdoor Living, Bob Brewster,
Editor. P0puiar Library 355 Lexington Ave.,
New York 17. Pp. 184. $.50.

National Parks of the United States, Luis A. Bolin.
Alfred A. Knopf, 501 Madison Ave., New York

22. Pp. 105. $.95.

Nature Center for Your Community, A. National
Audubon Society, 1 130 5th Ave., New York 28.

Pp. 40. Paper, $1.00.

Nature's Lumberiack, Willis Peterson and Jeffrey
Church. Follett Publ., 1010 W. Washington

Blvd., Chicago 7. Unpaged. $2.50.”I

Old Farmer's 1963 Almanac, The, Robert B.
Thomas. Yonkee, lnc., Dublin, N. H. Pp. 96.

$.35.

One Man's Pleasure, Hugh Fosburgh. William
Morrow, 425 Park Ave., S., New York 16. Pp.

191. $4.00.

Our World Underwater, William M. Stephens. Lon-
tern Press, 257 Park Ave. S., New York 10. Pp.
254. $4.95.

Padre Island Story, The, Loraine Daly and Pat
Reumart. Naylor Co., 1015 Culebra Ave., P.0.
Box 1838, San Antonio, Tex. Pp. 52. $2.95.*

Rivers In Harness, Allan H. Cullen. Chilton Books,
525 Locust St., Philadelphia 6. Pp. 175. $3.95.

Satellites as a Hobby, Lloyd Mollan. C. S. Ham-
mond, Moplewoad, N. J. Pp. 45. $1.00.“I

Stillmeadow Road, The, Gladys Tober. J. B. Lip-
pincott, E. Washington Sq., Philadelphia 5. Pp.
287. $4.50.

Syllabus for Outdoor Recreation, A. Reynold E.
Corlson. Indiana University, Bloomington. Pp.

65. Paper. $1.15.

These We Inherit: The Parklands of America, An-
sei Adams. Sierra Club, 1050 Mills Tower, San
Francisco 4. Pp. 103. $15.

Training Camp Counselors In Human Relations,
Jerry Beker. Association Press, 291 Broadway,
New York 17. Pp. 186. $3.75.

We Explore the Earth, Howard A. Munson. Pacific
greaso Publ., Mountain View, Calif. Pp. 166.
4. .

Weather Forecastlng as a Hobby, pp. 46' Bird
Watching as a Hobby, pp. 46, Robert Wells.
C. S. Hammond, Moplewoad, N. J. $1.00 each."I

Western Campslte Directory—1962. Lone Book
Co., Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 112. Paper, $1.75.

Where Away? (National Forest vocations). Em—
ployee Relations lnc., 13 E. 53rd St., New York
22. Pp. 15. 5.2%.

World of "Wood, Field, and Stream," The, John
W. Randolph. Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 383
Madison Ave., New Yark 17. Pp. 177. $3.95.

Young Pathtinder‘s Book of Oceans, Streams, and
Glaciers, The, William D. Clarke. Hart Publ., 74
5th Ave., New York 13. Pp. 128. $3.95.

Young Pathfinder’s Book of the Polar Regions,
The, James T. Radcliffe. Hart Publ., 74 5th
Ave., New York 11. Pp. 128. $1.95.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

JUINglosR LEAGUE MAGAZINE, January-February
6

Old Folks at Home, Betty Freeze.

A World of Silence (program for the deaf).

Understanding Handicaps.
Nursing Home, League Style (recreation pro-
gram).

THE OPTIMIST MAGAZINE, February 1963
Cost? 91¢ a Boy (physical fitness program).
Shooting for Satety.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, January 1, I963
The New Architecure ot Lelsure,
Jones.

Cranston

—-—-——-———, January 21, I963
Banzal Charge to the Top ot Old Shlga (Jap—
anese ski komikozesl, Lee Griggs.
Hans Brinker of the Dralnage Ditch, Robert
Froman.

TODAY'S HEALTH, February 1963
711?? Don't Loaf In Retirement,
rwin.

YWCA MAGAZINE, January 1963
Teens on TOUR (Teenage Organization tor
Urban Renewal), Eleonor D. Draper.

WOMAN'S DAY, Morlh 1963
America's Public Gardens, Jean Hersey.
All Children Are Musical, Rachel Corr.
Don’t Be Afraid to Hook a Rug, George Wells.

Theodore

RECREATION

anywhere

the TUCK—AWAV table
is ready in seconds!

 

 

Now, any room becomes a recreation area quickly,

easily . . . with the TUCK-AWAY folding tennis
table. The TUCK-AWAY is built for lasting ser—
vice, minimum storage requirements, and speedy,
Safe operation. Finished in flat green with white
court lines, the TUCK-AWAY is regulation size

: and features “Floating Fold” for easy, positive
Dated and Undated action. So safe a child can operate it. USTTA
approved for tournament play.
‘ ' c . '
0 blue heavy simulated leather slumped 111 gold new FREE booklet

 

‘#----——-———-_--
’I...’
’v

,I” . . . tells the complete story on
’ the 'I‘UCK-AWAY. Write for
your copy today!

0 Each holds one year’s issues

0 Opens [lat for changes 0

RECREATION MAGAZINE 
an"

no.
8 we“ El°nth Street’ New York H manufacturing company. Inc. Dept. 406
5217 EDEN AVENUE SOUTH, MINNEAPOLIS 24, MINNESOTA

 

 

 

1963 National Recreation Association District Conferences

DISTRICT DATES lOCATiON HOTEL

Southern March l3- | 5 Nashville, Tennessee The Hermitage

Mid-South Section and
Tennessee Recreation

Society Conference

Southwest ’ March 26-29 Austin, Texas Commodore Perry
Great Lakes March 3l-April 3 Dayton. Ohio Dayton-Biltmore
Midwest April 2-5 Sioux City, Iowa Shera:on-Warrior
Sowthern April I6-l8 Mobile. Alabama Admiral Semmcs

Southeastern Section

Pacific Northwest April 2|-24 Eugene, Oregon Eugene

New Jersey and Middle May I‘D-22 Asbery Park. New Jersey Berkeley-Carteret

Atlantic District
Recreat'on and Park
Conference

New [ng'and May I‘D—22 Poland Spring. Maine Poland Spring House

M

When writing to our advertisers please mention Rscnsnlox.

NATIONAL
RECREATION

    
    

Sponsored by
NATIONAL

RECREATION

ASSOCIATION Are You ready

to go in June?

SHOWCASE FOR ALL YOUR:
RECREATION PROJECTS‘

Geared 1'0 every age group

For information, write
IIII'IINIIIIBBHIIUN ‘AIIEIIIIIIN 3" NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION o 8 W. 8th ST., NEW YORK II, N. Y.

