 

60c

 

mmnvicimIs-letrlllllnll1"“. IIUDDW‘PHIHHHM1— 

     

   

; CRION

IOONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

'
‘
5-

.3

SADDLE MATES

I I NOIH'-'Cosf in One Piece Aluminum

A WHIMSICAL WORLD OF COLORFUL
ALUMINUM ANIMALS . . .

Indestructible, 1 piece aluminum is finished with
colorful boked epoxy point to withstand the rough
ond tumble activity of eoger youngsters.
. 79 Pony

. I75 Donkey $48.50
. I71 Elephant $64.50
. I72 Hippopotamus $64.50

. I73 Turtle $64.50
. 174 Pelican $64.50

$48.50

RUSH ORDER

Also available: Saddle Mates
an swings, portable bases,
pull-o-round, scoot-o-round.

WRITE FOR FREE CATALOG All Saddle Moles shown are on
Prices EOJ. litthfield, Mich. Game-Time's No. 89 Spring.

GAME-TIME, INC.

616 Jonesville Road Litchfield, Michigan

Subsidiary of Simpson Mfg. Company
Manufacturers of lmagineered Playground Equipment

 

 

   

NATIONAL
RECREATION

 
   
     

Sponsors cl b.
NATIONAL

RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

  
 

  
 
   

  

Are you ready
to 90 in June?

SHOWCASE FOR ALL YOUR
RECREATION PROJECTS

Geared to every age group

For information. unit:

NHIUNM BEBREIIION KSSOBIITIUN - I W. lth SILNEW YORK II. N. Y.

    
      
   
        

HILLERICH & BRADSB+ (0., IOUISVILLE, KY. Makers of Famous Largr'svr'HeSIugger Bats

\‘ 'Itlll q.‘ fi'llina l'.. _...|I

 

. .
r u... QF'II5L-f's nip-n...- 1ruu.!|nn nil-nu. .- rants

  

Re-Bound-Nef

° Perfect indoors, it’s silcnt . . . Perfect outdoors, weatherproof
0 Tennis, baseball, lacrosse, softball, socccr, volleyball

° Simply tilt the framc to change height or distance of re-bound
—increase the net tension adjustment for extra spced.
—Hard or soft rebounds (as short as 5’ if desired)
—Deep rebounds (40' plus)—high rebounds (overheads)
—Perfect returns for volleying (natural volley timing)

  
 

° Play both sides at the same time — double utility. on “,8 p|ay_f;e|d

° Many game possibilities '— with scoring. Onc ball, 2 players. (Shown with our 'Ready-Net' post unit.)
° Small area versatility — 15'x20' provides ample space.

° Light, portable, rustproof . . . free standing . . . folds flat.

.

10' high (teleseopcs to 61/2') . . . 10' or 20' long units.

The timing is right — provides a natural game interval.
Net actually soaks up time — allows a ge’r-ready pause.

The action of the Ball-Boy Re-Bound-Vct is in no way similar to, and
cannot be accurately compared with, the common backboard or wall. The
net provides an entirely new hitting experience. The difference is a
matter of “Timing”. The Re-Bound-Net actually lengthens the rebound
interval by seconds (as compared with a backboard) without reducing
ball vclocity. Thus, it provides a “set-up ball” that even a novice can
strokc consecutively. The return from a backboard or similar hard sur-

face has always been much too soon for anyone but the skilled player.
The Re-Bound-th has overcome this difficulty and made rebound tennis

practical for players of every skill level. It allows the player to practice
vigorously and hit hard in a limited space.

Answers-all the obiec’rions to backboards — I/IO +he cos’r.

by BALL-BOY

 

 

 

I BALL-BOY co. , luc. 26 Milburn. Bronxville. N. Y. I

I REBOUND-NET (D igner. Manufacturer. sole Purchasing Saurcc) . I

i N es Pos For FAST action —- :
ome . ___________ . .

: School clip this coupon :

| Street City _____._._ State |

 

 

MAY, 1963 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 20':

 

BEATION

   

MAY 1963 VOL. LVI, NO. 5 PRICE 60c
The Challenge of Leisure in Old Age (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . .‘Dr. Janet R. MacLean 213
Make this a country where it is wonderful to be old
Municipal Sports Programs and Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214
Results of the NRA survey of sports in public recreation agencies
_J Do You Know How to Walk? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . James I]. Hocking 219
g Do's and don’ts for fifty-mile ltilrers
z
5 Senior Citizens in Suburbia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Mary C. Hiclcerson 220
They take an active role in community affairs
‘Vhat Makes a Good Community Survey—Part I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Merrill F. Kruglzog 221
Pattern for the ideal survey which results in action -
Leisure—the Heart of Living . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Stewart Case 224
Topic of depth discussion at the 45th National Recreation Congress
State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Elvira Delany 226
A new look in open-air park slzelters
z The Long Trail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Vincent Birgc 228
g A ltike from end to end on V ermont’s 260-milc footpatlt
4:
E Floodlightiug Solves a Problem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Joseph E. Curtis 230
E Night-lighted installations lzalt a fall-off in participation
2
2 Fund Raising Through Refreshment Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. J. C. Evans 233
Profits from “fun foods” enriclt programs and budgets
Career Day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Gordon D. Ilansulrer 234
Use this to recruit for the recreation profession
2 Giving Baseball Back to the Boys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeannette 7'. Hunt. 235
4: Play that includes all the boys
{'5
2 Day Camp for the Mentally Retarded . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rose Staclrltamer 236
c" Experiences of a family-oriented agency
5 Mountain Leadership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Loivcll Putnam 240
g Requirements and “how-to” for satisfactory performances
>—
31 Letters 210 As \Ve Go To Press 211 Reporter’s Notebook 223 Market News 244
'—
6 Resource Guide 245 Rx for the ill aml Handicapped 247 New Publications 248
E
RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Copyright. 1963, by the National 
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth R°cr°aii°n “’“imm' I“c°’l’°m°d 
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Printed in the U.S.A. 3""?

Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Olhce in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current

issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

DUCATIONAL The articles here!»
R E S S Primed! a? the expres-

' t w 't nd
S S O c 1 AT I 0 N :Iciino citotoineni'oofrbol’ic‘r

OF of the National Rocreo
AMERICA tion Association.

   
 

208 RECREATION

RECREATION

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA M USSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On the Cover

An exquisite fairyland of blossoms
places an emphatic end to winter. This
enchanting scene is a part of the dra-
matic spring display in Essex County,
New Jersey, where twenty-two hundred
Japanese cherry trees burst into deli-
cately colorful bloom in Branch Brook
Park along with two thousand others in
the county’s other parks. The trees are
night-lighted after dusk and viewed by
hordes of delighted visitors. The dis-

play was telecast over TV Channel 13
in April.

Next Month

This will be the last issue of RECRE-
ATION to be published before summer.
Packed with information, it will include
the criteria for the new National Rec-
reation Areas System (see Page 211)
and reports from some of the states on
their plans and present situation in the
“Race for Open Space.” Outstanding
will he “Public Recreation Progress and
Problems,” by Arthur Todd, field direc-
tor of the National Recreation Associa-
tion, based on an analysis of the annual
reports of the Association’s district rep-
resentatives. There will also be a story
on community developments in St. Lou-
is; Part II of “What Makes a Good
Community Survey”; and “A Nation-
wide Testing Program,” a report on the
AAU Physical Fitness Testing Pro-
gram; while “A Physical Fitness Pilot
Project” will describe the program in
Huntington, New York, one of eight
communities designated by President
Kennedy for experimentation in this
field. The program is conducted by the
public recreation department.

Photo Credits

Page 219, Dearborn, Michigan, Rec-
reation Department; 227, F. Wilbur
Seiders, Houston, Texas; 228-29, John
Vondell, Hadley, Massachusetts; 235,
Ontario Department of Travel and Pub-
licity, Toronto.

MAY, 1963

 

 

Healthful fun for every age group!

thePLAYGROUND

«MUSIC TEACHER
by CARABO-CONE

Available from

REtREAIIOlI
BOOK (ENTER
3 West Blh Slreel
New York I I

el $5.

Endorsed by Univ. psychologlsts.
Develops child's reading 8: rhythmic co-
ordination. Published by Harper & Row.
Lectures, consultations available. For in-
troductory material plus Keyboard Read-
lng Chart send $1 to Cone, Box 356,
Scarsdale, N. Y.

 

 

TABLE AND“
CHAIR TRUCKS

' “FOLDING
PEDESTAL TABLES

ing to Churches, Schaals,
Clubs, Lodges and all organi-

zations. MONROE 1963
Folding Banquet Tables are

unmatched for quality, dura-
bility, convenience and hand-
same appearance. 94 madels and sizes for
every use. Write far prices, calatag.

FREE-BIG 1963 CATALOG

Catar pictures. Fun Hue MONROE tabtes. chairs.
table and chair trucks. ptatt’arm-rtsers. part-

able partitions. Write today!
THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St.. Colfax. Ia_wa

Partitlons

 

Change of Address

If you are planning to move, notify
us at least thirty days before the date
of the issue with which it is to take ef-
fect, if possible, in order to receive

your magazines without interruption.
Send both your old and new addresses
by letter, card or post oHice form 3575
to: Subscription Department, RECREA-
TION Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street,
New York 11, N. Y.

 

DIMCO SHUFFLEBOARD

Children, young peeple. edults . . .
Dimco Shuffleboerd for excitement. relexetion end
wholesome exercisel Court diegrern cen eesily be leid.
indoors or outdoors. Femous Dimco equipment. in
low-price "Sunliie" or premium-quelity "Free-Glide"
lines. comes in sturdy Reguletion Sets or Junior Sets
{2/3 regulation size).

everyone enioys

FREE . . . Court leyout plensI geme rules, cetelog of
Dimco shuffleboerd sets. Write todey to:

DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth St., Daytan 2, Ohio

FREE i
CATALOG! '
43 PAGES. l

Most Complete Source i
ol Gymnasium & Field
Equipment.

     
          
     

E I UIPMENT

GYMNASTIC SUPPLY 60.. INC.
250 West Sixth St., San Pedro, Calif.

SCOREBOARDS

for all sports by All-American

Schools, parks, major and minor
league stadiums, coast-to-coast score

accurately and dependany with
ALL-AMERICANscoreboards.

Models for all indoor and outdoor

sports available. Custom designs on
request. For FREE ILLUS-
TRATED CATALOG and prices at

no obligation contact:

All-A merican Service Desk
[GET

1f,__- 1

J. general indicator

corporation
271 MADISON AVENUE NEW YORK 16

RYAN‘S H. St R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

ALSO POWER DRIVEN AUTOUNE
From 20# to 100# Capacity

“ACE MODEL SHOWN”

Force Feed —- Instant
Shutatt — 50 lbs. Ca-
pacity.

Shaker in Hopper tor
Conslanl Ftow.

Adiustable Controt on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL

If I

   

Send to Dept. R for booklet on other 4 models.

H. & R. MPG. (20., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 209

 

 

London ls both historic and lovely

Just imagine this!
A real-lite cruise

around the world
for you in 1963

Now you can travel completely around the
world with a group of people who will share
your interests and fun—peeple you'll really
like. You'll share the excitement of traveling
on a fine cruise ship, reserved deluxe buses.
modern jet planes. You can enjoy meeting
with other youth workers in foreign lands.
see important peOple and places on five con-
ttnents. Best of all. you can do all this at

a price far below usual for a tour this ex-
tensive.

You can sail either late-June or early Octo-
ber from America's West Coast and. as you
enjoy the sunny days at sea. look forward to
Honolulu, the Fiji‘s. Australia. Ceylon, Aden
and many other wonderful lands. When you
arrive in Europe. your own bus and courier
will be waiting to take you through the bean-
ttful countryside to many famous cities. In
December your final adventure will be a jet
filght across the Atlantic to New York. Col-
lege credit may be earned during summer
tour: also summer route may vary sllghtly.

How can these tours offer all this at a far-
below-usual cost? (Minimum tour cost just
$1475.) We do it by traveling outside the busy
tourist season. when prices are lower. We
take advantage of lower rates to groups. We
work with expert travel planners, who know
how to save your money and still obtain

quality in transportation and accommoda-
tions.

Your place on the 1963 Round-the-World tour
ls waitlng. It can be the trip you've dreamed
of—fun. new friends, time to sightsee and
learn. to rest and to play.

Mary 8.: Howard Galloway
Dept. R. Camping Magazine
1114 South Ave.. Plainfield. N. J.

|
Please send Round-the-World Tour I
data, without obligation. I
|

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
|
Street . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
|
City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I

June Sailing [1 Oct. Sailing [I :

LETTERS

 

Appreciation

from Down Under
Sirs:

Our Australian local government
concept of recreation facilities is 011 a
somewhat different plane than the activi-
ties generally covered in your magazine
but I do find there quite a lot of inter-
est to me personally. As engineer to the
city of Blue Mountains (whose area
covers nearly six hundred square miles) ,
a well-known tourist area to the west
of Sydney, I frequently find references
to developments which I feel could be
used with advantage in this country.
In fact, I feel that there should be many
more of our local government engineers
interested in the information which you
publish, and I am suggesting, through
an engineering news column which I
edit. that they should consider joining
the National Recreation Association.

One column in your magazine which
particularly interests me is “Market
News,” and there are many items there
which are completely unknown in this
country and which I am sure would find
a ready market here if available.

JonN YEAMAN, B.E., M.I.E. (Aust.),

City Engineer. Blue Mountains, Ka-
toomba, N.S.W., Australia.

Ill Tune
Sirs:

A copy of your March 1963 issue
has reached my desk for reference. This
issue, the first one I have read. was
given me by Charlottesville’s recreation
director. I have read your publication
with great interest and the articles and
features proved most enjoyahle. Having
conducted a teen record hop-dance on
a weekly basis for the past two and a
half years, in cooperation with our local
recreation director. Nan Crow, I doubly
valued your magazine. I look forward
to reading future issues.

BOB GRANT. Public Relations, Radio
Station WINA, Cliarlottesville,

Virginia.

Skiing on a Nutshell
Sirs:

Our city recreation department con-
ducts an annual ski school and we have
developed a very acceptable substitute
for snow. We have constructed a small
hill in our city park and covered the
entire area with twelve to fourteen

inches of English walnut shells, which
we can acquire locally. The results are
amazing! The shells produce a condition
excellent for beginners, although it is
slightly slower than snow. This is an
advantage in teaching skiing. Some of
the advantages of “walnut-shell snow”
are:
° Wind and rain do not affect the shells.
' The shells are clean and easy to work
with.
° The shells are not sharp or hard to
fall on as they are used in very small
particles.

ln our locality, walnut shells are very
inexpensive, $2.00 for all you can haul
away in a truck, six to eight yards per
load. They in no way harm the bottoms
of the skis and skiing can be taught all
year round. Plans are already being
developed for a higher, longer, stceper
slope for intermediate skiers.

HAL SPENCER, Director of Recreation

and Parks, Willows, California.

Gymnastic Service
Sirs:

The Midwest Gymnastic Association,
now in its twelfth year, is a service
organization assisting in the conduct of
gymnastic mects, such as the Annual
Midwest Open Championships, the Cen-
tral Junior and Senior AAU gymnastic
championships, and a developmental
meet for boys and girls. It has been
instrumental in promoting a summer
gymnastic clinic. The MGA gathers
gymnastic news from all organizations
conducting gymnastic programs, such
as high schools, colleges, and universi-
ties, YMCA’s, recreation centers, sokols,
turners, and private clubs, and edits the
material quarterly for circulation. Re-
cently, the MGA inaugurated another
service, one we believe will be of merit
to the lay teacher or persons interested
in beginning a gynmastic program in
their community. The MGA is prepared
to bring a program of films, (lemon-
strations, and prominent personalities
to any community, upon request, to
entertain, instruct, and inform audi-
cnces about gymnastics . . . at any level.
For further information please write to
the MGA.

BOB BonL, President, Midwest Gym.-
nastic Association, Department of Parks
and Recreation, 1802 Maple Avenue,
Evanston, Illinois.

If one advances conhdcntly in the direction of his dreams and endeavors
to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected

in common hours. . . . If you have built castles in the air, your work need not
be lost; that is Where they should be. Now put thc foundations under them.
—HENRY DAVID THOREAU

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

RECREATION

AS WE GO T 0 PRESS

 

> CRITERIA for the establishment of a
system of National Recreation Areas
throughout the United States has just
been set up by President Kennedy’s Rec-
reation Advisory Council. Joseph Pren-
dergast, executive director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, has long
urged this step and has addressed Con-
gressional hearings in its favor. The cri-
teria will be published in the June issue
of RECREATION.

b ELDERLY CITIZENS OF OUR NATION. In
his Message to the 88th Congress, Presi-
dent Kennedy pointed out that never be-
fore in our history have we had so many
elderly citizens. “There are present to-
day in our population 17,500,000 aged
sixty-five or over, nearly a tenth of our
population—and their number increases
by one thousand every day,” he told
Congressmen. “By 1980, they will num-
ber nearly twenty-five million. Today
there are already twenty-five million
people aged sixty and over, nearly six
million aged seventy-five and over, and
more than ten thousand over the age of
one hundred. These figures reflect a pro-
found change in the composition of our
population.”

And he added, “The heart of our pro-
gram for the elderly must be Opportu-
nity for and actual service to our older
citizens in their home communities. The
loneliness or apathy which exists among
many of our aged is heightened by the
wall of inertia which often exists be-
tween them and their community.

“We must remove this wall by planned,
comprehensive action to stimulate or
provide not only opportunities for em-
ployment and community services by
our older citizens but the full range of
the various facilities and services which
aged individuals need for comfortable
and meaningful life.”

The bills affecting older persons, in-
troduced to the Congress in January
1963, were: Federal Organization and
Aid to the States, Social Security and
Railroad Retirement, Health Care, Vet-
erans Pensions, Tax Benefits, Housing,
and Employment.

) NEED FOR EXPANDED SERVICES. “The
rapid increase of urbanization and its
effect upon family living underscores
the need for expanded and improved
recreation services and other activities
to help children use their leisure time
profitably and productively,” stated
John H. Fischer, president of Teachers
College, Columbia University, in his ad-
dress at the Spring Meeting of the Na-
tional Social Work Assembly in New
York. “One valuable aspect of recrea-
tion serviccs often overlooked is that

MAY, 1963

they place young people in situations
where they can make choices of their
own and engage in voluntary commit-
ment to worthwhile organizations, ac-
tivities, and causes. As supplcments to
schools, churches, and families, such or-
ganizations are an essential part of mod-
ern life and should be supported, staffed,
and financed at levels that will lead to
the highest possible accomplishments.”

In discussing the responsibilities of
the school, he says, “The school has its
part to play in teaching the arts by
which we live, the mastery of tools and
techniques for controlling, shaping, and
using the physical environment. . . . No
list of the school’s proper functions is
complcte if it docs not include the fine
arts. Developing the aesthetic capabili-
ties of children and teaching them to ap-
preciate beauty in music, the drama, the
dance, the plastic and the graphic arts is
as fundamental as any of the other sub-

jects to which that honored adjective is
customarily applied.”

b A CUT IN THE BUDGET of the Depart-
ment of the Interior of almost $93,000,-
000, or nine percent, was madc by the
House Appropriations Committee dur-
ing the last week in March. The depart-
ment had requested a thirteen percent
increase. Considering the final supple-
mental appropriatia for 1963, the in-
crease represents slightly over $9,000,-
000. Among other items completely cut
out was a $2,000,000 request for the ac-
quisition of land for the new Cape Cod
Seashore Park. No funds were approved

by the committee for this acquisition.
The committee did allow more funds
than originally requested for camping
and picnicking facilities in the National
Parks.

The Bureau of Outdoor Recreation
had requested $2,462,000 and received
approval for almost $1,900,000. The
Burcau had anticipated that the field of-
fices would staff about twenty-five peo-

ple; this would be cut to ten staff mem-
bers.

D THE SPRING-SUMMER EXODUS from
homesite to campsite is near and the
Department of the Interior again is pre-
pared to offer a bargain for the season.
Through its National Park System, the
department has available—for the price
of “pioneer spirit”——~25,253 camping
sites or spaces spread throughout sixty-
nine units. Conrad L. Wirth, director of
the department’s National Park Service,
noted that each year the number of
camp-use days increases considerably—
6,016,030 were recorded in 1962, a gain
of fourteen percent from the 1961 total

——and forecasts for 1963 indicate yet
another peak year.

} ADDITIONS to the National Park Sys-
tem of seven seacoast, desert, lakc, and
river areas in five states has been urged
by the Advisory Board on National
Parks. 0f the scenic and historic areas
recommended by the eleven-man board
at its Washington meeting, three would
provide new and varied outdoor recre-
ation arcas to large metrOpolitan popu-

6’on Sauna/wt

Bill’i‘

House Senate

 

Youth Conservation Corps (HR. 3688, S. 1): 133- R P

tablishes a Youth Conservation Corps and a local-area
Youth Employment Program to train and employ un—

employed youth.

National Wilderness System (HR. 930, S. 4): 135- C F

tablishes a national wilderness preservation system and
places 6,800,000 acres of national forest in the wildcr-

ness system.

Land and Water Conservation (HR. 3846, S. C C
859): Provides for a land and water conservation fund

to finance planning, acquisition, and dcvelopment of

state and federal outdoor recreation facilities.

National Service Corps (HR. 5625, S. 1321): Pro- C

.11

vides a National Service Corps to strengthen commu-
nity service programs in the United States.

*C: in. committee R: reported 1’: passed F: floor .

1211

lations in and around California, Min-
nesota, and the District of Columbia.
They include: Channel Islands National
Park, off the Southern California coast;
Great Falls Park, on the Virginia shore
of the Potomac; Abo-Quarai National
Monuments, New Mexico; seven Santa
Fe Trail Sites, from Missouri to New
Mexico; Voyageurs National Park,
a peninsula on the U.S.-Canada border
in Minnesota; Great Salt Lake Na-
tional Monument, Utah; John Muir
Historic Site, California.

it The Natural Resources and Power
Sub-Committee of the House Committee
on Government Operations will examine
and hold wide-ranging public hearings
concerning the nation’s water pollution
control problems, according to a report
by its chairman, Congressman Robert
E. Jones. The Chairman of the Full
Committee on Government Operations
is Congressman William L. Dawson.
The subcommittee’s hearings will begin
in Washington about mid-May and
thereafter the subcommittee will con-
duct field inspections, as well as addi-
tional public hearings, in various parts
of the country to examine the water

pollution control problems of particular
river basins.

Chairman Jones stated: “The dimin-
ishing quality of America’s water sup-
ply is one of the most urgent problems
facing our country today. The subcom-
mittee’s hearings will therefore focus
on what can be done to improve our
techniques for preventing and control-
ling water pollution to meet all the
nation’s operating needs—domestic,
municipal, industrial, agricultural. rec-
reational, conservation of fish and wild-
life, and other essential water needs.”

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

 

——-IMPORTANT NOTICE

} \Vanted for the Publications Display
at the 45th National Recreation Con-
gress. St. Louis, September 29 to Oct-
ober 4‘: Copies of your annual reports.
newsletters and bulletins. or other reg-
ular publications. to be exhibited, and
used as give-aways where possible.
These should be mailed to St. Louis to
arrive not earlier than September 16.
not later than September 26. Address
to: Exhibit Area, 4-5th National Reerea-
tion Congress, Chase-Park Plaza. St.

Louis. Missouri, Care of Dorothy
Donaldson.

 

 

) S. O. S. RECREATION magazine would
like to have stories about your suc-
cessful surfacing of recreation areas
and / or any experimentation along these
lines ( see “Is Your Playground Surfac-
ing Safe?” by George Butler. RECREA-
TION. April 1963). Also photographs

212

and descriptions of new recreation
buildings. Information about any new
materials used in construction or any
unique or ultra-modern features of the
finished facility. (If you sent material
on your building to Mr. Butler before
his retirement, don’t repeat. His files
are at our disposal).

} Baorneanoon on THE PLAYGROUND is
the title of an editorial in The Daily
Journal of Elizabeth, New Jersey, which
says: “Mayor Biertuempfel in defend-
ing a proposal for the use of a bit of
land in [the city of] Union as a play-
ground may havc tapped the paramount
purpose for setting aside places for
children to congregate—~real brother-
hood.

"Residents of the area had objected
by voice and by petition with all the
reasons common to municipal proceed-
ings———the children are noisy, property
values would be impaired, it isn’t
needed ‘in this neighborhood.’

"Doubtless those are valid to the ob-
jectors, even in Union where all the
green places have not disappeared and
where most families have a few feet of
ground at their disposal.” Mayor Bier-
tuempfel delved much deeper, however.

‘” "l‘hese peoltle,’ he said, 'do not have
the proper concept of what a play-
ground is and the value of children
getting together. The playground is the
first step in getting rid of bigotry.’ ”

) NO COMIC BOOKS were disapproved in
1962, according to the Comics Mag-
azine Association of America, in its
April ’63 C.M.A.A. Newsletter. For
the eighth consecutive year, since the
Comics’ Code becamc operative, the Na-
tional Ollice for Decent Literature in
1962 listed no comics magazine titles as
"disapproved for youth.” One hundred
and forty-two titles were listed as "ac-
ceptable comics.” The NODL consid-
ers publications objectionable which:
glorify crime or the criminal; describe
in detail ways to commit criminal acts;
hold lawful authority in disrespect;
portray sex facts offensively; feature in-
decent, lewd, or suggestive photographs
or illustrations; carry oernsive or
harmful advertising, use blasphernous,
profane, or obscene speech indiscrim-
inately and repeatedly; hold up to
ridicule any national, religious, or ra-
cial group. It is estimated that fifty mil-
lion Americans—children and adults—
read comic books.

i A BROCHURE on "The Plight of Migra-
tory Farm Worker Families” and some
of the legislation for migrant welfare
which is pending is being distributed
by the Friends Social Order Commit-
tee, 1515 Cherry Street, Philadelphia 2,
Pennsylvania. Passage of the National
Service Corps Act (see “Congressional

Scorecard”) will be helpful to this
group. { F or further information on the
plight of migratory workers and their
children, see “Letters” to the editor,
RECREATION, N ovem ber 1962.)

Coming Events
The 18th AnnnaI Meeting, Soil

Conservation Society of Amer-
iea, Utah State University, Logan,
Utah, August 25-28. For details, write
to society at 7515 N.E. Ankeny Road,
Ankeny, Iowa.

Fifth Perry-Mansfield Danee
Seminar, Steamboat Springs, Colo-
rado, August 21-25. For teachers and
students over sixteen years. The
$75.00 fee includes instruction, room
and board, swimming in Steamboat
Springs hot mineral pool.

The 13th National Convention.
American Symphony Oreliestra
League, The 9th Arts Conneil
Conferenee, Sheraton-Palace Ho-
tel, San Francisco, June 19-22. For
details write to the League, Sym-
phony Hill, P.O. Box 66, Vienna,
Virginia.

\Vorld Reereation Congress, Ky-
oto, Japan, October 2-7, 1964. For
details about the International liec-
reation Charter Flight to Japan,write
to Travel Division, International Rcc-
rcation Association, Room 912. 345

East 46th Street, New York 17.

The 915! Annual Meeting of the
American Public Health Associ-
ation, Municipal Auditorium, Kan.-
sas City, Missouri, November 11-15.
For further information it rite to
Schless and Company, 59 East 5-1th
Street, New York 22, (attention
George Schless) .

Aquatie leadership workshOp,
August 18-24, will be offered co-
Operativer by Indiana University,
the American Red Cross, and the
American Association of Health.
Physieal Education and Recreation.
at the university at Bloomington.
This workshop will provide a review
of the water safety and first aid in-
structor training in addition to the
following specialized program con.
tent: skin and scuba diving, water
skiing, small craft including power
boat safety, sailing, and water safety
seminar (including special-interest
areas scheduled during the evenings
to met the participants’ needs). For
additional information write to Dr.
Ben F. Scherer, Department of
Health and Safety, School of Health,
Physical Education, and Recreation,
Indiana University, Bloomington.
Indiana.

Recaasrrox

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

The CHALLENGE of LEISURE in OLD AGE

As Senior Citizen Month rolls around again,
the recreation leader should take stock
of his responsibility to this group

Janet R. MacLean

FOR CENTURIES, the welfare of the eld-

erly was principally a family affair
and an individual responsibility. To
day, social, economic, technological,
and scientific deve10pments have cre-
ated changes which have focused dra-
matic attention on acute problems of
the aging in our country. In the general
pattern of socio-economic and cultural change affecting the
aging, recreation assumes an ever-increasing position of im-
portance to the individual and to society. Not only to live,
but to live fully may be the test of our civilization. To have
years added to our lives without adequate provision or edu-
cation for zestful living in those years can spell tragedy for
a growing segment of our population.

What do we know about these aging individuals? Why
should they be a concern for the recreation profession? First,
they are with us—and in numbers—over sixteen million to-
day—a possibility of double that number in the year 2000.
Present estimates report one thousand persons reaching the

age of sixty-five every day. A rise in the standard of living
and an accompanying decrease in the mortality rate have
combined to add years to normal life expectancy at birth.
With more persons who can expect to live more years, comes

 

the challenge to make those years meaningful and satisfying.

What do we know about this age group? There is no sin-
gle prototype physically, mentally, or emotionally. There
are some generalizations we can make, however.

The average person in retirement today is in better physi-
cal condition than the average retiree years ago. He has
greater capacity for enjoying physical activity and needs
opportunity for pleasureful exercises to help him keep physi-
cally fit. Psychologically, he may have a very real problem
because of changing status. Just as the teenager is constantly
confused and frustrated with his role of half-child, half-adult,
so the older person is insecure as he passes from being an
active breadwinner, respected for his skills, to being in that
somewhat suspended state of “being retired”. He needs
meaningful involvements which will allow him to keep
healthful mental attitudes. There are no easy answers, but
three challenges seem to emerge quite forcefully.

 

DR. MACLEAN is assistant professor of recreation at Indiana
University in Bloomington.

MAY, 1963

WE MUST ELIMINATE stereotyped images which all too
often show the aged in unfavorable lights. Just as
teenagers often suffer as a group because of a few delin-
quents, so the aged are often categorized unfairly. Our first
challenge, then, is to educate public attitudes toward leisure
and toward the aged. (See “Ten Basic Concepts of Aging,”
RECREATION, February, 1963.)

Second, we must attract and educate professional leader-
ship with knowledge of the interest and capacities of our
older citizens and knowledge of a broad cafeteria of mean-
ingful activities. We can no longer be content with treating
the elderly en masse once a week with bingo, square dancing,
and band concerts. They need community service, cultural
arts, group discussions, and any other activity which will in-
trigue their interest or provide an outlet which will allow
them to feel they still play a significant role in our society.
More attention must be given in recreation curriculums to
the nature of the aging process, the special needs of our aging
population with regard to facility or involvement. Research
in this area must be accelerated.

And last, but not least, we have the challenge of planning
now as a profession for the recreation literacy of future gen-
erations. We can’t turn back the clock for today’s senior
citizen; but we can make sure that we don’t have the same
problem for those who will be sixty-five, thirty years from
now. We need to start now to educate attitudes toward re-
tirement years and to encourage skills and appreciations
which can carry over into meaningful leisure consumption
in later maturity. Anything we can do to broaden the rec‘-
reation horizons of youth today should inevitably help elders
of the future to be less isolated, more imaginative in recrea-
tion choices, and more easily motivated by our professional
counterparts of tomorrow.

Oscar Ewing at the 1950 National Conference on Aging,
remarked, “This is a country where it is wonderful to be
young. It must become a country where it is wonderful to be
old.” The key to that challenge is partially ours, to make this
country a place in which individuals can grow old, not just
get old. If we accept the challengcs and succeed, future gen-
erations who are retired at sixty and live another forty years,
adults whose leisure may far exceed their work hours, may
find life-saving, life—giving interests in the enthusiasms which
we engendered. Who knows, the lives we save may be our

own. #
213

Municipal Sports Programs

0W MANY recreation and park departments are mem-
H bers of the Amateur Athletic Union and Sponsor or

cosponsor AAU-sanctioned events? What percentage
of the total participation in the programs of these depart-
ments is devoted to athletics and sports? To what extent
would departments participate in out-of-city competition if
sponsored by a recreation agency? Should the National
Recreation Association encourage public recreation agencies
to take a more active part in sports competition on a state-
wide, regional, and national basis? These questions are
being asked because several state recreation groups are
urging local recreation authorities and state agencics to
play a greater role in the conduct of competitive sports
programs now directed by independent sports organizations,
and efforts are being made by some recreation leaders to
encourage greater affiliation and cooperation of public rec-
reation departments with the Amateur Athletic Union.

To obtain answers to these and related questions, asked
repeatedly of the NRA, a questionnaire inquiry suggestcd
by Ben York, superintendent of recreation of West Palm
Beach, Florida, was addresscd to the Association’s Service
Affiliates in the summer of 1962. The survey was designed
to reveal the prescnt status of sports policies and programs
of public recreation agencies and their attitude with refer-
ence to several questions relating to sports.

Responses were received from 436 local and county rec-
reation and park departments. Additional forms were sub-
mitted by eighty-two individuals who reported for hospitals,
military units, youth organizations, industries, and a variety
of other agencies. Since the inquiry was concerned with
programs of public departments, the information sent in
for these other groups is not included in the tabulations,
although a few significant findings in their reports are given
special mention. Much of the data has been summarized by
the eight NRA service districts in order to reveal differences
in programs and policies in various parts of the country.
The number of departments in each district reporting are:

New England .......  29 Midwest _.__-_..,_-z_.-.s..__.. 36
Mid-Atlantic . ._ . 97 Southwest t2
Southern  65 Pacific Northwest. 23
Great Lakes - .107 Pacific Southwest. 6'!

Athletics and sports comprise slightly more than three-
fifths of the total participation in the entire recreation pro-
gram of 406 departments reporting. The percentage in in-
dividual departments varies from fifteen to one hundred;
in a majority of them the participation in sports exceeds

214

 

and Policies

the total in all other aSpects of their program. The over-
whelming emphasis on sports in many cities indicates that
other types of activities are not receiving a proportionate
share in the department program. The average percentages
of participation in sports as reported by the districts are:

New England _....s_____.67 % Midwest ...._........_____.60.6%
Mid-Atlantic _-.__-....__- 60 % Southwest____-55 %
Southern _. ..... -- “55 % Pacitic Northwest -..__..65.4%
Great Lakes s. .._._z.57.4% Pacific Southwest .._._.52.3%

The figures suggest that sports receive the greatest relative
emphasis in New England, the least in the Pacific Southwest.

A question relatcd somewhat to the onc on participation
was, “What importance do you attach to competitive ath-
letic activitics as compared with other phases of your de-
partment program?” The great variety in the answers made
cxact tabulation impossible, but many replies indicated
clearly the degree of emphasis attached to sports. Table l
affords a fair indication of the opinions cXpressed by the
authorities reporting.

TABLE I

Importance Attached to Competitive Athletic Actlrllies.
by Number ot Departments lie-portlng

Halor. Haln High or
or Prlmary Great

Secondary
or Hlnor

Equal - Same

Dlstrtct As Others

New England

Mid-Atlantic 2 It 40 8
Southern 7 I6 24 2

Great Lakes 5 22 44 4
Midwest t 6 I6 I
Southwest 2

Pacitic NW
Pacitic SW

32

Great importance is apparcntly attached to sports in New
England and the Southern district; also in the Southwcst,
although very few rcported from this area. In the Mid-
Atlantic and Pacific Southwest districts, sports arc con-
sidered lcss important than in several othcr areas. In a
relatively few cities Sports are ranked lower in importance
than other aspects of the program.

MANY REASONS were offered for giving sports a high
rating. They were citcd as a most effective puhlic-
relations medium and a means of reaching large numhers

RECREATION

Results of the 1962 survey

of NRA service affiliates reveal the present status of sports

in public recreation agencies

of people of different ages quickly and inexpensively, of
securing public support, and of providing spectator activi-
ties for adults. Other reasons given were that competitive
sports serve to motivate physical fitness, develop sportsman-
ship and character, release tension, and create interest in
the entire program. Many authorities mentioned, however,
that their primary value lies in the Opportunity they afford
for participation and the resulting enjoyment rather than
in intensive competition and the deveIOpment of champions.
In view of the importance widely attributed to competitive
athletic activities, it is highly significant that in nearly three-
fifths of the departments, competitive athletics and sports are
considered to be of equal importance to other types of activi-
ty and to merit no more emphasis than other aspects of the
program.

In order to gain a picture of the extent to which athletic
activities are organized, supervised, or conducted by rec-
reation departments, authorities were asked to check a list
of twenty-eight activities. Some of them also recorded the
total participation or the number of individuals taking part
in these activities. 0f the twenty-eight athletic activities, the
average number reported per department was eleven. Only
eight of the activities were checked by as many as a half
of the reporting departments. These are, in the order named,
softball, basketball, baseball, tennis, swimming and diving,
volleyball, track and field, and archery.

A few differences are noted in the composition of the
sports programs in the eight regions. Half the reporting
departments in the Southwest provide boxing; very few in
the Middle Atlantic and Pacific Southwest. Regulation foot-
ball ranks high in the Southern District; touch (or flag)
football in the Pacific Southwest. Many departments in the
Midwest and Pacific Southwest offer gymnastics and tum-
bling; the Great Lakes District leads in the percentage of
departments providing boating, ice hockey and scuba and
ranks second to the Pacific Southwest in trampolining.
Weightlifting is' mest frequently reported by Southern
cities; next, by cities in the Pacific Southwest, which indi-
cate little interest in such activities as boxing and wrestling.
As might be expected, winter sports lead in New England,
the Mid-Atlantic, and Great Lakes Districts. Table II sum-
marizes the activities reported.

The table indicates by NRA Field Districts, the number
of departments reporting for each of twenty~eight activities,
the ones which they organized, supervised, or conducted
during the year 1961 or the year ending June 30, 1962.
The figures in parenthesis at the top of the table represent

MAY, 1963

TABLE 11

bcllvlties Organized. Supervlsed or Conducted
by Recreatlon and/or Park Departmenls

..  
2 '-.=.. 3,; -.= =5 3 a,
3: 22.. g2... gr... 3... gs... 02.. ‘39.. as. .o
 :s as as a? s3. s2:   Es.
a g E .9. 5 E .2 2 A“. 3
Archery 15 51 29 62 20 6 6 33 222
Baseball 27 83 59 100 31 10 17 58 385

Basketball 28
BoaHng

Football-—
Regulation

 

Gymnastics 8. 11
Tumbling

 

Hiking 7 25 10 24 10 2 4 13 95
Horseback — 7 7 5 5 -— 1 4 29
Riding
Ice Hockey 12 20 2 49 5 -— 4 2 94
Ice Skating 23 69 1 82 23 —— 11 8 217
Scuba 2 5 10 17 3 1 3 10 51
Shooting 6 22 1 1 23 8 5 5 9 89
Skiing 1 1 14 —— 22 7 —— 9 8 71
Soccer 6 26 8 15 6 3 10 19 93

Softball

Swimming 8.

Diving

 

Track 8. Field 18 65 44 63 15 9 15 53 282
Trampoline 6 15 15 27 11 4 5 22 105
Volleyball 18 66 46 80 24 8 16 54 312
Water Skiing 1 3 3 9 1 -— -— 3 20
Weightlifting 8 24 28 26 8 6 5 26 131
Wrestling 5 19 10 22 7 2 6 7 78

WWW-##—

Aver.No. 11.6 11.2 10.2 10.8 10.9 10.6 10.6 10.7 11
Reponed

 

 

*Total departments in district reporting.

215

the numbers of departments submitting reports in the sports
survey.

In addition to providing their own programs, many
departments assist affiliated athletic organizations or clubs
in various ways. The survey showed that 217 departments give
some such service to other groups; 211 do not. Among the
organizations listed as receiving help from the reporting
departments were athletic clubs and associations, clubs or
associations in a single sport, church leagues, industrial
groups, YMCA’s, Scouts, men’s fitness clubs, managers’
associations, golden-age groups, civic clubs, and public and
private schools. Types of service mentioned included the
providing of umpires and coaches, help in organizing the
groups, supervising tournaments, conducting training insti-
tutes for leaders and baseball and football schools, provid-
ing instruction in individual sports, helping groups find
volunteers, and coordinating group programs.

A number of departments indicated the reasons they do
not organize, supervise, or otherwise assist local groups.
Among the reasons given in the order of frequency reported

are:

Never requested.

No need or no such groups.

The cost—or inadequate funds.

Groups can and do supply their own.
Inadequate personnel.

Contrary to department policy or function.

Most reporting departments (lid not name the group
served, but merely indicated the form of sport sponsored
by the group. The activities which other groups were helped
to conduct included the following:

   
 

  
  

Activity

No. of
Depfs. Reporting

Activity

No. of
Depts. Reporting

  

 

Baseball 95 Ice Hockey 9
Tennis 81 Bowling 8
Swimming 8. Diving 46 Boxing 8
Basketball 44 Shooting 8
Softball 37 Wrestling 8
Football-Regulation 27 Volleyball 7
Weightlifting 21 Footballotouch 6
Golf 17 Soccer 6
Track and field 17 Ice skating 5

   

Ln

Archery 15 Skiing
Gymnastics-tumbling 10

Membership by recreation departments in the Amateur
Athletic Union, their sponsorship of AAU-sanctioned events,
and use of their facilities by the AAU were questions in-
cluded in the survey. Returns indicated that less than a
third of the reporting departments belong to the AAU;
forty-two percent sponsor or cosponsor AAU-sanctioned
events; and half permit AAU clubs to use their facilities
for AAU-sanctioned events. Comparatively few cities charge

 

216

       

    

 

AAU clubs for such use and most of these fix a rate that
merely reimburses them for the cost of making the facilities
available. Many departments stated that they would grant
AAU clubs free use of their facilities if requested to do so.
The replies to the three questions above are summarized
as follows:

Does the Department

Is the
Department

a Member
of 6.6.0.!

Yes No
New England —5 35—
Mid-Atlantic 17 79
Southern 29 35
Great Lakes 26 80

Midwest 13 23

Permit Use of
its Facilities
for These Events!

Sponsor
6.4.9.

District Events!

PacificNW 7 16 14
PacificSW 27 39 42 23

Totals 132 300 177 246 169 165

 

Few departments indicated the nature of the sponsorship
or cooperation or named the sanctioned events, but the
types most frequently reported were meets, contests, fitness
tests, and championships. Some events were sponsored (li-
rectly by the department; others, in c00peration with an
AAU hody. Open, women’s, and junior events were reported.
Cooperation by the departments took various forms, as
organization of the event, administrative assistance, furnish-
ing officials, and providing the awards. The types of activi-
ty most frequently reported and the number of departments
reporting them are:

Boxing . 14
Gymnastics and Tumbling .. 10
Weight Lifting -. _ . __ 10

Swimming and Diving ..---114
Track and Field ...... ...-_ 43

Basketball   .-_. 33
Junior Olympics. ._...__. 29

Among the puhlic facilities used by AAU groups and the
number of reporting departments are:

......... -....93
 45

Gymnasiums ..-_ 42
Tennis Courts  7

Swimming Pools
Athletic Fields . -- 

Many departments answered the question as to why they
had not joined the AAU. By far the largest number stated
there was no apparent need, interest, or reason for doing
so. Other reasons given in a number of replies were:

Department is too new. small. or with too few facilities.

Have never been approached or asked.

Would not benefit our program.

We do not compete in out-of-city events.

We do not agree with AAU policies or overemphasis on winning.
Too many AAU restrictions.

Others stated: “We have our own association”; “We desire
to remain a local recreation hody for enjoyment of all”;
“No AAU in the area”; “Limited hudget better spent in
other ways”; “Have no information on the AAU.” A few
individuals apparently are strongly opposed to joining the

RECREATION

t

AAU, in at least tho instances due to unfortunate expert
ences.

THE EXTENT to which individuals and teams sponsored
by recreation departments should be entered in com-
petition involving travel outside the city is a question faced
'by every department. In general, national championship
events for children have not been looked upon with favor
by recreation authorities for a number of reasons. The
growing number of sports programs for children promoted
and conducted by organizations over which recreation au-
thorities have little or no control and which involve state
and national competition has been a matter of increasing
concern to recreation departments. The inability of many
departments to meet the growing demand for local sports
facilities and programs has also raised questions about the
desirability of participating in events involving inter-city,
state, and national competition. The inquiry therefore re-
quested opinions as to the types of competition in which
the recreation department would participate if it were spon-
sored by a city, county, state, regional, or national recrea-
tion agency. There was reason to believe that the degree

of participation might be different if the competition were
sponsored by a rECreation agency rather than by an inde-
pendent sports body.

  

  
       
  

TABLE III

Number of Departments lhat Would Participate
in Out-of-(ity (ompetitlon. by NRA Distrlcls

H H
H HI
a: o
3 3:
= '2 u e. g 5
.2 2 E 32st» .- o 3 a-
3; are a» are an“ “as 3e 2e was A
w— gd-u :;-~ 5A .JI'“ "A A A A ‘0
“a mo- .qh gm “O who 3M .3m .25 m
g; N ~°~ g—ND ru— im £- 20: :20 1;"
ISLE 3" :13" :1” a“ tie—- =-- uh- us-v ....'--'
III-O 0 z a h '- a a m O
[—H x U'I ‘9 z 95 A A 5-

 

 
   
  
    

lnter-(ity

Boys 22 "

 

212
192

Men

Women

 
 

 

     
    
 

  

lnler-(ounly
Boys 16 £182 49 512 16 8 14 35 2371

Girls 14 41 382 47 15
Men 162 55 47
Women 122 43 40

           
        
  
  
   
     
     
   
   
   
        
     
 

 

 

        

    

 

 
 

Inter-Stale
Boys 10 261 36 274 ll ‘ 92 19 1475

Girls 8 182 271 18"2 ll 7 16 1133
Men 13 39

Women 8

  

 

        

   

National
Boys

 

Women 7 172

    

 

* Plus three'conditional replies.
5P|us five conditional replies.
8‘ Total departments in district reporting.

1 Plus two conditional replies.
2 Plus one conditional reply.
3Plus four conditional replies.

     

In their replies, setelal departments stated they nuuld
engage in no out-of—city cinnpetition. Others qualified their
readiness to participate in some of the events. A few listed
specific activities, such as swimming for boys and girls.
tennis and golf for men and women, or Little League base-
ball, as the only events in which they would take part.
Others favor out-of-city competition in individual sports
but not for teams. Several would not participate in events
for children under twelve. Others would take part only if
adequate safeguards were assured to protect the partici-
pants. Table N] indicates the number of departments that

reported they would take part in four types of competition
for each of four groups.

Table [N indicates that a considerable majority of the
reporting departments would take part in inter-city compe-
tition; approximately a half, in inter-county events; and
a minority, in inter-state competition. A relatively small
number would take part in national meets, especially those
involving individuals or teams, composed of boys or girls.

Reasons were given by many recreation park authorities
why they would not participate in one or more forms of
competition involving travel outside the city by boys, girls,
men, or women. In some cases, the reasons apply to only
a single type of competition, such as national; in others,
they may apply to more than one type. Likewise, they may
apply to one or more of the four groups of participants.
Several authorities mentioned more than one reason why
they would not participate. Reasons most frequently men-
tioned are listed according to the number of departments
citing them.

High cost, budget limitation. etc.

Transportation and overnight travel, with related expense, liability,
control. etc.

Overemphasis on winning. excessive pressure. especially on emotionally
immature children.

Not the purpose of the department, which should seek to secure total
participation.

Sufficient opportunities for competition afforded by other agencies. such
as schools. etc.

No need for it—not in best interests of children.

Too time-consuming.

Adequate emphasis on competition at local level.

Results in neglect of the many for benefit of the stars.

Contrary to department policy to finance and/or sponsor out-of-city
competition.

Other reasons given were: Department is too small or
too young; lack of adequate personnel; departments should
stress recreation and physical condition, keep activities
simple, give children something to look forward to; the
benefits are too small, the dangers too great; season is too
short to justify it; disrupts the local program; coaching
problems; adult standards are superimposed on youth; de-
partment loses control the farther the activity gets from
home; would compete only if athletes could make a good
showing; women can’t well get away from their homes or
men from their work.

REPEATED SUGGESTIONS that the NRA should play a more
active role in the field of competitive sports prompted
the final question, “Should the NRA encourage public rec-
reation agencies to take a more active part in sports com-

217

petition on a state-wide, regional, and national basis?”
Since the nature of such action was not indicated, the ques-
tion was interpreted in a variety of ways. However, 157
authorities answered “Yes.” whereas 194 gave a negative
response.“ A summary of the returns from NRA districts

 

 

 

follows.
No. of Depls. Answering

District Yes No
New England ‘- I31 I I
Mid-Atlantic 362 43
Soulhern 313 233
Great lakes 331 51
Midwest "— 96 I9
Southwest m _ “W i 2
Pacific NW IO 9
Pacific SW 184 36

WWII-ii?— ‘ T _ #7577 I94

4 Plus tour condilional voles.
5 Plus titteen condilional voles.
6 Plus live conditional votes.

1 Plus three conditional votes.
2 Plus two conditional votes.
3 Plus one conditional vote.

 

Comments on their “Yes” or “No” answers were sub-
iiiittcd by many authorities. Some gave reasons in support
of their answer; other comments dealt with the pros and
cons of out-of-city competition. In some cases it was diffi-
cult to reconcile comments with answers to the question
on readiness to participate in out-of-city competition. The
same reasons were given hy some who favor niore NRA
action as by others who oppose it. Some authorities who
would participate in sports compctition at all lcvels bclicve
the NRA should not encourage it; others who would not

 

* By way of contrast. nearly three out of four of tlie eighty-two per-
sons reporting for other types of agencies believe the NRA should
encourage such action.

Aesthetic Goulasli

take part want the NRA to be more active in promoting
such competition.

Conclusions

1. Sports and athletics account for a majority of the
total participation in municipal recreation programs. Even
so, most departments include relatively few activities in
their sports and athletic program.

2. In spite of the widespread emphasis on sports and
athletics, more than half of the recreation authorities re-
porting believe they are no more important than other
aspects of the recreation program.

3. Only half of the reporting departments render service
to other local organizations or clubs sponsoring or con-
ducting sports activities.

4. A small minority of recreation departments are mem-
bers of the Amateur Athletic Union. The chief reason others
have not joined is that thcre has been no apparent need,
interest, or reason for doing so.

5. More departments sponsor or co-sponsor AAU-sanc-
tioned events than belong to this organization. Swimming
and diving, track and field, basketball, and Junior Olympics
are most widely reported.

6. More than half the reporting departments permit the
AAU to use their facilities; many more would do so if
requested. Very few departments charge the AAU for use.

7. Departments dillcr widcly in the degree to which they
would participate in out-of-city competition if sponsored
by a recreation agcncy. A majority favor inter-city com-
petition; participation Would hc successively less in inter-
county, inter-state, and national contests. There is more
support for competition among boys than girls; among men
than women. Only a small minority would take part in
national events.

8. A majority of the (lepartnicnts replying believe the
NRA should not encourage public recreation agencies to
take a more active part in sports compctition on a state-
wide. rcgional, and national basis. it

erishcd humanity, often teeming with
crime and desolation. The intent of this

The automobile and the haphazard
growth of American cities, explosively
spurred on by the Industrial Revolu-
tion, are basic causes of rapid ohsoles-
cence and decay of our city centers. As
Detroit architect Mark T. Jaroszewicz
recently pointed out to members of a
landscape-design study course presented
by the University of Michigan and the
Federated Garden Clubs of Michigan,
the automobile, “coupled with a charac-
teristic desire of the increasingly afflu-
ent American to own his own home,
gave rise to at first graduate, then accel-
erated, development of the suburbs.
This spread, covering untold millions
of acres of hill and dale, was made pos-

2l8

siblc by tlic advent of the automobile.

“The automobile made possihle living
far from work—and yct [made it] well-
nigh impossible to get to it. lt gave our
society increased mobility and freedom,
yet its hard-steel and poisonous residues
become tools of death, taking a higher
annual toll in life and property than
many a war fought in the past.

Detroit and other cities, be pointed
out, are using drastic surgery in “tear-
ing down blocks upon hlocks of half-
ruined, substandard dwellings, closed
stores, and abandoned factories, which
surround our lofty and soaring city cen-
ters with thick, choking belts of impov-

homeric undertaking is to replace our
slums with bright, sunny, light and
cheerful single and multiple dwellings
and huildings, set among lawns, trees
and playgrounds, with the automobile
confined to strictly limited areas along
the perifcries.”

Amcricans who want beauty in their
communities must subordinate some
privileges, Mr. Jaroszewicz added. “Our
misapplied sense of independence, ex-
aggerated pride of possession and urge
for self-expression force us to tolerate
one-story shanties next to soaring sky!
scrapers, to close our eyes and ears to
the screams of neons and the aesthetic

goulash of our typical shopping streets.”

RECREATION _

ILNOW HOW TO I
WALK? ~ 

James H. Hocking

TWENTY-ONE YEARS AGO the ar-
ticle condensed below appeared in REC-
REATION (May 1942 issue) with this
comment by the editor: “The lost A mer-
ican art of walking may be revived, i/
the rationing of automobile tires con-
tinues and i/ the American people retain
the health-conscious attitude that has
gained such impetus the last year or so.”
Its author, James Hocking, celebrated
his eighty-fifth birthday by taking a
fifty-five mile walk.

However, the National Campers and
llikers Association warns us that, “The
tremendous national rush to hiking is
a healthful sign but like all unaccus-
tomed exercise it should be entered with
judgement and good sense, and the per-
son who breezes of] on a long hike with-
out practice periods is headed for trou-
ble and twin ges. Heart failure heads our
list of deaths. Walking helps the heart,
so specialists tell us, but fifty miles at
one clip is too much [or so/ties accas-
tonzed to hop into the car just to shop
around the corner.”

life, it would seem that everyone
would learn to move correctly,
whatever his size or age. Just watch
your step now, and see if you do it cor-

SINCE WALKING is a main activity of

rcctly.

To really walk, you must use a heel-
toe stride. The heel should touch the
ground first, then the ball and the toes,
to give the final spring to the foot. The
feet must point straight ahead, not to

the sides. The body should be carried

erect, the arms swinging naturally. the

| MAY, 1963

0

Today, hikers of every age,
shape and sex, swarm over the
American landscape, with motor-
ized travelers making way for a
growing pedestrian populace. As,
for example, five thousand citi-
zens setting forth from Pittsburgh
the other day. . . . This enthusias-
tic state of affairs has been in-
spired by President John F. Ken-
nedy in his admirable zeal to have
this country become physically fit.
It all started when, as a part of the
national fitness program, Presi-
dent Kennedy issued a challenge
to the Marine Corps. He asked
the men to match the Marines of
1908 in marching a fifty-mile dis-
tance as laid down by Teddy
Roosevelt under similar circum-
stances. They did.

 

lips closed, and the lungs taking the air
through the nostrils.

Perhaps you have been coming down
on the balls of your feet with the toes
pointing to the sides. This is a common
error and is responsible for fallen
arches and feet and hip trouble. Misfit
shoes, too tight laces, and poor fitting
socks are other faults that prevent
smooth navigation over the earth—lit-
tle things, but they all figure in thc total
against walking. To thc average man
and woman, walking is a lost art. . . .

The muscles and nerves of the cntirc
body are stimulated. The sun shines on
you—when it shines anywhere—and
you inhale an extra volume of life-giv-

   

ing oxygen. Your heart action is quick-
ened and the blood is sent with greater
force to all parts of the body to nourish
it, while it also carries off with greater
energy the wastes of the tissues.

To exert the body, to put one;
strength against the winds, to cause the
sluggish blood to stream warm against
a nipping cold, to feel the sting of sleet
on one’s face, to bring all one’s being
to hearty, healthful activity—by such
means one comes to the end, bringing
to his refreshment, satisfaction; to his
repose, contentment.

Time was when five or six miles a day
were a mere jaunt to the post office, the
general store, or the next door neigh-
bor’s, but many of us, in this motorized
age, have almost forgotten walking as
a pleasure and an adventure now that it
is no longer a necessity.

Explore your community and its en-
virons on foot and you will find many
things to interest you that you have
probably never been aware of. In plan-
ning your leisure hours, save some time
for a walk. Start walking for exercise
with open eyes and ears and an expect-
ant mood, and you will soon find your-
self walking for the joy of it. A famous
school of, philosophers had all of their
discourses while walking and thus came
to be called the “peripatetics.” It is easy
to understand how the philosophical at-
titude flourished while walking. One of
our well-loved Americans—George M.
Cabana—prescribes a walk to banish dc-
jection and despair. “You never heard
of anyone.” he said. “doing away with
himself after a long walk." #

219

 

Senior
Citizens

in Suburbia

 

Mary G. Hickerson
S ENIOR CITIZENS in Peekskill, New

York, are very much in the swim

in the sea of suburbia around
them. They have plunged headlong into
community affairs and launched a fieet
of service projects. Among other
things, they have helped Peekskill retain
state funds for a middle-income hous-
ing project, assisted local welfare and
health agencies, as well as the local li-
brary and museum. For its impressive
list of a wide variety of services to the
community, the Peekskill Senior Citi-
zens Club was asked by the Bureau of
Adult Education for the Aging of the
New York State Department of Fidu-
cation to send a eluh representative to
appear on an educational TV channel
to relate some of the eluh’s achieve-
ments and
throughout the state.

The Peekskill Senior Citizens Club

inSpire similar groups

 

MRS. HICKERSON is educational director

of the Senior Citizens Club in Peeks-
kiii, New York.

220

was horn on September 23, 1959, at a
tea party at the Peekskill YWCA after
the local newspaper had carried an an-
nouncement inviting all residents over
sixty in the city and outlying areas to
attend and discuss formation of a sen-
ior citizens club. About fifteen elderly
persons (four men and eleven women)
attended. The local Kiwanis Club had
initiated the idea as a part of its com-
munity service program, and a com-
mittee had conferred with state and
senior-citizen

county representatives

and with recreation representatives .

The group voted to voluntarily pay
ten cents dues each meeting to cover
refreshment funds, birthday cards, et
cetera. The program, as planned, in-
cluded half of the meeting devoted to
activity projects and the other half,
after a coffee break, to demonstrations,
speakers, cultural entertainment. and
the like.

The group had many skilled women
(from factory workers to a teacher)
and also two musically talented indi-
viduals. Within a short time, the cluh
had a hobby show, at which members
displayed work they had done and
gave demonstrations, and the musical
members performed. Thus, a real feel-
ing of admiration and respect was en-
gendered in the group, and all became
better acquainted.

The club

would be a major prohlem, so it decided
to collect as much scrap material as was

soon realized finances

possihle from which to make articles
and plan a bazaar to raise self-sustain-
ing funds. Since the club had no sewing
machine and no tools, members and lhc
director loaned what tools they could.
and initiated the idea of “homework,”
doing much finished sewing at home.
Planning and designing of the secured
scraps was done at the meetings. Ki-
wanis members and their wives sent
donations of scrap material and the di-
rector seeured some cotton remnants
from a lingerie factory which resulted
in many heautiful handmade articles:
children’s dresses, skirts, haby jackets
and bonnets. felt caps and booties, wool
and silk scarves, aprons, dolls. bags
and pocketbooks, coasters, hot-plate
mats, jewelry, Christmas stockings,
stoles, doll furniture, potholders, guest
towels, and tablecloths.

Each week the newspaper carried a
story of the club’s activities; also of
its first public service project: a can-
cer prevention survey. The director
secured discount tickets from the local
movie theater for all members, obtained
printed club membership tickets from
a local printer, discounts‘on materials
(cotton goods and yarn) from several
local shops, and began a program of
slowly educating civic and social clubs
in the community regarding the group’s
needs. Thus, the club was able to en-
joy tickets to the community concert
series (local and out of town), a fash-
ion show, church suppers, music festiv-
als, drama productions, local movies,
demonstrations, a Christmas tea party
and open house.

7 I ‘IIE IDEALS of service were carried
out in the first year by participat-

ing in a county-wide cancer survey.
Since then, the group has aided the
Red Cross, the YWCA, the United
Fund. community concerts, the local
library and the local museum, welfare
and health agencies. the Veterans Bu-
reau, as well as the large Velerans Hos-
pital in the area. When the city stood
to lose a 375.000 state allotment toward
municipal housing for lack of sufficient
interest and action in the community,
the group offered its mrvices. got in
touch with New York state housing
officials. heard a state representative
speak on the subject, and suggested to
this state official that the newspaper
survey questionnaire that had been
used was inadequate. With
tions by the group, a new survey ques-
tionnaire was printed, distrihnted, col-
lceted, and funds for a middle-income

sugges-

housing project were assured.

Having done an effective job on
that housing survey, the group is mak-
ing inspection tours of other housing
projects for the aging—private, pub-
lie and eooperative——-and analyzing the
best features of each. It will send rec-
ommendations to the local housing
authority to he included in ideas for
the local urban renewal project.

This group proves that senior citi-
zens in suburbia can effectively solve
their dilemma of displacement and
prove they can be once again a vital
social functioning force in their re-
spective communities. #

Dnnnn I “II-5.,

""“WHAT MAKES

Merrill F. Krughoff

ERHAPS it is an American characteristic to believe in
periodic stocktaking. We want a “fix” on our position

now and where we should be in the future. A com-
munity survey is an effort to set goals and guidelines for
future action to improve community services. Some years
ago Arch Mandel aptly said, “A survey is a telesc0ped version
of the day-to-day planning which is provided through a com-
munity welfare council.” It is pertinent, therefore, to review
the objectives of community planning for social welfare as
stated by a committee of community welfare council execu-
tives in 1950. These objectives stated at that time, and still
generally accepted today, are as follows:
0 To enable citizens to work together to determine needs
and to develop the social welfare resources to meet these
needs.
0 To bring about community recognition and understand-
ing of the needs of people, and to stimulate interest and
participation in meeting them effectively.

0 To bring about an orderly development of a well-balanced
social welfare program.

a To work for prevention and elimination of social con-
rlitions which cause social problems.

0 To promote the highest possible quality and efficiency in
the Operation of services.

0 To promote effective coordination of effort.

0 To make services readily available to all people as and
when they need them.

These objectives summarize equally wcll the objectives
of any community survey, for a survey is simply a method

 

MR. KRUCHOFF‘ is director of the Institute of Community
Studies, United Community Funds and Councils of America.

MAY, 1963

 

A 8000
COMMUNITY
SURVEY

These principles are adaptable

to long-range recreation planning
and point up the importance

of community action

in community planning. It is not the only method, nor is
it the most important method. It is a method which many
communities have chosen, often too hastily. It is desirable.
therefore, that community and agency leaders understand
the prerequisite conditions and the essential elements for
effective use of the survey method.

A community survey is a method in community planning.
Properly conducted, it can blend the analysis of experts
with the judgement of local leaders to develop understand-
ing and action toward improving the social welfare pro-
gram. On the other hand, a survey will be a waste of money
if the climate is not right or community participation in the
study process is neglected.

THE IDEAL SURVEY is one in which improvements have
occurred during the course of the study or conviction
has developed leading to definite plans for action in the
future. Success depends upon the process more than upon
the final report. The main ingredients for success are readi-
ness, positive motivation, good stall hclp, involvment of com-
munity leadership and the presence of a strong community
planning body which will carry forward action on survey
recommendations and continuously adapt programs to
changing needs in the years ahead.

A community survey is expensive. both in money and effort.
Before any community undertakes a survey. it should con-
sider very carefully alternative methods, such as a local
study, nse of short-term consultation from a national agency
or other source, conferences to resolve (lifl'crences, or spccific
actions to make changes which the leadcrship already knows
must be made. The decision to undertakc a survey slmuhl
be made only after thorough discussion involving all parties

at interest in the various aspects of community life. m

221

Definition of a community survey. The term “survey”
is used rather loosely in the social welfare field to refer to

studies of various types. Literally dozens of such studies
are made every year in any large city. For purposes of
this discussion, we shall refer to a community survey as
a stocktaking effort in which all of the following elements
are present: a responsible group of local citizens which
sponsors the study or at least is prepared to receive and
review the findings; one or more consultants or special
staff people brought in from outside the community to
assist in the collection of facts, preparation of findings and
recommendations; a study which is broader than the prob-
lems and services Of a single agency.

A community survey may cover the entire range of health,
welfare, and recreation needs and services existing or desira-
ble to meet these needs. It may be limited to a single field of
work or to agencies serving a particular group, such as the
aged, or rendering a particular service, such as public health
nursing. The survey may be evaluative of the quality of
agency services or it may assess primarily the quantitative
factors, or both. It may focus primarily upon administra-
tive patterns and relationships. Whether broad or narrow
in scope, detailed or general in depth, a community survey
is essentially a program audit. It is not pure research. but
rather applies known principles and techniqucs in order
to find solutions to problems presented.

Values and limitations of a community survey. Almost
invariably when a board or committee is baffled by a prob-
lem which defies solution, sooner or later someone will say,
“Let’s have a survey.” Too often this is an escape mecha-
nism, which serves merely to put Off the time for taking
the action already known to be necessary. Sometimes it is
thought that a survey will solve problems in some magical
way. At best, a survey is merely a tool. As with any tool.
there must be hands to use it. In the last analysis, local
community leaders hold the key to successful accomplish-
ment of the survey objectives.

A survey is not a panacea. It is merely a method of
speeding up the study, the process of reaching agreement,
and the action which should be taking place in all com-
munities, all the time, to deve10p an increasingly adequate
program of services for peOple. A survey is a means to
action, not a substitute for action. It can be good or bad
for a community at a particular time depending upon readi-
ness, motivation, and method. If the climate is not right.

 

SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS are solved only by significant
action; significant action does not take place in an
atmosphere which reflects the feeling that we need
change none Of our values, give up none Of our luxuries,
Offer no more Of ourselves personally, and still have [a
satisfying community life].——SAMUEL B. GOULD in
Knowledgejs Not Enough (Antioch Press).

 

or if the survey is improperly conducted, more problems
may be created than are solved. A survey can be a very
threatening experience for agencies. It is almost certain
to build up resistances and hostilities. Its findings can be
rejected rather easily if basic community organization prin-
ciples are ignored. The survey report, even though it may
be excellent in professional content, may gather dust on
the shelf and become outdated before any action is taken
on its recommendations.

If conditions are right, a survey has unique values. It
is dramatic and, because of its expense and urgency, the
community tends to adopt an attitude of critical self-exami-
nation. A survey can drOp seeds of new ideas in the fertile
soil of aroused leadership, blending the best of outside
professional knowledge with local citizen responsibility. It
can bring to the community expert Opinion to stimulate
the acceptance of new ways of doing things. It can provide
perspective. It can set broad policies and goals for the
future. It can put into motion dynamic forces which will
realign agency services, establish new programs to fill gaps
in services, eliminate duplication and inefhciencies, and
improve the quality of the service program taken as a whole.
Consultation from a source experienced in conducting sur-
veys can be helpful in determining whether or not the
situation is favorable for a survey. Such consultation at
the outset can also help to establish the scape and depth
required, timing and cost.

Cost is an important consideration. A community-wide
survey may cost $2,000-33,000, or $25,000-$50,000, or more
depending upon depth and source of consultation. Cost
should bear some relationship to present and potential ex-
penditures for health and welfare scrvices. By the same
token, depth should be related to the capacity of the com-
munity to digest and use the findings. Sometimes the money
might better be used to employ qualified staff for an ongoing
community planning operation.

The value of a survey is likely to be enhanced by a broad
rather than a narrow financing base. Foundations and gov-
ernmental groups often share with the United Fund the
responsibility for financing a survey. More than one source
of funds is desirable because more wide-Spread interest
may thereby be developed.

Requirements for sueeess. Community surveys are un-
dertaken in the hope that something constructive will lrappen
as a result. Few, if any, communities are interested in making
studies as an academic exercise. Since surveys are made
as a means to action, it may be apprOpriate to use the letters
of that word ACTION to outline the requirements for
success. Thus these requirements are:

ATTITUDE: Positive, self-critical, Open minded.

COMMlTTEE: Strong, representative, hard-working.

TEAM: Expert consultants.

INVOLVEMENT: Genuine participation of agcncies and

community leaders.

OSMOSIS: Time for discussion and absorption.

NO LET-DOWN: Immediate and continuing follow-up.
0 Part II which will appear next month will explore each
one at the “Requirements for Success" in depth.

RECREATION

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

“MAY 15 SENIOR CITZENS MONTH

Interest Inventory

Interests ranging from “One Meal on
One Burner for One Person” to “World
Affairs Are Our Affairs” will comprise
the programs of the new Senior Citizens’
Club in Altadeiia, California, open to all
senior citizens in San Gabriel Valley.
An organization meeting was held in
February to initiate a program of com-
panionship and recreation that would
satisfy all members of the new eluh.
Each new member was asked to check
activities he would most enjoy on an
lnterest Inventory containing approxi-
mately one hundred suggestions. Among
these, nine categories were designed to
stimulate the thinking of the senior citi-
zens, and space was provided for new
ideas. The categories included parties,
skills, educational and entertainment
programs, trips and tours, music, help-
ing others, and administrative affairs of
the club.

The most popular programs of other
senior citizen clubs in Los Angeles
County include dancing, card playing.
potluck dinners, crafts, educational pro-
grams on subjects of interest to all. such
as Social Security, and trips.

Man-Made Lace

Senior citizens in New Jersey turn
time on their hands to skills involving
everything from a portrait of JFK to
handmade gloves. The expertly finished
results were on exhibit at the annual
Senior Citizens Hobby Show held in
February in Newark. Of the 220 eon-
tributors to this year’s show, many said
they have just discovered “art” after
years of hard work with little time for
relaxation or formal schooling. Others
have put their former trades to work.
Of the sixty categories in the exhibition.
painting and needlework were the most
popular. The collections showed origin-
ality and hard work. The exhibit in-
cluded delicate engravings on alumi-
num siding created by a former Tiffanv
engraver, a landscape created from
leather scraps. a collection of postmarks

MAY. 1963

with slogans from every state in the
Union, reproductions in doll size of
eighteenth-century gowns, abstract
paintings, a model of a hydromatic
windpowered elect'ric generator, patch-
work quilts in every conceivable pattern.
According to the judges, the most beau-
tiful of the lace entries was created by a
seventy-seven -year-old Newark man who
walked off with the blue rihhon for that
category.

Busin Retired

Since its inception twelve years ago,
the Park Forest Golden Age Club has
gained consistently in stature and mem-
hers and is now a highly respected or-
ganization within this Chicago subur-
ban community. Founded in 1961 by
Mrs. Dean Wyatt with nineteen mem-
bers, it now boasts seventy men and
women and is sponsored directly by the
Villiage Recreation Department. The
department provides a shuttle bus serv-
ice which picks up members within a
half block of their homes and returns
them after the meetings, with no charge
to the members. Meetings are held twice
a month at the recreation center. A spe-
eial committee works directly with the
director in planning activities for the

year, keeping in mind the potentials as

    

Charlie Tallon of Lynn, Massachusetts,
conducts a basketball oficials school at
the Lynn YMCA, showing on program-
aid board one of the intricate parts of
017iciating. The school is now in its third
year and has qualified over seventy-five
applicants for o§iciating. Mr. Tallon
recently completed a follow-up basket-
ball clinic for tlte 17th Air Force at
the Rhine-Main Air Base in. Germany.

wcll as the limitations of the group. The
varied activities include field trips twice
a year to local places of interest, service
projects such as sewing for worth}
causes, hake sales to assist in sponsor
ing a Brownie troop, donations to
schools and many other worthwhile ac-
complishments. These older adults re-
fuse to retire to idleness.

Gone Fishin’

For a picture of relaxation and seren-
ity, the Huck Finns snoozin’ and fishin'
on the riverbanks of the sunny South
have nothing on two senior citizens of
the frozen North. They sit snugly in
rocking chairs and reel in perch, trout,
and smelt through a hole in the floor of
their two-man hut. For several months
of the year, Frank Davidson and Ernest
Morel occupy a bobhouse, as it is called,
on Lake \Vinnisquam in New Hamp-
shire. The hut, situated on ice eighteen
inches deep over twenty-seven feet of
water, has holes cut in the floor at di-
agonal corners from each other. . . . No
need to step outside on a blustery day!
The fishermen sit with heater going.
read or swap stories, or just contem-
plate, snug and warm against the out-
side weather and, always, there’s the ex-
pected excitement of the lines hohbin’.

Golden Showcase

The Waterloo Recreation Center in
Iowa observed Senior Citizens Day last
February with an “old-fashioned” party
conducted throughout the afternoon
along with two showings of the film
“Golden Age of Comedy.” This was
part of the second annual “Recreation
Show Case” featuring special activities
by major cultural and hohby organiza-
tions of the community.

Senior Citizens ill the News

A full-page spread in the McKeespor!
Daily News depicted piclorially some of
the varied activities of the senior citizens
of Mon roeville, Pennsylvania. The club.
organized in 1957 with nine members,
now has about seventy men and women.
sixty years “young” or more. The group
meets bimonthly and activities include

Continued on Page 242

223

A million dollars north of fun. Enjoy-
ing a whirl on St. Louis“ million-dollar
Steinberg Memorial Skating Rink are,
left to right, Messrs. b'hefteld, Thacher.
Hartsoe, Prendergast, and Heath.

 

43E..- 1‘: .  . '
Members of the Policy and Program Comrn ittees for the 45th National Rec-
reation Congress get plans under way during a recent meeting in St. Louis.
Above, Mrs. Edward Brungard, director of the St. Louis Department of
Parks, Recreation and Forestry, explains the panel board of the new Plane-
tarium to ( front row, left to right ) Wayne Kennedy, commissioner, St. Louis
County Department of Parks and Recreation; Arthur Williams, associate
executive director. National Recreation Association; Joseph Prendergast,
executive director, NRA; Dr. Edith Ball, president, American Recreation
Society; Stewart Case, chairman, Program Committee; ( rear row, left to
right) Edward Thacher, president-elect, ARS; Beverly Shefield ( in dark
overcoat), chairman, National Advisory Council, NRA; Verna Rensvold,
Midwest district representative, NRA; Gloria Holland, representative, Mis-
souri Park and Recreation Association; Ray Butler, executive director, ARS ;
and ( in background upper right), Charles Hartsoe, Congress secretary.

 

Leisul

Summit meeting. From lcft to right,
M r. Prcndergast, James Heath, C omntis-
sioner of Recreation, St. Louis; Dr.

Boll, Mr. Butler and Mrs. Brungard.

 

This topic will be explored in depth

at the 45th National Recreation Congress,
St. Louis, September 29th—06tober 4th

. . The Heart of Living

Stewart Case

Is LEISURE a myth
or reality? To-
day, much concern
is being given to
the meaning of lei-
sure and its present
and future implica-
tions. New analyses
are being made—-—Sebastian de Crazia’s
Of Time, Work and Leisure, Charles K.
Brightbill’s Man and Leisure, Norman
P. Miller and Duane Robinson’s The
Leisure Age, to mention a few. Authori-
ties are both agreeing and disagreeing
as to the nature of leisure.

With the timeliness and importance
of this topic in focus, the Program Com-
mittee for the 45th National Recreation
Congress in St. Louis, September 29—
October 4», has developed a format for
the Congress which includes a full day
devoted to a depth discussion of leisure.
This program will feature a symposium
panel of outstanding authorities on
leisure to be followed by small group
discussions with a question-and-answer
period back to the symposium panel.

The day-in-depth program is sched-
uled on Monday, September 30, thus
setting the stage for the remaining
week’s discussions and deliberations.
The Program Committee has received

 

program suggestions from all parts of
the country and from representatives
of all special interest areas. The over-

MR. CASE is community development
specialist at Colorado State University,
Fort Collins, and chairman of the Pro-
gram Committee for the 45th National

Recreation Congress.

MAY, 1963

all Congress format reflects the con-
cerns, problems, and needs as express-
ed by those concerned with recreation
throughout the nation. In addition to
the day-in-depth, other program high-
lights will include:

0 A keynote address by the Honorable
John M. Dalton, governor of Missouri.
0 A general session to deal with the
report of the special Joint Board Com-
mittee of the American Recreation
Society and the National Recreation
Association on organizational relation-
ships (see RECREATION, April 1963).
0 Some thirty-five special-interest ses-
sions and workshops dealing with prob-
lems, trends, and developments of con-
cern to recreation in specific settings;
for example, public, armed forces, hos-
pital, private-voluntary, religious, rural,
state and federal, et cetera.

0 A forum on administrative problems
of three national agencies in the recre-
ation field: American Institute of Park
Executives, American Recreation Soci-
ety, and National Recreation Associa~
tion.

0 A special Congress performance at
the new St. Louis Planetarium in Forest
Park. Congress delegates will bc able
to view the celestial universe and its mo-
tions as seen from any point 011 the sur-
face of the earth and from any time in
history: past, present, and future. ( F or
details of the new hyperboloid plane-
tarium, see RECREATION, January 1962,
Pages 35-36. )

o The All-Congress Banquet and Dance
in the magnificent Khorassan Room of

the Chase-Park Plaza Hotel.

0 A box lunch and band concert at the
Nathan Frank Bandstand in beautiful
Forest Park.

0 A program for the wives planned
around many features of special inter-
est in the St. Louis area.

0 A tour of the St. Louis recreation
facilities featuring the famous fourteen
hundred-acre Forest Park with its golf
courses, athletic fields, artificial ice-
skating rink, zoo, the Jewel Box, Mu-
nicipal Opera, and the Art Museum.

0 A post-Congress golf tournament.

THE EXHIBIT AREA will again be a
major feature of the Congress and
this year will highlight over a hundred
commercial exhibits of recreation equip-
ment and supplies manned by consult-
ants eager to give expert advice to dele-
gates. Also featured in the exhibit area
will be educational exhibits of national,
state, and local recreation programs.
The consultation area, including the Job
Mart, Recreation Book Center, and Na-
tional Recreation Association consult-
ants, will be in operation to assist dele-
gates in any way possible.

All meetings and exhibits will be held
in the Chase-Park Plaza Hotel, one of
the largest and finest hotel convention
facilities west of the Mississippi. The
Chase-Park Plaza is ideally situated at
the entrance to Forest Park, thus plac-
ing one of the nation’s finest municipal
parks at the doorsteps of the headquar-
ters hotel.

Plan now to meet us in St. Louis for
the 45th National Recreation Congress.

Make your reservations now!

225

STATE
AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

ELVIRA DELANY

 

FLORIDA. A new state park ealled Falling Waters State
Park contains some natural wonders; one of the main
attractions of the park’s 160 acres is a series of sinkholes,
the largest of which is about eighty feet deep and forty feet
in diameter. Into these holes flows a stream of water that
disappears into the limerock caverns underlying the area.
The new park, just eighty-five miles from Tallahassee, con-
tains the site of the first, but unsuccessful, attempt to find
oil in Florida. The sinkholes long have been an object of
amateur explorers. Not too long ago, a group of airmen
from Eglin AFB lowered themselves into the deepest hole
and explored a cavern, which, they reported was about a
hundred feet wide and had a ceiling thirty feet high. Initials
of many previous visitors were carved in the limerock walls

of the cavern.

o The Florida Park Service is also enlarging camping
facilities at Fort Clinch State Park at Fernandina Beach.
This, the most popular camping area in Florida, will have
sixty new campsites all fronting the ocean, giving Fort
Clinch a total of 250 sites. Sixteen of the twenty-one state
parks have camping facilities with 1,240 sites but there is
such a shortage that the park service has been moved to
add to that number.

Walter Coldwell. chief of the Florida Park Service. said
that one park turned away fifteen hundred campers last
summer because of a lack of sufficient facilities. According
to the service, “The camping fad ( in Floridal began in
earnest about a half dozen years ago and has probably
gained more converts than any other means of family ree-
reation. Park planners had to begin constructing facilities
to satisfy these needs. The increase in the number of camp-
ers began to far outstrip the number of new facilities until
the campgrounds soon were tending to be overcrowded."

Campers have begun to overflow into areas other than
the state parks. There was a flood of them last summer at
the 114,000-acre Withlaaeooehee Land Management Area
in West Florida, and many had to be turned away because
of inadaquate sanitary facilities. Restrooms and water sup-
ply, the park service points out, are the first requisites of
a campground. Tables and grills also must be provided.
However, money has not always been available, even when
the need for such facilities is obvious and urgent. Overall
attendance at Florida state parks since 1952 has increased
at a rate of five hundred percent. but the number of campers
has multiplied by more than a thousand percent.

0 The city of Jacksonville finds that it pays to elect former
playgrounders to public office. The Honorable Brad Tredin-
nick, president of the Jacksonville City Council. spent many

Brad Tredinnick Youth Center, Jacksonville, Florida
226

of his early years on the neighborhood playground; enough.
in fact, to earn membership in the local group who refer
to themselves as “Park Rats”-—-a designation of distinction.
Brad has stayed young in his attitudes, so it was not sur-
prising that he shared his dream of an ultra-modern youth
center with a rising young architect in the neighborhood.
Robert Ernest. Unfortunately, Robert did not live to attend
the dedication, although his ideas were incorporated in the
center.

With the aid of other city officials, Mr. Tredinnick ear-
marked $80,000 for the construction. He laughingly tells
folks that his contingent fund only had a credit of sixty-six
cents when the doors of the new center were opened. The
center is made up of a large terrazzo-floored hall, office, meet-
ing rooms, game facilities, stage, and snack bar. It is beauti-
fully landscaped, including fountains floodlighted with
different colors.

The dedication service was attended by representatives
from every North Jacksonville civic group. Music was pro-
vided by another former playgrounder, recording artist
Jimmy Strickland and his band. The first official act follow-
ing the dedication was to turn the building and grounds
over to the recreation department for operation.

In addition to special activities for preteens and teen-
agers, there will be regular Friday and Saturday night
dances with high-school orchestras providing the music.
Craft work, art sessions, hi-fi periods, table games, parties.
and drama will find a place in the program of the new youth
center.

0 Polk County has embarked on a recreation development
program. A tract of seven hundred and forty acres, which
has been mined but is full of springs and phosphate pits.
is being develOped into a master park. Located just outside
the city limits of Lakeland, this will be a fisherman’s para-
dise. Another area of four hundred and twenty acres has
also been dedicated for park purposes. Bob Rhinehart.
county superintendent of parks and recreation, is eoneen-
trating on building boat ramps. There is great need for this
type of facility as the county has many lakes but no wa}
to get boats into the water.

LOUISIANA. The opening date for fishing on Toledo
Bend Lake was moved a year closer by the use of electronic
data processing equipment, according to Claude Kirkpatrick.
director of the State Department of Public Works. “The
mammoth job of computing the exact shoreline—some
eleven hundred miles in all—promised to be a major time
consumer in the reservoir location of Toledo Bend,” Mr.
Kirkpatrick pointed out. “With the electronic equipment.
we expect to complete all surveying and computing work
within nine months. Otherwise, it would have taken two years
to complete this phase.” The Baton Rouge engineering firm
of Dawson, Gilbert and l’ilcher acquired an lBM 1620 com-
puter which will compute the mass of data in about a tenth
the time heretofore expected, and more accurately than
would be humanly possible. Mr. Kirkpatrick explained that
the survey must be accomplished before the department can
determine how much land nmst be acquired from any one
landowner.

 

RECREATION

PENNSYLVANIA. Kinzua Dam in northern Pennsylvania
will have a shoreline of sixty-three miles within the state
whcn completed in 1965. McKean County sits on the eastern
shore of the project; Warren County, on the west. It is esti-
mated that during the first year after its completion, 730,000
persons will make recreation use of the area. By 1917: the
figure is expected to reach 1,500,000. By the year 2000
(only thirty-seven years from now) almost 4,000,000 perSUns
are expected to be using the recreation facilities at Kinzua
Dam. The city of Bradford will be the eastern gateway to
this new recreation area; the borough of Warren will be the
western gateway.

There are approximately sixty-three hundred dams in
Pennsylvania. The largest body of water created by a dam
is Pylnatuning Reservoir in Crawford County; it covers
16,400 acres. Kinzua Dam, upon completion in 1965, will
be Pennsylvania’s largest and one of the most important in
the nation.

0 A three hundred-acre commercial recreation area, includ-
ing a seventeen-acre man-made lake, has been acquired at a
sheriff’s auction by Bucks County for $98,000. The site will
be part of the county’s expanding park system. The purchase
also included Tohickon Lodge and is near a forty-five hun-
dred-acre tract being developed into a state park system. The
lodge, Lake Towhee and the grounds are situated along Old
Bethlehem Road in Haycock township, twelve miles north of
Doylestown. It also borders Kimples Creek. Funds for the
purchase of park sites in the county are being drawn from
the proceeds of a $1,400,000 bond issue. The new site gives
the county fifteen hundred acres to be developed by the
Bucks County Park Board. Robert W. Pierson, executive
director of the board, said the Lake Towhee site, near Camp
Tohikanee, official camp of Bucks County Girl Scouts, is in
one of the most desirable areas for a park.

TEXAS. In Houston, an unusual open-air type structure
provides for the recreation needs for just about every age
group. Hamilton Brown and Associates, the architects, de-
veloped the structure because Houston gets extremely hot
in summer and has frequent rains in winter. The structure,
built in Lakewood Park, encompasses ten thousand square
feet of space. There are no walls, consequently no attendant
is needed on duty. This not only defrays the cost of person-
nel but permits pe0ple in the neighborhood to use it when-

ever they desire.

It is the largest Open-air type recreation structure area in
the city. Along with an open-end gymnasium, the structure
contains restrooms, clubrooms, a craft room, ceramic kiln,
shuffleboard courts, basketball and yolleyball courts, swim-
ming pool, and baseball fields.

Gus Haycock, Houston’s director of parks and recreation.
says, “We think this is a really fine design and has proven
very satisfactory and efficient for our parks in Houston.
With this open-type structure and no walls at all, the park
can operate on weekends and at other times with no person-
nel whatsoever. The roof design is quite different, which
gives it a finer appearance than most park buildings. This
open-type gymnasium is a new concept in this part of the
country and it is very important hecause we rarely have ex-

tremely cold weather.”

0 After a decade and a half, a garden center for Austin is
an assured fact. The new building of stone and steel and
landscaped grounds, will be a gathering center for the citi-

zens of Austin and surrounding communities who are de-
votees of growing plants. The new budding W111 be located

3in Zilker Park, atop a hill with the city of Austin spread out

below it. It will be approximately forty-two hundred square
feet. The area, to be known as the Zilker Municipal Gardens,

will be'a part of the recreation and park system of the city.

MAY, 1963

 

«art's emu—I1.

' v -—-—-...——~...—-

Houston’s open-air recreation shelter in Lakewood Park.

1 v

Q -.
. .f: .-

 

Joint opcration will be by the city and the board of directors
of the Austin Area Garden Center, Inc. Policics of the opera-
tion will be approved by the City Council. The resolution
as adopted hy the City Council listcd these ideals for the
garden center:

' Civic heautification.

' Gardens that can be viewed from the drives in Zilker Park,
including rose gardens, cactus gardens, iris gardens, et
cetera.

' Preservation of native plants and flowers.

' Examples of different types of landscaping.

' Examples of what grows in the shade, the sun, and combi-
nation of shade and sun.

' A place where newcomers can learn from those of experi-
ence what grows well in Austin.

' A place for the residents of Austin to observe the best in
horticulture.

' Development of test gardens.

' A center which can be used as an outdoor laboratory for

botanical study by students from the Austin schools and the
University of Texas.

' A place to meet and work together.

° A place for a library on gardening.

° A place to hold flower shows.

WASHINGTON. The King County Park Department has
budgeted $97,000 for 1963 to make forty-acre Richmond
Beach Park and beach usable this year. Clearing and grading
for access and parking facilities, construction of a beach
house with dressing rooms and concession space, chain-link
fencing for the railroad right-of-way, and a lighting system
for roads and parking areas will be completed this year.

Landscaping, installation of picnic facilities, and deveIOp-
ment of recreation areas such as day camps and some sports,
will be done as the projects can be fitted in the county park
and development program. When beach pollution is cleared
up, lifeguard and swimming programs will be provided for
the sand beach area. Two vista points are planned for de-
velopment as “inspiration” spots. They offer a magnificent
sweeping view of Puget Sound and mountains and have been
set aside for just plain viewing.

0 Eagle Island in Puget Sound has heen leased for a marine

park by the State Parks and Recreation Commission. The
island will be leased for ten dollars a year from the Bureau
of Land Management. The island of about ten acres is be-

tween McNeill and Anderson Islands.

227

THE LONG TRAIL

Vincent Birge

HE Long Trail of Vermont is sec-
T ond in fame only to the two thou-
sand-mile Maine-to-Georgia Ap-
palachian Trail, and it follows the same
route for almost a hundred miles from
Massachusetts to Sherburne Pass. The
idea for the trail first came to a country
schoolmaster, Jim Taylor, in 1909, while
he was camping in the Green Mountains
on a rainy summer day. He dreamed of
a “footpath in the wilderness” for hikers
which would extend along the backbone
ridge of Vermont from one end of the
state to the other. On his return, Mr.
Taylor enlisted the enthusiastic support
of his schoolboys. Soon, with the par-
ticipation of many other devoted people,
the Green Mountain Cluh was organized
to carry out the Long Trail project. It
was only after many years of hard work
that the dream finally became reality.
In 1931, when the last section of trail
was completed, a 260-mile” footpath
stretched through the Green Mountains
from the Massachusetts line to the Ca-
nadian border.

On the Long Trail, some sixty shel-
ters provide overnight stopping places
for hikers at convenient intervals and
eighty-five side trails give easy access to
the main route every few thousand feet,
including Vermont’s four highest moun-
tains, from which there are excellent
views in all directions. It passes by
many a woodland pond and stream
where the weary hiker can stop for a
plunge in the cool mountain water.
Eighty miles of the trail are within the
Green Mountain National Forest; the
remainder of the route passes through
state and private land. Throughout its
course, the Long Trail is well marked

MR. BIRGE is a free-lance writer and

photographer specializing in nature and
. ‘-

ontdoor sub jects.

228

with plentiful white blazes and other
distinctive markings, plus signs and
guideboards at roads and other trail
juncnons.

I hiked the entire length of the Long
Trail last summer, beginning the trip
at Williamstown, Massachusetts. On a
sultry August day I sweated up the steep
Pine Cobble Trail to the Vermont line,
where an inconspicuous little sign in the
woods marks the southern end of the
trail. Eighteen days later, I reached
Mile Post 592 on the border of Vermont
and Quebec, gazed for a while across the
cleared houndary strip into Canada,
then descended past Journey’s End
Camp, northernmost shelter of the Long
Trail system. to the village of North
Troy.

TIME AND AGAIN during those eight-
een days I toiled up rugged slopcs
in the summcr heat to stand refreshed
and rewarded at last on some cool
and windy summit where I could gaze
at the scenery for miles around. On
Glastenbury Mountain, reputed“to havc
more porcupines per square fool than
any other place in the world,” l met a
couplc of these harmless hut pesky ro-
dents ambling along. Later on, at near-
hy Caughnawaga Shelter, a whole army
of “porkies” kept me awake most of the
night with their constant efforts to find
something worth gnawing to pieces in
the leanto.

At beautiful Stratton Pond I stopped
to chat with campers and fishermen.
then later the same day I ate my lunch
in solitude hcside isolated Bourn Pond,
still in sight of Stratton Mountain. I
climhed Bromley Mountain along a ski
trail, heneath the chairlift which was
crowded with Sunday sightseers taking
the easy way up. Next day I stopped to

 

 

RECREATION

If. hike from end to end of Vermont’s 260-mile footpath

 

The Long Trail ojyers a vari-
ety of accommodations . . .
you can sleep out under the
stars or bed down in lodge or
leanto.

 

MAY, 1963

rest a while at a leanto built on an island
in Little Rock Pond, a favorite camping
spot for Boy Scouts. I crossed spectacu-
lar Clarendon Gorge on a sixty-foot sus-
pension footbridge and then followed
the trail along country lanes and old
stone fences through a typical Vermont

countryside of “sugar bushes” and rich
dairy farms.

HIGH ON Killington Peak I spent a
cold and stormy night at Cooper

Lodge, then climbed to the bare summit
in dense fog the next morning. The fol-
lowing day it was crisp and clear when
I clambered up a steel observation tower
atop Mt. Carmel for a view west into
New York’s distant Adirondacks and
east toward the White Mountains of
New Hampshire. From another fine van-
tage point farther along, the Great Cliff
of Mt. Horrid, I had a breathtaking view
of deep Brandon Gap and the hills be-
yond. I swam in the clear waters of Lake
Pleiad and later on lunched at Skyline
Lodge, situated high in the mountains
beside tiny Skylight Pond. That night
I slept out under the stars at Cooley
Glen, my “home” of brush not only
keepng out the “porkies” but perfum-
ing the night air with the fragrance of
spruce, fir, and paper birch.

I struggled over the tough thirty-mile
stretch of the “Monroe Skyline,” the
most rugged section of the Long Trail.
across the half dozen summits of Lin-
coln Mountain and then up the steep,
barren cone of Camel’s Hump. This
peak, also called “The Couching Lion,”
is probably Vermont's wildest and most
interesting mountain.

I followed the trail along the high-
way through famous Smugglers’ Notch,
a narrow pass filled with huge boulders
which have rolled down from the neigh-

boring slopes. Here is a cave which
legend says was used for smuggling 0p-
erations during thc War of 1812. That
night I slept in a small dry shelter at
Sterling Pond with seven other hikers,
while the wind howled and the rain came
down in torrents outside. At Barrows
Lodge I camped with a Boy Scout group,
twenty-six strong; and the next morning
they overtook me when I stopped to gaze
down on the pastoral Lamoille Valley
from the crags of Laraway Lookout.

ALL ALONG THE TRAIL I was scolded
by the noisy rcd squirrels and chip-
munks and serenaded by the white-
throated sparrows, those songsters su-
preme of the North Woods. I watched
many a frightened deer and snowshoe
hare bound away, often through a gar-
den of trailside wildflowersufireweed,
bottle gentian, turtlehead and joepye-
weed. Perhaps the best times of all on
the trail were those evenings spent at
some comfortable leanto swapping sto-
ries with other hikers while waiting for
supper to cook on the campfire.

I can heartily recommend a hike over
the Long Trail as a fine outdoor adven-
ture. The trail is often rugged but never
dangerous, and, in case of accident or a
shortage ofsupplies,civilization is never
more than a few hours away, either at
a highway crossing or downhill along
one of the many side trails. Anyone
planning such a trip should write to the
Green Mountain Club. 108 Merchants
Row, Rutland, Vermont. for its Guide
Book 0] the Long Trail ($1.50 post-
paid). Besides maps and detailed trail
data thc guide book contains a wealth
of other information for Long Trail
Hikers. The club also publishes an illus-
trated folder, Short Trips on the Long
Trail. free for the asking. if:

 

ADMINISTRATION 3

Joseph E. Curtis

FOR MANY YEARS
before and af-
ter World War II,
the city of \Vhite
Plains, New York,
was a headquarters
for heavy softball
, and baseball activ-
ity. Recent years saw a drop of interest
in these two sports. Among the reasons
most frequently raised for this fall-off
was the laek of night-lighted softball and
baseball fields. Even the most enthusi-
astic players, it was pointed out, find it
diffieult to commute from work, arrive
home at six o’elock, gulp their supper,
and be on the playing field to start the
game by 6:45PM. Even after this hercu-
lean effort, games of more than five or
six innings were unusual since darkness

 

sets in early even during mid-summer
evenings. This resulted in many in-
eomplete games and disrupted sched-
ules. The suggestion that all games be
jammed into Saturday and Sunday af-
ternoons fell on unsympathetic ears,
particularly those of married men who
felt that family responsibilities came
first on weekends.

White Plains has taken a major step
to correct this situation by installing a
modern floodlighting plant at its ten-
acre reereation park. The long-felt need

 

MR. ' CURTIS is commissioner of the
White Plains, New York, Department of

Recreation and Parks.

230

I

F LOODLIGHTING

SOLVES

A PROBLEM

A fall-of} in sports participation is corrected
by much-needed night-lighted installations

for sueh a facility was met when Mayor
Richard S. Hendey and the Common
Couneil formally deeided to move after
nine months of investigation and study
of several nearby night-lighted installa-
tions. The Department of Recreation
and Parks laid out the activity needs
and program requirements and these
were forwarded to the city Department
of Public Works for engineering analy-
sis and design. The job was begun in
May 1961 under the supervision of pub-
lie works engineers and was completed
in September 1961. Active use of the
plant and fields was begun in May 1962
and has continued since.

THE ACTUAL PLANT consists of twelve
tubular steel towers erected on con-
erete pedestals. Because of the spongy
nature of the subsurfaec of this park (it
was formerly a swamp) , pilings consist-
ing of hollow steel tubes were driven
into the ground and later filled with
poured conerete. The heavy concrete
pedestals were formed atop these piles.
Under certain pedestals it was necessary
to sink pilings twenty-five and thirty
feet to reach a solid base.

The pedestals consist of solid cylin-
ders of poured concrete extending four
feet above ground level. Eight of the
towers are eighty feet tall and these serv-
ice the Number One field designed for
adult baseball and semi-professional
baseball. The four other towers are forty
feet high each and these provide ade-
quate lighting for adult softball at the

Number Two field diagonally opposite
to Field Number One.

The lights are so arranged that simul-
taneous playing of two softball or one
baseball and one softball game is possi-
ble. One semi-professional baseball
game is possible on Number One field
with the eight eighty-foot towers turned
on. With all lights on, night football,
soeecr, lacrosse, marching events, and
other special programs can be fully
lightcd. Towers were plaeed in such a
way that not one intrudes on the foot-
ball playing field. The conerete pedes-
tals of all towers have been surrounded
by sloped earth from ground level to
pedestal top and this has been heavily
turfed. This provides adequate safety
protection to prevent eollision by a run-
ning player or outfielder.

The total number of lamp units is 194,
with towers ranging from eight to thirty-
two lamps each. Towers are equipped
with climbing steps and maintenanec
catwalks at their tops. These floodlights
provide fiftcen-foot candles of light in
the outfields and twenty-foot candles in
thc infields. The type bulb used is a
1500-watt incandescent lamp. The eight
units lighting the main Number One
field eonsume 290KW per hour while
the smaller field lighted alone burns
120KW. The total plant burning simul-
taneously is rated at 350KW. The in-
eandescent lamps are wired to burn at
ten pereent over rated voltage, thus pro-
viding some thirty percent more light
intensity but redueing the life expect-

RECREATION

 

5

 

1. Pound ’er down! Driescl pile-driver
forces hollow steel tubcs into eartlz.

2. l n place! Reinforced rods and ped-
estal bolts in form await poured concrete.

3. Bolt “'er down! Base of eighty-foot

aluminum tower is secured in pedcstal.

4. Let ’er down! Upper scction of the
tower is pnally hoisted into place.

5. Play ball! Baseball team talses the
aeld in tlre glorious blaze of light.

 

 

ancy of the bulb proportionately. Engi-
neers recommon ‘hat these lights be re-
place-d 1 umplt-tob .8 a nt‘t; that is, when
the} lu".rin to hi m out at close intervals.
This would that illumination
Wullltl he kept at its highest at all times.
Lam} life is estimated at three hundred
hours and unit cost is approximately
$3.00.

'.t-Sli.-"I ‘

C051” of the installation was $95,000,

with this being divided roughly
$32,000 for drilling, sinking iounda-
tions, and preparing pedestals, and $63,-
000 for the actual installation of electri-
cal equipment and lighting towers. From
the date of the dedication and turning
on these lights, they have been extremely
active throughout the summer and early
fall. Operating seven nights per week
many weeks, and six nights per week all
others, they have accommodated junior
and adult soitball. adult haseball. soc-
cer, track and field, and a variety oi spe-
cial sports and recreation events. Nor-
mal burning hours have been 8:00PM
to 11 :OOPM.

It is important to note that the opera-

tion of such a plant is a relatively costly
matter. Aside from maintenance, there
are two factors which make up the cost
oi operation of such lights; namely, de-
mand charge and energy charge. The
demand charge is a cost assessed by the
power or utility firm to compensate for
their need to provide high surges oi cur-
rent to the lighting plant at irregular
times. The charge is made if the light-
ing plant is turned on once during any
single meter reading period (approxi-
mately one month, but not necessarily
a calendar month). The energy charge
is the cost oi actual current burned and

is handled just as current burned in a
private home. The addition of the two
represents the monthly bill. In White
Plains, the demand charge for lighting
this complete plant (350Kw) is $1,140
ior the first half hour of use during any
single meter reading period. Added to
this is the cost oi a hali hour oi current.
or $8.00. Thus, the first half hour of
each meter reading period when all
lights are on is $1,148. The costs would
be proportionately lower if one or the
other ficld were being lighted separately.

SCORING AT YOUR

FINGERTIPS . . .
“ML -0 - MAG“:

CHUSSETT MEMUH Rt

BGSEBntt PEEK

BELL STEIKE our

Linc.

E 5'
Imsjlgnl  Hugs
, 

u 9'
The "Scarebrain" is controlled by
a simple 10 hole standard telephone
diol that can recard any play that
is possible in Baseball. The "Scare-
brain" recards and stores infarma-
tion, performing features associoted
with computers and aircroft guid-

 

DIAL YOUR SCORE AS SIMPLE
AS DIALING YOUR TELEPHONE]

ance systems. PLUS, there are no
hidden costs . . . the prices quoted
abave moke the "Scorebrain" Amer-
ica’s most exciting ond lowest price
scarebaard. let us tell you more
abaut this amazing new Scoreboord.

MODEL ilO—B'xlO‘ . . . $800.00
MODEL 112—10’xl2‘ . . . $1000.00

DIM-MAG":

616 NEW SHEET 0 mCON, GEORGIA
MON! NI 1316 0 an C00! '11

ELECTRO-MECH CORPORATION

232

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Thereafter, however, there is no addi-
tional demand charge during that spe-
cific meter reading period, no matter
how heavy use is made of the lights.
Only the energy charge is assessed there-
after.

Obviously, it behooves the recreation
agency to concentrate its use into peri-
ods of the year and to use the floodlights
to their maximum during these periods.
It is poor practice to turn the lights on
for very short, spotty use at times of the
year when they would not normally be
used heavily. In the case of White
Plains, a schedule has been worked out
so that the demand charge will be as-
sessed against the ice rink and its heavy
electrical reirigerating equipment a por-
tion of the year and against the heavy
floodlighting plant another major por-
tion of the year. It has been arrangcd
that for at least two meter reading peri-
ods annually neither of these major
plants will be turned on and this is esti-
mated to save the city between $3,000
and $4,000 per annum. Another means
for cost reduction is the league fees for
regular programs and the rental charges
made ior special events. Thcse should
deiray approximately a third the annual
cost oi burning the lights.

NEVERTIIELESS, in spite oi the major

cost oi installation and operation
oi such a plant, White Plains is certain
that its use and the iun and satisfaction
derived thercirom to the citizens will
more than counterbalance this cost.
This ballfield lighting plant joins two
other major floodlit units at the same
recreation park. These are the artificial
ice rink, illuminated by four corner
towers, and iour night-lighted clay ten-
nis courts, illuminated by six forty-foot
towers.

\Vhite Plains is the county seat of
Wcstchester County and a dynamic city
oi fifty-one thousand. A great deal of
outside visiting and business activity
comcs into the city daily and nightly.
It has been called the cultural center of
Westchester County and many major
county installations exist in and around
the city. For these reasons city govern-
ment ieels that it is most appropriate
that one oi the finest combined flood-
lighting plants of its kind anywhere in
the country has now been installed and

is being heavilyused in White Plains. .11:

RECREATION

Fund Raising Through
Refreshment Operations

J. C. Evans

LTHOUGH many governing bodies
A provide adequate major facili-
ties for their recreation depart-
ments they too often saddle the recrea-
tion administrator with minimum Oper-
ating funds. If a recreator does a good
job of attracting participants to his pro~
gram he often finds that his Operating
budget does not give him the where-
withal to service all the people he can
attract; also, total dependence on mu-
nicipal revenue may result in a tendency
toward “feast-or-famine” allotments for
recreation budgets. Periodic appropria-
tions by a government body are affected
by a great many factors; such as, the
general tax-revenue picture, failure or
success of bond issues, whether one bud-
get can be “raided” to provide emer-
geri'cy funds for another. whether cer-
tain oHicials are recreation-minded or
not, and so on.

“With just a little more money we
could. . . .” How often that theme song
has been sung! In recent years, how-
ever, many professional recreators have
recognized the potential of refreshment
sales in supplementing their budgets,
and, quite often, this added margin has
meant the difference between a barely
adequate recreation program and a
highly successful one permitting a little
“elbow room” for creative programs.

'There is a natural relationship be-
tween recreation and refreshment. In a
great many instances, the availability of
such “fun foods” as popcorn, “sno-
kones,” hot dogs, and soft drinks add
greatly to the festive atmosphere natu-
rally associated with recreation. In of-
fering refreshments to recreation par-
ticipants, the recreator is not only heIp-
ing to make his program a more enjoy-
able one, he also can be bringing in vital

MR. EVANS, vice-president of the Gold
Medal Products Company, has had ex-
tensive opportunity to study a wide vari-
ety of refreshment-stand Operations.

MAY, 1963

extra funds to help support the program.
With these funds he can purchase those
“extras” which spell the difference be-

tween a mediocre and a superior pro-
gram.

MANY recreation administrators have
- plunged into a refreshment sales
program without sufiicient knowledge of
what constitutes a successful operation
and have had some sad experiences. Ac-
tually, success is easy to achieve. The
key to raising funds through the sale of
refreshments is to provide them at rea-
sonable prices, with a minimum over-
head, which will permit a profit to be
realized. The following very simple
rules can help avoid common pitfalls
and guarantee an operation which will
answer the need of participants and at
the same time produce the profits.

Selection. Variety is the spice of life
but can be deadly in a small refreshment
program. Specialization has had a great
deal to do with the success of many in-
dustries and businesses in the past two
decades. It is a major factor in snack-
stand operation. Here success comes by
realizing you can prepare and serve a
limited mean much more economically
than one of wide variety. Specializing
means reducing slow-moving items to a
minimum, less inventory, less space, less
skill 011 the part of food-preparers,
lower overhead for equipment. faster
ordering on the part of patrons, more
snacks served per hour, and per em-
ploye. All this adds up to success.

The best principle for refreshment
stand operation is: Select a few items
of wide appeal and good profit margin
and keep the operation simple. The ba-
sic variety can be dry snack, sweet
snack, liquid snack, cold snack. and
warm snack. Select one item in each
category and you have the basic menu
with something to please nearly every-
one. However, provide two or three

 

ADMINISTRATION

 

items in each category and you let your-
self in for trouble.

Let’s take an ideal installation. Here
we provide hot popcorn as the dry
snack. Hot buttered popcorn, fresh from
the pepper, has an advantage over such
prepackaged snacks as potato chips. It
has the festival atmosphere; you can't
buy it in every grocery store. In addi-
tion, it’s not only one of the most nutri-
tious snacks you can serve, but also the
most profitable. You make eight cents
on a dime bag.

If you add bags of potato chips and
pretzels, you are adding to the complex-
ity of your operation and, at the same
time, cutting the profit and slowing the
sales because you have made it more dif-
ficult for people to make a selection.
You are also adding to the amount of
space you need for storage.

For the cold snack, another '“exotic’~
item not found at the corner grocery.
“ice-balls” or “sno-kones” are the an-
swer. Again, they are very high profit
items. with seven and a half cents on a
ten-cent sale. Add ice cream cones or
bars and complexity goes up while profit
goes down.

As for the drinks, avoid bottles. First.
with bottles, the only sensible thing to
do is pour each one into a paper cup.
Then you have the problem of storage
of empties. It is much better to sell cold
drinks from a dispenser or just sell the
ice balls as the liquid snack.

It seems easy to choose candy bars
for the sweet snack, but wait a minute.
First you have to make room for a dis-
play of five or six types. Again, this is
an item your customers can buy at the
supermarket for just a fraction over
what you pay for it. Cotton cand}. on
the other hand. is novel, appealing. and
profitable.

To add more substance to your re-
freshment larder, you may want to offer

Continued on Page 238

233

PERSONNEL

 

 

  'tEER mv

 

It was graduation. time . . .

Gordon D. Hunsaker

“NEVER thought

it would
come!” This state-
ment had been
heard in our city
many times these
past months. It was
graduation time
and, suddenly, those who had been the
carefree youngsters of the senior class
at Coronado High School were carry-
ing the weight of the world on their
shoulders. The realization had come
that no longer were Mom and Dad com-
pletely responsible for their health and
welfare. It was time for decision . . .
and at the ages of seventeen and eigh-
teen these are loathsome things always
previously left Up to “old folks” if they
——the decisions—were of any import
at all. Now the world beckoned . . . it
wasn’t the same friendly world of
beaches and mountains at Easter vaca-
tion time. It wasn’t the same hilarious
world of ‘bOp’ sessions in thc living
room or football victory dances. It was
decision time.

To help these future legislators, bank-
ers, land developers, fliers, or what-
have.you make up their minds. or at
least to get them over the temporary
shock-stage and stimulate their think-
ing. the schools have initiated “Career
Day.” This is nothing new to the schools
or the graduating classes, but it was
. as a participant. Men
and women from all professional areas
are the guests of the schools and the
graduating classes on this day.

The classes are broken down into

 

\

new to me .

MR. HUNSAKER is director of the play-
ground and recreation. departrrten! in
Coronado, California.

234

39

groups, each meeting with a man or
woman who, it is hoped, typifies a field
which is of interest to each particular
one. I was thrilled to receive the phone
call from the school administrator ask-
ing me to participate. It seemed that
there had been numerous questions
asked of the counselors regarding a
career in recreation.

AFTER the initial fecling of pride had
worn off, I began thinking of what
I would say to a group of thirty or
forty young peeple all eager to hear of
the wonders of the life of a recreation
director; then the first feeling of ap-
prehension set in. It is quite easy for
all of us to discuss the recreation move-
ment, problems in recreation, persouncl
requirements, and grouse about the lack
of cooperation from our boards, com-
missions, and councils. IIowcver, this
is not what career-minded high-school
seniors want to hear . . . nor should they.
This comes as they grow in the recrea-
tion profession, as in any other area of
life. I am quite sure that many of us
would never have purchased a home of
our own if the real-estate man had
pointed out all the homeowncr prob-
lems . . . crah grass, repainting, roof
leaks, plumbing wearout, and what-
have-you. This we learned as we learned
to love the home we bought. We gradu-
ally accept these things as they happen.
and, even though we know more prob-
lems will arise, we have learned to love
the “old homestead” and cringe at the
thought of losing it. This same feeling
comes with the years in recreation . . .
a love of job and a feeling of useful
accomplishment.

As I was musing, I came upon an
article from the offices of George \Vilson

of the Milwaukee Recreation Depart-
ment: “A recreation worker is hired
for his program ability and then berated
because he cannot keep a monthly towcl
report up to date. Since he devotes only
eleven hours a day to the job, he is
eXpected to complete various and sundry
“courses” during his leisure time. He
is deluged with memberships and com-
mittee requests. all of which have two
features in common—hard work and
three-dollar luncheons.

“He uses his car for an office—“and
carries his files in his pocket. Collective-
ly, he has helped three-fourths of the
population to live a richer life . . .
singly, he wonders where his next
month’s rent is coming from. He is
urged onward by his superiors, never
gets a chance to associate socially with
his fellowman, and is viewed sympa-
thetically and tolcrantly hy his family.

“He moans and groans, yet would do
no other work or like any other job
half as much.”

I knew I could not use this to sway
prospective recreation people. However,
it (lid sct me to thinking along a vein
. . a frcsh look at

myself as a recreation person and my
chosen field as a whole. It worked won-

long abandoned .

ders for me. I mentally rewalked my
recreation years . . . from the toilet-
cleaning, part-time recreation worker
gctting through school, to the play-
ground leader duties, and on and on.
I quite honestly rclived, in the quiet of
my own office, the wonderful years in
recreation and my outlook was given
fresh lace-like linings . . . and it gave

me fuel for thc chorc ahead.

80, do you want to know yoursclf a
little hetter? Do you feel that you
have been in recreation so long that
“no one can tcll you what it’s all about”?
Do you want to know just what might
have transpired in the municipal rec-
reation field while you have been too
busy to look because you are a busy
administrator . . .? If you want the
answer, get yourself an invitation to
your local high-school “Career Day.”

By the way, after my presentation at
the high school quite a numher of the
youngsters sought me out at my office
for further discussion . . . a good sign

for recreation. #-

RECREATION

 mc
:BEBALL BACK TO
IEBOYS

e‘te T. Hunt

PROGRAM

NE of the largest and most suc-
O cessful parts of the recreation
program in Coral Gables, Flor-
ida, is baseball. We are not affiliated
with any national or regional baseball
sctup simply because we feel we know
the needs of our boys better than some-
one who is a national president or sec-
retary of the many leagues for young-
sters.
Our own leagues are set up as follows:
Six- and seven-year-old boys play in

 

= -' .mW“WHi-m"v

Local leagues can take individual prob-
lems into consideration and adjust to
touchy situations that might develop.

what we call our “T” League because
the youngsters hit the ball off a tee. In
this league we have a leader who is re-
sponsible for seeing that the boys re-
ceive the basic fundamentals as well as
to have fun playing baseball.

The next step in our program is our
“D” League. Boys ranging in age from
eight to ten years participate in this
division. In this league we have eight
teams of sixteen boys per team. Each

 

M—T—RS. HUNT is-director of the Coral Ga-
bles, Florida, Youth Center.

MAY, 1963

boy must play at least one inning of
every game, providing he takes his prac-
tices when called. We use volunteer
teen-age boys to coach or manage the
individual teams. With this system, we
feel we have taken the game away from
the parents and given it back to the
boys. The officiating, uniform check-
outs, scheduling of practices and games
is done by the coach in charge of this
group. Six runs, or when a team has
completely batted around, constitutes an
inning, regardless of how many outs are
made.

The next classification is for boys
eleven and twelve years old and we call
this our “C” League. ln this, we have
six teams of sixteen boys per team. Op-
eration of this division is exactly like
that of the “D” League.

The above classifications listed are
probably the backbone of our baseball
because the other regional or national
leagues say that each team must have
so many eight- and nine-year-olds, so
many ten-, eleven-, and twelve-year-old
boys. This, as far as we are concerned,
is unfair because we feel an eight-year-
old simply cannot compete with a twelve-
year-old. Consequently, we have broken
them into different age groups.
AFTER the boy is twelve or over, he

moves up to the “B” League. Boys
of twelve, thirteen, and fourteen years
of age play in this classification. This
league is run by our own rules, such as
seventy-five-foot bases, fifty-four-foot
pitching distance. A pitcher can pitch
six innings a week or every other game.
In a squeeze-play situation, that is, with
a man on third base with less than two
outs, we do not allow the man on third
to try to beat the pitcher home with the

pitch. and so on. The boys in this (livid
sion are graded at the start of the year
according to their ability to hit, field,
throw, and run. Then, they are divided
into teams as evenly matched as possi-
ble.

From “B” League, the boys advance
to the highest classification, the “A”
League. This league is for fourteen-, fif-
teen-, and sixtecn-year-old boys. The
only differences between the “A” and
“B” Leagues are those of age, ninety-
foot bases, sixty-and-a-half-foot pitch-
ing distance. They play seven innings
a game.

Since we operate our own leagues
without connection with other agencies,
we are able to take into consideration
the various problems that may arise be-
tween different ages, the emotional dis-
turbances, the physical stature, and the
desire to participate. For example, we
had a fifteen-year-old boy who should
have been playing “A” baseball but, be-
causc of his physical condition and size,
he could never have competed in the “A”
League. We assigned him to a team in
the “B” League. Situations such as this
can be handled the same way in our
other leagues as well. We have twenty-
five baseball teams with approximately
450 boys participating.

A postscript to this article is the an-
nouncement of a new member on the
staff of the Coral Gables Recreation De-
partment. Ronald Fraser has come to
work for us after completing three years
of coaching baseball for the Dutch and
conducting over a thousand one-day
clinics throughout the Netherlands. He
is currently the University of Miami’s
baseball coach. With Ron heading'base-

ball in Coral Gables this year, we will be
PLAYING BALL! # a

235

Rose Stockhamer

NE of the summer programs of
0 Bronx House, New York City,
is its day camp which incorpo-
rates the same goals and objectives of
the agency’s other year-round services:
It is concerned with the development of
the individual’s personality, his social-
ization, which means his growing capac-
ity to handle effectively such relation-
ships as family, peers. and community;
broadening his interests and his experi-
ences and emphasizing the out-of-doors,
nature, and pioneering areas as a pro-
gram medium. A mental retardate’s ba-
sic needs are the same as those of his non-
retarded peers. but only more intensive
as his experiences are more limited. Day
camp provides an excellent opportunity
for intensive group work. Obviously,
there must be allowances for differ-
ences; the mentally retarded require in-
dividualized assessment to determine
both their capacities and their levels of
social involvement. Yet for all the in-
dividualization, programs can be devel-
oped which workers can feel reasonably
secure in translating and in which indi-
viduals in group situations can grow
socially, learn skills, and, at the same
time, experience enjoyment in a con-
structive way.

If camp is to mean more in the lives
of campers than merely a happy vaca-
tion, it must enahle campers to meet and
work out real-life situations and be
ready in attitude and skill to face their
problems at home, school. and in the

neighborhood. Often a camp is so or-
ganized that the camper tends to use it
as an escape from reality rather than as
a place where he must face his tasks and
learn to take hold of himself. Thus. in
setting up the program, Bronx House
had specific goals in mind as to what it
wanted to achieve in relation to serving
the retardate in a country day-camp set-
ting. Some of them included:

 

MISS STOCKHAMER is director of chil-
dren’s activities at Bronx House, New
York City. This material was presented
at the Second Annual Institute on Group
Work and Camping sponsored by the
New York City Chapter of the Associa-
tion for the Help of Retarded Children.

236

0 Help develop a sense of self care.

0 Help develop relationship with peers
and adults.

0 Learning skills.

0 Help develop better motor coordina-
tion.

0 Opportunity for new experience.

0 Work with parents to help them mod-
ify attitudes toward child.

The initial step in the process, intake,
involved the combined efforts of the
agency and the Association for the Help

DAY
CAMP
FOR
THE

MENTALLY
RETARDED

The experiences
of a
family-oriented agency.

 

of Retarded Children. Case finding,

diagnostic material, referral summaries
were provided by the association, while
agency staff was responsible for deter-
mining how the individual could best
be served.

An interview was arranged with the
family. At this time the child was also
seen. The focus was on the child’s be-
havior with peers, his strengths and lim-
itations. likes. dislikes, and the parent’s
attitudes. Part of the interview was re-
lated to interpretation of program.

It is important to note that the mate-
rial obtained in the interview was of
considerable help to staff; it made possi-
ble thoughful preparation for program.
At the very beginning, a child is helped

to feel comfortable when staff has
knowledge of his interests, skills, and
limitations. Thus the child who has dif-
ficulty establishing contact with other
children may need to remain close to an
adult until he is able to reach out and
trust other children. The intake mate-
rial also enabled staff to be better pre-
pared for contacts with pa rents. During
the course of the season, it was used
by the supervisor to interpret the indi-
vidual’s behavior and help the staff
member to deal with difficulties as they
arose in the group.

Over a period of three summers, from
1959 to 1961, approximately twenty-
seven different hoys and girls were
served in small groups. They repre-
sented an age range from ten to thirteen
years with varying degrees of mental
retardation. Though all were cducable,
a considerahle number were brain dam-
aged and several Mongoloid, with such
physical handicaps as poor vision, de-
fectivc hearing and speech as well as
poor motor coordination. Several of the
childrcn lived in the immediate neigh-
borhood within walking distance and
were classmates in the same retarded
mental development classes in public
school. Others came from a widely scat-
tered neighborhood and were either
brought by their parents or used the
agency's pickup service.

Most of the children had no previous
camp expericnce and social contact with
peers was limited to the school situation.
Any kind of relationship tended to make
considcrable demands on them. It was
evident that the intake material could
be used productively in the area of
grouping. The optimum number served
in a group seemed to be twelve. A coun-
selor and two assistants were able to
handle competently this size group on
an all-day basis.

In setting up groups, there could not
he too wide an age range and it was im-
portant to consider the childrcn’s emo-
tional and social level of maturity as
well. Further, it was important to main-
tain some balance between those who
tended to he overly aggressive and the
too withdrawn. On the whole, selectiv-
ity was based on what a child had to

RECREATION

offer to and get from a group, rather
than on his difficulties or limitations.
Experience demonstrated it was not pos-
sible to measure these factors accurately
even after the individual had been ob-
served in action; it became evident that
further study on grouping of children
was needed.

HE SELECTION of staff for these
groups was generally not consid-
ered a problem since the day camp was
able to attract effective leadership from
the year-round program. Criteria for
selection included interest and empathy
for the child’s limitations, understand-
ing of, and sensitivity to, his needs, as
well as an ability to adapt to his slow-
growing and slow-moving pace. Staff
members must possess imagination,
skills, and a real regard for the outdoor
world, so that they are able to impart
to the children a sense of “security” in
the woodland.

During the pre-camp orientation pe-
riod, staff was helped toward greater
understanding of the special needs of
the retarded children and the extent to
which they can be helped to function
as an integral part of a normal day-
camp setting. Supervision during the
course of the summer included staff
meetings, conferences, and daily record-
ing of group life as well as observations
of individual Ibehavior. At close of the
season, staff members were required to
write a summary on each individual.

The Bronx House day camp serves
approximately 275 boys and girls aged
seven to twelve who are picked up daily
at the agency and transported by char-
tered buses to a country site. The ter-
rain is rugged, paths are rough, and the
woodland with its winding stream pre-
sents a real challenge to programing.
The program is group centered and the
outdoor world receives primary pro-
gram emphasis.

Each group selects a site in the wood-
land as home base for the duration of
the camp period. Needs for group liv-
ing and comfort lead to construction of
fireplaces for cookouts, tables, benches,
shelters, tool racks. Building bridges
require cutting, sawing, and lashing of

MAY, 1963

logs which provides campers with an
opportunity to learn about forest growth
and the need of conservation. Other in-
terests include fishing, boating, garden-
ing, care and maintenance of farm ani-
mals, all offering satisfaction, adven-
ture, and learning. Though emphasis is
on the small group, there is ample op-
portunity for contacts and sharing of
experiences with other groups on a di-
visional basis as well as at camp-wide
events.

Mentally retarded campers, like the
other groups, were helped to choose a
campsite and learn such basic skills as
axing, fire building, lashing, and cook-
ing techniques, all of which went into
the developement of a campsite area re-
ferred to as “home base.” Then fol-
lowed emphasis on work projects, such
as lashing tables and benches, develop-
ing fireplaces for cookouts. With each
successive cookout experience, menus
became more elaborate. Before leaving
campgrounds, the campers were respon-
sible for cleaning up their site, and
equipment had to be returned to the
supply store. Basically, program plans
were thoughtfully and
planned by staff. Program had to he
structured and usually reflected a grad-
ual progression of experiences.

considered

VERY opportunity was explored for
E involvement of parents in the day-
camp service, in line with the general
philosophy of the agency that the child
is first a member of a family unit. On the
whole parents were eager to participate.
Prior to opening of camp and during
the season, parents met in small groups
to discuss programs and react to their
child’s group experience and consider
ways of dealing with the child’s behav-
ior generally. Also, throughout the sea-
son, efforts were made to reach all par-
ents individually.

Observations and records stressed the
campers’ and families’ satisfaction with
the experience; considerable progress
was notediin such areas as learning, so-
cial skills, increasing self-care, and the
general mastering of many new skills
such as canoeing and swimming. Con-
tinuity of service is most desirable. Chil-

r1
L J PROGRAM

dren who had participated in the year-
round program and then moved into
day-camp benefitted greatly. They be-
gan to participate in program planning,
estalished contact with staff members in

other groups, and learned a variety of
skills.

As THE season progressed the initial
stage of“good behavior” was grad-
ually followed by some confiict which
many began to verbalize. There was evi-
dence of increased sharing of food, sup-
plies and taking turns in activities. More
and more reference to the group was
characterized by “We.” Parents noted
that the child was able to come to the
agency alone and no longer had to be
escorted. The child began to verbalize
more frequently and was more easily
understood by members of the family.
Skills learned at camp were carried over
into the home. Assuming responsibility
for setting and clearing the table after
dinner, going to the neighborhood store
for one or two items, getting in and out
of the bus independently was much in
cvidence.

In essence, parents indicated greater
relaxation in the home. They felt less
over-protective as well as less. dcmand-
ing of their children. On the whole, par-
ents were gratified with their children’s
gains and generally attended all group
meetings where they found considerable
practical help in handling the child’s
behavior. Parents began to identify
more fully with the agency. They served
on committees and shared responsibili-
ties with parents of nonretarded camp-
ers. Parents need careful explanations
of the child’s problems at various ma-
turational levels. Both child and the
family need attention.

Groups for mentally retarded chil-
dren in a normal day-camp setting con-
ducted by a group-service agency can
be developed with effectiveness and con-
sidered as an integral part of its total
program. Experience has demonstrated
that the richer the program and thc
more varied the opportunities for indi-
vidual and the group, the more helpful
the service to the retardate. #

237

Fund Raising
Continued on Page 233

 

sandwiches. Here, the clear choice on
all counts is hotdogs. i\lways associated
with recreation, the} are by far the eas-
icst to manage. Get a self-contained
broiler or steamer which anyone can
operate, add buns and condiments, and
the job is done. With other kinds of
sandwiches the operation is enormously
complicated in the way of inventory,
handling, getting the right selection, and
so forth! 'It is also possible, under these

circumstances, that you will need a res-
taurant license. Again, hotdogs are
more profitable, eight cents to ten cents
on a fifteen- or twenty-cent sale.

All the above items apply perfectly
When the
weather turns cool you can take up the
slack of diminished cold drink sales by
adding candy apples (seven cent profit
on a dime sale) and/or hot chocolate
(six cents on a dime or ten cents on fif-

to warm weather sales.

teen cents).
Equipment. Keep the operation sim-
ple. With automatic or semi-automatic

 

not even one case of pilferage from

COIN-LOK*

“We did not experience a single case of pilferage from these lockers
throughout the entire summer swimming season,” reports Paul G. Cowles,
Superintendent of Recreation for the city of Brockton, Massachusetts.

With Coin-Lek maximum security lockers you can make checking an
asset instead of a liability for your pool not only in the elimination of
lost article claims, but in savings in salaries and overhead. Watch

profits grow, too.

It's a move that deserves your careful
consideration. Mail the coupon today

for all the facts.

\X‘
5.

 
    

COIN-LOK SYSTEMS. INC.

Dept. 55, 2]] Congress Street,
Boston 10, Mass.

 
 
 
 
  

Please send, without obligation, com-
plete information and specifications
of New Coin-Lok* Locks and Lockers.

238

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

  
 
    
        
     
   
  
 

COIN‘-LOK* SYSTEMS, INC.

A Subsidiary of
AMERICAN LOCKER C0., INC.

IIII

Oldest and Largest
Coin Lock Manufacturers

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

machines doing the bulk of thc work,
you can kecp the number of attendants
to a minimum and unskilled high
schoolers can do the job without any
trouble. You will avoid high overhead
in labor costs and make your supervi-
sory job much easier. There is usually
no need to get the largest and most ex-
pensive equipment when you are start-
ing a refrcshment operation. Machines
which are too big will take up too much
room, may not be run near capacity.
You will do better with versatile, smal-
ler capacity cquipment in the lower—c0st
bracket, equipment which is portable
from one location to another. In this
way you get maximum benefit from a
small investment.

Experience. Records show that well-
planned refreshment operations are
profitable and contrihute a surprising
amount to the operating funds of thou-
sands of recreation programs. For ex-
ample, in Norwood, Ohio, a city of thir-
ty-six thousand population, the recrea-
tion commission receives from city tax
revenues only 3348.000. The refrcshmcnt
stand at the swimming pool alone con.
tributes over an additional $10,000 to
thc rccreation budgct. In anothcr city
of twcnty-two thousand, St. Charles.
Missouri, the public park board reports
a new income of $12,000 from a park
refreshment stand operation. Thc super-
intendent reportcd that the initial in-
testnlcnt in equipment was offset in the
first year of operation. These are only
two out of hundreds of success stories.

In summing up, avoid the large selec-
tion of items in your refreshment opera-
tion which tends to cut down the num-
bcr of people who can be served, adds
to spacc prohlems. and increases labor.
Choosc items which are not commonly
available at the grocery store in order
to add to the atmosphere of fun. Choose
profitahlc itcms. They will sell just as
well as the nonprofitahlc items.

Many rccreators unfortunately shy
away from refreshment-stand
tions and the profits which can he used
to bctter their programs. The fact re-
mains, however, that ccrtain phases of

opera-

their recreation opcrations virtually de-
mand a refreshment service. Thc ques-
tion is whether they shall provide [llis
service themselves. and gain extra op-
erating funds or pass up the opportunin
and the resultant improved program. if

RECREATIo \-

Save substantially with

. Nationat’s New
pTOJector-n ’-slzde packages!

You simply can’t beat “sing-along" sessions when it comes to perking -up group spirits!
Now, Natlonal offers FOR THE FIRST TIME AT THESE LOW PRICES three outstanding

“Projector-'n-slides” packages! Quantities are limited, however, so please place your
order promptly!

 

“ PACKAGE #1:

Powerful Mansfield Projector plus 25 All-time song slides.

Projector $44.95
25 2"x2” slides @ .50 12.50

$57.45 Value

You Pay $45.45  ‘
SAVE $12.00 

   
      
        
 
     
        
      
     
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
    

 

PACKAGE #2:

Powerful Mansfield Projector

' p|u5 5o A||.time 5ong slide'5_ This is the Mansfield SKYLARK 300 Automatic
. ' Projector. This compact unit is the culmination of
modern styling and engineering. The excellent

‘ PACKAGE #3:

Powerful Mansfield PrOJector
plus 100 All-time song slides.

Proiector $44-95 I. optical system incorporated in the “5 kylark" gives I j Projector $44.95
50 2'.,x2,,slides @ 5° 25 no your pictures the snap and clarity necessary ‘

for real projection enjoyment. 300 watt Tru-Focus 1' 10° and” s'ides @ '50 50"”
-—-— s. lamp. F/3.5 coated lens. Manual changer. Tilt 5

 

$69.95 Value controls. Turbo type fan impeller to insure maximum $94.95 Value
coolness at all times!
You Pay $54.95 You Pay $77.45
SAVE $15.00 SAVE $17.50

Select The Slides You
Prefer From This
Star-Studded List!
“Keep 'em singing
and you'll keep ’em
happy!" Send for our
complete listing of
over 850 Song Slides.
Ask for Brochure R.

u W‘i

G"

 

         

’ 1. A Pretty Girl 177. Drifting & Dreaming 356. Just a Song at Twilight 537. Put Your Arms Around Me...
13.,.Alice’Blue Gown 181. Easter Parade 358. K-k-k-Katy 576. Shanty in Old Shanty Town
{‘22. Alouette 182. East Side, West Side 375. Let Me Call You Sweetheart 578.. She'll Be Comin Round M.
26. America the Beautiful 201. Five Feet TWO 379. Let's Sing Like Birdies 582. Shine on Harvest Moon
40. April Showers 202. Flow Gently Sweet Afton 380. Let Rest World Go By 584. Show Me Way to Go Home
56. Baby Face 4 204. For Me & My Gal 391. thtle Red Schoolhouse 586. Slient Night
60. Band Played On 207. Frivolous Sal 395. Look for Silver Llning 594. Smiles
63. Battle Hymn Republic 218. Girl of My Dreams 414. Man on Flying TrapeZe 616. Springtime in the Rockies
69. Beer Barrel Polka 221. God Bless America I 420. Marchlng Along Together 629. Sweet Adeline
74. Bells of St. Mary 259. Home on the Range 422. Margie 635. Sweetheart of Sigma Chi
79. Bicycle For Two 265. How Deep is the Ocean 433. Meet Me in St. Louls 644. Take Me Out to Ball Game
100. Bye Bye Blues 287. I'll Be with You in Apple B T 450. Moonlight n Roses 651. That Old Gang of Mine
104. By the Light Silvery Moon 289. I'll See You in My Dreams 454. Moon over Miami 656. That's Peggy O'Neil
105. Cassions Go Rolling Along 294. I'm an Old Cowhand 460. My Bonnle 663. There's a Long Long Trail
113. Carolina'rin Morning 297. l' m Dreaming of White Xmas 473. My Wild Irish Rose 691. Till We Meet ‘Again
114. Carolina Moon 298. I'm Forever Blowing Bubbles 485. Oh Dem Golden Slippers 715. Wagon Wheels g
121. Chasing Rainbows 300. I'm Looking Over 4 Leaf Clover 492. Oh Susana 718. Wait Till Sun Shines Nellie
129. Clementine 309. In My Merry Oldsmobile 494. Oh You Beautiful Doll 731. When Irish Eyes are Smiling
150. Danny Boy 310. In the Evening by Moonlight 497. Old’Gray Mare 734. When I Lost You “x,
156. Déar Oid Girl 3 13. In the Good Old Summertime 500. Old MacDonald Had a Flam 742. When You Wore a Tulip
159. Deep in Heart of Texas 331. It's A Grand Old Flag 513. On the Road to Mandalay 749. Whiffenpoof Song
163./ Dinah 337. I' ve Been Working on R 520. Pack Up Y0ur Troubles 751. Whistle While Yon Work
167.‘ Don't Fence Me In 341. lWant a Girl, etc. 524. Peg Of My Heart 760. Winter Wonderland {,
170. Don't Sit Under Apple Tree 346. IWonder Who' s Kissing Her Now 528. Polly Wolly Doodle 763. Yankee Doodle Dandy,
171. Down By Old Mill Stream 348. Jingle Bells 532. Poor Butterfly 780. You're a Grand Old-{lag h
,- Special Value Purchase — For those who buy just slides from our 100 titles listed here.
( ‘ there is a 10% DISCOUNT from the regular price of 50¢ per slide.
M) NATIONAL  42 West48 Street 0 NowYork Clty

MAY. 1963 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. ' 239

A
Ir 1'.
Jill
Anu-

II?
III...-

Ii ill-o
a!

I
‘I
L' ‘I

J
- v
A... III;
«III: III!’
r"II II,

1-
‘

 

RECREATION

DIGEST

MOUNTAIN LEADERSHIP

William lowell Putnam

N LEADING mountaineering trips,
I much experience, both theoretical

and practical, is essential. One must
be intuitive in recognizing and analyz-
ing and, most of all, in sympathetically
understanding the problems and diffi-
culties with wbich one’s associates are
forced to contend.

In running a climbing trip, at certain
times commands are necessary but, in
order to achieve the highest degree of
success, it is important to have all the
participants fully imbued with a desire
to attain the common objectives. This
type of indoctrination cannot be ac-
complished if the leader does not ex-
plain everything and take all his asso-
ciates into his confidence. A leader, at

the outset, must do considerably more

MR. PUTNAM has led many climbing
and exploring trips to the Selkirlcs and
other high-mountain regions. As chair-
rnan of the Mountain Leadership Com-
mittee of the AM C, he is now working
towards increased safety among climb-
ers. This is digested with permission
from Appalachian, June, 1959. An un-
cut reprint is available free. from the

Appalachian Mountain Club, 5 Joy

Street, Boston.

240

. . . On The Trail

work than he would like, but his task
becomcs increasingly easy as time goes
on. No aspect of leadership is more ex-
hausting than bearing the complete
load of responsibility for all decisions,
both right and wrong and, more impor-
tant, both pleasant and unpleasant. A
commander has to kecp it all to him-
self; a good leader can have all hands
sharing this load, while he still main-
tains the complete freedom of choice his
greater knowledge justifies.

The most common, or least technical,
form of mountaineering is mountain
walking, since it is from this base one
graduates to rock climbing, ice climb-
ing, and high alpine endeavors. One
cannot be successful or competent in
expeditioning or alpine mountaineer-
ing without a thorough knowledge of
the basic fundamentals of walking and
camping. ( See also Page 220. )

“Conservation of energy” is not just
a scientist’s expression; it is also a
mountaineering law. If you have a long
haul ahead of you, don’t let your party
waste time or energy in nonproductive
side issues. Restrain the exuberance
of those who want to run up the hill and
cut off the corners by taking that little

scramhle-pathway in order to save the
longer zigzag. The leader must con-
stantly use and enforce among his as-
sociates the rccognized cadence of pac-
ing that marks the experienced moun-
taineer. However, stride and cadence
depend on conditions, and the leader
should bear in mind the strength of his
party, the distance left to travel, and
the amount of daylight left to do it in.
When busbwhacking, it is almost im-
possible to maintain a steady pace; but
extra long steps should be avoided and
stcep slopes detoured.

We always seem to be obliged to
carry a pack. A one-day trip generally
means a small pack; a one-month ex-
pedition means repeated relays of the
heavy packs. No one should attempt to
carry heavy, bulky loads except on a
packboard; yet countless charactcl's
try, to the dismay of those who have to
belp carry the excess when their packs
fall apart. Heavy loads should always
be carried high, so that the weight is
essentially bearing downward and not
tending to pull you over backward. If
you cannot tie your load securely onto a
packboard then use a Trapper Nelson-
type board where ropes are not needed.

RECREATION

The leader should take pains to point
out little tricks to the less experienced
members of his party. The strain of a
heavy pack can get pretty fierce on the
shoulders unless broken occasionally
by rests; but rests, taken sitting down,
are time-consuming. Leaning back
against a tree or large rock takes the
strain off shoulders sufficiently to allow
recuperation, without the exertion of

regaining on e’s feet.

P ROPER FOOTWEAR is essential for
any form of outdoor activity. In
the mountains, it becomes of extreme
importance; for one cannot get a new
pair of boots so easily. The leader
should make sure, prior to starting, that
all boots fit. If at all possible, they
should not be brand new on the first
day into the hills. Boots should fit when
new, but more important, they should
fit when wet; then they should still fit
after they have dried out again.

Man is a tropical animal and must
keep warm or he won’t function prop-
erly. Wind is always worse at wearing
down resistance than cold. Therefore,
one should always protect particularly
against high wind. Layers of clothing
are more important than sheer bulk.
Absolute impermeability to water is
disastrous under winter conditions, for
the human body sweats a little no matter
what the outside temperature. Nothing
is more refreshing during an extended
rest than a change of socks. Never sit
down to rest when you are going to get
cold in the process; either put on extra
clothing or, if such is unavailable, keep
moving. The leader should see that his
peOple have the right gear for the con-
ditions he expects to encounter, plus a
little bit extra for the conditions he may
encounter unexpectedly. But, at the
same time, his party should not be over-
loaded with unnecessary gear.

When selecting personnel for a trip
don't assume that physical size means
strength. A small man can come much
closer to carrying his own weight in a
pack than a hig man. Girls often can
walk farther and work longer than boys
of comparable age and size. However,
girls tend to have a slower rate of re-
covery from fatigue. The leader should
keep the pace fast enough to attain the
day’s goal, slow enough to avoid un-
necessary fatigue. In a homogeneous

MAY, 1963

part) the leader should rotate the first
position among his party except where
route finding must be an exact matter.

When walking or expeditioning in al-
most any mountain area, a party will
often run across ohstacles not really
mountaineering problems, but which
the leader must comprehend and sur-
mount such as getting through dis-
couraging underbrush, around bottom-
less swamps. and across glacial rivers.
Route-finding in these places is a tech-
nique learned only by experience and,
even then, not very effectively, for there
is seldom a discernible pattern to the
growth of vegetation in areas of dis-

rupted drainage.
A LEADER should know how to pick
a campsite; he should also know
when. One should not hold to precon-
eeived ideas on where camp should be
made when the party is so tired that
further travel would be injurious or
when darkness or weather makes stop-
ping necessary. Benighted parties have
bivouacked only a few hundred feet
from an established camp, and moved
on easily and safely in the morning;
stubborn men have gotten into serious
trouble while attempting to make that
last hundred yards.

Preparations for the next day should
he made the evening before, while there
is still daylight. lt is a great deal easier
to locate pitons, chocolate bars, extra
sweater, and all the miscellaneous para-
phernalia of a climb while unhurried
and relaxing before sleep than in the
predawn cold of alpine camps.

Within the bounds of good sense, a
campsite is a place of rest and relaxa-
tion where the tensions of the day
should he forgotten. The leader should

 

exercise as little of his authority as pos-
sible while his party- is at rest. He
should, too, participate in, and some-
times organize, the occasional tomfool-
ery of expeditioning.

One of the surest ways to attract and
deserve the attention of one’s climbing
associates is by knowing the history of
the area in which one happens to be.
Practically any mountaineering trip
that has done anything noteworthy has
been written up in some alpine journal.
These accounts are of great value when
planning a trip into the area. Even ac-
counts of trips to other ranges are often
of considerable help, for it is not the
detail which is important, but the basic
method.

Around the campfire, a leader can
add greatly by knowing more about the
range than the eye can see. Also, a cer-
tain amount of what might he called
classroom work could be included; or,
with more experienced people, fine
points of map reading and compass us-
age. Mapreading ahility, essential for a
leader, can be learned effectively only
in the field. Also, many times a smat-
tering of geologic knowledge gained in
such discussion has led to the success-
ful completion of an important route.

W

who sets out to be a leader must have
long since demonstrated his complete
solidity on rock. He must possess a high

HILE complete technical perfec-
tion is not necessary, a person

degree of rock-clinihing ability, know
and understand all the techniques of
rope handling, and be smart enough not
to fall for some of the more bizarre
uses of the rope with an inexperienced
party. He must be able to listen to a
piton and tell from its tone what its
holding power is likely to be.

Thorough knowledge of snow and ice
conditions is also an unconditional es-
sential for any high-altitude climbing
and is valuahle for skiers and winter-
time trampers as well. Alpine moun-
taineering involves step-chopping under
varying degrees of difficulty, from soft,
crumbly glacier-ice to hard water-ice,
and from hard-crusted snow to verglas.
An effective leader must have consider-
able experience with these hasic condi-
tions under many types of weather.

Far too many mountaineering acci-

24-1

   

  
  

DISCOVER THE
ADVANTAGES OF

BRAIDING an
LACING for FUN

Your group can make hundreds of
fascinating items with Tandy's Dura-
Flex Lacing. Lanyards, Key Chains,
Bracelets, Coat Hangers, Belts, etc.

v

  

   

Get Tandy’s big 32 page book . . . Braid-
ing and Lacing . . . with 160 easy-ta-follaw
step by step instructions, only 50c pp.

AN these items are
 ,. _ easiiy made with
‘ a; - .:-—_ 'I'a ndy's

DU RA-FLEX

LACE

Reinforced for extra
strength, features, sturdy
fabric tape center covered with flame re-
sistant plastic-wilt not stretch or peol—23
colors, 100 yard spool, 1.25. Quantity dis-
c0unt to scout groups.

FREE 112 PAGE ammo

Crammed full of kits and low-cost sup-
plies, plus discounts for groups.

.a- "" uh’

      

 

TANDV LEATHER COMPANV
P. O. Box 791-)“: Fort Worth, Texas

 

$2.25 Per Dozen F.O.B. 6doz. min. order
Reorders from many recreation centers
Satisfaction guaranteed
Send for full information I

American (Company

MERRICK 4. N. Y.
Since 1937

-- m..- -"-

r- c.- s-I-I-n--_I

 

m-"m

 

 
   
      
    

1H! PERFEC} PACKAGED SHEII’ER!

i:

j ;' It“?
m '
m“  ‘Lo , -
” 8-“ FREIGHT PAID

KWlK-Bili, INC. Box 6834, Dallas 19.1“.
242

 

r--- TENNIS BALLSw-ml
i

   

dents have occurred because the person
in charge of the party has failed to un-
derstand the snow conditions with which
his party became involved. Experience
with avalanches has far too often been
gained the hard way and, in conse-
quence, has not been effectively passed
on to succeeding generations. It is wise
to become familiar with the instability
of snow before going into regions where
avalanches are likely to occur.

WHEN TRAVELING over extensive
snowfields in high alpine areas,

it is important that the party cover the
terrain with the least stringing out.
While taking precautions to avoid los-
ing members of his party, a leader
should at the same time make sure that
his second man is packing the steps and
making the trail easier for those who
follow. A party in these conditions will

————-———~.

A Reporter’s Notebook

Continued from Page 223

 

such projects as Sponsorship of a Ko-
rean war orphan, selling home-made
food and other items at the annual com-
munity fair, trips to parks and historical
sites, and various service projects. The
club sponsors “Senior Citizens Sunday”
on the third Sunday of each month.
Leaders hope to make the observance
national in the future. Membership re-
quires no dues; however, members are
provided an opportunity to voluntarily
support the activities of the club. They
also conduct fund-raising projects in the
eommnnity.

Scientific Hockey

A scientific hockey clinic held re-
cently by the Montreal Parks Depart-
ment pooh-poohed the intuitive ap-
proach to the sport. Parks Director An-
dre Champagne quoted this comment by
Maurice Boyer, accident-prevention of-
ficial of Desj ardine Life Insurance: “The
national sport of French Canadians has
for too long been treated intuitively. It
is time that physical educators turn their
attention towards this sport to give it a
bit more science and sports discipline
and to consider it from the points of
view of personal, physical, moral, and

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

of course, be traveling roped. A leader
who is unable to understand the prob-
lems of his associates is apt to end up
as a solo climber.

While being considerate of his as-
sociates, a leader must take pains not '
to let their mood and spirit run away
with his good judgment. Even the best
of experienced climbers can get swept
away with enthusiasm when a number
of less eXperienced hands point out how
simple a route appears. Only long ex-
posure to mountains makes a good
route-finder. People whose experience
is limited often feel that major prob-
letns just don’t exist. The most danger-
ous part of any climb is the start of the
descent. The party are elated with vic-
tory and feel that there are no further
obstacles to overcome. More mountain-
eers have been lost jnst after the mo-
ment of victory than in the throes of

defeat. 4‘1:

social formation while developing tech-

” The clinic in-

niques of instruction.
cluded the showing of movies on play-
ing hockey and commentaries directed
at avoiding accidents and making the
game really scientific.

In Cornwall, Ontario. Recreation Di-
rcctor Rudy Payment came up with the
thought that if you can train figure
skaters, you can teach hockey players
better form. This led to some twelve
young pucksters joining in the figure-
skating club’s exercises with such good
results that the recreation committec de-
termined to make instruction available
to those who wanted to learn the f unda-
mentals of the national pastime. This
year’s edition of the hockey school in-
cluded twelve weeks of instruction with
sixty-two boys participating, and bigger
things are anticipated for the future.

STATE SOCIETY NEWS

WISCONSIN. Registrants totalled approx-
imately 150 at the Wisconsin Park and
Recreation Society’s annual conference
which opened to a nine-inch snowfall.
New ofhcers for 1963 are: President.
Richard Wilsman; Vice-President, Wil-
liam Schulenberg; Secretary, Warner
Bartram; Treasurer, Hugo Meuler; and
Directors, Charles Drayna and Robert
Espescth.

NEW JERSEY. The first county recreation

RECREATION

society in the state, the Middlesex Coun-
ty Recreation and Parks Society, was
formed recently. There are now four-
teen municipalities as members out of
the twenty-one municipalities in the
county that have a public recreation
program. The purpose is to discuss pro-
grams, mutual problems and possible
solutions, and foster better recreation

programs on the local level. Ollicers
are: President, Edward W. Bradley,

Milltown; Vice-President,Michael
Busicihio, Spotswood; Secretary, Paul
Faust, Spotswood; and Treasurer, Stan-
ley Grabowski, Sayreville. Members of
the executive council are Austin E.
Lepine, Highland Park, Chester Zdro-
dowski, South River, and John Haver-
stick, Middlesex Borough.

New District Representative

The new Pacific Southwest District
representative of the National Recrea-
tion Association is Charles J. Reitz,
formerly superintendent of recreation
in TOpeka, Kansas. Replacing John
Collier, Mr. Reitz will operate from
the Association’s district oHice. 606
South Hill Street, Los Angeles 14, and

cover the states of Arizona, California,

Hawaii, Nevada, and Utah. Mr. Reitz

   

Mr. Reitz Mr. Collier

also served as superintendent of recrea-
tion and parks in Yuma, Arizona, and
director of recreation in Sanger, Cali-
fornia. He holds a bachelor of music
degree from West Virginia University
and has attended six of the NRA Na-
tional Institutes for Public Recreation
Executives. In 1957 he was appointed
to the Arizona State Parks Board by
Governor Ernest W. McFarland and in
1958 was elected chairman of the board.
In 1960 he was reappointed to the
Arizona State Parks Board by Governor
Fannin to serve a regular six-year term.

Mr. Reitz has followed Mr. Collier
once before, as superintendent in Yuma.

Mr. Collier served the NRA as district

representative in the Great Lakes area

from 1949 to 1955 and in the Pacific
Southwest from 1955 to 1962. He is now

MAY. 1963

SUperintendt-it HI parks and recreation
in Anaheim, ( ahfornia. During Mr.
Collier’s servm with the NRA, he com-
pleted a numlmr of studies of communi-
ty recreation as well as of recreation on
military installations and a special study
for the National Park Service.

Stamp Bills

It costs the state of Tennessee as much
as $4,000 a month in postage to answer
requests about the state’s recreation ad-
vantages. Tennessee gets an average of
225,000 requests for information yearly.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

0 ED DURLACHER, nationally known
square~dance caller, died in April at the
age of sixty-two. Mr. Durlacher began
teaching and calling at square dances
more than thirty years ago and was fa-
mous for his teaching techniques. He
had been the square dance caller at
Jones Beach State Park, Long Island,
New York, for the last twenty-two sum-
mers. He Operated his own recording
firm, Square Dance Associates in Bald-
win, New York, and exhibited at numer-
ous National Recreation Congresses.

0 CHARLES M. TREMAINE, founder of
National Music Week and one of the
country’s foremost promoters of music
observances, died in March in Scotch
Plains, New Jersey, at the age of ninety-
three. Mr. Tremaine was a member of
the National Recreation Association
staff during the period that the Asso-
ciation sponsored National Music Week,
now a project of the National Federa-
tion of Music Clubs. Mr. Tremaine was
a founder and the treasurer emeritus
of the National Music Camp at Inter-
lochen, Michigan. He originated school
music memory contests in 1916, held
regularly today in sixteen hundred cities
and towns, promoted Christmas carol-
ling in two thousand communities, and
group piano instruction in schools.

0 ALBERT S. BARD died in Orange, New
Jersey, in March at the age of ninety-
six. A native of Connecticut, Mr. Bard
came to New York City in 1892 and for
seventy years fought for good govern-
ment, preservation of historic land-
marks, elimination of outdoor billboard
advertising, and protection of city parks
from invasion and exploitation by

private interests.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

WRITE" FOR“? '
LITERATURE

       
 

"AMERICAN APPROVED

radian;
lime
mansions
DIVING BOARD

World's Finest Official Board
Rugged Alrcraft Glrder Construction.
Unequaled In Design. Durability and
Performance by any board built today.

Exclusive international Distributors
. ‘W‘Wv_

 

muse—4

AlllIICAN

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. 5. A.

WORlD’D lARGES‘i MANUFACYURERS Of lelC
PARK. PIFNIC, 'lAYGROUNDr. SW‘MMING
POCL AND DRESSING RONM EQUIPMENT

   

 

Hot and Coat Racks

These multl-purpose wardrobe. racks .go
wherever needed or store away like folding
chairs when not in use. They come in 3 it.
or 4 ft. lengths. have two hat shelves and
1 or 2 full length hanger bars for coat

hangers or coat hooks. (Two sided hooks
snap over and straddle the bar. see detail).
Standard units come on glides or casters:
stand rigidly under a full load. CHECKER-
ETTES are also available in two Sided units
(double capacity): add-on units for making
long continuous racks. and matching wall
mount units. i,

Write for Catalog.

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.

Rte. 83 a Madison St. Elmhursl. Illinois
243

MARKET NEWS

 

For further information, please write directly to source given.

0 Colorful revolution. In Pittsburg, California, a down-
town renewal project features a shopping street paved in red.
In Houslon, Texas, a service station has inviting driveways
in blue. Visitors to the Seattle World’s Fair walked on white
pavements, strollers in a park in St. Petersburg, Florida,
meander along paved red paths, children in Flushing, New
York, play on a recreation area paved in green. Now it is
possible to pave a play area, tennis court, street, sidewalk,
driveway, parking lot, runway, or patio in any one of five
colors—red, green, blue, golden yellow, or white. And the
job is no more difficult than spreading asphalt.

Ingredients for colored pavement made with Viadon and
Miradon come in units packaged to the exact proportions re-
quired for one ton of paving material. All a local contractor
need do is add the proper amount of graded aggragate, then
mix, transport, and lay the binder in the same way and with
the same equipment used for asphalt. Viadon and Miradon
are not synthetic asphalt; they are entirely new binders.
Color is achieved not merely as a t0pping or a thin surface
layer; it is dispersed throughout the pavement. Both binders
have softening points above that of asphalt and thus offer
better resistance to high temperatures. Both produce pave-
ments having strengths greater than that of asPhalt paving;
both are resistant to the softening effects of fuel spillage.

Viadon and Miradon are now available nationwide
through Humble Oil and Refining Company asphalt sales
offices. For further information and a colorful brochure.

write to Humble Oil and Refining Company, P.0. Box 2180.

Houston 1, Texas.

0 Come and get it! A new rust-resist-
ant, theft-proof, outdoor stove will cook
anything from chicken to steak and al-
ways at proper temperature. Instant
heat control is provided by a three-posi-
tion adjustable grate. The grate is an
all-welded assembly of ten-gauge steel.
reinforced with five-eighth-inch diameter
rods. Barrel-spring handles, welded to
the rods, never get hot. preventing
burned hands while cooking. The grate
is attached to the cooking unit by a security chain. It ridcs
on a cast-iron hub which mounts to the two and a half-inch
steel support post by means of a concealed bolt through tl1c
post. The large 15"-by-18" cooking grill is made of five-
eigbth-inch cast iron riveted to a galvanized steel fire box.
Finish of the grill is aluminum. Waist-Hi stoves stand three
feet high when installed and are available with permanent or
portable legs. Portable models have an extra twelve foot
length for installation in concrete footing. Finish of post is
green baked-plastic coating highly resistant to abrasion and
weather. For further information write to Came-Time Inc..

640 Jonesville Rd., Litchfield, Michigan.

 

I Roving sound. The Ampli-Vox Roving Rostrum is a self-
contained battery-Operated public-address system that can
be provided with a microphone extension kit, permitting si-
multaneous use of two micrOphones, even in separate rooms.
The kit includes a microphone with ten-foot cord, a mixer,
and a twenty-foot extension cord, ready to plug into the ros-
trum. The Ampli-Vox Roving Rostrum itself is a completely

244

  

portable high-volume sound system, suitable for audiences
as large as five hundred. Weighing under thirty-four pounds,
and usable where there are no electric outlets, it is ideal for
use outdoors as well as indoors. Its simplicity of operation
and full-fidelity sound recommend it for a multitude of
public-address and sound-system applications, such as
dances, picnics, and conferences, at camps, on boats, and
other mobile uses. Complete descriptive literature is avail-
able from Perma-Power Company, 3100 North Elston Ave-
nue, Chicago 18.

if I The happy whirl.
 The one hundred and
twentieth piece of
equipment introduced
.= by the Miracle Equip-
" ment Company in ten
 years, the Saucer
. . . . _. . .—  Whirl is basically fab-
ricated of heavy-duty fiberglass in red and white with multi-
colored specks. Two fiberglass domes form the saucer on
which eight fiberglass seats are mounted. The seats are sup-
ported by ten-gauge formed steel bolted to the revolving
center column. The individual seats and aluminum band
holds eliminate overloading. There are no exposed parts
and the unit is guaranteed against mechanical defects for
five years. The color is permanent since it exists throughout
the entire thickness of the fiberglass. For further informa-

tion write to the Miraclc Equipment Company, Grinnell.
Iowa.

 

0 New anglings. There’s a new “stratus seeker” at Lake
Tahoe. California. a resort area high in the Sierra Nevadas.
The “stratus seeker” is actually a Fathometer depth sounder
being used to study game fish in Lake Tahoe, whosc depth
is ten times the height of Niagara Falls and whose area could
swallow nine Manhattan Islands. Since the extermination
of cutthroat trout in the lake, fishing has been generally un-
satisfactory. with onc exccption: Mackinaw trout abound,
but only for deepline fishermen who know where to drop
their lines and just how far to let them settle. Surface and
shoreline fishing for brOWn and rainbow trout has been gen-
erally poor. The creation of an attractive fishery at Tahoe
is the object of a study now being undertakcn by the Inland
Fisheries Branch of the California Department of Fish and
Game. Experimental trout planting is accompanied by a
biological sampling program designed to disclose practical
means of improving angling.

Pollsters cruise the lake in two ninetcen-foot boats taking
a “creel census” to weigh the success of the stocking pro-
gram. Another boat, a converted twenty-four-foot gill-netter
named the Mackinaw, has just been outfitted with a Ray-
!heon Fathometer depth sounder to aid the scientists in their
trout studies. The new Model DE-72I probes the depths
electronically, giving the researchers complete soundings
anywhere on the 1,645-foot-deep lake. These soundings are
coordinated with samples of fish and the organisms upon
which they feed. Bottom samplers, plankton nets, and fish
traps, trawls, and nets of various types are other tools of the
fish finders. For further information on the Fathometer,
write to Public Relations Department, Raytheon, Lexington
73. Massachusetts.

RECREATION

BE SOURCE GUIDE

. . . . _._.A._.‘.I.'. ._._. _(_ _.‘:.. _.. _.' _. .1. .

_ _ _ . . . . I ._ I . - A I': .‘I .I) II I" I I I'f- I'I' 'l I‘ ' '. -‘-' ' 'l' .'.'. . .\‘-'- 1 I5 .‘I 1'} “
.r. -. E 59,-: '.‘.‘.-.'. ' ' .-.-.‘.' . - u ' . -_-'.'41.1.:.;.-.:.3.,:.:.-.:;: a _. .

INDE T0 ADVERTISERS

     

Page
American Company -_ -- 242
American Locker .................. __ . 238
American Playground Device ___-  243
Ball-Boy ............................... _-.. 207
Brunswick Sports  Inside Back Cover
Carabo-Cone    209
Classified Advertising __ _  ______ __ 250
Dayton Racquet  - __,._------_...-- 250
Dimco-Gray   ---._...-..--- 209
EIectro-Mech  ....... _ .. _ MW. 232
Game-Time   Inside FrontCover
General Indicator  - 209
Gold Medal _   _ 247
Gymnastic Supply Company   . 209
Handweaver 8. Craftsman ................. -.._ 250
Hillerich 8. Bradsby -_ Inside Front Cover
I. E. Burke   249

June Is Recreation Month --..-- Inside Front Cover

Kwikbilt  _________________  242
Monroe Company _---  209
National Studios _____ __ __   239
1963 Round the World Tour   210
Playground Summer Notebook  246
Swank Motion Pictures _ . ____ -- 247
Tandy Leather .... -- 242
Vogel-Peterson   m.-- 243

Voluntary Recreation-Time
Accident Coverage

This new improved plan, available to
participants in programs of NRA-Affiliated
recreation agencies and departments, is
now in effect in thirty states. The plan may
be installed by your local insurance agent
or broker. New enrollments may begin at
various times throughout the year as new
groups of participants come into your vari-
ous programs. Baseball and softball cover-
age is included under this new plan, which
covers all recreation activities except con-
tact sports and skiing. For additional in-
formation write to Frank Rowe, National
Recreation Association, 8 West 8th Street,
New York 11 (ask for Bulletin #6 and
brochure).

MAY, 1963

 

  DS—Pleasc write directly to sources given

and mention RECREATION Magazine

ARIS AND CRAFIS

STICKY PROBLEMS? A handy chart tells the
right way to make this adhere to that (card-
board to felt, plastic to glass, and so on) . Ad-
hesive specialist will answer any unusual prob-
lem sent in to firm which manufactures such
answers to craft leaders' prayers as Spangle
and sequin adhesives, millinery sizings, feather
finishes and cement, special compounds for
mannequin wigs, jewelry, shells, buttons, ad
infinitum. For bigger jobs there is an “Iron
Beund” cement for boats and marine use,
soundproofing, caulking, repairing photo-
graphic equipment, and many general and
technical uses. For charts and useful leaflets,
as well as help on specific problems, write to

Slomons Laboratories, Inc., Long Island City
1, New York.

FABULOUS HUES and fine quality combine in
opaque watercolors to provide an excellent ar-
tistic medium. The colors come in glass jars,
are very finely ground, with absolutely no ex-
tender added. Maximum brilliance, depth,
and tinting make for craftsmanship. For fur-

that information, write to Triangle Color Com-
pany, 1026 North Water Street, Milwaukee 2.

LET voun IMAGINATION sons. Craft tissue
paper comes in twenty-nine festive colors in-
cluding multi-colored sequin on white. Use
for bulletin-board 3-D designs, party favors,
tissue flowers, stained—glass windows, stick
figures, mobiles . . . the possibilities are un-
limited. Available in packages of fifty or in
reams (480 sheets). For brochure with sam-
ples of the twenty-nine colors and a poster-
size sheet of how-to-do-it ideas for holidays,
art projects, and parties, write to the Crystal
Tissue Company, Middletown, Ohio.

COME ON BOARD! Add glitter to your displays,
art projects, or framed paintings with pebbled
gold mat board. Manufacturer says he has
“the right board for every use," and his sam-
ple books prove it! Mat boards come in colors
as well as pebbled and smooth gold, natural
veneers, pebbled white and cream. Water-
color hoards (100% rag, handmade), artist
and engraver mount boards, art-project card-
boards, illustration and display boards are also
available in countless colors, thicknesses, and
finishes. For further information and samples
on art cardboard for specific uses, write to Na-
tional Card Mat and Board Company at 4318
Carroll Avenue, Chicago 24 or 11422 South
Broadway, Los Angeles 61. In Canada write
to Card and Paper Works, Ltd., Peterhorough,

Ontario.

THE RIGHT ASSEMBLY. EurOpean engineers
have perfected a fantastically casy device to
mount and label your projector slides easily
and obtain maximum protection against dam~
age. Has an ingenious locking mechanism.
You will probably want to convert your labori-
ously glass—taped slides to this new dustproof,

lightweight mount. Also available are self-
adhering, pressure-sensitive labels which fit
exactly into place. Company also offers basic
libraries of world art on color slides. For
further information, write to the American
Library Color Slide Company, 222 West 23rd
Street, New York 11.

EQUIPMENT

BOY-PROOF! Woodworkers’ and machinisls‘
vises were designed in answer to such pleas
as “Give me a vise that’s boy-proof” . . . "De-
sign a precision vise that’s injury-proof and
tamper-proof" . . . “Give me a vise we can
mount in a couple of minutes without taking
everything apart." Included in manufacturer’s
line are turret vises which convert from wond-
working to metalworking. For further infor-
matiou and catalogue, write to Wilton Tool
Manufacturing Company, Schiller Park, Illi-
nors.

EXTRA STRENGTH. Tables with heavy-duty
double-welded shelf and leg construction plus
inset ribbed-rubber mat on top shelf can eas-
ily handle heavy projectors, tape recorders,
record players, or office machines. The extra-
strength drawn shelves have a ribbed curved
edge on all four sides to prevent equipment
from sliding off. Available with or without
exclusive “add-on" electrical extension panel
and twenty-foot extension cable. For more in-
formation write to E. J. Petrick, Vice-Presi-
dent, Bretford Manufacturing, Inc., 3951 25th
Avenue, Schiller Park, Illinois.

A PLACE FOR avsarrnme. A revised 28-page
catalog, with a separate eight-page price list
illustrates and describes each unit and com-
ponent in an extensive line of metal office
furniture. Products listed include Open face,
sliding-door and swinging-door cabinets; Open-
shelf filing; library shelving; floor model and
wall model garment racks and cheek raeks;
umbrella parkers; booteries; utility carts;
small parts bins; and a wide range of accesso-
ries. Additional products shown are steel
shelving, automotive bins, laboratory furni-
ture, and shop equipment. Copies of the cata-
log are available upon request from the Bor-
roughs Manufacturing Company, a subsidiary
of the American Metal Products Company 0]
Detroit, 3002 North Burdiek, KalamaZoo,

Michigan.

SHREDFUL. An oilice paper shredding ma-
chine, The Bantam-10 Shredmaster, is now
available with knurled and hardened cut-
ters as an Optional extra. This means that
the Operator no longer has to remove paper
clips, wire staples, and other foreign items be-
fore inserting the material to be shredded. An-
other feature of the Bantam-10 Shredmaster
is the full-width ten inch-wide throat, which

eliminates the need to cut or tear the paper

before “feeding” the machine. The Bantam-10 r

215

is warranteed for a full year against defective
material and workmanship. Other Shredmas-
tcr models can destroy up to four hundred
pounds of paper per hour. One model can
turn the contents of the 1,780-page, five-pound,
approximately 900,000-nanie Manhattan (New
York City) telephone directory into quarter-
inch shreds in one minute. All electrical com-
ponents used in the manufacture of the Bon-
tam-10 bear the Underwriter’s Laboratory Seal
of Approval. For further information and lit-
erature write to the Shredtnaster Corporation,
381- Woodeleft Avenue, Freeport, Long Island,
New York.

CIIVERATINC KNOW-110W. For general back-
ground information on electric generating
plants and their proper selection, a recently
revised More Book ou electric plants is a val-
uablc addition to any technical reference file
or library. This 36-page, pocket-size booklet
traces the history of electric-generating plant
development from the early stages when stor-
age batteries were necessary to today's mod-
ern. single-unit, engine-driven power plants.
In easy-to-understand language and with sim-
ple line drawings, the Bhte Book describes
the three basic types of electric plants—-—alter-
nating current (AC), direct current (DC),
and battery charging—and diseusses the ap-
plication and relative merits of each.

The advantages and disadvantages of using
a gasoline, diesel or gas-driven engine to fur-
nish mechanical power to the generator are
reviewed in terms of original cost, cost of op-
eration, and installation requirements. Popu-
lar methods of engine cooling and starting
systems are also discussed. A concise summary
recaps the important points to remember when
selecting an electric generating plant. One or
more copies of this helpful little booklet are
available upon request from the Onan Divi-
sion of Studebaker Corporation, 2215 Univer-
sity Avenue, S.E., Minneapolis 14, Minnesota

(ask for More Book, F-IOCU.

A SHIELD or PROTECTION against corrosion,
rust, erosion and rot of wood, metal, and ma-
sonry. A plastic paint called Corrosite forms
an impermeable shield against chemical de-
struction when applied to smooth or porous
surfaces. It bonds to iron, steel, stainless steel,
aluminum, galvanizing, brass, chromium, wood,
masonry, asbestos boards, and stone. Can be
sprayed, brushed, or dipped. For leaflets and
information bulletins write to Corrositc Divi-
sion, Reliance Paint Company, 64 South 6th
Street, Brooklyn 11, New York.

 

 

246

PROGRAM AIDS

FITNESS CAN 131-: MORE rUN with song and mu-
sic. Records can stimulate and encourage
wider participation among the nation’s young
people in physical fitness programs. Continu-
ous exercise music on long-playing records
can enhance the performance of your groups
in Olympic-type gymnastics, ballet routines,
swimming, baton twirling, marching, and
dance and modern jazz routines. Even the
younger set will flex their muscles to music
designed to make keeping fit fun. For catalog
and free sample demonstrating portions of
music from new USA and Kimbo fitness re-
cords, write to Advance Theatrical Company,
32 West Randolph Street, Chicago 1.

WATER, WATER, who’s got the water? A book-
let on The Care and Sharing of America’s Wa-
ter contains case histories of successful action
taken by government agencies, civic groups,
and sportsmen’s cluhs in various parts of the
country to extend the water supply through
multiple use and pollution control. Use of
reservoirs for water supply and recreation, re-
moval of shoreline litter, bond issues for pollu-
tion control, equal sharing of the waters by
sportsmen are cited. Copies may be obtained
from Outboard Boating Club of America, 307
North Michigan Avenue, Chicago 1.

STAMP BUFFS and coin fans in your hobby
clubs and community centers will find much
to interest them in a browse-worthy catalog of
philatelic and numisntatic accessories. Bind-
ers, albums, magnifying glasses, coin tuhes.
For c0py, write to M. Meghrig & Sons, 239
Fourth Avenue, New York 3.

FOR THE CONVALESCENT reassess. Time
stretches out like a great desert for the patient
who must spend a long convalescence in hed.
To irrigate this arid tedium for the teenager
with rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart dis-
ease, the ninth edition of a forty-page hooklet
Have Fun . . . Get We” contains a wealth of
projects and activities. The booklet was pre-
pared by occupational therapist Marycllc
Dodds and the American Heart Association.
It includes sections on fun with crafts, needle
and shuttle, peneil, paper, and paint, plants
and pets, ideas, music, magnets, letter-writing
—--to mention just a few. It also supplies a
bibliography and some sources of supplies.
Singlc c0pies available free from your local
Heart Association or the American Heart As-
sociation, 44 East 23rd Street, New York 10.

MAKE THINGS HAPPEN!

that’s the theme of the

l963 PLAYGROUND

SUMMER NOTEBOOK
$2.50 ($2.00 to NRA members)

Available May I

Order Now From

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West 8th Street. New York II

 

LOW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectfy from source given (enclose remittance).

A DOLLAR son PREVENTION. “Why don’t the
police put a stop to it?” With that hypotheti-
cal, provocative question, Ruth and Edward
Brecher introduce The Deh’nquent and the
Law, a discussion of the role of the police, the
court, and the community in dealing with the
problems of juvenile delinquency. This pani—
phlet was released simultaneously with a re-
lated 1631M film entitled Headed for Troubfe.

\Vhen delinquent acts do occur, the initial
“police contact” can influence strongly the
young person’s attitude toward authority. The
Brechers give examples of the “right way” and
the “wrong way,” quoting police chiefs from
several cities as their authorities. The authors
point out that “the philosophy of the juvenile
court—and an increasing number of adult
courts as well—-—is not centered on the concept
of punishment for criminal acts, but rather on
treatment—the kind of treatment most likely
to assist the processes of healthy growth to-
ward law-abiding maturity.” The booklet cou-
eludes with a plea to all cities for generous
budgets to develop a police force which “pa-
trols its area adequately, maintains a fully
staffed corps of juvenile specialists in its
youth bureau, selects its men and women care-
fully, and trains them fully,” and warus
against skimping on the budgets of our
schools, family agencies, child guidance clin-
ics, juvenile courts, and recreation programs
which limit their anti-delinquency services
and increases the load on the police. “A dollar
spent in prevention surely cuts many dollars
of our crime hill.” The pamphlet (#337) is
available for 8.25 from the Public Affairs Com-
mittee, 22 East 38th Street, New York 16. In-
formation about thc film is also available from

the PAC.
0

OPTIMUM DEVELOPMENT. In their search for
ways to help each student progress at his best
rate and depth, institutions of higher educa-
tion have been looking for new ways and
means to improve student learning. Some of
these new praetices, as observed in thirteen
specific institutions, are explained in chxt'bt'f-
By in the Undergraduate Carrt'cafum, the
tenth in the series “New Dimensions in Higher
Education” being issued by the Office of Edu-
cation, U.S. Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare. The 57-page booklet is available

for 3.25 from the U.S. Government Printing
Office, Washington 25, DC.

Misrsxss T0 svom. Every year thousands of
posters are made for clubs, centers, PTA
groups, churches, and other organizations.
Most posters advertise moncyoraising projects,
social functions, products on sale, and so on.
Since many of these posters suffer from the
same basic mistakes, the amateur poster
makcr will find valuable hints and technical
aid in a paperback manual which covers plan-
ning, lettering, color, decoration, and so on.
Entitled simply Posters, it is one of a series
of art hooks issued by the Pitman Publishing
Corporation, 20 East 46th Street, New York
17 and costs $1.00.

Rnnnus'rmat

a FOR THE ILL ea rIANQrg-wpuo

 

'i‘ An unusual amateur radio class,
sponsored by thc Rehabilitation Insti-
tute of Chicago, can monitor the signals
of various satellites now in orbit as well
as talk with other radio hams. The class
of twelve patients is taught by a volun'
teer, Don Kobiljak of the Allied Radio
Corporation, and the equipment was
rounded up by John Piper, training di-
rector for the Wisconsin Steel works of
International Harvester.

The student patients must first master
the International Morse Code, sending
and receiving ten words per minute, un'
til they are eligible for the FCC amateur
radio novice license. Problems exist be-
cause some of the patients are. on
crutches or do not have the use of cer-
tain limbs. Some even come to class on
stretcher tables. One of the students has
to push the handles with his nose to tune
the set.

+ A training program for volunteers
to work with homebound handicapped
persons will be conducted in Chicago
May 4-11 as part of the National Rec-
reation Association’s Homebound Recs
reation Project. Sponsored by the
NRA’s Chicago Women’s Committee,
under the leadership of its chairman,
Mrs. Conway Olmsted, the project will
be conducted as a pilot undertaking with
the c00peration of the Arthritis and
Rheumatism Foundation and the Multi-
ple Sclerosis Society of Chicago. These
two agencies will provide the home-
bound cases for the project. Two of the
training-program workshOps will be
conducted by Dr. Morton Thompson,
head of NRA’s Consulting Service on
Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped.
The Chicago Park District is cooper-
ating on the project and furnishing the
meeting room and 3 crafts instructor.

+ Final preparation is being completed
on the chw York Community Council’s
two-year study of “Comparative Need
for Group Work and Recreation by
Communities.” The report will contain
information on selected socio-economic
characteristics of the seventy-four
neighborhoods that make up New York
City. It will also.analyze participation
in all types of neighborhood group
work and recreation programs, the
types of activities agencies and pro-
grams provide, and the facilities being
used. The study will develop a com-
parative analysis relating certain fac-
tors to socio-economic characteristics.

DR. THOMPSON is acting director of the
National Recreation Association Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the I fl
and Handicapper}.

MAY, 1963

MORTON THOMPSON, Ed.D.

+ A pronounced trend towards day
programs for exceptional children has
been noted by Porter Sargent, publisher
of the Director) for Exceptional Chil-
dren, a guide describing offerings and
policies of programs for all children
who require special education and ther-
apies. The new fourth edition of this
Sargent handbook includes over three
thousand facilities serving the mentally
retarded, emotionally maladjusted, and
physically handicapped children. The
greatest increases, both in enrollment
and in number of special facilities es-
tablished during the past decade, have
occurred in non-residential services.
The directory is available from Porter
Sargent, 11 Beacon Street, Boston 8,

for $6.00.

+ In a discussion of psychiatric mans
agement of the geriatric patient, Kurt
Wolff of the Veterans Administration
Hospital in Coatesville, Pennsylvania,
stated, “Recreation activities which in-
cluded special hobbies like stamp col-
lecting, playing a role in a theater play,
or just walking on the hospital grounds
in a group could be of importance to
decrease the patient’s hostility and ten-
sion and further a better socializing.
Quite a few geriatric patients were suc-
cessfully treated by music therapy.
These patients had hidden talents likc
playing piano, singing, or beating a
drum, activities not exercised for many
years. Square dances were also a very
popular activity among elderly patients.
These dances seemed to contribute to
a more hopeful and optimistic outlook
on life.” Mr. Wolff’s remarks were in-
cluded in the Proceedings of the First
National Rehabilitation Workshop and
also in a reprint from Rehabilitation.
( F or another discussion of talents and
interests of geriatric patients, see “Find-
ing Buried Treasure in the Hospital,”
RECREATION, February 1963.)

+ A camping projcct for small groups
of mental patients is being initiated by
the Veterans HOSpital in Montrose, New
York. This will involve patients ready
for release, who are already receiving
weekend passes. The camping program
is to take place in regular community
camping facilities.

+ An excellent seventy-eight-page man-
ual on Self-Help Clothing for Hamli-
capped Children is filled with pictures
and diagrams and is available for 3.50
from Catherine Bauer, Director. Public
Relations, National Society for Crippled
Children and Adults, 2023 West Ogden

Avenue, Chicago 12.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

      
 

I _ The fostest selling
' l hot-weother item

 J ovoiloble. More than
, , 81: profit per 10:

solell Equipment
from $149.50.

POPCORN

Popcorn is enjoyed
by over 95% of the
Americon public. 8:

profit per new:

 
 
    

        
     
 
   
   

10c sole. “but”
Equipment “Mimi:
f r o m .3’
$199.00“ 0 ‘

'r Ethyl, m [2;- tor true
care or), nochuro'. on on s tting up
[our refreshment Evuy
thung you nee:I from one source for
Sno-Kones, Popcom Hot Dogs, Cot-
ton Candy end many other Huh-broil-
itr:msl l .

operation.

Refreshment Supply Division

sum MEDAL Pronucis 0.

1339-49 Freeman Avenue-Cincinnati 14. Ohio

 

  
    
      

it one In... 5.4.4...
' IIIqu I‘M. law-en

Add us to your staff
 by renting films from

' SWHNK’S

: Write for our latest list of new releases
r of wholesome, entertaining movies.
I

Keep posted on what's new in 16mm

0 sound movies. Mail this coupon today.
jiifi “ —" ~_: ‘2“

l y El send list of new movie releases
El add my name to your mailing list

 

Name

l Address

l

State

City 
l SWANK Motion Pictures, Inc.

Ray Swank. President I
L 621 North Skinker, St. Louis 30, Missouri I

247

 

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

Toys for Your Delight, Winsome
Douglass. Taplinger Publishing Com-
pany, 1 19 West 57th Street, New York

19. Pp. 208. $8.75.

A delightful book, well-named, which
will be welcomed by all who like to
sew, an inspiring book to help teach-
ers and recreation leaders motivate
creativity. The introduction covers all
equipment and materials. with illustra-
tions and patterns in well-drawn plates.
Patterns of the various needle tech-
niques can be followed easily and, when
learned, offer many possibilities for
making new stitches from these hasic
ones. These patterns can also be help-
ful for those who like to make their own.

Animals, birds, insects, and fish.
Christmas decorations, and dolls and
their clothes are among the topics cov-
ered. There are photographs of charm-
ing finished work, some in color. While
the toys are unique and have a folk-
art design flavor, the needle techniques
could be applied to other lovely articles
besides the toys. Although other mate-
rials are used in these toys besides felt,
the felt toy animal has always been a
favorite. With all these ideas. it would
be a the resource book for all those who
love to sew and create beautiful needle-
work and for those groups engaged in
service projects—toys for hospitalized
children, bazaars and festivals for fund
raising, and so on.—lllary B. Curn-
mings.

Let's Do Fingerplays, Marion Gray-
son, illustrated by Nancy Weyl. Rob-
ert B. Luce, |nc., distributed by David
McKay Company, 119 West 40th
Street, New York 18. Pp. 105. $4.50.

Fingerplays have many values as play
activities for small children. First of all,
they establish personal contact and in-
timacy between child and adult. They
also provide humor, surprise, anticipa-
tion, and tactile satisfaction. They en-
courage verbalization and observation,
movement and laughter; they can an-
ticipate frightening sights, actions, or
noises and prepare the child to cope
with them; they are dramatic and rhyth-
mic. They are traditionally a part of

cthhood.

This collection of hngerplays has
been selected for children from pre-
school to about the second or third
grade. Many are traditional, many are
new, for modern occasion. Fingerplays

about “The Windshield Wipers,” “The
Steam Shovel,” and “The Bus” will be

248

more familiar to most children than
“The Bobhin” or “Aiken Drum” whose

“britches were made of haggis bags.”

The fingerplays have been classified
well. Some deal with the child himself,
especially his own body. Some deal with
his clothes, some with his family. the
outside world, animals, and holidays.
Some are introductionsto singing games
and action songs. Nancy Weyl’s pen-
and-ink sketches are deceptively simple
and full of childlike good humor.

Annotated Bibliography on Camp-
ing, Barbara Ellen Joy. Burgess Pub-
lishing Company, 426 South 6th Street,
Minneapolis 15. Pp. 126. Paper,$.65.

This, the most comprehensive and, at
the same time, selective bibliography
on all phases of camping, is the very
latest updating of such lists starting
hack in 19-13. Barbara Ellen Joy’s
patient work in the preparation of such
material for the American Camping As-
sociation for so many years has done a
great service to the camping movement.
It is fitting that such a listing should
outgrow one agency and now he avail-
able from a commercial publisher. It
will come to the attention of a wider
audience and become increasingly effec-
tive. Any agency that conducts camping
or day camping and any educational or-
ganization that promotes camping as a
worthwhile activity should make sure
that it has this newest bibliography
within easy reach. It is a job well done,
worthy of high praise.

IN BRIEF

DRAMA, Andrew Brown. ARC Books,
480 Lexington. Avenue, New York 17.
Pp. 160. Paper, $.95. This 160-pagc
paperback includes practical exposition
of the basic factors of theater, such as
acting, production, play selection,
voice production, and other essential
factors. It also contains a glossary, bih-
liographv. and an introduction by Sir
Tyrone Guthrie. This inexpensive and
practical publication would be good to
put into the hands of anyone engaged
in community theater.

ASPECTS or THE DRAMA, Sylvan Bar-
net, Morton Berman, and William.

Burto. Little, Brown and Company, 34
Beacon Street, Boston 6. Pp. 270. Pa-
per, $2.75. The selection contained in
this handhook include Thornton Wilder
on the nature of drama; Aristotle and
Arthur Miller on tragedy, comedy, and

realism; Brecht and Shaw on play in the
theater; and other illustrious writers,
critics among them, on various aSpects
of the theater. Anyone interested in
comment on the theater by the “greats”
will want a copy of this book.

PLANNING FOR CIIURCII MUSIC, James
Rawlings Sydnor. Abingdon Press,
Nashville 2, Tenn. Pp. 112. $1.25.
This compact volume provides a prac~
tical guide to the organization and man-
agement of music in the Protestant
church. However, since management
and organization are universal prob-
lems, a large portion of the author’s in-
structions would apply generally. Lead-
ership, facilities, equipment, library,
instruments, budgets are a few of the
practical subjects covered. An excel-
lent bibliography is also included.

Evsnvnonv’s GUIDE TO MUSIC, William
Hugh Miller. Chilton Company, 56th
and Chestnut Streets, Philadelphia 39.
Pp. 329. $7.50. This guide contains a
thorough and expert delineation of the
various elements of music and will
serve as an excellent introduction to
music for the college music student and
the serious musical devotee. The sec-
tion on the allied arts does not include
any comment on the relation of music
to ballet, modern dance, or drama.
whereas it does draw comparisons l)C-
tween music and poetry, architecture,
sculpture, and painting.

TIIE CRYSTAL CABINET, poems selected
by lloraee Gregory and ll/arya Zaturen-
sha. Holt, Rinehart and Winston. 383
Madison Avenue, New Yorh 17. Pp.
225. $3.50. This anthology of poems
was chosen especially for children and
young people. Poems of Pound, Cum-
mings, Herrick, Dickinson, Thomas.
Stillwell. and other famous poets are
among the selections. The poems are.
without exception, representative of
many of the most gifted among the po-
ets. However, they are for youth of
high-school and college age, not for
younger children.

LOOK WIIo’s TALKING, Crosby New-
ell Bonsell with photographs by Ylla.
Harper and Row, 49 East 33rd Street,
New York 16. Unpagerl. $2.50. Young-
sters and adults both will roar with de-
light over this book filled with pelicans.
rhinoceros, tortoise, seals, crocodile,
camels and other inhabitants of the zoo
where Oscar. the ostrich, has just ar-
rived. The text and photographs just

bubble.

RECREATION

DH

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

. N

:HURCH

Jible Readings for the Family Haur, Martin P. Si-
man. Moody Press, 820 N. LaSoIle St., Chicago

10. Pp.336. $3.75.

:hurch and the Change, The Rev. RabertG. Howes.
Daughters of St. Paul, 50 St. Paul's Ave., Jo-
maico Plain, Boston 30. Pp. 180. $3.00 (Paper,
$2.00).

Church and the Older Person, The, Robert M. Gray
and David O. Maberg. Wm. B. Eerdmons, 255
Jefferson Ave., S.E., Grand Rapids 3, Mich. Pp.
162. $3.50.

Compassion and Community, Haskell M. Miller.
Assaciotian Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7.
Pp. 288. $3.50.

Fundamentals of Christian Sociology, Very Rev.
James Alberiane. Daughters of St. Paul, 50 St.
Paul's Ave., Jamaica Plain, Boston 30, Mass.
Pp. 192. $2.50 (Poper, $1.50).

Handbook of Church Adminlstration, Lowell Rus-
sell Ditzen. Macmillan, 60 5th Ave., New York
11. Pp. 390. $7.00.

Hope Unlimited, Ladislas J. Enrody, S. J. Daugh-
ters of St. Paul, 50 St. Paul's Ave., Jamaica
Plain, Boston 30. Pp. 113. $2.00.

Introduction to Christian Doctrine, Very Rev.
James Alberiane. Daughters of St. Paul, 50 St.
 Ave., Jamaica Plain, Boston 30. Pp. 87.

Let‘s Study the Bible, Kenneth E. Jones. Warner
Press, Andersan, Ind. Pp. 96. $1.25.

Memoirs of the Catholic University at America
1918-1960, Ray J. Deferrari. Daughters of St.
Paul, 50 St. Paul’s Ave., Jamaica Plain, Boston
30. Pp. 464. $5.00.

Parsonage Family and You, The, Pauline E. Old-
lggmb Warner Press, Andersan, Ind. Pp. 80.
.5 .

Pennies from a Poor Box, Joseph E. Mantan,
C.S.S.R. Daughters of St. Paul, 50 St. Paul's
Ave., Jamaica Plain, Boston 30. Pp. 566. $5.00.

Plan Book for the Church Year. United Church of
Canada, 85 St. Clair Ave. E., Toronto 7, Ont.
Pp. 39. $.50.

Planning for Church Music, James R. Sydnor.
Abingdan Press, Nashville 2, Tenn. Pp. 112.
Paper, $1.25.

St. John at the Cross (poetry), trans. by Roy
Campbell. Penguin Books, 3300 Clipper Mill
Rd., Baltimore, Md. Pp. 109. $.85.

St. Paul Junior Missal. Daughters of St. Paul, 50
St. Paul's Ave., Jamaica Plain, Boston 30. Pp.
253. Clath, $1.75; paper, $1.00.

Saint Paul Sunday Missal. Daughters of St. Paul,
50 St. Paul's Ave., Jamaica Plain, Baston 30.
Pp. 413. $2.50.

Saints for the Modern Waman, Rev. Luke A. Far-
ley, J.C.L. Daughters of St. Paul, 50 St. Paul’s
Ave., Jamaica Plain, Boston 30. Pp. 288. $3.95
(Poper, $2.501.

Spiritual Diary. Daughters of St. Paul, 50 St. Paul’s
Ave., Jamoica PLoin, Boston 30. Pp. 266. $3.00
(Paper, $2.001.

Teaching Children in Your Church, Arlene Hall.

\INggner Press, Andersan, Ind. Pp. 96. Paper,

Taddlers at Church, Jessie B. Carlsan. Bethany

Press, Box 179, St. Louis 66. Pp. 80. Paper,
$1.00.

We_Explore in God‘s World, Louise Davis. Chris-
tian Education Press, 1505 Race St., Philodel-
phIa 2. Pp. 32. $.50.

"What Think You of Christ?” Rosalie Marie Levy.
(7th Rev. Ed.) Daughters of St. Paul, 50 St.
Paul’s Ave., Jamaica Plain, Boston 30. Pp. 116.
$1.50 (Paper, $1.00).

NATURE

Farest Ranger, The,'Herbert Kaufman. Johns
Hopkins Press, Baltimore 18. Pp. 259. $5.00.

H. D. Thoreau: A Writer's Journal, Laurence Sta-
pletan. Dover Publ., 180 Vorick St., New York
14. Pp. 234. Paper, $1.55.

Heart at Thareau's Jaurnals, Odell Shepard, Edi-
tor. Dover Publ., 180 Vorick St., New York 14.
Pp. 228. Paper, $1.45.

High Trails, Robert H. Wills. Univ. of Washington
Press, Seattle 5. Pp. 157. Paper, $3.00.

Home Owner's Tree Book, The, John Stuart Mar-
tin. Doubleday, 575 Madison Ave., New York
22. Pp. 165. $3.95.

Land Alive, Ronald N. Rood. Stephen Greene Press,
120 Main St., Brottlebaro, Vt. Pp. 144. $4.50.

Leads for Leaders. Comp Fire Girls, 65 Worth St.,
New York 13. Pp. 26. $.30.

JMAY. 1963

Let's Explore the Share, 1"
Obalensky, 3“ ". "‘r. 51

105. $3.50.

Life in the Forest, «alert Snetinor. Meredith

Press, 1716 Lory-t "t Des Molncs 3. Un ed.
$1.00. pm

Minutes of the Lower Forty, Corey Fard. Holt,

Rinehort, and Winston, 383 Modisan Ave., New
York 17. Pp. 15". 3. "1.

Romance of Shells in Nature and Art, The, Lauise
Allderdlce Travers. M. Barrows, 425 Park Ave.
5., New York 16. Pp. 13.". $5.00.

Sand Caunty Almanac, A (tSth printing}, Aldo
Leapold. Oxford Univ. Press, 417 5th Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 226. $4.7’ .

Sea Shells of the World. R. Tucker Abbatt, Ph.D.
Galden Press, 850 3rd Ave., New York 22. Pp.
160. $3.50 (Poper, $1 I 01.

Starting a Rock and Mineral Collection, Miriam

Gilbert. C. 5. Hammond, Moplewood, N. J. Pp.
46. $1.00.

Starting a Shell Callectian, Miriom Gilbert. C. S.
Hammond, Maplewaad, N. J. Pp. 46. $1.00.

Starting a Terrarium, Miriam Gilbert. C. S. Ham-
mand, Moplewoad, N. J. Pp. 45. $1.00.

Starting on Aquarium, Miriam Gilbert. C. S. Hom-
mand, Maplewood, N. J. Pp. 46. $1.00.

Story at Life, Peter Farb. Harvey Hause, Irvington—
an-Hudsan, New York. Pp. 126. $3.50.

Tale of a Wood, The, Henry B. Kone. Alfred A.

Knopf. 501 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp.
112. $3.00.

Thoreau's Guide to Cape Cod, Alexander B.
Adams, Editor. Devin-Adair, 23 E. 26th St.,
New York 10. Pp. 148. $4.50.

Walden West, Auqust Derleth. Duell, Slaan G

Pearce, 124 E. 30th St., New York 16. Pp. 262.
$4.95.

Wisconsin Lore, Robert E. Gard and L. G. Sorden.
Duell, Sloan and Pearce, 124 E. 30th St., New
York 16. Pp. 368. $5.95.

1.1.1 Mu loft. IVOr'
New Y rk 21 Pp.

PHOTOGRAPHY

Complete Guide to Kodachrome ll, Potricia Caul-
field. Amphota Books, 33 W. 60th St., New
York 23. Pp. 128. $1.95.

Complete Guide to Kodak Automatic Cameras,
Joseph D. CaOper. Amphato Books, 915 Broad--
way, New Yark 10. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.95.

Good Photography‘s Darkroom Ideas, Siman
Nathan. Gold Medal Books, 67 W. 44th St.,
New York 36. Pp. 144. $.75.

Groflex Audiovisual Digest. Graflex, lnc., Dept.
125, 3750 Monroe Ave., Rochester 3. Pp. 48.

$.25.

Gu1de to Photographic Composition, Paul Jonas.
Amphota Books, 33 W. 60th St., New York 23.
Pp. 127. Paper, $1.95.

Hol Reift's Glamour Manual, Mildred Stagg. 33
W. 60th St., New York 23. Pp. 121. $2.50.

Home Movies in Sound, Burt Murphy. Univ. Phato
Books, 915 Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 127.
Paper, $1.95.

How to Make Better Pictures in Your Home,
Herbert Keppler. Amphoto Books, 33 W. 60th
St., New York 23. Pp. 127. $2.50.

How to Process Colar Films at Home, Ira B.
Current. Amphota Books, 33 W. 60th St., New
York 23. Pp. 118. $2.50.

How to Take Better Pictures. Arca Publ. 480
Lexington Ave., New York 17. Pp. 144. $2.50.

Photographing Youth, Tona Habon. Amphato, 33
W. 60th St., New York 23. Pp. 122. $2.50.

Tabletop and Still Life Photography, Edna Ben-
nett. Universol Phata Baaks, 915 Broadway,
New York 10. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.95.

35mm Negs and Prints, Y. Ernest Satow. Amphota,
33 W. 60th St., New York 23. Pp. 128. $2.50.

Voigtlonder Bessamotic Guide, Joseph D. COOper.
Amphota, 33 W. 60th St., New York 23. Pp. 128.
Paper, $1.95.

Wedding tr Porty Photography, Barney Stein 6
Les Kaplan. Amphata Books, 33 W. 60th St.,
New York 23. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.95.

Where and How to Sell Your Pictures (rev. 5th
ed.), Arvel W. Ahlers. Amphata, 33 W. 60th
St., New York 23. Pp. 164. $1.95.

Yoshica Pentamotic Guide, Paul Jonas. Amphota,
33 W. 60th St., New York 23. Pp. 125.

Zoom Lens Guide, Myran A. Matzkin. Amphota
Books, 33 W. 60th St., New York 23. Pp. 128.
Paper, $1.95.

SPORTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Behind the Plate, “Yogi” Berra and Til Ferdenzi.
Arganaut Books, 2 East Ave., Lorchmont, N. Y.

Pp. 190. $2.95.

Best Sports Stories 1962. E. P. Button 300 Park
Ave. 5., New York 10. Pp. 368. $4.56.

Boating and Fishing Almanac of New Jersey. G.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   

Quality construction...
Engineered for Safety,
Performance and Low-
est Maintenance.

Creative products...
Designed for happy
playtime activity and
leisure.

Never
a compromise

with quality when
YOU BUY BURKE

Fond Du Lac,
Wisconsin

New Brunswick,
New Jersey

 

tlulllf IAK .'I

249

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
   

     

approved for
tournament

play !

    

badminton

Doylon steel tennis,
and paddle tennis rocquets are
ideal for any school or play-
ground program. Their “extra
whip" improves every yaungster's
game—gives a speed and
accuracy that cannot be J
matched by any other type .-
of racquet. '

What's more, Doyton roc-
quets are practically inde-
struclible. Their steel strings
and tubular steel frames are
not affected by climatic/J.
changes. No covers or ./,
presses are needed to /
protect them. They won't 
warp, splinter, rat or sag.

Investigate them now.
Ask your local dealer
about them—or write to-
day for complete infor- 
motion. ,

I court layouts

DAYTON thuun count" I  mm; 2:,

753AlbrightSt.,Arcanum,Ohio  “#1113th
as m.

STEEL RACQUETS

The quarterly magazine with new
weaving ideas in each issue

Write for brochure

listing previous issues of special interest
for weaving classes in recreation proiects.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

‘1 yr. ............. -- $5 2 yrs .............. -. $9
3 yrs .............. ..$I2

Pan-American & Foreign rates 31 a year
extra. Single cepies $1.35

Handweaver 8. Craftsman
246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK 'l

250

W. Bromley and Ca., 325 Spring St., New York
13. Pp.210. $1.50.

Boxing's Unforgettable Fights, Lester Bramberg.
Ronold Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp.
351. $6.00.

Cheerleader's Handbook, Caralyn Frances Bruce.
National Sports Ca., 360-70 N. Marquette St.,
Fond du Lac, Wis. Pp. 166. Paper, $2.00.

Cheerleading (2nd ed.), Newt Loken. Ronald
Press, 15 East 26th Street, New York 10. Pp.
92. $2.95.

Guides to Baseball Umpiring, Gilbert P. Augustine.
Instructional Center, 222 Kearny Ave., Perth
Ambay, N. J. Pp. 6l . Paper, $1.00.

Gymnastics for Boys, Irvin Bedord. Fallett Publ.,
1010 W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 96.

$1.50.

Knotty Problems of Baseball. Sporting News, 2018
Washington Ave., St. Louis 66. Pp. 86. Paper,

$2.00.

Learning to Play Water Polo, Charles Hines, 2324
Burnett Ave., Ames, Iowa. Pp. 55. Paper, $1.00.

Physical Education for Women (2nd ed. 1962).
Burgess Publ., 426 S. 6th St., Minneapolis 15.
Pp. 203. Spiralbaund, $3.90.

Positional Skills and Play—Wing Half, Wolter
Winterbottom. Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New
Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 32. Paper, $1.00.

Ronald Encyclopedia of Baseball. Ranald Press, 15
E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 1464. $10.00.

Sporting Goods Trade Directory, The. C. C. Spink,
2018 Washington Ave., St. Louis 66. Pp. 954.
Paper, $1.50.

Sprinting, Mike Agostini. Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 119. $4.25.

Tackle Cycle Sport This Way, Robin Frood-Borcloy.
Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 128. $3.75.

Young Sportsman's Gulde: Swimming, Lynn Burke
and Don Smith; Motor Boating, Bill Peorsoll;
Fly Tying, Roy Ovingtan; Archery, G. Haword
Gillelon; Karting, Horvey B. Jones; Camping,
John L. Halden. Thomas Nelson, 18 E. 4Ist St.,
New York 17. Pp. 96 each. $2.50 each.

Your Short Game, Jimmy Demaret, Gene SoroZen,
Louise Suggs, Editors. Harper Bros., 49 E. 33rd
St., New York 16. Pp. 203. $4.95.

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

BETA,* March 1963
Customs of Mankind (dancing, courtship and
marriage, initiations, etc.).
THE CAMP FIRE GIRL, March-April 1963
Stitching Magic, Jean Ray Laury.
Skills Grow on You (overnight camping), Jeon
Truscott.

JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER PROGRAM

AIDS,“I Spring 1963
A Summer Day Camp for Older Adults, Ida

Arbitman, Abe Dubin, and John Karpeles.
Outdoor Spring Festival of a YM-YWHA,
Dorothy Ames.
MUSIC JOURNAL, March 1963
The Case for a National Cultural Center, Jomes
Browning.
NATIONAL 4-H NEWS, March 1963
Range Ringers Coax Sweet Music from Caw-
bells, Douglas Smith.
NEA JOURNAL, March 1963
What Do We Know About Learning? (special
13-poge feoture).
Tap Jae, Phyllis Reynolds Tedesca.
SAFETY EDUCATION, April 1963
The Deadly Playhouse, Jeon Corper.
Boating—wLearn How to Eniay It Safely.
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, March 18, I963
Minks, Shrews and Men in a Winter Swamp,
Bil Gilbert.
.............................. .., March 25, 1963
Joyful School for City Kids (snow closses).
Rocky Mountain Springtime.
.............................. .., April 8, 1963
Baseball Issue.
WOMAN'S DAY, April 1963
The Wonderful World of Creative Children,
Zaro Reshovsky.
The Joys of Rain, Jean Hersey.
YWCA Magazine, April 1963
Street Worker with a Girl Gang, Anne L. North-
catt.
20,000 Adolescent Girls (delinquents), Dorris
Clarke.

*3 Published monthly September-May by National
Beto Club, P.O. Box 730, Sportonburg, South
Carolina.

“3* Published quarterly by the Jewish Community
Center Services, National Jewish Welfore Board,
145 East 32nd Street, New York 16.

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each

Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

 

IIELI’ \VA NTED

L. Brown, Director, Wood

and deer hunting, fishing,

Chief of Park Rangers,
county-wide 83,000-acre
system. Salary $510-$652.
Apply Personnel Depart-
ment, Marieopa County,
3325 West Duraugo, Phoe-
nix 9, Arizona.

Recreation planner
wanted to head compre-
hensive recreation planning
study for the Slate of
Alaska. Twelve-mouth con-
tract with opportunity for
extension. Write Depart-
ment of Economic Develop-
ment and Planning. Box
1421, Juneau, Alaska, stat-
ing experience. First-year
contract up to $13,000.

Assistant Director of
Recreation. Graduate in
recreation. Work will in-
volve organizing and imple-
ntenting recreation activi-
tics as well as directing
county playground activi-

ties. Salary from $4,500
plus travel. Apply David

County Recreation Com-
mission, City Building,
l’arkershnrg, West Virgi-
nia.

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $463.00 per
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liberal employee
benefits. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

FACILITY AVAILABLE

II n n tin g Lodge—Will
lease on long-term basis to
private nonprofit organiza-
tion now being formed. Elk

skiing. and year-round rec-
rcaliou in beautiful tuouu-
tains of Southern Colorado.
Heavily timbered 235-acre
ranch, adjacent to thou-
sands of acres of public
forest land, has two good
streams and 11 um c ro u s
springs; accessible, server]
with natural gas and elec-
tricity, but is secluded.
Altitude 8900 feet. A non-
assessable membership will
be limited to fifty; cost
$2500 plus $500 yearly
dues. Membership fees will
he used primarily for pur-
chase of existing improvc-
ments to be owned by mem-
bers and for additional im-
provements and dcvelop-
[119111 of property. Ducs will
be used for lease and oper-
atiou of lodge. Present
facilities include beautiful
lodge home. Business firms
or groups welcome. White
River Realty Company,
Rangely, Colorado. Phone
675-2277, area code 303.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

RECREATION

 

.Want to put new life in the old team?

Here’s how. Get Brunswick sports equip- feel. Brunswick equipment can make any
ment for your teams. Better sports equip- team enthusiastic. Try it and see what won-
ment just naturally makes for a better game. derful things happen.

And the best equipment comes from .
Brunswick, including the quality lines of  G)
MacGregor, Red Head and Union Hard- 8 P O R T S

o , MacGregor, Red Head, Union Hardware D
ware. Teams are only as enthuSIastlc as they 623 s. Wabash Ave.. Chicago 5. Illinois

When writing to our advertisers nleasc mention RECREATION.

Pamphlet Series—The Performing Arts as Recreation

out of
the shell

and on

 

its toes

DANCE IS RECREATION

This latest pamphlet in the above series is available separately and in sets.

Order in QUANTITY LOTS

No. I —1\IUSIC IS RECREATION
No. II —DRAMA IS RECREATION
No. III—DANCE IS RECREATION

Use with .—________
Your staff Your board or commission
Advisory committees Citizen committees
Clubs Planning groups

And for
Fund raising Promotion of bond issues
Publicity Selling recreation
Education Training of volunteers
Program Planning Telling your story

 

Current prices
Single copies—$1.00 Set of three titles—$2.50

11 to 24 copies of same title—$.85 each 0 25 or more—$.75

100 or over of same title—$65 per hundred

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y.

 

